Body structure

One of the large, detailed illustrations in Andreas Vesalius's De humani corporis fabrica16th hundred years, marking the rebirth of anatomy

Anatomy (Greek anatomē, "dissection") is the branch of biology concerned with the study of the framework of organisms and their parts.[1]Anatomy is a branch of natural science which deals with the structural organization of living things. It is an old science, having its origins in prehistoric times.[2]Anatomy is inherently linked to developmental biology, embryology, comparison anatomy, evolutionary biology, and phylogeny,[3]as these would be the processes by which body structure is produced over immediate (embryology) and long (evolution) timescales. Anatomy and physiology, which study (respectively) the structure and function of organisms and their parts, make a natural pair of related disciplines, and they are often studied together. Human anatomy is one of the essential basic sciences that are applied in medicine.[4]

The discipline of anatomy is divided into macroscopic and microscopic anatomy. Macroscopic anatomy, or gross anatomy, is the examination of an animal's body parts using unaided eyesight. Gross anatomy also includes the branch of superficial anatomy. Microscopic anatomy involves the use of optical instruments in the study of the tissues of various structures, known as histology, and also in the study of cells.

The history of anatomy is characterized by a progressive understanding of the functions of the organs and structures of the human body. Methods have also improved dramatically, advancing from the examination of animals by dissection of carcasses and cadavers (corpses) to 20th century medical imaging techniques including X-ray, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging.

Definition

A dissected body, lying prone on a table, by Charles Landseer

Derived from the Greek??????? anatomē "dissection" (from???????? anatémnō "I cut up, cut open" from??? aná "up", and????? témnō "I cut"),[5]anatomy is the scientific study of the structure of organisms including their systems, organs and tissues. It includes the appearance and position of the various parts, the materials from which they are composed, their locations and their relationships with other parts. Anatomy is quite distinct from physiologyand biochemistry, which deal respectively with the functions of those parts and the chemical processes involved. For example, an anatomist is concerned with the shape, size, position, structure, blood supply and innervation of an organ such as the liver; while a physiologist is interested in the production of bile, the role of the liver in nutrition and the regulation of bodily functions.[6]

The discipline of anatomy can be subdivided into a number of branches including gross or macroscopic anatomy and microscopic anatomy.[7]Gross anatomy is the study of structures large enough to be seen with the naked eye, and also includes superficial anatomy or surface anatomy, the study by sight of the external body features. Microscopic anatomy is the study of structures on a microscopic scale, along with histology (the study of tissues), and embryology (the study of an organism in its immature condition).[3]

Anatomy can be studied using both invasive and non-invasive methods with the goal of obtaining information about the structure and organization of organs and systems.[3]Methods used include dissection, in which a body is opened and its organs studied, and endoscopy, in which a video camera-equipped instrument is inserted through a small incision in the body wall and used to explore the internal organs and other structures. Angiography using X-rays or magnetic resonance angiography are methods to visualize blood vessels.[8][9][10][11]

The term "anatomy" is commonly taken to refer to human anatomy. However, considerably the same structures and tissues are found all through all of those other animal kingdom and the word also includes the anatomy of other creatures. The term zootomy is also sometimes used specifically refer to non-human animals. The framework and tissues of vegetation are of a different nature and they are studied in plant anatomy.[6]
Animal cells

Stylized cutaway diagram of the animal cellular (with flagella)

The kingdom Animalia contains multicellular organisms that are heterotrophic and motile (although some have secondarily adopted a sessile lifestyle). Most creatures have bodies differentiated into separate tissues and these animals are also known as eumetazoans. These people have an internal digestive chamber, with one or two opportunities; the gametes are manufactured in multicellular sexual intercourse organs, and the zygotes include a blastula stage in their embryonic development. Metazoans do not include the sponges, which have undifferentiated tissues.[12]

Unlike plant cells, pet cells have neither a cellular wall nor chloroplasts. Vacuoles, when present, are more in number and much smaller than those in the plant cell. Your body cells are composed of numerous types of cell, including those found in muscles, nerves and skin. Each typically has a cell membrane formed of phospholipids, cytoplasm and a nucleus. All of the several cells of an animal are produced from the embryonic germ layers. Those easier invertebrates which are created from two germ levels of ectoderm and endoderm are called diploblastic and the more developed animals whose constructions and organs are created from three germ levels are called triploblastic.[13]Almost all of a triploblastic animal's tissues and organs are derived from three bacteria layers of the embryo, the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm.

Animal cells can be grouped into four basic types: conjonctive, epithelial, muscle and nervous tissue.

Hyaline cartilage at high magnifying (H&E stain)

Connective cells

Connective tissues are fibrous and made up of cells scattered among inorganic material called the extracellular matrix. Connective tissue gives shape to organs and holds them in place. The main types are loose connective tissue, adipose tissue, fibrous connective tissue, cartilage and bone. The extracellular matrix contains proteins, the chief and most abundant of which is collagen. Collagen plays a major part in organizing and maintaining tissues. The matrix can be modified to form a skeleton to support or protect the body. An exoskeleton is a thickened, rigid cuticle which is stiffened by mineralization, as in crustaceans or by the cross-linking of its proteins as in insects. An endoskeleton is internal and present in all developed animals, as well as in many of those less developed.[13]

Epithelium

Gastric mucosa at low magnification (H&E stain)

Epithelial tissue is composed of closely packed cells, bound to each other by cell adhesion molecules, with little intercellular space. Epithelial cells can be squamous (flat), cuboidal or columnar and rest on a basal lamina, the upper layer of the basement membrane,[14]the lower layer is the reticular lamina lying next to the connective tissue in the extracellular matrix secreted by the epithelial cells.[15]There are many different types of epithelium, modified to suit a particular functionality. In the respiratory tract there is really a type of ciliated epithelial lining; within the small intestine there are microvilli on the epithelial lining and the large intestine presently there are intestinal villi. Skin consists associated with an outer layer of keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that addresses the exterior of the particular vertebrate body. Keratinocytes make as much as 95% of the tissues in the skin.[16]The particular epithelial cells on the particular external surface of the particular body typically secrete a good extracellular matrix by means of a cuticle. In simple animals this particular may just be a coat of glycoproteins.[13]In more advanced animals, many glands are formed of epithelial cells.[17]

 Muscle tissue

Cross section through skeletal muscle and a small nerve at high magnification (H&E stain)

Muscle cells (myocytes) form the active contractile tissue of the body. Muscle tissue functions to produce force and cause motion, either locomotion or movement within internal organs. Muscle is formed of contractile filaments and is separated into three main types; smooth muscle, skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle. Smooth muscle has no striations when examined microscopically. It contracts slowly but maintains contractibility over a wide range of stretch lengths. It is found in such organs as sea anemone tentacles and the body wall of sea cucumbers. Skeletal muscle contracts rapidly but has a limited range of extension. It is found in the movement of appendages and jaws. Obliquely striated muscle is intermediate between the other two. The filaments are staggered and this is the type of muscle found in earthworms that can extend slowly or make rapid contractions.[18]In higher animals striated muscles occur in bundles attached to bone to provide movement and they are often arranged within antagonistic sets. Smooth muscle mass can be found in the walls associated with the uterus, bladder, intestines, belly, oesophagus, respiratory airways, and blood vessels. Cardiac muscle is discovered only in the heart, permitting it to contract plus pump blood round the particular body.

Nervous tissue

Anxious tissue is composed of numerous nerve cells known as neurons which transmit information. In a few slow-moving radially symmetrical marine animals this kind of as ctenophores and cnidarians (including sea anemones and jellyfish), the nerve fibres form a nerve net, yet in most animals they may be organized longitudinally into packages. In simple animals, radio neurons in the entire body wall result in a local response to a stimulus. Within more complex animals, specific receptor cells such as chemoreceptors and photoreceptors are found in groups plus send messages along neural networks to other areas of the patient. Neurons could be connected with each other in ganglia.[19]In increased animals, specialized receptors are usually the basis of feeling organs and there will be a central nervous system (brain plus spinal cord) and a peripheral nervous system. These is made up of sensory nerves that transmit info from sense organs and motor nerves that influence target internal organs.[20][21]The peripheral nervous system is broken into the somatic nervous system which delivers sensation and controls voluntary muscle mass, and the autonomic nervous system which involuntarily controls smooth muscle, particular glands and internal internal organs, including the stomach.[22]

Vertebrate body structure

Mouse skull

All vertebrates have the similar basic body plan and at some point in their lives, mostly in the embryonic stage, share the major chordate characteristics; a stiffening rod, the notochord; a dorsal hollow tube of nervous material, the neural tube; pharyngeal arches; and a tail posterior to the anus. The spinal cord is protected by the vertebral column and is above the notochord and the gastrointestinal tract is below it.[23]Nervous tissue is derived from the ectoderm, connective tissues are derived from mesoderm, and gut is derived from the endoderm. At the posterior end is a tail which continues the spinal cord and vertebrae but not the gut. The mouth is found at the anterior end of the animal, and the anus at the base of the tail.[24]The defining characteristic of a vertebrate is the vertebral column, formed in the development of the segmented series of vertebrae. In most vertebrates the notochord becomes the nucleus pulposus of the intervertebral discs. However, a few vertebrates, such as the sturgeon and the coelacanth retain the notochord into adulthood.[25]Jawed vertebrates are typified by paired appendages, fins or legs, which may be secondarily lost. The limbs of vertebrates are considered to be homologous because the same underlying skeletal structure was inherited from their last common ancestor. This is one of the arguments put forward by Charles Darwin to support his theory of evolution.[26]

Seafood anatomy

Cutaway diagram displaying various organs of a seafood

The body of a fish is divided into a head, trunk and end, although the divisions between the three are not always externally visible. The particular skeleton, which forms the support structure inside the fish, is either made from cartilage, in cartilaginous fish, or bone in bony fish. The primary skeletal element is the vertebral column, composed of articulating vertebrae which are lightweight yet strong. The ribs attach to the spine and there are no limbs or limb girdles. The main external features of the fish, the fins, are composed of either bony or soft spines called rays, which with the exception of the caudal fins, have no direct connection with the spine. They are supported by the muscles which compose the main part of the trunk.[27]The heart has two chambers and pumps the blood through the respiratory surfaces of the gills and on round the body in a single circulatory loop.[28]The eyes are adapted for seeing underwater and have only local vision. There is an inner ear but no external or middle ear. Low frequency vibrations are detected by the lateral line system of sense organs that run along the length of the sides of fish, and these respond to nearby movements and to changes in water pressure.[27]

Sharks and rays are basal fish with numerous primitive anatomical features similar to those of ancient fish, including skeletons composed of cartilage. Their bodies tend to be dorso-ventrally flattened, they usually have five pairs of gill slits and a large mouth set on the underside of the head. The dermis is covered with separate dermal placoid scales. They have a cloaca into which the urinary and genital passages open, but not a swim bladder. Cartilaginous fish produce a small number of large, yolky eggs. Some species are ovoviviparous and the young develop internally but others are oviparous and the larvae develop externally in egg cases.[29]

The bony fish lineage shows more derived anatomical traits, often with major evolutionary changes from the features of ancient fish. They have a bony skeleton, are generally laterally flattened, have five pairs of gills protected by an operculum, and a mouth at or near the tip of the snout. The dermis is covered with overlapping scales. Bony fish have a swim bladder which helps them maintain a constant depth in the water column, but not a cloaca. They mostly spawn a large number of small eggs with little yolk which they broadcast into the water column.[29]

Amphibian anatomy

Skeleton of Surinam horned frog(Ceratophrys cornuta)

Plastic model of a frog

Amphibians are a class of animals comprising frogs, salamanders and caecilians. They are tetrapods, but the caecilians and a few species of salamander have either no limbs or their limbs are much reduced in dimensions. Their main bone fragments are hollow and light-weight and are fully ossified and the vertebrae interlock with the other person and have articular processes. Their ribs are usually short and may be fused to the vertebrae. Their skulls are mostly broad and brief, and are often incompletely ossified. Their skin consists of little keratin and lacks scales, but contains many mucous glands and in some species, poison intrigue. The hearts of amphibians have three chambers, two atria and one ventricle. They have got a urinary bladder and nitrogenous waste products are excreted mostly as urea. Amphibians breathe by means of buccal pumping, a pump action in which air is first attracted into the buccopharyngeal region through the nostrils. These are then closed and the air is forced into the lungs by contraction of the throat.[30]These people supplement this with gas exchange through the skin which must be kept moist.[31]

In frogs the pelvic girdle is robust and the hind legs are much longer and better than the forelimbs. The particular feet have 4 or 5 numbers and the toes in many cases are webbed for swimming and have suction pads for rising. Frogs have large eye and no tail. Salamanders resemble lizards in appearance; their short legs task sideways, the belly is near to or in contact with the ground and they have a lengthy end. Caecilians superficially resemble earthworms and are limbless. They burrow by means of zones of muscle contractions which move across the body and they swim by undulating their body from side to side.[32]

Reptile body structure

Skeleton of a diamondback rattlesnake

Reptiles are a category of creatures comprising turtles, tuataras, lizards, snakes and crocodiles. They are tetrapods, but the snakes and a few species of lizard either have no limbs or their braches are much reduced in size. Their bones are better ossified and their skeletons better than those of amphibians. The tooth are conical and mainly uniform in size. The top cells of the skin are modified into sexual scales which create a waterproof layer. Reptiles are unable to use their skin for respiration just like amphibians and have a more efficient respiratory system drawing air into their lungs by expanding their chest wall space. The heart resembles those of the amphibian but there exists a septum which more completely separates the oxygenated and deoxygenated bloodstreams. The reproductive system system has evolved for internal fertilization, with a copulatory organ present in most varieties. The eggs are encircled by amniotic membranes which prevents them from becoming dry and are laid on land, or develop internally in some species. The particular bladder is small as nitrogenous waste is passed as uric acid.[33]

Turtles are notable for their protective shells. They have an inflexible trunk encased in a horny carapace above and a plastron below. These are formed from bony plates embedded in the dermis which are overlain by horny ones and are partially fused with the ribs and spine. The neck is long and flexible and the head and the legs can be drawn back inside the shell. Turtles are vegetarians and the typical reptile teeth have been replaced by sharp, horny plates. In aquatic species, the front legs are modified into flippers.[34]
Tuataras superficially resemble lizards but the lineages diverged in the Triassic period. There is one living species, Sphenodon punctatus. The skull has two openings (fenestrae) on either side and the jaw is rigidly attached to the skull. There is one row of teeth in the lower jaw and this fits between the two rows in the upper jaw when the animal chews. The teeth are simply just predictions of bony material through the jaw and ultimately wear out. The brain plus heart tend to be more primitive compared to those of other lizards, and the lungs possess a single chamber and lack bronchi. The tuatara has the well-developed parietal eye on its temple.[34]

Lizards have skulls along with only one fenestra on each part, the lower bar associated with bone below the 2nd fenestra having been dropped. This results in the particular jaws being less rigidly attached which allows the mouth to open wider. Lizards are mostly quadrupeds, with the trunk held off the ground by short, sideways-facing legs, but a few species have no limbs and resemble snakes. Lizards have moveable eyelids, eardrums are present and some species have a central parietal eye.[34]

Snakes are closely related to lizards, having branched off from a common ancestral lineage during the Cretaceous period, and they share many of the same features. The skeleton consists of a skull, a hyoid bone, spine and ribs though a few species retain a vestige of the pelvis and rear limbs in the form of pelvic spurs. The bar under the second fenestra has also been lost and the jaws have extreme flexibility allowing the snake to swallow its prey whole. Snakes lack moveable eyelids, the eyes being covered by transparent "spectacle" scales. They do not have eardrums but can detect ground vibrations through the bones of their skull. Their forked tongues are used as organs of taste and smell and some species have sensory pits on their mind enabling them to find warm-blooded prey.[35]

Crocodilians are large, low-slung aquatic lizards with firm snouts and big numbers of teeth. The particular head and trunk are usually dorso-ventrally flattened and the particular tail is laterally compacted. It undulates from part to side to pressure the animal through the particular water when swimming. The particular tough keratinized scales offer body armour plus some are usually fused to the head. The nostrils, eyes plus ears are elevated over a top of the smooth head enabling them in order to remain above the surface area of the water whenever the animal is suspended. Valves seal the nostrils and ears when this is submerged. Unlike some other reptiles, crocodilians have minds with four chambers permitting complete separation of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood.[36]

Bird anatomy

Part associated with a wing. Albrecht Dürer, c. 1500–1512
Birds are tetrapods but although their hind limbs are usually used for walking or even hopping, their front braches are wings covered with feathers and adapted with regard to flight. Birds are endothermic, possess a high metabolic rate, the light skeletal system and powerful muscles. The particular long bones are slim, hollow and very gentle. Air sac extensions from the lungs occupy the centre of some bones. The sternum is wide and usually has a keel and the caudal vertebrae are fused. There are no teeth and the narrow jaws are adapted into a horn-covered beak. The eyes are relatively large, particularly in nocturnal species such as owls. They face forwards in predators and sideways in ducks.[37]

The feathers are outgrowths of the epidermis and are found in localized bands from where they fan out over the skin. Large flight feathers are found on the wings and tail, contour feathers cover the bird's surface and fine down occurs on young birds and under the contour feathers of water birds. The only cutaneous gland is the single uropygial gland near the base of the tail. This produces an oily secretion that waterproofs the feathers when the bird preens. There are scales on the legs, feet and claws on the tips of the toes.[37]

Mammal anatomy

Mammals are a diverse class of animals, mostly terrestrial but some are aquatic and others have evolved flapping or gliding flight. They mostly have four limbs but some aquatic mammals have no limbs or limbs modified into fins and the forelimbs of bats are altered into wings. The hip and legs of most mammals are usually situated below the trunk area, which is held nicely free from the ground. The particular bones of mammals are usually well ossified and the tooth, which are usually differentiated, are coated in the layer of prismatic enamel. The particular teeth are shed as soon as (milk teeth) during the particular animal's lifetime delete word in all, as is the particular case in cetaceans. Mammals possess three bones in the particular middle ear and a cochlea in the inner ear. They are usually clothed in hair plus their skin contains intrigue which secrete sweat. Some associated with these glands are specific as mammary glands, producing dairy to feed the younger. Mammals breathe with lungs and possess a muscular diaphragm separating the thorax from your abdomen which helps all of them draw air into the particular lungs. The mammalian coronary heart has four chambers plus oxygenated and deoxygenated bloodstream are kept entirely individual. Nitrogenous waste is passed primarily as urea.[38]

Mammals are amniotes, and most are viviparous, the birth of live young. The particular exception to this are usually the egg-laying monotremes, the platypus and the echidnas of Australia. Most other mammals have a placenta through which the particular developing foetus obtains nourishment, but in marsupials, the foetal stage will be very short and the particular immature young comes into the world plus finds its method to the mother's pouch where it latches upon to a nipple and completes the development.[38]

Human body structure

Modern anatomic technique displaying sagittal sections of the particular head as seen simply by a MRI scan

In the human being, the development of experienced hand movements and improved brain dimensions are likely in order to have evolved simultaneously.[39]

Humans have the general body plan of the mammal. Humans have a head, neck, trunk (which includes the thorax and abdomen), two arms and hands, and two legs and feet.

Usually, registrants of certain biological sciences, paramedic, prosthetists and orthotists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, nurses, podiatrists, and medical students learn gross body structure and microscopic anatomy through anatomical models, skeletons, textbooks, diagrams, photographs, lectures and tutorials, and in addition, medical students generally also learn gross anatomy through practical experience of dissection and inspection of cadavers. The study of microscopic anatomy (or histology) can be aided by practical experience examining histological preparations (or slides) under a microscope.[40]

Human anatomy, physiology and biochemistry are complementary basic medical sciences, which are generally taught to medical students in their first year at medical school. Human anatomy can be taught regionally or systemically; that is, respectively, studying anatomy by bodily regions such as the head and chest, or studying by specific systems, such as the nervous or respiratory systems.[3]The major anatomy textbook, Gray's Anatomy, has been reorganized from a systems format to a regional format, in line with modern teaching methods.[41][42]A thorough working knowledge of anatomy is required by physicians, especially surgeons and doctors working in some diagnostic specialties, such as histopathology and radiology.[43]

Academic anatomists are usually employed by universities, medical schools or teaching hospitals. They are often involved in teaching anatomy, and research into certain systems, organs, tissues or cells.[43]

Invertebrate anatomy

Head of a male Daphnia, a planktonic crustacean

Invertebrates constitute a vast array of living organisms ranging from the simplest unicellular eukaryotes such as Paramecium to such complex multicellular animals as the octopus, lobster and dragonfly. They constitute about 95% of the animal species. By definition, none of these creatures has a backbone. Typically the cells of single-cell protozoans have a similar basic structure as the ones from multicellular animals but some parts are specialized into the equivalent of tissues and organs. Locomotion is often provided by cilia or flagella or may proceed via the advance of pseudopodia, food may be gathered by phagocytosis, energy needs may be supplied by photosynthesis and the cell may be supported by an endoskeleton or an exoskeleton. Some protozoans can form multicellular colonies.[44]

Metazoans are multicellular organism, different groups of cells of which have separate functions. The most basic types of metazoan tissues are epithelium and connective tissue, both of which are present in nearly all invertebrates. The outer surface of the epidermis is normally formed of epithelial cells and secretes an extracellular matrix which provides support to the organism. An endoskeleton derived from the mesoderm is present in echinoderms, spongesand some cephalopods. Exoskeletons are derived from the epidermis and is composed of chitin in arthropods (insects, spiders, ticks, shrimps, crabs, lobsters). Calcium carbonate constitutes the shells of molluscs, brachiopods and some tube-building polychaete worms and silica forms the exoskeleton of the microscopic diatoms and radiolaria.[45]Other invertebrates may have no rigid structures but the epidermis may secrete a variety of surface coatings such as the pinacoderm of sponges, the gelatinous cuticle of cnidarians (polyps, sea anemones, jellyfish) in addition to the collagenous cuticle of annelids. The exterior epithelial layer can include tissue of several types which include sensory cells, gland tissue and stinging cells. Right now there may also be protrusions such as microvilli, cilia, brush bristles, spines and tubercles.[46]

Marcello Malpighi, the daddy of microscopical structure, learned that plants had tubules just like those he found in insects like typically the silk worm. He seen that when a ring-like portion of bark had been removed on a shoe a swelling occurred inside the tissues above typically the ring, and he unmistakably interpreted this as progress stimulated by food flowing down from the leaves, in addition to being captured above typically the ring.[47]

Arthropod anatomy

Arthropods comprise the greatest phylum in the pet kingdom with over a million known invertebrate varieties.[48]

Insects possess segmented bodies supported by a hard-jointed outer addressing, the exoskeleton, made mostly of chitin. The segments of the body are structured into three distinct components, a head, a thorax and an abdomen.[49]The head typically bears a pair of sensory antennae, a pair of compound eyes, one to 3 simple eyes (ocelli) and three sets of altered appendages that form the mouthparts. The thorax has 3 pairs of segmented legs, one pair each for the three segments that write the thorax and another or two pairs of wings. Typically the abdomen is composed of eleven segments, some of which may be joined and houses the digestive, breathing, excretory and reproductive systems.[50]There is considerable variant between species and many adaptations to the body parts, especially wings, thighs, antennae and mouthparts.[51]

Spiders a class of arachnids have four pairs of legs; a body of two segments—a cephalothorax and an abdomen. Spiders do not have wings and no antennae. They may have mouthparts called chelicerae which are often related to venom boucle because so many spiders are venomous. There is a second pair of appendages called pedipalps attached to the cephalothorax. They have similar segmentation to the legs and function as taste and smell organs. On the ending of each male pedipalp is a spoon-shaped cymbium that acts to support the copulatory organ.

Other divisions of anatomy

* " light " or surface anatomy is important as study regarding anatomical attractions that can be quickly seen from the external contours of the body.[3]It helps medical professionals or veterinary surgeons to gauge the position and anatomy of the associated deeper buildings. Superficial is a online term that indicates that structures are located relatively in close proximity to the surface of the body.[52]
5. Comparative anatomy relates to the comparison of anatomical buildings (both gross and microscopic) in numerous animals.[3]
5. Artistic anatomy relates to anatomic studies for imaginative reasons.

History

Ancient

Graphic of early rendition of anatomy conclusions

In 1600 BCE, the Edwin Smith Écrit, an Ancient Egyptian medical text, referred to the heart, its vessels, lean meats, spleen, kidneys, hypothalamus, uterus and bladder, and showed the blood vessels diverging from the very center. The Ebers Papyrus (c. 1550 BCE) features a "treatise on the heart", with vessels carrying all the body's fluids to or from every part of the body.[53]

Old Greek human anatomy underwent great changes and advances through the early medieval world. Over time, this medical practice expanded by a continually developing understanding of the functions of bodily organs and structures in the body. Phenomenal anatomical findings of the human body were made, which may have led towards the understanding of mental performance, eye, liver, reproductive : organs and the stressed system.

The Hellenistic Egyptian city of Alexandria was the stepping-stone for Ancient greek language anatomy and physiology. Alexandria not only housed the greatest library for medical data and books of the liberal arts in the world might be the Greeks, but was also home to many medical experts and philosophers. Great appui of the arts and sciences from the Ptolemy rulers helped raise Alexandria up, further rivalling the cultural and scientific achievements of other Greek states.[54]

A great anatomy thangka, part of Desi Sangye Gyatso's The Blue Beryl, 17th millennium

Some of the most striking advancements at the begining of anatomy and physiology took place in Hellenistic Alexandria.[54]Two of essentially the most well known anatomists and physiologists of the next millennium were Herophilus and Erasistratus. These two medical professionals helped pioneer human dissection for medical research. In addition they conducted vivisections on the cadavers of condemned bad guys, which was considered taboo until the Renaissance—Herophilus was recognized as the first person to execute systematic abrégé.[55]Herophilus became known for his anatomical works making impressing contributions to many branches of structure and many other aspects of medicine.[56]Several of the works integrated classifying the system of the pulse, the breakthrough that human arteries got thicker walls then problematic veins, and that the atria were parts of the heart. Herophilus's knowledge of the human body has provided crucial input towards understanding the brain, attention, liver, reproductive organs and nervous system, and characterizing the course of disease.[57]Erasistratus accurately referred to the structure of the brain, like the cavities and membranes, to make a differentiation between its cerebrum and cerebellum[58]During his study in Alexandria, Erasistratus was particularly concerned with studies of the circulatory and nervous systems. He or she was able to identify the sensory and the motor nerves in the human body and thought that air entered the lungs and heart, which was then carried through the body. His differentiation involving the arteries and veins—the arteries carrying the air through the entire body, while the veins carried blood from the heart was a great anatomical discovery. Erasistratus seemed to be liable for naming and describing the function of the epiglottis and the valves of the center, including the tricuspid.[59]During the next millennium, Greek physicians were able to differentiate nerves from blood vessels and muscles[60]and to recognize that the nerves convey nerve organs impulses.[54]It was Herophilus who made the point that damage to motor nerves induced paralysis.[61]Herophilus named the meninges and ventricles in the brain, appreciated the division between cerebellum and cerebrum and recognized that the brain was the "seat of intellect" and not a "cooling chamber" as propounded by Aristotle[62]Herophilus is also credited with describing the optic, oculomotor, motor department of the trigeminal, face, vestibulocochlear and hypoglossal nerve fibres.[63]

thirteenth century anatomical illustration

Fantastic feats were made during the next century in both the digestive and reproductive systems. Herophilus was able to discover and describe not only the salivary glands, but the small intestine and lean meats.[63]He showed that the uterus is a hollow organ and referred to the ovaries and uterine tubes. He recognized that spermatozoa were made by the testes and was the first to identify the prostate gland.[63]

Typically the anatomy of the muscles and skeleton is referred to in the Hippocratic Corpus, an Ancient Greek medical work written by unknown creators.[64]Aristotle described vertebrate anatomy based on animal dissection. Praxagorasidentified the variation between arteries and veins. Also in the 4th century BCE, Herophilos and Erasistratus produced more accurate anatomical information based on vivisection of criminals in Alexandria during the Ptolemaic dynasty.[65][66]

In the 2nd millennium, Galen of Pergamum, an anatomist, clinician, writer and philosopher,[67]wrote the final and highly influential anatomy treatise of olden days.[68]He or she compiled existing knowledge and studied anatomy through dissection of animals.[67]This individual was one of the first experimental physiologists through his vivisection experiments on animals.[69]Galen's drawings, based mainly on dog anatomy, became effectively the only anatomical textbook for the next thousand years.[70]Their work was known to Renaissance doctors only through Islamic Golden Age medicine until it was translated from the Greek some time in the 15th century.[70]

Medieval to early modern

Anatomical research of the arm, by Leonardo da Vinci, (about 1510)

Anatomical chart in Vesalius's Epitome, 1543

Michiel Jansz van Mierevelt – Anatomy lesson of Dr. Willem van der Meer, 1617

Anatomy developed little from classical times until the sixteenth century; as the historian Marie Boas creates, "Progress in anatomy before the sixteenth century is as mysteriously slow as its development after 1500 is startlingly rapid".[70]: 120–121 Between 1275 and 1326, the anatomists Mondino de Luzzi, Alessandro Achillini and Antonio Benivieni at Bologna carried out the first systematic human dissections for centuries.[71][72][73]Mondino's Anatomy of 1316 was the first textbook in the medieval rediscovery of human being anatomy. It describes the body in the order followed in Mondino's dissections, starting with the stomach, then your thorax, then the head and limbs. This was the standard body structure textbook for the next century.[70]

Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) was trained in anatomy by Andrea del Verrocchio.[70]He made use of his anatomical knowledge in his artwork, making many sketches of skeletal structures, muscles and internal organs of humans and other vertebrates that he examined.[70][74]
Andreas Vesalius (1514–1564) (Latinized from Andries truck Wezel), professor of structure at the University of Padua, is considered the originator of modern human structure.[75]Originally from Brabant, Vesalius published the influential book De humani corporis fabrica ("the construction of a persons body"), a sizable format book in more effective volumes, in 1543.[76]The accurate and intricately detailed illustrations, often in allegorical poses against Italianate landscapes, are thought to have happened by the artist Jan truck Calcar, a pupil of Titian.[77]

In England, structure was your subject of the first public lectures given in any science; these were given by the Company of Barbers and Surgeons in the 16th century, joined up with in 1583 by the Lumleian lectures in surgery at the Royal College of Physicians.[78]

Late modern

In the United Declares, medical schools commenced to be set up towards the ending of the 18th century. Classes in anatomy needed a regular stream of cadavers for dissection and the were difficult to obtain. Philadelphia, Baltimore and New York were all renowned for body snatching activity as criminals raided graveyards at night, removing freshly buried corpses from their coffins.[79]A similar problem existed in Great britain where demand for physiques became so great that grave-raiding and even anatomy murder were practised to obtain cadavers.[80]Some graveyards were in consequence protected with watchtowers. The practice was halted in Britain by the Anatomy Act of 1832,[81][82]while in the United states of america, similar legislation was enacted after the physician William S. Forbes of Jefferson Medical College was found guilty in 1882 of "complicity with resurrectionists in the despoliation of graves in Lebanon Cemetery".[83]

The teaching of anatomy in Britain was transformed by Sir John Struthers, Regius Professor of Anatomy at the University of Aberdeen from 1863 to 1889. Having been liable for setting up the system of three years of "pre-clinical" academic teaching in the sciences underlying treatments, including especially anatomy. This technique lasted until the change of medical training in 1993 and 2003. Since well as teaching, he or she collected many vertebrate skeletons for his museum of comparative anatomy, published over 75 research papers, and became known for his public rapport of the Tay Whale.[84][85]From 1822 the Royal College of Cosmetic surgeons regulated the teaching of anatomy in medical colleges.[86]Medical museums provided examples in comparative body structure, and were often used in teaching.[87]Ignaz Semmelweis investigated puerperal fever and he uncovered how it was triggered. He realized that the frequently fatal fever occurred more often in mothers analyzed by medical students than by midwives. The students proceeded to go from the dissecting room to the hospital ward and examined women in childbirth. Semmelweis showed that whenever the trainees washed their hands in chlorinated lime green before each clinical exam, the incidence of puerperal fever among the moms could be reduced significantly.[88]

A great electron microscope from 1973

Before the modern health care era, the main implies for studying the interior buildings of the body were dissection of the dead and inspection, palpation and auscultation of the living. It had been the advent of microscopy that exposed up a comprehension of typically the building blocks that constituted living tissues. Technical advancements in the development of achromatic lenses increased the resolving power of typically the microscope and around 1839, Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann identified that cells were typically the fundamental unit of corporation of all life. Examine of small structures engaged passing light through these people and the microtome was invented to be able to provide sufficiently thin pieces of tissue to look at. Staining techniques using unnatural dyes were established to be able to help separate different varieties of tissue. Advances inside the fields of histology and cytology began in typically the late 19th century[89]along with advances inside surgical techniques enabling typically the painless and safe removing of biopsy specimens. The invention regarding the electron microscope brought a fantastic advance in resolution strength and allowed research directly into the ultrastructure of cells and the organelles and other structures within these people. About the same period, in the 1950s, the particular use of X-ray diffraction for learning the crystal structures associated with proteins, nucleic acids plus other biological molecules offered rise to a brand new field of molecular anatomy.[89]

Essential advances have happened in non-invasive techniques for examining the particular interior structures from the entire body. X-rays can be that passes the particular body and used within medical radiography and fluoroscopy to differentiate interior constructions which have varying degrees associated with opaqueness. Magnetic resonance image resolution, computed tomography, and ultrasound imaging have all enabled examination associated with internal structures in unparalleled detail to a level far beyond the creativity of earlier generations.[90]