Gross domestic product

A map of world economies by size of gross domestic product (nominal) in USD, World Bank, 2014[1]

Gross domestic product (GDP) may be a monetary measure of the value of all the final goods and services created in an exceedingly amount of time, usually annually GDP (nominal) per capita does not, however, mirror variations in the cost of living and the inflation rates of the countries; so employing a basis of GDP per capita at buying power parity (PPP) is arguably additional helpful once comparison variations in living standards between nations.

Definition

The OECD defines gross domestic product as "an combination live of production up to the add of the gross values added of all resident and institutional units engaged in production (plus any taxes, and minus any subsidies, on merchandise not enclosed within the price of their outputs)."[2] An IMF publication states that "GDP measures the cost of ultimate merchandise and services—that are bought by the ultimate user—produced in an exceedingly country in an exceedingly given amount of your time (say 1 / 4 or a year)."[3]
Total gross domestic product also can be de-escalated into the contribution of every trade or sector of the economy.[4] The magnitude relation of gross domestic product to the overall population of the region is the per capita GDP and the identical is termed Mean commonplace of Living. gross domestic product is taken into account the "world's most powerful applied mathematics indicator of national development and progress".[5]

History

William Petty came up with a basic thought of gross domestic product to attack landlords against unfair taxation during warfare between the Dutch and therefore the English between 1652 and 1674.[6] Charles Davenant developed the strategy any in 1695.[7] The trendy thought of gross domestic product was 1st developed by Simon economist for a US Congress report in 1934.[8] In this report, economist warned against its use as a live of welfare[1] (see below under limitations and criticisms). once the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, gross domestic product became the most tool for measure a country's economy.[9] At that time gross national product (GNP) was the well-liked estimate, that differed from gross domestic product therein it measured production by a country's voters reception and abroad instead of its 'resident institutional units' (see OECD definition above). The switch from "GNP" to "GDP" within the America was in 1991, trailing behind most different nations. The role that measurements of gross domestic product contend in warfare II was crucial to the next political acceptance of gross domestic product values as indicators of national development and progress.[10] A crucial role was contend here by the US Department of Commerce under John Milton Gilbert wherever ideas from economist were embedded into governmental establishments.

The history of the thought of gross domestic product ought to be distinguished from the history of changes in ways that of estimating it. the worth extra by companies is comparatively straightforward to calculate from their accounts, however the worth extra by the general public sector, by monetary industries, and by intangible asset creation is additional complicated. These activities are more and more vital in developed economies, and therefore the international conventions governing their estimation and their inclusion or exclusion in gross domestic product frequently modification in an effort to stay up with industrial advances. within the words of 1 tutorial economic expert "The actual variety for gross domestic product is so the merchandise of an unlimited patchwork of statistics and a sophisticated set of processes disbursed on the data to suit them to the abstract framework."[11]
Determining gross domestic product (GDP)

GDP are often determined in 3 ways, all of that ought to, in essence, provide the identical result. they're the assembly (or output or price added) approach, the financial gain approach, or the speculated expenditure approach.

The most direct of the 3 is that the production approach, that sums the outputs of each category of enterprise to hit the overall. The expenditure approach works on the principle that each one of the merchandise should be bought by someone, so the worth of the overall product should be up to people's total expenditures in shopping for things. The financial gain approach works on the principle that the incomes of the productive factors ("producers," colloquially) should be up to the worth of their product, and determines gross domestic product by finding the add of all producers' incomes.[12]

Production approach

This approach mirrors the OECD definition given on top of.
1. Estimate the gross price of domestic output out of numerous|the numerous} various economic activities;
2. confirm the [intermediate consumption], i.e., the price of fabric, provides and services wont to manufacture final merchandise or services.
3. Deduct intermediate consumption from gross price to get the gross price extra.

Gross price added = gross price of output – price of intermediate consumption.

Value of output = price of the overall sales of products and services and price of changes within the inventory.

The add of the gross price extra within the varied economic activities is understood as "GDP at issue cost".

GDP at issue price and indirect taxes less subsidies on merchandise = "GDP at producer price".

For measure output of domestic product, economic activities (i.e. industries) are classified into varied sectors. once classifying economic activities, the output of every sector is calculated by any of the subsequent 2 methods:
1. By multiplying the output of every sector by their several market value and adding them along
2. By assembling knowledge on income and inventories from the records of firms and adding them along

The price of output of all sectors is then extra to urge the gross value of output at issue price. Subtracting every sector's intermediate consumption from gross output price offers the GVA (=GDP) at issue price. Adding taxation minus subsidies to GVA (GDP) at issue price offers the "GVA (GDP) at producer prices".

Income approach

The second approach of estimating gross domestic product is to use "the add of primary incomes distributed by resident producer units".[2]

If gross domestic product is calculated this fashion it's typically known as gross domestic financial gain (GDI), or GDP (I). GDI ought to give the identical quantity because the expenditure technique represented later. By definition, GDI is up to gross domestic product. In follow, however, mensuration errors can create the 2 figures slightly off once reportable by national applied mathematics agencies.

This technique measures gross domestic product by adding incomes that companies pay households for factors of production they rent - wages for labour, interest for capital, rent for land and profits for entrepreneurship.

The America "National financial gain and Expenditure Accounts" divide incomes into 5 categories:
1. Wages, salaries, and supplementary labour financial gain
2. company profits
3. Interest and miscellaneous investment financial gain
4. Farmers' incomes
5. financial gain from non-farm unorganised businesses

These 5 financial gain parts add to web domestic financial gain at issue price.

Two changes should be created to urge GDP:
1. Indirect taxes minus subsidies are extra to urge from issue price to promote costs.
2. Depreciation (or capital consumption allowance) is extra to urge from web domestic product to gross domestic product.

Total financial gain are often divided per varied schemes, resulting in varied formulae for gross domestic product measured by the financial gain approach. a standard one is:
GDP = compensation of employees + gross in operation surplus + gross mixed income + taxes less subsidies on production and imports
GDP = COE + GOS + GMI + TP & M – SP & M
* Compensation of workers (COE) measures the overall remuneration to employees for work done. It includes wages and salaries, further as leader contributions to social security and different such programs.
* Gross in operation surplus (GOS) is that the surplus thanks to homeowners of incorporated businesses. usually called profits, though solely a set of total prices are subtracted  from gross output to calculate GOS.
* Gross mixed income (GMI) is that the same live as GOS, except for unorganised businesses. This usually includes most tiny businesses.

The add of COE, GOS and GMI is known as total issue financial gain; it's the income of all of the factors of production in society. It measures the worth of gross domestic product at issue (basic) costs. The distinction between basic costs and final costs (those employed in the expenditure calculation) is that the total taxes and subsidies that the govt has levied or paid on it production. thus adding taxes less subsidies on production and imports converts GDP(I) at factor cost to GDP(I) at final costs.

Total issue financial gain is additionally typically expressed as:
Total issue financial gain = worker compensation + company profits + proprietor's financial gain + income + web interest[13]

Expenditure approach

The third thanks to estimate gross domestic product is to calculate the add of the ultimate uses of products and services (all uses except intermediate consumption) measured in purchasers' costs.[2]

Market merchandise that are created are purchased by somebody. within the case wherever a decent is created and unsold, the quality accounting convention is that the producer has bought the nice from themselves. Therefore, measure the overall expenditure wont to obtain things may be a approach of measure production. this can be called the expenditure technique of shrewd gross domestic product.

Components of gross domestic product by expenditure

U.S. gross domestic product computed on the expenditure basis.

GDP (Y) is the add of consumption (C), investment (I), government disbursement (G) and net exports (X – M).
Y = C + I + G + (X ? M)

Here may be a description of every gross domestic product component:

* C (consumption) is commonly the biggest gross domestic product element within the economy, consisting of personal expenditures within the economy (household final consumption expenditure). These personal expenditures comprise one in every of the subsequent categories: durable merchandise, unserviceable merchandise, and services. Examples embrace food, rent, jewelry, gasoline, and medical expenses, however not the acquisition of recent housing.

* I (investment) includes, as an example, business investment in instrumentation, however doesn't embrace exchanges of existing assets. Examples embrace construction of a new mine, purchase of package, or purchase of machinery and instrumentation for a works. disbursement by households (not government) on new homes is additionally enclosed in investment. In distinction to its conversational which means, "investment" in gross domestic product doesn't mean purchases of financial merchandise. shopping for monetary merchandise is classed as 'saving', as critical investment. This avoids double-counting: if one buys shares in an exceedingly company, and therefore the company uses the money received to shop for plant, equipment, etc., {the quantity|the quantity|the number} are counted toward gross domestic product once the corporate spends the money on those things; to additionally count it once one offers it to the corporate would be to count two occasions associate amount that solely corresponds to 1 cluster of merchandise. Buying bonds or stocks is a swapping of deeds, a transfer of claims on future production, ultimately associate expenditure on merchandise.

* G (government spending) is the add of government expenditures on final goods and services. It includes salaries of public servants, purchases of weapons for the military and any investment expenditure by a government. It doesn't embrace any transfer payments, such as social security or unemployment edges.

* X (exports) represents gross exports. gross domestic product captures the quantity a rustic produces, as well as merchandise and services created for different nations' consumption, so exports are extra.

* M (imports) represents gross imports. Imports are subtracted  since foreign merchandise are enclosed within the terms G, I, or C, and should be subtracted to avoid reckoning foreign supply as domestic.

Note that C, G, and I are expenditures on final merchandise and services; expenditures on intermediate goods and services don't count. (Intermediate merchandise and services are those employed by businesses to provide different merchandise and services among the accounting year.[14])

According to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, that is liable for shrewd the national accounts within the u.  s., "In general, the supply knowledge for the expenditures parts are thought of additional reliable than those for the financial gain parts [see financial gain technique, below]."[15]

GDP vs GNI

GDP are often contrasted with gross national product (GNP) or, because it is currently famous, gross national income (GNI). The distinction is that gross domestic product defines its scope per location, whereas GNI defines its scope per possession. in an exceedingly world context, world gross domestic product and world GNI are, therefore, equivalent terms.

GDP is product created among a country's borders; GNI is product created by enterprises in hand by a country's voters. the 2 would be the identical if all of the productive enterprises in an exceedingly country were in hand by its own voters, and people voters didn't own productive enterprises in the other countries. In follow, however, foreign possession makes gross domestic product and GNI non-identical. Production among a country's borders, however by associate enterprise in hand by someone outside the country, counts as a part of its gross domestic product however not its GNI; on the opposite hand, production by associate enterprise set outside the country, however in hand by one in every of its voters, counts as a part of its GNI however not its gross domestic product.

For example, the GNI of the USA is that the price of output created by American-owned companies, no matter wherever the companies are set. Similarly, if a rustic becomes more and more in debt, and spends massive amounts of financial gain coupling this debt this may be mirrored in an exceedingly shriveled GNI however not a shriveled gross domestic product. Similarly, if a rustic sells off its resources to entities outside their country this may even be mirrored over time in shriveled GNI, however not shriveled gross domestic product. this might create the employment of gross domestic product additional enticing for politicians in countries with increasing debt and decreasing assets.

Gross {national financial gain|value} (GNI) equals gross domestic product and financial gain receipts from the remainder of the planet minus income payments to the remainder of the planet.[16]
In 1991, the u.  s. switched from victimisation GNP to victimisation gross domestic product as its primary live of production.[17] The relationship between u.  s. gross domestic product and GNP is shown in table one.7.5 of the National financial gain and products Accounts.[18]

International standards

The international commonplace for measure gross domestic product is contained within the book System of National Accounts (1993), that was ready by representatives of the International fund, European Union, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, United Nations and World Bank. The publication is often remarked as SNA93 to tell apart it from the previous edition revealed in 1968 (called SNA68) [19]

SNA93 provides a collection of rules and procedures for the mensuration of national accounts. The standards are designed to be versatile, to permit for variations in native applied mathematics desires and conditions.

National mensuration

Countries by gross domestic product (PPP) per capita (Int$) in 2017 per the UN agency
  > 50,000
  35,000–50,000
  20,000–35,000
  10,000–20,000
  5,000–10,000
  2,000–5,000
  < 2,000
  No data

Countries by 2015 gross domestic product (nominal) per capita.[20]
  > $64,000
  $32,000 – 64,000
  $16,000 – 32,000
  $8,000 – 16,000
  $4,000 – 8,000
  $2,000 – 4,000
  $1,000 – 2,000
  $500 – 1,000
  < $500
  No data

U.S gross domestic product computed on the financial gain basis

Within every country gross domestic product is often measured by a national government applied mathematics agency, as non-public sector organizations commonly don't have access to info|the knowledge|the data} needed (especially information on expenditure and production by governments).

Nominal gross domestic product and changes to gross domestic product

The raw gross domestic product figure as given by the equations on top of is termed the nominal, historical, or current, GDP. once one compares gross domestic product figures from one year to a different, it's fascinating to complete changes within the price of cash – i.e., for the results of inflation or deflation. to create it additional meaning for year-to-year comparisons, it's going to be increased by the magnitude relation between {the price|the worth} of cash within the year the gross domestic product was measured and therefore the value of cash in an exceedingly base year.

For example, suppose a country's gross domestic product in 1990 was $100 million and its gross domestic product in 2000 was $300 million. Suppose additionally that inflation had halved the worth of its currency over that amount. To meaningfully compare its gross domestic product in 2000 to its gross domestic product in 1990, we have a tendency to might multiply the gross domestic product in 2000 by simple fraction, to create it relative to 1990 as a base year. The result would be that the gross domestic product in 2000 equals $300 million ? simple fraction = $150 million, in 1990 financial terms. we'd see that the country's gross domestic product had realistically enhanced 50 percent over that amount, not two hundred p.c, because it would possibly seem from the raw gross domestic product knowledge. The gross domestic product adjusted for changes in cash price during this approach is termed the real, or constant, GDP.

The issue wont to convert gross domestic product from current to constant values during this approach is termed the GDP factor. Unlike consumer index number, that measures inflation or deflation within the worth of unit goods, the gross domestic product factor measures changes within the costs of all domestically created merchandise associated services in an economy as well as investment merchandise and government services, further as unit consumption merchandise.[21]

Constant-GDP figures enable America to calculate a gross domestic product rate, that indicates what quantity a country's production has enhanced (or shriveled, if the expansion rate is negative) compared to the previous year.

Real gross domestic product rate for year n
= [(Real gross domestic product in year n) ? (Real gross domestic product in year n ? 1)] / (Real gross domestic product in year n ? 1)

Another issue that it's going to be fascinating to account for is increase. If a country's gross domestic product doubled over a particular amount, however its population tripled, the rise in gross domestic product might not mean that the quality of living enhanced for the country's residents; the common person within the country is manufacturing but they were before. Per-capita GDP is a live to account for increase.

Cross-border comparison and buying power parity

The level of gross domestic product in countries could also be compared by changing their price in national currency according to either the current currency rate, or the buying power parity rate.

* Current currency exchange rate is the exchange rate in the international foreign exchange market.

* buying power parity rate is the exchange rate supported the purchasing power parity (PPP) of a currency relative to a specific commonplace (usually the United States dollar). this can be a comparative (and theoretical) rate, the sole thanks to directly understand this rate is to sell associate entire CPI basket in one country, convert the money at the currency market rate & then rebuy that very same basket of products within the different country (with the regenerate cash). Going from country to country, the distribution of costs among the basket can vary; sometimes, non-tradable purchases can consume a bigger proportion of the basket's total price within the higher gross domestic product country, per the Balassa-Samuelson impact.

The ranking of nations might take issue considerably supported that technique is employed.

* The current rate method converts the worth of products and services victimisation world currency exchange rates. the strategy can give higher indications of a country's international buying power. as an example, if tenth of gross domestic product is being spent on shopping for advanced foreign arms, the amount of weapons purchased is entirely ruled by current exchange rates, since arms are a listed product bought on the international market. there's no meaning 'local' worth distinct from the international worth for prime technology merchandise. The palatopharyngoplasty technique of gross domestic product conversion is additional relevant to non-traded merchandise and services. within the on top of example if advanced weapons are to be created internally their quantity are ruled by gross domestic product (PPP) instead of nominal gross domestic product.
There is a transparent pattern of the purchasing power parity method decreasing the inequality in gross domestic product between high and low financial gain (GDP) countries, as compared to the current rate technique. This finding is termed the Penn impact.

For additional info, see Measures of value and output.

Standard of living and GDP: wealth distribution and externalities

GDP per capita is commonly used as associate indicator of living standards.[22]

The major advantage of gross domestic product per capita as associate indicator of ordinary of living is that it's measured oft, widely, and systematically. it's measured oft therein most countries give info on gross domestic product on a quarterly basis, permitting trends to be seen quickly. it's lived wide therein some measure of gross domestic product is offered for pretty much each country within the world, permitting inter-country comparisons. it's measured systematically therein the technical definition of gross domestic product is comparatively consistent among countries.

GDP doesn't embrace many factors that influence the quality of living. specifically, it fails to account for:

* Externalities – economic process might entail a rise in negative externalities that don't seem to be directly measured in gross domestic product.[23][24] Increased industrial output would possibly grow gross domestic product, however any pollution isn't counted.[25]

* Non-market transactions– gross domestic product excludes activities that don't seem to be provided through the market, like unit production, bartering of products and services, and volunteer or unpaid services.

* Non-monetary economy– gross domestic product omits economies wherever no cash comes into play in any respect, leading to inaccurate or abnormally low gross domestic product figures. for instance, in countries with major business transactions occurring informally, parts of native economy don't seem to be simply registered. Bartering may be additional distinguished than the employment of cash, even extending to services.[24]

* Quality enhancements and inclusion of recent merchandise– by not absolutely adjusting for quality enhancements and new products, gross domestic product understates true economic growth. as an example, though computers nowadays are more cost-effective and additional powerful than computers from the past, gross domestic product treats them because the same merchandise by solely accounting for the cost. The introduction of recent merchandise is additionally troublesome to live accurately and isn't mirrored in gross domestic product despite the actual fact that it's going to increase the quality of living. for instance, even the richest person in 1900 couldn't purchase commonplace merchandise, like antibiotics and cell phones, that a median shopper can purchase nowadays, since such trendy conveniences didn't exist then.

* property of growth– gross domestic product may be a mensuration of economic historic activity and isn't essentially a projection.

* Wealth distribution – gross domestic product doesn't account for variances in incomes of assorted demographic teams. See income difference metrics for discussion of a spread of inequality-based economic measures.[24]

It are often argued that gross domestic product per capita as associate indicator commonplace of living is correlate with these factors, capturing them indirectly.[22][26] As a result, gross domestic product per capita as a customary of living may be a continued  usage as a result of the general public have a reasonably correct plan of what it's and realize it is hard to come back up with quantitative measures for such constructs as happiness, quality of life, and well-being.[22]

Limitations and criticisms

Limitations at introduction

Simon Kuznets, the economic expert UN agency developed the primary comprehensive set of measures of value, declared in his 1st report back to the Congress in 1934, in an exceedingly section titled "Uses and Abuses of value Measurements":[8]

The valuable capability of the human mind to change a posh scenario in an exceedingly compact characterization becomes dangerous once not controlled in terms of positively declared criteria. With quantitative measurements particularly, the determinateness of the result suggests, usually deceptively, a exactitude and ease within the outlines of the article measured. Measurements of value are subject to the present variety of illusion and ensuing abuse, particularly since they cater to matters that are the middle of conflict of opposing social teams wherever the effectiveness of associate argument is commonly contingent upon oversimplification. [...]

All these qualifications upon estimates of {national financial gain|value} as associate index of productivity are even as vital once income measurements are understood from the purpose of read of economic welfare. however within the latter case extra difficulties are steered to anyone UN agency desires to penetrate below the surface of total figures and market values. Economic welfare can not be adequately measured unless the non-public distribution of financial gain is understood. And no financial gain mensuration undertakes to estimate the reverse facet of financial gain, that is, the intensity and unpleasantness of effort going into the earning of financial gain. The welfare of a nation will, therefore, scarcely be inferred from a mensuration of value as outlined on top of.

In 1962, economist stated:[27]
Distinctions should be unbroken in mind between amount and quality of growth, between prices and returns, and between the short and long term. Goals for additional growth ought to specify additional growth of what and for what.

Further criticisms

Ever since the event of gross domestic product, multiple observers have found out limitations of victimisation gross domestic product because the overarching live of economic and social progress.

Many environmentalists argue that gross domestic product may be a poor live of social progress as a result of it doesn't take under consideration hurt to the environment.[28][29]

Although a high or rising level of gross domestic product is commonly related to enhanced economic and social progress among a rustic, variety of students have found out that this doesn't essentially play get into several instances. for instance, Jean Dr?ze and Amartya subunit have found out that a rise in gross domestic product or in gross domestic product growth doesn't essentially cause a better commonplace of living, notably in areas like aid and education.[30] Another vital space that doesn't essentially improve together with gross domestic product is freedom, that is most notable in China, wherever gross domestic product growth is robust nonetheless political liberties are heavily restricted.[31]

GDP doesn't account for the distribution of financial gain among the residents of a rustic, as a result of gross domestic product is just associate combination live. associate economy could also be extremely developed or growing quickly, however additionally contain a large gap between the wealthy and therefore the poor in an exceedingly society. These inequalities usually occur on the lines of race, ethnicity, gender, religion, or different minority standing among countries. this may cause dishonest  characterizations of economic well-being if the financial gain distribution is heavily inclined toward the high finish, because the poorer residents won't directly enjoy the level of wealth and financial gain generated in their country. Even gross domestic product per capita measures might have the identical draw back if difference is high. for instance, Republic of South Africa throughout social policy hierarchal high in terms of gross domestic product per capita, however the advantages of this large wealth and financial gain weren't shared equally among the country.[citation needed]

GDP doesn't take under consideration the worth of unit and other unpaid work. Some, including Martha Nussbaum, argue that this price ought to be enclosed in measure gross domestic product, as unit labor is essentially a substitute for merchandise and services that will somewhat be purchased for price.[32] Even below conservative estimates, the worth of unpaid labor in Australia has been calculated to be over fiftieth of the country's gross domestic product.[33] A later study analyzed this price in different countries, with results starting from a coffee of concerning fifteenth in North American country (using conservative estimates) to high of nearly seventieth within the uk (using additional liberal estimates). For the u.  s., the worth was calculable to be between concerning twentieth on the low finish to almost fiftieth on the high finish, looking on the methodology getting used.[34] Because several public policies are formed by gross domestic product calculations and by the connected field of national accounts,[35] the non-inclusion of unpaid add shrewd gross domestic product will produce distortions publicly policy, and a few economists have advocated for changes within the approach public policies are shaped and enforced.[36]

The UK's Natural Capital Committee highlighted the shortcomings of gross domestic product in its recommendation to the united kingdom Government in 2013, noting that gross domestic product "focuses on flows, not stocks. As a result, associate economy will run down its assets nonetheless, at the identical time, record high levels of gross domestic product growth, till some extent is reached wherever the depleted assets act as a check on future growth". They then went on to mention that "it is obvious that the recorded gross domestic product rate overstates the property rate. Broader measures of welfare and wealth are required for this and there's a danger that short-run selections based mostly only on what's presently measured by national accounts might persuade be pricey within the long-term".
It has been steered that countries that have authoritarian governments, like the People's Republic of China, and Russia, inflate their gross domestic product figures.[37]

Proposals to beat gross domestic product limitations

In response to those and different limitations of victimisation gross domestic product, different approaches have emerged.

* within the Eighties, Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum developed the capability approach, that focuses on the purposeful capabilities enjoyed by folks among a rustic, instead of the combination wealth control among a rustic. These capabilities accommodates the functions that an individual is in a position to attain.[38]

* In 1990 Mahbub ul Haq, a Pakistani economic expert at the world organisation, introduced the Human Development Index (HDI). The HDI may be a composite index of anticipation at birth, adult accomplishment rate and commonplace of living measured as a index operate of gross domestic product, adjusted to buying power parity.

* In 1989, John B. Cobb and Herman Daly introduced Index of property Economic Welfare (ISEW) by taking under consideration varied different factors like consumption of unrenewable resources and degradation of the setting. The new formula subtracted from gross domestic product (personal consumption + public non-defensive expenditures - non-public defensive expenditures + capital formation + services from domestic labour - prices of settingal degradation - depreciation of natural capital)

* In 2005, Med Jones, associate yank economic expert, at the International Institute of Management, introduced the primary laic Gross National Happiness Index a.k.a. Gross National Well-being framework and Index to enrich gross domestic product political economy with extra seven dimensions, as well as setting, education, and government, work, social and health (mental and physical) indicators. The proposal was impressed by the King of Bhutan's GNH philosophy.[39][40][41]

* In 2009 the ecu Union free a communication titled gross domestic product and beyond: measure progress in an exceedingly ever-changing world[42] that known 5 actions to boost the symptoms of progress in ways in which create it additional attentive to the issues of its citizens: Introduced a proposal to complementing GDP with environmental and social indicators

* In 2009 Professors Joseph Stiglitz, Amartya Sen, and Jean-Paul Fitoussi at the Commission on the mensuration of Economic Performance and Social Progress (CMEPSP), shaped by French President, Nicolas Sarkozy published a proposal to beat the limitation of gross domestic product political economy to expand the main target to well-being political economy with welfare framework consisting of health, environment, work, physical safety, economic safety, political freedom.

* In 2012, the fate Ura of the middle for Asian country|Asian country|Asian nation} Studies revealed Bhutan native GNH Index contributors to happiness—physical, mental and religious health; time-balance; social and community vitality; cultural vitality; education; living standards; sensible governance; and ecological vitality. The Bhutan GNH Index.[43]

* In 2013 OECD higher Life Index was revealed by the OECD. the scale of the index enclosed health, economic, workplace, income, jobs, housing, civic engagement, life satisfaction

* In 2013 professors John Helliwell, Richard Layard and Jeffrey Sachs published World Happiness Report and projected to live different welfare indicators additionally to gross domestic product. the analysis framework enclosed gross domestic product per capita, Gini (income inequality), life satisfaction, health, freedom of life decisions, trust and absence of corruption.