Gross domestic product

A map of world economies by size of GDP (nominal) in USD, World Bank, 2014[1]

Gross domestic product (GDP) may be a monetary measure of the market price of all the final goods and services created in an exceedingly amount of time, usually annually GDP (nominal) per capita does not, however, mirror variations in the cost of living and the inflation rates of the countries; thus employing a basis of GDP per capita at buying power parity (PPP) is arguably a lot of helpful once examination variations in living standards between nations.

Definition

The OECD defines GDP as "an mixture live of production capable the total of the gross values added of all resident and institutional units engaged in production (plus any taxes, and minus any subsidies, on merchandise not enclosed within the price of their outputs)."[2] An IMF publication states that "GDP measures the value of ultimate merchandise and services—that are bought by the ultimate user—produced in an exceedingly country in an exceedingly given amount of your time (say 1 / 4 or a year)."[3]
Total GDP can even be countermined into the contribution of every business or sector of the economy.[4] The quantitative relation of GDP to the entire population of the region is the per capita GDP and the identical is termed Mean customary of Living. GDP is taken into account the "world's most powerful applied math indicator of national development and progress".[5]

History

William Petty came up with a basic idea of GDP to attack landlords against unfair taxation during warfare between the Dutch and therefore the English between 1652 and 1674.[6] Charles Davenant developed the strategy additional in 1695.[7] The trendy idea of GDP was 1st developed by Simon Simon Kuznets for a US Congress report in 1934.[8] In this report, Simon Kuznets warned against its use as a live of welfare[1] (see below under limitations and criticisms). once the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, GDP became the most tool for mensuration a country's economy.[9] At that time gross national product (GNP) was the well-liked estimate, that differed from GDP in this it measured production by a country's voters reception and abroad instead of its 'resident institutional units' (see OECD definition above). The switch from "GNP" to "GDP" within the USA was in 1991, trailing behind most different nations. The role that measurements of GDP contend in warfare II was crucial to the next political acceptance of GDP values as indicators of national development and progress.[10] A crucial role was contend here by the US Department of Commerce under John Milton Gilbert wherever ideas from Simon Kuznets were embedded into governmental establishments.

The history of the idea of GDP ought to be distinguished from the history of changes in ways in which of estimating it. the worth side by corporations is comparatively straightforward to calculate from their accounts, however the worth side by the general public sector, by monetary industries, and by intangible asset creation is a lot of advanced. These activities are more and more necessary in developed economies, and therefore the international conventions governing their estimation and their inclusion or exclusion in GDP frequently modification in an effort to stay up with industrial advances. within the words of 1 tutorial economic expert "The actual variety for GDP is thus the merchandise of an enormous patchwork of statistics and a sophisticated set of processes disbursed on the data to suit them to the abstract framework."[11]
Determining gross domestic product (GDP)

GDP will be determined in 3 ways, all of that ought to, in theory, offer the identical result. they're the assembly (or output or price added) approach, the financial gain approach, or the speculated expenditure approach.

The most direct of the 3 is that the production approach, that sums the outputs of each category of enterprise to reach the entire. The expenditure approach works on the principle that each one of the merchandise should be bought by someone, thus the worth of the entire product should be capable people's total expenditures in shopping for things. The financial gain approach works on the principle that the incomes of the productive factors ("producers," colloquially) should be capable the worth of their product, and determines GDP by finding the total of all producers' incomes.[12]

Production approach

This approach mirrors the OECD definition given higher than.
1. Estimate the gross price of domestic output out of numerous|the numerous} various economic activities;
2. confirm the [intermediate consumption], i.e., the price of fabric, provides and services wont to manufacture final merchandise or services.
3. Deduct intermediate consumption from gross price to get the gross price side.

Gross price added = gross price of output – price of intermediate consumption.

Value of output = price of the entire sales of products and services and price of changes within the inventory.

The total of the gross price side within the numerous economic activities is understood as "GDP at issue cost".

GDP at issue value and indirect taxes less subsidies on merchandise = "GDP at producer price".

For mensuration output of domestic product, economic activities (i.e. industries) are classified into numerous sectors. once classifying economic activities, the output of every sector is calculated by any of the subsequent 2 methods:
1. By multiplying the output of every sector by their various value and adding them along
2. By grouping information on sales and inventories from the records of corporations and adding them along

The price of output of all sectors is then side to urge the gross value of output at issue value. Subtracting every sector's intermediate consumption from gross output price offers the GVA (=GDP) at issue value. Adding revenue enhancement minus subsidies to GVA (GDP) at issue value offers the "GVA (GDP) at producer prices".

Income approach

The second method of estimating GDP is to use "the total of primary incomes distributed by resident producer units".[2]

If GDP is calculated this manner it's generally known as gross domestic financial gain (GDI), or GDP (I). GDI ought to give the identical quantity because the expenditure methodology delineate later. By definition, GDI is capable GDP. In apply, however, activity errors can build the 2 figures slightly off once rumored by national applied math agencies.

This methodology measures GDP by adding incomes that corporations pay households for factors of production they rent - wages for labour, interest for capital, rent for land and profits for entrepreneurship.

The USA "National financial gain and Expenditure Accounts" divide incomes into 5 categories:
1. Wages, salaries, and supplementary labour financial gain
2. company profits
3. Interest and miscellaneous investment financial gain
4. Farmers' incomes
5. financial gain from non-farm unorganised businesses

These 5 financial gain elements total to web domestic financial gain at issue value.

Two changes should be created to urge GDP:
1. Indirect taxes minus subsidies are side to urge from issue value to plug costs.
2. Depreciation (or capital consumption allowance) is side to urge from web domestic product to gross domestic product.

Total financial gain will be divided consistent with numerous schemes, resulting in numerous formulae for GDP measured by the financial gain approach. a typical one is:
GDP = compensation of employees + gross operational surplus + gross mixed income + taxes less subsidies on production and imports
GDP = COE + GOS + GMI + TP & M – SP & M
* Compensation of workers (COE) measures the entire remuneration to employees for work done. It includes wages and salaries, additionally as leader contributions to social security and different such programs.
* Gross operational surplus (GOS) is that the surplus thanks to homeowners of incorporated businesses. usually called profits, though solely a set of total prices are subtracted  from gross output to calculate GOS.
* Gross mixed income (GMI) is that the same live as GOS, except for unorganised businesses. This usually includes most little businesses.

The total of COE, GOS and GMI is known as total issue financial gain; it's the income of all of the factors of production in society. It measures the worth of GDP at issue (basic) costs. The distinction between basic costs and final costs (those employed in the expenditure calculation) is that the total taxes and subsidies that the govt has levied or paid thereon production. therefore adding taxes less subsidies on production and imports converts GDP(I) at factor cost to GDP(I) at final costs.

Total issue financial gain is additionally generally expressed as:
Total issue financial gain = worker compensation + company profits + proprietor's financial gain + income + web interest[13]

Expenditure approach

The third thanks to estimate GDP is to calculate the total of the ultimate uses of products and services (all uses except intermediate consumption) measured in purchasers' costs.[2]

Market merchandise that are created are purchased by somebody. within the case wherever an honest is created and unsold, the quality accounting convention is that the producer has bought the great from themselves. Therefore, mensuration the entire expenditure wont to purchase things may be a method of mensuration production. this is often referred to as the expenditure methodology of calculative GDP.

Components of GDP by expenditure

U.S. GDP computed on the expenditure basis.

GDP (Y) is the total of consumption (C), investment (I), government defrayment (G) and net exports (X – M).
Y = C + I + G + (X ? M)

Here may be a description of every GDP component:

* C (consumption) is usually the biggest GDP element within the economy, consisting of personal expenditures within the economy (household final consumption expenditure). These personal expenditures comprise one in all the subsequent categories: durable merchandise, unserviceable merchandise, and services. Examples embrace food, rent, jewelry, gasoline, and medical expenses, however not the acquisition of latest housing.

* I (investment) includes, for example, business investment in instrumentation, however doesn't embrace exchanges of existing assets. Examples embrace construction of a new mine, purchase of computer code, or purchase of machinery and instrumentation for a works. defrayment by households (not government) on new homes is additionally enclosed in investment. In distinction to its conversational that means, "investment" in GDP doesn't mean purchases of financial merchandise. shopping for monetary merchandise is classed as 'saving', as hostile investment. This avoids double-counting: if one buys shares in an exceedingly company, and therefore the company uses the money received to shop for plant, equipment, etc., {the quantity|the quantity|the number} are going to be counted toward GDP once the corporate spends the money on those things; to conjointly count it once one offers it to the corporate would be to count twofold associate degree amount that solely corresponds to 1 cluster of merchandise. Buying bonds or stocks is a swapping of deeds, a transfer of claims on future production, indirectly associate degree expenditure on merchandise.

* G (government spending) is the total of government expenditures on final goods and services. It includes salaries of public servants, purchases of weapons for the military and any investment expenditure by a government. It doesn't embrace any transfer payments, such as social security or unemployment advantages.

* X (exports) represents gross exports. GDP captures the number a rustic produces, as well as merchandise and services created for different nations' consumption, thus exports are side.

* M (imports) represents gross imports. Imports are subtracted  since foreign merchandise are going to be enclosed within the terms G, I, or C, and should be subtracted to avoid reckoning foreign supply as domestic.

Note that C, G, and I are expenditures on final merchandise and services; expenditures on intermediate goods and services don't count. (Intermediate merchandise and services are those employed by businesses to supply different merchandise and services inside the accounting year.[14])

According to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, that is accountable for calculative the national accounts within the us, "In general, the supply information for the expenditures elements are thought-about a lot of reliable than those for the financial gain elements [see financial gain methodology, below]."[15]

GDP vs GNI

GDP will be contrasted with gross national product (GNP) or, because it is currently illustrious, gross national income (GNI). The distinction is that GDP defines its scope consistent with location, whereas GNI defines its scope consistent with possession. in an exceedingly world context, world GDP and world GNI are, therefore, equivalent terms.

GDP is product created inside a country's borders; GNI is product created by enterprises in hand by a country's voters. the 2 would be the identical if all of the productive enterprises in an exceedingly country were in hand by its own voters, and people voters failed to own productive enterprises in the other countries. In apply, however, foreign possession makes GDP and GNI non-identical. Production inside a country's borders, however by associate degree enterprise in hand by someone outside the country, counts as a part of its GDP however not its GNI; on the opposite hand, production by associate degree enterprise set outside the country, however in hand by one in all its voters, counts as a part of its GNI however not its GDP.

For example, the GNI of the USA is that the price of output created by American-owned corporations, irrespective of wherever the corporations are set. Similarly, if a rustic becomes more and more in debt, and spends giant amounts of financial gain union this debt this may be mirrored in an exceedingly shrunken GNI however not a shrunken GDP. Similarly, if a rustic sells off its resources to entities outside their country this may even be mirrored over time in shrunken GNI, however not shrunken GDP. this could build the utilization of GDP a lot of engaging for politicians in countries with increasing debt and decreasing assets.

Gross {national financial gain|value} (GNI) equals GDP and financial gain receipts from the remainder of the planet minus income payments to the remainder of the planet.[16]
In 1991, the us switched from exploitation GNP to exploitation GDP as its primary live of production.[17] The relationship between us GDP and GNP is shown in table one.7.5 of the National financial gain and merchandise Accounts.[18]

International standards

The international customary for mensuration GDP is contained within the book System of National Accounts (1993), that was ready by representatives of the International money, European Union, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, United Nations and World Bank. The publication is often said as SNA93 to tell apart it from the previous edition revealed in 1968 (called SNA68) [19]

SNA93 provides a group of rules and procedures for the activity of national accounts. The standards are designed to be versatile, to permit for variations in native applied math desires and conditions.

National activity

Countries by GDP (PPP) per capita (Int$) in 2017 consistent with the UN agency
  > 50,000
  35,000–50,000
  20,000–35,000
  10,000–20,000
  5,000–10,000
  2,000–5,000
  < 2,000
  No data

Countries by 2015 GDP (nominal) per capita.[20]
  > $64,000
  $32,000 – 64,000
  $16,000 – 32,000
  $8,000 – 16,000
  $4,000 – 8,000
  $2,000 – 4,000
  $1,000 – 2,000
  $500 – 1,000
  < $500
  No data

U.S GDP computed on the financial gain basis

Within every country GDP is often measured by a national government applied math agency, as personal sector organizations usually don't have access to info|the knowledge|the data} needed (especially information on expenditure and production by governments).

Nominal GDP and changes to GDP

The raw GDP figure as given by the equations higher than is termed the nominal, historical, or current, GDP. once one compares GDP figures from one year to a different, it's fascinating to make amends for changes within the price of cash – i.e., for the consequences of inflation or deflation. to form it a lot of meaningful  for year-to-year comparisons, it's going to be increased by the quantitative relation between {the price|the worth} of cash within the year the GDP was measured and therefore the value of cash in an exceedingly base year.

For example, suppose a country's GDP in 1990 was $100 million and its GDP in 2000 was $300 million. Suppose conjointly that inflation had halved the worth of its currency over that amount. To meaningfully compare its GDP in 2000 to its GDP in 1990, we have a tendency to might multiply the GDP in 2000 by simple fraction, to form it relative to 1990 as a base year. The result would be that the GDP in 2000 equals $300 million ? simple fraction = $150 million, in 1990 financial terms. we might see that the country's GDP had realistically accumulated 50 percent over that amount, not two hundred %, because it would possibly seem from the raw GDP information. The GDP adjusted for changes in cash price during this method is termed the real, or constant, GDP.

The issue wont to convert GDP from current to constant values during this method is termed the GDP factor. Unlike consumer price level, that measures inflation or deflation within the value of family goods, the GDP factor measures changes within the costs of all domestically created merchandise associate degreed services in an economy as well as investment merchandise and government services, additionally as family consumption merchandise.[21]

Constant-GDP figures enable USA to calculate a GDP rate, that indicates what quantity a country's production has accumulated (or shrunken, if the expansion rate is negative) compared to the previous year.

Real GDP rate for year n
= [(Real GDP in year n) ? (Real GDP in year n ? 1)] / (Real GDP in year n ? 1)

Another issue that it's going to be fascinating to account for is increment. If a country's GDP doubled over a particular amount, however its population tripled, the rise in GDP might not mean that the quality of living accumulated for the country's residents; the common person within the country is manufacturing but they were before. Per-capita GDP is a live to account for increment.

Cross-border comparison and buying power parity

The level of GDP in countries could also be compared by changing their price in national currency according to either the current currency rate of exchange, or the buying power parity rate of exchange.

* Current currency exchange rate is the exchange rate in the international foreign exchange market.

* buying power parity rate of exchange is the exchange rate supported the purchasing power parity (PPP) of a currency relative to a particular customary (usually the United States dollar). this is often a comparative (and theoretical) rate of exchange, the sole thanks to directly notice this rate is to sell associate degree entire CPI basket in one country, convert the money at the currency market rate & then rebuy that very same basket of products within the different country (with the born-again cash). Going from country to country, the distribution of costs inside the basket can vary; usually, non-tradable purchases can consume a bigger proportion of the basket's total value within the higher GDP country, per the Balassa-Samuelson impact.

The ranking of states might disagree considerably supported that methodology is employed.

* The current rate of exchange method converts the worth of products and services exploitation world currency exchange rates. the strategy can give higher indications of a country's international buying power. for example, if tenth of GDP is being spent on shopping for high-tech  foreign arms, the amount of weapons purchased is entirely ruled by current exchange rates, since arms are a listed product bought on the international market. there's no meaningful  'local' value distinct from the international value for top technology merchandise. The operation methodology of GDP conversion is a lot of relevant to non-traded merchandise and services. within the higher than example if high-tech  weapons are to be created internally their quantity are going to be ruled by GDP (PPP) instead of nominal GDP.
There is a transparent pattern of the purchasing power parity method decreasing the inequality in GDP between high and low financial gain (GDP) countries, as compared to the current rate of exchange methodology. This finding is termed the Penn impact.

For a lot of info, see Measures of value and output.

Standard of living and GDP: wealth distribution and externalities

GDP per capita is usually used as associate degree indicator of living standards.[22]

The major advantage of GDP per capita as associate degree indicator of ordinary of living is that it's measured ofttimes, widely, and systematically. it's measured ofttimes in this most countries give info on GDP on a quarterly basis, permitting trends to be seen quickly. it's lived wide in this some measure of GDP is out there for pretty much each country within the world, permitting inter-country comparisons. it's measured systematically in this the technical definition of GDP is comparatively consistent among countries.

GDP doesn't embrace many factors that influence the quality of living. particularly, it fails to account for:

* Externalities – economic process might entail a rise in negative externalities that don't seem to be directly measured in GDP.[23][24] Increased industrial output would possibly grow GDP, however any pollution isn't counted.[25]

* Non-market transactions– GDP excludes activities that don't seem to be provided through the market, like family production, bartering of products and services, and volunteer or unpaid services.

* Non-monetary economy– GDP omits economies wherever no cash comes into play in the slightest degree, leading to inaccurate or abnormally low GDP figures. for instance, in countries with major business transactions occurring informally, parts of native economy don't seem to be simply registered. Bartering may be a lot of distinguished than the utilization of cash, even extending to services.[24]

* Quality enhancements and inclusion of latest merchandise– by not totally adjusting for quality enhancements and new products, GDP understates true economic growth. for example, though computers these days are less costly and a lot of powerful than computers from the past, GDP treats them because the same merchandise by solely accounting for the value. The introduction of latest merchandise is additionally tough to live accurately and isn't mirrored in GDP despite the actual fact that it's going to increase the quality of living. for instance, even the richest person in 1900 couldn't purchase customary merchandise, like antibiotics and cell phones, that a median client can purchase these days, since such trendy conveniences failed to exist then.

* property of growth– GDP may be a activity of economic historic activity and isn't essentially a projection.

* Wealth distribution – GDP doesn't account for variances in incomes of assorted demographic teams. See income difference metrics for discussion of a spread of inequality-based economic measures.[24]

It will be argued that GDP per capita as associate degree indicator customary of living is correlate with these factors, capturing them indirectly.[22][26] As a result, GDP per capita as a regular of living may be a continued  usage as a result of most of the people have a reasonably correct plan of what it's and understand it is hard to return up with quantitative measures for such constructs as happiness, quality of life, and well-being.[22]

Limitations and criticisms

Limitations at introduction

Simon Kuznets, the economic expert WHO developed the primary comprehensive set of measures of value, expressed in his 1st report back to the Congress in 1934, in an exceedingly section titled "Uses and Abuses of value Measurements":[8]

The valuable capability of the human mind to alter a fancy scenario in an exceedingly compact characterization becomes dangerous once not controlled in terms of positively expressed criteria. With quantitative measurements particularly, the determinateness of the result suggests, usually deceptively, a exactness and ease within the outlines of the item measured. Measurements of value are subject to the present variety of illusion and ensuing abuse, particularly since they handle matters that are the middle of conflict of opposing social teams wherever the effectiveness of associate degree argument is usually contingent upon oversimplification. [...]

All these qualifications upon estimates of {national financial gain|value} as associate degree index of productivity are even as necessary once income measurements are understood from the purpose of read of economic welfare. however within the latter case further difficulties are going to be steered to anyone WHO needs to penetrate below the surface of total figures and market values. Economic welfare can not be adequately measured unless the private distribution of financial gain is understood. And no financial gain activity undertakes to estimate the reverse facet of financial gain, that is, the intensity and unpleasantness of effort going into the earning of financial gain. The welfare of a nation will, therefore, scarcely be inferred from a activity of value as outlined higher than.

In 1962, Simon Kuznets stated:[27]
Distinctions should be unbroken in mind between amount and quality of growth, between prices and returns, and between the short and long term. Goals for a lot of growth ought to specify a lot of growth of what and for what.

Further criticisms

Ever since the event of GDP, multiple observers have discovered limitations of exploitation GDP because the overarching live of economic and social progress.

Many environmentalists argue that GDP may be a poor live of social progress as a result of it doesn't take under consideration damage to the environment.[28][29]

Although a high or rising level of GDP is usually related to accumulated economic and social progress inside a rustic, variety of students have discovered that this doesn't essentially play get in several instances. for instance, Jean Dr?ze and Amartya subunit have discovered that a rise in GDP or in GDP growth doesn't essentially result in a better customary of living, significantly in areas like aid and education.[30] Another necessary space that doesn't essentially improve together with GDP is civil liberty, that is most notable in China, wherever GDP growth is robust however political liberties are heavily restricted.[31]

GDP doesn't account for the distribution of financial gain among the residents of a rustic, as a result of GDP is just associate degree mixture live. associate degree economy could also be extremely developed or growing speedily, however conjointly contain a large gap between the wealthy and therefore the poor in an exceedingly society. These inequalities usually occur on the lines of race, ethnicity, gender, religion, or different minority standing inside countries. this could result in dishonest  characterizations of economic well-being if the financial gain distribution is heavily inclined toward the high finish, because the poorer residents won't directly enjoy the general level of wealth and financial gain generated in their country. Even GDP per capita measures might have the identical draw back if difference is high. for instance, African country throughout social policy graded high in terms of GDP per capita, however the advantages of this huge wealth and financial gain weren't shared equally among the country.[citation needed]

GDP doesn't take under consideration the worth of family and other unpaid work. Some, including Martha Nussbaum, argue that this price ought to be enclosed in mensuration GDP, as family labor is essentially a substitute for merchandise and services that may well be purchased for price.[32] Even underneath conservative estimates, the worth of unpaid labor in Australia has been calculated to be over fiftieth of the country's GDP.[33] A later study analyzed this price in different countries, with results starting from a coffee of concerning fifteenth in North American country (using conservative estimates) to high of nearly seventieth within the uk (using a lot of liberal estimates). For the us, the worth was calculable to be between concerning twentieth on the low finish to just about fiftieth on the high finish, betting on the methodology being employed.[34] Because several public policies are formed by GDP calculations and by the connected field of national accounts,[35] the non-inclusion of unpaid add calculative GDP will produce distortions publically policy, and a few economists have advocated for changes within the method public policies are shaped and enforced.[36]

The UK's Natural Capital Committee highlighted the shortcomings of GDP in its recommendation to the united kingdom Government in 2013, saying that GDP "focuses on flows, not stocks. As a result, associate degree economy will run down its assets however, at the identical time, record high levels of GDP growth, till some extent is reached wherever the depleted assets act as a check on future growth". They then went on to mention that "it is clear that the recorded GDP rate overstates the property rate. Broader measures of eudaemonia and wealth are required for this and there's a danger that short choices primarily based exclusively on what's presently measured by national accounts might influence be pricey within the long-term".
It has been steered that countries that have authoritarian governments, like the People's Republic of China, and Russia, inflate their GDP figures.[37]

Proposals to beat GDP limitations

In response to those and different limitations of exploitation GDP, different approaches have emerged.

* within the Nineteen Eighties, Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum developed the capability approach, that focuses on the useful capabilities enjoyed by individuals inside a rustic, instead of the combination wealth control inside a rustic. These capabilities carries with it the functions that an individual is ready to attain.[38]

* In 1990 Mahbub ul Haq, a Pakistani economic expert at the international organization, introduced the Human Development Index (HDI). The HDI may be a composite index of lifespan at birth, adult acquirement rate and customary of living measured as a index operate of GDP, adjusted to buying power parity.

* In 1989, John B. Cobb and Herman Daly introduced Index of property Economic Welfare (ISEW) by taking under consideration numerous different factors like consumption of unrenewable resources and degradation of the surroundings. The new formula subtracted from GDP (personal consumption + public non-defensive expenditures - personal defensive expenditures + capital formation + services from domestic labour - prices of surroundingsal degradation - depreciation of natural capital)

* In 2005, Med Jones, associate degree yank economic expert, at the International Institute of Management, introduced the primary profane Gross National Happiness Index a.k.a. Gross National Well-being framework and Index to enrich GDP economic science with further seven dimensions, as well as surroundings, education, and government, work, social and health (mental and physical) indicators. The proposal was impressed by the King of Bhutan's GNH philosophy.[39][40][41]

* In 2009 the eu Union discharged a communication titled GDP and beyond: mensuration progress in an exceedingly dynamic  world[42] that known 5 actions to boost the symptoms of progress in ways in which build it a lot of conscious of the considerations of its citizens: Introduced a proposal to complementing GDP with environmental and social indicators

* In 2009 Professors Joseph Stiglitz, Amartya Sen, and Jean-Paul Fitoussi at the Commission on the activity of Economic Performance and Social Progress (CMEPSP), shaped by French President, Nicolas Sarkozy published a proposal to beat the limitation of GDP economic science to expand the main focus to well-being economic science with eudaemonia framework consisting of health, environment, work, physical safety, economic safety, political freedom.

* In 2012, the destiny Ura of the middle for Kingdom of {bhutan|Asian country|Asian nation} Studies revealed Bhutan native GNH Index contributors to happiness—physical, mental and non secular health; time-balance; social and community vitality; cultural vitality; education; living standards; smart governance; and ecological vitality. The Bhutan GNH Index.[43]

* In 2013 OECD higher Life Index was revealed by the OECD. the size of the index enclosed health, economic, workplace, income, jobs, housing, civic engagement, life satisfaction

* In 2013 professors John Helliwell, Richard Layard and Jeffrey Sachs published World Happiness Report and planned to live different eudaemonia indicators additionally to GDP. the analysis framework enclosed GDP per capita, Gini (income inequality), life satisfaction, health, freedom of life selections, trust and absence of corruption.