Major domestic product

A map of world economies simply by size of GDP (nominal) in USD, World Financial institution, 2014[1]

Gross home-based product (GDP) is a monetary measure of the market associated with just about all the final goods and services developed in a period of time, often annually GDP (nominal) each capita does not, however, indicate dissimilarities in the cost regarding living and the inflation rates of typically the countries; therefore by using a schedule of GDP per capita from purchasing power parity (PPP) is arguably more useful any time comparing dissimilarities in living standards between nations.

 Explanation

The OECD defines GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT as "an aggregate calculate of production comparable to typically the sum of the gross beliefs added of all resident in addition to institutional units engaged inside production (plus any fees, and minus any financial assistance, on products not incorporated in the value associated with their outputs). "[2]An IMF publication states that "GDP measures the monetary worth of final goods plus services—that are purchased simply by the final user—produced inside a country in a provided time period (say a one fourth or a year). inch[3]
Total GDP may also be broken down into the particular contribution of each business or sector of the particular economy.[4]Precisely GDP to the total populace of the region will be the per capita GDP and the particular same is known as Mean Regular of Living. GDP is considered the "world's most powerful statistical indicator of national advancement and progress".[5]

Background

William Petty came up along with a basic idea of GDP to attack landlords towards unfair taxation during warfare among the Dutch and the particular English between 1652 and 1674.[6]Charles Davenant developed the particular method further in 1695.[7]The current concept associated with GDP was first created by Simon Kuznets for a US Congress report in 1934.[8]With this report, Kuznets warned towards its use as the way of measuring welfare[1](see below under limitations and criticisms). After the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, GDP became the key tool for measuring a new country's economy.[9]From that time gross national product (GNP) was the recommended calculate, which differed from GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT in that it scored production by a nation's citizens at home in addition to abroad as opposed to its 'resident institutional units' (see OECD definition above). The switch from "GNP" to "GDP" in typically the US was in 1991, trailing behind most additional nations. The role of which measurements of GDP enjoyed in World War 2 was crucial to the following political acceptance of GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT values as indicators regarding national development and development.[10]A crucial function was played here by simply the US Department of Commerce under Milton Gilbert where concepts from Kuznets were inserted into governmental institutions.

Typically the history in the concept regarding GDP should be known from the history regarding changes in means of price it. The value extra by organizations is comparatively an easy task to calculate from their particular accounts, nevertheless the value extra by the public field, by financial industries, plus by intangible asset creation is a lot more complex. These activities are usually increasingly important in created economies, and the worldwide conventions governing their evaluation and their inclusion or even exclusion in GDP frequently change in an try to keep up with commercial advances. Within the words of 1 academic economist "The real number for GDP will be therefore the product of the vast patchwork of data and a complicated arranged of processes carried away on the raw information to fit them in order to the conceptual framework. inch[11]
Determining gross household product (GDP)

GDP may be determined in three ways, all of which ought to, in principle, give the particular same result. They are the manufacturing (or output or worth added) approach, the earnings approach, or the believed expenditure approach.

The the majority of direct of the 3 is the production strategy, which sums the results of every class associated with enterprise to arrive in the total. The costs approach works on the essential that all of the particular product must be purchased by somebody, therefore the particular associated with the total item must be corresponding to householder's total expenditures in ordering points. The income approach functions on the principle that will the incomes of the particular productive factors ("producers, inch colloquially) must be corresponding to the value of their own product, and determines GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT by seeking the sum associated with all producers' incomes.[12]

Production approach

This method decorative mirrors the OECD definition given above.
one. Estimate the gross worth of domestic output out from the many various economic activities;
2 . Determine the [intermediate consumption], i. e., the cost of material, supplies and services used to produce final goods or services.
3. Deduct intermediate consumption from gross value to obtain the gross value added.

Gross value added = gross value of output – value of intermediate consumption.

Value of output = value of the total sales of goods and services plus value of changes in the inventory.

The sum of the gross value added in the various economic activities is known as "GDP at factor cost".

GDP at factor cost plus indirect taxes less subsidies on products = "GDP at producer price".

For measuring output of domestic product, economic activities (i. e. industries) are classified into various sectors. After classifying economic activities, the output of each sector is calculated by any of the following two methods:
1. By multiplying the output of each sector by their respective market price and adding them together
2. By collecting data on gross sales and inventories through the records of businesses and adding them with each other

The value of result of most sectors is after that added to obtain the major value of output in factor cost. Subtracting every sector's intermediate consumption through gross output value provides the GVA (=GDP) at element cost. Adding indirect taxes minus subsidies to GVA (GDP) at factor price gives the "GVA (GDP) at producer prices".

Earnings strategy

The second method of estimating GDP will be to use "the amount of primary incomes dispersed by resident producer units".[2]

When GDP is calculated in this way it is sometimes referred to as gross domestic income (GDI), or GDP (I). GDI should provide the similar amount because the expenditure approach described later. By explanation, GDI is equal to be able to GDP. In practice, yet , measurement errors will help to make the 2 figures slightly away from when reported by countrywide statistical agencies.

This approach measures GDP by having earnings that organizations pay homes for factors of creation they hire - salary for labour, interest regarding capital, rent for terrain and profits for entrepreneurship.

The US "National Revenue and Expenditure Accounts" split incomes into five classes:
1. Wages, salaries, in addition to supplementary labour income
 2 . not Corporate profits
3. Curiosity and miscellaneous investment revenue
4. Farmers' incomes
a few. Income from non-farm unincorporated businesses

These five revenue pieces sum to web domestic income at aspect cost.

Two adjustments has to be made to get GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:
1 ) Indirect taxes less subsidies are added to be able to get from factor expense to market prices.
2 . not Depreciation (or capital consumption allowance) is added to acquire from net domestic merchandise to gross domestic merchandise.

Total income can end up being subdivided according to different schemes, leading to different formulae for GDP scored with the income approach. The common the first is:
GDP = compensation of employees + gross operating surplus + gross mixed income + taxes much less subsidies on production plus imports
GDP = COE + GOS + GMI + TP and M – SP and Meters
* Payment of employees (COE) measures the particular total remuneration to workers for work done. It includes wages and salaries, and also employer contributions to social security and other such programs.
2. Gross operating surplus (GOS) will be the surplus due in order to owners of incorporated companies. Often called profits, although just a subset of complete costs are subtracted from gross output to calculate GOS.
2. Gross mixed income (GMI) may be the same measure as GOS, but for unincorporated companies. This often includes the majority of smaller businesses.

The sum of COE, GOS and GMI is called total element income; it is the particular income of all associated with the factors of manufacturing in society. It steps the value of GDP at factor (basic) costs. The difference between fundamental prices and final costs (those used in the particular expenditure calculation) is the particular total taxes and financial assistance that the government offers levied or paid upon that production. So including taxes less subsidies upon production and imports changes GDP(I) at factor cost to GDP(I) at final prices.

Complete factor income is furthermore sometimes expressed as:
Complete factor income = worker compensation + corporate earnings + proprietor's income + rental income + internet interest[13]

Expenditure strategy

The 3rd way in order to estimate GDP is in order to calculate the sum associated with the last uses of products and services (all utilizes except intermediate consumption) assessed in purchasers' prices.[2]

Market goods which are usually produced are purchased simply by someone. In the situation where a good will be produced and unsold, the particular standard accounting convention would be that the producer has purchased the great from themselves. Therefore, calculating the total expenditure utilized to buy things will be a way of calculating production. This is recognized as the expenditure technique of calculating GDP.

 Aspects of GDP by expenditure

Oughout. S. GDP computed around the expenditure basis.

GDP (Y) is the sum of consumption (C), investment (I), government investing (G) and net exports (X : M).
Y = C + I + G + (X? M)

This is a description of each GDP component:

* C (consumption) is normally the biggest GDP component in the economic climate, consisting of private expenses in the economy (household final consumption expenditure). These types of personal expenditures fall below one of the subsequent categories: durable goods, nondurable goods, and services. Good examples include food, rent, jewellery, gasoline, and medical expenditures, but not the obtain of new housing.

5. I (investment) includes, for occasion, business investment in products, but does not contain exchanges of present resources. Examples include construction of any new mine, purchase of application, or purchase of machines and equipment for a new factory. Spending by homes (not government) on fresh houses is also contained in investment. In contrast to be able to its colloquial meaning, "investment" in GDP does not necessarily mean purchases of financial goods. Buying financial products is usually classed as 'saving', since opposed to investment. This specific avoids double-counting: if a single buys shares within a business, and the company makes use of the money received to be able to buy plant, equipment, and so forth., the amount will probably be measured in the direction of GDP if the business spends the money about those things; to likewise count it when a single provides it with to the business would be to depend two times an sum that only compares to a single group of products. Buying bonds or stocks is a swapping of deeds, a new transfer of claims about future production, not immediately an expenditure on goods.

* G (government spending) is the sum of government expenditures on final goods and services. It consists of salaries of public servants, buys of weapons for the particular military and any expense expenditure by a authorities. It does not consist of any transfer payments, such as social security or unemployment benefits.

* By (exports) represents gross exports. GDP captures the total amount a nation produces, including goods and services created for other nations' usage, therefore exports are additional.

* M (imports) represents major imports. Imports are subtracted since imported goods will certainly be included in the particular terms G, I, or C, plus must be deducted in order to avoid counting foreign supply as household.

Note that C, G, and I are expenditures on final goods and services; expenditures on intermediate goods and services do not count. (Intermediate goods and services are those used by businesses to produce other goods and services within the accounting year.[14])

According to the U. S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, which is responsible for calculating the national accounts in the United States, "In general, the source data for the expenditures parts are considered more reliable than those for the income parts [see income method, below]. "[15]

GDP vs GNI

GDP can be contrasted with gross national product (GNP) or, as it is now known, gross national income (GNI). The difference is that GDP defines its scope according to location, while GNI defines its scope according to ownership. In a global context, world GDP and world GNI are, therefore , equivalent terms.

GDP is product produced within a country's borders; GNI is merchandise produced by enterprises owned or operated by way of a country's citizens. Typically the two is the same when all of the successful enterprises in a region were owned by their own citizens, and individuals citizens did not very own productive enterprises in virtually any other countries. In training, however, foreign ownership tends to make GDP and GNI non-identical. Production in just a country's boundaries, but by an organization owned by somebody exterior the country, counts since part of its GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT although not its GNI; about the other hand, creation by an enterprise positioned outside the country, nevertheless owned by one regarding its citizens, counts since part of its GNI although not its GDP.

Regarding example, the GNI regarding the USA will be the benefit of output produced by simply American-owned firms, regardless regarding where the organizations usually are located. Similarly, if a new country becomes increasingly inside debt, and spends huge amounts of income servicing this debt this will be reflected in a decreased GNI but not a decreased GDP. Similarly, if a country sells off its resources to entities outside their country this will also be reflected over time in decreased GNI, but not decreased GDP. This would make the utilization of GDP more attractive for politicians in countries with growing national debt and reducing assets.

Gross national earnings (GNI) equals GDP in addition income receipts from the particular remaining world minus earnings payments to the sleep of the world.[16]
In 1991, the Usa States switched by using GNP to using GDP because its primary measure associated with production.[17]The partnership between United States GDP and GNP is shown in table 1 . 7. 5 of the National Income and Product Accounts.[18]

International standards

The international standard for measuring GDP is contained in the book System of National Accounts (1993), which was prepared by representatives of the International Monetary Fund, European Union, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, United Nations and World Bank. The publication is normally referred to as SNA93 to distinguish it from the previous edition published in 1968 (called SNA68)[19]

SNA93 provides a set of rules and procedures for the measurement of national accounts. The standards are designed to be flexible, to allow for differences in local statistical needs and conditions.

National measurement

Countries by GDP (PPP) per capita (Int$) in 2017 in line with the IMF
  >  50, 000
  35, 000–50, 000
  20, 000–35, 000
  10, 000–20, 1000
  5, 000–10, 000
  2, 000–5, 000
< a couple of, 000
  No data

Nations around the world by 2015 GDP (nominal) per capita.[20]
  >  $64, 000
  $32, 000 – 64, 1000
  $16, 000 – thirty-two, 000
  $8, 000 ~ 16, 000
  $4, 1000 – 8, 000
  $2, 000 – 4, 1000
  $1, 000 – a couple of, 000
  $500 – just one, 000
   < $500
  No data

U. S GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT computed on the revenue schedule

Within each region GDP is normally scored by a national federal government statistical agency, as exclusive sector organizations normally carry out not have access to be able to the information required (especially information on expenditure in addition to production by governments).

Small GDP and adjustments to be able to GDP

The raw GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT figure as given by simply the equations above is usually called the nominal, traditional, or current, GDP. Any time one compares GDP statistics from one year to be able to another, it is appealing to pay for changes in the value of money – i. e., for the effects of inflation or deflation. To make it more meaningful for year-to-year comparisons, it might be multiplied by the ratio between the value of money in the year the GDP was measured and the value of money in a base year.

For example , suppose a country's GDP in 1990 was $100 million and its GDP in 2000 was $300 million. Suppose also that inflation had halved the value of its currency over that period. To meaningfully compare its GDP in 2000 to its GDP in 1990, we could multiply the GDP in 2000 by one-half, to make it relative to 1990 as a base year. The result would be the GDP inside 2000 equals $300 , 000, 000? one-half = $150 , 000, 000, in 1990 monetary phrases. We would observe that typically the country's GDP had reasonably increased 50 percent over that period of time, not 200 percent, since it might appear coming from the raw GDP info. The GDP adjusted regarding changes in money benefit in this way is usually called the real, or regular, GDP.

The factor applied to convert GDP coming from current to frequent beliefs in this way is usually called the GDP deflator. Unlike consumer price index, which actions inflation or deflation inside the price of house consumer goods, the GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT deflator measures changes inside the prices of almost all domestically produced goods and services within an economy including expense goods and government solutions, as well as home consumption goods.[21]

Constant-GDP figures allow us to determine a GDP growth price, which indicates just how much the country's production has increased (or decreased, if the development rate is negative) when compared to previous year.

Real GDP growth rate for year n
= [(Real GDP in year n)? (Real GDP in year n? 1)] / (Real GDP in year n? 1)

Another thing that it might be desirable to be able to account for is human population growth. If a nation's GDP doubled in some period of time, but its population tripled, the increase in GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT might not exactly mean that typically the standard of living elevated for the country's inhabitants; the average person inside the country is making less than they have been before. Per-capita GDP is a new measure to account regarding population growth.

Cross-border evaluation and purchasing power parity

The level of GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT in countries may end up being compared by converting their particular value in national money according to either the current money exchange rate, and also the acquiring power parity exchange level.

* Current foreign exchange rate is the exchange rate in the international foreign exchange market.

* Acquiring power parity exchange rate is the exchange rate centered on the purchasing power parity (PPP) of a currency comparative to a particular standard (usually the United States dollar). This specific is a comparative (and theoretical) exchange rate, in order to directly know this specific rate is to offer an entire CPI basket in a single country, convert the funds at the currency industry rate plus then rebuy that same basket regarding goods inside the other region (with the converted cash). Going from country to be able to country, the distribution regarding prices within the holder will vary; typically, non-tradable purchases will consume a better proportion in the basket's overall cost inside the higher GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT country, per the Balassa-Samuelson effect.

The ranking of countries may differ considerably based on which method is used.

* The current exchange rate method converts the value of goods and services using global currency exchange rates. The method can provide better indications of a country's international purchasing power. For instance, if 10% of GDP is being spent on buying hi-tech foreign arms, the amount of weapons purchased is usually fully governed by current swap rates, since arms usually are a traded product ordered on the international industry. There is not any meaningful 'local' value distinct from the global price for high technological innovation goods. The PPP approach of GDP conversion is usually more relevant to non-traded services and goods. In the previously mentioned example if hi-tech guns are to be developed internally their amount will probably be governed by GDP (PPP) rather then nominal GDP.
You will find a clear pattern of the purchasing power parity method decreasing typically the disparity in GDP in between high and low revenue (GDP) countries, as in contrast to the current exchange level method. This finding is named the Penn effect.

For even more information, see Measures of countrywide income and output.

Common of living and GDP: wealth distribution and externalities

GDP per capita is usually used as an indicator of living standards.[22]

The major benefit of GDP per capita as an indicator of standard of living is that it is measured frequently, widely, and consistently. It is measured frequently in that most countries provide information on GDP on a quarterly basis, allowing trends to be seen quickly. It is measured widely in that some measure of GDP is available for almost every country in the world, allowing inter-country comparisons. It is measured regularly in that the technical definition of GDP is relatively constant among countries.

GDP does not include several factors that influence the standard of living. In particular, it fails to account for:

* Externalities – Economic growth may entail an increase in negative externalities that are not directly measured in GDP.[23][24]Increased commercial output might grow GDP, but any pollution is not counted.[25]

* Non-market transactions– GDP excludes activities that are not provided through the market, such as household production, bartering of goods in addition to services, and volunteer or perhaps unpaid services.

* Non-monetary economy– GDP omits financial systems where necessary comes directly into play at all, ensuing in inaccurate or extraordinarily low GDP figures. Regarding example, in countries together with major business transactions taking place informally, portions of regional economy are not quickly registered. Bartering may be even more prominent than the application of funds, even extending to providers.[24]

* Quality advancements and inclusion of fresh products– by not totally adjusting for quality advancements and new releases, GDP understates true economic growth. For occasion, although computers today usually are less expensive and even more powerful than computers coming from the past, GDP snacks them because the same goods by only accounting regarding the monetary value. The development of new products is likewise difficult to measure effectively and is not mirrored in GDP despite typically the fact that it could improve the standard of living. Regarding example, your richest particular person in 1900 could not necessarily purchase standard products, this kind of as antibiotics and mobile phones, that an average customer can purchase today, since this kind of modern conveniences did not really exist then.

* Sustainability of growth– GDP will be a measurement of economical historic activity and it is not really necessarily a projection.

2. Wealth distribution – GDP will not account for variances within incomes of various demographic groups. See income inequality metrics for discussion of a number of inequality-based economical measures.[24]

This can be argued that will GDP per capita because an indicator standard associated with living is correlated along with these factors, capturing all of them indirectly.[22][26]Because a result, GDP for each capita as a quality lifestyle is a continued consumption because most of the people have a new fairly accurate idea regarding what it is in addition to this is tough to be able to come up with quantitative measures for such constructs as happiness, quality regarding life, and well-being.[22]

Limitations and criticisms

Constraints at launch

Simon Kuznets, the economist who produced the first comprehensive established of measures of countrywide income, expressed in his / her first report to typically the US Congress in 1934, in a section named "Uses and Abuses regarding National Income Measurements":[8]

Typically the valuable capacity of typically the human mind to make simpler a fancy situation in a new compact characterization becomes hazardous when not controlled inside terms of definitely explained criteria. With quantitative proportions especially, the definiteness regarding the result suggests, usually misleadingly, a precision in addition to simplicity inside the outlines regarding the object measured. Proportions of national income usually are subject to this sort of illusion and ensuing abuse, especially since they will deal with matters which can be the center of turmoil of opposing social groupings where the effectiveness regarding an argument is usually contingent upon oversimplification. [... ]

All these kinds of qualifications upon estimates regarding national income as a great index of productivity usually are just as important any time income measurements are viewed from the point regarding view of economic wellbeing. But in the last mentioned case additional difficulties may be suggested to any person who wants to sink into under the surface of overall figures and market values. Economic welfare cannot be adequately measured unless the personal distribution of income is known. And no income measurement undertakes to estimate the reverse side of income, that is, the intensity and unpleasantness of effort going into the earning of income. The welfare of a nation can, therefore, scarcely be inferred from a measurement of national income as defined above.

In 1962, Kuznets stated:[27]
Distinctions must be kept in mind between quantity and quality of growth, between costs and returns, and between the short and long run. Goals for more growth should specify more growth of what in addition to for what.

Further criticisms

Ever since the growth of GDP, multiple experts have mentioned limitations regarding using GDP because the overarching measure of economic in addition to social progress.

Many environmentalists argue of which GDP is a weak way of measuring social progress since it would not take directly into account harm to the environment.[28][29]

Although a new high or rising stage of GDP is frequently related with increased economic in addition to social progress within a new country, a number regarding scholars have remarked that this specific does not necessarily enjoy out in many cases. For illustration, Jean Dr? ze and Amartya Sen have pointed out that a great increase in GDP or perhaps in GDP growth does not necessarily lead to a higher standard of living, particularly in areas such as healthcare and education.[30]Another important area that does not necessarily improve along with GDP is political liberty, which is most notable in China, where GDP growth is strong yet political liberties are heavily restricted.[31]

GDP does not account for the distribution of income among the residents of a country, because GDP is merely an aggregate measure. An economy may be highly developed or growing rapidly, but also contain a wide gap between the rich and the poor in a society. These inequalities often occur on the lines of race, ethnicity, gender, religion, or other minority status within countries. This can lead to misleading characterizations of economic well-being if the income distribution is heavily skewed toward the high end, as the poorer residents will not directly benefit from the overall level of wealth and income generated in their country. Even GDP per capita measures may have the same downside if inequality is high. For example, South Africa during apartheid ranked high in terms of GDP each capita, but the rewards of this immense riches and income were not necessarily shared equally among the list of region.[citation needed]

GDP really does not take into bank account the value of house and other unpaid work. Several, including Martha Nussbaum, argue of which this value should end up being included in measuring GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT, as household labor is usually largely a substitute regarding services and goods that would normally be purchased for benefit.[32]Even under conventional estimates, the value regarding unpaid labor in Quotes has been calculated to be able to be over 50% in the country's GDP.[33]A new later study analyzed this specific value in other nations around the world, with results ranging coming from a low of concerning 15% in Canada (using conservative estimates) to large of nearly 70% inside the United Kingdom (using more liberal estimates). Regarding the United States, the worthiness was estimated to end up being between about 20% about the weak to practically 50% within the high conclusion, depending on the technique used.[34]Because several public policies are designed by GDP calculations in addition to by the related discipline of national accounts,[35]typically the non-inclusion of unpaid job in calculating GDP can create distortions in public policy, and some economists have advocated for changes in the way public policies are formed and implemented.[36]

The UK's Natural Capital Committee highlighted the shortcomings of GDP in its advice to the UK Government in 2013, pointing out that GDP "focuses on flows, not stocks. As a result, an economy can run down its assets yet, at the same time, record high levels of GDP growth, until a point is reached where the depleted assets act as a check on future growth". They then went on to say that "it is apparent that the recorded GDP growth rate overstates the sustainable growth rate. Broader measures of wellbeing and wealth are needed for this and there is a danger that short-term decisions based solely on what is currently measured by national accounts may prove to be costly in the long-term".
It has been suggested that countries that have authoritarian governments, such as the People's Republic of China, and Russia, inflate their GDP figures.[37]

Plans to overcome GDP constraints

In answer to these and other limitations of using GDP, alternative techniques have emerged.

* Inside the 1980s, Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum developed the capability approach, which focuses on the useful functions enjoyed by people within a country, somewhat than the aggregate riches held within a country. These functions consist of the functions that a person can achieve.[38]

* In 1990 Mahbub ul Haq, a Pakistani Economist at the United Nations around the world, introduced the Human Development Index (HDI). The HDI is a composite index of life expectancy at birth, mature literacy rate and standard of living measured as a logarithmic function of GDP, adjusted to purchasing power parity.

* Inside 1989, John B. Cobb and Herman Daly introduced Index of Sustainable Economical Welfare (ISEW) by taking into consideration various other factors such as consumption of nonrenewable resources and degradation of the environment. The newest formula subtracted from GDP (personal intake + public non-defensive costs - private defensive costs + capital formation & services from domestic time - costs of ecological degradation - depreciation of natural capital)

* Inside 2005, Med Jones, an American Economist, at the International Institute of Supervision, introduced the first high-end Gross National Happiness List a. k. a. Low National Well-being framework and List to complement GDP economics with additional seven measurements, including environment, education, and government, work, social and health (mental and physical) indicators. The proposal was inspired by the California king of Bhutan's GNH philosophy.[39][40][41]

* In yr the European Union released a communication titled GDP and beyond: Measuring progress in a changing world[42]that discovered five steps to improve indicators of progress in ways that make it more receptive to the concerns of its citizens: Introduced a proposal to complementing GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT with environmental and sociable indicators

* In yr Professors Joseph Stiglitz, Amartya Sen, and Jean-Paul Fitoussi at the Commission on the Measurement of Economical Performance and Social Progress (CMEPSP), formed by French Leader, Nicolas Sarkozy published a offer to overcome the constraint of GDP economics to expand the focus to well-being economics with well-being framework consisting of health, environment, work, physical protection, monetary safety, political flexibility.

* In 2012, the Karma Ura of the Center for Bhutan Studies published Bhutan Local GNH Index contributors to happiness—physical, mental and spiritual health; time-balance; social and community vitality; cultural vitality; education; living standards; good governance; and ecological vitality. The Bhutan GNH Index.[43]

* In 2013 OECD Better Life Index was published by the OECD. The dimensions of the index included health, economic, workplace, income, jobs, housing, civic engagement, life satisfaction

* In 2013 professors John Helliwell, Richard Layard and Jeffrey Sachs published World Happiness Report and proposed to measure other wellbeing indicators in addition to GDP. the assessment framework included GDP per capita, Gini (income inequality), life satisfaction, health, freedom of life choices, trust and absence of corruption.
