Pharmacological investigation of spreading depression propagation in rat neocortical tissues
Abstract
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is a massive but temporary perturbation in the cortical ionic homeostasis leading to a depression of neuronal activity that spreads (hence the name) through the neocortex and other gray matter regions in the brain. CSD is an emergent phenomenon arising from the interaction of many different transmission phenomena in the cortex. In this study, the basic pharmacological mechanisms of the propagation of CSD in rat neocortical tissues were investigated. CSD were induced by injection of KCl in the third layers of neocortical tissues. Simultaneous field potential recordings of CSD were obtained from four microelectrodes placed 2-3 mm apart across coronal slices in the third layer of the neocortex. The effects of NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-Amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), GABA receptor antagonist bicuculline, dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF 81297, and dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole on lateral propagation of CSD were investigated. APV, applied focally between recording sites, significantly reduced CSD propagation velocity across treated areas as well as the amplitude of CSD. Focal application of other substances did not change the characteristics of CSD and its horizontal propagation. These results indicate the importance of glutamate NMDA subreceptors in propagation of CSD in rat somatosensory neocortex.

Introduction
Spreading depression (SD) is a phenomenon which represents as a propagating wave of
neuronal depolarisation followed by a transient wake of depression (Leao, 1944; Gorji, 2001). SD could be initiated by different stimuli in animal models and studied in various in vivo and in vitro experimental models. It was first induced by applying a brief tetanus of faradic stimulation to the rabbit cortex (Leao, 1944; Bures et al., 1974). Mechanical stimulation, for example, by stroking of the cortical surface with a blunt instrument, a falling weight or even lightly tapping the cortex also initiates SD (Lea˜o, 1944). More recent studies have achieved more reliable and reproducible induction of SD by rapidly inserting and retracting hypodermic steel needles (Lambert et al., 1999; Ebersberger et al., 2001). However, the most common models of SD initiation is KCl application (Wernsmann et al., 2006; Dehbandi et al., 2008). This model has been shown to be the most reliable stimulus leading to reproducible events on earlier occasions in both non-imaging and imaging studies (Bradley et al., 2001). In any case, changes in extracellular K+ concentration themselves might be involved in such pathophysiological processes in human brain tissue (Mayevsky et al., 1996; Nicholson and Sykova, 1998). SD appears to affect both the neuronal and the glial cells. 

The first paper on SD, titled "Spreading depression of activity in the cerebral cortex" appeared in 1944, written by a Brazilian neuroscientist, Aristides Leão, working at the Harvard laboratory. Leão wanted to study the electrocorticogram (ECoG) of experimental epilepsy in anesthetized rabbits, but he was distracted from his original goal by an unexpected flattening of the ongoing normal bioelectrical activity that took the place of the anticipated epileptiform field potentials. The silencing of the ECoG trace crept slowly over the cortex, from one recording electrode pair resting on the cortical surface to the one beside it. According to Leão, SD and propagating focal seizures were related phenomena, generated by the same cellular elements, an inference later supported by others. 

SD is an "all-or-none" type process and propagates in the manner of a wave through gray matter. SD appears first at the stimulated site and spreads out in all directions at the velocity of 2–3 mm/min, so that increasingly distant areas undergo successively a similar temporary depression. A crucial manifestation of SD is a propagating negative potential with amplitude of 10–30 mV and duration of more than 30 sec, which may be preceded or succeeded by a positive fluctuation of variable amplitude and duration (Figure 1). Underlying this cellular depolarisation is a dramatic change in the distribution of micromilieu ions between extra- and intracellular compartments. Potassium and proton release from the cells, while sodium, calcium and chloride enter together with water causing cells to swell and the volume of the extracellular compartment to be decreased. SD is accompanied by an increase of glucose utilization and O2 consumption. Recovery of SD depends on energy metabolism.

SD has been studied in vivo and in vitro in brain slices and in retinal preparations under different experimental conditions. It has been also observed in human neocortical tissue in vitro and in human hippocampus as well as striatum and neocortex in vivo. SD can be regularly initiated if the tissue susceptibility is artificially raised. Hypoxia as well as hypoglycemia and changing the extracellular ionic concentrations by administration of solutions with increased K+, decreased NaCl or with the Cl− of the latter replaced by certain other anions lower the threshold (Gorji, 2001).


There is sufficient evidence to admit the SD plays an important role in different neurological disorders (Gorji, 2001; Somjen, 2001). Subdural recordings in patients demonstrated that SD is critically involved in various disorders associated with acute neuronal injury including traumatic and spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage (Strong et al., 2002; Fabricius et al., 2008) as well as subarachnoid haemorrhage and ischaemic stroke and contribute to tissue damage. Furthermore, propagation of a SD-like phenomenon in human neocortical tissues has been shown to generate aura symptoms in migrainous patients (Hadjikhani et al. 2001).

e.g., by 4-aminopyridine, increased extracellular K+, blocking of Na+–K+ ATPase, e.g., by ouabain, blocking of Ca2+ channels, e.g., by NiCl2, blocking of GABA receptors, e.g., by picrotoxin, are the common pathways for eliciting epileptiform burst discharges and SD in experimental models. By all aforementioned mechanisms SD appears spontaneously between epileptiform ictal events. SD can be elicited in susceptible area by a single discharge of an epileptic focus (spike triggered SD). Epileptiform field potentials usually suppress during SD occurrence and reappear in few minutes. CSD penetration into the epileptic foci was established in different model of epilepsy. However, it should be noted that SD does not enter electrically or pharmacologically elicited foci of epileptic activity with high rates of interictal discharges which resulted in anomalous SD propagation. This abnormal SD conduction may account for periodic changes of ictal and interictal activity found in some types of focal epilepsy.

Propagation of SD
Widely accepted hypotheses hold that the primary event responsible for both the initiation and the propagation of SD is the release of some substance from neuronal elements to the extracellular compartment, which initially excites and then depresses adjacent neurons. The slowness of diffusion of the mediator would account for the low velocity of SD propagation. Among the substances proposed to mediate SD propagation are potassium (Grafstein, 1963; Bures et al., 1974) and excitatory amino acids (Fabricius et al., 1993). There are, however, observations that are difficult to reconcile with either of these two propositions.

SD had been interpreted as a composite process or a sequence of several linked events. To solve its genesis, a most important question concerns identification of the very first step in the chain reaction. In the extant literature, however, generally more attention has been given to the major depolarization and the attending extracellular potential shift (AI’,) than to the antecedent events. Among antecedents heralding the onset of SD that have been reported, are be particularly important to signal processing in cortical networks with pronounced recurrent excitatory interactions (Wong et al., 1984). This inhibition may limit the lateral spread of excitation and facilitate discharge synchronization of projection neurons by inducing a synchronous refractory period. Breakdown in the dynamic balance of inhibitory and excitatory interaction can lead to a functional disconnection (Wong and Prince, 1990) and disrupts the normal spread of lateral excitation (Grunze et al., 1996).

Lateral propagation of CSD could be considered as a crucial factor in induction of some pathological processes in brain. Therefore, basic pharmacological mechanisms of this propagation in rat neocortical tissues were investigated.

A glass electrode filled with 2 m KCl was fixed in a special holder connected with plastic tube to a pressure injector and the tip inserted into the temporal neocortical slices (layer III). A high-pressure pulse was applied to inject in the tissue an amount of K+ sufficient to induce CSD (tip diameter, 2 µm; injection pressure, 0.5–1.0 bar applied for 200–300 ms, two separate injections, 1–3 nL per pulse, 2–5 mm apart from nearby recording electrodes). CSD were evaluated with respect to their amplitudes, duration and velocity rates. Duration of DC potential fluctuation width was measured at its half-maximal amplitude.

Experimental procedure
After minimum 30 min incubation, CSD was induced by KCl application. After another 15 min, several compounds were applied to small areas of cortex between the two middle electrodes of the four-channel array. Compounds applied were: DL-2-Amino-5- phosphonovaleric acid (APV; 50 μmol/L), 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 10 μmol/L), bicuculline (10 μmol/L), SKF 81297 (25 μmol/L), and quinpirole (20 μmol/L). The abovementioned drugs were administered focally through microelectrodes on to slices (electrode tip diameter 2–3 μM, 0.5–2 bar; 500–800 ms, 3–5 nl). Drugs were released through microelectrodes on to the surface of the slices. A strip of filter paper controlled diffusion of the drugs.

All compounds were purchased from Sigma Chemical Company. All data are given as mean ± standard error of the mean (SEM). The data were statistically analyzed using the Mann– Whitney rank sum test. Multiple comparisons were performed by analysis of variance test (ANOVA) for repeated measures followed by a Dunn's test. Significance was established when the probability values were <0.05. The experiments were approved by the Bezirksregierung Münster (Tierversuchsgenehmigung, Bezirksregierung Münster, Deutschland, AZ: 50.0835.1.0, G79/2002).

Results
Control slicesApplication of KCl in to neocortical slices elicited fluctuations of the DC potentials consisting of initially negative shifts, followed by positive waves. The triggered wave propagated first the nearby electrode, and a few seconds later the other electrode located parallel to this electrode. The amplitude and duration of negative DC deflections were 13.6 ± 0.8 mV and 102 ± 13.1 seconds, respectively, in the first electrode. The amplitude and duration of CSD recorded by the second electrode was 11.5 ± 0.6 mV and 93 ± 10.3 seconds, respectively. The velocity of SD propagation was determined by dividing the distance between two microelectrodes by the interval of DC potential shift appearances. The velocity of vertical propagation of DC fluctuation was 3.6 ± 0.2 mm/min.

Pharmacological investigation of horizontal CSD propagation
We studied the involvement of the different receptors in horizontal propagation of CSD by application of antagonists or agonists of these receptors in the somatosensory neocortical slices. The roles of NMDA-subreceptors were tested by local application of NMDA antagonist, APV (50 micromol/l, n = 16). Administration of APV significantly decreased the velocity of CSD propagation. CSD propagated with the speed of 2.1 ± 0.2 after application of APV (P ≤ 0.001; ANOVA test, Holm-Sidak’ method). Furthermore, amplitude of CSD also decreased to 7.3 ± 0.4 mV under application of APV (figure 3). After one hour washout of the slices with ACSF, CSD induced by another KCl injection. Both velocity and amplitude of CSD returned to APV pre-application levels (12.7 ± 0.7 mV and 96 ± 12.7 seconds).

However, application of AMPA receptor antagonist CNQX (10 μmol/L; n = 12), GABA recptor antagonist bicuculline (10 μmol/L; n = 12), dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF
15DiscussionThe present data indicate that blocking of glutamate NMDA sub-receptor play an important role in horizontal propagation of CSD in rat somatosensory neocortical tissues. However, this study revealed that glutamate AMPA sub-receptor as well as GABA and dopamine receptors have no effect in lateral propagation of CSD in these tissues.

SD cellular correlate is a depolarization shift associated with complete breakdown of the membrane potential that is dependent on the asymmetric intra- and extracellular ion distribution and is maintained by the energy consuming work of membrane pumps. The ability of neurons to generate action potentials is lost during SD, which explains the spreading electrical silence accompanied SD under physiological conditions (Somjen 2001). In the other hand, epileptic activity is characterized by the paroxysmal depolarization shift, a hypersynchronous network event resulting from a giant excitatory postsynaptic potential. A paroxysmal depolarization shift is the correlate of. The EPSP is presumably the consequence of synchronous activation of recurrent excitatory pathways (Jonston and Brown, 1984). SD is accompanied by a very large increase in [K+]o. The increase in [K+]o is accompanied by a precipitous drop in [Cl ]o, [Na+]o, and [Ca2+]o.


It was postulated that the excitatory amino acid glutamate plays a role in the chain of events triggering SD (Bures et al., 1974). The neocortex releases excitatory amino acids including glutamate and aspartate, to the extracellular space during CSD (Van Harreveld and Kooiman, 1965). Subsequently it has been shown that the triggering of SD requires activation of the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor in rat cerebral cortex (Bures et al., 1974), in chick retina (Seeling, 1993) and in human neocortical tissues (Gorji et al., 2001). Other glutamate subreceptor (AMPA, kainate and quisqualate) can induce SD but their initiation inhibited by Magnesium is known to block the NMDA receptor. The available evidence suggests that up to 50% of patients during an acute migraine attack have lowered levels of ionized magnesium (Ramadan et al., 1999). Erythrocytes and lymphocytes magnesium concentrations are significantly lower in migraine patients as compared to controls (James et al., 2000). Infusion of magnesium results in a rapid and sustained relief of an acute migraine in such patients (Mauskop et al., 1995). However, it should be mentioned that magnesium concentration has an effect on serotonin receptors, nitric oxide synthesis and release, and a variety of other migraine-related receptors and neurotransmitters (Mauskop and Altura, 1998). It is well known that reduced magnesium facilitates the development of SD in animal models and human tissues (Mody et al., 1987). Intravenous magnesium as well as the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 significantly reduced the frequency of SD evoked by cortical KCl application in rats. On the other hand, SD affects magnesium metabolism in the central nervous system (van der Hel et al., 1998). The magnesium sulphate anesthesia was considerably shortened approximately four times by CSD in functional decorticated mice in comparison with control animals (Bohdanecky and Necina 1963). All these data, in line with our findings, showed the importance of NMDA receptors in CSD and its related neurological disorders.

Our data revealed that GABA receptors have no effect on CSD lateral propagation. However, it should be noted that these receptors are important for CSD initiation. Increasing of potassium concentration may further impairs GABA mediated inhibition and leads to appearance of ictaform burst discharges. Higashima et al. (1996) have shown that activation of GABAergic mechanisms is necessary for the generation of afterdischarges recorded in hippocampal slices after electrical stimuli. Experimental and computational data obtained by Traub et al. (1996) also suggest a role played by GABAA-mediated depolarizing conductance in the epileptiform synchronization that occurs in some models of epileptiform discharge (in ReferencesBohdanecky Z, Necina J. Course of some pharmacological tests in functionally decorticated animals. Physiol. Bohemoslov. 1963;12:55–61.

Bradley DP, Smith MI, Netsiri C, Smith JM, Bockhorst KH, Hall LD, Huang CL, Leslie RA, Parsons AA, James MF. Diffusion-weighted MRI used to detect in vivo modulation of cortical spreading depression: comparison of sumatriptan and tonabersat. Exp Neurol. 2001;172:342-53.


Bures J., Buresova O., Krivanek J. In: The Mechanisms and Applications of Leao’s Spreading Depression of Electroencephalographic Activity, Academic Press, New York (1974).


Cobb SR, Buhl EH, Halasy K, Paulsen O, Somogyi P. Synchronization of neuronal activity in hippocampus by individual GABAergic interneurons. Nature 1995;378:75-8.


Cornell-Bell AH, Finkbeiner SM, Cooper MS, Smith SJ. Glutamate induces calcium waves in cultured astrocytes: long-range glial signaling. Science. 1990;247:470-3.


Dehbandi S, Speckmann EJ, Pape HC, Gorji A. Cortical spreading depression modulates synaptic transmission of the rat lateral amygdala. Eur J Neurosci. 2008;27:2057-65
Ebersberger A, Schaible HG, Averbeck B, Richter F.Is there a correlation between spreading depression, neurogenic inflammation, and nociception that might cause migraine headache? Ann Neurol. 2001;49:7-13.

Edagawa Y, Saito H, Abe K. Stimulation of the 5-HT1A receptor selectively suppresses NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic excitation in the rat visual cortex. Brain Res. 1999;827:225–228.


Fabricius M, Fuhr S, Willumsen L, Dreier JP, Bhatia R, Boutelle MG, Hartings JA, Bullock R, Strong AJ, Lauritzen M. Association of seizures with cortical spreading depression and 21
aura revealed by functional MRI in human visual cortex. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA., 2001;98:4687 4692.

Higashida H, Mitarai G, Watanabe S. A comparative study of membrane potential changes in neurons and neuroglial cells during spreading depression in the rabbit. Brain Res. 1974;65:411-25.


Higashima M, Kinoshita H, Yamaguchi N, Koshino Y.Activation of GABAergic function necessary for afterdischarge generation in rat hippocampal slices. Neurosci Lett. 1996;207:101-4.


Kaube H, Herzog J, Kaufer T, Dichgans M, Diener HC. Aura in some patients with familial hemiplegic migraine can be stopped by intranasal ketamine. Neurology 2000;55:139–141. Kruger H, Heinemann U, Luhmann HJ. Effects of ionotropic glutamate receptor blockade and 5-HT1A receptor activation on spreading depression in rat neocortical slices. Neuroreport 1999;10:2651–2656.


Lambert GA, Michalicek J, Storer RJ, Zagami AS. Effect of cortical spreading depression on activity of trigeminovascular sensory neurons. Cephalalgia. 1999;19:631-8.


Lauritzen M, Rice ME, Okada Y, Nicholson C. Quisqualate, kainate and NMDA can initiate spreading depression in the turtle cerebellum. Brain Res. 1988; 475:317–327.


Leao AAP. Spreading depression of activity in the cerebral cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 1944; 7:359–390.


Leone M, Attanasio A, Croci D, Ferraris A, D’Amico D, Grazzi L, Nespolo A,. Bussone G. 5- HT1A receptor hypersensitivity in migraine is suggested by the m-chlorophenylpiperazine test. Neuroreport 1998;9:2605–2608.


Martinez F, Castillo J, Rodriguez JR, Leira R, Noya M. Neuroexcitatory amino acid levels in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid during migraine attacks. Cephalalgia 1993;13:89–93.


Seelig MS, Interrelationship of magnesium and estrogen in cardiovascular and bone disorders, eclampsia, migraine and premenstrual syndrome. J. Am. Coll. Nutr. 1993;12:442–458.

Somjen GG. (2001) Mechanisms of spreading depression and hypoxic spreading depression- like depolarization. Physiol Rev.;81:1065-96.


Strong AJ, Fabricius M, Boutelle MG, Hibbins SJ, Hopwood SE, Jones R, Parkin MC, Laurizen M. Spreading and synchronous depressions of cortical activity in acutely injured human brain. Stroke 2002; 33:2738 2743.


Thomas J, Millot JM, Sebille S. et al., Free and total magnesium in lymphocytes of migraine patients: effect of magnesium-rich mineral water intake. Clin. Chim. Acta 2000;295;63–75. Traub RD, Whittington MA, Colling SB, Buzsáki G, Jefferys JG Analysis of gamma rhythms in the rat hippocampus in vitro and in vivo. J Physiol. 1996;493:471-84.


van der Hel WS, van den Bergh WM, Nicolay K, Tulleken KA, Dijkhuizen RM. Suppression of cortical spreading depressions after magnesium treatment in the rat. Neuroreport 1998;9:2179–2182.


Van Harreveld A, Kooiman M. Amino acid release from the cerebral cortex during spreading depression and asphyxiation. J. Neurochem. 1965;12:431–439.


Wernsmann B, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A Effect of cortical spreading depression on synaptic transmission of rat hippocampal tissues. Eur J Neurosci. 2006;23:1103-10.

