Aus dem Universitätsklinikum Münster
Institut für Physiologie I
Direktor: Univ.-Prof. Dr H. C. Pape

The effects of dopamine receptors on spreading depression
in rat neocortical tissues
INAUGURAL - Dissertation

Zur
Erlangung des doctor medicinae

der Medizinischen Fakultät
der Westfälischen Wilhelms-Universität Münster

Anna Maria Haarmann
aus Werl
2009

1

Gedruckt mit Genehmigung der Medizinischen Fakultät der Westfälischen WilhelmsUniversität Münster

2

Dekan: Univ.-Prof. Dr. Wilhelm Schmitz
1. Berichterstatter: Prof. Dr. med. Ali Gorji
2. Berichterstatter: PD. Dr. med. Ch. Greiner
Tag der mündlichen Prüfung: 20.11.2009

3

Aus dem Universitätsklinikum Münster
Institut für Physiologie I
Direktor: Univ.-Prof. Dr H. C. Pape
Referent: Prof. Dr. med. A. Gorji
Koreferent: PD. Dr. med.Ch. Greiner
ZUSAMMENFASSUNG
Einfluß von Dopamin auf die Spreading depression
Anna Maria Haarmann
Bei der spreading Depression(SD) handelt es sich um eine, sich mit einer Geschwindigkeit von 25mm/ min über den gesamten Cortex ausbreitende Depolarisationswelle, die von einer Abflachung
bioelektrischer Aktivität begleitet wird.
Es ist anzunehmen, dass die spreadind depression Einfluss auf mehrere klinische Symptome wie
Migräne, Kopfschmerzen oder vorübergehende globale Amnesie hat.
Dopamin ist ein essentieller Neurotransmitter, der wichtige modulierende Aufgaben übernimmt. Bei
Patienten, die an Migräne leiden, besteht eine Hypersensivität für Dopamin, viele dafür typische
Symptome können durch diesen Neurotransmitter getriggert werden.
Spreading depression führt zu einer Freisetzung von Dopamin .
Offensichtlich besteht also ein Zusammenhang zwischen spreading depression mit der konsekutiven
Freisetzung von Dopamin und den klinischen Manifestationen der Migräne.
Die vorliegende Arbeit untersucht, in wie weit Dopaminagonisten bzw. – antagonisten Einfluß auf die
spreading depression nehmen.
Die Experimente wurden am somatosensorischen Neocortex erwachsener Ratten durchgeführt.
Dabei wurden extrazelluläre Feldpotentiale abgeleitet und durch die Applikation von KCL eine
spreading depression ausgelöst. Anschließend wurde der Einfluß sowohl von D2 Antagonisten als
auch –Agonisten auf die SD untersucht.
Eine anschließende Versuchsreihe untersuchte den Einfluss von D2 Antagonisten bzw.-Agonisten auf
evozierte exitatorische postsynaptische Feldoptentiale (EPSP), um so zu klären, ob ein Einfluss auf
die längerfristige Modifikation synaptischer Übertragung besteht.
Die Resultate aus oben beschriebenen Versuchen ergaben, dass die Inhibition von D2 Rezeptoren- im
vorliegendem Fall durch Sulpiride- zu einer signifikanten Suppression der spreading depression führt.
Auch die synaptische Übertragung wird durch D2 Antagonisten beeinflusst.
Zusammenfassend ist festzuhalten, dass die Blockade von D2 Rezeptoren eine wichtige Rolle in der
Behandlung von z. B. Migräne mit Aura spielt, der therapeutische Effekt mag in der Inhibition der
neocortikalen SD liegen.

Tag der mündlichen Prüfung: 20.11.2009

4

Introduction
Spreading depression (SD) is a propagating wave of depolarisation associated by a depression
of the neuronal bioelectrical activity for a period of minutes. SD could be initiated by
different methods in animal models. SD is an "all-or-none" type process and propagates in the
manner of a wave through gray matter. SD appears first at the stimulated site and spreads out
in all directions at the velocity of 2–3 mm/min, so that increasingly distant areas undergo
successively a similar temporary depression. A crucial manifestation of SD is a propagating
negative potential with an amplitude of 10–30 mV and a duration of more than 0.5–1 min,
which may be preceded or succeeded by a positive fluctuation of variable amplitude and
duration. Underlying this cellular depolarisation is a dramatic change in the distribution of
micromilieu ions between extra- and intracellular compartments. Potassium and proton
release from the cells, while sodium, calcium and chloride enter together with water causing
cells to swell and the volume of the extracellular compartment to be decreased. SD is
accompanied by an increase of glucose utilization and O2 consumption. Recovery of SD
depends on energy metabolism.
The first paper on SD, titled "Spreading depression of activity in the cerebral cortex" appeared
in 1944, written by a young Brazilian investigator, Aristides Leão, working at the Harvard
laboratory. Leão wanted to study the electrocorticogram (ECoG) of experimental epilepsy in
anesthetized rabbits, but he was distracted from his original goal by an unexpected flattening
of the ongoing normal bioelectrical activity that took the place of the anticipated epileptiform
field potentials.The silencing of the ECoG trace crept slowly over the cortex, from one
recording electrode pair resting on the cortical surface to the one beside it. According to Leão,
SD and propagating focal seizures were related phenomena, generated by the same cellular
elements, an inference later supported by others.
This phenomenon has been studied in vivo in several animal species and in vitro in brain
slices and in retinal preparations under different experimental conditions. It has been also
observed in human neocortical tissue in vitro and in human hippocampus as well as striatum
and neocortex in vivo. SD can be regularly initiated if the tissue susceptibility is artificially
raised. Hypoglycemia and hypoxia as well as changing the extracellular ionic micromilieu by
applying solutions with increased K+, decreased NaCl or with the Cl− of the latter replaced by
certain other anions lower the threshold.

5

Fig. 1: Aristides Azevedo Pacheco Leão. Journal of Nourophysiology, 1944, Changes of
bioelectrical activities recorded from a rabbit during propagation of spreading depression
(SD). Traces reveal propagating flattening of epileptiform field potentials induced by
spreading of cortical SD as well as propagating recovery of these activities.

Conversely, the susceptibility of SD initiation is lowered or the occurrence of SD is prevented
in previously susceptible tissue by solution with increased Mg2+ or NaCl, or with the Na+
replaced by certain other cations. SD also is triggered by various modes of mechanical,
chemical and electrical stimulation.
The unparalleled increase in extracellular potassium concentration ([K+]o) is accompanied by
a precipitous drop in extracellular chloride concentration ([Cl ]o), extracellular sodium
concentration ([Na+]o), and extracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]o), suggesting that K+
leaving neurons is exchanged against Na+ and Ca2+ that are entering and increased up to 60
mM. [Ca2+]o decreases from its normal level of 1.2-1.5 mM to <0.3 mM. Cations are not
exchanged one for one between intra- and extracellular solutions, for the reduction in [Na+]o is
greater than the increase in [K+]o. The concomitant drop in [Cl ]o indicates that some of the
Na+ entering the cells is accompanied by Cl . It has been suggested that the deficit in
extracellular anions is made up by anions leaving the cytosol. Organic anions, including
glutamate, have been shown to be released during SD, although some of the glutamate
originates from glial cells. An exact and complete balance sheet of all ingredients displaced
during SD is yet to be completed, however, so much larger than that of the interstitial
6

compartment that neurons need to give up but a fraction of the K+ they contain to achieve a
many fold rise in [K+]o. Calculations based on the simultaneously recorded levels of [Na+]o
and [K+]o and the known fractional volume of the interstitial space in hippocampal tissue
indicate that a much reduced but still substantial trans-membrane potassium concentration
gradient remains standing during SD.
The unusual magnitude of the changes in extracellular ion concentrations created the
impression that intra- and extracellular ion concentrations equilibrate during SD, and this idea
was bolstered by the nearly complete depolarization of neurons during SD. The volume of the
cytosol is, however, so much larger than that of the interstitial space that cells need to give up
but a fraction of the K+ they contain to achieve a many fold rise in [K+]o. Calculations based
on the simultaneously recorded levels of [Na+]o and [K+]o and the known fractional volume of
the interstitial space in hippocampus indicate that a much reduced but still substantial
transmembrane K+ concentration gradient remains standing during SD.
No explanation of the propagation of SD has been suggested that accounts for all the facts
presently proven. The hypothesis that gained wide acceptance is that the propagation of SD
probably involves the release of different chemical mediators, most likely K+ and glutamate
into the interstitial fluid. Given the widespread potential signalling capacities of Ca2+ waves,
observations of the interactions between astrocytes and neurons in cell culture have suggested
that Ca2+ waves may also play a role in SD propagation.

7

Spreading depression
Horizontal propagation
Front of excitation

Zone of depression

DC4

I

Vertical propagation

II

DC3

III

IV

DC2
V

2
mV

VI

DC1

10 s

KCl

Figure 2. Propagation of cortical spreading depression and its electrophysiological
recordings.

Clinical relevance of SD
SD belongs in the domain of the pathophysiology of the brain, and there are reasons to believe
that it is involved in different clinical disorders, including migraine, cerebrovascular diseases,
head injury and transient global amnesia. Processes similar to spreading depression in animal
cortex are thought to take place in a number of pathological conditions in humans. These
disorders include brain trauma, ischemia/infarction, migraine, epilepsy, hemorrhage and
transient global amnesia. Direct alterations of electrical activity of cortical neurons by the
locally spreading wave can lead to clinical symptoms (e.g. the aura phase of migraine). These
same neuronal processes can also alter the neurochemistry of subcortical structures,
modulating oxygen distribution, cell survival in these structures and behavior. This problem
8

has not been addressed before, mainly because SD induces such a short depression in each
cortical loci, that transient neurochemical changes cannot be examined with conventional
approaches, for example by microdialysis.

The designation migraine with aura denotes the syndrome of headache associated with
characteristic sensory, motor, or visual symptoms, usually gradually developed over 5–20 min
and lasting less than 60 min. The most common symptoms in aura phase are visual arising
from dysfunction of occipital lobe neurons. The positive (stimulative) neurological symptoms,
e.g., flashing lights are usually followed by negative (suppressive) ones, e.g., scotoma or
hemianopia in this phase. Magnetoencephalographic studies in human revealed that the
magnetic signals were seen in migraine patients but not in patients suffering from other forms
of headache or normal controls. Three distinctive signal patterns; suppression of spontaneous
cortical activity, slow field changes and large-amplitude waves, were observed strictly in
migraine patients. In some migraine patients, magnetic signals were also recorded between
attacks. The same magnetic fields appeared during the propagation of SD in the cortex of
anesthetized animals. High-field functional MRI was used to detect blood oxygenation leveldependent (BOLD) changes during visual aura in three migraineurs. A focal increase in
BOLD signals developed first in extrastriate cortex and spread at the velocity of 3.5 ± 1.1
mm/min over occipital cortex. These initial BOLD features were consistent with scintillations
and paralleled by decreases in the stimulus-driven MR oscillations. Increasing in BOLD
signals was followed by a decrease in the mean signal. This phase appeared to correspond to
the localized scotoma and MR stimulus-induced response remained suppressed. Within 15 ± 3
min, both BOLD signals and MR stimulus-induced response recovered. During periods with
no visual stimulation, but while the subject was experiencing scintillations, BOLD signal
followed the retinotopic progression of the visual percept. Spreading BOLD signal changes as
neocortical SD did not cross prominent sulci.
Recent investigations provide early insights into mechanisms that lead to trigeminovascular
activation. SD is the first endogenous event identified upstream to trigeminovascular
activation that appears to be noxious in experimental models. Neocortical SD, originally
described by Leão. The slow spread of SD at 3–5 mm/min matches the propagation velocity
of wave fronts in the Belousov–Zhabotinsky reaction, that is, a thermodynamic chemical
reaction that shows the properties of a nonlinear chemical oscillator even in a Petri dish.
9

Unlike an epileptic seizure, which spreads asynchronously to activate adjacent brain, SD
begins within a synchronously activated brain space.
In experimental animals, SD stimulates ipsilateral trigeminal axons that surround cortical
blood vessels. SD causes a breakdown of the blood–brain barrier by mechanisms dependent
on matrix metalloproteinase-9. Furthermore, neocortical SD causes ipsilateral extravasation of
plasma proteins in dura mater, serving as an experimental marker of trigeminal nerve
activation; it also induces c-Fos expression within the trigeminal nucleus caudalis. These
findings and a transcription MRI study suggest that intense cortical perturbations like repeated
SD can open the blood–brain barrier, thereby activating the trigeminovascular system. SD
releases chemicals such as H+, K+, nitric oxide, and neurotransmitters into the extracellular
space. It has been hypothesized that released molecules reach the pial surface by diffusion and
accumulate in proximity to trigeminovascular afferents. Extracellular K+ levels about 60
mmol/l were measured in the pial space during SD.
Consistent with an upstream role for SD, prolonged application of migraine prophylactic
drugs suppresses SD in rats as a proposed mechanism of action. In line with the growing
clinical recognition that prolonged administration of prophylactic drugs is important to
achieve maximum therapeutic efficacy, treatment extension beyond 3–4 weeks also
maximizes the inhibitory effects of topiramate, valproate, methysergide, amitriptyline, and
propranolol on SD.
Dopamine
Dopamine is an essential neurotransmitter in a wide variety of animals, including both
invertebrates and vertebrates. In the brain, this phenethylamine functions as a
neurotransmitter, activating the five types of dopamine receptors; D1, D2, D3, D4 and D5, and
their variants. Dopamine is produced in several areas of the brain, including the substantia
nigra and the ventral tegmental area Dopamine is also a neurohormone released by the
hypothalamus.
Dopamine has many functions in the brain, including important roles in behavior and
cognition, motor activity, motivation and reward, inhibition of prolactin production (involved
in lactation), sleep, mood, attention, and learning. Dopaminergic neurons (i.e., neurons whose
primary neurotransmitter is dopamine) are present chiefly in the ventral tegmental area of the
midbrain, the substantia nigra pars compacta, and the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus
10

.
Figure 3. Chemical structure of Dopamine
The distributions of the transcripts encoding the five dopamine receptors have been
determined in the human striatum and selected regions of the neocortex. In the prefrontal
cortex as well as the temporal neocortex D1 and D4 receptor mRNAs are the most abundant,
although the other three transcripts are seen at lower levels. In the occipital neocortex, D1
receptor mRNA is the most abundant, D3 the rarest, while the other three transcripts are
present at modest levels of expression (Meador-Woodruff et al., 1996).
Dopamine and spreading depression
It has been shown that SD changed neuronal activity and consequently modulated
extracellular dopamine in the terminal fields during stimulation of the prefrontal cortex
(Murase et al., 1993, Taber and Fibiger, 1995, Karreman and Moghaddam, 1996 and Rossetti
et al., 1998). There is a pronounced release of dopamine during both spreading depression and
anoxia. In spreading depression, the sharp increase of potassium concentration that follows an
initial smaller and slower increase of potassium is accompanied by the release of dopamine in
in vivo experiments (Moghaddam et al., 1987). Cortical stimulation increases basal levels of
dopamine in the caudate (Strafella et al., 2001) and in the nucleus accumbens (Tucci et al.,
2000; You et al., 1998). In line with these data, blockade of the prefrontal cortex activity by
tetrodotoxin (Karreman and Moghaddam, 1996) or by local anesthetics (Murase et al., 1993)
decreased basal dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. The mechanisms by which SD
11

can modulate the dopaminergic presynaptic terminals in striatum are unknown. There is
evidence that cortex can enhance dopamine release in striatum via activation of glutamatergic
neurotransmission (Cheramy et al., 1986, Cheramy et al., 1990, Kilpatrick and Phillipson,
1986, Leviel et al., 1990 and Romo et al., 1986). Other data favour an opposite view on the
role of glutamate in impulse-dependent dopamine release (Wu et al., 2000 and Zhang and
Sulzer, 2003) and have proposed more complicated interactions via H2O2 (Avshalumov et al.,
2003). Another study indicates elevation of evoked dopamine release in the nucleus
accumbens and a decrease in the nucleus caudatus resulting from depression of the cortical
activity induced by SD. These findings suggest that in the nucleus caudatus dopaminergic
presynaptic terminals are under cortical tonic activating control, but in the mesolimbic
terminal fields in the nucleus accumbens, they are under tonic depression. Therefore, SD in
the cortex, may modulate neurotransmitter release in subcortical structures and may have a
general impact on the redistribution of the oxygen supply in these subcortical areas.
In spite of these studies, the ole of dopamine in initiation and propagation of cortical SD still
needed to be clarified. The dopaminergic system has also been explored for a potential role in
susceptibility to different neurological disorders. Several dopaminergic candidate genes have
been investigated in different migraine case–control cohorts with varying results (Del Zompo
et al.,1998; Mochi et al., 2003). Most migraine symptoms can be induced by dopaminergic
stimulation. Moreover, there is dopamine receptor hypersensitivity in migraineurs, as
demonstrated by the induction of yawning, nausea, vomiting, hypotension, and other
symptoms of a migraine attack by dopaminergic agonists at doses that do not affect nonmigraineurs. Bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, produces a predictable dose-related series of
clinical signs. Yawning is the first to appear. Increasing the dose induces mood changes,
nausea, gastrokinetic changes, hypotension, vomiting, and lastly dyskinesia. Migraine patients
yawned four times more often per hour and showed a higher incidence of headache than
controls after 0.25 mg sublingual apomorphine, another dopamine agonist (Del Bene et al.,
1994). In a large subgroup of migraineurs, dopamine acts as an endogenous protagonist in the
pathophysiology of the disorder. Antagonism of this protagonist neurotransmitter therefore
results in symptomatic relief of both the headache and associated symptoms (Peroutka, 1997).
Prochlorperazine and Domperidone D2 receptor antagonists have a high degree of efficacy in
the acute treatment of migraine (Amery and Waelkens, 1983; Coppola et al., 1995). Neurons
containing D1 receptor may play a role in modulating trigeminovascular nociception. These
neurons offer an important target to understanding pathophysiology of migraine and may
offer new directions for therapy. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of D1 and
12

D2 receptors on the characteristic features of cortical SD. Therefore, we investigated the
effects of inhibition of both D1 and D2 receptors on SD in rat neocortical tissues.
Material and methods
The experiments were performed on adult rat (250-350g) somatosensory neocortical slices.
The brain was removed under deep methohexital anaesthesia and placed in cold (1–4°C)
artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) pre-equilibrated with 5% CO2 in O2 to give a pH of 7.4.
The ACSF contained (in mM): NaCl 124, KCl 4, CaCl2 1.0, NaH2PO4 1.24, MgSO4 1.3,
NaHCO3 26 and glucose 10. The somatosensory neocortices were dissected and cut into slices
of 500 µm thickness. The slices were incubated in ACSF solution for >1 h at 28°C. After 30min incubation, CaCl2 was elevated to 2.0 mM. Slices were transferred to an interphase-type
experimental chamber and superfused with ACSF at 32°C (1.5–2 ml/min).
Electrophysiological recordings
Extracellular field potentials were recorded with glass microelectrodes (150 mmol/l NaCl; 2–
10 M ) connected to the amplifier by an Ag/AgCl–KCl bridge in the third and the fifth layers
of neocortical tissues. Field potentials were traced by an ink-writer and recorded by a digital
oscilloscope.
Induction of neocortical SD
SD was elicited by KCl microinjection. A glass electrode filled with 2 M KCl was fixed in a
special holder connected with plastic tube to a pressure injector and the tip inserted into the
sixth layer of the neocortical slices. A high-pressure pulse was applied to inject an amount of
K+ in the tissue sufficient to induce cortical SD (tip diameter: 2 µm; injection pressure 0.5–1.0
bar applied for 200–300 ms, two injections, 1–3 nl per pulse). Cortical SD-like events were
evaluated with respect to their amplitude, duration and velocity rates. SD duration was defined
as the interval between the time of half-maximal voltage shift during onset and recovery of the
negative DC potential deflection.

Long-term potentiation

13

Single pulses of electrical stimulation were applied through a bipolar platinum electrode
attached to the white matter perpendicular to the recording electrodes. Evoked field excitatory
postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) were recorded in the third layer of neocortical slices. The
fEPSP was elicited by adjusting the intensity of stimulation to

50% of that at which

population spikes after fEPSP began to appear. The amplitude of fEPSP 1 ms after the onset
was measured for data analysis. In long-term potentiation (LTP) experiments, the cortex was
sequentially stimulated once every minute. Ten trains of four pulses (pulse duration 0.1 msec;
interpulse interval 50 msec; intensity 5 V) were repeated at intervals of 10 msec. LTP was
operationally defined as the mean change in fEPSP amplitude in response to five stimuli
given 30 min after tetanic stimulation compared with the mean response to five test pulses
applied immediately before the stimulation. Thus % potentiation = [(posttetanus amplitude of
fEPSP/baseline amplitude of fEPSP) 1] 100. Tetanic stimulation was applied 60 min after
application of drug.
Experimental protocols
The experimental protocol consisted of four periods as follows: (a) control period, neocortical
slices were superfused with ACSF (30 min), tested for spontaneous SD; (b) KCl injection,
induction of SD (SD1); (c) application of D2 dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole (10-200
µM), or the dopamine D2 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride (0.1-10 µM, 60 min) before
the second injection of KCl (SD2); (d) washout of quinpirole or sulpiride with ASCF (45 min,
second control period), third injection of KCl (SD3). Only a single concentration of quinpirole
or sulpiride was used in a given slice. In control experiments, DMSO (0.5%) was added to the
bath solution after the first KCl injection (60 min) and washed with ASCF (45 min) after the
second and before the third KCl application.
Drugs
Quinpirole or sulpiride both purchased from Sigma-Aldrich.
Statistical analysis
All data are given as mean ± SEM. The data were statistically analysed using the Mann–
Whitney Rank Sum test. Multiple comparisons were performed by analysis of variance test
(ANOVA) for repeated measures followed by a Holm-Sidak’s test. Significance was
established when the probability values were less than 0.05. The investigations were approved
14

by the local ethics committee (Tierversuchsgenehmigung, Bezirksregierung Münster,
Deutschland, AZ: 50.0835.1.0, G79/2002).

15

Results:
The effect of D2 dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole on SD
Focal application of KCl in the sixth layer of neocortical tissues induced negative DC
deflections followed by positive waves (amplitude of 15.6 ± 1.9 mV; duration of 113 ± 5 sec).
Negative DC-fluctuations were sometimes preceded by small positive waves. These cortical
SD waves propagated opposite to the direction of the ACSF flow at propagation velocity of
3.1 ± 0.1 mm / min. The effect of five different concentrations of D2 dopamine receptor
agonist quinpirole (10, 20, 50, 100, 200 µΜ; n = 6 for each concentration) was tested on
potassium-evoked SD in neocortical tissues. The ratio between the second and the first DC
potential waves (SD2/SD1) was calculated in control slices and slices treated with quinpirole.
Sixty minutes of quinpirole application at 10 µM did not significantly change different
characteristics of SD, i.e. amplitude, duration, and propagation velocity. Quinpirole at higher
concentrations dose-dependently increased the amplitude and the duration of negative
depolarisation potential shifts occurring after the second KCl application (SD2). The
amplitude as well as the duration of SD2 and the SD2/SD1 ratio significantly increased after
superfusion of quinpirole at 20-200 µM (Fig. 4; P ≤ 0.001; ANOVA test, Holm-Sidak’
method). Quinpirole increased the SD amplitude and duration between 23 ± 4 to 80 ± 7 % and
between 18 ± 5 to 59 ± 5 % of the baseline level, respectively. Quinpirole did not change the
velocity of negative DC potential propagation at all different concentrations. After washout of
the compound, the amplitude, the duration, and the velocity of the propagation of the negative
DC waves (SD3) returned close to the initial levels (SD1; Fig. 4).
The effect of dopamine D2 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride on neocortical SD
Sulpiride at 1-10 µM dose-dependently decreased the amplitude of negative DC potentials
occurring after the second KCl application (SD2; Fig. 5; P ≤ 0.001; ANOVA test).
Application of sulpiride for sixty minutes reduced the SD amplitude to 38 ± 5 % of the
baseline level (SD2/SD1 ratio). Sulpiride at these concentrations also significantly and dosedependently decreased the mean duration of cortical SD to 48 ± 6 % of the baseline value.
Sulpiride at all different concentration did not change the speed of the DC-wave propagation.
Sulpiride at 0.1 µM did not affect SD. After washout of the compound, the amplitude of the
deflection of DC potentials (SD3) returned close to the initial levels (SD1; Fig. 5).

16

A
SD 1

SD 2

SD 3

B

SD amplitude enlargement (%)

100

80

60

40

20

0
0

20

40

60

80

100

120

140

160

180

200

Quinpirole concentration (micromol/ l)

Figure 4. Effects of quinpirole on cortical spreading depression (SD) in somatosensory
neocortical tissues. A: Recording of DC potential shifts in the third layer of a neocortical slice
before (A1), during (A2), and after (A3) application of quinpirole (50 µM). Field potentials
were recorded by an ink-writer. SD was elicited by KCl microinjection. B: The curve
indicates the plot of percentage enlargement of SD amplitude vs. quinpirole concentrations (n
= 6 for each concentration). Quinpirole dose-dependently increased the amplitude of SD. The
17

percentage of SD amplitude enlargement was measured by division of the amplitude of SD
induced after application of sulpiride to the amplitude of SD elicited before superfusion of the
substance. Values represent mean ± SEM. Significance was determined by ANOVA test
followed by Dunn’s post-test (B; P ≤ 0.001).

18

A
SD 1

SD 2

SD 3

B

SD amplitude reduction (% )

50

40

30

20

10

0
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

Sulpiride concentration ( micromol/l)

Figure 5. Effects of sulpiride on cortical spreading depression (SD) in somatosensory
neocortical tissues. A: Recording of DC potential shifts in the third layer of a neocortical slice
before (A1), during (A2), and after (A3) application of sulpiride (5 µM). Field potentials were
19

recorded by an ink-writer. SD was elicited by KCl microinjection. B: The curve indicates the
plot of percentage decreases of SD amplitude vs. sulpiride concentrations (n = 6 for each
concentration). Sulpiride dose-dependently decreased the amplitude of SD. The percentage of
SD amplitude reduction was measured by division of the amplitude of SD induced after
application of sulpiride to the amplitude of SD elicited before superfusion of the substance.
Values represent mean ± SEM. Significance was determined by ANOVA test followed by
Dunn’s post-test (B; P ≤ 0.001).

The effect of quinpirol and sulpiride on LTP
A conditioning tetanic stimulation was delivered to the white substance of neocortical slices
followed by pulses with stimulation parameters identical to control values. The evoked fEPSP
was stable for at least 30 min before application of tetanic stimulation (less than 10%
variation; Fig. 6). Administration of tetanic stimulation produced a rapid and stable
enhancement of the amplitude of the fEPSP in all tested preparations (n = 6, 164 ± 12 %
control; Fig. 6). LTP lasted as long as the fEPSP were recorded (at least for 90 min). The
potentiation rose within 1–2 min and stabilized within 5 minutes after the train of
stimulations. Application of sulipride (5 µM; n = 10) sixty min before tetanic stimulation
significantly suppressed LTP induction in all tested slices (122 ± 3 % baseline, Mann–
Whitney Rank Sum test; P ≤ 0.001, Fig. 6). However, Application of quinpirole (50 µM; n =
10) sixty min before tetanic stimulation did not significantly change the LTP induction in
compare with control tissues (147 ± 6 % baseline, Mann–Whitney Rank Sum test; P = 0.08,
Fig. 6).

20

A
fEPEP amplitude (% baseline)

300

250

200

150

100
CTRL
Quinpirol
Sulipride

50

0
0

20

40

60

80

100

Time ( min)

B

Sulipride

Quinpirol

CTRL

0.2 mV
5 ms

Figure 6. The effect of D2 dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole and the dopamine D2
dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride on long-term potentiation (LTP) of the evoked field
excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) in neocortical preparations. (A) Tetanic stimulation
(Ten trains of four pulses; pulse duration 0.1 msec; interpulse interval 50 msec; intensity 5 V))
produces a rapid and stable potentiation in the amplitude of the evoked field potentials,
calculated as a percentage of baseline mean response amplitude. Open triangles, open square,
and closed circles show the evoked fEPSP after application of sulipride (5 µmol/l), quinpirole
21

(50 µmol/l) and control, respectively. Arrow shows the time of tetanic stimulation, 60 min
after application of substances. Application of sulipride significantly inhibited LTP of the
evoked field potentials (Mann–Whitney Rank Sum test, P = 0.001), calculated as a percentage
of baseline mean response amplitude. B: Representative examples of the evoked field
potentials before and after tetanic stimulation in sulipride, quinpirole, and ACSF (control)
affected slices.

22

Dsicussion

The present data reveal a dose dependent suppression of the amplitude and duration of the
neocortical SD in the presence of the dopamine D2 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride. In
contrary, D2 dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole dose dependently enhanced the amplitude
and duration of the neocortical SD. The data point to the involvement of D2 dopamine
receptor in initiation of neocortical SD. Furthermore, application of D2 dopamine receptor
antagonist significantly suppressed LTP, whereas, D2 dopamine receptor agonist did not
change LTP. This indicates the modulatory effect of this receptor-type on the somatosensory
neocortical synaptic transmission.
Dopamine is widely distributed in the central nervous system and serves a variety of functions
in the mature brain, including control of movement, cognition, endocrine responses, and
reward. Dysfunction of dopaminergic system plays an important role in many neurological
and psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, attention-deficit
hyperactivity disorder, and drug addiction (Arnsten and Li, 2005; Biederman and Faraone,
2005; Kalivas and Volkow, 2005). Dopamine receptors are G protein-coupled receptors,
characterized by an extracellular N-terminal region, intracellular C-terminal region, and seven
membrane-spanning regions. There are two subfamilies of DA receptors, D1 receptors and D2
receptors, based on their pharmacological profiles and sequence homology (Lachowicz and
Sibley, 1997; Missale et al., 1998). D1 receptors, including the D1 and D5 receptor subtypes,
catalyze synthesis of cAMP. D2 receptors, including the D2, D3, and D4 receptor subtypes,
inhibit cAMP synthesis. The receptors also affect activation of potassium channels and
mitogen-activated protein kinases (Neve et al., 2004; Beaulieu et al., 2005). Several studies
have identified binding partners for the D2 receptor including coreceptors, signaling
molecules, and scaf-folding proteins (Smith et al., 1999; Macey et al., 2004; Negyessy and
Goldman-Rakic, 2005; So et al., 2005; Liu et al., 2006 , 2007; Rashid et al., 2007; Kim et al.,
2008).
The D2 dopamine receptor has been one of the most extensively investigated gene in
neurological as well as psychological disorders. A higher D2 A1 allelic frequency and
prevalence was reported in alcoholics when compared to controls. Variants of the D2 gene
have also been associated with cocaine, nicotine and opioid dependence and obesity. The D2

23

gene has also been implicated in schizophrenia, posttraumatic stress disorder, movement
disorders and migraine (Noble, 2003).
A huge amount of data suggests that dopaminergic activation is a primary pathophysiologic
component in certain subtypes of migraine (Peroutka, 1997). This has led to an examination
of D2 variants in this disorder. In one study the NcoI D2 C to T polymorphism located in exon
6 was assessed in individuals having migraine with aura and without aura (Peroutka, 1997).
Individuals having migraine with aura had a significantly higher frequency of the D2 C allele
than did control or migraine without aura individuals. No D2 C allele frequency difference
was found, however, between the latter two groups. The association of NcoI DRD2 variants in
comorbid migraine with aura, anxiety and depression was also reported (Peroutka, 1998). The
D2 C allele frequency was significantly higher in individuals with migraine without aura,
anxiety disorders or major depression than in individuals who had none of these disorders.
Another group (Del Zompo et al.,1998) utilized the Transmission Disequilibrium Test and the
dinucleotide repeat alleles within intron 2 of the D2 gene to test for association with patients
affected by migraine without aura. Although no difference was observed in D2 repeat allelic
distribution in the overall sample, allelic distribution differed significantly in a subgroup of
dopaminergic migraineurs. Another D2 gene polymorphism (promoter -141C Ins/Del),
however, was not found to be associated with migraine (Maude et al., 2001). Furthermore, a
significant and independent association was found of SNPs in the insulin receptor and the D2
SNP93 with migraine subjects (McCarthy et al., 2001).
SD is believed to play a crucial role in migraine with aura. In 1945, Leão and Morison
hypothesized that the slow march of the negative (suppressive) neurological symptoms, e.g.,
scotoma or hemianopia appeared after positive (stimulative) ones, e.g., flashing lights in the
visual or sensory sphere is related to the SD phenomenon (Leão and Morison 1945). SD
consists of a wave of neuronal activation followed by a suppression of neuronal activity that
propagates slowly across the surface of the brain. SD-like waves were recorded from human
neocortex during the aura phase of migraine attacks (Welch et al. 1993; Hadjikhani et al.
2001). Furthermore, increasing evidence suggesting the intense perturbations generate the
cellular, molecular, and vascular changes in brain akin to SD could cause the headaches of
aura-induced migraine (Moskowitz et al. 1993; Bolay et al. 2002; Gorji et al. 2004). It has
been shown that sulpiride is an effective substance in the treatment of migraine headache
(Piccini et al., 1990; Siniachkin et al., 1997). In the present study, sulpiride suppressed
24

characteristic features of SD. This suggests that blocking effect of D2 dopamine receptor
antagonist, sulpiride on neocortical SD may be responsible for its efficacy in migraine
headache. Several other anti-migraine substances such as Topiramate, valproate, propranolol,
amitriptyline, and methysergide also have inhibitory effects on SD (Ayata et al., 2006).
LTP is an experimental phenomenon, which can be used to demonstrate the repertoire of
long-lasting modifications of which individual synapses are capable (Collingridge & Singer
1990, Malenka & Bear 2004). In the present experiments, neocortical slices perfused with
sulpiride exhibited a pronounced, persisting, and significant suppression of LTP, whereas, D2
receptors agonist, quinpirol did not change LTP. Induction of LTP in the synaptic pathway
from the basolateral amygdala to the dentate gyrus is regulated by D2 dopamine receptors
(Abe et al., 2009). In line with our data, it has been reported that blocking of D2 dopamine
receptors led to the inhibition of LTP (Abe et al., 2008). It has been suggested that the role of
dopamine D2 receptors in the induction of LTP is modulatory and depends on GABAergic
inhibition (Abe et al., 2009). SD induces an LTP-like effect in rat neocortical slices (Footitt
and Newberry 1998) and enhances LTP induction in human neocortical tissues (Berger et al.,
2008). Both inhibition of LTP induction and SD generation were observed by drug
manipulation in rat neocortical tissues (Muller et al., 2006). Conversely, enhancement of LTP
induction and facilitation of SD occurrence was observed under female hormones application
in rat somatosensory neocortical tissues (Sachs et al, 2007). Modulation of LTP responses was
also observed remote from the SD propagation site in hippocampal tissues (Wernsmann et al.
2006). The inhibition of LTP after administration of dopamine D2 receptors and reduction of
synaptic efficacy may be responsible for its suppressive effect on SD.
Conclusion
D2 dopamine receptors seem to participate in the pathophysiological mechanisms of migraine
attacks as well as other neurological and psychological disorders. Inhibition of D2 dopamine
receptors plays an important role in the treatment of these disorders including migraine with
aura. The therapeutic effects of blocking D2 dopamine receptors in migraine attacks may be
due to its inhibitory action on neocortical SD. In addition, present data indicate the
importance of D2 receptors in neocortical synaptic efficacy which may be involved in its
inhibitory action on SD.

25

References

Abe K, Fujimoto T, Akaishi T, Misawa M. (2009) Stimulation of basolateral amygdaloid serotonin 5HT(2C) receptors promotes the induction of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of
anesthetized rats. Neurosci Lett. 451:65-8. Epub 2008 Dec 24.

Abe K, Niikura Y, Fujimoto T, Akaishi T, Misawa M. (2008) Involvement of dopamine D2 receptors
in the induction of long-term potentiation in the basolateral amygdala-dentate gyrus pathway of
anesthetized rats. Neuropharmacology. 55:1419-24.

Arnsten AF, Li BM. (2005) Neurobiology of executive functions: catecholamine influences on
prefrontal cortical functions. Biol Psychiatry. 1;57:1377-84.

Amery WK, Waelkens J. (1983) Prevention of the last chance: an alternative pharmacologic treatment
of migraine. Headache. 23:37-8.

Avshalumov MV, Chen BT, Marshall SP, Peña DM, Rice ME. (2003) Glutamate-dependent inhibition
of dopamine release in striatum is mediated by a new diffusible messenger, H2O2. J Neurosci.
1;23:2744-50.

Ayata C, Jin H, Kudo C, Dalkara T, Moskowitz MA.(2006) Suppression of cortical spreading
depression in migraine prophylaxis. Ann Neurol.59:652-61

Beaulieu JM, Sotnikova TD, Marion S, Lefkowitz RJ, Gainetdinov RR, Caron MG.( 2005) An
Akt/beta-arrestin 2/PP2A signaling complex mediates dopaminergic neurotransmission and behavior.
Cell. 29;122:261-73.

26

Berger M., Normann C. (2008) Neuroenhancement: status quo and perspectives. Eur Arch Psychiatry
Clin Neurosci. 258 Suppl 5:110-4.

Biederman J, Faraone SV. (2005) Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. Lancet. 16-22;366:237-48.

Bolay H, Reuter U, Dunn AK, Huang Z, Boas DA, Moskowitz MA. (2002) Intrinsic brain activity
triggers trigeminal meningeal afferents in a migraine model. Nat Med. 8:136-42.

Chéramy A, Romo R, Godeheu G, Baruch P, Glowinski J. (1986) In vivo presynaptic control of
dopamine release in the cat caudate nucleus--II. Facilitatory or inhibitory influence of L-glutamate.
Neuroscience. 19:1081-90.

Chéramy A, Barbeito L, Romo R, Godeheu G, Glowinski J. (1986) Involvement of cortico-striatal
"glutamatergic" neurons in the presynaptic control of dopamine release in the cat caudate nucleus.
Clin Neuropharmacol. 9 Suppl 4:500-2.

Chéramy A, Barbeito L, Godeheu G, Desce JM, Pittaluga A, Galli T, Artaud F, Glowinski J. (1990)
Respective contributions of neuronal activity and presynaptic mechanisms in the control of the in vivo
release of dopamine. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1990;29:183-93.

Collingridge GL, Singer W. (1990) Excitatory amino acid receptors and synaptic plasticity. Trends
Pharmacol Sci. 1990 Jul;11(7):290-6

Coppola M, Yealy DM, Leibold RA. (1995) Randomized, placebo-controlled evaluation of
prochlorperazine versus metoclopramide for emergency department treatment of migraine headache.
Ann Emerg Med. 26:541-6.

Del Bene E, Poggioni M, De Tommasi F. (1994) Video assessment of yawning induced by sublingual
apomorphine in migraine. Headache. 34:536-8.

27

Del Zompo M, Cherchi A, Palmas MA, Ponti M, Bocchetta A, Gessa GL, Piccardi MP. (1998)
Association between dopamine receptor genes and migraine without aura in a Sardinian sample.
Neurology. 51:781-6.

Footitt DR, Newberry NR. (1998) Cortical spreading depression induces an LTP-like effect in rat
neocortex in vitro. Brain Res. 19;781:339-42.

Gorji A, Scheller D, Straub H, Tegtmeier F, Köhling R, Höhling JM, Tuxhorn I, Ebner A, Wolf P,
Werner Panneck H, Oppel F, Speckmann EJ. (2001) Spreading depression in human neocortical slices.
Brain Res. 6;906:74-83.

Hadjikhani N, Sanchez Del Rio M, Wu O, Schwartz D, Bakker D, Fischl B, Kwong KK, Cutrer FM,
Rosen BR, Tootell RB, Sorensen AG, Moskowitz MA.( 2001) Mechanisms of migraine aura revealed
by functional MRI in human visual cortex.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 10;98:4687-92.

Kalivas PW, Volkow N, Seamans J. (2005) Unmanageable motivation in addiction: a pathology in
prefrontal-accumbens glutamate transmission.Neuron. 3;45:647-50.

Karreman M, Moghaddam B. (1996) The prefrontal cortex regulates the basal release of dopamine in
the limbic striatum: an effect mediated by ventral tegmental area.J Neurochem. 66:589-98.

Kilpatrick IC, Phillipson OT. (1986) Thalamic control of dopaminergic functions in the caudateputamen of the rat--I. The influence of electrical stimulation of the parafascicular nucleus on dopamine
utilization. Neuroscience. 19:965-78.

Kim JH, Cho EY, Min C, Park JH, Kim KM. (2008) Characterization of functional roles of DRY
motif in the 2nd intracellular loop of dopamine D2 and D3 receptors. Arch Pharm Res. 31:474-81.

Lachowicz JE, Sibley DR. (1997) Molecular characteristics of mammalian dopamine receptors.
Pharmacol Toxicol. 81:105-13.

28

Leviel V, Gobert A, Guibert B. (1990) The glutamate-mediated release of dopamine in the rat
striatum: further characterization of the dual excitatory-inhibitory function. Neuroscience. 39:305-12.

Liu Y, Teeter MM, DuRand CJ, Neve KA. (2006) Identification of a Zn2+-binding site on the
dopamine D2 receptor. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 20;339:873-9.

Macey TA, Gurevich VV, Neve KA. (2004) Preferential Interaction between the dopamine D2
receptor and Arrestin2 in neostriatal neurons. Mol Pharmacol. 66:1635-42.

Malenka RC, Bear MF. (2004) LTP and LTD: an embarrassment of riches.Neuron. 30;44:5-21.

Maude S, Curtin J, Breen G, Collier D, Russell G, Shaw D, Clair DS. (2001) The -141C Ins/Del
polymorphism of the dopamine D2 receptor gene is not associated with either migraine or Parkinson's
disease. Psychiatr Genet. 11:49-52.

Meador-Woodruff JH, Damask SP, Wang J, Haroutunian V, Davis KL, Watson SJ. (1996) Dopamine
receptor mRNA expression in human striatum and neocortex. Neuropsychopharmacology. 15:17-29.

McCarthy LC, Hosford DA, Riley JH, Bird MI, White NJ, Hewett DR, Peroutka SJ, Griffiths LR,
Boyd PR, Lea RA, Bhatti SM, Hosking LK, Hood CM, Jones KW, Handley AR, Rallan R, Lewis KF,
Yeo AJ, Williams PM, Priest RC, Khan P, Donnelly C, Lumsden SM, O'Sullivan J, See CG, Smart
DH, Shaw-Hawkins S, Patel J, Langrish TC, Feniuk W, Knowles RG, Thomas M, Libri V,
Montgomery DS, Manasco PK, Xu CF, Dykes C, Humphrey PP, Roses AD, Purvis IJ. (2001) Singlenucleotide polymorphism alleles in the insulin receptor gene are associated with typical migraine.
Genomics. 78:135-49. Erratum in: Genomics 79:271.

Missale C, Nash SR, Robinson SW, Jaber M, Caron MG. (1998) Dopamine receptors: from structure
to function. Physiol Rev. 78:189-225.

Mochi M, Cevoli S, Cortelli P, Pierangeli G, Soriani S, Scapoli C, Montagna P. (2003) A genetic
association study of migraine with dopamine receptor 4, dopamine transporter and dopamine-betahydroxylase genes. Neurol Sci. 23:301-5.

29

Moghaddam B, Schenk JO, Stewart WB, Hansen AJ. (1987) Temporal relationship between
neurotransmitter release and ion flux during spreading depression and anoxia. Can J Physiol
Pharmacol. 65:1105-10.

Moskowitz MA, Macfarlane R. (1993) Neurovascular and molecular mechanisms in migraine
headaches. Cerebrovasc Brain Metab Rev. Fall;5:159-77.

Müller M, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A. (2006) Effect of eugenol on spreading depression and
epileptiform discharges in rat neocortical and hippocampal tissues. Neuroscience. 30;140:743-51.

Murase S, Grenhoff J, Chouvet G, Gonon FG, Svensson TH. (1993) Prefrontal cortex regulates burst
firing and transmitter release in rat mesolimbic dopamine neurons studied in vivo. Neurosci Lett.
157:53-6.

Negyessy L, Goldman-Rakic PS. (2005) Subcellular localization of the dopamine D2 receptor and
coexistence with the calcium-binding protein neuronal calcium sensor-1 in the primate prefrontal
cortex. J Comp Neurol. 8;488:464-75.

Noble EP. (2003) D2 dopamine receptor gene in psychiatric and neurologic disorders and its
phenotypes. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 1;116B:103-25

Peroutka SJ. (1997) Dopamine and migraine. Neurology. 49:650-6.

Peroutka SJ, Price SC, Wilhoit TL, Jones KW. (1998) Comorbid migraine with aura, anxiety, and
depression is associated with dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) NcoI alleles. Mol Med. 4:14-21.

Piccini P, Nuti A, Paoletti AM, Napolitano A, Melis GB, Bonuccelli U. (1990) Possible involvement
of dopaminergic mechanisms in the antimigraine action of flunarizine. Cephalalgia. 10:3-8.

Rashid AJ, So CH, Kong MM, Furtak T, El-Ghundi M, Cheng R, O'Dowd BF, George SR.

( 2007)

D1-D2 dopamine receptor heterooligomers with unique pharmacology are coupled to rapid activation
of Gq/11 in the striatum. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 9;104:654-9.

30

Romo R, Chéramy A, Godeheu G, Glowinski J. (1986) In vivo presynaptic control of dopamine
release in the cat caudate nucleus--III. Further evidence for the implication of corticostriatal
glutamatergic neurons. Neuroscience. 194:1091-9.

Rossetti ZL, Marcangione C, Wise RA. (1998) Increase of extracellular glutamate and expression of
Fos-like immunoreactivity in the ventral tegmental area in response to electrical stimulation of the
prefrontal cortex. J Neurochem. 704:1503-12.

Siniachkin MS, Veĭn AM, Voznesenskaia TG, Gerber VD. (1997) Sulpiride in the prophylactic
treatment of migraine . Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 97:28-32.

Smith FD, Oxford GS, Milgram SL. (1999) Association of the D2 dopamine receptor third
cytoplasmic loop with spinophilin, a protein phosphatase-1-interacting protein. J Biol Chem.
9;274:19894-900.

So CH, Varghese G, Curley KJ, Kong MM, Alijaniaram M, Ji X, Nguyen T, O'dowd BF, George SR.
(2005) D1 and D2 dopamine receptors form heterooligomers and cointernalize after selective
activation of either receptor. Mol Pharmacol. 68:568-78.
Strafella AP, Paus T. (2001) Cerebral blood-flow changes induced by paired-pulse transcranial
magnetic stimulation of the primary motor cortex. J Neurophysiol. 85:2624-9.

Sachs M, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A. (2007) The effect of estrogen and progesterone on
spreading depression in rat neocortical tissues. Neurobiol Dis. 25:27-34.
Taber MT, Fibiger HC. (1995) Electrical stimulation of the prefrontal cortex increases dopamine
release in the nucleus accumbens of the rat: modulation by metabotropic glutamate receptors. J
Neurosci. 15:3896-904.

Tucci S, Contreras Q, Paez X, Gonzalez L, Rada P, Hernandez L. (2000) Medial prefrontal transection
enhances social interaction. II: neurochemical studies. Brain Res. 29;887:259-65.

Welch KM, Barkley GL, Tepley N, Ramadan NM. (1993) Central neurogenic mechanisms of
migraine. Neurology. 43:S21-5.

31

Wernsmann B, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A. (2006) Effect of cortical spreading depression on
synaptic transmission of rat hippocampal tissues. Eur J Neurosci. 23:1103-10.

Wu Y, Pearl SM, Zigmond MJ, Michael AC. (2000) Inhibitory glutamatergic regulation of evoked
dopamine release in striatum. Neuroscience. 96:65-72.

You ZB, Tzschentke TM, Brodin E, Wise RA. (1998) Electrical stimulation of the prefrontal cortex
increases cholecystokinin, glutamate, and dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens: an in vivo
microdialysis study in freely moving rats. J Neurosci. 15;18(:6492-500.

Zhang H, Sulzer D. (2003) Glutamate spillover in the striatum depresses dopaminergic transmission
by activating group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. J Neurosci. 19;23:10585-92.

32

Lebenslauf

