Crosstalk between autoreactive T cells and
alveolar type II epithelial cells in
inflammation and tolerance

Von dem Fachbereich für Biowissenschaften und Psychologie
der Technischen Universität Carolo-Wilhelmina
zu Braunschweig
zur Erlangung des Grades eines
Doktors der Naturwissenschaften
(Dr.rer.nat.)
genehmigte
Dissertation

von

Marcus Gereke
aus
Bad Harzburg

von:

Marcus Gereke

aus:

Bad Harzburg

CHAPTER I
Introduction

-1-

CHAPTER I

1

Introduction

The mucosal immune system

The mucosal surfaces of gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts, like the skin, are
colonized by lymphocytes and accessory cells in order to respond optimally to
ingested and inhaled antigens. Although the presence of lymphocytes in the mucosa
and submucosa of the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts has been recognized for
many decades, the idea of a specialized mucosal immune system is relatively new.
Like the skin, these mucosal epithelia are barriers between the internal and external
environments and are, therefore, an important first line of defence against infections.
Much of our knowledge of mucosal immunity is based on studies of the
gastrointestinal tract. In comparison, little is known about immune responses in the
respiratory mucosa, even though the airways are a major portal of antigen entry. It is
likely, however, that the features of immune responses are similar in all mucosal
lymphoid tissues. The two major functions of the lung are the transport of air and
subsequent gas exchange. The air-conducting parts are covered by a barrier-forming
mucosa, while the gas-exchange parts, such as the alveoli, are devoid of such a
barrier, as a mucosa would severely impede the rapid and effective gas exchange.
Thus, the protective mechanisms are essentially different in these two compartments
of the lung. The mucosa has a further function, which is to take up antigen in order to
initiate an effective immune response against possible infections by tolerance,
humoral or cellular immune reactions (Brandtzaeg, 1992; Brandtzaeg et al., 1997;
Ogra et al., 1994).
In the intestine exists specialized structures for antigen uptake. These comprise
Peyer´s patches (PP) and other compartments for the effector side of the immune
system, such as plasma cells in the lamina propria and effector T lymphocytes in the
epithelium. The immune system of the lung can be compared with that of the
intestine; even when major differences exist (see also table 1).

-2-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Table 1: Lymphocyte compartments: a comparison between lung and gut.

Lung

Gut

Central airways (mucosal lining)
Intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL)
Lamina propria
Bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT)

All parts of the gut
Intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL)
Lamina propria
Peyer´s patches (gut-associated lymphoid
tissue-GALT)

Peripheral airways (without mucosa)
Intestinal lymphocytes

No real equivalent

Lymphoid aggregations

No real equivalent

Lymphocytes in the bronchoalveolar space

No real equivalent

Large intravascular lymphocyte pool

Undefined intravascular lymphocyte pool

(adapted from Pabst, 2000)

The bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT) constitutes organized lymphoid
aggregates of T and B cell that are capable to respond against to inhaled antigens.
BALT, located mostly at bifurcations of the bronchus in animals and humans, is
already present in the fetus and develops rapidly following birth, especially in the
presence of antigens. Humoral immune responses elicited by BALT are based
primarily in immunoglobulin A secretion, locally and by BALT-derived B cells that
have trafficked to distant mucosal sites. Similarly, located T cell responses have
been noted. On the basis of these findings, the BALT can be thought of as
functionally analogous to mucosal lymphoid aggregates in the intestine and is
deemed a member of the common mucosal immunologic system (Bienenstock and
McDermott, 2005).

-3-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Bronchial lumen

Dome
HEV

Macrophage

Lymphoid
follicle

HEV

B cell
+

CD4 T cell
+

CD8 T cell

Figure 1: The basic structure of BALT and their distribution of lymphocyte subsets and
macrophages. In BALT the most prominent structure is a follicular-like accumulation of lymphocytes,
partly forming a classical germinal centre. This is surrounded by more mature, small lymphocytes.
High endothelial venuels (HEV) are located even more peripherally. In the walls of the HEV,
lymphocytes can be seen leaving the blood and thus entering BALT. As there are no afferent
lymphatic vessels, these HEV are the only site of entry for lymphocytes to migrate into the BALT. In
the direction of the bronchial epithelium, a dome-like protrusion (similar to Peyer´s Patches) into the
bronchial lumen is sometimes obvious. This basic structure seems to be valid for all species, but there
are many differences in details (adapted from Tschernig and Pabst, 2000).

-4-

CHAPTER I

2

Introduction

The respiratory tract in context of immunity

Due to its function, i.e. to allow gas-exchange in organisms, the lung has a very
exposed position to the external environment. The human lung is exposed daily to
over 10,000 litres of inspired, ambient air and the continuous aspiration of small
amounts of nasopharyngeal secretions during sleep. Depending on the quality of air
in the environment or the resident flora in the nasopharynx, the respiratory tree faces
the enormous task of oxygenating blood across a moist, thin alveolar-capillary wall
(approximately 1µm) and yet resisting infection. Mechanical mechanisms and other
innate host defences and adaptive immune responses are important in preventing
infection.
The lung, similar to other epithelial surfaces that face with the environment, has
developed several strategies to avoid infection. One important feature of the host
immune system is the ability to downregulate both non-specific and immunemediated inflammation. Hence, the immune apparatus of the lung, as the lung itself,
represents a sensitive system that coordinates immune responses to avoid
immunological collapses by creating a tolerant and suppressive milieu.

2.1

Immune cells and structures of the lung

Considering the development of pulmonary immunity in a spatial context, it is useful
to divide the progression of an immune response in the lung into three distinct but
overlapping phases: (1) in the afferent phase, the antigen reaches the lung, is taken
up by antigen-presenting cells (APC), and is presented to naïve T cells expressing
the relevant T cell receptors (TCR); (2) in the central processing phase, specific
lymphocyte clones expand and differentiate; and (3) in the effector phase, effector T
cells and B lymphoblasts find their way to pulmonary sites requiring expression of a
specific immune response. At each phase, events must be tightly regulated to allow
an effective immune response yet to avoid excess or a potentially destructive
inflammation (Lipscomb et al., 1995). The place in the respiratory tract, where each
of these phases occurs, is somewhat controversial. The majority of evidences
indicate that in the normal host after reaching the lungs, antigen is carried on APC, in
phagocytes, or free in lymphatic fluid to draining lung-associated lymph nodes
-5-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

(Lauweryns and Baert, 1976-1977; Lehnert, 1992) where central processing occurs.
Effector cells are released into the efferent lymph and reach the blood stream
recruiting from the vasculature into the lung (Berman et al., 1990).
The cells that are the major initiators and regulators of immunity in the lung include
macrophages, dendritic cells (DC), and lymphocytes. However, other cells in the
milieu, for example epithelial cells, fibroblasts, mast cells and various recruited blood
leukocytes also play important regulatory roles.

2.1.1

Macrophages

Lung macrophages reside within the airways at all levels of the respiratory tract, in
the lamina propria, the interstitium, the alveolar regions and pleura, and within pleural
spaces (Brain, 1992; Lehnert, 1992). All lung macrophages originate from the bone
marrow. Most of the clearance of small inhaled particles and microorganisms
reaching the periphery of the lung relies on the phagocytic system (Jonsson et al.,
1985). Macrophages are the primary phagocytes in the healthy lung. The
macrophages interact with other cells and molecules through the release of
numerous secretory products and the expression of several surface receptors
(Delacourt et al., 1997). Pulmonary macrophages are both phenotypically and
functionally diverse, so that at least three different groups of pulmonary macrophages
can be observed: alveolar macrophages (AM), intraluminal macrophages and
interstitial macrophages. Many in vitro studies examined the role of AM in pulmonary
immunity and in particular their capacity to support T and B cell activation.
Nevertheless, AM are inefficient in providing accessory cell activity in vitro compared
to macrophages derived from other sources or monocytes (Holt, 1993). In fact, AM
have been shown to be efficient suppressors of T cell activation and antibody
production by B cells (Thepen et al., 1994). Furthermore, intraepithelial DC from lung
have shown a downmodulation of antigen-presenting capacities of DC in the
bronchial and alveolar environment by the respective macrophage population (Bilyk
and Holt, 1993). Therefore, not only T cells, but also DC are maintained in a
downmodulated state in the airways, tightly controlled by high numbers of nearby
macrophages.

-6-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

The factors involved in T cell and DC downmodulation by AM are partly known: In
mice,

nitric

oxide

(NO)

produced

by

AM is

the major source of this

immunomodulation (Strickland et al., 1996). Several other immunomodulating factors
produced by AM have been isolated, the most important being prostaglandins and
cytokines. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) enhances interleukin (IL)-10 transcription and
protein production by peripheral blood lymphocyte (Huang et al., 1996) which offers
possibilities for potent immunomodulation. Finally, PGE2 has been ascribed as
substance deactivating AM and T cell, and it is produced by AM (Kawano et al.,
1999).

2.1.2

Dendritic cells

The other important group of APC include the pulmonary dendritic cells (DC). DC
play a critical role in sampling and presenting antigen in the lung, which leads to
activation and expansion of CD4+ T cells and preferential production of T helper
subset 2 (TH2)-based adaptive immune responses (Kearney et al., 1994; Lambrecht
et al., 2000). In the lung, DC reside within and beneath airway epithelium, in alveolar
septae, in the connective tissue surrounding pulmonary veins and airway vessels,
and with the lung capillaries of the lung parenchyma (Lipscomb et al., 1995). DC in
the airway epithelium have an immature phenotype and exhibit a rapid turnover (Holt
et al., 1994). DC that are resident within alveolar septae and in connective tissue
surrounding vessels have a more mature phenotype than airway DC (Gong et al.,
1992). In contrast to DC that are resident within the lung, in the vascular
compartment circulating precursor DC are present (Suda et al., 1998). One role of
lung DC is to provide protection against infectious agents by initiating immune
response. An equally important role is to generate tolerance to inhaled allergens in
normal noninflamed lungs. In this regard, immature DC continuously leave the
peripheral blood and take over a surveillance position in lung tissue, avidly sampling
the antigenic environment. In the steady state, lung DC likely remain relatively
immature and constitutively migrate in low numbers into regional lymph nodes where
they induce anergy, deletion of T cells, or a weak TH2-like response to air-borne
antigens that is eventually downregulated (Stumbles et al., 1998). Active suppression
of immature DC maturation by alveolar macrophages may explain why airway and
-7-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

intraepithelial DC remain immature during their steady-state migration to lungassociated lymph nodes (Holt, 1993; Lipscomb et al., 1993). Furthermore, autocrine
production of IL-10 by immature DC can inhibit surface expression of MHC class-I
and -II molecules and exert a generalized inhibitory effect on T cell proliferation
(Stumbles et al., 1998). On exposure to inhaled allergens, the antigen may simply be
insufficient in providing a danger signal to overcome suppression by alveolar
macrophages and IL-10. However, if a danger signal is present at the tissue site, DC
mature and migrate in greater number to draining lymph nodes to stimulate CD4+ T
cell clonal expansion and differentiation.

2.1.3

Lymphocytes

Lymphocytes play a significant role in lung disorders, for example sarcoidosis,
asthma, and rejection after transplantation (Berman et al., 1990). T cells, B cells, and
NK cells are present in various lung compartments (Agostini et al., 1993; Holt and
Schon-Hegrad, 1987; Pabst, 1990; Stein-Streilein, 1988), for example the lung
vascular bed, the lung interstitium, the epithelium and lamina propia of the bronchi
and the bronchoalveolar space (Fliegert et al., 1996; Pabst et al., 1995). Since the
lung has no afferent lymphatic vessels, the blood is the starting point for lymphocyte
immigration. Lymphocytes migrate to the lung vascular endothelium (marginal pool)
and enter the interstitial lung tissue (interstitial pool), where the lymphocyte
composition is different from blood and bronchoalveolar lavages (BAL) (Fliegert et al.,
1996). In contrast to peripheral blood lymphocytes, mainly activated T cells are found
in BAL of humans and mice (Curtis et al., 1995; Saltini et al., 1990). This
immunological status confers lymphocytes appropriate defense mechanisms to such
a vulnerable organ. The expression of adhesion molecules depends on the
compartment from which the cells are recruited, indicating that local activation and
expression of adhesion molecules is induced by the microenvironment. Possible
candidates for such activators are dendritic cells and macrophages or components of
the extracellular matrix (Holt, 1993; van Haarst et al., 1994).

-8-

CHAPTER I
2.1.4

Introduction

Airway epithelium

In addition to the aforementioned migrating cells of the respiratory tract, the resident
structural cells building the airway epithelium have important functions in modulation
of immune responses in the lung (figure 2). The epithelium constitutes the interface
between the internal milieu and the external environment, and as such, it is the first
point of contact for inhaled substances, in particular, respiratory viruses, airborne
allergens, and environmental pollutants, as well as being a primary target for inhaled
respiratory drugs (Folkerts et al., 1998; Gizycki et al., 1997).
At least eight morphologically distinct epithelial cell types are present in human
respiratory epithelium, which can be classified in three different categories: basal,
ciliated and secretory epithelial cells (Spina, 1998). Columnar ciliated epithelial cells
are the predominant cell type within the airways, constituting more than 50% of all
epithelial cells (Spina, 1998). The primary role of the ciliated apical surface is
highlighted by the directional transport of mucus from the lung to the throat (Harkema
et al., 1991). Mucus cells (goblet cells) are responsible for the control of the correct
amount of mucus and the viscoelasticity of mucus for efficient mucociliary clearance
by releasing acid mucins from their granules. These cells are thought to be capable
of self-renewal and may also differentiate into ciliated epithelial cells (Evans et al.,
1988; Harkema et al., 1991). Serous cells are also secreting cells and produce
neutral mucin and a yet unidentified non-mucoid substance (Knight and Holgate,
2003). Basal cells are ubiquitous in the conducting epithelium, although the number
of these cells decreases with airway size and the increasing thickness of the basal
cell layer correlates with increasing size of the airway (Evans et al., 1988; Evans et
al., 1990). Similar to the skin, the basal cell is thought to be the primary stem cell,
giving rise to the mucus and ciliated epithelial cells. In smaller airways, where basal
cells are sparse or absent, Clara cells perform the primary stem cell role.
In addition to their progenitor and structural roles, basal cells are also thought to
secrete a number of bioactive molecules including neutral endopeptidase, 15lipoxygenase products and cytokines (Knight and Holgate, 2003). In humans, Clara
cells are located in large (bronchial) and small (bronchiolar) airways. The cells
produce bronchiolar surfactant and are also characterized by agranular endoplasmic
reticulum in the apical cytoplasm and granular endoplasmatic reticulum basally. In
addition to their role in secretion, Clara cells are believed to metabolize xenobiotic
-9-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

compounds by the action of p450 mono-oxygenases and may also produce specific
antiproteases such as secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (De Water et al., 1986).
More recent evidence suggests that these cells play important role for stem cells,
serving as a progenitor for both ciliated and mucus secreting cells (Hong et al., 2001).
The major function of the respiratory epithelium was once thought to be primarily that
of a physical barrier, but recent studies clearly indicate that it is metabolically very
active with the capacity to modulate a variety of inflammatory processes through the
agency of an array of receptor-mediated events. On activation, it has the capacity to
produce a number of proinflammatory cytokines, proinflammatory or regulatory
mediators including arachidonic acid products, nitric oxide, endothelin-1, transforming
growth factor (TGF)-ß, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and cytokines such as
interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6 and IL-8 (Knight and Holgate, 2003).

Table 2: Immunomodulatory cell-cell interactions in the lower respiratory tract.

Effector cell

Target cell

Target cell function

Effector cell
mechanism

Stimulation (+)
Suppression (-)

Macrophage

T cell
T cell
T cell
B cell
DC
DC
macrophage

proliferation
IL-10 secretion
cytokine production
antibody production
antigen presentation
maturation
apoptosis

NO secretion
PGE2 secretion
TGF-β secretion
NO secretion
NO secretion
NO secretion
IL-10 & TGF-β

-

Epithelial cell

T cell
eosinophil
macrophage
macrophage

proliferation
apoptosis
apoptosis
TNF-α secretion

NO secretion
NO secretion
TGF-β secretion
NO secretion

-

T helper 2 cell

macrophage
macrophage
macrophage
T helper 2 cell

metalloproteinase
PGE2 secretion
apoptosis
IL-12 secretion

IL-4 secretion
IL-4 secretion
IL-10 secretion
IL-4 secretion

-

T helper 1 cell

macrophage
T helper 2 cell

NO secretion
IL-4 secretion

IFN-γ secretion*
IFN-γ secretion

+
-

AM & epithelial

T helper 1 cell

IFN-γ secretion

NO secretion

-

Summary of immunomodulatory cell-cell interactions, which can occur in lower respiratory tract. *IFN-γ
secretion by T helper 1 cells is not a directly immunomodulatory interaction between T helper 1 cells
and macrophages. This mechanism has been included for its pivotal role activating NOS2 transcription
via STAT1 in macrophages and epithelial cells (adapted from Bingisser and Holt, 2001).

-10-

CHAPTER I
2.1.5

Introduction

Alveolar epithelium – Type II and Type I alveolar epithelial cells

Alveoli are the gas exchange units of the lung and the alveolar epithelium adapts to
this functional role by developing two highly specialized alveolar epithelial cell types,
which are morphologically and functionally different. Alveolar epithelial type II cells
(AECII, granular pneumocyte, type II pneumocyte, giant corner cell) are cuboidal,
with a diameter of ∼10µm and a volume of ∼450-900µm3. Alveolar epithelial type I
cells (AECI) are squamous in shape, with a diameter of ∼50-100µm and a volume of
∼2000-3000µm3 (Crandall et al., 2001). AECII consist of about 15% of the distal lung
cells and occupy 5% of the alveolar surface (Crapo et al., 1978; Crapo et al., 1982;
Haies et al., 1981). The alveolar type II cells perform a variety of important functions
within the lung, including regulation of surfactant metabolism, ion transport, and
alveolar repair in response to injury. AECII synthesize and secrete lung surfactant, a
protein-lipid complex and surface-active material. Lung surfactant stabilizes alveoli by
reducing the surface tension. Ultrastructural criteria to identify alveolar type II
epithelial cells are the presence of lamellar bodies, apical microvilli and cell-cell
junctions. AECII also maintain the alveolar epithelium by cell proliferation and
differentiation, minimize alveolar fluid by transport of sodium from the apical to the
basolateral side, and alter the inflammatory process by secretion of growth factors
and cytokines.
In contrast to AECII, AECI contribute 7% of total lung cells and cover more than 95%
of the alveolar surface. This thin epithelium allows the easy diffusion of gases and
forms a barrier against the indiscriminate leakage of fluid into alveolar spaces. It also
regulates the exchange of physiologically important solutes and water between
circulating blood and the alveolar space. Recent studies indicate the presence of
transport proteins such as Na+-K+-ATPases, epithelial sodium channels and
aquaporin (Aqp) water channels in AECI, therefore implying an active role in
regulation of lung fluid homeostasis (Borok et al., 2002; Johnson et al., 2002;
Matthay et al., 2002). These cells also might be involved in the transport of
macromolecules due to the abundance of mircovesicles (caveolae) (Gumbleton et al.,
2003).

-11-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

The alveolar epithelium can be classified as a continuously renewing tissue since it
comprises a population of alveolar type II epithelial cells that are characterized by
almost unlimited potential to proliferate. It is still a matter of debate whether all AECII
or only a small population act as the alveolar epithelial stem cell population (Uhal,
1997). The concept of AECII as stem cells of the adult alveolar epithelium was
proposed by Kapanci and colleagues, and is widely accepted today (Kapanci et al.,
1969). During ontogenesis, the AECII may derive from precursor cell common to
AECII and Clara cells (Wuenschell et al., 1996). Furthermore AECII proliferate and
differentiate to AECI to repair the damaged alveolar epithelium after lung injury or
during fetal lung development, thus contributing to epithelial repair, whereas AECI
are terminally differentiated, lack mitotic activity, and are easily injured. The
programmed cell death or apoptosis is an important mechanism of cell removal or
renewing of tissue. AECII are known to express the membrane receptor Fas (CD95,
APO-1), the ligation of which may initiate the apoptotic cascade (Fine et al., 1997).
This can be achieved by binding of Fas-ligand or the Fas-stimulating antibodies.
There is some evidence that apoptosis of AECII is an integral mechanism of alveolar
septal modelling in lung morphogenesis (Scavo et al., 1998; Schittny et al., 1998).
Notably, apoptotic AECII appeared to be removed not only by alveolar macrophages
but also by AECII cell neighbours (Fehrenbach et al., 2001).

-12-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Figure 2: Schematic structure of airway and alveolus and their host-defence mechanisms. The
lung is constantly challenged by inhaled pathogens, pollutans and particles. Several different defence
mechanisms contribute to lung defence. These include filtration in the naso-oropharynx and
conducting airways, sneezing, coughing and mucociliary clearance. Small particles might reach the
alveolar gas-exchange regions of the lung. Host-defence functions in the peripheral air-spaces include
surfactant, other opsonins (such as immunoglobulins) and innate immune cells (including alveolar
macrophages and neutrophiles). Surfactant protein A (SP-A); surfactant protein D (SP-D) (adapted
from Wright, 2005).

2.2

The alveolar type II epithelial cell as an integrative unit of the
alveolus

It is essential for AECII to interact with its resident as well as its mobile neighbour
cells. AECII express a number of molecules necessary for the perception as well as
the generation of signals involved in cell-cell as well as in cell-matrix interactions.
Cell-cell interactions may be direct via contact of the cell membranes, or indirect via
secreted and diffusible signals. Consequently, alveolar type II epithelial cells were
termed as integrative units of the alveolus (Fehrenbach, 2001).
The best example for a cell-cell interaction between AECII and resident cells is the
direct contact with AECI and during proliferation with AECII neighbours as well.
These lateral cell-cell contacts within the alveolar epithelium are maintained by cell
junction complex that includes gap junctions (Kasper et al, 1996). Additionally, AECII
-13-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

have direct contact to fibroblasts at the basal membrane or with capillary endothelial
cells (Marin et al., 1982).
A strong evidence for a direct interaction of AECI and AECII was presented by
Ashino and colleagues (Ashino et al., 2000). Mechanical stimulation of AECI is
thought to result in Ca2+-oscillations, which were transmitted via intraepithelial gap
junctions to AECII and modulate exocytosis rate of lamellar bodies. Direct inhibitory
interactions between AECI and AECII have been postulated to suppress AECII
proliferation. Loss of AECI during injury might then trigger the release of AECII from
growth inhibition (Mason and McCormack, 1994). E-cadherin as a further candidate
to mediate contact inhibition, has been localized to the basolateral membrane of
AECII (Kasper et al., 1995; St. Croix et al., 1998).
But even an indirect cell-cell interaction for AECII to other AECII is possible by the
negative feedback loop by which surfactant protein A (SP-A) upon release into the
alveolar space inhibits surfactant exocytosis in vitro (Dobbs et al., 1987). Although
AECII are equipped with membrane receptors for SP-A (Strayer et al., 1996), the in
vivo relevance of this autocrine mechanism by which AECII may regulate their own
action remains elusive, because mice that are deficient in SP-A did not show any
defect in surfactant secretion nor any respiratory deficiency (Ikegami et al., 1998).
Thus, some alternative mechanism must compensate the negative SP-A feedback
loop.
Another potential feedback mechanism that has been postulated is the inhibition of
AECII proliferation via AECII derived transforming growth factor (TGF)-β in
bleomycin-induced experimental lung fibrosis (Khali et al., 1994). A number of growth
factors are released by AECII, which might act in an autocrine way via the
corresponding receptors expressed by AECII.
As mentioned before, fibroblasts are in contact to AECII. This reciprocal cell-cell
interaction is relevant to the modelling of alveolus during lung morphogenesis as well
as during remodelling associated with alveolar repair following lung injury (Kasper et
al., 1996; O´Reilly et al., 1997; Shannon, et al., 1997). Both direct and indirect cellcell interactions have been reported. Secreted factors from fibroblasts or AECII or the
direct cell-cell contact from fibroblasts to AECII had influence to proliferation
behaviour of AECII or fibroblasts (Adamson et al., 1991).

-14-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

The interaction of alveolar epithelial and capillary endothelial cells is well examined. It
was reported that from pulmonary endothelial cells conditioned medium stimulate
fetal lung epithelial cell growth (Smith et al., 1986) and that endothelin-1 increases
AECII surfactant secretion in vitro via a protein kinase C and Ca2+-mediated pathway
(Sen et al., 1994). As a source of endothelin-1, endothelial cells are therefore
principally competent to act in a paracrine manner on AECII, which were reported to
express the endothelin receptor A (Markewitz et al., 1995). Furthermore, alveolar
type II epithelial cells themselves may synthesize endothelin-1 and stimulate
endogenous prostaglandin E2 synthesis in an autocrine fashion (Markewitz et al.,
1995).
Recently, a very special mechanism of indirect intercellular communication between
AECII and endothelial cells has been suggested. Stimulation of alveolar epithelial
cells with tumour necrosis (TNF)-α was reported to increase epithelial Ca2+ influx and
to activate epithelial cytoplasmic phospholipase A2, and results in basolateral release
of arachidonic acid. Free arachidonic acid is thought to increase endothelial Ca2+
influx and expression of P-selectin (Kuebler et al., 2000), which is known to be crucial
for initiation of leukocyte adherence. Thus, AECII could act as transducers of an
inflammatory signal from the alveolus to the capillary bed to recruit granulocytes to
the site of inflammation.
Alveolar macrophages are one of the mobile cell types that interact with AECII.
Among the multitude of secretory products synthesized and released by alveolar
macrophages (Kasper et al., 1996; Lohmann-Matthes et al., 1994) there are some
factors that act as mitogens for AECII, such as hepatocyte growth factor (Mason et
al., 1994) and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (Leslie et al., 1997).
Conversely, AECII were shown to express the chemokines RANTES and MCP-1,
which chemotactically attract macrophages (O´Brien et al., 1998), as well as GMCSF (Blau et al., 1994; Christensen et al., 1995), which in turn may stimulate
macrophage growth (Worgall et al., 1999). Furthermore, SP-A released from AECII
modulate macrophage functions such as oxygen radical release (Weissbach et al.
1994) and nitric oxide production (Stamme et al., 2000).
Interactions of AECII with leukocytes have just recently come into focus. AECII
synthesize some cytokines affecting leukocytes, such as interleukin (IL)-6 or IL-8. Via
-15-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

these cytokines, AECII might be involved in the induction of differentiation of basophil,
eosinphil, and neutrophil granulocytes and maintenance of inflammatory reactions.
Recent data support the idea that AECII have an accessory function in T lymphocyte
activation (Zissel et al., 2000). This has been suggested on the basis of the findings
that the cells bear MHC class-II molecules (Schneeberger et al., 1986). Furthermore,
the expression of costimulatory molecules by human type II alveolar cells and their
ability to deliver costimulatory signals for T cells could be demonstrated, providing
evidence that AECII are able to act as antigen-presenting and immunoregulatory
cells of the lung. Additionally, the accessory function of AECII is under the control of
endogenously released TGF-β (Zissel et al., 2000).
For murine type II alveolar epithelial cells it was demonstrated that after infection with
pulmonary pathogens AECII became activated and had increased cell surface
expression of MHC class-II, CD54, and CD95. AECII used the MHC class-II pathway
to process and present mycobacterial antigens to primed CD4+ T cells and indicating
participation in the effector phase of the immune response (Debbabi et al., 2005).
Additionally, AECII were reported to inhibit lymphocyte proliferation in vitro without
altering their activation state (Paine et al., 1991). Moreover, AECII derived TGF-β
(Zissel et al., 2000) could indirectly inhibit T cell proliferation via blockade of
activating factors, such as IL-2. In contrast, granulocyte macrophage-colony
stimulating factor (GM-CSF) released at the basolateral surface of AECII could
increase the potential of dendritic cells to induce T-cell proliferation (Christensen et
al., 1995).

2.3

The alveolar type II epithelial cell as the source of alveolar
surfactant

Pulmonary surfactant was initially identified as a lipoprotein complex that reduces
surface tension at the air-liquid interface of the lung (Clements, 1957; Pattle, 1955).
The surface-active agent was characterized in numerous biochemical studies of BAL
material and is now known to be composed of ∼90% lipids (with ∼80-90%
phospholipids) and of ∼10% proteins (Griese, 1999). Unlike most other lipid-rich
components of cells and organs, the surfactant lipids are characterized by an
-16-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

unusually high level of satured fatty acid chains, such as the predominant
dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholines, which contribute substantially to the unique
properties of pulmonary surfactant (van Golde et al., 1994). The protein fraction
comprises a highly variable amount of serum proteins (Griese; 1999) and four
apoproteins that are associated with surfactant and contribute to its specific function
(Weaver and Whitsett, 1991). These surfactant associated proteins were termed
surfactant proteins (SP) -A, -B, -C and -D whereas SP-B and SP-C are extremely
hydrophobic. SP-B is essential for the ability of surfactant to reduce surface tension
(Nogee, 2004), and SP-C has recently been shown to bind lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
(Augosto et al., 2002; Augosto et al., 2003). In the absence of surfactant, surface
tension is extremely high at end expiration and tends to collapse the lung. This
makes breathing difficult to the extent that respiration is frequently impossible without
ventilatory support and surfactant replacement. A deficiency of surfactant – which
can result in “Respiratory-Distress Syndrome (RDS)” – occurs when infants are born
prematurely, before their surfactant biosynthetic machinery has matured. Treatment
of these premature infants with exogenous surfactant replacement reduces mortality
and morbidity, because of this disease (Wright, 2005).
The other function of alveolar surfactant relies on the nature of SP-A and SP-D as
collectins. Both proteins are able to bind to the surface of various pathogens, thus
acting as opsonins to facilitate their elimination by alveolar macrophages. Therefore,
alveolar surfactant is also responsible for host defence (Crouch, 2000; Pison et al.,
1994; Wright, 1998).
Surfactant is synthesized by alveolar type II epithelial cells and released upon
appropriate stimuli by exocytosis from special intracellular storage organelles termed
lamellar bodies. Once released into the alveolar space, freshly secreted lamellar
body material undergoes several steps of transformation that are necessary to
establish the surface-active lining layer. Cyclic compression and expansion during
ventilation result in a fraction of spent surfactant that will largely be recycled by AECII.
Thus, single constituents of surfactant run through several cycles before being
removed by alveolar macrophages and replaced by de novo synthesis (Fehrenbach,
2001).
Although the bronchiolar Clara cells and submucosal cells also synthesize and
release the mature proteins SP-A, SP-B and SP-D (Kalina et al., 1992; Voorhout et
al., 1992) the alveolar type II epithelial cell is the only type of pulmonary cell that
-17-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

produces all surfactant components including phospholipids as well as all four
surfactant proteins. The mature 3.5 -3.7kDa small SP-C is thought to be exclusively
released by AECII cells (Beers et al., 1994; Phelps and Floros et al., 1991).
About 85% of the secreted surfactant is taken up again, metabolised and re-secreted
by AECII. Re-uptake and recycling have been demonstrated for all surfactant lipids
and for all four surfactant proteins. The degradation of surfactant is accomplished by
alveolar macrophages with only minimal contribution (Herbein et al., 2000; Nicholas,
1996; Young et al., 1993).

2.3.1

Immunoregulatory functions of surfactant proteins

As mentioned above, the host defence functions of surfactant are primarily mediated
by SP-A and SP-D, which are members of the collectin family of proteins. SP-A and
SP-D have been also localized to non-pulmonary sites, including the trachea, brain,
testes, salivary glands, lachrymal glands, heart, prostate, kidney, pancreas and the
female urogenital tract (Leth-Larsen et al., 2004; Lin et al., 2000; Madsen et al., 2000;
Rubio et al., 1995), although it is not yet clear whether all of these organs express
sufficient amounts of protein for it to be physiologically effective.
Among their well-established role as opsonins, SP-A and SP-D also have functions in
initiating parturition, facilitating clearance of apoptotic cells and directly killing bacteria.

2.3.2

Collectin structure

In addition to the two lung collectins SP-A and SP-D, serum collectins have been
identified in humans (mannose-binding lectin, MBL) and in bovidae (conglutinin, CL43 and CL-46) (Hansen and Holmskov, 2002).
SP-A and SP-D are synthesized as primary translation products of approximately 2636kDa and 43kDa, respectively (figure 3). The collagen-like domain is N-terminal to a
coiled-coil structure that precedes the C-terminal lectin domain. The lectin domains
mediate the interaction of collectins with a wide varity of pathogens. The collagen
domains vary greatly in length (Holmskov et al., 2003).

-18-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

The collectins are assembled as trimeric subunits, which multimerize to varying
degrees. SP-A is mainly an octadecamer and forms a bouquet-like structure that is
similar to MBL, whereas SP-D forms a dodecamer (Wright, 2005).

Figure 3: Collectin and C1q structure. Surfactant protein A (SP-A) and SP-D are members of a
family of proteins known as collectins. a Collectins have collagen-like amino (N)-terminal regions and
C-type (calcium dependent) carbohydrate-recognition domains (CRDs). Collectins consist of structural
subunits that are composed of trimeric polypeptide chains, which are identical except for human SP-A.
The trimers are assembled into oligomers. b SP-A and mannose-binding lectin (MBL) are
octadecamers (18-mers), consisting of six trimeric subunits. SP-D is a dodecamer (12-mer), consisting
of four trimeric subunits. Although C1q is structurally homologous to SP-A and MBL, it is not a collectin
as it does not have a lectin domain (CRD) (adapted from Wright, 2005).

The lung collectins have both distinct and common carbohydrate-binding activities
(Wright, 2005). For example, both surfactant proteins, SP-A and SP-D, bind to
mannose and glucose but bind only poorly to galactose (Haagsman et al., 1987; Lim
et al.; 1994; Persson et al., 1990). The high affinity of the collectins for clustered
oligosaccharides is thought to be important for their ability to distinguish non-self from
self, as most carbohydrates in animals are terminated by sugars, such as galactose
or sialic acid, that are poorly recognized by the collectins.

-19-

CHAPTER I
2.3.3

Introduction

Collectin regulation of immune cells

Surfactant proteins A and D bind to a variety of bacteria, viruses, allergens and
apoptotic cells and thereby function as opsonins to enhance the uptake of these cells
and particles. Binding of the collectins to pathogens occurs by various mechanisms.
Some pathogens are aggregated by SP-A and/or SP-D and were phagocytized by
immune cells like macrophages. SP-A and SP-D also have direct effects on immune
cells and modulate the production of cytokines and inflammatory mediators.
Numerous studies have reported that SP-A mediates cellular functions through C1q
receptors (Ferguson et al., 1999; Malholtra et al., 1994), including C1qR (also known
as CD93) (Nepomuceno et al., 1997; Steinberger et al., 2002) and calreticulin
(Malhotra et al., 1990; Malholtra et al., 1993). SP-A and SP-D are able to bind
Calreticulin, which in turn binds to CD91. CD91 is a component of the binding
complex (Gardai et al., 2003).
The binding of SP-A and/or SP-D to the signal-inhibitory regulatory protein-α (SIRP-α)
modulates cellular functions in a similar way like the binding complex of surfactant
proteins with the CD91-calreticulin complex. In the absence of a pathogen, SP-A
binds through its lectin domain to SIRP-α, whereas in the presence of a foreign
organism or cell debris, to which the lectin domain of SP-A binds, the free collagenlike

region

activates

immune

cells

through

CD91-calreticulin.

Importantly,

engagement of the different receptors elicits different responses. Upon binding of SPA to SIRP-α, the inflammatory-mediator production is inhibited. By contrast, SP-A
enhances inflammatory mediator like tumour-necrosis factor (TNF), CXCL12 and
CCL2 production through its binding to the CD91-calreticulin complex. Therefore, SPA and SP-D both are able to enhance and inhibit inflammatory-mediator production to
modulate the regulation of immune cells.
Another receptor that binds surfactant protein A was identified by Chroneos and
colleagues and termed SP-R210 (Chroneos et al., 1996). Blocking of this receptor
with specific antibodies leads to a loss of SP-A mediated functions, including
inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation (Borron et al., 1998), enhanced uptake of
bacteria by macrophages (Weikert et al., 1997) and mycobacterial killing by a nitricoxide-dependent pathway (Weikert et al., 2000). Nevertheless, the molecular identity
of SP-R210 is still unclear.
-20-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Glycoprotein 340 (gp340) is also discussed as a protein that binds SP-D through its
CRD (Holmskov et al., 1997). Because of its localisation at the cell surface of
alveolar macrophages, gp340 was suggested to be a SP-D receptor. It is identical to
salivary agglutinin, a high-molecular-weight component of saliva that binds
Streptococcus mutans, a bacterium that causes dental caries (Prakobphol et al.,
2000). This putative receptor gp340 has no transmembrane domain so that it is
suggested that it could interact with an adaptor molecule on the surface of the cell
(Wright, 2005).
Additionally, a family of conserved cellular receptors that recognize pathogenassociated molecular patterns (PAMP) are discussed as binding-partners for SP-A
and SP-D. This family of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) is activated by ligands like flagellin
and CpG-containing DNA from bacteria, peptidoglycan from Gram-positive bacteria,
LPS from Gram-negative bacteria, RNA from viruses and zymosan from yeast
(Takeda et al., 2003). All these activation mechanisms end up in a series of
conserved responses that culminate in inflammation and the production of
inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF and interleukin-1β. The SP-A dependent
binding to TLR4 results in an activation of the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signalling
pathway and upregulation of cytokine synthesis (Guillot et al., 2002), whereas
interaction of SP-A with TLR2 attenuates stimulation of TLR2 signalling and also
stimulation of TNF secretion induced by zymosan or peptidoglycan (Sato et al., 2003).
In addition to phagocytosis, SP-A and SP-D have also the ability to regulate the
production of inflammatory mediators by immune cells in a context-dependent
manner. One example shows that inflammatory mediators, such as TNF, are both
up- and downregulated by SP-A and SP-D (Crouch and Wright, 2001). The release
of TNF that is induced by LPS or intact bacteria is inhibited by SP-A (Hickling et al.,
1998; McIntosh et al., 1996; Rosseau et al., 1999). In contrast, SP-A enhances TNF
production either when alone (Kremlev et al., 1994, Kremlev et al., 1997) or in
presence of “rough” LPS (Sano et al., 1999).
A further effect of surfactant proteins SP-A and SP-D is the enhanced uptake of
apoptotic cells by alveolar macrophages in vitro (Schagat, et al., 2001), which could
be even shown for lungs of naïve mice in the case of SP-D (Vandivier et al., 2002).

-21-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Through the carbohydrate-recognition domains (CRD) and the collagen-like regions it
is possible for SP-A and SP-D, as well as MBL, to bind DNA from a variety of origins,
including mice and bacteria (Palaniyar et al., 2004). SP-D effectively binds and
aggregates alveolar macrophages DNA and it enhances the uptake of DNA by
human monocytic cells (Palaniyar et al., 2003). Binding of the collectins to cellsurface DNA might be one mechanism by which they mediate enhanced
phagocytosis of apoptotic cells.
Uptake of apoptotic cells by macrophages results in release of anti-inflammatory
mediators, such as transforming growth factors-β (TGF-β), IL-10 and prostaglandin
E2 (Fadok et al., 1998). This response is in contrast to the release of proinflammatory cytokines that occurs when phagocytes ingest microorganisms. In
addition to enhancing the uptake of apoptotic cells, SP-A also enhances the release
of TGF-β by macrophages (Reidy and Wright, 2003), indicating that SP-A can
promote resolution of inflammation at several levels of the apoptotic-cell clearance
process and that surfactant proteins can indirectly induce anti-inflammatory
responses by phagocytes.
As discussed above, surfactant is linked to innate immunity. However, surfactant is
also linked to adaptive immunity in the lung by modulating functions of both dendritic
cells and T cells.
It has been shown that SP-A and SP-D have different effects on DC functions. The
uptake and presentation of antigens is enhanced by SP-D (Brinker et al., 2001), but
only SP-A can inhibit maturation of DC, as assessed by cell-surface marker
expression, and functional activity, such as phagocytosis and chemotaxis (Brinker et
al., 2003).
The proliferation of T cells stimulated with plant lectins, CD3-specific antibodies or
phorbol esters is inhibited by SP-A and SP-D. It has been suggested that the
inhibition of IL-2 production might mediate this process (Borron et al., 1996; Borron et
al, 1998). In addition, both the collagen-like region and the CRD of SP-A have been
implicated in the inhibition of lymphocyte function, probably due to inhibition of
calcium signalling (Borron et al., 2002). These data indicate that SP-D and SP-A
might provide an important link between innate and adaptive immunity, by modulation
of both DC and T cell functions.

-22-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Figure 4: Collectin receptors. Surfactant protein A (SP-A) and SP-D potentially bind several
receptors, including SP-R210, Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), TLR4, signal-inhibitory regulatory protein-α
(SIRP-α) and CD91-calreticulin. SP-A binds SIRP-α and inhibits production of inflammatory mediators.
In contrast, when SP-A is bound to a pathogen or cellular debris, its collagen-like region is bound to
CD91-calreticulin and induces inflammatory-mediator production. Nuclear factor κB, (NF-κB); protein
kinase C (PKC); SRC homology 2 (SH2)-domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 1 (SHP1)
(adapted from Wright, 2005).

-23-

CHAPTER I

3

Introduction

Autoimmunity

The concept of autoimmunity was first predicted by Paul Ehrlich at the beginning of
the twentieth century, and he described it as “horror autotoxicus”. His experiments
led him to conclude that the immune system is normally focused on responding to
foreign materials and has an inbuilt tendency to avoid attacking self tissues. But
when this process is disturbed, the immune system can attack self tissues resulting
in autoimmune diseases.
Autoimmune diseases occur in up to 3-5% of the population (Jacobson et al., 1997).
Many of these diseases are classified according to what organs and tissues are
targeted by the damaging immune responses. There is an autoimmune disease
specific for nearly every organ in the body, usually involving responses to an antigen
expressed only in that specific organ. In other autoimmune diseases, such as
systemic lupus erythematous (SLE), no particular cell type seems to be targeted;
rather, the response seems to be directed against antigens that are widely expressed
throughout the host. Nevertheless these diseases are antigen-specific; moreover,
recognition of widely expressed antigens sometimes results unexpectedly in selective
manifestations of the organ (Mathews et al., 1983; Yeaman et al., 1988).
Autoimmune organ damage can be mediated by T cells, as in multiple sclerosis (MS)
and type 1 diabetes (Steinman, 1996) and, furthermore, CD4+ and/or CD8+ T cells
can have crucial roles (Haskins and McDuffie, 1990; Hutchings et al., 1992). In these
diseases, autoantibodies are also produced and serve as markers of the antigenspecific T-cell responses, for example, antibodies to insulin or other pancreatic isletcell antigens in type 1 diabetes (Yu et al., 1996). In other diseases, damage is
actually mediated by autoantibodies and requires CD4+ T-helper cells. For example,
nearly all SLE patients have elevated levels of autoantibodies to nuclear antigens.
Examples for organ-specific and systemic autoimmune diseases with known auto
antigen targets are shown in table 3.

-24-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Table 3: Examples for organ-specific and systemic autoimmune diseases with known
autoantigen targets.

Diseases

Organ

Examples of known
autoantigens

Mechanism of
damage

Prevalence
(%)

thyroglobulin, thyroid
preoxidase
H+/K+ ATPase, intrinsic
factor
transglutaminase
insulin, glutamic acid
decarboxylase
myelin basic protein,
proteolipid protein
hepatocyte antigens
(cytochrome P450)

T cells/antibody

1.0 - 2.0

T cells/antibody
T cells/antibody
T cells

1 - 2% in >
60-y old
0.2 - 1.1
0.2 – 0.4

T cells

0.01 – 0.15

T cells/antibody

< 0.01

IgG, filaggrin, fibrin etc.

T cells/antibody

0.8

nuclear antigens
(DNA, histones,
ribonuceloproteins),
others
muscle antigens,
aminoacyl-tRNA
synthetases, other
nuclear antigens

antibody

0.1

T cells/antibody

< 0.01

Organ-specific autoimmune diseases
Thyroiditis
(autoimmune)
Gastritis

thyroid

Celiac disease
Type 1 diabetes

small bowel
pancreas ß
cells
brain/spinal
cord
liver

Mutiple sclerosis
Hepatitis
(autoimmune)

stomach

Systemic autoimmune diseases
Rheumatoid arthritis
Systemic lupus (SLE)

Polymyositis/dermatomyositis

joint, lung,
heart etc.
skin, joint,
kidney
skeletal
muscle
(predominant),
lung, heart,
joint, others

Diseases are listed by category (organ-specifc versus systemic) and then by prevalence (adapted
from Marrack et al., 2001).

The potential for autoimmunity exists in all individuals because during their
development lymphocytes may express receptors specific for self-antigens and many
self-antigens are readily accessible to the immune system. Tolerance to self-antigens
is normally maintained by selection processes in the thymus that prevent the
maturation of some self-antigen-specific lymphocytes (Sakaguchi et al., 2000) and, in
addition, by mechanisms in the periphery those inactivate or delete self-reactive
lymphocytes that do mature. Loss of self-tolerance may result from abnormal
selection or regulation of self-reactive lymphocytes and by abnormalities in that way
that self-antigens are presented to the immune system. Self tolerance can be divided
into central tolerance and peripheral tolerance. In central tolerance, immature
lymphocytes that happen to recognize self-antigens in generative lymphoid organs
die by apoptosis. In contrast, in peripheral tolerance, mature self-reactive
-25-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

lymphocytes encounter self-antigens in peripheral tissues and are killed or shut off.
The

principle

mechanisms

of

peripheral

tolerance

are

anergy

(functional

unresponsiveness) (Schwartz, 1996), deletion (apoptotic cell death) (Miller and
Basten, 1996), and suppression by regulatory T cells (Piccirillo and Shevach, 2004).

bone
marrow

thymus
immature
precursor
T cells

CD8

thymocytes
γδ T cells

common
lymphoid
progenitor

CD4
TCR
maturation
selection

98%

CD4

αβ T cells
CD8

peripheral T cell repertoire

Figure 5: Schematic representation of T cell development. T cells originate from the common
lymphoid progenitor cells in the bone marrow. They migrate as immature precursor T cells via
bloodstream into thymus, which they populate as thymocytes. The thymocytes go through a series of
maturation steps including distinct changes in the expression of cell surface receptors, such as the
CD3 signalling complex (not shown) and the coreceptors CD4 and CD8, as well as the arrangement of
their antigen receptor (T cell receptor, TCR) genes. More than 98% of the thymocytes die during
maturation by apoptosis (†), as they undergo positive selection for their TCR´s compatibility with selfmajor histocompatibility molecules, and negative selection against those T cells that express TCRs
reactive to autoantigenic peptides. In humans, the vast majority of peripheral blood T cells express
TCRs consisting of α and β chains (αβ T cells). A small group of peripheral T cells bear an alternative
TCR composed of γ and δ chains (γδ T cells). αβ and γδ T cells diverge early in T cell development.
Whereas αβ T cells are responsible for the classical helper or cytotoxic T cell response, the function of
the γδ T cells within the immune system is largely unknown. αβ T cells that survive thymic selection
lose expression of either CD4 or CD8, increase the level of expression of the TCR, and leave the
thymus to form the peripheral T cell repertoire (adapted from Skapenko et al., 2005).

-26-

CHAPTER I

4

Introduction

Regulatory T lymphocytes

As mentioned above, many possibilities exist to regulate immune responses
mediated by T cells, by cytokine release and cell-cell interaction to effector cells with
immune modulating ability like macrophages and DC. The following sections deal
with the suppression of autoimmune responses by regulatory T (Treg) lymphocytes
and will give an overview about the subpopulations of Treg cells and their mechanism
to suppress autoreactive immune responses.
The immune system employs several strategies to maintain its own homeostatic
balance. The thymus plays an important role in this regulation, because of its
particular role in clonal deletion of self-reactive T cells, but other mechanisms
preventing immunological self attacks are also involved in the maintenance of self
tolerance. These latter mechanisms occur in the periphery and include - among other
things - T cell anergy and the effects of regulatory cells. Regulatory T cells may be
defined as CD4+ T cells that inhibit immunopathology or autoimmune disease in vivo.
Specifically, Treg cells include those able to suppress naïve T cell proliferation in vitro
and to control CD4+ or CD8+ T cell numbers in vivo, in lymphopenic hosts. Two major
Treg populations have been described so far, one part is termed naturally occurring
Treg and includes anergic T cells that require cell-cell contact for their function, and
the other part is designated adaptive Treg cells including TR1 and TH3 cells,
functioning by the secretion of inhibitory cytokines (Roncarolo and Levings, 2000).
The two subsets of regulatory T cells might function in different immunological
settings, depending on the context of antigen exposure, the nature of the
inflammatory response and the T cell receptor (TCR) repertoires of the individual
cells. The natural Treg cells are probably most effective at suppressing autoreactive T
cell responses locally, in non-inflammatory settings – circumstances in which antigen
specific, self limiting reactions are required to achieve a fine homeostatic balance. In
contrast, during self-damaging inflammatory reactions to microbes or transplanted
tissue, or settings (for example inflammatory bowel disease), adaptive Treg cells might
be induced to suppress the pathological immune responses.

-27-

CHAPTER I

4.1

Introduction

Naturally occurring CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells

The CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells are currently the focus of intensive research and
were first described in the early 1970s by Gershon and colleagues (Gershon et al.,
1974). These cells represent 5-10% of the CD4+ T lymphocytes in healthy adult mice
and humans and are thought to perform a specialized role in controlling both the
innate and the adaptive immune system. Although easily identified and isolated from
unmanipulated mice and humans on the basis of CD25 expression, this chain of the
IL-2(R) receptor is also expressed on activated T cells (Maloy et al., 2003; Sakaguchi
et al., 2001; Shevach, 2002). So far, no characteristic stable surface marker has
been assigned to Treg cells. Additional markers expressed by these cells include
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) (Read et al., 2000; Takahashi
et al., 2000) and glucocorticoid induced tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFSR18)
(McHugh et al., 2002; Shimizu et al., 2002), which were initially implicated in the
mechanism of Treg action. However, both of these molecules are also expressed by
nonregulatory T cells after activation. Various groups identified the forkhead/winged
helix transcription factor Foxp3 as a marker for both CD25+ Treg cells and CD25- cell
that have regulatory activity (Fontenot et al., 2003; Hori et al., 2003). In the mouse,
Foxp3 is preferentially expressed by CD25+ cells, and mutations of the Foxp3 gene
are associated with a broad range of hypersensitivity conditions in both mouse and
man (Ramsdell, 2003). Additional markers are required, and it has been shown, that
Neuropilin-1 could be used to distinguish CD25+ Treg cells from recently activated
CD25+ non-regulatory cells (Bruder et al., 2004).
The resident regulatory cells that develop in the thymus are generated in a burst of
activity during the early stages of fetal and neonatal T cell development (Sakaguchi
et al., 2001). They are polyclonal on the basis of diverse TCR usage (Shevach, 2002),
and they are potentially capable of recognizing diverse self-antigens.
The promiscuous gene expression of many self tissue-specific proteins in the
medullar epithelial cells of the thymus is described as a potential mechanism to
ensure central tolerance to peripheral self-antigens, because this self-antigen
expression in the thymus might lead, among other things, to the deletion of immature
autoreactive T cells (Derbinski et al., 2001). However, it is possible that these self
proteins are expressed at low levels and, additionally, by only some of the epithelial
-28-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

cells, making clonal deletion a rather ineffective means of inducing tolerance to
peripheral antigens. An alternative mechanism of inducing self tolerance in the
thymus might be the localized antigen presentation, resulting in a more robust
regulation of autoreactivity. Once generated, the thymic Treg cells are exported in the
peripheral tissues, where they may function normally to prevent the activation of
other, self reactive T cells that have the potential of developing into effector cells
(Salomon et al., 2000).
These regulatory T cells were described as a “normal” population of suppressor cells,
because they are always present in normal individuals and carry out their regulatory
function during normal surveillance of self-antigens. Furthermore, because of their
development in the thymus, the natural regulatory T cells are expected to be specific
for self-antigens.
Recent studies indicate that CD28 controls both thymic development and peripheral
homeostasis of natural Treg cells. Ligation of CD28 is expected to act at two stages
during Treg cell development (Boden et al., 2003). In addition, once the natural Treg
cells emerge from the thymus, costimulation through CD28 is required to maintain a
stable pool of these cells in the periphery by promoting their self renewal through
homeostatic proliferation and by supporting their survival (Boden et al., 2003;
Salomon et al., 2000). The development and maintenance functions of CD28 are not
mediated through IL-2. It is possible that signalling through CD28 stimulates the
production of a response to an yet unknown cytokine that functions as a growth and
survival factor of these cells. The absence of CD80/CD86 or CD28 results in a
reduction of the number of regulatory cells in peripheral lymphoid tissues and an
unexpected exacerbation of natural Treg cells, which plays an important role
controlling autoimmunity (Lenschow et al., 1996; Salomon et al., 2000).

-29-

CHAPTER I

4.2

Introduction

Adaptive regulatory T cells

These cells are generated from mature T cell populations under certain conditions of
antigenic stimulation, and they can be induced ex vivo by culturing mature CD4+ T
cells with antigen or polyclonal activators in the presence of immunosuppressive
cytokines, namely IL-10 (Barrat et al., 2002; Levings et al., 2001). Similar to natural
Treg cells, adaptive Treg cells originate from thymus, but they might be derived from
classical T cell subsets or natural Treg cells. The level of expression of CD25 by
adaptive Treg cell is variable, depending on the disease setting and the site of
regulatory activity. Of note, adaptive Treg cells function in vivo in a cytokine
dependent manner (Barrat et al., 2002; Chatenoud et al., 1997; Maloy and Powrie,
2001), so that these regulatory T cells are distinguished from natural Treg cells not by
their origin (the thymus), but by their requirement for further differentiation as a
consequence of exposure to antigen in a distinct immunological context. Several
different in vitro protocols have been described over the past few years that result in
the generation of suppressor T cells. The activation of mouse or human CD4+ T cells
in vitro in the presence of IL-10 has been shown to result in the generation of T cell
clones with a cytokine profile different from that of T helper 1 (TH1) or T helper 2 (TH2)
cells. Functionally, these T cell clones have inhibitory effects on antigen specific
activation of naïve T cells that are mediated partially by IL-10 and TGF-β, and were
termed T regulatory 1 (TR1) cells (Groux et al., 1997). A related approach for the
generation of suppressor T cells in vitro involves the stimulation of naïve T cells with
immature (im)DC. Surprisingly, although these cells produce IL-10, their suppressor
phenotype resembles that of CD25+ T cells, as it is contact dependent, antigen nonspecific and APC-independent. Immature DC are the ideal population to prime
regulatory T cells as they are deficient in costimulatory molecules, and priming with
antigen-imDC complexes might even be able to downregulate pre-existing antigen
specific immune responses (Dhodapkar et al., 2001). Exposure to TGF-β has also
been reported to facilitate the differentiation/expansion of suppressor T cell
populations in vitro (Yamagiwa et al.; 2001). Another possibility to induce regulatory
T cells is antigen exposure by certain routes, including intranasal or oral
administration. This strategy seems to induce selectively the appearance of T cells
with this regulatory phenotype (Chen et al., 1994). These induced TH3 cells produce
high concentration of TGF-β and can inhibit the development of immune pathology in
-30-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

several animal models (Chen et al., 1994; Neurath et al., 1996). Moreover, in
contrast to natural Treg cell, which are fully functional at the time of thymic export as a
consequence of strong TCR engagement, the development of adaptive Treg cells in
the periphery might be triggered by low-affinity antigen or altered TCR signal
transduction. These antigen-stimulated adaptive Treg cells are not functional without
activation by further exposure to antigens – such as during infection, organ
transplantation under cover of certain immunomodulatory therapies, or ectopic
expression of non-self-antigens (Apostolou et al., 2002; Belkaid et al., 2002; Fuss et
al., 2002; Kingsley et al., 2002; Powrie, 2003). Concerning the antigen specificity of
adaptive Treg cells, it is interesting to speculate that these cells have a diverse
repertoire, which might be expanded as a consequence of fortuitous crossreactivities with foreign proteins. It is possible that the TCR repertoire of adaptive Treg
cells is self-antigen specific, but that these cells are triggered in an inflammatory
environment to promote bystander suppression through the production of
suppressive cytokines.
It is important to note that unlike natural Treg cells, adaptive Treg cells might not
require costimulation through CD28 for their development or function (Taylor et al.,
2002). Interestingly, IL-2 might promote the development and function of both types
of Treg cells, on the basis of studies showing the total absence of Treg cells in IL-2
receptor-deficient mice (Malek et al., 2002; Furtado et al., 2002).

4.3

Mechanism of suppression

In addition to potential differences in terms of TCR repertoire and differentiation state,
it is proposed that natural and adaptive subsets of Treg cells differ in their mechanism
of action. Adaptive Treg cells mediate their inhibitory activities by producing
immunosuppressive cytokines, such as TGF-ß and IL-10 (Kingsley et al., 2002;
Nakamura et al., 2001). In contrast, natural Treg cells, at least in vitro, function by a
cytokine-independent mechanism, which presumably involves direct interactions with
responding T cells or antigen-presenting cells (Shevach, 2002). This contactdependent mechanism of suppression has been shown most convincingly by
CD4+CD25+ natural Treg cells employed in in vitro models of suppression, whereas
cytokine-mediated suppression has been best established for peripheral adaptive Treg
-31-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

cells in vivo. However, the adaptive Treg cell subset, although it suppresses in a
cytokine-dependent manner, might still require direct cell-cell contact to initiate the
suppressive cascade.

a

b

APC

APC

TH

TH

Treg

Treg

contact
dependent

Treg

Treg

TGF-β
IL-10

APC

TH

Figure 6: Two classes of regulatory T cells can be envisioned. a In this hypothetical model, the
natural regulatory T (Treg) cells (blue) suppress immune response in a contact-dependent manner and
function in general homeostasis to block the actions of autoimmune T cells (red) in noninflammatory
settings. b The adaptive Treg cell subset enhances the robust nature of suppression in an inflammatory
milieu. Importantly, adaptive Treg cells can develop either CD4+CD25+ natural Treg cells (blue striped) or
by altering the activity of T helper (TH) cells (red striped). APC, antigen presenting cell; interleukin (IL)10, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, regulatory T cell (Treg) (adapted from Bluestone and Abbas,
2003).

-32-

CHAPTER I

5

Introduction

SPC-HA transgenic mouse model

To get further insights into the mechanisms underlying the induction and regulation of
T cell mediated immune reactions in the lung, a new SPC-HA transgenic mouse line
has been established prior to this work (Bruder et al., 2004).
The SPC-HA transgenic mouse expresses hemagglutinin (HA) of the influenza strain
A/PR8/34 under the transcriptional control of the surfactant protein C (SP-C)
promoter specifically in type II alveolar epithelial cells. High levels of HA expression
could be detected in the lung and relatively low levels in the thymus of SPC-HA mice,
but not in other organs. Immunohistochemical stainings of lung sections from
transgenic mice and non-transgenic littermates revealed HA expression exclusively
in surfactant protein C producing type II alveolar epithelial cells in SPC-HA transgenic
mice. This expression of the neo-self-antigen HA specifically in the lung tissue
represents the basic condition to establish a new mouse model for autoimmunemediated lung disease.

A

Nde I

Not I

D
SPC-HA

lIn
lIn

t intron

PolyA
Type II

St
St
LiLi
HH22O
O

He
He
Lu
Lu

HA

Sp
Sp
Ki
Ki
Th
Th
sIn
sIn

SPC-P

B

Type II

Type I

HA
RPS9
wildtype

Relative mRNA
expression level

RelativemRNA
mRNAexpression
expression level
relative
level

C

1000000
100000
10000
1000

Type I
100

Type II

10
1

Spleen

Kidney

Thymus

Lung

Figure 7: Targeted expression of hemagglutinin in the lung. (A) Construct used for the generation
of surfactant protein C (SPC)-hemagglutinin (HA) transgenic mice. PolyA = polyadenylic acid (B) Realtime RT-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect HA mRNA expression in different tissues of SPCHA transgenic mice (He: heart; Lu: lung; Sp: spleen; Ki: Kidney; Th: thymus; sln: small intestine; lIn:
large intestine; St: stomach; Li: Liver). RPS9 housekeeping gene specific primer served as internal
control. (C) Quantification of HA mRNA expression levels in selected tissues by RT-PCR. (D)
Immunohistochemical detection of influenza HA antigen on lung sections taken from SPC-HA
transgenic (upper panel) and wild type (lower panel) animals using DAB stain (brown) as chromogen
and hematoxylin (blue) as nuclear counterstain. Bar = 30µm (adapted from Bruder et al., 2004).

-33-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

Crossing SPC-HA transgenic mice into TCR-HA mice, which bear a major
histocompatibility complex class-II-restricted T cell receptor specific for the peptide
HA110-120 (Kirberg et al., 1994) results in the development of a progressive
interstial pneumonitis characterized by a massive lymphocytic and plasmacytic
infiltration of interalveolar septa of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice.
Figure 8: Immunohistology analysis

b

a

of lung from SPC-HA x TCR-HA
double transgenic mouse compared
to SPC-HA transgenic mouse. Lung
of

a

healthy

SPC-HA

transgenic

mouse (a) compared with a SPC-HA x
TCR-HA double transgenic mouse (b).

d

c

Alveolar emphysema in a SPC-HA x
TCR-HA

mouse

infiltration
mouse

in

a

(d)

(c).
double

distinct

Lymphocytic
transgenic
lymphocytic

infiltration patterns in the interalveolar
(e), around bronchi (f), veins (g) and

e

f

g

arteries (h). Normal interalveolar septa

h

of

a

SPC-HA

compare

with

aggregates
pigment-loaded

control
e).

containing

mouse

(I;

Lymphocytic
brownish

macrophages

(j)

suggestive of hemosiderin. Turnbull
blue stain for iron revaled significant

i

j

k

l

iron deposition (k; blue color). Lung of
a 9-days-old double transgenic mouse
(l) with acute tissue damage. H&E
stain (a-j, l) and turnball blue stain for
the detection of iron (k). Bars = 500µm
(a-c), 200µm (d) 100µm (e-i) and 50µm
(j-l) (adapted from Bruder et al., 2004).

Despite the fact that HA is expressed not only in the lung but also to some extent in
the thymus of SPC-HA mice, no reduction in the frequency of HA-specific 6.5+ CD4+
autoreactive T cells was observed in the periphery of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice. These findings are indicative for inefficient thymic deletion of
potentially autoreactive T cells. In addition, the proliferative capacity of CD4+ T cells
-34-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

from double transgenic mice in response to in vitro antigenic stimulation was
comparable to that of CD4+ T cells from TCR-HA single transgenic T cells,
suggesting that peripheral autoreactive T cells in double transgenic SPC-HA x TCRHA mice are fully functional, thus having the potential to cause lung inflammation.

A

Lung
TTCR-HA
CR-HA

Figure 9: Increased number of HA-specific CD4+ T

SSPC-HAxTCR-HA
PC-HAxTCR-HA

6.2 %

Percentages of 6.5+CD4+ T cells isolated from the lung

9.5 %

CD4

cells in the lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice.
were determined by fluorescence-activated cell sorter
(FACS)

analysis.

Proliferative

capacity

of

lung

lymphocytes from single and double transgenic mice was
Proliferation
(cpm/6.5x103)

6.5
8000
7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0

compared in an in vitro stimulation assay; cpm = counts
per minute (adapted from Bruder et al., 2005).

0

1

10

0

1

10

Peptide (µg/ml)

The lung inflammation observed in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice did
not progress in an uncontrolled way, i.e. inflammation did not result in complete
tissue destruction or death. Thus, although multifocal acute alveolar necrosis occur
with hemorrhage, intraalveolar fibrin deposition, consistent with acute tissue damage,
which could be observed in 9-day-old SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice,
inflammation reached a plateau, which was characterized by primarily diffuse to
follicular lymphocytic infiltration in elder mice. These findings suggested a regulatory
mechanism that may exist and/or develop under autoimmune conditions to
counteract the progression of inflammatory processes in the lung, thus preventing
uncontrolled tissue destruction and lethal physiological derangement.
Detailed analysis of HA-specific 6.5+CD4+ lung lymphocytes obtained from diseased
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice exhibited a regulatory phenotype. It could
be shown that the proliferative capacity of lung lymphocytes from SPC-HA x TCR-HA
mice was reduced by approximately 50% when compared with lung T cells from
healthy TCR-HA control mice (Bruder et al., 2004).
Moreover, cytokine and gene expression profiling on isolated 6.5+CD4+ autoreactive
T cell from diseased mice demonstrated a changed phenotype compared to cells
derived from TCR-HA control mice. This phenotype resembles a TR1 regulatory
-35-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

phenotype and suggested the in vivo induction of these suppressor T cells during the

A

A

Lu vs Sp

Sp (infl.)

Lu (infl.)

Lu vs Sp

Sp (infl.)

Lu (infl.)

Lu vs Sp

Sp (infl.)

Lu (infl.)

progress of lung inflammation in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice.

D

TCF7

Icsbp
Casp7
CD83
Tnfrsf1b

MAP4K4

IL10

Lef1
Rasa3

Tle4

Tfdp1

IκBKε

Tiam1

CDKN2D

EGR2

CCL2

B

CCR5

CCL7

Tnfrsf9

STAT5b

PENK1

SATB1
Bcl2
IL4Rα

Tdag
Rgs16
αEβ7
IL1Rn
Nrp

IL1R2
Tank
IL17
Tnfrsf4
Tnfsf11
PD1

B

C

VCAM-1
CCL5

Spp1
CCR6

3

1:1 -3

C

D
Figure 10: Cluster analysis of genes differentially expressed in 6.5+CD4+ T cells isolated from
lungs and spleens of diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA as well as healthy TCR-HA mice. Red
indicates induction of gene expression, green indicates repression (+3: bright red; -3: bright green).
Black indicates no changes. Genes in which expression was at least twofold increased were
considered to be regulated. Lu (infl.), lung inflamed, genes differentially expressed in 6.5+CD4+ T cell
from the inflamed lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared with the lung of healthy TCR-HA donors.
Sp (infl.), spleen inflamed, represents genes differentially expressed in 6.5+CD4+ T cells from spleen of
SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared with TCR-HA. Lu versus Sp, lung versus spleen, defines basal
expression level of genes in the lung. The left lanes represent an overview and the middle and right
lanes are an enlarged view outlining clusters of special interest. Cluster A: genes downregulated in
the lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice upon airway inflammation, although being, in part, higher
expressed in the lung than periphery in healthy mice. Cluster B: genes with high basal expression
level in the lung of healthy donors, being upregulated during pulmonary disease. Cluster C: genes
being expressed at lower levels in the lung than in the spleen under normal conditions, which are
+
+
upregulated in lung CD4 T cells, but downregulated in self-reactive CD4 T cells in the inflamed lung,

but partially downregulated in the periphery (adapted from Bruder et al., 2004).

-36-

CHAPTER I

Introduction

The SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mouse model combines important
features of a variety of lung diseases and will contribute to a better understanding of
the requirements for, and consequences of chronic T cell-mediated lung injury.
Further analysis will clarify the mechanisms for the induction of peripheral tolerance
and the development of adaptive regulatory T cells. Additionally, the role of the selfantigen expressing type II alveolar epithelial cells in the progression of disease in
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice and the induction of a tolerogenic
environment have to be studied.

-37-

CHAPTER II

CHAPTER II
Results
Part I:
Characterization of autoreactive CD4+ T cells
from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice

-38-

CHAPTER II

1

Results Part I

Aims of the study

To dissect the immunologic and molecular mechanisms of autoantigen-specific CD4+
T cell dysregulation, a transgenic mouse expressing hemagglutinin A/PR8/34 (HA)
under the control of the lung-specific surfactant protein C promoter in type II alveolar
epithelial cells (AEC II) was generated (Bruder et al., 2004). Breedings of these
transgenic mice with TCR-HA mice bearing a major histocompatibility complex classII-restricted T cell receptor specific for the peptide HA110-120 (Kirberg et al., 1994)
results in the development of a progressive interstial pneumonitis characterized by a
massive lymphocytic and plasmacytic infiltration of interalveolar septa. Pulmonary
inflammation reached a plateau state in older mice with prominent formation of
lymphoid

follicles,

but

reduced

interstial

infiltration.

Extensive

immunologic

characterization and molecular analysis of self-reactive CD4+ T cells isolated from
the inflamed lung suggested the induction of regulatory T cells in the site of
inflammation. To study the impact of naturally occurring and induced regulatory T
cells on disease progression and prevention of autoimmunity in more detail, the
following studies should be performed:
•

Isolation of peripheral self-reactive T cells from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice and TCR-HA control mice to characterize their activation
status in different compartments.

•

Analysis of the gene expression pattern of lung lymphocytes derived from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic and TCR-HA control mice with focus on
marker molecules specific for regulatory T cells.

•

Analyzing the impact of naturally occurring regulatory T cells on the outcome
of disease in an adoptive transfer system based on the transfer of HA-specific
CD4+ T cells into SPC-HA single transgenic mice.

•

Examinations regarding the effects of in vivo induced regulatory T cells on the
proliferation of autoreactive T cells in an adoptive transfer system based on
the transfer of HA-specific CD4+ T cells into SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice.
-39-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

2

Results

2.1

HA-specific CD4+ T cells are present in the periphery of SPC-HA x TCRHA mice

The prerequisite for the development of autoimmune diseases is inefficient deletion
of autoreactive T cells during the process of T cell maturation in the thymus. Selfantigen specific T cells that escaped thymic deletion are present in the periphery of
every individuum and therefore represent a potential risk for the organism.
In the above described SPC-HA x TCR-HA mouse model the HA-specific (6.5+) CD4+
T cells play a key role for the establishment of autoimmunity. Despite the fact that HA
is expressed not only in the lung epithelium but also to some extent in the thymus of
SPC-HA transgenic mice, autoreactive CD4+ T cells were detectable in the spleen
and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice
(Bruder et al, 2004).
To analyze the presence of 6.5+CD4+ T cells in the periphery of SPC-HA x TCR-HA
double transgenic mice in more detail, T cells from lung, spleen, MLN and in addition
from bronchial lymph nodes (BLN), inguinal lymph nodes (INLN), cervical lymph
nodes (CVLN) and axillary lymph nodes (AXLN) of SPC-HA x TCR-HA and TCR-HA
control mice were isolated and analyzed by flow cytometry for the expression of the
transgenic T cell receptor (figure 11).
TCR-HA

SPC-HAxTCR-HA

Figure 11: HA-specific CD4+ T cells
are present in periphery of SPC-HA x

3.6%

Lung

6.4%

TCR-HA mice. SPC-HA x TCR-HA and
TCR-HA control mice were sacrificed,
lung and BLN, MLN, Spleen, AXLN,

CD4

INLN, CVLN were isolated and stained
for CD4 and 6.5 expression to measure
the percentage of transgenic T cells in
10.6%

BLN

7.3%

the

different

compartments.

results are a representative of two
similar experiments.

6.5

-40-

These

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

TCR-HA

Figure 11 (continued): HA-specific

SPC-HAxTCR-HA

CD4+ T cells are present in the

12.3%

10.7%

MLN

periphery of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice.

3.1%

14.4%

13.3%

AXLN

CD4

Spleen

3.3%

6.5

In any case no reduction in the frequency of 6.5+CD4+ T cells could be observed in
peripheral lymphoid tissues of double transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared
to TCR-HA control mice, thus indicating inefficient thymic deletion of potentially
autoreactive T cells.
The percentage of 6.5+CD4+ T cells in the lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice was even
found to be increased. This is directly linked to infiltration of antigen-specific T cells to
this tissue which was confirmed by morphologic changes observed in the lungs of
double transgenic mice (Bruder et al., 2004). Also, the BLN draining the lung
contained elevated numbers of 6.5+CD4+ T cells in double transgenic mice.
In the other compartments analyzed no remarkable increase of transgenic T cells
could be detected. Therefore, spleen, MLN, AXLN, CVLN and INLN from SPC-HA x
TCR-HA mice exhibit comparable amounts of 6.5+CD4+ T cells like TCR-HA control
mice.
-41-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

TCR-HA

Figure 11 (continued): HA-specific

SPC-HAxTCR-HA

CD4+ T cells are present in the

12.3%

12.4%

periphery of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice.

CVLN

CD4

INLN

12.7%

13.0%

6.5

2.2

HA-specific CD4+ T lymphocytes from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice have an
activated phenotype

Antigen encounter by specific T cells should result in changes of the expression
pattern of certain activation and/or memory markers. To characterize HA-specific
6.5+CD4+ T cells from the inflamed lung and surrounding lymphoid organs of SPCHA x TCR-HA mice in more detail, these cells were analyzed for the expression of
the activation and memory markers CD69, CD25, CD45RB and CD62L by flow
cytometry (figure 12). As already shown before, comparing the expression patterns
on 6.5+CD4+T cells isolated from the inflamed lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice and
healthy lungs of TCR-HA control mice, autoreactive CD4+ T cells from SPC-HA x
TCR-HA mice exhibit an activated and memory phenotype. The activation markers
CD25 and CD69 on the surface of 6.5+CD4+ T cells are upregulated and accordingly
the memory makers CD45RB and CD62L on the surface of autoreactive T cells are
downregulated. Surprisingly, 6.5+CD4+ T cells isolated from the BLN draining the
inflamed lung show no activation/memory phenotype (figure 12).

-42-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

6.2%

3.5%

7.8%

3.9%

CD25
CD69

CD25
CD69

4.1%

CD45RB

7.0%

CD45RB

CD25
CD69

6.0%

CD45RB

CD25
46.0%

6.0%

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

CD62L

5.6%

25.0%

TCR-HA

CD62L

2.8%

28.8%

CD45RB

1.5%

15.9%

CD62L

2.8%

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

CD69

TCR-HA

BLN, 6.5+CD4+

CD62L

Lung, 6.5+CD4+

Figure 12: Activation/memory phenotype of HA-specific CD4+ T cells from double transgenic
SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared to healthy TCR-HA control mice. T cells were isolated from
lung and BLN, spleen, MLN, AXLN, INLN and CVLN of SPC-HA x TCR-HA and TCR-HA mice,
respectively. Lymphocytes were stained with 6.5 and CD4 antibodies as well as CD25, CD69,
CD45RB and CD62L antibodies. 6.5+CD4+ T cells were gated and analyzed regarding the expression
of CD25, CD69, CD45RB and CD62L by FACS. These results are a representative of two similar
experiments.

-43-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

19.0%

23.1%

CD25

4%

CD69

CD25

4.6%

CD69

CD25

3.6%

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

CD45RB

83.4%

2.7%

CD69

3.6%

TCR-HA

CD45RB

46.1%

6.8%

CD69

4.5%

CD45RB

6.2%

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

CD25

TCR-HA

MLN, 6.5+CD4+

CD45RB

Spleen, 6.5+CD4+

28.9%

CD62L

18.7%

CD62L

CD62L

50.9%

CD62L

73.9%

Figure 12 (continued): Activation/memory phenotype of HA-specific CD4+ T cells from double
transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared to healthy TCR-HA control mice.

Also, in contrast to the lung the expression of CD25 and CD69 was not increased
when the peripheral compartments spleen and MLN from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice
and control mice were compared. However, the expression of the memory markers
CD45RB and CD62L was downregulated in these compartments on 6.5+CD4+ T cells
from double transgenic mice (figure 12).

-44-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

5.5%

28.9%

CD25

22.9%

CD25

5.2%

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

CD69

CD25

3.0%

TCR-HA

CD69

2.8%

3.4%

CD69

2.9%

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

CD25

TCR-HA

CVLN, 6.5+CD4+

CD69

INLN, 6.5+CD4+

CD45RB
24.5%

CD62L

22.5%

CD45RB

21.8%

CD62L

18.6%

CD45RB

2.4%

CD62L

17.3%

CD62L

3.1%

CD45RB

28.0%

Figure 12 (continued): Activation/memory phenotype of HA-specific CD4+ T cells from double
transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared to healthy TCR-HA control mice.

In INLN, CVLN and AXLN no obvious changes in the expression level of CD25,
CD69, CD45RB and CD62L could be detected on autoreactive T cells from SPC-HA
x TCR-HA mice when compared to TCR-HA controls.

-45-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

AXLN, 6.5+CD4+
Figure 12 (continued): Activation/memory pattern

TCR-HA

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

of

HA-specific

CD4+

T

cells

from

double

transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared to

10.8%

CD62L

30.0%

33.0%

8.6%

CD25
CD69

6.2%

CD45RB

2.9%

CD62L

CD25

3.6%

CD45RB

2.4%

CD69

healthy TCR-HA control mice.

In summary, FACS data suggest that in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice in which the lung
epithelium expresses the self-antigen hemagglutinin, the lung is the place were the
inflammation starts and extends out in the lung tissue due to autoreactive CD4+ T cell
antigen recognition. The autoreactive 6.5+CD4+ T cells proliferate in and/or infiltrate
the lung and exhibit a strongly activated phenotype in the presence of the selfantigen HA.

-46-

CHAPTER II
2.3

Results Part I

Marker genes for regulatory T cells are expressed in 6.5+CD4+ lung
lymphocytes isolated from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice

It has been shown previously that expression of HA under the control of the Ig κ
promoter by hemapoetic cells resulting in permantent antigen expression both in
thymus and in the periphery leads to tolerance rather than inflammation (Buer et al.
1998). Therefore, it was reasonable to analyze whether mature 6.5+CD4+ T cells
found in peripheral lymphoid organs of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice
are still functional with respect to their proliferative capacity upon antigen encounter.
In previous works it could be shown that the proliferative capacity of lung
lymphocytes from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice was reduced by approximately 50%
when compared with lung T cells from TCR-HA control mice (Bruder et al., 2004).
Moreover, data from this study suggested an important role of Treg cells for the
development and progression of CD4+ T cell meditated lung disease in the SPC-HA x
TCR-HA mouse model. Cytokine and gene expression profiling on isolated 6.5+CD4+
autoreactive T cells from diseased mice demonstrated a changed phenotype
compared to cells derived from TCR-HA control mice. This phenotype resembled a
Treg1 regulatory phenotype and suggested the in vivo induction of these suppressor T
cells during the progress of lung inflammation in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice.
To corrobate and extent the observed differences of the gene expression pattern
between naïve 6.5+CD4+ lung lymphocytes and primed 6.5+CD4+ lung lymphocytes
from SPC-HA x TCR-HA, autoreactive T cells were isolated from lung tissues of
diseased and healthy mice for semi-quantitative analysis by PCR.

SP
CH
TC A x
RT
H HA CRHA
2O

SP
CH
TC A x
RT
H HA CRHA
2O

Figure 13: Semi-quantitaive RT-PCR
analysis of ex vivo isolated 6.5+CD4+
lung lymphocytes from SPC-HA x
TCR-HA mice and TCR-HA control
mice.
alphaEbeta7 Integrin, CD103

The

expression

of

different

Galectin

molecular marker genes for regulatory

CTLA4

PD-1

T cells as CD103 (alphaEbeta7), CTLA4,

Neuropilin-1

ICOS

Neuropilin-1, GITR (TNFRSF18), Foxp3,

GITR, TNFRSF18

RPS9

Galectin, PD-1 and ICOS was analyzed.
RPS9 was used as a housekeeping
gene.

Foxp3

-47-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

In line with results obtained by Affymetrix Arrays, PCR analysis revealed elevated
expression of CTLA4, PD-1, ICOS, GITR and alphaEbeta7 (CD103) in autoreactive T
cells from double transgenic mice compared to naïve T cells from the TCR-HA mice
(figure 13). Whereas these genes are known to be expressed not only on regulatory
but in addition on activated T cells, also strong upregulation of Neuropilin-1 and
Foxp3 was detectable. These genes are activation independent and exclusively
linked to regulatory T cells, thus clearly indicating the induction of self-antigen
specific regulatory T cells in the lung of diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice.

2.4

Progressive infiltration of HA-specific CD4+ T cells in the lung of SPC-HA
mice after adoptive transfer

As mentioned above, HA expression in the lung of SPC-HA mice leads, despite the
fact of HA expression in the thymus, to strong inflammatory reactions in the lung of
double transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice. Consistent with the FACS data shown in
figure 12, the inflammation is restricted exclusively to the lung. Importantly, although
the early inflammatory lesions observed in the lungs of newborn and young SPC-HA
x TCR-HA mice were quite severe, there was no evidence for uncontrolled
progression of the inflammation leading to complete tissue destruction or death in
elder mice (Bruder et al., 2004), but data suggest the induction of regulatory
mechanisms counter-regulating disease progression. With intent to analyze the
impact of regulatory T cells on the outcome of autoimmunity and to clarify whether
the small proportion of naturally occurring HA-specific Treg cells is able to suppress
the proliferative and inflammatory capacity of 6.5+CD4+CD25- T cells in vivo, adoptive
transfer experiments were performed.
To this end, first of all SPC-HA and BALB/c control mice were adoptively transferred
with autoreactive CD4+ T cells. 1 x 107 CD4+ T cells from TCR-HA mice prior
activated in vitro were injected i.v. in transgenic SPC-HA mice and BALB/c control
mice. At days 1, 3 and 7 mice from each group were sacrificed and the lungs were
dissected for histological examination (figure 14).
This analysis revealed rapid and distinct lymphocytic infiltration, thus clearly
demonstrating the strong impact of autoreactive CD4+ T cells on disease
development and progression. After establishing the conditions for the adoptive
-48-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

transfer, the transfer model was used for further analyzing the influence of antigenspecific naturally occurring T cells and in vivo induced antigen specific regulatory T
cells.

A

Figure 14: Progressive infiltration of HA-specific
CD4+ T cells in the lung of SPC-HA mice after
adoptive transfer. 1 x 107 CD4+ T cells from TCR-HA
transgenic mice prior activated in vitro were injected i.v.
in transgenic SPC-HA or BALB/c mice, respectively. At
day 1 (A), 3 (B) and 7 (C) the mice were sacrificed and
lungs were dissected to perform histological analysis.
From day 1 to day 7 a rapid progressive infiltration of

B

lymphocytes was documented as shown here for arteries.
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stain, bar = 50.0µm. These
results are a representative of two similar experiments.

C

-49-

CHAPTER II
2.5

Results Part I

Adoptive transfer of 6.5+CD4+ and 6.5+CD4+ depleted of CD25+ regulatory
T cells into SPC-HA transgenic mice

HA-specific lung lymphocytes from double transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice have
an activation/memory phenotype and show a reduced proliferative capacity when
stimulated in vitro with the corresponding peptide. The autoreactive 6.5+CD4+ T cells
from the lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice secreted drastically reduced amounts of
the proinflammatory cytokines interferon (INF)-γ and IL-2, but an increased level of
IL-5 upon in vitro stimulation.
Elevated levels of IL-10 and no detectable IL-4 production and moreover the global
gene expression profiling of alveolar HA-specific CD4+ T cells from diseased mice,
which revealed many genes associated with regulatory CD4+ T cells like the surface
markers CTLA-4, PD-1, Nrp1 and αEβ7 suggested a TR1 regulatory T cell phenotype.
Data were underlined by histological evidence in elder diseased mice which showed
a controlled inflammation in the lung of double transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice
(Bruder et al., 2004).
CD4+CD25+ T cells derived in the thymus constitute a major population of regulatory
T cells that are able to suppress T cell responses in vitro (Read et al., 1998; Thornton
& Sevach, 1998) as well as in vivo (Read et al., 2000; Suri-Payer et al., 1998).
To clarify whether the small proportion of naturally occurring HA-specific
6.5+CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells is able to suppress the proliferative and
inflammatory capacity of 6.5+CD4+CD25- T cells in vivo, adoptive transfer
experiments were performed following the conditions described above. Naïve CD4+
and CD4+CD25- T cells were isolated from spleen and lymph nodes of TCR-HA
transgenic mice by negative selection using AutoMACS. The percentages of
6.5+CD4+ T cells were analyzed by FACS and CFSE labelling was performed. 2 x 106
6.5+CD4+ T cells or 6.5+CD4+ depleted from CD25+ Treg cells (6.5+CD4+CD25-) were
injected i.p. into SPC-HA transgenic mice. 7 days after adoptive transfer the in vivo
proliferation of 6.5+CD4+ transgenic T cells was investigated by estimating the loss of
CFSE dye in proliferating HA-specific CD4+ T cells from lung, BLN and spleen (figure
15).

-50-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

37.2%

30.2%

94.3%

87.8%

BLN

12.1%

Spleen

31.6%

Lung

6.5+CD4+CD25-

6.5+CD4+

CFSE
Figure 15: Proliferative response of 6.5+CD4+ T cells in vivo to tissue derived antigen after
adoptive transfer into SPC-HA recipients. 2 x 106 CFSE labelled 6.5+CD4+ or 6.5+CD4+CD25- T
cells were adoptively transferred into SPC-HA recipients. 7 days later cells from lung, BLN and spleen
were isolated and stained for 6.5 and CD4 expression. CFSE profiles gated for 6.5+CD4+ T cells were
estimated. These results are a representative of two similar experiments.

In lung and BLN it could be shown that in the absence of naturally occurring
regulatory T cells the proportion of 6.5+CD4+ transgenic T cells underwent a strong
proliverative activity in response to the lung-derived self-antigen HA. The proliferation
of 6.5+CD4+ T cells containing the regulatory CD25+ HA-specific T cell population
was less prominent suggesting that naturally occurring CD25+ T cells suppress
antigen specific proliferation of lung-specific CD4+ T cells.
The percentages of 6.5+CD4+ transgenic T cells obtained after re-isolation from the
recipient mice underline this hypothesis. As summarized in Figure 16 the percentage
of 6.5+CD4+ transgenic T cells is increased in the lungs of SPC-HA mice that
received 6.5+CD4+ depleted from naturally occurring CD25+ T cells. Together, these
data suggest the active suppression of proliferation of autoreactive T cells in the lung
after antigen encounter by HA specific 6.5+CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells, pointing
out the importance of Treg cells for the control of autoimmune mediated T cell
responses in the lung.
Antigen specificity of T cell proliferation was underlined by the fact that no
proliferation was observed in transferred cells re-isolated from the spleen of SPC-HA
mice, which does not express the HA antigen.
-51-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

6.5+CD4+

Figure

6.5+CD4+CD251%

16:

Clonal

expansion

in

response to self-antigen. 2 x 106

5,9%

Lung

6.5+CD4+ or 6.5+CD4+CD25- T cells
were adoptively transferred i.p. into
SPC-HA recipients. 7 days later T cells
from lung, BLN and spleen were
isolated and stained for 6.5 and CD4
1,1%

expression to measure the percentage

1%

BLN

CD4

of transgenic T cells in the different
compartments. These results are a
representative

of

three

similar

experiments.

1,2%

Spleen

0,6%

6.5

2.6

Adoptive transfer of 6.5+CD4+ T cells in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice

To analyze whether in addition to naturally occurring regulatory T cells also the
proportion of in vivo induced HA-specific regulatory T cells has the potential to
suppress antigen specific expansion of adoptively transferred 6.5+CD4+ T cells, an
adoptive transfer of 6.5+CD4+ T cells was performed into SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice as well as into SPC-HA transgenic mice as control. It could be
hypothesized, that only in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice regulatory T cells were induced
upon chronic self-antigen stimulation in the lung, whereas this in vivo induced HAspecific Treg should be absent in the lung of SPC-HA single transgenic mice. T cells
were isolated from spleen of TCR-HA transgenic mice and were activated in vitro
-52-

CHAPTER II

Results Part I

with the corresponding peptide. The proportion of 6.5+CD4+ T cells was analyzed by
FACS and CFSE labelling was performed. 2.5 x 106 6.5+CD4+ transgenic T cells
were injected i.p. into SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic and SPC-HA transgenic
control mice. 10 days after adoptive transfer the in vivo proliferation of 6.5+CD4+
transgenic T cells was investigated by analyzing the loss of CFSE dye in proliferating
HA-specific CD4+ T cells from lung, BLN and spleen (figure 17).

94.9%

63.4%

97.3%

95.8%

BLN

75.6%

Spleen

88.0%

Lung

SPC-HA

SPC-HA x TCR-HA

CFSE
Figure 17: Proliferative response of 6.5+CD4+ T cells in vivo to tissue derived antigen after
adoptive transfer in SPC-HA x TCR-HA and SPC-HA recipients. 2.5 x 106 CFSE labelled 6.5+CD4+
T cells were adoptively transferred into SPC-HA x TCR-HA and SPC-HA recipients. 10 days later cells
from lung, BLN and spleen were isolated and stained for 6.5 and CD4 expression. CFSE profile gated
for 6.5+CD4+ T cells were estimated. These results are a representative of three similar experiments.

The data summarized in figure 17 clearly indicate a strong inhibition/suppression of
the proliferation of adoptively transferred 6.5+CD4+ T cells in lung and BLN of SPCHA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. In contrast, 6.5+CD4+ T cells adoptively
transferred into SPC-HA transgenic control mice underwent a strong proliferation in
these compartments. These data strongly suggest the capability of in vivo induced
regulatory T cells to suppress the proliferation of autoreactive T cells in vivo.

-53-

CHAPTER II

CHAPTER II
Results
Part II:
Characterization of self-antigen expressing alveolar
type II epithelial cell from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice

-54-

CHAPTER II

3

Results Part II

Aims of the study

Immune regulation is a dynamic process based on many already known as well as
undefined factors. Many cells are involved in triggering or regulation of immune
responses and more and more details about the mechanisms underlying
inflammation and tolerance are known. However, less is known about the function of
cells expressing self-antigens and being the target for autoreactive T cells in the
progress of initiation and/or regulation of autoimmunity.
The SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mouse represents an autoimmune
disease model that offers the possibilities to examine both sides of the immune
response, i.e. the autoreactive effector cells on the one hand as well as the selfantigen expressing cells on the other hand. In the SPC-HA transgenic mouse the
alveolar type II epithelial cells do express the self-antigen hemagglutinin and
represent the target for autoreactive T cells. Already 1977 Mason and Williams
developed the concept of the alveolar type II epithelial cell (AECII) as a defender of
the alveolus (Mason and Williams, 1977). AECII may act as immunoregulatory cells
and can interact with resident and mobile cells, either directly by membrane contact
or indirectly via cytokines/growth factors and their receptors. Thus alveolar type II
epithelial cells represent an integrative unit of immune responses within the alveolus.
To investigate the role of hemagglutinin expressing AECII in SPC-HA x TCR-HA
double transgenic mice on the outcome of autoimmunity, extensive analysis should
be performed including:
•

Establishing a protocol to isolate murine type II alveolar epithelial cells
exhibiting a high purity and vitality.

•

Gene expressing profiling of type II alveolar epithelial cells from diseased
double transgenic SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared to healthy SPC-HA
control mice.

•

Characterization of the antigen presenting capacity of AECII from healthy
SPC-HA and diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice to rule out their possible role
in the initiation and regulation of autoreactive T cell responses leading to lung
inflammation.
-55-

CHAPTER II
•

Results Part II

Characterization of the impact of AECII on the induction of regulatory T cells.

-56-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

4

Results

4.1

Isolation of murine alveolar type II epithelial cells

Alveolar type II epithelial cells (AECII) are critical for normal lung development,
homeostasis, and repair after injury. AECII produce pulmonary surfactant lipids and
proteins required for reducing alveolar surface tension (Finkelstein et al., 1983;
Shannon et al., 2001). As essential progenitors for type I epithelial cells, they are also
critical for normal alveolar development and tissue remodelling after injury (Adamson
and Bowdenet, 1974; Adamson and Bowden, 1975). The ability to investigate
organogenesis and disease progression by overexpressing and deleting genes in
mice, particularly genes expressed by alveolar type II epithelial cells, has recently
favoured the use of mouse models in pulmonary research.
Although mice are advantageous for manipulating genes, they have not been useful
for isolating alveolar type II epithelial cells for ex vivo study so far. In contrast, rat and
rabbit AECII have successfully been isolated using velocity centrifugation through a
gradient of albumin (Dobbs and Mason, 1979 and Finkelstein et al., 1983). Isolation
of mouse AECII by this method has been less successful. In order to isolate highly
pure and vital AECII, a fluorescence-activated cell sorting protocol was established
based on the use of anti-CD32, anti-CD16, anti-CD45, anti-CD11b and anti-F4/80
antibodies. Using this antibody cocktail, all hemapoetic cell types were labelled.
Moreover, further cell populations could be distinguished by cell granularity (sideward
scatter, SSC) and size (forward scatter, FSC). Using a MoFlow cell sorter
(Cytomation, Fort Collins, CO) a cell population could be purified (figure 18) that was
identified by immune fluorescence staining as alveolar type II epithelial cells (figure
19).

-57-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II
pre sorting
50%

96%

45%
R1

R2

1%
R2

SSC

R1

post sorting

PE (CD45, CD16, CD11b, F4/80)
Figure 18: Purification of alveolar type II epithelial cells by fluorescence-activated cell sorting.
Cells obtained after enzymatic lung digestion were labelled using a CD45, CD16, CD32, CD11b, and
F4/80 antibody cocktail. After exclusion of antibody negative cells, AECII were identified by size and
granularity. Reanalysis of sorted cells have shown a contamination of as few as 1% other cells.

The reanalysis of the sorted cells demonstrated an extremely high purity of an
unlabelled AECII population. Positive immunostaining for the surfactant proteins A, B,
C and D verified that the sorted cells were alveolar type II epithelial cells.
Figure 19: Identification of sorted cells as alveolar

AEC II
A

type II epithelial cells by immunofluorescence

A´

staining for surfactant proteins A, B, C and D.
Cytospins of post-sorted cells were stained for the
surfactant proteins A, B, C and D. Almost 100% of fixed
SP-A
B

B´

post-sorted cells were positive for the surfactant protein
staining. Picture A, B, C and D represent the phase
contrast of fixed cells. Pictures A´, B´, C´, and D´
represent

SP-B
C

C´

D

D´

the

immunostainings.

SP-C

SP-D

-58-

corresponding

surfactant

protein

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Tissue disintegration and FACS-sorting represents physical stress for the cells which
could lead to apoptosis and cell death during the purification procedure. To assure
vitality of sorted cells, trypan blue staining and propidium iodide staining were
performed. Visually counting of trypan blue positive AECII resulted in a proportion of
only 10% dead cells. The fluorescence-activated measurement of propidium iodide
positive AECII resulted in a vitality of 90% (figure 20). Thus, both methods
demonstrated that only a small portion of AECII cells did not survive the isolation
procedure.

with PI

without PI
A

A´

Figure 20: Determination of vitality of
sorted alveolar type II epithelial cells.
Vitality of freshly isolated type II alveolar

0%

10%

epithelial cells was determined by FACS
analysis by using propidium iodide (A →
A´) and visually counting of trypan blue (B)
staining. Both methods indicated a vitality
of 90%.

propidium iodide
B

Reanalysis of the sorted alveolar type II epithelial cells showed a minor
contamination (1%) with CD45+/CD32+/CD16+/CD11b+/F4/80+ cells. To determine in
more detail which hemapoetic cell type was present within the alveolar type II cell
preparation, PCR analysis were performed using CD3 (T cells), CD19 (B cells) and
CD14 (macrophages) specific primers. Furthermore the sorted cells were tested by
PCR analysis for the presence of AECII specific marker RNA (surfactant protein A, D
and C and Alkaline phosphatase) (figure 21).

-59-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

NA

A

cD

cell contamination of post-sorted

2O

AECII population by PCR. RNA from

H

ng
Lu

AE
C

H

2O

II c

DN

NA
cD

ng
Lu

AE
C

II c

DN

A

Figue 21: Analysis of hemapoetic

freshly

isolated

alveolar

type

II

epithelial cells was compared with
CD3

SP-A

RNA obtained from complete lung
tissue. Primer pairs CD3, CD19 and

CD19

SP-C

CD14

were

chosen

to

test

for

hemapoetic cells in the type II cell
CD14

RPS9

SP-D

preparation. Primer pairs SP-A, SP-C,
SP-D and alkaline phosphatase were

Alkaline
phosphatase

chosen to test the RNA for specific
AECII

expressed

represents

a

genes.

housekeeping

RPS9
gene

expression.

As shown before by (figure 19) immunofluorescence stainings for surfactant proteins,
PCR analysis verified a highly pure population of alveolar type II epithelial cells
(Figure 21). In addition, the AECII marker gene alkaline phosphatase (Edelson et al.,
1988) could be detected. Only PCR analysis using CD14 specific primers resulted in
a weak PCR amplification product in the purified AECII cDNA sample, but no
products were obtained with CD19 or CD3 specific primer pairs. Thus, the
contamination by hemapoetic cells was neglected for subsequent experiments and
the AECII cells were considered to be highly pure.
As expected, the expression analysis for type II epithelial cell specific proteins was
positive for every gene analyzed (figure 21).
Together these data show that the newly established protocol represents a highly
efficient method to obtain pure and vital murine alveolar type II cells.

-60-

CHAPTER II
4.2

Results Part II

Global gene expression profiling of murine alveolar type II epithelial cells

In the SPC-HA transgenic mouse the alveolar type II epithelial cells are the cells
expressing the self-antigen and therefore represent the target for HA-specific T cell
reactivities. As previous data describe, the 6.5+CD4+ T cells in elder SPC-HA x TCRHA mice have a TR1 phenotype. The questions raised by this finding are: a) how do
activated autoreactive T cells change their features to a more regulatory phenotype
and b) which role do the self-antigen expressing AECII play in this process? To shed
more light into the role of AECII in the induction of T cell tolerance in the lung,
comparative global gene expressing profiling of alveolar type II epithelial cells from
diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice and healthy SPC-HA mice was
performed. Therefore, RNA was prepared from AECII and subjected to differential
gene expression analysis using Affimetrix MG U74Av2 oligonucleotide arrays. The
advantage of this technology is that every analyzed gene is represented by sixteen
independent probe pairs which together establish the basis for statistical evaluations
of the respective signals. Therefore, only those genes that are reproducibly regulated
are included in the analysis. For each gene fulfilling these criteria, the average fold
change in expression for AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA and SPC-HA mice was
calculated and the ratio was depicted on a base-2 logarithmic scale. To get an
impression of basal expression level of analyzed genes in AECII under normal
conditions, an alignment of AECII derived from SPC-HA single transgenic and
diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice was necessary to include. This
approach led to a comprehensive overview about the functional gene classes that
are found to be regulated in type II pneumocytes upon inflammation including for
example regulators of transcription and translation, secreted or signalling molecules,
genes involved in cell cycle, apoptosis and survival.

-61-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II
cytoskeleton
(7 genes)

metabolism &
catabolism
(47 genes)

others
(96 genes)

signal
transduction
(6 genes)
cell cycle
(20 genes)
immune
response
(38 genes)

transcription
(43 genes)

cell
differentiation
&
development
(20 genes)

transport
(47 genes)

cell adhesion
(58 genes)

proteolysis &
peptidolysis
(36 genes)

Figure 22: Genes differentially expressed in type II alveolar epithelial cells isolated from
diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA compared to cells from healthy SPC-HA mice. 418 genes were
identified as differentially expressed in AECII and regarding their function divided into eleven major
groups.

Table 4: Gene expression levels of selected genes from different major groups.

Gene

Functional Group

CCL11 (Eotaxin)

immune response

Fold Induction
-8.48
-4.06
17.12
11.53
4.09
2.53
-4.52
-5.88
-6.71
-7.40
3.08
2.37
-3.00
-2.21
-2.40
-2.75
2.15
4.51
2.78
2.53

CCL20 (MIP-3α)
CCL9/10 (MIP-1γ)
CXCL13
CXCL12
CXCL2 (MIP-2α)
TGF-b2
TGF-b3
Psmb8 Proteasome subunit beta
type 8
Psmb9
Proteasome subunit beta type 9

Reference
- Matthews et al.,
2005
- Sebastiani et al.,
2001
- Dieu-Nosjean et
al., 2000
- Maurer and
Stebut, 2004
- Ebert et al., 2004
- Balabanian et al.,
2005
- Matzer et al.,
2004
- Buckley et al.,
1996
- Buckley et al.,
1996
- Niedermann et al.,
1999
- Niedermann et al.,
1999

Results were obtained by two independent experiments. Basal gene expression level of AECII derived
from healthy SPC-HA mice were compared with gene expression levels of AECII from diseased SPCHA x TCR-HA mice.

-62-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Table 4 (continued): Gene expression levels of selected genes from different major groups.

Gene

Functional Group

H2-Ea (major histocompatibility
complex, class II, DR alpha)
H2-Ab1
(HLA class II histocompatibility
antigen, DQ beta 1)
TAP1

immune response

Cyclin A2

cell cycle

2.17
2.39
2.05
2.91

Cyclin D2
MMP-2
(matrix metalloproteinase 2)

Fold Induction

proteolysis &
peptidolysis

Reference
- Krawczyk et al.,
2004
- Larhammar et al.,
1983

2.37
2.95

- Lankat-Buttgereit
and Tampe, 1999
- Uebel and
Tampe, 1999

1.88
3.42
-2.12
-2.06

- Bui et al., 1993

-10.79
-10.34

- Wu et al., 1995

MMP-11
(matrix metalloproteinase 11)
MMP-23
(matrix metalloproteinase 23)
MMP-3
(matrix metalloproteinase 3)

-2.76
-1.67
-6.24
-3.78
-11.59
-10.88

MMP-14
(matrix metalloproteinase 14)
TIMP1
(Tissue inhibitor of
metalloproteinase 1)
TIMP2
(Tissue inhibitor of
metalloproteinase 2)
TIMP3
(Tissue inhibitor of
metalloproteinase 3)

-2.51
-2.45
-11.06
-8.62

- Chakrabarti and
Patel, 2005
- Hayashi et al.,
1996
- Xu et al., 2002
- Corry, et al., 2004
- Hayashi et al.,
1996
- Hayashi et al.,
1996
- Hayashi et al.,
1996
- Atkinson et al.,
2005
- Hayashi et al.,
1996
- Hayashi et al.,
1996

-5.33
-9.50

- Hayashi et al.,
1996

-4.03
-4.43

- Hayashi et al.,
1996

Aqp1 (Aquaporin 1)

transport

-5.99
-4.26

- Effros et al., 1997

Egfr
(Epidermal growth factor receptor)

cell differentiation &
development

-2.06
-2.61

- Klein et al., 1995

Fibronectin 1

cell adhesion

-9.88
-8.60

- Crouch and
Longmore, 1987
- Maniscalco et al.,
1994

Results were obtained by two independent experiments. Basal gene expression level of AECII derived
from healthy SPC-HA mice were compared with gene expression levels of AECII from diseased SPCHA x TCR-HA mice.

-63-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Data from figure 22 and table 4 demonstrate broad changes in the gene expression
profile within alveolar type II epithelial cells upon T cell mediated airway inflammation.
418 genes could be identified as being differentially expressed in AECII from
diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. The classification of the
regulated genes in functional groups demonstrate, that many genes that are
described to be part of the immune response, cell cycle and proteolysis &
peptidolysis appear to be functionally involved in the progression and/or regulation of
lung diseases.

Data summarized in table 5 underline the purity of the isolated AECII population, as
signal intensities obtained for AECII specific genes were extraordinary high. The
signal intensities for hemapoetic cell specific genes are declared as absent or were
considerable lower than the signal intensities for AECII specific genes. This is line
with the PCR results to analyze the purity of isolated AECII (figure 21).

Table 5: Gene expression levels of selected AECII and hemapoetic cell specific genes to
control purity of isolated AECII.

Cell type/gene

Control expression
SPC-HA
Array1/Array2

present or
absent
classified*

AECII
Surfactant associated protein A (Sftpa)

7034/7152

PP

Surfactant associated protein B (Sftpb)

2106/8597

PP

Surfactant associated protein C (Sftpc)

450/1208

PP

Surfactant associated protein D (Sftpd)

13297/16424

PP

Hemapoetic cells
CD3

15/3

AA

CD11b (ITGAM)

4/22

AA

CD45 (PRPTC)

183/87

PP

CD11c (ITGAX)

44/55

AA

Represented is the signal intensity of indicated genes specific for AECII or hemapoetic cells on
Affymetrix MG U74Av2 oligonucleotide array. Results are from pooled individuals (n>3). Present or
absent is defined by Affymetrix software logarithm.

-64-

CHAPTER II
4.3

Results Part II

Analysis of genes differentially expressed in AECII from SPC-HA x TCRHA mice double transgenic mice and SPC-HA transgenic mice.

The global gene expression profiling of murine alveolar type II epithelial cells from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice and SPC-HA control mice resulted in
identification of numerous regulated genes. To confirm these results for selected
genes the expression levels of platelet factor 4 (PF-4), CCL11 and CCL20 were
analysed by real time RT-PCR. These genes have all been discussed before in the
context of regulation or modulation of immune responses. It was shown, that platelet
factor 4 has suppressor function by downregulating the proliferation and cytokine
release of activated T cells (Fleischer et al., 2002). For CCL20 (MIP-3α) and CCL11
(eotaxin), which are both members of the chemokine ligand family, it is described,
that CCL20 plays a critical role for attracting immature dendritic cells to the airway
(Reibman et al., 2003) and CCL11 is responsible for eosinophil recruitment
(Chvatchko et al., 2003).
To asses the expression level of platelet factor 4 (PF-4), CCL11 and CCL20 total
RNA was purified form sorted AECII isolated from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice and SPC-HA mice. Real-time RT-PCR analyses were performed
with specific primer pairs for RPS9, PF-4, CCL11 and CCL20 to determine the level
of gene expression in comparison with the housekeeping gene expression RPS9
(figure 23).

-65-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II
Figure 23: Gene expression level of
CCL11, PF-4 and CCL20 in AECII

PF-4

derived from SPC-HA x TCR-HA
SPC-HA
x
TCR-HA

double transgenic mice and SPC-HA

4,85

transgenic mice. Real-time RT-PCR
analyses for CCL11, PF-4 and CCL20
expression in sorted AECII from SPC-

SPC-HA

1

HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice
and SPC-HA transgenic mice. Relative

-0,5

0,5

1,5

2,5

3,5

4,5

5,5

fold change

mRNA amounts were normalized with
respect to expression levels in AECII
derived from SPC-HA transgenic mice

CCL11

(fold change = 1). The mean regulation
SPC-HA
x
TCR-HA

is indicated.

-5,1

SPC-HA

1

-7

-5

-3

-1

1

3

fold change

CCL20
SPC-HA
2,6

X

TCR-HA

SPC-HA

-1

1

0

1

2

3

fold change

In line with the results obtained with cDNA arrays the real-time RT-PCR analyses
demonstrate an increased mRNA expression for CCL20 and PF-4 in AECII from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice compared to AECII from SPC-HA
transgenic mice. Also, analysis of the relative mRNA expression level for CCL11
indicates a significant downregulation in AECII of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice when diseased and healthy mice were compared.

-66-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

These data suggest that during the inflammatory process in the lung of SPC-HA x
TCR-HA double transgenic mice the alveolar type II epithelial cells may have an
active immune modulating role which is indicated by increased expression of CCL20
and PF-4 and decreased CCL11 expression.
To further complement the results of the gene expression profile obtained by cDNA
array analysis, several other genes of interest were selected and tested by semiquantitative RT-PCR (figure 24).
For costimulatory or regulatory function of antigen presenting cells the expression of
MHC class-II, CD80 (B7.1), CD86 (B7.2), PD1-L (B7-H1) and ICOS-L is necessary.
MHC class-II molecules present antigens to effector cells whereas CD80 and CD86
have a costimulatory function and are needed to induce the complete activation of
effector cells by binding to their ligand CD28 (Greenwald et al., 2005). PD1-L and
ICOS-L are ligands for the receptors PD1 and ICOS expressed on T cells. Binding of
ICOS-L or PD1-L by T cells are discussed to be involved in the suppressor function
of Treg cells, T cell tolerance, and autoimmunity (Greenwald et al., 2005).
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) are a major group of proteinases known to regulate
the extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling and thus they are hypothesized to be
important in the process of lung fibrosis or tissue damage in the lung (Corbel et al.,
2001).
TGF-β and MCP-1 (CCL2) are important immune regulatory molecules, which are
known to be expressed by AECII (Zissel et al., 2000; Paine et al., 1993).

-67-

Results Part II

PD1-L

MMP-9

MCP-1 (CCL2)

ICOS-L

MMP-2

TGF-β

MHC II

MMP-3

RPS9

Ax
HO
2

SP
C-H

C

SP
C-H
A

TC
RHA

A
SP
C-H
Ax
TC
HO
R-H
2

SP
C-H
A

B

2

SP
C-H
Ax
TC
HO
R

A

SP
C-H
A

-HA

CHAPTER II

CD80
CD86

Figure 24: Gene expression in AECII derived from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice
and SPC-HA transgenic mice. Different genes were selected to analyze their expression level in
AECII by RT-PCR. (A) Genes encoding costimulatory molecules (PD1-L, ICOS-L, MHC II, CD80 and
CD86) were used to determine the stimulatory capacity of AECII on the molecular level. (B) represents
selected genes for Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-9, MMP-2 and MMP-3) and (C) MCP-1 and TGF-β.
The housekeeping gene RPS9 was used to estimate the quality and quantity of used cDNA.

RT-PCR results clearly indicate a potentially costimulatory function of AECII derived
from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. MHC class-II molecules were
constitutively expressed on AECII, whereas CD80 and CD86 were exclusively
expressed on AECII from diseased mice. These data suggest that under
inflammatory conditions found in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice the
expression of costimulatory molecules is upregulated. Furthermore, ICOS-L and
PD1-L were both expressed in AECII from healthy and diseased mice, suggesting
the putative ability of AECII to regulate T cell responses by binding to their receptors.
Regarding RT-PCR data for Matrix metalloproteinases-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-3 both
genes were equally present in AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA and SPC-HA mice
whereas for MMP-9 an upregulation could be detected in AECII isolated from SPCHA x TCR-HA mice. These data suggest that under inflammatory conditions AECII
actively counteract tissue destruction by remodelling the airways at least in part in a
MMP dependent process.

-68-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

As described for AECII they are able to express and release TGF-β to control their
accessory cell function (Zissel et al., 2000) and RT-PCR data confirm TGF-β
expression by AECII. However, no clear difference in the TGF-β expression level was
observed when comparing AECII from diseased and healthy mice.
RT-PCR results for the macrophage inflammatory protein-1 (MCP-1) indicated a
decreased expression of MCP-1 in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. The
data were confirmed on protein level by analyzing the culture supernatants of AECII
by cytokine bead array (CBA) (data not shown).

4.4

Antigen presentation in the lung

The epithelial surfaces of the lungs and conducting airways are continuously
exposed to mixtures of antigens present in ambient air. The adaptive immune system
in the lung is faced with the task of accurately categorizing these stimuli, such that T
cell responses that are qualitatively appropriate for neutralization of each agent are
selected. Secondarily, it must tightly control the intensity and duration of these
responses, in order to preserve the integrity of the fragile, highly vascularized
epithelial surfaces in the organ, particularly those at which gas exchange occurs.
The epithelial surfaces within the major conducting airways in which the majority of
inhaled antigen is deposited are protected via the scrubbing action of the overlying
mucociliary escalator, and the small proportion of inhaled antigen that escapes this
mechanism and penetrates into the underlying epithelial layer is then dealt with via
specialized antigen-presenting cells (APC), in particular Dendritic cell (DC)
populations, within and below the epithelium. The alveolar surfaces in the deep lung
are policed instead by macrophage populations, again backed up to APC population
below the alveolar epithelium.
The mechanism for the uptake or presentation of endogenous or self-antigens like
the HA in the SPC-HA mouse model is still unclear. Dendritic cells and macrophages
are discussed to act as professional APC which are able to take up and crosspresent self-antigens from surrounding cells to other immune cells. The interesting
question was now, which kind of APC are able and/or essential to present the
-69-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

hemagglutinin to autoreactive CD4+ T cells in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic
mouse and importantly, whether the antigen expressing AECII themselves are able
to present the self antigen to the 6.5+CD4+ T cells. To test whether AECII cells
directly present antigen to specific CD4+ T cells, or whether AECII derived HA has to
be taken up by DC or macrophages to be is cross-presented to specific T cells,
different types of professional antigen-presenting cells were generated or isolated
and cocultured together with freshly isolated antigen expressing AECII derived from
SPC-HA mice.

4.5
To

Presentation of AECII expressed self-antigen mediated by Dendritic cells
investigate

whether

Dendritic

cells

do

crosspresent

AECII

expressed

hemagglutinin to autoreactive CD4+ T cells, 2.5 x 104 immature bone marrow derived
Dendritic cells (BMDC) were cocultured with 1 x 105 freshly isolated type II epithelial
cells from the lung of SPC-HA transgenic mice and BALB/c control mice. After 48h
2.5 x 105 CD4+ T cells isolated from TCR-HA mice were added as responder cells.
The proliferation of 6.5+CD4+ T cells was measured by 3[H]-thymidine incorporation
after further 48h coculture with AECII and BMDC (figure 25). Alternatively, the assay
was performed in the presence of LPS to initiate the maturation of BMDC. In this
case, 24h after coculture of immature DC with AECII LPS was supplemented.

-70-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Proliferation (cpm)

A
60000

Figure 25: Endogenous self-antigen

50000

presentation to autoreactive CD4+ T
cells mediated by DC. 1 x 105 freshly

40000

isolated AECII from SPC-HA or BALB/C

30000

mice were cocultured with 2.5 x 104

20000

immature bone marrow derived DC for
48h. After 48h 2.5 x 105 CD4+ T cells

10000

from TCR-HA mice were added and

0

BALB/c

B

SPC-HA

for

further

48h.

The

proliferation of responder cells was
100000

determined

90000

Proliferation (cpm)

incubated

by

3

[H]-thymidine

80000

incorporation. (A) DC-AECII coculture

70000

without LPS treatment. (B) After 24h of

60000

DC-AECII coculture, LPS was added to

50000

initiate the maturation of BM DC.

40000
30000

Results are expressed as mean counts

20000

per minute + SD (error bars) of triplicate

10000

wells and are representative of two

0

BALB/c

SPC-HA

independent experiments.

As indicated in figure 25, coculture of AECII with immature and mature Dendritic cells
and HA-specific T cells resulted in antigen-specific T cell proliferation, suggesting
that Dendritic cells were able to take up and cross present the self-antigen
hemagglutinin expressed by AECII from SPC-HA transgenic mice to autoreactive
CD4+ T cells. LPS treatment during the coculture experiment lead to even stronger
proliferation of responder T cells, probably because DC maturation induced by LPS
results in upregulation of costimulatory molecules on DC and thus in enhanced T cell
activation.

-71-

CHAPTER II
4.6

Results Part II

Peritoneal exudate cells (PEC) as antigen presenting cells can not
mediate self-antigen presentation to autoreactive T cells

Macrophages and B lymphocytes are also professional antigen presenting cells,
which are able to take up antigens and present it to responder cells. To clarify
whether macrophages and B lymphocytes contribute to the presentation of the
hemagglutinin expressed by AECII in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice to
autoreactive CD4+ T cells, PEC isolated from BALB/c mice were cocultured together
with AECII from SPC-HA transgenic mice and BALB/c control mice. Peritoneal
exudate cells (PEC) were used as a cellular source for macrophages and B
lymphocytes. 2.5 x 104 PEC were cocultured with 1 x 105 freshly isolated AECII from
SPC-HA and BALB/c mice. After 48h 2.5 x 105 CD4+ T cells from TCR-HA mice were
added as responder cells. After further 48h proliferation of the responder cells was
measured by 3[H]-thymidine incorporation.
Figure 26: PEC were not able to
Proliferation (cpm)

60000
50000

BALB/c

cross present the AECII expressed

SPC-HA

hemagglutinin to responder cells. 2.5
x 104 PEC were cocultured together

40000

with freshly isolated AECII from SPC30000

HA transgenic mice and BALB/c mice.

20000

After 48h 2.5 x 105 CD4+ T cells from

10000

TCR-HA

mice

were

supplemented.

Corresponding HA-peptide was added
0

as positive control. Proliferation of

10

0

responder cells was measured by 3[H]-

Peptide (µg/ml)

thymidine incorporation. Results are
expressed as mean counts per minute
+ SD (error bars) of triplicate wells and
are representative of two independent
experiments.

Macrophages as well as B lymphocytes were not able to present the AECII derived
hemagglutinin to 6.5+CD4+ T cells and to activate them (figure 26). No significant
antigen specific proliferation was detectable in this coculture assay without addition
of exogenous HA-peptide. This could be an indication that macrophages and B
-72-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

lymphocytes might not be involved in the hemagglutinin antigen presentation and
activation of autoreactive T cells in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice.

4.7

The antigen presenting capacity of alveolar type II epithelial cells

Data summarized in figure 25 suggest that the presentation of the self-antigen
hemagglutinin in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice could be mediated by Dendritic cells. It is
well established, that epithelial cells themselves have the capacity to function as APC
and that they are able to trigger MHC class-I-restricted immune responses
(Cunningham et al., 1994; Shao et al., 2005). To demonstrate whether alveolar type
II epithelial cells from murine lung are able to present a MHC class-I-restricted
peptide to CD8 T cells, 1 x 105 freshly isolated AECII from BALB/c mice were loaded
with different concentration of the corresponding HA-peptide and incubated together
with 2 x 105 CD8+ responder T cells isolated from Clone-4 mice bearing a major
histocompatibility complex class-I-restricted T cell receptor specific for an H-2Kd
restricted HA peptide (Morgan et al., 1996). T cell proliferation was measured by 3[H]thymidine incorporation.
Figure 27: AECII mediate CD8+ T cell

Proliferation (cpm)

250000

proliferation. 1 x 105 freshly isolated
AECII from BALB/c mice were loaded

200000

with different concentrations of the
150000

corresponding

HA-peptide

and

co-

5

+

cultured together with 2 x 10 CD8 T

100000

cells from CL4 mice. Proliferation of
responder T cells was measured by

50000

3

[H]-thymidine

0
0

0,1

1

incorporation.

Results

are expressed as mean counts per
minute + SD (error bars) of triplicate

Peptide (µg/ml)

wells and are representative of two
independent experiments.

Clearly, alveolar type II epithelial cells from murine lung are able to present the MHC
class-I restricted HA-peptide to CD8+ T cells and provoke a dose dependent antigen
specific T cell proliferation.
-73-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Zissel and colleagues described the upregulation of MHC class-II molecules for
AECII under inflammatory settings and as shown in figure 24, MHC II expression is
also observed in AECII from healthy mice. To asses whether freshly isolated AECII
have the ability to present the MHC class-II restricted peptide HA110-120 to CD4+ T
cells from TCR-HA mice, 1 x 105 freshly isolated AECII from BALB/c mice were
loaded with the corresponding HA-peptide and incubated together with 2 x 105 CD4+
responder T cells isolated from TCR-HA mice. T cell proliferation was measured by
3

[H]-thymidine incorporation.
Figure 28: AECII mediate CD4+ T cell

Proliferation (cpm)

45000
40000

proliferation. 1 x 105 freshly isolated

35000

AECII from BALB/c mice were loaded

30000

with the corresponding HA-peptide and

25000

cocultured together with 2 x 105 CD4+ T

20000

cells from TCR-HA mice. Proliferation

15000

of responder T cells was measured by

10000

3

[H]-thymidine

5000

incorporation.

Results

are expressed as mean counts per

0
0

minute + SD (error bars) of triplicate

10

wells and are representative of two

Peptide (µg/ml)

independent experiments.

Data revealed that not only MHC class-I, but also the MHC class-II restricted peptide
HA110-120 was presented by AECII to 6.5+CD4+ T cells and resulted in the
stimulation and proliferation of responder T cells (figure 27, figure 28).
It was interesting to analyze, whether endogenous HA expressed by type II epithelial
cells in SPC-HA transgenic mice could also be MHC class-II presented by AECII
themselves to stimulate MHCII restricted autoreactive T cells. To test this, alveolar
type II epithelial cells from SPC-HA transgenic mice were isolated and used as APC
without the addition of further APC to stimulate CD4+ T cells isolated from TCR-HA
mice. 1 x 105 AECII were cocultured together with 2.5 x 105 naïve CD4+ T cells to
determine the stimulatory capacity of antigen expressing AECII. AECII from BALB/c
mice were used as a negative control. After 48h T cell proliferation was measured by
3

[H]-thymidine incorporation. Alternatively, the same assay was performed with T

cells previously activated in vitro with the corresponding peptide.
-74-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Figure 29: Stimulatory capacity of

A

Proliferation (cpm)

12000

AECII from SPC-HA transgenic mice.
1 x 105 freshly isolated AECII from

10000

SPC-HA

8000

transgenic

mice

were

5

cocultured with 2.5 x 10 naïve CD4+ T

6000

cells (A) or activated CD4+ T cells (B)

4000

isolated from TCR-HA mice. After 48h T
cell proliferation was determined by

2000

3

[H]-thymidine

0

BALB/c

SPC-HA

B

incorporation.

Results

are expressed as mean counts per
minute + SD (error bars) of triplicate

25000

Proliferation (cpm)

wells and are representative of two
independent

20000

experiments.

P-values

calculated by unpaired Student´s test

15000

are indicated ( * ) < 0.002.

10000

5000

0

BALB/c

SPC-HA

The data obtained demonstrate that alveolar type II epithelial cells have the inherent
capacity to present endogenous antigen on MHC class-II molecules and to stimulate
naïve as well as activated CD4+ T cells (figure 29). These results suggest that selfantigen presentation in the lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice may
not exclusively be dependent on professional APC like dendritic cells, but that HA
expressing AECII might themselves contribute to the stimulation of antigen-specific T
cells and thus in the initiation of inflammation. This interesting aspect suggests a key
role of the alveolar type II epithelial cells for the development of T cell mediated lung
disease in the SPC-HA x TCR-HA mouse model.

-75-

CHAPTER II
4.8

Results Part II

Reduced stimulatory capacity of AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice

To examine the role of AECII for the induction and regulation of autoreactive T cells
responses in more detail, further experiments were performed to compare the
stimulatory capacity of AECII derived from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic
diseased mice with AECII from SPC-HA transgenic healthy mice. To this end, 1 x 105
freshly isolated AECII from either SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice, SPCHA transgenic mice or BALB/c mice were cocultured together with naïve or activated
CD4+ T cells from TCR-HA mice. After 48h the proliferation of the responder T cells
was measured by 3[H]-thymidine incorporation (figure 30).
Again it was found, that alveolar type II epithelial cells from SPC-HA mice were able
to stimulate HA-specific T cells. However, data presented in figure 30 demonstrate a
significant difference in the stimulatory capacity of AECII derived from healthy SPCHA and diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA. AECII from diseased mice exhibit a
significantly reduced stimulatory capacity in comparison to AECII from healthy SPCHA mice. The proliferation of naïve T cells cocultured together with AECII from SPCHA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice was decreased to background level of the
BALB/c control and even lower, suggesting not only reduced stimulatory capacity, but
also inhibition of T cell proliferation by AECII from diseased mice. Similar results
were obtained when pre-activated T cells were used as responder cells (figure 30).
Analyses of the activation/memory phenotype of 6.5+CD4+ T cells re-isolated after
coculture with alveolar type II epithelial cells from healthy and diseased mice by
FACS underline the proliferation data from coculture experiments. Summarizing
these findings, 6.5+CD4+ T cells cocultured with AECII from SPC-HA transgenic mice
have shown a more activation/memory phenotype compared to T cells cocultured
with AECII from diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice (data not shown).

-76-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Proliferation (cpm)

A
12000

Figure

10000

capacity of AECII from SPC-HA x

stimulatory

105 AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA

6000

double

4000

transgenic mice and BALB/c mice were

transgenic

mice,

SPC-HA

freshly isolated and cocultured together
with naïve (A) or activated (B) CD4+ T

0

BALB/c

SPC-HA

SPC-HAxTCR-HA

cells from TCR-HA mice. After 48h the
proliferation of responder T cells was

B
25000

Proliferation (cpm)

Reduced

TCR-HA double transgenic mice. 1 x

8000

2000

measured

by

3

[H]-thymidine

incorporation. Results are expressed as

20000

mean counts per minute + SD (error
15000

bars) of triplicate

wells and are

representative of three independent

10000

experiments. P-values calculated by
5000

unpaired Student´s test are indicated
( * ) < 0.001.

0

BALB/c

4.9

30:

SPC-HA

SPC-HAxTCR-HA

Analysis of hemagglutinin expression in AECII SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice and SPC-HA transgenic mice

The self-antigen hemagglutinin (HA) is expressed under the surfactant protein C
promoter in alveolar type II epithelial cells of SPC-HA transgenic mice. To asses
whether the reduced stimulatory capacity was simply the consequence of a loss of
HA expression in AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice, the level of HA expression in
AECII under inflamed and noninflamed conditions was determined. Therefore, total
mRNA was isolated and analyzed with specific primer pairs by RT-PCR. RPS9 was
used as housekeeping gene to test the RNA quality and quantity (figure 31).

-77-

Results Part II

SP

C-H
Ax
SP
TC
C-H
R- H
A
A
SP
C-H
Ax
SP
TC
R-H
C-H
A
A
SP
C-H
Ax
SP
C-H TCR
-HA
A
H
2O

CHAPTER II

Figure 31: Semi-quantitaive RT-PCR analysis of AECII
from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice and SPC-HA control mice to
estimate the HA expression. mRNA from AECII derived
from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice and SPC-HA
transgenic

mice

hemagglutinin

HA

was

(HA)

isolated

expression

and

analyzed

for

the

by

RT-PCR.

Different

amounts of cDNA were used. (1 = undiluted; 1:3 diluted and
1:6 diluted). RPS9 was used as a housekeeping gene.

RPS9
1

1:3

1:6

Results of the RT-PCR indicates a decreased HA mRNA expression level in SPC-HA
x TCR-HA double transgenic mice compared to healthy SPC-HA transgenic mice.
However, also in the inflamed environment HA expression was clearly detectable,
thus reduced antigen expression alone could not explain the complete loss of HAspecific T cell stimulation.

4.10

The impact of AECII conditioned media on CD4+ T cell proliferation

Data presented above demonstrate, that alveolar type II epithelial cells derived from
the inflamed lung tissue of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice have a
reduced T cell stimulatory capacity. Moreover, cocultured responder T cells exhibited
a less activation/memory phenotype compared to autoreactive T cells cocultured
together with AECII from healthy SPC-HA transgenic mice.
The reduced stimulatory capacity of AECII or the suppression of T cell proliferation
respectively could be the result of cell-cell contact dependent mechanisms or depend
on soluble factors, secreted by AECII. To assess the impact of soluble factors
derived from AECII on T cell activation and proliferation, freshly isolated AECII from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice, SPC-HA transgenic mice and BALB/c
control mice were cultured for 48h. The culture supernatants were collected and used
as culture medium for naïve CD4+ T cells stimulated with anti-CD3ε antibodies.
Proliferation of the anti-CD3ε stimulated CD4+ T cell was measured by 3[H]-thymidine
incorporation. Fresh IMDM culture medium was used as a control to estimate the
proliferation of anti-CD3ε stimulated CD4+ T cells under standard conditions.
-78-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II
Figure 32: AECII conditioned media

140000

Proliferation (cpm)

suppressed proliferation of naïve T
120000

cells. 1 x 105 AECII isolated from

100000

BALB/c, SPC-HA and SPC-HA x TCR-

80000

HA mice were cultured for 48h. 1 x 105

60000

naïve CD4+ T cell were stimulated in

40000

vitro with anti-CD3ε antibodies in the
presence of conditioned media derived

20000

from
0

BALB/c

SPC-HA

SPC-HA
x
TCR-HA

IMDM

different

AECII

cultures.

Proliferation was measured by

3

thymidine

72h.

incorporation

after

[H]-

Results are expressed as mean counts
per minute + SD (error bars) of triplicate
wells and are representative of three
independent experiments. P-values
calculated by unpaired Student´s test
are indicated ( * ) < 0.001.

As shown in figure 32, T cells cultured in conditioned medium of AECII derived from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA exhibit a 50% reduced proliferation rate in comparison to T cells
cultured in AECII conditioned medium from SPC-HA, BALB/c control mice or fresh
control media.
These results strongly suggest that AECII derived from SPC-HA x TCR-HA diseased
mice do not only have a reduced capacity to stimulate CD4+ T cells, but furthermore
actively suppress T cell proliferation at least in part by soluble factors secreted in the
culture medium.

4.11

Differences in the surfactant protein expression in AECII from SPC-HA x
TCR-HA double transgenic mice and SPC-HA transgenic mice.

Pulmonary surfactant was initially identified as a lipoprotein complex that reduces
surface tension at the air-liquid interface of the lung (Clements, 1957; Pattle, 1955).
This definition has been reassessed in light of recent studies that show that
surfactant also functions in pulmonary host defence and that surfactant proteins are
expressed also in non-pulmonary sites. The host defence functions of surfactant are
primarily mediated by SP-A and SP-D, which are members of the collectin family of
-79-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

proteins. An emphasis is placed on recent studies showing that, in addition to their
well-established role as opsonsins, SP-A and SP-D also have novel functions in
initiating parturition, facilitating clearance of apoptotic cells and directly killing bacteria.
Furthermore, immunoregulatory functions of the surfactant proteins A und D on T
cells are discussed (Wright, 2005).
To asses the expression level of the surfactant proteins A, C and D under
inflammatory condition RNA was purified form sorted AECII isolated from SPC-HA x
TCR-HA double transgenic and SPC-HA transgenic mice. Real-time RT-PCR
analyses were performed with specific primer pairs for RPS9, SP-A, SP-C and SP-D
to determine the gene expression of the surfactant proteins in comparison with the
expression of the housekeeping gene RPS9 (figure 33).
SP-A

Figure
SPC-HA
x
TCR-HA

33:

Surfactant

protein

expression in AECII derived from SPC-

2,38

HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice
and SPC-HA transgenic mice. Real-time
RT-PCR analyses for SP-A, SP-C and SP-

SPC-HA

1

D expression in sorted AECII from SPCHA x TCR-HA and SPC-HA mice. Relative

0

0,5

1

1,5

2

2,5

3

fold change

mRNA levels were normalized with respect
to expression levels in AECII derived from

SP-C

SPC-HA transgenic mice (fold change = 1).
The mean regulation is indicated.

SPC-HA
x
TCR-HA

0,9

SPC-HA

1

0

0,5

1

1,5

2

2,5

3

fold change

SP-D
SPC-HA
x

2,27

TCR-HA

SPC-HA

0

1

0,5

1

1,5

fold change

2

2,5

3

-80-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

Results of the real-time RT-PCR analysis for the surfactant proteins SP-A, SP-C and
SP-D demonstrate an increased mRNA expression for SP-A and SP-D in AECII from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared to AECII from SPC-HA mice. Analysis of the
relative mRNA expression level of SP-C indicates no significant regulation when
diseased and healthy mice were compared (figure 33).
These data suggested that due to the inflammatory process in the lungs of SPC-HA x
TCR-HA transgenic mice expression of SP-A and SP-D were increased in alveolar
type II epithelial cells and may contribute to the suppression of T cell proliferation
observed after T cell stimulation in AECII conditioned medium (figure 32).

4.12

The effect of AECII/CD4+ T cell coculture on the T cell phenotype and
function

Data above suggested an immune modulatory role of AECII in SPC-HA x TCR-HA
double transgenic mice. The coculture experiments above demonstrated a reduced
proliferative capacity of CD4+ T cells (figure 30) and the suppression of CD4+ T cell
proliferation by AECII conditioned medium (figure 32). Furthermore, the ex vivo
analysis of lung lymphocytes from diseased mice indicates the induction of regulatory
T cells with a typical Treg1 phenotype in the lung.
To directly examine the effect of AECII derived from diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA
and healthy SPC-HA on the phenotype and function of autoreactive T cells, 5 x 105
freshly isolated AECII from either SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice, SPCHA transgenic mice or BALB/c mice were cocultured together with 1.4 x 106 naïve
CD4+ T cells isolated from TCR-HA mice. After 48h the responder T cells were reisolated by ficoll density gradient centrifugation and total RNA was isolated for gene
expression analyses by RT-PCR (figure 34).

-81-

Results Part II

2O

A
H

C
-H
SP

SP

B
AL
B

/c

C
-H
A

x

TC

R
-H

A

CHAPTER II

Foxp3

IL-10
PD1
CD103, αEβ7 Integrin
Galectin

GITR, TNFSRF18

Neuropilin-1
RPS9
1

1:6

1

1:6

1

1:6

Figure 34: Semi-quantitaive RT-PCR analysis of re-isolated CD4+ T cells prior cocultured with
AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA, SPC-HA and BALB/c mice. To assess the effect of AECII derived
from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice, SPC-HA transgenic mice and BALB/c control mice
on the phenotype of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells the expression of different molecular marker genes
for regulatory T cells including CD103 (alphaEbeta7), Neuropilin-1, GITR (TNFRSF18), Foxp3, Galectin,
PD-1 and IL-10 was analyzed. RPS9 was used as a housekeeping gene. Different amounts of cDNA
(undiluted (1) and 1:6 diluted) were used for the semi-quantitative RT-PCR analyses.

Alternatively, CD4+ T cells were re-isolated after coculture with AECII and used as
effector cells in standard inhibition assay. Therefore, 5 x 104 freshly isolated CD4+
responder T cells were plated together with the same number of T cells re-isolated
after AECII coculture in 96-well flat-bottom plates in a final volume of 200µl IMDM in
the presence of 0.75µg/ml soluble α-CD3ε and 5 x 105 irradiated BALB/c splenocytes.
As control, the proliferatory capacity of re-isolated CD4+ T cell alone was determined
by restimulation with soluble α-CD3ε. To this end, 5 x 104 T cells re-isolated after the
coculture with AECII were plated in 96-well flat-bottom plates in a final volume of
200µl IMDM in the presence of 0.75µg/ml soluble α-CD3ε and 5 x 105 irradiated
BALB/c splenocytes. Cells were cultured at 37°C for 48h. Over the last 8h of the
-82-

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

experiment 3[H]-thymidine incorporation was measured by scintillation counting to
asses proliferation (figure 35, figure 36). As a further internal control, 105 naïve
responder T cells were cultured in the presence of 5 x 105 irradiated BALB/c
splenocytes to asses the proliferation of naïve T cells alone.

80000

Proliferation (cpm)

70000
60000
50000
40000
30000
20000
10000
0

BALB/c

SPC-HA

SPC-HA
x
TCR-HA

naive
CD4+
T cells

Figure 35: AECII cocultured CD4+ T cells show no inhibitory effect on the proliferation of naïve
CD4+ T cells. 5 x 104 naïve CD4+ responder T cells were plated together with the same number of T
cells re-isolated after coculture with AECII from BALB/c, SPC-HA and SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice in the
presence of 0.75µg/ml soluble α-CD3ε and 5 x 105 irradiated BALB/c splenocytes. As internal control
105 naïve responder T cells were cultured in the presence of irradiated BALB/c splenocytes. Cells
were cultured at 37°C for 48h. 3[H]-thymidine incorporation was measured by scintillation counting to
asses the proliferation of responder T cells. Results are expressed as mean counts per minute + SD
(error bars) of triplicate wells and are representative of three independent experiments.

The analysis of CD4+ T cell re-isolated after coculture with AECII derived from SPCHA x TCR-HA, SPC-HA and BALB/c mice did not result in significant differences of
gene expression pattern (figure 34). Although molecular marker genes specific for
regulatory T cells could be detected on mRNA level by RT-PCR, no significant
differences regarding their expression level could be observed comparing re-isolated
T cells after cocultur with AECII from diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA or healthy SPCHA or BALB/c control mice. Only the expression of PD-1 was increased in T cells
cocultured with AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice and SPC-HA mice compared to
AECII derived from BALB/c mice. Furthermore, increased mRNA expression was
found for the transcription factor Foxp3 in T cells re-isolated form cocultures with
AECII derived from SPC-HA transgenic mice in comparison to AECII from diseased
SPC-HA x TCR-HA or BALB/c control mice.
-83-

Proliferation (cpm)

CHAPTER II

Results Part II

16000

Figure 36: Reduced proliferation of T

14000

cells

re-isolated
+

after

AECII

T cells re-isolated

12000

coculture. CD4

10000

after coculture with AECII from BALB/c,

8000

SPC-HA and SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice

6000

were

restimulated

4000

soluble

α-CD3ε.

2000

incorporation
scintillation

0

BALB/c

SPC-HA

SPC-HA
x
TCR-HA

was
counting

with

0.75µg/ml

3

[H]-thymidine

measured
to

asses

by
the

proliferation. Results are expressed as
mean counts per minute + SD (error
bars) of triplicate wells and are
representative of three independent
experiments.

The functional characterization of re-isolated T cell concerning their putative
inhibitory ability after coculture with AECII indicates no suppressive effect of T cells
on responder T cells activated in vitro. In any case the responder T cells proliferated
equally well in the presence of soluble α-CD3ε as freshly isolated CD4+ T cells alone.
The increased proliferation rate of naïve CD4+ T cells alone was caused by the
higher numbers of responder T cells used for the assay to get equal cell numbers.
Furthermore, a reduced proliferative capacitiy was observed upon restimulation of T
cells prior cocultured with AECII (figure 35).
Nevertheless the proliferative capacity of T cells cocultured with AECII derived from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice was reduced in comparison to T cells
cocultured with AECII from SPC-HA transgenic mice and BALB/c control mice
(Figure 36).
In conclusion, data obtained from these in vitro coculture experiments did not
unreveal the direct effect of AECII on the induction of a certain T cell phenotype. The
analyses of the expression levels of molecular marker genes specific for regulatory T
cells did not result in significant differences depending on the AECII used for
coculture. Moreover, no suppressor function could be detected for re-isolated T cells.
However, T cells re-isolated after coculture with AECII from diseased mice exhibit a
reduced proliferative capacity when compared with T cells isolated after SPC-HA or
BALB/c AECII coculture, thus suggesting an active role of AECII isolated from an
inflammatory environment in the induction of T cell unresponsiveness and anergy.
-84-

CHAPTER III

CHAPTER III
Discussion and Summary

-85-

CHAPTER III

1

Discussion

Discussion

The respiratory mucosa as well as immunity in the respiratory tract is a wide area for
scientific investigations. In comparison to the gastrointestinal tract and its
immunological function little is known about the immune system of the respiratory
tract. The respiratory tract is a fragile tissue with architecture that is finely designed
for gas exchange. Due to this main function the lung is exposed to numerous
pathogens and other harmful air pollutions and developed many mechanisms to
prevent infectious and inflammations. In the first line of defence are structural
mechanisms coming from barriers such as epithelial cell layers, mucus and cilia,
which avoid the invasion of pathogens or antigens. A battery of mediators that
constitute the innate response including lactoferin, lysozyme, collectins and
defensins is followed. Activation of these molecules can lead directly to lysis of
pathogens, or to destruction through opsonisation or the recruitment of inflammatory
cells (Boyton et al., 2002). A further mechanism for the respiratory defence is the
adaptive immune response including the production of neutralising antibodies and
the response of T lymphocytes. To guarantee the gas exchange even in situations of
infections and inflammations, the lung has to balance immune responses to avoid
immunological collapses and/or caused tissue damages. Therefore, the lung creates
a tolerogenic and suppressive milieu to prevent consequences of an uncontrolled
immune response.
A significant number of lung diseases are presumed to be T cell mediated based in
part on the observation of T cell accumulation in sites of disease activity. These
accumulations can be mediated by CD8+ T cells as well as CD4+ T cells like in
interstitial lung diseases (ILD). ILD represent a large class of heterogeneous
disorders involving the lung parenchyma, that is to say, the alveolar epithelium, the
interstitial connective tissue, vasculature, and lymphatic tissue. However, the
different aspects influencing the balance of lymphocyte immigration, local
proliferation, and apoptosis, and thereby the numbers of lymphocytes in the lung
under disease conditions, are only partially understood in interstitial lung disease
(Pabst et al., 1999).
Even less understood are the mechanisms regulating CD4+ T cell responses directed
to lung specific proteins and the regulation of their effector activity, because lung
lymphocyte reactions can not be reflected by the situation of lymphocytes in the
-86-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

blood. Therefore, the well established and described SPC-HA x TCR-HA transgenic
mouse model (Bruder et al., 2004) is an important tool to get further insights into the
mechanisms underlying the induction and regulation of T cell mediated immune
reactions in the lung. The SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mouse model
combines important features of a variety of lung diseases and can be used to get a
better understanding of the requirements for, and consequences of chronic T cellmediated lung injury.
The outcome of autoimmune diseases is caused by an inefficient deletion of selfreactive T cells in the thymus and insufficient self-tolerance to self-antigens in the
periphery. In SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice, 6.5+CD4+ self-reactive T
cells could be detected in the peripheral lymphatic organs including spleen,
mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN), bronchial lymph nodes (BLN), cervical lymph nodes
(CVLN), axillary lymph nodes (AXLN), inguinal lymph nodes (INLN) and the lung as
the self-antigen expressing organ (figure 11). These finding was not unexpected, as it
has been described previously that expression of the HA-antigen in pancreas
(Degermann et al., 1994; Sarukhan et al., 1998) and in hemapoetic cells (Lanoue et
al., 1997) of INS-HA x TCR-HA and IgHA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice does not
lead to complete deletion of 6.5+ T cells. A possible explanation for the escape from
central tolerance might involve coexpression of two different T cell receptors by the
same cell. Due to allelic inclusion of TCRα genes self-reactive T cells may leave the
thymus resulting in induction of autoimmunity in the periphery (Sarukhan et al., 1998).
Flow cytometry analysis revealed an increased number of 6.5+CD4+ T cells in SPCHA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice in lung and BLN in comparison to healthy
TCR-HA transgenic control mice. Other examined lymphoid organs did not show
increased numbers of autoreactive T cells (figure 11). The detailed analysis of
6.5+CD4+ T cells in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice by Flow cytometry
showed that autoreactive T cells isolated from the lung exhibited an activated
phenotype. As shown, before the activation markers CD69 and CD25 were
significantly increased as well as the expression of the CD45RB and CD62L memory
markers was reduced (figure 12). This is consistent with the hypothesis, that HAspecific CD4+ T cells encounter their specific antigen which is expressed exclusively
by alveolar type II epithelial cells (AECII). Surprisingly, no enhanced/reduced
-87-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

expression of activation/memory markers could be shown for the BLN, which are the
lymph nodes draining the lung (figure 12). This finding could be an indication for a
locally limited inflammatory response and may indicate that the lung itself and not the
draining lymph nodes represent the immunological compartment were autoimmune T
cell activation is induced and immune regulation takes place.
Also, in contrast to lung lymphocytes the expression level for CD25 and CD69 of
lymphocytes from other peripheral tissues like spleen, MLN, AXLN, CVLN and INLN
was not increased when the different compartments from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice
and TCR-HA mice were compared. The same could be observed for the expression
of CD45RB and CD62L. Exceptions for the expression of these two memory markers
were the lymphocytes from spleen and MLN, which exhibited decreased expression
of CD45RB and CD62L in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice compared to TCR-HA transgenic
mice (figure 12).
Taken together, in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice the lung epithelium
expresses the self-antigen hemagglutinin and the lung appears to be the place were
primary T cell activation occurs. Autoreactive 6.5+CD4+ T cells proliferate in and/or
infiltrate the lung and exhibit a strongly activated phenotype in the presence of the
self-antigen HA. No evidence was found that the inflammation overlaps to other
tissues or lymphatic organs, thus in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice disease is exclusively
restricted to the lung.
In SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice the lung inflammation did not progress
uncontrolled, i.e. inflammation did not result in complete tissue destruction or death.
Thus, although multifocal acute alveolar necrosis with hemorrhage, intraalveolar
fibrin deposition, consistent with acute tissue damage could be observed in 9-day-old
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice, inflammation reached a plateau which
was characterized by primarily diffuse to follicular lymphocytic infiltration in elder mice
(Bruder et al., 2004). These results suggested regulatory mechanism that may exist
and/or develop under autoimmune conditions to counteract the progression of
inflammatory processes in the lung, thus preventing uncontrolled tissue destruction
and lethal physiological derangement.
In previously works it could be shown that expression of HA under the control of the
Ig κ promoter by hemapoetic cells resulted in tolerance rather than inflammation due
to the permantent antigen expression both in thymus and in the periphery (Buer et al.,
-88-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

1998). Therefore, detailed analysis was reasonable to assess whether mature
6.5+CD4+ T cells found in peripheral lymphoid organs of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice are still functional with respect to their proliferative capacity upon
antigen encounter. Because of the finding that mature 6.5+CD4+ T cells from SPC-HA
x TCR-HA double transgenic mice can be activated with the corresponding peptide in
vitro, Bruder and colleagues could exclude the possibility that the self-reactive
peripheral T cells from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice were rendered in
an anergic state. However, they could also show that the proliferative capacity of lung
lymphocytes from SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice was reduced by approximately 50%
when compared with lung T cells from TCR-HA control mice. Further molecular
analysis of 6.5+CD4+ T cells isolated from inflamed lung of SPC-HA x TCR-HA
double transgenic mice resulted in a changed chemokine and gene expression
profile compared to autoreactive T cells isolated from TCR-HA control mice. This
phenotype is resembles that of Treg 1 cells. To verify the results obtained by global
gene expression profiling of 6.5+CD4+ lung lymphocytes derived from SPC-HA x
TCR-HA mice, the expression of specific marker genes for regulatory T cells was
tested by RT-PCR (figure 13). RT-PCR results confirmed array data obtained from
the autoreactive T cells isolated from diseased mice and demonstrated an elevated
expression of CTLA4, PD-1, ICOS, GITR and alphaEbeta7 (CD103) in autoreactive T
cells from double transgenic mice compared to naïve T cells from the TCR-HA mice.
It is known that these genes are not exclusively expressed on regulatory T cells but
on activated T cells, too (O´Garra and Vieira, 2004). Nevertheless a strong
upregulation of the activation independent genes Neuropilin-1 and Foxp3 was
detectable. These molecular marker genes are discussed to be specific for regulatory
T cells (Bruder et al., 2004; O´Garra and Vieira, 2004) thus these data clearly
indicate the induction of self-antigen-specific regulatory T cells in the lung of
diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice. Thus the SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic
mouse model represents an important tool to examine the mechanisms underlying
the induction and the function of regulatory T cells induced in vivo in the respiratory
tract.
The adoptive transfer experiments that were performed in this study demonstrated
the enormous impact of naturally occurring regulatory T cells and/or in vivo induced
regulatory T cells on the proliferation of autoreactive T cells in the lung. The
-89-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

immunohistochemistry of the lung (figure 14) shows the fast progress of the
infiltration of autoreactive T cells in SPC-HA transgenic mice after adoptive transfer
of CD4+ T cells from TCR-HA transgenic mice. Within seven days a rapid and distinct
lymphocyte infiltration took place and revealed the strong impact of autoreactive
CD4+ T cells on disease development and progression. The infiltration was antigenspecific because the documented lymphocytic invasion was completely absent in
BALB/c control mice (data not shown). Using this adoptive transfer system, further
analysis to study the influence of antigen specific naturally occurring T cells and in
vivo induced regulatory T cells could be performed.
Adoptive transfer experiments into SPC-HA transgenic mice demonstrated that the
small proportion of naturally occurring regulatory T cells was sufficient to efficiently
reduce the proliferation of naïve transgenic T cells in vivo (figure 15). In most of the
published transfer experiments which were performed to characterize the properties
of regulatory T cells, the hosts are lymphopenic and the transferred T cell subsets
are polyclonal with unknown antigen specificity (Asseman et al., 2003; Maloy et al.,
2003). Therefore, physiological regulatory functions cannot be distinguished easily
from effects that are caused by homeostatic proliferation and clonal expansion of
transferred cells (Bach, 2003; Barthlott et al., 2003). Transfer experiments into SPCHA mice are based on the use of animals with an intact immune cell repertoire. Thus,
the results summarized in figure 16 demonstrate that the effect of transferred T cells
on antigen specific proliferation and clonal expansion is due to suppressor function of
Treg cells and not a result of homeostatic proliferation in a lymphopenic host. Due to
the fact, that no proliferation of re-isolated transferred T cell could detect in other
organs (figure 15, figure 16) the observed T cell proliferation in lung and BLN is
based on the antigen specificity of the transferred T cells. Summarizing, the data
obtained from this adoptive transfer suggest the active suppression of proliferation of
autoreactive T cells in the lung after antigen encounter by HA specific
6.5+CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells and underlines the importance of Treg cells for the
control of autoimmune mediated T cell responses in the lung.
Similar to naturally occurring regulatory T cells adaptive or induced Treg cells are
discussed to have suppressive functions in vivo and in vitro (Maloy and Powrie, 2001;
Wraith et al., 2004). Adoptive transfer of autoreactive CD4+ T cells in SPC-HA x TCRHA double transgenic mice demonstrated the impact of induced regulatory T cells on
-90-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

autoreactive T cell proliferation. Data shown in figure 17 clearly indicate a strong
inhibition/suppression of the proliferation of adoptively transferred 6.5+CD4+ T cells in
lung and BLN of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice, whereas transferred
autoreactive T cells in SPC-HA transgenic mice underwent a strong proliferation.
Thus it could be shown, that the lung specific 6.5+CD4+ T cells from SPC-HA x TCRHA double transgenic mice not only correspond to the phenotype of Treg 1 cells, but
that these in vivo induced HA-specific Treg cells have the capacity to suppress the
proliferation of autoreactive T cells in vivo. This small proportion of induced
regulatory T cells was able to control the proliferation of autoreactive T cells in vivo
like natural Treg cells (figure 15).
The SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mouse exhibits as an autoimmune
disease model the possibility to examine immune responses and immune regulation.
Furthermore, this model provides insights into antigen-specific AECII/CD4+ T cell
crosstalk to clarify the role of the antigen expressing alveolar type II epithelial cells in
disease induction and regulation. Therefore, it was necessary to establish a new
protocol to isolate these cells from mice for ex vivo studies. Several isolation
protocols are already published for AECII for other organisms, which can not be used
for the isolation of murine AECII. Despite the lack of suitable surface molecules it
was possible to obtain a highly pure and vital AECII population from mice using the
newly established protocol. FACS, immunofluorescence, and PCR analysis revealed
that purified AECII exhibited only a minimal contamination of CD45+ cells. Isolated
cells were positive for AECII specific gene expression on mRNA and protein level
(figure 19, figure 21). Furthermore, the vitality of the isolated AECII was high, despite
physical stress caused by tissue disintegration and FACS-sorting (figure 20). The
minor contamination of hemapoetic CD45+ cells was classified as a small
macrophage population by RT-PCR (figure 21) and visually observations by
microscopy (data not shown). The data revealed that the newly established protocol
for isolation of AECII from mice is an efficient method to obtain a pure and vital
population of murine alveolar type II epithelial cells with the required features for ex
vivo analysis.
After establishing the AECII isolation protocol comparative transcriptional analysis of
type II alveolar epithelial cells were performed to bring further insights into the
molecular mechanism of type II pneumocyte-CD4+ T cell interaction. Thereby, a
heterogeneous set of genes differentially expressed in AECII under inflammatory
-91-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

conditions was identified. More than 400 genes were regulated in AECII from
diseased mice compared the healthy control, which could be classified in different
groups (figure 22). Interestingly, the expression levels for molecules involved in
antigen presentation were upregulated in AECII obtained from SPC-HA x TCR-HA
double transgenic mice. Especially, increased expression of molecules needed for
the MHC class-II restricted antigen presentation, like H2-Ea and H2-Ab1 (table 4)
were of interest and could be confirmed by RT-PCR analysis (figure 24), which in
addition to the presence of MHC class-II molecules also demonstrates elevated
expression of costimulatory molecules as CD86 and CD80. Furthermore, expression
of the genes encoding for TAP1 and proteasomal subunits were increased, thus
suggesting an enhanced efficiency of MHC class-I restricted antigen presentation
(table 4).
Genes responsible for cell cycle activity like cyclin A2 and cyclin D2 (Wu et al., 1995;
Bui et al., 1993) were regulated in AECII derived from SPC-HA x TCR-HA transgenic
mice suggesting a controlled proliferation of AECII in inflamed tissue, which could be
underlined by the differential expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) and
tissue inhibitor metalloproteinases (TIMP). These proteins are linked to airway
remodulation in pulmonary pathology and could be detected in AECII of patients with
diffuse alveolar damage and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (Chakrabarti and Patel,
2005; Hayashi et al., 1996). RT-PCR results (figure 24) revealed the presence of
MMP in AECII and demonstrated an increased expression of MMP-9, which was
similar to MMP-2 discussed in the context of pathogenesis of inflammatory, infectious
and neoplastic diseases in many organs including the lung (Chakrabarti and Patel,
2005).
The differential expression of different chemokines and other immune modulating
molecules like TGF-β3 and TGF-β2 (table 4) underlines, that AECII interact with
resident and mobile neighbour cells via secreted and diffusible signals (Fehrenbach,
2001). Members of the transforming growth factor-beta family are linked to
proliferation or secretion activities of AECII. For TGF-β3 it could be shown that the
production of TGF-β3 by AECII is dynamically downregulated during the proliferative
phase of recovery from acute hyperoxid injury (Buckley et al., 1996). Similar findings
could be shown for the TGF-β3 and TGF-β2 expression in AECII from SPC-HA x
TCR-HA double transgenic mice. Both molecules were downregulated and
suggested an enhanced proliferative activity of AECII controlled by TGF-β derivates.
-92-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

All these data linked to proliferation of AECII and remodulation of lung tissue
correspond to the fact, that AECII are the stem cells for alveolar type I epithelial cells
(AECI). To compensate the loss of AECI caused by lung injury through inflammation
or tissue damage, AECII have to proliferate and differentiate into AECI suggesting
that the observed tissue damage in SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice could be the reason for
an enhanced proliferative activity demonstrated by the increased or decreased
expression level of genes involved in proliferation of AECII.
Additionally, the CXC chemokines like CXCL2, CXCL13 and CXCL12 were regulated
in AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice compared to AECII from
SPC-HA transgenic mice. The main function of these chemokines is the attraction of
different cell types. For CXCL12 and CXCL13 it is described that these ligands bind
to CXCR4 and CXCR5, which are mainly expressed on T lymphocytes or fibrocytes
(Ebert et al., 2004). The downregulation of CXCL12 in AECII of SPC-HA x TCR-HA
mice could be an indicator of a controlled immune response. CXCL12 is an attractant
molecule for T cells and signals through the orphan receptor RDC1 in T lymphocytes
(Balabanian et al., 2005). Downregulation of T cell attractant substances could
minimize the infiltration of newly developed autoreactive T cells. According to this it is
shown, that CXCL13 has a key role in the development of inducible bronchus
associated lymphoid tissue (iBALT) in respiratory immunity (Moyron-Quiroz et al.,
2004) by attracting T lymphocytes. The role of BALT in mouse and humans are
controversialy discussed and it is reported that infection or inflammation triggers the
organization of lymphoid structures in the lung of both species (Chvatchko et al.,
1996; Delventhal et al., 1992; Tschernig and Pabst, 2000). These structures do not fit
the classical definition of BALT, as they are not formed independently of antigen
(Bienenstock and Johnston, 1976; Plesch et al., 1983). Because the inducible BALT
(iBALT) appears in the lung only after infection or inflammation, it is generally
assumed that iBALT is simply an accumulation of effector cells that were initially
primed in conventional lymphoid organs. The neo-formation of iBALT is caused by
inflammatory responses, which directly promote the recruitment, priming and
expansion of antigen-specific lymphocytes (Moyron-Quiroz et al., 2004). Concerning
these aspects it could be possible that AECII in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice, after the first inflammatory responses, downregulate CXCL13
expression to counteract new formation of iBALT and T cell infiltrations of naïve
autoreactive T cells.
-93-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

The chemokine CXCL2 is involved in attraction of polymorphonuclear granulocytes to
sites of infection (Matzer et al., 2004). These neutrophiles play an important role as
regulators of immune responses through release of cytokines such as IL-1, IL-3, IL-6,
IL-12, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) or TGF-β as well as chemokines such as
CCL2 (MCP-1) or CCL20 (MIP-3α) (Cassatella, 1995; Galligan and Yoshimura,
2003). Thus, increased expression of CXCL2 in AECII of diseased mice could attract
neutrophils that are known to act as a kind of control unit of inflammation.
Elevated expression of CCL20 and CCL9/10 by AECII has been shown to attract
other proinflammatory cells (Maurer and Stebut, 2004). Both chemokines were found
to be upregulated in AECII derived from diseased SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice (table 4).
In case of CCL20 it could be shown that AECII constitutively produce this chemokine
that can attract immature dendritic cells (imDC) to the lungs (Dieu-Nosjean et al.,
2000; Reibman et al., 2003). These immature dendritc cells might be involved in the
induction of regulatory T cells (Jonuleit et al., 2000) and provoke a controlled immune
response in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. CCL11 (eotaxin) was
drastically downregulated in AECII from diseased mice. CCL11 is an attractant
molecule for eosinophils. Blocking experiments with anti-CCL11 revealed a reduced
eosinophils infiltration into the lung of respiratory syncytical virus (RSV) infected mice.
In addition, anti-CCL11 caused an inhibition of CD4-T-cell influx (Matthews et al.,
2004). These experiments suggested that the decreased CCL11 transcription in
AECII from diseased mice is a further step to regulate the inflammatory process in
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. Summarizing these facts, data suggest
an active immune regulatory role of AECII in SPC-HA x TCR-HA transgenic mice by
regulating the expression and secretion of certain chemokines, that may affect other
immune cells, which could establish a tolerogenic environment in the lung, with
regulatory features to control the inflammatory response.
Further RT-PCR data (figure 24) demonstrate a consitutive expression of ICOS-L
and PD1-L in AECII. These molecules are ligands for ICOS and PD-1 expressed on
T cells and, which showed elevated expression on autoreactive T cells isolated from
diseased lungs of SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice (figure 13). The
ICOS:ICOS-L pathway appears to be particularly important for stimulating effector T
cell responses and T cell tolerance. In addition, the PD1:PD1-L pathway plays a
critical role in regulating T cell activation and tolerance. The CD28 homolog ICOS is
upregualted on T cells after activation (Yoshinaga et al., 1999; Coyle et al., 2000).
-94-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

Additionally, in recent studies it could be shown, that ICOS regulates the outcome of
autoimmune diseases in the murine model of Mutiple Sclerosis. However, ICOS
appears to have distinct roles at different times during the pathogenesis of
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) (Chapoval et al., 2001; Rottman et al.,
2001; Sporici et al., 2001). Moreover, ICOS also may control Treg function in
autoimmune disease, particularly IL-10-producing Treg cells. In a murine model of
type 1 diabetes, Treg played a critical role in regulating the progression of diabetes
from prediabetic lesion (Herman et al., 2004). Blockade of ICOS alters the balance
between T effector and Treg cells, resulting in progression from a prediabetic insulitis
to diabetes. These findings suggest that Treg cells regulate autoimmune development
in an ICOS-dependent manner. Furthermore, ICOS may also be important in the
generation of Treg cells. The development of IL-10-producing Treg cells was
dependent on ICOS:ICOS-L interactions. These cells have suppressor function in the
development of asthma-associated airway hyperreactivity. Thus, these findings
suggest a novel mechanism by which ICOS and IL-10 reduce airway inflammation
associated with asthma and implicate ICOS in regulating respiratory tolerance
(Greenwald et al., 2004).
PD1 (Programmed death-1) is a member of the Ig superfamily related to CD28 and
CTLA-4 (Ishida et al., 1992; Vibhakar et al., 1997). The roles of PD1 and its ligands
in regulating autoimmune disease have been investigated in animal models of
diabetes, colitis, and Multiple Sclerosis. Thus, it could be shown that the PD1:PD1-L
interactions regulate both the initiation and progression of autoimmune diabetes in
NOD mice. The expression of PD1-L on islet cells in diabetic NOD mice (Ansari et al.,
2003; Liang et al., 2003) suggests that PD1-L may critically control the response of
self-reactive T cells in the target organ (Liang et al., 2003) and demonstrates that
PD1 and its ligands have an important role in regulating T cell activation and
tolerance (Greenwald et al., 2004). Considering these facts, AECII could interfere
with inflammatory responses in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice by
expressing ICOS-L and PD1-L and could have an important role in controlling
immune responses and inducing T cell tolerance in the respiratory tract.
Further data of this study deal with in the antigen presenting capacity of alveolar type
II epithelial cells. In the SPC-HA transgenic mouse the AECII express the selfantigen hemagglutinin HA. Therefore, these cells represent the target of self-reactive
6.5+CD4+ T cells and could even involved in the induction of CD4+ T cell mediated
-95-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

inflammation in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. Antigen presentation in
the respiratory tract plays a key role for effective adaptive immune response. The
small proportions of inhaled antigens and pathogens that escape the first
mechanisms for antigenic clearance in the lung and penetrate into the underlying
epithelial layer are then dealt with via specialized antigen-presenting cells (APC). In
particular these APC are dendritic cell (DC) populations, within and below the
epithelium. The alveolar surfaces in the deep lung are policed instead by
macrophage populations, again supported by APC populations below the alveolar
epithelium. The mechanism for the uptake or presentation of endogenous or selfantigens like the HA in the SPC-HA mouse is still unclear. Dendritic cells and
macrophages are discussed to act as professional APC which are able to take up
and cross-present self-antigens from surrounding cells to other immune cells. To this
end, the antigen presenting capacity of professional antigen-presenting cells (APC)
was examined to clarify which kind of APC have the ability to cross-present the HA
expressed by AECII to autoreactive T cells (figure 25, figure 26). Data obtained from
these experiments indicate, that obviously only DC have the ability to take up and
cross-present HA to 6.5+CD4+ T cells (figure 25) in vitro, whereas macrophages or B
lymphocytes derived from the peritoneum of BALB/c mice could not take over this
function in vitro (figure 26). Additional data clearly demonstrated that peptide loaded
AECII derived from BALB/c mice themselves were able to stimulate antigen specific
CD4+ and CD8+ T cells (figure 27, figure 28) suggesting their role as antigenpresenting cells.
The question, whether the self-antigen HA expressed by alveolar type II epithelial
cells in SPC-HA transgenic mice could also be presented by AECII themselves via
MHC class-II molecules to stimulate MHCII restricted autoreactive T cells could be
affirmed. Data in figure 29 demonstrate that the HA expressing alveolar type II
epithelial cells have stimulatory capacity and are able to stimulate naïve as well as
activated CD4+ T cells. The possibility that the contaminating macrophage population
in the AECII preparation could mediate the stimulation of autoreactive T cells could
be excluded by the fact, that macrophages were not able to cross-present HA to
antigen-specific T cells (figure 26). These results strongly suggest that antigen
presentation in the lung of the SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice may not
exclusively be dependent on professional APC like dendritic cells, but that HA
expressing AECII might themselves contribute to the stimulation of antigen-specific T
-96-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

cells and thus in the initiation of inflammation. This interesting aspect suggests a key
role of the alveolar type II epithelial cells for the development of T cell mediated lung
disease in the SPC-HA x TCR-HA mouse model. Comparative analysis of the
stimulatory capacity of AECII from SPC-HA transgenic mice and AECII from SPC-HA
x TCR-HA double transgenic mice revealed a reduced stimulatory capacity of AECII
derived from diseased mice for naïve as well as pre-activated autoreactive T cells
(figure 30). Although previous data demonstrated an elevated expression of
costimulatory molecules on AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice
(table 4 and figure 24) these cells were not able to stimulate 6.5+CD4+ T cells to
induce antigen-specific proliferation, and that so far undefined soluble or cell-cell
contact dependent factors could interfere with the stimulatory capacity of AECII or
even the proliferative response of the T cells in vitro. To asses the impact of AECII
conditioned medium on CD4+ T cell proliferation AECII culture supernatants from
SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice and healthy donor mice were collected
and used as culture medium for anti-CD3ε stimulated CD4+ T cells. The results
clearly point out that AECII derived from diseased mice secrete factors which
suppress the proliferation of activated T cells (figure 32) and suggest that the
reduced proliferation of autoreactive T cells in vitro is at least in part mediated by
soluble factors secreted by AECII.
To exclude that loss of HA expression may be a reason for the reduced stimulatory
capacity of AECII in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice the expression of the
self-antigen HA by AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice and SPCHA transgenic mice was analyzed on mRNA level. Results indeed indicate a reduced
HA expression in AECII derived from diseased mice (figure 31). Nevertheless,
minimal amounts of internalized hemagglutinin are necessary to provoke an efficient
antigen presentation by MHC class-II molecules so that even a reduced HA
expression should be sufficient to stimulate HA-specific T cells. Furthermore, mRNA
does not reflect the real protein expression at the cell surface. Moreover, the data
above demonstrate that T cell suppression was at least in part mediated by AECII
secreted factors (figure 30), thus a putative decreased HA expression could not
explain the suppressed proliferation of T cells cultured in AECII supernatants from
diseased mice.
The tolerogenic and suppressive environment of the respiratory tract is widely
discussed in the literature and in the meantime different factors were found that may
-97-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

play a role in establishing this regulatory milieu. Candidates which could interfere
with the immune response in respiratory tract and are linked to alveolar type II
epithelial cells are surfactant proteins. These components of the surfactant fluid have
many regulatory functions by opsonizing pathogens and enhancing their uptake and
clearing by macrophages but also affecting immune cells directly (Wright, 2005). The
surfactant proteins A and D (SP-A and SP-D) secreted by AECII have a key role by
modulating the adaptive immunity in the lung. For both proteins elevated mRNA
levels could be detected in AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice
compared to control mice (figure 33). These data suggest an increased protein
expression and secretion of SP-A and SP-D by AECII from diseased mice and
assume a regulatory function. It could be shown that surfactant protein A inhibits T
cell proliferation via its collagen-like tail and the 210kDA receptor SPR210 (Borron et
al., 1998) and that SP-D have the same feature by inhibiting human T lymphocyte
proliferation and IL-2 production (Borron et al., 1998). These studies suggest that
increased amounts of SP-A and SP-D secreted by AECII from diseased mice in
culture supernatants may be involved in suppression of T cell proliferation (figure 30).
Furthermore, Brinker and colleagues could show that SP-A modulates the
differentiation of murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. DC which are the most
potent antigen-presenting cells with the unique capacity to activate naïve T cells and
initiate adaptive immunity were affected in their maturation into potent T cell
stimulators by SP-A treatment and interfere with T cell activation (Brinker et al., 2003).
To this end, these data and studies could be an important indication for a further
regulatory role of AECII in the SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mouse model
by modulating DC and T cell functions. The fact that AECII derived from diseased
mice produced elevated levels of CCL20 (figure 23), a chemokine which attracts
immature DC, and the capacity of SP-A to modulate differentiation of immature DC
leads to the assumption that immigrated immature DC in the respiratory tract may be
affected by high SP-A concentrations and develop a regulatory phenotype which
could influence T cell response or even T cell differentiation into an adaptive Treg
phenotype. The fact that stimulation of T cells with immature DC leads to the
development of T cells with regulatory property underlines this assumption
(Dhodapkar et al., 2001; Jonuleit et al., 2000; Maloy and Powrie, 2001).
Another interesting fact is that AECII derived from diseased mice produce elevated
mRNA levels of platelet factor 4 (PF-4) (figure 23). Platelet factor 4 is a platelet-98-

CHAPTER III

Discussion

derived CXC chemokine and induces the differentiation of monocytes into a subset of
macrophages that lack the expression of HLA-DR which suggests a potential role of
PF-4 in the modulation of monocyte-dependent T cell activation. Furthermore,
studies revealed that PF-4 inhibits T cell proliferation and IL-2 production after antiCD3ε mediated T cell stimulation (Fleischer et al., 2002). Summarizing these data,
AECII derived from SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice produce increased
levels of SP-A, SP-D and PF-4 mRNA and all these molecules are discussed in the
context of inhibiting T cell proliferation. Together, these data strongly suggest a
functional role of AECII in regulating T cell proliferation, thus counteracting
uncontrolled disease progression.
To get further insights into the influence of AECII derived from diseased or healthy
mice on the phenotype of CD4+ T cells functional and molecular analyses were
performed on T cells re-isolated after AECII coculture. Re-isolated T cell from
cocultures were either used in inhibition assays to asses adaptive suppressive
functions to responder cells or these primed T cells were used for RT-PCR analysis
to examine a distinct expression pattern for Treg markers. The results did not indicate
any differences in gene expression or acquired suppressive function of T cells
cocultured with AECII obtained from diseased mice in comparison to healthy donors
(figure 34, figure 35). However, the re-stimulation of T cells resulted in a decreased
proliferation of CD4+ T cells after coculture with AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA
double transgenic mice (figure 36) suggesting that of AECII coculture may induce
long term T cell unresponsiveness or anergy.

-99-

CHAPTER III

2

Summary

Summary

The mechanisms underlying the induction and regulation of T cell mediated immune
reactions in the respiratory tract are still unclear. To get further insights into the
immunological and molecular mechanisms of antigen specific CD4+ T cell responses
in the lung the SPC-HA transgenic mouse expressing hemagglutinin (HA) in alveolar
type II epithelial cells of the lung was used. Concomitant expression of HA and
presence of MHC class-II restricted HA-specific autoreactive T cells resulted in an
autoimmune mediated progressive lung inflammation in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double
transgenic mice. This inflammation was accompanied by a massive infiltration and
activation of HA-specific CD4+ lymphocytes in the lung tissue. The lung inflammation
observed in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice did not progress
uncontrolled and reached a plateau in elder mice suggesting regulatory mechanism
that may exist and/or develop under autoimmune conditions to counteract the
progression of inflammatory process in the lung. This assumption was underlined by
gene expression profiling of 6.5+CD4+ isolated lung lymphocytes from diseased mice
which revealed a regulatory phenotype.
Transfer of naïve HA-specific 6.5+CD4+ and 6.5+CD4+CD25- transgenic T cells
depleted from CD25+ T cells into SPC-HA transgenic mice demonstrated the
regulatory potential of the small proportion of naturally occurring CD4+CD25+ T cells
by suppressing the antigen specific proliferation of autoreactive T cells in vivo. In
addition, the transfer of autoreactive T cells in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic
mice, but not in healthy control mice resulted in suppression of HA specific T cell
proliferation, suggesting regulatory mechanisms established in the lung of diseased
mice counterbalancing disease progression. The observed inhibition of proliferation
of autoreactive T cells in diseased mice could be an effect of induced regulatory T
cells, soluble mediators secreted by AECII or other so far unknown regulatory
mechanisms preventing an uncontrolled inflammation or most probably the synergy
between both options.
A further aspect of this study was to clarify the role of the antigen expressing alveolar
type II epithelial cells in disease induction and regulation and to get insights into
antigen-specific AECII/CD4+ T cell crosstalk. Therefore, the newly established
protocol for isolation of murine type II pneumocytes was essential for functional and
molecular analyses of AECII in SPC-HA x TCR-HA double transgenic mice. HA
-100-

CHAPTER III

Summary

expressing AECII from SPC-HA transgenic mice induced antigen-specific T cell
proliferation, whereas the AECII derived from diseased mice had a reduced
stimulatory capacity. Additionally, AECII from SPC-HA x TCR-HA secreted soluble
factors inhibiting T cell proliferation. Comparative gene expression profiling of AECII
from SPC-HA and SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice revealed a heterogeneous set of
differentially expressed genes, upon other several molecules linked to regulatory
mechanisms that may compensate overwhelming immune responses. Furthermore,
analyses by real-time RT-PCR exhibited an elevated expression of surfactant protein
A and D as well as platelet factor 4. These gene products can inhibit T cell
proliferation and could play an active role in regulating the immune response and
may act in concert with induced regulatory T cells observed in diseased SPC-HA x
TCR-HA mice.
Together, these findings indicate an active role of antigen expressing alveolar type II
epithelial cells not only in the induction but importantly, also in the regulation of CD4+
T cell mediated lung inflammation. Therefore, AECII should be considered as
potential target cells for strategies aiming to interfere with or modulate the CD4+ T
cell/AECII crosstalk in order to positively influence the course of such diseases.

-101-

CHAPTER IV

CHAPTER IV
Materials and Methods

-102-

CHAPTER IV

1

Materials and Methods

1.1

Mice

Materials and Methods

BALB/c mice were obtained from Harlan (Borchen, Germany). TCR-HA transgenic mice
expressing a TCR αβ specific for the peptide 110-120 from influenza HA presented by IEd have been described previously (Kirberg et al., 1994). CL4 transgenic mice
expressing a TCR specific for the peptide 512-523 from influenza HA presented by H2Kd have been described previously (Morgan et al., 1996). SPC-HA transgenic animals
were generated using a construct containing the surfactant protein C promoter to
achieve lung specific HA expression in alveolar type II epithelial cells and have been
described previously (Bruder et al., 2004). Transgene expression was analyzed by PCR
screening on genomic tail DNA. PCR was performed using a surfactant protein C
promotor specific 5’ primer (5’-CTG GAG GGC CAG GAA CAA ACA GGC-3’) and a HA
specific 3’ primer (5’-ATA GTT TTC CGT TGT GGC TGT CTT-3’). TCR-HA and SPC-HA
mice were bred in the animal facility at the German Research Centre for Biotechnology.
Mice aged 16 to 20 weeks were used for experiments which were all performed
according to National and Institutional Guidelines. Extensive microbial and serological
studies were performed to exclude the presence of pathogenic bacteria, viruses, fungi
and parasites which could potentially cause mucosal inflammation in these mice. No
pathogens could be detected in all clinical samples studied.

1.2

Preparation of lymphocyte populations

Spleens were rinsed with erythrocyte lysis buffer (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany).
Lymphnodes were disaggregated by passing through a 100µm mesh. Cells were
washed with FACS buffer (PBS, 2% FCS, 2mM EDTA) and collected by centrifugation.
For FACS analysis lung lymphocytes were isolated by passing the lungs through a
100µm mesh and subsequent treatment of cells with erythrocyte lysis buffer. For gene
expression analysis lung lymphocytes were isolated as described previously (Bruder et
al., 2004). Briefly, perfused lungs were excised and finely minced on ice, followed by a
-103-

CHAPTER IV

Materials and Methods

60-90min digestion at 37°C with collagenase/dispase (0.2mg/ml of each) in RPMI
medium with 5% fetal calf serum (FCS), in the presence of 0.25µg/ml DNase. To
improve tissue disintegration, lungs were pipetted every 5min using a Pasteur pipet.
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) was added to a final concentration of 5mM,
followed by additional 5min incubation at 37°C. Cells were passed through a 70µm cell
strainer, washed, and lung lymphocytes were isolated by ficoll density gradient
centrifugation (Bruder D. et al., 2004).

1.3

Primary Type II Pneumocytes Preparation

Primary alveolar type II epithelial cells (AECII) were prepared using a modified protocol
of a previously published method (Corti et al., 1996). Briefly, mice were killed and
exsanguinated by serving the inferior vena cava and left renal artery. The tracheae was
exposed and cannulated, and lungs were perfused with 10 to 20ml sterile phosphate
buffered saline via the pulmonary artery until visually free of blood. Dispase (BD
Biosciences, Heidelberg, Germany) was instilled into lungs via the tracheal catheter,
followed by 1% low-melt agarose warmed to 45°C. The lungs were immediately covered
with ice and incubated for 2min to gel the agarose. Lungs were then dissected out, put
in a culture tube containing an aditional 1ml of Disapase, and incubated for 45min at
room temperature. Lungs were then transferred to a culture dish containing 7ml serum
free DMEM + 25mM HEPES (GIBCO, Eggenstein, Germany) and DNAse I (Sigma,
Hannover, Germany). The tissue was gently teased away from the airways. The
suspension was sequentially filtered and then peleted. For the sorting of alveolar type II
epithelial cells the crude cell suspensions were washed with serum free DMEM + 25mM
HEPES and the cells were labled with anti-CD45, anti-CD32/CD16, anti CD11b and antiF4/80 antibodies and goat anti rabbit-IgG as secondary antibodies. After staining the cell
suspension was washed with PBS containing 2% fetal calf serum and 2mM EDTA for
cell sorting. Alveolar type II epithelial cells were separated as

CD45-/CD32-/CD16-

/CD11b-/F4/80- - fraction with a MoFLOW and a purity >97% was obtained. Isolated cells
were either used for RNA preparation or in vitro culture assays. For that purpose cells

-104-

CHAPTER IV

Materials and Methods

were resuspended and cultered in Iscolve´s Modified Dulbeccos´s Medium (IMDM)
containing 10% FCS.

1.4

Antibodies and flow cytometry

The monoclonal antibody 6.5 (α-TCR-HA) was purified from hybridoma supernatant and
was used in fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled or biotinylated form. Monoclonal
antibodies α-CD4 (GK1.5 and L3T4), α-CD25 (PC61), α-CD45RB (16A), α-CD62L
(MEL-14), and α-CD69 (H1.2F3) were used as biotin, FITC, allophycocyanin (APC) or
phycoerythrin (PE) conjugates. α-CD45 (30-F11), α-CD16/CD32 (2.4G2), α-CD11b
(M1/70) and α-F4/80 were used unconjugated or phycoerythrin (PE) conjugates. As
secondary antibodies a polyclonal serum inclucing antibodies goat α-rat IgM+IgG+IgA
were used as phycoerythrin (PE) conjugates. Monoclonal antibodies α-CD80 (16-10A1),
α-CD86 (GL1), α-MHCII and α-MHCI were used as biotin or FITC conjugates. PEstreptavidin- or APC-(Allophycocyanin)-streptavidin-conjugates were used as secondary
reagents (BD Bioscience, San Jose, CA). Two- and three colour flow cytometry was
performed on a FACSCalibur (BD Bioscience, Heidelberg, Germany). Data were
analyzed with CellQuestPro software (BD Biosciences, Heidelberg, Germany). For gene
expression profiling and functional assays alveolar type II epithelial cells and 6.5+CD4+
lung lymphocytes were sorted with the MoFlow cells sorter (Cytomation, Fort Collins,
CO).

1.5

Carboxyfluorescein diacetate, succinimidyl ester (CFSE) labeling
of lymphocytes

Cell suspensions were prepared as described above. Cells were washed in RPMI
without FCS, resuspended at a concentration of 107 lymphocytes/ml and incubated with
2.5µM CFSE (Molecular Probes, Göttingen, Germany) for 8min at 37°C. Two volumes
FCS were added and cells were incubated for additional 5min at 37°C. After CFSE
labeling the cells were washed twice with PBS to remove excess of CFSE and FCS.
-105-

CHAPTER IV
1.6

Materials and Methods

Adoptive transfer

For adoptive transfer experiments in BALB/c, SPC-HA or SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice, red
blood cell-depleted splenocytes and/or lymphocytes isolated from mesenteric lymph
nodes of TCR-HA mice were enriched by AutoMACS using the CD4+ T cell Isolation Kit
(MACS, Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany) following the manufacturers
instructions. In case CD25+ cells were depleted from the CD4+ T cell population,
biotinylated α-CD25 antibody was added to the biotin antibody cocktail of the CD4+ T cell
Isolation Kit. The percentage of 6.5+CD4+ T cells obtained after MACS separation was
determined by flow cytometry analysis as described above. Enriched transgenic cells,
either unlabeled or CFSE labeled, were injected into age and sex matched BALB/c,
SPC-HA or SPC-HA x TCR-HA mice.
For transfer of activated transgenic T cells splenocytes isolated from TCR-HA mice were
stimulated in vitro with 10 µg/ml HA110-120 peptide (SSFERFEIFPK) (Hackett et al.,
1983) and cultured for 4 days. Dead cells were removed by ficoll density gradient and
viable cells were cultured for an additional day. Flow cytometric analysis were performed
to determine the percentage of 6.5+CD4+ lymphocytes and the activation status of the
HA specific CD4+T cells was characterized by staining with α-CD25 and α-CD69.

1.7

Histology

Mice were sacrificed and the lungs were immersion fixed in buffered formalin,
embedded in paraffin, sectioned at 4µm thicknesses and stained with hematoxylin and
eosin (H&E). Immunohistochemistry for T lymphocytes was performed using the rat-antihuman-CD3 antibody clone CD3-12 (Serotec Ltd., Kidlington, UK) at 1:1.600 dilutions
and the avidin-biotin-complex (ABC) method with diaminobenzidin as chromogen.
Immunohisto-chemistry sections were counterstained with hematoxylin.

-106-

CHAPTER IV
1.8

Materials and Methods

Proliferation assay and cocultures experiments

For coculture experiments 1 x 105 AECII were plated in 96-well flat-bottom plates in a
final volume of 200µl IMDM containing 10% FCS. 2.5 x 105 CD4+ T cells from TCR-HA
transgenic mice or CD8+ T cells from CL4 transgenic mice were added as responder
cells and were cultured at 37°C. For standard proliferation assays cells were cultured for
48h and proliferation was determined by 3[H]-thymidine incorporation over the last 15h
and was measured by scintillation counting. For CD8+ T cell proliferation assay cell
suspensions were incubated in the presence or absence of different concentrations of
HA512-523 peptide (IYSTVASSLVLL) (Morgan et al., 1996).
In case of coculture assays of AECII and professional APC 1 x 105 AECII were plated
together with 2.5 x 104 immature DC or 2 x 104 PEC. After 48h CD4+ T cells isolated
from TCR-HA transgenic mice were added as responder cells. Therefore the
supernatants were discarded and 2.5 x 105 T cells were added with fresh medium to a
final volume of 200µl and cultured at 37°C for additional 48h.
For proliferation assays of CD4+ T cells in AECII conditioned media 1 x 105 CD4+ T cells
were cultured in 200µl AECII conditioned media in the presence of 1µg/ml plate-bound
α-CD3ε (145-2C11) (BD Bioscience, San Jose, CA) at 37°C for 48h. 3[H]-thymidine was
added for the last 15h of culture and incorporation was measured by scintillation
counting to asses proliferation. AECII conditioned media were generated by culturing
freshly isolated AECII in IMDM with 10% FCS for 48h.
In case T cells were re-isolated after coculture with AECII, cells were harvested after
48h coculture and subjected to ficoll density gradient centrifugation. Re-isolated cells
were counted and used either for inhibition assays or were used for RNA isolation and
subsequent gene expression profiling.

1.9

Inhibition assay

For standard inhibition assay 5 x 104 CD4+ responder T cells were plated together with
the same amount of T cells re-isolated after AECII coculture in 96-well flat-bottom plates
in a final volume of 200µl IMDM (GIBCO, Eggenstein, Germany) in the presence of
-107-

CHAPTER IV

Materials and Methods

0.75µg/ml soluble α-CD3ε (145-2C11) (BD Bioscience, San Jose, CA) and 5 x 105
irradiated BALB/c splenocytes. Cells were cultured at 37°C for 48h. Over the last 8h of
the experiment 3[H]-thymidine incorporation was measured by scintillation counting to
asses proliferation.

1.10

Expression analysis by RT-PCR and real time RT-PCR

To analyse expression of different genes in alveolar type II epithelial cells and 6.5+CD4+
T cells of TCR-HA transgenic, SPC-HA transgenic and SPC-HAxTCR-HA double
transgenic mice, mRNA was isolated from the different cell populations using the
RNeasy Kit (Quiagen, Hilden, Germany) following the manufacturer´s instructions. cDNA
were synthesised using a mixture of oligo-dT primers and oligo-random hexamer
primers and SuperScriptTM II RNase H-reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe,
Germany).
PCR was performed using AmpliTaqGold-polymerase (Applied Biosystem, Hamburg,
Germany) and gene specific primers (table 6). Amplified PCR products were visualised
after electrophoresis in 2% agarose gels containing ethidum bromide. Reactions were
run on a PCR thermo cycler (Biorad, München, Germany) using the following conditions:
94°C for 10 minutes followed by amplification. Each cycle of amplification included
45sec denaturation at 94°C, 45sec annealing at 58 or 55°C and 1min synthesis at 72°C.
Every PCR was run with 30, 34 or 40 amplification cycles for opitmisation of the
procedure. Unspecific amplification products were not detected in any of the PCR runs.
Real time RT-PCR for analyzing the expression of SP-A, SP-D, SP-C, CCL20, CCL11
and PF4 were conducted using a Brilliant SYBR Green QPCR Core Reagent Kit
(Stratagenene, Heidelberg, Germany) in the GeneAmp 5700 Sequence Detection
System (Perkin Elmer, Rodgau-Jügesheim, Germany) according to manufacture´s
instructions. The PCR primer sequences are shown in table 6. Results were normalized
using the housekeeping gene RPS9.

-108-

CHAPTER IV

Materials and Methods

Tabel 6: RT-PCR and real-time RT-PCR primer sequences.

Primer

Sequence (5´ → 3´)

Size of PCR
product (bp)

SP-A mm 5´
SP-A mm 3´
SP-C mm 5´
SP-C mm 3´
SP-D mm 5´
SP-D mm 3´
CD80 mm 5´
CD80 mm 3´
CD86 mm 5´
CD86 mm 3´
MHCII mm 5´
MHCII mm 3´
PF4 mm 5´
PF4 mm 3´
CCL11 mm 5´
CCL11 mm 3´
CCL20 mm 5´
CCL20 mm 3´
Alkal. phosphatase mm 5´
Alkal. phosphatase mm 3´
RPS9 mm 5´
RPS9 mm 3´
Foxp3 mm 5´
Foxp3 mm 3´
GITR mm 5´
GITR mm 3´
Neuropilin-1 mm 5´
Neuropilin-1 mm 3´
ICOS mm 5´
ICOS mm 3´
PD-1 mm 5´
PD-1 mm 3´
Galectin mm 5´
Galectin mm 3´
CTLA4 mm 5´
CTLA4 mm 3´
αEβ7 Integrin mm 5´
αEβ7 Integrin mm 3´
CD3 mm 5´
CD3 mm 3´
CD19 mm 5´
CD19 mm 3´
CD14 mm 5´
CD14 mm 3´
MCP-1 mm 5´
MCP-1 mm 3´
MMP-2 mm 5´
MMP-2 mm 3´

CAC CAA TGG GCA GTC AGT CAA C
ACA GAA GCC CCA TCC AGG TAG TG
CGC CTT CTC ATC GTG GTT GTG
CGG GGC TAG GCG TTT CTG AG
ATG GCC TGC CTG GTC GTG ATG
GTC CAG GTT CGC CAG CAG AGC
AGT GGC TTT TGC TCT TTG GAT A
CAT TTC TTT GGG GCA CAT TGA T
AGG GAA AGC AGA AAT CAC AAC ACT
AGC CCT GCC AGC GGA ATA
GGC CAC AAT TGG AGC CCT GG
TGG GCT CTC CCA GGT TCA C
CAG CGC TGG TCC CGA AGA AA
AAC CGCACA GTG GCG TCC TG
TCCCAACTTCCTGCTGCTTTATC
CATCCTGGACCCACTTCTTCTTG
GTACTGCTGGCTCACCTCTGC
AGCTTCATCGGCCATCTGTCTT
CCC CGG GGC AAC TCC ATC TTT
CCC GTT CAC CGT CCA CCA CCT T
CTGGACGAGGGCAAGATGAAGC
TGACGTTGGCGGATGAGCACA
CTGGCGAAGGGCTCGGTAGTCCT
CTCCCAGAGCCCATGGCAGAAGT
GAACGCGGGGAGCAGACAGA
CATAGGGCCCAATCGTAACTCACC
GCCTGCTTTCTTCTCTTGGTTTCA
GCTCTGGGCACTGGGCTACA
TGC CAG ACT ACA GCC ACA CTT TG
GTA CTT CCC AGA TCC CAG AGA CCA
GGAAATTCGTAGACTGGGGGACTG
TCACGGAGCTTTTGCCTGGTAA
AACCTGCCTTCCCCTTCC
TCCGCCGCCATGTAGTTGAT
GGGCTGGGTCTTTACACTCATTTT
CTTCCTGTGGCATTAACTTTGTGT
GAACTGCCGATCCTTGGTGAAATA
GCTGGGCCCTCCTTGTGCTCT
ACACCAGCCTCAAATAAAAACACG
AAGGGGGCAGGGAGGAGGTATGG
TGACCCCGCCAGGAGATTC
GCAGGGTGAGCAGGGATGG
CATTTGCATCCTCCTGGTTTCTGA
GAGTGAGTTTTCCCCTTCCGTGTG
CTGTGCTGACCCCAAGAAGG
TAAGGCATCACAGTCCGAGTCACA
TCC CGG GTG CTG CTT CTC CTT CC
CAC TGC CCC ATG CCA GGC TGT TA

198

-109-

150
159
188
245
200
127
168
129
118
143
250
222
221
148
125
148
230
250
825
1121
182
250
206

CHAPTER IV

Materials and Methods

Tabel 6 (continued): RT-PCR and real-time RT-PCR primer sequences.

Primer

Sequence (5´ → 3´)

Size of PCR
product (bp)

MMP-3 mm 5´
MMP-3 mm 3´
MMP-9 mm 5´
MMP-9 mm 3´
HA mm 5´
HA mm 3´
ICOS-L mm 5´
ICOS-L mm 3´
PD1-L mm 5´
PD1-L mm 3´
IL-10 mm 5´
IL-10 mm 3´
TGF-β mm 5´
TGF-β mm 3´
SP-R210 mm 5´
SP-R210 mm 3´

CTC CCT GCA ACC GTG AAG AAG A
CAA CTG CGA AGA TCC ACT GAA GA
ACT CCG CCT TTG AGG ATC CGC AGA C
GAA GCC CGC TGA CGT GGG TTA CCT C
GTCCGGCATCATCACCTCAAAC
AACCGGCAATGGCTCCAAATAGAC
TGG GCT CAG GAC TAG GAA GAC C
AGC TGC CAA CTC AAG ACC CAT AAC
GTG TCC ACG GTC CTC CTC TTC TTG
TCC CAT GGG CCC TTT CTT TCA
CTG GAC AAC ATA CTG CTA ACC GAC TC
ATT TCT GGG CCA TGC TTC TCT GC
ACCTGGGTTGGAAGTGGAT
GAAGCGCCCGGGTTGTGTTGGTT
CCG GGT CGA CAG GGT CAA GTC C
TGG CCT CTG TGT CGC TGT CAC TCA

228

1.11

147
221
181
182
134
139
209

DNA microarray hybridization and analysis

Total RNA from sorted AECII was isolated using the RNAeasy kit (Qiagen, Hilden,
Germany). Quality and integrity of total RNA isolated from 2 x 105 sorted AECII cells was
assessed by running all samples on an Agilent Technologies 2100 Bioanalyser (Agilent
Technologies, Waldbronn, Germany). For RNA amplification the first round was done
according to Affymetrix without biotinylated nucleotides using the Promega P1300
RiboMax Kit (Promega, Mannheim, Germany) for T7 amplification. For the second round
of amplification the precipitated and purified RNA was converted to cDNA primed with
random hexamers (Pharmacia, Freiburg, Germany). Second strand synthesis and probe
amplification were done as in the first round with two exceptions: incubation with RNAse
H preceeded the first strand synthesis to digest the aRNA, and the T7T23V oligo for
initiation of the second strand synthesis was used. 12.5µg biotinylated cRNA preparation
was fragmented and placed in a hybridization cocktail containing four biotinylated
hybridization controls (BioB, BioC, BioD, and Cre) as recommended by the
manufacturer. Samples were hybridized to an identical lot of Affymetrix MG-U74Av2
chips for 16 hours. After hybridization, GeneChips were washed, stained with
streptavidin-PE and read using an Affymetrix GeneChip fluidic station scanner. Analysis
-110-

CHAPTER IV

Materials and Methods

was done with gene expression software (GeneChip, MicroDB, and Data Mining Tool, all
Affymetrix).

1.12

Immunofluorescence

For immunofluorescence staining sorted AECII were mounted onto glass cover slips
with a density of 2 x 105 cells using a cytospin apparatus, and were fixed with methanolaceton (1:1) mixture at -20°C for 5min. Rabbit anti SP-A, SP-B, pro-SPC and SP-D
antibodies (Chemicon Europe, Hampshire, UK) were all diluted 1:100 and incubated
with the fixed cells over night at 4°C. As secondary antibody a FITC coupled goat anti
rabbit IgG (Dianova, Hamburg, Germany) was used at a dilution of 1:80 and incubation
for 30min at 37°C. All washing steps were performed in PBS and stained cells were
embedded in glycerol-PBS.

1.13

Isolation of Dendritic cells (DC)

DC were cultured and purified as described (Brinker et al., 2001). Briefly, bone marrow
cells were flushed from the tibiae and femurs of BALB/c mice and differentiated in DC
medium (RPMI 1640 containing 5% FCS, 100U/ml penicillin-streptomycin, 20µg/ml
gentamicin, and 50µM 2-mercaptoethanol (all GIBCO, Eggenstein, Germany)) in the
presence of 25µM granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) (R&D
Systems, Wiesbaden-Nordenstadt, Germany). Immature bone marrow-derived DC were
collected on day 5 and purified further by positive selection with AutoMACS using the
anti-CD11c Isolation Kit (MACS, Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany). The
cells were used for coculture experiments.

-111-

CHAPTER V

CHAPTER V
Abbreviations and References

-112-

CHAPTER V

1

Abbreviations

Abbreviations

AECI

Alveolar type I epithelial cell

AECII

Alveolar type II epithelial cell

AM

Alveolar macrophage

APC

Antigen presenting cell

AXLN

Axillary lymph node

BAL

Bronchoalveolar lavage

BALT

Bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue

BLN

Bronchial lymph node

Bp

Base pairs

CCL

Chemokine ligand

CCR

Chemokine receptor

cDNA

copy Desoxyribonucleic acid

CFSE

5’-Carboxyfluorescein diacetat succinimidylester

cpm

Counts per minute

CVLN

Cervical lymph node

CXCL

Chemokine ligand

CXCR

Chemokine receptor

DNA

Desoxyribonucleic acid

DC

Dendritic cell

EDTA

Ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid

FACS

Fluorescence activated cell sorter

FCS

Fetal calf serum

GALT

Gut-associated lymphoid tissue

HA

Hemagglutinin

HEPES

N-2-Hydroxyethylpiperazine-N’-2-ethane sulfonic acid

HEV

High endothelial venules

i.p.

Intraperitonal

i.v.

Intravenous

IEL

Intraepithelial lymphocyte

IFN

Interferon

Ig

Immunoglobulin

IL

Interleukin
-113-

CHAPTER V

Abbreviations

ILD

Interstitial lung disease

INLN

Inguinal lymph node

l

Liter

LPL

Lamina propria lymphocyte

LPS

Lipopolysaccharid

µ

Micro

M

Molar

MALT

Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue

MHC

Major histocompatibility complex

MLN

Mesenteric lymph node

MMP

Matrix metalloproteinase

NO

Nitric oxid

PBS

Phosphate buffered saline

PCR

Polymerase chain reaction

PEC

Peritoneal excudate cell

RNA

Ribonucleic acid

TCR

T cell receptor

TGF

Tumor growth factor

TH cell

T helper cell

TIMP

Tissue inhibitor metalloproteinase

TNF

Tumor necrosis factor

Tnfrs

Tumor necrosis factor receptor family

Treg

Regulatory T cell

-114-

CHAPTER V

2

References

References

Adamson IY, Bowden DH. The pathogenesis of bloemycin-induced pulmonary
fibrosis in mice. Am J Pathol. 1974 Nov; 77 (2):185-97.

Adamson IY, Bowden DH. The type 2 cell as progenitor of alveolar epithelial
regeneration. A cytodynamic study in mice after exposure to oxygen. Lab Invest.
1974 Jan; 30 (1): 35-42.

Adamson IY, Bowden DH. Derivation of type 1 epithelium from type 2 cells in the
developing rat lung. Lab Invest. 1975 Jun; 32 (6): 736-45.

Adamson IY, Young L, King GM. Reciprocal epithelial: fibroblast interactions in the
control of fetal and adult rat lung cells in culture. Exp Lung Res. 1991 Jul-Aug; 17 (4):
821-35.

Agostini C, Chilosi M, Zambello R, Trentin L, Semenzato G. Pulmonary immune
cells in health and disease: lymphocytes. Eur Respir J. 1993 Oct; 6 (9):1378-401.
Review.

Agostini C, Trentin L, Zambello R, Bulian P, Siviero F, Masciarelli M, Festi G,
Cipriani A, Semenzato G. CD8 alveolitis in sarcoidosis: incidence, phenotypic
characteristics, and clinical features. Am J Med. 1993 Nov; 95 (5): 466-72.

Ansari MJ, Salama AD, Chitnis T, Smith RN, Yagita H, Akiba H, Yamazaki T,
Azuma M, Iwai H, Khoury SJ, Auchincloss H Jr, Sayegh MH. The programmed
death-1 (PD-1) pathway regulates autoimmune diabetes in nonobese diabetic (NOD)
mice. J Exp Med. 2003 Jul 7; 198 (1): 63-9.

Apostolou I, Sarukhan A, Klein L, von Boehmer H. Origin of regulatory T cells with
known specificity for antigen. Nat Immunol. 2002 Aug; 3 (8): 756-63. Epub 2002 Jul 1.

Asseman C, von Herrath M. Regulation of viral and autoimmune responses.
Novartis Found Symp. 2003; 252: 239-53; discussion 253-67. Review.
-115-

CHAPTER V

References

Ashino Y, Ying X, Dobbs LG, Bhattacharya J. [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations regulate type
II cell exocytosis in the pulmonary alveolus. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol.
2000 Jul; 279 (1): L5-13.

Atkinson JJ, Holmbeck K, Yamada S, Birkedal-Hansen H, Parks WC, Senior RM.
Membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase is required for normal alveolar
development. Dev Dyn. 2005 Apr; 232 (4): 1079-90.

Augusto LA, Li J, Synguelakis M, Johansson J, Chaby R. Structural basis for
interactions between lung surfactant protein C and bacterial lipopolysaccharide. J
Biol Chem. 2002 Jun 28; 277 (26): 23484-92. Epub 2002 Apr 29.

Augusto LA, Synguelakis M, Johansson J, Pedron T, Girard R, Chaby R.
Interaction of pulmonary surfactant protein C with CD14 and lipopolysaccharide.
Infect Immun. 2003 Jan; 71 (1): 61-7.

Bach JF. Regulatory T cells under scrutiny. Nat Rev Immunol. 2003 Mar;3(3):189-98.
Review. Erratum in: Nat Rev Immunol. 2003 Jun; 3 (6): 509.

Bach JF., Chair's introduction. Generation and effector functions of regulatory
lymphocytes. Novartis Found Symp. 2003; 252: 1-5; discussion 106-14. Review.

Balabanian K, Lagane B, Infantino S, Chow KY, Harriague J, Moepps B,
Arenzana-Seisdedos F, Thelen M, Bachelerie F. The chemokine SDF-1/CXCL12
binds to and signals through the orphan receptor RDC1 in T lymphocytes. J Biol
Chem. 2005 Aug 17; [Epub ahead of print].

Barrat FJ, Cua DJ, Boonstra A, Richards DF, Crain C, Savelkoul HF, de WaalMalefyt R, Coffman RL, Hawrylowicz CM, O'Garra A. In vitro generation of
interleukin 10-producing regulatory CD4(+) T cells is induced by immunosuppressive
drugs and inhibited by T helper type 1 (Th1)- and Th2-inducing cytokines.
J Exp Med. 2002 Mar 4; 195 (5): 603-16.

-116-

CHAPTER V

References

Barthlott T, Kassiotis G, Stockinger B. T cell regulation as a side effect of
homeostasis and competition. J Exp Med. 2003 Feb 17;197 (4): 451-60.

Beers MF, Kim CY, Dodia C, Fisher AB. Localization, synthesis, and processing of
surfactant protein SP-C in rat lung analyzed by epitope-specific antipeptide
antibodies. J Biol Chem. 1994 Aug 12; 269 (32): 20318-28.

Belkaid Y, Piccirillo CA, Mendez S, Shevach EM, Sacks DL., CD4+CD25+
regulatory T cells control Leishmania major persistence and immunity. Nature. 2002
Dec 5; 420 (6915): 502-7.

Berman JS, Beer DJ, Theodore AC, Kornfeld H, Bernardo J, Center DM.
Lymphocyte recruitment to the lung. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1990 Jul; 142 (1): 238-57.
Review.

Bienenstock J, Johnston N. A morphologic study of rabbit bronchial lymphoid
aggregates and lymphoepithelium. Lab Invest. 1976 Oct; 35 (4): 343-8.

Bienenstock J, McDermott MR. Bronchus- and nasal-associated lymphoid tissues.
Immunol Rev. 2005 Aug; 206: 22-31.

Bilyk N, Holt PG. Inhibition of the immunosuppressive activity of resident pulmonary
alveolar macrophages by granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor. J Exp
Med. 1993 Jun 1; 177 (6): 1773-7.

Bingisser RM, Holt PG. Immunomodulating mechanisms in the lower respiratory
tract: nitric oxide mediated interactions between alveolar macrophages, epithelial
cells, and T-cells. Swiss Med Wkly. 2001 Apr 7; 131 (13-14):171-9. Review.
Blau H, Riklis S, Kravtsov V, Kalina M. Secretion of cytokines by rat alveolar
epithelial cells: possible regulatory role for SP-A.Am J Physiol. 1994 Feb; 266 (2 Pt
1): L148-55.

Bluestone JA, Abbas AK. Natural versus adaptive regulatory T cells. Nat Rev
Immunol. 2003 Mar; 3 (3): 253-7. Review.
-117-

CHAPTER V

References

Boden E, Tang Q, Bour-Jordan H, Bluestone JA. The role of CD28 and CTLA4 in
the function and homeostasis of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells. Novartis Found
Symp. 2003; 252: 55-63; discussion 63-6, 106-14. Review.

Borok Z, Verkman AS. Lung edema clearance: 20 years of progress: invited review:
role of aquaporin water channels in fluid transport in lung and airways. J Appl Physiol.
2002 Dec; 93 (6): 2199-206. Review.

Borron P, Veldhuizen RA, Lewis JF, Possmayer F, Caveney A, Inchley K,
McFadden RG, Fraher LJ. Surfactant associated protein-A inhibits human
lymphocyte proliferation and IL-2 production. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1996 Jul; 15
(1): 115-21.

Borron P, McCormack FX, Elhalwagi BM, Chroneos ZC, Lewis JF, Zhu S, Wright
JR, Shepherd VL, Possmayer F, Inchley K, Fraher LJ. Surfactant protein A inhibits
T cell proliferation via its collagen-like tail and a 210-kDa receptor. Am J Physiol.
1998 Oct; 275 (4 Pt 1): L679-86.

Borron PJ, Crouch EC, Lewis JF, Wright JR, Possmayer F, Fraher LJ.
Recombinant rat surfactant-associated protein D inhibits human T lymphocyte
proliferation and IL-2 production. J Immunol. 1998 Nov 1; 161 (9): 4599-603.

Borron PJ, Mostaghel EA, Doyle C, Walsh ES, McHeyzer-Williams MG, Wright
JR. Pulmonary surfactant proteins A and D directly suppress CD3+/CD4+ cell
function: evidence for two shared mechanisms. J Immunol. 2002 Nov 15; 169 (10):
5844-50.

Boyton RJ, Openshaw PJ. Pulmonary defences to acute respiratory infection. Br
Med Bull. 2002; 61:1-12. Review.

Brain JD. Mechanisms, measurement, and significance of lung macrophage function.
Environ Health Perspect. 1992 Jul; 97: 5-10.

-118-

CHAPTER V

References

Brandtzaeg P. Humoral immune response patterns of human mucosae: induction
and relation to bacterial respiratory tract infections. J Infect Dis. 1992 Jun; 165 Suppl
1: S. 167-76. Review.

Brandtzaeg P, Jahnsen FL, Farstad IN, Haraldsen G. Mucosal immunology of the
upper airways: an overview. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1997 Dec 29; 830: 1-18. Review.

Brinker KG, Martin E, Borron P, Mostaghel E, Doyle C, Harding CV, Wright JR.
Surfactant protein D enhances bacterial antigen presentation by bone marrowderived dendritic cells. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol. 2001 Dec; 281 (6):
L1453-63.

Brinker KG, Garner H, Wright JR. Surfactant protein A modulates the differentiation
of murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol.
2003 Jan; 284 (1): L232-41. Epub 2002 Sep 13.

Bruder D, Westendorf AM, Geffers R, Gruber AD, Gereke M, Enelow RI, Buer J.
CD4 T Lymphocyte-mediated lung disease: steady state between pathological and
tolerogenic immune reactions. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2004 Dec 1; 170 (11):
1145-52. Epub 2004 Aug 11.

Bruder D, Probst-Kepper M, Westendorf AM, Geffers R, Beissert S, Loser K,
von Boehmer H, Buer J, Hansen W. Neuropilin-1: a surface marker of regulatory T
cells. Eur J Immunol. 2004 Mar; 34 (3): 623-30. Erratum in: Eur J Immunol. 2004 May;
34 (5): 1498.

Buckley S, Bui KC, Hussain M, Warburton D. Dynamics of TGF-beta 3 peptide
activity during rat alveolar epithelial cell proliferative recovery from acute hyperoxia.
Am J Physiol. 1996 Jul; 271 (1Pt1): L54-60.

Bui KC, Wu F, Buckley S, Wu L, Williams R, Carbonaro-Hall D, Hall FL,
Warburton D. Cyclin A expression in normal and transformed alveolar epithelial cells.
Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1993 Aug; 9 (2): 115-25.

-119-

CHAPTER V
Cassatella

References
MA,

Gasperini

S,

Calzetti

F,

McDonald

PP,

Trinchieri

G.

Lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-8 gene expression in human granulocytes:
transcriptional inhibition by interferon-gamma. Biochem J. 1995 Sep 15; 310 (Pt 3):
751-5.

Chakrabarti S, Patel KD. Matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-9 in
pulmonary pathology. Exp Lung Res. 2005 Jul-Aug;31 (6): 599-621. Review.

Chapoval AI, Ni J, Lau JS, Wilcox RA, Flies DB, Liu D, Dong H, Sica GL, Zhu G,
Tamada K, Chen L. B7-H3: a costimulatory molecule for T cell activation and IFNgamma production. Nat Immunol. 2001 Mar; 2 (3): 269-74.

Chatenoud L, Primo J, Bach JF. CD3 antibody-induced dominant self tolerance in
overtly diabetic NOD mice. J Immunol. 1997 Mar 15 ; 158 (6): 2947-54.

Chen Y, Kuchroo VK, Inobe J, Hafler DA, Weiner HL. Regulatory T cell clones
induced by oral tolerance: suppression of autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Science.
1994 Aug 26; 265 (5176): 1237-40.

Christensen PJ, Armstrong LR, Fak JJ, Chen GH, McDonald RA, Toews GB,
Paine R 3rd. Regulation of rat pulmonary dendritic cell immunostimulatory activity by
alveolar epithelial cell-derived granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Am
J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1995 Oct; 13 (4): 426-33.

Chroneos ZC, Abdolrasulnia R, Whitsett JA, Rice WR, Shepherd VL. Purification
of a cell-surface receptor for surfactant protein A. J Biol Chem. 1996 Jul 5; 271 (27):
16375-83.

Chvatchko Y, Kosco-Vilbois MH, Herren S, Lefort J, Bonnefoy JY. Germinal
center formation and local immunoglobulin E (IgE) production in the lung after an
airway antigenic challenge. J Exp Med. 1996 Dec 1; 184 (6): 2353-60.

-120-

CHAPTER V

References

Chvatchko Y, Proudfoot AE, Buser R, Juillard P, Alouani S, Kosco-Vilbois M,
Coyle AJ, Nibbs RJ, Graham G, Offord RE, Wells TN. Inhibition of airway
inflammation by amino-terminally modified RANTES/CC chemokine ligand 5
analogues is not mediated through CCR3. J Immunol. 2003 Nov 15; 171 (10): 5498506.

Clements JA. Surface tension of lung extracts. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1957 May;
95 (1): 170-2.

Corbel M, Theret N, Caulet-Maugendre S, Germain N, Lagente V, Clement B,
Boichot E. Repeated endotoxin exposure induces interstitial fibrosis associated with
enhanced gelatinase (MMP-2 and MMP-9) activity. Inflamm Res. 2001.

Corry DB, Kiss A, Song LZ, Song L, Xu J, Lee SH, Werb Z, Kheradmand F.
Overlapping and independent contributions of MMP2 and MMP9 to lung allergic
inflammatory cell egression through decreased CC chemokines. FASEB J. 2004 Jun;
18 (9): 995-7. Epub 2004 Apr 1.

Coyle AJ, Lehar S, Lloyd C, Tian J, Delaney T, Manning S, Nguyen T, Burwell T,
Schneider H, Gonzalo JA, Gosselin M, Owen LR, Rudd CE, Gutierrez-Ramos
JC. The CD28-related molecule ICOS is required for effective T cell-dependent
immune responses. Immunity. 2000 Jul; 13 (1): 95-105.

Cunningham AC, Milne DS, Wilkes J, Dark JH, Tetley TD, Kirby JA. Constitutive
expression of MHC and adhesion molecules by alveolar epithelial cells (type II
pneumocytes) isolated from human lung and comparison with immunocytochemical
findings. J Cell Sci. 1994 Feb; 107 ( Pt 2): 443-9.

Curtis JL, Kim S, Scott PJ, Buechner-Maxwell VA. Adhesion receptor phenotypes
of murine lung CD4+ T cells during the pulmonary immune response to sheep
erythrocytes. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1995 May; 12 (5): 520-30.

Crandall ED, Matthay MA. Alveolar epithelial transport. Basic science to clinical
medicine. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2001 Mar;163 (4):1021-9. Review.
-121-

CHAPTER V

References

Crapo JD, Peters-Golden M, Marsh-Salin J, Shelburne JS. Pathologic changes in
the lungs of oxygen-adapted rats: a morphometric analysis. Lab Invest. 1978 Dec; 39
(6): 640-53.

Crapo JD, Barry BE, Gehr P, Bachofen M, Weibel ER. Cell number and cell
characteristics of the normal human lung. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1982 Aug; 126 (2):
332-7.

Crouch E, Longmore W. Collagen-binding proteins secreted by type II pneumocytes
in culture. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1987 Apr 16; 924 (1): 81-6.

Crouch EC. Surfactant protein-D and pulmonary host defense. Respir Res. 2000; 1
(2): 93-108. Epub 2000 Aug 25. Review.

Crouch E, Wright JR. Surfactant proteins a and d and pulmonary host defense.
Annu Rev Physiol. 2001; 63: 521-54. Review.

Cunningham AC, Milne DS, Wilkes J, Dark JH, Tetley TD, Kirby JA. Constitutive
expression of MHC and adhesion molecules by alveolar epithelial cells (type II
pneumocytes) isolated from human lung and comparison with immunocytochemical
findings. J Cell Sci. 1994 Feb; 107 (Pt2): 443-9.

Debbabi H, Ghosh S, Kamath AB, Alt J, Demello DE, Dunsmore S, Behar SM.
Primary type II alveolar epithelial cells present microbial antigens to antigen-specific
CD4+ T cells. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol. 2005 Aug; 289 (2): L274-9. Epub
2005 Apr 15.

Degermann S, Reilly C, Scott B, Ogata L, von Boehmer H, Lo D. On the various
manifestations of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes in rodent models. Eur J
Immunol. 1994 Dec; 24 (12): 3155-60.

Delacourt C, Harf A, Lafuma C. Developmental aspects of alveolar macrophage
functions involved in pulmonary defenses. Pediatr Pulmonol Suppl. 1997; 16: 211-2.
Review.
-122-

CHAPTER V

References

Delventhal S, Brandis A, Ostertag H, Pabst R. Low incidence of bronchusassociated lymphoid tissue (BALT) in chronically inflamed human lungs. Virchows
Arch B Cell Pathol Incl Mol Pathol. 1992; 62 (4): 271-4.

Derbinski J, Schulte A, Kyewski B, Klein L. Promiscuous gene expression in
medullary thymic epithelial cells mirrors the peripheral self. Nat Immunol. 2001 Nov;
2 (11): 1032-9.

De Water R, Willems LN, Van Muijen GN, Franken C, Fransen JA, Dijkman JH,
Kramps JA. Ultrastructural localization of bronchial antileukoprotease in central and
peripheral human airways by a gold-labeling technique using monoclonal antibodies.
Am Rev Respir Dis. 1986 May; 133 (5): 882-90.

Dhodapkar MV, Steinman RM, Krasovsky J, Munz C, Bhardwaj N. Antigenspecific inhibition of effector T cell function in humans after injection of immature
dendritic cells. J Exp Med. 2001 Jan 15; 193 (2): 233-8.

Dieu-Nosjean MC, Massacrier C, Homey B, Vanbervliet B, Pin JJ, Vicari A,
Lebecque S, Dezutter-Dambuyant C, Schmitt D, Zlotnik A, Caux C. Macrophage
inflammatory protein 3alpha is expressed at inflamed epithelial surfaces and is the
most potent chemokine known in attracting Langerhans cell precursors. J Exp Med.
2000 Sep 4; 192 (5): 705-18.

Dobbs LG, Mason RJ. Pulmonary alveolar type II cells isolated from rats. Release of
phosphatidylcholine in response to beta-adrenergic stimulation. J Clin Invest. 1979
Mar; 63 (3): 378-87.

Dobbs LG, Wright JR, Hawgood S, Gonzalez R, Venstrom K, Nellenbogen J.
Pulmonary surfactant and its components inhibit secretion of phosphatidylcholine
from cultured rat alveolar type II cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1987 Feb; 84 (4):
1010-4.

-123-

CHAPTER V

References

Ebert LM, Schaerli P, Moser B. Chemokine-mediated control of T cell traffic in
lymphoid and peripheral tissues. Mol Immunol. 2005 May; 42 (7): 799-809. Epub
2004 Nov 23. Review.

Edelson JD, Shannon JM, Mason RJ. Alkaline phosphatase: a marker of alveolar
type II cell differentiation. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1988 Nov; 138 (5): 1268-75.

Effros RM, Darin C, Jacobs ER, Rogers RA, Krenz G, Schneeberger EE. Water
transport and the distribution of aquaporin-1 in pulmonary air spaces. J Appl Physiol.
1997 Sep; 83 (3):1002-16.

Evans MJ, Plopper CG. The role of basal cells in adhesion of columnar epithelium
to airway basement membrane. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1988 Aug; 138 (2): 481-3.

Evans MJ, Cox RA, Shami SG, Plopper CG. Junctional adhesion mechanisms in
airway basal cells. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1990 Oct; 3 (4): 341-7.

Fadok VA, Bratton DL, Konowal A, Freed PW, Westcott JY, Henson PM.
Macrophages that have ingested apoptotic cells in vitro inhibit proinflammatory
cytokine production through autocrine/paracrine mechanisms involving TGF-beta,
PGE2, and PAF. J Clin Invest. 1998 Feb 15; 101 (4): 890-8.

Fehrenbach H. Alveolar epithelial type II cell: defender of the alveolus revisited.
Respir Res. 2001; 2 (1): 33-46. Epub 2001 Jan 15. Review.

Ferguson JS, Voelker DR, McCormack FX, Schlesinger LS. Surfactant protein D
binds to Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacilli and lipoarabinomannan via carbohydratelectin interactions resulting in reduced phagocytosis of the bacteria by macrophages.
J Immunol. 1999 Jul 1; 163 (1): 312-21.

Fine A, Anderson NL, Rothstein TL, Williams MC, Gochuico BR. Fas expression
in pulmonary alveolar type II cells. Am J Physiol. 1997 Jul; 273 (1Pt1): L64-71.

-124-

CHAPTER V

References

Finkelstein JN, Maniscalco WM, Shapiro DL. Properties of freshly isolated type II
alveolar epithelial cells. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1983 Jun 2; 762 (3): 398-404.

Fleischer J, Grage-Griebenow E, Kasper B, Heine H, Ernst M, Brandt E, Flad HD,
Petersen F. Platelet factor 4 inhibits proliferation and cytokine release of activated
human T cells. J Immunol. 2002 Jul 15; 169 (2): 770-7.

Fliegert FG, Tschernig T, Pabst R. Comparison of lymphocyte subsets, monocytes,
and NK cells in three different lung compartments and peripheral blood in the rat. Exp
Lung Res. 1996 Nov-Dec; 22 (6): 677-90.

Folkerts G, Nijkamp FP. Airway epithelium: more than just a barrier! Trends
Pharmacol Sci. 1998 Aug; 19 (8): 334-41. Review.

Fontenot JD, Gavin MA, Rudensky AY. Foxp3 programs the development and
function of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells. Nat Immunol. 2003 Apr; 4 (4): 330-6.
Epub 2003 Mar 3.

Furtado GC, Curotto de Lafaille MA, Kutchukhidze N, Lafaille JJ. Interleukin 2
signaling is required for CD4(+) regulatory T cell function. J Exp Med. 2002 Sep 16;
196 (6): 851-7.

Fuss IJ, Boirivant M, Lacy B, Strober W. The interrelated roles of TGF-beta and IL10 in the regulation of experimental colitis. J Immunol. 2002 Jan 15; 168 (2): 900-8.

Galligan C, Yoshimura T. Phenotypic and functional changes of cytokine-activated
neutrophils. Chem Immunol Allergy. 2003; 83: 24-44. Review.

Gardai SJ, Xiao YQ, Dickinson M, Nick JA, Voelker DR, Greene KE, Henson PM.
By binding SIRPalpha or calreticulin/CD91, lung collectins act as dual function
surveillance molecules to suppress or enhance inflammation. Cell. 2003 Oct 3; 115
(1): 13-23.

-125-

CHAPTER V

References

Gershon RK, Lance EM, Kondo K. Immuno-regulatory role of spleen localizing
thymocytes. J Immunol. 1974 Feb; 112 (2): 546-54.

Gizycki MJ, Adelroth E, Rogers AV, O'Byrne PM, Jeffery PK. Myofibroblast
involvement in the allergen-induced late response in mild atopic asthma. Am J Respir
Cell Mol Biol. 1997 Jun; 16 (6): 664-73.

Gong JL, McCarthy KM, Telford J, Tamatani T, Miyasaka M, Schneeberger EE.
Intraepithelial airway dendritic cells: a distinct subset of pulmonary dendritic cells
obtained by microdissection. J Exp Med. 1992 Mar 1; 175 (3): 797-807.

Greenwald RJ, Freeman GJ, Sharpe AH. The B7 family revisited. Annu Rev
Immunol. 2005; 23: 515-48. Review.

Griese M. Pulmonary surfactant in health and human lung diseases: state of the art.
Eur Respir J. 1999 Jun; 13 (6): 1455-76. Review.

Groux H, O'Garra A, Bigler M, Rouleau M, Antonenko S, de Vries JE, Roncarolo
MG. A CD4+ T-cell subset inhibits antigen-specific T-cell responses and prevents
colitis. Nature. 1997 Oct 16; 389 (6652): 737-42.

Guillot L, Balloy V, McCormack FX, Golenbock DT, Chignard M, Si-Tahar M.
Cutting edge: the immunostimulatory activity of the lung surfactant protein-A involves
Toll-like receptor 4. J Immunol. 2002 Jun 15; 168 (12): 5989-92.

Gumbleton M, Hollins AJ, Omidi Y, Campbell L, Taylor G. Targeting caveolae for
vesicular drug transport. J Control Release. 2003 Feb 21; 87 (1-3): 139-51. Review.

Haagsman HP, Hawgood S, Sargeant T, Buckley D, White RT, Drickamer K,
Benson BJ. The major lung surfactant protein, SP 28-36, is a calcium-dependent,
carbohydrate-binding protein. J Biol Chem. 1987 Oct 15; 262 (29):13877-80.

-126-

CHAPTER V

References

Haies DM, Gil J, Weibel ER. Morphometric study of rat lung cells. Numerical and
dimensional characteristics of parenchymal cell population. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1981
May; 123 (5): 533-41.

Hansen S, Holmskov U. Lung surfactant protein D (SP-D) and the molecular
diverted descendants: conglutinin, CL-43 and CL-46. Immunobiology. 2002 Sep; 205
(4-5): 498-517. Review.

Haskins K, McDuffie M. Acceleration of diabetes in young NOD mice with a CD4+
islet-specific T cell clone. Science. 1990 Sep 21; 249 (4975):1433-6.

Harkema JR, Hotchkiss JA. In vivo effects of endotoxin on nasal epithelial
mucosubstances: quantitative histochemistry. Exp Lung Res. 1991 Jul-Aug; 17 (4):
743-61.

Hayashi T, Stetler-Stevenson WG, Fleming MV, Fishback N, Koss MN, Liotta LA,
Ferrans VJ, Travis WD. Immunohistochemical study of metalloproteinases and their
tissue inhibitors in the lungs of patients with diffuse alveolar damage and idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis. Am J Pathol. 1996 Oct; 149 (4): 1241-56.

Herbein JF, Savov J, Wright JR. Binding and uptake of surfactant protein D by
freshly isolated rat alveolar type II cells. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol. 2000
Apr; 278 (4): L830-9.

Herman AE, Freeman GJ, Mathis D, Benoist C. CD4+CD25+ T regulatory cells
dependent on ICOS promote regulation of effector cells in the prediabetic lesion. J
Exp Med. 2004 Jun 7; 199 (11): 1479-89.

Hickling TP, Sim RB, Malhotra R. Induction of TNF-alpha release from human buffy
coat cells by Pseudomonas aeruginosa is reduced by lung surfactant protein A.
FEBS Lett. 1998 Oct 16; 437 (1-2): 65-9.

-127-

CHAPTER V

References

Holmskov U, Lawson P, Teisner B, Tornoe I, Willis AC, Morgan C, Koch C, Reid
KB. Isolation and characterization of a new member of the scavenger receptor
superfamily, glycoprotein-340 (gp-340), as a lung surfactant protein-D binding
molecule. J Biol Chem. 1997 May 23; 272 (21): 13743-9.

Holmskov U, Thiel S, Jensenius JC. Collections and ficolins: humoral lectins of the
innate immune defense. Annu Rev Immunol. 2003; 21: 547-78. Epub 2001 Dec 19.
Review.

Holt PG. Development of bronchus associated lymphoid tissue (BALT) in human
lung disease: a normal host defence mechanism awaiting therapeutic exploitation?
Thorax. 1993 Nov; 48 (11): 1097-8.

Holt PG. Pulmonary dendritic cell populations. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1993; 329: 557-62.
Review.

Holt PG, Schon-Hegrad MA. Localization of T cells, macrophages and dendritic
cells in rat respiratory tract tissue: implications for immune function studies.
Immunology. 1987 Nov; 62 (3): 349-56.

Holt PG, Haining S, Nelson DJ, Sedgwick JD. Origin and steady-state turnover of
class II MHC-bearing dendritic cells in the epithelium of the conducting airways. J
Immunol. 1994 Jul 1; 153 (1): 256-61.

Hong KU, Reynolds SD, Giangreco A, Hurley CM, Stripp BR. Clara cell secretory
protein-expressing cells of the airway neuroepithelial body microenvironment include
a label-retaining subset and are critical for epithelial renewal after progenitor cell
depletion. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2001 Jun; 24 (6): 671-81.

Hori S, Nomura T, Sakaguchi S. Control of regulatory T cell development by the
transcription factor Foxp3. Science. 2003 Feb 14; 299 (5609): 1057-61. Epub 2003
Jan 9.

-128-

CHAPTER V

References

Huang M, Sharma S, Mao JT, Dubinett SM. Non-small cell lung cancer-derived
soluble mediators and prostaglandin E2 enhance peripheral blood lymphocyte IL-10
transcription and protein production. J Immunol. 1996 Dec 15; 157 (12): 5512-20.

Hutchings PR, Cooke A, Dawe K, Champion BR, Geysen M, Valerio R, Roitt IM.
A thyroxine-containing peptide can induce murine experimental autoimmune
thyroiditis. J Exp Med. 1992 Mar 1; 175 (3): 869-72.

Ikegami M, Korfhagen TR, Whitsett JA, Bruno MD, Wert SE, Wada K, Jobe AH.
Characteristics of surfactant from SP-A-deficient mice. Am J Physiol. 1998 Aug; 275
(2Pt1): L247-54.

Ishida Y, Agata Y, Shibahara K, Honjo T. Induced expression of PD-1, a novel
member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, upon programmed cell death.
EMBO J. 1992 Nov; 11 (11): 3887-95.

Jacobson DL, Gange SJ, Rose NR, Graham NM. Epidemiology and estimated
population burden of selected autoimmune diseases in the United States. Clin
Immunol Immunopathol. 1997 Sep; 84 (3): 223-43. Review.

Johnson MD, Widdicombe JH, Allen L, Barbry P, Dobbs LG. Alveolar epithelial
type I cells contain transport proteins and transport sodium, supporting an active role
for type I cells in regulation of lung liquid homeostasis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A.
2002 Feb 19; 99 (4): 1966-71. Epub 2002 Feb 12.

Jonsson S, Musher DM, Chapman A, Goree A, Lawrence EC. Phagocytosis and
killing of common bacterial pathogens of the lung by human alveolar macrophages. J
Infect Dis. 1985 Jul; 152 (1): 4-13.

Jonuleit H, Schmitt E, Schuler G, Knop J, Enk AH. Induction of interleukin 10producing, nonproliferating CD4(+) T cells with regulatory properties by repetitive
stimulation with allogeneic immature human dendritic cells. J Exp Med. 2000 Nov 6;
192 (9): 1213-22.

-129-

CHAPTER V

References

Kalina M, Mason RJ, Shannon JM. Surfactant protein C is expressed in alveolar
type II cells but not in Clara cells of rat lung. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1992 Jun; 6
(6): 594-600.

Kapanci Y, Weibel ER, Kaplan HP, Robinson FR. Pathogenesis and reversibility of
the pulmonary lesions of oxygen toxicity in monkeys. II. Ultrastructural and
morphometric studies. Lab Invest. 1969 Jan; 20 (1): 101-18.

Kasper M, Huber O, Grossmann H, Rudolph B, Trankner C, Muller M.
Immunocytochemical distribution of E-cadherin in normal and injured lung tissue of
the rat. Histochem Cell Biol. 1995 Nov; 104 (5): 383-90.

Kasper M, Traub O, Reimann T, Bjermer L, Grossmann H, Muller M, Wenzel KW
Upregulation of gap junction protein connexin43 in alveolar epithelial cells of rats with
radiation-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Histochem Cell Biol. 1996 Oct; 106 (4): 419-24.

Kawano T, Ogushi F, Tani K, Endo T, Ohmoto Y, Hayashi Y, Sone S. Comparison
of suppressive effects of a new anti-inflammatory compound, FR167653, on
production of PGE2 and inflammatory cytokines, human monocytes, and alveolar
macrophages in response to endotoxin. J Leukoc Biol. 1999 Jan; 65 (1): 80-6.

Kearney ER, Pape KA, Loh DY, Jenkins MK. Visualization of peptide-specific T cell
immunity and peripheral tolerance induction in vivo. Immunity. 1994 Jul; 1 (4): 327-39.

Khalil N, O'Connor RN, Flanders KC, Shing W, Whitman CI. Regulation of type II
alveolar epithelial cell proliferation by TGF-beta during bleomycin-induced lung injury
in rats. Am J Physiol. 1994 Nov; 267 (5Pt1): L498-507.

Kingsley CI, Karim M, Bushell AR, Wood KJ. CD25+CD4+ regulatory T cells
prevent graft rejection: CTLA-4- and IL-10-dependent immunoregulation of
alloresponses. J Immunol. 2002 Feb 1; 168 (3): 1080-6.

-130-

CHAPTER V

References

Kirberg J, Baron A, Jakob S, Rolink A, Karjalainen K, von Boehmer H. Thymic
selection of CD8+ single positive cells with a class II major histocompatibility
complex-restricted receptor. J Exp Med. 1994 Jul 1; 180 (1): 25-34.

Klein JM, Fritz BL, McCarthy TA, Wohlford-Lenane CL, Snyder JM. Localization
of epidermal growth factor receptor in alveolar epithelium during human fetal lung
development in vitro. Exp Lung Res. 1995 Nov-Dec; 21 (6): 917-39.

Knight DA, Holgate ST. The airway epithelium: structural and functional properties
in health and disease. Respirology. 2003 Dec; 8 (4): 432-46. Review.

Krawczyk M, Peyraud N, Rybtsova N, Masternak K, Bucher P, Barras E, Reith
W. Long distance control of MHC class II expression by multiple distal enhancers
regulated by regulatory factor X complex and CIITA. J Immunol. 2004 Nov 15; 173
(10): 6200-10.

Kremlev SG, Phelps DS. Surfactant protein A stimulation of inflammatory cytokine
and immunoglobulin production. Am J Physiol. 1994 Dec; 267 (6Pt1): L712-9.

Kremlev SG, Umstead TM, Phelps DS. Surfactant protein A regulates cytokine
production in the monocytic cell line THP-1. Am J Physiol. 1997 May; 272 (5Pt1):
L996-1004.
Kuebler WM, Parthasarathi K, Wang PM, Bhattacharya J. A novel signaling
mechanism between gas and blood compartments of the lung. J Clin Invest. 2000
Apr;105 (7): 905-13. Erratum in: J Clin Invest 2000 Aug; 106 (4): 607.

Lambrecht BN, De Veerman M, Coyle AJ, Gutierrez-Ramos JC, Thielemans K,
Pauwels RA. Myeloid dendritic cells induce Th2 responses to inhaled antigen,
leading to eosinophilic airway inflammation. J Clin Invest. 2000 Aug; 106 (4): 551-9.

Lankat-Buttgereit B, Tampe R. The transporter associated with antigen processing
TAP: structure and function. FEBS Lett. 1999 Dec 31; 464 (3): 108-12. Review.

-131-

CHAPTER V

References

Lanoue A, Bona C, von Boehmer H, Sarukhan A. Conditions that induce tolerance
in mature CD4+ T cells. J Exp Med. 1997 Feb 3; 185 (3): 405-14.

Larhammar D, Hammerling U, Denaro M, Lund T, Flavell RA, Rask L, Peterson
PA. Structure of the murine immune response I-A beta locus: sequence of the I-A
beta gene and an adjacent beta-chain second domain exon. Cell. 1983 Aug; 34 (1):
179-88.

Lauweryns JM, Baert JH. Alveolar clearance and the role of the pulmonary
lymphatics. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1977 Apr; 115 (4): 625-83. Review.

Lehnert BE. Pulmonary and thoracic macrophage subpopulations and clearance of
particles from the lung. Environ Health Perspect. 1992 Jul; 97: 17-46. Review.

Lenschow DJ, Herold KC, Rhee L, Patel B, Koons A, Qin HY, Fuchs E, Singh B,
Thompson CB, Bluestone JA. CD28/B7 regulation of Th1 and Th2 subsets in the
development of autoimmune diabetes. Immunity. 1996 Sep; 5 (3): 285-93.

Leslie CC, McCormick-Shannon K, Shannon JM, Garrick B, Damm D, Abraham
JA, Mason RJ. Heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor is a mitogen for rat alveolar
type II cells. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1997 Apr; 16 (4): 379-87.

Leth-Larsen R, Floridon C, Nielsen O, Holmskov U. Surfactant protein D in the
female genital tract. Mol Hum Reprod. 2004 Mar; 10 (3): 149-54. Epub 2004 Jan 29.

Levings MK, Sangregorio R, Galbiati F, Squadrone S, de Waal Malefyt R,
Roncarolo MG. IFN-alpha and IL-10 induce the differentiation of human type 1 T
regulatory cells. J Immunol. 2001 May 1; 166 (9): 5530-9.

Liang SC, Latchman YE, Buhlmann JE, Tomczak MF, Horwitz BH, Freeman GJ,
Sharpe AH. Regulation of PD-1, PD-L1, and PD-L2 expression during normal and
autoimmune responses. Eur J Immunol. 2003 Oct; 33 (10): 2706-16.

-132-

CHAPTER V

References

Lim BL, Wang JY, Holmskov U, Hoppe HJ, Reid KB. Expression of the
carbohydrate recognition domain of lung surfactant protein D and demonstration of
its binding to lipopolysaccharides of gram-negative bacteria. Biochem Biophys Res
Commun. 1994 Aug 15; 202 (3):1674-80.

Lin Z, Pearson C, Chinchilli V, Pietschmann SM, Luo J, Pison U, Floros J.
Polymorphisms of human SP-A, SP-B, and SP-D genes: association of SP-B
Thr131Ile with ARDS. Clin Genet. 2000 Sep; 58 (3): 181-91.

Lipscomb MF, Pollard AM, Yates JL. A role for TGF-beta in the suppression by
murine bronchoalveolar cells of lung dendritic cell initiated immune responses. Reg
Immunol. 1993 May-Aug; 5 (3-4): 151-7.

Lipscomb MF, Bice DE, Lyons CR, Schuyler MR, Wilkes D. The regulation of
pulmonary immunity. Adv Immunol. 1995; 59: 369-455. Review.

Lohmann-Matthes

ML,

Steinmuller

C,

Franke-Ullmann

G.

Pulmonary

macrophages. Eur Respir J. 1994 Sep; 7 (9): 1678-89. Review.

Madsen J, Kliem A, Tornoe I, Skjodt K, Koch C, Holmskov U. Localization of lung
surfactant protein D on mucosal surfaces in human tissues. J Immunol. 2000 Jun 1;
164 (11): 5866-70.

Malek TR, Yu A, Vincek V, Scibelli P, Kong L. CD4 regulatory T cells prevent lethal
autoimmunity in IL-2Rbeta-deficient mice. Implications for the nonredundant function
of IL-2. Immunity. 2002 Aug; 17 (2): 167-78.

Malhotra R, Thiel S, Reid KB, Sim RB. Human leukocyte C1q receptor binds other
soluble proteins with collagen domains. J Exp Med. 1990 Sep 1; 172 (3): 955-9.

Malhotra R, Willis AC, Jensenius JC, Jackson J, Sim RB. Structure and homology
of human C1q receptor (collectin receptor). Immunology. 1993 Mar; 78 (3): 341-8.

-133-

CHAPTER V

References

Malhotra R, Haurum JS, Thiel S, Sim RB. Binding of human collectins (SP-A and
MBP) to influenza virus. Biochem J. 1994 Dec 1; 304 (Pt2): 455-61.

Maloy KJ, Powrie F. Regulatory T cells in the control of immune pathology. Nat
Immunol. 2001 Sep; 2 (9): 816-22. Review.

Maloy KJ, Salaun L, Cahill R, Dougan G, Saunders NJ, Powrie F. CD4+CD25+
T(R) cells

suppress innate immune

pathology through cytokine-dependent

mechanisms. J Exp Med. 2003 Jan 6; 197 (1): 111-9.

Maniscalco WM, Sinkin RA, Watkins RH, Campbell MH. Transforming growth
factor-beta 1 modulates type II cell fibronectin and surfactant protein C expression.
Am J Physiol. 1994 Nov; 267 (5Pt1): L569-77.

Marin L, Dameron F, Relier JP. Changes in the cellular environment of
differentiating type II pneumocytes. Quantitative study in the perinatal rat lung. Biol
Neonate. 1982; 41 (3-4): 172-82.

Mason RJ, Williams MC. Type II alveolar cell. Defender of the alveolus.
Am Rev Respir Dis. 1977 Jun; 115 (6Pt2): 81-91.

Mason RJ, Leslie CC, McCormick-Shannon K, Deterding RR, Nakamura T,
Rubin JS, Shannon JM. Hepatocyte growth factor is a growth factor for rat alveolar
type II cells. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1994 Nov; 11 (5): 561-7.

Mason RJ, McCormack FX. Alveolar type II cell reactions in pathogenic states. In
Lung surfactant:Basic research in the pathogenesis of lung disorders. Edited by
Müller B, von WichertP. Basel; Karger, 1994: 194-204.

Mathews MB, Bernstein RM. Myositis autoantibody inhibits histidyl-tRNA synthetase:
a model for autoimmunity. Nature. 1983 Jul 14-20; 304 (5922): 177-9.

Matthay MA, Folkesson HG, Clerici C. Lung epithelial fluid transport and the
resolution of pulmonary edema. Physiol Rev. 2002 Jul; 82 (3): 569-600. Review.
-134-

CHAPTER V

References

Matthews SP, Tregoning JS, Coyle AJ, Hussell T, Openshaw PJ. Role of CCL11
in eosinophilic lung disease during respiratory syncytial virus infection. J Virol. 2005
Feb; 79 (4): 2050-7.

Matzer SP, Rodel F, Strieter RM, Rollinghoff M, Beuscher HU. Constitutive
expression of CXCL2/MIP-2 is restricted to a Gr-1high, CD11b+, CD62Lhigh subset
of bone marrow derived granulocytes. Int Immunol. 2004 Nov; 16 (11): 1675-83.
Epub 2004 Oct 4.

Marrack P, Kappler J, Kotzin BL. Autoimmune disease: why and where it occurs.
Nat Med. 2001 Aug; 7 (8): 899-905. Review.

Markewitz BA, Kohan DE, Michael JR. Endothelin-1 synthesis, receptors, and
signal transduction in alveolar epithelium: evidence for an autocrine role. Am J
Physiol. 1995 Feb; 268 (2Pt1): L192-200.

Maurer M, von Stebut E. Macrophage inflammatory protein-1. Int J Biochem Cell
Biol. 2004 Oct; 36 (10): 1882-6. Review.

McHugh RS, Whitters MJ, Piccirillo CA, Young DA, Shevach EM, Collins M,
Byrne MC. CD4(+)CD25(+) immunoregulatory T cells: gene expression analysis
reveals a functional role for the glucocorticoid-induced TNF receptor. Immunity. 2002
Feb; 16 (2): 311-23.

McIntosh JC, Mervin-Blake S, Conner E, Wright JR. Surfactant protein A protects
growing cells and reduces TNF-alpha activity from LPS-stimulated macrophages. Am
J Physiol. 1996 Aug; 271 (2Pt1): L310-9.

Miller JF, Basten A. Mechanisms of tolerance to self. Curr Opin Immunol. 1996 Dec;
8 (6): 815-21. Review.

Morgan DJ, Liblau R, Scott B, Fleck S, McDevitt HO, Sarvetnick N, Lo D,
Sherman LA. CD8(+) T cell-mediated spontaneous diabetes in neonatal mice. J
Immunol. 1996 Aug 1; 157 (3): 978-83.
-135-

CHAPTER V

References

Moyron-Quiroz JE, Rangel-Moreno J, Kusser K, Hartson L, Sprague F,
Goodrich S, Woodland DL, Lund FE, Randall TD. Role of inducible bronchus
associated lymphoid tissue (iBALT) in respiratory immunity. Nat Med. 2004 Sep; 10
(9): 927-34. Epub 2004 Aug 15.

Nakamura K, Kitani A, Strober W. Cell contact-dependent immunosuppression by
CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells is mediated by cell surface-bound transforming
growth factor beta. J Exp Med. 2001 Sep 3; 194 (5): 629-44.

Nepomuceno RR, Henschen-Edman AH, Burgess WH, Tenner AJ. cDNA cloning
and primary structure analysis of C1qR(P), the human C1q/MBL/SPA receptor that
mediates enhanced phagocytosis in vitro. Immunity. 1997 Feb; 6 (2): 119-29.

Neurath MF, Fuss I, Kelsall BL, Presky DH, Waegell W, Strober W. Experimental
granulomatous colitis in mice is abrogated by induction of TGF-beta-mediated oral
tolerance. J Exp Med. 1996 Jun 1; 183 (6): 2605-16.

Nicholas TE. Pulmonary surfactant: no mere paint on the alveolar wall. Respirology.
1996 Dec; 1 (4): 247-57. Review.

Niedermann G, Geier E, Lucchiari-Hartz M, Hitziger N, Ramsperger A, Eichmann
K. The specificity of proteasomes: impact on MHC class I processing and
presentation of antigens. Immunol Rev. 1999 Dec; 172: 29-48. Review.

Nogee LM. Alterations in SP-B and SP-C expression in neonatal lung disease. Annu
Rev Physiol. 2004; 66: 601-23. Review.

O'Brien AD, Standiford TJ, Christensen PJ, Wilcoxen SE, Paine R 3rd.
Chemotaxis of alveolar macrophages in response to signals derived from alveolar
epithelial cells. J Lab Clin Med. 1998 May; 131 (5): 417-24.

O'Garra A, Vieira P. Regulatory T cells and mechanisms of immune system control.
Nat Med. 2004 Aug;10 (8): 801-5. Review.

-136-

CHAPTER V

References

O'Reilly MA, Stripp BR, Pryhuber GS. Epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in the
alteration of gene expression and morphology following lung injury. Microsc Res
Tech. 1997 Sep 1; 38 (5): 473-9. Review.

Pabst R. Compartmentalization and kinetics of lymphoid cells in the lung.
Reg Immunol. 1990 Jan-Feb; 3 (1): 62-71. Review.

Pabst R. Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue of the lung: localization, numbers and
dynamics of lymphoid cells in the five different compartments. In Asthma and Rinitis.
Edited by Busse WW, Holgate ST. 2nd edition, Vol. I, Blackwell Science, Oxford, 2000,
pp. 543-556.

Pabst R, Delventhal S, Gebert A, Hensel A, Petzoldt K. Lymphocyte subsets in
bronchoalveolar lavage after exposure to Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae in pigs
previously immunized orally or by aerosol. Lung. 1995; 173 (4): 233-41.

Pabst R, Delventhal S, Hensel A, Petzoldt K. Immunization by the enteral and
respiratory route with viable and inactivated bacteria results in a differential increase
in lymphocyte subsets in the bronchoalveolar space. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1995; 371B:
1459-61.

Pabst R, Schuster M, Tschernig T. Lymphocyte dynamics in the pulmonary
microenvironment: implications for the pathophysiology of pulmonary sarcoidosis.
Sarcoidosis Vasc Diffuse Lung Dis. 1999 Sep; 16 (2):197-202. Review.

Paine R 3rd, Mody CH, Chavis A, Spahr MA, Turka LA, Toews GB. Alveolar
epithelial cells block lymphocyte proliferation in vitro without inhibiting activation. Am
J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1991 Sep; 5 (3): 221-9.

Palaniyar N, Clark H, Nadesalingam J, Hawgood S, Reid KB. Surfactant protein D
binds genomic DNA and apoptotic cells, and enhances their clearance, in vivo. Ann
N Y Acad Sci. 2003 Dec; 1010: 471-5.

-137-

CHAPTER V

References

Palaniyar N, Nadesalingam J, Clark H, Shih MJ, Dodds AW, Reid KB. Nucleic
acid is a novel ligand for innate, immune pattern recognition collectins surfactant
proteins A and D and mannose-binding lectin. J Biol Chem. 2004 Jul 30; 279 (31):
32728-36. Epub 2004 May 15.

Pattle RE. Properties, function and origin of the alveolar lining layer. Nature. 1955
Jun 25; 175 (4469): 1125-6.

Persson A, Chang D, Crouch E. Surfactant protein D is a divalent cation-dependent
carbohydrate-binding protein. J Biol Chem. 1990 Apr 5; 265 (10): 5755-60.

Phelps DS, Floros J. Localization of pulmonary surfactant proteins using
immunohistochemistry and tissue in situ hybridization. Exp Lung Res. 1991 Nov-Dec;
17 (6): 985-95.

Plesch BE, Gamelkoorn GJ, van de Ende M. Development of bronchus associated
lymphoid tissue (BALT) in the rat, with special reference to T- and B-cells.
Dev Comp Immunol. 1983 Winter; 7 (1): 179-88.

Piccirillo CA, Shevach EM. Naturally-occurring CD4+CD25+ immunoregulatory T
cells: central players in the arena of peripheral tolerance. Semin Immunol. 2004
Apr;16 (2): 81-8. Review.
Pison U, Max M, Neuendank A, Weissbach S, Pietschmann S. Host defence
capacities of pulmonary surfactant: evidence for 'non-surfactant' functions of the
surfactant system. Eur J Clin Invest. 1994 Sep; 24 (9): 586-99. Review.

Powrie E. Primary health care provision for adults with a learning disability. J Adv
Nurs. 2003 May; 42 (4): 413-23.

Prakobphol A, Xu F, Hoang VM, Larsson T, Bergstrom J, Johansson I,
Frangsmyr L, Holmskov U, Leffler H, Nilsson C, Boren T, Wright JR, Stromberg
N, Fisher SJ. Salivary agglutinin, which binds Streptococcus mutans and
Helicobacter pylori, is the lung scavenger receptor cysteine-rich protein gp-340. J
Biol Chem. 2000 Dec 22; 275 (51): 39860-6.
-138-

CHAPTER V

References

Ramsdell F. Foxp3 and natural regulatory T cells: key to a cell lineage? Immunity.
2003 Aug;19 (2): 165-8. Review.

Read S, Mauze S, Asseman C, Bean A, Coffman R, Powrie F. CD38+
CD45RB(low) CD4+ T cells: a population of T cells with immune regulatory activities
in vitro. Eur J Immunol. 1998 Nov; 28 (11): 3435-47.

Read S, Malmstrom V, Powrie F. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4
plays an essential role in the function of CD25(+)CD4(+) regulatory cells that control
intestinal inflammation. J Exp Med. 2000 Jul 17; 192 (2): 295-302.

Reibman J, Hsu Y, Chen LC, Bleck B, Gordon T. Airway epithelial cells release
MIP-3alpha/CCL20 in response to cytokines and ambient particulate matter.
Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2003 Jun; 28 (6): 648-54.

Reidy MF, Wright JR. Surfactant protein A enhances apoptotic cell uptake and TGFbeta1 release by inflammatory alveolar macrophages. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol
Physiol. 2003 Oct; 285 (4): L854-61. Epub 2003 Jun 6.

Roncarolo MG, Levings MK. The role of different subsets of T regulatory cells in
controlling autoimmunity. Curr Opin Immunol. 2000 Dec; 12 (6): 676-83. Review.
Rosseau S, Hammerl P, Maus U, Gunther A, Seeger W, Grimminger F,
Lohmeyer J. Surfactant protein A down-regulates proinflammatory cytokine
production evoked by Candida albicans in human alveolar macrophages and
monocytes. J Immunol. 1999 Oct 15; 163 (8): 4495-502.

Rottman JB, Smith T, Tonra JR, Ganley K, Bloom T, Silva R, Pierce B,
Gutierrez-Ramos JC, Ozkaynak E, Coyle AJ. The costimulatory molecule ICOS
plays an important role in the immunopathogenesis of EAE. Nat Immunol. 2001 Jul; 2
(7): 605-11.

Rubio S, Lacaze-Masmonteil T, Chailley-Heu B, Kahn A, Bourbon JR, Ducroc R.
Pulmonary surfactant protein A (SP-A) is expressed by epithelial cells of small and
large intestine. J Biol Chem. 1995 May 19; 270 (20): 12162-9.
-139-

CHAPTER V

References

Sakaguchi S, Sakaguchi N. Role of genetic factors in organ-specific autoimmune
diseases induced by manipulating the thymus or T cells, and not self-antigens. Rev
Immunogenet. 2000; 2 (1): 147-53. Review.

Sakaguchi S, Sakaguchi N, Shimizu J, Yamazaki S, Sakihama T, Itoh M,
Kuniyasu Y, Nomura T, Toda M, Takahashi T. Immunologic tolerance maintained
by CD25+ CD4+ regulatory T cells: their common role in controlling autoimmunity,
tumor immunity, and transplantation tolerance. Immunol Rev. 2001 Aug; 182: 18-32.
Review.

Sakaguchi S, Takahashi T, Yamazaki S, Kuniyasu Y, Itoh M, Sakaguchi N,
Shimizu J. Immunologic self tolerance maintained by T-cell-mediated control of selfreactive T cells: implications for autoimmunity and tumor immunity. Microbes Infect.
2001 Sep; 3 (11): 911-8. Review.

Salomon B, Lenschow DJ, Rhee L, Ashourian N, Singh B, Sharpe A, Bluestone
JA. B7/CD28 costimulation is essential for the homeostasis of the CD4+CD25+
immunoregulatory T cells that control autoimmune diabetes. Immunity. 2000 Apr; 12
(4): 431-40.

Saltini C, Kirby M, Trapnell BC, Tamura N, Crystal RG. Biased accumulation of T
lymphocytes with "memory"-type CD45 leukocyte common antigen gene expression
on the epithelial surface of the human lung. J Exp Med. 1990 Apr 1; 171 (4):1123-40.

Sano H, Sohma H, Muta T, Nomura S, Voelker DR, Kuroki Y. Pulmonary
surfactant protein A modulates the cellular response to smooth and rough
lipopolysaccharides by interaction with CD14. J Immunol. 1999 Jul 1; 163 (1):387-95.

Sarukhan A, Lanoue A, Franzke A, Brousse N, Buer J, von Boehmer H. Changes
in function of antigen-specific lymphocytes correlating with progression towards
diabetes in a transgenic model. EMBO J. 1998 Jan 2; 17 (1): 71-80.

-140-

CHAPTER V

References

Sarukhan A, Garcia C, Lanoue A, von Boehmer H. Allelic inclusion of T cell
receptor alpha genes poses an autoimmune hazard due to low-level expression of
autospecific receptors. Immunity. 1998 May; 8 (5): 563-70.

Sato M, Sano H, Iwaki D, Kudo K, Konishi M, Takahashi H, Takahashi T,
Imaizumi H, Asai Y, Kuroki Y. Direct binding of Toll-like receptor 2 to zymosan, and
zymosan-induced NF-kappa B activation and TNF-alpha secretion are downregulated by lung collectin surfactant protein A. J Immunol. 2003 Jul 1; 171 (1): 41725.

Scavo LM, Ertsey R, Chapin CJ, Allen L, Kitterman JA. Apoptosis in the
development of rat and human fetal lungs.Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1998 Jan; 18
(1): 21-31.

Schagat TL, Wofford JA, Wright JR. Surfactant protein A enhances alveolar
macrophage phagocytosis of apoptotic neutrophils. J Immunol. 2001 Feb 15; 166 (4):
2727-33.

Schittny JC, Djonov V, Fine A, Burri PH. Programmed cell death contributes to
postnatal lung development. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 1998 Jun; 18 (6): 786-93.

Schneeberger EE, DeFerrari M, Skoskiewicz MJ, Russell PS, Colvin RB.
Induction of MHC-determined antigens in the lung by interferon-gamma. Lab Invest.
1986 Aug; 55 (2): 138-44.

Schwartz RH. Models of T cell anergy: is there a common molecular mechanism? J
Exp Med. 1996 Jul 1; 184 (1): 1-8. Review.

Sebastiani S, Allavena P, Albanesi C, Nasorri F, Bianchi G, Traidl C, Sozzani S,
Girolomoni G, Cavani A. Chemokine receptor expression and function in CD4+ T
lymphocytes with regulatory activity. J Immunol. 2001 Jan 15; 166 (2): 996-1002.

-141-

CHAPTER V

References

Sen N, Grunstein MM, Chander A. Stimulation of lung surfactant secretion by
endothelin-1 from rat alveolar type II cells. Am J Physiol. 1994 Mar; 266 (3Pt1): L25562.

Shannon

JM,

Deterding

RR

Epithelial-mesenchymal

interactions

in

lung

development. In Lung growth and development. Edited by Mc Donald JA. New York;
Marcel Dekker, Inc., 1997: 81-118.

Shannon JM, Pan T, Nielsen LD, Edeen KE, Mason RJ. Lung fibroblasts improve
differentiation of rat type II cells in primary culture. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2001
Mar; 24 (3): 235-44.

Shao L, Kamalu O, Mayer L. Non-classical MHC class I molecules on intestinal
epithelial cells: mediators of mucosal crosstalk. Immunol Rev. 2005 Aug; 206: 160-76.

Shevach EM. CD4+CD25+ suppressor T cells: more questions than answers. Nat
Rev Immunol. 2002 Jun; 2 (6): 389-400. Review.

Shimizu J, Yamazaki S, Takahashi T, Ishida Y, Sakaguchi S. Stimulation of
CD25(+)CD4(+) regulatory T cells through GITR breaks immunological self-tolerance.
Nat Immunol. 2002 Feb; 3 (2): 135-42. Epub 2002 Jan 22.

Skapenko A, Leipe J, Lipsky PE, Schulze-Koops H. The role of the T cell in
autoimmune inflammation. Arthritis Res Ther. 2005; 7 Suppl 2: S4-14. Epub 2005
Mar 16.

Smith GJ, Bennett FA, Steele JG, Bentel JM. Onset of neoplastic phenotype in an
epithelial cell strain from adult BALB/c mouse lung alveolus.J Natl Cancer Inst. 1986
Jan; 76 (1): 73-9.

Spina D. Epithelium smooth muscle regulation and interactions. Am J Respir Crit
Care Med. 1998 Nov; 158 (5Pt3): S141-5. Review.

-142-

CHAPTER V

References

Sporici RA, Beswick RL, von Allmen C, Rumbley CA, Hayden-Ledbetter M,
Ledbetter JA, Perrin PJ. ICOS ligand costimulation is required for T-cell
encephalitogenicity. Clin Immunol. 2001 Sep; 100 (3): 277-88.

St Croix B, Sheehan C, Rak JW, Florenes VA, Slingerland JM, Kerbel RS. ECadherin-dependent growth suppression is mediated by the cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor p27(KIP1). J Cell Biol. 1998 Jul 27; 142 (2): 557-71.

Stamme C, Walsh E, Wright JR. Surfactant protein A differentially regulates IFNgamma- and LPS-induced nitrite production by rat alveolar macrophages. Am J
Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2000 Dec; 23 (6): 772-9.

Steinberger P, Szekeres A, Wille S, Stockl J, Selenko N, Prager E, Staffler G,
Madic O, Stockinger H, Knapp W. Identification of human CD93 as the phagocytic
C1q receptor (C1qRp) by expression cloning. J Leukoc Biol. 2002 Jan; 71 (1): 133-40.

Steinman L. A few autoreactive cells in an autoimmune infiltrate control a vast
population of nonspecific cells: a tale of smart bombs and the infantry. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A. 1996 Mar 19; 93 (6): 2253-6. Review.

Stein-Streilein J. Immunobiology of lymphocytes in the lung. Reg Immunol. 1988
Sep-Oct; 1 (2): 128-36. Review.

Strayer DS, Pinder R, Chander A. Receptor-mediated regulation of pulmonary
surfactant secretion. Exp Cell Res. 1996 Jul 10; 226 (1): 90-7.

Strickland D, Kees UR, Holt PG. Regulation of T-cell activation in the lung: alveolar
macrophages induce reversible T-cell anergy in vitro associated with inhibition of
interleukin-2 receptor signal transduction. Immunology. 1996 Feb; 87 (2): 250-8.

Stumbles PA, Thomas JA, Pimm CL, Lee PT, Venaille TJ, Proksch S, Holt PG.
Resting respiratory tract dendritic cells preferentially stimulate T helper cell type 2
(Th2) responses and require obligatory cytokine signals for induction of Th1 immunity.
J Exp Med. 1998 Dec 7; 188 (11): 2019-31.
-143-

CHAPTER V

References

Suda T, McCarthy K, Vu Q, McCormack J, Schneeberger EE. Dendritic cell
precursors are enriched in the vascular compartment of the lung. Am J Respir Cell
Mol Biol. 1998 Nov; 19 (5): 728-37.

Suri-Payer E, Amar AZ, Thornton AM, Shevach EM. CD4+CD25+ T cells inhibit
both the induction and effector function of autoreactive T cells and represent a
unique lineage of immunoregulatory cells. J Immunol. 1998 Feb 1; 160 (3): 1212-8.

Takahashi T, Tagami T, Yamazaki S, Uede T, Shimizu J, Sakaguchi N, Mak TW,
Sakaguchi S. Immunologic self-tolerance maintained by CD25(+)CD4(+) regulatory
T cells constitutively expressing cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4. J Exp
Med. 2000 Jul 17; 192 (2): 303-10.

Takeda K, Takeuchi O, Akira S. Recognition of lipopeptides by Toll-like receptors. J
Endotoxin Res. 2002; 8 (6): 459-63.

Taylor PA, Friedman TM, Korngold R, Noelle RJ, Blazar BR. Tolerance induction
of alloreactive T cells via ex vivo blockade of the CD40:CD40L costimulatory pathway
results in the generation of a potent immune regulatory cell. Blood. 2002 Jun 15; 99
(12): 4601-9.

Thepen T, Kraal G, Holt PG. The role of alveolar macrophages in regulation of lung
inflammation. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 May 28; 725: 200-6. Review.

Thornton AM, Shevach EM. CD4+CD25+ immunoregulatory T cells suppress
polyclonal T cell activation in vitro by inhibiting interleukin 2 production.J Exp Med.
1998 Jul 20; 188 (2): 287-96.

Tschernig T, Pabst R. Bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT) is not present
in the normal adult lung but in different diseases. Pathobiology. 2000 Jan-Feb; 68 (1):
1-8. Review.

Uebel S, Tampe R. Specificity of the proteasome and the TAP transporter. Curr Opin
Immunol. 1999 Apr; 11 (2): 203-8. Review.
-144-

CHAPTER V

References

Uhal BD. Cell cycle kinetics in the alveolar epithelium. Am J Physiol. 1997 Jun; 272
(6Pt1): L1031-45. Review.

Vandivier RW, Ogden CA, Fadok VA, Hoffmann PR, Brown KK, Botto M,
Walport MJ, Fisher JH, Henson PM, Greene KE. Role of surfactant proteins A, D,
and C1q in the clearance of apoptotic cells in vivo and in vitro: calreticulin and CD91
as a common collectin receptor complex. J Immunol. 2002 Oct 1; 169 (7): 3978-86.

van Golde LMG, BatenburgJJ, Robertson B The pulmonary surfactant system.
Newsin Physiol Sciences 1994, 9:13-20.

van Haarst JM, Hoogsteden HC, de Wit HJ, Verhoeven GT, Havenith CE,
Drexhage HA.

Dendritic cells and their precursors isolated from human

bronchoalveolar lavage: immunocytologic and functional properties. Am J Respir Cell
Mol Biol. 1994 Sep; 11 (3): 344-50.

Vibhakar R, Juan G, Traganos F, Darzynkiewicz Z, Finger LR. Activation-induced
expression of human programmed death-1 gene in T-lymphocytes.Exp Cell Res.
1997 Apr 10; 232 (1): 25-8.

Voorhout WF, Veenendaal T, Kuroki Y, Ogasawara Y, van Golde LM, Geuze HJ.
Immunocytochemical localization of surfactant protein D (SP-D) in type II cells, Clara
cells, and alveolar macrophages of rat lung. J Histochem Cytochem. 1992 Oct; 40
(10): 1589-97.

Weaver TE, Whitsett JA. Function and regulation of expression of pulmonary
surfactant-associated proteins. Biochem J. 1991 Jan 15; 273 (Pt2): 249-64. Review.

Weikert LF, Edwards K, Chroneos ZC, Hager C, Hoffman L, Shepherd VL. SP-A
enhances uptake of bacillus Calmette-Guerin by macrophages through a specific SPA receptor. Am J Physiol. 1997 May; 272 (5Pt1): L989-95.

-145-

CHAPTER V

References

Weikert LF, Lopez JP, Abdolrasulnia R, Chroneos ZC, Shepherd VL. Surfactant
protein A enhances mycobacterial killing by rat macrophages through a nitric oxidedependent pathway. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol. 2000 Aug; 279 (2): L216-23.

Weissbach S, Neuendank A, Pettersson M, Schaberg T, Pison U. Surfactant
protein A modulates release of reactive oxygen species from alveolar macrophages.
Am J Physiol. 1994 Dec; 267 (6Pt1): L660-6.

Worgall S, Singh R, Leopold PL, Kaner RJ, Hackett NR, Topf N, Moore MA,
Crystal RG. Selective expansion of alveolar macrophages in vivo by adenovirusmediated transfer of the murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor
cDNA. Blood. 1999 Jan 15; 93 (2): 655-66.

Wraith DC, Nicolson KS, Whitley NT. Regulatory CD4+ T cells and the control of
autoimmune disease. Curr Opin Immunol. 2004 Dec; 16 (6): 695-701. Review.

Wright JR. Immunoregulatory functions of surfactant proteins. Nat Rev Immunol.
2005 Jan; 5 (1): 58-68. Review.

Wright JR. Host defense functions of surfactant In Lung surfactant:cellular and
molecular processing. Edited by Ronney SA. Austin, Texas; R. G. Landes Company,
1998: 191-214.
Wu F, Buckley S, Bui KC, Warburton D. Differential expression of cyclin D2 and
cdc2 genes in proliferating and nonproliferating alveolar epithelial cells. Am J Respir
Cell Mol Biol. 1995 Jan; 12 (1): 95-103.

Wuenschell CW, Sunday ME, Singh G, Minoo P, Slavkin HC, Warburton D.
Embryonic mouse lung epithelial progenitor cells co-express immunohistochemical
markers of diverse mature cell lineages. J Histochem Cytochem. 1996 Feb; 44 (2):
113-23.

Xu J, Benyon RC, Leir SH, Zhang S, Holgate ST, Lackie PM Matrix
metalloproteinase-2 from bronchial epithelial cells induces the proliferation of
subepithelial fibroblasts. Clin Exp Allergy. 2002 Jun; 32 (6):881-8.
-146-

CHAPTER V

References

Yamagiwa S, Gray JD, Hashimoto S, Horwitz DA. A role for TGF-beta in the
generation and expansion of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells from human peripheral
blood. J Immunol. 2001 Jun 15; 166 (12): 7282-9.

Yeaman SJ, Fussey SP, Danner DJ, James OF, Mutimer DJ, Bassendine MF.
Primary biliary cirrhosis: identification of two major M2 mitochondrial autoantigens.
Lancet. 1988 May 14; 1 (8594): 1067-70.

Yoshinaga SK, Whoriskey JS, Khare SD, Sarmiento U, Guo J, Horan T, Shih G,
Zhang M, Coccia MA, Kohno T, Tafuri-Bladt A, Brankow D, Campbell P, Chang
D, Chiu L, Dai T, Duncan G, Elliott GS, Hui A, McCabe SM, Scully S, Shahinian
A, Shaklee CL, Van G, Mak TW, Senaldi G. T-cell co-stimulation through B7RP-1
and ICOS. Nature. 1999 Dec 16; 402 (6763): 827-32.

Young SL, Fram EK, Larson E, Wright JR. Recycling of surfactant lipid and
apoprotein-A studied by electron microscopic autoradiography. Am J Physiol. 1993
Jul; 265 (1Pt1): L19-26.

Yu L, Rewers M, Gianani R, Kawasaki E, Zhang Y, Verge C, Chase P,
Klingensmith G, Erlich H, Norris J, Eisenbarth GS. Antiislet autoantibodies usually
develop sequentially rather than simultaneously. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1996 Dec;
81 (12): 4264-7.

Zissel G, Ernst M, Rabe K, Papadopoulos T, Magnussen H, Schlaak M, MullerQuernheim J. Human alveolar epithelial cells type II are capable of regulating T-cell
activity. J Investig Med. 2000 Jan; 48 (1): 66-75.

-147-

Danksagung
Die vorliegende Arbeit wurde an der Gesellschaft für Biotechnologische Forschung
mbH, Braunschweig, in der Abteilung Zellbiologie und Immunologie, Arbeitsgruppe
Mucosale Immunität, angefertigt.
Ich danke dem Mentor dieser Arbeit, Herrn Prof. Dr. J. Wehland, für die Betreuung
des Promotionsverfahrens und die Übernahme des Hauptreferats. Ebenso danke ich
Herrn Prof. Dr. S. Dübel für die Übernahme des Korreferats und Herrn Prof. Dr. R. R.
Mendel für die Bereitschaft als Prüfer zur Verfügung zu stehen.
Mein besonderer Dank gilt Herrn Prof. Dr. J. Buer, in dessen Arbeitsgruppe diese
Arbeit entstand, für die interessante Themenstellung sowie die großzügige
Bereitstellung sämtlicher für diese Promotion benötigten Mittel. Er gab mir die
Möglichkeit mich frei zu entfalten und meine Ideen umzusetzen zu können, damit ich
diese Arbeit nach meinen Vorstellungen erfolgreich gestalten konnte.
Einen herzlichen Dank und fesche Grüsse gehen an meine Betreuerin Dr. Dunja
Bruder. Ich habe Dir eine hervorragende Betreuung und großzügige Unterstützung
zu verdanken. Ich danke Dir für die Möglichkeit in Deinem Team arbeiten zu können!
Für die hervorragende Zusammenarbeit und das fast schon familiäre Arbeitsklima
bedanke ich mich ferner bei allen Mitarbeiten der Arbeitsgruppe Mucosale Immunität.
Besonderem Dank gelten dabei Dr. Wiebke Hansen und meinem Gegenüber Frau P.
Nicht vergessen möchte und kann ich auch nicht die unglaubliche Zeit unter uns
Doktoranden. Mo und U, Ihr seid die Besten!
Danken möchte ich auch allen Freunden, die ich hier nicht namentlich erwähnen
kann, aber trotz allem einen wichtigen Teil beigetragen haben, dass Leben
lebenswert zu machen.
Meiner Familie gilt besonderer Dank. Ohne Ihre Unterstützung und Zuspruch wäre
dies alles nicht möglich gewesen.

CURRICULUM VITAE
Persönliche Daten
Name:

Marcus Gereke

Geburtsdatum:

06.05.1977

Geburtsort:

Bad Harzburg

Staatsangehörigkeit

deutsch

Familienstand:

ledig

Anschrift

Königstieg 16, 38118 Braunschweig

Schulausbildung
08.1983 - 06.1987

Grundschule Vienenburg

07.1987 - 07.1989

Orientierungsstufe Vienenburg

08.1989 – 06.1996

Werner-von-Siemens Gymnasium, Bad Harzburg
Abschluss: Allgemeine Hochschulreife

Grundwehrdienst
07.1996 - 08.1996

4. Panzerbataillon Braunschweig

09.1996 – 04.1997

1. Sanitätsbataillon Hildesheim

Studium
10.1997 – 08.2002

Studium der Biologie, Technische Universität Braunschweig
Abschluß: Diplom

08.2001 – 07.2002

Anfertigung der Diplomarbeit in der Gruppe Mucosale Immunität,
Gesellschaft für biotechnologische Forschung, Braunschweig
Thema: Untersuchungen zum Einfluss bakterieller Antigenexpression

im

Darmlumen

auf

das

Migrationsverhalten

antigenspezifischer T-Zellen
09.2002 – 10.2005

Doktorarbeit in der Gruppe Mucosale Immunität, Gesellschaft für
biotechnologische Forschung, Braunschweig
Thema: Crosstalk between autoreactive T cells and alveolar type
II epithelial cells in inflammation and tolerance


