Study of the influence of nanoparticles on the
performance and the properties of polyamide 6

Von der Fakultät Chemie der Universität Stuttgart
zur Erlangung der Würde eines
Doktors der Naturwissenschaften (Dr. rer. nat.)
genehmigte Abhandlung

Vorgelegt von

Mohammad Reza Sarbandi
aus Teheran – Iran



Abstract:
The number of efforts in order to modify the properties of polymeric fibers by organic or inorganic
particles has increased in recent times because of increasing interest of fiber research in hightech fiber applications. In addition to these attempts, the innovation of nanotechnology also leads
to the development of nanoparticles for various end uses such as nanocomposite fibers. In this
study spherical silica nanoparticles were introduced into polyamide 6 and drawn into filaments
through a melt extrusion process. With two different particle diameters, different particle
concentrations and types of surface modified silica as variables, preparation of polyamide 6/
SiO2 nanocomposites were investigated for three different nanocomposite preparation methods
(i) melt intercalation, (ii) solution intercalation and (iii) in-situ polymerization, while pure
polyamide 6 was spun under the same condition as a reference. The study was carried out for
multifilament nanocomposite fibers consisting of nano-silica fillers embedded in a fiber grade
polyamide 6 matrix. Thus the effect of SiO2 nanoparticles on the thermal, structural,
morphological and tensile properties of polyamide-silica nanocomposites fibers were
investigated by using thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA), differential scanning calorimetry
(DSC), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), scanning
electron microscopy (SEM) and standard tensile testing methods, respectively. TGA results
showed that thermal stability of nanocomposites was notably improved compared to pure
polyamide 6. According to DSC and XRD results the introduction of different silica nanoparticles
into the polymer matrix as well as the cooling rate in the preparation method caused a phase
transformation of the crystals of the polymer matrix from α- to γ-form crystals. SEM observations
show that In-situ polymerization and solution intercalation are suitable methods for the
preparation of inorganic/organic nanocomposites which can avoid the agglomeration of inorganic
particles in polymer matrices, moreover modified silica particle disperse more homogeneously in
the PA 6 matrix in comparison with the unmodified silica particle. GPC and relative viscosity
measurement indicate that by increasing the silica content the molecular weight of
nanocomposites decreased in comparison to pure polyamide 6 which suggests that there is an
interaction between silica and polyamide 6. This is supported by a change of the proportion of
the amino and carboxylic acid end groups which not only prove a molecular weight reduction but
also explains the observed decrease of tenacity of nanocomposite fibers. In contrast to these
findings the modulus of PA 6/silica nanocomposite fibers show a tendency to increase with
increasing silica content.

Chapter 1
General introduction and objectives

1.1. Introduction
In recent years, nanotechnology has become one of the most important and exciting forefront
fields in Physics, Chemistry, Engineering and Biology. It shows great promise for providing us in
the near future with many breakthroughs that will change the direction of technological advances
in a wide range of applications.
The current widespread interest in nanotechnology dates back to the years 1996 to 1998 when a
panel under the auspices of the World Technology Evaluation Center (WTEC), funded by the
National Science Foundation and other federal agencies, undertook a worldwide study of
research and development in the area of nanotechnology, with the purpose of assessing its
potential for technological innovation [1].
However, it is during the past decade that nanotechnology went through a variety of disciplines.
From chemistry to biology, from materials science to electrical engineering, scientists are
creating the tools and developing the expertise to bring nanotechnology out of the research labs
and into the market place. Nanocomposite materials, when using organic polymer and inorganic
fillers, represent a merger between traditional organic and inorganic materials, resulting in
compositions that are truly hybrid. Nature has created many (composite) materials, such as
diatoms, radiolarian and bone [2], from which scientists can learn. Organic-inorganic composites
with nanoscale dimensions are of growing interest because of their unique properties, and
numerous potential applications such as enhancement of conductivity, toughness , optical
activity [3], catalytic activity [4], chemical selectivity [5,6] etc. In these materials, inorganic and
organic components are mixed or hybridized at nanometer scale with virtually any composition
leading to the formation of hybrid/nanocomposite materials. Ceramics are generally known for
their hardness and brittleness, along with their resistance to high temperatures and severe
physical/chemical environments. In addition, many inorganic materials such as silica glass have
excellent optical properties such as transparency [7]. For most applications, the brittleness (lack
of impact strength) is the major, sometimes fatal, deficiency of ceramics. On the other hand,
organic polymers are usually noted for their low density and high toughness. (i.e. high impact

1

strength), However, lack of hardness is one of the most significant flaws of polymers in many
applications. Associated with the lack of hardness are the problems of low wear and scratch
resistance as well as dimensional stability. The developments of conventional composite
materials with ceramics as fillers and polymers as matrices are being researched extensively.
Important examples of these composite materials are the semi-crystalline polymers mixed with
inorganic particles. They consist of an amorphous-crystalline matrix (with a lamella thickness of
typical size of 10 to 100 nm) and dispersed nanoparticles. They can be tailor-made to exhibit
excellent elasticity (e.g., synthetic rubber) or optical transparency (e.g., polymethacrylates or
Plexiglas).
1.2. Nanotechnology
Nanotechnology is the engineering of functional systems at the molecular scale. It is a field of
applied science whose theme is the control of matter on an atomic and molecular scale.
Nanotechnology has created a key revolution in the 21th century exploiting the new properties,
phenomena and functionalities exhibited by matters when dealt at the level of few nanometers
as opposed to hundred nanometers and above [8]. Nanoscale materials are already recognized
as unique because they produce qualitatively new behavior when compared with their
macroscopic counterpart. It is understood that when the domain size within the materials
becomes comparable with the physical length scale, such as segments of a polymer
macromolecule, the expected physical phenomena and the response to any external disturbance
do not follow the established principles. The field of nanotechnology is one of the most popular
areas for current research and development in all technical disciplines. This obviously includes
polymer science and technology and even in this field, the investigations cover a broad range of
topics. This would include microelectronics (which could now be referred to as nanoelectronics)
as the critical dimension scale for modern devices is now below 100 nm. Other areas include
polymer-based biomaterials, nanoparticle drug delivery, mini emulsion particles, fuel cell
electrode polymer bound catalysts, layer-by-layer self-assembled polymer films, electrospun
nanofibers, imprint lithography, polymer blends and nanocomposites. Even in the field of
nanocomposites, many diverse topics exist including composite reinforcement, barrier
properties, flame resistance, electro-optical properties, cosmetic applications, bactericidal
properties. Nanotechnology is not new to polymer science as prior studies before the age of
nanotechnology involved nanoscale dimensions but were not specifically referred to as
nanotechnology until recently. Phase separated polymer blends often achieve nanoscale phase
dimensions; block copolymer domain morphology is usually at the nanoscale level; asymmetric
2

membranes often have nanoscale void structure, mini emulsion particles are below 100 nm; and
interfacial phenomena in blends and composites involve nanoscale dimensions. Even with
nanocomposites, carbon black reinforcement of elastomers, colloidal silica modification and
even naturally occurring fiber (e.g., asbestos-nanoscale fiber diameter) reinforcement are
subjects that have been investigated for decades [9].
Almost lost in the present nanocomposite discussions are the organic–inorganic
nanocomposites based on sol–gel chemistry which have been investigated for several decades
[10]. In essence, the nanoscale of dimensions is the transition zone between the macro level and
the molecular level. Recent interest in polymer matrix based nanocomposites has emerged
initially with interesting observations involving exfoliated clay and more recent studies with
carbon nanotubes, carbon nanofibers, exfoliated graphite (graphene), nanocrystalline metals
and a host of additional nanoscale inorganic filler or fiber modifications.
Why Nanotechnology?
In the last two decades, new terms with the prefix `nano' have rushed into the scientific
vocabulary, nanoparticle, nanostructure, nanotechnology, nanomaterial, nanocluster,
nanochemistry, nanocolloids, nanoreactor and so on. The enhanced interest of the researchers
in nanoobjects is due to the discovery of unusual physical and chemical properties of these
objects, which is related to manifestation of so-called `quantum size effects.' A key reason for
the change in the physical and chemical properties of small particles as their size decreases is
the increased fraction of the `surface' atoms, which occur under conditions (coordination
number, symmetry of the local environment, etc.) differing from those of the bulk atoms. From
the energy standpoint, a decrease in the particle size results in an increase in the fraction of the
surface energy in its chemical potential [11].
‘What are the potential uses of nanotechnology?’ In the limited number of years that
nanotechnology has been investigated, a plethora of answers to this question have been
presented. It seems that nanotechnology could potentially solve almost any problem; thus, a
more interesting question is, 'what real problems will nanotechnology solve?' Nanocomposite
technology has been described as the next great frontier of material science. For example,
polymer resins containing well-dispersed layered silicate nanoclays are emerging as a new class
of nanocomposites. The reason is that by employing minimal addition levels of filler (< 10 wt %)
nanoclays enhance mechanical, thermal, dimensional and barrier performance properties

3

significantly. It has been said that for every 1 wt% addition, a property increase on the order of
10% (or more) is realized. This loading-to-performance ratio is known as the “nano-effect”.
1.3. Polymer Nanocomposite
Nanocomposite technology is a new developing field, in which nanofiller are added to a polymer
to reinforce and provide novel characteristics. Nanocomposite technology is applicable to a wide
range of polymers from thermoplastics and thermosets to elastomers. Two decades ago,
researchers from Toyota Central Research and Development produced a new group of polymerclay complexes or composites, which was aptly called polymer-layered silicate nanocomposite.
Today, there is a variety of nanofillers used in nanocomposites. The most common types of
fillers are natural clays, synthetic clays, nanostructured silicas, nanoceramics and carbon
nanotubes. The property enhancements have allowed these materials to commercially compete
with traditional materials [8].
In the field of nanotechnology, the synthesis and applications of polymer nanocomposites is an
important and strategic field of nanomaterial science.
Polymer nanocomposites represent a new class of material alternative to conventional filled
polymers. In this new class of material, a nanosized inorganic-filler (at least one dimension ≤
100 nm) is dispersed in a polymer matrix offering a tremendous improvement in performance
properties of the polymer.
1.4. Application of nanocomposites in fibers and textiles
The trend to use ever-smaller sized particles of the materials is apparently growing in many
markets and applications. There are challenging issues involved in fiber spinning during
incorporation of a whole range of additives including the nano particles, which have been
developed for textile applications with specific properties. In fiber spinning the main issue is to
develop fibers with low content of additive [12]. Textile fibers are commonly used as apparel,
upholstery, and carpets. Flame retardancy is an important and necessary property for some
applications in some special areas of these textile products such as curtains, floor coverings, etc.
Furthermore, since the late 1970s, in accordance with the rapid developments in science and
technology the applications of textile fibers have also expanded to and increased, especially, in
technical fields. Fibers are now widely used in the field of technical textiles such as military
applications, safety and protective garments, automotive and aerospace applications, electronic
and optical devices, geotechnical applications, and so on. These application areas require

4

additional fiber properties and functions such as high mechanical performance, flame
retardancy, chemical resistance, UV resistance, electrical conductivity, soil resistance, water
repellency, magnetic field resistance, radar absorbing, etc. Therefore, the number of studies on
modifying the properties of polymeric fibers by various ways has increased recently [13, 14].
Using organic and inorganic particles as fillers in polymeric materials such as composites, films,
and fibers is one of the methods of modifying these materials for high-technology applications. In
addition to these attempts nanotechnology leads to developing the nanoscale systems and
particles for various end uses such as nanocomposite fibers. As the size of particles decreases,
their effects increase because of their larger total surface area per unit volume. Furthermore
conventional methods used to modify fibers and fabrics, more often, do not lead to permanent
effects and lose their functions after laundering or wearing; however because of their high
surface energy nanoparticles present better affinity to fibers and fabrics and increase the
durability of their function. Consequently, the number of studies about modifying the properties of
polymeric textile fibers and fabrics by nanoparticles has increased recently.
1.5. Concept of the project
Making good samples of polymer matrix nanocomposites is a challenging area that draws
considerable effort. Researchers have tried a variety of processing techniques to make polymer
matrix nanocomposites, but creating one universal technique for making polymer
nanocomposites is difficult due to the physical and chemical differences between each system
and various types of available equipments. Each polymer system requires a special set of
processing conditions to be maintained, based on the processing efficiency and desired product
properties. Also different processing techniques in general do not yield equivalent results.
During the preparation, spinning, and drawing of fibers two main problems exist: These are,
firstly the difficulty of obtaining homogenous distribution of particles (particle aggregation) in the
polymer and, secondly, chemical compatibility (adhesion) of particles and polymers. Thus, an
appropriate way of mixing nanoparticles into the polymer is generally preferred. The three main
ways of mixing nanoparticles into fiber-forming polymers are melt intercalation, solution
intercalation, and in-situ polymerization. There are also some other methods such as in situ solgel processing of particles inside the polymer and in situ formation of metal particles from
suitable precursors for metal/polymer nanocomposites. In this work nanocomposites and
nanocomposite fibers have been prepared and the effect of preparation method on structural
properties of the nanocomposite fibers is studied.

5

In addition, silicas are functional due to their high thermal stability, strength, and high modules,
but are usually very brittle. Polymers on the other hand are much easier to process and are very
tough, but are thermally less stable. A suitable combination of organic–inorganic
nanocomposites provides a way of exploiting the advantages of these rather disparate materials.
Spherical silica nanoparticles were introduced into polyamide 6 and drawn into filaments through
a melt-extrusion process. The idea was to improve the strength and modulus of the resulting
filaments by utilizing the interactions between the nanoparticles and the polymer.
1.6. Objective of the project
The properties of a polymer-reinforced composite are mostly influenced by the size, weight
percentage, preparation method and nanoparticle modification. One of the main problems in the
synthesis of nanocomposites which involve the application of nanoparticles, is the aggregation of
the nanoparticles in the polymeric matrix as well as in the fiber and that severely limits the filler
loading level. In addition specific characteristics of the nanocomposites can only be effective
provided that the nanoparticles are well dispersed in the matrix.
The objective of this thesis is the synthesis of polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposites and
nanocomposite fibers according to different preparation techniques as well as the investigation
of thermal, structural, morphological and tensile properties of nanocomposite fibers.
The scientific challenges encountered in this thesis can be summarized as follows:
1- Seek a general and facile synthesis technique by which nanoscale inorganic particles
can be well dispersed in polyamide 6 matrices in order to minimize agglomeration.
2- The investigation of nanocomposites spinnability via melt spinning process.
3- Study the effect of particle size and content on crystallization as well as thermal and
tensile properties of nanocomposites fibers for three different nanocomposite
preparation methods.
4- Study the effect of nanoparticle as well as preparation method on structure and
crystal phase transformation. (αγ- crystal form)
5- Study the effect of particle surface modification on the dispersion quality of
nanoparticle in polymeric matrix.

6

6- Compare the thermal, structural and tensile properties of modified particle based
nanocomposites with unmodified particle based nanocomposites for In-situ
polymerization technique.
1.7. Outline of the thesis
In the present thesis, the synthesis of nanocomposites and nanocomposite fibers is described.
The influence of the addition of spherical silica nanoparticles as well as alumina and ceria
particles on the properties of semi-crystalline polyamide-6 (PA6) in both granule and fiber form is
investigated. A general introduction as well as objective of the thesis is given in chapter 1.
Overview of hybrid organic-inorganic nanocomposites as well as nanocomposite preparation
methods is described in chapter 2. Structures and properties of nanoparticles are given in
chapter 3. Physical structure and polymorphism of polyamide 6 nanocomposites in addition to
literature review is discussed in chapter 4. Characterization techniques which are used in this
thesis are described in chapter 5.
The practical part of this thesis is divided into three parts. Part I deals with SiO2- polyamide 6
nanocomposites production as well as polyamid 6 fiber nanocomposites by melt intercalation
method, Part II deals with incorporationg SiO2 in polyamide 6 polymeric matrix by solution
intercalation method and part III deals with nanocomposite production by in-situ polymerization.
The thesis thus consists of the following chapters:
Part I. Synthesis of Polyamide 6 / SiO2 nanocomposite by melt intercalation
In chapter 6 the developed route to homogenously dispersed silica as well as alumina and ceria
nanoparticles into polyamide 6 by melt intercalation method is given. The chapter consists of two
parts. While in the first part master batches of polyamide 6 with silica nanoparticle likewise
alumina and ceria in three different particle weight percentages were prepared, in the second
part the nanocomposites fibers were produced based on fiber melt spinning by diluting the
master batches with polyamide 6.
Part II. Synthesis of Polyamide 6 / SiO2 nanocomposite by solution intercalation
In chapter 7 the nanocomposites were prepared via solution intercalation technique. After
dissolving polyamide 6 granules in formic acid, SiO2 nanoparticle in three different
concentrations (wt. %) were added to solution under temperature and stirring, then at 80°C an
ultrasonic device is used for better dispersing and de-agglomeration of the solid in the solvent.

7

After that the solvent is removed by heating and after several washings with water, the obtained
nanocomposites were dried in vacuum oven. Nanocomposite fibers were also prepared by melt
spinning process using mini HAAKE twin-screw extruder by diluting nanocomposites with
polyamide 6.
Part III. Synthesis of Polyamide 6 / SiO2 nanocomposite by In-Situ polymerization
In chapter 8, first PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites were prepared by polymerization process in three
weight percent, and after extraction of granules in hot water and drying the nanocomposites fiber
were prepared by extrusion process.
For all products resulting from application of those three nanocomposite preparation methods
the thermal, structural and morphologic as well as tensile properties were studied. Thermal
stability of nanocomposites is determined by thermal gravimetry analysis (TGA). Thermal
transitions of polymer were determined by means of differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and
the morphology was studied by means of XRD, FTIR and SEM. Furthermore, tensile properties
of the nanocomposite fiber were measured.
And finally in chapter 9 general conclusions is given.

8

Chapter 2
Hybrid organic - inorganic nanocomposites

2.1. Introduction
Organic-inorganic hybrid materials represent the natural interface between two worlds of
chemistry (organic and inorganic) each with very significant contributions to the field of material
science, and each with characteristic properties that result in diverse advantages and limitation.
Hybrid organic-inorganic materials will play a major role in the development of advanced
functional nano-materials. Hybrid organic–inorganic materials are not simply physical mixtures.
They can be broadly defined as molecular or nano-composites with organic and inorganic
components, intimately mixed where at least one of the component domains has a dimension
ranging within nanometers. In recent years, polymer-based organic–inorganic hybrid materials,
considered as innovative advanced materials, have gained increasing attention in the field of
material science [15–24]. These new materials, so-called nanocomposites or organic–inorganic
hybrids, can be considered as composites of which at least one phase is nano-sized [23].
Because of the nano-scale structure, nanocomposites possess unique properties typically not
shared by conventional microcomposites. Consequently the main idea when developing hybrid
materials is to take advantage of the best properties of each component that forms the hybrid,
trying to decrease or eliminate their drawbacks getting in an ideal way a synergic effect; which
results in the development of new materials with new properties.
In this study polyamide was used as polymeric matrix of the organic part and spherical silica as
inorganic part.

9

2.2. Polymer matrices
Polymer/inorganic particle-based nanocomposites have shown significant improvement in
mechanical, thermal and electrical properties. The large variety of polymer systems used in
nanocomposite preparation can be classified as follow:
1. Thermoplastics
2. Thermosets
3. Elastomers
4. Natural and biodegradable polymers

2.2.1. Thermoplastic
Thermoplastics, such as polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE), copolymers such as poly
(ethylene-co vinyl acetate) (EVA), poly (ethylene propylene diene) rubber (EPDM), polyamides
(PA), poly – ethylene terephthalate (PET) and polystyrene (PS) have been used as polymer
matrices for the preparation of nanocomposites.
2.2.1.1. PA66/ SiO2 nanocomposite
In spite of extensive studies made about polyamide-layered silicate nanocomposite, there is not
much research about polymer/SiO2 nanocomposite. HUIMIN LU et al. [25] prepared successfully
PA66/nano- SiO2 composites by melt compounding technique. They studied the effect of nanoSiO2 on the morphology, crystallization and dynamic mechanical properties of polyamide 66. The
influence of nano- SiO2 on the tensile fracture morphology of the nanocomposites was studied
by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), which suggested that the nanocomposites revealed an
extensive plastic elongation of the matrix polymer. The crystallization behavior of polyamide 66
and its nanocomposites were studied by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). DSC nonisothermal curves showed an increase in the crystallization temperature along with increasing
degree of crystallinity. Dynamic mechanical properties (DMA) indicated significant improvement
in the storage modulus and loss modulus compared with neat polyamide 66. In another study
[26] the organic–inorganic hybrid nanocomposites comprising of polyamide-66 and SiO2 were
synthesized through sol–gel technique at ambient temperature. The inorganic phase was
generated in-situ by hydrolysis–condensation of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) in different
concentrations, under acid catalysis, in presence of the organic phase, PA66, dissolved in formic
acid. Infrared (IR) spectroscopy was used to monitor the microstructural evolution of the silica
phase in the PA66 matrix. Wide angle X-ray scattering (WAXS) studies showed that the
10

crystallinity in PA66 phase decreased with increasing silica content. Atomic force microscopy
(AFM) of the nanocomposite films revealed the dispersion of SiO2 particle with dimensions of
less than100 nm in the form of network as well as in the form of a linear structure. X-ray silicon
mapping further confirmed the homogeneous dispersion of the silica phase in the bulk of the
organic phase. The melting peak temperatures slightly decreased compared to neat PA66, while
an improvement in thermal stability by about 20°C w as achieved with hybrid nanocomposite
films, as indicated by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA).
2.2.1.2. PET/SiO2 nanocomposite
PET is a thermoplastic material that has contributed to applications in a wide array of fields, both
in fiber and non-fiber application. PET/Silica nanocomposites were investigated by Wan-Gyu
Hahm [56]. Two kinds of fumed silicas, hydrophilic/hydrophobic inorganic nano-particles of 7 nm,
were used as filler, and PET-fumed silica nanocomposites were prepared by in-situ
polycondensation. The various effects of fumed silicas in the PET matrix as functions of filler
type and filler content were studied and compared with the results of former study by direct melt
compounding [27]. The degree of particle-particle interaction and dispersion of each fumed silica
on PET nonpolar matrix were investigated, and the crystallization behaviors and dynamic
rheological properties of nanocomposites due to the improvement of dispersibility for nanoparticles were discussed in detail. Mechanical analysis were also performed to explain the
relationship between the structure and properties of these nanocomposites.
2.2.1.3. PEN/SiO2 nanocomposite
High performance poly (ethylene 2, 6-naphthalate) (PEN), with its superior physical and
mechanical properties, has been used in specialty films, fibers, and in blow moldings. However,
the applications of PEN are limited, because PEN exhibits a relatively high melt viscosity, which
makes fiber spinning and injection molding difficult. The effect of stearic acid modification on the
dispersion quality of silica nanoparticles and the adhesion between the filler and polymer matrix
with stearic acid concentration were investigated by Seon Hoon Ahn and co-workers [59]. Thus,
the wettability of silica nanoparticles was improved by the addition of stearic acid. The presence
of adsorbed stearic acid on the surface of the silica nanoparticles reduced the interaction
between silica nanoparticles, and reduced as well the size of agglomerates with increasing
concentration. Silica nanoparticle–reinforced poly (ethylene 2, 6-naphthalate) (PEN) composites
were melt-blended to investigate their mechanical properties and the processability of the
composites. The torque and total torque values of the composites decreased with increasing
11

silica nanoparticle content. The tensile modulus of the composites reinforced with unmodified
silica nanoparticles increased with increasing silica content, whereas the tensile strength and
elongation decreased.
2.2.1.4. PE/ SiO2 nanocomposite
Polyethylene (PE) and silica are perhaps the simplest and most common organic and inorganic
polymers, respectively. Sertchook et al. [27] describe, for the first time, a physically
interpenetrating nanocomposite between these two elementary polymers. While polymer-silica
composites are well known, the nanometric physical blending of PE and silica has remained a
challenge. A method for the preparation of such materials, which is based on the entrapment of
dissolved PE in a polymerizing tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) system, has been developed.
Specifically, the preparation of submicron particles of low-density PE at silica and high-density
PE at silica is detailed, which is based on carrying out a silica sol-gel polycondensation process
within emulsion droplets of TEOS dissolved PE, at elevated temperatures. The key to the
successful preparation of this new composite has been the identification of a surfactant, PE-bPEG, that is capable of stabilizing the emulsion and promoting the dissolution of the PE. A
mechanism for the formation of the particles as well as their inner structure are proposed, based
on a large battery of analyses, including transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning
electron microscopies (SEM), surface area and porosity analyses, various thermal analyses
including thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA/DTA) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC)
measurements, small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) measurements and solid-state NMR
spectroscopy.
2.2.1.5. PP/ SiO2 nanocomposite
Polypropylene (PP) has also been widely used for the preparation of nanocomposites. Since it
does not include any polar group on its backbone, it is not possible to disperse the hydrophilic
particle without using suitable compatibilizers. M. Garcia et al. [55] have reported preparation of
Polypropylene-SiO2 nanocomposites using twin-screw extruders. The properties of the
nanocomposites were studied using two different inorganic fillers: colloidal (sol) and powdered
silica nanoparticles. Reinforcing and toughening effects of the nanoparticles on the polymer
matrix were found at a loading of 4.5 wt. %, which is lower than for most particulate filled
composites. The use of silica nanoparticles led to different microstructure when compared with
that of the pure polymer. Addition of colloidal silica to the polymer matrix produced good filler
dispersion while the use of powdered silica resulted in aggregated silica particles in the polymer
12

matrix. There was no noticeable improvement of the mechanical properties when powder silica
was added to the pure polymer. On the contrary, the presence of silica-sol nano-particles in the
polymer matrix led to an increase of both Young modulus and impact strength, from 1.2 GPa to
1.6 GPa and from 3.4 kJ/m2 to 5.7 kJ/m2, respectively.
2.2.1.6. PTT/ SiO2 nanocomposite
Poly (trimethylene terephthalate) (PTT) is a relatively new type of linear aromatic polyester.
During recent decades, it has attracted attention not only because of its excellent mechanical
and electrical properties, but also because one of its raw materials, 1,3-propanediol, is a
renewable resource, which can be derived from renewable materials such as corn and starch.
The sol–gel technique has provided promising opportunities for the preparation of
polymer/inorganic hybrid materials at the molecular level, which ensures the inorganic particles,
are well dispersed in the organic matrix. In this study [38], poly (trimethylene terephthalate)
(PTT)/silica nanocomposites were fabricated via the sol–gel technique and in-situ
polycondensation. Fourier transform infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses
confirmed that some PTT molecular chains were grafted to the surface of silica. Unlike pure
PTT, the grafted PTT was insoluble in a mixed solvent of chloroform and hexafluoro-2-propanol.
Both transmission electron microscopy and scanning electron microscopy showed that the silica
particles, with a size of 40–50 nm, were homogeneously dispersed in the PTT matrix with no
preferential accumulation in any region. Differential scanning calorimetry revealed that the glass
transition temperature and cold-crystallization peak of the composites gradually increased with
increasing silica loading. A simultaneous increase of stiffness and toughness was observed for
the concentration of nanocomposites.
2.2.2. Thermosets
Epoxy and polyurethane have been used as polymer matrices for the preparation of
nanocomposites, too. Polyurethane (PU) is becoming increasingly important as an engineering
material because it has excellent abrasion resistance and displays properties of both elastomers
and plastics. Wang and Pinnavaia [29] have synthesized intercalated nanocomposites based on
elastomeric polyurethane. Khudyakov and Zopf [49] also studied the effect of colloidal silica and
organoclays on properties of PU. The studies on epoxy systems considered the ring opening
polymerization of epoxides to form polyether nanocomposites. Studies [30, 31] of both rubbery
and glassy epoxy/clay nanocomposites using different type of amine curing agents were

13

conducted and the mechanisms leading to the mono-layer exfoliation of clay layers in thermoset
epoxy systems were elucidated.
2.2.3. Elastomers
Burnside and Giannelis [32] have described the two-step preparation of silicon rubber-based
nanocomposites. First, silanol-terminated poly (dimethyl siloxane) (PDMS) was blended at room
temperature with dimethyl-ditallow ammonium-exchanged montmorillonite, followed by crosslinking of the silanol end groups with tetra ethyl- orthosilicate (TEOS) in the presence of bis(2ethylhexanoate) as catalyst at room temperature. Also Okada and co-worker [33] obtained a
nitrile rubber (NBR) – based nanocomposite in a dual-step synthesis.
2.2.4. Natural and biodegradable polymers
Natural and biodegradable polymers are a new generation of polymers that are relatively friendly
to the environment with little or no impact when disposed. Such polymers include polylactide
(PLA), starch, and cellulose among others. Although these polymers are considered to be
environmentally-friendly, they have relatively weak mechanical properties, such as brittleness,
low heat distortion, low tensile strength. And their use in packaging is limited due to high gas
permeability [34]. Addition of nano-scale fillers has been shown to improve these properties
significantly, allowing these polymers to be used in applications such as disposable food service
items, food packaging, health care product, packing foams and agricultural mulch film. PLA
polymers are linear aliphatic polyester, generally produced by ring-opening polymerization of
lactide dimer. Sinha Ray and Okamoto [35] have shown that the addition of nanoscale modified
montmorillonite increased both solid and melt state properties, such as flexural properties,
rheological properties, reduced gas permeability and increased rate of biodegradability. Ogata et
al. [36] also reported similar enhancement of properties. Another biodegradable polymer is
polycaprolactone (PCL), linear polyester manufactured by ring-opening polymerization of εcaprolactone. The PCL chain is flexible and exhibits high elongation at break and low modulus.
Its physical properties make it very attractive, not only as a substitute material for nondegradable polymer but also as a plastic material for medical and agricultural applications. The
main drawback of PCL is its low melting point (65°C ), which can be overcome by blending it with
other polymers. Many attempts to prepare PCL nanocomposites with much improved
mechanical and materials properties than that of neat PCL have been reported [34].

14

2.3. Polyamide
Polyamides are considered to be one of the most important super-engineering materials
because of their superior mechanical properties at elevated temperature due to their thermal
stability. The two major types of polyamides are polyamide 6 and polyamide 66. PA 6 is
prepared by the polymerization of caprolactam. PA 66 is derived from the polycondensation of
hexamethyelene diamine with adipic acid. Polyamides are crystalline polymers. The key features
include a high degree of solvent resistance, thoughness, and fatigue resistance. Polyamides do
exhibit a tendency to creep under applied load. Glass fibers and mineral fillers are often used to
enhance the properties of polyamides. In addition, the properties of polyamides are greatly
affected by moisture. The largest area of application for polyamide is in fiber and engineering
plastic. Molded applications include automotive component, related machine parts (gear, cams,
pulleys, rollers, etc.), and electrical insulation.
Earlier studies [79] have illustrated that the addition of clay to PA has improved the strength,
stiffness, barrier, and heat resistance properties of polyamide 6. The barrier resins exhibit
reduced moisture absorption and increased melt stability. Toyota researchers (1989) have
shown that, similar to other nanocomposites, PA nanocomposites are able to achieve a lot of
improved characteristics compared to pure PA. Thus, it has been reported that PA6
nanocomposites show higher tensile strength, higher tensile modulus, higher heat distortion
temperature, increased solvent resistance, decreased thermal expansion coefficient, reduced
gas permeability and increased flame retardancy. With these enhanced properties, PA
nanocomposites have found increased application in the automobile and textile industries, where
stronger yarn could be produced, with better extensional characteristics [88-90].
2.3.1. Introduction and definition of polyamide [37-39]
Polyamides are polymers with amide groups –NH-CO- in the main chain. They are usually
subdivided in either aliphatic and aromatic types or in polymers of the type -[-NH-R-CO-]-n and
polymers of the type -[-NH-R1-NH-CO-R2-CO-]-n where the bi-functional units R,R1, and R2 can
be aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, or aromatic. Branched polyamides are presently niche products. In
accordance with DIN 60 001, part 3, 10.88 edition, PA fibers are classified as synthetic manmade fibers. The aliphatic chains by which up to at least 85% of molecular mass is bonded into
the linear macromolecules are linked by amide groups. That means, one characteristic of the
chain forming polymers is the continuously repeating functional acid amide groupings [CO-NH] in
the main chain. Also in the international ISO 2076 standard, 12.89 edition “Generic name for

15

man-made fibers” polyamides or nylon are described as chemical fibers, where the polymers
consist of linear (aliphatic) macromolecules with the repeating [CO-NH] functional group in the
chain. These so-called homo-polyamides can be subdivided into two groups on the basis their
chemical structure:
- amino carboxylic acid types (AB) and
- diamino dicarboxylic acid type (AA-BB),
Where A indicates the amino groups and B the carboxyl groups. The number of carbon atoms in
the individual linear monomer serves as a code number. In the case of the AA-BB type, the
number of carbon atoms of the diamine is indicated first of all, and then those of the
dicarboxcylic acid. In English linguistic usage, the word nylon is also used synonymously as a
generic term for polyamide. In the USA, other polyamides, e.g. PA11, may also be described as
nylon in accordance with the concept definition valid there. It was originally the brand name
selected by DuPont for PA66. Perlon on the other hand is a protected brand name for some PA6
fiber producers, and may not be used for the general description of caprolactam based PA
fibers. Polyamide fibers are produced either by the polycondensation of diamines with
dicarboxylic acids or by the polycondensation of ω-aminocarboxylic acid containing at least 6
carbon atoms, or by the hydrolytic polymerization of at least 7-link ring systems containing a
carbonamide group, e.g. caprolactam. The aramids also belong to the polyamides. They consist
of aromatic chain links which are directly bonded to at least 85% of their mass by amid groups
into linear macromolecules, and in which up 50% of the amide bonds can be replaced by imide
bonds. The aramides have their own published fiber table [49], and the aramides are therefore
not treated here in further detail.
2.3.2. Invention and developments of PA 6 and PA66 [61-83]
The history of PA fibers begins at the turn of the century. In 1902 and 1904, S.GABRIEL,
TH.M.MAASS, A.MANASSE and J. VON BRAUN [37, 40-42] became involved with the ring
formation of Ɛ-aminocaproic acid, which was found capable of being 20-30% converted into
caprolactam. The importance of this in industrial use was not however recognized at that time.
In 1929, W.H.CAROTHERS started to work at the DuPont de Nemours & Co. chemical group in
the field of polycondensation and ring formation of bifunctional compounds. He knew about the
work of H.STAUDINGER on macromolecule theory in the 2nd half of the 20s, and wanted to
prove the concept by synthesizing very large molecules. The results of W.H.CAROTHERS’s
16

work are documented in numerous publications [40- 42]. He established the fact that the
polycondensation of a large number of bifunctional compounds led to undecomposed meltable
fiber forming polymers, which were unknown until that time (1930). In 1932, W.H. CAROTHERS
and J.W.HILL discovered that so-called superpolyester was produced from molten polyesters by
molecular distillation, from which threads can be drawn, which solidify in air. The principle of
producing synthetic fiber material was discovered in this way. In 1934, W.H CAROTHERS
produced in a trial polyamide from 9-aminononanoic acid a starting material which was of
interest from the technical standpoint. On 28 February 1935, he succeeded in synthesizing
polyamide from hexamethylen diamine and adipic acid. Due to the practically unlimited raw
material base (benzene and phenol), this polyamide was selected for further large scale
development, and a patent was applied for on 9 April 1937. In the initial development stage of
the subsequently so-called nylon process, trial production of the yarns was carried out under the
name of Fiber 66. In 1938 DuPont published the results of research for the first time, and small
scale production began in the same year. 1939 was the start of the industrial production of nylon,
as the fiber was then called. Production was at first concentrated predominantly on military enduses such as parachutes and aircraft tire cord yarn, but was extended to civil and industrial
applications after the war. Unaware of CAROTHERS’s work- as he himself said- P.SCHLACK
was engaged from 1928 in the scientific laboratory of the I.G. Farben AG “Aceta” plant in
producing a synthetic fiber, and also, among other projects, with the polymerization of
caprolactam. Although, in his paper published in 1930, W.H.CAROTHERS disputed the
polymerization of ε-caprolactam with or without catalyst, and trials conducted by him and
G.J.BERCHET on polycondensation 6-aminocaproic acid led only to a polymer with a low
degree of polymerization from which no fibers could be spun, P.SCHLACK worked on in this field
unaware of the publication. On 29 January 1938 he succeeded in splitting up the lactam ring with
aminocaproic acid hydrochloride as catalyst, and turns it into linear polymer. That was the hour
of birth of PA6. A year later, independently of P.SCHLACK’s discovery, O.WICHTERLE also
successfully polymerized caprolactam. A patent on the caprolactam process was applied for on
11 June 1938 [43]. Polyamide 6 production started in 1939, at the end of this year the first
monofils came on to the market under the name of Perluran, subsequently designated Perlon L.
Large scale production of Perlon filament yarn began in 1943 in the plant located in Landsberg
a.d. Warthe; the plant under construction in Premnitz (Westhavelland) was unable to start up its
planned large scale production of Perlon filament yarns because of the war. The production of
PA6 filament yarn was re-established in the Thüringian VEB “Wilhelm Pieck” artificial fiber plant
in Schwarza near Rudolstadt in 1946 after small quantities had already been produced there
17

since 1945. Kunstseidenfabrik Bobingen near Augsburg started production in 1949, and
production of Perlon filament yarns began in Glanzstoffwerk Oberbruch in 1950.
2.3.3. Polyamide 6 production
A polyamide that is derived from a diacid and a diamine is categorized as AABB type (e.g.
polyamide 66). On the other hand, a polyamide synthesized from an amino acid or a lactam is
termed as AB type (i.e. polyamide 6). Straight chain aliphatic polyamides are identified either as
polyamide XY or polyamide Z, where X,Y and Z represent the number of carbon atoms present
in respective structural units in the monomer. In an AABB type, the number X refers to the
number of carbon atoms in the diamine and Y to that in the diacid. In the case of AB type, Z
represents the number of carbon atoms in the monomer. Examples are given below [44].

Example 1
Raw material:
Name:
Type:

H2N—(CH2)6—NH2
+
Hexamethylene diamine (HMDA)
AA

Polymer repeat unit:
Name:
Type:

-[-NH-(CH2)6-NH-CO-(CH2)8-CO-]Polyamide 610
AABB
X = 6 , Y = 10

Example 2
Monomer:
Name:
Type:
Polymer repeat unit:
Name:
Type:

HOOC-(CH2)8-COOH
Sebacic acid(SA)
BB

OC-(CH2)5-NH
Caprolactam
AB
-[-OC-(CH2)5-NH-]Polyamide 6
AB
Z=6

18

2.3.3.1. Raw materials
Polyamide 6 is a polyamide Z type of polymer, where the Z represents the number of carbon
atoms in the monomer. Polyamide 6 is typically produced from caprolactam in the following
manner [45].
n [HN—(CH2)5—CO]

H[--HN—(CH2)5 – CO--]nOH

The purity of caprolactam is critically assessed for the production of polyamide 6 polymer.
Caprolactam can be synthesized via a number of methods. All procedures start from raw
materials like phenol, benzene, toluene or cyclohexane. The crude caprolactam must be
carefully purified to have the specifications as given in Table 2.1 [46]

Table 2.1 Caprolactam specifications
Property

Value

Freezing point (dry basis) ˚C

69.0 (minimum)

Percentage transmission at 410 nm
(65 wt. % aqueous solution)

92.0 (minimum)

Permanganate number

7 (maximum)

Moisture (%)

0.10 (maximum)

Iron as Fe (ppm)

0.5 (maximum)

Volatile bases (as NH3) (ppm)

5 (maximum)

Ignition residue (ppm)

10 (maximum)

Water insoluble

Passes test

Cyclohexanone oxime (ppm)

10 (maximum)

Free alkalinity (meq kg-1)

0.04(maximum)

Detailed analytical methods for purity analysis are reported in the literature [41, 47, 48] .

19

2.3.3.2. Types of catalyst
Caprolactam does not polymerize in a completely dry condition [47- 49]. It requires a catalyst
which converts a small amount of caprolactam(CL) to aminocaproic acid(ACA) which helps in
polymerization process. The catalyst could be an acid, a base, or simply water which in this case
makes the control of reaction easy [44, 45]. The conditions required and the effect of each type
of catalyst system is given in Table 2.2 [44].

Table 2.2 Some characteristics of catalyst system for polymerization of caprolactam
Catalyst systems

Parameter

Acid

Base

Water

Type

Strong, like
Hydrochloric acid or
their salts

Carbonate, hydride,
alcoholate, and
hydroxide of alkali and
alkaline earth metals

---

Rate

Fast

Very fast

slow

Anhydrous

Anhydrous

---

Yield

Low

High

High

Use

Not used
commercially

Slow promise

Commercially used

Special condition

Although acid or base catalyst system may also be used, in contrast to these the base-catalysed
system has the advantage of high production rate, high molecular weight and narrow molecular
weight distribution, although the control of reaction in the system is rather critical. Hence,
generally, the water-catalysed system is used in industry.
2.3.3.3. Parameters in the water-catalyzed system
In a water catalyst system the polymerization is controlled by temperature in the range of 225˚C280˚C, amount of water present in the dissolved phase (5-10%), stabilizer content of 1% and
time of polymerization [45]. The effect of various parameters on the polymerization of

20

caprolcatam catalysed by water is summarized in Table 2.3 [50]. Figures 2.1-2.2 show the effect
of changes in these parameters.

Degree of polymerization

300
250

1 Wt.%
200

2 Wt.%

150

4 Wt.%

100

8 Wt.%

50
0
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

16

Time(hr)

Figure 2.1 Effect of initial water concentration (W 0) on degree of polymerization

Degree of polymerization

250
200

235°C
265°C

150
100
50
0
0

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Time (hr)

Figure 1.2 effect of temperature on degree of polymerization (W 0 = 2%)

21

Table 2.3 Effect of various parameters on caprolactam polymerization
Increase in
Parameter
Water
concentration

Molecular weight

Time of
polymerization

End groups

Relevant figure
number

Decrease

Decrease

Increase

2.1

Temperature

Decrease

Decrease

Decrease

2.2

Stabilizer content

Decrease

__

__

__

Time of
polymerization

increase

__

Decrease

__

2.3.3.4. Control of molecular weight
The principal factors which control molecular weight are: (1) temperature, (2) amount of water,
(3) time of polymerization and (4) stabilizer content (up to 1%). The stabilizer can be either an
acid (e.g. acetic acid, benzoic acid) or a base (e.g. benzylamine). An acidic stabilizer leaves the
carboxyl end group in the polymer free, thus making it reactive to basic dyes. On the other hand,
use of a basic stabilizer yields an acid-dyeable polyamide. In the case of tire cord production, a
thermal stabilizer has also to be incorporated. The following relationship [51, 52] provides a
useful mean to industry to control the degree of polymerization (DP) of polyamide 6:

 =

++	

1 + 
1 − 

Where
=1−

 + 
COOH +  

=

 


	=

′


And

Here  and  represent the carboxyl group concentration at the start of
polymerization and after time, t, respectively;   and   represent the amino group
concentrations at the initial(start) and final(end) stage, respectively; and ′ represents the
22

initial concentration of carboxyl group of a mono-functional acid acting as a stabilizer(e.g. acetic
acid).
2.3.3.5. Polymerization mechanism
The preparation of PA6 proceeds from a ring-opening polymerization of caprolactam which can
be divided into three types:
• hydrolytic polymerization
• anionic polymerization
• cationic polymerization
But the polymerization according to an anionic or cationic route plays only a minor role.
Industrially caprolactam polymerization is preceded by a hydrolysis step,

OC—(CH2)5—NH + H2O

HOOC—(CH2)5—NH2

CL + Water

ACA (Ɛ-aminocaproic acid)

ACA, thus produced, adds to further monomer units, initiating polymerization. This is known as
step addition,
ACA + CL
HOOC—(CH2)5—NH2 + nOC—(CH2)5—NH
↿⇃
HOOC—(CH2)5-[-NH—(CH2)5—CO-]n-NH2
PCL
After polymerization has proceeded for some time, the process reaches equilibrium. In industrial
practice, under optimum conditions, the reaction forms equilibrium with a proportion of 90% in
favour of polycaprolactam (PCL).
 ⇌ 
10%

23

90%

Once the equilibrium is reached, which usually takes about 4-6h in a polymerization reactor, a
step growth polymerization occurs involving the PCL molecules formed. This reaction leads to an
increase in molecular weight.
HOOC—(CH2)5-[-NH—(CH2)5—CO-]x-NH2
+
H2N-[-(CH2)5—CO—NH-]y(CH2)5—COOH

HOOC—(CH2)5-[-NH—(CH2)5—CO-]-x+yNH2+H2O
(PCL)x + (PCL)y

(PCL)x+y

2.4. Nanoparticle based nanocomposite
Inorganic particles are used in different matrices for specific purposes [54]. For metals, fillers
improve high temperature creep properties and hardness when compared with the pure metal.
For ceramics, fillers are used to improve their toughness [53] and for polymers for the increase
of stiffness, strength, electrical properties and occasionally for toughness. The fillers used in
polymer nanocomposites are usually inorganic fillers, although carbon nano-tubes and carbon
black are exceptions. Nano-fillers may possess different shapes: (a) spherical like silica and
carbon black (b) rod or fiber like as synthetic whiskers, or carbon nano-tubes and (c) in sheet or
platelet shape as in layer silicate such as montmorillonite. The incorporation of fillers into organic
polymers may result in a brittle composite material. In addition, the amount of filler that can be
incorporated is limited (thus, sometimes the addition of higher amounts of filler does not improve
the mechanical properties of the material) and the filler may not be uniformly dispersed in the
organic polymer. The efficiency of the filler to modify the properties of the polymer is primarily
determined by the degree of dispersion in the polymer matrix.

24

2.4.1. Particle typically used
Nanoparticle-filled polymers are attracting considerable attention since they can induce property
enhancement that is sometimes even higher than for the conventional micro-sized fillers applied
in the polymers at volume fractions in the range of 1–5% [61]. Different particles have been
used to prepare polymer/inorganic particle nanocomposites, including:
. Metal (Al, Fe, Au, Ag, etc.)
. Metal oxide (ZnO, Al2O3, CaCO3, TiO2 etc.)
. Non-metal oxide (SiO2) [48]
. Other (SiC)
In literature there are quite a lot of materials used as filler [65- 70], while the selection of
nanoparticles aims on the desired thermal, mechanical, and electrical properties of the
nanocomposites. For example, Al nanoparticles are often selected due to their high conductivity;
calcium carbonate particles are chosen because of the relative low cost of the material, and
silicon carbide (SiC) nanoparticles are used because of their high hardness, corrosion
resistance, and strength [64].
A variety of inorganic materials, especially nano-ceramic powder materials such as titanium
oxide (TiO2), zirconium oxide (ZrO2), aluminum oxide (Al2O3), silicon carbide (SiC), silicon
dioxide (SiO2), etc. have been successfully used as additives for reinforcement in order to
improve the stiffness and strength of polymers .
2.4.2. Silica
Silica has been used in different polymers as a reinforcement material. Examples are in
methacrylate [61-72], polyimide [6, 73], polyamide [74], rubbery epoxies [75], and acrylic [76].
Particularly, Rong et al. have reported for polypropylene composite an improvement of tensile
performance filled by a low amount of SiO2 nanoparticles [78]. Li et al. have incorporated SiO2
nanoparticle to polyaniline to produce an electrical conducting nanocomposite. The specific
function of the filler is based on the specific resin system, particle size, surface area, loading and
surface modification. Because of the high bond energy in the Si-O bond, SiO2 has extremely
high thermal stability. SiO2 also possesses a very low thermal expansion coefficient.

25

2.5. Organic-inorganic nanocomposite
Polymer nanocomposites constitute a class of hybrid materials composed of a polymer matrix
and an inorganic filler component which has at least one dimension in the nanometer (100 nm)
size domain [77- 79]. The properties of a polymer-reinforced composite are mostly influenced by
the size, shape, composition, state of agglomeration, and degree of matrix filler adhesion [80].
Optimum surface curvature at the polymer-filler interface can be realized when large surface
areas are created, which is possible when the filler particles are sufficiently small [81].
Decreasing the particle size to the nano-size dimension influences the macroscopic properties of
the polymer because a breakdown of the common rule-of-mixture theory occurs [82]. A major
challenge remains, however, to effectively incorporate mono-disperse nanoparticles inside a
polyamide matrix since a drawback of such small particles is their tendency to aggregate,
particularly when higher particle concentrations, intimate mixing and prolonged heating are part
of the reaction conditions. Presently, researchers mainly focus on the following three different
methods in order to prepare polymer/inorganic particle nanocomposites, including: in-situ
polymerization [83], melt compounding by twin-screw extrusion [84, 85], solution blending [86],
and high shear mixing with three roll milling.

2.5.1. Melt intercalation
Melt intercalation is the most widely used method in polymer/ particle nanocomposite
preparation, and it has tremendous potential for industrial application. An advantage of this
method over the others is that no solvent is required. The melt intercalation process involves
mixing the particles by annealing, statically or under shear, with polymer pellets while heating the
mixture above the melting point of the polymer [8]. Schematic representation of the flow diagram
for melt-intercalation process is as shown below in Figure 2.3.

Particle
blending

extrusion

Polymer

Figure 2.3 Flow diagrams for melt-intercalation process.

26

Nanocomposite

2.5.2. Solution intercalation
In nanocomposites prepared via solution blending, the filler is suspended in suitable solvent
under vigorous stirring condition. In addition to mechanical mixing, ultrasound can be used to
separate the filler particles. When the dispersion is satisfactory and the polymer is solved, the
solvent is evaporated to yield the filled polymer. This method is suitable for systems that consist
of a polymer which is soluble in a common solvent, in which also the nano-filler can be dispersed
well. Figure 2.4 represents the steps involved in the solution process.

Solvent

Polymer
Solvent

Dispersion
Particle

Stirring +
Ultrasonic

Evaporation

Nanoco
mposite

Figure 2.4 Flow diagrams represents the steps involved in the solution process.

2.5.3. in-situ polymerization
In -situ polymerization involves the dispersion and distribution of particle in the monomer
followed by polymerization. The particle is swollen within the liquid monomer or a monomer
solution so that polymer nanocomposite formation can occur during polymerization process.
Polymerization can be initiated either by heat or radiation, diffusion of a suitable initiator, or by an
organic initiator [8]. Flow diagram for In-Situ Polymerization process is as shown Figure 2.5

27

Particle
Swelling

Polymerization

Nanocomposite

Monomer

Figure 2.5 flow diagrams for In- Situ polymerization process

2.6. Polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposite and nanocomposite fiber
Polymer fibers are commonly applied as textiles, carpets, or as additives to reinforce or modify
material properties [87-91]. As an additive, they modify bulk polymer properties by blending; they
enforce the stability of tires in automobile industry or the flexibility of hardened cement as
additive for construction [92]. Already the properties of the fibers themselves depend on their
composition and processing conditions [93]. Common melt spun polymer fibers are made from
polymers like polypropylene, polyethylene, polyesters, or polyamides [88-91]. In addition, some
fibers are modified by being blended with other polymers [94] or by being compounded with very
small amounts of inorganic components, [95] e.g., for dyeing. In contrast to the polymer fibers,
bulk polymers are easy to be modified by inorganic additives like minerals (e.g., kaolin, quartz),
exfoliated layer minerals (montmorillonite nanocomposites), nano-fibers (carbon or mineral
nano-fibers), or by spherical inorganic particles (amorphous Al2O3, CaCO3, fumed silica,
pigments) [96-98]. Despite successful attempts to transfer carbon nano-fiber and
montmorillonite-modified polymer nanocomposites[99-102] into fibers, difficulties result from
particle aggregation, from polymer degradation catalyzed by the additives or from the increased
crystallization velocity and crystalline polymer [101,103], resulting in brittle fibers. Good
processability during the preparation and drawing of composite fibers requires a homogeneous
distribution of the filler in the polymer matrix. As a consequence, a high compatibility between
the fiber forming polymer and the inorganic filler is generally preferred. A modification of polymer
fibers with inorganic fillers by avoiding these problems will give access to a new class of fibers
with changed material properties. While nano-sized silica, aluminum oxide, and CaCO3 particles
were already used as fillers for polymer compounding [98, 104] or as scratch resistant coatings,
[105, 106] only few papers are published on fibers filled with inorganic particles, apart from TiO2.

28

Commonly just low amounts of that filler (pigments) are applied for delustring. Nevertheless,
there are already polymer fibers filled, e.g., with exfoliated montmorillonite [101, 102] and carbon
nano-fibers [99, 100] reported in the literature. Problems arise from the weak ionic bonds
between the montmorillonite and the applied cationic surfactants (e.g., alkyl ammonium salts)
used as a compatabilizer to the polymer matrix. As a result in part filler re-aggregation occurs
during fiber spinning and homogeneity of the filler dispersion is reduced especially after drawing.
Here, surface modified and unmodified silica nanoparticles were studied as fillers within
polyamide nanocomposites and fibers. The compatibility between the different fillers and the
polymer matrix and the changes (improvements) in the final fiber properties as obtained by melt
spinning due to the filler surface modification were investigated in a more fundamental way.
Polyamide’s toughness, low coefficient of friction and good abrasion resistance make it an ideal
replacement for a wide variety of applications, replacing metal and rubber. The amide groups of
polyamide are very polar, and hydrogen bonds can form between them. Because of these, and
because the polyamide backbone is so regular and symmetrical, polyamides are often
crystalline, and make very good fibers [107]. When polyamide is spun into fibers, the long chainlike macromolecules line up parallel to each other. The amide groups on adjacent chains then
form strong bonds with each other called bridged hydrogen bonds. These hydrogen bonds hold
the adjacent chains together, making polyamide yarn strong. When polyamide 6 polymerizes,
the amide link present in caprolactam (starting monomer for polyamide 6) opens up and the
molecules join up in a continuous chain, providing an ideal mechanism for interacting with
nanoparticles. On the other hand, silica particles are formed by strong covalent bonds between
silicon and oxygen atoms by sharing their electron pairs at the p orbital. The surface bound OH
groups on the silica surfaces may also form stable bonds with polyamide during polymerization.

29

Chapter 3
Structures and properties of nanoparticles

3.1. Introduction
Fillers play important roles in the modification of the properties of various polymers and
nanoparticles are without doubt one of the most outstanding and promising fillers that are being
studied by many scientists all over the world, due to their high surface area, low density and high
young’s modulus, among other properties that can be transferred to the polymeric matrix if a
good dispersion of the filler is ensured in the polymer [108, 109]. The transition from
microparticles to nanoparticles can lead to a number of changes in physical properties. Two of
the major factors are the increase in the ratio of surface area to volume, and the size of the
particle moving into the area where quantum effects predominate. The increase in the surface
area to volume ratio, which is a gradual progression as the particle gets smaller, leads to an
increasing dominance of the behavior of atoms located on the surface of a particle over that of
those located in the interior of the particle. This affects both the properties of the particle as such
and its interaction with other materials. High surface area is a critical factor in the performance of
catalysis and structure such as electrodes, allowing improvement in performance of such
technologies as fuel cells and batteries. The large surface area of nanoparticles also results in a
lot of interaction between the intermixed materials in nanocomposites, leading to special
properties such as increased strength and/or increased chemical and heat resistance.
Nanoparticles are currently made out of a very wide variety of materials, the most common of the
new generation of nanoparticles being ceramics, which are best split into metal oxide ceramics
such as titanium, zinc, aluminum and iron oxide, to name a prominent few, and silicate
nanoparticle [108, 109]. Silica plays an important role in nature, science and technical
applications [113–116]. The special advantage of silica is that it exists in various kinds of its
morphologies in natural sources or can be synthesized by various preparation techniques, e.g.
nanoparticles, particles with random size, spherical hollow spheres, transparent films,
mesoporous materials with narrow pore size distribution as well as solid materials without pores
or flat surfaces of silicon wafers having a thin silica layer. The chemical properties of the silica
surface are mainly determined by the various silanol and siloxane groups that are present on the
external as well as internal surface.

30

3.2. Definition of nanoparticle
The definition of nanoparticles differs upon the materials, fields and applications concerned. In
the narrow sense, they are regarded as the particle smaller than 10- 20 nm, where the physical
properties of solid materials themselves would drastically change. On the other hand, the
particles in the three digits range of nanometer from 1 nm to 1 µm could be called as
nanoparticles. In many cases, the particles from 1 to 100 nm are generally called as
nanoparticles, but here they will be regarded as the particle smaller than those called
conventionally “submicron particle”, and concretely less than the wavelength of visible light (its
lower limit is about 400 nm) as a measure, which need to treated differently from the submicron
particles [110].
3.3. Definition of particle size
Particle size is the most important information in practical applications of powder-particles.
Usually, powders are constituted of particles of various sizes and, therefore, it is necessary to
obtain not only the mean particle size but also the size distribution for the characterization. A
particle is usually three-dimensional and it may take various shapes. “Particle size” is a term to
represent the three-dimensional particle in one-dimensional scalar value. The size of any
spherical particle can be represented by its diameter with no ambiguity. For a particle with
irregular shape, the size is represented by a geometrically obtained one-dimensional scalar
value, geometric size, or an equivalent size in relation to practical methods of particle size
measurements such as those based on laser diffraction and scattering, dynamic light scattering,
and differential mobility analysis [111].
3.4. Silicium dioxide
The chemical compound silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is an oxide of
silicon with the chemical formula SiO2. It has been known for its hardness since antiquity. Silica
is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz, as well as in the cell walls of diatoms [113,
117]. Silicas are grouped into two major categories of natural mined silicas and synthetic silicas,
which are significantly different from each other with respect to properties and functions. Silica is
manufactured in several forms including fused quartz, crystal, fumed silica (or pyrogenic silica,
trademarked Aerosil or Cab-O-Sil), colloidal silica, silica gel, and aerogel. Silicon dioxide is the
most abundant mineral in the Earth's crust, and it is found across the world in various forms.
Because of its abundance, it has been used in a number of different applications and is a prized

31

mineral. Without silicon dioxide, some of the things you may take for granted would have never
been made. In solid form, silicon dioxide is white and powdery with a density of 2.2 grams per
cubic centimeter. It mostly forms in nature as sand or quartz crystals, and it is renowned for its
hardness. It is a mineral that is highly resistant to heat, with a melting point of 1650 degrees
Celsius. Synthetic silicas are of five types: fumed, electric arc, fused, gel and precipitated.
Fumed and electric arc silicas are produced by a vapor or pyrogenic process. Fused or vitreous
silica is produced by fusing high-purity quartz at high temperature. Silica gel and precipitated
silicas are produced by a liquid or wet process. Because in the wet process silicas are produce
in water medium, these products are also known as hydrated silica. Pyrogenic process silicas
are also called anhydrous silicas because of their production at high temperature and low water
content. A flow diagram of the various types of synthetic silicas is given in Figure 3.1

Silicon
Dioxide

Fumed

Arc

Synthetic

Natural

Fused

Gel

Precipitated

Figure 3.1 Types of synthetic silica [139]

Synthetic silicas are manufactured under controlled reaction condition to produce products
consisting of very fine spherical particles, with typical primary particle size of 0.01 to 0.1 µm and
a 50 to 800 m2 /g surface area. The surface of synthetic silicas contains hydroxyl groups called
silanol groups. Because of surface moisture and the presence of silanol groups, the synthetic
silicas are hydrophilic in nature. The compatibility of synthetic silicas for their use in plastics and
polymers can be improved by hydrophobizing the silica surface with suitable coupling agents
32

and chemical treatments. Synthesis silicas are considered as polymers of silicic acid in which the
bulk structure is produced by interlinking
interlinki the SiO4 tetrahedra. At the surface, the structure
terminates in siloxane groups ((≡Si-O-Si≡)) and one of the several forms of silanol groups (≡Si(
OH). Regardless of method of preparation, all synthetic silicas are amorphous in nature, as
determined by X-ray,
ray, and have the chemical composition of SiO2. All synthetic silicas are
colorless, odorless, tasteless, fine
fine-particle
particle and white powders. Silicas are chemically inert and
insoluble powder except in strong alkali (NaOH) and hydrofluoric acid (HF).
3.4.1. Crystal structure of silica
In the vast majority of silicates,
silicates, the Si atom shows tetrahedral coordination, with 4 oxygen atoms
surrounding a central Si atom. The most common example is seen in the quartz crystalline form
of silica SiO2. In each of the thermodynamically most stable crystalline forms of silica, on
average, all 4 of the vertices (or oxygen atoms) of the SiO4 tetrahedron are shared with others,
yielding the net chemical formula: SiO2.

Figure 3.2 Tetrahedral structural unit of silica (SiO4), the basic building block of the most ideal
glass former

The amorphous structure of glassy silica (SiO2) is in two-dimensions.
dimensions. No long-range
long
order is
present; however there is local ordering with respect to the tetrahedral arrangement of oxygen
(O) atomss around the silicon (Si) atoms. Note that a fourth oxygen atom is bonded to each
silicon atom, either behind the plane of the screen or in front of it; these atoms are omitted for
clarity.

33

dimensions. Note that a fourth
Figure 3.3 The amorphous structure of glassy silica (SiO2) in two-dimensions.
oxygen atom is bonded to each silicon atom, either behind the plane of the screen or in front of
it; these atoms are omitted for clarity

For example, in the unit cell of alpha-quartz,
alpha quartz, the central tetrahedron shares all 4 of its corner O
atoms, the 2 face-centered
centered tetrahedra share 2 of their corner O atoms, and the 4 edge-centered
edge
tetrahedra share just one of their O atoms with other SiO4 tetrahedra. This leaves
leave a net average
of 12 out of 24 total vertices for that portion of the 7 SiO4 tetrahedra which are considered to be
a part of the unit cell for silica (see
(
3-D Unit Cell). SiO2 has a number of distinct crystalline forms
(polymorphs)) in addition to amorphous
amorphou forms. With the exception of stishovite and fibrous silica,
all of the crystalline forms involve tetrahedral SiO4 units linked together by shared vertices in
different arrangements. Silicon-oxygen
Silicon oxygen bond lengths vary between the different crystal forms, for
fo
example in α-quartz
quartz the bond length is 161 pm, whereas in α-tridymite
tridymite it is in the range 154–171
154
pm. The Si-O-Si
Si angle also varies between low values of 140° in α-tridymite,
tridymite, up to 180° in βtridymite. In α-quartz the Si-O--Si angle is 144° [118].

34

3.4.2. Chemistry of silica
Silicon dioxide is formed when silicon is exposed to oxygen (or air). A very shallow layer
(approximately 1 nm or 10 Å) of so-called native oxide is formed on the surface when silicon is
exposed to air under ambient conditions. Higher temperatures and alternative environments are
used to grow well-controlled layers of silicon dioxide on silicon, for example at temperatures
between 600 and 1200 °C, using so-called dry or wet oxidation with O2 or H2O, respectively
[119]. The depth of the layer of silicon replaced by the dioxide is 44% of the depth of the silicon
dioxide layer produced [119].
Alternative methods used to deposit a layer of SiO2 include [120]
•

Low temperature oxidation (400–450 °C) of silane
SiH4 + 2 O2 → SiO2 + 2 H2O.

•

Decomposition of tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) at 680–730 °C
Si(OC2H5)4 → SiO2 + 2 H2O + 4 C2H4.

•

Plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition using TEOS at about 400 °C
Si(OC2H5)4 + 12 O2 → SiO2 + 10 H2O + 8 CO2.

•

polycondensation of tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) at below 100 °C using amino acid as
catalyst.[121]

3.4.3. Silica nanoparticles
Among the numerous inorganic/organic hybrid materials, silica-polymer hybrid materials are one
of the most commonly reported in the literature. This may be attributed to their wide use and the
ease of particle synthesis. Silica nanoparticles have been used as fillers in the manufacture of
paints, rubber products, and plastic binders [122]. Stöber and co-workers [123] reported a simple
synthesis of monodisperse spherical silica particles. Silica nanoparticles were prepared by
hydrolysis and condensation of TEOS in ethanol, and in presence of ammonia as catalyst. The
hydrolysis and condensation reactions provide precursor species and the necessary
supersaturation for the formation of particles will be briefly described as follows. During the
hydrolysis reaction, the ethoxy group of TEOS reacts with the water molecule to form
35

intermediate [Si (OC H )
2

5 4-X

(OH) ] with hydroxyl group substituting ethoxy groups. Moreover,
X

ammonia works as a basic catalyst to this reaction; the hydrolysis reaction is probably initiated
by the attacks of hydroxyl anions on TEOS molecules. The chemical reaction is expressed as
follows:
Si (OC2 H5)4 + xH2 O  Si (OC2 H5)4-x (OH) x + xC2 H5 OH
Following the hydrolysis reaction, the condensation reaction occurs immediately. The hydroxyl
group of intermediate [Si (OC H )
2

5 4-X

(OH) ] reacts with either the ethoxy group of other TEOS
X

(alcohol condensation) or the hydroxyl group of another hydrolysis intermediate (water
condensation) to form Si-O-Si bridges. Furthermore, it was also claimed [331] that the rate of
water condensation is thousands times faster than the alcohol condensation. Both condensation
reactions can be expressed as follows:
≡ Si – OC2 H5 + HO – Si ≡  ≡Si – O - Si ≡ + C2 H5 OH
≡ Si - OH + HO - Si ≡  ≡ Si - O - Si ≡ + H2 O
The overall reaction can then be depicted as follows:

Si (OC2 H5)4 + 2H2 O SiO2 + 4C2 H5 OH

As going to be reported in this thesis the main particles used as filler in polyamide matrix are
fumed silica nanoparticles (commercially AEROSIL). Alumina (commercially AEROXIDE) and
Ceria (commercially AdNano® Ceria) particle are also used for comparison of the results.

Fumed silica
Fumed silica, also known as pyrogenic silica because it is produced in a flame by a vapor
process at high temperature, consists of microscopic droplets of amorphous silica fused into
branched, chainlike, three-dimensional secondary particles which then agglomerate into tertiary
particles. Fumed silicas are fluffy, white powder of amorphous structure. Because of their
extremely small particle size and spherical morphology, high surface area, unique surface
chemistry, and high purity, these products are used in a multitude of industrial applications. The
average diameter of the spherical primary particles can be varied from 7 to 40 nm by using
36

different reaction conditions during flame hydrolysis. This produces fumed silica grades with BET
surface area between 50 and 380 m2 /g. Fumed silicas with a surface area below 300 m2/g are
nonporous; products with surface area above 300 m2/g can have micro porosity. Fumed silicas
were invented by Degussa in the early 1940s and are offered under the name Aerosil®.
Fumed silicas are divided into three groups:
•

Hydrophilic silicas: those products that can be wetted with water. These silicas are
produced through the normal flame hydrolysis of silicon tetrachloride.

•

Hydrophobic silicas: those products that cannot be wetted with water. These silicas are
produced from reacting hydrophilic silicas with organosilanes.

•

Mixed oxide: those products that are formed through flame hydrolysis of silicon
tetrachloride mixed with another volatile compound such as aluminum chloride or boron
chloride.

Siloxane (≡Si-O-Si≡) and silanol (≡Si-OH) groups are situated on the surface of fumed silica
particles. This latter type (i.e. silanol) of functional groups in particular is responsible for the
hydrophilic behavior of non-after treated fumed silica types. Figure 3.4 shows the surface groups
of hydrophilic AEROSIL fumed silica. AEROSIL fumed silica can be surface-modified by reacting
the silanol groups with suitable compounds such as silanes. For example Aerosil R972, is
produced by reacting hydrophilic silica with dimethylchlorosilane as shown in Figure 3.5 .this
product exhibits chemically bound dimethyl silyl groups on its surface and can no longer be
wetted with water – in other words, it is hydrophobic.

37

Figure 3.4 potential SiO2 surface groups of hydrophilic silicas [140]

AEROSIL R 972 became the first hydrophobic silica to be manufactured on an industrial scale in
1962. Further hydrophobic AEROSIL grades are now available, produced by similar industrialscale methods using corresponding silanes. Figure 3.5 provides a sampling of the many
hydrophobic grades available and highlights the difference between them and hydrophilic
AEROSIL grades according to the schematically represented surface groups. All hydrophobic
AEROSIL types carry the suffix “R“ to indicate their water-repellent character.

Figure 3.5 Hydrophobic Aerosil grade and their surface groups [140]

38

Hydrophilic and hydrophobic fumed silica grades have proven effective for numerous areas of
application. In view of their use in the plastics industry, the principal properties of fumed silicas
are listed below:
• Reinforcing fillers
• Thickening and thixotropic agent for resins
• Anti-sedimentation agent for cast resins and adhesives
• Free flow aid for powder coatings In contrast to silicas of mineral origin, meaning quartz
powder which is used mainly as a “filler“ in the true sense of the word, the desired effects can be
obtained by adding only relatively small amounts of synthetic silicas.

Fumed silica manufacturing [122]
Fumed silica is prepared by a vapor process at high temperature. Fumed silica was first
prepared in 1941 by a German chemist, Dr. Harry Klopfer [141] as he was trying to develop
white reinforcing filler comparable to properties of channel blacks in rubber. At present fumed
silica is prepared by the hydrolysis of silicon tetrachloride vapor in a flame of hydrogen and
oxygen at a temperature of 1000°C or higher:
2H2 + O2 → 2 H2O
SiCl4 +2H2O → SiO2 +4HCl
2H2+O2+SiCl4 → SiO2+4HCl

The primary particles of silica are formed when silicon tetrachloride is burned in a flame of
hydrogen and oxygen. While still molten, the primary particles fuse irreversibly into secondary
particles called aggregates. The key properties, such as particle size and surface area, of the
resulting fumed silica are controlled by varying the ratio of reactants: silicon tetrachloride,
hydrogen and oxygen (in the form of dry air).before the silica particles are separated from the
HCl-containing combustion gases by means of cyclones or filters. The reaction mixture passes
through a coagulation and cooling zone. The residual HCl, which is physically absorbed by the
high surface fumed silica, is removed by treating the silica with moist hot air. This treatment
lowers the residual HCl content in the silica product to less than 0.025%.

39

The flow diagram used in the fumed silica manufacturing process is shown in Figure 3.6

Sand
(Quartz)

Silicon
element

HCl or
Cl2

H2 , O 2

SiCl4

FUMED SILICA

Figure 3.6 Fumed silica manufacturing process. [139]

3.4.4. Functionalization of silica nanoparticle
Although some nanomaterials have excellent physical and chemical bulk properties, but due to
their high surface area and their dangling bonds, nanoparticles have a tendency to agglomerate,
hence they do not possess suitable surface properties for specific applications. Consequently, it
may be necessary to modify the surface of such materials [124, 125]. The most common way to
do so is to attach suitable organic groups to the surface atoms. First, surface modification can
stabilize nanoparticles against agglomeration [126, 127]. A second aspect for modifying
nanoparticles is to render them compatible with another phase. For example, metal particles can
be made water-soluble when appropriate groups are attached [128]. Another example is the use
of modified inorganic (nano-) fillers in organic polymers. The modification can avoid homogeneity
and compatibility problems between the two phases and thus improve the mechanical properties
of the composite [129]. A third interest in nanoparticles modification is to enable their selforganization [126]. A relatively unexploited additional possibility is the functionalization by the
organic groups. While simple organic groups are sufficient to protect nanoparticles against
agglomeration, functional organic groups on the particle surface may allow deliberate interaction
of the nanoparticles with molecules, other nanoparticles, surfaces, or solids. The mentioned
possibilities are synergetic. For example, surface functionalities also protect the nanoparticles
against agglomeration and may be required to enable their self-organization. Various organic
compounds are potential silica modifiers, among them, as for metal nanoparticles, are thiols,
carboxylic acids and amines [130, 121]. However, amines and thiols are relatively rarely used.
The main compounds used for modifying silica nanoparticles are silanes. Silanes are the most

40

often used modifiers for metal oxide surfaces. This includes alkoxysilane, ≡Si–OR (R = alkyl),
hydrogenosilane, ≡Si–H, or chlorosilane, ≡Si–Cl, reagents. As a matter of fact, there is a broad
variety of commercially available silanes, and others are readily synthesized or modified. One of
the main advantages of silanes is that they can bear numerous functionalities, for example
amino, cyano, carboxylic acid, epoxy groups, etc. [124, 132-136].

Figure 3.7 Surface modification of silica nanoparticle [137]

The organosilanes are used to modify the surface of silica nanoparticles. Organosilanes have
the ability to incorporate both organic- and inorganic-compatible functionality within the same
molecule. The inorganic compatibility comes from the alkoxy groups attached to the silicon atom.
This bond is hydrolytically unstable and in the presence of moisture hydrolyzes to an
intermediate Si–OH bond which then condenses with surface bound OH groups on inorganic
surfaces to form stable Si–O–Si bonds. The molecular structure of organosilane and its
interaction with silica substrates is depicted in Figure 3.7. The final result of reacting an
organosilane with a substrate is to utilize the substrate to catalyze chemical transformations at
the heterogeneous interface, ordering the interface region, and modifying its partition
characteristics. Most importantly, it includes the ability to affect a covalent bond between
polyamide and SiO2 particles.

3.5. Aluminum oxide
Aluminum oxide is the family of inorganic compounds with the chemical formula Al2O3. It is an
amphoteric oxide and is commonly referred to as alumina, corundum as well as many other
names, reflecting its widespread occurrence in nature and industry. Its most significant use is in
the production of aluminum metal although it is also used as an abrasive due to its hardness and
as a refractory material due to its high melting point. The most common form of crystalline
41

alumina is known as corundum. The oxygen ions nearly form a hexagonal close-packed
structure with aluminum ions filling two-thirds of the octahedral interstices. Each Al3+ center is
octahedral. In terms of its crystallography, corundum adopts a trigonal Bravais lattice with a
space group of R-3c (number 167 in the International Tables). The primitive cell contains two
formula units of aluminium oxide. Alumina also exists in other phases, namely η-, χ-, γ-, δ- and
θ-aluminas. Each has a unique crystal structure and properties. The so-called β-alumina proved
to be NaAl11O17.

3.6. Cerium oxide
Cerium (IV) oxide, also known as ceric oxide, ceria, cerium oxide or cerium dioxide, is an oxide
of the rare earth metal cerium. It is a pale yellow-white powder with the chemical formula CeO2.
Cerium (IV) oxide is formed by the calcination of cerium oxalate or cerium hydroxide. Powdered
ceria is slightly hygroscopic and will also absorb a small amount of carbon dioxide from the
atmosphere [138]. Cerium also forms cerium (III) oxide, Ce2O3, but CeO2 is the most stable
phase at room temperature and under atmospheric conditions. Ceria has been extensively
looked at over the past 15 years as a solid oxide electrolyte mainly due to its higher ionic
conductivity at lower temperatures than Yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ), the more widely used
solid oxide electrolyte. The use of CeO2 – based materials has attracted considerable attention
in recent years, particularly in applications such as environmental catalysis, where it has found
widespread use. Ceria is also well known as a highly effective polishing agent for glass. More
recent applications can be found in the field of chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) where ceria
plays an important role in the planarization of integrated circuit (IC) wafers.

42

Chapter 4
Physical structure and polymorphism of polyamide 6
nanocomposites

4.1. Introduction
The amide group is one of the most important building blocks of nature and exists in the
structure of all proteins. The group is essentially planar due to the partial double bond
character of the C–N bond. The ability of the NH group to form strong hydrogen bonds (Hbonds) with the CO group is the determining factor for the crystal structures found in
polyamides. The chains are oriented in such a way as to maximize hydrogen bonding. For
polyamide 6 all H-bonds can only be formed in a planar conformation if adjacent molecules
are antiparallel. If adjacent molecules were of the same direction (parallel) only half of the
H-bonds could be formed, in contrast to the experimental observations of almost complete
H-bond formation [142].
Polyamide 6 exhibit polymorphic structures that contained two types of stable crystal form:
monoclinic α-form and monoclinic (or pseudohexagonal) γ-form [143-147], which are very
sensitive to the way in which the samples are prepared. Previous studies have also shown
that a partially disordered structure of PA6, mesomorphic β-form, could be obtained by
cooling the samples rapidly from the melt state [148], while the α-form crystal of PA6 result
from slow cooling from the melt state [149].

4.2. The α-structure
The structure of polyamide 6 was determined by Bunn and Garner [153], who described the αstructure for the first time. The polymer chains in the α-structure are in the fully extended planer
zig-zag conformation and grouped into essentially planar, H-bonded sheets. The H-bonded
sheets are, however, staggered up and down instead of always being displaced in the same
direction. The resulting structure is monoclinic instead of triclinic as observed in polyamide 66.
Because of crystallographic convention for monoclinic structure, the direction along the
molecular chain (the “fiber” axis) is labeled the b-axis rather than the c-axis as in the case for the
triclinic PA66. Because there is four rather than one chemical repeat unit in the unit cell, the
Miller indices are doubled for non-fiber axes. Thus, the intense equatorial reflections of PA6 are
indexed as (200) and the (002), (202) doublet.
43

Figure 4.1 Structures of the α- and γ-forms of PA6 and PA66. The left side shows the view of
the hydrogen-bonding planes, and the right side shows the view down the chain axis. For the αform of PA6, the adjacent chains are antiparallel and the hydrogen bonding is between adjacent
chains within the same sheet (bi-secting the CH2 angles). For the γ-form of PA6, the chains are
parallel and the hydrogen-bonding is between chains in adjacent sheets. In PA66, the chains
have no directionality [155].

44

4.3. The γ-structure
The second stable crystal structure observed in polyamides is the γ-structure which was initially
suggested by Kinoshita [154] as a way to adapt to the experimental evidence for complete Hbond formation in polyamides. The γ-structure of polyamide 6 is shown in Figure 4.1.Compared
to the α-form, the γ-form has a shorter chain axis due to a 30° tilting of the amide group with
respect to the chain axis. The tilting allows all H-bonds to be formed without strain. The energy
cost to expend to twist the amide groups in γ-crystals is compensated by the stability of the fully
H-bond structure. The H-bonds are not co-linear anymore and are disposed on pleated extended
sheets. The crystal structure is usually monoclinic, and the X-ray pattern consists of a single
strong equatorial reflection as opposed to two reflections in the case of the α-form. The
comparison of the two fiber scans for PA6, a polyamide that can be obtained in both forms, is
given in Figure 4.2.

Figure 4.2 X-ray diffraction of pure α form and pure γ crystal form of PA6 [142]

On a cross section normal to the c-axis, the chains are at the corners of a hexagonal unit cell.
This indicates hexagonal packing of crystal stems and if the chains were structureless cylinders
45

it would also imply hexagonal symmetry. Alternatively hexagonal symmetry could be found if
there was complete rotational freedom about the axes. This is prohibited by the presence of the
H-bonds. In fact, the γ-form of polyamide is not mobile and the planar zig-zag structure in the
methylene sequences is retained. The structure is therefore termed pseudohexagonal. (Figure
4.3)

Figure 4.3 Cross-section of chain (a-c planes) illustrating the hexagonal packing of the chain
stem in γ- PA6, that is, the pseudohexagonal structure [142].

4.4. Polymorphic Transformations
Polyamides exhibit more varied polymorphism than most other classes of polymers. The
polymorphic structures of polyamide resulted from the different spatial arrangement in the
hydrogen bonding between the oxygen in the carbonyl group of one polyamide molecular chain
and the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen in the neighboring polyamide molecular chain. The γform polyamide crystal was constituted by polyamide molecules adopting the parallel-chainarrangement hydrogen bonds, whereas the polyamide molecules in the monoclinic α-form
crystal have taken the more stable antiparallel-chain-arrangement hydrogen bonds. The α-form
is more stable than the γ-form because of shorter hydrogen bonds. The third form, mesomorphic
β-form, although unstable, also existed. The formation of a stable crystal form by polyamide
molecules was determined by the flexibility of their molecular chains. For containing even
numbers of methylene group in the repeating unit of polyamide, the packing interaction between
the methylene groups in polyamide determined their crystal structures. For PA6, the α-form

46

crystal is more stable, while for polyamide with more carbons, the γ-form crystal of polyamide is
more stable [156].

Figure 4.4 Schematic phase transformations of polyamide under various thermomechanical and
pressure treatments [157].

In practice, PA6 can exhibit either the α-form crystal under slow cooling [149] or the
mesomorphic β-form under quenching from the melt state [148] as a result of the large
difference in the crystallization time in achieving the crystal form. Figure 4.4 shows that the
γ-form crystal of PA6 can be transformed into the α-form crystal by annealing PA6 or by
drawing and then by annealing PA6 or by treating PA6 with a phenol aqueous solution [150,
151]. Conversely, the α-form of PA6 can be transformed to the γ-form by treating PA6 with
iodine-potassium aqueous solution. [156,152].

4.5. Polymorphic Transformations in nanocomposites
As explained in previous section, one of the most remarkable features of polyamide 6 is that
these semicrystalline polymers exhibit polymorphism depending on the thermal history,
processing conditions, mechanical stress, and crystallization condition. Since the importance of
polymorphic form on elevated temperature properties, such as heat distortion temperature,
softening, dimensional stability, and warp, the polymorphism and polymorphic transformations of
47

polyamide 6 nanocomposites have drawn considerable research interests. Studies on the crystal
structure of polyamide 6 in nanocomposites were first carried out by Kojima et al. [158] who
reported that both α- and γ-crystals were present in nanocomposites. However, after annealing
under elevated pressure, they found that the fraction of γ-phase decreased. Early investigations
by Liu et al. [159] suggest that the formation of γ-crystalline form is enhanced by the addition of
particle. This is significant since crystalline structure may affect physical and mechanical
properties. Mathias et al. [160] reported that when both crystal forms were present in
nanocomposites, those annealed at 200°C under vacuu m produced only γ-crystals. Fornes and
Paul [161] found that there were significant differences in crystal type within the core and skin
regions of injection-molded nanocomposites. The skin region contains only the γ-crystalline form;
the core region, on the other hand, contains both α- and γ-forms of polyamide 6. Wu et al. [162]
showed from his DSC and XRD results that the polymorphic behavior in polyamide 6/clay
nanocomposites depends on the content of clay and the cooling rate from melt. Thermal
treatment of polyamide 6 and polyamide 6/clay nanocomposites at various temperatures
promotes mostly the α-form crystalline formation. Okamoto et al. [163] investigated the effect of
crystallization temperature (Tc) on crystal structure of polyamide 6 and its nanocomposite. Their
results show that at lower Tc, both α- and γ-crystal structures are formed in polyamide 6, with
increasing Tc, the γ-form gradually disappeared. On the other hand, only the γ-crystal is
pronounced for the polyamide 6 nanocomposites throughout the whole Tc range studied.
Although intensive research efforts have been devoted to this system, to our knowledge, most
research mainly focus on the effect of particle and the annealing temperature on crystallization
behavior of polyamide 6 matrixes [164, 165-170, 171, 172], The effect of annealing on thermal
behavior of polyamide 6/particle nanocomposites is still an interesting subject needed to be
further identified, since some microstructural changes may occur at such high annealing
temperature, which would have a significant impact on properties of polyamide 6/particle
nanocomposites. Some characteristic properties of the α- and γ-forms of polyamide 6 are listed
in Table 4.1 [173- 187]. The heats of fusion, ∆Hf°, are the values reported by Illers [184]. It
should be noted that other values for the α-form have been reported in the literature [180, 184,
186, 188-191] and Wunderlich has suggested a value of 230 J/g based on a compromise of
various reports in the literature [192]. The effect of crystallization temperature and time on the
formation of the α- versus γ-forms has been widely studied [185, 193, 194]. Gurato and his
coworkers have shown that crystallization for extended periods of time below
only to the γ-crystallites while above

130 °C leads

190 °C only the α-form is produced. Temperatures in

between these limits result in a mixture of the two forms, with higher fractions of α-form being
48

produced at higher temperatures. The disappearance of the γ-form at

190 °C has been

commonly referred to as the Brill transition, a phenomenon first observed in polyamide 66 [195].
This transition corresponds to the merging of the two reflections of the α-form into a single peak
in plots of X-ray diffraction intensity versus 2θ [196-199] as the sample is heated. Kyotani and
Mitsuhashi [194] also found that very short crystallization times at either 100 or 200 °C lead to
both crystalline forms, while longer times produced predominantly γ- and α-form, respectively. In
general, rapid cooling or quenching from the melt produces the γ-form [196, 200-202]. Annealing
also affects the crystal structure. For example, annealing of quenched samples or those
crystallized between 100 and 150 °C, at 200 °C for extended times leads to the conversion of
the γ- into α-form [194]. Gogolewki et al. [186] and Gurato et al. [193] demonstrated similar
annealing results. Based on the above, it is clear that, in general, rapid cooling and low
temperature crystallization promotes the γ-form of polyamide 6, while higher crystallization
temperatures or slow cooling leads to the α-form. Kyotani and Mitsuhashi [194] attribute the
temperature dependence to the crystallization rates of the two forms; i.e. at temperatures below
130 °C the rate of formation of γ is faster, while above

190 °C the crystallization rate of α-form

is faster, while at intermediate temperatures, the rates are comparable. Interestingly, the
maximum crystallization rate of polyamide 6 occurs at approximately 140 °C [203]. The
temperature dependence of the crystallization rate above this maximum is dominated by the
driving force for crystallization, i.e. the degree of undercooling, while below, the rate is
dominated by the resistance to crystallization, i.e. polymer chain mobility. Therefore, it may be
postulated that conditions of limited polymer chain mobility favor the crystallization of the γ-form
for polyamide 6.
Studies of polyamide 6-based nanocomposites have caused renewed interest in the factors
affecting the crystalline structure. As mentioned above, Kojima et al. [203] and Liu et al. [165]
reported that when the one nanometer thick platelets of montmorillonite are dispersed in
polyamide 6 the polymer crystallizes in the γ-form. Wu and coworkers [204-207] examined the
influence of thermal treatment on the crystallization behavior of melt processed nanocomposites
using FTIR, WAXD, and DSC. From FTIR measurements on thin film samples, it has been
claimed that the hydrogen bonding in both crystalline forms of polyamide 6 is weakened by the
presence of the clay. WAXD analysis revealed that nanocomposites films exhibit both crystalline
forms when slowly cooled from the melt; whereas, pure polyamide 6 gave predominantly the αform. Methods that permit higher cooling rates, e.g. air and water-cooling, have increased the
content of the γ-phase especially for the nanocomposite. Further WAXD investigations
conducted on samples that had been annealed at different temperatures showed the onset of
49

the γ- to α- transition, normally observed around 130 °C for p ure polyamide 6, in this case at 120
°C, occurred approximately 40 °C higher for the nan ocomposite. Interestingly, an unexpected
higher amount of γ-form was observed after annealing at 200 °C than a t 180 °C. Lastly, nonisothermal crystallization surprisingly showed that the degree of crystallinity increased with
increasing cooling rate for the nanocomposites, in contrast to what is observed in pure
polyamide 6 and other polymers.

Table 4.1 Miscellaneous data for the α- and γ-crystalline forms of polyamide 6
Property

α

γ

Crystal structure

Monoclinic

Hexagonal/pseudohexagonal

Lattice constants

a=0.956 nm

a=0.472 nma

b=1.724 nm (fiber
axis)
c=0.801 nm

c=1.688 nma

Reference(s)

[174-175]

γ=120°a

β=67.5°
Crystallographic
reflection(s)
Characteristic dspacings

(200)

(001)

(002/202)

(200/201)-minor

d200

d001

0.370 nm

d002+202
Density, ρ (g/cm3)

[173, 175, 176]

0.413 nm

[174, 175, 177, 178]

0.440 nm

1.23 (experimental)

1.16–1.19 (experimental)

1.23 (calculated)

1.16 (calculated)

[175, 177, 176-186],
amorphous ρ=1.09

Heat of fusion, ∆Hf°
241
239
[183]
(J/g)
a
Hexagonal lattice constants were calculated based on the monoclinic parameters a=0.933nm,
b=1.688nm, and c=0.478nm and β=121°. The hexagonal lattice constant, a, was taken as the
average of a and half of b of the monoclinic unit cell. The constant c representing the fiber axis
remained fixed [161].

50

4.5.1. Effect of particle concentration
Wu and Liao examined the effect of thermal history and filler concentration on the crystal
structure of polyamide 6 nanocomposites formed by in situ polymerization using synthetic
saponite and natural montmorillonite [208, 209]. Similar crystalline behavior was observed for
the pure and nanocomposite materials when samples were slowly or rapidly cooled from the
melt; however, nanocomposites containing a low concentration of saponite, i.e. 2.5 wt. %,
favored the formation of the α-form regardless of the cooling conditions, whereas by increasing
silica content γ-form is more dominant (Figure 4.5). Annealing studies showed that higher
amounts of γ were present in the nanocomposite than in pure polyamide 6 after annealing at
high temperatures, except at low saponite contents.

Figure 4.5 XRD pattern of pure PA6 and the nanocomposite samples as a function of silica
concentration

51

4.5.2. Effect of take- up velocity
In many studies on the high-speed
speed melt spinning and the structure of PA 6, the existence of
three crystalline phases is considered: monoclinic α, pseudohexagonal γ, and hexagonal [211[211
213]. The γ-form
form and hexagonal form give similar WAXD patterns, and it is difficult to distinguish
these two forms unless the sample has highly ordered crystalline structure. In the equatorial
WAXD scan, the peak of 011 and 200 planes of the γ-phase appear at 2θ
θ =21.5° and 22.3°,
respectively.
y. These two peaks are closely located and usually are observed as a single peak. On
the other hand, the 200 and 002/202 peaks of the α-form
form crystals are located approximately at
20.5° and at 24°.
The equatorial WAXD diagram of polyamide 6 is shown in Figure
Figu 4.6.

ray diffraction of polyamide 6 at different take
take-up
up velocity
Figure 4.6 X-ray

Giza et al. [210] reported that at low take up velocity γ-phase
phase dominate and by increasing take
up velocity and drawing the α--phase
phase also appear and at sufficiently high take-up
take
velocity (in the
neighborhood of 7 km/min), the direct formation of α-form
form crystals in the spin line takes place.

52

4.5.3. Effect of thermal after--treatment
As explained particle addition
on promoted the αγ crystal-phase
phase transformation. But in some
further process with thermal after treatment like extrusion process, the crystal phase converted
again to α-form crystal.

ray diffractions of polyamide 6 annealed at different crystallization temperature
Figure 4.7 X-ray
[143, 167]

Figure 4.7 shows X-ray
ray diffraction scans of polyamide 6 after has been thermally annealed at
various temperatures and then rapidly cooled to room temperature. In both cases, the γ- form
diffraction peak at 21.5° gradually disappears and the α- form diffraction peaks at around 20.5°
and 24° become sharper as the annealing temperature s increase. Since the structure of
polyamide 6 shows the Brill transition over a broad range of temperatures starting from 160°C to
about 190°C, it is possible to induce the crystal -crystal
crystal transition during the annealing process in
the range of 160-205°
205°C. These thermal treatments favor the formation of the α- form rather than
the γ- form
orm in polyamide 6 as the α- form is the thermodynamically more stable crystalline form.

53

Therefore the effect of thermal annealing at various temperatures on the crystalline structure of
polyamide 6 is to promote the α-form crystalline formation during the process.
4.5.4. Effect of preparation method
Some studies have explored the differences between polyamide 6 nanocomposites formed by in
situ polymerization and by melt processing. Based on DSC and solid state NMR studies,
VanderHart et al. [214, 215] concluded that the silicate layers promote the γ-form regardless of
the formation technique, and that γ-crystallites reside near the polyamide/clay interface. Lincoln
et al. [164] used small angle X-ray scattering, in addition to WAXD and DSC, to infer about the
crystalline morphology of these two types of nanocomposites. They concluded that the clay
platelets disrupt the formation of crystallites and the extent of platelet-crystallite interactions is
dependent upon the technique used to form the nanocomposites. In other words, the nature of
the bond between the clay and polyamide chains seems to influence clay–crystallite interactions.

4.6. Characterization of the Crystalline Phases by Infrared Spectroscopy
The effect of particles on crystallization of polyamide 6 is investigated by FTIR [216-218]. A
polymer can be quickly identified as a polyamide by its IR spectra. It is known that polyamide 6 is
semi crystalline and generally exhibits two kinds of crystal forms depending on the thermal and
processing conditions (preparation method, particle percentage, etc.) in correlation with the
requirement to maximize the number of H–bonds. One is the α-phase, which consists of
molecules aligned in a regular extended-chain conformation (all-trans) and the other is the γ type crystal structure (quasi-hexagonal form) in which the chains are helical twisted because of
somewhat irregular intermolecular hydrogen bonding via amide groups [219]. The crystalline
structure of PA6 under equilibrium conditions and at room temperature is the α-phase. And γform is an unstable form which can be transformed into the α-form by annealing [220, 221] or by
treatment with a phenol aqueous solution [222, 223]. The characteristic absorption peaks of the
α-phase are 1478 cm-1 (CH2 scissor vibration), 1416 cm-1 (CH2 scissor vibration), 1373 (amide III
and CH2 wag vibration), 1199 cm-1 (CH2 twist –wag vibration), 959 cm-1 (CO-NH in plane
vibration) and 928 cm-1 (CO-NH in plane vibration). The characteristic peaks of γ-phase were
1439 cm-1 (CH2 scissor vibration), 1369 cm-1 (CH2 twist –wag vibration), 1236 cm-1 (CH2 twist –
wag vibration), 976 cm-1 (CO-NH in plane vibration), 712 cm-1 (amide V) [221]. Wu et al. have
studied the effect of particle on crystallization of PA6-clay nanocomposite in various cooling
condition. Figure 4.8 shows the FT-IR spectra of PA6 nanocomposite under different cooling
54

conditions. Similarly, the PA6 nanocomposite quenched in 20 °C water, cooled in 20 °C air or
cooled down in oil bath from 250 to 20 °C are desig nated as W (water), A (air), O (oil). In sharp
contrast to PA6, all the PA6 nanocomposite samples, regardless of cooling history, revealed the
presence of γ-phase since peaks were observed at 1439 and 1236 cm−1. No peaks associated
with the α-phase were observed for nanocomposite (W). In nanocomposite (A), there were weak
signals of the α-phase at 1478, 1199, 959 and 928 cm−1. The intense α-peaks in nanocomposite
(O) implied coexistence of two crystalline phases. In summary, the γ-phase becomes the
dominant phase in the nanocomposite system. This phenomenon has been verified [224-229] by
means of XRD or NMR. The reason why the particles favor the formation of γ-phase in PA6 still
remains unclear. Vaia et al. suggested that the addition of clay layers forces the amide groups of
PA6 out of the plane formed by the chains. This result in conformational changes of the chains,
which limits the formation of H-bonded sheets and the γ-phase, is favored [230].

Figure 4.8 FT-IR spectra of PA6/clay nanocomposite under various cooling conditions; (W):
removed from the 250 °C oil bath and quenched in a water bath at 20 °C; (A): removed from the
250 °C oil bath and cooled in 20 °C air; (O): coole d down in oil bath from 250 to 20 °C by natural
convection.

55

Figure 4.9 XRD patterns of (a) α-phase PA6; (b) γ-phase PA6; (c) N5O (PA6CN is cooled down
in oil bath from 250 to 20 °C by natural convection ); (d) N5W (PA6CN is removed from the
250 °C oil bath and quenched in a water bath at 20 °C.
VASANTHAN and SALEM [231] also have applied FTIR method to the quantitative analysis of
phase changes during thermal treatment and the drawing of polyamide-6. They confirmed that
crystallization during thermal treatments involved increases in both phases and did not involve
crystal-to crystal transformation, whereas drawing involved both crystallization of the amorphous
phase in the α form and γ α transformation. They showed that the α-crystal formation occurs
by increasing heat-treatment temperature during thermally induced crystallization as well as
increasing the draw ratio. (Figure 4.10)

Figure 4.10 Fraction of α- and γ-crystalline phases in the total crystallinity of polyamide-6 fibers
drawn to different draw ratios versus draw ratio.

56

Figure 4.11 shows the XRD pattern for the polyamide-6 fibers drawn at different draw ratios. A
strong reflection at 23° is observed for the undraw n (as-spun) fiber (sample a), indicating that it
contains predominantly the γ-crystal form. As the draw ratio increases, new reflections (2θ ~ 21
and 24°) appear as shoulders on both sides of the γ reflection. These reflections become
predominant at higher draw ratios, indicating that the α-crystal content increases with an
increasing draw ratio.

Figure 4.11 Wide-angle X-ray diffraction pattern (equatorial scan) of polyamide-6 fibers drawn at
different draw ratios: (a) DR1, (b) DR2, (c) DR3, and (d) DR4.

57

Chapter 5
Characterization techniques applicable to nanocomposite

5.1. Introduction
In the general research area of polymer nanocomposites, a number of critical issues need to be
addressed before the full potential of polymer nanocomposites can actually be realized. While a
number of advances have recently been made in the area of polymer nanocomposites, the
studies on understanding of the effects of processing parameters on the structure, morphology,
and functional properties of polymer nanocomposites are essential. There is a need for
characterization techniques to quantify the concentration and distributions of nanoparticles as
well as to assess the strength at the interface between the polymer and nanoparticles. Also,
there is a need for the development of better models which are able to predict the mechanical
properties of the polymer nanocomposites as a function of many factors, including nanoparticle
orientation, the type of functional groups, and the molecular weight of polymer matrix. The
relationship between the structural distributions of the nanoparticles and the ultimate properties
of the polymer nanocomposites also needs to be elucidated. Therefore, for developing and
assessment of research results, characterization and acquaintance with characterization
techniques is a must.
Characterization of the nanocomposites is essential for achieving meaningful results; therefore
characterization is required at the following stages.
1- Characterization of physical structure and morphology, specially the parameters which
govern the properties of polymers and fibers.
2- Characterization of thermal properties, namely the measurement of temperature of
melting, crystallization and decomposition.
3- Characterization at the molecular level, which involves measurement of molecular weight
and some time also the characterization of chemical structure.

58

5.2. X-ray diffraction (XRD) [232-235]
X-ray powder diffraction is a powerful non-destructive testing method to study the morphology
and structural evolution of polymeric materials from micro to nano levels. The X-ray diffraction
method is the most powerful technique available for the examination of polymers in the solid
state. In general, useful information can be obtained only if the polymer forms oriented fibers or
yields single crystals. The following type of information can be obtained from X-ray diffraction
experiments:
1- Estimate of the degree of crystallinity of a polymer sample.
2- Determination of the extent of orientation of crystallites in a polymer.
3- Analysis of the macrostructure of the polymer – the way in which the crystallites or
bundles of chains are packed together.
4- Determination of the molecular structure, including the chain conformation and the
position of individual atoms. This aspect is the most involved but yields the greatest
amount of useful fundamental information.
X-rays, with wavelengths comparable to interatomic distances, are quite appropriate for
measuring the crystalline structure of polymers. A large number of sets of parallel planes can be
considered to pass through any regular three-dimensional array of atoms. Some of these are
more sensitive than others to the reflection of a X-ray beam, depending on the total electron
density of the atoms in the set of planes. Thus the incident X-ray beam reflected through such
sets of planes may interfere constructively to produce enhanced intensity, which produces a
diffraction point on a photographic plate or a maximum in the diffraction pattern recorded through
a detector. The condition for such constructive interference, or the occurrence of a diffraction
maximum, is described by Bragg’s equation:
2! sin % = &'

Where ! is the interplannar spacing, % is the Bragg angel (or half the angle between incident
and diffracted beam directions), ' is the wavelength of the X-rays and & is the order of diffraction
(usually & =1 for the most intense diffraction maxima.)
Fibers possess a high degree of crystallite orientation; hence in practice their diffraction patterns
are recorded using two types of samples:

59

1. Powdered samples, where the fibers are cut into small pieces (almost like a powder) and
mixed randomly to form a compressed pellet. Thus the crystallites are randomly oriented and
one obtains the diffraction maxima in the form of uniform intensity circles.
2. Fiber samples, where the fibers are held mutually parallel and straightened along their fiber
axis in a brunch. Owing to the preferred orientation of crystallites, the diffraction maxima appear
as arcs with arc length depending on the degree of orientation. The greater the degree of
orientation, the smaller is the arc length.

Figure 5.1 Schematic representation of the XRD process

60

5.3. Microscopic techniques [236-238]
Microscopic observations enable the characterization of polymers and fibers in various ways,
depending on magnification ranges and radiation used [239]. The microscopic techniques are of
three types: light microscopy, electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy with the two
latter extensively used in polymer nanocomposite researches. Within this work the focus is more
on electron microscopy technique. Electron microscopy is a process of obtaining images using
electrons and is frequently used when the magnification required is much larger than what can
be achieved by light microscopes that means; when the particles to be monitored are smaller
than the wavelength of the visual light (< 400 nm). The physical effect behind this principle is
based on wave-particle duality of electrons. The emitted electrons are high-energy matter having
wavelength much smaller than that of light and this allows for the resolution of smaller objects.
Moreover, the electrons interact with samples in various ways and this allows for the
determination of detailed information about them. The advantages of electron microscopy over
X-ray crystallography are, that the specimen need not be a single crystal or even a
polycrystalline powder, and also that the Fourier transform reconstruction of the object's
magnified structure occurs physically and thus avoids the need for solving the phase problem
faced by the X-ray crystallographers after obtaining their X-ray diffraction patterns of a single
crystal or polycrystalline powder. The major disadvantage of the transmission electron is the
need for extremely thin sections of the specimens, typically less than 100 nanometers.
The two main electron microscopic techniques available for nanocomposite imaging are the
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
5.3.1. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM)
A scanning electron microscope (SEM) is a type of electron microscope that images a sample by
scanning it with a high-energy beam of electrons in a raster scan pattern. The electrons interact
with the atoms that make up the sample producing signals that contain information about the
sample's surface topography, composition, and other properties such as electrical conductivity.
In SEM scanning is done on the surface of the specimen in the reflection mode, hence the
surface has to be natural without any markings of the knife or microtome blade.

61

Figure 5.2 Comparison of the light microscope with TEM and SEM.

5.3.2. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM)
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is a microscopy technique whereby a beam of
electrons is transmitted through an ultra thin specimen, interacting with the specimen as it
passes through. An image is formed from the interaction of the electrons transmitted through the
specimen; the image is magnified and focused onto an imaging device, such as a fluorescent
screen, on a layer of photographic film, or to be detected by a sensor such as a CCD camera.
The samples used for TEM have to be very thin to allow sufficient transmission of the electrons.
Thin sections cut on a microtome or thin films grown on substrates are used for this.

62

5.4. Spectroscopic technique [240, 241]
Spectral techniques are generally used to probe the chemical make-up of macromolecular
materials such as functional groups, structural conformation and component concentration. The
main spectral techniques applied in polymer nanocomposite research are Fourier transform
infra-red spectroscopy (FTIR), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and ultraviolet (UV)
spectroscopy.

Figure 5.3 EM Spectrum showing the range of frequencies and wavelength of radiation.

Spectral techniques involve the interaction of molecules of a specimen or sample with
electromagnetic (EM) radiation. It essentially monitors changes in energy states of molecules in
response to EM radiation. Figure 5.3 shows the EM spectrum and the corresponding wavelength
of the various radiations. Important is to understand the energy state of molecules when EM
radiation is observed. Basically, when an atom or a molecule absorbs energy, it proceeds from
the initial or ground state to a higher or excited state. These energy states are said to be
quantumized and a particular value exists for each state. This could be related to the “spinning”
of the sub-atomic particles, vibration of the chemical bonds, and so on.
Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy (FTIR)
FTIR is a technique that utilizes the vibration response of molecules when exposed to infrared
(IR) radiation. It is the absorption measurement of different IR frequencies by a sample
positioned in the path of an IR beam. The infrared spectrum represents a fingerprint of a sample
with absorption peaks, which corresponds to the frequencies of vibrations between the bonds of
the atoms that make up the material. The main goal of IR spectroscopic analysis is to determine
the chemical functional groups in the sample. Different functional groups absorb characteristic
frequencies of IR radiation. Using various sampling accessories, IR spectrometers can accept a

63

wide range of sample types such as gases, liquids, and solids. Thus, IR spectroscopy is an
important and popular tool for structural elucidation and compound identification.
5.5. Thermal characterization [242-244]
Thermal characterizations are generally defined as techniques in which a property of a specimen
is continuously measured through a pre-determined temperature. Thermoanalytical techniques
are used for characterization of glass transition and melting temperature, thermal stability and
other properties as a function of temperature of polymers and fibers. The main thermal
techniques are differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA),
dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) and heat distortion temperature (HDT). Thermal analysis is
based on the detection of changes in the heat content (enthalpy) or the specific heat of a sample
with temperature.
5.5.1. Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC)
Differential scanning calorimetry is a thermo-analytical method that measures the difference
between the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of sample and reference. It is
used to study thermal transitions of a polymer. As thermal energy is supplied to the sample, its
enthalpy increase and the temperature rises by an amount determined by the specific heat of the
sample. The specific heat of the material changes slowly with temperature in a particular
physical state, but alter sharply or discontinuously when a change of the state of the matter
takes place. Apart from increasing the sample temperature, the supply of thermal energy may
also induce physical or chemical changes in the sample (e.g. melting or decomposition)
accompanied by a change in enthalpy in the form of the latent heat of fusion, heat of reaction, or
others. Such enthalpy changes may be detected by thermal analysis and can be related to the
processes occurring in the sample.

64

Figure 5.4
5. DSC experimental arrangement

Based on mechanism of operation DSC can be classified into two types.
1. Heat flux DSC
2. Power Compensated DSC

Heat Flux DSC
In a heat flux DSC, the sample material, enclosed in a pan and an empty reference pan are
placed on a thermoelectric disk surrounded by a furnace. The furnace is heated at a linear
heating rate and the heat is transferred to the sample and reference pan through thermoelectric
disk. However owing to the heat capacity of the sample there exis
exists
ts a temperature difference
between the sample and reference pans which is measured by area thermocouples and the
consequent heat flow is determined by the thermal equivalent of Ohm’s law,

	=

()
*

Where 	 is sample heat flow, ∆) is temperature difference between sample and reference and *
is resistance of thermoelectric disk.

65

Power Compensated DSC
In power compensated calorimeters, the sample and reference pan are in separate furnaces
heated by separate heaters.

Both the sample and reference are maintained at the same

temperature and the difference in thermal power required to maintain them at the same
temperature is measured and plotted as a function of temperature or time. DSC is used to
determine glass transition, melting temperature, heat of fusion, percent crystalline and
crystallization kinetics and phase transitions. The areas of crystallization or melting peaks are
proportional to the heat involved in the process, and the areas can be accurately calibrated in
terms of heat by using known standard sample. From the heat of melting of a given experimental
sample (∆, ), one may calculate the degree of crystallinity,-, , from the enthalpy involved during
crystallization using following equation:

-. =

(.
× 100

1 − ɸ(0

Where -, , is the degree of crystallinity, ∆, is the integrated heat below the melting peak, ∆2 is
the melting enthalpy of the crystalline polymer and ɸ is the weight fraction of particle in the
mixture.
5.5.2. Thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA)
Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA) is a type of testing that is performed on samples to determine
the amount and rate of change in the weight of a material as a function of temperature or time in
a controlled atmosphere. Measurements are used primarily to determine the composition of
materials and to predict their thermal stability at temperatures up to 1000°C. The technique can
characterize materials that exhibit weight loss or gain due to decomposition, dehydration, or
oxidation. TGA is commonly employed in research and testing to determine characteristics of
materials such as polymers, in order to determine: degradation temperatures, thermal stability of
material, oxidative stability of material, moisture and volatiles content of materials, the level of
inorganic and organic components in materials, decomposition points of explosives, and solvent
residues. It is also often used to estimate the corrosion kinetics in high temperature oxidation.

66

5.6. Molecule weight determination [245-248]
Hence polymers are aggregates of large molecules comprising well-defined repeat units. The
number of times the repeat unit occurs in a molecule is called degree of polymerization (DP),
and DP multiplied by M0 (molecular weight of repeat unit) is equal to the molecular weight of the
polymer. Polymer molecular weight is important because it determines many physical properties.
Some examples include the temperatures for transitions from liquids to waxes, to rubbers, to
solids, and mechanical properties such as stiffness, tensile strength and elongation at break of
fibers, as well as viscoelasticity, toughness, and viscosity. If molecular weight is too low, the
transition temperatures and the mechanical properties will generally be too low for the polymer
material to have any useful commercial applications. For a polymer to be useful it must have
transition temperatures to waxes or liquids that are above room temperatures and it must have
mechanical properties sufficient to bear design loads.
An important feature of polymers is that all their molecules are not of identical molecular weight.
Thus, the molecular weight distribution, which influences the properties of the final product, has
to be controlled through appropriate variation of process parameters and must be characterized.
Moreover, owing to the existence of a molecular weight distribution (MWD) in any polymer
sample, the measured molecular weight is an average value; the different kinds of average of
molecular weight are defined below.

(a) Number average molecular weight
45 ) is defined as the total weight of all the molecules in a
Number average molecular weight (3
given sample divided by the total number of molecules

45 =
3

∑8 737
∑8 7

Where 8 and 38 are the number and molecular weight of the 7th species of the molecules,
respectively.

67

(b) Weight average molecular weight
49 ) is defined as the total of the number of molecules
Weight average molecular weight (3
multiplied by the square of molecular weight of all the species divided by the total weight of all
the species of the molecules present in the given sample:

49 =
3

∑8 737 
∑8 737

(c) z Average molecular weight
This is a higher power average as defined by the following expression, and is useful in the
interpretation of certain properties such as melt flow of polymer:

4: =
3

∑8 737 ;
∑8 737 

The molecular weight determine in different methods include e.g. end group analysis, viscometry
and gel permeation chromatography, osmometry, or light scattering. In this study the three first
methods have been applied.

5.6.1 End group analysis [249, 142]
The number average molecular weight Mn of certain linear polymers can be found by estimating
the number of end groups by chemical analysis. The end groups are often acidic or basic in type,
as exemplified by the carboxylic groups of PET and polyamide or the amino groups of
conventional polyamides.
(a) Measurement of amino end groups in conventional polyamides

The amino end groups in polyamide are determined by dissolving 1 g of polymer in 25 ml
methanol/phenol mixture (70% w/w phenol) by refluxing for 30 min. The contents are cooled and
titrated against 0.02 N HCl using thermo blue as an indicator.

68

<07&= >&! ?=@A =


< − B × &=0CD7EF =G D × 100
H>7?ℎE =G Eℎ> AC0D>

= NH2 milliequivalent per kg
Where A is the volume in ml of 0.02 N HCl for the sample and B is the volume in ml of 0.02 N
HCl for the blank.

(b) Measurement of carboxyl end groups in conventional polyamides

The carboxyl end groups in polyamide are determined by dissolving 1 g of sample in 25 ml
benzyl alcohol by refluxing it for 30 minutes. The contents are then titrated with 0.02 N alcoholic
KOH, using phenolphthalein as an indicator. A blank is also run.

 >&! ?=@A =


< − B × &=0CD7EF =G J × 1000
H>7?ℎE =G Eℎ> AC0D>

= COOH milliequivalent per kg

Where A is the volume in ml of 0.02 N KOH for the sample and B is the volume in ml of 0.02 N
KOH for the blank.
45 can be calculated from the end group analysis using the following
The molecular weight 3
relationship:

45 =
3


H>7?ℎE =G =DF0> × 
&@0K> =G >&! ?=@A > 0=D>.@D>
E=ECD &@0K> =G >&! ?=@A !>E>07&>!

69

5.6.2. Viscosity
Viscosity is a measure of the resistance of fluid to an applied stress. Viscosity essentially
describes a liquid’s internal resistance to flow and may be thought of as a measure of its internal
friction. Polymer solutions show very high viscosity which varies not only with concentration but
also with molecular weight. This property of polymers has been used as a method of determining
the molecular weight of polymers. A parameter called intrinsic viscosity [η] is strongly dependent
on the molecular dimensions of the solute particles. Since molecular dimensions depend on
molecular weight, suitable calibration curves have been developed which led to well-known
relation called the Mark-Houwink equation:

4M
L = J3

4 is the molecular weight of the polymer. 3
4 may represent
Where N and C are constants and 3
45 or 3
49 , depending on the molecular weight average used in the calibration curve. The
3
intrinsic viscosity L is defined as follow:

LPQ
L − L
L = D70
 ,  = D70
 
,→
,→ .
L
Where L and L are the viscosities of the solution and the solvent, respectively, and . is the
concentration. The last expression on the right-hand side is simply to define the symbol LPQ
(specific viscosity) in subsequent discussion. The intrinsic viscosity is therefore determined by
L
plotting PQR. against . and extrapolating the plot to zero concentration, as shown in Figure 5.5

70

Figure 5.5 Typical plot of date for determining intrinsic viscosity

The Ubbelohde capillary viscometer
The most useful kind of viscometer for determining intrinsic viscosity is the "suspended level" or
Ubbelohde viscometer, sketched below:

71

The viscometer is called "suspended level" because the liquid initially drawn into the small upper
bulb is not connected to the reservoir as it flows down the capillary during measurement. The
capillary is suspended above the reservoir. In conjunction with the pressure-equalization tube,
this ensures that the only pressure difference between the top of the bulb and the bottom of the
capillary is that due to the hydrostatic pressure i.e., the weight of the liquid. Other designs, e.g.,
the Cannon-Fenske viscometer, do not provide for this, and will give erroneous results in an
intrinsic viscosity determination. Such viscometers are useful in other experiments--e.g.,
checking the stability of some polymer solution, where one is only interested in measuring a
change in the flow time.
Basic Relations for Capillary Viscometry
Here is presented the basic relation of capillary viscometry, which is known as Poiseulle's law
[250].

η=

πR 4 P
8Ql

(Poiseulle's Law)

Where:
•

S is the volumetric flow rate through the capillary in cm3/s;

•

 is the pressure head forcing the liquid through the capillary (usually, just the hydrostatic
pressure of the liquid itself);

•

* is the radius of the capillary;

•

D is the length of the capillary; and,

•

η is the viscosity

The bulb volume in the Ubellohde viscometer is fixed. Thus, the flow rate,S, is just inversely
proportional to the time between marks. Since  is usually the hydrostatic pressure, which is
proportional to the density of the fluid, we have:

η ∝ tρ

This simple relationship is the "ideal gas law" of capillary
72

Use of the Ubbelohde viscometer
Capillary viscometry is conceptually simple: the time it takes a volume of polymer solution to
flow through a thin capillary is compared to the time for a solvent flow. It turns out that the flow
time for either is proportional to the viscosity, and inversely proportional to the density

t solvent =

t sol ' n =

η solvent
ρ solvent

η sol ' n
ρ sol 'n

The relative viscosity is defined to be the ratio η sol ' n / η solvent . For most polymer solutions at the
concentrations of interest, ρ sol ' n / ρ solvent ≈ 1 . Thus, to a very good approximation, the relative
viscosity is a simple time ratio:
η rel = t sol ' n / t solvent

"specific viscosity" is also defined to be the fractional change in viscosity upon addition of
polymer:

η sp =

η sol 'n − η solvent
(unitless)
η solvent

Both ηrel and ηsp depend on the polymer concentration, so to extract the "intrinsic" properties of
the polymer chain itself, one must extrapolate to zero concentration. Measuring at zero
concentration (c=0) would be useless, but this concept of extrapolating to c=0 is very important
in polymer characterization and in thermodynamics generally. The two quantities that are
commonly plotted versus concentration and extrapolated to c=0 are ηsp and c-1ln (ηrel). A typical
plot is Figure 5.5.

73

5.6.3. Gel permeation chromatography (GPC)
Gel permeation chromatography (GPC) is quite useful for routine estimate of molecular weight,
owing to its convenience and the possibility of simultaneous evaluation of various averages of
molecular weight, thus providing information about the molecular weight distribution.
The GPC technique is based on the separation of solute molecules according to their size by
passing the polymer solution through a column packed with microporous gel particles. A known
small volume of polymer solution is injected into an already stabilized current of the solvent
through the column, and then the out flowing liquid from the column is analyzed for the
concentration of the solute as a function of time. Separations of molecules occur by their
preferential penetration into the pores of the gel filled in the column, depending on their sizes.
Small molecules penetrate more easily than the larger one, while the very large ones may either
partially penetrate or not penetrate at all. Thus, during the passage of the solution through the
column the largest molecules will take the shortest time while the smallest one will take the
longest time to elute from the column. The eluting liquid passing through the detector is
measured for its solute concentration through its refractive index or optical density. The detector
signal, which is proportional to the solute concentration, thus gives a trace as a function of time
or elution volume, as shown in Figure 5.6 for a polydisperse polymer sample.

Figure 5.6 Typical GPC curve for a polydisperse polymer sample.

74

5.7. Tensile properties
Tensile properties of textile materials are measured using machines designed to impart, or
transmit, force/extension to the material and measure the response of the material to the applied
action. Tensile testing machine for textile materials are classified according to their operating
principle as (1) Constant rate of extension (CRE), (2) Constant rate of traverse (CRT), (3)
Constant rate of loading (CRL). Most fibers and filament yarn testers employ constant rate of
extension (CRE) as the straining principle because there are difficulties in extension
measurement on constant rate of loading (CRL) testers due to creep and the accuracy achieved
using constant rate of traverse (CRT) testers is much lower than that achieved with other types
of tester. The load-elongation characteristic curve obtained on CRE testers provide important
information about the relationship between force and elongation during the time up to the fiber
rupture and can be uses to determine a number of important tensile test parameters [44].
The following parameters are determined with reference to tensile tester equipment:
-

Breaking load- the peak load that is reached during a tensile test (units: N, cN, mN).

-

Elongation at break – the elongation at breaking load expressed as percentage of the
original length (unit: %).

-

Tenacity – the breaking load per unit linear density of the unstrained specimen (units:
Ntex-1, cN tex-1, cN dtex-1).

-

Modulus of elasticity or Young’s modulus – the slope of the stress-strain curve in the
elastic region between the origin and the yield point. (units: Ntex-1, cN tex-1, cN dtex-1).

-

Work of rupture – the work done from the point of pretensional load to the point of
breaking load. The energy required to bring a specimen to the breaking load can be
obtained from the area under the load-elongation curve. Work of rupture is dependent on
the linear density and length of specimen (units: N m, cN m)

75

Chapter 6
Synthesis and characterization of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites by Melt
intercalation method

6.1. Introduction
The amide groups of polyamide are very polar, and hydrogen bonds can form between them.
Because of these, and because the polyamide backbone is so regular and symmetrical,
polyamides are often crystalline, and make very good fibers [142,161, 251-252]. Mixing and
dispersing nanosized particles in polymer matrices provide the resulting materials with a variety
of properties which are simply not available for bulk composites with high filler loading. In this
study, we have aimed to produce nanocomposite fibers by compounding nanoparticles into
polymer by melt intercalation technique. Therefore, spherical silica nanoparticles in two different
particle sizes were incorporated into polyamide 6 and drawn into filaments through a meltextrusion process. Alumina and ceria nanoparticles were used for comparison. There are two
main problems during the preparation, spinning, and drawing of fibers, the difficulty of obtaining
homogenous distribution of particles in the polymer and chemical compatibility of particles and
polymers [13, 253-254]. Thus; appropriate way of mixing nanoparticles into the polymer is
generally preferred. The three main ways of mixing nanoparticles into fiber-forming polymers are
melt intercalation, solution intercalation, and in situ polymerization [253, 255]. Among these
methods melt intercalation takes the advantages of traditional polymer processing techniques.
First nanoparticles and PA6 were mixed with a twin screw extruder before fiber spinning process
to produce nanocomposite master batches. And then nanocomposite fibers were prepared by
diluting master batch with polyamide 6 in order to reach three different weight percentages.
Filaments with circular cross sections were spun using pilot melt spinning equipment. The
thermal, structural and tensile properties of composite fibers were analyzed using differential
scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA) and tensile tests. The tensile
properties of nanocomposite fibers were determined using a Statimat M (Textechno).The quality
of particle dispersion was also studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM).

76

6.2. Experimental
6.2.1. Raw material
Polyamide 6 granule (Ultramide B24 N03) was provided by BASF with Relative Viscosity (RV)
2.4 in sulfuric acid. The two different types of nanosilica (Aerosil OX50, Aerosil 150) of spherical
shape which were used as filler being characterized by mean particle size of 40 nm , 14 nm and
a specific surface area of 50 m2 g-1 and 150 m2 g-1, respectively. Alumina (AEROXIDE Alu65) by
mean particle size of 17 nm and surface area of 65 m2g-1, as well as Ceria (VP AdNano Ceria
50) by mean particle size 10 nm, were supplied by EVONIK Company and used as received. A
brief description of the raw material used in this chapter is given in Table 6.1.

Table 6.1 Raw material used in chapter 6

Material

Commercial name

Description

Supplier

Polyamide 6 chip

B 24 N 03

RV =2.4

BASF

Silica (SiO2)

AEROSIL OX50

40 nm , 50 m2/g
Powder , white

EVONIK

Silica (SiO2)

AEROSIL 150

14 nm, 150 m2/g
Powder , white

EVONIK

Alumina (Al2O3)

AEROXIDE Alu65

17 nm , 65 m2/g
Powder , white

EVONIK

VP AdNano Ceria 50

10 nm , 50 m2/g
powder ,Yellowish

EVONIK

Ceria (CeO2)

6.2.2. Sample preparation
6.2.2.1. Part one: master batch preparation
Prior to extrusion, nanoparticles are dried at 110°C in vacuum oven for 24 hours to minimize the
effect of moisture [161, 252], and were kept in sealed desiccators. Polyamide chip were dried at
90°C for 24 hours in a vacuum oven to remove the ab sorbed water due to the high moisture

77

absorption capability of polyamides. After drying, PA6/silica hybrid master batches were
prepared by melt compounding technique using HAAKE twin screw extruder at a fixed rotational
speed of 90 rpm. The temperature profile of barrel was set at 250°C – 255°C – 255°C degree
from the hopper to the die. Finally melt strands were cooled in water bath and then pelletized
with cutting machine. For comparison, pure PA6 was also extruded in twin screw extruder at the
same process condition.
6.2.2.2. Part two: nanocomposite fiber preparation
In order to prepare nanocomposite fiber, the prepared master batches were mixed with
polyamide 6 in order to reach final nanoparticle concentration 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 weight percent. The
mixtures were dried at 90°C for 24 hours in a vacuu m oven, and in order to be on the safe side,
water content of samples measured according Karl Fischer method. Fiber melt spinning was
carried out using a spinning apparatus (HAAKE single screw extruder) consisting of an extruder
and a gear pump to control precisely the throughput rate, which was kept at 40 g/min for all
polymers. Filaments extruded through a 24-hole spinneret with a diameter of 0.3 mm and at
275°C were taken up by the high-speed winder SW46 o f BARMAG Company below the
spinneret. Basic characteristics of polymers applied, and the spinning conditions are
summarized in Table 6.2.

Table 6.2 Specification of material and fiber melt spinning
Material

Pure Polyamide 6
PA6/Aerosil OX50

0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %

PA6/Aerosil 150

0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %

PA6/Aeroxide Alu65

0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %

PA6/Ceria

0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %

Spinning Temperature (°C)

275

Throughput (g/min)

40

Spinneret diameter (mm)

0.3

Winding Speed (m/min)

4000

78

6.3. Characterization
The crystal structures of the polyamide 6 and polyamide 6/nanocomposites was followed by Xray diffraction analysis (XRD), using a PW 1050 Philips diffractometer (Ni—filtered Cu-Kα
radiation of wavelength 0.1542 nm) in the reflection mode over the range of diffraction angles
(2θ) from 5 to 35°, at room temperature. The voltage a nd tube current were 40 kV and 30 mA,
respectively. The crystallization behavior of the PA6/particle hybrid nanocomposites was
determined with Perkin Elmer 7 differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) over the temperature
range of 30 to 250 °C at a heating rate of 10°C/min under nitrogen atmosphere and hold at that
temperature for 2 minutes. Then the samples were cooled down very rapidly to 10 °C. The
specimens were heated again to assess the effect of previous cooling scan. Heating scans were
analyzed for the crystallization temperature, melting temperature Tm and heat of melt ∆Hf.
Finally were cooled down slowly at 10 °C /min to 30°C to complete crystallization. Crystal linity
degree (Xc) of different samples was calculated by the ratio of heat of fusion of the sample to
heat of fusion of the purely crystalline polyamide 6, i.e. 240 J/g. The 8 step program for DSC
characterization is summarized in Table 6.3

Table 6.3 DSC Heating and cooling scan
1-

Hold for 2 min. at 30.0 °C

2-

Heat from 30 °C to 250 at 10 °C/min

3-

Hold for 2 min. at 250 °C

4-

Cool from 250 °C to 10 °C at 500 °C/min

5-

Hold for 2 min. at 10 °C

6-

Heat from 10 °C to 250 °C at 10°C/min.

7-

Hold for 2 min. at 250 °C

8-

Cool from 250 °C to 30 °C at 10°C/min.

In order to obtain the information on thermal stability, thermogravimetric analysis of PA6/silica
nanocomposites was performed using a Perkin Elmer TGA7 under nitrogen atmosphere over the
79

range of 30°C to 600 °C at a heating rate of 5 °C/m in. The morphology of polyamide 6
nanocomposite was investigated by Scanning Electron microscope analysis using Zeiss DSM
962 microscope. Tensile properties of fibers were measured at standard climate conditions using
STATIMAT M automatic tensile testing machine equipped with a 10N cell according to ASTM D3822-07 [260]. The gauge length was 200 mm and the crosshead speed was 200 mm/min. An
average of 25 reading for each fiber sample is reported.

6.4. Results and discussion
6.4.1. Melt viscosity and processability
For polymer composite systems, the size, shape and concentration of the filler can have a
significant influence on the rheological properties in the melt stage. The absolute value of the
melt viscosity of the nanocomposites is significantly lower than that of neat polyamide 6 [256].
The low viscosity of the nanocomposite implies good melt processability over a wide range of
practical processing conditions such as extrusion and injection molding. However, it is not clear
what mechanism causes the reduction of melt viscosity in the nanocomposite. One possibility is
slip between polyamide 6 matrix and particles during high shear flow. Another possibility is a
reduction of molecular weight of the polyamide 6 due to degradation in the presence of
nanoparticle. The torque values of PA6 nanocomposite and pure PA6 as an indication of melt
viscosity were measured using the Haake rheometer during melt compounding, and the results
are shown in Figure 6.1. The variation in viscosity in conventional processing can be evaluated
from the torque values [257-258]. As shown in Figure 6.1 by increasing of particle content the
torque value decreased when compare to pure PA6.

80

100
90
80
Torque (Nm)

70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
0
PA6

0.05

0.2
Silica 1

0.5

0.05

0.2

0.5

Silica 2

0.05

0.2
Alumina

0.5

0.05

0.2

0.5

Ceria

wt.%

Figure 6.1 The torque values of pure Polyamide 6 and Polyamide 6 nanocomposite

Im et al. [259] have reported that when silica nanoparticles were used as filler, they acted as a
lubricant rather than degrading the polymer matrix when exposed to the high shear forces and
heat experienced during melt compounding. This is because the silica particles are spherical and
have a smooth, non-porous surface, which lowers the coefficient of friction. The above properties
allow for the possibility of improving the processibility, although decreasing the melt viscosity,
have a direct effect on physical property of fibers. Furthermore the melt pressure of PA6
nanocomposites and pure PA6 measured at the head of extruder in addition proved that by
incorporating particles the melt pressure, as an indication of melt viscosity, decreased as well
(Figure 6.2).

81

19
17
15
bar

13
11
9
7
5
0
PA6

0.05

0.2
Silica 1

0.5

0.05

0.2

0.5

Silica 2

0.05

0.2

0.5

0.05

Alumina

0.2

0.5

Ceria

wt.%

Figure 6.2 The melt pressure of pure PA 6 and PA 6 nanocomposites at head of extruder

6.4.2. Structure and crystallization Behavior of PA6/SiO2 Nanocomposites fibers
As the mechanical properties of polymer composites are influenced by their morphology and
crystallization behavior and as an incorporation of the SiO2 plays a significant role in that, it is
very important to characterize the crystallization and melting behavior of polymer
nanocomposites. The presence of particle adds some complexity to the thermal behavior of the
polymeric matrix. One of the most common effects is that the silica particle could serve as a
nucleating agent, thus providing a large number of nucleation sites and allowing the polymer to
crystallize at higher temperatures. This contributes to a change in the morphology of the system
and in some cases, depending on the processing condition, a phase change occurs. The
crystallization behavior of polymer composites and their crystallization kinetic as a function of
particle incorporation and processing conditions are of great importance at polymer processing,
particularly for the analysis and design of processing operations. Therefore, the crystallization
behavior and performance of structure development of particle reinforcement polymer
nanocomposites should be analyzed in order to realize the full potential of the SiO2 for
application in thermoplastic matrix-based polymer nanocomposites. Polyamide 6 is well known
to crystallize into various phases, in PA6 fibers both of the most common crystal structure the αand γ- structure are present. Often it is found the more stable α form rather than the γ form. The
XRD study shows that the addition of nanoparticle has the effect of promoting the formation of
82

the γ form. Figure 6.3 shows XRD patterns of the polyamide 6 nanocomposites and the pure
polyamide 6 matrix. Both the polymer matrix and nanocomposites exhibit two α crystalline
diffraction peaks. However, besides these two peaks, the nanocomposites exhibit an additional
distinct γ crystalline diffraction peak at 21.5° of 2 θ. The silica-induced γ crystalline form is also
shown by the DSC heating scans. From Figure 6.4, it can be seen that the polyamide 6 matrix
has one melting peak corresponding to α -form, but the nanocomposites system have two
melting peaks, in which the high-temperature peak corresponds to the α form and the lowtemperature peak corresponds to the γ crystalline form, which during annealing process in DSC
measurement changed to α- crystal form.
1000
900

(3)

800

α

(4)

α

700

Intensity (cps)

γ

(2)

600
500

(1)

400
300
200
100
0
15

17

19

21

23

25

27

29

2 θ (°)

Figure 6.3 XRD pattern of Polyamide 6 and Polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposite, (1): Pure PA6,
(2),(3),(4): PSX with 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % respectively.

It is also worthwhile to note from Figure 6.5 that the α-form crystal is the most predominant
phase and melting peaks corresponding to α-form crystals are greatly enhanced with increasing
annealing time, whereas the melting peaks corresponding to γ-form crystals are observed only
as a less pronounced shoulder and finally disappeared as the annealing times exceeded 60 min.
This is not surprising, since, in solid state, polymer chains or segments are allowed to arrange
themselves into a better organization when suitable conditions such as temperature and time are
given to keep the system in a relatively lower energy. As the processing of polymer
nanocomposites involves complex deformation behaviors, which may affect the nucleation and
83

crystallization behavior of the polymer nanocomposites, it is important to characterize the
nucleation and crystallization behavior of polymer nanocomposites to optimize the process
conditions. Analysis of the crystallization behavior of polymer nanocomposites reinforced with
inorganic nanoparticles would make it possible to realize their potential applications in many
fields of industry. The DSC results of PA6 and PA6 nanocomposites fibers in different
concentrations prepared by melt compounding method are summarized in Table 6.4.

Table 6.4 DSC data of PA6 nanocomposite fibers as function of nanoparticle content
heat up
Sample

SiO2

Tg

Tm

wt. %

°C

°C

0

26.9

PSX051

0.05

PSX2

∆H

Tc

Xc

J/g

°C

%

227.3

70.1

171.3

29.2

40.2

221.36

46.7

187.9

20.5

0.2

44.8

220.65

45.5

186.6

23.7

PSX5

0.5

42.5

220.1

47.2

186.1

39.3

PSA05

0.05

39.8

219.2

46.1

186.8

20.2

PSA2

0.2

42.2

218.5

50.7

186.6

26.4

PSA5

0.5

41.5

218.2

50.0

185.5

41.6

PAL05

0.05

44.7

218.7

47.2

186.4

20.7

PAL2

0.2

37.5

219.2

47.9

186.9

24.9

PAL5

0.5

39.9

222.0

46.3

188.8

38.6

PCe05

0.05

44.1

218.9

49.4

186.2

21.6

PCe2

0.2

44.2

219.7

50.0

185.6

26.0

PCe5

0.5

45.7

219.5

50.6

186.4

42.1

PA 6

1

cool down

PSX05: polyamide 6 / Silica (Aerosil OX50), 0.05 wt. %

6.4.2.1. Effect of Silica concentration on glass transition temperature (Tg)
The glass transition temperature (Tg) plays an important role in dictating the behavior of
polymers and fibers. Below Tg molecular movement other than bond vibration is very limited.
Above Tg the molecules absorb more energy and movement of molecular segments become
possible well below melting temperature. The influence of nanoparticles on the Tg of PA6 was
84

evaluated from DSC results as shown in Table 6.4. Incorporating of 0.05 wt. % silica
nanoparticle in to PA6 slightly increases the glass transition temperature (Tg) in compare to pure
PA6 due to interaction of silica particles and PA6 which restrict the mobility of polymer chain.
However further increase in silica concentration does not affect the Tg of nanocomposite. Also
results from Table 6.4 show that silica size has no significant effect on glass transition
temperature as Tg of both silica type nanocomposites is almost the same.
6.4.2.2. Effect of Silica size and concentration on melting temperature
The endothermic melting peaks of PA6 and PSX nanocomposites fibers as a function of silica
content were investigated using DSC as shown in Figure 6.4. For pure PA6 on heating scan
there is one endothermic peak at about 227°C which indicated that in the pure PA6 sample, the
α- crystals were the dominant crystalline phase. While for nanocomposite samples there are two
endothermic peaks at about 225°C and 212°C which co rresponded to α - and γ- form crystals,
respectively. This clearly indicated that addition of SiO2 nanoparticles to PA6 matrix promoted
the α- to γ- crystal phase transformation which was already proved by XRD results.
63

(1)

Heat Flow Endo Up (mW)

61
59
57
55

(2)

(3)
53
51
49

(4)

47
45
180

190

200

210

220

230

240

Temperature (°C)

Figure 6.4 DSC heating curve of pure PA6 and nanocomposites at first heating scan as a
function of SiO2, (1): Pure PA6, (2),(3),(4): PSX with 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % respectively.

85

In addition, as seen from Figure 6.4 melting peaks of nanocomposite samples shifted to lower
temperature in compare to pure PA6 but it seems incorporation of higher concentration has no
more effect, and melt temperature of PSX2, PSX5 are almost same.
Figure 6.5 shows two DSC curves for first heating scan and second heating scan of PA6
nanocomposite (PSX05). In first heating scan there are two melting peaks which as mentioned
above are α-form and less stable γ-form crystal, but in second heating scan there is one melting
peak. The γ-form disappeared during annealing from 30°C to 250 °C with rate of 10 °C/min and
changed to more stable α-form crystal. This phenomenon was observed with all of the
nanocomposite samples which were measured in this thesis.

56

Heat Flow Endo Up (mW)

54
52
50

(1)

48
46
44

(2)

42
40
180

185

190

195

200

205

210

215

220

225

230

Temperature (°C)

Figure 6.5 DSC heating curve for PSX05 at first heating scan (1) and second heating scan (2)

In most semicrystalline polymers, as well as in copolymers and blends, multiple melting peaks
have been observed during DSC scans. Many investigations have been made into the origin of
multiple melting behaviors in semicrystalline polymers, copolymers, and polymer blends [261265]. Various factors such as a change in morphology, orientation effects, the presence of more
than one crystal modification, and melting-recrystallization-remelting processes occurring during
DCS scans, have influenced multiple melting behaviors.

86

Figure 6.6 shows that the effect of particle size on endothermic melting peak for PSX05 and
PSA05 nanocomposites (same concentration and different particle size) prepared by melt
compounding is almost negligible. From these results it can be concluded that crystal size of
PA6 crystals in nanocomposites did not change.

60

Heat flow- Endo up (mW)

58
56
54
52
50

(1)

48
46

(2)

44
42
40
180

190

200

210

220

230

240

Temperature (°C)

Figure 6.6 DSC heating curve of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fiber as a function of Silica size
(1) PSX05 (Aerosil OX50), (2) PSA05 (Aerosil 150)

6.4.2.3. Effect of Silica size and concentration on crystalline temperature
On the cooling curves an exothermic crystallization peak was observed, as shown in Figure 6.7
by incorporation of even low content of SiO2, crystallization temperature (Tc) shifted toward a
higher temperature in compare pure polyamide 6. This indicated that the added SiO2 acted as
effective nucleation sites, and faster crystallization rate. But addition of more silica has no more
effect.

87

(3)

(1)
(2)

Figure 6.7 DSC cooling curves of PA6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fiber as a function of
Silica content, (1), (2), (3): PSX 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %, respectively

60
58
Heat flow Endo up (mW)

56
54

(1)

52
50
48

(2)

46
44
42
40
170

175

180

185

190

195

200

Temperature (°C)

Figure 6.8 DSC cooling curve of PA6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fiber as a function of Silica
size, (1) PSX05 (Aerosil OX50), (2) PSA05 (Aerosil 150)

88

6.4.3. Effect of silica nanoparticle on thermal properties of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers
As thermal stability of the polymer composites is the most important parameter for their
processing and applications, it is very instructive to characterize the thermal degradation
behavior. That is, from these data the limiting uppermost temperature for usage and
dimensional stability (especially in melt process) can be derived, which are essential for their
application in end-uses and the conditions they have to stand there, or for developing polymer
composites with better balance in processing and performance [266]. Thermal gravimetric
analysis (TGA) involves continuous weighing of a small sample in a controlled atmosphere (e.g.,
air or nitrogen) as the temperature is increased at a programmed linear rate [8].The analysis of
thermal behavior of Polyamide 6 and nanocomposites were performed using the Perkin Elmer
TGA7 from 30°C to 600°C at a heating rate of 5°C mi n-1 under nitrogen atmosphere and the
results are summarized in Table 6.5.
Table 6.5 TGA data of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fibers as a function of silica content

PA 6

SiO2

Ts1

Td2

Wt. %

°C

°C

0

377.5

434.88

PSX05

0.05

388.86

442.44

PSX2

0.2

389.81

447.02

PSX5

0.5

408.79

465.01

PSA05

0.05

379.93

439.26

PSA2

0.2

384.7

444.06

PSA5

0.5

397.82

448.75

PAL05

0.05

400.79

440.65

PAL2

0.2

401.34

445.82

PAL5

0.5

412.27

447.62

PCe05

0.05

415.75

446.53

PCe2

0.2

396.54

447.81

0.5
406.94
Onset degradation temperature

469.32

PCe5
1

2

Degradation temperature

89

According to Table 6.5 and Figure 6.9 an increase in the thermal stability of nanocomposites as
function of silica content was observed in comparison with that of the pure polyamide 6. The
enhanced thermal stability of nanocomposite fibers may be attributed to the strong adhesion
between SiO2 and the matrix, which stabilizes the composite against thermal decomposition.
The incorporation of silica was beneficial in improving the thermo-oxidative stability of polyamide
6 as can be seen in Table 6.5. All the nanocomposites showen in Figure 6.9 and Figure 6.10
have no weight loss until around 370°C (onset decom position) and retained 90% of their weight
at about 385°C.
100
90
80

Weight %

70
60

(4)

50
40

(3)

30

(1)

20

(2)

10
0
350

370

390

410

430

450

470

490

510

530

550

Temperature°C

Figure 6.9 TGA analysis of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fibers as a function of SiO2 content, (1)
pure PA6, (2) PSX05, (3) PSX2, (4) PSX5 with 0, 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % respectively.

The neat fiber starts to decompose at 377.5°C, some what lower than that for the SiO2 filled
fibers, which began to decompose at 388.86°C (0.05 wt %), 389.81°C (0.2 wt %), and 408.79°C
(0.5 wt %). The reason for the additional increase in the onset temperature is that extra energy is
required to break down the adhesion force at the polymer–SiO2 particle interface. Therefore, the
interfacial interaction plays an important role in the degradation of polymer nanocomposites. In
the case of a good interfacial interaction, particles are capable of restricting the movement of a
polymer chain, making the scission of polymer chains harder at a given temperatures. As a
consequence, the degradation temperature of the nanocomposite shifts to a higher temperature.

90

Though according to Figure 6.10 the particle size in general has not a significant effect on
thermal stability, still a slight increase in the thermal stability caused by finer particle size (Aerosil
150) was observed. In addition, in compare between different particle types, nanocomposites
prepared from Ceria have higher thermal stability, which is due to its high thermal properties
(melting point 2400°C). (Figure 6.11)

100
90
80

Weight %

70
60
50
40

(2)

30

(1)

20
10
0
350

370

390

410

430

450

470

490

510

530

550

Temperature°C

Figure 6.10 TGA analysis of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fibers as a function of SiO2 size, (1)
PSX05 (Aerosil OX50), (2) PSA05 (Aerosil 150),

91

100
90
80

Weight %

70
60
50

(4)

40

(1)

30

(2)

20

(3)

10
0
350

400

450

500

550

Temperature°C

Figure 6.11 TGA curves of PA6 nanocomposite fiber in different nanoparticle type, (1) PA6/SiO2
(Aerosil OX50), (2) PA6/SiO2 (Aerosil 150), (3) PA6/Alumina, (4) PA6/Ceria

6.4.4. Mechanical properties of polyamide6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers
Tensile properties of nanocomposite fibers such as tenacity, elongation at break (EAB) and
modulus were measured to evaluate the effect of nanoparticles on fiber properties. The results
are summarized in Table 6.6 The tenacity values of pure polyamide 6 and PA6/SiO2 (Aerosil
OX50) containing 0.05, 0.2 and 0.5 wt % SiO2 were about 48.68, 39.06, 38.53, and 35.48
cN/tex, respectively (Table 6.6). The elongation at break values also show a similar trend of
decreasing with increasing levels of SiO2, with values of 66.98, 52.81,52.29, 48.3%, respectively.

92

Table 6.6 Tensile properties of PA 6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica content
SiO2

Tenacity

wt. %

[cN/tex]

Elongation
at break
[%]

0

48.68

66.98

105.84

PSX05

0.05

39.06

52.81

189.01

PSX2

0.2

38.53

52.29

190.44

PSX5

0.5

35.48

48.38

206.01

PSA05

0.05

38.31

48.32

205.35

PSA2

0.2

35.41

45.58

215.11

PSA5

0.5

34.2

44.1

220.30

PAL05

0.05

42.43

51.71

209.35

PAL2

0.2

37.15

50.84

182.77

PAL5

0.5

35.31

48.88

195.54

PCe05

0.05

37.49

49.02

184.58

PCe2

0.2

37.74

50.53

185.43

PCe5

0.5

36.28

48.11

188.69

PA 6

Modulus
[cN/tex]

As seen in Figure 6.12 and Figure 6.13, tenacity and elongation at break of PA6/SiO2 (Aerosil
150) nanocomposite fibers also decreases as the content of nano-SiO2 particles increases.
Incorporating nanoparticle into the polymer matrix increases the stiffness and makes fibers more
brittle. The increase in stiffness is no doubt contributed to the silica reinforcement [107]. Since
the fiber containing nano-SiO2 is brittle, it does not elongate much.

93

50

45

cN/tex

40

35

30

25
Pure PSX05 PSX2

PSX5 PSA05 PSA2 PSA5 PAL05 PAL2

PAL5 PCe05 PCe2 PCe5

wt.%

Figure 6.12 Tenacity of PA6 fiber and nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica content

70
65
60

%

55
50
45
40
35
30
Pure PSX05 PSX2

PSX5 PSA05 PSA2 PSA5 PAL05 PAL2

PAL5 PCe05 PCe2 PCe5

wt.%

Figure 6.13 Elongation at break of PA6 fiber and nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica
content

94

Figure 6.14 shows that the modulus of the PA6/SiO2 increased by increasing amounts of SiO2
(Aerosil OX50). The modulus of the PA6/ SiO2 containing 0.5, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % SiO2 were 189.01,
190.4, 206.01 cN/tex, respectively, which was higher than that for the pure polyamide. The
similar trend for other silica type (Aerosil 150) was observed. The increased modulus of the
nanocomposites can be attributed to the large aspect ratio and high stiffness of the silica
particle. Vlasveld and et al. [267] have analyzed the modulus of polyamide 6/silicate
nanocomposite and reported despite all the work done on nanocomposites, there is still
discussion about the reason of the large modulus increase by using such small amounts of filler.
The nature of the mechanism is a subject of debate was various contrasting ideas seem to exist:
(a) the increased modulus could be contributed to the reduced mobility of a constrained polymer
phase close to the silicate layers. The large surface area of the exfoliated platelets is considered
to be responsible for this constrained polymer phase with a higher modulus [268- 270]. (b) The
strong ionic bond between the polymer and the silicate platelets is sometimes assumed to be the
main reason for the enhanced modulus [271]. (c) The reinforcement mechanism in
nanocomposites could be similar to traditional composites. In that case the modulus of the
composite is dependent on the modulus of the matrix, the modulus of the filler and the shape
and orientation of the filler particles. According to this view traditional composite theories can
explain most of the properties of nanocomposites without assuming a change in the polymer
properties [272]. In the first two theories the inherent modulus of the silicate particles is
considered to be of minor importance, or even completely ignored. As has been shown by Van
Es et al. and Fornes et al. [272] the presence of very stiff, high aspect ratio particles is expected
to give a large increase in modulus and should not be ignored, as is sometimes done [269]. It is
unlikely that the type of bond is very important for the modulus, because the bonding strength is
not important for the modulus, although it is important for the strength of the composite. It has
been reported that it is possible to make nanocomposites with layered silicates without any
surfactant, which can give similar moduli [273], despite the lack of modification on the silicate
filler.

95

230
210
190

cN/tex

170
150
130
110
90
70
50
Pure PSX05 PSX2 PSX5 PSA05 PSA2 PSA5 PAL05 PAL2 PAL5 PCe05 PCe2 PCe5
wt.%

Figure 6.14 Modulus of PA6 fiber and nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica content

6.4.5. Morphology and distribution of particles in polyamide-particle nanocomposites
The dispersion of nanoparticles in the master batches was examined using a scanning electron
microscope (SEM). And the results are shown in Figure 6.15 the images show that nanoparticles
in PSX (b) and PAL (d) were relatively well-dispersed in polymer matrices, in PSA (c) despite a
good and uniform dispersion, there is an agglomeration in the center; however dispersion quality
in PCe (e) is not acceptable.

96

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

Figure 6.15 SEM picture of 10 wt % master batch samples (a) Pure PA6, (b): PSX, Aerosil
OX50, (c): PSA, Aerosil 150, (d):PAL, Aeroxide Alu65 (e):PCe, Ceria

97

Figure 6.16 shows the SEM pictures of pure polyamide 6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fiber
containing 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % of silica (Aerosil OX50). Fiber surfaces were investigated with
respect to their shape and uniformity. The neat fibers show a smooth surface along the length of
fiber, but fibers filled with nano-SiO2 particles show some surface irregularities as the content of
nanoparticle increases. These surface protrusions of fibers are most probably due to
nanoparticle agglomeration. It is also evident from the figures that the agglomerates are
discontinuous throughout the fiber.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Figure 6.16 SEM pictures of pure PA6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fiber as a function of silica
content, (a) pure PA6, (b) PSX05, (c) PSX2, (d) PSX5

98

Chapter 7
Synthesis and characterization of PA6/ SiO2 nanocomposites by
solution intercalation method

7.1. Introduction
Organic-inorganic nanocomposite polymers continue to be an area of great interest due to
remarkable improvements in properties that these materials have over conventional composites
[274-275]. These show better thermal, mechanical, barrier, and other properties because of
excellent dispersion of filler and stronger interfacial force between the well dispersed nanometersized domains and a polymer, than the conventional polymer/filler composites [276-281]. Typical
preparation methods include in-situ polymerization, solution intercalation, and melt intercalation,
among which solution intercalation has been known for over a century and has proved to be one
of the most successful methods of incorporating delaminated particle into polymers. Polymer
solution intercalation is based on a solvent system in which the polymer is soluble and the
particles are swellable [282]. Solution intercalation method has been employed either for water
soluble polymers, such as polyvinyl alcohol [283], and poly (ethylene oxide) (PEO) [284], and
hydrophobic polymer systems such as high density polyethylene (HDPE) [285]. Despite many
laboratory successes with solution intercalation, its application on an industrial scale is still
hindered by two major problems: (1) involvement of large quantities of aqueous/organic solvent;
(2) a limited number of solvent/polymer pairs available for polymer dissolution and subsequent
intercalation. In this study, it was planned to produce nanocomposite fibers by compounding
nanoparticles into polymer via solution intercalation technique. Therefore, spherical silica
nanoparticles in two different particle sizes were incorporated into polyamide 6 and extruded into
filaments through a melt-extrusion process. First, PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites were prepared by
dispersing silica nanoparticle in formic acid and mixing with polyamide 6, then after vigorous
stirring the solvent was removed by heating the mixture. Nanoparticles are dispersed in formic
acid under vigorous stirring condition as well as using ultrasonic device. And then
nanocomposite fibers were prepared with diluting prepared nanocomposites and polyamide 6 in
three different weight percent. Filaments with circular cross sections were spun using HAAKE
MiniLab pilot melt spinning equipment. The thermal and structural properties of composite fibers
were analyzed using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and thermal gravimetric analysis

99

(TGA). The quality of particle dispersion was also studied by scanning electron microscopy
(SEM).
7.2. Experimental
7.2.1. Raw material
Same as raw materials mentioned in part 6.2.1 in addition Formic acid 90% which was acquired
from Merck.
7.2.2. Sample preparation
Part one: PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite production
After dissolving polyamide 6 granules in formic acid, silica nanoparticle in 3 different
concentrations (10, 20, 30 wt. %) were added to solvent under temperature and stirring for 4
hours, then for another 4 hours and at 80°C an ultr asonic device is used for better dispersing
and deagglomeration of the solid in the solvent. Then the solvent is removed by heating and
after several washing with water the obtained nanocomposites were dried in vacuum oven.
Part two: PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers production
In order to prepare nanocomposite fiber, the prepared nanocomposites were diluted with
polyamide 6 in order to reach a concentration of 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 weight percent and were dried at
90°C for 24 hours in a vacuum oven. Fiber melt spin ning was carried out using a spinning
apparatus (HAAKE Minilab twin screw extruder). Filaments extruded through a single-hole
spinneret with a diameter of 0.3 mm and at 270°C we re collected on a reeling device at low
speed. Basic characteristics of polymers applied, and the spinning conditions are summarized in
Table 7.1.

100

Table 7.1 Specification of material and fiber melt spinning in chapter 7
Material

Pure Polyamide 6
PA6/Aerosil OX50

0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %

PA6/Aerosil 150

0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %

Spinning Temperature (°C)

270

Screw speed (rpm)

90

Spinneret diameter (mm)

0.3

Winding Speed (m/min)

50

7.3. Characterization
The crystallization behavior of the PA6/particle hybrid nanocomposites was determined with
Perkin Elmer 7 differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) over the temperature range of 30 to 250
°C at a heating rate of 10°C/min under nitrogen atmosphere and hold at that temperature for 2
minutes. Then the samples were cooled down very rapidly to 10 °C. the specimens were heated
again to assess the effect of previous cooling scan. Heating scans were analyzed for the
crystallization temperature, melting temperature Tm and heat of melt ∆Hf. Finally the samples
were cooled down slowly at 10 °C /min to 30°C to complete crystallization. Crystal linity degree
(Xc) of different samples was calculated by the ratio of heat of fusion of the sample to heat of
fusion of the purely crystalline polyamide 6, i.e. 240 J/g. The 8 step program for DSC
characterization is summarized in Table 7.2. In order to obtain the information on thermal
stability, thermogravimetric analysis of PA6/silica nanocomposites was performed using a Perkin
Elmer TGA7 under nitrogen atmosphere over the range of 30°C to 600 °C at a heating rate of 5
°C/min. The morphology of polyamide 6 nanocomposite was investigated by scanning electron
microscope analysis using Zeiss DSM 962 microscope.

101

Table 7.2 DSC Heating and cooling scan
1-

Hold for 2 min. at 30.0 °C

2-

Heat from 30 °C to 250 at 10 °C/min

3-

Hold for 2 min. at 250 °C

4-

Cool from 250 °C to 10 °C at 500 °C/min

5-

Hold for 2 min. at 10 °C

6-

Heat from 10 °C to 250 °C at 10°C/min.

7-

Hold for 2 min. at 250 °C

8-

Cool from 250 °C to 30 °C at 10°C/min.

7.4. Results and discussion
7.4.1. Differential Scanning Calorimetry of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers
Crystallization kinetics and the morphology of crystallized products are strongly influenced by
cooling rate, system pressure and the presence of particles. Melting and crystallization of
crystalline polymers generally occurs over a range of temperature, because of the presence of a
distribution of molecular weights and the mixed crystalline/amorphous phase in the sample.
Polymer crystals occur in a variety of crystallite sizes and phases (e.g. α, β, γ, etc.). These
phases may exhibit different melting/crystallization temperature. The preparation method of
polymer composites involves complex deformation behaviors which may affect the nucleation
and crystallization behavior of polymer composites. It is known that polyamide 6 is
semicrystalline and generally exhibits two kinds of crystal forms (α and γ) depending on the
preparation method and particle percentage. The α- phase consists of fully extended planar
zigzag chains, in which adjacent anti-parallel chains are joined by the hydrogen bonds.
Therefore, it is the thermodynamically most stable crystalline form, and can be obtained by
slowly cooling from the melt. The γ phase is composed of pleated sheets of parallel chains
joined by the hydrogen bond. It is less stable and can be obtained by fiber spinning at a high
speed or by fast cooling from the melt; in addition, the γ–crystalline form is enhanced by the
addition of particle. The γ form can be converted into α form by melting followed by
recrystallization. Also annealing treatment not only promotes the transformation from amorphous

102

to crystal phase, improves the γ form crystalline structure and increases the crystal degree, but
also resultes in γα crystal-phase transformation.
Figure 7.1 shows the melting peak of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites as a function of silica content
which were prepared by solution intercalation technique. From literature it is well known that
formation of γ-form in polyamide 6 depends on the rate of cooling and the presence of particles.
Thus a higher cooling rate and presence higher concentration of particles result a higher amount
of γ-form [8]. Observed melting peaks are 217.03, 214.03 and 210.7°C for PSX10, PSX20,
PSX30, respectively. Thus, it is obvious that by addition of nanoparticle as well as preparation
method the crystal phase shifted to γ-phase as indicated in melting point range. But Figure 7.2
shows that during fiber formation process and melt spinning, the melting peaks are shifted to
higher temperature range due to the thermal treatment. The melting peaks of nanocomposite
fiber PSX05, PSX2 and PSX5 are 220.5, 221.0 and 221.1 respectively, which prove the
formation of α- crystals during extrusion process.

Heat ﬂow Endo Up (mW) →

63
61

(3)

59
57
55

(2)

53
51

(1)

49
47
45
200

205

210

215

220

225

230

235

temperature(°C )

Figure 7.1 DSC heating curve of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite as a function of SiO2, (1): PSX10, (2)
PSX20,(3) PSX30 with 10, 20, 30 wt. % respectively.

103

60

(1)

Heat ﬂow Endo Up (mW) →

58
56

(2)

54
52
50
48
46

(3)

44
42
40
200

205

210

215

220

225

230

Temperatite(°C )

Figure 7.2 DSC heating curve of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fiber as a function of SiO2, (1):
PSX05, (2) PSX2,(3) PSX5 with 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % respectively.

The preparation method of polymer composites involves complex deformation behaviors which
may affect the nucleation and crystallization behavior of polymer composites. The DSC results of
PA6, PA6/Aerosil OX50, and PA6/Aerosil 150 nanocomposites in different silica concentrations
prepared by solution intercalation method are summarized in Table 7.3.
Table 7.3 DSC data of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite prepared as function of silica content
heating scan
SiO2

Tg

Tm

wt. %

°C

°C

0

26.9

PSX05

0.05

PSX2

cooling scan
∆H

Tc

Xc

J/g

°C

%

227.3

70.1

171.3

29.2

32.6

220.5

46.3

186.2

20.3

0.2

33.0

221.0

47.9

185.4

24.9

PSX5

0.5

33.9

221.1

53.8

184.6

44.8

PSA05

0.05

33.0

219.9

51.1

185.3

22.4

PSA2

0.2

33.1

219.7

49.7

184.6

25.9

PSA5

0.5

32.9

220.2

46.1

184.1

38.4

PA6

104

As seen from Table 7.3 by addition of silica nanoparticle (Aerosil OX 50), melting peak of
nanocomposite fibers shifted to lower temperature in compare to pure PA6 due to formation of γphase, but it seems in addition that higher concentration has not a significant effect, and melt
temperatures of PSX2, PSX5 are almost same. Figure 7.3 shows similar trend for the other
nanoparticle (Aerosil 150).

228.0
226.0
224.0

°C

222.0
220.0
218.0
216.0
214.0
0
Pure

0.05

0.2

0.5

PSX

0.05

0.2

0.5

PSA
wt.%

Figure 7.3 Melting temperatures of PSX and PSA fibers as a function of silica content and size

Figure 7.3 shows the effect of silica size on melt temperature of PSX and PSA nanocomposite
fibers prepared by solution intercalation technique. As can be seen from Table 7.3 and Figure
7.3 melt temperature of PSX05 (220.5°C) is slightly higher than PSA05 (219.9°C). By figures
given in Table 7.3 this trend is also proved for other concentrations, but in general the effect of
particle size on melt temperature for PSX and PSA nanocomposites fiber (same concentration
and different particle size) is almost negligible.
The crystallization peak temperature of the PSX nanocomposite fibers as a function of SiO2
content is shown in Figure 7.4. The result clearly indicates that addition of silica nanoparticles to
PA6 shifts crystallization peak to higher temperature range. The increase in crystallization
temperature of the PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites with increasing silica content, together with the
fact that PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites have a lower degree of supercooling (∆T = Tm – Tc) for
105

crystallization with increasing silica content in compare to pure PA6, suggests that the silica
nanoparticles can effectively act as nucleating agents in the PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites.
Therefore, it can be stated that the incorporation of silica nanoparticles by solution intercalation
effectively enhances the crystallization of the PA6 matrix by heterogeneous nucleation. The
temperatures of crystallization of PSA samples are also higher than of pure PA6 (Table 7.3).
Figure 7.4 and Table 7.3 show that a higher silica concentration actually retards the rate of
crystallization and crystallization temperature decreased which might be caused by reduced
chain mobility due to the presence of the nanoparticles. Generally, there are two effects of the
silica on the crystallization of PA6: on the one hand, the silica nanoparticles - serving as
nucleation sites – allow crystallization of PA at a higher temperature; on the other hand these
particles impede the motion of the PA6 molecular chain [286]. Many other papers [287-292] also
reported that different kinds of nanoparticles are able to shift the crystallization temperature. That
means nanoparticles can effectively act as a nucleation agent in the hybrid nanocomposites. But
similar to melt peaks, incorporation of higher concentration has no major visible effect.

58
Heat ﬂow Endo Up (mW) →

53

(2)
48
43
38
33

(1)
28

(4)

23

(3)

18
160

165

170

175

180

185

190

195

200

Temperatite(°C )

Figure 7.4 DSC crystallization curve of pure PA6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites as a function
of Silica content, (1): Pure PA6, (2),(3),(4): PSX with 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % respectively.

106

Figure 7.5 shows that regarding crystallization temperature of PSX05 and PSA05
nanocomposites prepared by solution intercalation process the bigger particle size is responsible
for shifting the crystallization peak to higher temperature range. And, as well, according to Table
7.3 crystallization temperature of the PSX2 nanocomposite is slightly higher than for the PSA2
nanocomposite prepared from the smaller sized silica.

190.0
185.0

°C

180.0
175.0
170.0
165.0
160.0
0
Pure

0.05

0.2

0.5

PSX

0.05

0.2

0.5

PSA
wt.%

Figure 7.5 Crystallization temperature of PSX and PSA fibers as a function of silica content and
silica size

7.4.2. Thermal Gravimetric Analysis of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers
As thermal stability of the polymer composites is the most important parameter for their
processing and applications, it is very instructive to characterize the thermal degradation
behavior. That is, from these data the limiting uppermost temperature for usage and dimensional
stability (especially in melt process) can be derived, which are essential for their application in
end-uses and the conditions they have to stand there, or for developing polymer composites with
better balance in processing and performance [266]. Thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA)
involves continuous weighing of a small sample in a controlled atmosphere (e.g., air or nitrogen)
as the temperature is increased at a programmed linear rate [8].The analysis of thermal behavior
of Polyamide 6 and nanocomposites were performed using the Perkin Elmer TGA7 from 30°C to
107

600°C at a heating rate of 5°C min

-1

under nitrogen atmosphere. TGA results of PA6/SiO2

nanocomposites fibers are summarized in Table 7.4
Table 7.4 TGA characteristic data of Polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposite fiber
SiO2

T251

T501

T751

Wt. %

°C

°C

°C

°C

°C

0

362.3

379.1

388.7

330.1

380.0

PSX05

0.05

368.1

382.6

393.5

347.25

387.25

PSX2

0.2

368.8

384.1

396.2

342.16

390.00

PSX5

0.5

374.1

386.2

400.1

349.50

393.90

PSA05

0.05

364.6

381.1

390.4

337.8

384.6

PSA2

0.2

364.5

383.2

396.1

334.1

388.3

PSA5

0.5

369.2

387.4

398.8

340.9

392.2

PA6

Ts2

1

Decomposition temperature at 25, 50, 75% weight loss, respectively

2

Onset degradation temperature

3

Degradation temperature

Td3

Table 7.4 shows the TGA data of the PSX and PSA nanocomposites fibers prepared by solution
compounding as a function of SiO2. By incorporating nanoparticles into PA6 both onset of
degradation temperature and temperature at the maximum rate of degradation is increased in
comparison with pure PA6, which means the thermal stability of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites is
improved by addition of silica nanoparticles. This is confirmed by the fact that silica nanoparticles
themselves exhibit good thermal stability. On the other hand polymer chain mobility is restricted
due to polymer-particle interactions [293, 294]. Also according to data in Table 7.4 and figure 7.6
and 7.7 it can be seen that by increasing silica content in both types of nanoparticles the thermal
stability at 25, 50, 75 percentage of weight loss is increased. According to literature [294-297] it
is understood that during TGA the crystal structure would disappear at the melting point (~222
°C) and is replaced by an unordered molecular arran gement in the melt. Beyond the melting
temperature, the first sign of weight loss is seen at around 330 °C in the TGA curve, signaling
108

the beginning breakdown of the polymer-backbone. At 380 °C, the material looses about 50% of
its weight and the major weight loss occurs at about 385-395°C which indicates the bond break
of the amide group. It is clear that, in the breakdown process of the polymer, when the crystals
have melted, the covalent bonds such as C––O, N–H, may still interact with the nanoparticles
which obviously have an influence. i.e. retards, on the final decomposition of the material. Thus,
the decomposition of the nanocomposites is prolonged by about 10 °C and the reason for this
higher thermal stability of the nanocomposites is hence traced to the interaction of nanoparticles
and the polymer in the molten state.

100

Weight %

80

(3)

60

(2)

40

(1)

20

0
300

320

340

360

380

400

420

440

Temperature°C

Figure 7.6 TGA thermogram of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fiber as a function of Silica content
(Aerosil OX50), (1):PSX05, (2): PSX2, (3): PSX5, 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % respectively.

109

100

Weight %

80

60

(3)

40

(2)

20

(1)

0
300

320

340

360

380

400

420

440

Temperature°C

Figure 7.7 TGA thermogram of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites as a function of Silica content
(Aerosil 150), (1): PSA05, (2):PSA2, (3):PSA5, 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. % respectively.

In addition from Table 7.4 and Figure 7.8 the effect of nanoparticle size on thermal stability is
also clearly to be seen. Figure 7.8 shows the TGA thermogram of PSX5 and PSA5 from which it
can be observed that the thermal stability of PSX5 nanocomposite fiber (bigger particle size) is
higher than of PSA5 nanocomposite fiber, this hold for the entire range of scanned temperature,
which can be cause of more even distribution of Aerosil OX (bigger particle size) in composite
and high risk of agglomeration for finer particle size. From Table 7.4 the same trend can be
derived for the over investigated nanocomposite fibers of different particle size but same weight
percentage.

110

100
90
80

(1)

Weight %

70
60

(2)

50
40
30
20
10
0
300

320

340

360

380

400

420

440

temperature °C

Figure 7.8 TGA thermogram of different silica size (1) PSX5 versus (2) PSA5

7.4.3. Morphology of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite and nanocomposite fibers
To investigate the dispersion quality of silica particles, the morphology of PA 6/silica composites
as well as nanocomposite fibers were studied and the results are shown in Figure 7.9, 7.10 and
7.11. The SEM images of the nanocomposites prepared, show that the fillers are reasonably well
dispersed in the polymeric matrix. Nevertheless, some aggregates at the surface of the polymer
were also identified. Figure 7.9 shows a very good quality and uniform distribution of silica
Aerosil OX 50 in polymeric matrix for the three silica content levels of 10, 20, and 30 weight
percent. In contrast to that, as can be seen from Figure 7.10, distribution of silica Aerosil 150 in
polymer is not as good and by increasing the silica content the agglomeration of particle is
increased. Which shows vice versa that by decreasing the particle size the risk of agglomeration
will be increased.
In addition, Figure 7.11 shows the SEM picture of pure PA6 fiber and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite
fibers in 0.05, 0.2 and 0.5 weight percent. Particle distribution is almost uniform and by
increasing the weight percent partly agglomeration is observed.

111

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Figure 7.9 SEM picture of pure PA6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites (a): pure PA6, (b): PSX10,
(c): PSX20, (d): PSX30 with 10, 20, 30 wt. %, respectively. (Silica Aerosil OX50)

112

(a)

(b)

(c)

Figure 7.10 SEM picture PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites (a): PSA10, (b): PSA20, (c): PSA30 with 10,
20, 30 wt. %, respectively. (Silica Aerosil 150)

113

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Figure 7.11 SEM picture of pure PA6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers (a): pure PA6 fiber,
(b): PSX05, (c): PSX2, (d): PSX5 with 0.05, 0.2, 0.5 wt. %, respectively. (Silica Aerosil OX50)

114

Chapter 8
Synthesis and characterization of PA6/ SiO2 nanocomposites by
In-situ polymerization method

8.1. Introduction
Nanocomposites present exciting opportunities for manipulating structure and properties, they
are mostly influenced by the composition, method of preparation (in-situ polymerization [298,
299], solution intercalation [300] or melt compounding [301-303]), polymer matrix characteristics,
size, shape, microstructure and state of agglomeration of the dispersed phase and degree of
matrix–filler adhesion [304-305]. Due to the strong tendency of nanoparticles to agglomerate,
manufacturing composites with uniformly distributed nanoparticles becomes a challenging task
[306]. To break down these nanoparticles aggregates and manufacture nano-structural
composites, in-situ polymerization with the presence of nanoparticles seems to be rather facile.
In this method, first, nanoparticles are dispersed in monomer, and then the mixture is
polymerized using a technology similar to bulk polymerization. It is obvious that the most
important factor that affects the properties of composites is the dispersion of nanoparticles.
According to Tadros [307], the dispersion of ultrafine particles in medium can be divided into
three steps:
1. Wetting of particles by dispersion medium;
2. Breaking of aggregates into dispersed primary particles or smaller aggregates;
3. Stabilization of dispersed primary particles or smaller aggregates against re-agglomeration.
Referring to these three mentioned points; preparation of nanocomposites by silica/caprolactam
in-situ polymerization reaction was aimed according to the following procedure: nano-silica was
dispersed in a medium (water or ethanol) with the assistance of ultrasonic, then added to melted
caprolactam and polymerization was initiated to form the resulting nanocomposites. Such plan
was designed according to the following information gained from literature: (i) it was reported
that particles with polar surface can be easily wetted by polar liquid [308]. Accordingly, nanosilica with polar silanol groups on the surface can be easily wetted by polar melted caprolactam
containing amide group, (ii) The preparation of the polyamide 6/silica nanocomposites using in-

115

situ polymerization was also recently reported by Rusu [294]. It is found that nano-silica was
simply dispersed in the melted caprolactam by ordinary stirrer. Hence, although some of the
nano-silica was homogeneously dispersed, there were still some bigger aggregates (ca. 200 nm
in diameter) within the polyamide 6 matrix. Considering that the tremendous energy offered by
ultrasonic is likely to break the nanoparticles aggregates into smaller ones or even mono
molecular dispersed particles [309], in the present work, ultrasonic was employed to disperse
nanosilica in melted caprolactam. Thus, the agglomerated nanoparticles would be separated and
coated with caprolactam, leading to the improved stability of smaller aggregates or monomolecular dispersed nanoparticles against re-agglomeration [210].
The present chapter consist two parts, the first part aims to obtain PA6/Silica nanocomposites in
granule form via ring-opening polymerization of ε-caprolactam in the presence of untreated silica
and surface modified silica, whereas in the second part, PA6/Silica nanocomposite fibers were
produced from the thus prepared granules by extrusion process.
Before adding to polymerization reactor, silica nanoparticles were dispersed in water or ethanol.
To promote dispersion of nano-silica in caprolactam, nano-silica was dispersed with the
assistance of ultrasonic. According to Cai [310], it was found that hydrogen bonds were formed
between nano-silica and caprolactam and ultrasonic helped to break the nanoparticles
aggregates into smaller ones leading to the uniform distribution of nanoparticles in the polymer
matrix.
The influence of the particle content, particle size, dispersion medium and surface modification
are examined on structure, physical and mechanical properties of nanocomposites (granules
form) and nanocomposite fibers.

116

8.2. Experimental
8.2.1. Raw materials
ε-caprolactam, aminocaproic acid and terephthalic acid (TPA) from MERCK were used to
prepare polyamide 6. The different types of nanosilica(SiO2 , Aerosil OX50, Aerosil 150) in
spherical shape which were used as filler being characterized by mean particle size of 40 nm ,
14 nm and a specific surface area of 50 m2 g-1 and 150 m2 g-1, respectively, were supplied by
EVONIK Company and used as received. While BYK 3650 a silica nanoparticle surface modified
with linear non-polar polysiloxane with a mean particle size of 20 nm and 25% nanoparticle
content in methoxypropylacetate/methoxypropanol solvent was supplied by BYK Company.
8.2.2. Sample preparation
8.2.2.1. Part one: Preparation of PA6/ SiO2 nanocomposites (granule)
The pure polyamide 6 was synthesized by ring opening polymerization of ε-caprolactam using 6aminocaproic acid as initiator in a 5L-reactor according to the following steps:
1- caprolactam melting
2- adding reactant
3- heating and pressurizing under Nitrogen
4- pressure release
5- pelletizing
6- extraction
At the first step 1000 gr. caprolactam was added to a 5L reactor and stirred under nitrogen
atmosphere at 90°C until all the caprolactam had me lted. Then 30 gr. water as ring opening
agent, 10 gr. aminocaproic acids as an initiator and 4 gr. TPA as a chain regulator was added.
Reactor temperature was increased to 130°C, 170°C, 210°C stepwise in intervals of 30 minutes
and finally to 245°C. The mixture was maintained un der stirring and nitrogen atmosphere for
about 90 minute. After reaction completion, pressure was released and the melt polymer
transferred through die plate which was preheated at 285 °C to a water bath and finally cut in
pelletizing machine to granules. The granules were extracted in boiling water before used in
extrusion process. Polyamide 6/ silica nanocomposite obtained according to the above
procedure by adding nanoparticle dispersion in second steps along with reactant. PA6/SiO2
nanocomposites were prepared from two different particle sizes (Aerosil OX50, Aerosil 150) and
each one in 3 different silica percentage, 0.05, 0.15 and 0.5 weight per cent. Silica

117

water dispersion as well as silica-ethanol
silica ethanol dispersion were prepared
prep
by ultrasonic
nanoparticle-water
method and then added to reactor.

8.2.2.2. Part two: Preparation of PA6/ SiO2 nanocomposites fibers
Nanocomposite fibers were prepared from nanocomposite granules with melt spinning process.
Melt spinning was carried out using a spinning apparatus HAAKE consisting of an extruder and a
gear pump to control precisely the throughput rate, which was kept at 40 g/min for all polymers.
Filaments extruded from the spinneret through a multi
multi-hole nozzle with
h a diameter of 0.3 mm
and at 270°C were taken up by the high-speed winder.
8.3. Characterization
The crystal structures of the polyamide 6 and polyamide 6/nanocomposites was followed by XX
ray diffraction analysis (XRD), using a PW 1050 Philips diffractometer (Ni—
(Ni—filtered Cu-Kα
radiation of wavelength 0.1542 nm) in the reflection mode over the range of diffraction angles
(2θ)) from 5 to 35°, at room temperature. The voltage a nd tube current were 40 kV and 30 mA,
respectively. The Fourier transfer infrared (FTIR) spectra were scanned using Bruker IFS 28
118

spectrometer. Molecular weight of samples were determined by gel chromatography permeation
(GPC) method using high temperature chromatograph PL-GPC 220.The crystallization behavior
of the PA6/particle hybrid nanocomposites was determined with Perkin Elmer 7 differential
scanning calorimetry (DSC) over the temperature range of 30 to 250 °C at a heating rate of
10°C/min under nitrogen atmosphere and hold at that temperature for 2 minutes. Then the
samples were cooled down very rapidly to 10 °C. The specimens were heated again to assess
the effect of previous cooling scan. Heating scans were analyzed for the crystallization
temperature, melting temperature Tm and heat of melt ∆Hf. Finally were cooled down slowly at
10 °C /min to 30°C to complete crystallization. Crystal linity degree (Xc) of different samples was
calculated by the ratio of heat of fusion of the sample to heat of fusion of the purely crystalline
polyamide 6, i.e. 240 J/g. In order to obtain the information on thermal stability,
thermogravimetric analysis of PA6/silica nanocomposites was performed using a Perkin Elmer
TGA7 under nitrogen atmosphere over the range of 30°C to 600 °C at a heating rate of 5 °C/min.
The morphology of polyamide 6 nanocomposite was investigated by Scanning Electron
microscope analysis using Zeiss DSM 962 microscope. Tensile properties of fibers were
measured at standard climate conditions using STATIMAT M automatic tensile testing machine
equipped with a 10N cell according to ASTM D-3822-07. The gauge length was 200 mm and the
crosshead speed was 200 mm/min. An average of 25 reading for each fiber sample is reported.

8.4. Results and discussion
8.4.1. Part one: nanocomposite (granule form)
8.4.1.1. Molecular weight and Amino end Group of Polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposites
Molecular weight and its distribution are important factors with respects to properties and
processing of polymers. And for examples many influence on mechanical properties such as
stiffness, strength, viscoelasticity, toughness, and viscosity. If molecular weight is too low, the
transition temperatures and the mechanical properties will generally be too low for the polymer
material to have any useful commercial applications. For a polymer to be useful it must have
transition temperatures above room temperatures and it must have mechanical properties
sufficient to bear design loads.

119

Table 8.1 Amino end groups and molecular weight of Polyamide 6 and PA6/SiO2
nanocomposites
[NH2]
mmol/kg

Number average
molecular weight
Mn

0

27.8

34501

PSX05-W

0.05

34

29479

PSX5-W

0.5

38.8

28093

PSA05-W

0.05

33.1

34282

PSA5-W

0.5

38.4

32940

PSX05-E

0.05

29.8

24633

PSX1.5-E

0.15

32.2

22830

PSX5-E

0.5

38.9

21027

PSA05-E

0.05

38.3

25445

PSA1.5-E

0.15

41

26584

PSA5-E

0.5

45.7

26809

PA/Mod. Silica

0.5

29

20646

Sample
PA6

SiO2
wt. %

Control and determination of molecular weight are common problems in polymer science and
are important for processing behavior. For linear polyamides, the average molecular weight can
be determined by end-group analysis as well as by size-exclusion/gel permeation
chromatography (SEC/GPC) [142]. In the polymerization of ε-caprolactam, the reactive groups
should correspond to a 1: 1 mole ratio; any increase of the content of NH2 groups can be related
to a decrease in polymer molecular weight. Comparative examination of the data presented in
Table 8.1 revealed that the number average molecular weight of polyamide 6 nanocomposites
prepared in the presence of the silica nanoparticle decreased as the amount of filler increased.

120

40000
35000
30000
25000
20000
15000
10000
0
Pure

0.05

0.5

PSX-W

0.05

0.5

PSA-W

0.05

0.15

PSX-E
wt. %

0.5

0.05

0.15
PSA-E

0.5

0.5
Modi.

Figure 8.1 Number average molecular weight of polyamide 6 and nanocomposite as a function
of silica content

Also, as seen from Table 8.1 and Figure 8.2, the addition of nanometer silicas (pretreated or not)
resulted in an increase in amino content in compare to pure polyamide 6, indicating a decrease
in the molecular weight of polyamide 6 formed. It is reasonable that the reaction between silica
and polyamide 6 would alter the proportion of the two end groups (COOH and NH2) [311]. The
results from Figure 8.1 show the effect of particle size and dispersion medium on molecular
weight. On the one hand nanocomposites prepared from silica particles dispersed in ethanol
exhibit better dispersion in compare to same particles dispersed in water and in addition show
less agglomeration, hence the probability of bond formation between silica particle and NH2
groups must be higher and thus will cause decrease in molecular weight. On the other hand, the
finer particle size, the higher probability of agglomeration which reduce the chance of less bond
formation between silica and NH2 and finally results in higher molecular weight. Moreover in
Figure 8.3 this assumption is confirmed by the result found with the surface modified silica.
There the chance of bond formation between Si-OH and NH2 is higher than for untreated silica.
Hence the 1:1 stoichiometric ratio between NH2 and COOH is changed and a molecular weight
reduction is caused.

121

50
45
40

mmol/kg

35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
0

0.05

Pure

0.5

0.05

PSX-W

0.5

0.05

PSA-W

0.15

0.5

0.05

PSX-E
wt. %

0.15

0.5

0.5

PSA-E

Modi.

Figure 8.2 Amino end group of polyamide 6 and nanocomposite as a function of silica content

40000
35000
30000
25000
20000
15000
10000
5000
0
0

0.5

0.5

Pure

PSX-W

PSA-W

0.5

0.5

0.5

PSX-E

PSA-E

Modi.

wt.%

Figure 8.3 Number average molecular weight (Mn) of untreated and modified silica
nanocomposite. (all samples 0.5 wt. %)

122

8.4.1.2. Relative viscosity of nanocomposite
One of the most important factors in polymer processing is viscosity which is a good indication
for molecular weight; viscosity of a polymer solution depends on concentration and molecular
weight of the dissolved polymer. By determination of solution viscosity it is possible to get an
indirect measure of molecular weight.

Table 8.2 Relative viscosity of Polyamide 6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites

0

Relative
viscosity
[RV]
2.9538

PSX05-W

0.05

2.742

PSX5-W

0.5

2.6076

PSA05-W

0.05

2.9595

PSA5-W

0.5

2.8977

PSX05-E

0.05

2.651

PSX1.5-E

0.15

2.489

PSX5-E

0.5

2.4054

PSA05-E

0.05

2.7296

PSA1.5-E

0.15

2.69

PSA5-E

0.5

2.5491

PA/Mod.Silica

0.5

1.703

Sample
PA6

SiO2
wt. %

The results of relative viscosity measurement in formic acid are presented in Table 8.2. As seen
in Figure 8.4 the presence of silica in the nanocomposites resulted in the decrease of the relative
viscosity of nanocomposites in compare to pure polyamide 6 which confirm the reduction of
molecular weight by incorporation of silica nanoparticle.
One of the reasons of viscosity reduction could be changing in proportion of the two end groups
of polyamide by incorporation of silica particle. Other possibility is a reduced molecular weight of
nanocomposite due to degradation (e.g. hydrolysis) in the presence of SiO2. [256, 319]

123

3.5
3

RV

2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
Pure

0.05

0.5

PSX-W

0.05

0.5

PSA-W

0.05

0.15

PSX-E
wt. %

0.5

0.05

0.15

0.5

PSA-E

0.5
Modi.

Figure 8.4 Relative viscosity of polyamide 6 and nanocomposites as a function of silica

Structure and thermal behavior of polyamide6/SiO2 nanocomposites
8.4.1.3. Differential Scanning Calorimetry of polyamide6/SiO2 nanocomposites
The melting temperatures Tm1, Tm2, degree of crystallinity, non-isothermal crystallization
temperature Tc, and the heats of fusion ∆Hm1 and ∆Hm2 of polyamide 6 and polyamide
6/nanocomposites were evaluated by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). Parameters such
as heat of fusion (∆Hm) and heat of crystallization (∆Hc) were used to determine the melting and
crystallization behavior of the polyamide 6 and prepared nanocomposites. The results related to
the melting and crystallization behavior of nanocomposites, observed during the first and second
heating and during cooling, together with data for polyamide 6 are presented in Table 8.3.

124

Table 8.3 DSC data of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite prepared as function of silica content (in-situ
polymerization)
1st heating

PA6

2nd heating

SiO2

Tm1

∆H1

Tm2

∆H2

Wt. %

°C

J/g

°C

J/g

0

227.37

86.403

224.53

76.76

cooling
Tc
°C

∆H

Xc

J/g

%

171.63

79.74

31.98

PSX05W

0.05

226.370 67.277

223.53

60.20

182.30

63.75

25.21

PSX5W

0.5

224.700 63.690

221.53

60.52

182.13

62.53

25.34

PSA05W

0.05

224.700 70.429

221.87

58.66

182.63

65.61

24.57

PSA5W

0.5

223.530 71.273

220.87

61.05

181.97

70.65

27.24

PSX05E

0.05

225.200 67.730

222.70

60.92

181.30

64.17

25.51

PSX1.5E

0.15

226.100 63.680

221.53

52.16

187.30

60.23

21.84

PSX5E

0.5

226.030 65.177

220.37

59.11

180.63

59.17

24.75

PSA05E

0.05

223.370 69.867

220.03

61.05

181.13

62.42

25.56

PSA1.5E

0.15

226.530 66.374

218.53

58.64

183.30

60.18

24.55

PSA5E

0.5

226.200 68.003

218.70

59.65

181.80

58.78

24.98

Modif.

0.5

224.700 72.432

217.03

63.87

184.63

68.48

26.75

DSC thermograms of nanocomposites with untreated SiO2 and modified SiO2 nanoparticles
recorded on the first heating displayed the endothermic melting peak (noted as Tm1), associated
with the α-form crystals of polyamide 6 matrix [313, 315, 316] in the 223–227°C temperature
range. On the second heating scan, the melting peaks (Tm2) of α-form crystals slightly shifted to
lower temperature values (see Table 8.3). The melting point of pure PA6 decreased slightly by
increasing the silica nanoparticle. Similarly, the melting enthalpy decreased significantly by the
presence of nanoparticle. This shift can also be attributed to the fact that the polyamide chains
are anchored to the silica surface thus reducing the PA6 chains mobility. The obtained results
show changes in the structure of nanocomposites due to the incorporation of SiO2, different
thermal history, and also imperfect re-crystallization of each sample under the DSC
measurement conditions. The degree of crystallinity of polyamides was calculated from the ratio
of the measured enthalpy of fusion of the sample and the enthalpy of fusion of a completely
crystalline polymer by using the following equation:

125

-(%) =

(0
× 100
(1 − T )(0°

Where (0 is the enthalpy of fusion of the sample, (0° is the enthalpy of fusion of 100%
crystalline sample of the same polymer which is the average of (0° (α) and (0° (γ) i.e. 240
jg-1 [183] and T is the weight fraction of the filler in the nanocomposite. Increasing the filler
concentration in the nanocomposites decreased the degree of crystallinity.

Figure 8.5 DSC cooling scans of samples as function of SiO2 content: pure PA 6, PSX-E
(0.05, 0.15, 0.5 wt. %) and PSA-E (0.05, 0.15, 0.5 wt. %)
Moreover as is shown in Table 8.3 and Figure 8.5 the presence of both SiO2 and modified SiO2
affects the crystallization temperature and causes an increase in the crystallization temperature
(Tc) of nanocomposites relative to pure polyamide 6 due to the increase of the nucleation.
The crystallization temperature increases from 171°C in pure PA6 to about 187°C in the
nanocomposites. This rise in temperature is due to the formation of more perfect crystals
generated by the presents of nanoparticles that act as nucleation agents. When the
nanoparticles are functionalized, ∆Hm of nanocomposites increases since there is a better
interaction with the polymeric matrix and the polymer chains are immobilized.

126

According to Wunderlich [191], decreasing the polyamide molecular weight results in faster
crystallization and higher crystalline temperature which has a very good agreement with the
result reported in Table 8.1 and Table 8.3.

XRD was used as an alternative method to investigate the crystal structure of polyamide 6
nanocomposites
8.4.1.4. X-Ray Diffraction (XRD)
The crystallinity of the prepared nanocomposites was followed with X-ray diffraction (XRD) as a
function of wt. % filler added. As described in chapter 4 that two crystalline forms α and γ can be
observed in PA6 from XRD pattern.
Figure 8.6 illustrates the X-ray diffraction pattern of the pure polyamide 6 and nanocomposites
with 0.05, 0.15, 0.5 silica nanoparticle content and Figure 8.7 shows nanocomposites with
treated and untreated silica. It can be seen that the pure polyamide 6 displayed peaks at the
Bragg’s angles (2θ) of about 20.5° and 24° corresponding to the refle ctions of the crystalline
planes (200) and combined (002)/ (202) (labeled α1 and α2), respectively, indicative of a
monoclinic α-phase morphology, α1 originates from the distance between hydrogen-bonded
chains, whereas α2 comes from the distance between hydrogen-bonded sheets [294, 312, 313].
This indicates that the α-phase is the dominant crystalline phase for pure polyamide 6. X-ray
spectra of the nanocomposites in different silica percentages presented in addition to the two
reflections of pure polyamide 6, another reflection which is detected at 2θ = 22°, and is related to
γ-crystal planes of polyamide 6, The γ-form is characterized by a parallel arrangement of the
chains with hydrogen bonds in which the amide groups are twisted out of the zig–zag plane of
the methylene groups, leading to a shorter repeat distance than the α-form. Both spectra of αand γ- phase exhibit the same shape but a decreasing order of the intensity of α1 and α2 peaks,
and this behavior indicates that the presence of silica nanparticle disturbs the perfect
arrangement of hydrogen bonded sheets of the α-phase.
It appeared that even at very low (0.05 wt. %) silica additions, a slight decrease in the degree of
polyamide crystallinity was caused, and XRD result shows that, the addition of silica nanoparticle
in both treated and untreated form into polymer matrix favored the formation of γ-phase crystal.
The γ-phase is an unstable form, and as explained in chapter 4 it can be transformed into the αform by annealing or by treatment with a phenol aqueous solution.

127

1000

(3)

900

α2

α1

800

(1)

Intensity (cps)

700

(4)

600
500

(2)

400
300
200
100
0
15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

2 θ(°)

Figure 8.6 X-ray diffraction patterns of pure polyamide 6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites as
function of silica content. (1): pure PA6, (2), (3), (4): PSA with 0.05, 0.15, 0.5 wt. %, respectively

900
800

(2)

Intensity (cps)

700

(3)

600
500

(1)

400
300
200
100
0
15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

2 θ (°)
Figure 8.7 X-ray diffraction patterns of treated and untreated silica nanocomposites (1): PSX5,
(2): PSA5, (3): Modified Silica

128

8.4.1.5. Thermal Gravimetric Analysis of polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposites
The thermal stability of polymeric materials is usually studied by thermogravimetric analysis
(TGA). The weight loss due to the formation of volatile products after degradation at high
temperature is monitored as a function of temperature. The evaluation of the thermal behavior of
polyamide 6 and nanocomposites was performed using the data obtained from measurements
by thermogravimetry analysis. Table 8.4 provides a summary of the results. According to the
data in Table 8.4 which shows the results from TGA experiments, carried out under nitrogen at a
temperature range from 30°C to 600°C. By incorpora tion of silica nanoparticle to polymer matrix
a slight increase in the thermal stability of nanocomposites in comparison to pure PA6 was
observed. This is justified by the fact that inorganic components of nanocomposites themselves
possess good thermal stability and the polymer chain mobility was restricted due to polymer–
filler interactions [316].

Table 8.4 TGA data of polyamide 6 and polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposites
SiO2
wt. %

Ts1
°C

Td2
°C

0

368.8

401.5

PSX05W

0.05

371.5

413.8

PSX5W

0.5

371.3

417.1

PSA05W

0.05

364.4

408.1

PSA5W

0.5

371.7

416.9

PSX05E

0.05

374.1

405.0

PSX1.5E

0.15

360.7

407.9

PSX5E

0.5

367.4

408.8

PSA05E

0.05

365.9

405.0

PSA1.5E

0.15

368.7

406.3

PSA5E

0.5

369.6

406.4

PA6/Modi. Silica

0.5

347.7

406.3

PA6

1

Onset degradation temperature

2

Degradation temperature

129

It is known from the literature data related to the thermal degradation of the polyamides, that
chain scission takes place at the –NH–CO– bonds in the neighborhood of the carbonyl group
[295, 317, 318]. All the nanocomposites showed no weight loss until around 330°C (onset
decomposition) and retained 90% of their weight at about 350°C.
Figure 8.9 shows that the major stage of weight loss occurs in the range of 400–420°C, and
should be associated to the break of amide groups.
Moreover, the temperatures corresponding to 10% weight-loss of the nanocomposites were also
increased in comparison to the pure polyamide 6, which had a Ts of 368°C.
420
415

405
400
395

Pure PA

PSX-W

PSA-W

PSX-E
wt.%

PSA-E

0.5

0.5

0.15

0.05

0.5

0.15

0.05

0.5

0.05

0.5

0.05

390
0

°C

410

Modi.

Figure 8.8 Thermal degradation of PA6/SiO2 as a function of Silica content

130

100

Weight %

80

60

40

20

(3)
(1)

(2)

0
330

350

370

390

410

430

450

Temperature °C

Figure 8.9 TGA graph of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites as a function of Silica content. (1), (2), (3):
PSX with 0.05, 0.15, 0.5 wt. %, respectively.

8.4.1.6. SEM observation of polyamide 6/SiO2 nanocomposites
To investigate the dispersion quality of silica particles, the morphology of PA 6/silica composites
was studied and the results are shown in Figure 8.10. It is evident that the modified silicas have
a more homogenous dispersion in the polyamide matrix compared with the unmodified silica. It
can also be seen from Figure 8.10 that the size of both the modified and unmodified silica
particle are mostly in the range of 20 – 200 nm except the aggregated silica in unmodified silica.

131

(a)

(b)

Figure 8.10 SEM image of (a) PA6/ unmodified silica nanocomposite and (b) PA6/ modified
silica nanocomposite. (0.5 wt. %)

8.4.2. Results and discussion Part 2: nanocomposite fiber
8.4.2.1. FTIR characterization of nanocomposite fibers
In order to determine the development of various functional bonds during polymerization, FTIR
spectroscopy was performed. An FTIR experiment with polyamide 6 and with functionalized
silica nanoparticles is shown in Figure 8.11. Three curves are shown in Figure 8.11; (a) pure
polyamide, (b) polyamide with 0.5 wt. % untreated SiO2, and (c) polyamide with 0.5 wt. %
functionalized SiO2. Three basic bonds of polyamide 6, i.e. amide N–H at 3297 cm-1, hydroxyl
O–H at 2800–3000 cm-1, and carbonyl C=O at 1637 cm-1 were of primary interest. It is seen in
Figure 8.11(b) that IR absorbance for each of the three basic bonds has increased significantly,
characterized by their sharper and higher peaks. Higher peak and larger area under the curve
corresponds to higher absorption of light energy of the chemical bond concerned. In other words,
the IR absorbance is a direct measure of the interaction with the molecular environment,
indicating that SiO2 reinforcement into polyamide was responsible for such an increase. On the
other hand, after functionalization of SiO2 particles, i.e. in Figure 8.11(c), it is seen that the wave
number of the three basic bond are maintained, while in addition, a siloxane Si–O–Si bond at
1090 cm-1 is formed which was not seen with Figures 8.11(a). This is what was expected from
functionalization; establishing a continuous covalent linkage across the particle (silica) and
polymer (polyamide 6) interface [107].

132

(a)

Neat polyamide 6

(b)

SiO2 + polyamide 6

(c)

Silated SiO2 + polyamide 6

Figure 8.11 FTIR spectra (a) pure PA6 fiber, (b) PA6 fiber with 0.5% silica, (c) PA6 fiber with
0.5 % modified silica.

8.4.2.2. Differential Scanning Calorimetry of polyamide6/SiO2 nanocomposites fibers
The endothermic melting peaks and corresponded heat of fusion as well as crystalline
temperature of virgin PA6 fiber, pure PA6 fiber and nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica
content are summarized in Table 8.5. It is observed that melting endotherm of nanocomposite
fibers has lower melting temperature in compare to virgin polyamide and somewhat to pure
polyamide 6. This suggests that the enthalpy calculated from the area under the melting
endotherm would be higher in the case of polyamide 6/SiO2. A reduction of the melting
temperature is an indication of an increase in crystallinity. It is understood that the polymer would
be more crystalline if the amount of ordered chains were more. As the temperature reaches the
melting point, these chains would tend to get out of their ordered arrangements and begin to
move freely. The polymer crystals will begin to fall apart at an earlier stage than their highlyentangled counterparts, meaning that the melting temperature of the crystalline polymer will be
lower.

133

Table 8.5 DSC results of pure PA6 fiber and PA6/SiO2 fiber nanocomposite as a function of
silica content
SiO2

Tm

∆Hm

Tc

Xc

wt. %

°C

J/g

°C

%

PA6-virgin

0

225.36

47.55

171.3

19.81

Pure PA6

0

222.03

48.87

186.47

20.3

PSX05-W

0.05

222.87

50.44

186.47

22.12

PSX5-W

0.5

222.53

42.61

186.3

35.51

PSA05-W

0.05

223.3

52.46

186.8

23.00

PSA5-W

0.5

224.0

43.73

186.9

36.44

PSX05-E1

0.05

220.03

55.26

186.3

24.24

PSX1.5E

0.15

222.3

55.60

186.9

27.25

PSX5-E

0.5

222.7

54.32

187.6

45.26

PSA05-E

0.05

224.8

46.36

188.4

20.33

PSA1.5-E

0.15

221.8

47.33

186.3

23.20

PSA5-E2

0.5

223.7

48.94

188.1

40.78

PA6/Modif. silica

0.5

225.0

56.47

190.3

47.06

1

PSX05-E i.e. PA6/Silica(Aerosil OX50), 0.05 wt. %,

2

PSA5E i.e. PA6/Silica(Aerosil 150), 0.5 wt. %

Non-Isothermal crystallization of polyamide 6 nanocomposites fibers
An extensive analysis of non-isothermal crystallization behavior was carried out on pure
polyamide 6 and its nanocomposites. To rightfully compare pure polyamide 6 materials with its
nanocomposites, it was necessary to extrude the pure polyamide under the same processing
conditions used to form the nanocomposites. Regardless of the molecular weight, the extruded
materials exhibit faster crystallization than the virgin samples (Figure 8.12 labeled as (1)). There
are several possible reasons why such behavior is observed. Faster crystallization may arise
from increased nucleation due to the presence of impurities incorporated in the matrix during
processing. Memory effects associated with thermal and stress histories that remain present in
the sample after annealing in the melt may also lead to an increased rate of crystallization.

134

Numerous studies have shown that the processing history of the polymer, e.g. melting, mixing,
cooling, pelletizing, etc. is often not fully erased when the polymer is annealed at high melt
temperatures [289,–320-325].

Heat ﬂow Endo Up (mW) →

47

42

37

(1)
32

(2)

27

22
155

160

165

170

175

180

185

190

195

200

Temperature(°C )

Figure 8.12 Crystalline temperature of virgin PA6 (1) and pure extruded PA6 (2). Faster
crystallization may arise from increased nucleation due to the presence of impurities
incorporated in the matrix during processing.

Aharoni [173] reports that any shearing imposed on the polymer during melt processing may
facilitate the production of aligned arrays of bridged H-bonded sections that act as stable nuclei,
capable of remaining intact in the melt state for long periods of time. These arrays ultimately act
as crystallization sites upon cooling from the melt. Indeed, Khanna et al. [321] showed that
extruded polyamide 6 leads to faster crystallization than virgin polyamide 6 under both
isothermal and non-isothermal conditions. The temperature of melting and the length of time
held in the molten state will also determine the amount of stable nuclei remaining prior to
recrystallization; this issue has been the topic of many investigations [325-330]. The above
demonstrates that processing alone significantly affects the crystallization behavior of polyamide
6; therefore, for proper comparison between pure polyamide 6 and the nanocomposites, the 0
wt. % SiO2 data presented in the remaining plots represent the extruded version of polyamide 6.

135

The DSC results of PA6 and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites fibers with different silica concentrations
are given in Table 8.5. Figure 8.13 shows the cooling scan of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite(PSX) as
a function of silica content. Addition of small amounts of silica nanoparticle to polyamide matrix
results in a significant increase in crystalline temperature from 171°C to about 186°C; however,
further addition of silica has no more further effect.

Figure 8.13 crystalline temperatures (Tc) of PA6 fiber and PA6/SiO2 (Aerosil OX50)
nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica content

According Table 8.5 samples prepared by modified surface silica has higher crystalline
temperature (190.3°C) in compare to untreated sampl es (186.5°C) due to more silica-polymer
interactions cause by improved compatibility of organic silica and polyamide. Similar behavior is
observed in the case of modified silica nanocomposite as well as samples prepared in two
different silica dispersion mediums. Figure 8.14 shows comparison between nanocomposites at
0.05 and 0.5 wt. % prepared from silica-water dispersion and silica-ethanol dispersion in 0.05
and 0.5 wt. %. Samples prepared in silica-ethanol system have slightly higher crystalline
temperatures, which indicate earlier crystallization at cooling down from the melt stage cause by
better distribution and more effective nucleation of these silica particles.

136

Figure 8.14 Effect of silica dispersion medium on crystalline temperature (Tc) of nanocomposite
fiber

Also Table 8.5 and Figure 8.15 show that the crystalline temperature of samples made from both
silica particle sizes are almost same and all higher than pure polyamide.

Figure 8.15 Effect of particle size on crystalline temperature
137

8.4.2.3. Thermal Gravimetric Analysis of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers
The thermal stability of the pure polyamide fiber and nanocomposite fibers were characterized
by Thermo gravimetric analysis (TGA). Results of thermal stability at onset degradation
temperature and degradation temperature as a function of silica content and modification are
summarized in Table 8.6.

Table 8.6 TGA results of PA6 fiber and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica
content
SiO2

Ts1

Td2

wt. %

°C

°C

0

340.7

390.0

PSX05-W

0.05

352.4

402.2

PSX5-W

0.5

366.9

409.0

PSA05-W

0.05

349.4

398.6

PSA5-W

0.5

361.9

394.8

PSX05-E3

0.05

338.7

394.2

PSX1.5-E

0.15

342.9

396.0

PSX5-E

0.5

355.8

401.3

PSA05-E

0.05

361.1

416.9

PSA1.5-E

0.15

357.8

397.9

PSA5-E3

0.5

361.9

394.6

PA6/Modi. silica

0.5

348.6

398.9

PA6

1

Onset degradation temperature

2

Degradation temperature

As seen from Table 8.6 both, degradation temperatures, (Td) and start of degradation
temperature (Ts) of nanocomposites are higher than observed with pure PA6 which indicates the
successful incorporation of silica in fiber.
All the nanocomposites showed in Figure 8.16 have no weight loss until around 300°C (onset
decomposition) and still retained 90% of their weight at about 340°C.

138

Figure 8.16 shows that the major stage of weight loss occurs in the range of 385–405°C, and
should be associated to the break of amide bonds. It is understood that during TGA the crystal
structure would disappear at the melting point and be replaced by an unordered molecular
arrangement in the melt. Beyond the melting temperature, the first sign of weight loss is seen at
around 395°C in the TGA curve, signaling the breakd own of the polymer-backbone.

100
90
80

Weight %

70
60
50
40

(2)

30
20

(3)

(1)

10
0
320

340

360

380

400

420

440

Temperature °C

Figure 8.16 TGA thermograms of PA6/Silica nanocomposites fiber (Aerosil OX50) as function
of silica content. (1), (2), (3): PSX with 0.05, 0.15, 0.5 wt. %, respectively.

In the breakdown process of the polymer, after the crystals have melted, the covalent bonds
such as C–O, N–H, and O–H formed during polymerization will get decisive influence in the final
decomposition of the material. Due to their ability to interact with the polar sites on the
nanoparticle surface energy dissipation is facilitated and stability increased. By increasing the
particle content, thermal stability also increased as shown in Figure 8.16 and also Figure 8.17
showed that thermal stability of samples with bigger primary particle size (PSX, Aerosil OX50) is
higher than the other particle(PSA, Aerosil 150), it must be concluded that this behavior most
likely is caused by agglomeration of the smaller particles.

139

100
90
80

Weight %

70
60

(1)

50
40
30

(2)

20
10
0
300

320

340

360

380

400

420

440

Temperature °C

Figure 8.17 TGA thermograms of PA6/nanocomposite fiber with different particle size, (1)
PSX5E, (2) PSA5E

The effect of dispersion medium is shown in Figure 8.18. The decomposition of the
nanocomposites seems to have been retarded by dispersion in ethanol. This can be assumed
from the fact that the silica-ethanol system results a finer and more even distribution than silicawater system.
Also, as seen in Figure 8.19, nanocomposite prepared from surface modified silica has higher
thermal stability than the untreated silica due to the same reason as indicated above: more sites
of interaction and finer dispersion of the modified nanoparticles.

140

100
90
80
Weight %

70
60

(2)

50
40
30

(1)

20
10
0
300

320

340

360

380

400

420

440

460

Temperature °C

Figure 8.18 TGA thermograms of nanocomposites fiber: compare of dispersion medium
between (1) silica-water system and (2) silica-ethanol system

100

Weight %

80

60

(1)
40

(2)

20

0
320

340

360

380

400

420

440

Temperature °C

Figure 8.19 TGA thermograms nanocomposites fiber: (1) modified silica, (2) untreated silica

141

8.4.2.4. Tensile properties of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers
Tensile properties of fibers such as initial Young’s modulus, tenacity, and elongation at break
(EAB) were measured to evaluate the effect of nanoparticles on fiber properties. The results are
summarized in Table 8.7.

Table 8.7 Tensile properties of PA6 fiber and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers as a function of
silica content
Elongation

SiO2

Tenacity

wt. %

[cN/tex]

[%]

[cN/tex]

0

47.5

71.36

102.46

PSX05-W

0.05

41.4

61.93

243.65

PSX5-W

0.5

32.14

52.45

257.12

PSA05-W

0.05

37.45

60.81

275.9

PSA5-W

0.5

36.92

57.43

277.06

PSX05-E

0.05

36.46

68.01

206.99

PSX1.5-E

0.15

35.31

54.81

255.88

PSX5-E

0.5

35.28

58.96

240.58

PSA05-E

0.05

37.95

65.2

264.09

PSA1.5-E

0.15

34.17

64.03

212.35

PSA5-E

0.5

31.64

62.03

185.98

PA6/Modif. SiO2

0.5

27.33

53.75

322.95

PA6

at break

Modulus

Figure 8.20 shows that by incorporating silica nanoparticle in polymer matrix, the modulus of
nanocomposite fibers increased in compare to pure PA6 fiber and by increasing the silica
content, the modulus is increased too.
The tensile properties of fibers reflect their structure. It is well known that the modulus of fibers
depends strongly on the crystallinity and amorphous orientation in the fiber and, as well, on the
denseness of the crystalline-amorphous network established at fiber formation.

142

The modulus of fibers is determined by the taut polymer chains of the intercrystalline region,
which is reinforced in addition by hydrogen bond of SiO2 particles in nanocomposite [322]. Thus,
the nanocomposite fibers with higher silica content show a higher modulus.

350
300

cN/tex

250
200
150
100
50
0
0
Pure
PA6

0.05

0.5

PSX-W

0.05

0.5

0.05

PSA-W

0.15
PSX-E

0.5

0.05

0.15

0.5

PSA-E

0.5
Modif.

wt.%

Figure 8.20 Modulus of PA6 fiber and nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica content

In addition, Ito et al. [213] investigated the deformation behavior of solid-state co-extrusiondrawn PA 6 films of solution and melt-grown aggregates of α- and γ-form crystals and reported
higher ductility and efficiency of draw for samples with γ-crystalline phase. They concluded that
the density of hydrogen bonding, which is higher in more densely packed α-form crystals,
severely restricts the chain sliding, and thus the modulus of highly crystalline PA 6 is sensitive to
the α-crystalline phase content. However, in moderately crystallized melt-spun fibers, the
intercrystalline structure is likely to play a fundamental role in stress transmission, and the
considerations that focus the rigidity of crystalline phases are less applicable. Therefore, the
inter-chain interaction in the amorphous region (i.e., molecular entanglement and physical crosslinkage) should be regarded as crucial factors in the determination of the ductility of
semicrystalline polymeric materials. From this point of view, the SiO2 particles connected with
the macromolecules by hydrogen bonds reinforce the intercrystalline network in nanocomposite,

143

which results in the higher modulus of fibers. It is then obvious that the modulus is higher for
nanocomposite fibers with higher SiO2 content.

50

cN/tex

45
40
35
30
25
0
Pure
PA6

0.05

0.5

PSX-W

0.05

0.5

0.05

PSA-W

0.15
PSX-E

0.5

0.05

0.15
PSA-E

0.5

0.5
Modif.

wt.%

Figure 8.21 Tenacity of PA6 fiber and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fibers as a function of silica
content

Tenacity of fiber depends strongly on molecular weight, i.e. relative viscosity of granules, and
take-up velocity. The higher relative viscosity (RV) the higher is tenacity. As take-up velocity for
all of the samples was same, dependence of tenacity on molecular weight follows the same
trend as is valid for molecular weight (Table 8.1 and Table 8.3), i.e. by increasing the silica
content the tenacity of nanocomposite fibers decrease which could be seen in Figure 8.21.
Elongation at break (EAB) is also directly related to molecular weight and take-up velocity, that
means the same explanation which holds for tenacity is also valid for elongation at break as can
be seen in Figure 8.22.

144

75
70
65

%

60
55
50
45
40
0
Pure
PA6

0.05

0.5

PSX-W

0.05

0.5

0.05

PSA-W

0.15

0.5

PSX-E

0.05

0.15

0.5

PSA-E

0.5
Modif.

wt.%

Figure 8.22 Elongation at break (EAB) of PA6 fibers and PA6/SiO2 nanocomposite fiber as a
function of silica content

8.4.2.5. SEM observation of polyamide6/SiO2 nanocomposites fibers
To investigate the dispersion quality of silica particles, the morphology of PA 6/silica
nanocomposites fibers were studied and the results are shown in Figure 8.23. It is evident that
the modified silica labeled (a) have a more homogeneous dispersion in the fiber matrix
compared with the unmodified silica labeled (b). Figure 8.23 also shows the effect of silica
dispersion medium on dispersion quality in fiber matrix. Picture labeled (c) shows
nanocomposite fiber prepared by silica-ethanol system and picture labeled (d) is a
nanocomposite fiber prepared by silica-water system, the latter is showing more agglomerated
particles in the surface of fiber prepared by silica-water system. The silica-water system
presumably led to more aggregation and probably some degree of degradation, while in the case
of silica-ethanol system, these obstacles were either minimized or not encountered.

145

(b)

(a)

(c)

(d)

Figure 8.23 SEM pictures (a) PA6 / 0.5% modified silica nanocomposite fiber, (b) unmodified
silica nanocomposite fiber, (c) PSX5 in silica-ethanol system, (d) PSX5 in silica-water system

146

Chapter 9
General conclusion

The main targets of this study were to produce PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites and nanocomposites
fibers according to three different methods of composite preparation. In addition the effect of
preparation method as well as particle content, size and surface modification on the thermal,
structural, tensile and morphological properties of nanocomposites was investigated.
On the basis of the above discussion, the following conclusions can be drawn:

By this study it was shown that PA6/SiO2 hybrid nanocomposites can be prepared by melt
compounding, solution intercalation and in-situ polymerization and by applying these compounds
nanocomposites fibers were prepared successfully by melt spinning process. The only limitation
which has to be stated is for spinnability of nanocomposite fibers with high silica content (more
than 0.5 wt. %) which was limited and in some cases not possible.
The crystalline structure of PA6/silica was studied by DSC and X-ray diffraction methods and
XRD results show an evident phase transformation from α-form to γ-form crystals, This
polymorphic behavior indicates that with the introduction of nano-silica particles into the polymer
matrix as well as with the preparation method the growth of α-form crystal is suppressed and the
formation of γ-form crystals is promoted. And this phase transformation is more evident in
solution intercalation than other two methods.
The DSC results show that the polyamide 6 matrix has one melting peak corresponding to α form, while the nanocomposites system have two melting peaks, in which the high-temperature
peak corresponds to the α-form and the low-temperature peak corresponds to the γ crystalline
form. Further thermal after-treatment (melt spinning or second heating scan in DSC
measurement) promotes the α-form crystallites and after annealing, only the relatively sharp αform crystalline peaks are present.
Investigations on polymer crystallization behavior were carried out on polyamide 6/SiO2
nanocomposites prepared with all three preparation techniques. Thus the effect of silica
nanoparticles on the crystallization and melting characteristics of the PA6/silica hybrid
nanocomposites was investigated. The incorporation of nanoparticles, even very low
concentration, effectively enhanced crystallization of PA6, i.e. crystallization temperature shifted
to higher temperature range in compare to pure PA6.

147

DSC results show that by incorporation of silica nanoparticles the melting peak of
nanocomposites decreased in compare to pure polyamide 6 due to the presence of silica
particles which disturb the perfect arrangement of hydrogen bonded sheets structure of the αphase, hence the melt temperature of nanocomposites decreased in compare to pure PA6.
Moreover a comparison study between melt temperatures of nanocomposites prepared by
different techniques shows the effect of preparation method on melt temperature that, although
at nanocomposite preparation, melting peaks of samples prepared by solution intercalation were
lower than samples prepared by melt intercalation, after fiber formation process, melt
temperatures of the nanocomposite fibers of both methods were almost same.
TGA results show that by incorporation of silica nanoparticles into a polyamide 6 matrix, for all
three preparation methods, both onset temperature and degradation temperature increased in
compare to pure PA6, and in addition, the higher the silica content was the higher was thermal
stability. This means inorganic silica particles improve the thermal stability of PA6 polymer.
According the results of TGA the nanocomposites prepared by melt intercalation are more
thermally stable than the nanocomposites prepared by the other two methods.
The molecular weight of nancomposite prepared by in situ intercalation were determined by gel
permeation chromatography (GPC), also relative viscosity and end groups were measured with
capillary viscometer and end groups titration method, respectively.
Using different dispersion media in in-situ polymerization techniques shows that the silica-water
system presumably led to more aggregation and probably some degree of degradation, while in
the case of silica-ethanol system, these obstacles were either minimized or not encountered.
The number average molecular weight of PA6/SiO2 nanocomposites in the presence of silica
nanoparticles decreased in the same way the amount of filler increased. Moreover by addition of
nano-silica the relative viscosity of nanocomposites decreased in compare to pure polyamide 6.
Finally, tensile tests were conducted on SiO2 nanoparticle filled polyamide 6. Based on the
experimental results, introduction of the nanoparticles into polyamide 6 increases the modulus
and decreases the tenacity due to reduction of molecular weight. In addition by increasing silica
content elongation at break of nanocomposites fibers decreased because polymer chain mobility
is restricted due to polymer-particle interactions. The effect of preparation technique was
investigated and the results showed that modulus of samples prepared by in-situ polymerization
were higher than the samples prepared in the other techniques. This demonstrates that particle
dispersion is of great importance for the physical behaviors of polymer composites.
In- situ polymerization and solution intercalation are good methods for the preparation of
inorganic/organic nanocomposites and both are able to avoid the agglomeration of inorganic
148

particles in polymer matrices and hence improve the interfacial interaction between an inorganic
component and the polymeric matrix. SEM observation shows that the modified silicas disperse
more homogeneously in the PA 6 matrix in comparison to the unmodified silicas.

149

Zusammenfassung
Eine gerade in jüngster Vergangenheit stark gestiegene Zahl an Untersuchungen zum Thema:
Eingenschaftsverbesserungen von Polymerfasern durch Zusatz organischer und anorganischer
Partikel, belegt das zunehmende Interesse an high-tech Fasern und deren Anwendungen. Im
Rahmen dieser Versuche spielen auch die Innovationen im Bereich der Nanotechnologie eine
wichtige Rolle, die zur Entwicklung spezieller Nanopartikel für verschiedene Endanwendungen –
wie beispielsweise von Nanokompositfasern – führten. In dieser Studie wurden sphärische
Siliziumdioxid-Nanopartikel mit zwei unterschiedlichen Partikeldurchmessern in Polyamid 6
eingearbeitet und daraus über ein Schmelzextrusionsverfahren verstreckte Filamentgarne
hergestellt. Weitere, untersuchte Prozessvariable waren dabei der Füllstoffgehalt und die
Oberflächenmodifizierung der Siliziumdioxid-Partikel. Die Herstellung von Polyamid 6 / SiO2
Nanokompositen erfolgte nach drei unterschiedlichen Methoden: (a) Schmelzeinterkalation,(b)
Lösungsinterkalation und (c) in-situ-Polymerisation. . Als Referenz wurde reines Polyamid 6
unter gleichen Bedingungen gesponnen. Die Untersuchung der Nanokomposit fasern bzw. die
Wirkung der darin enthaltenen SiO2-Nanopartikel auf dere thermische, strukturelle,
morphologische sowie Zugeigenschaften wurde mittels Thermogravimetrie (TGA), Differential
Scanning Kalorimetrie (DSC), Röntgenbeugung (XRD), Fourier-Transform-Infrarotspektroskopie
(FTIR), Rasterelektronenmikroskopie (REM) und Zugversuchen erfasst. Die TGA Ergebnisse
zeigten, dass die thermische Stabilität von Nanokompositen verglichen mit reinen Polyamid 6
besser ist. Aufgrund der DSC und XRD-Ergebnisse führt die Einführung von SiliziumdioxidNanopartikeln in die Polymermatrix bei Abkühlung und Kristallisation in der Schmelze zu einer
Phasenumwandlung der gebildeten Kristallite von der α-Form in die γ-Form. Die SEMAufnahmen zeigen, dass In-situ-Polymerisation und LösungsiInterkalation geeignete Methoden
für die Herstellung von anorganisch-organische Nanokompositen sind, da sie die Agglomeration
von anorganischen Partikeln in den Polymermatrices vermeiden, außerdem sind modifizierte
Siliziumdioxidpartikel homogener in der PA 6-Matrix dispergiert als im Vergleich dazu
unmodifizierte Siliziumdioxidpartikel. GPC Analysen und Messungen der relativen Viskosität
weisen darauf hin, dass durch Erhöhung des Siliziumdioxidanteils eine Abnahme des
Molekulargewichts der Nanokomposite im Vergleich zu reinem Polyamid 6 erfolgt. Durch die
Wirkung des Siliziumdioxids auf das Polyamid 6 wird der Gehalt an Amino-und CarbonsäureEndgruppen erhöht, dies ist gleichbedeutend mit einer Molekulargewichtsreduktion, woraus
seinerseits ein Verlust an Faserfestigkeit bei den Nanokompositfasern resultiert.

150

Die Erhöhung des Siliziumdioxid-Anteils zeigt sich für den Modul im Gegensatz zur Festigkeit
ein Trend zu zunehmenden Werten.

Schlüsselwörter: Nanokomposite, PA6/SiO2 , In-situ-Polymerisation, Schmelzeinterkalation,
Lösungsinterkalation, Schmelzspinnen

151

References
[1]
[2]

C. P. Poole, Jr., Frank J. Owens, Introduction to nanotechnology, John Wilez & Sons,Inc.,
Hoboken, New Jersey (2003)
D.B. Porter, Conference Proceedings from Organic-Inorganic hybrids conference
Guildford, U.K. June (2000).

[3]

J.G. Winiarz, L.M. Zhang, M. Lal, Friend, Journal of the American Chemical Society, 121,
5287 (1999).

[4]

S.N. Sidorov, et al. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 123, 10502 (2001).

[5]

T.C. Merkel, B.D. Freeman, R.J. Spontak, American Journal of Science 296, 519 (2002).

[6]

C. Joly, M. Smaihi, L. Porcar, Chemistry of Materials, 11, 2331 (1999).

[7]

G. Wypych, Handbook of fillers 2nd Ed. New York (1999).

[8]

S. N.Bhattacharya, Rahul K. Gupta, Polymeric Nanocomposites Theory and Practice,
Hanser 2008

[9]

D.R. Paul, L.M. Robeson, Polymer 49 (2008) 3187–3204

[10]

J.E.Mark, CY. Jiang, MY. Tang, Macromolecules 1984; 17:2613–6.

[11]

S.P. Gubin, Yu A Koksharov, G B Khomutov, G Yu Yurkov, Russian Chemical Reviews
74 (6) 489, 520 (2005)

[12]

M. Sezen, Chemical Fibers International ,vol.58 no.4, 2008, pp 112-115

[13]

N. Erdem, A. Aysun,H. Umit Erdogan, Journal of Applied Polymer Science,Vol. 111,
2085–2091 (2009)

[14]
[15]

J. Jordana, K. Jacobb, R. Tannenbaumc, Materials Science and Engineering A 393
(2005) 1–11
G.L. Wilkes, B. Orler, H. Huang, Polymer Preparation 1985; 26:300–1.

[16]

H. Mahfuz, M. M. Hasan, Macromolecular Materrial Eng. 2007, 292, 437–444

[17]

H. Schmidt, Non-crystal Solids 73 (1985) 681.

[18]

E.P. Giannelis, Advanced Material. 8 (1993) 29.

[19]

J.Y. Wen, G.L. Wilkes, Chemestry of Materials 8 (1996) 1667.

[20]

K.G. Sharp, Advanced Material 10 (1998) 1243.

[21]

A.C. Balazs, C. Singh, E. Zhulina, Macromolecules 31 (1998) 8370.

[22]

P. Hajji, L. David, J.F. Gerard, C. Paul, Journal of Polymer Science B 37 (1999) 3172.

[23]

A. Kelly, Concise Encyclopedia of Composite Materials, Academic Press, New York,
1994, p. 201.

152

[24]

C. Zhaoa,b, P. Zhanga , Polymer Testing 27 (2008) 412–419

[25]

H. LU, X. XU, X. LI and Z. ZHANG, Bulletin of Materials Science, Vol. 29, No. 5, October
2006, pp. 485–490

[26]

R. Sengupta, A. Bandyopadhyay, Polymer 46 (2005) 3343–3354

[27]

H.Sertchook, Hi. Elimelech, C. Makarov, R. Khalfin, Journal of the American Chemical
Society. 2007, 129, 98-108

[28]

Ch. Yao and G. Yang, Polymer Inernationalt 2010; 59: 492–500

[29]

Z.Wang, T.J. Pinnavaia, Chemical Materials 10 (7), 1998, 3769- 3771

[30]

P.B., Messersmith, E.P. Giannelies, Chemical Matterial 6, (1994), 1719-1725

[31]

T. Lan, T.J. Pinnavaia, Chemical Materials, 6, 1994, 2216- 2219

[32]

S.D., Burnside, E.P. Giannelis, Chemical Materials, 7, (1995), 1597-1600

[33]

A. Okada, K. Fujumori, A. Usuki, Polymer Chemistry, 32,(2), 540-541, 1991

[34]

S. Sinha Ray, M. Bousmina, Progress in Material Science, 50, 962-1079, 2005

[35]

S. Sinha Ray, M. Okamoto, Macromolecule Rapid Communication,24 (14), 815- 840,
2003
N. Ogata, G. jimentz, Journal of polymer science Part B, 35 (2), 389- 396, 1997

[36]
[37]

WULFHORST, B., KOCH, P. A.: Fiber Table, Polyamide Fibers: 4th edition 1997, and
references therein.

[38]

ISO 2076, AUSG. 12.89: Generic names for man-made fibers. International Organization
for Standardization

[39]

WULFHORST, B., BÜSGEN, A.: Fiber Table, Aramid Fibers: 1st issue Chem. Fasern
/Tex.ind. 39/91 (1989), 1271-1276

[40]

W.H., Carothers, journal of American chemical science 51 (1929), 2548-2559

[41]

W.H., Carothers, journal of American chemical science 52 (1930), 5289-5291

[42]

W.H., Carothers, journal of American chemical science 54 (1932), 1566-1569

[43]

O. Wichterle, Makromolekulare Chemie 35 (1960), 174- 182

[44]

V.B.Gupta and V.K.Kothart , Manufactured fiber technology, 1997 Chapman and Hall

[45]

B.L. Deopura , Polyesters and polyamides, 2008 Woodhead Publishing Limited

[46]

Caprolactam, product Data sheet, Allied Chemical Corpn., Morristown, New Jersy, June,
1980;

[47]

Bonfield, J.H. and Northcott, J. (1969) Encyclopedia of industrial chemical Analysis, Vol.8
(ed. L.S.Ettre), Wiley-Interscience, New York, P. 114.

153

[48]

Hermans, P.H. (1955) International Journal of Applied Chemistry., 5, 493

[49]

Wiloth, F., Makromolekular Chemie., 15, 106. (1995)

[50]

Reimschuessel, H.K. (1985) Handbook of Fiber Science and Technology- Fiber
Chemistry, Vol. IV (eds M. Lewin and E.M.Pearce), Marcel Dekker, New York, pp.
146,147.

[51]

Fukumoto, O. (1956) Journal of Polymer. Science., 22, 263

[52]

Reimschuessel, H.K. (1985) Handbook of Fiber Science and Technology- Fiber
Chemistry, Vol. IV (eds M. Lewin and E.M.Pearce), Marcel Dekker, New York, pp. 76.

[53]

Callister, W.D. Materials Science and Engineering. An Introduction. 5th Ed. John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. (1999).

[54]

Wypych, G. Handbook of fillers. 2nd Edition. New York (1999).

[55]

M.Garcia, G.van Vliet, S.Jain, Review on Advanced Materials Science 6 (2004) 169- 175
PP
Wan-Gyu Hahn, Hee-Soo Myung, Macromulecular Research, vol. 12, No.1, pp 85-93
(2004) PET

[56]

[57]

H:sertchook, H.Elimelech, C.Makarov, Journal of the American Chemical Society, 2007,
129, 98-108

[58]

G. Yao, G. Yang, Polymer International,2010, vol. 59, issue 4, pp 492-500

[59]

Seon Hoon Ahn, Seong Hun Kim, Seung Goo Lee, Journal of Applied Polymer Science,
Vol. 94, 812–818 (2004) PEN

[60]

Igor V. Khudyakov, R. David Zopf, Designed Monomers and Polymers 12(2009) 279-290

[61]

M.M. Hasan, Y. Zhou, H. Mahfuz, Materials Science and Engineering A 429 (2006) 181–
188
F.Hussain, M.Hojjati, M.Okamoto, Journal of COMPOSITE MATERIALS, Vol. 40, No.
17/2006, and references therein.

[62]

[63]

Zheng, Y.P., Zheng Y. and Ning, R.C. (2003, Materials Letters, 57(19): 2940–2944.

[64]

Tang, J., Wang, Y., Liu, H., Xia, Y. and Schneider, B. (2003), J. of Applied Polymer
Science, 90: 1053–1057.

[65]

M.W.L. Wilbrink, A.S. Argon, R.E. Cohen, M. Weinberg, Polymer 42 (26) (2001) 10155–
10180.

[66]

H. Mahfuz, V.K. Rangari, M.S. Islam, S. Jeelani, Compos. Part A: Appl. Sci. Manuf. 35 (4)
(2004) 453–460.

[67]

G. Chen, G. Luo, X. Yang, Y. Sun, J. Wang, Mater. Sci. Eng. A 380 (1–2) (2004) 320–
325.
N. Chisholm, H. Mahfuz, V.K. Rangari, A. Ashfaq, S. Jeelani, Compos. Struct. 67 (1)
(2005) 115–124.

[68]

154

[69]

M.Z. Rong, M.Q. Zhang, Y.X. Zheng, H.M. Zeng, K. Friedrich, Polymer 42 (7) (2001)
3001–3004, 3001.98

[70]

X. Li, G. Wang, X. Li, Surf. Coatings Technol. 197 (1) (2005) 56–60.

[71]
[72]

G. Vigier, J. Pascualt, J. Gerard, L. David, and Haiji, Journal of Polymer Science. 37,
3172 (1999)
Ch. Landry, and B. Coltrain, Polymer 33, 7 (1992).

[73]

Y. Yang, J. Yin, Z. Qi, and Z. Zhu, Journal of Applied Polymer Science 73, 2977 (1999).

[74]

F. Yang, Y.Ou, and Z. Yu, Journal of Applied Polymer Science 69, 355 (1998).

[75]

J. Kolarik, O. Dukh, L. Matejka, Polymer 41, 1449 (2000).

[76]

K. Qiu, and Z. Huang, Polymer 38, 521 (1997).

[77]

E. Werner, van Zyl, G. Monserrat, Macromolecular Materials and Engineering, 2002, 287,
106-110, and references therein.

[78]

E. P. Giannelis, Advanced Materials 1996, 8, 29.

[79]

P. C. le Baron, Z. Wang, T. J. Pinnavaia, Applied Clay Science 1999, 15, 11

[80]

W. Helbert, J. Y. Cavaille, A. Dufresne, Polymer Composites 1996, 17, 604.

[81]

D. W. Clegg, A. A. Collyer, ªMechanical Properties of Reinforced Thermoplasticsº,
Elsevier 1986.

[82]

J. Choi, J. Harcup, A. F. Yee, Q. Zhu, R. M. Laine, Journal of the American Chemical
Society. 2001, 123, 11420,

[83]

Y.C. Chen, S.X. Zhou, H.H. Yang, and L.M. Wu, Journal of Applied Polymer Science,
95(5): 1032–1039. . (2005)

[84]

C.L. Wu, Zhang, M.Q., Rong, M.Z. and Friedrich, K., Composite Science and
Technology, 62: 1327–1340.2002

[85]

Z. Zhang, and J.L. Yang, Polymer, 45: 3481–3485. 2004

[86]

Y.C. Chen, S.X. Zhou, and L.M. Wu, (2005). European Polymer Journal (submitted 2005).

[87]

J. Rottstegge, X. Zhang, Y. Zhou, D. Xu, C. C. Han, D. Wang, Journal of Applied Polymer
Science, Vol. 103, 218–227 (2007), and references therein

[88]

F. Schultze-Gebhardt, K.H. Herlinger, In Ullmann’s Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry;
Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, 2002; p 10.

[89]

W. Stibal, R. Schwarz, U. Kemp, K. Bender, In Ullmann’s Encyclopedia of Industrial
Chemistry; Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, 2002; p 3.

[90]

Estes, L. L.; Sattler, H.; Berg, H.; Wolf, K. H.; Kausch, M.; Schro¨ er, H.; Pellegrini, A.;
155

Olivieri, P.; Schoene, W.; Nogaj, A.; Sling, C.; Menault, J.; Osugi, T.; Morimoto, O.;
Frankenburg, P. E. In Ullmann’s Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry; Wiley-VCH:
Weinheim, 2002; p 6.
[91]

H.G. Elias, An Introduction to Polymer Science; Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, 1997.

[92]

J. Rottstegge, C.C. Han, W.D. Hergeth, Macromolecular Material Engineering 2006, 291,
345.

[93]

S. Ran, X. Zong, D. Fang, B.S. Hsiao, Macromolecules 2001, 34, 2569.

[94]

L.A. Utracki, Commercial Polymer Blends; Chapman & Hall: London, 1998.

[95]

A. Marcincin, Progress in Polymer Science 2002, 27, 853.

[96]

S.S. Ray, M. Okamoto, Progress in Polymer Science 2003, 28, 1539.

[97]

S.S. Sternstein, Zhu, A. J. Macromolecules 2002, 35, 7262.

[98]

D.N. Bikiaris, G.Z. Papageorgiou, E. Pavlidou, Journal of Applied Polymer Science 2006,
100, 2684.

[99]

S. Ran, C. Burger, I. Sics, K. Yoon, D. Fang, K. Kim, Colloid Polymer Science 2004, 282,
802

[100]

J.K.W. Sandler, S. Pegel, M. Cadekc, F. Gojny, Polymer 2004, 45, 2001.

[101]

X. Zhang, M. Yang, Y. Zhao, S. Zhang, X. Dong, X. Liu, J Appl Polym Sci 2004, 92, 552.

[102]

G.H. Guan, C.C. Li, D. Zhang, J Appl Polym Sci 2005, 95, 1443.

[103]

A. Boudenne, L. Ibos, M. Fois, E. Gehin, J.C. Majeste, Journal of Polymer Science Part B:
Polymer Physics 2004, 42, 722.

[104]

J. Chen, C. Carrot, Y. Chalamet, J.C. Majeste, Journal of Applied Polymer Science 2003,
88, 1376.

[105]

F. Bauer, H. Ernst, U. Decker, M. Findeisen, H.J. Glaesel, H. Langguth, Macromolecular
Chemistry and Physics 2000, 201, 2654.

[106]

H.J. Glaesel, F. Bauer, H. Ernst, M. Findeisen, E. Hartmann, Macromolecular Chemistry
and Physics 2000, 201, 2765.

[107]

H. Mahfuz, M. Hasan, V. Dhanak, Nanotechnology 19 (2008) 445702 (7pp)

[108]

F. Luis, E. Mauricio, L.L. Betty, Macromol. Symp. 2007, 258, 119–128

[109]

B. Salima, B. Elodie, Z. Nathalie, Macromol. Rapid Commun. 2005, 26, 1860–1865,

[110]

M.Hosokawa, K.Nogi ,Nanoparticle Technology Handbook, page 5

[111]

M.Hosokawa, K.Nogi ,Nanoparticle Technology Handbook, page 10

156

[112]

H. Hommel, A. Touhami, A.P. Legrand, Makromol. Chem. 1993, 194 879

[113]

R.K. Iler The chemistry of silica. New York: Wiley, 1979.

[114]

R.P.W. Scott, Silica gel and bonded phases. New York: Wiley, 1993.

[115]

Bergna. The colloid chemistry of silica, vol. 1. Washington,DC:American Chemical
Society, 1994

[116]

S. Spange, Prog. Polym. Sci. 25 (2000) 781–849

[117]

Lynn Townsend White, Jr. (1961). "Eilmer of Malmesbury, an Eleventh Century Aviator: A
Case Study of Technological Innovation, Its Context and Tradition". Technology and
Culture (Society for the History of Technology) 2 (2): 97–111. doi:10.2307/3101411.

[118]

A.F. Holleman, E. Wiberg, Inorganic Chemistry, San Diego: Academic Press, (2001)

[119]

L. Sunggyu, Encyclopedia of chemical processing. CRC Press. (2006)

[120]

R. Doering, Y. Nishi (2007). Handbook of Semiconductor Manufacturing Technolog,
Marcel Dekker, New York
A.B.D. Nandiyanto; S.-G Kim; F. Iskandar; and K. Okuyama (2009), Microporous and
Mesoporous Materials 120 (3): 447–453

[121]

[122]

N. Greenwood, A. Earnshaw, (1984), Chemistry of the Elements, Oxford: Pergamon, pp.
393–99

[123]

W. Stöber, A. Fink, E.J. Bohn, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1968, 26, 62.

[124]

Marie-Alexandra Neouze, Ulrich Schubert , Monatsh Chem 139, 183–195 (2008)

[125]

E. Ruckenstein, Li ZF (2005) Adv Colloid Interface Sci 113: 43

[126]

B. Pukanszky, E. Fekete, (1999) Adv Polym Sci 139: 109

[127]

SG. Grancharov, H. Zeng, S. Sun, S.X. Wang, (2005) J Phys Chem B 109: 13030

[128]

RC. Doty, T.R.shikhudo, M. Brust, DG. Fernig, (2005) Chem Mater 17: 4630

[129]

J.H. Moon, Y.G. Shul, Hong SY, Choi YS, Kim HT (2005) Inter J Adhes Adhes 25: 534

[130]

F. Liu, Quan B, Liu Z, Chen L (2005) Mater Chem Phys 93: 301

[131]

F. Hua, Swihart MT, Ruckenstein E (2005) Langmuir 21: 6054

[132]

T. Kikukawa, Kuraoka K, Kawabe K, Yamashita M, Fukumi K, Hirao K, Yazawa T (2005) J
Membr Sci 259: 161

[133]

E. Pere, H.Cardy, Latour V, Lacombe S (2005) J Colloid Interface Sci 281: 410

[134]

S. Reculusa, C. Poncet-Legrand, A. Perro, E. Duguet, E. Bourgeat-Lami, C. Mingotaud,
S. Ravaine, (2005) Chem Mater 17: 3338

[135]

Y.P. Wang, X.W. Pei, K. Yuan, (2004) Mater Lett 59: 520

157

[136]

C.G. Wu , Tzeng L-F, Kuo Y-T, Shu CH (2002) Appl Catal A 226: 199

[137]

Rajesh Ranjan, May, 2008, PhD thesis

[138]

R. David Green. Part of PhD thesis CARBON DIOXIDE REDUCTION ON GADOLINIADOPED CERIA CA THODES.

[139]

Katz, Harry Charles, Handbook of fillers for plastics, Springer 1987

[140]

Technical Bulletin Fine Particles, No. 11, Basic Characteristics of AEROSILR fumed
silica, 6th edition 2003, Degussa AG, D-40402 Dusseldorf,Germany

[141]

German patent No. 762,732.1942, Degussa.

[142]

M.I. Kohan, Polyamide plastics handbook, carl Hanser verlag, munich 1995

[143]

J. C. Ho, K.H. Wei, Macromolecules 2000, 33, 5181-5186

[144]

D.R. Holmes, Bunn, C. W.; Smith, D. J. J. Polym. Sci. 1955, 17, 159.

[145]

C. Donald, Vogelsong, D. C. J. Polym. Sci., Part A 1963, 1, 1055.

[146]

H.J. Arimoto, Polym. Sci., Part A 1964, 2, 2283.

[147]

H. Arimoto, M. Ishibashi, M. Hirai, J. Polym. Sci., Part A 1965, 3, 317.

[148]

A. Ziabicki, Kolloid-Z. 1959, 167, 132

[149]

N. Murthy, S. Curran, S.M. Aharoni, H. Minor, Macromolecules 1991, 24, 3215.

[150]

G. Gurato, A. Fichera, Grandi, Makromol. Chem. 1974, 175, 953.

[151]

Y. Kinoshita, Makromol. Chem. 1959, 33, 1.

[152]

M. Ito, K. Mizuochi, T. Kanamoto, Polymer 1998, 39, 4593.

[153]

C.W. Bunn, E.V. Garner, proceeding of the royal society, 1974, 189A, 39

[154]

Y. Kinoshita, makromolekulare chemie 1959, 33,1

[155]

H. Arimoto,M. Ishibashi, M. Hirai, Y. Chatani, Journal of polymer science A 1965, 3, 317

[156]

S. Dasgupta, Hammond, W. B.; Goddard, W. A. III. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 12291.

[157]

N. Hiramatsu, K. Haraguchi, Japanese journal of applied physic, 1983, 22, 335.

[158]

Y. Kojima, T. Matsuoka, H. Takahashi, J Material Science Letter 1993, 12, 1714.

[159]

X. Liu, Wu, Q. European Polymer Material 2002, 38, 1383.

[160]

L.J. Mathias, Davis, R. D.; Jarrett, W. L. Macromolecules 1999, 32, 7958.

[161]

T.D. Fornes, D.R. Paul, Polymer 2003, 44, 3945.

[162]

T.M. Wu, Chen, E. C.; Liao, C. S. Polymer Engineering Science 2002, 42, 1141.

[163]

P. Maiti, M. Okamoto, Macromolecule Materials and Engineering 2003, 288, 440.
158

[164]

D. Lincoln, R. Vaia, Z. Wang, Hsiao, B. S.; Krishnamoorti, R. Polymer 2001, 42, 9975.

[165]

L.M. Liu, Z.N. Qi, X.G. Zhu, J Applied Polymer Science 1999, 71, 1133.

[166]

L.J. Mathias, R.D. Davis, W.L. Jarrett, Macromolecules 1999, 32, 7958.

[167]

T.M. Wu, C.S. Liao, Macromolecule Chemistry Physics 2000, 201, 2820.

[168]

K. Varlot, E. Reynaud, M.H. Kloppfer, G. Vigier,J. Varlet, J Polymer Science Part B:
Polymer Physics 2001, 39, 1360.

[169]

P.C. LeBaron, Z. Wang, T.J. Pinnavaia, Applied Clay Science 1999, 15,11

[170]

R.A. Vaia, G. Price, P.N. Ruth, H.T. Nguyen, J.J. Lichtenhan, Applied Clay Science 1999,
15, 67.

[171]

A. Okada, Y. Fukushima, M. Kawasumi, S. Inagaki, A. Usuki, S. Sugiyami, T. Kurauchi,
O. Kamigaito, U.S. Pat. 4,739,007, (1998).

[172]

M. Kata, A. Usuki, In Polymeric-Clay Nanocomposites; Pinnavaia, T. J., Ed.; JWS:
England, 2000.

[173]

S.M: Aharoni, n-Polyamides, their synthesis, structure, and properties. Chichester; New
York: Wiley; 1997.

[174]

Arimoto H, Ishibashi M, Hirai M, Chatani Y. Journal of Polymer Science Partt A 1965;
3(1):317–26.

[175]

D.R. Holmes, C.W. Bunn, D.J. Smith, Journal of Polymer Science 1955;17:159–77.

[176]

N. Murthy, Polymer Communications 1991;32(10):301–5.

[177]

F. Rybnikar, Burda J. Faserforsch u Textiltech 1961;12:324–31.

[178]

L.G. Roldan, H.S. Kaufman, Polymer Letter 1960;1:603–8.

[179]

T. Itoh, H. Miyaji, K. Asai, Japanese Journal of Applied Physics 1975;14(2):206–15.

[180]

A. Reichle, A. Prietzschk, Angew Chem 1962;74:562–9.

[181]

L.G. Wallner, Monatsh 1948;79:279–95.

[182]

K.H. Illers, H. Haberkorn, P. Simak, Makromolekulare Chemie1972;158: 285–311.

[183]

K.H. Illers, Makromolekulare Chemie 1978;179(2):497–507.

[184]

K.H. Illers, H. Haberkorn, Makromolekulare Chemie 1971;142:31–67.

[185]

S. Gogolewski, M. Gasiorek, K. Czerniawska, A. Pennings. Colloid and Polymer Science
1982; 260(9):859–63.

[186]

D.C. Vogelsong, J Polymer Science 1963; 1(Pt. A):1055–68.

[187]

P. Marx, C. Smith, A. Worthington, M. Dole, Journal of Physical Chemistry; 59: 1015–9.

159

[188]

M. Dole, B. Wunderlich, Makromolekulare Chemie 1959;34:29–49.

[189]

M. Inoue, J Polymer Science Part A 1963; 1:2013–20.

[190]

J.R. Starkweather, P. Zoller, G.A. Jones, J Polymer Science, Polymer Physics Edition
1984; 22(9):1615–21.
B. Wunderlich, Macromolecular physics, vol. 3. New York: Academic Press; 1973.

[191]
[192]

G. Gurato, A. Fichera, F.Z. Grandi, R. Zannetti, P. Canal, Makromolekulare Chemie
1974;175(3):953–75.

[193]

M. Kyotani, S. Mitsuhashi, J Polymer Science, Part A-2 1972; 10(8): 1497–508.

[194]

R.J. Brill für Praktische Chemie 1942;161:49–64.

[195]

N. Murthy, S.M. Aharoni, A. Szollosi, J Polymer Science, Polymer Physics Edition 1985;
23(12):2549–65.

[196]

N.Murthy, S.A. Curran, S.M. Aharoni, H. Minor, Macromolecules 1991; 24(11):3215–20.

[197]

C. Ramesh, E.B. Gowd, Macromolecules 2001; 34(10):3308–13.

[198]

D.M. Lincoln, R.A. Vaia, Z.G. Wang, B.S. Hsiao, R. Krishnamoorti, Polymer 2001;
42(25):09975–85.
D.R. Salem, R. Moore, H. Weigmann, J. Polymer Science, Part B: Polymer Physics 1987;
25(3):567–89.

[199]

[200]

I. Campoy, M.A. Gomez, C. Marco, Polymer 1998; 39(25):6279–88.

[201]

A. Okada, M. Kawasumi, I. Tajima, J Applied Polymer Science 1989;37(5):1363–71.

[202]

J.H. Magill, Polymer 1962; 3:655–64.

[203]

Y. Kojima, A. Usuki, M. Kawasumi, A. Okada, J Material Research 1993; 8(5):1185–9.

[204]
[205]

Q. Wu, X. Liu, L. Berglund, Macromolecular Rapid Communications 2001;22(17): 1438–
40.
X.Liu, Q. Wu, European Polymer Journal 2002;38(7):1383–9.

[206]

Q. Wu, X. Liu, Berglund LA. Polymer 2002;43(8):2445–9.

[207]

X. Liu, Q. Wu, Polymer 2002;43(6):1933–6.

[208]

T.M. Wu, C.S. Liao, Macromolecular Chemistry and Physics 2000;201(18):2820–5.

[209]

T.M. Wu, E.C. Chen, C.S. Liao, Polymer Engineering Science 2002;42(6):1141–50.

[210]

E.Giza, H.Ito, T. Kikutani, Journal of Macromolecular Science Part B: Physics, B39(4),
545–559 (2000)

[211]

D. C. Vogelsong, J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem., 1, 1055 (1963).

[212]

H. M. Heuvel and R. Huisman, J. Polym. Sci., Polym. Phys., 19, 121 (1981).

[213]

M. Ito, K. Mizuochi, and T. Kanamoto, Polymer, 39, 4593 (1998).
160

[214]

D.L. VanderHart, A. Asano, J.W. Gilman, Chemistry of Materials 2001; 13(10): 3796–809.

[215]

D.L. VanderHart, A. Asano, J.W. Gilman, Chemistry of Materials 2001; 13(10): 3781–95.

[216]

E.M. Bradbury, A. Elliot, Polymer, 1963, 4, 47-59

[217]

I. Matsubara, J.H. Magill, Polymer 1966, 1, 199-215

[218]

H. Arimoto, Journal of Polymer Science 1964, 2, Part A, 2283-2295

[219]

G. Rotter and H. Ishida, 1992, J. Polym. Sci. Part B. Polym. Phys. 30 489

[220]

J. Ho and K. Wei Macromolecules 33 (2000), p. 5181

[221]

Q. Wu, X. Liu and Lars A. Berglund, Polymer Volume 43, Issue 8, April 2002, Pages
2445-2449

[222]

S. Dasgupta, W. Hammond and W.A. Goddard J Am Chem Soc 118 (1996), p. 12291

[223]

Y. Kinoshita Makromol Chem 33 (1959), p. 1

[224]

Y. Kojima, A. Usuki, M. Kawasumi, A. Okada, T. Kurauchi, O. Kamigaito and K. Kaji J
Polym Sci: Polym Phys 32 (1994), p. 625

[225]

Y. Kojima, A. Usuki, M. Kawasumi, A. Okada, T. Kurauchi, O. Kamigaito and K. Kaji J
Polym Sci: Polym Phys 33 (1995), p. 1039

[226]

L. Mathias, R. Davis and W. Jarrett Macromolecules 32 (1999), p. 7958

[227]

L. Liu, Z. Qi and X. Zhu J Appl Polym Sci 71 (1999), p. 1133

[228]

Y. Kojima, T. Matsuoka, H. Takahashi and T. Kurauchi J Appl Polym Sci 51 (1994), p. 683

[229]

Q. Wu, X. Liu and L.A. Berglund Macromol Rapid Commun 22 (2001), p. 1438

[230]

D.M. Lincoln, R.A. Vaia, Z.G. Wang and B.S. Hsiao, Polymer 42 (2001), p. 1621.

[231]
[232]

N. VASANTHAN, D. R. SALEM, Journal of Polymer Science: Part B: Polymer Physics,
Vol. 39, 536–547 (2001)
L.H., Sperling, Introduction to physical polymer science, 2006 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

[233]

L.E. Alexander, X-ray diffraction methods in polymer science,Wiley, New York ,1969

[234]

K.Kakudo, N.Kasai, X-ray Diffraction by polymers, Elsevier 1972

[235]

B.D. Culliy, Elements of X-ray Diffraction, Addison- Wesley, Reading MA. 1976

[236]

Williams, David Bernard, Transmission electron microscopy : a textbook for materials
science. Plenum Pr., 1996

[237]

Brent Fultz; James Howem ,Transmission electron microscopy and diffractometry of
materials ,Springer, 2004

[238]

K.-H. Henning; M. Störr ,Electron micrographs (TEM, SEM) of clays and clay minerals ,
Berlin : Akad.-Verl., 1986
161

[239]

V.B. Gupta, V.K. Kothari, Manufactured Fiber Technology, Chapmann and Hall 1997

[240]

Ning, Yong-Cheng, Structural identification of organic compounds with spectroscopic
techniques: Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2005

[241]

Martin, Derek H., Spectroscopic techniques for far infra-red, submillimetre and millimetre
waves - Amsterdam : North-Holland, 1967

[242]

A. Turi, Thermal characterization of polymeric materials / ed. by Edith 2 London :
Academic Press, 1997

[243]
[244]

Höhne, Günther, Differential scanning calorimetry : with 19 tables., Berlin : Springer,
2003
E. A. Turi, thermal analysis of polymers, Academic press, New York1982

[245]

Collins, Edward A., Experiments in polymer science, Wiley, c 1973

[246]

Billmeyer, Fred W., Textbook of polymer science,- 3. Ed, Wiley, 1984

[247]

Harry. R. Allcock, F.W. Lampe, Contemporary Polymer Chemistry, Prentice-Hall 1981

[248]

Kulicke, Werner-Michael. , Analysis of polymers : molar mass and molar mass
distribution of polymers, polyelectrolytes and latices;, Basel : Hüthig & Wepf, 1992

[249]

J. Knott and V. Rossbach, Makromolekulare Chemie 86 (1980) 203-213

[250]

S.F. Sun, Physical chemistry of macromolecules: basic principles and issues, 2nd
edition - Hoboken, NJ : Wiley, 2004
H. Mahfuz, M. M. Hasan, Macromol. Mater. Eng. 2007, 292, 437–444, and references

[251]

therein.
[252]

W. D. Zhang, Macromol. Rapid Commun. 2004, 25, 1860.

[253]

L.S. Schadler, In Nanocomposite Science and Technology; Ajayan, P. M.; Schadler, L. S.;
Braun, P.V., Eds., Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, 2003, Chapter 2, pp 77–144.

[254]

J. Rottstegge, X. Zhang, Y. Zhou, D. Xu, J Appl Polym Sci 2007, 103, 218.

[255]

G. Qian, T. Lan, In Handbook of Polypropylene and Polypropylene Composites; Harutun,
G. K., Ed., Marcel Dekker: New York, Basel, 2003; Chapter 20, pp 707–728.

[256]

J.W. Cho, D.R. Paul, Polymer 42 (2001) 1083-1094

[257]

S. H. Kim, S. H. Ahn, and T. Hirai, Polymer, 44, 5625 (2003).

[258]

S. Buchner, D. Wiswe, and H. G. Zachmann, Polymer, 30, 480 (1989).

[259]

S. S. Im, S. C. Chung, W. G. Hahm, and S. G. Oh, Macromol. Res., 10, 221 (2002).

[260]

ASTMD-3822–07 (Standard test method for tensile properties of single textile fibers),
ASTM International: West Conshohocken, PA. Available at www.astm.org.

[261]

S. Z. D. Cheng, Z. Q. Wu, and B. Wunderlich, Macromolecules, 20, 2802 (1987).

162

[262]

H. G. Kim and R. E. Robertson, J. Polym. Sci. Polym. Phys.Ed., 36, 1757 (1998).

[263]

D. J. Blundell, Polymer, 37, 1167 (1987).

[264]

F. J. Medellin-Rodriguez, P. J. Phillips, and J. S. Lin, Macromolecules,29, 7491 (1996).

[265]

J. Y. Kim, E. S. Seo, S. H. Kim, and T. Kikutani, Macromol.Res., 11, 62 (2003).

[266]

T. Sabu, G.E Zaikov, Polymer nanocomposite research advance , Nova science
publisher, New York 2008

[267]

D.P.N. Vlasveld, J. Groenewold, H.E.N. Bersee, E. Mendes, S.J. Picken , Polymer 46
(2005) 6102–6113

[268]

Y. Kojima, A. Usuki, M. Kawasumi,T. Kurauchi, et al., J Mater Res 1993;8(5):1185–9.

[269]

J.S. Shelley, P.T. Mather, K.L. DeVries, Polymer 2001; 42(13):5849–58.

[270]

E.P. Giannelis, Adv Mater 1996; 8(1):29.

[271]

A. Usuki, A. Koiwai, Y. Kojima, Kurauchi T, et al. J Appl Polym Sci 1995;55(1):119–23.

[272]

T.D. Fornes, D.R. Paul, Polymer 2003; 44(17):4993–5013.

[273]

N. Hasegawa, H. Okamoto, M. Kato, A. Usuki, N. Sato, Polymer 2003; 44(10):2933–7.

[274]

M. Maiti, A.K.Bhowmick, Journal of Applied Polymer Science, Vol. 101, 2407–2411 (2006)

[275]

Y. Kojima, A. Usuki, M. Kawasumi, Y. Fukushima, Journal of Material Research 1993, 8,
1185.

[276]

G. Chen, S. Liu, S. Chen, Z. Qi, Macromolecule Chemistry Physics 2001, 202, 1189.

[277]

X. Li, T.K. Kang, W.J. Cho, Macromolecule Rapid Communication 2001, 22, 1306.

[278]

P.B. Messermith, E.P. Giannelis, Chemistry Material 1994, 6, 1719.

[279]

S. Sadhu, A.Bhowmick, Journal of Polymer Science Part B: Polymer Phys 2004,42, 1573.

[280]

M. Maiti, S. Sadhu, A. Bhowmick, Journal of Polymer Science Part B: Polymer Phys 2004,
42, 4489.

[281]

T. Lan, T. Pinnavaia, Journal of Chemistry Material 1999, 6, 2216.

[282]

Zh. Shen, G.P. Simon, Polymer 43 (2002) 4251-4260

[283]

Y. Li, H. Ishida, Polymer 44 (2003) 6571–6577

[284]

E. Ruiz-Hitzky, Advanced Material 1993; 5:334.

[285]

H.G. Jeon, H. Jung, S. Lee, S.Hudson, Polymer Bulletin 1998; 41:107.

[286]

F.Yang, Y. Ou, Zh. Yu, JournalJournal of applied polymer science, vol.69, 355-361 (1998)

[287]

L.Liu,Z.QI,X.ZHU, J.of applied polymer science, Vol.71, pp. 1133-1138(1999)

163

[288]

H.Yang, C.Huang , ANTEC 2006 pp. 526-531

[289]

T.D.Fornes,D.R.Paul, Polymer 44 (2003) pp. 3945-3961

[290]

M.Yuan, L.S.Turng, S.Gong, J.of CELLULAR PLASTIC Vol.40 Sep2004

[291]

Huimin Lu et al. Bull.Mater.Sci.,Vol. 29 , Nov 5 , October 2006 pp 485-490

[292]

Seong Hun Kim et al. , Macromolecular Research, Vol. 14,No. 2, pp.146-154(2006)

[293]

L. Shen, Q. Du, H. Wang, W. Zhong and Y. Yang, 2004, Polym.Int. 53 1153

[294]

G. Rusu, E. Rusu, high performance polymer, 18: 355-375, 2006

[295]

G. Rusu and E. Rusu, 2004, high performance polymer 16 569

[296]

S.Z. Petrovic, I. Javni, A.Waddon and G. Banhegyi, 2000, J.Appl.Polym.Sci. 76 133

[297]

P. C. Powell, A. J. I. Housz, ‘‘Engineering with Polymers’’, 2nd edition, Stanley Thornes
Publishers, Ltd., Cheltenham, UK 1998.

[298]

P.B. Messersmith and E. Giannelis,1995, J. Polym. Sci. Part A. Polym Chem. 33 1047

[299]

A. Usuki, Y. Kojim, M. Kawasumi, A. Okada, Y. Fukushima, 1993 J. Mater.Res. 8 1179

[300]

K.A. Carrado and L. Xu, 1998, Chem. Mater. 10 1440

[301]

J.W. Cho and D.R. Paul, 2001, Polymer 42 1083

[302]

H. Dennis, D. Hunter, D. Chang ,S. Kim, J. White, J. Cho, D. Paul, 2001 Polymer 42 9513

[303]

T.D. Fornes, P.J. Yoon, H. Keskkula and D.R. Paul, 2002, Polymer 43 2121

[304]

W.E. van Zyl, M. Garcia, B. Schrauwen, B. Kooi, 2002, Macromol. Mater. Eng. 287 106

[305]

W. Helbert, J.Y. Cavaille and Dufresne A, 1996, Polym. Comp. 17 604

[306]

M. Rong, M. Zhang, W. Ruan, Materials Science and Technology, 22, 787–796 (2006).

[307]

T.F. Tadros, Advances in Colloid and Interface Science, 46, 1–47 (1993).

[308]

R.O. James, American Ceramic Society, Westerville, 349–410 (1987).

[309]

G.R. Joung, W. Sang, H. Kim, J. Lee, Materials Science Engineering: C, 24, 285–288
(2003).

[310]

L. F. Cai1, Z. Y. Lin2, H. Qian,Polymer Letters Vol.4, No.7 (2010) 397–403

[311]

LI. YING, YU. JIAN, Journal of Applied Polymer Science, Vol. 84, 827–834 (2002) ,

[312]

X. Liu, Q. Wu, L.A. Berglund and Qi Z, 2002, Macromol. Mater. Eng. 287 515

[313]

L. LIMIN, Q. ZONGNENG, ZHU. XIAOGUANG , Journal of Applied Polymer Science,
Vol. 71, 1133–1138 (1999)

[314]

T.Wu, C.S. Mand Liao, 2000, Macromol. Chem. Phys. 201 2820

[315]

T.X. Liu, Z.H. Liu, K.X. Ma K, L. Shen, 2003 Composit. Sci. Technol. 63 331
164

[316]

L. Shen, Q. Du, H. Wang, W. Zhong and Yang Y 2004 Polym. Int. 53 1153

[317]

J. Kondelkova, Z.Tuzar, J. Kraliceck, Angew, Macromol. Chem. 64 123, 1977

[318]

J.G. de la Campa, E. Guijarro, F.J. Serna and J. de Abajo, Eur. Polym. J. 21 1013, 1985

[319]

J.K. Kap, S.L. Jong, A.P. Arun, H.K. Taek, POLYMER COMPOSITES 30, 265(2009)

[320]

Y.P. Khanna, R. Kumar, A.C. Reimschuessel, Polym Eng Sci 1988; 28(24):1607–11.

[321]

Y.P. Khanna, A.C. Reimschuessel, A. Banerjie, Polym Eng Sci 1988; 28(24):1600–6.

[322]

Y.P. Khanna, R. Kumar, A.C. Reimschuessel, Polym Eng Sci 1988; 28(24):1612–5.

[323]

Y.P. Khanna, A.C. Reimschuessel, J Appl Polym Sci 1988; 35(8): 2259–68.

[324]

Y.P. Khanna, Polym Eng Sci 1990; 30(24):1615–9.

[325]

N. Avramova, Polym Polym Compos 1993; 1(4):261–74.

[326]

JH. Magill, Polymer 1962; 3(No. 1):43–51.

[327]

E. Turska, S. Gogolewski, Polymer 1971;12(10):616–28.

[328]

E. Turska, S. Goglewski, J Appl Polym Sci 1975;19(3):637–44.

[329]

N. Avramova, S. Fakirov, I. Avramov, J Polym Sci, Polym Phys 1984; 22(2):311–3.

[330]

N. Avramova, S. Fakirov, J Polym Sci, Polym Phys 1986; 24(4):761–8.

[331]

I. A.M. Ibrahim, A.A.F. Zikry, M. A. Sharaf, Journal of American Science, 2010;6(11)

165

Lebenslauf
Mohammad Reza Sarbandi

Persönliche Daten:

Geburtsdatum:

29.08.1976

Geburtsort:

Tehran - Iran

Staatsangehörigkeit:

Iraner

E-mail:

reza.sarbandi@gmail.com

Schulbildung

1982-1987

Primary School -Tehran-Iran

1987-1990

Guidance School - Tehran- Iran

1990-1994

High School - Tehran- Iran

166

Studium
1994-1999

Bachelor of Science in Textile chemistry & Fiber Science engineering
Polytechnic university - Tehran - Iran

1999-2002

Master of Science in Textile chemistry & Fiber Science engineering
Isfahan University of Technology - Isfahan – Iran

Seit Juni 2008

Promotionsstudium in Chemie
Institut für Polymerchemie
Lehrstuhl für Makromolekulare Stoffe und Fasserchemie
An der Universität Stuttgart
Bei Herrn Prof.Dr. Dr. h.c. Franz Effenberger

167

