Aus dem Universitätsklinikum Münster
Klinik & Poliklinik für Neurochirurgie
Direktor: Univ.-Prof. Dr. med. Hansdetlef Wassmann

Pharmacological investigation of spreading depression
propagation in rat neocortical tissues
INAUGURAL - DISSERTATION

zur
Erlangung des doctor medicinae dentium

Der Medizinischen Fakultät
der Westfälischen Wilhelms-Universität Münster

Aziza El Harrak
aus Meknes
2009

1

Gedruckt mit Genehmigung der Medizinischen Fakultät der Westfälischen WilhelmsUniversität Münster

2

Dekan: Univ.-Prof. Dr. Wilhelm Schmitz
1. Berichterstatter: PD. Dr. med. Greiner
2. Berichterstatter: Prof. Dr. med. Ali Gorji
Tag der müdlichen Prüfung: 20.11.2009

3

Aus dem Universitätsklinikum Münster
Klinik & Poliklinik für Neurochirurgie
Direktor: Univ.-Prof. Dr. med. Hansdetlef Wassmann
Referent: PD. Dr. med. Ch. Greiner
Koreferent: Prof. Dr. med. Ali Gorji
Zusammenfassung: Pharmakologische Untersuchungen der Ausbreitung von spreading
depression-Reaktionen in der Hirnrinde der Ratte
Aziza El Harrak
Als Cortical Spreading Depression (CSD) wird eine zeitlich limitierte Störung der kortikalen
Ionenhomöostase bezeichnet, die sich langsam und wellengleich über den Neokortex und
andere Bereiche grauer Substanz ausbreitet und zu einer konsekutiven Unterdrückung der
neuronalen Aktivität führt. CSD ist ein akut auftretendes Phänomen, das aus verschiedenen
Interaktionen

synaptischer

Transmissionen

im

Kortex

resultiert.

Die

vorliegende

Untersuchung befasst sich mit den Entstehungsmechanismen der CSD. CSD wurden durch
eine KCL-Injektion in die dritte Schicht (layer III) des Kortexpräparats induziert. Die
Aufzeichnung der Feldpotentiale der CSD erfolgte simultan durch vier Mikroelektroden, die
mit einem Abstand von 2-3 mm ebenfalls in der dritten Schicht platziert wurden. Ziel der
Arbeit war es den Einfluss verschiedener Substanzen auf die CSD und ihre Ausbreitung zu
untersuchen. Dabei wurden folgende Substanzen verwendet: NMDA receptor antagonist DL2-Amino-5-phosphonovaleric

acid

(APV),

AMPA

receptor

antagonist

6-cyano-7-

nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), GABA receptor antagonist bicuculline, dopamine D1
receptor agonist SKF 81297, und dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole. Die
elektrodennahe

Zugabe

von

APV

führte

zu

einer

signifikanten

Reduktion

der

Ausbreitungsgeschwindigkeit und der CSD-Amplitude. Die fokale Zugabe der anderen
Substanzen zeigte weder eine Wirkung auf die Ausbreitungsgeschwindigkeit noch auf die
Amplitude. Die Ergebnisse dieser Untersuchung weisen auf eine Beteiligung des Glutamat
NMDA Subrezeptors APV bei der Entstehung der CSD im somatosensorischen Kortex der
Ratte hin.
Tag der müdlichen Prüfung: 20.11.2009
4

Abstract
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is a massive but temporary perturbation in the cortical
ionic homeostasis leading to a depression of neuronal activity that spreads (hence the name)
through the neocortex and other gray matter regions in the brain. CSD is an emergent
phenomenon arising from the interaction of many different transmission phenomena in the
cortex. In this study, the basic pharmacological mechanisms of the propagation of CSD in rat
neocortical tissues were investigated. CSD were induced by injection of KCl in the third
layers of neocortical tissues. Simultaneous field potential recordings of CSD were obtained
from four microelectrodes placed 2-3 mm apart across coronal slices in the third layer of the
neocortex. The effects of NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-Amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid
(APV), AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), GABA
receptor antagonist bicuculline, dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF 81297, and dopamine D2
receptor agonist quinpirole on lateral propagation of CSD were investigated. APV, applied
focally between recording sites, significantly reduced CSD propagation velocity across treated
areas as well as the amplitude of CSD. Focal application of other substances did not change
the characteristics of CSD and its horizontal propagation. These results indicate the
importance of glutamate NMDA subreceptors in propagation of CSD in rat somatosensory
neocortex.

5

Introduction
Spreading depression (SD) is a phenomenon which represents as a propagating wave of
neuronal depolarisation followed by a transient wake of depression (Leao, 1944; Gorji, 2001).
SD could be initiated by different stimuli in animal models and studied in various in vivo and
in vitro experimental models. It was first induced by applying a brief tetanus of faradic
stimulation to the rabbit cortex (Leao, 1944; Bures et al., 1974). Mechanical stimulation, for
example, by stroking of the cortical surface with a blunt instrument, a falling weight or even
lightly tapping the cortex also initiates SD (Lea˜o, 1944). More recent studies have achieved
more reliable and reproducible induction of SD by rapidly inserting and retracting
hypodermic steel needles (Lambert et al., 1999; Ebersberger et al., 2001). However, the most
common models of SD initiation is KCl application (Wernsmann et al., 2006; Dehbandi et al.,
2008). This model has been shown to be the most reliable stimulus leading to reproducible
events on earlier occasions in both non-imaging and imaging studies (Bradley et al., 2001). In
any case, changes in extracellular K+ concentration themselves might be involved in such
pathophysiological processes in human brain tissue (Mayevsky et al., 1996; Nicholson and
Sykova, 1998). SD appears to affect both the neuronal and the glial cells.
The first paper on SD, titled "Spreading depression of activity in the cerebral cortex"
appeared in 1944, written by a Brazilian neuroscientist, Aristides Leão, working at the
Harvard laboratory. Leão wanted to study the electrocorticogram (ECoG) of experimental
epilepsy in anesthetized rabbits, but he was distracted from his original goal by an unexpected
flattening of the ongoing normal bioelectrical activity that took the place of the anticipated
epileptiform field potentials. The silencing of the ECoG trace crept slowly over the cortex,
from one recording electrode pair resting on the cortical surface to the one beside it.
According to Leão, SD and propagating focal seizures were related phenomena, generated by
the same cellular elements, an inference later supported by others.
6

SD is an "all-or-none" type process and propagates in the manner of a wave through gray
matter. SD appears first at the stimulated site and spreads out in all directions at the velocity
of 2–3 mm/min, so that increasingly distant areas undergo successively a similar temporary
depression. A crucial manifestation of SD is a propagating negative potential with amplitude
of 10–30 mV and duration of more than 30 sec, which may be preceded or succeeded by a
positive fluctuation of variable amplitude and duration (Figure 1). Underlying this cellular
depolarisation is a dramatic change in the distribution of micromilieu ions between extra- and
intracellular compartments. Potassium and proton release from the cells, while sodium,
calcium and chloride enter together with water causing cells to swell and the volume of the
extracellular compartment to be decreased. SD is accompanied by an increase of glucose
utilization and O2 consumption. Recovery of SD depends on energy metabolism.
SD has been studied in vivo and in vitro in brain slices and in retinal preparations under
different experimental conditions. It has been also observed in human neocortical tissue in
vitro and in human hippocampus as well as striatum and neocortex in vivo. SD can be
regularly initiated if the tissue susceptibility is artificially raised. Hypoxia as well as
hypoglycemia and changing the extracellular ionic concentrations by administration of
solutions with increased K+, decreased NaCl or with the Cl− of the latter replaced by certain
other anions lower the threshold (Gorji, 2001).
There is sufficient evidence to admit the SD plays an important role in different neurological
disorders (Gorji, 2001; Somjen, 2001). Subdural recordings in patients demonstrated that SD
is critically involved in various disorders associated with acute neuronal injury including
traumatic and spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage (Strong et al., 2002; Fabricius et al.,
2008) as well as subarachnoid haemorrhage and ischaemic stroke and contribute to tissue
damage. Furthermore, propagation of a SD-like phenomenon in human neocortical tissues has
been shown to generate aura symptoms in migrainous patients (Hadjikhani et al. 2001).
7

Although interrelation of SD and epilepsy has been considered for a long time, the possible
pathophysiological role of SD in epilepsy needs to be elucidated.

DC4
I
II

DC3
III

IV

DC2

V

2 mV

DC1

VI

10 s

KCl

Figure 1. Vertical propagation of a negative DC-potential wave after injection of KCl in a
neocortical slice. Injection of KCl solution (3 M) via a microelectrode elicited spreading
depression-like fluctuation during superfusion with artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Injecting and
recording electrodes arranged as shown. Voltage variations were recorded simultaneously by
four electrodes (DC1–DC4) which set apart by 1 mm (Adopted from Gorji et al., 2001).
SD is also a well-known phenomenon in experimental epilepsy. SD has been observed in a
variety of in vitro and in vivo epilepsy models in different animal species. Reduction of
extracellular Mg2+ concentrations, activation of NMDA receptors, blocking of K+ channels,
8

e.g., by 4-aminopyridine, increased extracellular K+, blocking of Na+–K+ ATPase, e.g., by
ouabain, blocking of Ca2+ channels, e.g., by NiCl2, blocking of GABA receptors, e.g., by
picrotoxin, are the common pathways for eliciting epileptiform burst discharges and SD in
experimental models. By all aforementioned mechanisms SD appears spontaneously between
epileptiform ictal events. SD can be elicited in susceptible area by a single discharge of an
epileptic focus (spike triggered SD). Epileptiform field potentials usually suppress during SD
occurrence and reappear in few minutes. CSD penetration into the epileptic foci was
established in different model of epilepsy. However, it should be noted that SD does not enter
electrically or pharmacologically elicited foci of epileptic activity with high rates of interictal
discharges which resulted in anomalous SD propagation. This abnormal SD conduction may
account for periodic changes of ictal and interictal activity found in some types of focal
epilepsy.

Propagation of SD
Widely accepted hypotheses hold that the primary event responsible for both the initiation and
the propagation of SD is the release of some substance from neuronal elements to the
extracellular compartment, which initially excites and then depresses adjacent neurons. The
slowness of diffusion of the mediator would account for the low velocity of SD propagation.
Among the substances proposed to mediate SD propagation are potassium (Grafstein, 1963;
Bures et al., 1974) and excitatory amino acids (Fabricius et al., 1993). There are, however,
observations that are difficult to reconcile with either of these two propositions.
SD had been interpreted as a composite process or a sequence of several linked events. To
solve its genesis, a most important question concerns identification of the very first step in the
chain reaction. In the extant literature, however, generally more attention has been given to
the major depolarization and the attending extracellular potential shift (AI’,) than to the
antecedent events. Among antecedents heralding the onset of SD that have been reported, are
9

a slight increase of extracellular potassium, a small positive shift preceding the fast negative
shift of the extracellular potential and several types of fast field activity including a short burst
of action potentials or intense synaptic noise (Leao, 1944; Higashida et al., 1974). Even a
silence of spontaneous or evoked activity has occasionally been described prior to other signs
(Higashida et al., 1974). Not all of these early signs are obligatory prodromals of the large,
accelerating, regenerative depolarization that is typical of the process.

Even though the discharge of impulses is not required for the initiation or the propagation of
SD, the impulse shower does regularly appear at its beginning. The mechanism that gives rise
to the impulse discharge may well have a key role in the evolution of SD. The widely spread
synchronization seems best explained by electrical continuity that could be provided by gap
junctions. Effective communication by way of quasi-syncytial nets has been demonstrated in
other systems, for example in the spread of so-called calcium waves in cell cultures (CornellBell et al., 1990). Patent gap junctions may provide a path not only for electric current and for
ions but also for intracellular “second” messengers and other active ingredients in cytosol. SD
has frequently been interpreted as a diffusion-reaction process whose velocity of spread is
governed by the rate of the reaction, which could involve the release of some substance from
cells that then acted on the cell membrane of adjacent cells. As there are reasons for doubting
a decisive role of either K or of glutamate, we are proposing an alternative hypothesis,
involving the exchange of chemical signals not through the interstitial space but by way of
gap junctions. The autocatalytic reaction so initiated would alter the membrane from the
inside, instead of acting on receptors on the outside.
Cortical structures are organized to process information in a parallel manner via excitatory
and inhibitory interactions within and between adjacent cortical modules (Mountcastle, 1997).
Throughout the CNS, local circuit inhibition plays an integral role in both neuronal network
processing and the regulation of the excitability of projection neurons. Inhibitory circuits may
10

be particularly important to signal processing in cortical networks with pronounced recurrent
excitatory interactions (Wong et al., 1984). This inhibition may limit the lateral spread of
excitation and facilitate discharge synchronization of projection neurons by inducing a
synchronous refractory period. Breakdown in the dynamic balance of inhibitory and
excitatory interaction can lead to a functional disconnection (Wong and Prince, 1990) and
disrupts the normal spread of lateral excitation (Grunze et al., 1996).
Lateral propagation of CSD could be considered as a crucial factor in induction of some
pathological processes in brain. Therefore, basic pharmacological mechanisms of this
propagation in rat neocortical tissues were investigated.

11

Material and methods

Slice preparation
Adult rats (250–300 g) were decapitated under deep methohexital anaesthesia and the brains
were rapidly removed to ice-cold (4 °C) artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF). The cerebellum
was removed and a cut was made to divide the two cerebral hemispheres. Slices containing
the temporal cortex, the perirhinal cortex, the entorhinal cortex, the subiculum, the dentate
gyrus, the hippocampus, as well as the amygdala (500 µm) were cut in a nearly horizontal
plane. Up to two different slices from each side were collected in a preparation. Slices were
stored at 28 °C in ACSF, which contained (in mm) NaCl, 124; KCl, 4; CaCl2, 1.0; NaH2PO4,
1.24; MgSO4, 1.3; NaHCO3, 26; glucose, 10 (pH 7.4), oxygenated with 95% O2 and 5% CO2
for > 1 h. After 30-min incubation, CaCl2 was elevated to 2.0 mmol/L. Slices were
individually transferred to an interphase recording chamber, placed on a transparent
membrane, illuminated from below and continuously perfused (1.5–2 mL/min) with
carbogenated ACSF at 32 °C. A warmed, humified 95% O2 and 5% CO2 gas mixture was
directed over the surface of the slices.

Electrophysiological recordings
Simultaneous extracellular field potentials were recorded via two glass microelectrodes (150
mmol/L NaCl; 2 - 10 MΩ) positioned at approximately 5-10 mm intervals across the length of
the slice in the third cortical layer (figure 2). The reference electrode and the connection to the
microelectrode were symmetric Ag-Ag-KCl bridges. Field potentials were traced by an ink
writer and recorded by a digital oscilloscope. Inter-electrode distances were measured with a
calibrated eyepiece through the microscope.

Induction of CSD

12

A glass electrode filled with 2 m KCl was fixed in a special holder connected with plastic tube
to a pressure injector and the tip inserted into the temporal neocortical slices (layer III). A
high-pressure pulse was applied to inject in the tissue an amount of K+ sufficient to induce
CSD (tip diameter, 2 µm; injection pressure, 0.5–1.0 bar applied for 200–300 ms, two
separate injections, 1–3 nL per pulse, 2–5 mm apart from nearby recording electrodes). CSD
were evaluated with respect to their amplitudes, duration and velocity rates. Duration of DC
potential fluctuation width was measured at its half-maximal amplitude.

Experimental procedure
After minimum 30 min incubation, CSD was induced by KCl application. After another 15
min, several compounds were applied to small areas of cortex between the two middle
electrodes of the four-channel array. Compounds applied were: DL-2-Amino-5phosphonovaleric acid (APV; 50 μmol/L), 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 10
μmol/L), bicuculline (10 μmol/L), SKF 81297 (25 μmol/L), and quinpirole (20 μmol/L). The
abovementioned drugs were administered focally through microelectrodes on to slices
(electrode tip diameter 2–3 μM, 0.5–2 bar; 500–800 ms, 3–5 nl). Drugs were released through
microelectrodes on to the surface of the slices. A strip of filter paper controlled diffusion of
the drugs.
All compounds were purchased from Sigma Chemical Company. All data are given as mean ±
standard error of the mean (SEM). The data were statistically analyzed using the Mann–
Whitney rank sum test. Multiple comparisons were performed by analysis of variance test
(ANOVA) for repeated measures followed by a Dunn's test. Significance was established
when the probability values were <0.05. The experiments were approved by the
Bezirksregierung

Münster

(Tierversuchsgenehmigung,

Bezirksregierung

Münster,

Deutschland, AZ: 50.0835.1.0, G79/2002).

13

Drug application

FP1

FP2

Kcl application

Figure 2. Arrangement of recording and application electrodes.

14

Results

Control slices
Application of KCl in to neocortical slices elicited fluctuations of the DC potentials consisting
of initially negative shifts, followed by positive waves. The triggered wave propagated first
the nearby electrode, and a few seconds later the other electrode located parallel to this
electrode. The amplitude and duration of negative DC deflections were 13.6 ± 0.8 mV and
102 ± 13.1 seconds, respectively, in the first electrode. The amplitude and duration of CSD
recorded by the second electrode was 11.5 ± 0.6 mV and 93 ± 10.3 seconds, respectively. The
velocity of SD propagation was determined by dividing the distance between two
microelectrodes by the interval of DC potential shift appearances. The velocity of vertical
propagation of DC fluctuation was 3.6 ± 0.2 mm/min.

Pharmacological investigation of horizontal CSD propagation
We studied the involvement of the different receptors in horizontal propagation of CSD by
application of antagonists or agonists of these receptors in the somatosensory neocortical
slices. The roles of NMDA-subreceptors were tested by local application of NMDA
antagonist, APV (50 micromol/l, n = 16). Administration of APV significantly decreased the
velocity of CSD propagation. CSD propagated with the speed of 2.1 ± 0.2 after application of
APV (P ≤ 0.001; ANOVA test, Holm-Sidak’ method). Furthermore, amplitude of CSD also
decreased to 7.3 ± 0.4 mV under application of APV (figure 3). After one hour washout of the
slices with ACSF, CSD induced by another KCl injection. Both velocity and amplitude of
CSD returned to APV pre-application levels (12.7 ± 0.7 mV and 96 ± 12.7 seconds).
However, application of AMPA receptor antagonist CNQX (10 μmol/L; n = 12), GABA
recptor antagonist bicuculline (10 μmol/L; n = 12), dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF

15

81297(25 μmol/L; n = 12), und dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (20 μmol/L; n = 12)
did not change the velocity of CSD horizontal propagation. These substances also did not alter
the amplitude as well as duration of CSD after application of abovementioned drugs.
FP1

Fp2

F P1

F P1

F P2

F P2
ACSF

NMDA

Figure 3. Local application of glutamate NMDA sub-receptor antagonist DL-2-Amino-5phosphonovaleric acid (APV; 50 μmol/L) decreased the velocity of horizontal propagation of
CSD as well as the amplitude of CSD in rat somatosensory neocortical tissues.

16

Discussion
The present data indicate that blocking of glutamate NMDA sub-receptor play an important
role in horizontal propagation of CSD in rat somatosensory neocortical tissues. However, this
study revealed that glutamate AMPA sub-receptor as well as GABA and dopamine receptors
have no effect in lateral propagation of CSD in these tissues.
SD cellular correlate is a depolarization shift associated with complete breakdown of the
membrane potential that is dependent on the asymmetric intra- and extracellular ion
distribution and is maintained by the energy consuming work of membrane pumps. The
ability of neurons to generate action potentials is lost during SD, which explains the spreading
electrical silence accompanied SD under physiological conditions (Somjen 2001). In the other
hand, epileptic activity is characterized by the paroxysmal depolarization shift, a
hypersynchronous network event resulting from a giant excitatory postsynaptic potential. A
paroxysmal depolarization shift is the correlate of. The EPSP is presumably the consequence
of synchronous activation of recurrent excitatory pathways (Jonston and Brown, 1984). SD is
accompanied by a very large increase in [K+]o. The increase in [K+]o is accompanied by a
precipitous drop in [Cl ]o, [Na+]o, and [Ca2+]o.
It was postulated that the excitatory amino acid glutamate plays a role in the chain of events
triggering SD (Bures et al., 1974). The neocortex releases excitatory amino acids including
glutamate and aspartate, to the extracellular space during CSD (Van Harreveld and Kooiman,
1965). Subsequently it has been shown that the triggering of SD requires activation of the
NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor in rat cerebral cortex (Bures et al., 1974), in chick
retina (Seeling, 1993) and in human neocortical tissues (Gorji et al., 2001). Other glutamate
subreceptor (AMPA, kainate and quisqualate) can induce SD but their initiation inhibited by

17

NMDA receptor antagonist (Lauritzen et al., 1988). This suggests that glutamate evokes SD
via an action at NMDA receptors.
Migraine sufferers (notably with aura) have substantially higher plasma glutamate and
aspartate levels than controls and tension headache patients between attacks. During migraine
attacks, glutamate and to a lesser extent aspartate levels are even further increased which
show a defective cellular reuptake mechanism for these excitatory amino acids in migraineurs
(Ferrari et al., 1990). Another study showed that migraine patients during attacks had higher
CSF concentrations of glutamic acid than in controls (Martinez et al., 1993). Aura symptoms
cause severe disability over many hours to days in patients with familial hemiplegic migraine
(FHM). Intranasal application of the NMDA antagonist ketamine reversibly reduced the
severity and duration of neurological deficit in FHM (Kaube et al., 2000). Subcutaneous
administration of ketamine produced a marked relief of pain both as an acute treatment and as
a prophylactic therapy in migraineurs (Nicolodi and Sicuteri, 1995). In addition, it was
suggested that NMDA-mediated transmission is involved in nociceptive trigeminovascular
transmission within the trigeminocervical complex in cats (Goadsby and Classey, 2000). The
NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 reduces capsaicin-induced c-fos expression within rat
trigeminal nucleus caudalis suggest that NMDA receptors provide a potential therapeutic
target for cephalic pain (e.g., migraine) due to trigeminovascular activation from meningeal
afferents (Mitsikostas et al., 1989).
5-HT1A receptor stimulation suppresses NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic excitation in the
rat visual cortex (Edagawa et al., 1999). NMDA receptor blockade as well as activation of the
5-HT1A receptor attenuates the properties of KCl-induced SD in parietal cortical slices of
adult rats (Kruger et al., 1999). Migraine patients have a greater cerebral 5-HT1A
hypersensitivity and several anti-migraine agents exhibit marked 5-HT1A receptor activity
(Leone et al., 1998).
18

Magnesium is known to block the NMDA receptor. The available evidence suggests that up to
50% of patients during an acute migraine attack have lowered levels of ionized magnesium
(Ramadan et al., 1999). Erythrocytes and lymphocytes magnesium concentrations are
significantly lower in migraine patients as compared to controls (James et al., 2000). Infusion
of magnesium results in a rapid and sustained relief of an acute migraine in such patients
(Mauskop et al., 1995). However, it should be mentioned that magnesium concentration has
an effect on serotonin receptors, nitric oxide synthesis and release, and a variety of other
migraine-related receptors and neurotransmitters (Mauskop and Altura, 1998). It is well
known that reduced magnesium facilitates the development of SD in animal models and
human tissues (Mody et al., 1987). Intravenous magnesium as well as the NMDA receptor
antagonist MK-801 significantly reduced the frequency of SD evoked by cortical KCl
application in rats. On the other hand, SD affects magnesium metabolism in the central
nervous system (van der Hel et al., 1998). The magnesium sulphate anesthesia was
considerably shortened approximately four times by CSD in functional decorticated mice in
comparison with control animals (Bohdanecky and Necina 1963). All these data, in line with
our findings, showed the importance of NMDA receptors in CSD and its related neurological
disorders.
Our data revealed that GABA receptors have no effect on CSD lateral propagation. However,
it should be noted that these receptors are important for CSD initiation. Increasing of
potassium concentration may further impairs GABA mediated inhibition and leads to
appearance of ictaform burst discharges. Higashima et al. (1996) have shown that activation
of GABAergic mechanisms is necessary for the generation of afterdischarges recorded in
hippocampal slices after electrical stimuli. Experimental and computational data obtained by
Traub et al. (1996) also suggest a role played by GABAA-mediated depolarizing conductance
in the epileptiform synchronization that occurs in some models of epileptiform discharge (in

19

particular that induced by 4AP application). GABAergic inhibitory networks can also
synchronize principal cells in the neocortex and hippocampus (Cobb et al. 1995). Higashima
et al. (1996) have shown that activation of GABAergic mechanisms is necessary for the
generation of afterdischarges recorded in hippocampal slices after electrical stimuli.
Experimental and computational data obtained by Traub et al. (1996) also suggest a role
played by GABAA-mediated depolarizing conductance in the epileptiform synchronization
that occurs in some models of epileptiform discharge (in particular that induced by 4AP
application). GABAergic inhibitory networks can also synchronize principal cells in the
neocortex and hippocampus (Cobb et al. 1995).
Conclusion
The data present electrophysiological evidence for crucial role of NMDA receptors in CSD
lateral propagation in the somatosensory neocortex of rats. Evidences indicate an importants
role of NMDA receptors in CSD related neurological disorders such as migraine with aura.
The clinical impact of these findings will be the subject of future investigations on new
strategy for treatment of these neurological disorders.

20

References
Bohdanecky Z, Necina J. Course of some pharmacological tests in functionally decorticated
animals. Physiol. Bohemoslov. 1963;12:55–61.
Bradley DP, Smith MI, Netsiri C, Smith JM, Bockhorst KH, Hall LD, Huang CL, Leslie RA,
Parsons AA, James MF. Diffusion-weighted MRI used to detect in vivo modulation of
cortical spreading depression: comparison of sumatriptan and tonabersat. Exp Neurol.
2001;172:342-53.
Bures J., Buresova O., Krivanek J. In: The Mechanisms and Applications of Leao’s Spreading
Depression of Electroencephalographic Activity, Academic Press, New York (1974).
Cobb SR, Buhl EH, Halasy K, Paulsen O, Somogyi P. Synchronization of neuronal activity in
hippocampus by individual GABAergic interneurons. Nature 1995;378:75-8.
Cornell-Bell AH, Finkbeiner SM, Cooper MS, Smith SJ. Glutamate induces calcium waves in
cultured astrocytes: long-range glial signaling. Science. 1990;247:470-3.
Dehbandi S, Speckmann EJ, Pape HC, Gorji A. Cortical spreading depression modulates
synaptic transmission of the rat lateral amygdala. Eur J Neurosci. 2008;27:2057-65
Ebersberger A, Schaible HG, Averbeck B, Richter F.Is there a correlation between spreading
depression, neurogenic inflammation, and nociception that might cause migraine headache?
Ann Neurol. 2001;49:7-13.
Edagawa Y, Saito H, Abe K. Stimulation of the 5-HT1A receptor selectively suppresses
NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic excitation in the rat visual cortex. Brain Res.
1999;827:225–228.
Fabricius M, Fuhr S, Willumsen L, Dreier JP, Bhatia R, Boutelle MG, Hartings JA, Bullock
R, Strong AJ, Lauritzen M. Association of seizures with cortical spreading depression and
21

peri-infarct depolarisations in the acutely injured human brain. Clin Neurophysiol
2008;119:1973-84
Fabricius M, Jensen LH, Lauritzen M.Microdialysis of interstitial amino acids during
spreading depression and anoxic depolarization in rat neocortex. Brain Res. 1993 May
28;612(1-2):61-9.
Ferrari MD, Odink J, Bos KD, Malessy MJ, Bruyn GW. Neuroexcitatory plasma amino acids
are elevated in migraine. Neurology 1990; 40:1582–1586.
Goadsby PJ, Classey JD. Glutamatergic transmission in the trigeminal nucleus assessed with
local blood flow. Brain Res. 2000;875:119–124.
Gorji A, Scheller D, Straub H, Tegtmeier F, Köhling R, Höhling JM, Tuxhorn I, Ebner A,
Wolf P, Werner Panneck H, Oppel F, Speckmann EJ. Spreading depression in human
neocortical slices. Brain Res. 2001;906:74-83.
Gorji A. Spreading depression: a review of the clinical relevance. Brain Res. Brain Res. Rev.,
2001:38, 33 60.
Grafstein B. Neuronal release of potassium during spreading depression. In: M.A.B. Brazier,
Editor, Brain Function Vol. 1, University of California Press, Berkeley, CA (1963), pp. 87–
124.
Grunze HC, Rainnie DG, Hasselmo ME, Barkai E, Hearn EF, McCarley RW, Greene RW.
NMDA-dependent modulation of CA1 local circuit inhibition. J Neurosci 1996; 16: 20342043.
Hadjikhani N, Sanchez Del Rio M, Wu O, Schwartz D, Bukker D, Fischt B, Kwong KK,
Cutrer FM, Rosen BR, Tootell RB, Sorensen AG, Moskowitz MA. Mechanisms of migraine

22

aura revealed by functional MRI in human visual cortex. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA.,
2001;98:4687 4692.
Higashida H, Mitarai G, Watanabe S. A comparative study of membrane potential changes in
neurons and neuroglial cells during spreading depression in the rabbit. Brain Res.
1974;65:411-25.
Higashima M, Kinoshita H, Yamaguchi N, Koshino Y.Activation of GABAergic function
necessary for afterdischarge generation in rat hippocampal slices. Neurosci Lett.
1996;207:101-4.
Kaube H, Herzog J, Kaufer T, Dichgans M, Diener HC. Aura in some patients with familial
hemiplegic migraine can be stopped by intranasal ketamine. Neurology 2000;55:139–141.
Kruger H, Heinemann U, Luhmann HJ. Effects of ionotropic glutamate receptor blockade and
5-HT1A receptor activation on spreading depression in rat neocortical slices. Neuroreport
1999;10:2651–2656.
Lambert GA, Michalicek J, Storer RJ, Zagami AS. Effect of cortical spreading depression on
activity of trigeminovascular sensory neurons. Cephalalgia. 1999;19:631-8.
Lauritzen M, Rice ME, Okada Y, Nicholson C. Quisqualate, kainate and NMDA can initiate
spreading depression in the turtle cerebellum. Brain Res. 1988; 475:317–327.
Leao AAP. Spreading depression of activity in the cerebral cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 1944;
7:359–390.
Leone M, Attanasio A, Croci D, Ferraris A, D’Amico D, Grazzi L, Nespolo A,. Bussone G. 5HT1A receptor hypersensitivity in migraine is suggested by the m-chlorophenylpiperazine
test. Neuroreport 1998;9:2605–2608.
Martinez F, Castillo J, Rodriguez JR, Leira R, Noya M. Neuroexcitatory amino acid levels in
plasma and cerebrospinal fluid during migraine attacks. Cephalalgia 1993;13:89–93.
23

Mauskop A, Altura BM. Role of magnesium in the pathogenesis and treatment of migraines.
Clin. Neurosci. 1998;5:24–27.
Mauskop A, Altura BT, Cracco RQ, Altura BM. Intravenous magnesium sulphate relieves
migraine attacks in patients with low serum ionized magnesium levels: a pilot study. Clin. Sci.
1995;89:633–636.
Mayevsky A., Doron A., Manor T., Meilin S., Zarchin N., Ouaknine GE. Cortical spreading
depression recorded from the human brain using a multiparametric monitoring system. Brain
Res. 1996;740:268–274.
Mitsikostas DD, Sanchez del Rio M, Waeber C, Moskowitz MA, Cutrer F. The NMDA
receptor antagonist MK-801 reduces capsaicin-induced c-fos expression within rat trigeminal
nucleus caudalis. Pain 1998;76:239–248.
Mody I, Lambert JD, Heinemann U. Low extracellular magnesium induces epileptiform
activity and spreading depression in rat hippocampal slices. J. Neurophysiol. 1987;57:869–
888.
Mountcastle VB. The columnar organization of the neocortex. Brain 1997; 120: 701-722.
Nicholson C, Syková E. Extracellular space structure revealed by diffusion analysis. Trends
Neurosci. 1998;21:207-15.
Nicholson C, Syková E. Extracellular space structure revealed by diffusion analysis. Trends
Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):207-15.
Nicolodi M, Sicuteri F. Exploration of NMDA receptors in migraine: therapeutic and
theoretic implications. Int. J. Clin. Pharmacol. Res. 1995; 15:181–189.
Ramadan NM, Halvorson H, Vande-Linde A, Levine SR, Helpern JA, Welch KM. Low brain
magnesium in migraine. Headache 1989;29:590–593.

24

Seelig MS, Interrelationship of magnesium and estrogen in cardiovascular and bone disorders,
eclampsia, migraine and premenstrual syndrome. J. Am. Coll. Nutr. 1993;12:442–458.
Somjen GG. (2001) Mechanisms of spreading depression and hypoxic spreading depressionlike depolarization. Physiol Rev.;81:1065-96.

Strong AJ, Fabricius M, Boutelle MG, Hibbins SJ, Hopwood SE, Jones R, Parkin MC,
Laurizen M. Spreading and synchronous depressions of cortical activity in acutely injured
human brain. Stroke 2002; 33:2738 2743.

Thomas J, Millot JM, Sebille S. et al., Free and total magnesium in lymphocytes of migraine
patients: effect of magnesium-rich mineral water intake. Clin. Chim. Acta 2000;295;63–75.
Traub RD, Whittington MA, Colling SB, Buzsáki G, Jefferys JG Analysis of gamma rhythms
in the rat hippocampus in vitro and in vivo. J Physiol. 1996;493:471-84.

van der Hel WS, van den Bergh WM, Nicolay K, Tulleken KA, Dijkhuizen RM. Suppression
of cortical spreading depressions after magnesium treatment in the rat. Neuroreport
1998;9:2179–2182.

Van Harreveld A, Kooiman M. Amino acid release from the cerebral cortex during spreading
depression and asphyxiation. J. Neurochem. 1965;12:431–439.

Wernsmann B, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A Effect of cortical spreading depression on
synaptic transmission of rat hippocampal tissues. Eur J Neurosci. 2006;23:1103-10.

25

Wong BY, Prince DA. The lateral spread of ictal discharges in neocortical brain
slices. Epilepsy Res 1990; 7: 29-39.

Wong RK, Miles R, Traub RD. Local circuit interactions in synchronization of cortical
neurones. J Exp Biol 1984; 112: 169-178.

26

