Aus dem Universitätsklinikum Münster
Institut für Physiologie I
Direktor: Univ.-Prof. Dr H. C. Pape

Acute effects of garlic extract on spreading depression and
synaptic activity in rat brain slices

INAUGURAL - Dissertation

zur
Erlangung des doctor medicinae dentium

der Medizinischen Fakultät
der Westfälischen Wilhelms-Universität Münster

Marschollek, Claudia
aus Minden

2010



Abstract
Throughout history many different cultures have recognised the potential use of garlic for
prevention and treatment of different kind of diseases. Recent studies support the effects of
garlic and its extracts in a wide range of application. Different compounds in garlic are
thought to reduce the risk for cardiovascular diseases and cancer, to have anti-tumour effects,
to show effect on blood glucose concentration, and to prevent and treat neurological disorders.
Garlic was suggested by many medieval literatures to be beneficial in treatment of headache.
To investigate the neurophysiologic properties of the action of garlic oil, its effects on CSD
induced by KCl microinjection, electrically evoked field excitatory post-synaptic potentials
(fEPSP), and long-term potentiation (LTP) were tested in rat somatosensory neocortical
tissues. Garlic oil dose-dependently (1-500μl/l) decreased the amplitude of CSD whereas has
no effect on CSD duration and propagation of velocity. Garlic oil (500μl/l) also reversibly
reduced the amplitude of fEPSP. Garlic oil at concentration of 500μl/l significantly blocked
induction of LTP of fEPSP in the third layer of neocortical slices. Thus, garlic oil can
suppress CSD, likely via inhibition of synaptic plasticity. The data indicate the potential for
garlic oil to use in the treatment of CSD-related neurological disorders.

5

Introduction
Dietary factors play a crucial role in the development of various human diseases. Across
different cultures, there are several dietary patterns, which are believed to promote human
health. Despite cultural and geographical differences, there are some shared characteristics of
healthy dietary patterns. Perceiving plant foods as beneficial diet is advised by the folklore of
many cultures over centuries. Garlic acquired a reputation in different traditions as a
formidable prophylactic and therapeutic medicinal herb.

The history of garlic
Garlic has been used throughout history for both culinary and medicinal purposes. Although
sometimes maligned, garlic has had an amazing array of nutritional and medicinal
applications throughout human history, and it is still improving the health of many today.
Some of the earliest references to medicinal effect of garlic were found in Avesta, a collection
of Zoroastrian holy writing that was probably compiled during the sixth century BC
(Darmestetar, 1898). Archaeologists have discovered clay sculptures of garlic bulbs and
paintings of garlic dating about 3200 B.C. in Egyptian tombs in El Mahasna. A recently
discovered Egyptian papyrus dating from 1,500 B.C. recommends garlic as a cure all for over
22 common ailments, including lack of stamina, heart disease and tumors, and it’s been said
the Egyptians fed garlic to the slaves building the pyramids to increase their strength
(Lasinski, 2005). In ancient Greece and Rome, garlic enjoyed a variety of uses, from repelling
scorpions to treating dog bites and bladder infections to curing leprosy and asthma. Ancient
Chinese and Indian medicine recommended garlic to aid respiration as well as digestion and
to treat leprosy and parasitic infestation (Rivlin, 1998). Garlic is mentioned in the Bible and
the Talmud. In the medieval period, garlic also played an important role in the treatment of
different diseases. Avicenna, in his well-known book Canon, recommended garlic as a useful
6

compound in treatment of arthritis, toothache, chronic cough, constipation, parasitic
infestation, snake-biting, gynaecologic disorders, and infectious diseases (Ibn Sina, 1989).
With the onset of Renaissance, special attention was paid in whole Europe to the medicinal
benefits of garlic. In the middle Ages, garlic was thought to combat the plague and was hung
in braided strands across the entrances of houses to prevent evil spirits from entering
(Lasinski, 2005).
In seventeenth century England, garlic was considered unfit for ladies and anyone who
wished to court them, and it was avoided in America even early into the 20th century.
However, garlic has attracted particular attention of modern medicine because of its
widespread belief that it helps in maintaining good health. In some Western countries, the sale
of garlic preparations ranks with those of leading prescription drugs.

Allium sativum, commonly known as garlic (German: Knoblauch), is a species in the onion
family Alliaceae (German: Lauchgewächse). Garlic is a bulb of a lily-like plant, belonging to
the same family as onions, chives, leeks and scallions. Garlic is the strongest flavoured
member of the onion family. The majority of Allium species including garlic are native to the
Northern hemisphere, mainly in Asia. A few species are native to Africa and Central and
South America. China is by far the largest producer of garlic, with approximately 10.5 million
tonnes annually, accounting for over 77% of world output (Economic Research Service,
2006).
The herbaceous bulb is characterized by a pungent odour. The bulb is compound, consisting
of anything up to twenty segments, called 'cloves'. Usually there are about ten cloves to a
bulb, packed side by side around a thin central core. These cloves separated by scaly
membranes and enclosed by a brittle parchment-like skin. The flesh of the clove is ivory
coloured, and should be hard and firm though easily cut with a finger nail. The skin is usually
white, but may have a pale pink or purplish tinge. Garlic is widely variable in size, based on
7

its variety. Many varieties of garlic exist in different parts of world. In South East Asia a
small variety with only four to six cloves grows and is similar to Spanish garlic, llium sativum
ophioscorodon. A giant variety is grown in California. There are different types or subspecies
of garlic, most notably hard-neck garlic and soft-neck garlic. The latitude where the garlic is
grown affects the choice of type as garlic can be day-length sensitive. Hard-neck garlic is
generally grown in cooler climates; soft-neck garlic is generally grown closer to the equator.
The leaves, and flowers on the head are also edible, and being milder in flavour than the
bulbs. The root cluster attached to the basal plate of the bulb is the only part not typically
considered palatable in any form. Garlic propagates easily and is one of the simplest plants to
grow. The flowers are hermaphrodite and are pollinated by Bees, insects.
The plant prefers light (sandy) and medium (loamy) soils and requires well-drained soil. The
plant prefers acid, neutral and basic (alkaline) soils and can grow in very alkaline soil. It can
not grow in the shade. Garlic plants can be grown close together, leaving enough room for the
bulbs to mature, and are easily grown in containers of sufficient depth. It requires dry or moist
soil. August or early fall is considered the best time for sowing cloves, as this allows the roots
time to develop before the first frost sets in. New leaves will appear before winter and in the
spring. Plants will rapidly reach a height of 18 inches. Garlic will do best in full sun but can
be grown with satisfactory results in partial shade.

Garlic properties
When crushed, garlic yields allicin. Allicin has been found to be the compound most
responsible for the hot sensation of raw garlic. Allicin (allyl 2-propenethiosulfineate or diallyl
thiosulfinate) is the principal bioactive compound present in aqueous garlic extract or raw
garlic homogenate. When garlic is chopped or crushed, allinase enzyme, present in garlic, is
activated and acts on alliin (present in intact garlic) to produce allicin. Other main compounds
present in garlic homogenate are 1-propenyl allyl thiosulfonate, allyl methyl thiosulfonate,
8

(E,Z)-4,5,9-trithiadodeca-1,6,11-triene 9-oxide (ajoene), and γ-L-glutamyl-S-alkyl-L-cysteine.
The adenosine concentration increases several-fold as the homogenate is incubated at room
temperature for several hours.
Another widely studied garlic preparation is aged garlic extract. Sliced raw garlic stored in
15-20% ethanol for more than 1.5 years is refereed to aged garlic extract. This process is
supposed to cause considerable loss of allicin and increased activity of certain new
compounds. These compounds include S-allylcysteine, S-allylmercaptocysteine, allixin (3hydroxy-5-methoxy-6-methyl-2-penthyl-4H-pyran-4-one), and selenium which are stable and
significantly antioxidant. Medicinally used garlic oil is usually prepared by steam-distillation
process. Steam-distilled garlic oil consists of diallyl, allylmethyl, and dimethyl mono to hexa
sulfides (Lawson, 1998).
Allyl methyl sulfide cannot be digested and is passed into the blood. It is carried to the lungs
and the skin, where it is excreted. Since digestion takes several hours and release of AMS
several hours more, the effect of eating garlic may be present for a long time.

Garlic adverse effects
Multiple cases of bleeding have been associated with garlic use, and caution is warranted in
patients at risk of bleeding or prior to some surgical/dental procedures. Garlic can cause a skin
rash in sensitive people. Over consumption can cause heartburn. Garlic may interact with antiinflammatory medications, such as ibuprofen or naproxen, aspirin, ASA, warfarin, heparin,
and other drugs that affect bleeding or platelets (Gattu et al., 2009).

9

A

B

C

Figure 1. Allium sativum, commonly known as garlic, is a species in the onion family
Alliaceae. A: different forms of whole plant. B: the bulb of garlic. C: garlic preparations.

10

Medicinal use and health benefits
There are appreciable epidemiologic evidences that demonstrate therapeutic and preventive
roles of garlic. Several experimental and clinical investigations suggest many favourable
effects of garlic and its preparations. These effects have been largely attributed to i) reduction
of risk factors for cardiovascular diseases, ii) reduction of cancer risk, iii) antioxidant effect,
iv) antimicrobial effect, v) enhancement of detoxification of foreign compound and
hepatoprotection, and vi) neurological disorders.

Garlic and its preparations have been widely recognised for prevention and treatment of
cardiovascular diseases. The wealth of scientific literatures supports the proposal that garlic
consumption have significant effect on lowering of blood pressure, reduction of
atherosclerosis, decreasing serum cholesterol as well as triglyceride, inhibition of platelet
aggregation, and increasing fibrolytic activity. In in vivo animal experiments, intravenous
administration of garlic extracts in hypertensive animals brought the blood pressure back to
the normal levels (Sial and Ahmed, 1982). Several clinical studies showed that garlic reduced
blood pressure in more than 80% of patients suffering from hypertension (Pektov, 1979;
Konig and Scincider 1986; Auer et al., 1989). Most of human studies on lipid lowering effects
of garlic and its compounds described significant decrease in serum cholesterol and
triglyceride (Gardner et al., 2001; Ziaei et al., 2001). Allicin and S-allyl cysteine present in
aged garlic extract as well as diallyl-di-sulfide in garlic oil are the active compounds
responsible for anti-atherosclerotic effect (Gebhardt and Beck, 1996; Yeh and Liu., 2001). In
addition, it was reported that garlic decreases the risk of peripheral arterial occlusive diseases,
plasma viscosity, as well as unstable angina and increases elastic property of blood vessels
and capillary perfusion (Banerjee and Maulik, 2002). Garlic significantly inhibited
intracellular ca2+ mobilization, thromboxane-A2 synthesis, and protected against

11

thrombocytopenia induced by collagen or arachidonate application in rabbits (Banerjee and
Maulik, 2002).
Many experimental and clinical studies pointed to possible cancer-preventive effects of garlic.
In rodents, garlic and its constitutes have been reported to inhibit the development of
chemically induced tomurs in the liver, colon, bladder, mammary gland, esophagus, lung,
skin, and stomach (Lau et al., 1986; Sparnins et al., 1986; Wattenberg et al., 1989; Amagase
and Milner, 1993; Wargovich et al., 1988; Ohaeri, 2001; Lawson, 2001; Knowles and Milner,
2003; Kweon et al., 2003). Garlic compounds have been found to block covalent of
carcinogens to DNA, enhance degradation of carcinogens, have anti-oxidative and free radical
scavenging properties, and regulate cell responses. Reduction of some malignancies risk by
consumption of selenium-enriched plants like garlic has been reported (Finley, 2003).

On oral administration of and garlic sulfoxide amino acids, S-methylcysteine sulfoxide and
S-allylcysteine sulfoxide to alloxan-diabetic rats for a month, their diabetic condition, being
characterized by glucose intolerance, weight loss, depletion of liver glycogen, etc., was
ameliorated as comparable to rats treated with glibenclamide and insulin (Sheela et al., 1995).
However, anti-diabetic effect of garlic in human is still controversial. It was suggested that
allicin may effectively combine with compounds like cysteine and enhance serum insulin. In
some clinical investigations chronic feeding of garlic extracts showed significant reduction of
blood glucose level whereas some other studies reported no change on glucose concentrations
(Banerjee and Maulik, 2002). Garlic also can protect the liver cells from some toxic gents like
in overdose of acetaminophen (Patten et al., 1993).

Garlic has been used for centuries in various societies to combat infectious diseases. Garlic
has been proven to be effective against a plethora of gram-negative, gram-positive, and acidfast bacteria. These include Salmonella, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas, Proteus,
12

Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella, Closteridium, Mycobacterium, Micrococcus, and
Helicobacter (Cavallito et al., 1944; Jezowa et al., 1966; Johnson and Vaughan, 1969; Sharma
et al., 1977; O’Gara et al., 2000; Adler and Beuchat, 2002). An inhibitory synergism effect
was observed when garlic applied together with vancomycin (Jonkers et al., 1999).

In addition to antimicrobial effect, garlic has been reported to act against several protozoa
such as Candida, tinea pedis, Leishmania, and Lepromonas (Lemar et al., 2002) as well as
several fungi like Cryptococcus, Trichosporon, aflatoxin, and Aspergillus (Tansey and
Appleton, 1975; Tadi et al., 1991). Furthermore, anti-viral action of garlic was reported to
affect influenza A and B, Cytomegalovirus, HIV, herpes simplex virus 1 and 2 as well as
rhinovirus (Weber et al., 1992; Tsai et al., 1985 a,b). Allicin, diallyl trisulfide, and ajoene
have been shown to have antiviral effect (Weber et al., 1992).

Garlic and its extract have been shown to be effective in prevention of different neurological
disorders. S-methyl-L-cysteine , a substrate in the catalytic antioxidant system mediated by
methionine sulfoxide reductases, is an abundantly substance in garlic and some other
vegetables such as cabbage, and turnips. It has been shown that S-methyl-L-cysteine prevents
the

-synuclein-induced abnormalities in rats. Application of this substance is a new

prevention and therapeutic approach for Parkinson disease and potentially for other
neurodegenerative diseases involving oxidative stress (Wassef et al, 2007). Some members of
the transient receptor potential (TRPA) family of cation channels mediate sensory responses
to irritant substances. TRPA1 is an important component of the transduction machinery
through which environmental irritants and endogenous proalgesic agents depolarize
nociceptors to elicit inflammatory pain. TRPA1 has been proposed to function in diverse
sensory processes, including thermal (cold) nociception, hearing, and inflammatory pain. It is
well known that TRPA1 channels are activated by pungent compounds found in garlic. This
13

substance may act on nocieceptors and modulate noxious stimuli (Salazar et al., 2008).
Alzheimer's disease involves amyloid beta accumulation, oxidative damage and
inflammation. S-allyl-l-cysteine, a water-soluble organosulfur component present in garlic is
known to prevent cognitive decline by protecting neurons from amyloid beta induced
neuronal apoptosis (Gupta and Rao, 2007). Feeding of aged garlic extract prevented
deterioration of hippocampal based memory tasks in mice, suggesting that aged garlic extract
has a potential for preventing Alzheimer (Chauhan and Sandoval, 2007). N-acetylcysteine, a
compound available in garlic, protects neuronal death in cerebellar granule neurons. This
neuroprotective effect is due, at least in part, to preservation of mitochondrial membrane
potential and intracellular intracellular glutathione levels (Arakawa et al., 2006).

Spreading depression
Cortical spreading depression (CSD), is a pathophysiological phenomenon which occurs as a
propagating wave of short neuronal hyperexcitability followed by a transient wave of
depression, first identified in the neocortex of rabbits (Leao, 1944). CSD is an "all-or-none"
process and spreads in the manner of a wave through gray matter. CSD appears first at the
stimulated site and propagate in all directions at the velocity of 2–3 mm/min, so that
increasingly distant areas undergo successively a similar temporary depression. An important
characteristic feature of CSD is a propagating negative potential with amplitude of 10–30 mV
and duration of more than 30 sec, which may be preceded or succeeded by a positive
fluctuation of variable amplitude and duration (figure 2).

CSD can be initiated by different stimuli and so can be directly studied in experimental
investigations. It was first induced by applying a brief tetanus of faradic stimulation to the
rabbit neocortex by Leao group (Leao, 1944; Fig. 1). However, such stimuli could lead to
convulsive activity spreading from the stimulated area and so subsequent authors preferred to
14

employ direct current (DC) stimuli (Leao & Morrison, 1945; Ochs, 1962). Mechanical
stimulation, for example, by stroking of the cortical surface with a blunt instrument, a falling
weight or even lightly tapping the cortex also initiates SD (Leao, 1944). More recent studies
have achieved more reliable and reproducible induction of CSD by rapidly inserting and
retracting hypodermic steel needles (Kaube and Goadsby, 1994; Lambert et al., 1999;
Ebersberger et al., 2001). However, one of the most common models of SD initiation is KCl
application to the neuronal tissues (Wernsmann et al., 2006; Dehbandi et al., 2008). This
model has been proven to be the most reliable stimulus leading to reproducible events on
earlier investigations (Martins-Ferreira et al., 2000; Bradley et al., 2001). Changes in
extracellular K+ concentration might be involved in such pathophysiological processes in
human brain tissue (Mayevsky et al., 1996; Nicholson & Sykova, 1998). CSD can also be
induced by applications of the excitatory amino acids glutamate and aspartate; metabolic
inhibitors such as NaCN that poison oxidative metabolism and NaF and iodoacetate that
primarily interfere with glycolysis; the Na+-K+ ATP-ase inhibitor ouabain has also been used
in cortical brain slices; local cooling by depressing energy metabolism below a critical level
but has proven an irreproducible experimental method (Smith et al., 2006).
CSD involves a temporary localized redistribution of different ions between extracellular and
intracellular compartments. These ions redistribution are energy dependent. During eliciting
of CSD the concentration of extracellular K+ rapidly rises (between 40-60mM), causing brief
neuronal excitation then depolarization and a period of electrical silence during which DC
potential at the brain surface falls. In tandem, [Na+]o and [Cl−]o levels decrease as these ions
enter cells. Consequently, water enters cells, the extracellular compartment is reduced, and
cells swell. Ca2+ ions also move inwards, but slightly later than the outward movement of K+,
suggesting that Ca2+ movements follow K+ fluxes. Additional negative ion species move
outwards to maintain electrical balance, the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate probably

15

being the most important (Somjen et al., 2001). Widely accepted hypotheses hold that the
primary event responsible for both the initiation and the propagation of CSD is the release of
potassium and glutamate from neuronal elements to the extracellular space, which initially
excites and then depresses adjacent neurons (Somjen, 2001).

DC4
I
II

DC3
III

IV

DC2

V

2 mV

DC1

VI

10 s

KCl

Figure 2. Vertical propagation of a negative DC-potential wave after injection of KCl in a
neocortical slice. Injection of KCl solution (3 M) via a microelectrode elicited spreading
depression-like fluctuation during superfusion with artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Injecting and
recording electrodes arranged as shown. Voltage variations were recorded simultaneously by
four electrodes (DC1–DC4) which set apart by 1 mm (Adopted from Gorji et al., 2001).

16

There are evidences to suggest that CSD plays an important role in different neurological
disorders (Gorji, 2001; Somjen, 2001). Subdural recordings in patients demonstrated that
CSD is involved in various disorders associated with acute neuronal injury including
traumatic and spontaneous intra-cerebral hemorrhage (Strong et al., 2002; Fabricius et al.,
2008) as well as subarachnoid hemorrhage and stroke and contribute to tissue damage.
Furthermore, propagation of a CSD wave in human neocortical tissues has been shown to
generate aura symptoms in patients suffering from migraine attacks (Hadjikhani et al. 2001).
The designation migraine with aura denotes the syndrome of headache associated with
characteristic sensory, motor, or visual symptoms, usually gradually developed over 5–20 min
and lasting less than 60 min. Direct alterations of electrical activity of cortical neurons by the
locally spreading wave can lead to clinical symptoms (e.g. the aura phase of migraine). The
most common symptoms in aura phase are visual arising from dysfunction of occipital lobe
neurons. The excitatory neurological symptoms, e.g., flashing lights are usually followed by
suppressive ones, e.g., scotoma or hemianopia in this phase. Magnetoencephalographic
studies in human noted that the magnetic signals were seen in migraineous patients but not in
patients suffering from other forms of headache or normal controls. Three distinctive signal
patterns; suppression of spontaneous cortical activity, slow field changes and large-amplitude
waves, were observed strictly in migraine patients. In some migraine patients, magnetic
signals were also recorded between attacks. The same magnetic fields appeared during the
propagation of CSD in the cortex of anesthetized animals. High-field functional MRI was
used to detect blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) changes during visual aura in three
migraineurs. A focal increase in BOLD signals developed first in extrastriate cortex and
spread at the velocity of 3.5 ± 1.1 mm/min over occipital cortex. These initial BOLD features
were consistent with scintillations and paralleled by decreases in the stimulus-driven MR
17

oscillations. Increasing in BOLD signals was followed by a decrease in the mean signal. This
phase appeared to correspond to the localized scotoma and MR stimulus-induced response
remained suppressed. Within 15 ± 3 min, both BOLD signals and MR stimulus-induced
response recovered. During periods with no visual stimulation, but while the subject was
experiencing scintillations, BOLD signal followed the retinotopic progression of the visual
percept. Spreading BOLD signal changes as neocortical SD did not cross prominent sulci
(Hadjikhani et al., 2001). Recent investigations provide early insights into mechanisms that
lead to trigeminovascular activation.
CSD is also a well-known phenomenon in experimental epilepsy. CSD can be elicited in
susceptible area by a single discharge of an epileptic focus. Epilepsy and migraine are both
disorders characterized by transient paroxysmal neurological dysfunction, usually with a
normal neurological examination between attacks. A number of syndromes in which migraine
and epilepsy are related have been described. Headaches are observed quite frequently
following epileptic attacks and seizures provoke a syndrome similar to the headache phase of
migraine in 50% of epileptics. A number of anticonvulsive drugs have the capacity to stabilize
migraine and some anti-migraine drugs increase the epilepsy threshold. It was reported that
combination therapy with anticonvulsant and anti-migraine drugs in some intractable
epileptics improves seizure control (Gorji, 2001).
Consistent with an upstream role for CSD, prolonged application of migraine prophylactic
drugs suppresses CSD in experimental models as a proposed mechanism of action. In line
with clinical recognition that prolonged administration of prophylactic medicaments is
important to achieve maximum therapeutic efficacy, treatment extension beyond 3–4 weeks
also maximizes the inhibitory effects of drugs such as topiramate, valproate, methysergide,
amitriptyline, and propranolol (Gorji, 2001). Application of new substances with potential of

18

efficacy in CSD-related neurological disorders on CSD threshold in in vitro as well as in vivo
studies is a well-known model to investigate of possible efficacy of these substances.
Naturally occurring substances derived from plants currently have, and will continue to have,
a relevant place in drug discovery. The use of medicinal plants for the treatment of headache
in Persia can be traced back to the 6th century BC. Despite progress in the development of
therapy in recent years, effective and potent drugs are still required for the treatment of
headache. The search for new pharmacologically active analgesics obtained from plants has
led to the discovery of some clinically useful drugs that, during the past two centuries, have
played a major role in the treatment of human diseases. However, most medicinal plants
prescribed by Persian physicians remain largely unexamined (Gorji, 2003). One of substances
which were suggested to act effectively on treatment of headache attacks in medieval
literature is garlic. The aim of the present study to investigate the effect of garlic extract at
different concentrations on CSD as well as its effect on synaptic strength in rat neocortical
tissues.

19

Material and methods
The experiments were performed on adult rat (200-350g) somatosensory neocortical slices.
The brain was removed under deep methohexital anaesthesia and placed in cold (1–4°C)
artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) pre-equilibrated with 5% CO2 in O2 to give a pH of 7.4.
The ACSF contained (in mM): NaCl 124, KCl 4, CaCl2 1.0, NaH2PO4 1.24, MgSO4 1.3,
NaHCO3 26 and glucose 10. The somatosensory neocortices were dissected and cut into slices
of 500 μm thickness. The slices were incubated in ACSF solution for >1 h at 28°C. After 30min incubation, CaCl2 was elevated to 2.0 mM. Slices were transferred to an interphase-type
experimental chamber and superfused with ACSF at 32°C (1.5–2 ml/min).

Electrophysiological recordings
Extracellular field potentials were recorded with glass microelectrodes (150 mmol/l NaCl; 2–
10 M ) connected to the amplifier by an Ag/AgCl–KCl bridge in the third and the fifth layers
of neocortical tissues. Field potentials were traced by an ink-writer and recorded by a digital
oscilloscope.

Induction of neocortical SD

SD was elicited by KCl microinjection. A glass electrode filled with 2 M KCl was fixed in a
special holder connected with plastic tube to a pressure injector and the tip inserted into the
sixth layer of the neocortical slices. A high-pressure pulse was applied to inject an amount of
K+ in the tissue sufficient to induce cortical SD (tip diameter: 2 μm; injection pressure 0.5–1.0
bar applied for 200–300 ms, two injections, 1–3 nl per pulse). Cortical SD-like events were
evaluated with respect to their amplitude, duration and velocity rates. SD duration was defined

20

as the interval between the time of half-maximal voltage shift during onset and recovery of the
negative DC potential deflection.

Long-term potentiation
Single pulses of electrical stimulation were applied through a bipolar platinum electrode
attached to the white matter perpendicular to the recording electrodes. Evoked field excitatory
postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) were recorded in the third layer of neocortical slices. The
fEPSP was elicited by adjusting the intensity of stimulation to

50% of that at which

population spikes after fEPSP began to appear. The amplitude of fEPSP 1 ms after the onset
was measured for data analysis. In long-term potentiation (LTP) experiments, the cortex was
sequentially stimulated once every minute. Ten trains of four pulses (pulse duration 0.1 msec;
interpulse interval 50 msec; intensity 5 V) were repeated at intervals of 10 msec. LTP was
operationally defined as the mean change in fEPSP amplitude in response to five stimuli
given 30 min after tetanic stimulation compared with the mean response to five test pulses
applied immediately before the stimulation. Thus % potentiation = [(posttetanus amplitude of
fEPSP/baseline amplitude of fEPSP) 1] 100. Tetanic stimulation was applied 60 min after
application of drug.

Experimental protocols
The experimental protocol consisted of four periods as follows: (a) control period, neocortical
slices were superfused with ACSF (30 min), tested for spontaneous CSD; (b) KCl injection,
induction of SD (CSD1); (c) application of garlic oil (1-500 μl/l) before the second injection
of KCl (CSD2); (d) washout of garlic oil with ASCF (45 min, second control period), third
injection of KCl (CSD3). Only a single concentration of garlic oil was used in a given slice.

21

Drug
Garlic oil purchased from Caelo (Hilden, Germany).

Statistical analysis
All data are given as mean ± SEM. The data were statistically analysed using the Mann–
Whitney Rank Sum test. Multiple comparisons were performed by analysis of variance test
(ANOVA) for repeated measures followed by a Dunn’s test. Significance was established
when the probability values were less than 0.05. The investigations were approved by the
local ethics committee (Tierversuchsgenehmigung, Bezirksregierung Münster, Deutschland,
AZ: 50.0835.1.0, G79/2002).

22

Results

The effect of garlic oil on CSD
Focal application of KCl in the sixth layer of neocortical tissues induced negative DC
deflections followed by positive waves (amplitude of 14.7 ± 2.2 mV; duration of 121 ± 6 sec).
Negative DC-fluctuations were sometimes preceded by small positive waves. These cortical
CSD waves propagated opposite to the direction of the ACSF flow at propagation velocity of
3.3 ± 0.1 mm / min. The effect of five different concentrations of garlic oil (1, 10, 100, 500
μl/l; n = 6 for each concentration) was tested on potassium-evoked CSD in neocortical slices.
The ratio between the second and the first DC potential waves (SD2/SD1) was calculated in
slices treated with garlic oil. Sixty minutes of garlic oil application at concentration of 1, 10,
100, 500 μl/l reduced the amplitude of CSD by 34.6 ± 5.7%, 38.6 ± 9%, 49.4 ± 7.4%, and
69.6 ± 9%, respectively. Garlic oil dose-dependently decreased the amplitude of CSD (Fig. 3;
P = 0.04 ; ANOVA test, Dunn’s method). Garlic oil at these concentrations did not affect the
duration or propagation velocity of CSD.

23

A

DC1

DC2

5
mV
30 s

DC3

Reduction of CSD amplitude (%)

B
80

60

40

20

0

100

200

300

400

500

600

Garlic oil amount (microl/l)

Figure 3. Effects of garlic oil on cortical spreading depression (CSD) in somatosensory
neocortical tissues. A: Recording of DC potential shifts in the third layer of a neocortical slice
before (DC1), during (DC2), and after (DC3) application of garlic oil (100 μl/l). Field
potentials were recorded by an ink-writer. CSD was elicited by KCl microinjection. B: The
curve indicates the plot of percentage reduction of CSD amplitude vs. garlic oil
concentrations (n = 6 for each concentration). Garlic oil dose-dependently decreased the

24

amplitude of CSD. The percentage of CSD amplitude enlargement was measured by division
of the amplitude of CSD induced after application of garlic oil to the amplitude of CSD
elicited before superfusion of the substance. Values represent mean ± SEM. Significance was
determined by ANOVA test followed by Dunn’s post-test (B; P = 0.04).

The effect of garlic oil on EPSP and LTP
Garlic oil at concentration of 500μl/l decreased the fEPSP amplitude by 28.9 ± 8.8% after 60
min of continuous application. After 30 min washout of garlic oil, the amplitude of fEPSP
returned to the pre-application level. A conditioning tetanic stimulation was delivered to the
white substance of neocortical slices followed by pulses with stimulation parameters identical
to control values. The evoked fEPSP was stable for at least 30 min before application of
tetanic stimulation (less than 10% variation; Fig. 4). Administration of tetanic stimulation
produced a rapid and stable enhancement of the amplitude of the fEPSP in all tested
preparations (n = 7, 154 ± 11 % control; Fig. 4). LTP lasted as long as the fEPSP were
recorded (at least for 90 min). The potentiation rose within 1–2 min and stabilized within 5
minutes after the train of stimulations. Application of garlic oil (500μl/l; n = 12) sixty min
before tetanic stimulation significantly suppressed LTP induction in all tested slices (134 ± 6
% baseline, Mann–Whitney Rank Sum test; P ≤ 0.001, Fig. 4).

25

A
FP1

FP2

FP3

0.5
mV
30 ms

B

fEPSP amplitude (% baseline)

180

160

140

120
Garlic oil
100

Control
LTP

80
-20

0

20

40

60

Time (min)

Figure 4. The effect of garlic oil on the evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials
(fEPSP) and long-term potentiation (LTP) of fEPSP in neocortical preparations. (A) Garlic oil
at concentration of 500μl/l decreased the fEPSP amplitude by 28.9 ± 8.8% after 60 min of
continuous application (FP2). After 30 min washout of garlic oil, the amplitude of fEPSP
returned to the pre-application level (FP3). B: Tetanic stimulation (Ten trains of four pulses;

26

pulse duration 0.1 msec; interpulse interval 50 msec; intensity 5 V) produces a rapid and
stable potentiation in the amplitude of the evoked field potentials, calculated as a percentage
of baseline mean response amplitude. Closed triangel and closed circles show the evoked
fEPSP after application of garlic oil (500μl/l) and control, respectively. Arrow shows the
time of tetanic stimulation, 60 min after application of substances. Application of garlic oil
significantly inhibited LTP of the evoked field potentials (Mann–Whitney Rank Sum test, P =
0.001), calculated as a percentage of baseline mean response amplitude.

27

Discussion
The beneficial effects of garlic in the treatment of cephalic pain were recommended
emphatically by many medieval medical literatures. The present data indicate the strong
effects of garlic oil to suppress CSD in in vitro animal brain models. Furthermore, garlic oil
significantly inhibited the evoked fEPSP and decreased LTP induction in neocortical slices.

CSD is a complex neurovascular event that triggers a cascade of mechanisms leading to the
up-regulation of genes, plasma protein extravasation, sensitization of perivascular nerve
fibers, and central transmission of pain signals via the brainstem (Gorji, 2001). Observation of
trigeminovascular activation by CSD within cerebral cortex indicates that CSD increases the
trigeminal neuronal discharges, which could explain the underlying mechanism of the
subsequent headache (Gorji et al., 2004). The effects of several anti-headache substances
including both classic (such as paracetamol and acetylsalicylic acid) and new compounds
(such as sumatriptan and tonabersat) on different in vivo and in vitro models of CSD were
examined. CSD also affected by application of some natural substances such as eugenol
(Muller et al., 2006) or some hormones such as estrogen and progesterone (Sachs et al.,
2007). These chemical compounds influenced different characteristic features of CSD such as
the amplitude of the fluctuation of DC potential, the propagation velocity, the recovery of the
optical and electrical signals (Wiedemann et al., 1996), the latency of initiation and the
frequency of occurrence (Takagi et al., 1998), elevation in cGMP (Read et al., 2001), nitric
oxide release (Read and Parsons, 2000), COX-2 expression (Miettinen et al., 1997), biphasic
blood oxygenation level-dependent magnetic resonance imaging waves (Netsiri et al., 2003),
and CSD-associated hyperemia (Gold et al., 1998). CSD, therefore, serves as a model to
examine the efficacy of substances that may have clinical usefulness in the treatment of
cephalic pain. The suppressive effects of garlic oil on CSD indicate the probable clinical
benefits of this substance for the treatment of migraine headache with aura.
28

LTP is an experimental phenomenon, which can be used to demonstrate the repertoire of
long-lasting changes of which individual synapses are capable (Collingridge & Singer 1990,
Malenka and Bear 2004). LTP points to long-lasting enhancement in signal transmission
between two neurons, which results from stimulating them synchronously. LTP can be
induced experimentally by applying a few trains of high-frequency stimuli to the connection
between two neuronal cells. LTP improves synaptic transmission in neuronal network.. LTP
enhances the ability of communication between pre-synaptic and postsynaptic neurons with
each other at the synaptic site. The magnitude of pre-synaptic depolarization determines
whether LTP will be produced in the postsynaptic neuron. LTP enhances the postsynaptic
sensitivity to neurotransmitter by increasing the activity of existing receptors especially
NMDA receptors and by increasing the number of receptors especially AMPA receptors on
the postsynaptic surface. Induction of LTP occurs when the concentration of Ca2+ inside the
post-synaptic cell flow via NMDA-receptors exceeds a critical threshold. While NMDAreceptors are present at most postsynaptic membranes, at resting membrane potentials they are
blocked by a magnesium ion that prevents the entry of calcium into the postsynaptic neuron.
Strong depolarization through the summation of excitatory postsynaptic potentials relieves the
magnesium blockade of the NMDA-receptor and allowing calcium influx to the cell (Malenka
and Bear 2004). LTP activates CaMKII and PKC use phosphorylation to carry out the two
major mechanisms underlying the induction of LTP. These mediators phosphorylate existing
AMPA receptors to increase their activity and mediate or modulate the insertion of additional
AMPA receptors into the postsynaptic membrane.
LTP is expressed in spinal cord as well as several brain areas, including neocortex and
hippocampus and have been proposed to represent the cellular mechanisms underlying pain as
well as learning and memory (Ji et al., 2003). Central sensitization plays a major role in the

29

generation of migraine, tension-type headache and neuropathic pain (Burstein and Woolf
1999). The present data showed that LTP in the neocortical tissues was significantly inhibited
after garlic oil application. This demonstrates that garlic oil produces a sustained inhibition in
the synaptic plasticity of neocortical tissues. CSD induces an LTP-like effect in rat neocortical
slices (Footitt and Newberry, 1998) and enhances LTP induction in human neocortical tissues
(Berger et al., 2008). Both inhibition of LTP induction and CSD elicitation were observed by
eugenol or esterogen and progesterone applications in rat neocortical tissues (Muller et al.,
2006; Sachs et al., 2007). Both aberrant presynaptic and postsynaptic connectivity contribute
to epileptogenesis and migraine (Cohen, 2005). The neurophysiological events that were
inhibited by garlic oil in the present study all involve modulation of synaptic transmission.
CSD, a phenomenon suggested to be involved in migraine with aura, was suppressed
drastically by garlic oil. Triggering of SD also requires activation of excitatory synaptic
transmission in animal and human neuronal tissues (Gorji et al., 2001).
LTP is a phenomenon in which a constant pre-synaptic high stimulation of excitatory amino
acids neuronal pathways results in a prolonged enhanced postsynaptic response. In the present
study, garlic oil reversibly suppressed fEPSP as well as CSD and inhibited LTP in neocortical
slices. It is well established that NMDA receptors are a molecular detector of the coincidence
of both the presynaptic release of glutamate and a postsynaptic depolarization at the origin of
LTP induction (Sourdet and Debanne, 1999). Pre-synaptic NMDA receptors have recently
been suggested to potentate the afferent field volley evoked by Schaffer axon stimulation
(Suarez et al., 2005). However, other pre-synaptic mechanisms such as involvement of
kainate receptors (Schmitz et al., 2001) or transient outward potassium current could also
modify presynaptic excitability (Gu et al., 2004).
Furthermore, garlic suppressed platelet aggregation via inhibition of the release of mediators
such as thromboxane A2, prostaglandin E2, and calcium (Qi and Wang, 2003).
30

Lipoxygenases and cyclooxygenases are the most common therapeutic drug target in human
pain (Warner and Mitchell, 2004). Arachidonic acid by modulation of a postsynaptic transient
K+ current strongly regulates synaptic integration by means of suppression of postsynaptic Acurrent and subsequently facilitates induction of LTP in hippocampal pyramidal cells
(Ramakers and Storm, 2002). Lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase inhibitors of arachidonic
acid attenuated potentiation of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential and reduced
pre-established LTP in CA1 area of hippocampal slices (Williams and Bliss 1989; Shaw et al
2003). Arachidonic acid increased markedly during the negative DC shift and returned to
normal levels in few minutes after SD (Lauritzen et al., 1990). COX-2, the inducible form of
the enzyme converting arachidonic acid to prostaglandins, is induced within hours after SD in
cortical neurons by a mechanism dependent on phospholipase A2.
However it should be noted that some studies point to activation of pain sensing by garlic.
Allicin is the active ingredient of garlic that causes a burning sensation through activation of
TRPA1 and TRPV1. Fresh-cut garlic and allicin, one of its constituents, activate TRPA1 and
TRPV1, two noxious thermo TRPs found in pain-sensing neurons that innervate the mouth
and tongue. Activation by garlic and allicin is specific to neurons expressing these channels;
no other populations of trigeminal ganglia neurons are activated by these stimuli. Among the
chemical constituents of garlic extracts, allicin is by far the most potent activator of TRPA1
and TRPV1. Furthermore, the activity of allicin, given its concentration in garlic, is sufficient
to explain all of garlic extract’s activity on these thermo TRPs. Extracts of baked garlic
(which differ from fresh extracts primarily in their lack of allicin) are unable to activate
thermo TRPs. Allicin and other garlic constituents are expected to stimulate olfactory and
gustatory neurons as well; however, the burning sensation that fresh garlic can produce must
act via the trigeminal system (Macpherson et al., 2005).

31

Conclusion
In conclusion, the present data revealed that garlic oil suppressed the amplitude of CSD in rat
neocortical slices as well as fEPSP and LTP. The inhibitory effect of garlic oil on CSD is
likely to be mediated by inhibition of synaptic transmission. This indicates the potential for
garlic oil to use in the treatment of CSD-related neurological disorders such as migraine
headache with aura.

32

References
Adler BB, Beuchat LR. Death of Salmonella, Escherichia coli O157:H7, and Listeria
monocytogenes in garlic butter as affected by storage temperature. J Food Prot. 2002
;65:1976-80.
Adler BB, Beuchat LR. Death of Salmonella, Escherichia coli O157:H7, and Listeria
monocytogenes in garlic butter as affected by storage temperature. J Food Prot.
2002;65:1976-80.
Amagase H, Milner JA. Impact of various sources of garlic and their constituents on 7,12dimethylbenz[a]anthracene binding to mammary cell DNA. Carcinogenesis. 1993;14:162731.
Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1999;43:3045.
Appleton JA, Tansey MR Inhibition of growth of zoopathogenic fungi by garlic extract.
Mycologia. 1975;67:882-5.
Arakawa M, Ushimaru N, Osada N, Oda T, Ishige K, Ito Y. N-acetylcysteine selectively
protects cerebellar granule cells from 4-hydroxynonenal-induced cell death. Neurosci Res.
2006;55:255-63.
Arakawa M, Ushimaru N, Osada N, Oda T, Ishige K, Ito Y. N-acetylcysteine selectively
protects cerebellar granule cells from 4-hydroxynonenal-induced cell death. Neurosci Res.
2006;55:255-63.
Banerjee SK, Maulik SK. Effect of garlic on cardiovascular disorders: a review. Nutr J.
2002;1:4.

33

Berger M, Speckmann EJ, Pape HC, Gorji A. Spreading depression enhances human
neocortical excitability in vitro. Cephalalgia 2008;28:558-62.
Burstein R, Woolf CJ. Central sensitization and headache. In: J. Olesen, Editor, The
headaches, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Philadelphia (1999).
Cavallito CJ, Bailey JH. The antibacterial principle of Allium sativum. I. Isolation, physical
properties, and antibacterial action. J Am Soc 1944;66: 1950-1.
Chauhan NB, Sandoval J.Amelioration of early cognitive deficits by aged garlic extract in
Alzheimer's transgenic mice. Phytother Res. 2007;21:629-40.
Cohen GL. Migraine prophylactic drugs work via ion channels, Med Hypoth 2005:114–122.

Darmesteter

J.

Avesta:

vendidad:

fargard

20:

the

origins

of

medicine,

http://www.avesta.org/vendidad/vd20sbe.htm (accessed Jan 23, 2010).

Dehbandi S, Speckmann EJ, Pape HC, Gorji A. Cortical spreading depression modulates
synaptic transmission of the rat lateral amygdala. Eur J Neurosci. 2008;27:2057-65.

Economic Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture. Vegetables and
Melons Outlook, October 19, 2006, p. 25. (The excerpt "Commodity Highlight: Garlic" (pp.
25–29) is available from Lewis & Clark College).

Footitt DR, Newberry NR. Cortical spreading depression induces an LTP-like effect in rat
neocortex in vitro, Brain Res. 1998;781:339–342.
Gardner CD, Chatterjee LM, Carlson JJ. The effect of a garlic preparation on plasma lipid
levels in moderately hypercholesterolemic adults. Atherosclerosis. 2001;154:213-20.
34

Gattu S, Rashid RM, Khachemoune A. Self-induced skin lesions: a review of dermatitis
artefacta. Cutis. 2009;84:247-51.
Gebhardt R, Beck H. Differential inhibitory effects of garlic-derived organosulfur compounds
on cholesterol biosynthesis in primary rat hepatocyte cultures. Lipids 1996;31:1269-76.
Gold L, Back T, Arnold G, Dreier J, Einhaupl KM, Reuter U, Dirnagl U. Cortical spreading
depression-associated hyperemia in rats: involvement of serotonin, Brain Res. 1998;783:188–
193.

Gorji A, Scheller D, Straub H, Tegtmeier F, Kohling R, Hohling J, Tuxhorn I, Ebner A, Wolf
P, Panneck HW, Oppel F, Speckmann EJ. Spreading depression in human neocortical slices,
Brain Res. 2001;906:74–83.
Gorji A. Pharmacological treatment of headache using traditional Persian medicine. Trends
Pharmacol Sci. 2003;24:331-4.
Gorji A. Spreading depression: a review of the clinical relevance. Brain Res Brain Res Rev.
2001;38:33-60.
Gorji A, Zahn PK, Pogatzki EM, Speckmann EJ. Spinal and cortical spreading depression
enhance spinal cord activity, Neurobiol Dis. 2004;15:70–79.
Gu Y, Ge SY, Ruan DY. Effect of 4-aminopyridine on synaptic transmission in rat
hippocampal slices, Brain Res. 2004;1006:225–232.
Gupta VB, Rao KS. Anti-amyloidogenic activity of S-allyl-L-cysteine and its activity to
destabilize Alzheimer's beta-amyloid fibrils in vitro. Neurosci Lett. 2007;429:75-80.

35

Hadjikhani N, Sanchez Del Rio M, Wu O, Schwartz D, Bukker D, Fischt B, Kwong KK,
Cutrer FM, Rosen BR, Tootell RB, Sorensen AG, Moskowitz MA. Mechanisms of migraine
aura revealed by functional MRI in human visual cortex. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA.,
2001;98:4687 4692.

Jezowa L, Rafinski T, Wrocinski T. Investigations on the antibiotic activity of Allium sativum
L. Herba Pol 1966;12:3-13.

Ji RR, Kohno T., Moore KA,. Woolf CJ. Central sensitization and LTP: do pain and memory
share similar mechanisms?, Trends Neurosci. 2003; 26:696–705.

Johnson MG, Vaughan RH. Death of Salmonella typhimurium and Escherchia coli in the
presence of freshly reconstituted dehydrated garlic and onion. Appl Microbiol. 1969;17:9035.
Jonkers D, Sluimer J, Stobberingh E. Effect of garlic on vancomycin-resistant enterococci.
Knowles LM, Milner JA. Diallyl disulfide induces ERK phosphorylation and alters gene
expression profiles in human colon tumor cells. J Nutr. 2003;133:2901-6.
Konig FK, Scincider B. Knoblauch bessert Durchblutungstörungen. Ärztliche Praxis
1986;38:35-44.
Lasiniski

K.

The

History

of

Garlic:

Nature's

Ancient

Superfood,

http://www.googobits.com/articles/p0-1167-the-history-of-garlic-natures-ancientsuperfood.html ((accessed Jan 25, 2010).

36

Lau BH, Woolley JL, Marsh CL, Barker GR, Koobs DH, Torrey RR. Superiority of
intralesional immunotherapy with Corynebacterium parvum and Allium sativum in control of
murine transitional cell carcinoma. J Urol. 1986;136:701-5.
Lauritzen M, Hansen AJ, Kronborg D, Wieloch T. Cortical spreading depression is associated
with arachidonic acid accumulation and preservation of energy charge, J Cereb Blood Flow
Metab 1990;10:115–122.

Lawson L D. Garlic: a review of its medicinal effects and indicated active compounds. In:
Lawson L D, Bauer R, editors; Lawson L D, Bauer R, editors. Phytomedicines of Europe:
their chemistry and biological activity. ACS Symposium Series 691. Washington, D.C.:
American Chemical Society; 1998. pp. 176–209.
Lawson LD. Garlic for total cholesterol reduction. Ann Intern Med. 2001;135:65-6.
Leao AAP, Morrison RS. Propagation of spreading cortical depression. J. Neurophysiol.
1945;8:33–45.
Leao AAP. Spreading depression of activity in the cerebral cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 1944;
7:359–390.
Lemar KM, Turner MP, Lloyd D.Garlic (Allium sativum) as an anti-Candida agent: a
comparison of the efficacy of fresh garlic and freeze-dried extracts. J Appl Microbiol.
2002;93:398-405.
Macpherson LJ, Geierstanger BH, Viswanath V, Bandell M, Eid SR, Hwang S, Patapoutian
A. The pungency of garlic: activation of TRPA1 and TRPV1 in response to allicin. Curr Biol.
2005;15:929-34.

37

Malenka RC, Bear MF. LTP and LTD: an embarrassment of riches. Neuron 2004;44:5-21.

Miettinen S, Fusco FR, Yrjanheikki J, Keinanen R, Hirvonen T, Roivainen R, Narhi M,
Hokfelt T, Koistinaho J. Spreading depression and focal brain ischemia induce
cyclooxygenase-2 in cortical neurons through N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-receptors and
phospholipase A2, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1997;94:6500–6505.

Muller M, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A. Effect of eugenol on spreading depression and
epileptiform discharges in rat neocortical and hippocampal tissues, Neuroscience
2006;140:743–751.

Netsiri C, Bradley DP, Takeda T, Smith MI, Papadakis N, Hall LD, Parsons AA, JamesMF,
Huang CL. A delayed class of BOLD waveforms associated with spreading depression in the
feline cerebral cortex can be detected and characterised using independent component
analysis (ICA), Magn. Reson. Imaging 2003;21:1097–1110.
O'Gara EA, Hill DJ, Maslin DJ. Activities of garlic oil, garlic powder, and their diallyl
constituents against Helicobacter pylori. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2000;66:2269-73.
Ohaeri OC. Effect of garlic oil on the levels of various enzymes in the serum and tissue of
streptozotocin diabetic rats. Biosci Rep. 2001 Feb;21(1):19-24.
Patten CJ, Thomas PE, Guy RL, Lee M, Gonzalez FJ, Guengerich FP, Yang CS. Cytochrome
P450 enzymes involved in acetaminophen activation by rat and human liver microsomes and
their kinetics. Chem Res Toxicol. 1993;6:511-8.

38

Patten CJ, Thomas PE, Guy RL, Lee M, Gonzalez FJ, Guengerich FP, Yang CS. Cytochrome
P450 enzymes involved in acetaminophen activation by rat and human liver microsomes and
their kinetics. Chem Res Toxicol. 1993;6:511-8.
Petkov V. Plants and hypotensive, antiatheromatous and coronarodilatating action. Am J Chin
Med. 1979;7:197-236.
Qi R., Wang Z. Pharmacological effects of garlic extracts. Trends Pharmacol. Sci.
2003;24:62–63.

Ramakers GM, Storm JF. A postsynaptic transient K+ current modulated by arachidonic acid
regulates synaptic integration and threshold for LTP induction in hippocampal pyramidal
cells, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2002;99:10144–10149.

Read SJ, Hirst WD, Upton N, Parsons AA. Cortical spreading depression produces increased
cGMP levels in cortex and brain stem that is inhibited by tonabersat (SB-220453) but not
sumatriptan, Brain Res. 2001;831:69–77.

Sachs M, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A. The effect of estrogen and progesterone on
spreading depression in rat neocortical tissues. Neurobiol Dis. 2007;25:27-34.
Salazar H, Llorente I, Jara-Oseguera A, García-Villegas R, Munari M, Gordon SE, Islas LD,
Rosenbaum T. A single N-terminal cysteine in TRPV1 determines activation by pungent
compounds from onion and garlic. Nat Neurosci. 2008;11:255-61.
Schmitz D, Mellor J, Frerking M, Nicoll RA. Presynaptic kainate receptors at hippocampal
mossy fiber synapses, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2001;98:11003–11008.

39

Sharma VD, Sethi MS, Kumar A, Rarotra JR. Antibacterial property of Allium sativum Linn.:
in vivo & in vitro studies. Indian J Exp Biol. 1977;15:466-8.
Sheela CG, Kumud K, Augusti KT. Anti-diabetic effects of onion and garlic sulfoxide amino
acids in rats. Planta Med. 1995;61:356-7.
Sial AY, Ahmed SJ. Study of the hypotensive action of garlic extract in experimental animals.
J Pak Med Assoc. 1982;32:237-9.
Smith JM, Bradley DP, James MF, Huang CL. Physiological studies of cortical spreading
depression. Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc. 2006;81:457-81.
Somjen GG. Mechanisms of spreading depression and hypoxic spreading depression-like
depolarization. Physiol Rev.; 2001;81:1065-96.
Sourdet V, Debanne D. The role of dendritic filtering in associative long-term synaptic
plasticity, Learn Mem. 1999;6:422–447.
Sparnins VL, Mott AW, Barany G, Wattenberg LW. Effects of allyl methyl trisulfide on
glutathione S-transferase activity and BP-induced neoplasia in the mouse. Nutr Cancer.
1986;8:211-5.
Suarez LM, Suarez F, Del Olmo N, Ruiz M, Gonzalez-Escalada JR, Solis JM. Presynaptic
NMDA autoreceptors facilitate axon excitability: a new molecular target for the
anticonvulsant gabapentin, Eur J Neurosci 2005;21:197–209.

Suarez LM, Suarez F, Del Olmo N, Ruiz M, Gonzalez-Escalada JR, Solis JM. Presynaptic
NMDA autoreceptors facilitate axon excitability: a new molecular target for the
anticonvulsant gabapentin, Eur J Neurosci 2005;21:197–209.

40

Tadi PP, Lau BH, Teel RW, Herrmann CE.Binding of aflatoxin B1 to DNA inhibited by
ajoene and diallyl sulfide. Anticancer Res. 1991;11:2037-41.
Takagi H, Takashima M, Liou SY. Effect of KB-2796, a novel calcium channel blocker, on
spreading depression in rat hippocampal slices, Nippon Yakurigaku Zasshi 1998;111:309–
316.
Tsai Y, Cole LL, Davis LE, Lockwood SJ, Simmons V, Wild GC. Antiviral Properties of
Garlic: In vitro Effects on Influenza B, Herpes Simplex and Coxsackie Viruses. Planta Med.
1985a ;51:460-1.
Tsai Y, Cole LL, Davis LE, Lockwood SJ, Simmons V, Wild GC. Antiviral properties of
garlic: in vitro effects on influenza B, herpes simplex and coxsackie viruses. Planta Med.
1985b ;:460-1.
Wargovich MJ. New dietary anticarcinogens and prevention of gastrointestinal cancer. Dis
Colon Rectum. 1988;31:72-5.
Warner TD, Mitchell JA. Cyclooxygenases: new forms, new inhibitors, and lessons from the
clinic, FASEB J 2004;18:790–804.
Wassef R, Haenold R, Hansel A, Brot N, Heinemann SH, Hoshi T. Methionine sulfoxide
reductase A and a dietary supplement S-methyl-L-cysteine prevent Parkinson's-like
symptoms. J Neurosci. 2007;27:12808-16.
Weber ND, Andersen DO, North JA, Murray BK, Lawson LD, Hughes BG. In vitro virucidal
effects of Allium sativum (garlic) extract and compounds. Planta Med. 1992;58:417-23.
Wernsmann B, Pape HC, Speckmann EJ, Gorji A. Effect of cortical spreading depression on
synaptic transmission of rat hippocampal tissues. Eur J Neurosci. 2006;23:1103-10.
41

Wiedemann M, de Lima VM, Hanke W. Effects of antimigraine drugs on retinal spreading
depression, Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1996;353:552–556.

Williams JH, Bliss TV. An in vitro study of the effect of lipoxygenase and cyclo-oxygenase
inhibitors of arachidonic acid on the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation in
the hippocampus, Neurosci Lett. 1989;107:301–306.
Yeh YY, Liu L. Cholesterol-lowering effect of garlic extracts and organosulfur compounds:
human and animal studies. J Nutr. 2001;131:989S-93S.
Ziaei S, Hantoshzadeh S, Rezasoltani P, Lamyian M. The effect of garlic tablet on plasma
lipids and platelet aggregation in nulliparous pregnants at high risk of preeclampsia. Eur J
Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2001 Dec 1;99(2):201-6.

42

43

44

45


