UNIVERSITY OF SIENA

DOCTORAL SCHOOL IN ONCOLOGY AND GENETICS

ANDROGEN RECEPTOR AND PIN1 IN PROSTATE CANCER

Supervisor

Candidate

Prof. ANTONIO GIORDANO

RAFFAELE LA MONTAGNA

ACADEMIC YEAR 2010/2011
1

INDEX

-Aim of Thesis -Introduction

3-7

-Androgen Receptor Partners

8-17

-AR Phosphorylation Site

18-28

-PIN1

29-34

-Results

34-46

-Discussion

47- 50

- Materials and Methods

51-58

-References

59-72

2

Aims of the Thesis
The aim of my thesis is to understand the molecular mechanism
involved in Prostate Cancer. Since 20 years, the laboratory of Prof.
Antonio Giordano is dedicated to elucidating the molecular basis of
different human diseases with particular emphasis in the mechanisms
involved on cancer progression and cell cycle control. The discoveries
achieved

in the last years

helped the scientific community

to

understand the basic mechanism of cell cycle progression and open
new ways to cure cancer patients.
In this thesis we demonstrated that the peptidyl prolyl isomerase PIN1
directly interact with the Androgen Receptor and this interaction plays
a key role in Prostate Cancer Progression.

INTRODUCTION
Androgen dependent and independent Prostate Cancer

Other than skin cancer, prostate cancer is the most frequently
diagnosed malignancy

and second leading cause of cancer death

amongst men in the United States (1).About 1 man out of 6 will be
diagnosed with prostate cancer during his lifetime and 1 man in 36
will die. The androgens testosterone and dihydrotestosterone play an

3

essential role during the normal physiology of the cells and in the
initial steps of tumorigenesis. Androgens bind to a specific androgen
receptor (AR), a ligand-dependent transcription factor which controls
the expression of a large number of downstream target genes. The
androgen receptor (AR) is

a critical effector of prostate cancer

development and progression and for this reason , AR ablation is the
first line of therapeutic intervention in the treatment of disseminated
prostate cancers. However, recurrent tumors arise within a median of
2-3 years wherein androgen signaling has been inappropriately
restored (2).

Fig 1: Comparison between androgen dependent and androgen independent way.

4

A form of more aggressive Prostate Cancer is the androgen
independent prostate cancer(AIPC). In this case, there is an AR
signaling reactivation and as a consequence, a lethal form of prostate
cancer that progress and metastasize. The mechanisms involved in
AIPC recurrence are different. One possible mechanism by which a
prostate cancer circumvents the effects of androgen ablation therapy is
by increasing its sensitivity to very low levels of androgens. There are
several potential mechanisms that would allow increased tumor-cell
proliferation, despite low circulating androgens in the patient. One
mechanism to accomplish this is by increasing the expression of the
AR itself. Approximately 30% of tumors that become androgen
independent after ablation therapy have amplified the AR gene (3). A
second hypersensitive mechanism for tumor progression results in
high-level expression of the AR, increased stability, and enhanced
nuclear localization of AR in recurrent tumor cells. A third
hypersensitive mechanism to circumvent androgen ablation therapy is
by increasing the local production of androgens, to compensate for the
overall decline in circulating testosterone. Prostate cells could increase
the rate of conversion of testosterone to the more potent hormone
DHT by increasing 5α-reductase activity.

5

This would facilitates AR signaling even with significantly lower
levels of serum testosterone. Some of these tumors, at least initially,
have adapted to the low androgen environment, others acquire
mutations that allow them to circumvent the normal growth regulation
by androgens. It seems that many cases of AIPC do not develop from
a loss of androgen signaling, but rather from the acquisition of genetic
changes that lead to aberrant activation of the androgen-signaling axis.
These changes are usually missense mutations in the AR gene that
decrease the specificity of ligand binding and allow inappropriate
activation by various non-androgen steroids and androgen antagonists
(4) . In other cases some growth factors such as insulin-like growthfactor-1 (IGF- 1), keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) and epidermal
growth factor (EGF), can activate the AR, creating an outlaw receptor,
and can therefore induce AR target genes in the absence of androgen
(5). These are just some of the mechanisms in which cells can use to
escape androgen ablation and it is also possible that a single cancer
uses several mechanisms either initially or in a multistep progression
to AIPC. The appropriate regulation of androgen activity is necessary
for a range of developmental and physiological processes, particularly
male sexual development and maturation.

6

However, excessive production of adrenal androgens can cause
premature puberty in young boys and their hypersecretion in females
produce a masculine pattern of body hair and cessation of
menstruation(6). Their miss-regulation is also implicated in the
formation and progression of prostatic adenocarcinoma (7). Therefore,
the removal of testicular androgens by castration has long been
recognized

to

result in

tumor

regression, and surgical or

pharmacological androgen ablation remains the predominant form of
treatment for advanced prostate cancer. Androgen ablation therapy is
often combined with the treatment of nonsteroidal antiandrogens,
such as hydroxyflutamide, to block residual androgens action.
Androgen Replacement Therapy has been in use for over 60 years to
treat, with proven efficacy and safety, on patients with male
hypogonadal disorders and/or failure of sexual development. Apart
from that, the last decade has witnessed a wider therapeutic role of
androgens for nonclassical indications.

7

Androgen Receptor structure and function.
Androgen receptor (AR), belongs to the family of nuclear receptors.
These receptors are a class of ligand-regulated and DNA-sequence
specific intracellular receptors that control the activity of genetic
networks in response to different signals .
Structural analysis of AR revealed that it contains three major
functional domains. The N-terminal activation function (AF)-1
domain (residues 1–555) contains different binding sites for
transcriptional regulators including coactivators of the p160 family
coactivators,

acetyltransferases such as cAMP response element

(CREB)-binding protein/p300 acetyltransferases,

nuclear receptor

corepressor and silencing mediator of retinoid and thyroid hormone
receptor . Downstream of the AF-1 lies the DNA-binding domain
(DBD) (residues 556–624), which mediates sequence-specific binding
to promoters and enhancers of target genes. The hinge region
(residues 625–670) links the DBD to the C-terminal domain(8,9). The
functional domains of the AR are, conserved with other members of
the “classic” receptor subclass.

8

The C-terminal region of the AR, the hinge region and ligand-binding
domain (LBD) is responsible for ligand binding and receptor
dimerization. The well conserved DNA binding domain consists of 68
amino acids with two zinc finger structures. In contrast to several
other hormone-regulated nuclear receptors, the AR lacks an intrinsic
activation function 2 in the LBD domain. The LBD domain, which
consists of twelve α-helices, projects away from the hormone-binding
pocket in the absence of ligand and undergoes substantial
conformational changes in the presence of ligand . The folding of the
most C-terminal helix 12 (H12) over the ligand-binding pocket in turn
creates new structural surfaces that bind coactivators required for
efficient trans-activation.
Similar to other members of steroid hormone receptor family such as
the estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, glucocorticoid receptor
and mineral-corticoid receptor, the AR becomes activated after ligand
binding. Steroid-hormone receptors are trans-acting gene-regulating
proteins, involved in the accomplishment of steroid-hormone induced
cellular responses.

9

Upon binding of hormone, the receptor-hormone complex undergoes a
conformational change called transformation, which is thought to
precede

binding

of

the

complex

to

androgen

responsive

elements(ARE)in the target cell genome (10). Testosterone — the
main circulating androgen — is secreted primarily by the testes, but is
also formed by peripheral conversion of adrenal steroids. It circulates
in the blood, where it is bound to albumin and sex-hormone-binding
globulin (SHBG), with a small fraction dissolved freely in the serum.
When free testosterone enters into prostate cells , it is converted to
dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by the enzyme 5α-reductase (SRD5A2).
DHT is the more active hormone, having fivefold higher affinity for
the androgen receptor (AR) than does testosterone(11).
While the subsets of AR target genes that underlie each cellular
outcome have yet to be clearly defined, discovery of at least one major
AR-dependent target gene, prostate specific antigen (PSA) has had a
major impact on disease management (12). PSA is a serine protease in
the kallikrein gene family that is secreted into seminal fluid by
prostatic epithelial cells and found in the serum.

10

As it is almost exclusively a product of prostate cells, measurement in
blood has proved to be exceptionally useful as tumor marker.
Specifically, serum PSA is monitored clinically to detect early stage
disease, track tumor burden, monitor the efficacy of therapeutic
intervention, and detect the emergence of recurrent tumors posttherapy (13,14). PSA is generally considered to be the most sensitive
biochemical marker available for monitoring the presence of prostatic
disease, particularly prostate cancer, and response to therapy (15,16).

AR partners.

The binding of androgens to AR induces dissociation of the AR from
the HSPs proteins (Heat-Shock-Proteins) and subsequent receptor
dimerization and translocation into the nucleus , facilitating the ability
of AR to bind its cognate response elements, and recruit coregulators
to promote the expression of target genes. The transcriptional activity
of AR is greatly modulated by coregulatory proteins. Coactivators
such as ARA70 ( Androgen Coactivators 70Kd) and ARA55 stabilize
the process of ligand binding to AR. The ability of AR to be
translocated into the nucleus is regulated by several coregulators such
as the F-Actin binding protein Filamin.

11

Inside the nucleus AR interacts with DNA by targeting specific
nucleotide palindromic sequences termed Androgen Response
Element (17). A number of coregulators themselves perform
enzymatic activities such as phosphorylation or acetylation, modifying
either the chromatin surrounding the promoter of the target gene or
other coregulators. Among coactivators, the acetyltranferase , CBP
(CREB Binding Protein) , the closely related p300 and other nuclear
receptor coactivators p/CAF(p300/CBP Associated Factor), SRC1(
Steroid Receptor Coactivator-1), and SRC3 (18).

12

Fig2. Androgen action. Testosterone circulates in the blood bound to albumin (not shown) and
sex-hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and exchanges with free testosterone. Free testosterone
enters prostate cells and is converted to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by the enzyme 5α-reductase.
Binding of DHT to the androgen receptor (AR) induces dissociation from heat-shock proteins
(HSPs) and receptor phosphorylation. The AR dimerizes and can bind to androgen-response
elements in the promoter regions of target genes. Co-activators (such as ARA70) and corepressors
(not shown) also bind the AR complex, facilitating or preventing, respectively, its interaction with
the general transcription apparatus (GTA). Activation (or repression) of target genes leads to
biological responses including growth, survival and the production of prostate-specific antigen
(PSA).

13

PIAS (Protein Inhibitor of Activated Signal Transducer and Activator
of Transcription STAT) family of proteins and ANPK ( Androgen
Receptor-Interacting

Nuclear

Kinase)

play

major

function.

Transcriptional activation by AR ultimately requires the recruitment
of RNA Pol II( RNA polymerase II) to the promoter of target genes.
RNA Pol II recruitment is mediated through the assembly of GTFs
(General Transcription Factor)to form the pre-initiation complex, the
first step of which is the binding of TBP (TATA box-Binding
Protein)near the transcriptional start site . TBP is part of multiprotein
complex, the first step of which is the binding of TBP near the
transcriptional start site. TBP is part of multiprotein complex which
includes TFIID (Transcriptional Factor –IID) that induces DNA
bending , bringing sequences upstream of the TATA element in closer
proximity, and presumably enabling interaction between GTFs and
steroid receptor-coregulators complexes. TFIIB binds directly to TBP
and recruits the TFIIF-RNA Pol II complex. TFIIF interacts with
TFIIB and RNA Pol II and has a role in transcription initiation and
elongation.

14

The ATPase/ Kinase TFIIE and helicase TFIIH are than recruited to
RNA Pol II to facilitate DNA strand separation before transcription
initiation. TFIIE and TFIIF

are acetylated by p300 and p/CAF.

Ubiquitin ligase activity has been identified for two AR coactivators,
ARA54 and E6-AP.The coactivators with ubiquitin ligase activity
contribute to nuclear receptor transactivation through targeting the
degradation of corepressor. AR can also interact with a number of
transcription factor including Activator Protein-1,SMAD3( Sma and
Mad Related Family),NF-KappaB (Nuclear Factor-KappaB), SRY
(Sex-determining Region-Y), and the Ets family of transcription
factors.
Transcriptional corepression of androgen-bound AR can be attributed
to three corepressors: cyclin D1, calreticulin and HBO1.Cyclin-D1
inhibits AR transactivation through a mechanism independent of its
function in cell cycle regulation (7).
The calcium –binding protein calreticulinis localized to the
endoplasmic reticulum and in the nucleus and has also been
characterized as corepressor of AR.

15

The AR corepressor HBO1 is a member of MYST protein family that
is characterized by a homologous zinc finger and carries an
acetyltransferase domain. Although AR is normally thought to
function as a homodimer, it has been found to heterodimerize with
other nuclear receptors including the ER( Estrogen Receptor), GR
( Glucocorticoid Receptor) and TR4(Testicular Orphan Receptor 4)
and in each case result in a decrease in AR transcriptional activity. In
addition to the transcriptional or genomic mode of action by steroids,
androgens, can also exert rapid, nongenomic effect. Nongenomic
steroid activity typically involves the rapid induction of conventional
second messenger signal transduction cascades. Nongenomic action of
androgens can occur through multiple receptors. Androgens also
stimulate an elevation in intracellular Ca2+ through GPCR(G-Protein
Coupled Receptor) by activating an influx through nonvoltage-gated
Ca2+ channels.The elevation of intracellular calcium activates signal
transduction cascades, including PKA(Protein Kinase-A),PKC(Protein
Kinase-C), and MAPKs( Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase), that can
modulate the activity of the ARs and other transcription factors.
AR also interacts with intracellular tyrosine Kinase c-Src, triggering cSrc activation. One of the targets of c-Src is the adapter protein SHR

16

(SH2 Containing Protein), an upstream regulator of the MAPK
pathway (18).

AR phosphorylation by ERK2 is associated with

enhanced AR transcriptional activity and an increased ability to recruit
the coactivator ARA 70.The SRC family of transcriptional
coactivators: SRC1, SRC3, and TIF2( Transcription Intermedary
Factor -2) are targets of MAPK phosphoryation that result s in an
increased ability of these coactivators to recruit additional coactivators
complexes to the DNA-bound receptor. The non genomic rapid
stimulation of the second messenger cascades by androgens may
ultimately exert biological effects through modulation of the
transcriptional activity of AR or other transcription factors. Such
modulation may occur through direct phosphorylation of activators or
their coregulators.

17

AR phosphorylation site

It is increasingly clear that the AR is also an integration point for
signals coming not only from steroid hormones but from other
pathways including kinases.
Post-translational modifications such as acetylation and sumoylation
have been shown to influence the transactivation potential of the AR
(19,20). However, it is not clear whether phosphorylation has an
effect on the properties and activity of the AR. It has been shown that
the AR is a phosphoprotein (21,22) and extra phosphorylation of the
AR is induced when cells are exposed to androgens, in addition to the
so-called basal AR phosphorylation observed in the absence of
androgens(23). Phosphorylation occurs predominantly at serine
residues, which are mainly located in the N-terminal domain.
Androgen receptors (ARs) are phosphorylated at multiple sites in
response to ligand binding, but the kinases mediating AR
phosphorylation and the importance of these kinases in AR function
have not been established. However specific phosphorylation sites
have been identified for most members of the steroid receptor family
(24,25).

18

Furthermore, phosphorylation is correlated with the three AR isoforms
that appear on an SDS/polyacrylamide gel (26).
Within minutes after the start of de novo synthesis, the AR appears as
a 110 kDa isoform, whereas the generation of the second (112 kDa)
isoform appear within 15 min as shown by radioactive methioninelabelling studies. Only after hormone binding does the third (114 kDa)
isoform appear. The AR isoform pattern is correlated with AR
phosphorylation as was shown in previous studies by using
phosphatases. The dephosphorylation of AR by phosphatases resulted
in the loss of one isoform either in the presence or absence of
hormone . This effect was also observed when AR phosphosites were
mutated . Furthermore, several phosphorylation sites have been
identified. The first identified phosphosites, Ser-81, Ser-94 and Ser650, were found by mutagenesis analyses in combination with
SDS/PAGE (27). Ser-308 was the first phosphosite identified by
mutagenesis and MS Ser-16, Ser-81, Ser-94, Ser-256, Ser-308, Ser424 and Ser-650 were all identified and confirmed as phosphosites by
mutagenesis, peptide mapping and MS (28).

19

Fig. A) The AR becomes phosphorylated at multiple site after ligand binding but the identity of
all the kinases that

directly

phosphorylate ARs and the functional importance

of AR

phosphorylation is not clearly esthabilished .

However, cell-free in vitro phosphorylation reaction studies on AR
mutants also demonstrated Ser-213, Ser-515 and Ser-791 are potential
phosphosites.
regulates

AR

Some data
Ser

650

suggest that stress kinase signaling
phosphorylation

and

that

Ser

650

phosphorylation regulates AR export (27,29).
Recently Narayanan et al. discovered a selective nuclear androgen
receptor exporter (SNARE) that functions to exclude AR from the
nucleus. SNARE-1 binds wild-type and mutant ARs and efficiently
inhibits their transactivation activity and ability to induce PSA gene
expression.

20

SNARE-1 inhibits the androgen-sensitive growth of LNCaP cells and
tumor xenografts. Quantitative subcellular localization studies suggest
that SNARE-1 inhibits nuclear translocation of AR, but also facilitates
export of nuclear AR that has been translocated by an agonist.
Mechanistic studies indicate that SNARE-1 rapidly phosphorylates
p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and Ser650 of the AR
facilitating the nuclear export of AR. Additionally, SNARE-1 was
found to promote ubiquitination of AR in LNCaP cells (30).
Transitions into and within the mitotic cell cycle are dictated by the
coordinate activation of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)/cyclin
complexes, wherein cyclin binding induces the catalytic activity of the
kinase (31,32). Mitogenic signaling pathways generally induce cell
cycle progression through ordered activation of CDK-cyclin
complexes,

whereas

anti-mitogenic

signals

that

result

from

extracellular events (e.g., nutrient depletion) or intracellular insults
(e.g., DNA damage) typically serve to attenuate CDK function.
Although the signals that dictate commitment to the cell cycle are
often cell type-specific, the core machinery that drives the cell cycle
engine is well conserved.

21

Prior to mitogenic stimulation cells can exit the cell cycle and enter
into a resting stage deemed “G0. At this stage, several key gatekeepers
of cell cycle transitions are invoked to prevent unscheduled cell cycle
progression (33).

Figure 3:(from Balk et all2008) AR-cell cycle crosstalk.
Activated AR stimulates the accumulation of cyclin D1 (D1), through mammalian Target of
Rapamycin (mTOR), to activate CDK4 and promote phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma (RB)
tumor suppressor. In addition, AR-induced expression of p21Cip1 and degradation of p27Kip1
further enhance cycD1/CDK4 and cycE/CDK2-dependent inactivation of RB and allow expression
of E2F target genes like cyclin A (CycA). Cyclin A in turn activates CDK2 to drive G1-S phase
transition. Subsequently engaged components of the cell cycle machinery then impinge on AR to
regulate the androgen response. Elevated cyclin D1 acts as in a negative feedback loop to attenuate
AR activity, thereby modulating androgen action. In G2-phase, CDK1 promotes the
phosphorylation and activation of AR. However, AR is degraded in M-phase and is purposed to be
a “licensing factor” for DNA replication. Components that suppress AR function are outlined in
red, whereas positive effectors of AR activity are outlined in green.

22

Mechanistic

investigations have showed that AR plays a master

regulation of G1-S phase progression, able to induce signals that
promote

G1

cyclin-dependent-Kinase

activity

and

finally,

phosphorylation /inactivation of the receptor of the retinoblastoma
tumor suppressor protein (34).
Like PR, the majority of identified phosphorylation sites for AR are
located in the N-terminal domain. Although many of the NTD sites
have been tested in vivo, assigning function to them has been difficult.
Studies of transcriptional activation by AR on several androgen
response elements containing promoters carried out in various cell
lines has provided little information on the function of NTD sitespecific phosphorylation, Many phosphorylation mutants exhibited no
aberrant activation characteristics when compared with wild
type.(35,36,37,38). However, greater differences in activity can be
detected when specific signaling pathways are activated or inhibited.
For example, overexpression of cyclin D3/CDK11p58 inhibits AR
activity by

phosphorylating Ser308A mutant partially elevates

hormone dependent activity and prevents cyclin D3/ CDK11p58mediated repression of AR transcriptional activity (39).

23

Several studies have suggested that AKT-mediated phosphorylation
of Ser213 and Ser791 (numbered based on an AR length of 919 amino
acids) reduces AR activity (40). Mutation of the AR Ser213 to alanine
caused resistance to AKT-mediated suppression of activity in DU145
cells(41) . Palazzolo et al. found that substituting alanines for both of
the

sites

also

prevented

AKT-mediated

inhibition

of

AR

transcriptional activity. Surprisingly, substitution of aspartic acids at
either site blocked hormone binding and, therefore, ligand-dependent
AR protein stabilization, ligand-mediated translocation, and AR
transcriptional activity(42).
The remaining sites in the AR NTD domain also have been shown to
have important functional roles. When a fragment of the androgen
receptor (amino acids 507–660) is expressed, Ser515 and Ser578 are
phosphorylated in response to EGF treatment(43).
The AR Ser515Ala mutation exhibited a more severe phenotype than
the Ser578Ala and the double mutant displayed little to no activity;
furthermore, EGF treatment had no effect on the activity of this
mutant.

24

A Ser578Ala substitution results in increased nuclear localization of
AR in the absence of ligand but eliminates AR transcriptional
response to EGF. AR Ser578Ala also exhibits increased binding to
Ku-70/80 regulatory subunits of DNA dependent protein kinase in
addition to nuclear retention of the AR in association with
hyperphosphorylation at Ser 515(44).
Finally, the Ser515Ala mutant is not phosphorylated on Ser650, which
is located in the hinge region of AR (45).
One possible explanation for this effect is that phosphorylation at
Ser515 mediates a conformational change of the AR thus making the
Ser650 phosphosite either more available to phosphatases or less
accessible to kinases. Attempting to assign function to the AR Ser650
phosphorylation site itself has produced conflicting reports. Early
studies have suggested that blocking phosphorylation of this site
resulted in 30% reduced activity with an MMTV-Luc reporter in CV1
cells . This was in direct contrast to later reports examining the
function of Ser650 phosphorylation on AR activity in various cell
lines using various reporters in which no phenotype was detected .

25

However, careful examination of these studies revealed that the
original observation by Zhuo et al. was evident at only high
concentrations of receptor . Wong et al. also found that at high
concentrations of receptor the Ser650Ala mutant is less active than
wild type . AR Ser650 phosphorylation also plays an important role in
nuclear export of AR in response to stress kinase signaling (29).
A recent report has shown that protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) inhibition
increases phosphorylation at AR Ser650 which causes a marked
increase in nuclear export of AR which is not observed for the
Ser650Ala mutant(46) .
This study suggests that PP1 plays a critical role in regulating AR
protein stability and nuclear localization through dephosphorylation of
AR at Ser650. In addition to Ser–Pro motifs, several tyrosine
phosphorylation sites are present in the NTD of AR. A number of
candidate sites have been identified in AR isolated from cells
overexpressing Src. Based on the overall level of tyrosine
phosphorylation in AR, substituting Phe for Tyr534 reduced the Tyr
phosphorylation most substantially suggesting that this is a major site
under these conditions(47).

26

The Tyr534Phe mutant also exhibited reduced activity and DNA
binding at low doses of ligand and defective nuclear translocation in
response to various stimuli . Finally, Tyr534Phe mutant expression
caused growth inhibition in both cell lines and tumor xenografts
containing the Tyr534Phe mutant grew more slowly than tumors
expressing WT AR in castrated mice, thereby demonstrating a role for
Tyr534 phosphorylation in prostate cancer cell growth under
androgen-depleted

conditions.

Two

additional

tyrosine

phosphorylation sites have been identified in cells treated with
heregulin or transfected with constitutively active Ack (Cdc42
associated kinase).
Mutation of these sites, Tyr267 and Tyr363 to phenylalanine
(Tyr267Phe and Tyr363Phe, respectively), reduced Ackinduced
reporter

activation

and

recruitment

to

the

enhancer,

thus

demonstrating the importance of these sites in AR basal and liganddependent activity as well as in potentiation of AR activity by kinase
signaling. In addition, substituting Phe at both of these sites also
reduced tumor growth of Ack-driven tumor xenografts in castrated
nude mice.

27

Recently has been demonstrated that Androgen receptor (AR)
interacts with β-catenin and can suppress its coactivation of T cell
factor 4 (Tcf4) in prostate cancer (PCa) cells. Pin1 is a peptidyl-prolyl
cis/trans isomerase that stabilizes β-catenin by inhibiting its binding to
the adenomatous polyposis coli gene product and subsequent glycogen
synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β)-dependent degradation. Higher Pin1
expression in primary PCa is correlated with disease recurrence, and
this study found that Pin1 expression was markedly increased in
metastatic PCa.(48).

28

Pin1
Phosphorylation of proteins on serine/threonine residues preceding
proline (pSer/Thr-Pro) is a key regulatory mechanism for the control
of cell proliferation and transformation (49).

The pSer/Thr-Pro

moiety in proteins exists in two distinct cis- and trans-conformations,
whose conversion is catalyzed specifically by Pin1, which specifically
acts only on phosphorylated Ser/Thr-Pro bonds (50,51).
The significance of this phosphorylation in cell cycle control was
obscured until the discovery of the PIN1 protein (protein interacting
with NIMA (never in mitosis A)-1) . Therefore Pin1 plays an
important role in cell cycle regulation. Functionally, Pin1 catalyzes
the conversion of cis- and trans-conformations of target proteins after
phosphorylation, thereby having profound effects on their catalytic
activity,

dephosphorylation,

protein-protein

interactions,

and

subcellular localization. Pin1 is essential for mitotic progression and is
required for the DNA replication checkpoint (52).
A comparison of steroid hormone receptor sequences indicates that
Ser-Pro motifs predominate in the NH2-terminal hyper-variable
regions and hinge regions, occur rarely in the hormone-binding
domains, and are not detected within the zinc finger DNA-binding

29

domains (53) . Pin1 is normally expressed at very low levels in most
normal tissues, although significant levels of Pin1 are often found in
cell types that normally undergo active cell division. Pin1 is
overexpressed in some human malignancies and that its expression
closely correlates with the level of cyclin D1 in human breast cancer
(54).

Fig 4: The different roles of PIN1 in cellular physiology

30

PIN1 is a member of the evolutionarily conserved peptidylprolyl
isomerase (PPIase) family of proteins. PIN1 has a two-domain
structure that consists of an N-terminal WW domain (amino acids 1–
39) and the Cterminal PPIase domain (amino acids 45–163). The WW
domain binds only to specific pSer/Thr-Pro-motifs and the PPIase
isomerase domain catalyzes the conformational switch from cis to
trans of target proteins. This fact is especially important because Prodirected kinases and phosphatases are conformation-specific and act
only on the trans isoform (55,56). For this reason, PIN1 is important
for many physiological activities of the cell (Fig. 4).
In cell cycle control, PIN1 was originally identified and defined as a
protein important in mitosis (57).
Depletion of PIN1 in yeast and human cells induces mitotic arrest and
its over-expression blocks the cells in the G2 phase of the cell cycle
(51). Since the discovery of PIN1, a plethora of protein targets have
been discovered, many of which are involved in the G0 and G1/S
control (58). PIN1 controls Cyclin D1 mRNA levels and it is involved
in regulation of CyclinD1, c-MYC and Cyclin E protein stability.
PIN1 -/- MEF showed proliferative defects in cell cycle entry after
serum deprivation. In addition, PIN1 is a target of E2F transcription
factors and its mRNA and protein levels fluctuate during cell cycle
31

(59). Even in cancer pathology, PIN1 over-expression was found in 38
different tumour types out of 60, including most common human
cancers such as prostate, cervical, brain, ovary, lung, breast, liver
cancer, and melanoma . Pin1 overexpression has been observed in a
subset of primary prostate cancers, and its expression correlates with
increased risk of recurrence after radical prostatectomy (60). The
relationship between PIN1 overexpression and Prostate Cancer
progression has been correlate with the

ability that PIN1 has to

antagonize β-catenin /Tcf4 binding and transcriptional activity.
Abrogation of this interaction enhance β-catenin /Tcf4 signling and
contribute to aggressive biological behavior in Prostate Cancer. Pin1
stabilizes β-catenin by inhibiting its binding to the adenomatous
polyposis coli gene product and subsequent glycogen synthase kinase
3β (GSK-3β)-dependent degradation. Increased expression of Pin1 in
transfected LNCaP PCa cells strongly accelerated tumor growth in
vivo in immunodeficient mice (48). However, the functional effects of
Pin1 overexpression on β-catenin nuclear signaling in PCa cells (and
in particular in PTEN-deficient cells), and how it contributes to more
aggressive biological behavior have not been determined.

32

Moreover, PIN1 expression is an excellent prognostic marker in
prostate cancer (61). It is now clear that Pin1plays a catalytic role in
oncogenesis in solid cancers. Some groups have already started to
study the role of PIN1 in Prostate Cancer. PIN 1 has also been
suggested as new marker in PCa (61). RYO et al. have already
suggested PIN1 like a good target for patients with prostate cancer
with different kind of experiments. In those studies a

retrovirus-

mediated RNA interference targeting Pin1was expressed in PC3 and
LNCaP cells, and cell growth and several transformed properties were
investigated.
As result the stable expression of Pin1-specific small interfering RNA
constructs in PC3 and LNCaP cells significantly reduced cellular
proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion but strongly
enhanced the apoptotic response induced by serum depletion or
treatment

with

anticancer

agents.

Furthermore,

Pin1depletion

significantly suppressed tumorigenic potential in athymicmice,
resulting in the inhibition of both tumor growth and angiogeneisis.
These results strongly suggest that Pin1plays an important role not
only in tumorigenesis but also in the maintenance of the transformed
phenotype in prostate cancer cells.

33

Hence, Pin1 may serve as a promising therapeutic target, particularly
for recurrent prostate tumors. Published data establish Pin1 as an
independent prognostic marker

in PCa patients after radical

prostatectomy (61).
Here we demonstrate that PIN1 form a protein complex with
Androgen Receptor and we will suggest the role that this interaction
plays in Prostate Cancers. This interaction could represent the starting
point for the development of new drugs in patients with diagnosed
prostate cancer.

Results
PIN1 directly interact with AR
In the last decade many evidences have suggested a relationship
between PIN1 and Androgen Receptor Activity.(48,61). Higher Pin1
expression in primary Prostate Cancer cells is correlated with disease
recurrence, and Pin1 expression was found markedly increased in
metastatic Prostate Cancer.

Ayala et al. have shown that Pin1

expression levels were tightly correlated with both a higher
probability and a shorter period of tumor recurrence following radical

34

prostatectomy by a comprehensive immunohistochemical analysis.
PIN1 can control AR activity through an indirect mechanism mediated
its ability to inhibit β-catenin degradation. From our perspective, since
AR contains many pSer/Pro, a direct mechanism could be
hypothesized. First of all we used a specific prostate cancer cell line
(LNCaP) and then we performed a GST-pull down experiment using
GST alone and GST-PIN1 to determinateif PIN1 and AR could
interact (FIG5).
In a GST gene fusion system, the GST sequence is incorporated into
an expression vector alongside the gene sequence encoding the protein
of interest. Induction of protein expression from the vector's promoter
results in expression of a fusion protein. This GST-fusion protein can
then be purified from cells via its high affinity for glutathione. It is
fused to the N-terminus of a protein. Agarose beads can be coated
with glutathione, and such glutathione-Agarose beads bind GSTproteins. These beads are then washed, to remove contaminating
bacterial proteins.

35

Fig:5a Possible site of ineraction between Pin1 and AR

Fig5b: In vitro and in vivo interaction between PIN1 and AR a) Potential
PIN1 binding site targets in AR protein. b) GST-PIN1 interaction with AR. A
specific band was detected in the GST-PIN1 lane and no band is detected in GST
control lane.

36

LNCaP cells were collected and lysated .(See material and method for
detail) Total protein extract was incubated O.N. with GST- PIN1. The
interaction was detected by western blot using Androgen Receptor
specific antibody. The figure shows that Pin1 and AR interact. To
assess the in vivo interaction between PIN1 and AR, LNCaP cells
were immunoprecipitated with anti-PIN1 antibody and analyzed by
western blot with anti-AR antibody. We utilized LNCaP cells that
overexpressed Pin1 or without Pin1 as negative control.
Co-immunoprecipitation is a purification procedure to determine if
two different proteins interact. An antibody specific to the protein of
interest is added to a cell lysate. Then the antibody-protein complex is
pelleted usually using protein-A/G agarose, which binds most
antibodies. If there are any proteins that bind to the first protein, they
will also be pelleted. Identification of proteins in the pellet can be
determined by western blot.

37

FIG:6 PIN1 interacts with AR in vivo. Cells were immunoprecipitated with antiPIN1 antibody, analyzed by western blot with anti-AR antibody. The membrane
was normalized with HSP-70 antibody.

In the following experiments we will determinate witch part of the AR
receptor was involved in the interaction with PIN1. We splitted the
AR in two different segments: the first one containing the aminoterminal domain NTD and the DNA binding domain DBD and the
second matching the LDB domain. These fragments were obtained by
PCR amplification using as template the androgen receptor full length
and cloned in the PCDNA6HisMyc mammalian expression vector.

38

The NTD-DBD domain corresponds from the a.a 1 to a.a. 625. The
LBD domains contains the a.a. 626-919. The domains were than
transfected in the HEK293 cell lines, after tranfection total lysate
protein were pulled-down ON with GST or GST-PIN1 and analyzed
by immunobt with AR antibody. The analysis showed that NTD
domain interacts with PIN1. HSP70 antibody was used to normalize
samples. (Fig7)

Fig 7:Pin1 interacts with AR-NTD-DBD fragment. Total protein
lysate was pull down with GST-Pin1. Note no band is detected in GST
control line .

39

The NTD domain contains six different potential Pin1 binding sites.
To narrowed the region of interaction on AR protein the aminoterminal domain was split in three fragments NTD-A, NTD-B, NTDC consisting rispectively of aminoacids 1-239, 240-410, 411-560.
The fragments obtained by PCR were transfected in HEK293
cells.(for transfection see material and methods below).The GST-pulldown experiment limit the area of interaction on the first 239 aa of
AR. (Fig 8)

Fig. 8 The amino terminal domain NTD of AR was splitted in three
fragments and pulled down with GST-Pin1. GST alone was used as
negative control. Pin1 interacts with NTD-A corresponding of the first
239 a.a. of AR

40

It is widely accepted that PIN1 interacts with phosphorylated Ser/Thr
motif followed by Proline. To identify the motif that is recognized by
PIN1 we first identify the Ser/Thr motifs that are present on the first
239 a.a. of the receptor. We found that 2 of those Ser81 and Ser94 are
potential binding site of Pin1. To explore witch Ser/Pro motif is bound
by PIN1 isomerase we expressed wild-type S81A and S94A mutant
AR in 293FT cells.
The obtained mutant proteins were transfected in 293FT cells and
subsequently

pulled

down

with

GST

tagged

PIN1.

The

immunoblotting assay showed a markedly decrease of interaction
when Ser 81 is substituted with Ala in contrast with the S94A mutant
that doesn’t shows any decrease of interaction compared with AR wild
tipe.( Fig9 )

41

Fig 9: The figure shows a markedly decrease of interaction when Ser 81 is
substituted with Ala in contrast with the S94A mutant that doesn’t shows any
decrease of interaction compared with AR wild type.

This finding open a new scenario about the role of AR SER81in
prostate control. The role of Ser81 has been widely studied, recently
according to our data Gioeli et al. discovered that LHS cells stably
expressing wild-type and S81A mutant AR showed differences in the
regulation of endogenous AR target genes, suggesting that S81
phosphorylation regulates promoter selectivity. Is well known that
PIN1 recognized pSER/THR

our next goal was to identify witch

kinases is responsible for binding between the two proteins.

42

CDK1, CDK3 and recently CDK9(63,64) are until now considering
the 3 kinases involved in the phosphorylation of SER81. To examine
in detail the kinase responsible of the interaction between PIN1 and
the receptor we conducted some experiments using the dominant
negative of all the kinases that

seems to be involved in Ser81

phosphorylation. Different papers report that the CDK1, CDK3,
CDK5 are involved in Ser81 phosphorylation but the exact role that
these phosporylation plays in AR activity are non well knowed yet.
Recently Gioeli et.al found an association between (CDK)9 and AR.
CDK9 phosphorylates the AR on Ser81 in vitro. Phosphorylation is
specific to AR Ser81 because CDK9 did not phosphorylate the AR on
other serine phosphorylation sites. Overexpression of CDK9 with its
cognate cyclin, Cyclin T, increased Ser81 phosphorylation levels in
cells. Small interfering RNA knockdown of CDK9 protein levels
decreased hormone-induced S81 phosphorylation.
Additionally, treatment of LNCaP cells with the CDK9 inhibitors, 5,6dichloro-1-β-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole and Flavopiridol, reduced

43

Ser81 phosphorylation further, suggesting that CDK9 regulates Ser81
phosphorylation. Pharmacological inhibition of CDK9 also resulted in
decreased AR transcription in LNCaP cells. Collectively these results
suggest that CDK9 phosphorylation of AR Ser81 is an important step
in regulating AR transcriptional activity and prostate cancer cell
growth. We conducted the experiment using the dominant negative of
CdK1, CdK2, CdK3, CdK5, CdK9 and preliminary results shown that
CDK9 could be involved in PIN1 and AR interaction (data not
shown). Further, to investigate the involvement of S81 in ARdependent transcriptional activation of AR, a luciferase system assay
was used. 293FT cells were transfected with AR WT, AR S81 and
probasin promoter cloned upstream of the firefly luciferase gene (luc)
with high levels of luciferase expression that can be measured with a
luminometer. Transfected cells were treated with DHT or the ethanol
vehicle for 4 or 24 hours. Transcriptional activity was measured in
Relative Light Unit/second (RLU/s) and normalized to Renilla
activity. We observed a reduction in ARS81 trascriptional activity
compare to AR WT. The difference is statistically significant. These
experiments show that phosphorylation of S81 is required for
transcriptional activation of AR target gene promoters (Fig 10).

44

Fig 10:The figure shows that phosphorylation of S81 is required for
transcriptional activation of AR target gene promoters.

Since Pin1 controls the phosphorylation of target proteins and AR
activity is regulated by phosphorylation, we investigated if it is the
case for AR protein. As read out of the system, we used S650
phospho-antibody the only commercial available antibody. In fig. 11
we showed that after DHT treatment the AR S81 is less
phosphorylated on Ser 650 than AR wt. This result suggests that Pin1
can control AR phosphorylation after ligand stimulation( Fig 11).

45

Fig 11:The figure shows S650 phosphorilation after DHT treatment. Cells

were grow three

days in media without hormones and than a concentration 10-8 of DHT was added. Time course
shows that transfected in 293ft cells with mutate Ser81there is a sensitive decrease of Ser650
phosphorylation.

46

Discussion
The fundamental clinical problem for disseminated prostate cancer is
the transition of

androgen dependent desease to androgen

independent desease after androgen ablation therapy. Collectively,
data suggest that although advanced prostate cancer may be
functionally independent of physiologic levels of androgen, it is not
independent of the AR. For these reasons even though androgen
ablation is a most commonly prescribed treatment in the first stage of
pathology it is not curative. Development of new strategies for
treatment of prostate cancer is limited partly by lack of full
understanding of the mechanism by which androgen regulates prostate
cancer cell proliferation and which molecular mechanisms are
involved in AR function in the absence of hormones. In this cascades
of events Pin1 has been showed to play an important role in
oncogenesis, and its expression increase dramatically in metastatic
prostate cancer; for these reason Pin1 is a potent predictor of
recurrence for patients with prostate cancer.

47

Recently, it has been reported that Pin1 is overexpressed in human
prostate cancer cell lines and prostate cancer

tissues, and its

expression closely correlates with the level of cyclin D1 in tumors.
Even if it is widely diffused in the scientific community that there is a
link between Pin1 expression and prostate cancer progression, since
now nobody knows exactly how the functions of AR and Pin1 are
correlated. To address this question in this thesis we provide evidence
that AR directly interact with Pin1 and we clarify the role that this
interaction plays in prostate cancer progression. We found that Pin1
bounds directly to AR and this interaction lead to structural
modification that increases AR activity on target genes.
Pin1 bounds to pSer81 of AR , after binding there is an increase of
receptor transcriptional activity and also we found that Ser81
phosphorylation control even the phosphorylation on other part of the
receptor. In detail we found that the phosphorylation on Ser81 lead to
increase phosphorylation of S650. These finding suggest that AR
transcriptional activity may also be modulated directly or indirectly by
serine/threonine kinase and phosphatases in absence of hormone in
AIPC. Early studies have suggested that by blocking phosphorylation
on this site resulted in 30% reduced activity with an MMTV-Luc
reporter in CV1 cells (62). It is well known that one major regulatory
48

mechanism in cell proliferation and transformation is phosphorylation
of proteins on serine or threonine residues preceding proline
(pSer/Thr- Pro) by various prodirected protein kinases, such as MAP
kinases, cyclin-dependent kinases, JNK, and GSK3β. Interestingly, the
pSer/Thr-Pro motifs in proteins exist in two completely distinct cis
and trans conformations, whose conversion is normally restrained by
phosphorylation, but catalyzed specifically by the essential prolyl
isomerase Pin1. By isomerizing pSer81, Pin1 induce conformational
changes in androgen receptor. This, phosphorylation- dependent
prolyl isomerization is a critical mechanism in phosphorylation
signaling. Diverse agonists including activators of protein kinase A
(forskolin) and protein kinase C [phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate
(PMA)] increased Ser 650 phosphorylation. Ser 650 phosphorylation
occurs by both hormone-dependent and hormone- independent
mechanisms (androgen, protein kinase A, EGF, and protein kinase C)
suggest that modification of this site might be used to regulate steroid
receptor function in response to a variety of physiological stimuli.
Gioeli et al. have investigated which signal transduction pathways
regulate Ser 650 phosphorylation and determined the effect of these
signaling pathways on AR function.

49

We have found that Ser81 phosphorylation enhance phosphorylation
on Ser650 and this phosphorylation improved the transcription of the
specific prostate gene probasin. Our future plan is to analyze the
interaction between PIN1 and AR with a biochemical structural
approach. We plan to model the interaction between PIN1 and AR by
a computational approach and to design new specific ligands that
inhibit this interaction. Moreover, to gain insight in in vivo model, we
will analyze the PIN1 KO mice to discover if the AR and AR signal
pathway is altered.
In conclusion our results give new insights in the molecular
mechanism of AR function and open new ways to design a
pharmacological approach to cure prostate cancer.

50

Materials and Methods
Cells culture conditions
LNcaP prostate cancer cell lines were purchased from American Type
Culture Collection (ATCC, Rochville, MD, USA), 293FT were from
Invitrogen (Invitrogen Corp, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Cells were grown
at 37 oC, in a 5% CO2/95% atmosphere. Cell media in this study
included growth medium (RPMI or DMEM with 2 mmol/L lglutamine, 0.1 mmol/L nonessential amino acids, 50 units/mL
penicillin, 50µm/mL streptomycin, 6 ng/mL insulin and 10% FBS)
and hormone-free medium (phenol red–free DMEM with 2 mmol/L
L-glutamine, 0.1 mmol/L nonessential amino acids, 50 units/mL
penicillin, 50 µg/mL streptomycin, and 3% charcoal-stripped FBS).
Reagents
Antibodies were purchased from: Pin1 (600-401-A20), 6XHis (600401-382) from Rockland Immunochemicals, Gilbertsville, PA, USA;
AR (sc-7305), HSP70 (SC-24) from Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa
Cruz, CA, USA; ARpS650 from Signalway (11120-1); α-tubulin (T6074) from Sigma Inc., St Louis, MO, USA

51

Plasmids
shRNA plasmids Pin1 (SHCLNG-NM_006221) were from Sigma
Inc., St Louis, MO, USA. Scrambled shRNA (17920), psPAX2
packaging plasmid (12260), pMDG.2 envelop plasmid (12259) and
PwPI (12254) were from Addgene Inc, Cambridge, MA, USA. For
overexpression experiments, the IMAGE: 3941595 clone was utilized
to amplify the Pin1 human gene with the oligonucleotide primers
PIN1-BamHIF GCGGATCCGCGGCAGGAGGGAAGATGG at the
5’

end

and

PIN1-EcoRIR

GCGAATTCCTGGGCTCCCCACCCTCAC at the 3’ with BamHI
and EcoRI adaptor sequences, respectively. The plasmid was sequenze
verified.
GST pull-down experiment: the PCR generated Pin1 (PIN1-BamHIF
and PIN1-EcoRIR) were ligated in the pGEX-2T plasmid for the
prokaryotic expression vector (Stratagene Inc., La Jolla CA, USA).
The AR sub-domains were amplified from the clone BC132975 with
the following primers: ARNTD-DBD:
ARNTD-BamHIF ATGGATCCAGGATGGAAGTGCAGTTAGGGC
ARDBD-ECORIR

ATGAATTCCAGCTTCCGGGCTCCCAG

ARLBD:

52

ARLBD-BamHIF
ATGGATCCACCATGGGACACGACAACAACCAGC
ARLBD-XHOIR ATCTCGAGAAGC TTCACTGGGTGTGG
ARNTDA:
ARNTD-BamHIF
ATGGATCCAGGATGGAAGTGCAGTTAGGGC
ARNTDA-R

ATT GAA TTC CTT ACA CAA CTC CTT GGC

GTT G
ARNTDB:
ARNTDB-F

ATT GGA TCC ACC ATG GCA GTG TCG GTG

TCC ATG GGC

ARNTDB-R

ATT GAA TTC CGC CAG GTC CCC ATA GCG

G
ARNTDC:
ARNTDC-F ATT GGA TCC ACC ATG AGC CTG CAT GGC GCG
GGT G
ARNTD-ECORIR
ATGAATTCGGTCTGGGGTGGAAAGTACC

53

After BamHI/EcoRI or XhoI double digestion, fragments were ligated
in pcDNA6 His/Myc vector. ARS81 e ARS94 was generated by sitedirected mutagenesis with the QuickChange mutagenesis kit
(Stratagene, La Jolla, Calif.) with the following primers:
ARS81A-f

GCAGCAAGAGACTGCCCCCAGGCAGCAG

ARS81A-r

CTGCTGCCTGGGGGCAGTCTCTTGCTGC5

ARS94A-f

GTGAGGATGGTGCTCCCCAAGCCCATCG

ARS94A-r

CGATGGGCTTGGGGAGCACCATCCTCAC

Luciferase experiments: the Probasin luciferase was purchased from
Addgene (p159 pPR-luc: 8392).

Lentiviral production
To generate knock down cells, lentiviral particles were produced as
described
(http://www.broadinstitute.org/genome_bio/trc/publicProtocols.html).
Briefly, 1x106 293FT cells (Invitrogen Corp, Carlsbad, CA, USA)
were transfected with 2.25 µg of PAX2 packaging plasmid, 0.75 µg of
PMD2G envelop plasmid and 3µg of pLKO.1 hairpin vector utilizing

54

30 µl of Fugene HD (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN, USA)
in 10 cm plate. Polyclonal populations of Pin1 kd and scrambled cells
were generated by infection with 1 MOI (multiplicity of infectious) of
shRNA lentiviral particles. 2.5x105 cells were plated in a multi 6 wells
plate. The day after, the cells were transduced with 1 MOI of lentiviral
particle in 10% FBS MEM medium. After 3 days post-infection, the
cells were selected with 2 µg/ml of puromycin (Sigma-Aldrich, St
Louis, MO, USA) for 1 week

Pull-down analyses
GST and GST-Pin1 proteins were produced in BL21 bacteria cells.
Cells were grown to mid log phase and then induced to express
protein by adding 0.25mM of isopropyl-1-thio-b-D-galactopyranoside
(IPTG, Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN, USA). The cultures
were shaken for 4 h; bacteria were then pelleted and resuspended in
NENT

buffer

(20mM

ethylenediaminetetraacetic

Tris
acid

(pH

8),

(EDTA),

100mM

NaCl,

1mM

0.5%

NP-40).

Cell

suspensions were sonicated and pelleted so that the supernatant could
be collected.

55

The remaining bacteria were then resuspended in NENT buffer plus
2% of N-lauryl-sarcosine, then pelleted and finally, the supernatants
were collected again. The combined supernatants were incubated with
glutathione agarose beads (Sigma Inc., St Louis, MO, USA) overnight
at 4 oC. The agarose was then pelleted and washed three times in
NENT buffer. The GST protein was analyzed by electrophoresis gel
and blue coomassie staining. 1mg of protein was pulled-down with 10
ug of GST or GST-Pin1.

Co-immunoprecipitation assay
Sub-confluent LNcaP cells were harvested and proteins were prepared
as follows: the cell pellet was resuspended in lysis buffer (20 mM Tris
HCl pH 8, 137 mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 1% NP40, 2 mM EDTA).
1mg of proteins was immunoprecipitated, utilizing 4 µg of PIN1, AR
antibody or mouse IgG overnight at 4°C Extracts were incubated with
antibodies and protein A/G beads (Pierce) for 3 h at 4°C.
Immunopellets were washed extensively and subjected to SDS-PAGE
followed by immunoblot analyses to detect Pin1 or AR proteins.

56

Luciferase Assay
The luciferase assay was purchased from Promega (Wisconsin, USA).
293FT cell were seeded in 96 well multiplate at 2x104 cells/well and
growth in hormone-free medium for three days. Transfections were
performed with Fugene HD (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN,
USA) in accordance with the manufacturer’s protocol. Cells were
treated with DHT for 4 or 24h then lysed with 5x buffer from
Luciferase Assay System kit (Promega, Wisconsin, USA). The
luminescence of each sample was measured in a single tube
luminometer (Berthold Technologies, GmbH & CO, Germany). Each
transfection was performed three times in order to overcome the
variability inherent in transfections.

57

References
1) Jemal, A., Murray, T., Ward, E., Samuels, A., Tiwari, R. C.,
Ghafoor, A., Feuer, E. J. and

Thun, M. J. (2005) Cancer statistics,

2005 CA Cancer J Clin 55, 10-30.
2)Feldman BJ,Feldman D,The development of androgen-independent
prostate cancer. ) Nat Rev Cancer. 2001 Oct;1(1):34-45.
3) Koivisto, P. et al. Androgen receptor gene amplification: a possible
molecular mechanism for androgen deprivation therapy failure in
prostate cancer. Cancer Res. 57, 314–319.
4) Buchanan, G. et al. Collocation of androgen receptor gene
mutations in prostate cancer. Clin. Cancer Res. 7, 1273–1281 (2001).
5) Culig, Z. et al. Androgen receptor activation in prostatic tumor cell
lines by insulin-like growth factor-I, keratinocyte growth factor, and
epidermal growth factor. Cancer Res. 54, 5474–5478 (1994)
6) Culig Z, Bartsch G 2006 Androgen axis in prostate cancer. J Cell
Biochem 99:373–381
7) Bakin RE, Gioeli D, Sikes RA, Bissonette EA, Weber MJ 2003
Constitutive activation of the ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase
58

signaling pathway promotes androgen hypersensitivity in LNCaP
prostate cancer cells. Cancer Res 63:1981–1989
8) Beato M Gene regulation by steroid hormones. Cell.1989 Feb
10;56(3):335-44.
9) Griffin, J. E. & Wilson, J. D. in Williams Testbook of
Endocrinology 9th edn (eds Wilson, J. D., Foster, D. W., Kronenberg,
H. M. & Larsen, P. R.) 819–876 (W. B. Saunders & Co., Philadelphia,
1998).
10) Riegman PH, Vlietstra RJ, van der Korput JA, Brinkmann AO,
Trapman J The promoter of the prostate-specific antigen gene contains
a functional androgen responsive element. Mol Endocrinol.1991
Dec;5(12):1921-30.
11) Nash AF , Melezinek I. The role of prostate specific antigen
measurement in the detection and management of prostate cancer.
Endocr Relat Cancer. 2000 Mar;7(1):37-51.
12) Ryan CJ, Smith A, Lal P, Satagopan J, Reuter V, Scardino P,
Gerald W, Scher HI. Persistent prostate-specific antigen expression
after neoadjuvant androgen depletion: an early predictor of relapse or
incomplete androgen suppression Urology. 2006 Oct;68(4):834-9

59

13) Reigman PJH, Vliestra RJ, van der Korput JAGM, Romijn JC,
Trapman J Characterization of the prostate specific antigen gene: a
novel kallikrein-like gene. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 159:95–
102
14) Lilja H A kallikrein-like serine protease in prostatic fluid cleaves
the predominant seminal vesicle protein. J Clin Invest 76: 1899–1903
15) Lee DK, Chang C.Molecular communication between androgen
receptor and general transcription machinery . J Steroid Biochem Mol
Biol.2003 Jan;(1) 41-9
16) Culig Z, Klocker H, Bartsch G, Steiner H, HobischA Anrogen
Receptor in Prostate Cancer J Urol. 2003 Oct;170(4): 1363-1369.
17) Petre CE, Wetherill YB, Danielsen M, Knudsen KE. Cyclin D1:
mechanism and consequence of androgen receptor co-repressor
activity. J Biol Chem 2002 Jan 18;277 (3):2207-15. Epub 2001 Nov
19.
18) Hao Yun Wong, Jan A. Burghoorn, Marije van Leeuwen, Petra E.
De Ruiter, Esther Schippers, Leen J. Blok, Ka Wan LI, Henk L.
Dekker, Luitzen De Jong, Jan Trapman, J. Anton Grotegoedand
Albert O. Btinkmann. Phosphorylation of androgen receptor
isoforms.Biochem J. 2004 Oct 15;383(Pt 2):267-76

60

19) Fu, M., Wang, C., Wang, J., Zhang, X., Sakamaki, T., Yeung, Y.
G., Chang, C., Hopp, T., Fuqua, S. A., Jaffray, E. et al. (2002)
Androgen receptor acetylation governs trans activation and MEKK1induced apoptosis without affecting in vitro sumoylation and transrepression function. Mol. Cell. Biol. 22, 3373–3388
20) Poukka, H., Karvonen, U., Janne, O. A. and Palvimo, J. J. (2000)
Covalent modification of the androgen receptor by small ubiquitinlike modifier 1 (SUMO-1). Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 97, 14145–
14150
21) van Laar, J. H., Bolt-de Vries, J., Zegers, N. D., Trapman, J. and
Brinkmann, A. O. (1990) Androgen receptor heterogeneity and
phosphorylation in human LNCaP cells.
Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 166, 193–200
22)van Laar, J. H., Berrevoets, C. A., Trapman, J., Zegers, N. D. and
Brinkmann, A. O. (1991) Hormone-dependent androgen receptor
phosphorylation is accompanied by receptor transformation in human
lymph node carcinoma of the prostate cells. J. Biol. Chem. 266,
3734–3738
23) Gioeli, D., Ficarro, S. B., Kwiek, J. J., Aaronson, D., Hancock,
M., Catling, A. D., White, F. M., Christian, R. E., Settlage, R. E.,
Shabanowitz, J. et al. (2002) Androgen receptor phosphorylation.
Regulation and identification of the phosphorylation sites.
61

J. Biol. Chem. 277, 29304–29314.
24) Kuiper, G. G. and Brinkmann, A. O. (1995) Phosphotryptic
peptide analysis of the human androgen receptor: detection of a
hormone-induced phosphopeptide. Biochemistry 34, 1851–1857
25) Kuiper, G. G., de Ruiter, P. E., Trapman, J., Boersma, W. J.,
Grootegoed, J. A. and Brinkmann, A. O. (1993) Localization and
hormonal stimulation of phosphorylation sites
in the LNCaP-cell androgen receptor. Biochem. J. 291, 95–101
26) Jenster, G., de Ruiter, P. E., van der Korput, H. A., Kuiper, G. G.,
Trapman, J. and Brinkmann, A. O. (1994) Changes in the abundance
of androgen receptor isotypes: effects of ligand treatment, glutaminestretch variation, and mutation of putative phosphorylation sites.
Biochemistry 33, 14064–14072.

27) ).Zhou, Z. X., Kemppainen, J. A. and Wilson, E. M. (1995)
Identification of three proline-directed phosphorylation sites in the
human androgen receptor. Mol. Endocrinol. 9, 605–615
28) Zhu, Z., Becklin, R. R., Desiderio, D. M. and Dalton, J. T. (2001)
Identification of a novel phosphorylation site in human androgen
receptor by mass spectrometry.
Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 284, 836–844.

62

29)Daniel Gioeli, Ben E. Black, Vicki Gordon, Adam Spencer,
Cristina T. Kesler, Scott T. Eblen, Bryce M. Paschal, and Michael J.
Weber. Stress Kinase Signaling Regulates Androgen Receptor
Phosphorylation, Transcription, and Localization Mol Endocrinol.
2006 Mar;20(3):503-15. Epub 2005 Nov 10
30) Ramesh Narayanan, Muralimohan Yepuru, Adam T. Szafran,
Maria Szwarc, Casey E. Bohl, Natalie L. Young, Duane D. Miller,
Michael A. Mancini, and James T. Dalton. Selective Nuclear
Androgen Receptor Exporter for the Treatment of Prostate Cancer.
Cancer Research 2010 Jan 15;70(2):842-51. Epub 2010 Jan 12.
31) Lee YM, Sicinski P Targeting cyclins and cyclin-dependent
kinases in cancer: lessons from mice, hopes for therapeutic
applications in human. Cell Cycle. 2006 Sep;5(18):2110-4. Epub 2006
Sep 15.
32) Malumbres M,, Barbacid M Cell cycle kinases in cancer. Curr
Opin Genet Dev.2007 Feb;17(1):60-5.
33) Balk SP, Knudsen KE AR, the cell cycle, and prostate cancer.
Nucl Recept Signal. 2008 Feb 1;6:e001.
34) E. Cifuentes, R. Croxen, M Menon, E. R. Barrack, And G. PremVeer Reddy. Synchronized Prostate Cancer Cells for Studying

63

Androgen Regulated Events in Cell Cycle Progression From G1 Into S
Phase.. J Cell Physiol. 2003 Jun;195(3):337-45.
35) Zhou, Z. X., Kemppainen, J. A., and Wilson, E. M. (1995)
Identification of three proline-directed phosphorylation sites in the
human androgen receptor. Mol. Endocrinol. 9, 605–615.
36) Zhu, Z., Becklin, R. R., Desiderio, D. M., and Dalton, J. T. (2001)
Identification of a novel phosphorylation site in human androgen
receptor by mass spectrometry. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun.
284, 836–844.
37) Yang, C. S., Vitto, M. J., Busby, S. A., Garcia, B. A., Kesler, C.
T., Gioeli, D., Shabanowitz, J., Hunt, D. F., Rundell, K., Brautigan, D.
L., and Paschal, B. M. (2005) Simian virus 40 small t antigen
mediates conformation- dependent transfer of protein phosphatase 2A
onto the androgen receptor. Mol. Cell Biol. 25, 1298–1308.
38) Gioeli, D., Ficarro, S. B., Kwiek, J. J., Aaronson, D., Hancock,
M., Catling, A. D., White, F. M., Christian, R. E., Settlage, R. E.,
Shabanowitz, J., Hunt, D. F., and Weber, M. J. (2002) Androgen
receptor phosphorylation.
Regulation and identification of the phosphorylation sites. J. Biol.
Chem. 277, 29304–29314.].
39) Zong, H., Chi, Y., Wang, Y., Yang, Y., Zhang, L., Chen, H.,
Jiang, J., Li, Z., Hong, Y., Wang, H., Yun, X., and Gu, J. (2007)
64

Cyclin D3/CDK11p58 complex is involved in the repression of
androgen receptor. Mol. Cell Biol. 27, 7125–7142.
40) Wen, Y., Hu, M. C., Makino, K., Spohn, B., Bartholomeusz, G.,
Yan, D. H., and Hung, M. C. (2000) HER-2/neu promotes androgenindependent survival and growth of prostate cancer cells through the
Akt pathway. Cancer Res. 60, 6841–6845..
41) Taneja, S. S., Ha, S., Swenson, N. K., Huang, H. Y., Lee, P.,
Melamed, J., Shapiro, E., Garabedian, M. J., and Logan, S. K. (2005)
Cell-specific regulation of androgen receptor phosphorylation in vivo.
J. Biol. Chem. 280, 40916–40924..
42) Palazzolo, I., Burnett, B. G., Young, J. E., Brenne, P. L., La
Spada, A. R., Fischbeck, K. H., Howell, B. W., and Pennuto, M.
(2007) Akt blocks ligand binding and protects against expanded
polyglutamine androgen receptor toxicity. Hum. Mol. Genet. 16,
1593–1603.
43) Ponguta, L. A., Gregory, C. W., French, F. S., and Wilson, E. M.
(2008) Site-specific androgen receptor serine phosphorylation linked
to epidermal growth factor-dependent growth of castration-recurrent
prostate cancer. J. Biol. Chem. 283, 20989–21001.
44) Pierre Chymkowitch, Nicolas Le May, Pierre Charneau,
Emmanuel Compe and Jean-Marc Egly. The phosphorylation of the

65

androgen receptor by TFIIH directs the ubiquitin/proteasome process.
EMBO J. 2011 Feb 2;30(3):468-79. Epub 2010 Dec 14
45) Wong, H. Y., Burghoorn, J. A., Van Leeuwen, M., De Ruiter, P.
E., Schippers, E., Blok, L. J., Li, K. W., Dekker, H. L., De Jong, L.,
Trapman, J., Grootegoed, J. A., and Brinkmann, A. O. (2004)
Phosphorylation of androgen receptor isoforms. Biochem. J. 383,
267–276.
46) Chen, S., Kesler, C. T., Paschal, B. M., and Balk, S. P. (2009)
Androgen receptor phosphorylation and activity are regulated by an
association with protein phosphatase 1. J. Biol. Chem. 284, 25576–
25584.
47) Guo, Z., Dai, B., Jiang, T., Xu, K., Xie, Y., Kim, O., Nesheiwat,
I., Kong, X., Melamed, J., Handratta, V. D., Njar, V. C., Brodie, A.
M., Yu, L. R., Veenstra, T. D., Chen, H., and Qiu, Y. (2006)
Regulation of androgen receptor activity by tyrosine phosphorylation.
Cancer Cell. 10, 309–319.].
48) Shao-Yong Chen, Gerburg Wulf,Xiao Zhen Zhou,Mark A. Rubin,
Kun Ping Lu, and Steven P. Balk .Activation of "-Catenin Signaling in
Prostate

Cancer

by

Peptidyl-Prolyl

Isomerase

Pin1-Mediated

Abrogation of the Androgen Receptor–"-Catenin Interaction. Mol Cell
Biol. 2006 Feb;26(3):929-39

66

49) Blume-Jensen, P., and Hunter, T. Oncogenic kinase signalling.
Nature (Lond.), 411:355–365, 2001.
50) Lu, K. P., Liou, Y. C., and Zhou, X. Z. Pinning down the prolinedirected phosphorylation signaling. Trends Cell Biol., 12: 164–172,
2002.
51)Lu, K. P., Hanes, S. D., and Hunter, T. A human peptidyl-prolyl
isomerase essential for regulation of mitosis. Nature (Lond.), 380:
544–547, 1996.
52) Yaffe, M. B., Schutkowski, M., Shen, M., Zhou, X. Z.,
Stukenberg, P. T., Rahfeld, J., Xu, J., Kuang, J., Kirschner, M. W.,
Fischer, G., Cantley, L. C., and Lu, K. P. Sequence-specific and
phosphorylation-dependent proline isomerization: a potential mitotic
regulatory mechanism. Science (Wash. DC), 278: 1957–1960, 1997.
53) Suzuki M 1989 SPXX, a frequent sequence motif in gene
regulatory proteins. J Mol Biol 207:61-84.
54) Wulf, G. M., Ryo, A., Wulf, G. G., Lee, S. W., Niu, T., and Lu, K.
P. Pin1 isoverexpressed in breast cancer and potentiates the
transcriptional activity of phosphorylatedc-Jun towards the cyclin D1
gene. EMBO J., 20: 3459–3472, 2001.
55) Lu, K.P., et al., Prolyl cistrans isomerization as a molecular timer.
Nat Chem Biol, 2007. 3(10): p. 619‐29.

67

56) Lu, K.P. and X.Z. Zhou, The prolyl isomerase PIN1: a pivotal
new twist in phosphorylation signalling and disease. Nat Rev Mol
Cell Biol, 2007. 8(11): p. 904‐16.
57) Shen, M., et al., The essential mitotic peptidylprolyl isomerase
Pin1 binds and regulates mitosisspecific phosphoproteins. Genes Dev,
1998. 12(5): p. 706‐20.
58) Yeh, E.S. and A.R. Means, PIN1, the cell cycle and cancer. Nat
Rev Cancer,2007. 7(5): p. 381‐8.
59) Ryo, A., et al., PIN1 is an E2F target gene essential for
Neu/Rasinduced transformation of mammary epithelial cells. Mol Cell
Biol, 2002. 22(15): p. 5281‐95.
60) Abate-Shen, C., and Shen, M. M. Molecular genetics of PCa.
Genes Dev., 14: 2410–2434, 2000.
61) Gustavo Ayala, Dagong Wang, Gerburg Wulf, Anna Frolov, Rile
Li, Janusz Sowadski, Thomas M. Wheeler, Kun Ping Lu, and Lere
Bao.The Prolyl Isomerase. Pin1 Is a Novel Prognostic Marker in
Human Prostate Cancer. Cancer Research 63, 6244–6251, October 1,
2003
62) Zhou, Z. X., Kemppainen, J. A., and Wilson, E. M. (1995) Identification of
three proline-directed phosphorylation sites in the human androgen receptor.
Mol. Endocrinol. 9, 605–615.

68

63) Chen S, Xu Y, Yuan X,Bubley GJ,Balk SP Androgen receptor
phosphorylation and stabilization in prostate cancer by cyclin-dependent
kinase 1.PNAS . 2006 Oct 24;103(43):15969-74. Epub 2006 Oct 16.

64) Gordon V,Bhadel S, Wunderlich W, Zhang J,Ficarro SB,Mollah
SA,Shabanowitz J,Hunt DF, Xenarios I,Hahn WC, Conaway M,Carey MF,
Gioeli D.CDK9 regulates AR promoter selectivity and cell growth through
serine 81 phosphorylation. Mol Endocrinol.2010 Dec;24(12):2267-80. Epub
2010 Oct 27.

69

70

71

