Permeation of Organometallic
Compounds through Phospholipid
Membranes
Dissertation
zur Erlangung des Grades eines
Doktors der Naturwissenschaften
des Fachbereichs Chemie
der Universität-GH Essen

vorgelegt von

Raycho Yonchev
aus Sofia, Bulgarien

2005


I.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

I.1. Biomembranes
I.1.1 Structure and composition
Each cell is enclosed by lipid membrane, which assures a barrier between intracellular
and extracellular environments and controls interactions and substance exchange between
the cell and its surroundings. This description is valid for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic
cells.
On the molecular level biological membranes are too complex – they are composed of
specific mixtures of lipids and proteins, which account for their diverse functions.
Despite their complex composition, all biomembranes exhibit a universal construction
principle. They essentially consist of a two dimensional matrix made up of a lipid
bilayers, interrupted and coated by proteins. The hydrocarbon chains of the lipids confer
a hydrophobic character on the membrane interior, whereas the polar headgroups found
in the internal region have hydrophilic properties. This structural pattern results directly
from the hydrophobic effect, whereby the non-polar lipid chains and the hydrophobic
side chains of amino acid residues tend to minimize contacts with the aqueous phase. The
components of the matrix are held together largely by non-covalent forces. Thus,
biomembranes are not rigid structures, but are rather deformable. The hydrophobic effect
accounts for most of the interaction energy that stabilizes the bilayer organization.
Hydrogen bonding and electrostatic interactions contribute significantly to the

3

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

4

consolidation of this assembly in the interfacial region, while dispersive forces between
the lipid hydrocarbon chains stabilize the core of the membrane.
Even though each membrane exhibits functions unique to that membrane, general
functions common to all membranes, can be distinguished. The first basic function of
biomembranes is to provide different spatial compartments in living organisms.
Compartmentalization (the physical separation of one compartment from another)
supplies morphological identity to the cell and its organelles. Biomembranes act as
selective barriers for the exchange of molecules between the different compartments, and
ultimately, protect the internal microenvironments from the variability and fluctuations of
their surroundings. They sustain concentration gradients of chemical species from one
side to the other and the cell makes use of the membrane to create, maintain or utilize the
energy stored in these concentration gradients. The bilayer matrix provides a two
dimensional network in which various functional molecules such as enzymes are
specifically distributed and oriented. Lipids act not only as solvent but also as anchors,
activators and conformational stabilizers for proteins, which carry out specific catalytic
and translocation functions. Another important aspect is the transduction of molecular
information across and along membranes. For instance, receptors located on the cell
surface receive extracellular signals that are conveyed to the cell interior, which alters it
behavior in response.
The major components of membranes are lipids and proteins. Depending on the type
of membrane, their relative amounts vary significantly, ranging from about 20% protein
(dry weight) to 80% protein. The most striking feature of membrane lipids is their very
large diversity. Considering the possible number of structural and conformational lipid
isomers, a hundred of components is involved in eukaryotic cells. In spite of this
diversity, only a few classes of lipids predominate in membranes of a given type of
organisms.
The glycerophospholipids are the predominant phospholipids found in biological
membranes. They are derivatives of glycerol phosphate and contain an asymmetric
carbon atom. Two glycerol hydroxyls are linked to hydrophobic hydrocarbon chains. A

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

5

stereospecific numbering (sn) of the glycerol carbon atoms is commonly used in the
nomenclature of glycerophospholipids as indicated on Figure 1.1. In this nomenclature,
the two hydrocarbon chains can be differentiated as sn-1 and sn-2 chains, the phosphate
group being usually at the sn-3 position of the glycerol. In biological membranes, most of
the glycerophospholipids are derivatives of sn-glycero-3-phosphatidic acid, the Rstereoisomer. The various glycerophospholipid types depend on the organic base, amino
acid or alcohol (the X-group in Figure 1.2.) to which the phosphate is esterified and on
the hydrocarbon chains which can be attached to the glycerol moiety through ester or
ether linkages and vary widely in terms of length, branching or degree of unsaturation.

Figure 1.1. General structure of glycerophospholipids with the glycerol backbone
drawn in a Fisher projection. The stereospecific numbering (sn) of the glycerol carbon
atoms, with the distinction between the sn-1 and sn-2 chains, is indicated.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

6

Figure 1.2. Generic structure of phospholipids. The phosphate can be esterified to the
various X-groups listed to form the different classes of phospholipids.
1,2-Diacylglyceroophospholipids or phospholipids. These fatty acid esters of glycerol
are the predominant lipids in most biomembranes. The phosphate is usually linked to one
of the several groups listed in Figure 1.2, including choline, ethanolamine, the S-amino
acid serine, and polyalcohols such as glycerol or inositol. The corresponding
phospholipids

are

called

phosphatidylcholines

(commonly

abbreviated

PC),

phosphatidylethanolamines (PE), phosphatidylserines (PS), phosphatidylglycerols (PG)
and phosphatidylinositols (PI). PC and PE constitute the major components of
biomembranes. The chemical structure of these polar headgroups determines what charge
the phospholipid as a whole may carry. At physiological pH values, PC and PE carry a
full negative charge on the phosphate and a full positive charge on the quaternary

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

7

ammonium – they are thus zwitterionic but electrically neutral. PS contain in addition to
the negatively charged phosphate and the positively charged amino group, a negatively
charged carboxyl group. At neutral pH, PS exhibits an overall negative charge. PG and PI
carry a net negative charge, since the alcoholic moiety does not carry any positive charge
to counterbalance the negative charge on the phosphate. The headgroup charges are held
at the interface between the aqueous and hydrophobic phases by the organization of the
membrane bilayers. Phospholipids play therefore an important role in the determination
of the surface charge of the membrane. The division of phospholipids into classes
according to the structure of their headgroup represents only one level of complexity. On
a second level, each phospholipid class exhibits various fatty acid chain compositions.
The acyl chain lengths vary usually between 12 and 26 carbon atoms and may be
saturated or unsaturated. The number of carbon-carbon double bonds can reach as many
as 6 per chain. The most abundant saturated chains contain 16 or 18 carbon atoms and the
major unsaturated species are C18:1, C18:2 and C20:4. In this notation the first figure
refers to the chain length, while the second one indicates the number of double bonds.
Nearly all naturally occurring double bonds are cis isomers disrupt the ordered packing of
the lipid chains, perturbing the membrane structure. Some branched fatty acids such as
isomyristate or isopalmitate may also occur in the lipid chain composition. Another
variation is for instance the inclusion of a cyclopropane ring in the fatty acid chain.
An overview of the lipid composition of mammalian plasma and intracellular
organelle membranes, stemming from work of Jamieson and Robinson [1], shows that
with a few exceptions, PC, PE and cholesterol appear to be the main components. PC are
mainly composed of short chains and dipalmitoilphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), with
saturated chains of 16 carbon atoms, is one of the principal component of this class of
phospholipids. The principal unsaturated chains found in PC are 18:1 and 18:2. In PE, a
relatively high proportion of polyunsaturated chains are found, especially 20:4 chains.
The lipids found as membrane components are very diverse but have the same
fundamental property in common – they are all amphipathic molecules, presenting
separate polar and apolar regions and, for this reason, have natural propensity to form

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

8

bilayers structures in an aqueous environment. They can be differentiated by two main
features – the size and electrical property of the headgroups, which may be charged,
zwiterioninc, or neutral, and the structure of the hydrocarbon chains which may have
various lengths and different degrees of unsaturation. It should be emphasized that lipids
having the same polar headgroup but different hydrocarbon chains, or vice versa, exhibit
different physical and metabolic properties. The various membranes present in different
organisms show characteristic patterns of lipid composition. To a first approximation, the
specific functions exhibited by these membranes may arise from qualitative and
quantitative differences an their composition. Many of these functions, however, might
be appreciated in terms of the properties of the membrane in specific environments and
not on the basis of the structure or the reactivity of its components per-se [2].

Membranes contain between 20 and 80 weight percent protein. Just as each membrane
can be characterized by its lipid composition, each membrane can also be characterized
by its protein contents. Thousands of different proteins are found as constituents of
biological membranes. Whereas the primary role of membrane lipids is to provide the
structural framework of the membrane in the form of stable bilayers, proteins provide the
diversity of enzymes, transporters, receptors, and pores, i.e. the principal active
components of the membrane. The covalent structure of the membrane proteins is similar
to that of soluble proteins. Membrane proteins can be distinguished from nonmembranous proteins by the nature of their association with the lipid bilayers. This
association may be loose or tight. The proteins may be incorporated into the bilayers
structure or simply associated to a lipid or protein component on the surface of the
membrane. Membrane proteins are generally bound to the membrane through noncovalent forces, such as the hydrophobic force or electrostatic interactions. They may
fold so as to present both a non-polar hydrophobic surface, which can interact with the
apolar regions of the lipid bilayers, and polar or charged regions which can interact with
the polar lipid headgroups at the interface of the membrane. There is also a certain
number of membrane proteins which are covalently bound to the membrane via lipid
anchors. Operationally, membrane proteins have been divided into two major classes –

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

9

peripheral (or extrinsic) proteins and integral (or intrinsic) proteins. This classification is
based on the nature of their association with the lipid bilayers. The distinction between
peripheral and integral proteins does not clearly define the mode of attachment to the
bilayers, but rather the relative strength of the attachment, or the harshness of the
treatment required to release the protein from membrane.
Peripheral membrane proteins generally interact with the surface of the membrane
only and are not integrated into the hydrophobic core of the lipid bilayers. They are
thought to be weakly bound to the membrane surface by electrostatic interaction, either
with the lipid headgroups or with other proteins. Such an association is rather loose and
peripheral membrane proteins can be readily removed by washing the membrane,
changing the ionic strength or the pH.
Integral membrane proteins extend deeply into or completely through the lipid
bilayers and are thus integrated into the bilayers structure. Generally they can be removed
from the membrane only with detergents or stronger agents that disrupt the membrane
structure. The portion of the protein integrated into the membrane is thus
thermodynamically compatible with the hydrophobic core of the bilayers – one expects a
preponderance of hydrophobic amino acid residues in the intramembranous portion of the
protein. Integral membrane proteins can be further divided into two subclasses.
Transmembrane proteins constitute one of these subclasses and, as their name implies,
span the lipid bilayers of the membrane. The other subclass refers to anchored proteins. A
portion of these proteins is embedded in the hydrophobic interior of the bilayers, without
passing completely through the membrane. In most cases, the lipids provide a
hydrophobic anchor by which the protein is attached to the membrane.

I.1.2 Membrane models
At the turn of the nineteenth century, Overton speculated on the lipid nature of
biomembranes by observing a correlation between the rates at which various small
molecules penetrate plant cells and their partition coefficients in an oil/water system [3].

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

10

In 1925, Gorter and Grendel introduced for the first time the concept of lipid bilayers
as structural basis of biomembranes [4]. They postulated that lipids in the human
erythrocyte membrane are organized in the form of a bimolecular leaflet or lipid bilayers.
In 1935, Davson and Danielli made a major contribution to the development of
membrane models [5]. They found that a membrane such as the erythrocyte contains,
besides lipids, a significant amount of proteins and included, therefore, proteins in their
model. They suggested that proteins coat the surface of the lipid bilayers. This
description was motivated by the new (at that time) knowledge of the β-sheet structure.
In this model, the protein was thus not allowed to penetrate into the bilayers.
In the 1960’s and 1970’s, new molecular insights into biological membranes were
gained by the emergence of more sophisticated experimental techniques. Freeze-fracture
electron microscopy revealed the existence of globular particles embedded within the
lipid bilayers. Spectroscopic methods indicated that membrane proteins had an
appreciable amount of α-helixes and that they were likely globular. The characterization
of hydrophobic domains in membrane proteins also stimulated the integration of proteins
into the membrane interior. At the same time, nuclear magnetic resonance measurements
pointed out the fluid character of the lipid bilayers.
In 1996, Green and co-workers attempted to integrate the protein structure into the
membrane in a model built around lipid-protein complexes as the fundamental structural
pattern [6]. Although this model did not give prominence to the lipid bilayers as the basic
structure of the membrane, it did incorporate proteins inside the membrane structure,
introducing the concept of integral membrane proteins.
In 1970, Frye and Edidin performed a series of experiments on cell membrane fusion
and suggested that membrane components can move laterally in the plane of the
membrane [7].
In 1972, Singer and Nicolson amalgamated all these experimental observations and
conceived a new model for the membrane structure, so called fluid mosaic model [8].
This model described the biological membrane as a two-dimensional fluid or liquid
crystal in which lipids as well as protein components are constrained within the plane of
the membrane, but are free to diffuse laterally. The notions of integral and peripheral

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

11

membrane proteins were asserted and it was also suggested that some proteins might pass
completely through the membrane.
The fluid mosaic model has constituted the most important step in the development of
our current understanding of biomembranes. Although the model contains little structural
detail, it summarizes the essential features of biological membranes. This model has
undergone modifications and refinements are still expected in the future. In particular, it
is now clear that membrane proteins do not all diffuse freely in the plane of the bilayers –
their mobility varies in morphologically distinct membranes from highly mobile
arrangements to rigid structures whose molecular motion is more or less constrained. The
existence of differentiated lateral domains within the membrane is also now known.
Some regions of biological membranes are not arranged in the traditional bilayers;
hexagonal or cubic phases, for instance, may also occur. Nevertheless, the fluid mosaic
model still provides the conceptual backdrop for all current models, which just represent
refined versions.

I.1.3 Model membranes
Various model membrane systems have been developed for studying biomembrane
properties. The simplest model systems are provided by pure lipids or lipid mixtures,
forming a bilayers. Since these systems do not contain membrane proteins and usually
exhibit a simple lipid composition, they are not able to reproduce all the properties found
in real membranes but the main biophysical and biochemical features are nevertheless
preserved. More complex systems reconstitute lipid-protein mixtures and provide insight
into lipid-protein interactions.
Liposomes are probably the most commonly used model membrane systems. The
term “liposome” refers to any lipid bilayer structure, which encloses a volume. The
primary uses of liposomes are to encapsulate solutes for transport studies and to provide
model membranes in which proteins can be incorporated. Multilamellar vesicles (MLV)
were the first liposomes to be characterized and consist of multiple bilayers forming a
series of concentric shells with a diameter ranging from 5 to 50 μm. MLV are easy to

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

12

prepare, can be made in large quantities and high concentrations, and exhibit
reproducible properties. They are thus suitable for a wide variety of biophysical studies.
Drawbacks of MLV include the inhomogeneity in size and number of layers, the limited
aqueous space for trapping solutes, and the close apposition of bilayers, which may affect
membrane properties. The heterogeneity problem has been overcome by the introduction
of small unilamellar vesicles (SUV), usually prepared by sonification of aqueous
phospholipid dispersions. These vesicles have diameters from 10 to 50 nm and consist of
a hollow sphere whose surface is single lipid bilayers. SUV are rather unsuitable for
transport studies because of the too small size of the internal aqueous space. The radius
of curvature of these vesicles is also much smaller than usually observed in cell
membranes, resulting in packing constraints in the bilayers. The vesicle size was thus
increased and large unilamellar vesicles (LUV), with diameters ranging from 50 to 500
nm, were produced. These vesicles are large enough to trap a significant amount of
solute, necessary for transport experiments, and provide interesting drug delivery
systems.
Planar bilayers membranes are traditionally created by painting a concentrated
solution of phospholipid in solvent like hexane or decane over a small hole (about 1 mm
diameter) immersed in an aqueous solution. Under appropriate conditions, the lipids
spontaneously form bilayers across the hole. Because of their optical properties (lack of
light reflectance), they are called black lipid membranes (BLM). The major advantages
of planar membranes over vesicle preparations are their suitability for electrical
measurements and for the study of membrane proteins. These systems are particularly
appropriate for studying pores, channels or carriers that catalyze the transfer of charges
across the bilayers. The unknown amount of residual solvent they contain as well as their
relative instability may, however, generate some problems.
Lipids can be spread in a monolayer at an air/water interface – the polar headgroups
are in contact with the aqueous phase, while the hydrocarbon chains extend in the gas
phase. From the aqueous phase, the monolayer surface is similar to that of an entire
membrane and surface properties can be investigated under variation of the surface
density and the lateral surface pressure. Monolayers are especially useful for examining
the behavior of molecules like lipases, known as being active at the membrane surface.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

13

The main disadvantages of monolayers as membrane models are twofold – some of the
monolayer properties might differ from those of a bilayers; a second difficulty resides in
the choice of the lateral surface pressure to apply to mimic the properties of a real
membrane.
Membrane computer models have a short history compared to experimental models.
In the last decade, computer simulations such as Monte Carlo or molecular dynamics
(MD) simulations emerged as a powerful tool to gain detailed insights into the molecular
structure and dynamics of biomembranes. Various lipid bilayers systems have been
simulated, incorporating or not membrane proteins. The two major limitations of such
membrane simulations involve the system size and the accessible time scale. However,
computer simulations constitute an irreplaceable technique to probe membrane properties
at the atomic level. Strong and weak points of the MD approach will be discussed in the
next chapter.
Each of the membrane model systems described above presents advantages and
disadvantages, the one providing insight into membrane regions to which the other does
not have access. Information from each kind of systems turns out to be very useful for the
better understanding of specific membrane properties and can be combined to refine the
fluid mosaic model.

I.2. Phospholipid properties relevant to biomembranes
In spite of their complexity and their specific differences in composition, all
biomembarnes have the same universal structure – the basic structural element is
provided by a lipid bilayers. Among membrane lipids, phospholipids constitute an
important class with regard to their occurrence in cell membranes and their ability to
form bilayers vesicles spontaneously when dispersed in water. The understanding of their
physical and chemical behavior is essential in order to appreciate many of the properties
of biological membranes.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

14

I.2.1 The hydrophobic effect
The hydrophobic effect is one of the most important concepts necessary for the
understanding of membrane structure. The major driving force stabilizing hydrated
phospholipid aggregates is the hydrophobic force, which is not an attractive force but
rather a force representing the relative inability of water to accommodate non-polar
species. The three other stabilizing factors are hydrogen bonding and electrostatic
interactions between polar headgroups and between headgroups and water, and van der
Waals dispersion forces between adjacent hydrocarbon chains, which are short-range and
weak attractive forces resulting from interactions between induced dipoles. Compared to
the hydrophobic force, however, they are relatively minor stabilizing factors.
The hydrophobic force is the thermodynamic drive for the system to adopt a
conformation in which contact between the non-polar portions of the lipids and water is
minimized [9]. This so-called “force” is entropic in origin. Hydrophobic molecules
aggregate in water so as to maximize orientational and configurational entropy. The
larger the surface area of the hydrophobic molecule, the larger the water cage that must
be built around that molecule, and the larger the unfavorable entropy contribution to the
transfer of that molecule into the water phase [10].
The hydrophobic effect drives phospholipids to aggregate into the fundamental
structural element of biological membranes, the phospholipid bilayers.

I.2.2 Phase structures
Phospholipid molecules aggregate in an aqueous solution to form a variety of
assemblies, which correspond to structurally distinct phases. Which phase predominates
in a given system depends on environmental factors such as temperature, pressure, pH
and ionic strength on the composition and water content of the system, and on the
structure and conformation of the individual phospholipid components. The various
morphologies of phospholipid assemblies are reviewed below (see also reference [11]).
Each morphology is stabilized by a balance between favorable and unfavorable

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

15

interactions, resulting directly from an optimization of the hydrophobic effect with a
variety of intramolecular and intermolecular interactions.

Crystalline phases
At low temperatures and/or hydration levels, most phospholipids form crystalline
lamellar phases, denoted LC. These phases are true crystals, exhibiting both long-range
and short-range order in the three dimensions. They may be anhydrous, or may contain a
certain number of water molecules of co-crystallization. The phospholipid hydrocarbon
chains are in an all-trans conformation.

Gel phases
Gel phases are ordered lamellar phases in which phospholipid molecules undergo
hindered long-axis rotation on a time scale of 100 ns and in which the hydrocarbon
chains adopt essentially an all trans conformation. Such gel phases are formed at low
temperatures in the presence of water, although the water content is often relatively low.
In the Lβ gel phase, the hydrocarbon chains are arranged parallel to the bilayers normal.
In the Lβ phase, the chains are tilted with respect to the bilayers normal. The tilting
occurs when the cross-sectional area required by the headgroup exceeds about twice that
required by the acyl chains. The chain tilt increases the cross-sectional area of the acyl
chains and allows thus the packing mismatch to be accommodated. When the tilting
becomes too great, the (untilted) interdigitated LβI phase may occur.
An intermediate phase Pβ between the gel phase Lβ and the liquid crystalline phase Lα
is found in the gel phase of a few phospholipids. This is a rippled phase in which the
lamellae are deformed by a periodic modulation, with the chains being essentially in a
tilted conformation.
The different gel phases are depicted in Figure 1.3.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

16

Figure 1.3. Gel phases of phospholipids: (a): Lβ untilted phase; (b): Lβ’ tilted phase;
(c): LβI interdiginated phase; (d): Pβ’ rippled phase.

Fluid phases
Lamellar liquid crystalline phase Lα. Upon heating a gel phase, the phospholipid
chains melt to a liquid-like conformation, transforming usually to the lamellar Lα phase.
The rate of lateral diffusion of the lipids increases by at least two orders of magnitude
and the hydrocarbon chains exhibit a high tendency to isomerize, alternating
conformations about the carbon-carbon bonds. In this disoriented fluid state,
phospholipid movements are still inhibited by some organizational constraints for
instance the phospholipid molecules cannot translate extensively in the direction normal
to the bilayers surface but remain rather confined within the bilayers, in accordance with
the hydrophobic effect. The phospholipids are therefore neither in a true lipid state, in
which their movement would be isotropic, nor in a solid state, but in a so-called liquid
crystalline state. A liquid crystal retains at least one dimension of order relative to the

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

17

solid state. Under usual physiological conditions, the lipid bilayers of biological
membranes most closely resemble the lamellar liquid crystalline phase.
Hexagonal and cubic phases. For some phospholipid systems, the gel phase melts
directly to a fluid non-lamellar phase with a hexagonal or cubic symmetry. In the
hexagonal I phase HI, the phospholipids are organized in the form of cylinders with the
polar headgroups facing out and the hydrocarbon chains facing the interior. The cylinders
are packed onto a hexagonal lattice and the volume between the cylinders is filled with a
continuous water phase. These long tubes can be thought of as many micelles fused
together. This phase structure is only formed under specific conditions and is not
particularly relevant to biological membranes. In the inverse hegagonal II phase HII, the
phospholipids also aggregate into cylinders, but with the headgroups facing the inside
and the hydrocarbon chains the outside. The polar groups contact water and surround an
aqueous channel located at the center of the cylinder. These tubes also form a hexagonal
array in cross section. The HII phase is very common in phospholipids such as PE having
small weakly hydrated headgroups and attractive headgroup-headgroup interactions [12].
Phospholipids can also exhibit cubic phases, which almost behave as isotropic phases.
The cubic phase structure consists of short tubes connected in a hexagonal array. In this
structure, the phospholipid molecules experience all possible orientations, which
accounts for its isotropic character. Cubic-like phases are observed in mitochondrial and
ER membranes [13,14]. The reasons why biological membranes incorporate into their
structure lipids that destabilize the bilayers organization can be found in many
physiological processes. For instance, such lipids facilitate membrane fusion and stabilize
regions of high curvature. The fluid phases are schematically represented in Figure 1.4.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

18

Figure 1.4. Fluid phases of phospholipids. (a): Lα lamellar liquid crystalline phase;
(b): HI hexagonal I phase; (c): HII inverted hexagonal II phase;
(d): Example for a cubic phase
In biological membranes, lipid assemblies essentially form a bilayers structure,
corresponding to the lamellar liquid crystalline phase Lα. The bilayers pattern is essential
to the structure and proper function of biomembranes. The membrane matrix can be
however interrupted by non-lamellar phases within the overall constraints of the bilayers

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

19

organization. Such non-lamellar phases are for instance observed as intermediate phases
in common biological processes such as cell-cell adhesion and fusion.
I.2.3 Phase transitions
A phase transition is an abrupt change in the macroscopic properties of a system,
involving a modification of the symmetry and/or topology of the system. Phase
transitions are driven predominantly by two system variables, which are temperature and
water content. There is thus a “natural” sequence in which the various possible phases
occur. At low temperatures and hydration degrees, phospholipids tend to adopt an
oriented conformation leading to crystalline or gel phases, while, at higher temperatures
and hydration levels, fluid phases rather occur. At a given temperature and water content,
transitions can be also induced by changes in the lipid composition or by additives. A
study of the factors affecting or including a phase transition and of the changes taking
place at the phase transition provides a very valuable method of characterizing the
properties of the fluid state, which is the more relevant to biological membranes (see also
reference [11]).
Effect of phospholipids hydration. The effect of water on the thermotropic behavior
of phospholipid assemblies is complex. A certain amount of water molecules is bound to
the polar headgroups and behaves differently from bulk water. Bound water appears to
represent about 20% of the phospholipid-water system. Usually, the addition of water
causes a general loosening of the lipid packing density, leading to a decrease of the
transition temperature. The decrease in temperature can reach as much as 50OC. This can
be explained by a growing mobility of all phospholipid molecules with increasing
hydration, due to a diminishing intermolecular steric hindrance. More precisely,
increasing hydration gives rise to a softening of the interfacial region, which enhances
headgroup mobility. The enhanced headgroup mobility leads in turn to an increased
mobility of the hydrocarbon chains.
Effect of phospholipids chemical structure. Within a particular class of
phospholipids, the length of the hydrocarbon chains has a direct influence on the

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

20

transition temperature, e.g. from the gel state Lβ to the liquid crystalline state Lα.
Increasing the chain length has the effect of increasing the chain-chain interactions,
stabilizing the phospholipid bilayers in the gel state and thus increasing the chain-melting
temperature. The Lα-HII transition temperature falls also steeply with increasing the chain
length. The hydrophobicity of longer chains is indeed more pronounced, which leads to
favor the formation of inversed non-lamellar phases. The presence of double bonds in the
phospholipid hydrocarbon chains has a more powerful effect on the transition
temperature than the chain length. Chain unsaturation drastically lowers the gel-fluid
transition temperature (typically by approximately 60oC for a cis-unsaturated bond) as
well as any transitions to inverse non-lamellar phases. A cis-double bond generates the
formation of a permanent kink in the hydrocarbon chains, which inhibits a tight packing
of the chains. Unsaturation destabilizes the bilayers structure, especially in the gel state,
and the phase transition occurs therefore at a lower temperature. The effect on the
phospholipid phase behavior depends strongly upon the position of the double bond
along the chain, the maximal effect occurring when the double bond is located close to
the middle of the chain [15]. Monosaturated fatty acids commonly found in
phospholipids from cell membranes exhibit a double bond between carbons 9 and 10 –
the double bond is thus located precisely where the maximal effect on the phase behavior
can be achieved. For diacylphospholipids, increasing asymmetry between the lengths of
the two chains also tends to lower the chain-melting temperature [16]. The chemical
structure of the phospholipid headgroups plays also a major role in determining the phase
transition behavior. The effective polarity of the headgroups, defined by their intrinsic
hydrophilicity but also depending on their accessibility to water or their possibility for
hydrogen bonding, constitutes a crucial factor. Minor modifications, such as the
replacement of a single proton by e methyl group, can profoundly alter the phase
behavior. Striking differences are for instance observed between the polymorphism of PE
and PC. The transition temperature from the gel to liquid crystalline states is about 20oC
higher in PE than in PC. For the former phospholipid species, intermolecular hydrogen
bonds between the amino group of one headgroup and the phosphate moiety of the
neighboring headgroup are possible. Such hydrogen bonds intensify headgroup

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

21

interactions but weaken the interactions between headgroups and water. Hydrogen
bonding and poor hydration of the PE headgroups result in a stabilization of the gel state
relative to the liquid crystalline state. For PC, the possibility of direct hydrogen bonds
between the headgroups is missing, so that the PC headgroups interact much more
strongly with water. This increases the hydration of the bilayers, modifies its structure
and lowers the gel-fluid transition.
Effect of phospholipids mixtures. Mixing phospholipids together alters the phase
behavior of each phospholipid component in a complex way. The study of lipid mixtures
is of great interest since biological membranes contain a variety of lipid species. The fact
that biomembranes are generally in a lamellar liquid crystalline phase under
physiological temperatures shows that a well-defined balance in the lipid composition is
necessary to maintain such a fluid morphology.
Effect of cholesterol. Cholesterol tends to fluidize the gel phase Lβ and to order the
lamellar liquid crystalline phase Lα, thereby broadening or even eliminating the transition
between the two phases. Cholesterol can induce a liquid crystalline state in phospholipids
that would otherwise adopt a gel state, enhancing thus the stability of fluid bilayers.
However, maintaining a fluid state in biological membranes is likely not the major role of
cholesterol in cell biology. Most plasma membranes would be indeed in a fluid state at
37oC without cholesterol. The introduction of a double bond in the hydrocarbon chains of
membrane phospholipids, for example, would be sufficient to keep the bilayers in a liquid
crystalline state [10]. Cholesterol is, nonetheless, essential for the normal growth and
functioning of cells (e.g. by modulating the function of the membrane proteins through
direct binding to sterol-specific sites on membrane proteins). The ordering effect of
cholesterol observed in fluid bilayers can be explained by the rigid structure of
cholesterol. The portion of the phospholipid hydrocarbon chains encountering the rigid
steroid nucleus is indeed hindered in its motion and trans-gauche isomerization about the
carbon-carbon bonds is diminished. The effects of cholesterol on the phospholipid phase
behavior are however much more complex than described above and are strongly

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

22

dependent on the cholesterol concentration. Cholesterol can induce domain formation in
membranes in the liquid crystalline state and tends to promote the transition towards
inverse phases such as HII [17].
Effect of the solutes. The incorporation of solutes into a phospholipid assembly can
modify the phase equilibrium in a great number of ways. Polar solutes generally cause an
osmotic dehydration of phospholipid systems, since they are in competition with the
phospholipid headgroups to interact with water [18]. The dehydration effect is enhanced
if the solute directly binds to the phospholipid headgroup, replacing bound water
molecules. The introduction of polar solutes tends to favor the formation of ordered
phases and inverse non-lamellar phases. Amphiphilic solutes preferentially adsorb with
their polar moiety near the phospholipid headgroups and their hydrophobic part
embedded within the phospholipid hydrocarbon region. Their effects are closely related
to their chemical structure and cannot be generalized. Non-polar solutes tend to reduce
chain packing constraints by partitioning into the interstices within the hydrocarbon
regions of the phospholipid phase. They facilitate thereby the formation of inverse phases
such as HII, where there is a significant degree of chain stress due to the necessity to fill
the hydrophobic region at a uniform density [11].

I.2.4 Motional properties and membrane fluidity
The dynamic properties of a phospholipid membrane in the biologically relevant
liquid crystalline state arise from the conformational flexibility of its components.
Conformational flexibility implying motion, the determination of the rate and extent of
phospholipid motions is essential for understanding dynamic properties of membranes.
The major motivation for studying membrane dynamics is its relevance to biological
functions. At first, it is important to make a distinction between motional order and
motional rates. The two concepts are independent, even if changes in motional rates often
parallel changes in motional order. Motional order on one hand, and motional rates on the
other hand, provide different insights into the membrane dynamics, which can be

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

23

combined to obtain an overall vision of the complex dynamic properties. Both concepts
will be clarified in the next sections. The notion of membrane fluidity will be then
redefined and emphasis will be laid on its biological relevance.
Motional order. The motional or orientational order of a phospholipid molecule or a
portion of the molecule refers to the number of degrees of freedom expressed by the
motion experienced by the molecule or a part from it [10]. The order of motion is usually
described by an order parameter. Depending on the method of measurment, different
order parameters can be defined and calculated. Generally, small values of the order
parameter correspond to a high degree of freedom, i.e. a disordered state.
In phospholipid bilayers, the region between the carbonyl groups and the middle of
the hydrocarbon chains is usually characterized by relatively high order parameters,
which are roughly constant independently on the position considered. Beyond the middle
of the chains, the order parameters drop significantly towards the chain termini. The
motions of the phospholipid molecules are thus restricted in the region of the
hydrocarbon chains near the glycerol backbone, while the molecules exhibit more
motional freedom towards the chain extremities. The motional order profile across the
bilayers is characteristic of the physical state of the membrane.
Motional rates. Phospholipid motions occur on different time scales. The rates of
motion are characterized by correlation times – the motion being described by an
exponential correlation function – and are not directly related to the motional order.
Phospholipids exhibit various motional modes, which all account for the dynamic
properties of the membrane. Intramolecular reorientational motions comprise torsional
oscillations around single bonds and free or slightly hindered rotations of certain groups
or segments (such as methyl groups or fragments of the headgroup). The rotational
motion of the phospholipids constitutes an important contribution to the membrane
dynamics. The overall rotational motion can be characterized by a spinning motion,
which is a rotation around the long molecular axis parallel to the bilayers normal, and by
a so-called wobbling motion, in which the long axis changes its orientation – the
molecule describing thereby a cone of finite dimensions. “Wobble” is a restricted motion,

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

24

since all possible orientations of the long axis are not allowed within the bilayers
structure and large deviations from the bilayers normal are unlikely. Brownian
translational diffusion or jump diffusion of the phospholipid molecules within the plane
of the membrane is called lateral diffusion – the in-plane motion of the whole
phospholipids consists of a local diffusion within their solvent cage and of long-range
diffusional jumps between adjacent sites [19]. Transbilayer “flip-flop” processes, in
which phospholipid molecules are translocated from one side of the bilayers to the other,
are also of importance, although they occur more rarely. At last, patches of phospholipid
molecules exhibit collective motions, leading to undulations of the bilayers surface and
resulting in relatively slow fluctuations.
The anisotropic nature of the phospholipid bilayers implies strong anisotropic
constraints upon the orientation, conformation and motion of the phospholipid molecules.
The reorientational motions about different molecular axes occur thus on vastly different
time scales [20]. For instance, rotation is much more facilitated around the long axis of
the phospholipid molecule than around other axes. Another important point to mention is
the different motional behavior of the headgroup compared with the hydrocarbon chains.
A certain independence of motion is observed and some particular motions may occur on
different time scales.
The most rapid of the motions described above is rotation about single bonds,
characterized by correlation times inferior to 100 ns. Rotation about single bonds is
usually slower in the headgroup region than in the hydrocarbon chains. Trans-gauche
isomerizations in the fatty acid chains are very rapid with correlation times τJ from 1 to
10 ps in the liquid crystalline state. The values of τJ are relatively long near the glycerol
backbone but become shorter towards the chain termini. The rotation of the terminal
methyl groups in the chains is about one order of magnitude shorter than τJ. In the
headgroups, the dynamics of the dihedrals is slower, with correlation times up to a few
hundred of picoseconds. This can be explained by the strong interactions within and
between the headgroups. The time scales become significantly longer when the whole
phospholipid molecule is considered. Rotation of the molecule around its long axis
involves a correlation time t of a few nanoseconds. The wobbling motion, however,

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

25

happens on a larger time scale and is characterized by a correlation time t of the order of
tens of nanoseconds or more. The wobbling motions in a cone are indeed only possible
within a restricted angular range determined by the neighboring molecules. Translational
motion of the phospholipid molecules in the plane occurs with a lateral diffusion
coefficient of the order of 10-7 cm2/s [19]. The transmembrane movement of
phospholipids or “flip-flop” is very slow and takes place on a typical time scale of
minutes to hours or even days [20]. The dynamic properties of a phospholipid membrane
are therefore characterized by a very wide range of motional modes, which makes their
study particularly challenging.
Membrane fluidity. Now that the motional properties of the phospholipid components
in a membrane have been examined, the concept of “fluidity” in membrane biology can
be redefined and its involvement in many biological functions can be better understood.
The term “fluidity” is imprecise and elusive in its physical meaning, especially when
applied in the context of membrane structure. For an isotropic liquid such as water,
fluidity represents the inverse of viscosity, which is a well-defined and easily measured
bulk thermodynamic property. Viscosity is essentially a measure of the frictional
resistance encountered when adjacent layers of fluid are moving with different velocities
[9]. However, biological membranes as well as pure phospholipid bilayers are highly
anisotropic and the above definition of fluidity cannot be applied directly. The membrane
components are principally confined to two dimensions, i.e. the surface of the membrane,
with only a limited third dimension available, being the bilayers normal. The
phospholipid behavior is not only anisotropic but also strongly dependent on the location
considered along the bilayers normal. If the hydrophobic membrane interior,
characterized by highly disordered chains experiencing considerable freedom, can be
modeled by any isotropic hydrocarbon phase, the glycerol region is much more ordered
and static, and the interfacial region, composed of the headgroups facing the water phase,
exhibits specific order and dynamic properties. As applied to membrane, the term
“fluidity” has to be considered both as a dynamic property related to the motion of
individual components and as a static feature related to the arrangement or order of the
molecules in the membrane. Generally, fluidity is measured by observing the motion of

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

26

fluorescent probes incorporated into membrane. Since fluorescence depolarization is
sensitive to molecular motion, information concerning the environment in which the
probe resides can be collected. Fluidity represents then the ability of a foreign molecule
to move in the membrane and to experience internal conformational flexibility. However,
such measurements are sensitive to both the rate of motion and any constraints to that
motion, so that information about dynamics and molecular order gets intermixed [9].
Fluidity can be also quantified by the rotational correlation time spin probes, by the order
parameter, also derived from spin or fluorescent probes, or by the partition coefficient
describing the distribution of certain probes between the membrane and the aqueous
medium. Membrane fluidity cannot be characterized by a single parameter – multiple
parameters are needed to describe the physical state of the bilayers.
The fluidity of biomembranes is essential to many biological functions.
Biomembranes apparently adjust their lipid composition in such a way that they remain
in a fluid state irrespective of the ambient temperature or other external conditions. The
rate of lateral diffusion of membrane components play e pertinent role, for instance, in
enzyme reactions involving multiple membrane-bound components – some enzymatic
functions require the membrane-bound components to be freely diffusing within the
plane of the bilayers, whereas other processes clearly rely on constraints imposed on the
mobility of membrane components. The rate with which lipids adjacent to proteins
exchange with bulk lipid, is also essential to protein properties and functions. The most
dramatic evidence that membrane fluidity is critical to physiological functions comes
probably from studies showing adaption of various organisms to environmental stress
[21]. This is most often observed in microorganisms, plants or hibernating animals,
which are able to sustain low temperatures. In response to thermal stress, they alter their
membrane lipid composition, usually by increasing the degree of lipid unsaturation or by
decreasing the average lipid chain length, to maintain optimal membrane fluidity.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

27

I.3. Biomembrane transport
I.3.1 Transport pathways and mechanisms
One of the most important roles of biomembranes is to moderate the passage of
substances between compartments of organisms. In spite of their chemical and structural
differences, they all act as highly selective permeability barriers, separating internal and
external fluids. The transport processes that have evolved to overcome these barriers are
at least as important as the barrier functions of biomembranes. Solute transport can occur
via a transcellular pathway (across the cell) or via a paracellular pathway (between the
cells). The lipid matrix, structural framework of all biological membranes, constitutes the
main permeation barrier to transcellular transport. The adhesion of adjacent cells is
ensured by junctions, whose structure influences paracellular transport. Paracellular
diffusion is, by definition, solely passive, while transcellular transport involves various
mechanisms. These mechanisms can be divided in two main classes. In the first class, the
solute moves from a region of relatively high chemical potential to a region of lower
chemical potential by passive or facilitated diffusion. For this type of transport, no
cellular energy, such as that in the form of ATP, is required. The second form of transport
involves active processes, which do require an input of energy and generally occur
against a concentration gradient. These processes are all protein-mediated. In each class
of transport, a wide variety of mechanisms elucidate how solute flux across membranes is
achieved.

I.3.2 Passive transport
Passive diffusion across the lipid matrix represents the simplest form of transport and
refers to the movement of a molecule by random processes through the lipid bilayers
portion of a membrane without an expenditure of energy. A net flux of the transported
species across the membrane is only achieved when a difference in chemical potential of
the species is observed between both sides of the membrane. This chemical potential
difference usually results from a difference in concentration (or activity) of the species on

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

28

one side versus the other. The solute diffuses down the concentration gradient, i.e. from a
region of relatively high concentration to a region of relatively low concentration. Energy
is obtained from the downhill flow – the amount of energy, also known as the free energy
change ΔG, is directly proportional to the concentration difference. In the case of charged
species, i.e. ions, an additional factor has to be taken into consideration. Indeed, many
biological membranes are electrically positive on one side and negative on the other side,
exhibiting a potential difference or voltage gradient across them. This arises from
differences in the distribution of positive and negative ions on the two sides of the
membranes. The diffusion of a charged species is considerably influenced by this
transmembrane electrical potential. The inside of many cells is electrically negative
compared with the outside: inward fluxes of positive ions and outward fluxes of negative
ions are thus favored. For the transport of charged solutes, a concentration gradient as
well as an electrical gradient have to be taken into account: both notions can be combined
with the electrochemical gradient. The rate of diffusion of an uncharged species across a
membrane is well described by Fick’s law:

J = PAΔC

(1.1)

This states that the flux J, or amount of solute passing through the membrane per unit
time, is directly proportional to the solute concentration gradient ΔC, to the area A of
membrane absorptive surface, and depends on the permeability coefficient P of the solute
in the membrane. The permeability coefficient is both characteristic of the solute and the
membrane, and is defined as follows:

P=

KD
h

(1.2)

K is the partition coefficient of the diffusing species between the membrane and the
aqueous phase and describes the relative solubility of the species in both media. D is the

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

29

diffusion coefficient of the solute in the membrane and represents the speed with which
the solute can move through the membrane. D depends on the size and shape of the solute
but also on the viscosity and density of the membrane. h is the thickness of the
membrane. The partition coefficient is the most important determinant of the permeation
rate. Hydrophobic substances are viewed as being able to permeate the lipid bilayers of a
membrane more easily than hydrophilic ones, owing in part to their ability to dissolve in
and subsequently diffuse through the hydrophobic core of the bilayers. The generally
high hydration degree of a polar species also constitutes a barrier to its transport across
the lipid bilayers. Usually, this hydration shell must be stripped away before the solute
can enter the membrane bilayers, which is often accompanied by a high energy of
dehydration. Smaller solutes diffuse more rapidly than larger ones, so that better
correlations between permeability and hydrophobicity are obtained when applying a
correction for the size of the solute. The structural properties of the membrane as well as
its dynamic state are also an important component of diffusion process. Anything
enhancing the occurrence of defects in the bilayers, for instance an increase in
unsaturation in the lipid chains or packing defects at lipid-protein interfaces due to
transient mismatches between the rough protein surface and the lipid bilayers will
enhance passive diffusion. Transit of the hydrophobic interior of the lipid bilayers is not
the only barrier to passive diffusion through a membrane. Before encountering the
membrane interior, a solute must get through the interfacial region, which exhibits
properties very different from those of the bulk solution. Study of the passive diffusion of
a solute across the lipoidal matrix implies therefore a good knowledge of both solute and
membrane properties.
One of the great barriers to passage of polar and/or ionic substances across a
membrane is their incompatibility with the hydrophobic core of the lipid bilayers. Pores
and channels, formed by proteins, provide a water-filled pathway through the membrane
and are capable of supporting great fluxes of polar and ionic solutes. This form of
transport implies passive diffusion of the solute in an aqueous medium and is also driven
by an electrochemical gradient between two sides of the membrane. The term of pore and
channel are generally used interchangeably, but pore is used most frequently to describe
structures that discriminate between solutes primarily on the basis of size, allowing the

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

30

passage of molecules that are sufficiently small to fit. The term channel is mostly
reserved to describe ion channels [9]. Pore and channel proteins do not require any
conformational alteration in order for the solute entering from one side of the membrane
to exit on the other side. They may undergo conformational changes, but these regulate
whether they are open or closed to solute traffic and play no role in the mechanism of
translocation per se. Two major groups of channels distinguish “voltage-gated” from
“ligand-gated” channels. Channels are said to be voltage-gated if they are open or close
in response to a change in the transmembrane potential. The open or closed state of
ligand-gated channels is related to the binding of specific signal molecules.
Faciliated diffusion designates the carrier-mediated diffusion of solutes through the
membrane. A carrier is a species that binds specific solutes and translocates them across
the membrane. The role of carriers is usually to ensure the transport of polar or ionic
substances that could not occur by simple diffusion across the lipid membrane. A carrier
often presents a polar interior as binding site for the solute and exhibits a hydrophobic
exterior compatible with the hydrocarbon region of the membrane. The carrier masks the
hydrophilic nature of the polar solute and the complex thus formed can passively diffuse
through the membrane. Like traditional passive diffusion processes, carrier-mediated
transport can be driven either by a concentration or an electrochemical gradient of the
transported species across the membrane. In all cases, the transport is down the gradient
and thus does not require en energy input. This process is however saturable, since it is
limited by the number of carriers, and usually exhibits specifically for solute structure. In
some cases, it can also be inhibited by structural analogs to the transported solutes.

I.3.3 Active transport
Cells also have transport proteins that transfer solutes across the membrane against
their electrochemical gradient. This process is called active transport because an input of
energy is needed to bring it about. It is a saturable process and can be affected by
competitive inhibitors. The energy to drive active transport may come from a number of
sources. The most common source is the hydrolysis of ATP. Others include light energy

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

31

or the energy stored in ion gradients. Primary active transport processes, which use a
direct source of energy, can be distinguished from secondary active transport processes,
which are generally coupled with ion gradients (that have been generated by a primary
active transport) to achieve for instance the transport of metabolites. Most of the
chemical energy in the live organisms is used up to reestablish ion gradients, gradients
that keep metabolic processes going, including signaling mechanisms. Primary active
transporters are mostly ion pump, where ion translocation is mechanically coupled to en
energy-yielding chemical or photochemical reaction. Na+/K+-ATPase, also called
sodium pump, is one of the most important enzymes in the plasma membranes of animal
cells. This enzyme pumps sodium ions out of the cells and potassium ions into the cell,
both against their respective concentration gradients, catalyzing the hydrolysis of ATP
and making use of the released energy. Primary active transporters are used to generate
voltage and ion gradients across the membrane and secondary active transporters utilize
such gradients to drive solute transport.

I.4. Aim of the thesis
The description of transport processes first requires a good knowledge of the nature of
the permeation barriers. Biological membranes contain a large number of lipid species as
well as integral and peripheral proteins. The fluid lipid bilayer represents the core of the
membrane and acts as permeation barrier. In spite of their complex and heterogeneous
character, biological membranes can be modeled by simple phospholipid bilayers, which
reproduce the main membrane properties.
Most compounds permeate passively across the lipid part of membranes and their
permeation rates depend on their own chemical and physical properties as well as on the
macroscopic properties of the considered membrane. Since all macroscopic properties of
membranes are determined by the microscopic behavior of the lipid components, a
detailed knowledge of the membrane features at a molecular level forms the necessary
basis for understanding permeation mechanisms.

Introduction and motivation of the thesis

32

The aim of this thesis was to investigate the permeation of small organometallic
molecules through a phospholipid membrane at a molecular level, using the molecular
dynamics simulation technique. This technique is of particular relevance for such a study
since all properties of interest can be computed with full atomic detail. As a first step, a
realistic model of a phospholipid membrane was obtained. As a second step, interactions
of different organometallic molecules with the phospholipid membrane had to be
thoroughly followed to gain insight both into the solute partitioning into the membrane
and into the permeation process across the membrane. However, as permeation processes
are too slow on the time scale accessible to the molecular dynamics technique, innovative
methods had to be introduced.

II.

Theoretical background
There are two types of representations of lipid bilayers – mean field representation

and atomistic one. From the choice of the representation depends the accuracy of the
modeled lipid bilayer.
In mean field simulations, lipid bilayer is represented by simple hydrophobic slab,
oriented in x, y-plane, which separates two hydrophilic phases. In this model lipid and
water molecules are not explicitly included. The empirical potential energy function
describes the partitioning of hydrophilic and hydrophobic parts of a given molecule into
the lipid bilayer. This function contains bonded and non-bonded terms to which a
hydrophobic interaction term is added [22]. This representation is further refined by
introducing of dipole potential which decreases dielectricity across the water/lipid
interfacial region from the water phase to the hydrocarbon interior [23].
In atomistic representation each lipid and water molecules are clear defined, which
provides detail information for lipid bilayer at atomic level. The detail level can vary
depending on the used representation – all-atom or united-atom. In all-atom
representation, all hydrogen atoms are included, while in united-atom representation nonpolar hydrogen atoms are merged into the central carbon atoms and only polar hydrogen
atoms are treated separately. All-atom representations give better results but are not
appropriate for large systems, because of time consumption, while reduced number of
non-bond interactions in united-atom models speeds up calculations.
Once the appropriate model is chosen, we can perform simulations of the system in
order to evaluate the desired properties of interest.
33

Theoretical background

34

II.1. Molecular dynamics simulations
Typical use of molecular dynamics (MD) include:
-

Searching the conformational space of alternative amino acid side chains in
site-specific mutation studies.

-

Identifying likely conformational states for highly flexible polymers or for
flexible regions of macromolecules such as protein loops.

-

Producing sets of 3D structures consistent with distance and torsion constraints
deduced from NMR experiments (simulated annealing).

-

Calculating free energies of binding, including solvation and entropy effects.

-

Probing the locations, conformations, and motions of molecules on catalyst
surfaces.

-

Running diffusion calculations.

In addition, simulation engines can be routinely used for:
-

Calculating normal modes of vibration and vibrational frequencies.

-

Analyzing intra molecular and inter molecular interactions in terms of residueresidue or molecule-molecule interactions, energy per residue, or interactions
within a radius.

-

Calculating diffusion coefficients of small molecules in a polymer matrix.

-

Calculating thermal expansion coefficients of amorphous polymers.

-

Calculating the radial distribution of liquids and amorphous polymers.

-

Performing rigid-body comparisons between minimized conformations of the
same or similar structures or between simulated and experimentally observed
structures.

At its simplest, molecular dynamics solves Newton’s equation of motion:

∂ 2 ri
Fi ( t ) = mi a i ( t ) = mi 2
∂ti
where Fi is the force, mi is the mass and ai is the acceleration of atom i.

(2.1)

Theoretical background

35

The force on atom i can be computed directly from the derivative of the potential
energy V with respect to the coordinates ri:

Fi = −

∂V
∂ ri

(2.2)

The classical equations of motion are deterministic, which means that once the initial
coordinates and velocities and other dynamic information at time t are known, the
positions and velocities at time t + Δt are determined (calculated). The coordinates and
velocities for a complete dynamics run are called the trajectory. The time step Δt depends
on the integration method as well as the system itself. Time step should be small enough
in order to avoid integration errors. Because of fast vibrational motions of the atoms, a
time step of 1 fs is usually used. Although the initial coordinates are known, the initial
velocities are randomly generated at the beginning of a dynamics run, according to the
desired temperature.
Analytical integration of equations such as (2.1) is not possible for large systems, so
numerical integration should be performed. Molecular dynamics is usually applied to
large systems. Energy evaluation is time consuming and the memory requirements are
large. To generate the correct statistical ensembles, energy conservation is also important.
Thus, the basic criteria for a good integrator for molecular simulations are as follows:
•

It should be fast, ideally requiring only one energy evaluation per time step.

•

It should require little computer memory.

•

It should permit the use of a relatively long time step.

•

It must show good conservation of energy.

Variants of the Verlet [24] algorithm of integrating the equations of motion (Equation
(2.1)) are perhaps the most widely used method in molecular dynamics. The advantages
of Verlet integrators is that these methods require only one energy evaluation per step,
require only modest memory, and also allow a relatively large time step to be used.

Theoretical background

36

Verlet Leap-Frog algorithm requires r(t), v(t -Δt/2), and a(t), which are (respectively)
the position, velocity, and acceleration at times t, t -Δt/2, and t, and compute:

Δt ⎞
Δt ⎞
⎛
⎛
v ⎜ t + ⎟ = v ⎜ t − ⎟ + Δt a ( t )
2⎠
2⎠
⎝
⎝

(2.3)

Δt ⎞
⎛
r ( t + Δt ) = r ( t ) + Δtv ⎜ t + ⎟
2⎠
⎝

(2.4)

a ( t + Δt ) =

f ( t + Δt )
m

(2.5)

where f(t + Δt) is evaluated from -dV/dr at r(t + Δt).
If the corresponding velocities are not known, they are obtained from a Maxwell –
Boltzmann distribution and are scaled (or rerandomized) until kinetic and potential
energies are in equipartition and the desired temperature is reached.

II.2. Molecular dynamics studies of lipid bilayers
II.2.1 Review
MD simulations provide a powerful tool to analyze biomolecular systems from an
atomic perspective with a level of detail missing in any other approach. This technique
has been widely used in studies of proteins and nucleic acids, but has been less applied to
the analysis of biological membranes for several reasons. Biomembranes are indeed very
complex in terms of both structural and dynamic properties. Unlike proteins or nucleic
acids, which have well-defined three-dimensional structures, membrane components
derive a large majority of their properties and functions from their fluid nature. The fluid
character of the physiologically relevant fluid crystalline phase makes experimental
studies particularly difficult and only limited atomic-level data from X-ray or neutron

Theoretical background

37

diffraction have been for long accessible, compared with the amount of data available on
proteins and nucleic acids. As structures from X-ray crystallography are usually taken as
starting configurations for MD calculations, the difficulty in obtaining such data for lipid
bilayers may have slowed down the development of the MD technique in the
biomembrane field. Another reason may be the difficulty in developing force fields able
to reproduce the dynamic properties of lipid molecules. Since the fluidity of lipid bilayers
determines to a great extent their structural and functional properties, reliable computer
models have to include the flexible nature of the lipid molecules, static models being
unrealistic. The occurrence of complex hydrophilic and hydrophobic interactions within
membranes also poses formidable modeling challenges. For all these reasons, simulations
of lipid membranes have attracted in the past far less attention than the molecular
modeling of small molecules and proteins. More recently, however, with the increasing
computational capacities and the awareness of the biological importance of membranes,
the modeling of lipid bilayers has emerged as a growing research field [22].
In order to begin to understand membrane properties, simple model systems have first
been investigated. The earliest studies of lipid systems appeared in the literature in the
1980’s. Monolayer [25] and bilayer [26] membrane simulations were performed on
simplified models, in which the lipid headgroups and/or hydrocarbon tails were stylized
and the solvent disregarded. The application of MD simulations to lipid bilayers with
explicit solvent was pioneered by Egberts and Berendsen in 1988 [27]. They proceeded
to an all-atom simulation of a system consisting of a mixture of water, soap (sodium
decanoate), and alcohol (decanol). Such ternary systems form stable multilamellar phases
and provide good models for the study of the general behavior of lipid membranes,
although they often exhibit denser packing and a higher ordering degree than
phospholipid membranes. Egberts published in a PhD-thesis in 1988 [28] and in an
article in 1994 [29] the first simulation of a phospholipid-water bilayer system in full
atomic detail. In 1992 and 1993, several research groups reported simulation studies of
single component membranes consisting, for instance, of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine
(DPPC),

dilauroylphosphatidylethanolamine

(DLPE),

or

palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine (POPC) molecules, demonstrating that the MD

Theoretical background

38

technique applied to patches of a few phospholipids in water has enormous potential and
can give detailed insights into lipid motions and interactions.
During the past ten years, computer hardware has become faster and cheaper, software
problems have found innovative solutions, so that impressive improvements in the size
and complexity of the simulated systems as well as in calculation time have been
achieved. These improvements enable one nowadays to simulate mixed lipid systems
(mixing for instance two type of phospholipids [30] or introducing a certain amount of
cholesterol [31]), to include small molecules like drugs into the bilayer [32,33], or to
insert peptides or even membrane proteins to study their interactions with the lipid
components [34,35]. These new applications have been performed with more or less
success and the simulation of lipid-protein systems in particular still remains a very
challenging area.
In liquid-crystalline phase, lipid assemblies exhibit very complex structural and
dynamic properties due to an extreme fluidity accompanied by an inherent disorder.
That’s the reason they have been investigated by experimental and theoretical methods
[36-38]. Conformational changes in these assemblies occur on a time scale of tens to
hundreds of picoseconds, while the complete rotation of a phospholipids molecule around
its long axis requires a few nanoseconds. Lateral diffusion is observed on a time scale of
tens of nanoseconds, while events such as flip-flop of a lipid molecule from one leaflet to
opposite one needs minutes to hours [39]. Such slow motions are making the study of
phospholipid bilayers very hard. Currently, simulations typically involve a few hundred
of lipids and are confined to a few nanoseconds [40-43]. Lindahl and Edholm [44,45]
reported the first 100-ns simulation of a bilayer consisting 64 DPPC molecules, and a
larger system of 1024 DPPC molecules was simulated for 10 ns.
The reported MD simulations of lipid bilayers vary in different aspects. At first sight,
they may be distinguished by different microscopic interaction parameters (i.e. force
fields) and by different macroscopic boundary conditions (i.e. different ensembles). In
addition, more technical issues like the choice of the method used for the computation of
van der Waals and electrostatic interactions or the length of the time step may differ. This
introduces the problem of combining the right conditions and parameters in order to

Theoretical background

39

obtain a correct bilayer model system, such simulation conditions being indeed an
integral part of the model.

II.2.2 Force fields
The choice of interatomic force fields and related parameters is of crucial importance
for the simulation of a biomolecular system. The ability of a model membrane to
reproduce realistic static and dynamic features depends strongly on the balance between
attractive and repulsive forces, which directly results from the force field employed. A
force field is indeed required to compute the potential energy of the system as a function
of the instantaneous atomic coordinates. Various force fields have been developed to
simulate proteins and nucleic acids; no special force fields have however been designed
for the modeling of lipid bilayers. With the exception of charges, which are often derived
from ab initio quantum chemical calculations on lipid fragments, the parameters in the
potential functions are thus usually taken from pre-existing force fields for proteins or
nucleic acids. The most popular force fields used in membrane simulation studies are the
AMBER [46], the CHARMM [47], and the GROMOS [48] force fields. One of these
force fields is often applied in combination with the OPLS (Optimized Potentials for
Liquid Simulations) [49] parameter set for the computation of the non-bonded
interactions.
All necessary information for system description is contained in the potential V, which
is derived from the force field. The force field can be defined as set of equations
(potential functions) and parameters, which characterize interactions into the system.
Both components are interdependent.

AMBER Force Field
The AMBER energy expression contains a minimal number of terms. No cross terms
are included. The functional forms of the energy terms used by AMBER are given in
Equation (2.6).

Theoretical background

40

E pot = ∑ K 2 ( b − b0 ) + ∑ Hθ (θ − θ 0 ) + ∑
2

b

(1)

2

θ

(2)

φ

Vn
⎡1 + cos ( nφ − φ0 ) ⎤⎦
2 ⎣
(3)

⎡C
D ⎤
12
6
+ ∑ ε ⎢⎡( r * / r ) − 2 ( r * / r ) ⎥⎤ + ∑ qi q j / ε ij rij + ∑ ⎢ 12ij − 10ij ⎥
⎣
⎦
rij ⎥⎦
(5)
⎢⎣ rij
(4)

(2.6)

(6)

The first three terms in Equation (2.6) handle the internal coordinates of bonds,
angles, and dihedrals. Term 3 is also used to maintain the correct chirality and tetrahedral
nature of sp3 centers in the united-atom representation. In the united-atom representation,
nonpolar hydrogen atoms are not represented explicitly, but are coalesced into the
description of the heavy atoms to which they are bonded. Terms 4 and 5 account for the
van der Waals and electrostatic interactions. The final term, 6, is an optional hydrogenbond term that augments the electrostatic description of the hydrogen bond. This term
adds only about 0.5 kcal.mol-1 to the hydrogen-bond energy in AMBER, so the bulk of
the hydrogen-bond energy still arises from the dipole-dipole interaction of the donor and
acceptor groups.
The atom types in AMBER are quite specific to amino acids and DNA bases. In the
original publications, the atom types and charges are defined by means of diagrams of the
amino acids and nucleotide bases.

Extensible Systematic Force Field (ESFF)
ESFF [50] was derived using a mixture of Density Functional Theory (DFT)
calculations on dressed atoms to obtain polarizabilities, gas-phase and crystal structures,
etc. The training set included primarily organic and organometallic compounds and a few
inorganic compounds. The focus was on crystal structures and sublimation energies. The
training set included models containing each element in the first 6 periods up to lead (Z =
82) (except for the inert gases), Sr, Y, Tc, La, and the lanthanides (except for Yb).
Parameters and charges are generated on the fly, based on the model configuration,
the local environment, and the derived rules.

Theoretical background

41

The analytic energy expressions for the ESFF are provided in Equation (2.7). Only
diagonal terms are included.

⎡
( −α ( rb −rb0 )) ⎤
= ∑ Db ⎢1 − e
⎥
b
⎣
⎦
	

2

E pot

(1)

Ka
⎧
0 2
−
θ
θ
cos
cos
( normal )
∑
a
a
⎪ sin 2 θ 0
a
a
⎪
⎪ ∑ 2 K a ( cosθ a + 1)
( linear )
⎪ a
+⎨
θ
2
( perpendicular )
⎪ ∑ K a a cos θ a
a
⎪
⎪ 2Ka
( − β ( r13 − ρa ) )
( equatorial )
⎪∑ 2 (1 − cos ( nθ a ) ) + 2 K a
a n
⎩
	



(

)

( 2)

⎛ sin 2 θ1 sin 2 θ 2
⎞
sin n θ1 sin 2 θ 2
+ ∑ Dτ ⎜ 2 0 2 0 + sign n 0 n 0 cos [πτ ] ⎟
sin θ1 sin θ 2
τ
⎝ sin θ1 sin θ 2 	


⎠
( 3)

Bi B j ⎞
qi q j
⎛ Ai B j + A j Bi
3
+ ∑ Dο χ 2 + ∑ ⎜
−
+
⎟ ∑
rnb9
rnb6 ⎠ nb rnb
ο	
nb ⎝


 
	
 	

( 4)

( 5)

(2.7)

(6)

where D and K are force constants, θ are bond angles, A and B are van der Waals
parameters, χ is electronegativity, q are partial charges of atoms and r are distances
between atoms.
The bond energy is represented by a Morse functional form, where the bond
dissociation energy D, the reference bond length r0, and the anharmonicity parameters are
needed. In constructing these parameters from atomic parameters, the force field utilizes
not only the atom types and bond orders, but also considers whether the bond is endo or
exo to 3-, 4-, or 5-membered rings.

Theoretical background

42

The rules themselves depend on the electronegativity, hardness, and ionization of the
atoms as well as atomic anharmonicities and the covalent radii and well depths. The latter
quantities are fit parameters, and the former three are calculated.
The ESFF angle types are classified according to ring, symmetry, and π-bonding information
into five groups:
•

The normal class includes unconstrained angles as well as those associated with 3, 4- and 5-membered rings. The ring angles are further classified based on whether
one (exo) or both bonds (endo) are in the ring. Additionally, angles with only
central atoms in a ring are also differentiated.

•

The linear class includes angles with central atoms having sp hybridization, as
well as angles between two axial ligands in a metal complex.

•

The perpendicular class is restricted to metal centers and includes angles between
axial and equatorial ligands around a metal center.

•

The equatorial class includes angles between equatorial ligands of square planar
(sqp), trigonal bipyramidal (tbp), octahedral (oct), pentagonal bipyramidal (pbp),
and hexagonal bipyramidal (hbp) systems.

•

The π−system class includes angles between pseudo atoms. This class is further
differentiated in terms of normal, linear, perpendicular, and equatorial types.

The rules that determine the parameters in the functional forms depend on the
ionization potential and, for equatorial angles, the periodicity. In addition to these
calculated quantities, the parameters are functions of the atomic radii and well depths of
the central and end atoms of the angle, and, for planar angles, two overlap quantities and
the 1-3 equilibrium distances.
To avoid the discontinuities that occur in the commonly used cosine torsional
potential when one of the valence angles approaches 180°, ESFF uses a functional form
that includes the sine of the valence angles in the torsion. These terms ensure that the
function goes smoothly to zero as either valence angle approaches 0° or 180°, as it
should. The rules associated with this expression depend on the central bond order, ring
size of the angles, hybridization of the atoms, and two atomic parameters for the central

Theoretical background

43

atom, which is fit. The functional form of the out-of-plane energy is the same as in
CFF91, where the coordinate (φ) is an average of the three possible angles associated
with the out-of-plane center. The single parameter that is associated with the central atom
is a fit quantity.
The charges are determined by minimizing the electrostatic energy with respect to the
charges under the constraint that the sum of the charges is equal to the net charge on the
molecule. This is equivalent to equalization of electronegativities.
The derivation of the rule begins with the following equation for the electrostatic
energy:

qi q j
1
⎛
⎞
E = ∑ ⎜ Ei0 + χ i qi + ηi qi2 ⎟ + ∑ B
2
⎠ i > j Rij
i ⎝

(2.8)

where χ is the electronegativity and η the hardness. The first term is just a Taylor
series expansion of the energy of each atom as a function of charge, and the second is the
Coulomb interaction law between charges. The Coulomb law term introduces a geometry
dependence that ESFF for the time being ignores, by considering only topological
neighbors at effectively idealized geometries.
Minimizing the energy with respect to the charges leads to the following expression
for the charge on atom i:

qi =

λ − χ i − Δχ i
ηi

(2.9)

where λ is the Lagrange multiplier for the constraint on the total charge, which
physically is the equalized electronegativity of all the atoms. The Δχ term contains the
geometry-independent remnant of the full Coulomb summation.
Equations (2.8) and (2.9) give a totally delocalized picture of the charges in a
relatively severe approximation. To obtain reasonable charges as judged by, for example,
crystal packing calculations, some modifications to the above picture have been made.

Theoretical background

44

Metals and their immediate ligands are treated with the above prescription, summing
their formal charges to get a net fragment charge. Delocalized π−systems are treated in an
analogous fashion. σ−systems are treated using a localized approach in which the charges
of an atom depend simply on its neighbors. Note that this approach, unlike the
straightforward implementations based on the equalization of electronegativity, does
include some resonance effects in the π−system.
The electronegativity and hardness in the above equations must be determined. In
earlier force fields they were often determined from experimental ionization potentials
and electron affinities; however, these spectroscopic states do not correspond to the
valence states involved in molecules. For this reason, ESFF is based on
electronegativities and hardnesses, calculated using density functional theory. The
orbitals are (fractionally) occupied in ratios appropriate for the desired hybridization
state, and calculations are performed on the neutral atom as well as on positive and
negative ions.
ESFF uses the 6-9 potential for the van der Waals interactions. Since the van der
Waals parameters must be consistent with the charges, they are derived using rules that
are consistent with the charges.
Starting with the London formula:

(B ~ α
i

2
i .IP

)

(2.10)

where α is the polarizability and IP the ionization potential of the atoms, the
polarizability, in a simple harmonic approximation, is proportional to n/IP where n is the
number of electrons. Across any one row of the periodic table, the core electrons remain
unchanged, so that the following form is reasonable:
'
a ' b neff
α= +
IP
IP

(2.11)

Theoretical background

45

where a´ and b´ are adjustable parameters that should depend on just the period, and
neff is the effective number of (valence) electrons. Further assuming that α is proportional
to R3 and that another equivalent expression to that in Equation (2.10) is:

Bi ~ ε R 6

(2.12)

where ε is a well depth, the following forms are deduced for the rules for van der
Waals parameters:

Ri =

a

( IP )

1/ 3

+

3
b.n1/
eff

( IP )

1/ 3

and

ε i = c ( IP )

(2.13)

The van der Waals parameters are affected by the charge of the atom.
In ESFF we found it sufficient to modify the ionization potential (IP) of metal atoms
according to their formal charge and hardness:

IP = ( IP )0 + qηi

(2.14)

and for nonmetals to account for the partial charges when calculating the effective
number of electrons.
ESFF atom types are determined by hybridization, formal charge, and symmetry rules.
In addition, the rules may involve bond order, ring size, and whether bonds are endo or
exo to rings. For metal ligands the cis-trans and axial-equatorial positionings are also
considered. The additions of these latter types affect only certain parameters (for
example, bond order influences only bond parameters) and thus are not as powerful as
complete atom types. In one sense they provide a further refinement of typing beyond
atom types.
The ESFF has been parameterized to handle all elements in the periodic table up to
radon. It is recommended for organometallic systems and other systems for which other

Theoretical background

46

force fields do not have parameters. ESFF is designed primarily for predicting reasonable
structures (both intra- and intermolecular structures and crystals) and should give
reasonable structures for organic, biological, organometallic and some ceramic and
silicate models. It has been used with some success for studying interactions of molecules
with metal surfaces. Predicted intermolecular binding energies should be considered
approximate.
II.2.3 System size and boundary conditions
According to the size scale of a MD simulation, a real lipid membrane is of infinite
size. Only patches of a few lipid molecules can be generally simulated. This corresponds
to a truncation of the system and can introduce possible artifacts. Indeed, a lipid
membrane in the fluid state behaves like a liquid crystal, exhibiting a continuous
spectrum of normal mode frequencies and wavelengths for thermally induced
fluctuations in thickness and curvature. A truncation of the system eliminates all
wavelengths longer than the simulation box. Another problem induced by truncation is
that the simulation system is surrounded by a vacuum, leading to so-called “edge effects”
– the behavior of the molecules located at the boundaries deviates from that of the
molecules in the center. In the case of a very large system, the number of boundary
molecules would be small enough to be neglected. The simulation of such large systems
is unfortunately not feasible presently, so that membrane models are usually restricted to
relatively small samples consisting of a few hundreds of lipid molecules. In this case,
about 40% of the lipids belong to the border region.
The commonly used method to eliminate edge effects is the implementation of
periodic boundary conditions (PBC), which ensure that the system does not have an
abrupt border with vacuum. It is assumed that the simulated system is surrounded on all
sides by an exact replica of itself to form an infinite lattice. Thus, when a molecule leaves
one side of the system, an identical molecule enters through the opposite side at the same
time and at the corresponding position. Interactions of a molecule with its surroundings
are calculated from both the original box and the neighboring cells. PBC are generally
employed in liquid state simulations for systems presenting a homogeneous character in
terms of chemical or structural composition. PBC have been widely used in membrane

Theoretical background

47

simulations, as they naturally emulate the effectively infinite extent of the membrane.
PBC present nonetheless a few disadvantages. The use of PBC inhibits the occurrence of
long wavelength fluctuations in the simulated membrane: for a box side L, the periodicity
will suppress any fluctuations with a wavelength greater than L. The membrane simulated
with PBC is indeed precluded from exhibiting bending or splay modes, because such
modes would prevent the matching of the membrane with its image at the lateral
boundaries of the central unit cell. It was also shown that PBC can induce some artifacts,
such as the occurrence of spurious collective motions or orientations, e.g. an excessive
collective tilt of the hydrocarbon chains [51] or the introduction of anisotropies into the
membrane structure. Such effects can be alleviated by enlarging the simulation box: if the
box is large enough, the boundaries have little effect on the interior of the box. This is of
course at the cost of computational speed. It should be mentioned that, after the
equilibration phase of the simulation has been reached, doing a sampling run on a large
membrane patch is almost as economical as on a small one. A larger system gives indeed
more information per picosecond of simulation time than a smaller one, since it provides
data sampling not only temporally but also spatially. After equilibration of the system, a
membrane consisting of 100 lipid molecules will provide as much data in a 100 ps
simulation as a membrane of 50 lipids in 200 ps. The data collected with the larger
membrane will be furthermore less affected by boundary artifacts.
The competing method to face edge effects is to enclose the system in a sphere, with
restraints and often stochastic forces acting at the boundary to mimic an extended system.
One possibility consists in surrounding the system with repulsive walls. Another
possibility consists in constraining the outermost atoms to their initial position by a
harmonic force. Stochastic boundary conditions fail, however, into generating an
effectively infinite bilayer system and the restraints applied to the molecules located at
the boundaries may influence the behavior of the rest of the system.
Although computationally more expensive, PBC are generally preferred to stochastic
boundary conditions for the simulation of bilayer systems.

Theoretical background

48

II.2.4 Macroscopic ensembles
The sensitivity of lipid bilayers to the macroscopic boundary conditions applied in a
simulation has been shown in several studies [52,53]. Several macroscopic ensembles can
be distinguished and the choice of a specific ensemble may influence the results obtained
from the simulation. While the temperature T and the number of atoms N are generally
kept constant, the volume V of the simulation box, the external pressure P, or the applied
surface tension may be kept constant or not. The most commonly ensembles applied to
lipid bilayer simulations are described and commented below.
NVT ensemble. A certain number of membrane simulations have been performed
with the so-called canonical ensemble NVT, in which the volume of the unit cell is kept
constant. Assumptions about the total molecular density of the simulated system have to
be made in order to be able to fix the volume of the unit cell. Experimental values for the
area per lipid and the bilayer lamellar spacing (i.e. bilayer repeat distance) are usually
used to determine the box size. Depending on the accuracy of the available experimental
data, the model system will restore with more or less success the features of membrane
structure and properties. The density of the system is directly related to the physical state
of the membrane and has to be finely adjusted so as to reproduce a liquid crystalline state.
If the density is too high, the chain packing becomes too tight, the global ordering
increases, and a gel-like state may be simulated. If the density is too low, a gap might be
observed between the two monolayers. If the estimation of the density is correct, the
main membrane properties will be well replicated. The principal danger of the NVT
ensemble is that the results might look promising even if there are underlying flaws in the
calculation procedure or in the force field. As long as the system density is right, the
simulation will produce a rather good looking fluid phase membrane irrespective of the
quality of the force field or other computational parameters, since the constraints applied
on the box volume prevent the system from going to an incorrect density. Furthermore,
accurate experimental data about structural membrane parameters are often limited to a
few single lipid component bilayers and, in the case of membranes made up of mixture of
lipids, experiments provide only indirect guidance for assigning the appropriate

Theoretical background

49

simulation cell dimensions, making membrane simulations using constant volume
algorithms difficult.
NPT ensemble. The constant pressure and temperature or isobaric-isothermal
ensemble NPT is most often applied to the simulation of membranes. After specification
of the pressure tensor P, the size and shape of the simulation box adjust to maintain the
pressure along each box dimension. Or, in other words, the computed pressure is fed back
as a control on the size of the system. If the instantaneous pressure is higher (lower) than
the set point, the system is expanded (contracted) slowly as the simulation proceeds.
Thus, using this method, the initial dimensions of the system do not need to be
approximated, since the system finds its size by itself, based on the force field employed.
This ensemble opens up the possibility for validating simulations by checking their
ability to reproduce important structural parameters like the area per lipid or the bilayer
thickness when they are known and for predicting these parameters when they have not
been determined experimentally. Generally, an isotropic pressure tensor (Pxx=Pyy=Pzz) is
applied, with both lateral and perpendicular components usually equal to 1 bar (it should
be noted that, within the numerical accuracy of pressure algorithms, a pressure of 1 bar is
equivalent to a pressure of zero). An isotropic pressure implies that there is no surface
tension in the bilayer. The greatest advantage of the NPT ensemble is that it provides a
stringent test of the potential energy parameters implemented in the force field: the
system adjusts its density according to the force field i.e., if the latter is appropriate, the
right density will be naturally reached during the simulation.
NγT ensemble. The constant surface tension and temperature ensemble is a variant of
the NPT ensemble and corresponds to a constant anisotropic pressure tensor. Anisotropic
pressures along and perpendicular to the membrane plane give rise to a surface tension in
the plane of the bilayer. The surface tension is defined by the relation δW=γdA, where
δW represents the work required to change the surface area by dA. This also means that
the surface tension is equal to the derivative of the free energy with respect to the area at

Theoretical background

50
⎛ ∂F ⎞

constant temperature and volume: γ = ⎜ ⎟ . Unstressed lipid bilayers are free to adjust
⎝ ∂A ⎠T ,V
their surface area to attain an equilibrium with the surroundings. In terms of energy, the
bilayer tends to adjust its surface area so as to minimize its free energy. Owing to the
hydrophobic effect, an increase of the area leads to an increase in free energy. If this were
the only parameter to consider, a membrane would minimize its area, going into an
ordered gel phase whatever the temperature. The entropic contribution to the free energy
has also to be considered: the entropy of the system grows upon increasing the area,
which reduces the free energy. A small surface area forces the chains into a more ordered
state, reducing the entropy of the system and thus increasing the free energy. To reach its
thermodynamic equilibrium, the membrane has thus to find a balance between the
enthalpic and entropic terms. When the minimum in free energy is attained, the surface
tension is then, per definition, equal to zero. In 1995, Chiu et al. introduced a surface
tension into the simulation of a DPPC membrane, arguing that the surface tension of a
bilayer is twice that of the corresponding monolayer [51]. This assumption was however
doubtful since the main contribution to the surface tension in an air-monolayer-water
system comes from the interface between the air and the hydrocarbon chains and not
between the headgroups and water. Feller and Pastor also adopted the explicit inclusion
of a surface tension in a series of DPPC bilayer simulations [52]. They recognized that
the surface tension of a bilayer patch is surely zero on a large length scale (microns), but
put forward that a bilayer on the typical length scale of a MD simulation (nanometers)
may exhibit a finite surface tension at the surface area that minimizes its free energy.
They claimed that the application of a nonzero surface tension may be appropriate to
compensate for the absence of long wavelength undulations in the small systems used in
simulations, the applied surface tension being then considered as a correction for a finitesize effect. As the suppression of undulations is even reinforced by the confining effect of
PBC, a nonzero surface tension would be only the expression of the suppressed
undulations. Or, in other words, a tension would be required to remove the undulations,
which are normally present in real membranes, but absent in simulated ones. Marrink and
Mark however showed in an extensive series of glycerolmonoolein (GMO) bilayer
simulations that, at stress free conditions, the equilibrium area per lipid does not strongly

Theoretical background

51

depend on the system size and concluded that the application of an external surface
tension to compensate for suppressed fluctuations is not necessary [54].
In MD simulations of lipid bilayers is very important to choose the appropriate
ensemble. While the NVT ensemble is the standard condition to simulate a protein in a
crystal lattice, simulating a lipid bilayer at constant volume is rather not recommended,
because the dimensions of the simulation unit cell are then determined by the area per
lipid and the bilayer repeat spacing which are experimentally often not well known.
Furthermore, even if the system density is correct, the NVT ensemble may dissimulate
shortcomings in the force field. Performing simulations with the NPT ensemble has the
advantage to let the implemented interaction potential determine the optimal system
dimensions and then to assess the quality of the simulation by comparing the properties
that one is interested in with available experimental data. Employing an isotropic
pressure tensor is equivalent to imposing a condition of zero surface tension on the lipid
interface. In the case of an unstressed bilayer, the surface tension is equal to zero at the
free energy minimum. In the bilayer patches simulated, it has been argued that it is
necessary to apply a finite surface tension to compensate the fact that longwave
undulations are suppressed in smaller systems, especially under PBC. There is
unfortunately little guide from experiment on the precise value to adopt for the surface
tension. Lindahl and Edholm attempted to split up the surface stresses in a DPPC bilayer
into several components and to determine each of them using local virial calculations
[55]. They showed that the tension in the bilayer is the sum of two large opposing
tensions: an attractive energy in the headgroup region and a repulsive one in the
hydrocarbon region. For the overall surface tension to vanish, these two contributions
must exactly balance. This is effectively what they found despite a large uncertainty.
Such calculations are indeed very sensitive to the force field employed, the treatment of
long-range electrostatics, and other technical parameters of the simulation protocol.
Consequently, it is still not clear whether a surface tension has to be applied or not in
lipid membrane simulations. But, insofar as it is very difficult to assign a concrete value
to the surface tension and it is quite possible that the required tension is equal to zero, the

Theoretical background

52

majority of lipid simulations are performed using the NPT ensemble, which seems to
provide reliable macroscopic conditions.

II.2.5 Simulation time steps
Owing to the long equilibration times needed and to the presence of a very wide range
of time scales in the dynamics of lipid membranes, the simulation of such systems is a
rather computationally intensive undertaking. To be able to extend the simulation time, a
time step as long as possible has to be used to integrate the equations of motion. Usually,
the motions of principal interest, associated with typical biological processes, occur at a
relatively long time scale. The limiting factors that govern the size of the time step are the
fastest vibrations, like bond stretching and angle bending. These fast motions are not
interesting per se, but need to be properly sampled to generate an accurate trajectory and
keep the large-scale dynamics correct. The time step has thus to be small enough so that
these fast degrees of freedom are evolved reasonably, thereby ensuring numerical
stability. To deal with this problem, several types of time-saving schemes have been
proposed.
An attractive solution is to remove the fast vibrations in bonds and/or angles by
performing constraint dynamics. Constraint algorithms are applied to keep bond lengths
and/or angles equal to their constant equilibrium values. A longer time step can be thus
used: errors when integrating bond and angle oscillations are avoided, and slow and large
scale dynamics is not affected much. The most popular algorithm is SHAKE: for each
bond or angle, the force necessary to restore it to its equilibrium value is computed [56].
Since bonds/angles in molecules are coupled, the procedure has to be iterated until
convergence is reached. For time steps above 2–3 fs and when displacements are too
large, convergence is not always achieved. The iterative nature of SHAKE makes
moreover its parallelization difficult. A non-iterative method based on matrices, called
LINCS (LINear Constraint Solver), has been developed by Hess and co-workers [57].
LINCS is a more stable and efficient constraint algorithm, which allows time steps of at

Theoretical background

53

least 3–4 fs. LINCS can be easily parallelized and is three or four times faster than
SHAKE at the same accuracy.
Another alternative to relieve the limitation related to the sampling of the fast degrees
of freedom is the implementation of multiple time step (MTS) integrators [58]. The
various forces present in the system are separated into several components according to
their characteristic time scales. The equations of motion involving the fast components
are integrated with a small time step, whereas a longer time step is used to handle slow
motions. These results decrease the CPU time in the simulation.

II.2.6 Treatment of long-range interactions
The membrane system is a very large and flexible system in which all components are
tightly packed together and the bilayer structure is maintained only by the non-bonded
interactions. The treatment of these non-bonded interactions in a simulation requires thus
special care. While van der Waals interactions rapidly decrease with increasing distance
(fast decline of the Lennard-Jones potential), Coulomb interactions are quite long-ranged.
The correct handling of long-range electrostatic interactions in phospholipid bilayers is of
particular concern since the headgroups of many phospholipids are highly charged or
contain strongly polar groups. The most straightforward way of calculating electrostatic
interactions would be to simply evaluate the Coulomb interactions between each pair of
charged atoms in the system. In the simulation of large systems like membranes, the
computation of electrostatics constitutes one of the most expensive tasks and the
computational cost to include all atom pair interactions is prohibitive. To reduce
computational effort, approximations have to be introduced into the calculation of the
long-range electrostatic contribution. Since these approximations often belong to the
most drastic ones in a simulation procedure, they are expected to have a significant
influence on the system structure and dynamics and, for this reason, need to be applied
with care. The most common techniques used for the treatment of electrostatics are
briefly surveyed below.

Theoretical background

54

Truncation techniques. One of the most frequently used techniques applied in
biomolecular simulations to speed up the computations is truncation of the long-range
electrostatic forces. These so-called cutoff methods are also widely used in membrane
simulations. Interactions beyond a predefined maximum, the cutoff distance RC, are
neglected to reduce the amount of time spent computing the large number of pairwise
electrostatic interactions present in the simulated system. Such spherical cutoffs can be
implemented in different ways, depending on whether the distance is calculated between
the interacting atoms (atom based) or between groups of atoms (group-based). In the case
of atom-based truncation, electrostatic interactions are computed for each atom pair
within the cutoff sphere. Substantial distortions can however occur when the cutoff
distance from an atom A includes one atom of a dipole B–C (i.e. B or C), but not the
other. This gives rise to an exaggerated attraction between A and B–C and an artificial
charge-dipole orientation of B–C relative to A. To eliminate such effects, the use of
group-based cutoffs is recommended. Neighboring atoms are clustered into bonded
charge groups, usually with no net charge. For any atom pair within the cutoff distance,
all pair interactions between the corresponding charge groups are included in the
electrostatic computation. This group-based method enables one to avoid the artificial
creation of charges cutting through dipoles. When periodic boundary conditions are used,
the minimum-image convention is generally applied to prevent double counting of the
interactions between the atoms in the central simulation cell and those in the images: only
one image of each particle (the nearest one) is considered for a pair interaction. To avoid
that an atom interacts with its own image, the cutoff radius used to truncate the nonbonded interactions must not exceed half the box size (considering the shortest box
vector in the case of non-cubic simulation boxes). To circumvent the abrupt truncation of
the electrostatic interactions by a straight cutoff, “shift” or “switch” functions can be
applied to smooth the interaction energy or force to zero, either within the whole cutoff
range or over a limited region. The truncated forces are thus replaced by continuous
forces, which have continuous derivatives at the cutoff radius. A shift function increases
the magnitude of the force or potential before it is smoothed to zero (i.e. adds a function
to the force or potential), while a switch function multiplies the force or potential by a
function. There is actually no fundamental difference between both functions and the

Theoretical background

55

switch function can be considered as a special case of the shift function. Truncation of
the long-range electrostatic interactions may introduce serious artifacts into computer
simulations. The artifacts caused by the use of cutoffs have generally been attributed to a
net ordering in the vicinity of the cutoff radius.
Ewald summation techniques. One way to eliminate truncation effects is to include
all the electrostatic interactions in the infinite array of periodic replicas of the central
simulation cell by using Ewald summation techniques. Applying such techniques,
electrostatic interactions are in principle considered with an infinite cutoff. The Ewald
summation has originally been developed to handle long-range electrostatic interactions
in simulations carried out with periodic boundary conditions and has traditionally been
used to compute electrostatics in crystals. This method can be however applied to other
systems, provided the charges in the system are distributed over a fine grid. The Ewald
summation technique is nonetheless very costly from a computational point of view and
has rarely been used for systems as large as lipid bilayers. Improved algorithms based on
simplifications of the Ewald sum, like the Particle-Particle Particle-Mesh (P3M) method
[59] or the Particle-Mesh Ewald (PME) method [60,61], have been developed for a more
rapid and efficient convergence of the Ewald equations, and have been applied with
success in numerous membrane simulations. The current trend to take long-range
electrostatic interactions explicitly into account via Ewald techniques is certainly done in
an exact but periodical manner, so that artificial periodicity may be enhanced. While
periodic boundary conditions already introduce a factitious periodicity into the system,
Ewald summation techniques include this periodicity at all times in the long-range
electrostatic interactions. Whether or not such effects are significant is obviously
dependent on the system size and the properties of interest.
Reaction field approach. An alternative method that incorporates the full electrostatic
interactions is the reaction field approach, in which the Coulomb potential is corrected
for the effect of the polarizable surroundings beyond the cutoff radius. This method has
been developed for homogeneous systems, for instance for liquid simulations, or for a
small solute immersed in a solvent. Within the cutoff sphere, solute and solvent are

Theoretical background

56

simulated in atomic detail, whereas the solvent outside the sphere is treated as a dielectric
continuum.
The selection of methodologies for the simulation of lipid bilayer membranes is
particularly complex: many choices must be made concerning force fields, boundary
conditions, treatment of long-range interactions, and other technical parameters. The fact
that so many simulations carried out under different conditions lead to similar results is
certainly a consequence of favorable combinations of parameters, one shortcoming
compensating for another one. No choice is in any case perfect and every decision
involves trade-offs. Compromises have to be made between accuracy and efficiency or
more exactly, owing to the enormous computational intensiveness of membrane
simulations, between accuracy and feasibility [62].

II.2.7 Limitations of the MD technique
Although a powerful technique in many aspects, molecular dynamics presents a
number of important limitations which must be kept in mind when using this technique
and analyzing the results.
One obvious limitation is the length of the simulated time scale. Most trajectories to
date are confined to the 10 ns regime, which does not allow the investigation of many
biologically relevant processes. Another limitation is the size of the simulated system: the
largest system that can be currently handled contains about tens of thousands of atoms,
which corresponds to system sizes of the order of 5–10 nm. Such systems are still very
small and do not enable one to study phenomena only present over longer distances. To
circumvent this size problem, periodic boundary conditions are used to extend the system
in a periodical manner. This approximation can however introduce some artifacts into the
molecular behavior of the lipids, especially when the simulation box is not large enough.
Both limitations have their origins in the available computer power. With the continuous
increase in computer speed and the improvement of the actual computational algorithms,
time scales and system sizes will be enhanced by at least one order of magnitude in the

Theoretical background

57

near future and one can expect that MD simulations of lipid bilayers will reach
microsecond capabilities in the future.
The accuracy of a MD simulation is also limited by the accuracy of the underlying
force field. The potential function used to describe the interactions in the simulated
system is a simplified approximation of the “real” function and involves uncertain
parameters like partial charges, Lennard-Jones constants, equilibrium values for bonds,
angles and dihedrals, and force constants. In the commonly used force fields, atomic
polarizability is furthermore omitted: average effects of polarizability are retained in the
force field parameters, but detailed effects are not properly represented. Another crude
approximation done in MD simulations is to compute only forces between pairs of atoms:
three or four particle interactions are indeed neglected. To speed up calculations, longrange electrostatic interactions are often truncated beyond a given cutoff distance, which
may have significant effects on the final results. Other methods have been implemented
to include the long-range contribution, like Ewald summation or reaction field
approaches. Each method has, however, some drawbacks, which have to be taken into
account.
An extension of present computational algorithms and methodologies as well as a
refinement of current force fields represent thus an important challenge in the MD field
to gain both in efficiency and accuracy. Nevertheless, molecular dynamics still
constitutes a very reliable technique to study structural and motional properties of
biomolecular systems, as long as the limitations and approximations described above are
not ignored and their influence on the results carefully is considered.

II.3. Permeation models
Two alternative models are commonly used to describe the molecular mechanisms of
solute permeation through lipid membranes. One is referred as the solubility-diffusion
model, in which the solute has to partition into and diffuse through the membrane. The
other model, the defect model, involves the occurrence of transient pore-like defects such

Theoretical background

58

as water pores in the lipid bilayer, which allow ions and small polar molecules to bypass
the partitioning energy barrier.

II.3.1 Homogeneous solubility-diffusion model
The most generally accepted model to describe the permeation of small neutral
permeants across lipid bilayer membranes is the homogeneous solubility-diffusion model
[63-65], which was originally applied by Overton [3] to permeation across cell
membranes. This model depicts the bilayer membrane as a thin static slab of bulk organic
solvent, representing the permeation barrier and separating two aqueous phases. The
bilayer is considered to be isotropic and homogeneous, and the water/membrane interface
is treated as a sharp boundary between the two phases. The permeation process is
described in three steps: the permeating molecule has first to partition into the membrane,
then to diffuse through the membrane interior, and finally to dissolve again into the
second aqueous phase. In this model, permeation through the membrane is assumed to be
the rate-limiting step in the transport process and interfacial barriers for membrane entry
or exit are neglected.
Thus, the permeation resistance R, which is equivalent to the inverse of the
permeability coefficient P, can be expressed as follows:

R=

db
1
=
P K b / w Db

(2.15)

The permeation resistance is proportional to the bilayer thickness of the barrier db
(which does not include the two interfaces and is assumed to be constant), and inversely
proportional to the partition and diffusion coefficients of the permeant in the barrier, Kb/w
and Db respectively. In practice Kb/w is associated to the partition coefficient of the
permeant between water and bulk organic solvent resembling membrane interior, such as
octanol, olive oil, or a liquid hydrocarbon like decane or hexadecane, and Db is
approximated by the diffusion coefficient of the permeant in a bulk hydrocarbon solvent.

Theoretical background

59

The solubility-diffusion theory as typically employed (i.e. Equation (2.15)) suffers
from several weaknesses. It is quite obvious, both from experiment and simulation, that
the membrane exhibits a structure that would not be expected at an interface between an
organic solvent and water. The rough features of a lipid bilayer are clear: the polar
headgroups of the lipids interface with water and the hydrocarbon interior. However, the
structure of a bilayer has a much finer detail than this: a bilayer is a very heterogeneous
construct, with distinct regions that may have very different affinities for a solute.
Experimental and theoretical analyses clearly show that solute partitioning into bilayers
differs in many respects from that into bulk solvents. Specifically, the solute partition
coefficients into bilayers exhibit a strong dependence on the local lipid microstructure, a
feature that cannot be accounted for based on partition coefficients in bulk fluids.
Neglecting in the permeation process the role of the water/membrane interfaces, which
represent about 40% of the total membrane phase, is a particularly crude approximation
that often leads to erroneous estimations of permeation rates. Alkane/water partitioning
systems, for instance, can only model the hydrophobic contribution of solute-membrane
interactions, whereas the interactions between the solute and the polar lipid headgroups
are not taken into account. Finally, the diffusion process within the membrane is not
homogeneous. The lipid chains are more ordered near the water/lipid interface and
become progressively less ordered as the bilayer center is approached. However, even in
the center, the order parameters do not suggest the complete disorder expected in fluid
hydrocarbons.
To conclude, the oversimplifications made in this homogeneous model fail to take
into account the diverse and complex properties of real membranes, so that the
permeation mechanism cannot be properly described by this approach.

II.3.2 Inhomogeneous solubility-diffusion model
Considering the limitations of the homogeneous solubility-diffusion model to predict
the permeation rates of solutes in lipid membranes, Marrink and Berendsen derived an
inhomogeneous solubility-diffusion model [66]. In this model, the diffuse interfaces

Theoretical background

60

between the lipid headgroups and water are included in the description of the permeation
process, and the anisotropic and inhomogeneous character of the membrane interior is
now taken into consideration.
For a structurally heterogeneous membrane, both the partition and diffusion
coefficients of the solute and, hence, its permeability coefficient exhibit spatial variations
within the membrane. Equation (2.15) can be thus generalized to express the overall
membrane resistance R as the integral over the local resistances across the membrane and
to relate it to spatially dependent solute partition and diffusion coefficients:
d

R=

1
dz
=∫
P 0 Kz/w ( z ) D ( z )

(2.16)

Kz/w(z) and D(z) are the depth dependent partition coefficient of the solute between
water and the membrane and the solute diffusion coefficient within the membrane,
respectively, at a position z along the bilayer normal. d is now the entire membrane
thickness, including the water/membrane interfaces. The critical parameter in Equation
(2.16) is the partition coefficient Kz/w, which does not only reflect the solute distribution
between the aqueous phase and the membrane, but also all possible molecular
interactions between the solute and both environments. Kz/w can be calculated from the
Gibbs free energy ΔG, required to transfer the solute from aqueous to the hydrophobic
phase as follows:
K z / w = exp ( −ΔG ( z ) / RcT )

(2.17)

where Rc is the ideal gas constant and T, the temperature. In essence, water/membrane
partitioning cannot be predicted reliably and accurately without the ability to determine
the associated free energy changes. Thus, the permeation resistance can be expressed in
terms of free energy:

Theoretical background

61
exp ( ΔG ( z ) / RcT )
1
dz
=∫
P 0
D( z)
d

R=

(2.18)

Permeability is therefore a rate process that contains contributions from both an
equilibrium (partitioning) and non-equilibrium (transverse diffusion) step. Partitioning
into the membrane can be well described by the free energy profile across the membrane,
i.e. the free energy barrier to be overcome by the solute to permeate through the
membrane. The challenge is thus to determine the free energy barrier as well as the local
diffusion coefficient of the solute in the membrane. The permeability coefficient can be
then obtained by numerical integration of Equation (2.18).

II.3.3 Defect model
The formation of transient aqueous pores produced by thermal fluctuation within the
membrane has been shown to contribute to the permeability of the bilayer to ions, water,
and small neutral molecules [67,68]. As is known, the bilayer membrane represents a two
dimensional liquid crystal with a rather high lateral mobility of the lipid components; the
large fluctuations in the bilayer structure may give rise to transient defects. Two types of
through-going pores, namely, with hydrophilic or hydrophobic lateral surface, can be
distinguished [69]. During the formation of a transient hydrophobic defect, the lipid
molecules are moved apart by thermal fluctuations, so that the membrane hydrophobic
core is penetrated by the aqueous bulk phase, resulting in the formation of a pore. There
are two possibilities for the development of such a pore. One of them is the collapse of
the pore, with the simultaneous return of the lipid molecules to their original positions.
The other possibility involves the reorientation of the lipid molecules resulting in the
covering of the inner surface of the pore by the polar lipid headgroups, i.e. an inverted
pore is formed. In both hydrophobic and hydrophilic defects, pore formation results from
dynamic properties of the lipid bilayer, and the equilibrium pore distribution is relatively
constant over time. By passing through such hydrated defects, the permeating molecule
can avoid the high-energy barrier associated with partitioning into the hydrophobic

Theoretical background

62

membrane interior. Transport through transient pores seems to be the dominant
mechanism for the permeation of ions through lipid bilayers. In the case of small polar
molecules, it is plausible that both mechanisms, the partitioning and pore mechanisms,
operate in parallel [67].
Water wires extending across a lipid bilayer are thermodynamically unstable, so that
they form infrequently and their lifetime is limited. Owing to their transient character,
they are particularly hard to detect experimentally, which makes their existence doubtful.
However, it should be noted that the hydrophobic core of the membrane is not
impenetrable to water and, just as organic liquids, has a measurable miscibility with
water. Water is thought to exist at a millimolar concentration within the hydrocarbon
core. Subczynski and co-workers determined the hydrophobicity profile across PC
bilayer membranes using an ESR spin-labeling method and showed that the water
penetration into the membrane is extensive up to the depth of the carbon atom C8 [70].
Membrane permeability to hydrophilic solutes could be therefore facilitated by
penetration of water into the hydrophobic region of the membrane.

II.4. Simulation of permeation processes
As already mentioned in the introduction, the time required for a penetrating molecule
to permeate through the membrane is much longer than can be simulated. To get some
statistical information on permeation processes, simulations on the order of microseconds
are indeed necessary. Equilibrium MD simulations can still be performed to follow the
trajectory of the penetrant in time within the membrane. But, in order to get a full
description of the permeation process across the whole membrane, non-equilibrium MD
simulations using indirect methods have to be carried out.

II.4.1 Equilibrium MD simulations
“Conventional” equilibrium MD simulations, starting with solute molecules located at
various depths within the membrane (e.g. hydrophobic core, interface, water layer),

Theoretical background

63

directly provide the average distribution of the solute in the membrane. They also allow
the direct analysis of a variety of properties, such as hydrogen bonding between the
solutes and the water or lipid molecules, specific orientations or conformations of the
solutes within the bilayer. Equilibrium MD simulations give thus information on the
preferred location of the solutes within the membrane and enable one to get some idea of
the shape of the free energy profile across the membrane.
The perturbations of the bilayer structure generated by the presence of solute
molecules inside the membrane can also be observed from equilibrium MD simulations
by comparison with the properties of the pure bilayer system simulated under the same
conditions.
Hence, equilibrium MD simulations of membranes including solute molecules can
provide a wealth of information. However, the simulation time scale is simply not long
enough to allow the solute molecules to explore the entire range of membrane
environments. In the case of a hydrophilic solute molecule, not enough statistical data are
collected in the hydrocarbon core of the bilayer, whereas the sampling is poor in the polar
headgroup region for a hydrophobic solute. These regions where the probability to find
the solute is low determine, however, the rate of permeation and, thus, need to be
thoroughly sampled.
II.4.2 Non-equilibrium MD simulations
Umbrella sampling method. Umbrella sampling is a special biased sampling
technique, which has been developed by Torrie and Valleau [71,72]. In this approach, the
system of interest is simulated in the presence of an artificial biasing potential (also
called “umbrella” or “window” potential), introduced to enhance the sampling in the
vicinity of a chosen region of configurational space and thus to confine the system
around this region. A complete calculation requires a number of separate simulations (or
“windows”), each biasing the configurational sampling around a selected region.
Ultimately, the information from the various windows must be unbiased and recombined
together to obtain the final result.
Applied to the permeation process of a solute molecule across a lipid bilayer, the
umbrella sampling method enables one to compute the free energy profile along the

Theoretical background

64

bilayer normal (taken as z-direction). In a series of independent simulations, the solute
molecule is restrained at various depths in the bilayer by means of a biasing potential,
helping to achieve a more efficient sampling. The biasing umbrella potential (Vumb) is
usually a harmonic potential of this form:
k ( z − z0 )
Vumb ( z ) =
2

2

(2.19)

where k is force constant, z is the z-coordinate of the center of mass of the solute, and
z0 is the center of the umbrella potential. k defines the width of the umbrella potential:
high values of k correspond to narrow potential, i.e. to very restraining potentials. Note
that only the z-coordinate of the solute center of mass is restrained, which means that the
solute is free to rotate in all three directions around its center of mass and also free to
diffuse in the plane perpendicular to the bilayer normal. For a given window, the free
energy ΔG can be derived from the probability distribution ρumb of the solute in the
membrane in the presence of the umbrella potential according to the relation:
ΔG ( z ) = − RcT ln ρumb ( z ) + C − Vumb ( z )

(2.20)

where C is an integration constant.
Average force method on constrained particle. An alternative method to compute the
free energy profile across the membrane is the average force method on constrained
particle. In this approach, the solute molecule is constrained at a given depth in the
membrane and the force needed to keep the constraint is calculated. The norm of this
force corresponds to the derivative (or slope) of the free energy at a given depth in the
membrane. Repeating this constraining procedure at different depths in the membrane
enables one to construct the free energy profile across the membrane. This method can be
viewed as a limiting case of the umbrella sampling method, i.e. with an infinite force
constant.

Theoretical background

65

The free energy profile, also called potential of mean force, is obtained upon
integration of the constraining force across the membrane:
z

ΔG ( z ) = ∫ Fz ( z ) dz

(2.21)

0

where <Fz(z)> is the z-component of the force imposed on the solute, averaged over
the constraint ensemble. This force can be monitored during a constrained simulation as
follows: the constrained is imposed by resetting the z-coordinate of the center of mass of
the solute molecule each step to its initial, constrained value z0, and the force needed to
keep the constraint on the solute is directly proportional to the distance over which the z
coordinate is reset. As in umbrella sampling method, the solute molecule is free to rotate
around its center of mass and free to diffuse in the plane of the membrane.
The advantage of the average force method over the umbrella sampling approach is
that the local diffusion coefficient of the solute in the bilayer can be computed
simultaneously by applying the force autocorrelation method. This method, generally
used to study diffusion over free energy barriers, is based on the fluctuation-dissipation
theorem [73]. This theorem relates a time dependent friction function ζ(t) to the
autocorrelation function of a Gaussian random force f(t) with zero average:

ζ (t ) =

f (t ) f ( 0)
RcT

(2.22)

The random force f(t) can be identified with ΔFz(z,t), the deviation of the instaneous
force from the average force acting on the constrained solute at a position z along the
bilayer normal:
ΔFz ( z , t ) = Fz ( z , t ) − Fz ( z , t )

(2.23)

Theoretical background

66

This approximation enables one to extract the local time dependent friction coefficient

ζ(z,t) from the constrained MD trajectory:

ζ ( z, t ) =

ΔFz ( z, t ) ΔFz ( z, 0 )
RcT

(2.24)

Time integration of this equation gives the local static friction coefficient ζS(z).
Assuming that, during the decay time of the local time dependent friction coefficient

ζ(z,t), the solute remains in a region of constant free energy (i.e. in the limit of
overdamped Markovian diffusion), the local diffusion coefficient D(z) of the solute in the
membrane can be related to ζS(z) via Einstein’s relation:

RT
D( z) = sc =
ζ ( z)

( RcT )
∞

∫
0

2

ΔFz ( z , t ) ΔFz ( z , 0 ) dt

(2.25)

III. MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid
bilayer

III.1. Simulation methods
To fulfill aim of the thesis first a membrane system is simulated. Obtained structure is
taken as initial structure for further MD study of permeation processes.

III.1.1 Membrane system
The chemical structure of DPPC is depicted in Figure 3.1. The lecitin headgroup is a
zwitterions, overall neutral, with a positive charge distributed over the choline group and
a negative charge on the phosphate group. The biologically relevant enantiomer is Rconfigurated, the carbon atom GC2 of the glycerol moiety being the chiral center.

Figure 3.1. Structure of DPPC molecule.
The membrane system consists of 200 DPPC molecules – each monolayer containing
100 lipid molecules – surrounded by 5820 water molecules. The water to DPPC ratio is
67

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

68

of 29 (water weight fraction 0.42), which corresponds to a fully hydrated state of the
bilayer. X-ray experiments on the structure of DPPC bilayers have shown that the main
physical characteristics remain conserved between a hydration degree of 15.3 and 29.1
waters per lipid [74].
The system is equilibrated for 1.2 ns using isothermal-isobaric (NPT) ensemble,
AMBER force field and time step of 2 fs. Three-dimensional periodic boundary
conditions (PBC) are applied. The electrostatic interactions are calculated using particlemesh Ewald (PME) technique. A cutoff at 1.0 nm is applied for the real space part of the
Ewald sum and the Lenard-Johnes dispersion forces. The pressure and the temperature
are set at 1 bar and 323K, respectively. Berendsen barostat and thermostat are used with
relaxation times 0.5 and 0.2 ps, respectively. Single Point Charge (SPC) model for water
is used.
After equilibration, the area per lipid was calculated and the value of 0.632 ± 0.005
nm2 was obtained, which is in good agreement with experimental range 0.63 – 0.64 nm2
[75,76] and reproduces other reported results [77,78].
AMBER force field is appropriate for simulations of lipid bilayers and other organic
compounds, but is incompatible with organometallic compounds. The reason is that there
are no parameters for the metal ions, so we used this force field only to obtain appropriate
initial structure, which will be migrated to another force field like extensible systematic,
for instance, which has parameters for organometallic compounds.
The system is equilibrated again for 500 ps using extensible systematic force field
(ESFF), NPT ensemble and time step of 2 fs. During this equilibration all bond lengths
are kept constant. All other parameters are as in previous simulation.
After equilibration area per lipid is 0.649 ± 0.007 nm2, which is little higher than
experimental range. Also some small disorder of hydrocarbon chains is observed, but
membrane density and ordering degree of the lipid acyl chains are still acceptable, and
this structure is taken for further study of permeation processes. Without keeping all bond
lengths constant the disorder of hydrocarbon chains becomes unacceptable.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

69

III.1.2 Choice of penetrants
As organometallic penetrants dimethylarsinic acid and trimethylbutane are taken. The
reason is that they are with relative small molecule and do not present too much
complexity from a conformational viewpoint. In addition they are very poisonous and
could be found in nature.
Dimethylarsinic acid is weak acid (pKa is 6.2) with amphiphilic properties, with its
hydrophilic carboxyl and hydroxyl functions on the one hand, and its hydrophobic two
methyl groups, while trimethylbismuthane is with hydrophobic properties. According to
pH-partitioning theory [79], dimethylarsinic acid should permeate through cell membrane
in the unionized form.
Both structures were energy minimized using a steepest descent procedure and ESFF
prior to MD simulations. The chemical structures of dimethylarsinic acid and
trimethylbismuthane are depicted in Figure 3.2.

Figure 3.2. Structures of dimethylarsinic acid and trimethylbismuthane.

III.1.3 Equilibrium MD simulations
Equilibrium MD simulations are first performed to determine the preferred locations
of the solute molecules in the DPPC membrane.
Twelve solute molecules are homogeneously inserted into the equilibrated DPPC
bilayer model. Starting structures contain four solute molecules in the membrane interior,
four in the interfacial regions, and four in the water layers. To avoid repulsive contacts
between the solute and lipid molecules, the introduction of the solute molecules is
achieved using a free energy perturbation method in a 100 ps simulation. At the

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

70

beginning of the simulation, the solute molecules are treated as point masses with zero
Lenard-Jones parameters, so that they do not interact with the lipid environment. Step by
step, the Lenard-Jones parameters and charges are rescaled, so that the solute molecules
fully interact with the lipids at the endof the simulation. Lenard-Jones and electrostatic
interactions from the initial state to the final state are computed using the following non
bonded potential:
Vnb ( rij ) = VLJ ( rij ) + VC ( rij ) =
=

( (1 − λ ) A

A
i

+ λ AiB ) ( (1 − λ ) B jA + λ B Bj ) + ( (1 − λ ) AjA + λ ABj ) ( (1 − λ ) BiA + λ BiB )
rij9

( (1 − λ ) B
−

A
i

+ λ BiB ) ( (1 − λ ) B jA + λ B Bj )
6
ij

r

+

−

(3.1)

f
⎡( (1 − λ ) qiA + λ qiB ) ( (1 − λ ) q Aj + λ q Bj ) ⎤
⎦
rij ⎣

where λ = 0 corresponds to the initial state (i.e. no interaction between the solute and
the membrane) and λ = 1, to the final state (i.e. full interaction). The parameter λ is
incremented each time step, so that the solute molecules are progressively “grown” in
size. This procedure allows one to incorporate the solute molecules without having first
to create free volume, which would induce large perturbations in the bilayer structure.
Note that the solute coordinates are “frozen” during the whole procedure to maintain the
initial solute distribution throughout the bilayer.
Three equilibrium MD simulations of 35 ns are carried out with each type of solute in
the DPPC membrane. Simulation conditions are the same as those for pure DPPC system,
i.e. ESFF, NPT ensemble with T = 323K and Pxx = Pyy = Pzz = 1 bar, choice of PME for
the computation of electrostatics and PBC. All bond lengths are kept constant and time
step was 2 fs. Equilibration time of 5 ns was required for all simulations, so that
trajectories are analyzed over 30 ns simulation time.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

71

III.1.4 Non-equilibrium MD simulations
To construct the free energy profile along the membrane normal (z-direction)
corresponding to the transfer of the solute from the water layer into the membrane
hydrocarbon core, a series of biased simulations is carried out, where an average force
method is used to maintain the solute molecules at different positions in the DPPC
membrane. This method allows computation of the local diffusion coefficient at the same
time, so that permeability coefficients of the solutes in the membrane should be obtained.
In order to follow the complete permeation pathway across the membrane, initial
configurations are generated by introducing the solute molecules at different depths into
the membrane, applying the growing procedure described above. 67 positions along the
bilayer normal 1Å apart, are investigated from z0 = – 3.3 to z0=3.3 nm. The solute center
of mass is restrained in the z-direction. To limit computational cost, four solute molecules
(two per leaflet) are incorporated into the membrane in each starting structure, which
reduces the number of simulations from 67 to 17.
Simulation conditions are the same as those for the equilibrium MD simulations and a
tolerance of constraint 1 x 10-10 nm is used. This leads to using of double precision for
calculating of atom coordinates, which rapidly slows down the simulations. Again all
bond lengths are kept constant. Each window is equilibrated for 2.5 ns, after which a
production trajectory of 12.5 ns is generated.

III.2. Results
III.2.1 Equilibrium MD simulations
Figure 3.3 shows the distribution of the twelve solute molecules in the DPPC
membrane at the start and after 35 ns MD simulation for each type of solute. In the final
ensemble dimathylarsinic acid molecules are not found in the hydrophobic membrane
core anymore and are essentially located in the water layers and at the water/membrane
interfaces. The trimethylbismuthane molecules leave the aqueous phase and the
membrane interior to adsorb at the water/membrane interface.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

72

In order to follow the trajectory of the solute molecules over the simulation from their
initial position, the perpendicular motions of the solute center of masses (z-coordinate)
have been monitored as a function of time and are depicted in Figures 3.4 and 3.5. On the
Figures “hydrocarbon part”, “interface” and “water layer” refer to the initial environment
of the molecules. The four molecules dimethylarsinic acid initially located in the
hydrocarbon part of the membrane essentially sample the interface. The dimethylarsinic
acid molecules initially located in the water layer or at the interface are principally found
in the water phase during the simulation. Some of them, however, occasionally migrate to
the interfacial region. The molecules trimethylbismuthane, independently on their initial
position, all sample the interfacial region.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

(a)

(b)
Figure 3.3. Solute distribution in the DPPC membrane at the start (left) and
after 35 ns (right) MD simulation for (a): dimethylarsinic acid and
(b): trimethylbismuthane

73

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

74

Hydrocarbon part
3
2

Z (nm)

1
0
-1
-2
-3
0

12

24

35

24

35

Time (ns)

Interface
3
2

Z (nm)

1
0
-1
-2
-3
0

12
Time (ns)

Water layer
3
2

Z (nm)

1
0
-1
-2
-3
0

12

24

35

Time (ns)

Figure 3.4. z-coordinate of the center of masses of the twelve molecules dimethylarsinic
acid as a function of time. (z=0 is the membrane center)

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

Hydrocarbon part
3
2

Z (nm)

1
0
-1
-2
-3
0

12

24

35

24

35

Time (ns)
Interface
3
2

Z (nm)

1
0
-1
-2
-3
0

12
Time (ns)

Water layer
3
2

Z (nm)

1
0
-1
-2
-3
0

12

24

35

Time (ns)

Figure 3.5. z-coordinate of the center of masses of the twelve molecules
trimethylbismuthane as a function of time. (z=0 is the membrane center)

75

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

76

The density distribution profiles along the bilayer normal of the both solute types at
the start and during the simulation can be compared in Figure 3.6. The DPPC and water
density profiles are also plotted as reference. From these profiles, it can be observed that
the density distribution of dimethylarsinic acid exhibits two maxima – one located in the
water phase and the other one at the interface. The density distribution of
trimethylbismuthane exhibits only one maximum at the DPPC/water interface. Due to its
hydrophobicity, the penetration of trimethylbismuthane into the hydrocarbon region of
the bilayer is deeper than that of the water.
Both density distribution profiles are plotted again in Figure 3.7 for a better
comparison. Qualitatively, the probability to find dimethylarsinic acid in the water layer
is greater that that to find trimethylbismuthane. The obtained distribution profiles are not
completely symmetric with respect to the bilayer center, despite the relative long
simulation time of 35 ns. Investigation of solute distribution in the membrane requires
intensive statistical sampling, which involves simulation times beyond the reach of
equilibrium MD.

1.0

1.0

0.8

0.8

Density (g/cm2)

Density (g/cm2)

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

0.6
0.4
0.2

0.6
0.4
0.2

-3

-2

-1

0
Z (nm)

1

2

0.0

3

1.0

1.0

0.8

0.8

Density (g/cm2)

Density (g/cm2)

0.0

0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0

77

-3

-2

-1

1
0
Z (nm)

2

3

-3

-2

-1

0
Z (nm)

1

2

3

0.6
0.4
0.2

-3

-2

-1

0
Z (nm)

1

2

3

0.0

Figure 3.6. Density distribution profiles along the bilayer normal of the dimethylarsinic
acid (orange), trimethylbismuthane(purple), DPPC (brown) and water (blue) molecules at
the start (left) and during the simulation from 5 to 35 ns(right).

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

78

0.06

Density (g/cm2)

0.05
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.01
0.00

-3

-2

-1

0
Z (nm)

1

2

3

Figure 3.7. Density distribution profiles along the bilayer normal of dimethylarsinic acid
(orange) and trimethylbismuthane (purple) during the simulation.

From this simulation series of equilibrium MD simulations, a qualitative idea of the
solute distribution inside the DPPC membrane could be gained. However, absence of
sampling in the hydrophobic membrane interior precludes the estimation of the free
energy barrier associated to the transfer of the solute from the water phase into the center
of the bilayer. Furthermore, even in the headgroup region, massive sampling would be
required to yield uniform unbiased distribution probabilities and, hence, reach
convergence of the free energy.

III.2.2 Non-equilibrium MD simulations
The series of biased simulations, where average force method is used, allows for the
computation of the free energy profiles. The free energy profile along the bilayer normal
is calculated from the constraining forces obtained from the biased simulations. The
constraining forces from 67 windows for each solute are recombined and the resulting
free energy profiles are depicted in Figure 3.8.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

79

The free energy of dimethylarsinic acid is minimum in the water layer and goes up
with a steep slope inside the membrane. A free energy barrier of +25 ± 1 kJ/mol from the
water phase to the bilayer center is obtained. The free energy of trimethylbismuthane is
minimum at the internal part of DPPC/water interface and grows inside the membrane.
For trimethylbismuthane a free energy barrier of +45 ± 3 kJ/mol is computed from the
water phase to the bilayer center, and an energy decrease of –10 ± 2 kJ/mol from water
phase to interfacial region.

0

ΔG(z) kJ/mol

-10
-20
-30
-40
-50
-60

-3

-2

-1

1
0
Z (nm)

2

3

Figure 3.8. Free energy profiles along the bilayer normal for dimethylarsinic acid
(orange) and trimetylbismutane (purple). The center of the bilayer is taken as reference
(ΔG(z=0) = 0 kJ/mol).
From the density distribution profiles obtained from the equilibrium MD, simulations,
free energy profiles can be calculated, at least in the water and in the interfacial regions,
using the relation ΔG(z)= – RcTlnρ(z), where ρ(z), represents the density distribution of
the solute in the water/DPPC system. These profiles are compared to those obtained from

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

80

the non-equilibrium MD simulations in Figure 3.9 and 3.10. Good agreement is found
between both methods.
Validation of the calculated free energy barriers is not possible, since no experimental
data about solute partitioning at water/membrane interfaces is available from the
literature.

ΔG(z) kJ/mol

-20
-22
-24
-26
-28

-3

-2

-1

1
0
Z (nm)

2

3

Figure 3.9. Comparison of the free energy profiles for dimethylarsinic acid obtained
from the equilibrium and non-equilibrium MD simulations in the aqueous and interfacial
regions of the DPPC membrane (orange – equilibrium, purple – non-equilibrium MD
simulations).

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

81

ΔG(z) kJ/mol

-20
-30
-40
-50
-60

-3

-2

-1

1
0
Z (nm)

2

3

Figure 3.10. Comparison of the free energy profiles for trimethylbismuthane obtained
from the equilibrium and non-equilibrium MD simulations in the aqueous and interfacial
regions of the DPPC membrane (orange – equilibrium, purple – non-equilibrium MD
simulations).

In addition to the free energy profiles, we also need the local diffusion coefficients to
calculate permeation coefficients of the processes. The diffusion coefficient for all 67
windows is calculated from the force autocorrelation functions and is depicted in Figure
3.11.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

82

3.0

2

D(z)*10 6 cm /s

2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0

-3

-2

-1

0
1
Z (nm)

2

3

Figure 3.11. Local diffusion coefficient for dimethylarsinic acid (orange)
and for trimethylbismuthane (purple) along the bilayer normal.

Local diffusion coefficients are on the order of 10-6 to 10-8 cm/s. Using the free energy
profiles and the local diffusion coefficients, we thus can calculate the permeation
coefficients. For dimethylarsinic acid value of PDMA ≈ 4 x 10-7 cm/s is calculated, and for
the trimethylbismuthane - PTMB ≈ 2 x 10-10 cm/s.
Validation of the calculated permeation coefficients is not possible, since no
experimental data is available from the literature.
These series of non-equilibrium simulations allow the construction of free energy
profiles and local diffusion coefficients across the DPPC membrane at the same time, so
finally permeation coefficients are calculated. It seems that the method is appropriate and
fully address the permeation process.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

83

III.3. Discussion
The absorption of compounds by passive diffusion can be reasonably well predicted
on the basis of their chemical properties. The presence of polar and charged functional
groups a substantial number of hydrogen-bonding sites, high molecular weight, and large
polar surface area are generally associated with poor membrane permeability. In many
cases, however, the consideration of permeant properties alone proves to be not sufficient
for a proper evaluation of permeation data: permeability coefficients may be
overestimated or, on the contrary, underestimated. Another important factor to take into
account is, indeed, the nature and the permeability of the membranes that have to be
crossed.
Independently on the type of membranes, membrane fluidity is generally correlated
with membrane permeability and the degree of fluidity influences largely the ability of a
solute to pass through the membrane. All factors increasing membrane fluidity may also
enhance membrane permeability. The formation of structural discontinuities in the
bilayer, even only transiently, increases membrane permeability, especially in the case of
small permeants, which can jump from one discontinuity to another. Such discontinuities
are for instance observed in the presence of unsaturated lipid chains, which generate
packing defects in the bilayer interior. Phase separation phenomena within the membrane
can also increase permeation processes. Under certain conditions, indeed, the bilayer
organization can be interrupted by non-bilayer phases as well as by bilayer phases of
different compositions. The regions of mismatch between these coexisting phases can be
viewed as fractures within the membrane. Such topological discontinuities may promote
solute permeation through the membrane.
During the diffusion process, the molecules may exhibit a well-defined orientation
with respect to the bilayer normal and adopt specific conformations, different from those
generally found in an aqueous medium. This can be related to the highly structured
environment of the bilayer and to its difference in polarity compared with water. Because
of the anisotropic properties of membranes, their complex structural organization and
chemical composition, and their asymmetry, the transport cannot be correctly described

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

84

by single parameters. A detailed knowledge of membrane characteristics is fundamental
for a proper estimation of permeation rates. This is especially true for amphiphilic
molecules, having a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic gravity center: their orientation
within the membrane may be strongly affected by the structural organization of the
bilayer as well as by the possible electrostatic and van der Waals interactions with the
membrane components.
The simulations performed show that the permeation process of organometallic
compounds through a phospholipid membrane is essentially determined by the free
energy barrier that results from the breakage of H-bonds between the solutes and water
and between the solutes and the polar lipid headgroups and from the loss of electrostatic
interactions. In the DPPC membrane, the carbonyl groups of the glycerol-ester linkages
seem to play an important role in the permeation process: they have the polar and
hydrogen-bonding function closest to the bilayer center and attract water as well as polar
solutes close to the hydrophobic hydrocarbon region of the bilayer. They also play a
determinant role in the adsorption, as is shown in the simulations with
trimethylbismuthane.
The full description of permeation processes requires not only the knowledge of the
underlying free energy behavior, but also of the local diffusion coefficient, both
quantities contributing to the global permeation rate. With the simulations based on the
average force method on constrained particle is possible to estimate free energy profile,
local diffusion coefficient and permeation coefficient, however, corresponding force
curves are very noisy and further work with them is particularly difficult. The reasons
could be several.
The theoretical derivation of the permeability coefficient described in Section II.4.2,
rests on the assumption that the thermodynamic gradient can be considered constant over
the correlation distance of the particle. In the strict sense, this method is only valid for
permeants of relative small size and for energy barriers, which do not exhibit too steep
slopes. The molecules, on which the method was experimented, are probably too big for
this method, and their permeation cannot be treated as an equilibrium process. A
permeant of the size of the molecules studied does not get to the top of the energy barrier

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

85

slowly and in constant equilibrium, but is driven over it quickly by its momentum, inertia
effects becoming important in the case of a large permeant. The discrepancies can also
probably be attributed to parameters adopted for DPPC molecule, issued from extensible
systematic force field, which may be not optimal in context of free energy calculations to
properly describe the interactions between hydrocarbon chains of DPPC molecule and
organometallic compounds. As it was mentioned in Section III.1.1 some disorder of
hydrocarbon chains, while applying extensible systematic force field, is observed, which
increases the permeability of the membrane. Also keeping bond lengths of DPPC
molecule constant during the simulations limits the movement of lipid molecules, which
decreases the permeability of the membrane. Taking this into account it is possible to be
said that calculated energy barriers and permeation coefficients are overestimated (or
underestimated), but compromises have to be made between accuracy and efficiency.
Calculated permeation coefficient for dimethylarsinic acid seems to be high, but explains
the high permeability of dimethylarsinic acid in the human body cells. There are a lot of
medical reports for this high permeability of dimethylarsinic acid, unfortunately, no one
of them says how high. This could be one of the answers.

III.4. Conclusion
MD studies can characterize partially or in full the permeation processes. Depending
on the information for the permeation process we want to obtain, appropriate method of
simulation and force field must be chosen. Limitations with the force field parameters
and size of the system and permeants are still remaining. The first limitation refers
designing of new force fields, which could adequately describe interactions of specific
organic and organometallic compounds, while the second one refers the theory and
computer hardware. Extensible systematic force field deal excellent with organometallic
compounds, but unfortunately, is not the best one for phospholipids membranes. Better
understanding of permeation processes needs larger systems to be simulated for long
times, which with the current theory and computer hardware is inaccessible or takes
years.

MD simulations of permeation processes through phospholipid bilayer

86

However, the aim was reached – permeation processes of two organometallic
compounds were studied. Results are useful – evaluation of the ways of permeation in the
cell and impact on the cell of the poisonous nature of more of the organometallic
compounds and from other point of view – designing of new organometallic anticancer
drugs.

IV. General conclusions
Molecular dynamics simulations can test theoretical notions and complement
experimental techniques to further the conceptual understanding of the solute distribution
and dynamics in lipid membranes. The free energy computations described in the thesis
offer more than a simple estimation of the height of the energy barrier associated to the
permeation process. By constructing the complete free energy profile across the
membrane, details of the solute-membrane interactions are brought in light and help to
rationalize the mechanisms of transport. The average force method, which describes the
full permeation process, including both the partitioning and diffusion contributions,
proved to be very informative, helping to better understand the permeation processes.
The computational effort that warrants accurate, converged free energies is, however,
prohibitive and remains, in large measure, incompatible with the investigation of large
sets of compounds.

87

V.

Summary
The aim of this thesis was to investigate the permeation of small organometallic

molecules through a membrane computer model at a molecular level by means of
molecular dynamics simulations.
As a first step, a realistic model for a typical biological membrane was developed. As
phospholipid bilayers provide simple but very informative model systems, a pure
phospholipid

bilayer

system,

containing

a

single

type

of

phospholipid

(dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine or DPPC), was simulated in the biologically relevant
liquid crystalline state. The simulated DPPC membrane patch consists of 200 lipids (100
per leaflet) and about 5800 water molecules. Emphasis was laid on properties that are
thought to play an important role in permeation processes, such as membrane density,
ordering degree of the lipid acyl chains, or lipid mobility.
As a second step, the permeation processes of a dimethylarsinic acid and
trimethylbismuthane through the DPPC membrane model were studied. These
compounds were chosen because they are one of the simplest widely distributed in nature
organometallic compounds, containing arsenium and bismuth. As permeation processes
are too slow on the time scale accessible to the molecular dynamic technique, they cannot
be directly followed. Equilibrium molecular dynamic simulations were first carried out to
gain insight into the solute partitioning behavior within the membrane. Non-equilibrium
simulations, based on the average force method, were then undertaken to quantify the
free energy barrier to be overcome by the permeants for their translocation from the
water phase into the membrane interior.
88

Summary

89

As organometallic compounds are poisonous, obtained results could be used to
understand the ways of permeation of these compounds in all live organisms and are
useful for evaluation of the impact of these compounds on the cells. From a second point
of view, some organometallic compounds are used as anticancer drugs and the
knowledge of permeation processes could be used during drug design stage in order to
develop the appropriate drug molecule, which can easily permeate through the cell
membrane while keeping maximum anticancer impact.

VI. Zusammenfassung
Ziel

dieser

Dissertation

war

die

Untersuchung

der

Diffusion

kleiner,

organometalischer Moleküle durch eine Modellmembran auf molekularer Ebene mit Hilfe
der Molekulardynamischen Simulation.

Im ersten Schritt wurde ein realistisches Modell einer typischen biologischen
Membran entwickelt. Da Phosphorlipid-Bilayer ein einfaches, aber sehr informatives
System darstellen, wurde ein reines Phosphorlipid Bilayer-System bestehend aus nur
einer Sorte Phosphorlipid (Dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholin oder DPPC), in einer
biologisch relevanten flüssigkristallinen Phase simuliert. Die simulierte DPPC Membran
besteht aus 200 Lipiden (100 pro layer) und ca. 5800 Wassermolekülen. Der
Schwerpunkt wurde dabei auf die Eigenschaften gelegt, von denen man vermutet, dass
sie eine wichtige Rolle in den Diffusionsprozessen spielen, wie z.B. die Dichte der
Membran, die Anordnung der Lipid Acylketten und die Bewegungsmöglichkeit der
Lipide.
In einem zweiten Schritt wurde der Diffusionsprozess der Dimethylarsinicsäure und
des

Trimethylbismuthan

durch

das

DPPC-Membranmodell

untersucht.

Diese

Verbindungen wurden zum einen wegen ihrer Simplizität, zum anderen wegen ihres
häufigen Auftretens in Arsen und Wismut enthaltenden organometalischen Verbindungen
ausgewält. Da die Diffusionsprozesse auf der Zeitskala der Molekulardynamischen
Technik zu langsam sind, ist es nicht möglich, sie direkt zu beobachten. Daher wurden
zunächst Molekulardynamische Simulationen im Gleichgewicht durchgeführt, um einen
Einblick in das Verteilungsverhalten in der Membran zu erhalten. Nicht-GleichgewichtsSimulationen, basierend auf der Average-Force-Methode, dienten dann dazu die Barriere
90

Zusammenfassung

91

der Freien Energie zu lokalisieren, welche die Partikel überwinden müssen, um von der
Wasserphase in das Innere der Membran zu gelangen.
Da organometallische Verbindungen giftig sind können die erhaltenen Ergebnisse
zum

besseren

Verständnis

der

verschiedenen

Diffusionsmöglichkeiten

dieser

Verbindungen in allen lebenden Organismen führen und für die Bewertung des
Einflusses dieser Verbindungen auf die Zellen nützlich sein. Ein anderer Gesichtspunkt
ist, dass einige organometalische Verbindungen in der Krebstherapie verwendet werden.
Das Wissen über die Diffusionsprozesse kann in der Medikamentenentwicklung von
Nutzen sein um das passende medikamentöse Molekül zu entwickeln, welches direkt
durch die Zellmembran angewendet werden und somit die maximale Wirkung gegen den
Krebs erzielen kann.

VII. References
1. Jamieson, G. A.; Robinson, D. M. Mammalian Cell Membranes; Butterworth: London, 1977;
Vol. 2.
2. Jain, M. K. Introduction to Biological Membranes, 2nd ed.; John Wiley & Sons: New York,
1988.
3. Overton, E. Vierteljahrsschr. Naturforsch. Ges. Zurich 1899, 44, 88.
4. Gorter, E.; Grendel, F. J. Exp. Med. 1925, 41, 439.
5. Danielli, J. F.; Davson, H. J. Cell. Comp. Physiol. 1935, 5, 495.
6. Green, D. E.; Perdue, J. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1996, 55, 1295.
7. Frye, L. D.; Edidin, M. J. Cell. Sci. 1970, 7, 319.
8. Singer, S. J.; Nicolson, G. L. Science 1972, 175, 720.
9. Gennis, R. B. Biomembranes: Molecular Structure and Function; Springer-Verlag: Berlin,
1989.
10. Yeagle, P. L. The Membranes of Cells, 2nd ed.; Academic Press: San Diego, 1993.
11. Seddon, J. M.; Templer, R. H. Handbook of Biological Physics - Structure and Dynamics of
Membranes: From Cells to Vesicles; Elsevier Science: Amsterdam, 1995; Vol. 1A.

12. Seddon, J. M. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1990, 1031, 1.
13. Landh, T. FEBS Lett. 1995, 369, 13.
14. Luzzati, V. Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 1997, 7, 661.
15. Barton, P. G.; Gunstone, F. D. J. Biol. Chem. 1975, 250, 4470.

92

References

93

16. Cevc, G. Chem. Phys. Lipids 1991, 57, 293.
17. Ohvo-Rekila, H.; Ramstedt, B.; Leppimaki, P.; Slotte, J. P. Prog. Lipid Res. 2002, 41, 66.
18. Cevc, G. Biochemistry 1991, 30, 7186.
19. Sackmann, E. Handbook of Biological Physics - Structure and Dynamics of Membranes:
From Cells to Vesicles; Elsevier Science: Amsterdam, 1995; Vol. 1A.

20. Blume, A. Dynamic Properties. In Phospholipids Handbook; Cevc, G., Ed.; Marcel Dekker:
New York, 1993.
21. Schinitzky, M. Physiol. Memb. Fluidity 1984.
22. Wiese, M. Computer Simulations of Phospholipids and Drug-Phospholipid Interactions. In
Drug - Membrane Interactions; Seydel, J. K., Wiese, M., Eds.; Wiley - VCH Verlag: Weinheim,

2002.
23. Rocca, P. L.; Shai, Y.; Sansom, M. S. P. Biophys. Chem. 1999, 76, 145.
24. Verlet, L. Phys. Rev. 1967, 159.
25. Kox, A. J.; Michaels, J. P. J.; Wiegel, F. W. Nature 1980, 287, 317.
26. van der Ploeg, P.; Berendsen, H. J. C. J. Chem. Phys. 1982, 76, 3271.
27. Egberts, E.; Berendsen, H. J. C. J. Chem. Phys. 1988, 89, 3718.
28. Egberts, E. Molecular Dynamics Simulations of Multibilayer Membranes. Ph. D. Thesis,
University of Groningen, The Netherlands, 1988.
29. Egberts, E.; Marrink, S. J.; Berendsen, H. J. C. Eur. Biophys. J. with Biophys. Lett. 1994, 22,
423.
30. de Vries, A. H.; Mark, A. E.; Marrink, S. J. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003.
31. Robinson, A. J.; Richards, W. G.; Thomas, P. J.; Hann, M. M. Biophys. J. 1995, 68, 164.
32. Huang, P.; Bertaccini, E.; Loew, G. H. 1995, 12, 725.
33. Alper, H. E.; Stouch, T. R. 1995, 99, 5724.
34. Chiu, S. W.; Subramaniam, S.; Jakobson, E. Biophys. J. 1999, 76, 1929.

References

94

35. Tieleman, D. P.; Berendsen, H. J. C.; Sansom, M. S. P. Biophys. J. 1999, 76, 1757.
36. Nagle, J. F. R.; Zhang, R.; Tristam-Nagle, S.; Sun, W.; Petrahce, H.; Suter, R. M. Biophys. J.
1996, 70, 1419.

37. Pastor, R. Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 1996, 4, 486.
38. Tieleman, D. P.; Marrink, S. J.; Berendsen, H. J. C. Biophys. Acta. 1997, 133, 235.
39. Blume, A. Dynamic properties. In Phospholipids Handbook; Cevc, G., Ed.; Marcel Dekker:
New York, 1993; pp 455.
40. Essman, U.; Berkowitz, M. L. Biophys. J. 1999, 76, 2081.
41. Feller, S. E.; Huster, D.; Gawrish, K. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1999, 8963.
42. Moore, P. B.; Lopez, C. F.; Klein, M. L. Biophys. J. 2001, 81, 2484.
43. Pastor, R. W.; Venable, R. M.; Feller, S. E. Acc. Chem. Res. 2002, 35, 438.
44. Lindahl, E.; Edholm, O. J. Chem. Phys. 2001, 115, 4938.
45. Lindahl, E.; Edholm, O. Biophys. J. 2000, 79, 426.
46. Weiner, S. J.; Kollman, P. A.; Case, D. A.; Singh, U. C.; Ghio, C.; Alagona, G.; Profeta, S.;
Weiner, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1984, 106, 765.
47. Brooks, B. R.; R. E. Bruccoleri; Olafson, B. D.; States, D. J.; Swaminathan, S.; Karplus, M.
J. Comp. Chem. 1983, 4, 187.

48. Gunsteren, W. F. v.; Berendsen, H. J. C. Groningen Molecular Simulation (GROMOS)
Library Manual; Biomos: Groningen, The Netherlands, 1987.

49. Schlenkrich, M.; Brickman, J.; Jr., A. D. M.; Karplus, M. An Empirical Potential Energy
Function for Phopholipids: Criteria for Parameter Optimization and Applications. In Biological
Membranes: A Molecular Perspective from Computation and Experiment; Jr., K. M. M., Roux,

B., Eds.; Birhдuser: Boston, 1996.
50. BIOSYM/MSI. InsightII, Release 95.0: Discover Program, versions 2.9.7 & 95.0/3.00; San
Diego: Biosym/MSI, 1995.

References

95

51. Chiu, S. W.; Clark, M. M.; Balaji, V.; Subramaniam, S.; Scott, H. L.; Jakobsson, E. Biophys.
J. 1995, 69, 1230.

52. Feller, S. E.; Pastor, R. W. J. Chem. Phys. 1999, 111, 1281.
53. Tieleman, D. P.; Berendsen, H. J. C. J. Chem. Phys. 1996, 105, 4871.
54. Marrink, S. J.; Mark, A. E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 6122.
55. Lindahl, E.; Edholm, O. J. Chem. Phys. 2000, 113, 3882.
56. Ryckaert, J. P.; Ciccotti, G.; Berendsen, H. J. C. J. Comp. Phys. 1997, 23, 327.
57. Hess, B.; Bekker, H.; Berendsen, H. J. C.; Fraaije, J. G. E. M. J. Comp. Chem. 1997, 18,
1463.
58. Cheng, A.; Jr., K. M. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 5396.
59. Hockney, R. W.; Eastwood, J. W. Computer Simulation using Particles; McGraw-Hill: New
York, 1981.
60. Essmann, U.; Perera, L.; Berkowitz, M. L.; Darden, T.; Lee, H.; Pedersen, L. G. J. Chem.
Phys. 1995, 103, 8577.

61. Darden, T.; York, D.; Pedersen, L. J. Chem. Phys. 1993, 98, 10089.
62. Jakobsson, E.; Subramaniam, S.; Scott, H. L. Strategic Issues in Molecular Dynamics
Simulations of Membranes. In Biological Membranes: A Molecular Perspective from
Computation and Experiment; Merz, K. M., Roux, B., Eds.; Birhдuser: Boston, 1996.

63. Finkelstein, A. J. Gen. Physiol. 1976, 68, 127.
64. Reevs, J. B.; Dowben, R. M. J. Membr. Biol. 1970, 3, 123.
65. Hanai, T.; Haydon, D. A. J. Theor. Biol. 1966, 11, 370.
66. Marrink, S. J.; Berendsen, H. J. C. J. Phys. Chem. 1994, 98, 4155.
67. Weaver, J. C.; Powell, K. T.; Mintzer, R. A. Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 1984, 12, 405.
68. Nagle, J. F.; Scott, H. L. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1978, 513, 236.

References

96

69. Abidor, I. G.; Arakelyan, V. B.; Chernomordik, L. V.; Chizmadzhev, Y. A.; Pastuschenko,
V. F.; Tarasevich, M. R. Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 1979, 6, 37.
70. Subczynski, W. K.; Wisniewska, A.; Yin, J. J.; Hyde, J. S.; Kusumi, A. Biochemistry 1994,
33, 7670.

71. Torrie, G. M.; Valleau, J. P. J. Comp. Phys. 1977, 23, 187.
72. Torrie, G. M.; Valleau, J. P. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1974, 28, 578.
73. Kubo, R. Rev. Mod. Phys. 1966, 29, 255.
74. Nagle, J. F.; Zhang, R.; Tristram-Nagle, S.; Sun, W.; Petrache, H. I.; Suter, R. M. Biophys. J.
1996, 70, 1419.

75. Nagle, J. F.; Tristam-Nagle, S. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 2000, 1469, 159.
76. Petrache, H. I.; Dodd, S. W.; Brown, M. F. Biophys. J. 2000, 79, 3172.
77. Anezo, C. Molecular models for drug permeation across phospholipid membranes. Ph. D.,
Heinrich - Heine, 2003.
78. Anezo, C.; Vries, A. H. d.; Hцltje, H.-D.; Tieleman, D. P.; Marrink, S. J. J. Phys. Chem. B
2003, 107, 9424.

79. Jakobs, H. M. Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 1940, 8, 30.
