Uriel Sebree 

Uriel Sebree (February 20, 1848 – August 6, 1922) was a lifelong officer in the United States Navy. He entered the Naval Academy amid the Civil War and served until 1910, resigning as a back naval commander. He is best associated with his two endeavors into the Arctic and for filling in as acting legislative head of American Samoa. He was additionally president of the Pacific Fleet. 

In the wake of moving on from the U.S. Maritime Academy in 1867, Sebree was presented on various vessels before being appointed to a salvage mission to locate the rest of the team of the missing "Polaris" in the Navy's first mission to the Arctic. This endeavor was just a fractional achievement—the "Polaris" group was saved by a British ship as opposed to the US Navy—yet this prompted Sebree's choice eleven years after the fact for a second campaign to the Arctic. That mission to safeguard Adolphus Greely and the overcomers of the Lady Franklin Bay endeavor was a triumph. Sebree was in this manner designated as the second acting legislative leader of American Samoa. He served in this situation for just a year prior coming back to the United States. In 1907, he was elevated to raise naval commander and given direction of the Pathfinder Expedition around the South American coast before being named authority of the second Division of the Pacific Fleet and afterward president of the whole armada. He resigned in 1910 and passed on in Coronado, California, in 1922. Two topographical highlights in Alaska—Sebree Peak and Sebree Island—are named for Admiral Sebree. 

Uriel Sebree was conceived in Fayette, Missouri, on February 20, 1848, to Judge John Sebree, called "one of the conspicuous residents of old Howard County" by the "Jefferson County Tribune", and his better half. Uriel was the first of two children. His sibling, Frank P. Sebree, turned into a legal advisor. Uriel entered the United States Naval Academy on July 23, 1863, amid the American Civil War. After his graduation in 1867, his first task was ready . Throughout the following couple of years Sebree won rehashed advancement: to ensign in 1868, ace in 1870, and lieutenant in 1871. In 1873 he exchanged to the ironclad . 

One scene in Sebree's initial military history which impacted his later profession was his interest in the second "Polaris" salvage mission. The Polaris campaign was a 1871– 72 investigation of the Arctic that had intended to achieve the North Pole. The campaign was pained from the begin: its pioneer, Charles Francis Hall, kicked the bucket in secretive conditions before the finish of their first winter. The next year, the "Polaris" stayed caught in ice and unfit to return home. Amid a brutal tempest, the team was isolated into two gatherings: a little gathering of voyagers was stranded on the now-injured "Polaris" and the rest of marooned on an ice floe. These last 19 survivors were found by shot and protected by the non military personnel whaler . In view of the "Tigress'" prosperity, the Navy contracted the ship, briefly rechristened her USS "Tigress", and utilized her to dispatch a salvage endeavor to find the rest of the team. For this endeavor the ship would be told by a gathering of eight naval force officers, driven by Captain James A. Greer, albeit a great part of the first non military personnel group was held. Lieutenant Sebree was one of the officers picked for the mission. 

This salvage mission was the primary authority United States military campaign to the Arctic; past endeavors, including that of the "Polaris" itself, had been driven by regular citizens. The "Tigress" cruised from New York on July 14, 1873, making a trip first to St. John's, Newfoundland and after that to Godhavn and Upernavik in Greenland before following the coast further north. The team looked North Star Bay, Northumberland Island, and Hartstene Bay before finding the main indication of the "Polaris" group: a camp on Littleton Island where they had wintered, presently involved by Inuit. The missing men, the rescuers were told, had developed improvised water crafts rescued from their decimated ship and voyaged south. Following up on this sign, the "Tigress" looked through the Baffin Island coast to Cumberland Sound, and after that the Greenland coast from Ivigtut to Fiskenæsset and the Davis Strait, before coming back to St. John's for fuel. Once there, they discovered that the "Polaris" survivors had been safeguarded by a British ship and that their hunt was finished. Subsequent to coming back to New York the "Tigress" was exchanged back to non military personnel use. 

After this undertaking, Sebree was allocated to the screw frigate where he stayed for a long time. In 1878, he was doled out to work with the United States Coast Survey on board the "A. D. Bache". The next year he was given his initial two directions: the "Silliman" and afterward the "Thomas R. Gedney", the two boats of the United States Coast Survey. He stayed on the last ship for almost three years before being doled out to in 1882. In 1883, he was given his first direction of a Navy deliver, , with requests to sail to Alaska. 

On October 3, 1883, before leaving for Alaska, the "Pinta" crashed into the non military personnel brig "Let's go" off the bank of Nantucket. Sebree was not considered legitimately in charge of the impact, as he was underneath deck at the time, however it was claimed that he didn't do what's needed to decide if the other ship was harmed before cruising endlessly. Charges were brought against him in November and in December he was discovered blameworthy of "punishable carelessness and wastefulness in the execution of his obligation". He was condemned to be suspended from rank and obligation for a long time with an official revile from the Secretary of the Navy. Trusting the sentence to be excessively brutal, Secretary William E. Chandler diminished it to an open upbraid as it were. Sebree was in this manner exchanged to , despite the fact that not as the ship's leader. 

One month in the wake of joining the "Powhatan", Sebree was exchanged once more, this opportunity to fill in as the official officer of for another stumble into the Arctic. In 1881, Army Lieutenant Adolphus Greely had left on an undertaking to set up a base at Lady Franklin Bay on northern Ellesmere Island (presently part of the Canadian region of Nunavut). Greely was left with arrangements for a long time however was to expect supply sends in 1882 and 1883. The two endeavors to resupply the campaign fizzled and, with Greely's arrangements running low, the Navy arranged an undertaking in mid 1884 to endeavor a resupply or salvage. The undertaking was driven by Captain Winfield Scott Schley and comprised of lead deliver USS "Thetis" (with Sebree as the official officer and guide), , and the obtained HMS "Alert". A large number of the officers, including Sebree, were chosen for their past Arctic experience. The "Thetis" left New York on May 1, 1884, and the gathering gradually advanced through the ice of Melville Bay, pursuing pieces of information and records left by the endeavor, to at long last find the overcomers of Greely's camp off Cape Sabine on June 22, 1885. Of the 25 individuals from the campaign, just 6 endure (one more passed on the arrival venture). The campaign cruised first for Upernavik, Greenland, touching base on July 2, 1884, and after that advanced back to the United States, arriving at Portsmouth, New Hampshire on August 1, 1884. Schley later announced that a deferral of only two more days would have been deadly to the staying six individuals from the undertaking. Sebree and different individuals from the alleviation endeavor picked up notoriety from the voyage. Indeed, even after ten years, in 1895, a report by "The New York Times" praising the 50th commemoration of the United States Naval Academy recorded Sebree as a standout amongst the most "well known" graduates, in spite of his moderately low position. 

After his arrival from the undertaking Sebree educated at the Naval Academy for a long time before being exchanged to the thirteenth Lighthouse District, to fill in as the beacon reviewer for Oregon and Washington Territory. While positioned there he was elevated to lieutenant administrator in March 1889. 

In September 1889 he was made the official officer of , again under Captain Schley. The two men were all the while serving on board the "Baltimore" when its mariners were assaulted in Valparaiso, Chile in October 1891, and gave declaration toward the occasions amid the later examination. 

From September 1892 to July 1893, Sebree filled in as right hand to the monitor of the third Lighthouse District. 

Sebree educated at the Academy from 1893 to 1896. Toward the finish of his time there, he was quickly given direction of before being placed in order of the "Thetis", which was doing study work off the shore of California. In 1897 he was elevated to authority. Amid the Spanish– American War, Sebree again told the "Wheeling" in the Pacific for the length of the war. His task was to watch the bank of Alaska and the Aleutian Islands, a long way from both the Caribbean and Pacific venues of the war, and he saw no critical activity. After the war, he was exchanged to the twelfth Lighthouse District as an assessor. 

On October 9, 1901, Sebree was elevated to skipper and got requests to make a trip to American Samoa to assume responsibility for and to be commandant of the United States Naval Station Tutuila. After three days, he was elevated to chief. As of now the commandant of the maritime station was viewed as the acting legislative head of the domain as Congress had not yet formalized the U.S. Naval force's job there. Sebree was the substitution for Commandant Benjamin Franklin Tilley, who had as of late had charges brought against him for impropriety and tipsiness. While Sebree was in travel to the islands, Tilley was attempted and vindicated of the charges against him yet the choice to supplant him was not changed. Commander Sebree touched base in Samoa and took up his new post on November 27, 1901. 

Not at all like Tilley, who had been the main acting legislative head of the domain, Sebree was very worried about his legitimate status. Formally, he was just commandant of the maritime station then under development, in spite of the fact that the deed of cession of the domain recognized his hypothetical expert to oversee the general population. He was worried that claims could be brought against him or future acting governors until the circumstance was cleared up and made authority by the United States government. To this end, he made a proposal to the United States Congress to amass a board to consider the domain's status and mentioned that an Assistant Secretary of the Navy go to the region to meet with him. The two solicitations were won't. A further case of this uncertainty came in March 1902, when Sebree got requests to surrender direction of the "Abarenda" to give him extra time as commandant and "representative". To these requests, he reacted that regardless he had not been formally made "representative" and that, if he somehow happened to go about as a senator, he ought to be given the best possible accreditations and lawful expert to do as such. The Navy did not react straightforwardly to Sebree's solicitation, yet he was given order of USS "Wheeling" after three months. 

In spite of his dissents, Sebree acted as the legislative head of the region. Amid his organization, the United States Congress affirmed $35,000 to satisfy obligations identified with development costs for the maritime station, and arranging started for the development of a beacon on Aunu'u. The Fita Guard, the nearby local army that Tilley had composed, proceeded with its preparation, and Sebree orchestrated to prepare a few individuals from the power as a military-style metal band. Sebree likewise endeavored to improve nearby farming and even requested of the Department of Agriculture for help, however was turned down. 

Strains heightened between outside brokers on Samoa and the neighborhood masses, due to some degree to controls which Tilley had set up to shield Samoan ranchers from misuse. Dr. David Starr Jordan, an unmistakable American researcher doing research in the region, was so worried by these pressures that he sent a letter to President Theodore Roosevelt asking that a dealer not be made legislative leader of the region, if a common organization were made. Soon after, numerous merchants and local people, including a Samoan expense gatherer, circled an appeal mentioning an adjustment in the manner in which the copra crop was burdened and requesting the Navy to stop overseeing the domain. The request was sent to individuals from Congress and the reason was gotten by California delegate Julius Kahn and accumulated huge press inclusion. This development in the end achieved President Roosevelt; his choice was not to follow up on the appeal. 

On December 16, 1902, Sebree was allowed a time away to come back to the United States and care for his better half who had been seriously harmed in a fall. In his place, Lieutenant Commander Henry Minett, Sebree's official officer, was made acting commandant of the station and in this manner acting legislative leader of the domain. He was additionally given direction of the "Wheeling". Skipper Edmund Beardsley Underwood was chosen as Sebree's substitution, however that choice was not made authority quickly, and Underwood stayed in Washington to counsel with Sebree and President Roosevelt on the administration of the region. Underwood's choice was not reported until May 1903. 

Following his better half's recuperation, Sebree came back to support and was given direction of on February 11, 1903. The "Wisconsin" was the lead of the North Squadron of the Pacific armada under Robley D. Evans. While under Sebree's order, the "Wisconsin" and her group were assessed as a standout amongst the best, as per yearly focusing on activities. 

In the pre-fall of 1903, Paymaster Rishworth Nicholson of struck a German Consul at a ball in Yantai, China. He was quickly raised on charges of "intoxication", "shameful lead keeping an eye on the obliteration of good ethics", and "deception" and taken to the "Wisconsin" for his court military. Sebree and a gathering of six different officers discovered him liable of the principal charge, blameworthy of a lesser offense for the second charge, and not liable on the third. His sentence was resolved to be a decrease in evaluation identical to one year of position. Three of the officers, excluding Sebree, composed a strengthening supposition mentioning forgiveness for Nicholson. 

Notwithstanding, Rear Admiral Evans, the leader of the Asiatic Squadron, dismissed the decision as insufficient and mentioned that the court reexamine the choice. The court reconvened and restored a similar judgment and sentence. Accordingly, Evans composed a blistering evaluate of the procedure, considering it a "tragedy of equity" and expressing that Nicholson's activities were "less inexcusable than his judges". This basic exposition was required to be posted at each maritime base and on each ship in the Pacific and was reproduced in full by "The New York Times" and other regular citizen papers. Evans prohibited the three officers who had freely mentioned mercy from taking an interest in future courts military. Press reports addressed whether Evans had that expert as the military equity framework was proposed to be unprejudiced. In late September 1903, the three officers who had been named in the study documented a dissent with Secretary of the Navy William Henry Moody expressing that Admiral Evans had violated his position by freely denouncing them without a court military and that charges ought to be brought against him. On November 18, 1903, Moody denied the request and the sentences were left to stand. 

Amid this discussion, Sebree stayed quiet on the issue, and it is obscure whether he was an individual from the larger part or not. Evans remarked in his scrutinize that he was uncertain who different supporters of the dominant part choice were. As analysis twirled around the preliminary itself, the editors of the magazine "Joined Service" safeguarded Sebree and expressed that he had "general regard all through the Navy administration" and that he had a "huge encounter, sound judgment, much temper and most brilliant record". Following this declaration, Sebree was exchanged to the Naval War College in Rhode Island to fill in as a teacher and as Secretary of the Lighthouse Board. 

In December 1905, a tempest and mechanical disappointments caused serious issues for the group of the lightvessel Lightship "No. 58" moored off of Nantucket. Her team, driven by Captain James Jorgensen, battled for two days to keep the vessel from foundering, however were eventually fruitless. They were saved by Captain Gibbs of the "Azalea". The aftermath over this episode created a sufficient buzz that the military needed to react to it legitimately. Under Navy runs, the eleven officers and group individuals from the "No. 58" were denied pay while they were recuperating from their wounds and until they were presented on new vessels under a guideline that restricted pay to mariners whose ships had sunk. The mariners spoke to Sebree, as Secretary of the Lighthouse Board, however he didn't or couldn't suit them. Rather, the officers were given acclamations by Secretary Victor H. Metcalf and "inclination in future arrangements". Naval commander Dewey and Captain Sebree made a second suggestion, which was affirmed, that Captain Gibbs get an honor and a boost in compensation for his administration. 

Sebree was elevated to raise chief naval officer in 1907 and was given order of a squadron of two ships: his leader, , and . This alleged "Pathfinder Squadron" would head out from New York to California by means of Cape Horn. This mission enabled the Navy to flaunt two of its most up to date cruisers to South American governments just as exchange boats to the Pacific Fleet in what was viewed for instance of American gunboat discretion. En route, Sebree had formal gatherings with Brazilian President Afonso Pena, Peruvian President José Pardo y Barreda, and United States discretionary staff in the two nations. He additionally met with delegates in Chile and different nations. At the point when the squadron at last landed in California, it was joined by and took an interest in advertising occasions at West Coast ports. The discretionary mission over, the Pathfinder Squadron, with the "California" and others, turned into the second division of the United States Pacific Fleet, with Sebree staying in direction. Back Admiral William T. Swinburne was put in direction of the full armada. 

On June 5, 1908, Sebree was almost murdered amid a speed preliminary of the "Tennessee" off the bank of California. He had quite recently finished a voyage through the starboard engine compartment when a steam pipe burst, in a split second killing two officers and injuring ten others, three lethally. Witnesses revealed that Sebree and different officers had left the engine compartment just 50 seconds sooner. 

In August 1908, the full Pacific Fleet was dispatched to various ports in the Pacific Ocean on a political mission like the one embraced by Sebree in South America the earlier year. On this voyage, Sebree and Swinburne met with pioneers and delegates from the Territory of Hawaii, the Philippines, Western Samoa, and Panama. While visiting the Western Samoan capital of Apia, Sebree was given a keepsake collection of Samoan view to pay tribute to his time as legislative leader of neighboring American Samoa. 

On April 15, 1909, Admiral Swinburne, the president of the Pacific Fleet, reported his retirement, and Sebree was named to supplant him on May 17. Great advertising remained a noteworthy objective of the armada, and in June, the armada was shown at the Alaska– Yukon– Pacific Exposition. President William Howard Taft drove the article's opening function, and numerous American dignitaries were in participation. 

Sebree's last mission before his retirement saw him lead the Pacific Fleet on a voyage through ports in east Asia. The armada left San Francisco on September 5, 1909, cruising west to the Philippines, with just concise stops in transit. Speed testing was a noteworthy objective of the early piece of the voyage and he and his armada of eight boats broke speed records by cruising to Honolulu in a little more than four days. Six of the eight boats had the capacity to make the voyage in that time; the "Colorado" and "West Virginia" had mechanical disappointments which kept them from finishing the voyage on schedule. On the "Colorado", those disappointments prompted the passings of two crew members because of a steam pipe blast. From Hawaii, the armada proceeded onward to Manila where the boats performed target practices and activities, just as being cleaned and repainted, before continuing their essential mission by cruising to Yokohama, Japan. In Japan, the armada scattered and little gatherings of cruisers were dispatched to the ports of British-controlled Hong Kong, Wusong in China, and Kobe, Japan. Subsequently, the armada returned home. Just before Sebree's retirement the Pacific Fleet was part into two: a littler Pacific Fleet and an Asiatic Fleet instructed by Rear Admiral John Hubbard. On February 19, 1910, Sebree formally resigned and was supplanted as leader of the Pacific Fleet by Rear Admiral Giles B. Harber. 

Not long after resigning, Sebree was given a goodbye feast which included British Field Marshal Herbert Kitchener as a striking visitor and California Governor James Gillett as toastmaster. In retirement, Sebree kept on going to Navy capacities. In 1916, Sebree announced that the United States Navy falled behind the world's other real naval forces. A solitary battleship, he guaranteed, could assault the whole Pacific Fleet which was around then depending on submarines for protection. The Atlantic Fleet previously had battleships in commission. 

Sebree kicked the bucket at his home in Coronado, California on August 6, 1922. He and his better half, Anne Bridgman Sebree, are covered in Arlington National Cemetery. They had one child, John Bridgman Sebree (1889– 1948), who served in the United States Marine Corps. 

Sebree Peak and Sebree Island, both in Alaska, are named for the chief of naval operations.