Richard Williams (RAAF officer) 

Air Marshal Sir Richard Williams, (3 August 18907 February 1980) is broadly viewed as the "father" of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). He was the principal military pilot prepared in Australia, and proceeded to direction Australian and British warrior units in World War I. A defender for air control free of different parts of the outfitted administrations, Williams assumed a main job in the foundation of the RAAF and turned into its first Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) in 1922. He filled in as CAS for a long time more than three terms, longer than some other officer. 

Williams originated from a common laborers foundation in South Australia. He was a lieutenant in the Army when he figured out how to fly at Point Cook, Victoria, in 1914. As a pilot with the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) in World War I, Williams rose to order No. 1 Squadron AFC, and later 40th Wing RAF. He was granted the Distinguished Service Order and completed the war a lieutenant colonel. Subsequently he battled for an Australian Air Force run independently to the Army and Navy, which appeared on 31 March 1921. 

The juvenile RAAF confronted a few difficulties to its proceeded with presence during the 1920s and mid 1930s, and Williams got a significant part of the credit for keeping up its freedom. Anyway an antagonistic report on flying security principles saw him rejected from the situation of CAS and supported to the RAF preceding World War II. Notwithstanding support in different quarters for his restoration as Air Force boss, and advancement to air marshal in 1940, he never again instructed the RAAF. After the war he was persuasively resigned alongside other World War I veteran officers. He took up the situation of Director-General of Civil Aviation in Australia, and was knighted the year prior to his retirement in 1955. 

Williams was conceived on 3 August 1890 into a common laborers family in Moonta Mines, South Australia. He was the oldest child of Richard Williams, a copper digger who had emigrated from Cornwall, England, and his better half Emily. Leaving Moonta Public School at junior auxiliary dimension, Williams filled in as a broadcast dispatcher and later as a bank assistant. He enrolled in a state army unit, the South Australian Infantry Regiment, in 1909 at nineteen years old. Charged a second lieutenant on 8 March 1911, he joined the Permanent Military Forces the next year. 

In August 1914, Lieutenant Williams partook in Australia's debut military flying course at Central Flying School, kept running by Lieutenants Henry Petre and Eric Harrison. In the wake of soloing in a Bristol Boxkite around the landing strip at Point Cook, Victoria, Williams turned into the main understudy to graduate as a pilot, on 12 November 1914. He reviewed the school as a "jazz appear" comprising of an enclosure, tents, and one expansive structure: a shed for the Boxkite. Following a regulatory and instructional posting, Williams experienced propelled flying preparing at Point Cook in July 1915. The following month he wedded Constance Esther Griffiths, who was thirteen years his senior. The couple had no kids. 

Williams was advanced chief on 5 January 1916. He was selected a flight leader in No. 1 Squadron Australian Flying Corps (AFC), which was at first numbered 67 Squadron Royal Flying Corps by the British. The unit left Australia in March 1916 with no air ship; in the wake of landing in Egypt it got B.E.2 warriors, a sort inadequate in speed and mobility, and which needed forward-shooting assault rifles. Williams composed that in battle with the German Fokkers, "our battling noticeable all around was of brief length however could mean a brisk end", and that when it came to besieging, he and his individual pilots "depended for the most part on karma". He further cited a cliché in the Flying Corps that "if another pilot got past his initial three days without being shot down he was fortunate; in the event that he overcame three weeks he was progressing admirably and in the event that he traversed three months he was set". Williams and different Australians were at first engaged with segregated assignments around the Suez Canal, appended to different Royal Flying Corps (RFC) units. No. 1 Squadron started to work deliberately in December 1916, supporting the Allied development on Palestine. Williams finished his RFC connection in February 1917. 

On 5 March 1917, soon after starting tasks with No. 1 Squadron, Williams barely dodged accident landing when his motor ceased while he was shelling the railroad end at Tel el Sheria. At first trusting that he had been struck by adversary fire, he found that the motor switch outside his cockpit had killed. Inside 500 feet of the ground he had the capacity to switch the motor back on and come back to base. On 21 April, Williams arrived behind foe lines to protect brought down companion Lieutenant Adrian Cole, having the day preceding squeezed home an assault on Turkish rangers while under "exceptional enemy of flying machine fire"; these two activities earned him the Distinguished Service Order for "obvious bravery". He was advanced major in May and given order of No. 1 Squadron, which was re-outfitted with Bristol Fighters soon thereafter. "Presently out of the blue," composed Williams, "following 17 months in the field we had airplane with which we could manage our foe noticeable all around." His men knew him as a teetotaller and non-smoker, whose thought of swearing was a periodic "Darn me!". 

In June 1918, Williams was made a brevet lieutenant colonel and authority of the RAF's 40th (Army) Wing, which was working in Palestine. It included his previous No. 1 Squadron and three British units. As a Dominion officer, Williams found that he was not allowed to "practice forces of discipline over British staff", prompting him being briefly "conceded a valuable commission in the Royal Air Force". Enlarged by a goliath Handley Page plane, his powers participated in the Battle of Armageddon, the last hostile in Palestine, where they dispensed "discount pulverization" on Turkish segments. Of 40th Wing's activities at Wadi Fara on 21 September 1918, Williams stated: "The Turkish Seventh Army stopped to exist and it must be noticed this was totally the consequence of assault from the air." He additionally sent Captain Ross Smith in the Handley Page, joined by two Bristol Fighters, to help Major T. E. Lawrence's Arab armed force north of Amman when it was badgering by German flying machine working from Deraa. In November, Williams was delegated impermanent officer of the Palestine Brigade, which included his past order, the 40th (Army) Wing, and fifth (Corps) Wing. His administration in the performance center later observed him granted the Order of the Nahda by the King of the Hejaz. Twice referenced in despatches, before the finish of the war Williams had built up himself, in the expressions of RAAF student of history Alan Stephens, as "the AFC's rising star". 

Selected an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 1919 New Year Honors, Williams filled in as Staff Officer, Aviation, at Australian Imperial Force (AIF) base camp in London, before coming back to Australia and taking up the situation of Director of Air Services at Army Headquarters, Melbourne. The Australian Flying Corps had in the interim been disbanded and supplanted by the Australian Air Corps (AAC) which was, similar to the AFC, a part of the Army. 

Endless supply of the Australian Air Board on 9 November 1920, Williams and his individual AAC officers dropped their military positions for those dependent on the Royal Air Force. Williams, presently a wing administrator, by and by ordered and postponed the Air Board's entries to make the Australian Air Force (AAF), an administration autonomous of both the Army and the Royal Australian Navy. In spite of the fact that the leaders of the Army and Navy restricted the formation of an autonomous air arm for dread that they would be unfit to discover air spread for their activities, support from Prime Minister Billy Hughes, just as conspicuous parliamentary figures including Treasurer Joseph Cook and Defense Minister George Pearce enabled the proposition to succeed. The AAF was appropriately framed on 31 March 1921; Williams intentionally picked this day as opposed to 1 April, the establishing date of the RAF three years sooner, "to forestall frightful individuals alluding to us as 'April Fools'". The "Illustrious" prefix was included five months after the fact. Williams proposed an ensign for the AAF in July 1921, in light of the Royal Air Force banner however including the five stars of the Southern Cross inside the RAF roundel and the Commonwealth Star in the lower raise quarter. This structure was not embraced for the RAAF, the legislature utilizing rather an immediate duplicate of the RAF ensign until 1949, when another plan utilizing the stars of the Australian Flag was picked. 

As the senior officer of the Air Board, Williams held the title of First Air Member, the incipient Air Force at first not being esteemed reasonable for a "Head of Staff" arrangement proportional to the Army and Navy. He moved to combine the new administration's situation by extending its benefits and preparing. Not long after the AAF's foundation, land was bought for an air base at Laverton, eight kilometers (five miles) inland of Point Cook, and in July 1921 Williams made the underlying proposition to build up a base at Richmond, New South Wales, the first outside Victoria. He additionally began a program to second understudies from the Army and Navy, including alumni of the Royal Military College, Duntroon, to support officer numbers; competitors harvested by this plan included future Air Force boss John McCauley, Frederick Scherger, Valston Hancock and Alister Murdoch, alongside other senior personalities, for example, Joe Hewitt and Frank Bladin. As a pioneer, Williams would pick up a notoriety for solid will, ingestion in authoritative details and a "to some degree rigid" nature. He ended up referred to all through the administration as "Dicky". 

The situation of First Air Member was supplanted by Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) in October 1922. Williams would fill in as CAS multiple times more than seventeen years during the 1920s and '30s, substituting with Wing Commander (later Air Vice Marshal) Stanley Goble. One intention recommended for the revolution was a ploy by Army and Navy interests to "check Williams' freedom". Rather the course of action "definitely cultivated an inefficient contention" between the two officers. Despite the fact that in a lawful sense the Air Board was in charge of the RAAF instead of the Chief of Staff alone, Williams ruled the board to such a degree, that Goble would later gripe that his associate seemed to consider the Air Force his own order. 

Williams spent quite a bit of 1923 in England, going to the British Army Staff College in Camberley and RAF Staff College, Andover, trailed by further examination in Canada and the United States the next year. Goble filled in as Chief of the Air Staff in his nonappearance. Soon after his arrival in February 1925, Williams scuppered an arrangement by Goble to build up a little seaplane base at Rushcutters Bay in Sydney, rather sorting out buy of Supermarine Seagulls, the RAAF's first land and/or water capable flying machine, to be based at Richmond. He was elevated to amass skipper in July and soon thereafter drafted a noteworthy air fighting investigation, ""Memorandum Regarding the Air Defense of Australia"". Thought about insightful from various perspectives, it treated World War I partner Japan as Australia's fundamental military danger, and pushed between administration co-activity while keeping up that none of the military was "absolutely helper to another". Its ideas keep on impacting RAAF system. 

In 1926, Williams commanded the utilization of parachutes for all RAAF aircrew. He had visited the Irvin Air Chute Company while in the US amid 1924 and prescribed buy at the time, yet an overabundance of requests for the RAF implied that the Australian gear took very nearly two years to arrive. Flying Officer Ellis Wackett was doled out to teach volunteers at RAAF Richmond, and made the nation's first freefall plunge from a military flying machine, an Airco DH.9, on 26 May. Williams himself bounced over Point Cook on 5 August, having concluded that it would set "a genuine model if, before issuing a request for the obligatory wearing of parachutes, I demonstrated my own trust in them ..." Though his plummet took him unsafely near the base water tank ("I figured it would be a poor consummation of suffocate there, or even to be hauled out dribbling wet") and "excessively near be agreeable to a 30,000 volt electric transmission line", he finished the activity sound. 

The youthful Air Force was a little association with the environment of a flying club, albeit a few spearheading flights were made by its individuals. Goble had instructed the principal circumnavigation of Australia via air in 1924 while he was CAS. On 25 September 1926, with two group individuals including Goble's pilot, Ivor McIntyre, Williams started a round outing from Point Cook to the Solomon Islands in a De Havilland DH.50A floatplane, to ponder the South Pacific locale as a conceivable auditorium of activities. The trio returned on 7 December to a 12-plane RAAF escort and a 300-man ceremonial group. In spite of the fact that seen mostly as a "matter of glory" expedited by contemporary paper reports that asserted "'certain Foreign Powers'" were arranging such an adventure, and furthermore as a "response" by Williams to Goble's 1924 endeavor, it was remarkable as the principal universal flight attempted by a RAAF plane and group. Williams was delegated a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1927 King's Birthday Honors in acknowledgment of the accomplishment, and elevated to air commodore on 1 July that year. 

As CAS, Williams needed to battle with genuine difficulties to the RAAF's proceeded with presence from the Army and Navy in 1929 and 1932, emerging from the contending requests for safeguard financing amid the Great Depression. As indicated by Williams, simply after 1932 was the autonomy of the Air Force guaranteed. Williams again given over control of CAS to Goble in 1933 to go to the Imperial Defense College in London, continuing his situation in June 1934. His advancement to air bad habit marshal on 1 January 1935 belatedly raised him to the identical position of his kindred Chiefs of Staff in the Army and Navy. He was designated a Companion of the Order of the Bath in June that year. 

Williams empowered the nearby air ship industry as a way to assist the independence of the Air Force and Australian aeronautics when all is said in done. He had an individual influence in the production of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation in November 1936, headed up by previous Squadron Leader Lawrence Wackett, late of the RAAF's Experimental Section. Williams made the primary abroad trip in a plane structured and worked in Australia when he went with Squadron Leader Allan Walters and two aircrew on board a Tugan Gannet to Singapore in February 1938. 

A progression of accidents with Hawker Demons toward the finish of 1937, which brought about one pilot kicking the bucket and four harmed, oppressed the Air Force to unforgiving open analysis. In 1939 Williams was expelled from his post as CAS and "adequately exiled abroad", after distribution of the Ellington Report that January. Its creator, Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Edward Leonard Ellington, condemned the dimension of air security saw in the RAAF, however his translation of measurements has been raised doubt about. The Federal government applauded Williams for reinforcing the Air Force yet censured him for Ellington's discoveries, and he was condemned in the press. Past the unfavorable report, Williams was thought to have "made foes" through his strident supporting of the RAAF's freedom. A later CAS, George Jones, fought that Ellington had been "welcome to Australia so as to examine Williams as opposed to the flying corps and to suggest his expulsion from the post of Chief of the Air Staff if essential". The legislature reported that it was favoring him to the RAF for a long time. 

At the point when war broke out in September 1939, Williams was Air Officer responsible for Administration at RAF Coastal Command, a position he had held since February that year, following a concise presenting on the British Air Ministry. Goble had succeeded Williams as Chief of the Air Staff once and for all however conflicted with the Federal government over usage of the Empire Air Training Scheme and ventured down in mid 1940. Williams was reviewed from Britain with the desire for again taking up the RAAF's senior position yet Prime Minister Robert Menzies demanded a British officer directing the administration, over the dissent of his Minister for Air, James Fairbairn, and the RAF's Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Burnett moved toward becoming CAS. In his volume in the official history of the Air Force in World War II, Douglas Gillison saw that thinking about Williams' personal information of the RAAF and its issues, and his long experience instructing the administration, "it is hard to perceive what commitment Burnett was relied upon to make that was past Williams' ability". Williams was delegated Air Member for Organization and Equipment and elevated to air marshal, the primary man in the RAAF to accomplish this position. 

Williams came back to England in October 1941 to set up RAAF Overseas Headquarters, co-ordinating administrations for the numerous Australians posted there. He kept up that Australian pilots in Europe and the Mediterranean should serve in RAAF units to save their national personality, according to Article XV of the Empire Air Training Scheme, instead of be incorporated into RAF squadrons, however practically speaking most served in British units. Indeed, even ostensibly "RAAF" squadrons shaped under the Scheme were once in a while made fundamentally out of Australians, and Williams' endeavors to build up an unmistakable RAAF Group inside Bomber Command, like the Royal Canadian Air Force's No. 6 Group, did not work out as intended. He had the capacity to arrange improved conditions for RAAF work force in Europe, including full Australian pay scales rather than the lower RAF rates that were offered at first. 

At the point when Air Chief Marshal Burnett finished his term in 1942, Williams was yet again considered for the job of CAS. This was vetoed by Prime Minister John Curtin and the arrangement suddenly went to acting Air Commodore George Jones. A mooted Inspector Generalship of the Air Force, which would have seen Williams announcing legitimately to the Minister for Air, additionally neglected to emerge. Rather Williams was presented on Washington, D.C. as the RAAF's agent to the Combined Chiefs of Staff in the United States, and stayed there until the finish of the war. 

In 1946, Williams was constrained into retirement in spite of being four years underneath the obligatory age of 60. All other senior RAAF commandants who were veteran pilots of World War I, except for the-then Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Jones, were likewise expelled, apparently to clear path for the progression of more youthful officers. Williams respected the justification for his expulsion as "plausible", calling it "the meanest bit of administration organization as far as I can tell". 

Following his fulfillment of obligation in the Air Force, Williams was designated Australia's Director-General of Civil Aviation, serving in the situation for very nearly 10 years. His area of expertise was in charge of the development of interchanges and framework to help local and global aeronautics, building up "an advantageous security record". Williams' residency concurred with the beginnings of the administration transporter Trans Australia Airlines (TAA) and presentation of the Two Airlines Policy, just as the development of Adelaide Airport and redevelopment of Sydney Airport as a global office. 

William's significant other Constance passed on in 1948 and he wedded Lois Victoria Cross on 7 February 1950. He was named Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in the 1954 New Year Honors, the prior year he resigned from the Director-Generalship of Civil Aviation. He at that point assumed up a position on the leading body of Tasman Empire Airways Limited (TEAL), trailblazer of Air New Zealand. In 1977, Williams distributed his journals, "These Are Facts", portrayed in 2001 as "monstrously vital if idiosyncratic ... the main significant, beneficial record of administration at any point composed by a RAAF head of staff". 

Sir Richard Williams passed on in Melbourne on 7 February 1980. He was concurred an Air Force burial service, with a flypast by seventeen flying machine. 

For his stewardship of the Air Force before World War II, just as his part in its foundation in 1921, Williams is considered the "father" of the RAAF. The sobriquet had before been connected to Eric Harrison, who had sole charge of Central Flying School after Henry Petre was presented on the Middle East in 1915, and was likewise an establishing individual from the RAAF. By the 1970s, the mantle had settled on Williams. Between the wars he had constantly taken a stab at his administration's status as a different part of the Australian military, seeing off a few difficulties to its autonomy from Army and Navy interests. He remains the RAAF's longest-serving Chief, totalling thirteen years more than three terms: October to December 1922; February 1925 to December 1932; and June 1934 to February 1939. 

In his 1925 paper ""Memorandum Regarding the Air Defense of Australia"", Williams characterized "the central idea of Australia's safeguard challenge" and "the suffering attributes of the RAAF's key reasoning". Overlooked by the legislature of the day, the investigation's operational statutes turned into the reason for Australia's guard methodology during the 1980s, which stays set up in the 21st century. Anyway his contribution to banter during the 1930s around the "Singapore methodology" of reliance on the Royal Navy for the resistance of the Pacific area has been condemned as restricted, and as having "neglected to show the legitimacy of his cases for the focal job of air control". 

Williams' heritage reaches out to the very look of the RAAF. He by and by picked the shade of the Air Force's winter uniform, a shade "somewhere close to regal and naval force blue", intended to recognize it from the lighter Royal Air Force shade. Remarkable at the time among Commonwealth powers, the uniform was changed to a universally handy center blue suit in 1972 however following various grumblings in the resulting years returned to Williams' unique shading and style in 2000. 

Remembrances to Williams incorporate Sir Richard Williams Avenue at Adelaide Airport, and RAAF Williams in Victoria, built up in 1989 after the merger of Point Cook and Laverton bases. The Sir Richard Williams Trophy, introduced in 1974, is displayed to the RAAF's "Military Pilot of the Year". In 2005, Williams' Australian Flying Corps wings, ordinarily in plain view at the RAAF Museum in Point Cook, were conveyed into space and back on a bus trip by Australian-conceived space explorer Dr Andy Thomas. The Williams Foundation, named in his respect, was propelled in February 2009 "to expand open discussion on issues identifying with Australian safeguard and security".