Field (countermeasure) 

Field () is a functioning insurance framework (APS) created at Russia's Kolomna-based Engineering Design Bureau to protect reinforced battling vehicles from pulverization by light enemy of tank weapons, hostile to tank guided rockets (ATGM), and rockets with top assault warheads. It utilizes a Doppler radar to distinguish approaching warheads. Upon recognition, a cautious rocket is terminated that explodes close to the inbound risk, pulverizing it before it hits the vehicle. 

"Field" is the successor to "Drozd", a Soviet dynamic security framework from the late 1970s, which was introduced on a few T-55s amid the Soviet– Afghan War. The framework improved the vehicle's survivability rate, expanding it by up to 80%. "Drozd" was trailed by "Shtora" in the late 1980s, which utilized an electro-attractive jammer to befuddle inbound adversary hostile to tank rockets and rockets. In late 1994 the Russian Army sent countless battling vehicles to Chechnya, where they were trapped and endured substantial losses. The viability of Chechen rocket-moved explosives against Russian battle vehicles provoked the "Kolomenskoye" machine-building structure agency to devise the "Field" dynamic insurance framework in the early and mid-1990s. A fare variation, "Field E", was additionally created. The framework has been tried on the T-80UM-1, exhibited at Omsk in 1997, and was considered for use on the South Korean K2 Black Panther principle fight tank. 

The Soviet Union built up the principal dynamic security framework somewhere in the range of 1977 and 1982, named "Drozd" (Russian: Дрозд). This framework was structured as an option in contrast to aloof or receptive covering, to shield against adversary hostile to tank weapons. The framework's advancement was animated in huge part by the presentation of new high touchy enemy of tank warheads. "Drozd" was intended to pulverize these warheads before they hit the reinforcement of the vehicle being assaulted. It was made out of three principle parts: two launcher clusters put on either side of the turret and an assistant power unit situated to the back of the turret. The clusters were constrained by two millimeter-wave radar recieving wires. The framework utilized a , cone-molded fracture warhead. "Drozd" could secure a tank between the heights of −6 and 20 degrees along the vertical plane, and somewhere in the range of 40 and 60 degrees along the flat plane. Albeit answered to offer a 80% expansion in survival rate amid its testing in Afghanistan, the radar was unfit to sufficiently identify dangers and the terminating of its rockets caused unsuitably large amounts of inadvertent blow-back. Around 250 "Drozd" frameworks were made, which were all introduced on T-55s having a place with the Soviet Union's maritime infantry. 

In the late 1980s, the Soviet Army started improvement of the "Shtora"- 1 electro-optical jammer. It was first mounted on a T-80U in 1989, and later displayed on a T-72B (renamed T-72BM and later T-90). "Shtora"- 1 is intended to stick approaching enemy of tank rockets utilizing a one-kilowatt infrared radiator. In 1995, it was fitted on a Ukrainian T-84. The "Shtora"- 1 framework comprises of an infra-red radiator interface station, made out of the jammer, modulator and control board, various forward-terminating explosive releases equipped for delivering a smoke screen, a laser cautioning collector and a general control board. "Shtora" offers 360 degree all-around assurance, between the rises of −5 and 25 degrees. The framework is enacted when the laser cautioning framework alarms the tank leader, who reacts by squeezing a catch on his control board which naturally arranges the turret towards the danger. This triggers the projectile dispatch, making a smoke screen to lessen the capacity of the rocket to bolt on the vehicle. The jammers are intended to stick the infra-red searchers on the inbound rockets. As indicated by the producers, "Shtora" diminishes the odds of a tank being hit by an enemy of tank rocket, for example, the Dragon, by a factor of 4– 5:1. 

The expansive number of Russia's setbacks amid the First Chechen War incited Russia to think about the advancement of another dynamic security framework. Amid the Battle of Grozny, for instance, the Russian Army lost somewhere in the range of 200 and 250 heavily clad battling vehicles to Chechen agitators. Vehicles which were thumped out included principle fight tanks, for example, the T-72 and T-80, and lighter reinforced vehicles, for example, the BMP-2. Most of tanks conveyed to Chechnya were not issued with hazardous responsive shield, due to the "absence of time and assets", while a portion of those that were issued with receptive defensive layer did not have the dangerous charge to begin the response. The absolute most unsafe dangers to Russian protective layer were rocket-moved projectiles terminated from structures in Grozny. Because of these vulnerabilities, "Kolomenskoye" built up the "Field" dynamic security framework, with the objective of giving Russian reinforcement increasingly dependable insurance against these dangers. 

The "Field" framework was principally intended to vanquish dangers, for example, the rocket moved explosive and the counter tank rocket, including more up to date hostile to tank rockets with longer ranges. The dynamic assurance framework can shield against rockets terminated from both infantry conveyed rocket launchers and from helicopters, which assault the vehicle legitimately or by overflying it. Current rocket impelled explosives can enter nearly of steel protection, representing a genuine danger to tanks working in conditions of uneven fighting. In this way, expanded tank security requires either an expansion in defensive layer thickness and weight, or on the other hand the utilization of a functioning assurance framework, similar to "Field". 

The framework utilizes a multi-work Doppler radar, which can be turned on and off by the tank authority. Related to radar input, an advanced PC checks a curve around the tank for dangers, and assesses which of the tank's 26 speedy activity shots it will discharge to capture the approaching risk. In choosing the shot to use for vanquishing the danger, the ballistic PC utilizes the data handled by the radar, including data, for example, flight parameters and speed. The PC has a response time of 0.05 seconds and ensures the tank over a 300-degree circular segment, all over however the back side of the turret. The framework connects with focuses inside of the vehicle it is shielding, and the ammo explodes at around from the risk. It will connect any danger moving toward the tank between the speeds of and , and can distinguish false targets, for example, active shots, flying creatures and little gauge projectiles. "Field" works amid the day and night, and the absence of electromagnetic obstruction enables the framework to be utilized by various vehicles as a group. The 27-volt framework requires roughly one kilowatt of intensity, and weighs around . "Field" expands a tank's likelihood of enduring a rocket-impelled projectile by between 1.5– multiple times. 

"Shtora" was a delicate execute framework, intended to latently overcome hostile to tank rockets by sticking their direction frameworks. On the other hand, "Field" is a hard-murder framework like "Drozd", intended to obliterate the warhead using weapons before the rocket can connect with the vehicle being ensured. 

The "Field" dynamic assurance framework was first tried at the Kubinka demonstrating grounds in mid 1995, effectively guarding a Russian tank against an enemy of tank guided rocket. A Russian T-80UM-1, with "Field", was exhibited to people in general at Omsk in late 1997. "Field" was likewise mounted on the BMP-3M modernization bundle, created by the "Kurganmashzavod" Joint Stock Company, despite the fact that the bundle has gotten no fare orders. 

A fare variation, named "Field E" (Арена-Э), is accessible, worth an expected $300,000. As per Russia, it was chosen to be utilized on the South Korean K2 principle fight tank, despite the fact that this was not affirmed by South Korea.