Aquaria (computer game) 

Aquaria is a 2D sidescrolling activity experience outside the box computer game structured by Alec Holowka and Derek Yu, who together framed the free diversion organization Bit Blot, which created and initially distributed the amusement. After over two years of advancement, the amusement was discharged in late 2007 for Microsoft Windows. 

A Macintosh port of the diversion was discharged in 2008 by Ambrosia, and a refreshed form of the amusement was discharged on Valve's Steam stage that equivalent year. A Linux rendition of the amusement was discharged as a major aspect of the Humble Indie Bundle accumulation in 2010, and an adaptation for the iPad was discharged in 2011. An Android port of the amusement was discharged as a major aspect of the Humble Bundle with Android 6 gathering in 2013. In 2009, a collection with the "Aquaria" soundtrack was made accessible available to be purchased. It incorporates the majority of the music in the diversion just as another nine-minute vocal track and a couple remixes. 

The diversion pursues Naija, a mermaid-like lady, as she investigates the submerged universe of Aquaria. Along her adventure, she finds out about the historical backdrop of the world she possesses just as her very own past. The interactivity centers around a blend of swimming, singing, and battle, through which Naija can interface with the world. Her tunes can move things, influence plants and creatures, and change her physical appearance into different structures that have distinctive capacities, such as terminating shots at antagonistic animals, or going through boundaries difficult to reach to her in her normal structure. 

Audits of the amusement were commonly positive. Pundits concentrated essentially on the visuals, music and climate as being especially admirable. The controls and ongoing interaction were additionally commended, while negative scrutinizes all the more regularly focused on the guide framework and constrained assortment of destinations. The diversion won the Seumas McNally Grand Prize at the Independent Games Festival in March 2007. 

"Aquaria" is a 2D sidescrolling activity experience diversion, intensely centered around investigation and confuse settling, with non-straight ongoing interaction. The player controls Naija, a solitary submerged tenant; albeit like a human lady, Naija likewise has a few fish-like characteristics, for example, the capacity to inhale submerged and impel herself rapidly with webbed feet. The diversion, initially accessible for PCs, was intended to be fundamentally controlled exclusively through the mouse, however it can likewise be controlled with a console or Xbox 360 controller. The player coordinates Naija through a submerged world made out of a few particular districts, running from caverns to submerged vestiges to sunlit desert springs. These territories are loaded up with plant and creature life, which can be threatening, well disposed, or unbiased towards her. Unfriendly plants and creatures can hurt Naija, decreasing her wellbeing meter, by contacting her or terminating shots at her. 

All in all, Naija can't interface legitimately with items on the planet. Rather, most of activities are practiced through singing short tunes. The player does this by choosing a progression of notes showed around of eight decisions in the right request. Each note compares with an alternate shading. Singing notes influences plants and objects of a similar shading as the note, while singing the tunes, when learned through the plot, can lift objects, make a shield around Naija, or change Naija into various "frames" which have diverse appearances and remarkable capacities basic to defeating the different difficulties and impediments found in the amusement. The particular tones that are played when the player chooses a note can quietly change in various districts, coordinating the ambient melodies. The default structure, or "typical structure", is the just a single in which Naija can sing, and is the special case where her appearance is modifiable by the player by having Naija wear outfits found all through the diversion. 

Different structures, which must be utilized once found in-diversion, are the "vitality structure", in which Naija can shoot shots to assault foe animals, "monster structure", which permits Naija to swim quicker through the water and eat little fish to reestablish wellbeing, and "nature structure", in which Naija can shoot seeds that produce blooms and spiky plants that can hurt different animals. In this structure, Naija isn't hurt by thistles on any plants. The player can likewise gain proficiency with the "sun structure", which permits Naija to emit light in dim locales, "soul structure", which enables the player to move to explicit areas set apart by blue precious stones without time passing, "fish structure", where Naija transforms into a little, quick fish, and "double structure", found toward the finish of the amusement, which permits Naija and another character named Li who is met late in the diversion's plot to converge, with moves made by one influencing the other. 

While investigating the world, Naija can gather different fixings from cooperation with plants and creatures, for the most part by battling her adversaries. These fixings can be utilized to cook dishes, which effectsly affect Naija. The most widely recognized impacts are recuperating and improving different qualities, for example, speed and barrier, yet there are some progressively extraordinary dishes which allow her new capacities. The player can adapt new formulas by gathering new dishes straightforwardly, yet can likewise learn them by consolidating fixings without first knowing the formula. 

As the amusement opens, Naija has lost practically every last bit of her recollections, and is unconscious of the world outside of her home as she "lives as a straightforward animal". The player is told this in voice-over portrayals as a story told by a future Naija. These portrayals fill in as the essential wellspring of data about Naija all through the diversion, however there are incidental cutscenes. In the wake of being stood up to by a shadowy figure and being demonstrated a progression of flashbacks she doesn't comprehend, Naija stirs. Feeling dejection as the main individual from her species, Naija chooses to investigate her general surroundings. As the player investigates, Naija finds increasingly more about the historical backdrop of the world, "Aquaria", and about her very own past. The player isn't compelled to experience the plotline in a set grouping. The main restricting component is physical hindrances, for example, zones that must be gotten to by utilizing a particular structure. Blends of these physical confinements place some plot components later in the amusement. The story for most of the amusement is fixated on Naija's investigation of a progression of destroyed human advancements that she finds, each with an extensive beast in them. These human advancements make up the diverse locales of the amusement. 

Towards the finish of the amusement, Naija finds that the majority of the demolished civic establishments she has found all through the diversion were devastated by a divine being, "the Creator", who was desirous of the rising intensity of that human progress or of their divine beings. The amazing beasts she has found and vanquished in every district were before the divine forces of that human advancement. Every one of these developments had an interesting force, symbolized by the structure that Naija learns in the wake of crushing their previous divine beings. Alongside Li, a human jumper from the land she meets at the highest point of the sea, Naija then plummets to the base of the ocean to stand up to the god. There she finds that the Creator fell into the sea as a youngster, and reinforced with an antiquated soul to pick up god-like forces. He at that point made Aquaria, stringing a section of a children's song his mom had sung to him all through, the main piece of the tune he recollects. The tune of this tune, the "refrain", is the thing that permits Naija to sing tunes that influence her general surroundings; portions of the tune can be heard in various structures in the melodies inside the amusement's soundtrack. 

The Creator, subsequent to making Aquaria, made a progression of developments, making another one thus when every one was annihilated. The Creator captures Li, with whom Naija has experienced passionate feelings for, and she assaults the Creator to get him back. The player vanquishes the god as the last manager of the diversion, and returns home with Li. In the epilog, Naija is appeared with Li and their tyke. In the event that the player has discovered the majority of Naija's recollections by finding places she recalls that, they uncover that the shadowy figure toward the start of the diversion was her mom, Mia. Mia was made by the Creator and had the capacity, as Naija, to utilize the distinctive forces of the majority of the human advancements. She fled the Creator, and concealed herself and Naija among a few networks in progression; after the demolition of the last one she deleted Naija's memory with the goal that she would discover the historical backdrop of Aquaria all alone and rout the Creator. In the all-encompassing epilog appeared if the player has discovered the majority of the recollections, Mia shows up, disclosing to Naija that both of them can overcome the civilisations over the water. After Naija cannot, Mia hijacks her, and evaporates; the all-inclusive epilog closes with Lucien, Naija and Li's child, leaving to discover her. On the off chance that the player has not discovered the majority of the recollections, the epilog rather finishes with Naija requesting that the player get some answers concerning her past, and uncovering that the portrayal of the diversion was proposed to be heard by her child. 

"Aquaria" was created by Derek Yu and Alec Holowka throughout two years, off of an idea that Holowka had thought of a year earlier. Yu was the lead craftsman, and Holowka took care of the programming and sound parts. The two originators had recently worked in computer games; Yu had made a few freeware amusements, including "I'm O.K" with Holowka and others, while Holowka had worked for a few computer game new businesses, none of which had ever gotten a diversion distributed. Some extra work on the diversion, including some dimension plan and scripting for certain adversaries, was finished by Brandon McCartin. Holowka and Yu authoritatively framed the studio Bit Blot to back the diversion seven days before submitting it to the 2007 Independent Games Festival. "Aquaria" is the studio's solitary diversion. The two individuals from the group keep on making computer games, however are not doing as such as an association; Holowka proceeded to shape a different group called Infinite Ammo, and Yu returned to dealing with freeware diversions and different ports of "Spelunky". 

The underlying model of the amusement had styling like a content based pretending diversion, with a huge open world and many sub-journeys. In the wake of moving towards "various decision content answers" and a confused ongoing interaction framework, the group chose to disentangle the amusement and set the 2007 Independent Games Festival as a due date to finish everything. With this time weight, they constrained themselves to remove a great deal of what they felt was unneeded intricacy, conveying the amusement to its center. In the wake of expelling a considerable lot of what they chose were incidental components they at that point included back in the cooking framework, which they felt fit well with the remainder of the amusement, just as a guide framework. They at that point built up the amusement world and story in a generally direct way, making essential structures of every locale and after that returning to fill in subtleties. They felt this enabled them to make fascinating thoughts toward the start of the diversion and after that round them out and resolve them toward the end. One of these thoughts was that of the "refrain"; Holowka acknowledged partially through improvement that he had been utilizing a similar twelve-note succession transposed into various keys all through the music, and understood that the possibility of an inescapable melodic subject to the world fit with the story. The amusement additionally incorporates a dimension and liveliness proofreader; a few mods have been made for the diversion. 

The amusement was created to have the capacity to be constrained by the player with just the mouse, after it was proposed by Yu's dad. The designers felt that this control conspire constrained them to make the interactivity liquid and simple to get a handle on, however they additionally added the alternative to control the amusement with a console or Xbox 360 controller. Yu and Holowka considered the "trademark" of exploratory amusements to be a feeling of dejection, which they made a piece of the story, yet in addition needed the player to get a feeling of Naija's character. With that in mind, they utilized voice-overs to exhibit to the player what Naija was feeling amid key purposes of the amusement. The voice of Naija was performed by Jenna Sharpe, who was picked in the wake of trying out a few other voice on-screen characters. She also sang the vocals for one tune on the soundtrack, "Lost to the Waves". She likewise sang a nine-minute vocal piece, "Dread the Dark", particularly for the arrival of the "Aquaria" soundtrack collection, which was distributed by Bit Blot on November 14, 2009. The collection highlights 50 tracks on two plates, including the majority of the music in the amusement just as the new vocal track and a couple remixes. 

The diversion was discharged for Windows PCs on December 7, 2007. A fix was later discharged which added new usefulness to the in-diversion map, included widescreen support, and changed a few amusement settings. A Macintosh port was discharged November 13, 2008, politeness of Ambrosia Software. The diversion was discharged on Steam on December 15, 2008; it incorporated the expansion of 27 Steam Achievements. A Linux rendition of the amusement was created by Ryan C. Gordon in 2009; an open beta kept running until February 6, 2010, and the Linux form of the amusement was discharged as a feature of the Humble Indie Bundle. The source code for the diversion's motor was discharged under the GNU General Public License on June 3, 2010. An altered variant was discharged on the iPad on November 2, 2011. This adaptation, which incorporates touchscreen backing and changes to the manner in which the guide works, was made by Andrew Church, who was drawn nearer to do the port by Holowka after he completed an informal PlayStation Portable source port. 

"Aquaria" was the Seumas McNally Grand Prize champ of the 2007 Independent Games Festival, and was additionally a finalist in the classifications of Design Innovation, Excellence in Visual Art, and Excellence in Audio. The celebration lauded the amusement's "liquid controls, one of a kind, non-straight ongoing interaction, and energetic hand-drawn storybook-style illustrations". The diversion got acclaim from a wide range of analysts; Cam Shea of IGN called it "a dazzling exertion from such a little group", Richard Naik of GameCritics called it "a very fantastic item" and a fine case of the side-scroller classification, while Chris Dahlen of "The A.V. Club" named it "less a retro experience but rather more a new interpretation of everything that made the old 2D undertakings extraordinary". Recognition for the amusement was focused fundamentally on its visuals and air. "Hyper"s Tim Henderson praised the amusement for "an uncommon and real feeling of investigation, marvel and revelation". A survey by Scott Colbourne from "The Globe and Mail" named "Aquaria" "drop-dead excellent" with a "profound and influencing story" and abridged it as "an amusement you can get serenely lost in". 

Different analysts, for example, Tom Bramwell of Eurogamer and Chris Holt of Macworld reverberated the commendations for the illustrations and climate, while Craig Pearson of "PC Gamer UK" included gestures of recognition for the music and voiceovers and Suzie Ochs of MacLife adulated the music and story. Different commendations for the amusement desired its control conspire and for the ongoing interaction mechanics, with Holt getting out the cooking framework as deserving of applause. In spite of the fact that taking note of that the visuals and introduction of the amusement would be the primary thing that players saw, Nathan Cocks of "PC PowerPlay" guaranteed that "from a structure angle, "Aquaria" is a triumph," with the appropriate measure of multifaceted nature and level plan that is "right on target". 

A few analysts, for example, Bramwell and Holt, reprimanded the guide framework present in the underlying form of the amusement as being befuddling and troublesome. Different commentators had diverse concerns, for example, Henderson, who scrutinized the underlying discharge rendition for "absence of widescreen support and being once in a while fiddly", or Naik, who felt that the control conspire was not as instinctive when utilizing a Xbox 360 controller. Shea and Pearson felt that the diversion could have utilized more riddles or a more extensive assortment of journeys and goals to adjust the investigation and battle. They didn't feel, however, that these drawbacks contrasted with the amusement's positives, with Pearson expressing that "the great far exceeds what are, basically, niggles."