Phil Hartman 

Philip Edward Hartmann (September 24, 1948 – May 28, 1998), otherwise called Phil Hartman, was a Canadian-American performing artist, humorist, screenwriter and visual craftsman. Conceived in Brantford, Ontario, Hartman and his family moved to the United States in 1958. In the wake of moving on from California State University, Northridge, with a degree in realistic expressions, he structured collection covers for groups like Poco and America. Hartman joined the parody bunch The Groundlings in 1975 and there helped entertainer Paul Reubens build up his character Pee-small Herman. Hartman co-composed the screenplay for the film "Pee-small's Big Adventure" and showed up as Captain Carl on Reubens' show "Pee-small's Playhouse". 

Hartman accumulated notoriety in 1986 when he joined the sketch satire show "Saturday Night Live". He won acclaim for his impressions, especially of President Bill Clinton, and he remained on the show for eight seasons. Given the moniker "The Glue" for his capacity to hold the show together and help other cast individuals, Hartman won a Primetime Emmy Award for his "SNL" work in 1989. In 1995, subsequent to rejecting plans for his own theatrical presentation, he featured as Bill McNeal in the NBC sitcom "NewsRadio". He voiced different jobs on "The Simpsons", most strikingly Lionel Hutz from seasons 2– 9 and Troy McClure from seasons 2– 10. Different Simpsons characters included Lyle Lanley, Mr. Muntz and minor characters. He additionally had jobs in the movies "Houseguest", "Sgt. Bilko", "Jingle All the Way", "Little Soldiers" and the English name of "Kiki's Delivery Service". 

Hartman had been separated from twice before he wedded Brynn Omdahl in 1987; the couple had two youngsters together. In any case, their marriage was cracked, due to some extent to her medication use. On May 28, 1998, Brynn Hartman shot and killed Hartman while he dozed in their Encino, Los Angeles home, at that point killed herself a few hours after the fact. In the weeks following his passing, Hartman was praised in an influx of tributes. Dan Snierson of "Stimulation Weekly" opined that Hartman was "the last individual you'd hope to find out about in offensive features in your morning paper ... a strongly ordinary person, darling by everybody he worked with." Hartman was after death accepted into Canada's Walk of Fame in 2012 and the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2014. 

Phil Hartman was conceived Philip Edward Hartmann (later dropping one "n") on September 24, 1948, in Brantford, Ontario, Canada. He was the fourth of eight offspring of Doris Marguerite (Wardell) and Rupert Loebig Hartmann, a sales rep gaining practical experience in structure materials. His folks were Catholic and brought their youngsters up in that confidence. As a youngster Hartman discovered love hard to procure and expressed: "I guess I didn't get what I asked for from my family life, so I began looking for affection and consideration somewhere else." 

Hartman was ten years of age when his family moved to the United States. The family previously lived in Lewiston, Maine; before moving to Meriden, Connecticut; and afterward the West Coast. There, Hartman went to Westchester High School and regularly went about as the class jokester. Subsequent to graduating, Hartman contemplated craftsmanship at Santa Monica City College, dropping out in 1969 to turn into a roadie with a musical gang. He came back to class in 1972, this time concentrating realistic expressions at California State University, Northridge. He built up his own realistic expressions business, which he worked individually, making more than 40 collection spreads for groups including Poco and America, just as publicizing and the logo for Crosby, Stills and Nash. In the late 1970s, Hartman showed up on a scene of "The Dating Game"; he won yet was stood up by his date. 

Working alone as a visual craftsman, Hartman much of the time diverted himself with "flights of voice dreams". Refering to the requirement for a progressively social outlet for his gifts, Hartman, matured 27, started in 1975 to go to night parody classes kept running by the California-based improvisational satire amass The Groundlings. While watching one of the troupe's exhibitions, Hartman hastily chose to jump in front of an audience and join the cast. Phil's first motion picture appearance was in the 1978 movie Stunt Rock coordinated by Brian Trenchard Smith. Following quite a while of preparing, paying his way by re-structuring the gathering's logo and stock, Hartman formally joined the cast of The Groundlings; by 1979 he had turned out to be one of the show's stars. 

Hartman met entertainer Paul Reubens and the two moved toward becoming companions, frequently working together on composing and comedic material. Together they made the character Pee-small Herman and built up "The Pee-small Herman Show", a phase execution which additionally publicized on HBO in 1981. Hartman played Captain Carl on "The Pee-small Herman Show" and returned in the job for the youngsters' show "Pee-small's Playhouse". Reubens and Hartman made appearances in the 1980 film "Cheech and Chong's Next Movie". Hartman co-composed the content of the 1985 component film "Pee-small's Big Adventure" and had an appearance job as a correspondent in the film. Despite the fact that he had considered stopping acting at 36 years old because of restricted chances, the achievement of "Pee-small's Big Adventure" brought new potential outcomes and altered his opinion. After an innovative dropping out with Reubens, Hartman left the Pee-Wee Herman task to seek after different jobs. 

Notwithstanding his work with Reubens, Hartman recorded various voice-over jobs. These included appearances on "The Smurfs", "Challenge of the GoBots", "The 13 Ghosts of Scooby-Doo", and voicing characters Henry Mitchell and George Wilson on "Dennis the Menace". Also Hartman built up a solid persona giving voice-overs to ads. 

In the wake of showing up in the 1986 movies "Jumpin' Jack Flash" and "Three Amigos", Hartman effectively tried out for NBC's theatrical presentation "Saturday Night Live" ("SNL") and joined the cast and composing staff. He told the "Los Angeles Times", "I needed to do ["SNL"] in light of the fact that I needed to get the presentation that would give me film industry believability so I can compose motion pictures for myself." In his eight seasons with the show Hartman ended up known for his impressions, and executed as more than 70 distinct characters. Hartman's unique "Saturday Night Live" characters included Eugene, the Anal Retentive Chef and Unfrozen Caveman Lawyer. His impressions included Frank Sinatra, Ronald Reagan, Ed McMahon, Barbara Bush, Charlton Heston, Phil Donahue and Bill Clinton; the latter was regularly viewed as his best-known impression. 

Hartman first played out his Clinton impact on a scene of "The Tonight Show". When he met Clinton in 1993 Hartman commented, "I surmise I owe you a couple of expressions of remorse", including later that he "at times [felt] a twinge of blame about [his Clinton impression]". Clinton indicated amiableness and sent Hartman a marked photograph with the content: "You're not the president, however you play one on TV. Also, that is no joke." For his Clinton impression, Hartman duplicated the president's "post-nasal dribble" and the "slight scratchiness" in his voice, just as his open, "less scary" hand signals. Hartman selected against wearing a bigger prosthetic nose when depicting Clinton, as he felt it would divert. He rather wore a wig, colored his eyebrows more splendid and utilized cosmetics to feature his nose. One of Hartman's increasingly well known portrays as Clinton saw the president visit a McDonald's eatery and clarify his arrangements by eating other clients' nourishment. The journalists revealed to him that he was not eating enough amid practices for the sketch – before the finish of the live execution, Hartman had eaten so much he could scarcely talk. 

Behind the stage at "SNL", Hartman was designated "the Glue", a name begat by Adam Sandler, as per Jay Mohr's book "Heaving for Airtime". Be that as it may, as indicated by a life story on Hartman's life entitled "You Might Remember Me: The Life and Times of Phil Hartman" composed by Mike Thomas, writer and staff essayist for the "Chicago Sun-Times", the epithet was made by "SNL" cast part and Hartman's regular on-screen partner Jan Hooks. Hartman regularly helped other cast individuals. For instance, he supported Hooks in beating her stage dread. "SNL" maker Lorne Michaels clarified the purpose behind the name: "He sort of held the show together. He provided for everyone and requested practically nothing. He was extremely low-upkeep." Michaels likewise included that Hartman was "the least valued" cast part by reporters outside the show, and adulated his capacity "to complete five or six sections in a show where you're playing support or you're doing noteworthy character work". Hartman won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Variety, Music or Comedy Program for "SNL" in 1989, imparting the honor to the show's different essayists. He was designated in a similar classification in 1987, and separately in 1994 for Outstanding Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program. 

After his co-stars Jon Lovitz, Dennis Miller, Jan Hooks and Dana Carvey had left, Hartman said he felt "like a competitor who's observed all his World Series partners get exchanged off into different bearings ... It was difficult to watch them leave since I kind of felt we were all piece of the group that spared the show." This cast turnover added to his leaving the show in 1994. Hartman had initially intended to leave the show in 1991, yet Michaels persuaded him to remain to raise his profile; his depiction of Clinton added to this objective. Jay Leno offered him the job of his sidekick on "The Tonight Show" however Hartman picked to remain on "SNL". NBC influenced him to remain on "SNL" by promising him his own comedy– theatrical presentation entitled "The Phil Show". He wanted to "reexamine the assortment structure" with "a half breed, exceptionally quick paced, high vitality [show] with representations, pantomimes, pet acts, and entertainers exhibiting their gifts". Hartman was to be the show's official maker and head author. Before creation started, in any case, the system chose that theatrical presentations were excessively disagreeable and rejected the arrangement. In a 1996 meeting, Hartman noted he was happy the show had been rejected, as he "would've been sweatin' blood every week endeavoring to make it work". In 1998, he conceded he missed taking a shot at "SNL", however had delighted in the move from New York City to Southern California. 

Hartman ended up one of the stars of the NBC sitcom "NewsRadio" in 1995, depicting radio commentator McNeal. He joined subsequent to being pulled in by the show's composition and utilization of an outfit cast, and clowned that he put together McNeal with respect to himself with "any morals and character" evacuated. Hartman made generally $50,000 per scene of "NewsRadio". In spite of the fact that the show was widely praised, it was never an appraisals hit and wiping out was an ordinary risk. After the culmination of the fourth season, Hartman remarked, "We appear to have constrained intrigue. We're on the edge here, not certain we will be gotten or not", yet included he was "99 percent certain" the arrangement would be restored for a fifth season. Hartman had openly thrashed NBC's choice to over and again move "NewsRadio" into various timeslots, yet later lamented his remarks, saying, "this is a sitcom, for the love of all that is pure and holy, not mind medical procedure". He additionally expressed that if the sitcom were dropped "it simply will open up different open doors for me". In spite of the fact that the show was restored for a fifth season, Hartman passed on before creation started. Ken Tucker adulated Hartman's execution as McNeal: "A lesser entertainer ... would have played him as a minor departure from "The Mary Tyler Moore Show"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Ted Baxter, on the grounds that that is the thing that Bill was, on paper. In any case, Hartman gave vast assortment to Bill's narcissism, turning him wicked, fearful, queasy, and absurdly striking from week to week." Hartman was after death designated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series in 1998 for his work on "NewsRadio", yet lost to David Hyde Pierce. 

Hartman gave the voices to various characters on the Fox enlivened arrangement "The Simpsons", showing up in 52 scenes. He showed up in the second season scene "Bart Gets Hit by a Car". In spite of the fact that he was initially gotten for a one-time appearance, Hartman delighted in chipping away at "The Simpsons" and the staff composed extra parts for him. He voiced the common characters Lionel Hutz and Troy McClure, just as a few one-time and foundation characters. His most loved part was that of McClure, and he regularly utilized this voice to engage the gathering of people between takes while taping scenes of "NewsRadio". He commented, "My most loved fans are Troy McClure fans." He included "It's the one thing that I do in my life that is just about a hobby. I do it for its unadulterated love." 

Hartman was prevalent among the staff of "The Simpsons". Showrunners Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein expressed that they making the most of his work, and utilized Hartman however much as could reasonably be expected when taking a shot at the show. To give Hartman a bigger job, they built up the scene "A Fish Called Selma", which centers around Troy McClure and extends the character's backstory. "The Simpsons" maker Matt Groening said that he "underestimated [Hartman] on the grounds that he nailed the joke without fail", and that his voice acting could create "the most extreme measure of funniness" with any line he was given. Prior to his demise, Hartman had communicated an enthusiasm for making a real to life film about Troy McClure. A significant number of "The Simpsons" generation staff communicated eagerness for the task and offered to help. Hartman said he was "anticipating [McClure's] live-activity motion picture, publicizing his Betty Ford appearances", and "would love nothing more" than making a film and was set up to purchase the film rights himself so as to get it going. 

Hartman's first featuring film job came in 1995's "Houseguest", close by Sinbad. Different movies included "Covetous", "Coneheads", "Sgt. Bilko", "So I Married an Ax Murderer", "CB4", "Jingle All the Way", "Kiki's Delivery Service", and "Little Soldiers", the remainder of which was his last dramatically discharged film. In the meantime, he favored dealing with TV. His other TV jobs included appearances on scenes of "The John Larroquette Show", "The Dana Carvey Show", and the HBO TV film "The Second Civil War" as the President of the United States. He showed up as the hijacker Randy in the third season cliffhanger finale of "third Rock from the Sun" — a job purportedly composed particularly for him, yet he kicked the bucket before shooting of the finishing up scene could occur. Official maker Terry Turner chose to recast the part, reshoot and air the finale once more, noticing: "I have substantially a lot of regard for [Hartman] to endeavor to locate some sharp method for getting around this genuine catastrophe." Hartman made a lot of cash from TV promoting, procuring $300,000 for a progression of four ads for the soda pop Slice. He additionally showed up in notices for McDonald's (as Hugh McAttack) and 1-800-Collect (as Max Jerome). 

Hartman composed various screenplays that were never created. In 1986 he started composing a screenplay for a film titled "Mr. Fix-It", and finished the last draft in 1991. Robert Zemeckis was marked to create the movie, with Gil Bettman contracted to coordinate. Hartman called it "a kind of a merger of awfulness and parody, similar to "Beetlejuice" and "Toss Momma From the Train"", including, "It's an American bad dream about a family destroyed. They live beside a dangerous dump site, their water supply is harmed, the mother and child go crazy and attempt to kill one another, the dad's face is detached in a horrendous distorting mishap in the main demonstration. It's overwhelming stuff, yet it has a decent message and a positive, playful completion." Zemeckis couldn't verify studio backing, be that as it may, and the venture crumbled. Another motion picture thought including Hartman's Groundlings character Chick Hazard, Private Eye likewise failed to work out. 

Rather than his genuine identity, which was depicted as "a normal person and, apparently, one of the big time's most calm, not too bad individuals", Hartman frequently played dingy, vain or undesirable characters just as comedic scoundrels. He noticed that his standard character was a "jerky person", and portrayed his typical jobs as "the weasel march", refering to Lionel Hutz, Bill McNeal, Troy McClure and Ted Maltin from "Jingle All the Way" as models. Hartman delighted in assuming such jobs since he "simply want[ed] to be interesting, and scalawags will in general be entertaining on the grounds that their quirks are all there to see." 

He frequently assumed supporting jobs, as opposed to the lead part. He said "all through my vocation, I've never been a colossal star, however I've gained consistent ground and that is the manner in which I like it," and "It's fun coming in as the second or third lead. On the off chance that the motion picture or TV show bombs, you aren't to be faulted." Hartman was considered an "utility player" on "SNL" with a "sort of Everyman quality" which empowered him to show up in most of portrayals, regularly in unmistakable jobs. Jan Hooks expressed of his work on "SNL": "Phil never had an ounce of rivalry. He was a cooperative person. It was a benefit for him, I accept, to play support and do it great. He was never offended, regardless of how little the job may have been." He was taught in his exhibitions, concentrating the contents in advance. Snares included: "Phil realized how to tune in. What's more, he realized what to look like you in the eye, and he knew the intensity of having the capacity to lay back and let another person be amusing, and afterward do the responses. I think Phil was a greater amount of a performer than a humorist." Film commentator Pauline Kael announced that "Phil Hartman and Jan Hooks on "Saturday Night Live" are two of the best comic on-screen characters I've at any point seen." 

Essayist and acting mentor Paul Ryan noticed Hartman's hard working attitude with his impressions. He amassed an accumulation of video film of the figure he was getting ready to mimic and watched this consistently until he "totally encapsulated the individual". Ryan reasoned that "what made [Hartman's impressions] so entertaining and spot on was Phil's capacity to include that ideal touch that just originates from experimentation and rehearsing before groups of onlookers and individual performing artists." Hartman depicted this procedure as "specialized." Journalist Lyle V. Harris said Hartman demonstrated an "uncommon ability for transforming into ... anyone he needed to be". 

Ken Tucker condensed Hartman's comedic style: "He could quickly trick groups of onlookers into supposing he was the straight man, yet then he'd cockerel an eyebrow and give his voice an amusing lilt that conveyed a punchline like a quick slider—you scarcely observed it coming until you began snickering." Hartman asserted that he acquired his style from performing artist Bill Murray: "He's been an incredible effect on me – when he did that smarmy thing in "Ghostbusters", at that point a similar kind of thing in "Groundhog Day". I endeavored to mirror it. I proved unable. I wasn't sufficient. Be that as it may, I found a component of something different, so in a wiped out sort of way I made myself a profession by completing an awful impersonation of another comic." 

Hartman wedded Gretchen Lewis in 1970, and they separated at some point before 1972. He wedded land specialist Lisa Strain in 1982, and their marriage kept going three years. Strain told "Individuals" that Hartman was antisocial off screen and "would vanish candidly ... he'd be in his own reality. That aloofness made you insane." Hartman wedded previous model and hopeful performer Brynn Omdahl (conceived Vicki Jo Omdahl) in November 1987, having met her on an arranged meet up the earlier year. Together they had two kids, Sean and Birgen Hartman. The marriage experienced issues – Brynn supposedly felt scared by her better half's prosperity and was baffled she couldn't discover any alone – albeit neither one of the parties needed a separation. Hartman thought about resigning to spare the marriage. He attempted to get Brynn acting jobs yet she turned out to be dynamically progressively dependent on opiates and liquor, entering recovery a few times. On account of his dear kinship with "SNL" partner Jan Hooks, Brynn clowned every so often that Hooks and Hartman were hitched "on some other dimension". 

Stephen Root, Hartman's "NewsRadio" co-star, felt that few individuals knew "the genuine Phil Hartman" as he might have been "one of those individuals who never appeared to leave character," however he in any case gave the impression of a family man who thought about his kids. In his extra time, Hartman delighted in driving, flying, cruising, marksmanship, and playing the guitar. 

On the night of May 27, 1998, Brynn Hartman visited the Italian eatery Buca di Beppo in Encino, California, with maker and essayist Christine Zander, who said she was "in a decent temper". In the wake of coming back to the couple's close-by home, Brynn had a "warmed" contention with her better half, who took steps to abandon her on the off chance that she began utilizing drugs once more, after which he hit the sack. While Hartman rested, Brynn entered his room at some point before 3:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time on May 28 with a .38 bore handgun and lethally shot him once between the eyes, once in the throat, and once in the upper chest. She was inebriated and had as of late taken cocaine. 

Brynn headed to the home of her companion Ron Douglas and admitted to the slaughtering, however at first he didn't trust her. The pair drove back to the house in independent vehicles, and Brynn called another companion and admitted a second time. After observing Hartman's body, Douglas called 911 at 6:20 a.m. Police consequently arrived and escorted Douglas and the Hartmans' two kids from the premises, by which time Brynn had secured herself in the room and ended it all by shooting herself in her mouth. 

Los Angeles police expressed Hartman's passing was brought about by "residential strife" between the couple. A companion asserted that Brynn "experienced difficulty controlling her outrage ... She got consideration by losing her temper". A neighbor of the Hartmans told a CNN columnist that the couple had been encountering conjugal issues: "It's been structure, however I didn't figure it would prompt this", and performing artist Steve Guttenberg said they had been "an extremely glad couple, and they generally resembled being very much adjusted." 

Different reasons for the occurrence were later proposed. Before submitting the demonstration, Brynn was taking the energizer medicate Zoloft. An unjust passing claim was recorded in 1999 by Brynn's sibling, Gregory Omdahl, against Pfizer, the medication's maker, and her tyke's therapist Arthur Sorosky, who gave tests of Zoloft to Brynn. Hartman's companion and previous "SNL" associate Jon Lovitz has charged Hartman's previous "NewsRadio" co-star Andy Dick of re-acquainting Brynn with cocaine, making her backslide and endure a mental meltdown. Dick professes to have remained unaware of her condition. In 2006, Lovitz guaranteed that Dick had moved toward him at an eatery and stated, "I put the Phil Hartman hex on you; you're the following one to bite the dust." Lovitz reacted by twice pushing Dick into the bar. The next year at the Laugh Factory satire club in Los Angeles, Lovitz and Dick had a further fight over the issue. Dick affirms that he isn't to blame in connection to Hartman's demise. 

Brynn's sister Katharine Omdahl and brother by marriage Mike Wright brought up the two Hartman kids. Hartman's will stipulated that every youngster will get their legacy more than quite a long while after they turn 25. The all out estimation of Hartman's home was assessed at $1.23 million. As per Hartman's will, his body was incinerated by Forest Lawn Memorial Park and Mortuary, Glendale, California, and his fiery remains were dispersed over Santa Catalina Island's Emerald Bay. 

NBC official Don Ohlmeyer expressed that Hartman "was honored with a gigantic present for making characters that made individuals giggle. Everybody who had the joy of working with Phil realizes that he was a man of enormous warmth, a genuine expert and a dependable companion." Guttenberg communicated stun at Hartman's passing, and Steve Martin said he was "a profoundly clever and glad individual." Matt Groening called him "an ace", and chief Joe Dante stated, "He was one of those folks who was a fantasy to work with. I don't know anyone who didn't care for him." Dan Snierson of "Stimulation Weekly" reasoned that Hartman was "the last individual you'd hope to find out about in startling features in your morning paper" and "a firmly customary person, adored by everybody he worked with." In 2007, "Diversion Weekly" positioned Hartman the 87th most prominent TV symbol ever, and "Adage" named Hartman the top "Saturday Night Live" entertainer ever. 

Practices for "The Simpsons" were dropped upon the arrival of Hartman's passing just as that night's execution by The Groundlings. The season five debut scene of "NewsRadio", "Bill Moves On," discovers Hartman's character, Bill McNeal, has passed on of a heart assault, while different characters think back about his life. Lovitz joined the show in his place from the accompanying scene. A unique scene of "Saturday Night Live" recognizing Hartman's work on the show publicized on June 13, 1998. As opposed to substituting another voice performing artist, the authors of "The Simpsons" resigned Hartman's characters, and the season ten scene "Bart the Mother" (his last appearance on the show) was devoted to him, similar to his last film, "Little Soldiers". 

At the season of his demise, Hartman was getting ready to voice Zapp Brannigan, a character composed explicitly for him on Groening's second energized arrangement "Futurama". Despite the fact that the job was made for Hartman, regardless he demanded trying out and as indicated by Groening, he 'nailed it'. After Hartman's passing, Billy West assumed control over the job of Brannigan. In spite of the fact that official maker David X. Cohen acknowledges West for utilizing his own interpretation of the character, West later said that he deliberately changed Zapp's voice to more readily coordinate Hartman's planned depiction. Hartman was additionally wanting to show up with Lovitz in the independent film "The Day of Swine and Roses", planned to start creation in August 1998. 

Laugh.com and Hartman's sibling, John Hartmann, distributed the collection "Level TV" in 2002. The collection is a choice of improv shows recorded by Hartman during the 1970s that had been kept away until their discharge. Hartmann remarked: "I'm putting this out there on the grounds that I'm committing my life to satisfying his fantasies. This [album] is my sibling doing what he cherished." In 2013, "Level TV" was optioned by Michael "Ffish" Hemschoot's liveliness organization Worker Studio for a vivified adjustment. The arrangement occurred after Michael T. Scott, an accomplice in the organization, posted a written by hand letter he had gotten from Hartman in 1997 on the web, prompting a correspondence among Scott and Paul Hartmann. 

In 2007, a crusade was begun on Facebook by Alex Stevens and embraced by Hartman's sibling, Paul Hartmann, to have Hartman accepted to Canada's Walk of Fame. Among the various occasions to expose the crusade, Ben Miner, of the Sirius XM Radio channel Laugh Attack, committed the period of April 2012 to Hartman. The crusade finished in progress and Hartman was drafted to the Walk of Fame on September 22, 2012, with Paul tolerating the honor for his late sibling's sake. Hartman was additionally granted the Cineplex Legends Award. In June 2013, it was declared that Hartman would get a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, which was uncovered on August 26, 2014. Moreover, an extraordinary prize at the Canadian Comedy Awards was named for Hartman. Starting with the thirteenth Canadian Comedy Awards in 2012, the Phil Hartman Award was granted to "a person who betters the Canadian satire network." In 2015, "Moving Stone" magazine positioned Hartman as one of the best ten biggest "Saturday Night Live" cast individuals all through the show's forty-year history, coming in seventh on their rundown of every one of the one-hundred-and-forty-one individuals. 

References 

Book reference