Gateshead International Stadium 

Gateshead International Stadium (GIS) is a multi-reason, all-seater scene in Gateshead, Tyne and Wear, England. Initially known as the Gateshead Youth Stadium, the setting was worked in 1955 at an expense of £30,000. It has since been widely re-created on three events. Its ability of around 11,800 is the best in the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead, the third-biggest in Tyne and Wear (behind just St James' Park and the Stadium of Light) and the 6th biggest in North East England. 

The primary field is essentially utilized for games. The debut sports rivalry at the redeveloped scene, the 1974 "Gateshead Games", was actuated by Brendan Foster, a Gateshead Council representative around then. By breaking the world record in the men's 3,000 m, Foster conveyed worldwide exposure to the new arena and started a convention of games rivalries at the scene, which has since facilitated the British Grand Prix (2003– 10) and the European Team Championships in 1989, 2000 and 2013. It is the main scene to have facilitated the last occasion multiple times. Five world records have been set at the arena, including two by post vaulter Yelena Isinbayeva and a tied 100 meters record by Asafa Powell in 2006. 

Despite the fact that the setting principally cooks for games, it is the present or previous home to groups in a few games. It has been utilized by the town's fundamental football club since 1973. Gateshead International Stadium was home to the Gateshead Thunder rugby alliance club amid their spell in the Super League and the substitution Gateshead Thunder club played home diversions in the fundamental field, which was known as the Thunderdome when utilized by that group until the club migrated to Newcastle in 2015. Gateshead Harriers Athletic Club, which incorporates Foster and Jonathan Edwards among its life individuals, are the most established occupants, having utilized the site since 1956. The arena has likewise been utilized as a show setting by various melodic specialists including Little Mix, Guns N' Roses, Bon Jovi, Bryan Adams and Tina Turner. 

The arena is based on the site of two vast synthetic works opened in 1827 and 1834. These works at first flourished, however by the early piece of the twentieth century both were in terminal decrease, and were devastated in 1932 to desert a 2-million-ton load of ruin. This land, roughly east of the focal point of Gateshead, was cleared in 1942 however kept on lying forsaken until the mid-1950s. 

In mid 1955, Gateshead Council started take a shot at changing this land. The Gateshead Youth Stadium, based on the site of the old compound works, was opened by Jim Peters on 27 August 1955. Costing £30,000, the first setting contained minimal in excess of an ash running track and a black-top cycling track, however floodlights and a seating territory were included before long. On 1 July 1961, the field facilitated its first significant challenge—the Vaux Breweries International Athletics Meet—however as per sportswriter John Gibson, the Youth Stadium stayed "minimal in excess of a minor track with a modest show off and open patios". 

As indicated by creator Thomas Telfer, by the turn of the 1970s, the town of Gateshead was experiencing "the great side effects of rot in its internal city territories". The reaction amid the 1960s had been a program of deliberate forsaken land recovery and ecological improvement. While these measures did not have a quick positive effect on the impression of the town, Gateshead Council squeezed ahead by hoping to create existing foundation with a view to by and large recovery. One such open door was recognized at the Gateshead Youth Stadium, where the committee trusted that venture may raise the area's profile and bring global acknowledgment. In April 1974, Gateshead Council initiated a "Game and Recreation" office. In July 1974, the chamber named Brendan Foster—a previous teacher turned competitor and a local of Tyne and Wear—as the Council's game and entertainment administrator. Encourage, who as indicated by Gibson turned into "the dad of Gateshead games", had been compelled to prepare in Edinburgh amid 1973 because of the poor state of the Youth Stadium track. In December 1973, he had been welcome to a city gathering to praise his breaking of the two-mile world record prior that year at Crystal Palace. At this gathering, Foster was informed that another engineered track was being laid at Gateshead Youth Stadium. His reaction was a guarantee that, if the Council was not kidding, he would keep running at the arena and break a world record (Foster later offered a clarification of that guarantee: "You know how it is the point at which you've had a couple of beverages—you guarantee the world!"). At the point when the track was laid in early 1974, Foster wound up persuaded of the Council's truthfulness. He was met for the administrative position and, upon arrangement, turned into the "main thrust" behind the program of upgrades to the Youth Stadium, which incorporated the structure of the fundamental, secured Tyne and Wear remain in 1981 and three going with stands; the setting was renamed the Gateshead International Stadium. This first tranche of enhancements cost around £8 million, and Foster's proposition to remember the re-opening with an athletic occasion was affirmed, taking into consideration the first "Gateshead Games" to be held in 1974. 

The achievement of the first Gateshead Games, and their resulting yearly reestablishment, raised the profile of the arena and caused Gateshead Council to encourage their money related venture. Amid the 1980s, augmentations were made to the site framework, including the structure of an indoor games lobby, open air football pitches and a gym. In 1989 the running track was again transferred and Gateshead affirmed its notoriety for being a top-class games setting by facilitating the Europa Cup (herald to the European Team Championships). In the 21st century, the site has been the subject of two noteworthy re-advancement ventures. The first was finished in 2006, when two fake open air football pitches, indoor athletic preparing offices, sports science arrangements and conferencing rooms were included at an expense of £15 million. The redid arena, financed by cooperation between One NorthEast, Sport England and Gateshead College among others, was opened on 12 May 2006 by Sebastian Coe. 

A second tranche of improvement, embraced in two phases, was endorsed in November 2009. This incorporated a general renovation and improvement of the current offices at the arena, including spread, better can and new refreshment offices to the uncovered East Stand, improving wheelchair get to, including additional providing food and conferencing offices and another media and the board focus. This was subsidized by cooperation between Gateshead Council, nearby improvement assets and Gateshead College. The covering of the 4,000-situate East Stand with another overhang rooftop was finished in July 2010, promptly preceding Gateshead facilitating a Diamond League occasion. The second phase of the re-advancement—the structure of the corporate and media offices—started on 6 September 2010 and was finished on time in summer 2011. The complete expense of the work was assessed to be £7.6 million. 

A third program of development was at first mooted in 2008. The point of this program was to grow the arena into a comprehensive "sports town", loaded with an ice arena, indoor fairway, eateries and shops. Gateshead Council welcomed tenders in August 2008 from business associations keen on attempted the advancement. A formal draft improvement brief was gathered and distributed in November 2009. A report to Council in December 2009 noticed that there had been "a sensible dimension of enthusiasm at the fundamental stage" from private speculators, yet that just a single itemized proposition had been submitted, which had been declined by the Council on monetary grounds. The report likewise noted worries that the first highlight of the proposed town, the ice arena, may have been stopping financial specialists and that a comparative proposition to redevelop land at the Stadium of Light in Sunderland was bringing down what councilors had would have liked to be a one of a kind element of the proposed town. The outcome was that a new proposition was raised to expel the ice arena from the brief trying to "animate the market". An open counsel was attempted and in May 2010 the committee revealed that 327 of the 375 reactions got were supportive of the revised proposition. Subsequently, see was given to designers that the chamber planned to showcase the site and ten reactions were gotten. 

Gateshead International Stadium and its offices involve of land. The primary games field at Gateshead International Stadium is an all-seater, bowl-formed field comprising of four stands of seats. The exact limit of the scene is unsure; a few sources guarantee it to be 11,750, others 11,762 and some give a figure of 11,800. The fundamental stand is the Tyne and Wear Stand, a lofty, cantilevered structure seating 3,300 observers. This stand contains can and providing food offices and a bar region. Inverse is the East Stand, a 4,000-situate structure that was revealed until 2010, when a cantilevered overhang rooftop was included. A bespoke plan by Fabric Architecture, the rooftop is a structure joining five barrel vault shapes. Some portion of a similar improvement plan added latrine and providing food offices toward the East Stand. The South Terrace, once in a while alluded to as basically the South Stand, comprises of a persistent, revealed bank of seating in eight squares with access through four gates. The North Terrace is inverse and comprises of two squares of revealed seating isolated by a substantial scoreboard. 

The sports track in the principle field was laid in 2003 and is an International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) standard 400m eight-path oval. It is a polymer manufactured plaid track with a profundity of . The run straight comprises of eight paths and is arranged before the Tyne and Wear Stand, adjoining the long and triple bounce territory. A tallness flexible water hop, for use in steeplechase dashing, is situated within the track. Floodlights enable sports occasions to be held during the evening. The inward track territory, which is floodlit, is an IAAF standard-sized grass surface utilized for sports field occasions, rugby and football. At the point when utilized for the last mentioned, the pitch measurements are . 

The fundamental field is enhanced by different offices. To the back of the North Terrace are two third era fake pitches that are UEFA authorized, completely floodlit and full-sized for use in focused rugby, football and American football. Nearby them are two grassed and one sand-dressed playing zones, which are likewise floodlit. Behind the Tyne and Wear Stand is an indoor games lobby, which contains a playing region set apart out for different games including badminton, netball and tennis. A retractable indoor games office was recently housed close by the games lobby, comprising of a long manufactured dash straight and regions for tossing and bouncing occasions, however its mechanical activity demonstrated dangerous and a progressively present day structure supplanted it in 2006. This office has a run straight in a corridor, tossing and hopping offices, a loads room and exercise center. 

The main major athletic occasion held at the arena was the Vaux Breweries International Athletics meet in July 1961. As indicated by its supporters, the feature of this meet was the group three-mile race, won by the Blackpool and Fylde Athletic club who were granted a gold mug as their prize. Pulled in by a prize store of £500 and the approaching AAA Championships in London, the occasion pulled in a few competitors from New Zealand, including ruling 5000m meter Olympic victor Murray Halberg and Peter Snell, the ruling 800m Olympic hero. Viewed by a limit horde of 10,000 observers, the men won their particular races; Halberg set first in the mile with a period of 4:03:70 and Snell drove a New Zealand one-two in the 880-yard occasion, completing in front of colleague Gary Philpott in 1:50:40. 

At the point when the extensive restoration of the arena was finished over 10 years after the fact, Brendan Foster (at this point a Gateshead Council worker) proposed a worldwide games meet. On 3 August 1974, the first "Gateshead Games" were arranged before around 10,000 observers. A month prior to he won the European 5000m title at the 1974 European Athletics Championships in Rome, Foster kept his prior guarantee to keep running in the men's 3000m and won the race in another world-record time of 7:35:20. As indicated by columnist John Gibson, Foster's execution gave the meet, communicate live by Tyne Tees Television, "milestone status". A plaque recognizing the record was later put at the passage to the arena. 

The Gateshead Games turned into a yearly occasion, which gave the arena believability as a noteworthy wearing scene. In his administrative limit with Gateshead Council, Foster was progressively ready to draw in competitors to the amusements. In 1977, Foster needed to mediate when BBC Radio Newcastle gave the wrong Ethiopian national hymn which, when played, insulted Miruts Yifter adequately that he and his partners began off towards Newcastle International Airport. The intercession worked—at last, Foster asked Yifter and his colleagues in the event that they would sing the song of devotion themselves, which they did amidst the arena—and Yifter came back to outflank a field including Steve Ovett over 5000m. The track was reemerged by Regisport in 1982 and the settings' profile was additionally brought up in the late spring of 1983, when Gateshead-conceived competitor Steve Cram confronted Sebastian Coe over 800m in the Gateshead Games. Before an announced horde of 15,000 who were "shoehorned into the bowl" and millions all the more viewing on BBC's Sunday Grandstand, Cram won to start "commotion" in his last race before winning the gold award at the 1983 World Athletics Championships in Helsinki. 

In 1989, Gateshead facilitated the Europa Cup. The men's opposition was won out of the blue by a Great Britain group captained by Linford Christie and which included Kriss Akabusi and Jack Buckner; the occasion was depicted 10 years after the fact as having had an "animating impact" on the individuals who were in participation. After four years, on 30 July 1993, an arena record horde of 14,797 watched Christie, at this point the ruling 100m Olympic victor, in real life again – this time against his old adversary Carl Lewis in a race where the two men were purportedly paid £100,000 regardless of the outcome. Christie won in a period of 10.07 seconds, in front of Jon Drummond in second and Lewis, who completed "a far off third". The 100m race was the feature of the "prominent" Vauxhall Invitational meet, which was broadcast in the UK by ITV and viewed by around 10 million watchers. Michael Johnson, John Regis and Steve Cram contended in different occasions at the Vauxhall Invitational. 

In August 1998, Gateshead was chosen to have the 2000 Europa Cup after the European Athletic Association changed the occasion from unique host scene Martinique to stay away from competitors voyaging long separations in an Olympic year. This made Gateshead the primary scene to have the occasion twice. On 16– 17 July 2000, observers at Gateshead by and by observed Great Britain's men's group take the title, this time significantly a point from Germany in second spot; the British triumph came regardless of missing ten first-decision colleagues. The ladies' occasion was won by Russia, who crushed second-set Germany by thirteen. 

Cultivate's "Gateshead Games" had turned into the British Grand Prix by 2003, and on 13 July 21-year-old Yelena Isinbayeva set another world record of 4.82m in the ladies' shaft vault occasion. Isinbayeva's accomplishment in the last occasion of the meet was unexpected to the point that just 1,000 of the 10,000 observers saw it, the rest having left early. For her accomplishment, she was given a reward check for $50,000. On 27 June 2004, Isinbayeva came back to Gateshead. This time the occasion coordinators chose to plan the shaft vault occasion prior and were remunerated when Isinbayeva challenged amazingly breezy conditions to post another record sign of 4.87m. Isinbayeva was the second lady to set a world record in the shaft vault at Gateshead; Daniela Bartova did as such in 1995. In 2006, a horde of 8,500 saw Asafa Powell measure up to the world record of 9.77 seconds in the men's 100m. The official, un-adjusted time of 9.762 seconds was then the quickest time at any point recorded. The meet was additionally striking for the arrival to rivalry of Dwain Chambers after his boycott for utilizing execution improving medications, and for Eliud Kipchoge breaking Foster's arena record over 3000m that had represented over three decades. 

In 2010, the British Grand Prix at Gateshead was picked as one of the debut fourteen Diamond League occasions, however in spite of the fact that contenders included Tyson Gay, Powell, Jessica Ennis and Vincent Chepkok, the participation was bizarrely poor, making the neighborhood press wonder whether Gateshead's agreement for the marquee occasion would be reestablished. Those feelings of trepidation were to demonstrate all around established when UK Athletics consented to a three-year contract to arrange the occasion at the Alexander Stadium in Birmingham. The move provoked one columnist to mourn that "the switch is a noteworthy hit to both Gateshead International Stadium and North-East game when all is said in done, yet can scarcely be viewed as a noteworthy amazement given the waning help for significant games occasions in the district." 

This misfortune was moderated to some degree by the European Athletic Association's choice to grant Gateshead the 2013 European Team Championships, the successor to the Europa Cup. In doing as such, Gateshead turned into the main arena to have the European Team Championships on three events. The titles were hung on 22– 23 June 2013 in the midst of wet and breezy conditions. On the primary day of rivalry, Mo Farah ran a 50.89 second last lap in winning the men's 5000m to help the home group into third spot on 181, behind Russia (194 points) and Germany (195). Notwithstanding a solid begin, the Great Britain group were unfit to make up the deficiency on the second day of rivalry and completed in third spot in general on 338 points, behind sprinters up Germany (347.5 focuses) and the victors Russia (354.5 focuses). 

The arena was quickly utilized by previous Football League individuals Gateshead A.F.C. in the wake of leaving Redheugh Park in 1973, however the club became bankrupt later in the year. The next year South Shields football club moved to Gateshead and were renamed Gateshead United; they played at the Gateshead Stadium from 1974 to 1977 when it collapsed and Gateshead F.C. was framed. 

Gateshead F.C. have been inhabitants since their arrangement in 1977. In May 2008 Gateshead facilitated Buxton in an advancement play-off and won 2– 0 before 1,402 onlookers, the biggest group to watch the club at the ground in 14 years. That record was broken a year later when 4,121 saw Gateshead rout Telford United 2– 0 on 9 May 2009 to win advancement to the Conference Premier class. The present record participation for a focused installation remains at 8,144, set on 4 May 2014 when Gateshead played host to Grimsby Town in the second leg of the Conference Premier play-off semi-last. Gateshead won 3-1 to advancement to the last at Wembley Stadium where they were beaten 2-1 by Cambridge United. The thrashing relegated the club to a 55th continuous season outside the Football League. Gateshead F.C. keep on playing at Gateshead Stadium at the same time, as per North East Life magazine, it is "a fine however wrong stadium ... as a football ground it tends to be a cruel home". In 2009, administrator Graham Wood divulged plans to move to another, reason manufactured 9,000 limit ground on Prince Consort Road in the focal point of Gateshead. Point by point proposition were distributed before long, and Wood told nearby media in 2012 that he anticipates that the move should expand swarms and mitigate the money related imperatives on him as he keeps on bankrolling the club; it is assessed that groups would need to achieve 3,000 routinely for the club to work beneficially from Gateshead Stadium. As indicated by the first proposition, the arena was relied upon to be prepared for the 2012– 13 season, however financing has been troublesome and the proposed move is presently on hold. 

Gateshead Harriers are an athletic club based at Gateshead International Stadium. Established in 1904 as Gateshead St Mary's Church Running Club, they were at first a men-just club until permitting the affirmation of ladies in 1951. The club moved to the Gateshead Youth Stadium in 1956, making the Harriers the arena's most established occupant. In 2006 they won advancement to the primary division of the British Athletics League and were the main club from the north-east of England to contend at that dimension. Following a six-year remain in the division, the Harriers were consigned to division two in August 2012 in the wake of neglecting to win enough focuses at the last meet of the period at Eton to keep a last two class wrap up. Club authorities got more than 100 new applications for participation in the repercussions of the 2012 London Olympics. 

Something like one Gateshead Harrier has partaken in each Olympics and Paralympics held since 1972. Prominent graduated class incorporate Brendan Foster, who joined the club matured 17 and later guaranteed that "my first point was to be the best sprinter of Gateshead Harriers". Encourage, drafted into the England Athletics Hall of Fame in 2010 and as of late casted a ballot the eleventh "most noteworthy Geordie" in a nearby survey, later turned into the leader of Gateshead Harriers and remains so starting at 2012. Current world triple-bounce record holder Jonathan Edwards, another individual from the England Athletics Hall of Fame, joined Gateshead Harriers in 1991. Edwards was an individual from the club when he set his record mark in winning gold at the 1995 World Championships in Helsinki, when winning Olympic gold at the 2000 Sydney Games and a second world title a year later in Edmonton. Both Foster and Edwards are privileged life individuals from the club. 

In 1998, Gateshead was granted a rugby group establishment after a three-route challenge with Cardiff and Swansea. The outcome was Gateshead Thunder, who played in Super League IV in 1999. The Thunder played at Gateshead International Stadium and the club had, as indicated by games columnist Andy Wilson, "a pleasant and shockingly fruitful season" which included home and away successes against St. Helens and a 6th spot complete in the table – passing up the playoffs by two points. Regardless of these exhibitions, which pulled in a normal horde of 3,895 to Gateshead Stadium, the establishment lost £700,000 in its first year and in November 1999 the Rugby Football League (RFL) endorsed a merger with the Hull Sharks. The outcome was the arrangement of Hull FC, and when the experts rejected consent for the combined clubs to enter a Hull-based group into the RFL's second level, the establishment moved nearly completely to Hull, finishing Gateshead's Super League interest after a solitary season; as per Wilson, the Thunder was "left beyond words, harsh hatred" from supporters. 

As indicated by writer Richard Bott, since the end of the first Thunder side the club has "battled for their very presence." There have been a few features, incorporating winning Championship 1 of every 2008 and a raced to the quarter-last of the Challenge Cup in 2009 which finished in a 66– 6 annihilation to Super League side St Helens before 4,325 fans at Gateshead International Stadium. Nonetheless, the Thunder experienced a 64-diversion losing streak crossing more than two years before winning against Workington Town on 29 August 2012. 

Relations between the Thunder and Gateshead Council were resisted times, with a conceivable move to Kingston Park Newcastle upon Tyne, first mooted, and rejected, in 2006. In 2008, the club submitted itself again to Gateshead Stadium for the prompt future, in any case, in March 2014 The Journal revealed that discussions had started between Thunder's overseeing executive Keith Christie and agents of Newcastle Falcons with a view to the Falcons assuming control over the rugby class club. Birds of prey's proprietor Semore Kurdi affirmed that an offer had been made to buy Gateshead Thunder on 20 March 2014, however he would not expand on whether he proposed to move the club if that offer was acknowledged. The takeover was affirmed on 23 May 2014, however it was reported that the club would keep on playing at the International Stadium. In January 2015 Gateshead Thunder were authoritatively renamed Newcastle Thunder and moved to Kingston Park. Keith Christie told the BBC that the move was "a business choice" intended to assemble another fan base for the club. 

The Gateshead Senators (initially the Gateshead International Senators) are an American football club framed in 1988 when the Newcastle Senators, who played at Northern Rugby Club, moved over the Tyne to play at the Gateshead International Stadium. The club has had blended fortunes yet their best season came in 1999. Having won eight of their nine diversions in the normal season, the group won the Division One North title and progressed as far as possible of-season playoffs. In the wake of beating the Merseyside Nighthawks 43– 0 in the quarter-finals, the Senators vanquished the Essex Spartans 33– 19 in the semi-finals to achieve the title last. At the Saffron Lane Stadium in Leicester, the Senators confronted the Bristol Aztecs. In a tight experience, the Senators asserted the Division One British American Football League title with a 7– 2 triumph. The club achieved the playoffs again in the following three seasons yet were unfit to duplicate that achievement, and after a season willfully spent in Division Two of every 2003, came back to Division One North in 2004. They keep on playing in that division, and in the 2012 season neglected to make the playoffs subsequent to recording five successes and five annihilations in their ten amusements. 

The Senators were an occupant at Gateshead Stadium from 1988 to 2011. In 2012, the club declared designs to move far from Gateshead for the beginning of the 2012 season to make "a superior diversion day experience" and they presently play at the Monkton Stadium. 

Gateshead International Stadium has been utilized for a long time as a show scene. On 31 July 1982, The Police performed at the arena as a feature of their Ghost in the Machine Tour, with U2 as a supporting demonstration. Reports in the neighborhood press proposed that The Police appeared to be disillusioned that the arena was just half full and refered to high ticket costs and poor climate as conceivable causes. On 16 June 1992 Guns N' Roses, bolstered by Soundgarden and Faith No More, performed at the arena. This time the climate was hot and radiant which guaranteed that the show, some portion of the Use Your Illusion Tour, was a rat. American shake gather Bon Jovi have played twice at the arena. The principal event was on 27 June 1995, while bolstered by Skin, on their These Days Tour. The gathering came back to Gateshead on 22 August 2000 as a component of their Crush Tour. Another craftsman who has played out various occasions at Gateshead International Stadium is Tina Turner. As a major aspect of her , Turner performed twice on sequential evenings (21– 22 July 1990) and pulled in an aggregate of 60,000 onlookers. Turner performed for a third time at the arena as a feature of her Wildest Dreams Tour on 12 July 1996. Most as of late the setting played host to Little Mix on 26 July 2018 as a feature of their Summer Hits Tour. Different craftsmen to have played at the arena incorporate Bryan Adams, Rod Stewart, Simple Minds and Simply Red. 

Gateshead International Stadium is east of Gateshead Town Center and is on the A184 Felling Bypass, with access to a vehicle leave at Neilson Road. Adventure time via vehicle from Gateshead town focus is around five minutes and a further five minutes travel from Newcastle upon Tyne. A trail runs contiguous the Felling sidestep and the voyage by foot from Gateshead town focus takes approximately fifteen minutes. An adventure east to Heworth Interchange likewise takes around fifteen minutes. Two assigned cycle courses keep running past the arena. These are Hadrian's Way, which gives access from Tynemouth in the east and Wylam in the west, and the Keelman's Way, which keeps running along the south bank of the River Tyne towards Blaydon-on-Tyne. 

The arena is all around served by open transport. It has its very own Tyne and Wear Metro station, the Gateshead Stadium Metro station. This is at Shelley Drive, approximately five minutes' stroll from the beginning. Trains run direct from this station to all other Metro goals; trains to South Shields and South Hylton stop at stage one while trains going towards St James and Airport stop at stage two. The Gateshead Stadium Metro station is open seven days a week and at pinnacle times seventeen trains for each hour stop there. The closest mainline railroad station is Newcastle Central Station, around away, however neighborhood rail travel calls at Heworth Interchange. Go North East work the 93/4 "Circle" transport administration, which gives access to the arena from the Team Valley, Gateshead Interchange, Heworth Interchange and Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Sheriff Hill. This transport runs like clockwork amid the day and each half-hour amid nights.