California State Route 52 

State Route 52 (SR 52) is a state roadway in San Diego County, California, that reaches out from La Jolla Parkway at Interstate 5 (I-5) in La Jolla, San Diego, to SR 67 in Santee. It is an expressway for its whole length and fills in as a noteworthy east– west course through the northern piece of the city of San Diego. The street interfaces the major north– south expressways of the area, including I-5, I-805, SR 163, I-15, SR 125, and SR 67. SR 52 passes north of the Rose Canyon Fault before navigating Marine Corps Air Station Miramar (MCAS Miramar). East of Santo Road and west of SR 125, the interstate experiences Mission Trails Regional Park, a huge open save. SR 52 is otherwise called the Soledad Freeway and the San Clemente Canyon Freeway. 

Plans for a course between La Jolla and Santee date from 1959, and SR 52 was authoritatively assigned in the 1964 state interstate renumbering. Development started in 1966 at the I-5 exchange with Ardath Road prompting La Jolla. It proceeded with the structure of San Clemente Canyon Road, which was later extended to progress toward becoming SR 52. The turnpike was finished east to I-805 out of 1970, and was worked in two phases from that point to Santo Road east of I-15; the last stage was finished in 1988. 

The expressway east of Santo Road experienced deferrals from earthy people over the imperiled least Bell's vireo, a lark which confronted natural surroundings annihilation, just as those worried about the obliteration of homes and organizations for the interstate option to proceed. The expansion to Mission Gorge Road opened in 1993, and SR 52 was finished to SR 125 in 1998. Subsidizing issues deferred the culmination of the whole course until 2011, more than fifty years after development started; up to that point, the city of Santee confronted traffic growls. An augmenting venture was finished in 2007 between Santo Road and Mast Boulevard; further development has been put on hold because of state spending concerns. 

SR 52 starts only west of I-5 at the eastern end of La Jolla Parkway. Before entering San Clemente Canyon, the street turns into an interstate as it meets I-5. The gully is a piece of Marian Bear Natural Park. The turnpike runs north of the Rose Canyon Fault, made out of Late Cretaceous shake evaluated to be 90 million years old, and Mount Soledad. Following ways out with Clairemont Mesa Boulevard/Regents Road and Genesee Avenue, SR 52 converges I-805 preceding leaving the gulch and going along the southern edge of the MCAS Miramar army installation. 

From I-805 to SR 163, the parkway experiences a region with unmistakable Pliocene sedimentary rocks evaluated to be 10 million years old. In the wake of passing the Miramar Recycling Center and a trade with Convoy Street, SR 52 meets SR 163, a road heading towards downtown San Diego. SR 52 crosses Kearny Villa Road before a trade with I-15. A gatherer merchant street serves these three exchanges. 

After this exchange, the interstate leaves the edge of the army installation and enters the San Diego neighborhood of Tierrasanta, where there is an intersection with Santo Road, before crossing Mission Trails Regional Park, an open space save, for a couple of miles. The expressway climbs to Mission Trails Pass, north of the summit of Fortuna Mountain. The mountain is a piece of the Peninsular Range; the thruway slices through Eocene rocks evaluated to be 50 million years old and marine fossils. The street on the eastern side of the mountain is cut out of "molten granitic rocks" that are believed to be 150 million years old, an uncommon development contrasted with the Eocene layer. 

A devoted two-way bike way exists on the northern side of the roadway between Santo Road and Mast Boulevard, with access conceivable from both terminii. East of the Mast Boulevard trade, SR 52 crosses and starts to parallel the San Diego River. The expressway enters the city of Santee, where SR 52 was worked nearby Mission Gorge Road. SR 52 meets the northern end of SR 125, where SR 52 traffic can leave south onto SR 125. The expressway proceeds with east through Santee, with trades at Fanita Drive, Cuyamaca Street, and Magnolia Avenue, before it reaches an end at SR 67. 

SR 52 is a piece of the California Freeway and Expressway System and is qualified for the State Scenic Highway System; nonetheless, it's anything but a grand interstate as assigned by Caltrans. SR 52 isn't a piece of the National Highway System, a system of expressways that are viewed as fundamental to the nation's economy, safeguard, and portability by the Federal Highway Administration. The whole course is known as both the Soledad Freeway and the San Clemente Canyon Freeway. In 2013, SR 52 had a yearly normal day by day traffic (AADT) of 69,000 at the eastern end with SR 67, and 103,000 between Convoy Street and SR 163, the least and the most elevated AADT for the thruway, separately. 

In 1959, Legislative Route 279 was assigned as a roadway from La Jolla to Santee and consolidated into the California Freeway and Expressway System. In the 1964 state parkway renumbering, this progressed toward becoming SR 52. Be that as it may, SR 52 took over fifty years to be developed, due to delays in the arranging and development stages. 

A formal conference on Legislative Route 279 and on the Ardath Road association with La Jolla was hung on November 15, 1961. At the conference, there were concerns communicated in regards to decimation of vegetation. City and state authorities demonstrated that the Soledad Freeway would be developed in the northern piece of the gulch to limit ecological harm. On November 9, 1966, the I-5 trade with Ardath Road opened at the western end of what might move toward becoming SR 52. The first objective was to interface the exchange with San Clemente Canyon Road, which filled in as an ancestor to SR 52; plans were to augment the way to four paths and assign it as SR 52. The interfacing inclines were not opened that day on the grounds that the aluminum monitor rails had not been conveyed on schedule. Appraisals showed that every occupant of La Jolla would spare 80 hours every year by utilizing Ardath Road. A slope from southbound I-5 to westward Ardath Road was never finished in view of a clip turn that would be essential because of the transcending precipice on the west side of I-5 that Ardath Road climbs as it proceeds to La Jolla. On November 18, San Clemente Canyon Road was associated with I-5 when the aluminum protect rails arrived and were accordingly introduced. San Clemente Canyon Road was not completely opened until 1967. That year, natives communicated resistance to the development of the Soledad Freeway since some needed the land to be utilized for a recreation center, and did not see the road as "fundamental." 

Formal offers started in February 1969 for the primary area of SR 52 between I-5 and I-805. The state requested the development of this segment on April 28, 1969. On Thursday, May 28, 1970, the Soledad Freeway opened, interfacing Regents Road and Genesee Avenue with I-5; be that as it may, it didn't associate with the unopened I-805. The street was worked by Kasler, Ball and Yeager for $3.9 million (about $ in dollars). The development firm kept earth into "an anonymous finger gulch" against the states of the city license, and the city requested the firm to expel it. The area of I-805 from SR 52 to El Cajon Boulevard was planned to be committed on March 20, 1972. 

Ardath Road was renamed La Jolla Parkway on October 15, 2002, for two reasons: a close-by private road was additionally named Ardath Road, and there was a craving to attract thoughtfulness regarding this essential course to downtown La Jolla. This required the city of San Diego to pay $20,000 (about $ in dollars) to supplant the signs on SR 52. 

The second period of SR 52 from I-805 to past U.S. Highway 395 (which progressed toward becoming I-15 out of 1974) was anticipated to cost $29.4 million (about $ in dollars). The new interstate was to give access to Tierrasanta and lessen the traffic on I-8. The U.S. Naval force was counseled in the arranging procedure because of the street's proposed directing through MCAS Miramar that would give an outline against further urban advancement. There were no worries communicated at the formal conference on November 17, 1970; notwithstanding, development did not start for over ten years, as California representative Jerry Brown slowed down the development of SR 52 from Santo Road to SR 67. In 1977, the province chief, a San Diego City councilman, and the city hall leaders of La Mesa and National City composed a letter to Brown to request the development of this part of SR 125 and different turnpikes, because of worries about the kinds of clog seen in Los Angeles coming to San Diego because of the inadequate interstate framework. San Diego City Councilman Tom Gade composed a message to Caltrans Director Adriana Gianturco about the conceivable erasures; accordingly, Gianturco cleared up that the plans were just being rethought and had not been evacuated, and a CHC part reprimanded the tone of the first wire, calling it "inordinate". In 1984, Leo Trombatore, the Caltrans Director under California senator George Deukmejian, mentioned to the California Transportation Commission (CTC) that "formal examinations toward this end be started right away. Route 52 has a high statewide need." The CTC pursued the chief's desires, affirming the examinations. 

The initial segment of this stage, from I-805 to Convoy Street, started development in December 1986. It was devoted at a network festivity on July 11, 1987, and was planned to open to traffic half a month later. The first callboxes in San Diego County were introduced on SR 52 close Convoy Street on June 20, 1988. On June 30, 1988, SR 52 from Convoy Street to Santo Road opened to traffic. The I-15 exchange was worked with state assets from the CTC. 

In 2000, Hazard Construction Company included a solitary westward path SR 52 from SR 163 to I-805, a separation of , at an expense of $1.7 million (about $ in dollars). In 2006, the Metropolitan Transit System, in participation with the San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG), Caltrans, and the California Highway Patrol, started an experimental run program to run travel transports along the shoulders of SR 52 between Kearny Villa Road and I-805. Amid surge hour, transports had the capacity to utilize these shoulders to sidestep moderate traffic in the primary paths. The preliminary was viewed as effective as more than 99 percent of excursions touched base on schedule, client criticism was great and no security concerns were experienced. On May 9, 2007, the "San Diego Union-Tribune" distributed a story which raised peruser worries about an unsafe dunk in the turnpike. The plunge had created in an area of the parkway built over the Miramar Landfill, and had been brought about by waste settling; it was fixed by the following day. 

The arranging procedure for the rest of SR 52 started as right on time as 1970, when the underlying arrangement was to course the turnpike through the city of Santee along Mission Gorge Road and the San Diego River. Arranging was postponed until 1984, alongside the development of the I-805 to Santo Road portion. The City of Santee restricted the first plans, wanting to course the interstate on Prospect Avenue or north of the San Diego River. By April 1985, a second course along Prospect Avenue, proposed by Caltrans, earned the help of the City Council; in any case, the required destruction of numerous independent companies drove a large number of those influenced to begin an appeal against this course. Then again, there were complaints about the "stream course" costing around $15 million increasingly (about $ in dollars) and slicing through a future "Town Center improvement". The Lakeside Chamber of Commerce favored the course along the San Diego River, refering to the closeness to that city. The natural effect report was observed to be lacking by the Federal Highway Administration in late 1986. 

In January 1987, the Santee City Council casted a ballot to start an investigation of a progressively northern course, despite the fact that nearby inhabitants and laborers questioned this would defer development. In March, the examination, done by BSI Inc., bolstered the Caltrans choice to surrender plans for the northern way because of the expanded expense from the "precipitous, undeveloped" territory. The gathering casted a ballot to help a southern arrangement through the town, with both the Prospect Avenue and San Diego River choices still feasible. Around the same time, the city hall leader of La Mesa, Fred Nagel, began an appeal drive supporting the expansion of the turnpike because of the repetitive traffic on I-8. The Caltrans ecological effect report showed that the Prospect Avenue course would cost $89 million (about $ in dollars), contrasted with the stream course's $121 million (about $ in dollars). The city gathering of El Cajon freely upheld the Prospect Avenue directing; in any case, a few representatives of the City of Santee, including some city organizers and specialists, were worried that parts of the report were "obsolete." The petitions were given to the CTC in May, when San Diego authorities made a few contentions in help of the development. 

In June 1987, the CTC staff at first suggested against allotting cash for the SR 52 section; in any case, SANDAG consented to support the task with $1 million (about $ in dollars). Occupants of Santee restricted the conceivable courses through the city at an open gathering on June 10 on account of the essential devastation of homes to expand on those courses. In late June, Caltrans considered making little alterations to the Prospect Avenue arrangement to pulverize less homes, incorporating those in trailer parks. On June 25, 1987, the CTC casted a ballot to help the SR 52 augmentation, with the prerequisite that $4.8 million (about $ in dollars) originate from neighborhood financing sources. At last, on September 23, the City of Santee prescribed the Prospect Avenue Route to the CTC. 

In July 1987, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service communicated worries that development close to the San Diego River intersection may result in the decimation of the jeopardized least Bell's vireo natural surroundings. Two of the four elective courses considered by Caltrans went through the Carlton Hills fairway, which the open contradicted. In April 1988, the Sierra Club reviled the Prospect Avenue course; government mediators prescribed moving the course from Hollins Lake towards the green. Ecological concerns brought up in June 1988 identified with the least Bell's vireo included abatement of creepy crawlies, a darker domain after bridges are developed, and the dividing of natural surroundings. By and by, Caltrans still wanted the Prospect Avenue course over worries of a progressively costly and less voyage northern course. Upset in light of the deferrals, the Santee City Council wrote to U.S. representatives Pete Wilson and Alan Cranston, requesting their help. Councilman Jim Bartell asserted that the issue would influence the city chamber decisions. 

In March 1989, the Fish and Wildlife Service consented to the task, on the states of changing the course to cross the San Diego River and pass east of the focal point of the town, and developing 44 acres of extra living space as relief. SANDAG casted a ballot against structure a full bike path along the course in July 1989, refering to the mind-boggling expenses. At long last, on July 27, the last directing of SR 52 was resolved, running along Prospect Avenue. In May 1990, Santee councilman Roy Woodward was reproached for having an irreconcilable situation in casting a ballot to help the recommendations for the road since he "held interests" in three properties that would profit by the expressway, consequently disregarding the Political Reform Act as these interests surpassed $10,000. One of the possessions was close Cuyamaca Street, the area of an offramp on a way that he casted a ballot to help. He was fined $2,000 (about $ in dollars) for every property, for an aggregate of $6,000 (about $ in dollars). 

In April 1990, the Santee City Council consented to start acquiring land, over the natural worries of Councilman Jim Bartell. Development at last started on the four-path segment of SR 52 between Santo Road and Mission Gorge Road on July 19, 1991. The work was anticipated to cost $52 million (about $ in dollars). For ecological alleviation, another lark natural surroundings was developed that cost $8.3 million (about $ in dollars). Fossils of "little scavenging warm blooded creatures" were found amid development in late 1991. The development organization, HDB Construction, was required to keep clamor beneath 61 decibels to secure the winged creatures. The undertaking was subsidized basically with income from a voter-endorsed deals charge in 1987. The opening of this part was booked for December 16, 1993. This new fragment finished only southeast of the Mast Boulevard exchange, after the San Diego River bridge. 

The opening of this stretch of SR 52 effectsly affected the transportation of the East County locale. Traffic diminished fundamentally on I-8 in mid 1994, with an expected 30,000 suburbanites changing from I-8 to SR 52. Less autos went on the western piece of Mission Gorge Road, prompting an abatement in income for organizations situated along that street. On Mast Boulevard and Mission Gorge Road in Santee, considerably more traffic was available, prompting inhabitants whining to the city. In 1998, the city started to enlarge Mission Gorge Road between Carlton Hills Drive and Fanita Road to deal with the additional traffic from the fragmented SR 52. 

The year after the September 11, 2001 assaults, the military raised a fence to hinder a deer burrow underneath the turnpike that associated the base and Mission Trails Regional Park, since the passage could be utilized to increase unapproved access to the base. In 2006, development started to include a third path westward SR 52 between Mast Boulevard and Santo Road. The development cost $3.4 million (about $ in dollars) and was supported by the state and the region TransNet deals charge. The new path opened on May 8, 2007; notwithstanding, the augmenting produced grumblings from irate workers confronting a "bottleneck" at Santo Road. Since the extra path was built in parts, the opening of the third path between Santo Road and the current third path closer to I-15 was postponed; be that as it may, development for the missing was endorsed in April 2007. The augmentation opened on July 20, 2007. 

Development on the following segment of SR 52, from Mission Gorge Road to SR 125, was booked to start in late 1995, at an absolute expense of $60 million (about $ in dollars) for the whole venture. Property securing started in 1994, with numerous property proprietors along the south side of Mission Gorge Road being compelled to move off the beaten path of the turnpike and consequent street development, as Mission Gorge Road was moved south to oblige the new interstate. About $40 million ($ in dollars) was spent on the property procurement. After climate related development delays because of the El Niño period of the winter of 1997– 1998, the augmentation of SR 52 between Mission Gorge Road and SR 125 was devoted on May 9, 1998. The eastward paths were planned to be opened a couple of days after the fact, and the westward paths were to be opened in mid-July of that year. L.R. Hubbard Construction Company manufactured the bit for $17 million (about $ in dollars). 

The city of Santee confronted issues in the development of the road from SR 125 to SR 67. As right on time as 1995, obviously the ecological effect report was deferred and that there would finance challenges. SANDAG designated $23 million dollars (about $ in dollars) in 1999 to buy properties required for the option to proceed. In 2001, SANDAG gave $138 million (about $ in dollars) to the development of SR 52 to SR 67, which was important for expanding the turnpike past Cuyamaca Street. Be that as it may, by 2003, the transportation board of trustees of SANDAG casted a ballot to postpone the venture because of diminished state subsidizing. The city of Santee was required to make enhancements to Forester Creek to oblige potential flooding, which cost $30 million (about $ in dollars); the work started in May 2006. Financing issues were at long last settled in 2006 with voter-endorsed statewide transportation bonds. In 2007, interstate development costs expanded; that year, the SANDAG transportation board of trustees casted a ballot to subsidize the development, taking cash from an arranged reversible paths venture on SR 52. 

"Overwhelming development" of SR 52 from SR 125 eastbound to SR 67 started in February 2008. More than 360 properties were procured to construct the interstate; somewhere around 60 were manufactured homes. This bit was isolated into three development ventures: from SR 125 to Cuyamaca Street, from that point to Magnolia Avenue, and the exchange with SR 67, which started development in mid-June 2008. The center venture must be closed down quickly in February 2009 because of financing issues. Culmination was booked for 2010, yet was deferred to mid 2011 because of climate related postponements. This new segment was opened to traffic on March 29, 2011. The expense of this undertaking was $525 million, supported with state and government assets just as TransNet income. The opening was anticipated to decrease traffic on I-8 just as Mission Gorge Road and other Santee lanes. The official "strip cutting" service occurred on March 19, 2011 on the turnpike at the Cuyamaca Street trade. 

Responses to the expansion somewhere in the range of SR 125 and SR 67 were blended. There were reports of quicker transportation through the East County territory, yet suburbanites noticed a surge hour reinforcement at SR 125 traveled westward in light of the fact that there were just two paths voyaging west through the trade. Traffic along Mission Gorge Road was accounted for to have diminished by 20 percent. 

There are plans to include one path toward every path, just as two reversible paths, from I-15 to SR 125. These plans were put on hold in 2008 because of a spending shortage. Finishing is booked to occur by 2040. Caltrans prescribes including two additional paths between I-5 and I-805, and two carpool lanes between I-805 and I-15.