Brabham BT19 

The Brabham BT19 is a Formula One hustling vehicle planned by Ron Tauranac for the British Brabham group. The BT19 contended in the and Formula One World Championships and was utilized by Australian driver Jack Brabham to win his third World Championship in 1966. The BT19, which Brabham alluded to as his "Old Nail", was the main vehicle bearing its driver's name to win a World Championship race. 

The vehicle was at first considered in 1965 for a 1.5-liter (92-cubic inch) Coventry Climax motor, yet never hustled in this structure. For the 1966 Formula One season the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) multiplied the utmost on motor ability to 3 litres (183 cu in). Australian organization Repco built up another V8 motor for Brabham's utilization in 1966, however a contradiction among Brabham and Tauranac over the last's job in the hustling group left no opportunity to build up another vehicle to deal with it. Rather, the current BT19 undercarriage was altered for the activity. 

Just a single BT19 was constructed. It was purchased by Repco in 2004 and put in plain view in the National Sports Museum in Melbourne, Australia, in 2008. Usually exhibited at motorsport occasions. 

The BT19 was made by Australian creator Ron Tauranac for the Brabham Racing Organization (BRO) to use in the 1965 period of the Formula One engine dashing World Championship. The BT19, and its contemporary the Lotus 39, were worked to utilize the new FWMW level 16 motor from Coventry Climax. Just a single case of the BT19 configuration was assembled, and it never hustled in its unique structure. Peak deserted the FWMW's improvement before the finish of 1965, their current FWMV V8 motors demonstrating sufficiently incredible to push Jim Clark's Lotus 33 to seven successes and the drivers' title. 

For 1966, the motor limit in Formula One was multiplied from 1.5 litres (92 cu in) to 3 litres (183 cu in). It was not attainable to grow existing 1.5-liter motors to exploit as far as possible and Climax decided not to build up another 3-liter engine, leaving numerous groups without a suitable motor for 1966. 

The new 3-liter motors a work in progress by contending group Ferrari had 12 barrels. Jack Brabham, proprietor and lead driver of BRO, adopted an alternate strategy to the issue of getting a reasonable motor. He influenced Australian organization Repco to build up another 3-liter eight-barrel motor for him, to a great extent dependent on accessible segments; the motor would deliver less power than Ferrari's, however would be lighter, simpler to fix and more eco-friendly. 

Brabham autos were planned and worked by Motor Racing Developments Ltd. (MRD), which was mutually claimed by Tauranac and Jack Brabham and fabricated vehicles for clients in a few dashing arrangement. The Formula One dashing group, BRO, was a different organization entirely possessed by Jack Brabham. It purchased its autos from MRD yet Tauranac had little association with the race group somewhere in the range of 1962 and 1965. 

Toward the finish of the 1965 season Tauranac was losing enthusiasm for this course of action, thinking that "it was simply an issue of a ton of exertion for no genuine premium since I didn't get the opportunity to go hustling without a doubt" and "I should continue ahead with my primary line business, which was selling creation vehicles." Although Brabham explored utilizing body from different producers, the two men in the end concurred that Tauranac would have a more prominent enthusiasm for the Formula One group, which MRD in the end took over totally from BRO. This understanding was not come to until November 1965. Repco conveyed the primary case of the new motor to the group's base camp in the United Kingdom in late 1965, only weeks before the principal Formula One race to the new guidelines, the non-title South African Grand Prix on 1 January 1966. As opposed to manufacture another vehicle in the constrained time accessible, BRO squeezed body number F1-1-1965, the sole and unused BT19, into administration. 

Tauranac constructed the BT19 around a gentle steel spaceframe suspension like those utilized in his past Brabham plans. The utilization of a spaceframe was viewed as a preservationist plan choice; by 1966, a large portion of Brabham's rivals were utilizing the hypothetically lighter and stiffer monocoque configuration, acquainted with Formula One by Lotus amid the 1962 season. Tauranac trusted that contemporary monocoques were not conveniently stiffer than a very much planned spaceframe and were more diligently to fix and keep up. The last was a specific worry for Brabham, which was the biggest producer of client single-seater dashing autos on the planet at the time. The organization's notoriety laid to some extent on BRO – viably the official 'works' group – utilizing a similar innovation as its clients, for whom simplicity of fix was a huge thought. One somewhat novel element was the utilization of oval-segment, as opposed to round, tubing around the cockpit, where the driver sits. In a spaceframe or monocoque hustling vehicle, the cockpit is viably an opening in the structure, debilitating it extensively. For a given cross sectional zone, oval tubing is stiffer one way than round tubing. Tauranac happened to have a supply of oval tubing and utilized it to harden the cockpit region. The vehicle weighed around 1250 pounds (567 kg), around over the base weight limit for the recipe, despite the fact that it was as yet one of the lightest autos in the 1966 field. The race beginning load of a 1966 Brabham-Repco with driver and fuel was assessed to be around , about not exactly the more dominant opponent Cooper T81-Maseratis. 

The bodywork of the BT19 is glass-strengthened plastic, completed in Brabham's typical dashing shades of green with gold cutting around the nose. Despite the fact that the investigation of optimal design would not significantly influence Formula One hustling until the 1968 season, Tauranac had been utilizing the Motor Industry Research Association wind burrow since 1963 to refine the state of his vehicles. Brabham has credited the vehicle's "cleared down nose and the upswept back lip of the motor cowl" to Tauranac's "thoughtfulness regarding streamlined detail". Amid the 1967 season, the vehicle showed up with little winglets on the nose, to additionally decrease lift acting at the front of the vehicle. 

Against the pattern set by the Lotus 21 of every 1961, the BT19's suspension, which controls the overall movement of the skeleton and the wheels, is detachable all round. That is, the massive springs and dampers are mounted in the space between the haggles bodywork, where they meddle with the wind current and increment undesirable streamlined drag. Tauranac continued with this evidently moderate methodology dependent on wind burrow tests he had done in the mid 1960s, which showed that a progressively entangled inboard plan, with the springs and dampers hid under the bodywork, would give just a 2% improvement in drag. He made a decision about the additional time expected to set up an inboard structure at the circuit to exceed this little improvement. At the front the suspension comprises of unequal length, non-parallel twofold wishbones. The front uprights, the strong parts whereupon the haggles are mounted, were changed from the Alford and Alder units utilized on the British Triumph Herald cantina. The back suspension is shaped by a solitary top connection, a switched lower wishbone and two span poles finding cast magnesium combination uprights. Wheels were at first 13 inches (330 mm) in breadth, however before long moved up to at the back, later still 15 in at the front also. These increments empowered the utilization of bigger, all the more dominant brakes. Steel circle brakes are utilized on every one of the four haggles of measurement for the littler haggles the bigger ones. The vehicle kept running on stepped Goodyear tires all through its hustling vocation. 

The BT19 proceeded with Tauranac's notoriety for delivering autos that took care of well. Brabham has since remarked that it "was flawlessly adjusted and I cherished its status to float through quick bends." Brabham alluded to the vehicle as his "Old Nail"; Ron Tauranac has clarified this as being "on the grounds that it was two years of age, extraordinary to drive and had no indecencies." 

Repco hustling motors were structured by the main bike motor architect, Phil Irving, and worked by a little group at a Repco backup, Repco-Brabham motors Pty Ltd, in Maidstone, Australia. Repco's 620 arrangement motor is a regularly suctioned unit with eight chambers in a 'V' design. It utilizes American motor squares acquired from Oldsmobile's aluminum composite 215 motor. Oldsmobile's 215 motor, utilized in the F-85 Cutlass minimal vehicle somewhere in the range of 1961 and 1963, was surrendered by General Motors after creation issues. Repco fitted their own cast iron chamber liners into the Oldsmobile squares, which were likewise hardened with two Repco magnesium combination castings and highlight Repco-structured barrel heads with chain-driven single overhead camshafts. The internals of the unit comprise of a bespoke Laystall crankshaft, Chevrolet or Daimler associating poles and uncommonly thrown cylinders. The barrel head configuration implies that the motor's fumes funnels exit on the external side of the square, and in this manner go through the spaceframe before tucking inside the back suspension, a format which convoluted Tauranac's plan work extensively. The motor is water-cooled, with oil and water radiators mounted in the nose. 

The 620 motor was light for now is the ideal time, weighing around , contrasted with for the Maserati V12, yet in 3 litre Formula One structure just delivered around 300 brake pull (220 kW) at under 8000 revolutions every moment (rpm), contrasted with 330– 360 bhp (250– 270 kW) created by the Ferrari and Maserati V12s. In any case, it created large amounts of torque over a wide scope of motor velocities from 3500 rpm up to top torque of 233 pound feet (316 N·m) at 6500 rpm. Introduced in the lightweight BT19 skeleton, it was likewise moderately eco-friendly; on the vehicle's presentation Brabham revealed that the BT19 accomplished 7 miles per gallon (40 L/100 km), against figures of around 4 mpg (70 L/100 km) for its "progressively extraordinary opponents". This implied it could begin a Grand Prix with just 35 gallons (160 L) of fuel ready, contrasted with around 55 gallons (250 L) for the Cooper T81-Maseratis. The motor had one further favorable position over bespoke hustling motors: parts were modest. For instance, the motor squares were accessible for GB£11 each and the interfacing bars cost £7 each. 

The 740 arrangement unit utilized in the three races for which the vehicle was entered in 1967 has an alternate, lighter, Repco-planned motor square. It likewise has overhauled barrel heads which, among different upgrades, imply that its debilitates are mounted midway and don't go through the spaceframe or back suspension, not at all like those of the 620 arrangement. It created a limit of . 

The BT19 was at first fitted with a Hewland HD (Heavy Duty) gearbox, initially intended for use with less ground-breaking 2-liter motors. The more prominent intensity of the 3-liter Repco motor was beyond what the gearbox could dependably transmit while quickening at full power from rest, with the outcome that Brabham regularly made delicate begins to maintain a strategic distance from gearbox breakages. The HD was later supplanted with the sturdier DG (Different Gearbox) structure, delivered in line with both Brabham and Dan Gurney's Anglo American Racers group. It later turned into a prevalent decision for different constructors. 

In spite of the fact that viewed by its planner as a "lash-up", BT19 had an extremely fruitful Formula One dashing vocation, for the most part in the hands of Jack Brabham. BT19 was entered in a few non-title Formula One races before the start of the 1966 big showdown season. At the non-title South African Grand Prix at East London on 1 January, BT19 was the main new 3-liter vehicle present. It recorded the quickest time in the passing session before the race – hence taking shaft position for the beginning of the race – and drove most of the occasion before the fuel infusion siphon seized. Comparable issues ceased the vehicle on the second lap of the Syracuse Grand Prix in Sicily, however at the International Trophy at the Silverstone circuit, Brabham set post position, another lap record, and drove the entire race to win in front of 1964 boss John Surtees in a 3-liter works Ferrari. 

The 1966 big showdown season opened with the Monaco Grand Prix. Brabham was influenced by a cold, and qualified ineffectively before resigning when the BT19's gearbox fizzled. Surtees drove the race in his Ferrari before his differential bombed on lap 15; the race was won by Jackie Stewart in a 2-liter BRM P261. At the accompanying Belgian Grand Prix at the Spa circuit, Brabham endure a huge 135 miles every hour (215 km/h) slide in the downpour on the primary lap. The shower wiped out a large portion of the field, including Stewart, who might miss the following race with his wounds. The BT19, utilizing Goodyear tires that were not fit to the conditions, returned home fourth of five characterized finishers. Surtees won the race for Ferrari, the last before he quit the Italian group. 

At the French Grand Prix, held at the rapid Reims-Gueux circuit, Brabham pursued race pioneer Lorenzo Bandini intently from the beginning of the race, utilizing the slipstream of Bandini's all the more dominant Ferrari to tow him to up to quicker down the straights than the BT19 could oversee without anyone else. This permitted Brabham to merge his lead over Ferrari's second driver, Formula One fledgling Mike Parkes. After 12 laps Bandini pulled far from Brabham, in the end by more than 30 seconds, yet when the Italian vehicle was postponed by a broken throttle link on lap 32, Brabham traveled to the completion to win from Parkes and become the principal man to win a Formula One World Championship race in one of his own autos. 

In spite of the fact that the first Brabham BT20, the conclusive 1966 vehicle, had been accessible at Reims, Brabham proceeded with the BT19 and utilized it to win the following three title races. Ferrari, focused in every one of the three title races to that point, were absent for the British Grand Prix. The race was hung on the tight and winding Brands Hatch circuit, the track made elusive by oil spilling from different autos and by shower. Brabham set shaft and drove the whole race. At the following title round, the Dutch Grand Prix, Brabham announced the low speed Zandvoort circuit to be "much more slick and slippery than Brands." Brabham won the race after Jim Clark's less amazing 2 litre Lotus 33-Climax, which had passed Brabham for the lead mid-race, was deferred by overheating issues. The German Grand Prix was held at the Nürburgring Nordschleife, which Brabham portrayed as "Brands Hatch on steroids". On the opening lap Brabham led the pack from Surtees, presently driving a Cooper-Maserati. Brabham won after a race-long battle with the Englishman in the downpour. With four successes and a greater number of completions than any of his title rivals, Brabham had a noteworthy lead in the drivers title and must be gotten in the title by Surtees or Stewart on the off chance that one of them won every one of the three of the rest of the races. 

Jack Brabham utilized BT19 again at the Italian Grand Prix at Monza, another rapid circuit. A second BT20 was finished at the Italian track and Brabham attempted it by and by for the race, however chose to race his "Old Nail", which he felt was fitted with a more grounded motor. As at Reims, Brabham effectively slipstreamed the race chiefs at an early stage, however an oil spillage halted the vehicle after 8 laps. Neither Surtees nor Stewart completed the race and Brabham secured his third big showdown. 

Brabham utilized the BT19 yet again that season to take post position and triumph at the non-title Oulton Park Gold Cup, before utilizing another BT20 for the last two races of the title season. The BT19 was utilized again at three of the initial four title races in the 1967 Formula One season, appearing the new Repco 740 motor at the Monaco Grand Prix, where it took post position, and completing second at the Dutch Grand Prix. 

Remarking on the purposes behind the sudden aggressiveness of the 1966 Brabham-Repcos in Formula One, motorsport student of history Doug Nye has proposed that they "could score on weight over the more dominant Ferrari, BRM, Cooper-Maserati, Eagle-Weslake and Honda in their undeveloped structures, and on sheer 'snort' over such interval stop-hole autos as the agile 2-liter Climax and BRM V8-engined Lotus 33s and BRMs." 

BT19 likewise contended in the last two races of the 1965/66 Tasman Series in Australia, which was rushed to the pre-1961 Formula One guidelines, including a motor limit utmost of 2.5 litres. Tasman dashing was the first motivation behind the Repco motor and Brabham's inclusion should advance the 2.5-liter adaptation. Straight to the point Hallam, leader of the Repco-Brabham association in charge of structure the Repco motors, has said that the littler form "never put out the power per liter that the 3 litre motor delivered", which itself was not an incredible unit. Fitted with the 2.5-liter motor BT19 recorded one retirement and a third spot in the arrangement. 

The BT19 was not hustled in genuine challenge after 1967. Brabham resigned and moved back to Australia toward the finish of 1970. He held responsibility for vehicle until 1976, when it go under the control of Repco and was reestablished by the Repco Engine Parts Group. In 1986, Automotive Components Ltd. (ACL) was shaped by the administration buyout of Engine Parts Group, which incorporated the exchange of the BT19 to the new organization. Since its rebuilding, the vehicle has as often as possible been shown at occasions, including the 1978 Australian Grand Prix at Sandown where Brabham was engaged with a vivacious exhibition with Juan Manuel Fangio driving his Mercedes-Benz W196. Brabham and the vehicle likewise showed up at the primary Australian Grands Prix to be hung on the Adelaide (1985) and Melbourne (1996) road circuits. It additionally showed up at the 2004 Goodwood Revival meeting in the United Kingdom. ACL sold the vehicle back to Repco in 2004. In 2008 the vehicle was introduced in the Australian National Sports Museum at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, on credit from Repco. 

In 2002, at the debut Speed on Tweed noteworthy gathering at Murwillumbah, Brabham, at that point 76, remarked: "It's been a great vehicle throughout the years and it's been great cared for and it's a delight to come and drive it. Coming to Murwillumbah was a great reason to get back in the vehicle and drive it again and I'm worried about the possibility that that is something I'll never at any point become weary of." 

</div> 

† This race was a help to the 1966 Surfers Paradise Trophy, 14 August 1966 

Books 

Magazines 

Sites