Craig Kieswetter 

Craig Kieswetter (brought into the world 28 November 1987) is an English expert golfer and previous cricketer who showed up in 71 matches for the England cricket group somewhere in the range of 2010 and 2013. Brought up in South Africa, Kieswetter moved to England to finish his instruction, and started playing province cricket for Somerset in 2007. After three years, he made his universal presentation in a One Day International (ODI) against Bangladesh. A wicket-guardian batsman, he was viewed as a one-day master, and all his global appearances came in ODIs or Twenty20 Internationals. 

Kieswetter played junior cricket for Western Province until the age of 18, yet absence of chance drove him to look for an elective course in England. He learned at Millfield, where he was seen by Somerset. The region's absence of a solid wicket-manager gave Kieswetter his chance, and he made his presentation for the group from the get-go in the 2007 season. Through his Scottish mother, he met all requirements to play region cricket, and his exhibitions before long produced discourse about his capability to play for England. Around this time, the chief of South Africa, Graeme Smith, welcomed him to come back to play in South Africa yet Kieswetter liked to meet all requirements for England. 

In mid 2010, Kieswetter accomplished his objective; some solid exhibitions for the England Lions, particularly in a match against the senior England group, won him a spot in the squad to confront Bangladesh. His determination, alongside the nearness of other South African-conceived players in the England group, was reprimanded; a few reporters proposed there ought to be less outside conceived players in the group. Kieswetter scored his solitary worldwide century in his third match, and a few months after the fact he was the man of the match in the last when England won the 2010 ICC World Twenty20. After a promising begin for England, he was dropped attributable to his irregularity before the finish of 2010. He came back to the group the next year, yet his place was shaky, and in 2013 he was supplanted by Jos Buttler, his partner at Somerset. 

Kieswetter's vocation was sliced short attributable to damage continued while batting for Somerset in July 2014: a ball entered the hole between his protective cap's grille and visor and struck him in the face, harming his vision. There was at first some desire for a full recuperation and he was named in a temporary England squad for the 2015 Cricket World Cup, yet he kept on encountering troubles with his vision. Because of these issues, in June 2015, matured 27, he declared his retirement from expert cricket. In 2017, he turned into an expert golfer. 

Kieswetter was conceived in Johannesburg to an Afrikaner dad, Wayne, and Scottish mother, Belinda. He learned at Diocesan College in Cape Town, and played cricket for Western Province junior groups between the ages of 13 and 18. Kieswetter was frustrated when he was approached to play club cricket for a few seasons before coming back to play for the senior group; he never got a clarification and chose rather to seek after a cricket vocation in England, where he moved at 18 years old. He considered for his A-levels for a year at Millfield, where Mark Davis, a previous Somerset bowler, spotted him. He was immediately marked by Somerset. At the 2006 Under-19s World Cup in Sri Lanka, he spoke to South Africa and won a Man of the Match grant in an amusement against the United States for his innings of 80 off 66 balls. 

Kieswetter showed up for Somerset's second group in May 2006, taking over from Sam Spurway as wicket-attendant halfway through a match when the last was harmed. He scored 94 not out in his first innings of that coordinate against Glamorgan, and before the finish of the period he had scored at a normal of more than 40. His exhibitions were strong to the point that Somerset discharged Spurway toward the beginning of the 2007 season, and named Kieswetter nearby Carl Gazzard as their two wicket-managers. Toward the beginning of April that year, he made his one-day debut for Somerset against Glamorgan; he made 69 not out off 58 balls and took a catch portrayed as "world class" by Somerset's executive of cricket, Brian Rose. He made his top of the line debut the next month, keeping wicket while Derbyshire made 801 for 8 announced and scored 63 in the Somerset answer. 

Kieswetter kept on performing admirably amid 2007 and 2008, and was granted the NBC Denis Compton Award, as the "most encouraging youthful player", for Somerset in the two seasons, scoring a few fifties in five star and one-day cricket. Against Glamorgan, he scored 93 while batting at number eight. Kieswetter came in after two wickets had been lost in an over, with the score at 250 for 6. His innings, which incorporated an association of 130 with Andrew Caddick, helped Somerset to achieve 402 and in the long run success the match. Towards the finish of the 2008 season, amid a 40-over match against Gloucestershire, Kieswetter scored his first century for Somerset, scoring from , and sharing a challenge record 302-run association with Marcus Trescothick. 

In 2009, Kieswetter passed 1,000 five star keeps running in a season for the main time amid his profession. From the get-go in the year, he scored an unbeaten 150 of every a high-scoring draw against Warwickshire, his lady top of the line century. Half a month later, he scored against Durham to enable his area to keep away from annihilation. In his report for "ESPNcricinfo", Andrew McGlashan portrayed Kieswetter as "another imaginable South African to make the progress to England hues". Kieswetter scored two further top of the line a very long time amid the year, both at Taunton, against Sussex and Lancashire; he arrived at the midpoint of just shy of 60 for his 1,242 top of the line keeps running in the season. In one-day cricket, Kieswetter opened the batting close by Trescothick, and found the middle value of 65.83, scoring an unbeaten 138 off 131 balls against Warwickshire. In the quarter-last of the 2009 Friends Provident Trophy, Kieswetter scored his second one-day century of the period, yet Somerset were crushed by six wickets. His in the 2009 Twenty20 Cup helped Somerset achieve the last of that challenge, where they were again beaten by Sussex. He was granted his district top amid the last round of the 2009 County Championship against Worcestershire. 

Following his solid exhibitions for Somerset, Kieswetter was a piece of the England Performance Program squad that went through about two months of the English winter preparing in Loughborough and Pretoria. The South African national cricket commander, Graeme Smith, said that he needed Kieswetter to come back to play cricket in South Africa; as opposed to straightforwardly welcoming him to play for the South Africa national cricket group, he expressed that "the test is to get him once again into our establishment framework first, yet he is absolutely somebody we have seen and might want to get once again into the framework". Kieswetter rehashed his longing to play global cricket for England. 

In 2010, Kieswetter met all requirements to play for England based on having a British international ID, through his Scottish mother, and his residency in England. Under the tenets for universal cricket, he needed to hold up until four years after his last appearance for South Africa, which was on 16 February 2006 amid the Under-19s World Cup. In January 2010, he was named as a feature of the England Lions squad to visit the United Arab Emirates for an arrangement against Pakistan A. The England head mentor, Andy Flower, depicted Kieswetter's exhibitions amid that visit as "a great begin", and portrayed the Twenty20 warm-up match between the England Lions and the England senior group that pursued the visit as "a possibility for him to inspire". Amid that coordinate, which was played on the day that he met all requirements for England, Kieswetter scored to enable the Lions to beat the senior group. 

After England's drawn T20I arrangement with Pakistan in mid-February 2010, Kieswetter was added to the senior England squad for the ODI arrangement against Bangladesh. He was promptly incorporated into the group, playing as an authority batsman close by wicket-attendant Matt Prior, in the main warm-up match on 23 February against the Bangladesh Cricket Board XI. He scored 143, his profession best one-day score, from 123 balls. That score, and his exhibitions for the England Lions, prompted Kieswetter's choice for the first ODI against Bangladesh on 28 February. Opening the innings nearby skipper Alastair Cook, Kieswetter battled in his first finished; he made in an innings depicted by "ESPNcricinfo"s Andrew Miller as "tinged with nerves" and "chancy". In the following match, after two days, Kieswetter misplayed his first ball and was about expelled; he was then gotten off a comparative mishit from the following ball bowled. In the third match, he scored his first global century – which helped England to 284 for five and a 45-run triumph. Britain won the arrangement 3– 0. As opposed to the "hard-hitting batting" which Geoff Miller, the England selector, had refered to as one reason for his incorporation, Kieswetter's century was calmly worked after an apprehensive begin. 

At the point when the England squad was reported for the 2010 ICC World Twenty20, Kieswetter was named as the main wicket-manager in the squad, supplanting Prior. Kieswetter opened the innings with Michael Lumb all through the competition, and "ESPNcricinfo"s Andrew McGlashan recognized their exhibitions as one reason that England achieved the last. Amid the last, Kieswetter was England's top-scorer, hitting from , and was named as the man of the match as England won their first ICC worldwide title. Amid the competition, Kieswetter scored , the fourth-a large portion of any player, at a normal of 31.71 and a strike rate of 116.84. 

In the wake of coming back to England, Kieswetter's structure plunged, and he scored 121 runs from eight ODIs against Australia and Bangladesh. Thus, when England played five ODIs against Pakistan in September, Kieswetter was excluded and Worcestershire's Steven Davies was favored, despite the fact that Kieswetter was incorporated into the T20I squad. Kieswetter opened the innings close by Davies, who was playing as wicket-attendant, in the two T20Is, however just made scores of six and sixteen. In spite of the fact that named in the T20I squad for the voyage through Australia, he was not chose to play, and rather participated in the England Performance Program XI visit, before collaborating with the England Lions to partake in the Regional Four Day Competition in the West Indies. Amid the challenge, Kieswetter scored two centuries, against the Leeward Islands and the Combined Campuses and Colleges. 

Kieswetter started the 2011 season firmly for Somerset, scoring in his initial four one-day matches, including two centuries. One more century, in the County Championship provoked Jeremy James of "ESPNcricinfo" to ask "whether Craig Kieswetter will recover his place in England's one-day side before Jos Buttler expect it in front of him". His structure earned him a review to England's one-day squads for the arrangement against Sri Lanka, Geoff Miller saying "[Kieswetter] will offer some genuine flame control with the bat alongside his capacity with the gloves". In his first match back for England, the Twenty20 match, Kieswetter just scored four runs, however he was England's top-scorer in the first ODI coordinate, with , and was depicted as "Britain's most great batsman". He struck another 50 years in the fourth match of the arrangement: he scored 72 not out as England won by ten wickets. After seven days, playing for Somerset against Nottinghamshire, he scored , the most elevated innings of his top of the line profession, as a feature of a 290-run organization with James Hildreth. 

Kieswetter remained England wicket-guardian for the T20I and ODI matches against India late in the season. In the T20I, Buttler, his kindred Somerset wicket-guardian, made his presentation, yet as a pro batsman; Jonny Bairstow, the Yorkshire wicket-manager, made his introduction in the last ODI in a comparable job. In that arrangement, Kieswetter battled against the moving ball in English conditions yet was commended for his assaulting batting, incorporating from in the second match. In light of the quantity of appearances that he made for England, Kieswetter was granted a gradual contract by the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) in September 2011. Amid England's resulting 5– 0 ODI arrangement misfortune in India, portrayed by the "Wisden Cricketers' Almanack"s Stephen Brenkley as "a visit unreasonably far for England", Kieswetter was the main England batsman to keep up a strike rate over 100. He scored one 50 years amid the visit, and was incorporated into the England Lions squad that visited Sri Lanka three months after the fact. 

Playing for the Lions, Kieswetter moved into the center request, as opposed to opening the batting; this was planned to set him up for a comparative switch with the senior England group to permit Kevin Pietersen to open. He scored a century and 50 years to enable England to win the arrangement 3– 2, however he was outflanked by Buttler. In mid 2012, playing against Pakistan in the United Arab Emirates, Kieswetter just batted twice in the ODI arrangement, and was lauded for his 43-run commitment in the fourth match, however George Dobell of "ESPNcricinfo" distinguished his wicket-keeping as "still not as cleaned as he might want". In spite of the fact that Kieswetter dropped down the request in ODIs, he held his place opening the batting in T20Is. Rather than the 2010 World Twenty20, when the England players were advised to assault bat sacrificially, in 2012 the group was told to abstain from losing early wickets, and Kieswetter attempted to adjust his diversion to score generally safe singles and turn the strike. Amid the 2012 ICC World Twenty20, he lost his place in England's T20I group after a match against New Zealand in which he scored four keeps running from fourteen balls. That was his last worldwide Twenty20 match. In his 25 diversions, he scored at a normal of 21.91 and a strike rate of 111.91. 

Regardless of his battles in global cricket, Kieswetter had an effective season with Somerset in 2012; he scored 848 top notch keeps running at a normal of a little more than 60, including a century against Warwickshire and one for the Lions against Australia A. The next year, he held his place in the ODI group for the voyage through India, despite the fact that "ESPNcricinfo"s Alex Winter proposed that it may be because of "Britain's craving to ensure the remaining task at hand of their players in front of consecutive Ashes arrangement." Winter's partner, Dobell, portrayed the England ODI wicket-attendant position as one of England's key territories requiring goals, refering to both Bairstow and Buttler as contender to dominate, just as the likelihood of Matt Prior, the England Test wicket-guardian, recovering the job. Kieswetter played the initial three ODIs of the arrangement, scoring 24 not out, 18 and 0 preceding he was dropped and supplanted by Buttler. Dobell depicted Kieswetter as "maybe... somewhat appalling", yet refered to his powerlessness to modify his diversion and the quantity of balls he hindered as the purposes behind his expulsion. He played , scoring at a normal of 30.11. 

The challenge among Kieswetter and Buttler for England's one-day wicket-keeping job additionally caused struggle at Somerset for the 2013 season: the two players needed to satisfy the job for the district. Kieswetter started the season as the wicket-manager in the County Championship, yet broke his thumb amid the third match of the period, which kept him out of activity for about a month and a half. Kieswetter had an especially solid Twenty20 season, completing as the main run-scorer in the 2013 Friends Life t20 with , including five half-hundreds of years. His partner, Peter Trego, adulated Kieswetter's capacity to construct enormous innings in Twenty20 cricket, and Kieswetter himself said that he "attempted to be more of a dependable player, instead of simply control blasting." He scored a late-season century against Warwickshire in the County Championship, yet in a season in which Somerset battled against transfer, he scored a moderately humble 606 five star keeps running at a normal of 31.89. Toward the finish of the period, Buttler, whose agreement with Somerset had lapsed, reported that he was joining Lancashire, leaving Kieswetter as the reasonable first-decision wicket-guardian at Somerset. 

Kieswetter marked with the Brisbane Heat for the 2013– 14 Big Bash League. Amid the competition, he scored from eight matches including two half-hundreds of years. He entered the 2014 Indian Premier League closeout, yet stayed unsold. He was called up as a late swap for the harmed Luke Wright for England's squad in the 2014 ICC World Twenty20, yet was not chose to play. He started the 2014 season emphatically for Somerset, especially in the Twenty20 challenge, in which he scored six half-hundreds of years in ten innings, averaging just shy of 50. 

On 12 July 2014, Kieswetter endured a broken nose and cracked cheek bone while batting for Somerset against Northamptonshire in a County Championship coordinate. The bowler, David Willey, conveyed a bouncer which experienced the hole between the grille and the visor on Kieswetter's cap and struck him in the face. The wounds were at first depicted by Somerset's executive, Andy Nash, as "genuine yet non-profession compromising". He experienced facial medical procedure, and experienced twofold vision for some time after. He came back to the Somerset side before the finish of the 2014 season and scored 50 years in his first match back, against Middlesex, however he conceded that his vision was as yet not completely recuperated. Kieswetter marked for the South African establishment Warriors as their abroad player to play in the Ram Slam T20 Challenge for the 2014– 15 season. He played every one of the ten counterparts for the Warriors, scoring at a normal of 22.11, including two half-hundreds of years. 

On 10 December 2014, regardless of having been named in England's 30-man temporary 2015 Cricket World Cup squad, Kieswetter uncovered that he was all the while enduring vision issues. He declared that he would not play in the 2015 season and would look for further treatment. The next June, he reported his retirement from expert cricket, saying that, in spite of the fact that he was as yet equipped for playing, he couldn't play to the standard he needed: "At last I just idea, there are an excessive number of fair players in province cricket – and good karma to them – however I would prefer not to be another." He discovered batting in floodlit conditions especially troublesome, and depicted the vision in his correct eye as being "just at 80 or 85 percent". He completed his vocation with comparable insights in five star and one-day cricket; in both he arrived at the midpoint of just shy of 40 and had scored eleven centuries. In Twenty20 cricket, his most astounding score was 89 not out, and he found the middle value of a little more than 30. In a meeting with "ESPNcricinfo" soon after his retirement, Kieswetter said that he would be keen on working in the media, maybe as a component of a discourse group for Twenty20 matches. 

Albeit uncommon, the damage to Kieswetter was trailed by another prominent case, when Phillip Hughes passed on subsequent to being struck on the head by a cricket ball while batting. These occurrences drove the ECB to make the wearing of protective caps obligatory for expert cricketers in England from the beginning of the 2016 season, and prohibited them from wearing head protectors with movable grilles, determining that the hole between the grille and the top ought to be close to . 

Kieswetter's sure and assaulting batting style was contrasted with that of Kevin Pietersen, another England batsman of South African starting point. In spite of the fact that Kieswetter favored the off-side, he was likewise solid behind square on the two sides, and remained with a regular South African position, his bat held high. He played with what "Wisden" depicted as an "alluring, uncomplicated front-foot system". He started his profession playing before his stumps, yet once bowlers had worked out his strategy, he moved his batting position to outside the leg stump to give himself more space to drive the ball. This move had some accomplishment on level subcontinental pitches, yet was less successful in England, where the ball would in general alter course more. Kieswetter conceded that the change had not worked, saying that "I wasn't generally moving my feet. I was staying leg-side and playing with my hands. My system simply wasn't sufficiently able to adapt." After being dropped by England, Kieswetter dealt with his batting, which had been portrayed by Steve James as a "free for all at the wrinkle, as hyper as an adolescent on a night out". He moved back before his stumps, and kept up a more settled attitude, intending to develop an innings. 

He was commonly more exceedingly respected for his batting than his wicket-keeping, regularly drawing analysis for the nature of his glovework. In spite of this, he was now and again viewed as a superior wicket-guardian than two of his opponents for England; Bairstow and Buttler. Regardless, playing in a period when global groups did not play master wicket-attendants, Kieswetter's choice depended essentially upon his batting capacity, as opposed to his keeping capacity. For several matches amid 2012, he was utilized as an off turn bowler by Somerset, gathering three wickets. 

Somerset tried different things with Kieswetter all through the request, attempting to locate the best spot for him. He started as a center request batsman, however before the finish of the 2007 season, in spite of the fact that he stayed in the center request in top of the line cricket, Kieswetter normally wound up opening the batting close by Marcus Trescothick in one-day cricket, a job he would likewise take up in opening six matches of the 2009 Twenty20 Cup, despite the fact that he later dropped again into the center request to improve the equalization of the side. On his worldwide call-up, England utilized Kieswetter as an opening batsman. He was chosen "due to his demonstrated capacity to puncture the field in the Powerplay overs, especially with his blasting drives up and over the spreads." He later moved down the request for England to suit Kevin Pietersen as opener. 

After Kieswetter's retirement from cricket, his dad proposed that he enjoy a reprieve and play some golf. He had done as such amid his childhood in South Africa, playing in common competitions. After certain exercises with David Leadbetter, who proposed that he attempt to turn into an expert golfer, Kieswetter started to enter beginner competitions. In the wake of performing admirably in those occasions, he set himself an objective of turning into an expert, and playing normally on the European Tour. In late 2016, he partook in two or three PGA EuroPro Tour competitions and one on the MENA Golf Tour. In mid 2017, he turned proficient and in March played in the MENA Golf Tour qualifying school in Morocco, completing tied for 31st spot and acquiring a card for the 2017 season. He played consistently on the Tour amid 2017 and in September won his greatest prize of the period, winning US$360 in the Dubai Creek Open subsequent to completing tied for 38th spot.