Lê Quang Tung 

Colonel Lê Quang Tung (13 June 1919 – 1 November 1963) was the authority of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam Special Forces under the direction of Ngô Đình Nhu. Nhu was the sibling of South Vietnam's leader, Ngô Đình Diệm. A previous hireling of the Ngô family, Tung's military foundation was in security and counterespionage. 

Amid the 1950s, Tung was a high-positioning authority in Nhu's Cần Lao, a mystery political contraption which kept up the Ngô family's hold on influence, coercing cash from rich specialists. In 1960, Tung was elevated legitimately to the position of colonel and turned into the officer of the extraordinary powers. His period in charge of South Vietnam's world class troops was noted for the most part for his work in curbing protesters, instead of battling the Viet Cong agitators. His best-realized assault was the strike on Xá Lợi pagoda on 21 August 1963, in which hundreds kicked the bucket or vanished. 

Tung's primary military program was a plan in which Army of the Republic of Vietnam work force endeavored to invade North Vietnam so as to take part in knowledge assembling and harm. The program was incapable; by far most of infiltrators were murdered or caught. Tung was likewise answered to design a death endeavor on Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., the United States Ambassador to South Vietnam. 

Following the pagoda assaults, the United States ended subsidizing to Tung's men since they were utilized as a political instrument instead of against the socialists. Alongside Diệm and Nhu, Tung was killed amid the November 1963 overthrow. Nhu and Tung had been setting up a phony upset and counter-overthrow so as to give a bogus exhibition of the routine's quality. Be that as it may, the pair were unconscious that General Tôn Thất Đính, who was arranging the fake task, was associated with the genuine overthrow plot. Đính deceived Tung into sending his men into the wide open, leaving the routine in Saigon without the security of the exceptional powers. This prompted the simple oust of the routine. 

Tung was conceived in June 13, 1919 in focal Vietnam, which was then the protectorate of Annam in French Indochina. The previous worker of the Ngô family was faithfully Roman Catholic, short and bespectacled. Tung had a military foundation on the whole in security and counterespionage, which was a bizarre reason for driving the exceptional powers. Tung had first served the French as a security officer in Central Vietnam. He at that point worked for Diệm as a lieutenant in the military security administration in Central Vietnam. As a high-positioning authority in Nhu's Cần Lao, the mystery Catholic political contraption which kept up the Ngô family's hold on influence, Tung collected gathering assets by coercing cash from well off representatives. Tung was principally known among partners for his enduring devotion to Diệm. In 1960, he was elevated directly to the position of colonel and put responsible for the unique powers. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) viewed Tung as the third most influential man in South Vietnam behind Diệm and Nhu, along these lines positioning him as South Vietnam's most dominant military officer. 

Tung had been prepared by the CIA in the United States. A Diệm supporter, he drove a power of 1,840 men, which worked under the heading of Nhu instead of the military order. He didn't lead tasks against the socialist Việt Cộng guerillas, however utilized his powers principally in Saigon to subdue rivals of the Diệm routine. Tung's most remarkable assaults happened amid the Buddhist emergency of 1963. Amid this period, the Buddhist dominant part occupied with mass dissents against the master Catholic approaches of the Diệm routine. 

On 21 August 1963, Tung's men, following up on Nhu's requests, attacked the Xá Lợi Pagoda, Saigon's primary Buddhist sanctuary. The assaults were repeated the country over, leaving a loss of life evaluated to be in the hundreds. The pagodas endured broad harm and a further 1,400 priests and nuns were captured. The assaults happened after Nhu had deceived a gathering of Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN) officers into consenting to proclaim military law. He realized the commanders were plotting and wanted to misuse military law to topple his sibling, however outflanked them by sending Tung's exceptional powers into the pagodas masked as standard ARVN officers. Thus, South Vietnam's Buddhist dominant part at first idea the normal armed force had assaulted the priests, harming its commanders' validity among the masses as potential pioneers of the nation. Following the assaults, U.S. authorities took steps to retain help to the exceptional powers except if they were utilized to battle socialists instead of assaulting political or religious nonconformists. 

Another prominent religious assault was executed by Tung's men in 1963. A massively larger than usual carp was discovered swimming in a little lake close to the focal city of Đà Nẵng. Nearby Buddhists started to trust that the fish was a rebirth of one of Gautama Buddha's devotees. As more individuals made journeys to the lake, so anxiety developed among the locale boss and his subordinates, who offered an explanation to Ngô Đình Cẩn, another more youthful sibling of Diệm. The authorities mined the lake, yet the fish endure. They raked the lake with automatic weapon discharge, however the carp again gotten away passing. To manage the determined fish, they brought in Tung's extraordinary powers. Tung's men grenaded the lake, at long last executing the carp. The slaughtering reverse discharges, since it produced greater exposure – numerous papers over the world ran anecdotes about the supernatural fish. ARVN helicopters started arriving at the site, with paratroopers filling their containers with water that they accepted to be enchanted. 

Tung likewise headed a gathering kept running by the CIA, in which ARVN work force of northern starting point invaded North Vietnam, acting like local people. The goal was to assemble knowledge and damage socialist framework and interchanges offices. The volunteers were prepared in bases at Nha Trang, Đà Nẵng, and once in a while seaward in Taiwan, Guam and Okinawa. Around eighty gatherings of agents, each numbering six or seven men, were conveyed in 1963. They entered the north by means of parachute drops or sampan ventures during the evening, however almost all were caught or murdered. The hostages were oftentimes utilized in socialist promulgation communicates. Tung was censured for his administration of the tasks. 

At Nhu's solicitation, Tung was accounted for to have been arranging an activity under the front of an administration composed understudy show outside the US Embassy, Saigon. In this arrangement, Tung's men would kill minister Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. also, other key authorities among the disarray. Another objective was the Buddhist chief Thích Trí Quang, who had been given refuge in the consulate subsequent to being focused in the pagoda attacks. As per the arrangement, Tung's men would then torch the government office. 

Following the pagoda attacks, the U.S. started investigating the likelihood of supplanting Diệm. Link 243 educated the US international safe haven to search for elective administration if Diệm did not expel Nhu. In September, the Krulak– Mendenhall mission was despatched to South Vietnam to break down the household circumstance and the war against the socialists. One of the subsequent proposals was to end financing of the exceptional powers as an outflow of objection to Tung and Nhu's activities. Another was to run secret battles to ruin Tung. The Krulak– Mendenhall mission finished in a stalemate, so the Kennedy organization caught up with the McNamara– Taylor mission. The second campaign brought about the suspension of financing for the exceptional powers until they were put under the direction of the military's Joint General Staff (JGS) and sent into fight. 

The McNamara– Taylor mission's report noticed that one reason for sending Tung's men into the field was on the grounds that they "are a proceeding with help for Diệm". The Americans knew that expelling the unique powers from Saigon would build the odds that an upset would succeed, in this way reassuring the military to oust the president. Diệm and Nhu were unflinching by the suspension of help, keeping Tung and his men in the capital. In private converses with US authorities, Diệm demanded that the military was in charge of the pagoda assaults and that Tung's men were at that point under the control of the JGS. 

By September, Diệm and Nhu realized that a gathering of commanders were arranging an upset. Nhu requested Tung and Tôn Thất Đính — a supporter general who directed the ARVN III Corps which included the Saigon area — to design a phony overthrow against the legislature. One target was to trap hostile to government nonconformists into joining the bogus uprising so they could be recognized and dispensed with. Another point was to give an advertising stunt that would give a bogus impression of the quality of the routine. 

Codenamed Operation Bravo, the primary phase of the plan included a portion of Tung's supporter fighters, camouflaged as guerillas, faking an upset. Tung would then report the development of a "progressive government" comprising of resistance activists, while Diệm and Nhu professed to be on the run. Amid the organized confusion of the principal upset, the hidden followers would revolt and in the resulting anarchy, slaughter the main overthrow plotters, for example, Generals Dương Văn Minh, Trần Văn Đôn, Lê Văn Kim and junior officers that were helping them. Tung's men and a portion of Nhu's black market associations were likewise to slaughter a few figures who were helping the backstabbers, for example, the main yet generally frail Vice President Nguyễn Ngọc Thơ, CIA operator Lucien Conein, who was on task in Vietnam as a military consultant, and Ambassador Lodge. These would then be accused on "neutralist and genius socialist components". This was to be trailed by a phony "counter-upset", whereupon Tung's uncommon powers, having left Saigon on the guise of battling socialists, just as Đính's powers would triumphantly return Saigon to reaffirm the Diệm routine. Nhu would then endeavor the alarm to round up dissenters. 

In any case, Nhu and Tung were ignorant that Đính was a piece of the genuine overthrow plot. The III Corps administrator disclosed to Tung that the counter-upset expected to utilize a staggering measure of power. He said that tanks were required "in light of the fact that reinforcement is risky". While trying to outmaneuver Tung, Đính said that crisp troops were required, opining: 

The followers were ignorant that Đính's genuine expectation was to overwhelm Saigon with his radical divisions and lock Tung's supporters in the field where they couldn't guard the president. Tung and the royal residence consented to send each of the four Saigon-based unique powers organizations out of the capital of Saigon on 29 October 1963. 

On 1 November 1963, Tung was gathered by the upset coordinators to the Joint General Staff home office at Tân Sơn Nhứt Air Base, on the affection of a standard officers' lunch meeting. At 13:30, General Trần Văn Đôn reported that an overthrow was occurring. A large portion of the officers rose to praise, yet Tung did not. He was removed by Nguyễn Văn Nhung, the guardian of General Dương Văn Minh. As he was driven away, Tung yelled "Recollect who gave you your stars!" 

Amid the beginning times of the overthrow, the radicals constrained Tung to arrange his men to surrender. This implied just the Presidential Guard was left to protect Gia Long Palace. At 16:45, Tung was constrained at gunpoint to converse with Diệm on the telephone, telling the president that he had advised his men to surrender. Minh requested Nhung to execute the Diệm follower. Tung had neglected to persuade the president to surrender and still instructed the steadfastness of his men. Different officers had little compassion, since the unique powers authority had camouflaged his men in armed force outfits and confined the commanders for the pagoda assaults. The commanders knew about the danger Tung presented; they had talked about his disposal amid their arranging, having considered pursuing a hostile against his uncommon powers. 

At dusk he was taken with Major , his sibling and representative, options limited, into a jeep and headed to edge of the air base. Compelled to stoop more than two naturally burrowed gaps, the siblings were shot into their graves and covered. The upset was fruitful, and on the next morning, Diệm and Nhu were caught and executed.