Chrisye 

Chrismansyah Rahadi (; 16 September 1949 – 30 March 2007), brought into the world Christian Rahadi however better known by his stage name of Chrisye (), was an Indonesian dynamic pop artist and musician. In his 40-year profession he won numerous honors and awards; in 2011 "Moving Stone Indonesia" pronounced him the third-most prominent Indonesian performer ever. 

Conceived in Jakarta of blended Chinese-Indonesian plunge, Chrisye ended up intrigued by music at an early age. At secondary school he played low pitch guitar in a band he shaped with his sibling, Joris. In the late 1960s he joined Sabda Nada (later Gipsy), a band driven by his neighbors, the Nasutions. In 1973, after a short break, he rejoined the band to play in New York for a year. He quickly came back to Indonesia and afterward returned to New York with another band, the Pro's. After indeed coming back to Indonesia, he teamed up with Gipsy and Guruh Sukarnoputra to record the 1976 non mainstream collection "Guruh Gipsy". 

Following the accomplishment of "Guruh Gipsy", in 1977 Chrisye recorded two of his most widely praised works: "Lilin-Lilin Kecil" by James F. Sundah, which in the end turned into his mark tune, and the soundtrack collection "Badai Pasti Berlalu". Their prosperity landed him a chronicle contract with Musica Studios, with whom he discharged his first solo collection, "Sabda Alam", in 1978. Over his very nearly 25-year profession with Musica he recorded a further eighteen collections, and in 1980 acted in a film, "Seindah Rembulan". Chrisye passed on in his Jakarta home on 30 March 2007 after a long fight with lung malignant growth. 

Known for his solid stage persona and smooth vocals, Chrisye was widely praised in Indonesia. Five collections to which he contributed were incorporated into "Moving Stone Indonesia" rundown of the 150 Best Indonesian Albums of All Time; another four of his melodies (and a fifth to which he contributed) were delegated the absolute best Indonesian tunes ever in a later issue of a similar magazine. A few of his collections got affirmation of silver or gold. He got two lifetime accomplishment grants, one out of 1993 from the BASF Awards and another after death in 2007 from Indonesian TV slot SCTV. 

Chrisye was brought into the world Christian Rahardi in Jakarta on 16 September 1949 to Laurens Rahadi, a Chinese-Betawi business person, and Hanna Rahadi, a Chinese-Sundanese housewife. He was the second of three children destined to the couple; his siblings were Joris and Vicky. The family lived on Talang Street close Menteng, Central Jakarta, until 1954, when they moved to Pegangsaan Street (likewise in Menteng). 

While going to GIKI Elementary School, Chrisye become friends with the neighboring Nasution family; he turned out to be particularly near Bamid Gauri, with whom he played badminton and flew kites. He additionally started tuning in to his dad's record accumulation, chiming in to melodies by Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, Nat King Cole, and Dean Martin. In the wake of moving on from grade school, Chrisye went to Christian Middle School III Diponegoro. 

Beatlemania achieved Indonesia while Chrisye was in Senior High School PSKD Menteng, and expanded his enthusiasm for music. Reacting to Chrisye's craving to play an instrument, his dad got him a guitar; Chrisye picked the low pitch guitar, as he thought of it as the most straightforward to ace. As they couldn't peruse music, Chrisye and Joris figured out how to play by going with their dad's records and tunes recorded from the radio. In time they started playing at school occasions, with vocals by Chrisye. Amid this period he started smoking in school; when gotten, he was rebuffed by being compelled to smoke eight cigarettes without a moment's delay, before the gathered understudies. Notwithstanding, this neglected to fix his propensity and he in the end turned into a chain smoker. 

In the mid-1960s, the Nasution kin framed a band; Chrisye and Joris watched them play tunes by Uriah Heep and Blood, Sweat and Tears. In 1968 Chrisye enrolled at the Christian University of Indonesia (UKI) to satisfy his dad's desire that he become an architect. Around 1969, in any case, Gauri welcomed him to join the Nasutions' band, Sabda Nada, as a swap for their bassist Eddi Odek who was sick. Satisfied with his execution, the Nasutions requested that he remain as a lasting part. The gathering had a standard gig at Mini Disko on Juanda Street and outsourced at birthday and wedding parties. At the point when Chrisye got an opportunity to sing while at the same time performing covers, he endeavored to sound as much like the first craftsman as he could. 

The gathering was renamed Gipsy in 1969, which they thought about progressively macho and Western-sounding. The calendar for the band, which had no administrator, turned out to be progressively occupied, since they had started giving standard exhibitions at Ismail Marzuki Park. Therefore, Chrisye chose to drop out of UKI; in 1970 he exchanged to Trisakti Tourism Academy, where he considered the examination timetable to be progressively adaptable. 

In 1972 Pontjo Nasution offered Chrisye the chance to play in New York. Albeit happy, Chrisye feared telling his dad, who he thought would object to the thought. He in the end became sick for a while, amid which time the remainder of the band left for New York. After Chrisye examined his feelings of trepidation with Joris and his mom, his dad concurred that he could drop out of school to join Gipsy. After his wellbeing improved, in mid-1973, he left with Pontjo to meet Gipsy in New York. That equivalent year he dropped out of Trisakti. 

While in New York, Gipsy performed at the Ramayana Restaurant, which was possessed by the Indonesian gas organization Pertamina. The band, housed in a condo on Fifth Avenue, performed in New York for very nearly a year, giving Indonesian-themed music and covering tunes by Procol Harum, King Crimson, Emerson, Lake and Palmer, Genesis and Blood, Sweat and Tears. In spite of the fact that Chrisye ended up bombshell that he couldn't completely convey what needs be through spreads, he kept on working. 

After coming back to Indonesia toward the finish of 1973 Gauri and his sibling Keenan acquainted Chrisye with previous president Sukarno's child, the lyricist Guruh Sukarnoputra. As the Nasutions worked with Guruh to get ready for their next task, Chrisye started to compose his very own melodies; in doing as such he noticed that he experienced issues with verses that included hard consonants, and attempted to maintain a strategic distance from them. The next year, he returned to New York with another band, The Pro's. In mid-1975, with half a month left on his agreement, Chrisye's folks called from Jakarta to disclose to him that his sibling Vicky had passed on of a stomach contamination. Unfit to return home quickly, Chrisye ended up diverted by contemplations of his family and started to discover playing troublesome. As the band came back to Indonesia, Chrisye "sobbed for the length of the flight" and sank into a melancholy. 

Chrisye quit playing through and through until the Nasutions welcomed him to rejoin Gipsy for their new task with Guruh, who offered Chrisye a few tunes in which he would be lead vocalist, with verses composed particularly for him. Defeating his sorrow, he joined the gathering as they rehearsed at Guruh's home in Kebayoran Baru, South Jakarta. The band regularly practiced late into the night; the outside the box venture blended Western shake and Balinese gamelan and was delivered cooperatively. Recording occurred in mid-1975, with just four tunes finished in the initial a while. It was discharged to basic praise in 1976, with a generation of 5000 copies. The achievement of "Guruh Gipsy" persuaded Chrisye that he could sing as a soloist. 

In late 1976 Chrisye was drawn nearer by lyricist Jockie Soerjoprajogo and Imran Amir, head of Prambors Radio, who approached him to give the vocals to the Prambors Radio Teenage Songwriting Competition; Chrisye won't, as he would not like to sing an Indonesian pop tune. A few days after the fact Sys NS, a representative of Prambors, drew nearer Chrisye while he was meeting with Guruh and Eros Djarot. Sys stressed that Prambors required Chrisye for "Lilin-Lilin Kecil" ("Little Candles"), made by James F. Sundah. In the wake of hearing the verses, Chrisye concurred. The tune was recorded in Irama Mas Studio in Pluit, North Jakarta, and included on a collection with the other challenge champs. Initially the ninth track, "Lilin-Lilin Kecil" was put ahead of the pack position to expand the collection's attractiveness after the first arrangement sold inadequately. The melody at that point took off, accepting much airplay; the collection was the top of the line of the year. 

After the accomplishment of "Lilin-Lilin Kecil", in mid-1977 Pramaqua Records drew nearer Chrisye and offered him an agreement for a collection, "Jurang Pemisah" ("Dividing Canyon"). Working with Jockie, Ian Antono, and Teddy Sujaya, Chrisye recorded seven melodies for the collection; Jockie completed two more. In spite of the fact that he was satisfied with the outcomes and had high trusts in the collection, Pramaqua chose it was not industrially feasible and wouldn't advance it until Chrisye's ensuing collection "Badai Pasti Berlalu" took off. After his fruitless endeavor to purchase up all the stock, the collection was discharged, but since the overall population thought of it as a continuation of "Badai Pasti Berlalu", the deals were poor. In spite of the fact that the tapes achieved radio stations all through the nation, Chrisye later portrayed the collection as selling "as heartily as chicken poop". 

That equivalent year, Chrisye and a few craftsmen including Djarot and Jockie recorded the soundtrack for the film "Badai Pasti Berlalu" more than two months. After the soundtrack won a Citra Award at the 1978 Indonesian Film Festival, Irama Mas studios moved toward the gathering to complete a soundtrack collection for a level expense. With Chrisye and Berlian Hutauruk on vocals, the soundtrack was rerecorded in collection structure in Pluit over 21 days. It was discharged under a similar name as the film, with an image of performing artist Christine Hakim on the spread. The collection incorporated Chrisye's first songwriting credit, "Merepih Alam" ("Fragile Nature"), however deals were dormant for the primary week until radio stations started to play the singles. 

Chrisye's tenor voice and execution on "Badai Pasti Berlalu" drove Amin Widjaja of Musica Studios to request that he sign with Musica; Widjaja had been exploring him since the arrival of "Guruh Gipsy". Chrisye conceded to condition that he be permitted innovative opportunity, to which Widjaja reluctantly concurred. In May 1978 Chrisye started take a shot at his first collection with Musica, "Sabda Alam" ("Nature's Order"), fusing a few melodies by different specialists and some composed independent from anyone else, including the title tune. He recorded it in the wake of securing himself in the studio with the sound architect and arranger; notwithstanding Amin's needing to screen their advancement, Chrisye would not permit him get to. The collection, incredibly impacted by "Badai Pasti Berlalu" and drawing immediately following strategy spearheaded by the Beatles (in which the vocals are recorded twice to accomplish more full stable), was discharged in August that year. Vigorously advanced in a crusade amid which Chrisye was met on the national TV slot TVRI and on radio, the collection in the end sold 400,000 copies. 

The next year Chrisye recorded "Percik Pesona" ("Stain of Enchantment") with Jockie. Delivered after Amin's demise, the collection highlighted tunes composed by Chrisye's dear companion Junaidi Salat, just as Jockie and Guruh. The collection's title was picked by vote; the main melody was not discharged as a solitary. "Percik Pesona", discharged in August 1979, was a basic and business disappointment. In the wake of examining the issue with different specialists, Chrisye accused the collection's disappointment for its comparability to "Badai Pasti Berlalu". Therefore, following a time of examination, he started stretching out into various kinds. That equivalent year he was on the board of the Prambors Teenage Songwriting Competition, hung on 5 May. 

Subsequent to choosing that sentimental pop tunes impacted by simple listening would suit him best, Chrisye started recording his next collection, "Puspa Indah" ("Beautiful Flower"). Everything except one of the melodies were created by Guruh Sukarnoputra; the collection likewise highlighted the English-language "To My Friends on Legian Beach". Two of the tunes, "Galih dan Ratna" ("Galih and Ratna") and "Gita Cinta" ("Love Song"), were utilized in the 1979 film "Gita Cinta dari SMA" ("Love Song from High School"); Chrisye had a minor impact in the film's spin-off, "Puspa Indah Taman Hati" ("Beautiful Flower in the Heart's Garden"), as a vocalist. Due to some extent to the fame of the film, "Puspa Indah" was generally welcomed and sold well; "Galih dan Ratna" and "Gita Cinta", discharged as singles, were likewise financially effective. 

In 1980 Chrisye showed up in the Indonesian film "Seindah Rembulan" ("As Beautiful as the Moon"); at first hesitant to acknowledge the job, he was persuaded by Sys NS that it would be enjoyable. He later lamented the choice, considering the movie group amateurish and regularly battling with chief Syamsul Fuad. The next year, he discharged "Pantulan Cita" ("Reflection of Dreams"), a joint effort with Jockie. After the collection slumped, Chrisye took a long vacation. 

Albeit well known with groupies, Chrisye had infrequently dated. In any case, in mid 1981 he started pursuing Guruh Sukarnoputra's secretary, Gusti Firoza Damayanti Noor (Yanti). Yanti, of blended Dayak and Minang heritage, was a previous vocalist and originated from a musically slanted family; she would regularly talk about music with Chrisye while he hung tight for Guruh, and he would likewise observe her when visiting her sibling Raidy, one of his companions. When she moved to Bali to work at a five-star lodging there for a little while, Chrisye pursued her and revealed to her that he would wed her when she came back to Jakarta; despite the fact that this was not a formal proposition, Yanti acknowledged. In 1982 Chrisye changed over to Islam, as Islam does not allow interfaith relational unions between Muslim ladies and non-Muslim men, and changed his name to Chrismansyah Rahadi; Chrisye at the time had been becoming progressively discontent and baffled with Christianity. On 12 December 1982 he wedded Yanti in a Padang-style wedding. 

Driven by his poor money related position and animated by Djarot's arrival from Germany, Chrisye started take a shot at his next collection with Djarot and Jockie in mid 1983. Aciu Widjaja, the new director of Musica, conjectured that they required another sound; thusly, Chrisye, Djarot, and Jockie blended workmanship shake with Chrisye's standard sentimental pop and drew impacts from The Police. The subsequent collection, "Resesi" ("Recession"), was discharged in 1983. The collection was generally welcomed, selling 350,000 duplicates and being guaranteed silver; the singles "Lenny", "Hening" ("Silent"), and "Malam Pertama" ("Wedding Night") got much airplay. 

After "Resesi", Chrisye worked together with Djarot and Jockie on the 1983 collection "Metropolitan". The collection, drawing on new wave impacts and managing issues confronting youth, was generally welcomed, later going silver; the single "Selamat Jalan Kekasih" ("Goodbye Dear") likewise turned into a hit. That year, Chrisye and Yanti had their first girl, Rizkia Nurannisa. The next year, Chrisye, Djarot, and Jockie teamed up again on "Nona" ("Miss"), which included social analysis; the collection brought forth four singles and proceeded to be affirmed platinum. In spite of "Nona" warm deals, after some impact from Aciu, Chrisye chose to search for another sound and severed his association with Djarot and Jockie in mid-1984. 

Chrisye drew closer Addie MS, a youthful author, and requested that he help with the following collection. Addie, in spite of inclination that he was not in a similar class as Djarot and Jockie, acknowledged, and recommended utilizing comparable tunes as in "Lilin-Lilin Kecil" and "Badai Pasti Berlalu". The subsequent collection, "Sendiri" ("Alone"), with melodies by Guruh and Junaidi Salat, included harps, oboes, cor anglais, and a string area. Bringing forth three singles, the collection sold well and earned Chrisye his first BASF Award. 

In late 1984 Chrisye moved toward another youthful writer, Adjie Soetama, to enable him to set up his next collection. Light beats and bright tunes were in vogue at the time; in this manner the two utilized a lighter style. Recording for the new collection, titled "Aku Cinta Dia" ("I Love Her"), started in 1985, with extra tunes from Guruh and Dadang S. Manaf. The main melody was picked after Aciu heard a jam session driven by Adjie and quickly concluded that it would be the lead single. The collection called for all the more emoting, which Chrisye – known as having a solid stage persona – attempted to convey, however Yanti arranged vivid outfits and Alex Hasyim prepared him in movement. Upon its discharge, "Aku Cinta Dia" sold a huge number of duplicates in the main week and was inevitably confirmed gold. That equivalent year, Chrisye and Adji Soetama discharged "Hip Hura" ("Hip Hurray!"), and another coordinated effort, "Nona Lisa" ("Miss Lisa"), was discharged in 1986; the later two collections had comparative beats and rhythms and sold well, despite the fact that not just as "Aku Cinta Dia". On 2 March 1986 Chrisye and Yanti had their second little girl, Risty Nurraisa. 

In spite of the achievement of the set of three, Chrisye and his family kept on battling monetarily; twice they needed to pitch their family vehicle to raise money. This drove Chrisye to quickly consider stopping the music business. In 1988 Chrisye recorded "Jumpa Pertama" ("First Meeting"), and the next year he discharged "Pergilah Kasih" ("Go Away Dear"). He later reviewed that the collection, with a game plan by Younky Suwarno, had a "lovely touch". The title tune, "Pergilah Kasih", was composed by Tito Sumarsono and used to make Chrisye's first music video; the video, coordinated by Jay Subyakto, was the main Indonesian melody to be appeared on MTV Southeast Asia. 

On 27 February of the next year, Chrisye and Yanti had twin children, Randa Pramasha and Rayinda Prashatya. In 1992 Chrisye recorded a spread single of Koes Plus' melody "Cintamu T'lah Berlalu" ("Your Love has Passed") with plan by Younky; the music video was again communicated on MTV Southeast Asia and turned into the main Indonesian music video to be communicated on the American variant of MTV. The next year, Chrisye combined up with Younky again to record "Sendiri Lagi" ("Alone Again"), an undertaking which required four months of arranging and an additional four months of chronicle; the music video for the title tune was likewise coursed on MTV South-East Asia. 

Despite the fact that "Sendiri Lagi" did genuinely well, in the start of the 1990s Chrisye started to feel weight from the undeniably visual-arranged music industry and developing measure of youthful ability. He again started thinking about leaving the music business, feeling as though he had just "achieved the end goal". Notwithstanding consolations from Yanti that numerous vocalists keep on performing into their sixties, Chrisye saw that expanding quantities of built up acts were being pushed aside by newcomers. While in this condition of misery, Chrisye was drawn nearer by Jay Subyakto and Gauri Nasution, who offered him a performance show at the Plenary Hall of the Jakarta Convention Center, which had at no other time facilitated a performance show by an Indonesian craftsman. Unconvinced he had adequate fans to fill the lobby, Chrisye at first won't. 

Gauri strove for a little while to influence Chrisye to focus on the show, and following's first experience with Erwin Gutawa, who was planned to deal with the courses of action, Jay Subyakto prevailing with regards to persuading him that it may be the last opportunity to resuscitate his profession. Coming up short on the important subsidizing, they drew nearer RCTI looking for sponsorship however were won't, and laughingly informed that they should have a go at holding a show at the National Monument. Unfazed, Chrisye, Subaktyo, and Gutawa set up together a gathering of craftsmen and started practices. Around the season of RCTI's fourth commemoration, the TV channel yielded and consented to finance the show as a feature of their festivals; the a large number of tickets accessible sold out inside seven days. 

The show, qualified Sendiri for exhibit that "100% Indonesian" shows could be effective, was hung on 19 August 1994. Chrisye played out a set that incorporated his most noteworthy hits and a few two part harmonies, among them "Malam Pertama" with Ruth Sahanaya, before a full symphony led by Gutawa. Chrisye reviewed later that the audience – kids and adults – had retained the verses to his tunes, works of art and late discharges; he said that this motion made him feel fantastically little. Strengthened by the show's prosperity, Chrisye went on visit to Surabaya, Surakarta, and Bandung, utilizing a guard of 24 trucks and transports to transport the essential hardware; those shows additionally sold out. 

Following the accomplishment of his Sendiri visit, Chrisye started to investigate the likelihood of delivering a collection of his initial hits, remastered by Gutawa. Depending on the prerequisite that they utilize an Australian ensemble to give backing music, Gutawa consented to an acoustic-enhanced collection. Aciu likewise concurred, notwithstanding the normal expense of Rp 600 million (US$70,000). After essential account in Jakarta, Chrisye, Gutawa, and sound designer Dany Lisapali went through about fourteen days in Studio 301 in Sydney completing off the collection. The Philip Hartl Chamber Orchestra gave the music; the blending and acing was additionally finished in Sydney. "AkustiChrisye" was discharged in 1996 and sold well. 

After "AkustiChrisye", Gutawa recommended that Chrisye attempt another style, with progressively genuine melodies. The two before long started working together on "Kala Cinta Menggoda", again utilizing an Australian symphony. Chrisye, be that as it may, got himself unfit to record one of the melodies, "Ketika Tangan dan Kaki Berkata" ("When Hands and Feet Speak"), composed by writer Taufiq Ismail and dependent on refrain 65 of the Qu'ranic sura Ya Sin; he would break into tears in the wake of singing just two or three stanzas. Inevitably, the day preceding he was to leave for Australia, he finished the melody with Yanti's help. On 11 October Chrisye performed "Indonesia Perkasa" ("Powerful Indonesia") at the opening service of the 1997 Southeast Asian Games; the melody was composed for the occasion. The next month he discharged "Kala Cinta Menggoda". The music video for the main melody, coordinated by Dimas Djayadiningrat, won the MTV Video Music Award for South-East Asia on 10 September 1998; Chrisye went to Los Angeles to acknowledge the honor at the Universal Amphitheater. 

Chrisye started chip away at a modification of "Badai Pasti Berlalu" in 1999 in line with Musica Studios – despite the fact that he felt that the first collection was fine – and indeed collaborated with Gutawa. The new collection, which held the title "Badai Pasti Berlalu", cost Rp.800 million (US$95,000) to create and advance, to a limited extent inferable from the expense of utilizing an Australian symphony, the Victorian Philharmonic Orchestra. After its discharge, the collection sold well, making back the initial investment inside three months and selling 350,000 duplicates. The collection prompted Chrisye's second sold-out solo show at the Plenary Hall of Jakarta Convention Center, known as the Badai show, and he got various ideas to perform at settings all through the nation. He later told "Kompas" that he felt as though he had achieved an impasse, having attempted all classes accessible. He kept performing, singing "Indonesia Perkasa" at the opening function of the fifteenth National Games on 19 June 2000 in Sidoarjo, East Java. 

In 2001 Chrisye discharged the studio collection "Konser Tur 2001" ("Concert Tour 2001"), which included two new tunes and a few old ones. The music video for one of the new melodies, "Setia" ("Loyal"), was questionable inferable from its depiction of a lady in tight attire. Before long a while later, Chrisye chose to cover some of what he considered the most essential Indonesian melodies since the nation's freedom in 1945, going from tunes from the 1940s as marzuki Ismail's "Kr. Pasar Gambir and Stambul Anak Jampang" ("Kroncong of Gambir Market and Stambul of the Cowlicked Child"), to the late 1990s, for example, Ahmad Dhani's "Kangen" ("Longing"). It additionally included a tune composed only for the collection by Pongky of Jikustik and two part harmonies with Sophia Latjuba. The collection, "Dekade" ("Decade"), was discharged in 2002; by October 2003 it had sold 350,000 duplicates. On 15 December 2002 Chrisye took an interest in the Bali for the World – Voices of Stars show at Kartika Beach Plaza to raise assets for the casualties of the bombings on 12 October; different acts included Melly Goeslaw, Gigi, Slank, and Superman is Dead. On 12 July 2004 Chrisye held a third show, Dekade, at Plenary Hall. The show, with a set that contained various works of art incorporated into "Dekade", highlighted two part harmonies with Sophia Latjuba and a few of the first entertainers, for example, Fariz RM with "Sakura" and A. Rafiq with "Pengalaman Pertama" ("First Experience"); Gutawa's ensemble again gave the music. 

Chrisye then started work on his last studio collection, "Senyawa" ("One Soul"). In a joint effort with other Indonesian specialists including Project Pop, Ungu, and Peterpan, he likewise delivered the collection, supplanting Gutawa. The melody "Bramble Kat" ("Say It Quickly"), with Project Pop, denoted his first endeavor at rap. Discharged in November 2004, the collection was generally welcomed by the market, yet Sony Music Entertainment Indonesia grumbled that the names of their craftsmen were highlighted on the spread. Therefore, the collection was pulled back, and re-discharged without the culpable names. 

In July 2005 Chrisye was admitted to Pondok Indah Hospital, whining of breathing troubles. After 13 days of treatment he was moved to the Mount Elizabeth Hospital in Singapore, where he was determined to have lung malignancy. Albeit worried about losing his hair, which he thought about piece of his picture, he experienced the first of six rounds of chemotherapy on 2 August 2005. 

Chrisye's wellbeing improved in 2006 and in May and November he attempted long meeting sessions with his biographer Alberthiene Endah. He additionally discharged two aggregation collections, "Chrisye by Request" and "Chrisye Duets"; be that as it may, he apparently did not feel all around ok to discharge new melodies. By February 2007 his wellbeing was again in decay. 

Chrisye passed on 30 March 2007 at his home in Cipete, South Jakarta. He was covered in Jeruk Purut Public Cemetery, South Jakarta. His memorial service was gone to by hundreds, including Indonesian famous people, for example, his colleague Erwin Gutawa and vocalists Titiek Puspa, Ahmad Albar, Sophia Latjuba, and Ikang Fawzi. 

One hundred days after Chrisye's demise Musica discharged two assemblage collections. Entitled "Chrisye in Memoriam – Greatest Hits" and "Chrisye in Memoriam – Everlasting Hits", they contained fourteen hits from collections running from "Sabda Alam" to "Senyawa". On 1 August 2008 Chrisye's last single "Lirih" ("Gentle Voice"), composed by Aryono Huboyo Djati, was discharged. The tune's presence had been stayed quiet, and the account date is obscure; Djati has said that it was recorded "for the sake of entertainment". A music video coordinated by Vicky Sianipar and highlighting Ariel Peterpan, Giring from Nidji, and Chrisye's widow was discharged later. 

As indicated by Jockie, one of the fundamental reasons that Chrisye was picked to record "Lilin-Lilin Kecil" was that he had a one of a kind voice with a delicate timbre, which ran well with the consoles utilized; Jockie, be that as it may, felt that Chrisye's voice lost its elements when blended with smooth music, which drove him to give their joint effort "Jurang Pemisah" all the more a stone vibe. Gutawa contrasted Chrisye's voice with a clear sheet of paper, ready to be connected to anything. Sys NS wrote in 2007 that he had been searching for "somebody with the voice of a heavenly attendant" to sing "Lilin-Lilin Kecil", and as he would like to think Chrisye fitted the job consummately. 

An author for the Indonesian magazine "Gatra" portrayed Chrisye's dramatic persona as "firm", with almost no development. Alex Hasyim, who did the movement for "Aku Cinta Dia" and "Hip Hura", reviewed that Chrisye was in a virus sweat on their first day of training and inevitably made his own moving style as he couldn't adhere to Hasyim's guidelines. 

Chrisye picked his own ensembles and on occasion tried different things with various hues and structures. In the entirety of his music recordings he liked to wear a similar style of shirt, jesting in a meeting with "Kompas" that he would possibly wear an alternate one in the event that he had fallen into a dump. 

Chrisye has been depicted as "amazing" by a few writers. In their 2007 rundown of the 150 Best Indonesian Albums of All Time, "Moving Stone Indonesia" positioned "Badai Pasti Berlalu" first. Three of Chrisye's performance collections were additionally on the rundown: "Sabda Alam" at 51, "Puspa Indah" at 57, and "Resesi" at 82. "Guruh Gipsy" was chosen as the second-best collection ever. This was trailed by the choice of four of his melodies ("Lilin-Lilin Kecil" at number 13, "Merpati Putih" at number 43, "Anak Jalanan" at number 72, and "Merepih Alam" at number 90) as probably the best Indonesian tunes ever; Guruh Gipsy's tune "Indonesia Maharddhika" put at number 59. In 2011 they recorded Chrisye as the third-most prominent Indonesian performer ever. Eros Djarot portrayed him as having an extraordinary voice, however to some degree bashful and for the most part reluctant to talk about social issues. 

As per information from the Indonesian Recording Industry Association, the first "Badai Pasti Berlalu" is the second-top of the line Indonesian collection ever, with nine million duplicates sold somewhere in the range of 1977 and 1993. In 1990 the music video for "Pergilah Kasih" was the main Indonesian music video to be appeared on MTV Hong Kong; the video cut for "Sendiri Lagi" was casted a ballot the best Indonesian music video ever in the fifth scene of "Video Musik Indonesia". 

In 2009 numerous Indonesian specialists, including Vina Panduwinata, Ahmad Albar, D'Cinnamons, and Sherina Munaf, performed 20 of Chrisye's tunes as a tribute in the "Chrisye: A Night to Remember" show at the Ritz Carlton, Jakarta. The sold-out show additionally highlighted tributes by his better half and youngsters. Another show, portrayed as Chrisye's fourth, instead of as a tribute show, was hung on 5 April 2012. Entitled Kidung Abadi (Chrisye's Eternal Ballad) and held at Plenary Hall in the Jakarta Convention Center, it included a holographic portrayal of the vocalist performing with Sophia Latjuba, Once Mekel, Vina Panduwinata, and Gutawa's little girl Gita. The show incorporated another melody, "Kidung Abadi" ("Eternal Ballad"), composed by Erwin and Gita Gutawa and made utilizing 246 previously recorded syllables. 

Alberthiene Endah has composed two life stories of Chrisye. The first, "Chrisye: Sebuah Memoar Musikal" ("Chrisye: a Musical Memoir"), was distributed in 2007 and subtleties his youth, vocation, and battle with malignancy. The second, "The Last Words of Chrisye", was discharged in 2010 and covers the last long periods of his life. Another book, "Chrisye, di Mata Media, Sahabat and Fans" ("Chrisye, in the Eyes of the Media, Friends, and Fans") was discharged in March 2012. 

In 2017, a biopic movie portraying on his life venture was booked to be discharged in September, coordinated by Rizal Mantovani and featuring Vino G. Bastian as Chrisye. Taping started in February 2017. 

Chrisye got various honors amid his vocation. In 1979 he was chosen as the Favorite Singer of the Indonesian Armed Forces. His collections "Sabda Alam" and "Aku Cinta Dia" were confirmed gold, and the collections "Hip Hura", "Resesi", "Metropolitan", and "Sendiri" were affirmed silver. 

Chrisye got three BASF Awards, supported by the BASF tape generation organization, for top of the line collections; his initially was in 1984 for "Sendiri", trailed by one out of 1988 for "Jumpa Pertama" and one of every 1989 for "Pergilah Kasih". He got the BASF Lifetime Achievement Award in 1994 for his commitments to Indonesian music; that year he got the BASF Award for Best Recording Artist. In 1997 he got an Anugerah Musik Indonesia for Best Male Pop Singer. The next year "Kala Cinta Menggoda" won nine AMIs, including Best Album; Chrisye himself got grants for Best Male Pop Singer, Best Recording Singer, and Best Graphic Designer (imparted to Gauri). In 2007 he after death got the first SCTV Lifetime Achievement Award, which was acknowledged by his little girl Risty. 

Aciu Widjaja, presently President-Director of Air Asia, depicted Chrisye as a straightforward man and said that one time, when he, Chrisye, and a few others had gone abroad Chrisye was the special case who did not search for brand-name apparel or world-class eateries; rather he ate at a nourishment court and purchased what he felt was agreeable. In his life story, Chrisye noticed that he delighted in eating at roadside foodstalls well after his marriage and would be astounded when individuals gazed at him. Guruh reviewed that Chrisye would rest anyplace amid broadened arranging sessions, including under the piano. 

After his marriage to Yanti, she finished her singing vocation to turn into a housewife. At the point when the couple had youngsters, Chrisye regularly had brief period to go through with them as he was caught up with performing or recording; be that as it may, he endeavored to invest however much energy with them as could reasonably be expected. In a 1992 meeting, he said that his kids did not have any desire to emulate their folks' example and become vocalists since they had seen the burdens it put on the family. 

Chrisye discharged 31 collections amid his lifetime, 1 with Guruh Gipsy, 21 studio collections, and 9 arrangement collections. His performance collections after "Sabda Alam" all sold more than 100,000 copies. In a 1992 meeting with "Kompas", Chrisye said that he became sick in the wake of account every one of his collections, accusing the strain to advance them. 

Chrisye additionally discharged numerous singles, a few of which were utilized as signature tunes for Indonesian cleanser musical dramas: "Pengalaman Pertama" was utilized for the sequential "Ganteng-Ganteng Kok Monyet" ("Very Handsome, But Like a Monkey!"), "Cintaku" ("My Love") from the remastered "Badai Pasti Berlalu" was utilized for "Gadis Penakluk" ("The Maiden Conqueror"), and "Seperti Yang Kau Minta" was utilized for "Disaksikan Bulan" ("Witnessed by the Moon"). 

This area records just singles that were not part of a studio collection. 

Commentaries 

Reference index 

News sources 

Web sources