Susi Kentikian 

Susianna "Susi" Levonovna Kentikian (; conceived Syuzanna Kentikyan on 11 September 1987) is an Armenian-German expert fighter. She was conceived in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, yet left the nation with her family at five years old in light of the Nagorno-Karabakh War. Kentikian has lived in Hamburg since 1996 and started boxing at twelve years old. Following a fruitful beginner vocation, she turned proficient in 2005 after marking with the Hamburg-based Spotlight Boxing advancement. 

Kentikian is a two-time flyweight best on the planet, having held the World Boxing Association (WBA) female title from 2007 to 2012, and from 2013 to 2017. Furthermore, she was the World Boxing Organization (WBO) flyweight champion from 2009 to 2012, and held the Women's International Boxing Federation (WIBF) title from 2007 to 2012 and 2015 to 2017. 

Until 2012, Kentikian stayed undefeated as an expert, winning 16 of her initial 30 battles by knockout or stoppage. The German TV slot ZDF has communicated her battles since July 2009. She had recently featured battle cards for the TV slot ProSieben from 2007 to 2009. Kentikian has increased minor big name status in Germany and she would like to achieve a prominence like that of the resigned German female boxing star Regina Halmich. 

Susianna Kentikian was conceived in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, the girl of veterinary specialist Levon Kentikian and his better half Makruhi. At five years old, she left Armenia with her folks and her nine-year-old sibling, Mikael, on the grounds that her dad was called up to serve in the military amid the Nagorno-Karabakh War. In 1992, the family initially moved to Berlin, Germany and remained at refuge searchers' homes. Be that as it may, because of the viciousness at these offices and their poor learning of the German language, they left Berlin and moved to Moldova and later to Russia, where Kentikian went to class for a brief timeframe. The family came back to Germany in 1996 and migrated in Hamburg, again living in government offices for haven searchers. Kentikian's living arrangement status stayed questionable for right around 10 years. A few times, she and her family were taken to the airplane terminal for extradition, yet the mediation of nearby companions, for example, her novice mentor, Frank Rieth, who called legal counselors, the media and neighborhood government officials, kept their last ejection. Her family got a changeless home license in 2005 when she marked a three-year proficient boxing contract that set up a steady pay. 

At 16 years old, Kentikian started filling in as a cleaner in a nearby wellness focus to help her family monetarily. She moved on from secondary school ("Realschule") in the mid year of 2006 and she in the long run turned into a German native in June 2008. She connected for administration to be permitted to hold her Armenian citizenship. Kentikian lived with her family in a condo close to her Hamburg boxing exercise center. 

Kentikian found her excitement for boxing when she was twelve years of age in the wake of going with her sibling to his boxing preparing. She began with ordinary preparing herself and expressed that boxing had enabled her to overlook a mind-blowing challenges for a brief span: "I could let everything out, my entire vitality. On the off chance that you have such a significant number of issues like our family, you need something to that effect." 

Kentikian won the Hamburg Championships for youngsters from 2001 to 2004. She likewise won the Northern German Championships for youngsters in 2003 and 2004, and in October 2004, she had her greatest beginner accomplishment by winning the International German Women's Amateur Championships in the featherweight division for youngsters. Kentikian discovered it progressively hard to discover adversaries in the novice positions, as couple of fighters needed to confront her, and her status as a refuge searcher did not enable her to box outside Hamburg. Kentikian's last beginner record remained at 24 wins and one misfortune. She later accused excessive energy for her single misfortune, having battled in spite of medical issues at the time. Her forceful style and quick mixes, and her aspiration to dependably assault until she thumped out the adversary earned her the epithet "Executioner Queen"; she has regularly utilized the indistinguishably named tune by the English musical gang Queen as her passageway music. 

Kentikian was found as an expert fighter at a show battle amid capabilities for the World Amateur Boxing Championships. Toward the start of 2005, she marked a three-year contract with the Hamburg boxing advertiser Spotlight Boxing, a joint endeavor of Universum Box-Promotion, concentrating on youthful competitors. In future years, she was instructed by Universum coach Magomed Schaburow. Kentikian began her expert vocation on 15 January 2005, with a success by consistent choice over Iliana Boneva of Bulgaria on the undercard of German female boxing star Regina Halmich. Throughout the following 14 months, Kentikian won nine of her eleven battles by knockout. Her strangely high knockout rate, once in a while found in lower female weight classes, started to draw consideration. On 25 July 2006, she won her first belt, the International German flyweight title, against Daniela Graf by consistent choice. In her first universal title battle on 9 September 2006, Kentikian beat Maribel Zurita from the United States with a fourth round TKO for the WIBF InterContinental Flyweight title; the battle was halted when Zurita was cut over the left eyebrow. 

In her fifteenth expert session, Kentikian battled for her first big showdown in Cologne, Germany, on 16 February 2007; it was additionally her first time featuring a battle card. She won by a ninth-round TKO against Carolina Alvarez of Venezuela, in this manner winning the empty WBA Flyweight title. Alvarez took unanswered punches in the greater part of the rounds and was draining intensely from her nose, and the arbitrator in the long run halted the battle in cycle nine in worry for Alvarez's wellbeing. A month and a half later, on 30 March 2007, Kentikian made her first title resistance. Prior to a horde of 19,500 in the Kölnarena, she battled on the undercard of a presentation session between German entertainer Stefan Raab and WIBF World Champion Halmich. Kentikian beat María José Núñez from Uruguay with a third-round TKO. Núñez was thumped down in cycle two and Kentikian completed the battle one round later with a correct cross followed up by blends that left Núñez vulnerable on the ropes, making the ref venture in. 

Kentikian next confronted Nadia Hokmi of France on 25 May 2007, in her second title safeguard. Hokmi, utilizing her stature and achieve advantage, turned out to be the main trial of Kentikian's expert profession and the two fighters battled a focused session. While Hokmi began slower, she figured out how to win a few of the later adjusts via landing rehashed mixes. Kentikian won through a split choice without precedent for her profession. The battle was casted a ballot among the five "Top Fights of the Year" by WomenBoxing.com. On 7 September 2007, Kentikian shielded her title against Shanee Martin from the United Kingdom, winning by a third-round TKO. Kentikian controlled her rival from the opening chime and the arbitrator ceased the battle after Martin was thumped down from a straight right turn in cycle three. 

Following the retirement of long-standing WIBF belt holder Halmich, Kentikian bound together the WBA and empty WIBF Flyweight titles in the place where she grew up of Hamburg on 7 December 2007. She met Hokmi in a rematch of their challenge a half year sooner. The French fighter again ended up being an extreme adversary and the battle grew also to their first experience. Afresh, Kentikian had the better begin, however Hokmi scored amid the second 50% of the battle, again making the session close. This time in any case, Kentikian was ahead on each of the three of the judges' scorecards, winning by consistent choice. After the year's end, Kentikian was picked as Hamburg's sportswoman of the year. 

Kentikian effectively shielded her titles against Sarah Goodson of the Philippines by a third-round TKO on 29 February 2008. Goodson, who had battled solely in lower weight classes previously, was overwhelmed by Kentikian and the ref finished the battle after a progression of body punches in cycle three. In her next title protection on 10 May 2008, Kentikian beat Mary Ortega from the United States with a first-round TKO. Ortega, who had recently battled against understood adversaries, for example, Elena Reid and Hollie Dunaway, was thumped down twice by straight right hands amid the principal 90 seconds of the battle. At the point when Kentikian had Ortega stuck against the ropes once more, the arbitrator ventured in quickly before the finish of cycle one. The brisk stoppage came as a shock to many, including correspondent Halmich, who had expected a hard-battled session. 

In her next title safeguard on 29 August 2008, Kentikian met Hager Finer of Israel, Halmich's last adversary before resigning. Following a nearby opening round, the enclosing match swung to a fight and Finer scored amid the principal half of the battle. From cycle five onwards, Kentikian figured out how to assume control over the session via getting the cleaner punches and she won by consistent choice. On 5 December 2008, Kentikian confronted Anastasia Toktaulova of Russia, the ruling GBU Flyweight Champion, in spite of the fact that the GBU title was not hanging in the balance. Amid the strange strategic battle, Kentikian figured out how to control her adversary from the center of the ring in the vast majority of the rounds. The three judges all scored the session for Kentikian. In December 2008, she was named Germany's female fighter of the year out of the blue. What's more, she won the WBA Best Female Boxer grant for 2007– 08. 

Kentikian held her WIBF and WBA belts with a consistent choice success over Elena Reid from the United States on 20 March 2009. Reid, who was outstanding in Germany after two questionable sessions with Halmich in 2004 and 2005, remained to a great extent detached from the opening chime and Kentikian controlled her through most of the battle. Reid did not win a solitary round on the official scorecards. On 4 July 2009, Kentikian battled the Interim WBA Super Flyweight Champion Carolina Gutierrez Gaite of Argentina. Kentikian utilized her speed and blends to overwhelm her rival through the ten rounds, winning each round on the judges' scores. Kentikian finished 2009 by battling the undefeated Turkish-German Julia Sahin (20– 0) on 10 October for the empty WBO Female Flyweight title. Kentikian overpowered Sahin with her higher work rate at an early stage. Sahin burned through the vast majority of the battle concealing from Kentikian's numerous whirlwinds. Kentikian won a consistent choice to turn into the new WBO Female Flyweight Champion. 

Kentikian, presently the WIBF, WBA and WBO Female Flyweight Champion, safeguarded every last bit of her titles against undefeated Women's International Boxing Association titleholder Nadia Raoui on 24 April 2010 in Hamburg. The session was close, as Kentikian was outlanded in many adjusts by Raoui. After ten rounds, Kentikian held limited focal points on two of the three judges' scorecards and won by means of split choice. On 17 July, Kentikian shielded her titles by and by against Arely Muciño. In the initial couple of rounds, she utilized mixes and snappy hostile assaults to score against Mucino, before enduring a slice because of an incidental conflict of heads. Kentikian was unfit to proceed; the battle was pronounced a no challenge and she held her titles. 

Kentikian again guarded her WIBF Flyweight title on 26 March 2011 against Ana Arrazola. She succeeded at least seven adjusts on every one of the judges' scorecards on her way to a consistent choice triumph. Arrazola got a one-point conclusion in the 6th round, as Kentikian remained the WIBF champion. Later in the year, Kentikian scored another consistent choice success on 21 October, this time against Teeraporn Pannimit of Thailand, to hold her WIBF, WBA and WBO Female Flyweight titles. She kept up control of the battle all through on the way to an unbalanced triumph. 

Undefeated with 29 wins (counting 16 by knockout), Kentikian next endeavored to guard her WIBF and WBO Female Flyweight titles on 16 May 2012 in Frankfurt, Germany against Melissa McMorrow. Kentikian lost through larger part choice with scores of 95– 95, 94– 96 and 94– 96, the first occasion when she was crushed as an expert. The WBA Female title was not shielded in that battle, so Kentikian remained that association's hero. On 1 December, American Carina Moreno tested her for the WBA title in Düsseldorf. Kentikian tried to use a fighting style against Moreno, yet was often hit by Moreno's punches while pushing ahead. The battle was chosen by lion's share choice after 10 rounds: one judge gave Kentikian a four-point advantage, yet the other two had Moreno ahead by indistinguishable 96– 94 edges as she guaranteed the WBA Female Flyweight title. Kentikian endured her second back to back misfortune. 

On 1 February 2013, Kentikian battled Sanae Jah for the Interim WBA Female Flyweight title, which was empty at the time. She set up direction of the battle by routinely moving near Jah and applying weight. In the seventh round, Kentikian scored a knockdown with a right-hand punch. Regardless of enduring numerous cuts by her correct eye, including one from a conflict of heads amid the tenth and last round, Kentikian had the capacity to complete the battle and acquire a consistent choice triumph. Kentikian pursued that session with a rematch against Moreno on 6 July. With a success by consistent choice, she recovered the WBA Female Flyweight title. Kentikian made a title safeguard against Simona Galassi on 7 December in Stuttgart, under a scoring framework in which judges could utilize half-focuses in their counts. Each judge scored the battle to support Kentikian by at any rate 2.5 focuses, as she effectively guarded her WBA title. 

Kentikian's adversary in her next title resistance was Dan-Bi Kim. In the session, which was hung on 31 May 2014, Kentikian scored a TKO in the ninth round. On 8 November 2014, Kentikian battled Naoko Fujioka and earned the judges' choice after 10 rounds. Subsequent to establishing her very own boxing advancement organization, Kentikian Promotions, she next battled in October 2015, after a 11-month nonattendance. Against Mexican fighter Susana Cruz Perez, Kentikian was cut in the second round by a conflict of heads, however won most adjusts on the judges' scorecards. The battle went the booked 10 rounds, and Kentikian earned a consistent choice, despite the fact that Halmich said that she had not appeared "old structure". The triumph earned Kentikian the WIBF Flyweight title. On 30 July 2016, Kentikian battled in a WIBF title guard against Nevenka Mikulic and won by consistent choice. Starting at 2018, that was her latest battle. By 2017, Kentikian's WBA Female Flyweight title had been cleared. 

Toward the start of her expert profession, Kentikian was basically highlighted in the nearby media in Hamburg and infrequently in national German papers; specifically, her troublesome adolescence and her long-term questionable haven status started enthusiasm for the press and prompted examinations with the boxing film "Million Dollar Baby". Her tallness of likewise drew consideration, and she was named "Germany's littlest expert fighter". At an early stage, Kentikian was viewed as one of the enormous abilities in German boxing and the media referenced her as the potential successor of record best on the planet Halmich, an objective she had likewise set out for herself. 

In 2007, Kentikian was acquainted with an a lot bigger gathering of people because of collaboration between German TV slot ProSieben and her advertiser Spotlight Boxing. Notwithstanding live communicates of her battles amid alleged "ProSieben Fight Nights," she seemed a few times on the prominent network show "television all out". She partook in a four-round fighting session with the show's host, Stefan Raab, and took an interest in the focused stimulation occasion World Wok Championships, where she collaborated with Sven Hannawald, Christina Surer and Markus Beyer to win the four-man rivalry. Her first world title safeguard, battling María José Núñez on the undercard of a Raab versus Halmich presentation session, was seen by 4.69 million audience members—her most watched battle to date. A camera team visited her for one year before her first big showdown battle against Carolina Alvarez; the narrative disclosed in June 2007 on the German open supporter Das Erste. An abbreviated adaptation with discourse in English was publicized by the German global supporter Deutsche Welle in October 2007. By 2010, Kentikian turned into a representative for the Armenian magnanimous association "Lebensbaum Armenien" (Armenia's Tree of Life). 

Source: