U2 3D 

U2 3D is a 2008 American-delivered 3D show film highlighting musical crew U2 performing amid the Vertigo Tour in 2006. The film contains exhibitions of 14 melodies, including tracks from "How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb" (2004), the collection upheld by the visit. The show film incorporates political and social articulations made amid the shows. It is the band's second element film, following their 1988 rockumentary "Shake and Hum". Among a few true to life firsts, "U2 3D" was the primary real life computerized 3D film. 

The task was made to try different things with another kind of 3D film innovation spearheaded by maker Steve Schklair. In the wake of considering shooting American football match-ups in 3D, Schklair's organization 3ality Digital chose to make a show film with U2. The band were reluctant to take part, yet consented to the task primarily as a mechanical trial as opposed to a benefit making adventure. Albeit set in Buenos Aires, "U2 3D" was shot at seven shows crosswise over Latin America, and two in Australia. The film's intricate setup included shooting with up to 18 3D cameras all the while and catching the recording carefully. 

After a see screening at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival, "U2 3D" debuted at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival and had its restricted dramatic discharge in late January 2008, trailed by its wide discharge the next month. The film was dispersed by National Geographic Entertainment and was just discharged in IMAX 3D and computerized 3D theaters. It crested at number 19 at the United States film industry, and earned over $26 million around the world, positioning as one of the most astounding netting show films. It got broadly positive audits, with pundits adulating the 3D innovation and development. "U2 3D" won a few honors, and its gathering persuaded some regarding the makers that the task denoted a change in outlook in filmmaking. 

"U2 3D" portrays a U2 show in Buenos Aires amid the band's Vertigo Tour. In the start of the film, a voice is heard reciting "everybody" in a group filled arena, trailed by fans going through the setting. U2 start the show with "Vertigo", trailed by ten additional tunes in the principle set. Pictures are appeared all through the show on the stage's LED presentation. Political and social explanations are made amid certain tunes, including "Sunday Bloody Sunday"— amid which "coexista" is illuminated on-screen through different religious images—and "Miss Sarajevo", amid which a selection from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is perused out loud by a storyteller. The fundamental set finishes with "One", after which the gathering leave the stage. They return for a reprise and play out "The Fly", amid which a progression of words and expressions show up on the stage's LED presentation and are superimposed into the film. U2 end the show "With or Without You" and leave the phase for the last time. As the end credits start, a live execution of "Yahweh" is heard as movements from the stage's LED presentation are appeared. U2 return in front of an audience in a post-credits scene playing out the finish of the melody. 

In 2001, makers Jon and Peter Shapiro made a 2D IMAX show film titled "All Access", which included live exhibitions of a few performers. Because of the trouble of utilizing traditional IMAX film stock that must be supplanted like clockwork of shooting, the Shapiros needed to utilize advanced innovation for their next undertaking, which could undoubtedly be upscaled to the IMAX position without loss of value. Taking note of how 3D films out-performed 2D films, they likewise needed their next task to be in the IMAX 3D group. While searching for another computerized 3D innovation medium, the Shapiros met maker Steve Schklair, originator of Cobalt Entertainment in 2000. Schklair had as of late built up a computerized 3D recording method known as "dynamic profundity cut", which took into account smooth cuts between shots that would ordinarily not arrange when taped in 3D. This was finished utilizing movement control photography and ongoing picture preparing to make a reasonable 3D experience without exposing the watcher to intemperate movement infection or eye strain. It was expected to be an economical and successful approach to shoot live occasions, for example, shows or sports. With the assistance of John and David Modell, previous proprietors of the Baltimore Ravens American football crew, the computerized 3D innovation was tried at a few National Football League (NFL) diversions in the 2003 season, including Super Bowl XXXVIII. Cobalt demonstrated the recording to the NFL, wanting to make a NFL-based 3D IMAX film. While hanging tight for a reaction, the Shapiros proposed making a 3D show film for IMAX theaters. Albeit "All Access" had exhibited a few specialists, the Shapiros presently needed to concentrate on a solitary demonstration, and being U2 fans, proposed the band as a potential subject. Schklair felt U2 would be a decent decision for the film because of their huge show setups and their consistent development while performing, the two of which would give great profundity of field to 3D impacts. 

The Modells' coordinated effort with U2 for the film was encouraged by their association with the band in examining LED show innovation in 1997 for use at Ravens Stadium at Camden Yards. At the time, the main monster LED show in presence was being utilized by U2 on their PopMart Tour. To find out about the innovation, John Modell visited with U2 on-and-off for a time of a half year. Amid that time, he become a close acquaintence with Catherine Owens, who filled in as the gathering's craft executive since their 1992 Zoo TV Tour. 

Unfit to contact U2 chief Paul McGuinness, Peter Shapiro rather proposed the plan to Owens. The last was inquiring about workmanship content for the up and coming Vertigo Tour and figured the idea could be utilized to indicate 3D video as a major aspect of U2's shows. Shapiro clarified that the innovation was not so created and essentially needed to archive the visit itself in 3D, yet Owens was not keen on making a film of the band, dreading it would meddle with the visit, so she declined the offer. After Shapiro demonstrated Owens the 3D film of the NFL recreations, Owens communicated enthusiasm for coordinating the proposed film, in spite of having no past understanding. As indicated by bassist Adam Clayton, U2 were not keen on making another show film, however Owens "drove it down [their] throats". When the band saw the test shots, frontman Bono communicated enthusiasm for the task and persuaded his bandmates to submit. Since U2 had just explored different avenues regarding video innovation before, they were keen on the venture as a mechanical analysis as opposed to a way to make benefit, and as a way to impart the live understanding to fans who couldn't manage the cost of show tickets. 

Pre-creation for "U2 3D" formally began in mid 2004, and the generation was dealt with by 3ality Digital, an organization framed from Schklair's Colbalt Entertainment and his association with the Modells and the Shapiros. Halfway as the year progressed, Bono consented to give the 3ality Digital group a chance to record test film, which was practiced utilizing a solitary 3D camera at one of U2's Vertigo Tour shows in Anaheim, California in March 2005. U2 were disappointed with their 1988 rockumentary include film, "Shake and Hum", which blended behind the stage film and meetings with show exhibitions. The movie producers chose that "U2 3D" would just have show film. The makers initially needed to shoot in Los Angeles where all the taping hardware was found, however Owens and the band chose they required an increasingly eager gathering of people. U2 at last recorded in five urban areas in Latin America from February to March 2006, trusting their nonattendance from the district for a long time would cultivate a fiery air. The just a single of the eight Latin American demonstrates that was not shot was the first in Monterrey, Mexico. The task empowered U2 to share the outside arena shows with crowds in the US, where the band just performed at indoor fields on the Vertigo Tour. 

"U2 3D" generation included the primary 3D various camera setup and was shot utilizing each computerized 3D camera and recording deck in presence. The team had two days to set up the shooting hardware before each show, which required running optical fiber links and connecting an electrical generator to supply control at every setting. The taping hardware comprised of nine custom-fabricated 3D rigs. The task's expansive scale incited 3ality Digital to work with executive James Cameron—their main rival at the time. 3ality utilized their own 3flex TS1 camera rigs for taping, notwithstanding five Fusion 3D rigs, planned by Cameron and camera administrator Vincent Pace. An aggregate of 18 Sony CineAlta HDC-F950 cameras were utilized for recording, with two cameras on each apparatus. The cameras were fitted with Zeiss computerized long range focal points, making "U2 3D" the principal 3D film gave utilizing a long range focal point. One of the Fusion 3D camera apparatuses was utilized as a Spydercam and turned into the primary 3D ethereal camera. The cameras on each apparatus were separated eye-remove separated to make a 3D impact in after creation. Utilizing a pillar splitter mounted to the camera rig, one camera shot through a 50/50 reflect, while the other shot the picture reflected from that reflect. Each apparatus gauged a normal of . The majority of the show film was shot with twin-camera setups, aside from the two Melbourne gives, where a solitary CineAlta camera with a Steadicam was likewise used to catch close-ups. The cameras caught top quality video onto HDCAM SR recording decks, which empowered the team to catch a whole show. 

Five team individuals were required to take a shot at each apparatus at the same time to guarantee that the emphasis on the two cameras were synchronized. After one camera was crushed when a show security protect hurled containers of water onto the gathering of people, the team waterproofed the rest of the cameras. Because of Owens' restricted coordinating background preceding generation, a portion of the taping in South America was coordinated by Mark Pellington, who recently worked with U2 on the "One" music video. Pellington was not engaged with after generation, leaving Owens in charge of the rest of the parts of the task, including innovative course and altering. 

The shows were shot in a style which Owens depicted as "extremely irregular"; no storyboards or shooting contents were utilized to guarantee film of U2's exhibitions was ad libbed. Rather than being coordinated, U2 played out every one of their shows obviously, with the taping group catching film continuously for the full - hour shows. The shoots were arranged with the end goal that the band's execution and the crowd's view was continuous. To abstain from catching other camera fixes in the recording, the group would either film from the back of the stage, or interchange every night between shooting left-to-right and ideal to-left. A few shows were altered together to make one execution; in this way, U2 were required to wear a similar garments each night to look after progression. Extra spotlights were centered around the gathering of people amid recording, and the lighting was diminished on the stage's LED presentation. 110 amplifiers were utilized to record the show sound, which included receivers set on the primary stage and around the two B-stages to record the band, and mouthpieces put all through the scene to record the group of onlookers. 

Key photography started in February 2006, under the supervision of the 3D cinematographer Peter Anderson; two shows were taped in Mexico City to catch medium shots amid a training keep running for the group to become familiar with the movement of U2's exhibitions. The group caught extra medium shots utilizing two camera setups at the two São Paulo shows, and caught overhead film of drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. utilizing a solitary camera setup at the show in Santiago. Amid arrangements for the Buenos Aires shows, U2 played out a 10-tune set without a group of people, so the team could catch close-up film utilizing a wide-point focal point; doing as such in-show would have meddled with the show. Owens named the session the "apparition shoot". Amid the Buenos Aires appears, every one of the nine camera setups were utilized, catching shots of U2 from the B-stages. The Buenos Aires shoot was the biggest of the venture, requiring a team of 140 people. 

In March 2006, the rest of the Vertigo Tour shows were deferred when the girl of guitarist The Edge became sick. Amid the between time, film from the seven recorded shows was altered together, provoking the team to demand extra wide shots from the back of the arena and close-ups of the band individuals. At the point when the visit was on its fifth leg in November 2006, an extra two shows were shot in Melbourne to catch the additional recording. At the time, the melodies showing up in the finished product of the film had just been chosen and hence just explicit tunes from the shows were recorded. 

After creation started in February 2006 and happened simultaneously with continuous important photography. Supervisor Olivier Wicki drove after creation, working intimately with Owens; the two had recently teamed up on the "First of the Species" music video. More than 100 hours of film were shot, highlighting exhibitions of 26 unique tunes. To engage a standard group of onlookers, 14 tracks were picked for the finished product, including 12 of U2's singles and two non-singles from "How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb", the collection that the Vertigo Tour bolstered. While choosing tunes for the undertaking, the team needed to guarantee that the exhibitions of each track fit with each other. U2 needed to incorporate "Strange Ways" and "Until the End of the World", however they were forgotten since Owens felt that those melodies were strange with the remainder of the film. She expressed that the fundamental focal point of the film depended on U2's association with each other and with their gathering of people, and the test of choosing the melodies was to make a story inside the band's execution. In spite of the fact that "City of Blinding Lights" opened most shows on the visit, "Vertigo" was chosen as the opening melody of "U2 3D". Different tracks that were performed at a large portion of the taped shows that did not influence the polished product to incorporate "Height", "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For", "Unique of the Species", and "Zoo Station". "With or Without You" was picked as the last melody before the end credits, in spite of the fact that it shut just a single show on the visit. 

After the tunes were chosen, the recording was altered in 2D for eight months in New York City. Video after generation proceeded in Burbank, California at 3ality Digital's 3D creation office, which opened preceding the fulfillment of shooting. Wicki worked with 3ality Digital to make the 3D and PC created impacts. Film from the nine recorded shows, for the most part from the Buenos Aires appears, was altered together with the recording from the "ghost shoot". Despite the fact that the Mexico City demonstrates were practice runs, film from those shows was utilized, including a scene where Bono contacts the camera amid "Sunday Bloody Sunday". Since the team felt the Melbourne gathering of people came up short on the vitality of the Latin America swarms, a large portion of the recording from the Melbourne shows was not utilized with the exception of some nearby ups of Mullen. 

Making the 3D impact included taking the altered 2D film for the correct eye and coordinating it with film for the left eye. Altering the Melbourne film that utilized just a solitary camera included a different procedure to make 3D impacts, known as "virtual second eye point of view". A few programming programs were utilized to change over film from 2D to 3D. The essential altering programming, 3action, was created at 3ality Digital amid chief photography. It permitted the after generation group to change combination focuses in each shot, and to make various assembly focuses. Left-eye and right-eye film was gathered on independent layers, at that point altered together with shading evaluating included, and in the long run yield in a 3D stereoscopic arrangement for survey. 

U2 built up a style of altering in their past show films that included quick cutting between shots, which Owens needed to hold in "U2 3D". Since quick slicing in 3D would prompt movement disorder or eye strain, the film was altered to consolidate breaks up of something like four casings between shots. Huge numbers of the changes were made by layering a few casings of film over each other into composite pictures. Every one of the layered casings highlighted an alternate profundity of field to upgrade the 3D impacts, and up to five pictures were layered together in a solitary shot. This made "U2 3D" the main 3D film to highlight composite pictures with multiple layers, and the first to be altered explicitly to keep the watcher from encountering movement infection or eye strain. Programming did not exist at an opportunity to layer the 3D pictures, so new programming must be created. Since the venture was caught in top notch video, each edge utilized about 20 megabytes of information on 3ality Digital's servers, and the whole film utilized very nearly a petabyte (10 bytes). The 3D altering procedure took longer than Owens expected, and therefore, the task went over spending plan, costing $15 million to create. Video altering took 17 months, and the last film was sliced to a length of 85 minutes—seven shorter than initially reported. 

Sound editorial manager Carl Glanville chipped away at the soundtrack, blending the sound into a 5.1 encompass sound blend with sound architect Robbie Adams in New York City. Video film was assembled into documents by Wicki, which were given to Glanville for incorporating the soundtrack. Glanville and Adams said the sound altering was troublesome primarily in light of the fact that the determination of video film was restricted, as just a single to two cameras points were caught at the majority of the shows. Further, the verses and music from the tune exhibitions contrasted marginally every night. To keep away from lip match up and instrumental synchronize issues, the editors needed to utilize the definite sound that was recorded amid each shot. Blending the vocals required that Glanville layer the sound recorded from the stage mouthpieces with that from the gathering of people amplifiers and to include a short deferral between the two to adjust for any reverberations or postpone that happened in the scene. The sound from the subwoofer channel was blended inside two IMAX theaters in Los Angeles to guarantee the volume of low-end frequencies was predictable with the remainder of the soundtrack. The altered video film included 10-to 20-second-long shots, rather than the shorter shots generally found in show films. Broadened holes were added between melodies to marginally back off the pace of the film. All sound and video film utilized was recorded live in show, with no additional overdubs. Following after generation, "U2 3D" turned into the principal live-activity film to be shot, posted, and displayed altogether in 3D, the primary real life computerized 3D film, and the main 3D show film. 

The trailer for the film was discharged and first screened at the ShoWest public exhibition in March 2007, alongside film of "Sunday Bloody Sunday". Clasps from the "Vertigo" and "The Fly" exhibitions were included in the trailer, which was altered by imaginative chief John Leamy, who additionally planned the wordmark logo and title arrangement for "U2 3D". The film publication, which highlighted a montage of pictures from the film, won Leamy an honor for best blurb craftsmanship at the Giant Screen Cinema Association's yearly worldwide gathering in 2008. The trailer was appeared in 3D theaters before "Meet the Robinsons", the main 3D film discharged in theaters in mid 2007. 

Initially planned for the second from last quarter of 2007, the film's discharge was postponed when a merchant couldn't be found. In October 2007, National Geographic Cinema Ventures (NGCV), the excitement division of the National Geographic Society, reported that "U2 3D" would be the division's first real worldwide discharge. Two days after the declaration, NGCV was consolidated into the recently made National Geographic Entertainment, another unit inside the general public including different diversion divisions. National Geographic CEO John M. Fahey, Jr. expressed that "U2 3D" was picked as the new unit's first discharge since they felt that U2 is "a band of the world" and "world music is something the Geographic as an organization is truly intrigued by". National Geographic picked Best Buy as the film's American support, and offered goes to choose individuals from the retailer's dedication program to see "U2 3D" before its wide discharge. "U2 3D" was advanced through the web, print, radio, TV, on a JumboTron in Times Square, and as a support on NASCAR's #19 Best Buy Dodge stock vehicle driven by Elliott Sadler. 

U2 were focused on protecting the film's 3D organization and chose to just discharge it in computerized 3D. To help advance this film position, "U2 3D" was first screened at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival on May 19, 2007. It was one of nine movies to be screened out-of-rivalry at the 2007 celebration, and was the principal live-activity 3D film appeared at Cannes. Following a short tune exhibition by U2 at the celebration, the film was screened at midnight inside the Palais des Festivals et des Congrès. At the time, the 3D after creation process was deficient; along these lines, an abbreviated, 56-minute adaptation of the title was screened, including nine of the finished rendition's 14 melodies. The finished form debuted at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival on January 19, 2008 at the Ellen Eccles Theater. The venue joined a modified sound framework structured particularly for the debut with new Dolby 3D innovation, which John Modell alluded to as "the most cutting edge film screening that is ever been done ever." 

"U2 3D" was slated to be screened just in IMAX theaters, however the huge increment in the quantity of advanced 3D theaters following after generation incited the movie producers to extend the discharge to incorporate those films. Two unique kinds of captivated 3D glasses were utilized for the IMAX 3D and computerized 3D showings. The IMAX 3D adaptation of the film utilized glasses with one focal point enraptured on a level plane and one captivated vertically, while the computerized 3D rendition utilized glasses with two circularly spellbound focal points. John Modell depicted the IMAX form as an "increasingly vivid encounter", and expressed that the computerized 3D rendition highlights progressively distinctive hues. 

On January 23, 2008, "U2 3D" was discharged into IMAX theaters in the United States and Canada for its underlying constrained discharge. It earned over $960,000 in the US amid its opening end of the week in the wake of playing in 61 theaters, and positioned at number 20 in the cinema world. The IMAX discharge occurred a lot sooner than the film's wide discharge, the same number of IMAX theaters had booked "The Spiderwick Chronicles", which was discharged on February 15. "U2 3D" was U2's second element movie, following 1988's "Shake and Hum", and the third show movie from the Vertigo Tour, following the direct-to-video show films "" and "". 

The wide discharge was initially planned for February 15, 2008, however the date was pushed back multi week when Walt Disney Pictures chose to expand its arrival of the 3D show film "", which was at first booked to be in theaters for just a single week. Rather, on February 15, "U2 3D" had a second restricted discharge in select performance centers in the US with RealD 3D innovation. The film's European debut occurred on February 20 at the Jameson Dublin International Film Festival, trailed by its universal wide discharge on February 22. The primary seven day stretch of the wide discharge was the most elevated earning seven day stretch of its showy run, netting over $1 million at 686 performance centers in the US and positioning at number 19 in the cinema world. Looking in the cinema world execution of "Hannah Montana and Miley Cyrus", "The Spokesman-Review"s online magazine "Spokane7" said "U2 3D" was "bombing hopelessly". Three weeks into its wide discharge, "U2 3D" was playing in under 100 theaters all through the US. At the time, it had netted under $6.6 million, while "Hannah Montana and Miley Cyrus"— as yet playing in numerous performance centers since its February 1 discharge—had gotten over $60 million. 

Preceding its Japan debut in February 2009, "U2 3D" earned $20 million in film industry income. A re-discharge in the US occurred in 2009 to harmonize with the arrival of U2's studio collection, "No Line on the Horizon", trailed by re-discharges in Brazil and Spain in 2011 and 2015, separately, before U2's show visits in those nations. Notwithstanding re-discharges, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame praised the opening of its new performance center in October 2009 by including screenings of "U2 3D" at its historical center. The's film industry keep running in the US finished August 26, 2010, bringing its complete residential gross to $10,363,341, subsequent to appearing 947 days. The film's merchants expressed there was no foreordained point of confinement to the length of the title's run, and the general length would be dictated by film industry deals. Because of an open-finished dramatic run, absolute overall film industry net sources differ; site Box Office Mojo detailed an overall gross of $22.7 million in December 2010, while magazine "BoxOffice" and site The Numbers list nets of $23.4 million and $26.2 million, separately. 

For its kind, "U2 3D" was fruitful and set a few film industry records. The film turned into the most noteworthy netting narrative to be qualified for an Oscar designation at the 81st Academy Awards. "U2 3D" set a record in Ireland for the most astounding screen normal of any film playing amid its opening end of the week, and it took in nearly €90,000 at eight performance centers amid its initial three days. In February 2011, "Forbes" positioned "U2 3D" as the fifth most elevated netting show film, gaining $14 million more than "Shake and Hum", which positioned at number seven. 

U2 control the subordinate rights to "U2 3D" alongside their record name Universal Music Group, and they have expressed that extra rights, for example, those for a home video discharge won't be optioned until home video innovation can meet indistinguishable computerized 3D gauges from film. Owens said in a 2007 meeting that there were plans to discharge the film to a 3D home video group, nonetheless, the public statement for the 2015 Spain re-discharge expressed that "U2 3D" has been authorized only for showy discharge, and won't be circulated in TV, web, or other home video positions. 

In light of 88 surveys by faultfinders, Rotten Tomatoes gave "U2 3D" a 92% endorsement rating, and positioned it the fourth-best looked into film in wide discharge from 2008. The site doled out it a normal score of 7.5 out of 10, with an agreement that "U2 3D" was "an invigorating melodic involvement with the cost of a film ticket". At Metacritic—which allots a standardized rating out of 100 to surveys from standard faultfinders—the film got a normal score of 83, in light of 19 audits, which means "all inclusive praise" on the site's evaluating scale. The film got positive surveys from "Toronto Star" and "Assortment" following its 56-minute debut at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival when the last 85-minute remove was a long time from finish. Pundits from productions, for example, the "Irish Independent", "The New Zealand Herald", "Reno News and Review", "Toronto Star", and "USA Today" said that the film's 3D experience was "surprisingly better than the genuine article"— a reference to U2's melody of a similar name. Surveys by "Moving Stone" and "All out Film" expressed the film appeared to speak to fans and non-enthusiasts of U2 alike, similarly as the movie producers had proposed. 

"U2 3D" was adulated by "Assortment" for its clear show film, contrasted with the meetings and in the background film incorporated into "Shake and Hum". In a scene of the TV arrangement "At the Movies with Ebert and Roeper", Michael Phillips called the film "an authentic eye-fill" and Richard Roeper depicted it as "dynamite". "The New York Times" assigned "U2 3D" as a "Pundits' Pick" and expressed in the audit that the film was "the first IMAX motion picture that has the right to be known as a show-stopper". "U2 3D" showed up on numerous commentators' arrangements of the best ten movies discharged in 2008 including "The Austin Chronicle", "OhmyNews International", "Seattle Post-Intelligencer", "The Sydney Morning Herald", and "Waterway Cities' Reader". The film was likewise positioned by "Complex" and "Realm" as a standout amongst the best 3D films. As the film has just been discharged dramatically, "Nook of Geek" included "U2 3D" in a rundown of "15 motion pictures that aren't on DVD yet ought to be", expressing that "no show film [...] has ever verged on catching the careful experience so precisely". Bono was happy with the result of the film and said his most loved grouping was the execution of "Miss Sarajevo". At the point when met about the PopMart Tour in 2009, Bono said that the "" video was the best undertaking U2 had done from a sound and visual viewpoint, and was "obscured just by "U2 3D"". The Edge was satisfied that the recording did not demonstrate any of the misery he felt from his little girl's sickness amid shooting. 

Nonetheless, the film got increasingly basic audits. "The A.V. Club" reviewed it a B− and expressed that U2's execution was less exciting than the 3D impacts. Online magazine "FilmSlash" censured "The New York Times" explanation about "U2 3D" being the first IMAX craftsmanship film, expressing that a portion of the first IMAX titles were "trial masterpieces". Music commentator Joel Selvin wrote in the "San Francisco Chronicle" that seeing U2 on the extra large screen was "more diverting than enlightening", and "Time Out London" reprimanded Bono's political articulations, expressing he "should shun slamming his long winded political meanderings down our throats and let the music do the talking". "The Daily Telegraph" favored "Shake and Hum" over "U2 3D" and called U2's execution "unexciting", reprimanding how "the cameras, not the band, are doing basically everything". "The Guardian", which gave a rating of one out of five stars, asserted that U2 gave off an impression of being "four prideful tycoons who are further up themselves than any time in recent memory". 

"U2 3D" was perceived positively after its discharge, procuring a few honors. In 2008, it earned three honors, including "Best Film Produced Non-Exclusively for the Giant Screen" at the Giant Screen Cinema Association's 2008 Achievement Awards, "Best Musical Film" at Los Premios MTV Latinoamérica 2008, and the Pioneer Award for Film and Television at the 2008 3D Film and Interactive Film Festival. In February 2009, the film got the honor for "Remarkable Visual Effects in a Special Venue Project" from the Visual Effects Society (VES) at the seventh Annual VES Awards. 

The broad utilization of innovation amid creation was highlighted as the main story in the December 2007 issue of the superior quality video magazine "HDVideoPro", a month prior to the debut of "U2 3D". Its use of transformative innovation prompted Catherine Owens being chosen as an included visitor speaker at the SIGGRAPH 2008 gathering, which occurred a while after the film's discharge. After "U2 3D" got acclaim from fans, pundits, and the film business, a few of the movie producers expressed that they felt it made a change in perspective in film history, because of the mechanical headways utilized in the creation. Chief Wim Wenders was enlivened to make the 2011 3D move narrative "Pina" after the going to the "U2 3D" screening at Cannes. The film's utilization of new innovation enlivened English musical gang Muse to expand the generation esteems for their 2013 discharge "Live at Rome Olympic Stadium", which turned into the primary show film shot in 4K goals. 

Following the achievement of "U2 3D", 3ality Digital kept on spearheading 3D ventures. After already trying different things with shooting American football match-ups in 3D, 3ality Digital effectively communicate the principal live 3D NFL amusement in December 2008. In 2009, 3ality Digital publicized the main live 3D sports communicate accessible to buyers, the primary 3D TV notice, and the principal 3D scene of a scripted TV program. U2 show executive Willie Williams enlisted "U2 3D" chief of photography Tom Krueger to plan the photography and video inclusion for the band's 2009– 2011 U2 360° Tour. Krueger coordinated their ensuing show film, "U2 360° at the Rose Bowl", which was discharged in 2010. 

All titles composed by U2, aside from "Miss Sarajevo" (co-composed with Brian Eno).