Through the Looking Glass (Lost) 

"Through the Looking Glass" is the third-season finale of the ABC TV arrangement "Lost", comprising of the 22nd and 23rd scenes of the third season. It is likewise the 71st and 72nd scenes generally. It was composed by co-maker/official maker Damon Lindelof and official maker Carlton Cuse, and coordinated by official maker Jack Bender. At the point when originally circulated on May 23, 2007, in the United States and Canada, it was viewed by a normal of 14 million American watchers. Like the past two season finales, it was two hours in length with notices, double the length of a typical scene. It was altered into two individual scenes when discharged on DVD. The season finale is considered by some to be a standout amongst the best scenes of TV ever communicated. The scene earned various honors and assignments, including three Primetime Emmy Awards selections and a Directors Guild of America Award designation. 

The scene starts its account in late December 2004, more than ninety days after the accident of Oceanic Airlines Flight 815. The fight between the accident survivors and the unsafe and strange island occupants alluded to as the "Others" reaches a critical stage as ten of the Others assault and are then trapped at the survivors' camp and are thusly murdered. In the mean time, Jack Shephard (played by Matthew Fox) drives the majority of the survivors to the island's radio pinnacle to speak with an adjacent ship. Intercut with this story are off-island scenes spotlighting Jack, who has turned out to be self-destructively discouraged and dependent on painkillers. In a bend finishing, it is uncovered that these scenes are flashforwards to at some point later on, after Jack has left the island, instead of flashbacks as in past scenes of "Lost". 

In contrast to every single past scene of the show, which scattered the principle plot with flashbacks that indicated occasions that occurred preceding the gathering's landing on the island, this scene demonstrates "flashforwards" – occasions that happen "after" the gathering's effective salvage from the island. 

In the blaze successions, Jack is appeared to be discouraged, hairy, vigorously drinking and dependent on Oxycodone. Subsequent to finding out about the passing of somebody he knew, Jack has all the earmarks of being prepared to end it all by bouncing off the Sixth Street Viaduct connect. Notwithstanding, a red hot auto collision happens on the extension before he bounces and he goes to the people in question; it is in the long run uncovered that the driver smashed subsequent to being occupied by Jack. Afterward, Jack visits the remembrance administration for the individual he read about and winds up to be the main participant. In the remainder of the flashes, Kate shows up and Jack talks about the island with her. In a curve finishing, it turns out to be certain that the successions are really flashforwards as opposed to flashbacks. Jack informs Kate regarding the remembrance administration yet Kate, acting far off toward him, briskly answers that she would not have gone had she known. Jack additionally discusses utilizing the "brilliant pass" they had gotten from Oceanic Airlines to fly forward and backward over the Pacific Ocean each Friday, trusting that he will crash in the island. Jack regrets about lying and that they ought to have never left. Be that as it may, Kate differs and forgets while Jack cries that they need to return. 

The Others plan to assault the camp and hijack pregnant ladies for logical research. The survivors are tipped off by the "Other" Karl (Blake Bashoff) and plan to execute the Others with explosive fixed tents. Sayid Jarrah (Naveen Andrews), Jin Kwon (Daniel Dae Kim), and Bernard Nadler (Sam Anderson) stay at the shoreline, entrusted with shooting the tents while the remainder of the survivors venture with Danielle Rousseau (Mira Furlan) to the radio pinnacle to speak with Naomi Dorrit's (Marsha Thomason) close-by ship. 

The Others arrive, and keeping in mind that Sayid and Bernard explode their tents, Jin misses his objective, which results in their catch. In the wake of hearing just two blasts, James "Sawyer" Ford (Josh Holloway) and Juliet Burke (Elizabeth Mitchell) swing back to check whether they can help. Hugo "Hurley" Reyes (Jorge Garcia), who was not permitted to go with Sawyer and Juliet in view of his weight, drives the van he discovered onto the shoreline, and the hostages gain the advantage, murdering the rest of the Others with the assistance of Sawyer and Juliet. Tom (M.C. Gainey) surrenders however Sawyer shoots him at any rate. 

In , an examination station of the Dharma Initiative, Charlie Pace (Dominic Monaghan) is caught by the inhabitant Others Greta (Lana Parrilla) and Bonnie (Tracy Middendorf). Ben Linus (Michael Emerson) learns of Charlie's invasion and sends Mikhail Bakunin (Andrew Divoff) to the station to execute the three to protect the flag sticking. Mikhail arrives and kills Greta and Bonnie, just to be shot through the chest with a lance firearm by Desmond Hume (Henry Ian Cusick) who rises up out of a wardrobe where he had covered up in the wake of plunging down a brief timeframe after Charlie. Getting the code from Bonnie before she passes on (the notes to the center eight of "Good Vibrations" by The Beach Boys), Charlie debilitates the jammer, and is reached by Penny Widmore (Sonya Walger) by means of video transmission. Penny illuminates Charlie that she doesn't know Naomi, and did not send the watercraft that Naomi professes to be from. Notwithstanding his damage, Mikhail figures out how to swim out of the station and shoots the window of the sticking room with an explosive, murdering himself and flooding the interchanges room. Charlie locks the way to spare Desmond from suffocating with him, however before he suffocates, Charlie composes on his hand so Desmond can peruse: "NOT PENNY'S BOAT". 

John Locke (Terry O'Quinn), one of the survivors, has been shot by Ben. Discovering his legs incapacitated once more, Locke is going to end it all, when he is ceased by what gives off an impression of being Walt Lloyd (Malcolm David Kelley). Walt discloses to John that he has the utilization of his legs and that he has "work to do". In the mean time, Ben tells Richard Alpert (Nestor Carbonell) to lead the remainder of the Others to the "Sanctuary" and after that leaves the Others, with his received little girl Alex (Tania Raymonde) – Rousseau's girl and Karl's sweetheart – to get together with the survivors to influence Jack not to call Naomi's ship for salvage. 

Kate is vexed about Sawyer not needing her to return to the shoreline with him to safeguard Sayid, Jin and Bernard. Jack discloses to her it is on the grounds that Sawyer was attempting to ensure her. When she inquires as to why Jack is safeguarding Sawyer, Jack illuminates Kate Austen (Evangeline Lilly) that it is on the grounds that he adores her. Kate likewise saw a kiss among him and Juliet. Ben and Alex catch Jack's gathering; Ben illuminates Jack that Naomi isn't who she says she is, and reaching her watercraft will be lamentable for everybody. Ben arranges the shooting of Sayid, Jin, and Bernard, and when Jack hears three shots, he assaults Ben and punches him in the face over and again. Obscure to Jack, the shots were discharged into the sand, following prior requests from Ben. Rousseau meets her sixteen-year-old little girl Alex, who was grabbed by the Others soon after her introduction to the world, and they tie Ben up. The trek party, presently ready to get a flag, lands at the radio pinnacle. Rousseau impairs her misery flag, liberating the recurrence for Naomi. Nonetheless, Naomi is cut in the back by Locke, who takes steps to murder Jack on the off chance that he calls Naomi's pontoon. Locke can't force himself to slaughter Jack, who speaks with George Minkowski (Fisher Stevens) on Naomi's pontoon. Minkowski tells the survivors they will send salvage. 

The scene's title is an inference to Lewis Carroll's epic "Through the Looking-Glass" and a reference to the imaginary Dharma Initiative station included in the past scene. Shooting started on April 13, 2007 and finished on May 7, 2007. The scholars were so a long ways behind calendar that pieces of the scene were shot while later parts were all the while being composed. Taping generally occurred on Oahu, Hawaii, with extra scenes shot in Los Angeles. The medical clinic scenes were shot on similar sets utilized for the ABC show "Dark's Anatomy". 

Regardless of not being referenced in the official public statement, at that point 15-year-old Malcolm David Kelley came back to repeat his job as 10-year-old Walt Lloyd, and got credit as an "exceptional visitor star". Kelley's character had left the island in the second-season finale, just 26 days preceding the occasions of "Through the Looking Glass"; nonetheless, Kelley had not shot a scene in over a year. In his single scene, Walt has obviously matured, seems taller and has a more profound voice. The makers had trusted that Harold Perrineau, who plays Walt's dad Michael Dawson, would return in this scene, yet he was occupied with taping the pilot for CBS' "Evil presences". Damon Lindelof and Carlton Cuse loaned their voices for the inconspicuous jobs of the flight chief and reporter, individually. 

This scene closed the story circular segment about Charlie's demise, which started prior in the season when Desmond forecasted Charlie's passing. All through the season, Charlie got away passing; be that as it may, Desmond disclosed to Charlie that he needed to pass on all together for his sweetheart, Claire Littleton, to get safeguarded from the island. The storyline of Charlie's passing was imagined while creating the last piece of the second season, after the storyline of Charlie's illicit drug use wrapped up. The updates on his character's passing was broken to Monaghan two scenes ahead of time, to which Monaghan felt "help" for knowing the eventual fate of his activity on the show. The evening of Monaghan's underdog to-a day ago on set, he was given a kayak paddle that had been made by the cast and group. Monaghan wanted to come back to "Lost" as a visitor star in flashbacks or dreams. 

Jack Bender expressed that Matthew Fox "truly submits body and soul into the story he's telling" and Fox addressed whether he had ever been more drained than while shooting the twofold scene. Like the other "Lost" season finales, the last cliffhanger scene was given a codename—"The Rattlesnake in the Mailbox"— and stayed quiet. After Lindelof and Cuse composed the scene, just Fox, Lilly, Bender, and co-official maker Jean Higgins were given duplicates of the content. The scene was shot with a green screen in a deserted Honolulu parking area with the airplane terminal altered in. In spite of the safety efforts, a total and itemized scene abstract was transferred online over seven days before the scene publicized. Disney explored the hole. The hole provoked Lindelof and Cuse to enter "radio quiet", which was briefly broken at Comic-Con International 2007. The memorial service parlor that Jack visits is classified "Hoffs/Drawlar", which is a re-arranged word of "flashforward". The possibility of flashforwards was brought about by makers Lindelof and Abrams amid the show's origination. In any case, Cuse and Lindelof just began fleshing out the thought toward the finish of the main season, after they understood that flashbacks would in the long run quit being dramatic and realized that they would in the long run need to change to flashforwards. With the declaration that the arrangement would close 48 scenes after "Through the Looking Glass", they felt happy with playing flashforwards as right on time as the third-season finale. 

After generation wrapped on May 21, 2007, just two days before it publicized on TV. The score was made by arrangement artist Michael Giacchino, while mainstream music was additionally highlighted all through the scene. Charlie additionally sings a tune in the scene that was composed by Dominic Monaghan, who plays him. A "Lost" season finale is around twice as long the normal "Lost" scene. Because of the scene's length, it was part into two sections in certain nations and when discharged on DVD. In contrast to most scenes, this scene did not include a "formerly on "Lost"… " recap toward the beginning of the scene when it initially circulated; in any case, it was initially gone before by a clasp show titled "", which recapped the third season. Cuse said that he and Lindelof think the finale is "cool [and] we're glad for it." Stephen McPherson, the leader of ABC Entertainment, called "Through the Looking Glass" "a standout amongst the best scenes" of the arrangement. Buena Vista Home Entertainment discharged "Through the Looking Glass" on the season's DVD and Blu-beam Disk sets on December 11, 2007 in Region 1. A featurette called ""Lost": On Location" highlights cast and team examining generation of select scenes, including "Through the Looking Glass". The scene was rerun out of the blue on January 30, 2008 with on-screen message in the lower third of the screen, like VH1's "Spring up Video". These pop-ups were not composed by "Lost"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s journalists because of the 2007– 2008 Writers Guild of America strike; they were composed by the advertising organization Met/Hodder. This upgraded release was seen by just about 9 million Americans. 

In the U.S., the scene got the best evaluations for "Lost" in fifteen scenes. The two-hour Wednesday communicate on ABC made "Lost" the fourth most watched arrangement of the week with a normal of 13.86 million American watchers, beneath the third season normal of 14.6 million. The primary hour was seen by 12.67 million, and the gathering of people expanded to 15.04 million in the second hour. The scene got a 5.9/15 in the key grown-ups 18– 49 statistic. In the United Kingdom, the scene pulled in 1.21 million watchers, and was the second most watched program of the week on the non-earthly channels, beaten just by "". In Australia, "Lost" was the thirty-seventh most seen show of the week, getting 1.17 million watchers. In Canada, the scene set sixteenth for the principal half, with 911,000 watchers and fifteenth for the second half, with 938,000 watchers. The scenes were communicated when "American Idol". 

The scene collected widespread basic approval. The "Los Angeles Times" composed that the scene was "a strangely activity pressed and savage spring cleaning that… left a large group of… characters… dead", "Access Atlanta" said "it was profoundly fulfilling. The primary hour began somewhat moderate however the second hour had extraordinary turns, brilliantly enthusiastic minutes, both cheerful and tragic", and the "Related Press" said that "the incredible season-finishing scene recovered the arrangement with the savvy and interest that made it so addictive in any case." The "San Francisco Chronicle" composed that "not exclusively was the pace quick, the prods tight, and the appropriate responses bounty, the journalists took a convincing bet… [by telling] watchers that later on… possibly all… of the general population on the "Lost" island get off. They get their desire. In any case, in Jack, our guide through this arrangement, the scholars conclusively state, 'Be watchful what you wish for.'" The "San Jose Mercury News" considered the finale a "stunning activity in great narrating." The "Pittsburgh Post-Gazette" remarked that the flashforward "wind gave the adventure recharged force as it starts its walk toward a 2010 completion." The season finale was summed up as "a mind-blower, without a doubt, an extreme two hours that gave us significant phony outs, a multitude of dead bodies, the likelihood of salvage [and] various pictures of courage" by "The Boston Globe", who included that the demise of Charlie was "the most contacting loss of the arrangement up until now." "The Palm Beach Post" and "Wizard" named it the "Best Cliffhanger" of 2007. The "Chicago Tribune" called it "a certified achievement" with brilliant pacing and activity, in any case, the flashforward scenes were believed to be uninteresting and "awkward". "Time" positioned the scene as the best of 2007 and the "Poisonous snake in the Mailbox" as one of the ten best scenes of 2007 TV. 

"The Futon Critic" set the scene first in the site's yearly "50 Best Episodes" list. "E!" said that "Through the Looking Glass" was perhaps "the best scene ever of the whole arrangement." "television Guide" portrayed "Through the Looking Glass" as "a bewildering exercise in experience, continued strain and time-moving mat pulling [that was] stupendously delivered, incredibly coordinated and magnificently acted." IGN gave the twofold scene an ideal 10/10 – the best survey of the period – saying it was "completely a gem of narrating with a splendidly paced story." "IGN" would presume that the flashforward was the "Greatest Shock" in 2007 TV. Both IGN and "The Los Angeles Times" would later pronounce "Through the Looking Glass" as the second best "Lost" scene, behind "The Constant". "BuddyTV" applauded the eccentrics, saying that "no other show can even endeavor to do what "Lost" does." "BuddyTV" would later call "Through the Looking Glass" the best finale of 2007 and Charlie's passing the saddest TV demise of 2007. "Through the Looking Glass" was "TV.com"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s "Supervisor's Choice" for "Best Episode" of 2007. "AOL"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s "television Squad" gave the scene a 7/7, noticing that "the journalists finished on Desmond's hunches and effectively conveyed the exceptionally foreseen distinct advantage." "TV Without Pity" gave the third-season finale an "A". "The Sydney Morning Herald" composed that "Lost" "may have unjumped <nowiki>[</nowiki>the shark<nowiki>]</nowiki> with [the] flashforward." "Excitement Weekly" positioned it as one of the main ten scenes of 2007, saying that the cliffhanger "[revealed] new measurements to ["Lost"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s] imaginative world." "Zap2It" addressed "whether to be profoundly baffled (once more), ridiculously befuddled (an unmistakable probability) or just in wonder of the extraordinary personality (ahem) show sprinters… have pulled off." The composition for Locke was reprimanded, and one "IGN" essayist said that "it appears to be unreasonable that he would go and [stab Naomi] in the back without accounting for himself." Lindelof expressed "that we may be happy to assume the best about [Locke] for any move he made because of [lying, gutshot, in a pit of Dharma cadavers for two days and very nearly taking his very own life], regardless of whether considered marginally 'abnormal'." Film and TV chief and author Kevin Smith said that "to do [3] seasons and afterward all of a sudden toss a monstrous curveball is simply so significantly fulfilling, you simply take your caps off to the scholars in a major, awful manner." 

This scene was designated for Outstanding Directing, Outstanding Writing, and Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Drama Series for the 59th Primetime Emmy Awards, however neglected to win in any of the classes. This scene was additionally submitted for thought for Outstanding Drama Series"; in any case, it was not assigned. For his work on this scene, Jack Bender was designated for the Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directing – Drama Series.