History of Gillingham F.C. 

Gillingham F.C. is an English football club situated in Gillingham, Kent. The club was shaped in 1893, and played in the Southern League until 1920, when that group's top division was consumed into the Football League as its new Division Three. The club was casted a ballot out of the alliance for Ipswich Town toward the finish of the 1937– 38 season, however returned 12 years after the fact, when that class was extended from 88 to 92 clubs. Twice in the late 1980s Gillingham verged on winning advancement to the second level of English football, yet a decay at that point set in and in 1993 the club barely stayed away from assignment to the Football Conference. In 2000, the "Gills" achieved the second level of the English alliance without precedent for the club's history and proceeded to burn through five seasons at this dimension, accomplishing a club record most noteworthy association completion of eleventh spot in 2002– 03. The club has twice won the division involving the fourth dimension in the football class: the Football League Fourth Division title in 1963– 64 and the Football League Two title in 2012– 13. 

The neighborhood accomplishment of a lesser football side, Chatham Excelsior F.C., supported a gathering of businesspeople to meet at the Napier Arms bar on 18 May 1893, with the end goal of making a football club that could contend in bigger rivalries. To do this, the club required an encased playing territory where an affirmation expense could be charged, which Excelsior needed. New Brompton F.C. was framed at the gathering, consolidating various Excelsior players. The gathering additionally obtained the plot of land which would later progress toward becoming Priestfield Stadium, where a pitch was rapidly laid and a structure built. New Brompton's first group played their first match on 2 September 1893, with the new group, donning Excelsior's highly contrasting stripes, being vanquished 5– 1 by Woolwich Arsenal's save group before a horde of 2,000. As a "blind raiser" promptly before this match, New Brompton's very own stores played a match against Grays, which was along these lines in fact the principal coordinate played by a group speaking to the club. 

New Brompton joined the Southern League upon its creation in 1894, being put in Division Two since it was one of the last clubs to be welcome to join the alliance. After joining the alliance, New Brompton turned proficient, with the players consenting to be paid 12 shillings for every match, and immediately won the Division Two title in the 1894– 95 season. With a record of one annihilation and eleven triumphs from twelve matches, the group closed the season with a "test coordinate" against Swindon Town, who had completed base of Division One. As 5– 1 victors, New Brompton picked up advancement to Division One the accompanying season. In 1896 the club designated its first administrator when William Ironside Groombridge, who had recently filled in as the club's money related secretary, assumed responsibility for group undertakings. Groombridge served the club, as secretary and in some cases administrator, until well after the First World War. 

New Brompton battled in Division One, for the most part completing near the foot of the table, yet reached the first round appropriate of the FA Cup without precedent for 1899– 1900, losing 1– 0 to Southampton. In a similar season the club was compelled to play a class installation at the home ground of Woolwich Arsenal when Priestfield was shut because of group inconvenience in a match against Millwall. 

In the 1907– 08 season, under the administration of the previous England global Stephen Smith, New Brompton completed base of the table, 

In 1912 the executives passed a goals to change the club's name to Gillingham F.C., and the group played under this name all through the 1912– 13 season, despite the fact that the change was not formally endorsed by the investors until the next year. To harmonize with the change, the group started brandishing another unit of red shirts with blue sleeves. The side again completed base of the division in the 1914– 15 season, however evaded transfer for a second time when the association was suspended because of the acceleration of the First World War. 

When the challenge continued after the war Gillingham, by and by donning highly contrasting, kept on faring inadequately, again completing base of Division One in the 1919– 20 season. For a third time, nonetheless, the club evaded assignment, because of the resulting height of all Southern League Division One clubs to shape the new Football League Third Division. 

In the club's first match in the recently made Football League Division Three, Gillingham held Southampton to a 1– 1 attract front of another record Priestfield horde of 11,500, with Tom Gilbey scoring the club's first objective allied challenge. Under new administrator John McMillan the group battled and completed the 1920– 21 season base of the table, and in the years to pursue there was little improvement, with the club routinely completing in the lower scopes of the base division. Gillingham did not figure out how to complete in the top portion of the table until 1925– 26, when the group completed in tenth spot, due primarily to the objectives of Dick Edmed, who was quickly marked by Liverpool for an expense of £1,750, another Gillingham record. Chief Harry Curtis withdrew soon a short time later to take over at Brentford, and previous Wolverhampton Wanderers director Albert Hoskins ventured down a division to deal with the club, however he could do little to change the group's fortunes and left in 1929 after Gillingham completed base of the table by and by. 

Striker Fred Cheesmur set another club record in the 1929– 30 season when he scored six objectives in a match against Merthyr Town. This remaining parts the most noteworthy number of objectives scored by a Gillingham player in an expert match, however was an uncommon high point in a season which saw Gillingham compelled to apply for re-appointment to the class. The next year the club surrendered its conventional highly contrasting striped shirts for blue shirts and white shorts, hues which have remained related with Gillingham from that point onward, in spite of the fact that the high contrast stripes are as yet obvious in the present rendition of the club's identification. In 1932– 33 previous Crystal Palace supervisor Fred Maven drove the club to its most noteworthy class completion to date, completing the season in seventh spot, yet it was an accomplishment which couldn't be rehashed and the group came back to battling at the foot of the table the accompanying season. 

In the 1934– 35 season focus forward Sim Raleigh, the club's top scorer the past season and a player seen as a future star, endured a mind drain following a hit to the head in a match against Brighton and Hove Albion on 1 December. In spite of the fact that he played on he crumbled amid the second half and kicked the bucket in clinic later that day. The club propelled a reserve which raised over £250 for his widow and kid. 

In 1938 the Gills completed base of the now-regionalised Third Division South yet again, and were required to apply for re-appointment to the Football League for the fifth time since going along with it in 1920. This time the club's offered for re-appointment fizzled, with Ipswich Town enrolling 36 votes to Gillingham's 28 and being advanced into the League. At the time it was viewed as a particular plausibility that Gillingham, saddled with overwhelming obligations caused amid the first fruitless seasons, probably won't endure, yet the club continued, and came back toward the Southern League the accompanying season, though without administrator Alan Ure, who was supplanted by Bill Harvey. 

The club's second stretch in the Southern League was hindered by the episode of the Second World War in 1939, which saw recently named director Archie Clark and the vast majority of the players alloted to work at the neighborhood dockyards. At the point when aggressive football continued, Gillingham played in the primary manifestation of the Kent League, winning the title in both 1944– 45 and 1945– 46. In the second of these seasons the group additionally won the Kent Senior Cup, Kent County Challenge Cup and Kent League Cup, to finish a decisive victory of each senior trophy in the district. Following their Kent League triumphs, the Gills came back toward the Southern League for the 1946– 47 season, in which the group again won two trophies, asserting both the Southern League Cup and the Southern League title itself, and enlisted a club record 12– 1 triumph over Gloucester City. Striker Hughie Russell scored nine objectives in the match, and passed up twofold figures when he hit the bar late in the diversion. 

Despite the fact that Gillingham passed up the Southern League title the accompanying season, completing as sprinters up, the group again caught the Kent Senior Cup, just as setting a club record participation of 23,002 for a glass coordinate against Queens Park Rangers. Gillingham connected for re-appointment to the Football League in the late spring of 1948 at the same time, in spite of creating a shiny leaflet enumerating the group's accomplishments, the club saw its application rejected, with just a single vote cast to support its. Regardless of this failure, the group kept on performing unequivocally in the Southern League and effectively recaptured the association title in 1948– 49. In 1950 plans were reported to grow the Third Division South from 22 to 24 groups and, in light of the group's nearby accomplishment in the meantime, Gillingham picked up re-appointment to the Football League, accepting the most astounding number of votes among the applicant clubs. 

Gillingham's first amusement back in the Football League saw the Kent club hold individual new contestants Colchester United to a 0– 0 attract at Priestfield front of 19,542 fans. The 1950– 51 season saw the Gills both yield and score nine objectives in individual matches, and completed with them base of the table, an execution which was rehashed the accompanying season. In 1952 striker Jimmy Scarth set a Football League record when he scored a cap trap in around 2 minutes 30 seconds against Leyton Orient, which was authoritatively perceived as the quickest cap trap in the historical backdrop of the Football League until February 2004. 

Gillingham's fortunes on the field bit by bit improved and the group completed in the top portion of the Third Division South on three events, helped by the objectives of Ernie Morgan, who in 1954– 55 set another club record by scoring 31 class objectives. In 1956– 57 and 1957– 58, notwithstanding, the Gills got themselves by and by attached to the base of the table, and this implied with the rebuilding of the group framework for the 1958– 59 season, the group was put in the recently made Fourth Division – a top-half completion would have prompted situation in the new national Third Division. 1958 additionally observed the takeoff of long-serving administrator Archie Clark, who had held the post since before the Second World War, with Harry Barratt dominating. 

The Gills were still in the Fourth Division in 1962 when Barratt was supplanted as administrator by Freddie Cox, who acquired a group which had recently completed twentieth in the table. Cox begin molding another group noted for its considerable protective abilities. In the wake of completing in fifth spot in 1962– 63 Gillingham proceeded to pick up advancement the next year, winning the main title in the club's history. With goalkeeper John Simpson setting another club record by yielding just 30 objectives all season, the group completed dimension on 60 points with Carlisle United, however with a partially better objective normal, thus asserted the title in the most secure completion in Football League history. 

Gillingham at first performed well at the more elevated amount, twice approaching advancement, yet exhibitions at that point declined and the club was consigned back to the Fourth Division in 1970– 71. The Gills immediately skiped back, nonetheless, and were elevated back to the Third Division in 1973– 74 under the administration of Andy Nelson. With the assistance of players, for example, Brian Yeo, who equalled Ernie Morgan's record for most association objectives in a season with 31, Gillingham scored a club record aggregate of 90 class objectives and completed as sprinters up to Peterborough United. 

In the wake of controlling the club to advancement Andy Nelson left to take over as administrator of Charlton Athletic and was supplanted by Len Ashurst, yet his administrative rule endured just 16 months. Gerry Summers dominated and was to take the club the nearest it had ever come to advancement to Division Two when, in 1978– 79, Gillingham completed only one point off an advancement place, yet after two years Summers was supplanted by Keith Peacock. Peacock set up together a group which built up a notoriety for energizing, assaulting play, and furthermore brought through the positions various youthful players who proceeded to make progress at a more elevated amount, including Micky Adams, Steve Bruce, and Tony Cascarino, who was broadly purchased from non-association Crockenhill in return for a lot of tracksuits. Gillingham approached advancement a few times amid Peacock's rule, with four top-six completes in six years, and in 1986– 87 achieved the play-offs (in their first year of presence) just to lose in the last to Swindon Town. Gridlocked at 2– 2 after the home and away legs of the last, the two groups needed to play a third match at a nonpartisan scene, which Swindon won 2– 0. 

The club's inability to pick up advancement implied that it was unfit to hold tight to the driven Cascarino, who was sold to Millwall for £225,000, however regardless of the loss of the group's star striker the Gills' 1987– 88 season started with a whirlwind of objectives. On back to back Saturdays Gillingham beat Southend United 8– 1 and Chesterfield 10– 0 (the last another club record for an expert match), yet the early-season guarantee blurred and in December Peacock was questionably sacked after a 6– 0 thrashing to Aldershot. His right hand, Paul Taylor, was elevated to chief, however after a fruitless spell in control Taylor was himself supplanted in October 1988 by previous Tottenham Hotspur administrator Keith Burkinshaw. Burkinshaw was unfit to turn the group's fortunes around, be that as it may, and left instantly before the club's transfer to Division Four was affirmed toward the finish of the 1988– 89 season. 

Previous Gillingham player Damien Richardson turned into the club's next administrator, with veteran goalkeeper Ron Hillyard as his colleague, however the club's budgetary circumstance was poor and the pair attempted to deliver results with a squad made out of maturing understudies and untried adolescents, and the two men were sacked in September 1992, with Glenn Roeder taking over as supervisor. Gillingham's association status was in risk for the vast majority of the 1992– 93 Division Three crusade, with assignment to the Football Conference an unmistakable probability until the last home match of the period, when a 2– 0 success over Halifax Town guaranteed the club's survival. In any case, the money related emergency proceeded at Priestfield, and relentlessly improving association structure throughout the following two seasons did little to mask the way that the club was in genuine threat of leaving presence. 

The club in the long run went into receivership in January 1995, and before the finish of the 1994– 95 season, with Gillingham confronting the danger of being removed from the Football League and shut down, fans were pondering whether they had seen the last ever Gills coordinate. Nonetheless, help was headed as a last-jettison buy of the club. 

In June 1995 a London-based previous office supplies sales rep, Paul Scally, ventured in and purchased the club for an ostensible expense. Scally acquired new chief Tony Pulis, who marked just about a total new group and drove Gillingham to advancement in his first season, completing second in Division Three (presently Football League Two). This season was additionally striking for the way that the group just yielded 20 association objectives – an alliance record for a 46-diversion season. In 1999 Gillingham achieved the playoffs, yet lost in the Second Division play-off last against Manchester City. Following objectives by the productive organization of Robert Taylor and Carl Asaba, the Gills drove 2– 0 with under two minutes left, just to see Manchester City score twice, the equalizer in damage time, and afterward win a punishment shoot-out 3– 1. 

Not long after the play-off misfortune, Pulis was sacked for gross wrongdoing, with Peter Taylor supplanting him as director. In the 1999– 00 season Gillingham went on a club record breaking FA Cup run, beating then-Premiership groups Bradford City and Sheffield Wednesday before losing 5– 0 to Chelsea in the quarter-finals. The group additionally completed in third spot in the alliance and accordingly met all requirements for the play-offs once more, confronting Wigan Athletic at Wembley Stadium in the last. The diversion completed 1– 1 following an hour and a half yet on account of objectives in additional time from Gillingham substitutes Steve Butler and Andy Thomson the club was elevated to the second level of the English group (Division One) out of the blue. As Taylor had just marked a one-year bargain, Leicester City, at that point in the Premiership, moved toward him to be their new supervisor. 

Previous group chief Andy Hessenthaler was delegated player-director, having recently filled in as player-mentor, and drove the club to association completions of thirteenth, twelfth and eleventh in his initial three seasons in control. Interestingly, the 2003– 04 season saw the club escape transfer by the tightest of edges, with a last day goalless draw keeping Gillingham above Walsall on objective distinction, with only one objective isolating the two groups. John Gorman was named to help Hessenthaler as the side began the 2004– 05 season inadequately, however as the group kept on battling at the wrong end of the table Hessenthaler surrendered as administrator in late November. Fairly strangely he kept on being utilized as a player. Gorman succeeded Hessenthaler in an overseer limit yet left the club to take the supervisor's position at Wycombe Wanderers. Gillingham then designated previous Burnley supervisor Stan Ternent as chief, however in spite of a late keep running of positive outcomes, he couldn't keep the Gills' assignment to League One on the most recent day of the period. In an inversion of the past season's fortunes, Crewe Alexandra, the group promptly above Gillingham in the table, made due by only one objective. 

The 2005– 06 season began with Neale Cooper being delegated as the new supervisor, yet in spite of accomplishing a 3– 2 triumph over Premiership side Portsmouth in the Football League Cup, the group battled in the alliance, and not long after annihilation in the first round of the FA Cup by Northern Premier League side Burscough, Cooper surrendered. He was supplanted by Ronnie Jepson, who drove the group to a mid-table completion, which he rehashed in 2006– 07. After a poor begin to the 2007– 08 season Jepson surrendered, and Mick Docherty and Iffy Onuora were named joint guardian chiefs. Docherty left the club a month later, however Onuora stayed in control until the arrangement of Mark Stimson on 1 November 2007. Toward the finish of the 2007– 08 season the club was consigned from League One. The accompanying season the Gills earned advancement through the play-offs subsequent to completing fifth in the class, Simeon Jackson scoring the main objective in the last against Shrewsbury Town at Wembley Stadium. In the 2009– 10 season, in any case, the Gills were consigned back to League Two, 

with Stimson leaving the club by common assent two days after the finish of the period. Inside about fourteen days, Andy Hessenthaler returned for a second spell as administrator. 

For two successive seasons the Gills completed simply outside the play-off spots in League Two, after which Hessenthaler was moved to the situation of Director of Football and Martin Allen selected as chief. In the 2012– 13 season, helped by another club record of eleven away successes in a season, the club by and by recovered advancement to League One, winning the League Two title, just the second title the club had ever succeeded at an expert dimension. The next October, nonetheless, Allen was sacked after a poor begin to the season and Peter Taylor was designated chief for a second time. Taylor was sacked following fourteen months in the activity, and his successor Justin Edinburgh kept going until January 2017. Previous Gillingham player Adrian Pennock returned as chief, yet the group approached assignment toward the finish of the 2016– 17 season. Pennock left the club by shared assent in September 2017, and Steve Lovell, another previous Gills player, assumed responsibility.