1962 South Vietnamese Independence Palace shelling 

The 1962 South Vietnamese Independence Palace shelling in Saigon was an aeronautical assault on 27 February 1962 by two dissenter Republic of Vietnam Air Force pilots, Second Lieutenant Nguyễn Văn Cử and First Lieutenant Phạm Phú Quốc. The pilots focused on the Independence Palace, the official living arrangement of the President of South Vietnam, with the point of killing President Ngô Đình Diệm and his close family, who went about as his political counselors. 

The pilots later said they endeavored the death in light of Diệm's despotic principle, in which he concentrated more on staying in power than on facing the Vietcong, a Marxist– Leninist guerilla armed force who were taking steps to oust the South Vietnamese government. Cử and Quốc trusted that the airstrike would uncover Diệm's helplessness and trigger a general uprising, however this neglected to emerge. 

One bomb infiltrated a room in the western wing where Diệm was perusing yet neglected to explode, driving the president to guarantee that he had "divine" insurance. Except for Diệm's sister-in-law Madame Nhu, who endured minor wounds, the Ngô family were sound. Three castle staff passed on and 30 were harmed. Thereafter, Cử got away to Cambodia, however Quốc was captured and detained. 

In the wake of the airstrike, Diệm ended up antagonistic towards the American nearness in South Vietnam. Diệm guaranteed that the American media was trying to cut him down and he presented new confinements on press opportunity and political affiliation. The media hypothesized that the United States would utilize the occurrence to legitimize the organization of battle troops to South Vietnam; in the occasion the U.S. stayed cautious. Locally, the episode was accounted for to have expanded plotting against Diệm by his officers. 

Cử was the second child of Nguyễn Văn Lực, a pioneer of the VNQDD (), which contradicted the Diệm routine. In 1960, Diệm had imprisoned Lực for one month for taking part in "hostile to government exercises". The VNQDD arranged that Cử and Quốc, another pilot from a similar squadron, would assault the Independence Palace on 27 February. Quốc had as of late been actually lauded by Diệm for his accomplishments in battle, having been regarded as a standout amongst the best pilots in the Republic of Vietnam Air Force (VNAF). Quốc had relatives who were included with the VNQDD. Cử selected Quốc by guaranteeing the Vietnamese furnished administrations and the United States knew about the plot, demonstrating to him a "Newsweek" article incredulous of Diệm as proof. 

Quốc had more subordinates however didn't know of their faithfulness, so he didn't attempt to select them for the assault on the royal residence. A long time later, Cử accused Diệm's treatment of resistance groups as the inspiration for his assault. He trusted that Diệm had organized staying in control over battling the VC and that, for a long time, Cử had been precluded advancement in light of the fact that from claiming Diệm's fixation on thwarting political adversaries. Cử censured the Americans for having upheld Diệm, saying: "the Americans had hammered the entryway on those of us who truly needed the battle against the socialists". 

Quốc and Cử, who were prepared in France and the United States, individually, were offered requests to fly from Saigon to the Mekong Delta in an early morning mission against the Vietcong (VC), an equipped Marxist guerilla armed force who wished to oust the administration and who had backing from the Marxist legislature of North Vietnam. The socialists had been engaged with assaults on Army of the Republic of Vietnam units south of the capital and had exacted overwhelming harm. Rather than continuing south from Bien Hoa Air Base as requested, they changed course to assault the Independence Palace, the authority presidential living arrangement. This implied two organizations of socialist guerrillas had the capacity to withdraw after their assault without counter-assault. 

At around 07:00, the deer on the far reaching yards of the French pilgrim period royal residence were terrified off as Quốc and Cử — flying American-manufactured A-1 Skyraiders (A1H/AD-6 variation) single-seater ground assault planes—flew low over their objective to investigate the decision family's living arrangement. On their second run, they assaulted with bombs and napalm before strafing the presidential compound with rocket and automatic rifle discharge. The team proceeded with their keeps running for 30 minutes before units faithful to the president arrived and propelled a counter-assault. Exploiting poor climate and low overcast spread, the two pilots orbited the castle at heights of around , occasionally plunging out of the mists to re-assault before dashing once again into them. The airstrike found the Saigon army napping and, in the perplexity, they were unfit to decide if the air ship were acting alone or with ground powers. Follower tanks and defensively covered work force bearers raced to their fight stations and against air ship batteries opened fire, about hitting the supporter air ship from Bien Hoa Air Base in quest for the two renegade planes. Two tanks and various jeeps outfitted with 50-gauge automatic rifles watched the smoke-filled roads as a precautionary measure. 

The principal bomb entered a room in the western wing where Diệm was perusing a life story of George Washington. The bomb neglected to explode, which gave Diệm enough time to look for safe house in a basement in the eastern wing. He was joined there by his senior sibling Archbishop Pierre Martin Ngô Đình Thục, more youthful sibling Ngô Đình Nhu, Madame Nhu—who continued an arm crack while running toward the basement—and their kids. Somewhere else inside the royal residence, three workers and gatekeepers were executed, and around thirty more staff were harmed. Outside the royal residence grounds, an American temporary worker passed on in the wake of tumbling from a housetop where he had been watching the besieging. In spite of the perplexity, the greater part of the city's occupants approached their standard business, apathetic regarding the bedlam. The assault kept going 30 minutes and in spite of the fact that they conveyed enough bombs to level the castle, the pilots did not consume every one of their weapons. Quốc's airplane was harmed by flame from a minesweeper, constraining him to launch over the Saigon River and land in Nhà Bè, enduring minor facial wounds in the arrival. He was captured by a close-by maritime watch, and before being removed for cross examination supposedly asked, "did I kill that soiled character?" Cử trusted the assault had been effective and figured out how to securely escape to Cambodia. Remarking on the assault, a US Air Force officer opined: "with that climate, they completed one serious occupation". 

In a concise radio location after request had been reestablished, Diệm expelled the assault as a "confined demonstration" and ascribed his break to "divine insurance". He visited the fighters injured in the assaults, and furthermore guaranteed the radical pilots' associates that they would not hold up under any duty regarding the besieging. American President John F. Kennedy immediately communicated something specific upbraiding the assault as a "dangerous and awful act", and communicated alleviation that Diệm was "protected and safe". US envoy Frederick Nolting established that the assault had been the consequence of "two secluded cases" and opined that the episode did not speak to far reaching disappointment with the routine. The nonattendance of a Vietcong response drove Nolting to mark the besieging as a "restricted extension, against Communist death endeavor". Diệm was applauded for apparently anticipating a quiet manner following the assault, and he moved to brief government settlement generally utilized for outside dignitaries and visited the VNAF base from where the pilots left for their assault. 

The National Assembly, Diệm's elastic stamp authoritative body, encouraged the president to "take extreme measures against untrustworthy components". The day after the assault, the National Assembly's Steering Committee passed a goals approaching Diệm to end "the strategy of pardon" against dissenters and to "proceed with the battle to secure the country's fate". They likewise called for disciplines to be given out to individuals who exploited the turmoil by storing merchandise or theorizing on sustenance. 

General Duong Van Minh, the presidential military guide, credited the ambush to "disappointed pilots", and noticed that no unfriendly troop developments had happened. The Civil Guard had stayed steadfast and its leader requested his airborne powers to assume control over Tan Son Nhut Air Base. A representative for Diệm additionally denied that napalm had been utilized against the royal residence. This was generally accepted to be because of the way that the legislature was delicate to the implications of the aviation based armed forces being uncovered to have such weapons in their stocks. He guaranteed the circumstance was under "finished control". 

The VNAF responded to the two pilots' activities by sending a goals to Diệm, saying that the assault was a "completely disengaged and stupid" occasion that "hindered the renown of the flying corps" and was "impeding to the national exertion in the present battle and is gainful to the Communists in their work of disruption". The VNAF was viewed similar to a very faithful part of the military and its leader, Colonel Nguyen Quang Vinh had guaranteed the year prior to, that the majority of the VNAF's officer corps had voted in favor of Diem in the 1961 presidential race. After becoming aware of the assault, Vinh loaded up an uncommonly sanctioned plane given by President Chiang Kai-shek of Taiwan, to come back to Saigon to create an impression on the circumstance and the political dependability of the VNAF. Vinh had been in Taiwan at a gathering. 

The National Revolutionary Movement, an association utilized by the Ngô family to organize arranged mass exhibitions in help of themselves, required capital punishment against the two pilots and further asked Diệm to sanction the "strictest measures to guarantee discipline in the military". The Director General of Information discharged an announcement requiring the "total pounding" of "reactionaries" just as socialists. It alluded to the assault as a "terrible endeavor against the lives of the President of the Republic and his family" and proceeded to disperse an official rendition of the occasions of February 27, taking note of that "bits of gossip have been running relating to the destiny of Madame Ngo Dinh Nhu, who, with her family, as everybody knows, is a most loved focus of the publicity of reactionaries and Communists". The public statement proceeded to portray the two radical pilots as "dishonorable individuals in the compensation of the foes of the Vietnamese individuals" and furthermore pounced upon the outside media, saying that "specific areas of the press of the world have given their help" to "reactionary and Communist purposeful publicity". It closed by saying "These advancements obviously demonstrate that the pioneers in their royal residence are sharing the battling life of the general population at the front. They affirm that in this fight to the end prompted by reactionaries and Communists against free Vietnam, there is no other obligation for the general population than to battle until the total squashing of every one of their foes is accomplished. 

Because of the assault, Diệm requested that all VNAF flying machine be grounded and all flying battle missions were suspended while his security authorities examined military pilots for any conceivable enemy of routine propensities. This was accomplished by setting tanks on the runway at Bien Hoa Air Base. Without help from going with contender create, it was regarded unreasonably dangerous for American helicopters to work in the wildernesses against the socialists. On 2 March, three days after the assault, Diệm permitted the aviation based armed forces to continue battle activities, having reasoned that Cử and Quốc's notions were not delegate of the flying corps. For a couple of days after the assault, the zones around the royal residence were cordoned off and tanks were positioned at conspicuous avenues in the capital. 

Quốc was detained for his activities, while Cử stayed estranged abroad in Cambodia where he filled in as a language educator. Cử told correspondents in Cambodia that he was a patriot, not a socialist and anticipated that assaults against the decision family would proceed. Cử refered to the strategies of the routine, as opposed to the president as an individual, as the inspiration for his assault. He said that "It is less Ngo Dinh Diem—at times good natured toward the populace—than his family and supporters, who are loathed by the military and the populace". Diệm requested that Cambodia remove Cử, however this solicitation was can't. Cambodia's Prince Norodom Sihanouk and Diệm had very antagonistic relations, and the Ngô family had endeavored to oust him in the past by subsidizing upset endeavors. In 1959, Nhu attempted to kill Sihanouk by sending him a package bomb. Therefore, Sihanouk routinely offered shelter to political displaced people who had attempted to dismiss or execute Diệm. In November 1960, he had offered haven to a gathering of paratroopers who endeavored to remove Diệm. 

Meanwhile, Diệm's police tried to find Cử's dad, who had sought total isolation following the death endeavor. After Diệm's death in November 1963, Quốc was discharged from jail and Cử came back from outcast on 16 November, and they continued their administration noticeable all around power. Quốc progressed to the position of Lieutenant Colonel in year and a half before being murdered in an air strike over North Vietnam on 20 April 1965. 

On 4 March, Diệm held an audit of the VNAF in focal Saigon. Vast groups rushed to the banks of the Saigon River to watch developments of VNAF air ship on ethereal procession, albeit ordinary regular citizens were not permitted inside a square of the presidential box, where Diệm was joined by Nolting and General Paul D. Harkins, leader of the US military mission to Vietnam. The showcase included 29 of the airplane used to assault Independence Palace. Diệm talked about the occasions of 27 February and noticed that he was "not ignorant" of the steady response of the different sections of society to "the absurd demonstration executed by some deceptive components" that had "endeavored to energize wicked inconveniences which would have benefitted just adversaries of the mother country". He said that the bombarding was "simply a detached activity off a couple of crazy tricksters to the country and to the general population, while the whole aviation based armed forces, similar to the remainder of the military, showed enduring faithfulness and a relentless soul of national solidarity by quickly and adequately countering the animosity of two crooks". He depicted that assault as "the detestable demonstration of mavericks" and called upon the VNAF "to remain constantly watchful, to get some distance from all enticements, to hate every single treacherous plan and to put the higher enthusiasm of the mother country above close to home intrigue". Accordingly, the VNAF boss Vinh, approached Diệm for "pardoning and mercy" and gave a plaque engraved a goals from the VNAF denouncing assault. 

Amid Nolting's first gathering with Diệm after the death endeavor, the president resolvedly affirmed that the media was in charge of the besieging. He indicated the "Newsweek" article and other "censorious articles in the press", utilizing them to legitimize his case that "the Americans were supporting the unrest". Diệm announced that while a few writers were depicting the besieging as a reminder he considered it to be "a notice to them—a pointer of the peril of their untrustworthiness in instigating issue". 

In a later gathering with General Paul D. Harkins, leader of the US military mission to Vietnam, Diệm clowned: "I shouldn't have placed him noticeable all around power, since I had put his dad in prison years back". Diệm proceeded to anticipate that "at some point I will get shot right in the back of the neck. At some point they'll get me that way". (He and Nhu were ousted and shot dead amid the November 1963 upset.) Diệm responded to the death endeavor by taking action against political nonconformists and further fixing control of the press. Confidentially, one authority conceded that "We don't discuss opportunity of the press or request different freedoms any more ... Diệm had totally encircle himself in a defensive theocracy". Nhu advocated further enemy of resistance confinements, commenting that "There's continually going to be a restriction. On the off chance that we take these individuals in, there will be another resistance jumping up, in light of the fact that they are disputable men." Madame Nhu included, "You open a window to let in light and air, not projectiles. We need opportunity, yet we would prefer not to be misused by it." 

The assault produced hypothesis that the US would react by sending battle troops in South Vietnam. Around then, US military staff formally held just warning limits. In the reaction to media worries about the dependability of the Diệm government, US Secretary of State Dean Rusk denied that the US had plans to convey battle powers. He additionally precluded dealings with the Vietcong, saying "the base of the inconvenience" was socialist infringement of the Geneva Accords. 

US Ambassador to India John Kenneth Galbraith campaigned Kennedy against the organization of battle troops, trusting that it would prompt perpetual South Vietnamese solicitations for more troops. Galbraith further trusted that squandering US assets in the wildernesses of Vietnam would play under the control of the Soviet Union. As indicated by one US onlooker, the castle shelling incited "full scale plotting against Diệm". Galbraith noticed that "When the man in power is headed down, anything is better" and thought about that any adjustment in South Vietnamese authority would bring an improvement.