Stretford 

Stretford is a town in Trafford, Greater Manchester, England, on level ground between the River Mersey and the Manchester Ship Canal, southwest of Manchester downtown area, south of Salford and upper east of Altrincham. Stretford fringes Chorlton-cum-Hardy toward the east, Urmston toward the west, Salford toward the north, and Sale toward the south. The Bridgewater Canal divides the town. 

Generally in Lancashire, in the nineteenth century Stretford was a horticultural town, referred to locally as Porkhampton because of the extensive number of pigs created for the Manchester advertise. It was likewise a broad market-cultivating region, creating more than of vegetables every week available to be purchased in Manchester by 1845. The landing of the Manchester Ship Canal in 1894, and the resulting advancement of the Trafford Park modern domain, quickened the industrialisation that had started in the late nineteenth century. By 2001 short of what one percent of Stretford's populace was utilized in horticulture. 

Stretford has been the home of Manchester United Football Club since 1910, and of Lancashire County Cricket Club since 1864. Eminent inhabitants have incorporated the industrialist, giver, and Manchester's first multi-mogul John Rylands, the suffragette Emmeline Pankhurst, the painter L. S. Lowry, Morrissey, Joy Division frontman Ian Curtis and Jay Kay of Jamiroquai. 

The source of the name Stretford is "road" (Old English "stræt") on a passage over the River Mersey. The chief street through Stretford, the A56 Chester Road, pursues the line of the old Roman street from Deva Victrix (Chester) to Mancunium (Manchester), crossing the Mersey into Stretford at Crossford Bridge, worked at the area of the old portage. 

The most punctual proof of human occupation around Stretford originates from Neolithic stone tomahawks found in the territory, dating from about 2000 BC. Stretford was a piece of the land involved by the Celtic Brigantes clan previously and amid the Roman occupation, and lay on their outskirt with the Cornovii on the southern side of the Mersey. By 1212, there were two estates in the zone presently called Stretford. The land in the south, near the River Mersey, was held by Hamon de Mascy, while the land in the north, closer to the River Irwell, was held by Henry de Trafford. In around 1250, a later Hamon de Mascy gave the Stretford estate to his little girl, Margery. She thusly, in around 1260, allowed Stretford to Richard de Trafford at a lease of one penny. The de Mascy family in the blink of an eye a while later discharged all rights to their properties in Stretford to Henry de Trafford, the Trafford family consequently getting the entire of Stretford, since when the two estates dropped together. 

The de Trafford family rented out vast pieces of the land, quite a bit of it to occupants who cultivated at subsistence levels. In spite of the fact that there is known to have been a papermill working in 1765, the zone remained to a great extent country until the mid twentieth century improvement of Trafford Park in the Old Trafford region north of the town. Up to that point Stretford "stayed out of sight of day by day life in England", aside from a short appearance job amid the Jacobite ascending of 1745, when Crossford Bridge was demolished to keep an intersection by Bonnie Prince Charlie's military amid its unsuccessful development on London; the scaffold was rapidly revamped. 

Until the 1820s one of Stretford's principle cabin enterprises was the hand-weaving of cotton. There were accounted for at one an opportunity to have been 302 handlooms working in Stretford, giving work to 780 specialists, yet by 1826 just four were still being used, as the motorized cotton factories of close-by Manchester supplanted handlooms. As Manchester kept on developing, it offered a decent and effectively available market for Stretford's rural items, specifically rhubarb, when referred to locally as Stretford hamburger. By 1836 market planting had turned out to be so broad around Stretford that one essayist portrayed it as the "greenery enclosure of Lancashire"; in 1845 more than 500 tons of vegetables were being delivered for the Manchester showcase every week. Stretford likewise turned out to be outstanding for its pig showcase and the creation of dark puddings, prompting the town being given the epithet of Porkhampton. A nearby dish, known as Stretford goose, was produced using pork loaded down with sage and onions. Amid the 1830s, somewhere in the range of 800 and 1,000 pigs seven days were being butchered for the Manchester showcase. 

Arranged on the outskirt with Manchester, Stretford turned into an in vogue spot to live in the mid-nineteenth century. Extensive amusement zones were built up, for example, the Royal Botanical Gardens, opened in 1831. The greenhouses were sited in Old Trafford on the counsel of researcher John Dalton, on the grounds that the predominant southwesterly wind kept the territory clear of the city's airborne contamination. In 1857, the greenery enclosures facilitated the Art Treasures Exhibition, the biggest workmanship show at any point held in the United Kingdom. A reason fabricated iron and glass building was built at an expense of £38,000 to house the 16,000 exhibits. The greenery enclosures were likewise picked as a site for the Royal Jubilee Exhibition of 1887, observing Queen Victoria's 50-year rule. The show kept running for more than six months and was gone to by more than 4.75 million guests. The greenery enclosures were changed over into an excitement resort in 1907, and facilitated the main speedway meeting in Greater Manchester on 16 June 1928. There was additionally greyhound hustling from 1930, and a games track. The complex was wrecked in the late 1980s, and all that remaining parts is the passageway doors, near what is presently the White City Retail Park. The entryways were assigned a Grade II recorded structure in 1987. 

The landing of the Manchester Ship Canal in 1894, and the ensuing advancement of the Trafford Park modern bequest in the north of the town – the principal arranged mechanical home in the world – substantially affected Stretford's development. The populace in 1891 was 21,751, however by 1901 it had expanded by 40% to 30,436 as individuals were attracted to the town by the guarantee of work in the new businesses at Trafford Park. 

Amid the Second World War Trafford Park was to a great extent swung over to the generation of matériel, including the Avro Manchester overwhelming plane, and the Rolls-Royce Merlin motors used to control both the Spitfire and the Lancaster. That brought about Stretford being the objective for overwhelming bombarding, especially amid the Manchester Blitz of 1940. On the evenings of 22/23 and 23/24 December 1940 alone, 124 incendiaries and 120 high-hazardous bombs fell on the town, executing 73 individuals and harming some more. Among the structures harmed or crushed amid the war were Manchester United's Old Trafford football ground, All Saints' Church, St Hilda's Church, and the youngsters' library in King Street. Smoke generators were set up in the north of the town near Trafford Park with an end goal to conceal it from foe flying machine, and 11,900 kids were emptied to more secure zones in Lancashire, Cheshire, Derbyshire, and Staffordshire, alongside their educators and chiefs. A commemoration to those inhabitants who lost their lives in the besieging was raised in Stretford Cemetery in 1948, over the common grave of the 17 unidentified individuals who were slaughtered in the rush of December 1940. 

Somewhere in the range of 1972 and 1975, what is currently a shut B&Q store in Great Stone Road was the 3,000-limit Hardrock Theater and Village Discothèque, facilitating a portion of that period's real specialists in their prime. Driven Zeppelin, David Bowie, Bob Marley, Elton John, Hawkwind, Yes, Chaka Khan, Curved Air and Lou Reed were among the individuals who showed up. Tangerine Dream was the last band to perform at the Hardrock, on 19 October 1975. In later years, Lancashire Cricket Club's Old Trafford ground, nearby, has given a show scene to groups, for example, Oasis, Foo Fighters, The Cure, Radiohead, Coldplay, Arctic Monkeys and Pixies. 

Stretford's development was fuelled by the vehicle unrests of the eighteenth and particularly the nineteenth century: the Bridgewater Canal came to Stretford in 1761, and the railroad in 1849. The finishing of the Manchester South Junction and Altrincham Railway (MSJAR) in 1849, going through Stretford, prompted the number of inhabitants in the town almost multiplying in 10 years, from 4,998 out of 1851 to 8,757 by 1861. 

Since Stretford is arranged on the primary A56 street among Chester and Manchester numerous explorers went through the town, and as this traffic expanded, more motels were worked to give voyagers halting spots. One of the soonest types of open transport through Stretford was the stagecoach; the Angel Hotel, on the present day site of what used to be the Bass Drum open house, was one of the fundamental halting spots for stagecoaches in Stretford, and the Trafford Arms was another. Steed drawn omnibuses supplanted the stagecoach administration through Stretford in 1845. The Manchester Carriage Company's tramway from Manchester to Stretford was worked in 1879, ending at the Old Cock Hotel on the A56 street, by which a little warehouse was worked to house the vehicles and ponies. A 1900 timetable demonstrates that cable cars left for Manchester each 10 minutes somewhere in the range of 8:00 am and 10:15 pm. The steed drawn cable cars were supplanted with electric cable cars in 1902, and after the Second World War the cable cars were supplanted by transports. 

The MSJAR railroad line through Stretford was energized in 1931 and changed over to light rail task in 1992, when it turned out to be a piece of the Manchester Metrolink cable car organize. The first Metrolink cable car through Stretford kept running on 15 June 1992. 

Stretford was a piece of the antiquated ward of Manchester, inside the memorable area limits of Lancashire. Following the Poor Law Amendment Act of 1834, a national plan for managing the help of poor people, Stretford joined the Chorlton Poor Law Union in 1837, one of three such associations in Manchester, before exchanging to the Barton-upon-Irwell Poor Law Union in 1849. In 1867, Stretford Local Board of Health was built up, accepting accountability for the neighborhood administration of the zone in 1868. The board's obligations included sanitation and the upkeep of the roadways, and it had the specialist to impose rates to pay for those administrations. The neighborhood board proceeded in that job until it was supplanted by the making of Stretford Urban District Council in 1894, because of the Local Government Act 1894. 

Stretford Urban District turned into the Municipal Borough of Stretford in 1933, giving it precinct status in the United Kingdom. Stretford Borough Council was allowed its arms on 20 February 1933. The roses are the red roses of Lancashire, and the lion in the middle speaks to John of Gaunt, first Duke of Lancaster. Over the lion are a crossed thrash and grass shearer; the thrash originates from the arms of the de Trafford family; the sickle is a notice of the rural history of the territory; the jolts above speak to the significance of power in Stretford's mechanical improvement. The pontoon at the base speaks to Stretford's connects to the ocean by means of the Manchester Ship Canal. 

In 1974, because of the Local Government Act 1972, the Municipal Borough of Stretford was annulled and Stretford has, since 1 April 1974, framed piece of the Metropolitan Borough of Trafford, in Greater Manchester. Trafford Town Hall – beforehand Stretford Town Hall – is the regulatory focus of Trafford. 

The voting public of Stretford was made in 1885, and existed until 1997, when it was supplanted by the present body electorate of Stretford and Urmston. Kate Green, an individual from the Labor Party, turned into the MP at the 2010 General Election, with a dominant part of 8,935, speaking to 48.6% of the vote. She held the seat at the 2017 General Election with an expanded dominant part of 19,705, which speaks to 66.8% of the vote. The Conservatives took 27.0% of the vote, UKIP 2.2%, the Liberal Democrats 2.0%, the Green Party 1.3%, and the Christian Party 0.2%. 

Stretford is one of the four noteworthy urban territories in Trafford; the other three are Altrincham, Sale and Urmston. The territory truly known as Stretford, between the River Irwell in the north and the River Mersey in the south, has since 2004 been separated between the Trafford nearby government wards of Clifford, Longford, Gorse Hill, and Stretford. Each ward is spoken to by three nearby councilors, giving Stretford 12 of the 63 situates on Trafford Council. The wards choose in thirds on a four yearly cycle. As of the 2014 neighborhood races, every one of the 12 councilors speaking to the Stretford region are individuals from the Labor Party. 

Stretford involves a territory of , only north of the River Mersey, at (53.4466, −2.3086). The territory is commonly level, inclining somewhat southwards towards the waterway valley, and is around above ocean level at its most astounding point. The most southerly piece of Stretford exists in the flood plain of the River Mersey, thus has verifiably been inclined to flooding. A lot of flood relief work has been done in the Mersey Valley since the 1970s, with the stretch of the Mersey through Stretford canalized to accelerate the section of floodwater. Crisis floodbasins have additionally been built, Sale Water Park being an unmistakable nearby precedent, lying promptly toward the south of Stretford. 

Stretford includes the neighborhoods Old Trafford, Gorse Hill, Trafford Park and Firswood. Its atmosphere is commonly calm, with couple of boundaries of temperature or climate. The mean temperature is marginally better than expected for the United Kingdom. Yearly precipitation and normal measure of daylight are both somewhat underneath the normal for the UK. 

Stretford's assembled condition created along the A56 street in two separate segments, relating to the first two estates. The territory in the south, close to the fringe with Sale, developed around the congregation of St Matthew – an old elective name for the town was Stretford St. Matthew. The northern piece of Stretford was fixated on Old Trafford, with undeveloped wide open isolating them. Amid the nineteenth century, the areas blended. 

The western end of the early medieval straight earthwork Nico Ditch is in Hough Moss, just toward the east of Stretford; it was most likely utilized as a regulatory limit and dates from the eighth or ninth century. 

As at the 2011 UK enumeration, the Stretford territory wards of Clifford, Gorse Hill, Longford and Stretford had an absolute populace of 46,910 and a populace thickness of 8,907 people for every square mile (3,439 for every km²). 

Stretford inhabitants had a normal age of 36 years, more youthful than the 39.3 Trafford normal. For each 100 females, there were 97.8 guys. Everything being equal, 42% were single (never wedded): in Trafford, 33% were single. Of the 19,209 family units, 33% were one-individual families, 56% were hitched couples with ward youngsters, and 15% were solitary guardians with ward kids. Of those matured 16– 74 in Stretford, 23% had no scholarly capabilities, higher than the 18% in all of Trafford. 

With 78% of inhabitants conceived in the United Kingdom, there is a moderately high extent of remote conceived occupants revealed. There is likewise a high extent of non-white individuals, as 63% of inhabitants were recorded as white. The biggest minority bunch was Asian, at 21% of the populace. 

In 1931, 19% of Stretford's populace was white collar class and 20% common laborers contrasted with 14% white collar class and 36% average workers broadly. The remainder of the populace was comprised of administrative specialists and talented manual laborers. By 1971, the white collar class in Stretford had declined consistently to 15% while the average workers had developed to 31% contrasted with 24% white collar class and 26% common laborers broadly. 

Until the finish of the nineteenth century Stretford was a to a great extent farming town. The advancement of the Trafford Park modern domain in the north of the town, starting in the late nineteenth century, significantly affected Stretford's consequent improvement. At its crest in 1945 the recreation center utilized an expected 75,000 workers; lodging and different enhancements must be built on what had recently been farming area. Trafford Park is as yet an exceptionally huge wellspring of work, containing an expected 1,400 organizations and utilizing around 44,000 individuals. 

The fundamental strip mall is Stretford Mall in the business focus of Stretford, recently known as Stretford Arndale. It was opened in 1969 and changed its name in 2003. Stretford Mall was based on the site of the first strip mall in the previous King Street. The Trafford Center, a huge shopping and recreation complex opened in September 1998, deceives the northwest of Stretford. Visit transport transports keep running between Stretford Metrolink cable car station and The Trafford Center, about away. 

As indicated by the 2011 UK evaluation, the industry of work of occupants in Stretford was 17% retail and discount, 11% wellbeing and social work, 11% training, 7% producing, 6% transport and capacity, 6% open organization and safeguard, 6% proficient, logical and specialized exercises, 5% lodgings and eateries, 5% development, 5% money, 1% vitality and water supply, 0.06% farming and 5% other. This is generally in accordance with national figures, aside from the town's moderately low level of horticultural laborers. 

The 2011 statistics recorded the monetary action of inhabitants matured 16– 74 as 39.3% in all day business, 13.6% in low maintenance work, 7.5% independently employed, 5.7% jobless, 5.9% understudies, 9.5% resigned, 5.6% caring for home or family, and 6.1% forever wiped out or incapacitated. The 5.7% joblessness rate in Stretford was high contrasted and the national rate of 3.2%. As per the Office for National Statistics gauges, between April 2001 and March 2002 the normal gross salary of families in Stretford was £415 every week (£21,664 every year). 

Longford Cinema, inverse Stretford Mall, on the eastern side of the A56 Chester Road, is maybe the most outwardly striking structure in the town. Structured by the draftsman Henry Elder, it was the tallness of Art Deco design when it was opened by the Mayor of Stretford in 1936. Its strange "money register" facade was proposed to symbolize the business part of the entertainment biz. 

The structure fused numerous advanced highlights, for example, sound-sealing and under-situate warming, and it was likewise the main film in Britain to utilize disguised neon lighting. It had a seating limit of 1,400 in the slows down and 600 in the hover, with a further 146 seats in the bistro zone. Whenever manufactured, the film had a short passerby way to deal with the exterior, which was expelled when the A56 was broadened. Amid the Second World War the structure was utilized for shows, including one given by a youthful Julie Andrews. It likewise played host to the Hallé Orchestra after the ensemble's own home, the Free Trade Hall, was besieged and seriously harmed amid the Manchester Blitz of 1940. 

After a difference in possession in 1950, the film was renamed the Stretford Essoldo. It kept on working as a film until 1965, when it was changed over into a bingo lobby, which it stayed until its conclusion in 1995. The structure has been unused from that point forward. It was assigned a Grade II recorded structure in 1994. 

In 2017 a proposition was advanced by Trafford Council to bring the Essoldo once more into utilization as a component of the new University Academy 92, to give understudy pleasantries and other network offices, for example, an upgraded library. 

The Great Stone, which gave its name to the Great Stone Road, where it was situated until being moved in 1925, is a standout amongst Stretford's most barely noticeable tourist spots. The stone is made out of grinder coarseness and was presumably kept as a frosty inconsistent. It is rectangular fit as a fiddle, about wide, profound, and tall, with two profound rectangular spaces cut into its upper surface. 

A few proposals have been made for the historical backdrop of the Great Stone. There was a progression of infections in Manchester from the fourteenth century onwards, and amid the Great Plague of 1655– 56 the openings in the highest point of the stone were loaded up with vinegar or blessed water, through which coins were passed in the conviction that would stop the spread of the sickness. In any case, the gaps are presumably unreasonably profound for that to have been the stone's unique reason. It might have been a marker on the Roman street among Northwich and Manchester, or some sort of limit marker. The Great Stone is additionally thought to have been the base of an Anglo-Saxon cross shaft. A nearby legend had it that the stone was gradually sinking into the earth, and that its definitive vanishing would stamp the apocalypse. 

At the point when the Great Stone Road was extended in the late nineteenth century, the stone was moved once again from the street somewhat. In 1925, the stone was moved once more, to its present area outside the North Lodge of Gorse Hill Park, about from its verifiable area. The stone is a Grade II recorded structure. 

Stretford Cenotaph, inverse the Chester Road access to Gorse Hill Park, was worked as a remembrance to the 580 Stretford men who lost their lives in the First World War. Their names and regiments are recorded on an extensive bronze plaque on the divider behind the cenotaph. It was formally disclosed in 1923, by the Earl of Derby, Secretary of State for War. 

The cenotaph is high and wide at its base. It cost £2,000 to assemble, raised by open membership and a gift from the Stretford Red Cross. The commemoration bears the legend "They kicked the bucket that we may live" on one side, and "In memory of the courageous dead" on the other. It is a Grade II recorded structure. 

Longford Park is the biggest park in Trafford, at . It incorporates a pets' corner, natural life garden, bowling greens, tennis and ball courts, youngsters' play regions, plate fairway, and a games arena, and was the completing purpose of the yearly Stretford Pageant. It was the site of an illustrious greenery enclosure party in 1977, the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II. As the Manchester– Stretford limit kept running over the recreation center until the Boundary Commission moved it in 1987, some portion of it (counting the Athletics Stadium) was in Chorlton-cum-Hardy, in spite of the fact that it was constantly managed by Trafford MBC. 

Longford Park was the home of John Rylands, industrialist, donor, and Manchester's first multi-mogul, from 1855 until his passing in 1888 and of his widow Enriqueta Augustina Rylands until her demise in 1908. The house Rylands built in the recreation center in 1857, Longford Hall, was devastated in 1995. It supplanted a before place of a similar name that had been the habitation of Thomas Walker (passed on 1817) and in this manner of his children Thomas (kicked the bucket 1836) and Charles. Today just the entryway patio, mentor house, and the steady structures remain. The home and corridor were sold to Stretford Council in 1911 after a survey of ratepayers, and the recreation center was opened to the open the next year. 

Longford Park is the home of Stretford parkrun; a free, week by week 5k running occasion. 

Stretford Public Hall was worked in 1878 by John Rylands. It was planned by N. Lofthouse and is on the western side of the A56 Chester Road, inverse the Longford Cinema. Stretford's first open loaning library was set up in the structure in 1883. On the demise of Rylands in 1888, his widow set the structure at the transfer of the nearby specialist for an ostensible lease, and all alone passing in 1908, the structure was purchased by Stretford Council for £5,000. 

Open showers were worked to the back of the structure, got to by means of Cyprus Street. In 1940 the new Stretford Library was opened on King Street, and the open corridor was rendered excess. The structure re-opened in March 1949 as the Stretford Civic Theater, with an all around prepared stage for the utilization of nearby gatherings. After the Stretford Leisure Center opened in 1983 now Stretford Sports Village, the Cyprus Street Baths wing fell into neglect, and was destroyed. The rest of the structure started to fall into dilapidation, in spite of being assigned a Grade II recorded structure in 1987, until Trafford Council restored and changed over the lobby to fill in as committee workplaces in the mid-1990s. It was re-opened in 1997, indeed named Stretford Public Hall. 

Stretford Cemetery was structured by John Shaw and opened in 1885. Its church is in the Decorated style, planned by draftsmen Bellamy and Hardy, and very detailed. On the western side is a commemoration to the setbacks of the Second World War and toward the east a fresher area of the burial ground. 

Trafford Town Hall remains in a vast site at the intersection of Talbot Road and Warwick Road, legitimately inverse the Old Trafford Cricket Ground. Work on the structure, planned by draftsmen Bradshaw Gass and Hope of Bolton, started on 21 August 1931. 

The town lobby authoritatively came into utilization as Stretford Town Hall on the conceding of Stretford's sanction, on 16 September 1933. In 1974, on the arrangement of the new Trafford Metropolitan Borough, Stretford Town Hall was embraced as the base for the new board and renamed Trafford Town Hall; it was assigned a Grade II recorded structure in 2007. 

The Union Church was framed in 1862, with John Rylands as its benefactor; he established the framework stone of its structure in Edge Lane, near Longford Park's southern passageway, in 1867. In the last piece of the twentieth century the congregation was changed over into office convenience however by the mid 21st century was standing unfilled. In 2012 it was reestablished to its unique utilize a congregation having been purchased by the Church of Christ – Iglesia ni Cristo. 

Stretford Metrolink station is a piece of the Manchester Metrolink cable car framework, and lies on the Altrincham to Bury line. Cable cars depart about each six minutes somewhere in the range of 7:15 and 18:30, and each 12 minutes at different occasions of the day. The closest fundamental line railroad station is Trafford Park, on the Liverpool to Manchester line. Administrations are generally every two hours toward every path, with additional administrations calling amid the pinnacle hours. The Trafford Park Euroterminal rail cargo terminal, opened in 1993, is in the Gorse Hill region of Stretford. It cost £11 million and has the ability to manage 100,000 holders every year. The holders are dealt with by two tremendous gantry cranes, the clamor from which has prompted grievances from some nearby inhabitants. 

The town has great access to the motorway organize. Intersection 7 of the M60 is simply toward the north of Stretford's limit with Sale, and the A56 street gives simple access toward the south just as to Manchester downtown area the other way. Cycle ways exist as a feature of the Trafford cycle activity. 

Manchester Airport, the busiest in the UK outside London, is going toward the south of Stretford. 

Alongside the remainder of Trafford, Stretford keeps up a particular training framework evaluated by the 11 or more examination. 

The extent of students leaving Stretford Grammar School with at least five GCSEs at evaluations A*– C in 2006, was 98.3%, contrasted with a normal of 66.7% for every single auxiliary school in Trafford and a national UK normal of 61.3%. The extent of understudies from minority ethnic foundations, and for whom English is an extra language, is a lot higher than the normal. Stretford Grammar was granted expert Science College status in September 2005. The school was evaluated as "great" in its April 2015 Ofsted report. 

Stretford High School Community Languages College, as Stretford Grammar, has an a lot higher extent than the national normal of understudies with a first language other than English, a significant number of them being either shelter searchers or outcasts. In 2004 Stretford High School was made subject to exceptional measures, as it was considered not to give sufficient instruction to its students. Significant improvement has occurred from that point forward; the school was evaluated as "agreeable" in its November 2005 Ofsted report and was expelled from uncommon measures. Further enhancements saw Stretford High School gain a "remarkable" evaluation from Ofsted, following its February 2008 investigation. GCSE results additionally set the school in the top 1% of schools in the nation for increasing the value of its understudies. 

Stretford additionally has the master Arts College, Lostock College. 

Plans to manufacture another college in the town, to be known as University Academy 92, were reported in September 2017. A part of Lancaster University, it would like to respect the first of its foreseen 6500 understudies in September 2019. The grounds is to be based on the Kelloggs central station site on Talbot Road, which has just been obtained by Trafford Council for £12 million. 

The date of the main church to be worked in Stretford is unrecorded, yet in a rent dated 1413, land is depicted as lying by a house of prayer. A considerable lot of the present day temples in the zone were developed amid the late nineteenth and mid twentieth century, as the number of inhabitants in Stretford started to develop. 

Methodism was a critical impact in nineteenth century Stretford, however of the seventeen chapels in the town today, just a single is Methodist while five are Roman Catholic. The Catholic mission in Stretford was started in 1859, in a little house of prayer on Herbert Street. 

As at the 2011 UK registration, 51% of Stretford occupants detailed themselves as being Christian, 18% as Muslim, and 3% as Sikh. No other religion was spoken to at higher than 1% of the populace, with 20% announcing themselves as having no religion. 

Stretford is in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Salford, and the Anglican Diocese of Manchester. 

There are two Grade II recorded temples in Stretford: the Church of St Ann and the Church of St Matthew. St Ann's is a Roman Catholic church, worked in 1862– 67 by E. W. Pugin for Sir Humphrey and Lady Annette de Trafford. It was authoritatively opened by Bishop William Turner on 22 November 1863, and was sanctified in June 1867. Highlights incorporate a memorable organ worked by Jardine and Co (1867) and a decent number of fine recolored glass windows by Hardman and Co of Birmingham. St Matthew's congregation was worked in 1842 by W. Hayley in the Gothic Revival style, with extra stages in 1869, 1906 and 1922. 

Stretford has been the home of Manchester United Football Club since 1910, when the club moved to its present Old Trafford ground, the western end of which is still informally called the Stretford End. 

Old Trafford was initially the home of Manchester Cricket Club, yet turned into the home of Lancashire County Cricket Club in 1864 upon that club's arrangement. The ground is on Talbot Road, Stretford, where it has been since 1856. Like its partner, one end of the Old Trafford cricket ground is known as the Stretford End. It has been a test scene since 1884 and has facilitated three World Cup semi-finals. After the 2005 Ashes Test, when in excess of 20,000 fans must be dismissed, the choice was made to build the ground's ability from 20,000 to 25,000. Introductory plans included structure another arena on the site of Trafford Town Hall, inverse the present ground. Trafford Council casted a ballot against the destruction of the town lobby and rather, in 2007, consented to an arrangement mutually with Lancashire County Cricket Club, Ask Developments, and Tesco, to redevelop the ground on its present site. The new cricket ground will be at the core of an advancement that will likewise incorporate business space, private, retail, inn and relaxation offices. More than £25 million is relied upon to be put resources into the redevelopments at Old Trafford. 

Stretford Stadium, abutting Longford Park, is the home of Trafford Athletic Club. Trafford is one of the UK's top athletic clubs, with in excess of 100 individuals having contended at worldwide dimension. 

The Stretford Sports Village kept running by Trafford Community Leisure Trust involves two fundamental focuses: the first Stretford Leisure Center, presently called the Chester Center, and the office at Stretford High School called the Talbot Center. The Stretford Sports Village is between Manchester United Football Club's Old Trafford Stadium and Lancashire County Cricket Club's Old Trafford Ground. The focuses have a 25-meter principle pool, a 20-meter youngsters' pool, four rec centers, a table tennis room, twelve badminton courts, two five-a-side courts, a turning studio, practice corridor, preparing rooms, network room, a bistro, an outside full-estimate floodlight counterfeit turf pitch and a full-measure grass pitch. Trafford Water Sports Center lies just over Stretford's southern outskirt with Sale, about from Stretford town focus. 

In spite of the fact that Stretford town focus is occupied with amid the day, there is almost no in the method for an evening economy. There are no eateries or different amusements aside from various open houses and individuals just social clubs. There are two open libraries: Greatstone Library, some portion of Stretford Sports Village, and Stretford Library, both kept running by Trafford Council. 

The Stretford Pageant is a yearly Rose Queen celebration hung on the last Saturday of June; the debut expo was organized in 1919. There is a parade of beautified coasts through the roads, gathering cash for nearby foundations and consummation at Longford Park, where the Rose Queen is delegated. The custom of the Rose Queen gets from a prior occasion sorted out by St Peter's Church from 1909 until the show started in 1919. Different diversions are given in the recreation center upon the arrival of the exhibition, for example, a fun reasonable and a vehicle boot deal. Stretford Pageant, alongside comparable occasions in different pieces of Trafford, is under danger due to the committee's recommendations to decrease financing and backing for such occasions later on. 

"The Stretford Wives" is a TV dramatization that was communicated by the BBC in August 2002, viewed by 5.7 million watchers. Composed by Danny Brocklehurst, it is the account of three sisters living in Stretford, albeit the greater part of the taping occurred in close-by Salford. The program got a blended basic gathering. 

The Stretford procedure was created at the North-Western Gas Board's research centers in Stretford amid the 1940s. It was the main fluid stage oxidation process for evacuating hydrogen sulfide (HS) from town gas to be financially fruitful. Numerous Stretford plants were manufactured around the world. 

Policing in Stretford is the obligation of the Greater Manchester Police, who have their home office in the town. The power's "M" Division, in charge of policing in Trafford, is likewise situated in Stretford, near Trafford Town Hall. 

Squander the board is co-ordinated by the nearby expert by means of the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority. 

Maybe fittingly for a zone so near Trafford Park, the world's originally arranged mechanical bequest, one of the world's first modern undercover work specialists, John Holker, was conceived in Stretford, in 1719. 

Two of Stretford's well known inhabitants were the suffragette Emmeline Pankhurst and the painter L. S. Lowry, who was conceived in Stretford in 1887. Manchester's first multi-mogul John Rylands and his better half Enriqueta Augustina Rylands inhabited Longford Hall in Stretford amid the later pieces of their lives. The extreme torch communist, and later post-war legislator Herschel Lewis Austin (1911– 1974) served Stretford as a Labor Member of Parliament somewhere in the range of 1945 and 1950. 

Sir Walter Baldwin Spencer KCMG (1860– 1929) a British-Australian scientist and anthropologist was conceived in Stretford, similar to ABC's lead artist Martin Fry, shake climber Derek Hersey and TV performing artist John Comer, best referred to for his job as bistro proprietor Sid in the BBC sitcom "Last of the Summer Wine". 

Performers who have lived in the territory incorporate Morrissey, the front man of 1980s elective musical crew the Smiths, whose family moved to King's Road in Stretford when he was 10 years of age. Ian Curtis, the lead vocalist of Joy Division, was conceived in Stretford. Jay Kay, lead vocalist and lyricist of Jamiroquai, was conceived in Stretford in 1969. Oscar-assigned movie producer Mark Gill was brought up in Stretford, where in 2016 he made a film about Morrissey's initial life. 

Various Manchester United players, including a portion of the individuals who passed on in the Munich air catastrophe of February 1958, lived in lodgings at 19 Gorse Avenue. A blue plaque was uncovered at the house by previous guest and Munich survivor Sir Bobby Charlton in acknowledgment of the house's relationship with Manchester United. The proprietor of the house amid the 1950s was Margaret Watson, however when of the plaque's disclosing over 50 years after the fact it was involved by an alternate family. 

Notes