Most prominent Hits (Lost) 

"Most prominent Hits" is the 21st scene of the third period of "Lost" and 70th scene of the arrangement. It was composed by co-official makers Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz and coordinated by directing maker Stephen Williams. The scene initially publicized on May 16, 2007, on ABC in the United States and on CTV in Canada. "Most noteworthy Hits" was seen by 12 million Americans and was generally welcomed by commentators. "Lost"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s editors got a Golden Reel Award designation. 

The scene happens on December 22, 2004, 92 days after the accident of Oceanic Airlines Flight 815. A gathering of survivors get ready for an up and coming assault on their camp by the "Others", while the rest get ready to contact a close-by tanker. Charlie Pace (played by Dominic Monaghan) relates the five biggest snapshots of his life, which are portrayed in flashbacks, as he gets ready to satisfy Desmond Hume's (Henry Ian Cusick) feelings of his demise. 

The Others' chief Ben Linus (Michael Emerson) orders ten of the Others to go to the survivors' camp to abduct any pregnant ladies that night—a night sooner than was planned. Ben's embraced girl Alex (Tania Raymonde) convinces her beau Karl (Blake Bashoff) to kayak to the survivors' shoreline to caution them. The survivors' head Jack Shephard (Matthew Fox) plans to slaughter the ambushing Others with explosive recovered by island occupant Danielle Rousseau (Mira Furlan). Sayid Jarrah (Naveen Andrews), Jin Kwon (Daniel Dae Kim) and Bernard Nadler (Sam Anderson) are chosen to remain behind to shoot the explosive fixed tents when the Others arrive. 

Desmond educates Charlie concerning his most recent feeling: Charlie's sweetheart Claire Littleton (Emilie de Ravin) and her infant Aaron will get away from the island by means of helicopter if Charlie flips a switch in a Dharma Initiative station and suffocates. Sayid reveals to Jack that he might almost certainly speak with the tanker about 130 kilometers seaward. He can utilize the satellite telephone of Naomi Dorrit (Marsha Thomason), the helicopter parachutist who arrived on the Island. When he goes to the radio pinnacle to handicap Rousseau's misery flag. Juliet Burke (Elizabeth Mitchell) educates Sayid that this won't work in light of the fact that the submerged "Mirror" is blocking active transmissions. Sayid understands that a link he discovered seventy days before associates with this station and that they will require somebody to go on a plausible suicide mission there, and Charlie volunteers. 

Naomi discloses to Charlie that his band Drive Shaft discharged an effective most prominent hits collection after the accident of Flight 815. Flashbacks demonstrate Charlie's "most prominent hits" of his life, alluding to his life's five best minutes, in sliding request. Charlie keeps in touch with them down on a note. 

Before paddling out to the Looking Glass with Desmond, Charlie guarantees Claire that he will be fine, kisses her farewell and leaves his ring in Aaron's bunk. Once Desmond and Charlie touch base over the station, Charlie gives Desmond his note and asks that he offer it to Claire. Desmond offers to carry out the responsibility rather, suspecting that his flashes are prescribing him to have Charlie's spot. To shield him from doing as such, Charlie thumps Desmond out with a paddle and jumps into the water. After entering the station, two Others named Greta (Lana Parrilla) and Bonnie (Tracy Middendorf) show up with weapons went for Charlie. 

The greater part of the island scenes were shot from April 9, 2007 to April 12. A nitty gritty scene summary was transferred online before the scene broadcast and Disney explored the hole. The name of the Dharma station in the scene is a reference to Lewis Carroll's tale "Through the Looking-Glass". Dominic Monaghan was propelled by Leonardo DiCaprio's submerged execution in "Titanic" and opened his mouth quickly submerged to show up under more prominent coercion. 

This scene started the goals of the story curve about Desmond's prediction with respect to Charlie's inescapable demise, which started prior in the season and would eventually finish in the finale. The storyline was considered while delivering the last piece of the second season when the scholars were conceptualizing thoughts for another storyline for Charlie. While Desmond could have had flashes of things to come about anybody, Charlie was picked over a less noteworthy character with the goal that the story would have higher stakes. Moreover, the scholars concluded that it would be an incredible method to draw out the brave side of Charlie, with Charlie being the main character to kick the bucket readily. Regardless of the issues throughout Charlie's life, the scholars trusted that Charlie dependably was a decent individual and needed to demonstrate that with the most joyful snapshots of the character's life. Monaghan imagined that "Most prominent Hits" was made "to enable the gathering of people to sit with [his character's fate] sufficiently long to set themselves up for what would happen [in the finale]". 

"Most noteworthy Hits" denoted the principal appearance for wedded couple Rose and Bernard since the late second season and fans respected the repetitive characters' arrival. The essayists refered to the performing artists' different tasks as a purpose behind their nonattendance. Also, it was expected that fans would gripe on the off chance that they showed up, when numerous performing artists with star charging had gotten constrained screentime in the early third season. The scholars likewise remarked that they would prefer not to have the couple on the show on the off chance that they are simply going to remain out of sight; they need to have Rose and Bernard in the show with fascinating storylines. 

"Most prominent Hits" got a normal of 12.32 million American watchers, making "Lost" the fifteenth most watched arrangement of the week; this was steady with past "Lost" scenes in the equivalent timeslot. The principal half was seen by 11.9 million, and the gathering of people expanded to 12.8 million in the second half. The scene got a 5.2/14 in the key grown-ups 18– 49 statistic, setting it as the top of the line scripted program through the evening. In Canada, "Most noteworthy Hits" was seen by 875,000 individuals, positioning twenty-seventh for the week. In the United Kingdom, the scene pulled in 1.21 million watchers, and was the second most watched program of the week on the non-earthbound channels, beaten just by "". In Australia, "Lost" was the fifty-first most seen show of the week, acquiring 1.001 million watchers. 

Patrick Day of the "Los Angeles Times" suspected that "to the extent penultimate set-up-to-the-huge finale scenes go, 'Most noteworthy Hits' was better than expected in more than one way." Day praised the arrival of Jack "from Mt. Exhausting", the utilization of drums in Michael Giacchino's melodic score and the arrival of Rose and Bernard. Jeff Jensen of "Diversion Weekly" composed that Monaghan "turned in his best execution yet on "Lost"" and portrayed the last scene as "amazing" with "an incredibly acknowledged, Emmy-commendable triumph of F/X." Kristin Veitch of "E!" additionally making the most of Monaghan's acting and considered the scene an "impeccable precedent" of the arrangement's high caliber. Charlie McCollum of the "San Jose Mercury News" portrayed the last scenes of the third season as "a flat out rush ride". Chris Carabott of "IGN" appraised the scene as a 8.5/10, recognizing the character advancement of Jack and Charlie, and the acting aptitudes of Emerson, who depicts Ben. Lulu Bates of "TV Without Pity" evaluated the scene as an "A– ". Erin Martell of AOL's "television Squad" evaluated "Most prominent Hits" as a 6/7, saying that it prevailing with regards to gathering speed for the season finale, yet brought up the plot irregularity in regards to Charlie's (in)ability to swim. Scott Juba of "The Trades" chose that "Most prominent Hits" was the best scene of the third season, saying that the flashbacks "evok[e] the sort of recognizable human feelings that drives the accomplishment of "Lost". The genuine virtuoso of the show lies not in its plot turns or secrets but instead in its capacity to make the group of onlookers put resources into the characters by bringing out subjects that nearly anybody can relate to." Jon Lachonis of "BuddyTV" noticed that the scene was "fiercely fruitful" in transforming Charlie into an amiable and relatable character. 

This scene was submitted for thought for Outstanding Directing and Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series for the 59th Primetime Emmy Awards. This scene was designated for the Golden Reel Award in the Best Sound Editing in Television: Short Form – Dialog and Automated Dialog Replacement class.