Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories 

"Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" is the second amusement in the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement. It is an immediate spin-off of "Kingdom Hearts", and its completion is set about a year prior to "Kingdom Hearts II". The amusement pursues Sora and companions, investigating a baffling palace. There, Riku investigates the cellar levels and battles the dimness. The diversion presents new characters and plotlines that further extend the "Kingdom Hearts" universe and set up the reason for "Kingdom Hearts II". 

In spite of the fact that not as fruitful as the other "Kingdom Hearts" amusements, it got positive audits and sold well. It was commended for its story, illustrations, and FMVs. The amusement includes another card-based fight framework that is a takeoff from its ancestor. When it appeared in Japan, it sold 104,000 units in 48 hours. 

"Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" is a mix between a pretending computer game and collectible card amusement. The principle pretending viewpoint is an encounter point framework that is utilized to expand the character's greatest wellbeing or Card Points, or to gain proficiency with another aptitude. The cards are used in the movement of the story just as in battle. The diversion includes a field guide and fight screen. The field map is an isometric region where the player can cross between rooms. Foes occupy the field guide and track the player to take part in battle, which can be started through contact between the player and a foe. When battle has been locked in, the amusement changes to the fight screen which uses a card-based fight framework. 

An exceptional perspective to this diversion is "room union": to progress through the amusement, the player must use Map cards got subsequent to winning fights to blend rooms. The properties of each room―including nature of things and quality of enemies―are controlled by the Map cards that the player picks. Each card has a particular impact: red cards influence the number and sort of foes; green cards influence the intensity of the player's deck; and blue cards influence the properties of the room itself, for example, permitting money boxes or a spare point to show up. 

The amusement highlights three methods of ongoing interaction. The initial two are story modes that highlight either Sora or Riku, and the third is a two player fight mode. At first just Sora's story mode is accessible; when finished, "Switch/Rebirth" mode winds up accessible. Turn around/Rebirth enables the player to play a second story mode including Riku and a connection mode where players can fight each other by means of a Game Link Cable. 

Battle utilizes a card-based fight framework executed continuously. The player can hop and move around the fight screen as they would on the field map, however all physical assaults, enchantment, things and summonings are enacted by playing a game of cards. Cards are positioned from zero to nine, and are utilized for making assault combos or breaking foe cards. Except for zero-positioned cards which are increasingly costly regarding Card Points (CP) contrasted with different cards of a similar sort and have different positions, more CP are required to put higher-positioned cards in the player's deck. Card Points—expanded through dimension up—limit the quantity of cards the player can use in a deck. Cards with rank "zero" can break any restricting card or combo whenever played after the contradicting card or combo, however they can be broken by any card or combo too on the off chance that it is played after the zero card is played. Breaking a restricting card will drop that assault and stagger the washout of a card break for a brief span. Unique adversary cards might be acquired by crushing adversaries and managers, and are utilized to give the player an impermanent capacity, going from improved hostile and protective abilities to adjusting the qualities of specific cards. 

Joining cards in sets of three will make combo assaults that are generally progressively hard to break in light of the fact that the position of the combo will be the entirety of the positions of the three cards in the combo. Certain card blends will make a "skill", a unique mix that will make an amazing physical assault, supernatural spell, or bring assault. At the point when the player comes up short on cards, the deck must be reloaded. Moreover, utilizing a card mix will make the primary card in the combo become unusable until the finish of battle. 

Sora's and Riku's accounts vary interactivity insightful in a few different ways. In Sora's story, Sora acquires cards by overcoming foes or through Moogle Shops. Sometimes, Sora must gain the particular card first through a plot occasion before it ends up accessible. Sora can make and store three distinct decks in the interruption menu. Dissimilar to Sora, Riku has a shut deck that can't be tweaked. The cards in his deck change contingent upon the world in which he is voyaging. Riku is constrained to essentially physical assaults, adversary cards and Mickey Mouse partner cards. He can enact "dim mode" and open his skill assaults in the event that he gathers enough "dull focuses". Dull focuses are earned by breaking foe cards and combos, and the contrast between Riku's card or combo and the adversary's card or combo is what number of dim focuses he will gather for that card break. 

"Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" is set following the occasions of the primary diversion. It is set in Castle Oblivion, a baffling château kept by Lord Marluxia. Sora and his colleagues are informed that the château makes guests lose their recollections after entering. The anteroom and territories between floors are white with bloom themed enhancements, yet each floor can be changed into an alternate world from the principal "Kingdom Hearts" amusement utilizing "world cards" made from Sora's recollections. Like previously, a large number of the universes of Disney and Square Enix return. 

In contrast to the past diversion, the universes are made from Sora's recollections. Accordingly, a large number of the occasions experienced in "Kingdom Hearts" are remembered in this amusement, Sora experiences memory-based adaptations of Disney characters that he has met previously (aside from Deep Jungle in "Tarzan"). The individual plotlines contrast from those in the first amusement and spin around the topic of memory. Similarly as "Kingdom Hearts" had a few universes made explicitly for that amusement, "Chain of Memories" presents Twilight Town as a world made from recollections on "the opposite side of Sora's heart", notwithstanding the first universes of "Kingdom Hearts". 

Sora returns as the amusement's hero. Donald Duck and Goofy are less associated with the interactivity and story. Like the primary amusement, "Chain of Memories" includes various characters from both the "Last Fantasy" arrangement and the Disney energized highlights standard. Being an immediate continuation, a significant number of the characters from the main "Kingdom Hearts" return in this diversion. As every world and the related characters are reproduced from Sora's recollections, they cooperate with Sora as though they had never met. The amusement likewise presents a bunch of new characters. A few are individuals from the cryptic Organization. Other new characters incorporate Naminé, a young lady equipped for controlling recollections, and DiZ, a strange man hidden by red robes and swathes. Riku shows up as a playable character in the second story mode. In the wake of being fixed in the domain of murkiness, Riku heads to the storm cellar of Castle Oblivion, helped by King Mickey Mouse and DiZ. 

Six individuals from the Organization fill in as rivals; four show up in Sora's story mode, and the other two in Riku's. Among the four Sora experiences are Marluxia, the master of Castle Oblivion; Larxene, Marluxia's colleague; Axel, a twofold specialist with shrouded unwaveringness; and Vexen, Marluxia's reluctant associate. Then again, Riku fights Zexion and Lexaeus, Vexen's partners. Ansem additionally shows up in Riku's story as a substance that endeavors to control Riku. A significant number of the Disney lowlifess return by means of memory-based entertainments like the remainder of the Disney characters. 

Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jiminy Cricket stroll down a twisting way looking for Riku and King Mickey. A man wearing a dark, hooded coat shows up and coordinates Sora towards a huge fortification called Castle Oblivion. After entering, the voyagers understand that they have overlooked the majority of their capacities. The hooded man clarifies that the more profound they go into the stronghold, the more recollections they will lose, however they will likewise reveal new recollections all the while. He makes a deck of cards produced using Sora's and his companions' recollections, and discloses to them that all that they experience in this manor will be founded on their recollections. 

Sora rises the mansion, going head to head against other hooded figures who structure a gathering called "the Organization" en route. As Sora loses his recollections, he step by step seems to recall a young lady named Naminé as an old companion of his, and gains from Organization part Larxene that she is being held detainee in the palace. He likewise conflicts with an imitation of Riku made and constrained by another Organization part, Vexen, and accepted by both Sora and the copy himself to be the genuine Riku. Axel, an Organization twofold operator, discharges Naminé and enables her to meet Sora face to face. Sora finds Naminé to be the one controlling his recollections, having been compelled to do as such by Marluxia, the ruler of Castle Oblivion and the figure who tricked Sora there, as a feature of his arrangement to topple the remainder of the Organization with Larxene. Sora trips to the most elevated floor and thrashings Marluxia, after which Naminé puts Sora and his companions into unit like machines to enable them to recapture the recollections they have lost, despite the fact that they will overlook the occasions that unfolded in the château. Before they are put to rest, Sora and Naminé guarantee to meet again as genuine companions once he stirs, Sora solidly trusting that his recollections of her and the palace will stay in his heart notwithstanding being overlooked. 

In "Invert/Rebirth", which happens consistently with the amusement's fundamental story, Riku is transported from the domain of dimness to Castle Oblivion's most profound storm cellar, and he battles illusions of past adversaries to battle his internal obscurity as he climbs upwards. Vexen battles Riku to get his information and makes his copy to counter Marluxia's arrangement. Ansem, as yet having Riku's body, attempts to recapture control of Riku, yet Mickey's capacity keeps Ansem under control. In transit, Riku fights and thrashings Lexaeus, an individual from Vexen's hover, just to be hauled into the domain of murkiness. Be that as it may, he is spared by Mickey when Ansem almost prevails with regards to accepting Riku's body as his own. With Marluxia dispensed with at this point, another of Vexen's partners, Zexion, endeavors to discard Riku by suffocating him in light. Riku is spared by Naminé camouflaged as Kairi, who encourages him to control his haziness, enabling him to crush Zexion. Riku later meets DiZ, a perplexing individual inspired by Riku who sends him to discover Naminé. Riku's imitation, who has since educated of his adjusted recollections, looks to legitimize his reality by slaughtering Riku, just to be demolished by him. Riku faces Ansem after gaining from Naminé that Ansem lives in his heart, and thrashings him after DiZ gathers him for Riku to battle. Riku then sets out on a voyage to use the two his dimness and his light with Mickey as his friend. 

The thought for a mediator title was created after executive Tetsuya Nomura and his group had just started to create thoughts for the second "Kingdom Hearts" diversion, which he had proposed to be set a year after the first. Initially titled "Kingdom Hearts: Lost Memories", Nomura changed the name to coordinate the general layout of the story, while as yet mirroring the topic of recollections. "Chain of Memories" was created to conquer any hindrance between "Kingdom Hearts" and "Kingdom Hearts II". Like most spin-offs, "Kingdom Hearts II" was intended to have the character begin from the earliest starting point, capacity astute. To clarify the loss of capacities picked up in the past diversion, Nomura had the story rotate around Sora's recollections getting tainted and executed the card fight framework to symbolize Sora's different recollections. 

Nomura was reluctant about discharging a "Kingdom Hearts" title on the Game Boy Advance, feeling that the 3D illustrations of the first amusement would not make an interpretation of well into 2D. Nomura changed his situation in the wake of hearing that youngsters needed to play "Kingdom Hearts" on the GBA. Subsequent to investigating thoughts for the interactivity, he felt that a 2D "Kingdom Hearts" diversion would be conceivable, and that it could in any case feel like and play like what gamers were utilized to in the first. In the interim, Nomura needed to give the diversion a "lighter tone" than the PlayStation 2 amusements. 

"Chain of Memories" was declared alongside "Kingdom Hearts II" at the Tokyo Game Show in September 2003. Introductory subtleties incorporated the change to 2D designs, the utilization of cards to perform assaults, and that packed motion pictures would be used in some cut scenes. The cut scene livelinesss were rendered utilizing the graphical motor of the PlayStation 2 cycle and after that encoded for the Game Boy Advance by utilizing an innovation created by Japanese organization, AM3. To help showcase the diversion, Disney and Square Enix propelled official Japanese sites. A playable demo was first made accessible to the general population at the 2003 Jump Festa in Japan; this demo and consequent demos featured the card-based battle framework. Beside data assembled from the opening arrangements, most insights about the story were stayed quiet until the discharge. 

The card-based ongoing interaction of "Chain of Memories" would later serve to rouse the interactivity of Jupiter's next amusement, "The World Ends with You"; initially, the group imagined a comparable card diversion put together framework occurring with respect to the lower screen of the Nintendo DS, yet in the end this transformed to a fight framework occurring on the two screens, with a card diversion controlled on the upper screen. 

A significant part of the music from the first "Kingdom Hearts" is available in "Chain of Memories"; the primary vocal subject for the Japanese discharge is , while the English variant of "Hikari", "Straightforward And Clean", is utilized in the Western discharges. Extra and revised tracks were made for its PlayStation 2 rerelease, "Kingdom Hearts Re:Chain of Memories". Since the music is reused from the first, a "Chain of Memories" soundtrack was never discharged. The new revised tracks, be that as it may, are incorporated on two CDs in the "Kingdom Hearts Original Soundtrack Complete". 

Because of the innovative restrictions of the Game Boy Advance cartridge measure, voice acting was kept to a base. In spite of the fact that numerous characters from "Kingdom Hearts" were voiced by the cast from previously, the Japanese variant utilized the accompanying voice on-screen characters: Keiji Fujiwara as Axel; Tatsuya Kando as Vexen, Marluxia, and Lexaeus; and Rieko Katayama as Larxene. A restricted measure of voice acting was included just for the fight groupings. Voice cuts from the principal "Kingdom Hearts" were embedded into "Chain of Memories". The English adaptation is missing of exchange; voices amid Organization fights are supplanted with straightforward snorts, giggling, and other calls to war. 

While the most ineffective in the arrangement industrially, "Chain of Memories" got commonly positive surveys and met with fruitful deals figures. In Japan, it sold 104,000 units in 48 hours, a record for a Game Boy Advance title at the time. Its positive introduction deals put it in the top spot of offers outlines in Japan. In the principal month of its North American discharge, it was positioned first on "GameSpot" ChartSpot for compact frameworks and sixth for all consoles. By February 2005, it had sold more than one million duplicates in Japan and North America. Overall offers of the diversion achieved 1.50 million duplicates before the finish of 2006. In the United States alone, it sold 900,000 duplicates and earned $28 million by August 2006. Amid the period between January 2000 and August 2006, it was the 24th most astounding selling amusement propelled for the Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS or PlayStation Portable in that nation. As of August 2009, "Chain of Memories" has sold over 1.55 million duplicates around the world, with 200,000 units in PAL areas, 410,000 units in Japan, and 940,000 units in North America. 

The diversion got positive evaluations from pundits. The card-based fight framework got blended surveys. "GameSpot" called it "clumsy", while GameSpy called it "connecting with" and "Diversion Watch" called it unique. Audits likewise refered to that the card fight framework was ungainly and made it hard to design procedures. G4 remarked that the ongoing interaction was appropriate for convenient play and that it effectively joined card fights and irregular prisons, "two much-insulted RPG" components. A few faultfinders observed the Room Synthesis to be awfully straight. The most continuous recognition went towards the story. IGN considered it an "immersing storyline that really switches up after the experience arrives at an end" and appraised the introduction a 10 out of 10. 

The nature of the designs was generally welcomed, especially the cut scenes. IGN refered to them as "superbly delivered FMV arrangements". "GameSpot" expressed that the motion pictures were consistent with the workmanship style of the first and were keeping pace with GBA video paks. They likewise remarked on the point by point and very much enlivened amusement sprites. "Diversion Watch" portrayed the occasion scenes as "high caliber". Numerous faultfinders expressed that however the designs were not on a par with the PlayStation 2 ancestor, they were extremely useful for a GBA diversion. G4 complimented the designs expressing that "Chain of Memories" was "a standout amongst the most attractive GBA diversions out there." 

Like its ancestor, a lot of stock was delivered to help showcase the arrival of the diversion. Square Enix discharged two items to match with the arrival of the computer game. The first was a restricted version "Kingdom Hearts" Game Boy Advance SP set discharged just in Japan. The set contained the diversion, a "Kingdom profound silver" GBA SP with the "Kingdom Hearts" logo, and a conveying tie. The second was a "Kingdom Hearts" exchanging card amusement created by Tomy. The TCG included starter decks, playing mats, and sponsor packs. Dream Flight Games later procured the rights to advertise it to English-talking nations. In 2007, a redo for the PlayStation 2, titled "Kingdom Hearts Re:Chain of Memories" was discharged alongside "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix" in a set, "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix+". A manga arrangement kept running in Monthly Shōnen Gangan in Japan, and was later discharged in the United States. It is joined by three books—two set amid Sora's storyline and the third amid "Turn around/Rebirth", Riku's story. Like with the "Last Fantasy" recreations and the principal "Kingdom Hearts" diversion, Square discharged a "Ultimania" book on "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" following the arrival of the amusement. In North America, BradyGames discharged a technique manage with a complete walkthrough. 

"Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" was changed for the PlayStation 2, titled "Kingdom Hearts Re:Chain of Memories". It was created by Square Enix's fifth Product Development Division, situated in Osaka, and discharged as the second circle of "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix+" in Japan on March 29, 2007 and as an independent title in North America on December 2, 2008. It has not been discharged in Europe or Australia for the PlayStation 2, however has seen an overall discharge as a component of "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix". The redo incorporates polygonal 3D fights and universes utilizing indistinguishable illustrations from "Kingdom Hearts", just as voice acting and an improved soundtrack. While the card-based fight framework and room combination parts of the ongoing interaction stayed generally the equivalent, there were increments, for example, the "Response Command" work from "Kingdom Hearts II". Voice-acted scenes just happen in Castle Oblivion, just as the Destiny Islands and Twilight Town recreations. The revamp likewise incorporates new cutscenes and fights that were not in the first diversion. IGN positioned it as the 92nd best PlayStation 2 diversion. The staff felt that it emerged among other card-based RPGs. 

Like the principal "Kingdom Hearts", "Chain of Memories" was adjusted into a manga by Shiro Amano, following a similar plot as the computer game. It was serialized in Square's Monthly Shōnen Gangan in Japan, at that point discharged in two volumes in Japan and later in the United States by TOKYOPOP. The primary volume was discharged in Japan on October 22, 2005. After a year, it was discharged in English on October 10, 2006, trailed continuously volume on February 6, 2007. 

The manga arrangement has had moderate achievement. The primary volume was positioned 112th on USA Today's "Main 150 hits" amid the seven day stretch of its discharge. IGN commended Amano's versions of the characters and the silliness included into scenes. They additionally remarked the powerless components of the diversion reduced the manga's general quality. The arrangement was trailed by a third manga arrangement, "Kingdom Hearts II". The "Chain of Memories" manga arrangement was re-discharged in a confined set the United States on October 9, 2007. 

In September 2012, Square Enix reported "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix" an assemblage for the PlayStation 3 to incorporate both "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix" and "Re:Chain of Memories" in superior quality and trophy support. Furthermore, the accumulation incorporates HD true to life scenes from "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days". It was discharged in Japan on March 14, 2013 and in North America on September 10, 2013. Discharges on September 12, 2013 for Australia and September 13, 2013 for Europe denoted the first run through "Re:Chain of Memories" was accessible in both of those domains. This adaptation was later ported to the PlayStation 4 as a feature of "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 + 2.5 Remix", discharged in March 2017.