The Simpsons Game 

The Simpsons Game is an activity platformer computer game dependent on the enlivened TV arrangement "The Simpsons" and freely on "The Simpsons Movie", made for the Nintendo DS, Wii, Xbox 360, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable. The amusement was created, distributed, and circulated by Electronic Arts. It was discharged in North America in October 2007 and worldwide in November 2007. It includes a unique storyline composed by "The Simpsons" essayists Tim Long, Matt Selman, and Matt Warburton. In the self-referential plot, the family finds that they are compelled to partake in another "The Simpsons" computer game. Like the show, the diversion makes jokes about pop culture, other computer games, and Electronic Arts, its distributer. 

The amusement pursues the five Simpson relatives—Homer, Marge (with Maggie), Bart, and Lisa—who learn they are a piece of a computer game and are offered superpowers to determine a few circumstances. In the long run, they should spare their 8-bit ancestors from Will Wright, and the maker of their computer game character selves, Matt Groening. The Simpson family goes to four situations in farces of different diversions to gather key cards used to invade their maker's manor and eventually to spare their ancestors from annihilation. 

The diversion was met with blended gathering from computer game faultfinders. They lauded its visuals and composing, which included numerous spoofs of other computer games, while they censured its short length and poor camera framework, which did not generally work legitimately. "The Simpsons Game" got the Best Game Based on a Movie or TV Show grant at the 2007 Spike Video Game Awards and was selected for Best Video Game Writing at the 2007 Writers Guild of America Awards. As of January 31, 2008, four million duplicates of the diversion have been sold around the world. 

Players of "The Simpsons Game" can control the Simpson family (aside from Maggie), each with their own one of a kind capacities. Two distinctive relatives are playable in each dimension, beside the instructional exercise level, "The Land of Chocolate", in which just Homer is playable, and the last dimension, "Amusement Over", where all individuals from the family are playable. The amusement contains sixteen dimensions, called scenes, and each requires explicit forces to finish. For instance, in the fourth scene, "Lisa the Tree Hugger", the player is required to utilize Lisa's "Hand of Buddha" capacity to move extensive articles, and Bart's slingshot to close down machines. Foes special to every scene are included, except for the last dimension, in which adversaries that have just been vanquished are "reused" with various hues. 

A few difficulties are made accessible after all scenes are finished. These incorporate discovering every one of the collectibles for each character, discovering all the computer game prosaisms, and in the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Nintendo DS forms, finishing a specific errand identified with every scene's plot in a period preliminary. 

"The Simpsons Game"s head-up showcase highlights wellbeing meters for the two characters in each dimension, and an assault meter and uncommon power meter for the character right now constrained by the player. The diversion includes a two player community mode, which has a part screen and enables every player to control one of the two characters highlighted on that dimension. 

The DS variant of the amusement was grown independently from its comfort partners and is a side looking over experience. It likewise offers a few highlights that are not accessible in different renditions. A few minigames are accessible to open and play, most which are refreshed forms of arcade amusements, for example, "Frogger" and "Space Invaders", the last which references the outsiders Kang and Kodos from the "Simpsons Treehouse of Horror" scenes. A virtual pet is likewise open, called "Pet Homer", which enables players to bolster, engage, and spare Homer from dangers, for example, stifling and heart assaults. 

Homer is the principal playable character accessible to the player in "The Land of Chocolate" level. His capacities include transforming into the "Homer ball" by eating nourishment catalysts to give him a chance to roll and pummel objects; transform into a Gummi Homer by eating little gummi "Venus de Milos" to shoot gummi projectiles; eat hot stew peppers to move toward becoming Insanity Pepper Homer to utilize magma and flame bombs; and breathe in helium to turn into an inflatable to skim noticeable all around. Homer's exceptional power is a monster burp, which can daze foes. Bart initially shows up in the second dimension of the amusement "Bartman Begins". He can transform into Bartman, enabling him to utilize zip-lines, climb certain dividers, coast over long separations, and do other gymnastic accomplishments. Bart's extraordinary power is discharging a surge of bats towards adversaries. He can utilize his slingshot to overcome foes and hit focuses from far off. 

Lisa is presented in the fourth dimension "Lisa the Tree Hugger". Her primary assault style is kicking, and her capacity is the "Hand of Buddha". She can utilize it to flick, crush, solidify, or send lightning jolts to foes, just as lift certain things. Lisa's extraordinary power is playing her saxophone to assault and shock foes. As the dimensions advance, Lisa can utilize her saxophone to turn adversaries against one another. Marge is the least-playable character. Presented in the fifth dimension, "Horde Rules", Marge learns her capacity is to make expansive groups comply with her. She can utilize her crowd to separate impediments, manufacture objects, assault adversaries, and fix objects. Maggie is, as a result, an augmentation of Marge, quickly playable in air channels and other little spaces. 

The amusement starts with Homer having a treat prompted dream about a universe of chocolate where he endeavors to get and eat a white chocolate rabbit; after awakening he is vexed to find that it was each of the a fantasy. 

Bart goes to the computer game store and pressures the representative to give him a chance to purchase the new and savage "Fantastic Theft Scratchy" diversion, just to have it appropriated by Marge. While Bart sulks, a computer game manual tumbles down from the sky before him. Perusing the manual, Bart finds that he and the remainder of his family have extraordinary forces. Afterward, Bart utilizes his Bartman forces to stop Jimbo, Kearney, and Dolph from taking from the Natural History Museum sent by Princical Skinner to utilize the historical center shows for the science class, Homer uses his capacity to turn into a tremendous ball and win an eating challenge, Lisa utilizes her forces of contemplation to stop a deforestation undertaking, and Marge utilizes her forces to impact groups to stop the arrival of "Great Theft Scratchy" in Springfield, in spite of the fact that Lisa calls attention to it is unexpected she utilized viciousness to stop a rough diversion. 

Amid supper, the family is euphoric with their new powers. Be that as it may, it prompts a contention about what they ought to do with them. Outsiders Kang and Kodos choose to strike Earth, and an outsider intrusion unfurls. Acknowledging none of their forces are sufficiently able to overcome the outsiders, Bart and Lisa visit Professor Frink. They visit his home to discover him not there, however they unearth an entryway that sends them to a spot called the diversion motor where all computer games are made. In the wake of sparing him from a mammoth gorilla, Frink gives them "The Simpsons Game"s player's manual for show them how to all the more likely utilize their forces just as addition new ones, and the Simpson family before long embarks to attempt and stop the outsider attack. To begin with, Bart and Lisa help Captain McCallister in beating back mind-controlled dolphins that are assaulting the city aquarium. At that point, Bart and Homer thrashing the Lard Lad statue which has become animated. At last, they spare the Springfield Mall and Cletus from the outsiders. 

So as to discover reality, the family swings to the Internet to find progressively about the forces they have in the diversion, however are coincidentally sent to the amusement motor when Homer spills brew over the console. There, they find Will Wright, who is decimating duplicates of an old 8-bit "The Simpsons" amusement and its characters. The family figures out how to spare their 8-bit ancestors before they are devastated by Wright, and find that they will likewise end up out of date when the following "The Simpsons" amusement is discharged. The best way to keep this is to converse with the maker of the diversions and persuade him not to devastate them. So as to get to his chateau, the family needs to get four key cards from four up and coming "Simpsons" recreations. To start with, Homer and Marge rout a two-headed winged serpent whose heads are those of Patty and Selma in the "Neverquest" amusement. Marge and Lisa then travel to "Excellent Theft Scratchy", taking out all hostile material and supplanting it with all the more family-accommodating material. Next, Homer and Bart travel to France amid World War II to defeat Mr. Consumes' arrangement to take precious French artworks, in the "Award of Homer" amusement. Lisa and Homer at that point travel to antiquated Japan to vanquish the abhorrent Mr. Soil and his "Sparklemon" in the "Huge Super Happy Fun Game". 

When they have every one of the four key cards, Bart and Homer invade the maker's manor. They are welcomed by Matt Groening, who sends "Futurama" characters Bender and Dr. Zoidberg after them. The family figures out how to vanquish them, be that as it may, and Groening concedes that he is just making new recreations for the cash, and decimates the amusement motor. The Simpsons, alongside a few different characters from the amusements, getaway to Springfield, where the outsiders are as yet assaulting. Lisa utilizes her capacity to make a stairway to paradise all together for the family to approach God for counsel. After he is crushed in a round of "Move Dance Revolution", God uncovers that the computer game that they're in is a little diversion in another computer game about Earth. He dropped the computer game manual unintentionally, in this way investing the family with superpowers. Understanding his crime, he guarantees to reestablish Springfield, let them keep their forces, and to improve the working states of all computer game characters. He likewise gives Homer three wishes. Lisa inquires as to whether God ever thinks about whether he himself is a character in a computer game. As God apprehensively laughs at this hypothesis, things being what they are, Ralph Wiggum is playing the whole diversion before he takes a gander at the screen, pondering who was taking a gander at him. 

The diversion's storyline was composed by Tim Long, Matt Selman, and Matt Warburton, who are for the most part standard authors on "The Simpsons". They needed to make something that spoke to the fanatics of the show, and was, in its very own right, "an incredible new diversion". Matt Groening and the journalists had persistent criticism on the amusement's substance, from its "look and feel" to its riddles and ongoing interaction. The amusement's official maker, Scot Amos, said it was a stunning organization between the essayists and the designers. Selman, the head essayist, says the reason they chose to call it "The Simpsons Game" and not include a caption was on the grounds that they felt it was a restart of "the 'Simpsons' gaming establishment [...] a major, new, crisp diversion that takes on computer games and diverting things ever". 

"The Simpsons Game" was distributed by Electronic Arts and created by its backup, EA Redwood Shores; the organization had marked an agreement for the computer game rights to "The Simpsons" in 2005. The amusement's lead architect, Greg Rizzer, said that when he inquired as to whether they could spoof some Electronic Arts recreations including "Award of Honor", they were energetic about it. "The Simpsons Game", which spoofs computer games from 30 years before 2007, was compelled to have a portion of its substance expelled after a few computer game organizations whined about it. Rizzer, in any case, was as yet satisfied with the measure of farce in the amusement and considered "The Simpsons" the "ideal vehicle to make jokes about the diversions business". At the 2007 Games Convention in Leipzig, Germany, a notice for "Stupendous Theft Scratchy", one of the dimensions in "The Simpsons Game" and a farce of "Fantastic Theft Auto", was approached to be brought somewhere near a representative of Rockstar Games, the organization that builds up the "Amazing Theft Auto" arrangement of computer games. A few organizations, notwithstanding, grasped the amusement's farce of their computer games, including designers from Harmonix, who were satisfied with the diversion's "Sitar Hero", a spoof of Harmonix's "Guitar Hero" computer game. Notwithstanding amusement spoofs, "The Simpsons Game" likewise includes a few appearances with ironical twists, including Matt Groening as himself and Will Wright as an enemy. 

The designs for the amusement's characters are cel-shaded, and an actualized strategy straightens the character models from any edge that the camera sees them from, so as to reproduce the 2D, hand-attracted look seen the show. The advancement group discovered it especially hard to render Lisa's spiky hair as 2D in the amusement's 3D condition.. There is an alternate spread for the amusement on each comfort. 

The diversion got blended gathering, accepting an amassed score of 71% on Metacritic for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 rendition of the amusement. Applause concentrated on the amusement's visuals and composing, which ridiculed the gaming business and the show itself. "The Simpsons Game" won the honor for Best Game Based on a Movie or TV Show at the Spike Video Game Awards 2007, and was named for the first-since forever grant for Best Video Game Writing at the Writers Guild of America Awards 2007. As of January 31, 2008, four million duplicates of the amusement have been sold in general. Its PlayStation 2 and Nintendo DS discharges each got a "Platinum" deals grant from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), demonstrating offers of somewhere around 300,000 duplicates for each rendition in the United Kingdom. ELSPA exhibited the diversion's Wii, Xbox 360 and PlayStation Portable forms with "Silver" affirmations, for offers of 100,000 units or all the more each in the locale. Dwindle Nowak of CBC News named it the third-best round of 2007 and portrayed it as "effectively the best diversion featuring the wacky occupants of Springfield". 

The amusement's utilization of "The Simpsons"- style humor got a blended gathering. Both GameSpot and GameTrailers said that the amusement conveyed all that anyone could need giggles to make it worth playing through at any rate once. It was viewed as pleasant for both in-your-face and easygoing "The Simpsons" fans by IGN and GameDaily, who likewise considered it an especially engaging diversion for diehard fans. In spite of the couple of issues that the amusement had, GameSpy said that it was justified, despite all the trouble to see the comical satires. Eurogamer's Tom Bramwell, in any case, trusted that the amusement's silliness could just convey it up until now, and proposed that those keen on "The Simpsons" diversion should buy a crate set of one of the TV arrangement's seasons. Joe Juba of "Amusement Informer" considered the diversion a normal encounter. He explained that the diversion would bid basically to aficionados of the TV arrangement, however would not merit playing for individuals new to it. 

Eurogamer adulated the contribution of individuals from "The Simpsons" TV arrangement with the diversion's improvement and GameZone delighted in the two-character mechanics of the amusement and had a fabulous time gathering unlockable things. GameTrailers thought the illustrations and activitys looked incredible and valued the hand-drawn appearances, despite the fact that they thought that it was clear that the characters were "never truly intended to hop into the third measurement" in light of their second-measurement roots. 

Analysis of the diversion concentrated on its short, unacceptable interactivity and troublesome camera framework. GameSpot considered the interactivity "nothing uncommon" while GameZone considered it a "truly shallow" amusement that depended a lot on tedious bouncing riddles and a frail battle framework. The amusement disillusioned IGN in light of the fact that it did exclude an online component and it was considered excessively short. The camera framework was observed to be risky by both GameZone and GameSpy, who called it "a torment" and a "busted" include; GameDaily likewise thought that it was irksome on the grounds that it frequently stalled out. 

The DS rendition of the amusement, which was fundamentally not quite the same as different adaptations, got acclaim for its interesting ongoing interaction, however analysis for its short length. IGN praised the DS rendition's exceptional ongoing interaction experience and GameSpot announced that it was fulfilling through and through. GameSpot and GameZone, in any case, were both disillusioned that the amusement was very concise. 1UP found that despite the fact that "The Simpsons Game" caricatured various 2D stage diversion traditions, it utilized them in any case, making it a silly undertaking. 

Electronic Arts intended to create a spin-off of the diversion, entitled "The Simpsons Game 2", alongside a Nintendo Wii variant of "Dead Space 2", however both were dropped in 2011 on the grounds that the studio chose to account for different activities.