What Is and What Should Never Be (Supernatural) 

"What Is and What Should Never Be" is the twentieth scene of the paranormal show TV arrangement "Supernatural"s second season. It was first communicated on May 3, 2007 on The CW. The account pursues arrangement hero Dean Winchester (Jensen Ackles) who ends up in a substitute reality after an encounter with a djinn . The animal seems to have satisfied Dean's most noteworthy wish: that his mom had not been murdered when he was a youngster. Senior member is cheerful in the new world until it winds up obvious that his past work as a seeker of otherworldly animals has been fixed. Now, he rejects the substitute reality, and endeavors to discover a strategy to bring himself back. 

The scene was composed by Raelle Tucker, and denoted the directorial introduction of arrangement maker Eric Kripke. It included the arrival of perished characters Mary Winchester (Samantha Smith) and Jessica Moore (Adrianne Palicki). Kripke appreciated developing the character of Mary, who was just quickly portrayed in before scenes. The generation plan must be changed to suit Palicki, who was at the same time chipping away at the TV arrangement "Friday Night Lights". 

Regardless of getting low appraisals, the scene obtained positive basic audits that both lauded Ackles' execution and respected the arrival of Smith and Palicki to the arrangement. Exhaust additionally got a Constellation Award for her work on the scene. 

The scene starts in a relinquished distribution center, where Dean (Ackles) is assaulted by the djinn that he is chasing. He all of a sudden ends up in a world in which his mom (Smith) was not murdered by the evil presence Azazel. He and his sibling Sam (Jared Padalecki) were not raised to be seekers of powerful animals, however are never again close, as Dean is flippant, backstabbing, and drinks a lot in this other reality; when a befuddled Dean calls him for help, Sam conceives that he is tanked. In the new reality, Dean is dating the excellent Carmen (Michelle Borth), and Sam is at graduate school and drawn in to Jessica (Palicki)— another casualty of Azazel. Despite the fact that Dean makes the most of his new life, a spooky young lady is by all accounts frequenting him and he is gone up against by a picture of carcasses in his storage room. He understands that every one of the general population that he and Sam had spared as seekers are currently dead, that he and Sam have a far off and to some degree antagonistic relationship. Subsequent to visiting the grave of his dad John, who passed on the earlier year of a stroke, Dean concludes that he should surrender his freshly discovered joy to spare them. 

Needing something silver—a shortcoming of the djinn—Dean breaks into his mom's home to take a sterling silver blade. Be that as it may, he is gotten by Sam, who believes he's taking from their mom. While Dean at first imagines that he needs the blade to reimburse a betting obligation, he in the long run uncovers reality. Despite the fact that Sam does not trust him, he goes with his sibling to the djinn's distribution center nest. There Dean finds that the young lady he has been having dreams of is a casualty of the djinn. Unmistakably she is alive yet in a dreamlike express—a path for the djinn to keep its unfortunate casualties passive while it bolsters—Dean understands that he, as well, is inside a fanciful world. Realizing that an individual awakens on the off chance that the person bites the dust in a fantasy, he chooses to murder himself. Carmen, Jessica, and his mom show up and endeavor to work him out of it. Dignitary fights the temptation to remain, and stirs in reality in the wake of wounding himself. Sam, who is as of now in the distribution center endeavoring to safeguard him, is assaulted by the djinn, yet Dean executes the animal. 

Arrangement maker Eric Kripke's first involvement as executive was slated for the twentieth scene of the period, and Raelle Tucker was planned to pen it. Kripke needed a content that was as "executive evidence as could be expected under the circumstances", however that would "play with structure and truly accomplish something other than what's expected". He shot down each thought the journalists pitched to him until Tucker proposed an other reality scene. Drawing motivation from the "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" scene "Ordinary Again", Kripke was energized by the idea. He felt Dean's conclusive minute was the demise of his mom Mary, so the "preoccupation way" of the new reality would be founded on the inquiry, "Imagine a scenario in which mother never kicked the bucket?" This change enables Sam and Dean to live typical lives, however at the expense of their relationship. The purpose of the bogus reality, as Kripke would see it, was to demonstrate that the siblings would not be close on the off chance that they had not progressed toward becoming seekers. The staff endeavored to convince him to evacuate this angle, yet he figured it would be "faltering" for Sam and Dean to have a ""seventh Heaven" relationship". When the story was completely created, Tucker was sans given rein over the content; this shocked her since she expected Kripke to "be to a greater extent a busybody than he was". 

The chance to bring back the character of Mary Winchester energized Kripke. In spite of the fact that she is a main thrust behind the siblings' journey to kill the evil spirit Azazel and is referenced various occasions all through the initial two seasons, her two appearances in the arrangement were exceptionally concise. The scene enabled the character to be developed, delineating her as a "truly immaculate and untainted mother". In any case, Kripke felt that Dean would acknowledge something was wrong in the event that he was conceded an "immaculate dream world", so John Winchester, who passed on in the second season debut, stayed dead. 

The last form of the scene varied from the first idea. It was at first proposed for Dean to be a "gigantic washout" in his new life; being a seeker is the thing that gives him structure and reason. Without chasing, he would be a jobless barfly. Kripke contrasted the new reality with a Charles Bukowski tale, yet noticed that the benevolent Dean still favored the new universe, with Sam upbeat and carrying on with a decent life. Be that as it may, official maker Robert Singer and others persuaded him to change this, since they didn't figure Dean would be glad all of a sudden awakening in such a reality. Another variety originated from Dean's absence of somebody to trust in—typically Sam is his compatriot. Since the scholars thought that it was hard to impart Dean's sentiments, early drafts of the content incorporated various inside monologs. These were at last supplanted by a scene in which he talks about the djinn with a teacher. The studio needed the scene of Dean and his better half Carmen kissing on the couch to incorporate sex. Notwithstanding, Kripke couldn't work it into the content, since he thought that it was doubtful that she would purposely be late for her activity as a clinic nurture. 

The journalists needed to utilize a desire to make the new reality, and picked a genie to encourage it. The Islamic djinn—the beginnings of genie legends—turned into the scene's beast, yet highlighted the "adulterated western origination" of wish-conceding to fit the scene. To keep away from the run of the mill depiction of genies in mainstream culture, for example, those from "Aladdin" and "I Dream of Jeannie"— they made a "legitimate bend on the legend" by making the animal vampiric. Exhaust initially expected for the animal's bolstering strategy to be mysterious—it would breathe in its unfortunate casualty's life substance from his or her mouth. In any case, Kripke wanted to style it progressively like a blood and gore flick, and had the djinn feed from a shunt in its unfortunate casualty's neck. 

The animal's appearance was motivated by a picture of a lady with a henna-inked back that Kripke found on the web. He figured it is charming to have the miscreant's whole body inked. The on-screen character who depicted the djinn—Mackenzie Gray—had a shaved head, so embellishments cosmetics craftsman Toby Lindala just utilized a minor prosthetic to cover Gray's eyebrows. Lindala observed the tattoos to be a "specific test" since they were "mind boggling plans". The generation calendar couldn't oblige the six hours expected to apply the cosmetics every day, so the on-screen character was reserved with the condition that the make-up not be expelled for four days. Dark's own life was influenced by this, as individuals in the city were terrified by his appearance. Lindala was astonished that Gray had the capacity to keep the tattoos whole outside of shooting. 

Key photography for the scene occurred in Vancouver, British Columbia. Kripke needed Adrianne Palicki to repeat her job of Jessica Moore—Sam's expired sweetheart—yet she was caught up with taping for the Texas-based TV arrangement "Friday Night Lights". Since Jessica was an indispensable part of the storyline, the generation plan was changed in accordance with oblige the on-screen character. The initial five days of recording initiated for "What Is and What Should Never Be", and creation at that point moved to "All Hell Breaks Loose, Part One" until Palicki wound up accessible for the last three days of taping. Be that as it may, she was absent for recording of the scene's peak. Rather, the performer shot her part before a blue screen, and was later carefully included into the scene. 

Since the arrangement for the most part has a dim air, frequently comprising of "sets with grime and a feeling of threat", Kripke needed there to be a complexity between the two universes. Accordingly, he mentioned that creation originator Jerry Wanek manufacture the "most wonderful, warm, loving sets you've at any point seen". Cinematographer Serge Ladouceur likewise made the typical shadows and "surly lighting" increasingly bright and warm. In spite of the fact that it rained always through recording, immaculate climate emerged for shooting of one of the fundamental differentiating scenes—Dean cutting the garden. Kripke needed it to show up "too flawless to ever be genuine", and had the capacity to film the "radiant, excellent scene". The "unpleasant" distribution center utilized as a sanctuary by the djinn was an upgraded stockroom set from the TV arrangement "Kyle XY". 

One of the primary chiefs Kripke had turned out to be familiar with and gained from was David Nutter. Kripke along these lines needed to incorporate tributes to Nutter's work on the pilot; a few scenes of the new the truth were intended to be amusements from the primary scene. The team endeavored to coordinate the camera edges, lighting, and music however much as could be expected. While Sam and Jessica resting together in bed should be a definite reproduction of a comparative scene, the battle between the siblings contrasted. Since the new Sam is "basically a wussy", Dean can bring him down quickly. Exhaust noticed that it was likewise a "subtle way" of implying that the new the truth was only a hallucination, as he seems to be "re-encountering that minute from the pilot since his dreamland is being produced by what he definitely knows and has lived". 

Huge numbers of the photographs present all through the Winchester home were photoshopped by visual craftsman Mary-Ann Liu. Every one was examined and refined, as Kripke felt they were vital to demonstrate the new Winchester family ancestry. A few pictures, for example, Dean at the prom and Sam at graduation, were altered variants of photographs from Ackles' and Padalecki's youth. 

The scene's combined instrumental score was composed by Christopher Lennertz. As of creation of the fourth season, the scene has been his most loved one to score. Lennertz utilized a performance bassoon for the passionate scenes in the substitute reality as opposed to the cello he regularly utilizes for Sam and Dean's relationship. He noticed that it "set a fascinating lead tone for the scene". Following the arrangement's custom, the scene likewise highlighted shake tunes. 

In its unique communicate, "What Is and What Should Never Be" was seen by an expected 3.11 million watchers, one of the least appraisals for the season. On the other hand, essayist Raelle Tucker won the Constellation Award for "Best Overall 2007 Science Fiction Film or Television Script" for her work on the scene, and the scene accumulated positive surveys from pundits. Tina Charles of TV Guide "worshiped" the scene, and believed it to be Jensen Ackles' best execution of the arrangement. She encountered a "passionate thrill ride the whole hour", discovering Dean's monolog at his dad's grave to be "smashing" yet the lawnmower scene to be "silly". In like manner, Diana Steenbergen of IGN gave the scene a rating of 9.2 out of 10, lauding the fast pace, "overwhelming" character advancement, and "ton and a half of tension". She, as well, felt that Ackles "hits the ball out of the recreation center", and noticed that the scene's cleverness originated from Ackles' eagerness to be a "major numskull". Performing artists Samantha Smith and Adrianne Palicki were "a treat", in spite of the fact that Steenbergen would have enjoyed Jeffrey Dean Morgan to return. 

Tom Burns of UGO considered the scene as "one of the most grounded long periods of "Powerful" all season", feeling that "the performing artists truly ventured up their game...and sold each minute". He additionally noticed the "proudly passionate" Ackles, who "[wore] his satisfaction, misery, and nervousness everywhere on this face, however dependably [kept] things genuine and in character". In spite of the fact that Burns trusted that "wish-world" stories have been abused in fiction, he felt that Ackles' "bad-to-the-bone acting hacks" enabled the scene to "escape from unremarkableness". The "exceptional" and "very much created" scene was given a 7 out of 7 by TV Squad's Brett Love. He considered the djinn as "one of the better portrayals" of genies in pop culture, and noticed that the animal had the "ideal unpleasant look to it". He was satisfied to see Smith and Palicki return, and observed the character of Carmen to be "a decent expansion to the family". Wear Williams of BuddyTV concurred, and positioned the scene third in his rundown of the best scenes of the initial three seasons. Esteeming it the best independent scene, he noticed that it "can be grasped by any individual who appreciates cunning composition, incredible acting, or a shirtless Jensen Ackles". 

General 

Explicit 

Notes