Ambrose Rookwood 

Ambrose Rookwood (c. 1578 – 31 January 1606) was an individual from the fizzled 1605 Gunpowder Plot, a trick to supplant the Protestant King James I with a Catholic sovereign. Rookwood was naturally introduced to a well off group of Catholic recusants, and taught by Jesuits in Flanders. His more established sibling turned into a Franciscan, and his two more youthful siblings were appointed as Catholic ministers. Rookwood turned into a pony reproducer. He wedded the Catholic Elizabeth Tyrwhitt, and had no less than two children. 

He was enrolled into the plot in September 1605 by Robert Catesby, a religious devotee whose restlessness with James' treatment of English Catholics had developed so extreme that he planned to explode the House of Lords with black powder, murdering the ruler and a significant part of the Protestant chain of importance. With different backstabbers he had selected, Catesby likewise intended to prompt a disobedience in the Midlands, amid which James' nine-year-old girl Princess Elizabeth would be caught, and introduced as main ruler. Rookwood's steady of fine steeds was basic for the uprising to succeed. 

The blast was intended to agree with the State Opening of Parliament on 5 November 1605, however the man left responsible for the black powder put away underneath the House of Lords, Guy Fawkes, was found there and captured. Rookwood fled the city, and educated Catesby and the others of the arrangement's disappointment. Together the rest of the schemers rode to Holbeche House in Staffordshire, where on 8 November they were assaulted by the seeking after Sheriff of Worcester and his men. Catesby was slaughtered, yet Rookwood endure, and was detained in the Tower of London. 

Rookwood and the survivors were summoned on 27 January 1606 in Westminster Hall. Arguing not liable, he professed to have adored Catesby "over any common man". He was sentenced; his solicitation for leniency was overlooked, and he was hanged, drawn and quartered on 31 January, in the Old Palace Yard at Westminster. 

Brought into the world at some point around 1578, Ambrose Rookwood was the second of four children destined to Robert Rookwood and his second spouse, Dorothy Drury, the girl of Sir William Drury and Elizabeth Sothill. Amid his first marriage to Bridget Kemp, Robert had sired four children, however all predeceased their dad. 

The Rookwood family had inhabited Stanningfield in Suffolk for a long time. Well off, and staunch Catholics, the experts saw them as inconvenience producers. Ambrose's Papist cousin Edward had gone through ten years in jail for his confidence, however in 1578 he engaged Queen Elizabeth I at his home, Euston Hall. It was a costly visit that made a genuine scratch in the family's funds, and which fixed their impact for quite a long time from there on. Ambrose's folks had been detained for their recusancy, and he was prosecuted on a similar charge in February 1605. He was evidently upbeat to promote his confidence; in the mid year of 1605 he dispatched a London cutler, John Craddock, to put a Spanish sharp edge into a sword handle engraved with the account of the Passion of Christ. In that capacity weapons were commonly worn in broad daylight, it was "a possibly perilous proclamation of confidence". 

Ambrose and two of his siblings, Robert and Christopher, were taught by Jesuits at Saint-Omer, at that point in Flanders. The two siblings progressed toward becoming clerics (Ambrose's senior sibling, Henry, turned into a Franciscan), and his relatives Dorothea and Susanna moved toward becoming nuns. As per the Jesuit Oswald Tesimond, Rookwood was "well-manufactured and attractive, if fairly short", which he made up for by his preference for unrestrained attire. In creator Antonia Fraser's conclusion, this artificiality was fairly unseemly when "garments should indicate rank as opposed to cash". 

In or in a matter of seconds before 1599 he wedded Elizabeth, little girl of William Tyrwhitt, of Kettleby in Lincolnshire, and his significant other Elizabeth, girl of Sir Peter Frescheville, of Staveley in Derbyshire. The Tyrwhitts were another conspicuous Roman Catholic family and his significant other was conceivably a first cousin to his future individual schemer Robert Keyes. The couple had two children, Robert and Henry. 

On his dad's demise in 1600, he acquired Coldham Hall, which in this way turned into a shelter for ministers. The next year he joined the Earl of Essex's unsuccessful resistance to the legislature, for which he was caught and held at Newgate Prison. 

In August 1605 Rookwood joined the Jesuits Henry Garnet and John Gerard on a journey to the sanctum of St Winefride's Well in Holywell. Late in September, he was drawn nearer by Robert Catesby, Thomas Wintour and John Wright, and welcome to join what ended up known as the Gunpowder Plot. English Catholics had trusted that the abuse of their confidence would end when James I went to the royal position, as his frame of mind seemed, by all accounts, to be moderate, even tolerant towards Catholics. In Catesby's view, James had reneged on his guarantees. He accordingly intended to execute the ruler by exploding the House of Lords with black powder, and after that inducing a prominent revolt to introduce James' little girl, Elizabeth, as main ruler. To this end he had just helped enroll nine Catholics into the connivance, however was coming up short on cash and expected to select more men. Rookwood was a pony raiser, and his stable of fine mounts at Coldham Hall was required for the Midlands uprising. He had been approached to supply them with explosive about a year sooner, under the misrepresentation that it was for William Stanley's regiment in Flanders—no longer an unlawful task because of the ongoing Treaty of London—however generally gave no assets to the trick. 

Albeit mysterious, his better half's relationship to Robert Keyes may imply that Rookwood officially speculated that something was being arranged. He was at first worried for the welfare of the Catholic rulers who might be available at the blast, yet his remorse was lightened when Catesby guaranteed him that they would be deceived out of going to Parliament that day. Any waiting questions Rookwood had were expelled by Catesby's falsehood that the Jesuits had given the plan their endorsement. Rookwood had remained with the Wintours at Huddington Court, and that month with the Catholic Lacons at Kinlet Hall, yet at Cateby's command he leased Clopton House close Stratford, and moved there after Michaelmas. He took with him a few Catholic religious images, for example, cups, crosses, vestments, Latin books and asking dots. These were disguised in a basement worked by the Jesuit Nicholas Owen. 

At the finish of October he joined Keyes at his lodgings in London. A couple of days before the arranged blast he altered his opinion about the sword he had requested John Craddock to make, and had the cutler supplant the grasp with a gold one. The altered sword, which altogether likely expense Rookwood more than £20, was conveyed on 4 November. 

The presence of the plot had been uncovered in a mysterious letter conveyed ten days sooner to William Parker, fourth Baron Monteagle, cautioning him to avoid Parliament. On the night of 4 November the experts made a pursuit of the House of Lords, where they found one of the plotters, Guy Fawkes, guarding a crowd of explosives. He was quickly captured. 

Fawkes had acted like a hireling of individual plotter Thomas Percy, and it was in this way Percy's name that showed up on the main capture warrant issued by the administration. Updates on Fawkes' catch before long spread through London, provoking Christopher Wright (sibling of John) to race to Thomas Wintour, and tell what had occurred. Wintour speculated that the legislature was searching for Percy, and advised Wright to make a trip to Percy's lodgings and "offer him begone". While Wintour waited, Christopher Wright and Percy left the city, trailed by Keyes, and afterward Rookwood. A famous horseman, Rookwood shrouded 30 miles in two hours on a solitary pony. Utilizing different steeds he had left along the course, he passed Keyes at Highgate, and after that Wright and Percy at Little Brickhill close Dunstable. He made up for lost time with Catesby, who had left the earlier day to set up the uprising, and disclosed to him what had occurred in London. The gathering, which currently included Catesby, his worker Thomas Bates, both Wright siblings, Percy and Rookwood, rode on to Dunchurch. 

While Fawkes was being tormented, on 6 November the administration started to round up anybody they thought may be included. Rookwood's workers, still in the house their lord had so hurriedly withdrawn, were addressed around the same time. His possessions at Clopton—including a few implicating Catholic images—were likewise taken, and when the plotters had achieved Catesby's family home at Ashby St Ledgers, Rookwood's name was among the rundown of suspects drawn up by the Lord Chief Justice. The outlaws proceeded to Dunchurch, where they met the as of late enrolled backstabber Everard Digby, with his chasing party. The following day the gathering stole ponies from Warwick Castle, despite the fact that with his fine cortège, Rookwood evaded the town. They at that point gathered put away weapons from Norbrook, and proceeded to Huddington. The gathering attempted futile to grow their number, however were evaded; nobody was set up to hazard being marked a swindler. Father Garnet, reached at Coughton Court by Bates, composed Catesby a letter in which he beseeched the gathering to stop their "evil activities", before himself escaping. 

Rookwood was declared a needed man on 7 November. He went to admission and with the remainder of the gathering took the holy observance—as Fraser would see it, a sign that none of them thought they had long to live. Through pouring precipitation they rode to Hewell Grange, taking further arms, ammo and cash, lastly came to Holbeche House, on the outskirt of Staffordshire, at about 10:00 pm that night. Tired from three days of riding, they spread before the discharge a portion of the now-drenched explosive taken from Hewell Grange, to dry out. A stray flash arrived on the powder, and Rookwood, Catesby, John Grant and another man were gotten up to speed in the resultant blaze. Rookwood and Catesby were depicted as "sensibly well", yet Grant was blinded. 

A few of the schemers vanished into the night, yet Rookwood, Catesby, the Wright siblings, Percy and Grant remained on. By 11:00 am the following day the house was encompassed by 200 of the Sheriff of Worcester's men. In the resulting fight, Wintour was shot in the shoulder. John and Christopher Wright were executed. Catesby and Percy were supposedly both slaughtered by a solitary black powder gun ball. Rookwood was likewise shot, yet endure and was immediately caught. His effects ought to by right have been seized by the administration, yet his intricate sword clearly ended up being too incredible an enticement for the Sheriff's men, and vanished without follow. Rookwood and the others were taken first to Worcester, and afterward to the Tower of London. Those schemers still everywhere were gathered together soon after. 

Viewed covertly by the ruler and his family, the enduring schemers were charged in Westminster Hall on 27 January 1606. A portion of the detainees hung their heads "as though their hearts were brimming with firmness", while others were impassive. All aside from Digby argued "Not Guilty". Safeguarding himself, Rookwood guaranteed that he had been enrolled into the plot through his companionship with Catesby, "whom he adored over any common man". He conceded that he couldn't anticipate kindness, however requested it in any case, so as not to leave a "flaw and blotch unto all ages". 

His requests were futile. The jury indicted him, and he was condemned to death. After three days, Digby, Robert Wintour, John Grant and Thomas Bates were hanged, drawn and quartered at the western end of St Paul's churchyard. The next day, Rookwood, Thomas Wintour, Robert Keyes and Guy Fawkes were attached to wattled leaps and hauled by pony from the Tower, to the Old Palace Yard at Westminster—a more extended course than had been endured by their kindred backstabbers. Rookwood had requested to be educated when he gone by his lodgings in the Strand, with the goal that he could open his eyes and see his significant other, holding up at the window. He yelled "Appeal to God for me, petition God for me!" According to Father Gerard (who was not then present), Elizabeth replied, "I will, and be of good bravery. Offer theyself completely to God. I, as far as concerns me, do as uninhibitedly reestablish thee to God as He gave thee unto me." For the remainder of the voyage he kept his eyes shut, in supplication. Thomas Wintour was the principal that day to be hanged and afterward killed. Rookwood was straightaway, and made a short discourse to the collected group of onlookers. He was humble, requesting that God favor the lord, ruler, and their "imperial descendants", however "spoil[ed] all the pottage with one tarnished weed" by entreating God to make the ruler a Catholic. He appears to have been left to hang for longer than the others, before enduring the rest of his sentence. 

References 

Notes 

Book reference