Tanque Argentino Mediano 

The Tanque Argentino Mediano (TAM; English: "Argentine Medium Tank") is a medium tank in administration with the Argentine Army. Coming up short on the experience and assets to structure a tank, the Argentine Ministry of Defense contracted German organization Thyssen-Henschel. The vehicle was created by a German and Argentine group of specialists, and depended on the German Marder infantry battling vehicle. 

The TAM met the Argentine Army's necessity for a cutting edge, lightweight and quick tank with a low outline and adequate capability to crush contemporary heavily clad dangers. Advancement started in 1974 and brought about the development of three models by mid 1977 and full-scale generation by 1979. Gathering occurred at the nearby TAMSE plant, established for the reason by the Argentine government. Monetary troubles ended creation in 1983, however fabricating started again in 1994 until the military's organization of 200 tanks was satisfied. 

The TAM arrangement incorporates seven unique variations, for example, a self-moved howitzer and a self-impelled mortar vehicle. Altogether, more than 280 such vehicles were manufactured, including defensively covered work force transporters, mounted guns and mortar pieces. The TAM and VCTP (Infantry Fighting Vehicles dependent on the TAM suspension) were fabricated for the Peruvian Army, possibly to be coordinated into the Argentine Army when Peru dropped the agreement. The TAM additionally vied for other fare orders, however the TAM was eventually not traded. 

The TAM has never observed battle, despite the fact that 17 VCTPs were sent to Croatia for the United Nations UNPROFOR peacekeeping mission. 

Amid the 1960s Argentina tried to supplant its maturing armada of tanks, which included British Sherman V Firefly tanks and American M3A1 half-tracks dating from not long after the Second World War. In their endeavors to acquire gear from the United States, Argentina could just verify 50 M41 Walker Bulldogs (undelivered) and 250 M113 protected work force transporters. At the point when the United States turned down solicitations for further gear, the Argentine government swung to the opposite side of the Atlantic, putting their "Plan Europa" (Plan Europe) enthusiastically. It was trusted that European innovation could animate Argentine industry so the nation could create its very own combat hardware later on. Argentina secured 80 AMX-13 light tanks, just as 180 AMX-VCIs and 24 AMX-155 F3s, from the French government, fabricating around 40 AMX-13s and 60 AMX-VCIs at home. The French AMX-30 and German Leopard 1 were additionally inspected as conceivable substitutes for the Argentine Sherman armada. 

In 1973 the Argentine Ministry of Defense drew up a progression of prerequisites for a tank to enter administration during the 1980s. The heavily clad vehicle would gauge close to , move at a most extreme speed of , and spread in any event on streets. It would be equipped with a cutting edge 105 mm fundamental firearm, two assault rifles, and projectile launchers. The tank architects likewise needed to consider Argentina's current foundation, including railroad limit, extensions and street limit, just as the nation's differed landscape. In late 1973 the "Proyecto de Tanque Argentino Mediano" (Argentine Medium Tank Project) was established with the objective of planning and building up a tank for the Argentine Army. Without the experience and the essential innovation, the Argentine government looked for coordinated effort with an outside organization, bringing about an agreement with the German organization Thyssen-Henschel. The agreement required an exchange of innovation bringing about a program to build up a tank in accordance with the administration's necessities and under a specialized group that included both German and Argentine designers. The frame of the German Marder heavily clad staff transporter was utilized, and the undercarriage was reinforced to help the expanded load of the TAM. Two models were made in late 1976 and mid 1977, which were put through broad testing for a long time and over a street scope of . All the while, another model was fabricated to assist the examination of the new vehicle and complete the three models as concurred in the agreement. 

The new tank's capability prerequisites were met by fitting a British Royal Ordnance L7A1 principle weapon. This firearm was later supplanted by the adjusted L7A2 lastly by Rheinmetall's Rh-105-30 weapon. This weapon is produced in Argentina as the FM K.4 "Modelo" 1L. The Rh-105-30's preferences incorporate low weight, minimal size and expanded lethality. Not at all like the Rh-105-30, the FM K.4 does not have a gag brake. The privately manufactured gun can be raised to 18 degrees or discouraged to - 7 degrees on the TAM. The weapon's water driven backlash system has an all-encompassing length of to assimilate the backlash constrain. It is intended to flame the M735A1 defensive layer puncturing balance settled disposing of sabot, which can infiltrate a limit of at . It can likewise fire high-touchy enemy of tank rounds, high-unstable squash head and smoke rounds. The tank's auxiliary combat hardware incorporate a co-hub FN MAG 60-40 broadly useful automatic rifle and a second FN MAG 60-20 mounted on the TAM's turret rooftop as an enemy of airplane assault rifle. The discharge control framework incorporates a with a scope of and a FLER-HG ballistic PC to process the weapon's shoot arrangements—helping the heavy armament specialist point and hit the objective. The tank officer utilizes a Zeiss PERI-R/TA all encompassing periscope, with a 2x and 8x zoom. 

The TAM's motor necessities included low weight and volume, however with a quick rate of quickening and high unwavering quality. The program picked MTU's MB-833 Ka 500 diesel motor, delivering at 2,400 rpm. This gives the TAM a capacity to-weight proportion of 24 horsepower per tonne and a greatest speed of on road and rough terrain. With an inside fuel tank, the TAM can travel . Its range is stretched out to if the vehicle is outfitted with two outside fuel tanks. The TAM's transmission is a Renk HSWL-204 programmed, with a hydrodynamic torque converter. A twofold slowing mechanism incorporates water driven circle brakes on the roadwheels, and the suspension is a torsion bar. 

The TAM's survivability is identified with its position of safety turret, in light of that of the Leopard 1A4s and the Leopard 2, and its physical reinforcement cluster. It has at 75 degrees on the glacis plate and 32 degrees on the vehicle's sides. This offers insurance against hostile to covering shells from up to firearms. The turret front is secured by of steel shield at a point of 32 degrees. Despite the fact that the tank's weight and covering insurance are light contrasted with other principle fight tanks, it has the benefit of better strategic portability over the country's territory. 

As a private endeavor, Thyssen-Henschel manufactured a fourth model assigned TH 301. Finished in 1978, it included a PERI R12 periscope, initially intended for the Leopard 1A4, for the tank administrator. The heavy weapons specialist and loader each got multi day periscope also. To empower the group to shoot successfully during the evening, a low light dimension TV (LLLTV) camera, which moved in height with the fundamental weapon, was fitted to the mantlet. Moreover, the tank got an all the more dominant motor. The improvement program likewise made arrangements to expand the thickness of the covering for extra security. 

In 2010, a modernization program was reported. Israeli guard temporary worker Elbit Systems was picked to give 3-pivot gyro-adjustment, and most presumably the L7A2 105 mm gun will be supplanted with an all the more dominant 120 mm gun, similar to the L44 120 mm Cannon. The primary TAM unit redesigned by Elbit Systems was conveyed in March 2013. 

Various variations were based on a similar undercarriage as the TAM tank. The first program required the structure of an infantry battling vehicle, and in 1977 the program wrapped up the model of the "Vehículo de Combate Transporte de Personal" (Personnel Transport Combat Vehicle), or VCTP. The VCTP can transport a squad of 12 men, including the squad chief and nine sharpshooters. The squad chief is arranged in the turret of the vehicle; one sharpshooter sits behind him and another six are situated in the skeleton, the eighth keeping an eye on the body automatic weapon and the ninth arranged in the turret with the heavy armament specialist. All faculty can shoot their weapons from inside the vehicle, and the VCTP's turret is outfitted with Rheinmetall's Rh-202 autocannon. The VCTP holds 880 rounds for the autocannon, including subcaliber reinforcement penetrating DM63 rounds. It is additionally outfitted with a 7.62 mm FN MAG 60-20 automatic rifle mounted on the turret rooftop. Infantry can get off through an entryway on the back of the structure. The authority has multi day sight and seven perception periscopes, while the heavy weapons specialist has multi day sight and three perception periscopes. 

Variations additionally incorporate the "Vehículo de Combate de Artillería de 155 mm" (155 mm Artillery Combat Vehicle), or VCA 155, and the "Vehículo de Combate Transporte de Mortero" (Mortar Transport Combat Vehicle), or VCTM. The VCA-155 is a lengthened TAM frame fitted with Oto Melara's Palmaria self-moved howitzer turret. It conveys 28 shots, 23 of which are put away in the turret clamor. The VCTM conveys an AM-50 inside mortar, which has a scope of and a rate of discharge of 8 to 12 shots per minute. In view of the TAM skeleton, the "Vehículo de Combate Puesto de Mando" (direction battle vehicle), or VCPC, is another variation planned in 1982. The "Vehículo de Combate Lanzacohetes" (Rocket launcher battle vehicle), or VCLC, planned in 1986, is additionally founded on the TAM body and can be fitted with both and rockets. A battle emergency vehicle, "Vehículo de Combate Ambulancia" (VCA), and a shielded recuperation vehicle, "Vehículo de Combate de Recuperación" (VCRT) are other battle variations of the tank. 

Creation started in 1979, with the expectation to assemble a sum of 512 reinforced vehicles (200 tanks and 312 VCTP infantry battling vehicles). Monetary issues, be that as it may, finished generation in 1983 with just 150 TAMs and 100 VCTPs fabricated. These vehicles were delivered by an Argentine organization, "Tanque Argentino Mediano Sociedad del Estado" (or TAMSE) established by the administration in March 1980. 70% of the TAM's segments were made in Argentina, while the 30% made in Germany related to the transmission, optics and flame control framework. In 1983, 20 TAMs and 26 VCTPs were conveyed to the Argentine Army after a unique request of 80 TAMs by Peru was dropped because of budgetary issues. In 1991, TAMSE and the TAM generation line were closed down, despite the fact that in 1994 TAMSE was reactivated to finish a request for 120 of the two TAMs and VCTPs to supplant the M4 Shermans in the second Armored Cavalry Brigade of the Argentine Army. By 1995 the Argentine Army was outfitted with 200 TAM tanks and 216 VCTP and VCPC shielded vehicles. In spite of the fact that 25 VCA-155s were initially gotten ready for generation beginning in 1990, just 19 were finished and conveyed by 1995, alongside 50 VCTMs. No different variations of the TAM, including the VCLC, VAC and VCRT were put into generation because of spending limitations. 

The TAMSE plant is an office. The production line is totally secured, with two distribution centers for putting away parts, quality control research centers, a task office, a motor test room and a terminating range. Additionally partaking in the generation of TAM and variation segments were Argentine organizations Military Factories General San Martín (producing the skeleton), Río Tercero (turret and combat hardware) and Bator Cocchis, S.A. 

The TAM has never been sent out, in spite of the fact that various countries were keen on getting it. In 1981, Malaysia marked an agreement for 102 vehicles of the TAM family, including the tank, VCTP and VCRT (renaming these Lion, Tiger and Elephant, separately). None of these vehicles were conveyed and Malaysia picked rather to secure Poland's PT-91. In mid-1983, Peru set up an agreement for 80 TAMs. Because of budgetary issues the request was dropped after 20 tanks had been finished. A comparable request was built up by Panama in 1984, and was dropped too. In 1989 the TAM contended in a tank obtainment request from Ecuador, close by the American Stingray light tank, the Austrian SK-105 Kürassier and the French AMX-13-105 light tank. The TAM accomplished 950 out of 1,000, while its nearest rival earned 750, however at last Ecuador did not acquire any of the vehicles introduced. 

In the Middle East, both Iran and Saudi Arabia communicated enthusiasm for the TAM. The Iranian arrangement fell through after Saudi Arabia and Iraq effectively spoke to Germany to drop the request. TAMSE endeavored to sell 60 tanks through a Panamanian organization, Agrometal, offering this organization a commission worth 10% of the agreement's cost. This fizzled when TAMSE brought down the cost of the vehicles, rankling the Iranian government, which consequently dropped the offer. 

The Saudi Arabian arrangement was rejected when Israel spoke to Germany to drop the request. Neglecting to send out the tank, the Argentine government shut the TAMSE manufacture plant in 1995. 

The TAM did not take an interest in the Falklands War, as it had not entered administration before the finish of the contention. 

Seventeen VCTPs were sent with an Argentina contingent to Yugoslavia amid United Nations peacekeeping activities.