Radiance: Contact Harvest 

Radiance: Contact Harvest is a military sci-fi novel by Joseph Staten, in light of the "Corona" arrangement of computer games. The book was discharged in October 2007 and is the fifth "Radiance" novel, after 2006's "", composed by Eric Nylund. Staten was a long-lasting representative of Bungie, the designer of the "Radiance" computer game arrangement; he coordinated the cut scenes in the computer games and is a noteworthy supporter of "Halo"s storyline. He set out to compose a novel that spoke to gamers, just as the individuals who had never perused a "Corona" novel. 

Set in 2525, twenty-seven years before the occasions of "", the novel recounts to the account of the United Nations Space Command's first experience with the outsider group known as the Covenant on the state universe of Harvest, and the start of the long war that pursues. The epic is a group piece, following human and outsider characters. The hero is a youthful Marine, Staff Sergeant Avery Johnson, who likewise shows up in the "Corona" computer games. Upon discharge, the book was commonly generally welcomed and turned into "The New York Times" hit in its first week. Commentators indicated the novel's prosperity as an indication of the expanding significance of story in computer games. 

As indicated by writer Joseph Staten, distributer Tor Books asked "Halo"s engineer, Bungie, on the off chance that they had somebody fit to composing the following novel. Staten, having composed a significant part of the "Radiance" arrangement group, was the conspicuous decision. The writer found that the book was the ideal method to expound on the "Corona" story without stripping it down for a computer game: "I generally felt we scammed [the player]. We don't have a ton of time to recount story while the slugs are flying." moreover, Staten said that the novel was the ideal method to do the character of Sergeant Johnson—who had showed up to some degree one-dimensional in the diversions—appropriate equity as a balanced character. Answering to G4TV's inquiry concerning composing activity, Staten answered that he felt that expressing "includes backing things off", in contrast with a round of "Corona". The creator additionally said that crafted by his most loved sci-fi creators helped show him the significance of sharpening a "solid, reliable voice". 

Initially, the novel was because of ship before the September 25 arrival of "Corona 3"; Staten expressed that because of his association with the two ventures, the novel slipped behind. He likewise accentuated that he trusted "Contact Harvest" was a decent novel, not only a decent "Corona" novel; "... someone who isn't a "Radiance" fan – somebody who hasn't perused any of the past books – will most likely get "Contact Harvest" and appreciate the read". 

This attention on precision was a test for Staten, as he trusts his crowd is exceptionally canny, willing, and ready to report blemishes; individual Bungie representatives cross-referenced his drafts with the ""Halo" Story Bible" to guarantee authoritative understanding. One case of fans reprimanding Staten over the novel happened not long after the novel's spread was uncovered in July 2007. The spread portrays the hero, Sergeant Avery Johnson holding a weapon known as the Battle Rifle. As the weapon was first presented in the computer game "Radiance 2" and the occasions of "Contact Harvest" occur a very long time before the amusement, fans rushed to state that Staten had committed an error. Staten later called attention to he had valid justifications for incorporating the culpable weapon in the book, and advocated the consideration by expressing that the weapon is a prototypical type of the rendition players use in the amusement. 

"Contact Harvest" happens in the year 2524 of the Halo universe, where quicker than-light innovation has enabled humankind to spread over the world, establishing new provinces administrated by the United Nations Space Command, or UNSC. The wealthier "Internal" settlements are politically prevailing over the more as of late settled external provinces, in spite of the fact that the more seasoned planets depend on the new universes for crude materials. Pressures lead to distress and out and out resistance, with radical individuals from the external settlements known as "Insurrectionists" propelling fear based oppressor assaults on the UNSC in an offer for freedom. 

"Contact Harvest" is a group piece, with the activity being described from both human and outsider Covenant perspectives. The epic highlights a few characters seen beforehand in the computer games just as new characters. The hero is Avery Johnson, a Marine who is sent to the settlement of Harvest to manage suspected Insurrectionist movement; Johnson had recently showed up in the computer game "" and its continuations, just as the novel "". A side character is Wallace Jenkins, a hapless Marine who is acclimatized by the parasitic Flood in "Radiance: Combat Evolved" and assumes an essential job in the novelization of the diversion, "". "Contact Harvest" additionally lights up the causes of a few outsider Covenant characters who assume imperative jobs in the computer games, for example, the Chieftain Tartarus and the three Prophet Hierarchs, Truth, Mercy, and Regret. 

Humankind has spread over the world, and the external state "Collect" is a standout amongst the most remote. In spite of the fact that Harvest itself is just a single third the measure of Earth, its rich surface fills in as the breadbasket for different provinces. The United Nations Space Command Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) sees odd vanishings of human ships around Harvest, and expect that Insurrectionists are assaulting the vessels. ONI pulls Staff Sergeants Avery Johnson and Nolan Byrne from the bleeding edges of the common war to raise a local army to secure Harvest. The vanishings are uncovered to be outsider Kig-Yar vessels catching the boats as they continued looking for relics left by the Forerunners, an antiquated race holy to the Kig-Yar and different individuals from the Covenant. Individuals from the vessel are stunned to find that their instruments shows a huge number of Forerunner relics on the planet of Harvest. A Covenant Unggoy Deacon named Dadab is frightened when he understands the Kig-Yar shipmistress means to take a part of the relics for herself, beginning with relics leaving the planet on a human payload transport. The ship is really a snare set by the people, with Johnson and Byrne ready. Johnson and Byrne slaughter a few of the Covenant boarding party when they enter the load transport, which is later obliterated by a methane blast. Dadab and his Huragok companion, Lighter than Some, get away from the impact and are grabbed by a Covenant deliver manned by Jiralhanae. These specialists, driven by their chieftain Maccabeus, have been requested to affirm the nearness of the relics; in spite of the reservations of his nephew, Tartarus, Maccabeus consents to conference with the people on Harvest. Amidst the gathering in Harvest's gardens, the Covenant start a firefight and the harmony talks are broken. 

On the Covenant heavenly city of "High Charity", two San 'Shyuum, the Minister of Fortitude and the Vice-Minister of Tranquility, plot to replace the three Prophet Hierarchs as of now driving the Covenant. They visit the old, as far as anyone knows feeble Philologist for endowments and guidance, looking for a third San 'Shyuum to enable them to usurp the position of royalty. As Tranquility and Fortitude are meeting with the Philologist, the "Prophet", a Forerunner A.I. named Mendicant Bias, abruptly stirs from ages of lethargy. Beggar Bias advises the San 'Shyuum that the "Herald ancient rarities" found at Harvest are really the A.I's. "creators", living Forerunners—implying that the people themselves are the relatives of the Covenant's divine beings, and that all the Covenant's works are false. The Minister of Fortitude understands that reality should never be uncovered, as this disclosure would destroy the Covenant. Rather, Fortitude, Tranquility, and the Philologist plot to rapidly take the position of royalty so they can kill the "reclaimers". 

Back on Harvest, Johnson and his squad of civilian army are vigorously out-kept an eye on and out-gunned. Maccabeus is requested to "glass" the planet from space, yet resists and dispatches a ground strike with an end goal to recoup the "relics". The human volunteer army endeavors to keep the outsiders occupied while emptying the regular people from the planet; this requires Johnson and his group to load up an orbital stage constrained by Dadab and his troops. Tartarus challenges Maccabeus for control of the Jiralhanae pack, executing his uncle and turning into the following head. Lighter than Some is executed by Tartarus' troops, and Dadab heads out to murder those he accepts are capable. As his weapon just has one increasingly shot left, Dadab looks for Tartarus, who is battling Johnson. Dadab annihilates Tartarus' shield, and the rankled Brute murders the elder. Wallace Jenkins, a youthful local army part that had lost his family in the fight, endeavors to complete Tartarus off, however the outsider getaways. The human regular folks and overcomers of Harvest effectively empty earth on several vessels, while on "High Charity", the Minister of Fortitude, Tranquility, and The Philologist become the new Prophet Hierarchs. They take the names Truth, Regret, and Mercy, announcing another age for the Covenant has started, and that the people must be demolished for their violations. 

Upon discharge, "Contact Harvest" appeared at #3 on "The New York Times" Best Sellers list. The epic additionally showed up on the "USA Today" and "Distributers Weekly" hit's rundown in the meantime. Analysts noticed that in spite of being a problematic essayist, Staten had prevailing with regards to creating a superb novel; protests incorporated the apparent excessively spellbinding exposition and utilization of military language. Will Tuttel of Gamespy.com said that the novel's prosperity appeared well and good in light of the fact that videogames are progressively about the story. A ten-CD book recording was later discharged, highlighting the voices of Holter Graham and Jen Taylor; "Distributers Weekly" making the most of Graham's execution, yet felt Taylor's over-accentuation and [sic]cheesy lingos diminished the strain of the novel. 

"Contact Harvest"s achievement was astounding to a few. On January 8, 2008, National Public Radio's "Everything Considered" portion ran a story in which journalist Chana Joffe inquired as to whether gamers read and acted shocked that "Corona" had a story by any means. A few journalists covering the story trusted that the "Everything Considered" piece was one-sided against gamers and annoying. Scott Siegel of Joystiq, specifically, railed against questioner Chana Joffe, saying that she "takes out of line pokes at computer game fans".