Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment 

The Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment, most ordinarily known as Rawlings' Regiment in period archives, was sorted out in June 1776 as a specific light infantry unit of marksmen in the Continental Army amid the American Revolutionary War. The American rifle units supplemented the dominating, gun prepared, line infantry powers of the war with their long-go marksmanship ability and were ordinarily sent with the line infantry as forward skirmishers and flanking components. Exploring, escort, and station obligations were additionally standard. The rifle units' fight arrangement was not so organized as that of the line infantry units, which utilized short-go massed discharging in requested straight developments. The shooters could in this way react with greater versatility to changing fight conditions. 

The Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment comprised of nine organizations—four from Maryland and five from Virginia. The two-state structure of the new unit blocked it from being overseen through a solitary state government, and it was in this way straightforwardly dependable to national expert as an Extra Continental regiment. 

Since the majority of the recently framed regiment surrendered to British and German powers at the Battle of Fort Washington on November 16, 1776, the administration history of the unit's enduring component is mind boggling. Albeit present day and contemporaneous records of the fight pass on the feeling that it denoted the finish of the regiment as a battle substance, a huge bit of the unit kept on serving effectively in the Continental Army all through a large portion of the rest of the war. Components of the regiment presented with George Washington's Main Army and took part in the military's significant commitment recently 1776 through 1778. Select individuals from the regiment were likewise joined to Col. Daniel Morgan's world class Provisional Rifle Corps at its commencement in mid-1777. The Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment was redesigned in January 1779 and was positioned at Fort Pitt, home office of the Continental Army's Western Department, in present-day western Pennsylvania essentially to help in the guard of boondocks settlements from attacks by British-united Indian clans. The unit was disbanded with all other Additional and Extra Continental regiments amid the rearrangement of the Continental Army in January 1781. It was the longest serving Continental Army rifle unit of the war. 

Amid the American Revolutionary War, the Continental Congress coordinated the association of the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment in purposes dated June 17 and 27, 1776. The unit included three of the four autonomous Continental rifle organizations that had framed in Maryland and Virginia by pronouncement of Congress in mid-1775, and six new organizations—two from Maryland and four from Virginia. The three 1775 organizations, among the first of the provincial units to join the recently established Continental Army, were raised and at first told by Capts. Michael Cresap, Thomas Price, and Hugh Stephenson. The nine-organization compel turned into a regiment on indistinguishable tables of association from the first Continental Regiment, which was initially the Pennsylvania Rifle Regiment. In contrast to this Pennsylvania unit, be that as it may, the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment was an Extra Continental regiment due to its two-state organization. It was not part of a state line association but rather was rather straightforwardly responsible to national expert (Congress and the Continental Army). The Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment's field officers were drawn from the first three 1775 organizations dependent on their position. Hugh Stephenson from Virginia turned into the colonel, and Marylanders Moses Rawlings of Cresap's organization and Otho Holland Williams of Price's organization were assigned the lieutenant colonel and major, separately. All organization officers were delegated in the late spring of 1776, and consequent enrolling for the unit in the two states reached out to the year's end. Selecting happened in Frederick and Harford Counties, Maryland, and Berkeley, Frederick, Loudoun, Fauquier, Prince William, and Culpeper Counties, Virginia. The enrolled men of the regiment served for a long time or the term of the war. 

By early November 1776, most of the regiment's officers and enrolled men had joined Washington's Main Army while it was occupied with the fight for New York City amid the New York and New Jersey crusade. They were at first positioned at Fort Washington on Manhattan Island and adjacent Fort Lee on the contrary side of the Hudson River. On November 16, the majority of the regiment was caught or murdered amid the Battle of Fort Washington. The shooters were protecting the northern end of the American position from an a lot bigger power of a few thousand Hessian troops. After substantial battling that kept going a large portion of the day and amid which the Hessians endured numerous losses, the marksmen were in the long run driven from the external works into the fortification where they and the remainder of the dwarfed American battalion surrendered to the joined British and German assault compel. Lieutenant Colonel Rawlings was telling the regiment amid the fight since Colonel Stephenson had kicked the bucket of disease in August or September and had not been supplanted. Around 140 of the regiment's officers and enrolled men—33% of the unit's all out supplement of around 420 men—were absent at the fight, be that as it may, on the grounds that they were all the while finishing association and enlisting. A couple enrolled men of the regiment who got away from their captors inside the short disorderly period following the fight increased this staying dynamic power, which kept on presenting with the Main Army. On December 1, the primary day of the military's next ordinary revealing time frame following the fall of Fort Washington, Washington temporarily assembled these leftovers of the reduced regiment into two composite rifle organizations told by the unit's most elevated positioning officers still free—Capts. Alexander Lawson Smith and Gabriel Long. Smith's organization included all the rest of the Marylanders in the regiment, while the Virginians of the unit were set under Long's direction. 

The regiment's two composite organizations presented with the Main Army amid its retreat crosswise over New Jersey in late 1776, in the following Battles of Trenton and Princeton in Brig. Gen. Hugh Mercer's Brigade, and in the mid 1777 skirmishing in northern New Jersey, a period named the Forage War. While in winter quarters at Morristown amid the winter and spring of 1777, the two-organization drive and other sharpshooters from Pennsylvania and Virginia Line regiments upheld isolates components of line infantry units in forefront positions and led watches in northern New Jersey, principally to keep the adversary's forceful rummaging exercises under wraps. Since the two units under Captains Smith and Long gave an accomplished, assuming little, constrain, Washington likewise utilized them to reinforce the new eleventh Virginia Regiment told by Col. Daniel Morgan after its landing in Morristown toward the beginning of April by formally connecting them to this Virginia regiment. Washington's choice to unite the two composite organizations with the eleventh Virginia Regiment depended on Morgan's before direct relationship with the first three autonomous Continental rifle organizations of 1775 that framed the center component of Rawlings' regiment. In light of the fact that the connection of one military unit to another was actually an impermanent plan, nonetheless, the changeless unit of Smith's and Long's composite organizations remained the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment. The primary summon moves of the two organizations taken after the Battle of Fort Washington, both dated May 16, 1777, were arranged by the military staff because of the connection procedure and demonstrate that the units contained around 110 officers and enrolled men on dynamic obligation in the spring of 1777. The rolls additionally record that the units had lost various men over the winter months following the fight, essentially through abandonment and a couple of passings because of ailment or wounds. 

The accomplishment of these rifle units amid the skirmishing time frame, combined with the landing of substantial quantities of new armed force initiates, drove Washington to make extra temporary rifle organizations. He set them under the order of Daniel Morgan toward the beginning of June 1777, considering the unit the Provisional Rifle Corps, in spite of the fact that it was most normally known as Morgan's Rifle Corps in period reports. Morgan at that point all the while drove the eleventh Virginia Regiment, his changeless unit, and this temporary unit. Thirty-five officers and enrolled men in Smith's and Long's composite organizations, just as others chose from their ordinary black powder gun regiments, were disconnected from their changeless units to shape this tip top regiment-sized power. The men from the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment all served in one of the Rifle Corps' eight organizations, Capt. Gabriel Long's Provisional Rifle Company; except for a solitary man, every other individual from the organization originated from the eleventh Virginia Regiment. Like Morgan, Long was presently in fact in direction of two Continental Army units, one changeless and one temporary. Since a long time ago served in the Rifle Corps until his abdication in May 1779, at which time order of his organization go to Marylander Lt. Elijah Evans, likewise one of the first officers of the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment. Evans came back to Rawlings' regiment, his changeless unit, when his disengaged obligation in the Rifle Corps finished with its formal disbanding toward the beginning of November 1779. The Rifle Corps is most prominent for the significant job it played in the Battles of Saratoga. 

Most individuals from the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment, be that as it may, were not picked for the Rifle Corps and stayed with the Main Army. The Marylanders in Smith's composite organization presented with the eleventh Virginia Regiment in the third Virginia Brigade at the Battles of Brandywine and Germantown, just as at the Battle of Monmouth after they were authoritatively appended to the fourth Maryland Regiment of the second Maryland Brigade toward the finish of the 1777 crusade season. The Virginians in Long's composite organization stayed connected to the eleventh Virginia Regiment and battled at similar commitment in 1777 and 1778. Lt. (later Capt.) Philip Slaughter was the acting officer of the organization amid Long's almost two-year connection to the Rifle Corps and its perpetual authority after Long's renunciation. 

Not long after Lt. Col. Moses Rawlings, a Marylander, was traded from British bondage in late December 1777 or January 1778, the Board of War, in line with the Maryland state government, relegated him order of the POW camp at Fort Frederick, Maryland, and its state local army watch. The components of the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment in the field kept on being driven by the organization authorities until enrolling could bring the regiment up to more prominent quality. Maj. Otho Holland Williams, traded on January 16, 1778 (likely with Rawlings), had been elevated to colonel of the sixth Maryland Regiment in December 1776 while a captive; he took direction of this unit upon his discharge. The situation of major in the decreased Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment was never refilled. 

In the pre-summer of 1778, Rawlings started marshaling his regiment, including returning detainees of war and newcomers, to restore its full supplement. His endeavors met with just restricted achievement, in any case, in spite of Washington's solicitation to Maryland senator Thomas Johnson in late December 1777 fully expecting Rawlings' fast approaching trade "that the most early and overwhelming estimates will be embraced, not exclusively to make [Rawlings'] Regiment progressively decent, however compleat ." Moreover, toward the beginning of October 1778 Congress allowed Rawlings and his officers to enlist outside Maryland, with each new enlistee being authoritatively qualified for the enrollment reward and apparel remittance of his own state's line association. Execution of this unordinary administering, in any case, added couple of men to the unit, mirroring the Continental Army's expanding trouble in selecting at this point of the war. The few enrolling records for the unit that exist demonstrate that before the finish of 1778, Rawlings' power of Continental regulars at Fort Frederick most likely incorporated close to 30 to 40 new enlistees. 

Washington started increasingly authoritative measures to fortify the regiment in mid 1779. At his solicitation, Congress approved on January 23 the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment to be redesigned into three organizations, enlisted to full quality, and reassigned from Fort Frederick to Fort Pitt, home office of the Continental Army's Western Department. The revamping, which was executed on March 21, served to enhance powers occupied with the resistance of boondocks settlements of present-day western Pennsylvania and region from Indian attacks that had begun in mid 1777. In mid-1778, after over a time of these assaults, to a great extent by warriors of British-partnered Iroquois clans and Loyalist powers, Washington initiated a purposeful exertion to kill the risk to the boondocks settlements of New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia—the war's western front. In help of the revamping procedure, on February 16, 1779, Washington requested that all the regiment's separated individuals in the Main Army be reincorporated into the unit. As per Washington's organization, the enrolled men in Smith's composite organization who were appended to the fourth Maryland Regiment rejoined Rawlings' order. Interestingly, the Virginians of Long's composite organization previously had been everything except formally fused into the eleventh Virginia Regiment by request of the Virginia state government in February 1777. (Since Long's unit was a segment of an Extra Continental regiment and thusly had no managerial association with an individual express, the Virginia state government had surpassed its position in this activity, which was actually just inside the domain of Congress. Washington implicitly acknowledged the course of action, yet the procedure was most likely not formalized until the revamping and redesignation of the eleventh Virginia Regiment as the seventh Virginia Regiment on May 12, 1779.) Moreover, the enrolled men of Smith's and Long's organizations who were as yet appended to the Provisional Rifle Corps, which was not part of the Main Army right now, stayed in that unit until mid-1779, at which time they left the administration in light of the fact that their three-year selection periods had terminated. Rawlings' power along these lines presently comprised of practically all Marylanders and was differently distinguished as the "Maryland Corps," "Maryland Rifle Corps," and "Maryland Independent Corps" amid its administration on the western outskirts. The unit, be that as it may, stayed outside the state line association, a wellspring of extraordinary disappointment for its officers. Since no unit-redesignation orders went with the revamping orders, the unit's formal name remained the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment notwithstanding noteworthy varieties from the unit's unique 1776 arrangement. 

After enrollment of the three organizations had been close to incompletely finished, Rawlings' regiment set off for Fort Pitt, landing there in late May 1779. The three organizations comprised of around 100 enrolled men, well beneath the recommended aggregate of around 60 enrolled men for each organization in a Continental Army line infantry regiment in 1779. In addition, a month after its entry, the unit lost practically 50% of its troop quality in light of the fact that the three-year enrollment times of those men who had joined the regiment amid its association in mid-1776 had ended. To additionally confuse matters, Rawlings surrendered his order of the regiment on June 2, basically in light of his disappointment over not having the capacity to completely reconstruct the unit, and did not go with his men. He remained the commandant of Fort Frederick and in this manner filled in as Deputy Commissary of Prisoners for Maryland. Capt. Alexander Lawson Smith additionally did not continue to Fort Pitt with the shooters. He likely remained with the fourth Maryland Regiment of the Main Army in a proceeded with connected limit until Congress affirmed his abdication from "the regiment earlier Rawlins " in September 1780. The regiment was presently instructed by senior skipper Thomas Beall and later Capt. Adamson Tannehill, both of whom had been with the unit since its beginning. 

The Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment supplemented the current battalion at Fort Pitt: the eighth Pennsylvania and ninth (in the past thirteenth) Virginia Regiments. The men of these Pennsylvania and Virginia line infantry units had been enlisted from the focal and western boondocks areas of the two states and were doled out to the military's Western Department while at Valley Forge, mirroring a reasonable rationale on Washington's part. With the landing of Rawlings' regiment, Western Department administrator Col. Daniel Brodhead now drove a power of to a great extent outskirts brought men experienced up in Indian-style forests fighting. In his most remarkable strategic accomplishment, Brodhead headed a battle of around 600 of his Continental regulars, which incorporated the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment, nearby state army, and volunteers to the upper waters of the Allegheny River in August and September 1779, where they devastated the towns and harvests of unfriendly Mingo and Munsee Indians. Brodhead's undertaking was a piece of Washington's wide-going, composed hostile of the late spring of 1779 that additionally incorporated the bigger, simultaneous Sullivan Campaign driven by Maj. Gen. John Sullivan and Brig. Gen. James Clinton against foe Iroquois and Loyalist units in southern and western New York State. From mid-1779 until late 1780, in any case, the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment was fundamentally sent in separations to help line infantry contingents at a few of the outskirts stations in the general region of Fort Pitt, including Fort Laurens, Fort McIntosh, and Fort Henry (Wheeling) in what is presently eastern Ohio, western Pennsylvania, and northernmost West Virginia, separately. 

Change in direction of the regiment happened for the third time in late 1780. Under ceaseless strain to keep up adequate troop quality in the unit, regimental officer Capt. Thomas Beall crossed paths with armed force guidelines and Western Department leader Brodhead by favoring the selection of a British wartime captive in February 1780. Beall attempted to redress his failure to understand the situation by releasing the enroll, albeit after he had just been given his enlistment abundance and administration garments. On August 14, 1780, at Fort Pitt, Captain Beall was attempted by court-military, discovered liable of "releasing a Soldier subsequent to having been properly inlisted and getting his regimental cloathing through private and intrigued sees in this manner duping the United States," and on October 13, was rejected from the administration. Capt. Adamson Tannehill succeeded Beall as officer of the regiment for the staying couple of months of the unit's presence. 

On November 1, 1780, Washington issued orders affirmed by Congress that predetermined designs for the exhaustive revamping of the Continental Army compelling January 1, 1781. All Additional and Extra Continental regiments, for example, the Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment, that had not been added to a state line association were disbanded by that date. The much-lessened unit contained just 2 officers and 50 enrolled men in late December 1780. The officers got releases on January 1, 1781, and the enrolled men of the unit were exchanged to the Maryland Line. Movement of the men from their remote post at Fort Pitt to their new assignments, be that as it may, was not finished until November 1781, at any rate to a limited extent in light of the fact that their officers were absent to administer the procedure. 

The genealogy of the regiment's Virginia components is carried on by the 201st Field Artillery Regiment (United States). 

<br>