2007 Coca-Cola 600 

The 2007 Coca-Cola 600 was the twelfth stock vehicle race of the 2007 NASCAR Nextel Cup Series and the 48th emphasis of the occasion. It was hung on May 27, 2007, preceding a horde of 175,000 in Concord, North Carolina at Lowe's Motor Speedway, one of ten middle of the road tracks to hold NASCAR races. The 400-lap race was won by Casey Mears of the Hendrick Motorsports group, who began from sixteenth position. J. J. Yeley completed second and Kyle Petty came in third. 

Ryan Newman won the shaft position and kept the lead for the initial ten laps before his Penske Racing South colleague Kurt Busch moved into the lead on lap 11. Busch held the lead for 107 laps (longer than some other driver in the race) until Brian Vickers moved into the lead after the first round of green-banner pit stops. Jimmie Johnson picked up the lead from Vickers on lap 185 and held it for 83 laps, engaging with Vickers and Matt Kenseth for the position. At the race's last restart on lap 342, Tony Stewart drove and kept up his situation until he made a pit stop for fuel 51 laps later. Mears turned into the pioneer after Dale Earnhardt, Jr. what's more, Denny Hamlin made comparative pit stops; Mears held the lead in the wake of easing back to monitor fuel to win the race. There were thirteen alerts and 29 lead changes among fifteen drivers amid the race. 

, the 2007 race is Mears' solitary win in the Nextel Cup Series, presently known as the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series. After the race, Jeff Gordon's lead in the Drivers' Championship was decreased in light of the fact that he slammed in the early piece of the race. Chevrolet expanded its focuses favorable position in the Manufacturers' Championship, setting it 41 points in front of Ford. Evade propelled further of Toyota in the fight for third spot, with 24 races left in the season. 

The Coca-Cola 600 was the twelfth planned stock vehicle race of the 2007 NASCAR Nextel Cup Series, out of 36, and the 48th emphasis of the occasion. It was hung on May 27, 2007 in Concord, North Carolina at Lowe's Motor Speedway, presently called Charlotte Motor Speedway, one of ten halfway tracks to hold NASCAR races; the others are Atlanta Motor Speedway, Chicagoland Speedway, Darlington Raceway, Homestead-Miami Speedway, Kansas Speedway, New Hampshire Motor Speedway, Kentucky Speedway, Las Vegas Motor Speedway, and Texas Motor Speedway. The standard track at Lowe's Motor Speedway is a four-turn, - long, quad-oval track. The track's turns are banked at 24 degrees; both the front stretch (the area of the end goal) and the back stretch (inverse the front) have a five-degree banking. 

Prior to the race, Jeff Gordon drove the Drivers' Championship with 1,881, with partner Jimmie Johnson in second and Matt Kenseth third. Denny Hamlin and Jeff Burton were fourth and fifth, and Tony Stewart, Kurt Busch, Kevin Harvick, Clint Bowyer, Carl Edwards, Kyle Busch and Jamie McMurray adjusted the main twelve. Chevrolet drove the Manufacturers' Championship with 96, 35 points in front of its adversary Ford in second. Evade with 52 points was 19 points in front of Toyota in the fight for third spot. Kasey Kahne was the race's protecting hero. 

The Coca-Cola 600 was brought about by race vehicle driver Curtis Turner, who fabricated the Charlotte Motor Speedway. It was first held in 1960 out of an endeavor by NASCAR to arrange a Memorial Day weekend race to contend with the open-wheel Indianapolis 500; the two races were held together around the same time beginning from 1974. The race is the longest as far as separation on the NASCAR schedule, and is considered by a few drivers to be one of the game's most essential races close by the Daytona 500, the Brickyard 400 and the Southern 500. The long separation makes it the most physically requesting occasion in NASCAR, and groups adjust to changing track conditions in light of the fact that the race happens between late evening and night. It was known as the World 600 until 1984 when The Coca-Cola Company bought the naming rights to the race and renamed it the Coca-Cola World 600 out of 1985. It has been known as the Coca-Cola 600 consistently since 1986 aside from 2002 when the name changed to Coca-Cola Racing Family 600. 

In anticipation of the race, NASCAR held a few test sessions on May 7– 8, 2007, to enable groups to get ready for the May races at Lowe's Motor Speedway. Sessions started at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) on May 7 and closed at 9:00 p.m. On May 8, sessions began at 1:00 p.m. what's more, halted at 9:00 p.m. Eighty-two vehicles took an interest in the May 7 evening session; Martin Truex, Jr. was speediest with a speed of and David Stremme had the most noteworthy speed of the two days at night session. Towards the second's end session, Hamlin lost control of his vehicle and reached an outside SAFER obstruction; he was assessed at the infield care focus and was later discharged to keep testing. Amid the third session with eighty-four autos, Jeremy Mayfield had the quickest speed of and Kurt Busch set the quickest speed of in the fourth and last session held at night. David Gilliland spun however kept away from contact with the divider. 

There was one difference in driver before the race. Beginning at the 2007 Coca-Cola 600, 1988 NASCAR Winston Cup Series champion Bill Elliott came back to NASCAR on low maintenance plan for Wood Brothers Racing, supplanting the group's standard driver Ken Schrader, who drove in the season's initial eleven races. Elliott was qualified to utilize six Champion's Provisionals if the need emerged. Elliott was anticipating coming back to hustling: "I was really regarded to get a call from the Wood Brothers to drive the 21 vehicle. I've seen them battle the most recent couple of weeks, being outside the best 35, and it makes me extremely upset to see them miss races. I trust I can get in the vehicle, get us qualified well each week and see what we can make up in the focuses fight en route." 

Three practice sessions were held before the Sunday race; one on Thursday and two on Saturday. The main session kept going an hour and a half, the second 50 minutes and the third an hour. In the main practice session, Elliott Sadler was quickest with a period of 29.697 seconds; Kahne was second and Ricky Rudd third. Johnson was fourth, and Casey Mears set fifth. Kenseth, Joe Nemechek, Kyle Busch, Scott Riggs and Jamie McMurray finished the session's best ten drivers. Sterling Marlin hit one of the dividers coating the track and changed to a back-up vehicle. Michael Waltrip did not have to switch autos after a comparable crash. 

Albeit forty-nine vehicles were entered in the qualifier; as per NASCAR's passing strategy just forty-three could race. Every driver ran two laps, with the beginning request dictated by the contender's quickest occasions. Drivers who set their laps late in qualifying had favorable position in light of the fact that the track was at its coolest. Ryan Newman secured his thirty-ninth shaft position of his vocation, with a period of 29.140 seconds. He was joined on the lattice's first line by his Penske Racing South colleague Kurt Busch, and was the second-to-last driver to record his lap. Sadler qualified third, Dale Earnhardt, Jr. fourth, and Kenseth began fifth. Hamlin, Rudd, Dave Blaney, Bobby Labonte and Stremme adjusted the best ten qualifiers. Jeff Green destroyed his vehicle in the second turn while on a lap and utilized a temporary to qualify. The six drivers that neglected to qualify were Kevin Lepage, David Reutimann (who smashed on his lap) Waltrip (who lost control of his vehicle in the second turn on his second passing lap, detaching a front tire in the wake of hitting within divider and reached the divider a second time before ceasing), Mike Bliss, Paul Menard and Ward Burton. After the qualifier, Newman said he felt strain to accomplish Penske's Racing South's first triumph at Charlotte Motor Speedway: "He's just been attempting here for like 20 years, no doubt it would be uncommon. It's been something that burdens the drivers and the groups". He additionally said he believed he could have recorded a quicker lap time and was stressed over partner Kurt Busch's passing structure. 

On Saturday evening in radiant and warm climate conditions, Newman was quickest in the second practice session with a period of 30.562 seconds, in front of Sadler and Kurt Busch. Imprint Martin was fourth-quickest; Greg Biffle was fifth and Earnhardt 6th. Edwards, Rudd, McMurray and Kahne followed in the main ten. Amid the session, groups were scraping their tires; in the primary moment, Bowyer smashed after he spun thus two and changed to a back-up vehicle in which he set five more lap times. In the blink of an eye thereafter, Nemechek spun subsequent to leaving the second turn however abstained from harming his vehicle. Soon thereafter, Edwards paced the last practice session with a period of 30.043 seconds; Biffle was second and Newman third. Sadler was fourth-quickest, in front of J. J. Yeley and Truex. Kurt Busch was seventh-quickest, Jeff Gordon eighth, Kenseth ninth, and Jeff Burton tenth. Kyle Busch harmed his right-back quarter subsequent to hitting the outside divider, however did not change to a back-up vehicle. 

Live TV inclusion of the race started at 5:00 p.m. EDT in the United States on Fox. Around the beginning of the race, climate conditions were halfway shady with an air temperature between and a track temperature which ran between . William K. Thierfelder, leader of Belmont Abbey College in Belmont, North Carolina, started pre-race services with a conjuring. Nation and popular music artist LeAnn Rimes played out the national song of devotion, and supported challenge grant champs instructed the drivers to begin their motors. Amid the pace laps, three drivers moved to the back of the field in light of unapproved changes; Boywer had changed to his back-up vehicle, and David Ragan and Harvick had changed their motors. 

The race started at 5:52 p.m. Newman kept up his shaft position advantage heading into the principal corner. In the wake of beginning 21st, Jimmie Johnson moved to fifteenth position by lap eight. Kurt Busch passed colleague Newman for the lead three laps later. By the twentieth lap, Kurt Busch, Newman, Earnhardt, Kenseth and Yeley were running in the best five positions. Earnhardt advanced beyond Newman for second spot four laps later. Hamlin moved to third position by lap 32. Hamlin made up a further position on lap 43 after he passed Earnhardt for second and was 1.2 seconds behind race pioneer Kurt Busch. The principal alert of the race was demonstrated four laps later when Biffle hit the turn two divider after his right-front tire had been cut and dropped flotsam and jetsam on the track. Biffle's vehicle supported substantial harm to one side hand side, finishing his race. All drivers chose to make pit stops for tires and fuel amid the alert. 

Kurt Busch, who made a 10.4-second pit stop for fuel and no tires, kept up the lead on the lap-52 restart in front of Hamlin, Kenseth, Earnhardt and Johnson. One lap later, a multi-fender bender happened on the front stretch when A. J. Allmendinger lost control of his vehicle thusly two and slammed into the right-back quarter board of Johnson's vehicle, which had a cut left-back tire that burst subsequent to leaving turn four. Johnson's blasted tire caused Blaney and Stewart to crash after Stewart eased back to maintain a strategic distance from an impact with Johnson. The two drivers slid, gathering Gilliland, Sadler, Juan Pablo Montoya, Green, Bowyer, Truex, Marlin, Johnny Sauter, Kyle Petty and Harvick, every one of whom had harm to their vehicles. The occurrence set off the race's second alert. Johnson and Stewart made pit stops to fix the harm to their autos; both rejoined the race in eighteenth and twenty-fifth positions. 

Kurt Busch drove on the lap-62 restart, in front of Hamlin, Kenseth, Earnhardt, and Gordon. The third alert was incited on a similar lap when Tony Raines lost control of his vehicle and slid sideways into Jeff Gordon, and the two drivers were sent into the infield grass. Jeff Gordon returned up towards the outside divider and was hit by Allmendinger toward the begin complete line, bringing about the previous going airborne; Robby Gordon and Burton were additionally engaged with the mishap. Gordon was safe; drivers associated with the mishaps, that caused the second and third alerts, made pit stops for fixes. Kurt Busch kept up his lead at the lap-70 restart, trailed by Hamlin and Kenseth. Eight laps later, Burton caused the fourth alert after overwhelming contact with the turn three divider. Amid the alert, a large portion of the pioneers made pit stops; Newman ceased for a track bar alteration and had another shifter ball introduced. Kurt Busch and Kenseth decided not to pit and remained the pioneers at the lap-83 restart, with Rudd in third spot. Ten laps later, Newman, who was in eighth position, revealed his vehicle was "very tight" after the changes made at his pit stop. Stewart had moved back to eleventh and Johnson was thirteenth by lap 96. Kurt Busch's lead was four seconds over Kenseth after 100 laps, with Brian Vickers following in third, Ragan fourth and Kyle Busch in fifth. Johnson passed Yeley for seventh position eleven laps later. 

Green-banner pit stops started on lap 112, with Kenseth setting on a similar lap for tires and a wedge change. Kurt Busch made his stop two laps later, giving the lead to Vickers for twelve laps. Kyle Busch led the pack on lap 126 with preference of ten seconds over Johnson by lap 131. Kyle Busch made his pit stop on the following lap, giving the lead to Johnson for one lap. Stewart assumed control over the lead until his stop on lap 133, when Yeley turned into the race head. Edwards and Elliott both held the lead in the following two laps. After the pit stops, Vickers recovered the lead. On lap 140, Vickers' six-second lead was decreased to nothing when the fifth alert was activated after flotsam and jetsam was spotted on the backstretch. A large portion of the pioneers chose to make pit stops. Mears was watched speeding, and was required by NASCAR to drop to the back of the longest queue. 

Dashing continued on lap 146 with Vickers driving Kyle Busch, Earnhardt, Yeley and Stewart as light blurred. Mears was burdened with an alternator issue on lap 149, and changed to a back-up battery. A punctured tire impeded Earnhardt on lap 154; he set for new tires two laps later. Ragan moved once more into the best five by lap 160. Ten laps later, garbage was seen in the turn two depression, causing the 6th alert, amid which the majority of the race heads made pit stops. Vickers drove on the lap-173 restart, trailed by Kurt Busch and Martin. Kurt Busch drove down to the track's inside and passed Vickers for the lead on lap 175; three laps later, Newman headed to his carport to resign with a motor disappointment. Mears' group introduced another battery into his vehicle, and exchanged between his principle and back-up battery to guarantee motor power was kept up. Vickers retook the lead from Kurt Busch on the 181st lap, and Stewart stretched out beyond Kyle Busch one lap later. Johnson led the pack from Vickers on lap 185. 

On lap 186, Kurt Busch poked the turn two divider with his right-back side and spun on the backstretch, setting off the seventh alert. He recovered control of his vehicle to keep running in ninth spot. A large portion of the pioneers made pit stops. Johnson drove at the lap-190 restart, trailed by Vickers and Kenseth. Johnson held a one-moment lead over Vickers by the 200th lap, by which time Edwards moved past Stewart. Vickers retook the lead from Johnson on lap 206. Fifteen laps later, the eighth alert was activated when Edwards' vehicle endured a cut right-back tire, impeded on the track and spun at turn four while driving carefully to the pit street. Edwards gathered his partner, Ragan, who was kept running into by Elliott. Mears was near to the episode however abstained from harming his vehicle. On lap 222, Vickers detailed a power guiding issue, and Kyle Busch was losing battery control. A large portion of the pioneers, including Vickers, made pit stops. Kyle Busch's vehicle had a substitution battery fitted and Vickers finished up with more liquids; the two drivers rejoined in twelfth and thirteenth positions. Johnson drove at the lap-227 restart, with Kenseth in second spot. One lap later, Kenseth ignored Johnson to come out ahead of the pack, while Kyle Busch reached the divider on his correct side; an alert was not required. Johnson recovered the principal position from Kenseth on the backstretch on the 245th lap. Kyle Busch's correct front tire was cut, and went into the turn four divider on lap 252, setting off the ninth alert. Amid the alert, the majority of the pioneers, including Johnson, made pit stops. Johnson made changes to his vehicle's left and right back spring elastic, and Stewart's vehicle's pneumatic stress was balanced. 

Kyle Busch headed to his carport with a broken brake engine on the 254th lap and Mayfield directed the field back up to speed for the restart on the 256th lap, in front of Kenseth, Vickers, Stewart and Johnson. Mayfield dropped to third place as Kenseth and Vickers moved into first and second places on lap 257. Kenseth held a 2.2-second lead over Stewart, who moved to second and was shutting on Kenseth by lap 265. The race's tenth alert was activated two laps later when Kahne lost control of his vehicle and hit the turn two outside divider. The vast majority of the pioneers, including Kenseth, chose to make pit stops. Johnson drove the field on the lap-272 restart, trailed by Kenseth and Stewart. Kenseth passed Johnson to recover the primary position four laps later. Vickers and Rudd reached while leaving the fourth turn on lap 281 yet no alert was required. Johnson retook the lead from Kenseth two laps later. Mayfield spun 360 degrees on the front stretch and went into the infield grass subsequent to endeavoring to dodge a slower vehicle on his outside on lap 291, causing the eleventh alert. The pioneers, including Johnson, made pit stops for tires under alert. Rudd assumed control over the lead for one lap before setting on lap 293. Johnson recovered the lead after the pit quits, keeping up it at the lap-297 restart; he was trailed by Kenseth and Earnhardt. Kyle Busch rejoined the race on a similar lap. Kurt Busch lost control of his vehicle on the backstretch on lap 298; his vehicle spun off and hit within divider, causing the twelfth alert. He headed to his carport to resign. 

Johnson directed the field back up to speed at the lap-301 restart. Kenseth retook the lead from Johnson on the 311th lap, and Johnson recovered the position one lap later. Stewart stretched out beyond Kenseth for second spot on lap 314; he was six-tenths of a second behind race pioneer Johnson. Subsequent to getting a free go from the tenth alert, Petty was running in ninth spot by lap 316; he combat Reed Sorenson for eighth spot. Fourteen laps later, Mears moved into third position. The thirteenth (and last) alert of the race was activated on lap 337 when Vickers hit the turn two divider, harming his vehicle's correct hand side, supporting a cut right-front tire and dropped flotsam and jetsam onto the track. The pioneers, including Johnson, made pit stops; Johnson's pit group dropped a left-back fastener, costing him time while his technicians scanned for it, tumbling to tenth position. Stewart drove the field on the lap-342 restart, in front of Mears and Earnhardt. Johnson moved to fourth place by lap 367; three laps later, Stewart had a 1.1-second lead over Mears and stretched out it to 2.7 seconds by the 380th lap. 

The second round of green-banner pit stops for fuel started on lap 381, as Earnhardt moved beyond Mears for second spot on the accompanying lap. Mears lost third spot to his colleague Johnson on lap 390. Johnson made his pit stop on the following lap and maintained a strategic distance from an impact with Mears. Stewart drove gradually down the pit street on the 393rd lap since he was two laps shy of fuel, permitting Earnhardt to move into the lead position before his own stop one lap later. Hamlin assumed control over the lead before his pit stop on lap 395, permitting Mears to assume control over the main position. By lap 398, Mears held a ten-second lead over Yeley, who was shutting the hole, and felt his vehicle was tight when he headed to the track's outside, however held a solid line at the track's base when he moved out of traffic. Mears rationed fuel subsequent to abating his pace following influence by his team boss Darian Grubb; he kept up his lead for the staying two laps to win his first race in the Nextel Cup Series. He came up short on fuel on his chill off lap; his motor cut out not long after intersection the begin complete line. Yeley completed second, in front of Petty in third, who verified his first top-five completion since the 1997 MBNA 400. Sorenson was fourth and Vickers came in fifth. Stewart, Rudd, Earnhardt, Hamlin and Johnson finished the main ten finishers. The race had thirteen alerts and 29 lead changes among 15 drivers. Kurt Busch's aggregate of 107 laps drove was the most astounding of any contender. Mears drove for one period in the race, for a sum of six laps. 

Mears showed up in Victory Lane to praise his first win in the Nextel Cup Series before the group; the success earned him US$377,425 and is his solitary profession win starting at 2019. Mears was charmed with his triumph, saying in the post-race question and answer session, "This is extraordinary. I'm, very amped up for it and, in the meantime, assuaged. I was apprehensive Darien [Grubb] was going to call me in. I'm happy he didn't. The main way we could win was to bet and that is the thing that we did." Mears said he had "a fourth spot vehicle, best case scenario". It was the first run through since 1991 an individual with the surname Mears had won in auto hustling. Yeley, who completed second, stated, "This is most likely the first run through in two years of Cup dashing I didn't get the awful break. I've generally kept running into misfortune.", and, "Toward the end, we were a main five vehicle, best case scenario". Third-place finisher Petty stated, "In all genuineness, it's only a race. We didn't change the world today around evening time. It feels great to return and race with these folks. I surmise third spot was only the cherry on the sundae." He additionally said he had a vehicle that was equipped for completing in the main ten and that he would not have had the capacity to keep running with the top drivers. Insignificant additionally adulated Mears for his triumph and said he felt Mears would have comparative achievement later on. Hamlin said he felt the best five finishers were fortunate to accomplish their completing positions and that his group boss Mike Ford said there was "no wonder in winning a fuel-mileage race, other than saying you didn't run hard and were sparing fuel". 

Kurt Busch, who drove 107 laps (more than some other driver) was disappointed after his lap-298 accident: "How on the planet we can be so solid amid the day here and nearly in a moment go totally the other way is outside my ability to understand. We need to understand it eventually. I'm baffled and down the present moment, however we'll simply continue stopping along searching for the appropriate response." Newman, who drove the initial ten laps of the race, was upbeat notwithstanding resigning from the race: "We had a decent vehicle. We had recently gotten the two timing trickster and we would have been one of the 15 vehicles on the lead lap. Everyone at Penske Racing has been working superbly. We've quite recently got the chance to keep it up and remain centered." After completing the race in fifth spot (at that point the best completion for a Toyota vehicle) Vickers said it was "harsh" driving without the utilization of intensity directing that cut in and out however he felt Red Bull Racing Team had "the best vehicle" for the race. Stewart's group boss Greg Zipadelli was disillusioned his driver couldn't take the triumph: "On the off chance that we hadn't had a chance to win, I'd state that completing 6th and driving laps would be amazing, But sitting where we are at the present time, it appears that everything is stacked against us. We were presumably a second-or third-place vehicle even from a pessimistic standpoint, so it's frustrating." Eighth-place finisher Earnhardt said he thought he verified a second-place complete and was uninformed the pioneers had made pit stops. All things considered, he said was content with the manner in which his group ran the race. 

In the wake of resigning from the race on lap 221, Elliott censured himself for the impact with Ragan, saying he held up too long to even consider reacting and was vigorously dedicated to driving down the circuit. He was additionally unfit to expel his foot from his brake pedal. Ragan said he believed he ought to have passed Roush Fenway Racing colleague Edwards, who spun up the course. Edwards likewise said he was endeavoring to abstain from destroying himself. As indicated by Montoya, who was engaged with the multi-auto crash on the 53rd lap: "I saw a vehicle flying, and when I saw the vehicle flying I looked up. We really backed off the vehicle and everything. The ten vehicle or someone came directly in behind us and just pushed us through the entire wreckage." Jeff Gordon said he was "fine" after the mishap and that it "looked a great deal more terrible than it truly was ... Lamentable on the grounds that, man, what a great race vehicle we had. I was so glad for Steve Letarte and the folks. When we convey race vehicles like that to the track, it just influences me to have a ton of fun. I was having a fabulous time out there and I abhor we are out of it. Be that as it may, I am alright." Allmendinger asserted obligation regarding causing the accident and requested that his spotter apologize to Johnson's spotter, who handed-off the message to Johnson by means of radio. 

The outcome implied Jeff Gordon kept up his lead in the Drivers' Championship with 1,921 points, in front of partner Johnson with 1,789. Kenseth stayed in third with his focuses leverage over Hamlin diminished to thirty-two. Burton stayed in fifth spot and Stewart stayed in 6th. Harvick moved into seventh position while Edwards climbed two positions to eighth. Kurt Busch's non-complete implied he slipped to ninth and Bowyer was tenth. Kyle Busch and McMurray adjusted the best twelve. In the Manufacturers' Championship, Chevrolet with 105 points stretched out its lead to forty-two over its primary adversary Ford. Evade expanded its focuses favorable position over Toyota in the fight for third spot. The race took four hours, thirty-six minutes and twenty-seven seconds to finish, and the edge of triumph was 9.561 seconds.