23rd Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Kama (second Croatian) 

The 23rd "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Kama" (second Croatian) was a German mountain infantry division of the "Waffen-SS", the equipped wing of the German Nazi Party that served nearby however was never formally part of the Wehrmacht amid World War II. It was made out of German officers and Bosnian Muslim warriors. Named "Kama" after a little blade utilized by Balkan shepherds, it was one of the thirty-eight divisions handled by the "Waffen"- SS amid World War II. Framed on 19 June 1944, it was worked around a framework from the thirteenth "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian) yet did not achieve its full quality and never considered activity to be an arrangement. 

Components of the division battled quickly against Soviet powers in southern Hungary toward the beginning of October 1944 close by the 31st SS Volunteer Grenadier Division. They were before long withdrawn from the cutting edge in Hungary and had started a move to the German manikin express, the Independent State of Croatia, to join the thirteenth SS Division when the Bosnian Muslim fighters of the "Kama" division mutinied on 17 October 1944. The framework immediately recaptured control, yet the insurrection brought about the division being formally disintegrated on 31 October 1944. 

After the intrusion of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia by the Axis controls on 6 April 1941, the extraordinary Croat patriot and extremist Ante Pavelić, who had been in a state of banishment in Benito Mussolini's Italy, was named "Poglavnik" (pioneer) of a Ustaše-drove Croatian state – the Independent State of Croatia (regularly called the NDH, from the ). The NDH consolidated practically all of cutting edge Croatia, all of advanced Bosnia and Herzegovina and parts of current Serbia into an "Italian-German semi protectorate". NDH specialists, driven by the Ustaše Militia, quickly propelled a battle of mass killings, removals and constrained religious transformations to Catholicism focusing on the Serbian Orthodox populace living inside the fringes of the new state. 

In spite of Pavelić's affirmations of correspondence with the transcendently Catholic Croats, numerous Muslims rapidly wound up disappointed with Ustaše rule. An Islamic pioneer announced that not one Muslim involved a powerful post in the organization. By mid 1942, savage battling had broken out between the Ustaše, Chetniks and Partisans in NDH region. Some Ustaše volunteer army units wound up persuaded that the Muslims were socialist sympathizers, and consumed their towns and killed numerous regular folks. The Chetniks blamed the Muslims for partaking in the Ustaše savagery against Serbs and executed comparative barbarities against the Muslim populace. The Muslims got little assurance from the Croatian Home Guard, the ordinary armed force of the NDH, whom the Germans depicted as "of negligible battle esteem". Neighborhood civilian armies were raised, yet these were additionally of constrained esteem and just one, the Tuzla-based Home Guard "Hadžiefendić Legion" driven by Muhamed Hadžiefendić, was of any noteworthiness. 

The Bosnian Muslims looked for security and freedom from the NDH, and saw German help as a way to accomplish those points. Noticeable Bosnian Muslims were well disposed towards Germany, and Bosnians were commonly nostalgic over the previous time of Habsburg (Austro-Hungarian) rule. This push was firmly restricted by Pavelić as counter to the regional respectability of the NDH. By November 1942, these Muslim autonomists were frantic to ensure their kin and wrote to Adolf Hitler asking that he attach Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Reich. While this thought did not get Hitler's endorsement, perhaps on the grounds that he would not like to make issues for Pavelić, "Reichsführer-SS" Heinrich Himmler considered this to be a chance to make a "Waffen-SS" selecting zone in the NDH to pull in Bosnian Muslims. In mid 1943, Hitler approved the raising of the primary SS division to be enlisted from a non-Germanic individuals, the thirteenth "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian). The division was to be raised essentially from the Muslim populace of the NDH. 

The Germans needed to select a second SS division from the Muslims of Bosnia, as a major aspect of Himmler's objective to grow "Waffen-SS" enlisting in the Balkans. His arrangement was to frame two corps of two divisions, with one corps to work in the Bosnian locale of the Independent State of Croatia and the other in Albania. These corps would then be joined with the "Volksdeutsche" seventh SS Volunteer Mountain Division "Prinz Eugen" and together would frame a Balkan SS mountain armed force of five divisions. On 28 May 1944, Hitler gave his formal endorsement for the making of a 23rd SS Division, with its development to start on 10 June and preparing to be finished before the finish of 1944. Himmler pursued the counsel of the authority of the thirteenth SS Division "Handschar", "SS Brigadeführer and Generalmajor of Waffen-SS" (Brigadier) Karl-Gustav Sauberzweig, and consented to shape the division in the neighboring Bácska () district added by Hungary rather than Bosnia. Sauberzweig trusted that if the division was brought up in the NDH, the Ustaše would undermine the confidence of the enlisted people. The new division was named "Kama" after a little blade utilized by Balkan shepherds. 

Requests were given to the thirteenth SS Division to give a unit to the new division, and "SS Standartenführer" (Colonel) Helmuth Raithel, a regimental administrator from the thirteenth SS Division, was named as the new division's boss. The development of the division was postponed by Operation "Vollmond" to which the thirteenth SS Division was intensely dedicated, so arrangement did not start until 19 June. On 21 June, Himmler elevated Sauberzweig to "SS Gruppenführer and Generalleutnant of Waffen-SS" (significant general) and designated him to order the Bosnian corps, which was given the title IX "Waffen" Mountain Corps of the SS (Croatian). The corps was to frame at Bácsalmás in southern Hungary, where the eighteenth SS Volunteer Panzergrenadier Division "Horst Wessel" was sent. 

Starting on 23 June, 54 officers, 187 non-authorized officers (NCOs) and 1,137 enrolled men of the thirteenth SS Division that had been chosen for exchange to the 23rd SS Division "Kama" were amassed in Bošnjaci in Posavina County of the NDH, and they were moved into Bácska on 15 July. They included three NCOs from each organization of the thirteenth SS Division, and one mounted force squadron, one battery from every one of its big guns regiments, just as authority troops. German officers and NCOs were additionally given by "Waffen-SS" substitution units. The divisional region lay along the Franzen Canal, with battalions in Szenttamás () and Kúla () and on either side of the line Zombor-Verbász (). The 10,000 men for a full-quality division were to be gotten from volunteers, from Muslim recruits conceived in 1926 and 1927 (with certain exemptions), and if essential, from the different Muslim state armies in the NDH. The recruits were exposed to the draft by the NDH government at that point exchanged to German order alongside the others, who were then transported to "Waffen-SS" enlisting warehouses at Zombor and Bošnjaci. These men were to report by 15 September 1944, however in mid-August, "Waffen-SS" enrolling officer "SS Obergruppenführer" (Lieutenant General) Gottlob Berger answered to Himmler that there would be inadequate dependable Muslim men accessible, and Catholic Croats would likewise must be acknowledged into the 23rd SS Division. Amid Pavelić's visit to Hitler in September 1944, General Đuro Grujić, head of Pavelić's Military Office, demonstrated to the Germans that it is hard to enroll another 5,000 men to finish the division after 5,000 had just been alloted. Many "Volksdeutsche" from the NDH and a couple from Hungary were selected into the division to go about as translators between the Bosnian Muslims and the German framework and to upgrade unit attachment. 

On 10 September the division achieved a quality of 126 officers, 374 non-appointed officers and 3,293 men, made out of German officers and Bosnian Muslim warriors, a small amount of its recommended quality of 19,000 men. At this point, spirit was winding down inside the new division similarly as it finished the last period of its preparation in Hungary; the war was not going great, and there were gossipy tidbits that the Germans were going to relinquish the Balkans and leave the Muslims to guard themselves. Looked with high rates of abandonment from the thirteenth SS Division, Sauberzweig proposed an arrangement to incapacitate the Bosnians in the two divisions, and on 18 September made a trip to see Himmler. The "Reichsführer-SS" rather settled on an arrangement to transport the 2,000 Bosnians of the 23rd SS Division to the region of tasks of the thirteenth SS Division in Bosnia and re-compose the two divisions there. Battle arms units from the thirteenth SS Division were to be brought under the immediate control of IX "Waffen" Mountain Corps of the SS (Croatian), which would likewise move to Bosnia. Issued on 24 September, the arrangement dropped the development of the 23rd SS Division, and coordinated "SS Oberführer" (Senior Colonel) Gustav Lombard to frame and order another SS infantry division utilizing the German unit and gear of the 23rd SS Division, enhanced by ethnic Germans enrolled from Hungary. The Bosnians of the 23rd SS Division were to be transported by rail back to the Gradište-Županja-Bošnjaci region for re-association into "another" "Kama" division. 

The staff of IX "Waffen" Mountain Corps of the SS (Croatian) central command left Hungary, and on 3 October 1944 they touched base in the town of Andrijaševci, close Vinkovci. The home office turned out to be mostly operational on 7 October. The Bosnians did not leave Bácska quickly, and for a brief period were garrisoned close by Lombard's new 31st SS Volunteer Grenadier Division. Meanwhile, the Red Army kept on progressing into Hungary, and on 9 October 1944 a wire was sent by the officer of "Waffen-SS" powers in Hungary to IX SS Mountain Corps in Bosnia reporting that "fight prepared units from SS Oberführer Lombard's division and Bosnians from the Division "Kama" had been tossed into the battling in Bacska". The Bosnian components were sent along the Tisza () stream for a week or so as a component of "Kampfgruppe Syr" trying to moderate the Soviet development. Thus, the arrival of the Bosnians to the NDH was deferred. 

The Bosnians were before long withdrawn from the bleeding edge in Hungary and had started the move to Bosnia to join the thirteenth SS Division when they mutinied on 17 October 1944. Raithel immediately recovered control, however the insurrection implied the re-association of "another" 23rd SS Division was relinquished. Few dependable Bosnians from the division were utilized as substitutions in the thirteenth SS Division, and the 23rd SS Division was formally disintegrated on 31 October 1944. In spite of its short presence, the 23rd SS is viewed as one of the thirty-eight divisions handled by the "Waffen-SS" amid World War II. After the division was disbanded, the numerical designator "23rd" was given to the 23rd SS Volunteer Panzer Grenadier Division "Nederland", and Raithel proceeded to order the eleventh SS-Gebirgsjäger Regiment ""Reinhard Heydrich"" of the sixth SS Mountain Division "Nord" against the United States Army in southern Germany amid the last a very long time of World War II. 

The division's last request of fight comprised of: 

The division likewise incorporated a workshop organization, veterinary organization and authoritative segment. 

The divisional emblem was a sun with 16 beams, the old image of the Macedonian lord Alexander the Great. A divisional neckline fix bearing the symbol was planned, yet it is improbable it was ever issued. Amid their arrangement and preparing in the Bácska district amid the mid year of 1944, the officers regularly wearing khaki tropical garbs with shorts. The official headgear of the division was the SS M43 fez: a field dim model to be worn with administration uniform and a red model for dress uniform. Individuals from the division that had recently served in the thirteenth SS Division frequently kept on wearing the divisional neckline fix of that division, which demonstrated an arm holding a scimitar over a swastika. These non-standard uniform things kept on being worn by individuals from the division after they turned out to be a piece of the 31st SS Division in October 1944.