Aaliyah (collection) 

Aaliyah is oneself titled third and last studio collection by American R&B vocalist Aaliyah. It was discharged on July 7, 2001, by Blackground Records and Virgin Records America. 

Aaliyah began to chip away at the collection in 1998, yet rescheduled its chronicle around her creating movie vocation. She continued chronicle in 2000 at Sing Studios in Australia, where she shot her job for the 2002 film "Ruler of the Damned" amid the day and recorded melodies around evening time. Through her chronicle contract with Blackground, the artist worked basically with the record name's in-house team of scholars and makers, including Bud'da, J. Name, Rapture, and Eric Seats, just as long-term colleague Timbaland. 

"Aaliyah" is a R&B and neo soul record whose music draws from funk, hip bounce, elective shake, and electronica, among different styles. The makers consolidated synthesizer tunes, divided beats, mutilated guitar, and whimsically controlled vocals and melody structures. Quite a bit of "Aaliyah" managed the complexities of sentimental love and distinctive stages in a relationship. The majority of the tunes were composed by lyricist Static Major, who shared a dear companionship and solid affinity with Aaliyah. She saw the collection as an impression of herself as both a youthful grown-up and a developed vocalist. 

"Aaliyah" got very positive audits from pundits and appeared at number two on the "Board" 200, yet sold diminishingly a short time later. Whenever Blackground and Virgin needed a high diagramming single to expand the collection's business, Aaliyah shot a music video for the tune "Cause trouble" in the Bahamas, however kicked the bucket in a plane accident on an arrival trip to the United States on August 25. After her passing, offers of the collection soar and pushed it to number one on the "Announcement" 200. "Aaliyah" was discharged amid a time of pinnacle movement in contemporary R&B and, since its underlying gathering, has been refered to by faultfinders as a standout amongst the best R&B records of now is the right time. 

Aaliyah discharged her second collection "One out of a Million" in 1996, and moved on from secondary school the next year. She increased further introduction with hit tunes from film soundtracks, including her 1998 single "Would you say you are That Somebody?". After it turned into the greatest hit of her profession by then, Aaliyah needed to keep a lower profile and stay away from overexposure. A subsequent record was made arrangements for February 1999, however she deferred its account to build up an acting vocation, which prompted a featuring job in the 2000 film "Romeo Must Die". The film uplifted her profile fundamentally, while the soundtrack's single "Attempt Again" turned into her first number-one tune on the pop graphs. Her mark Blackground Records utilized the film and its soundtrack to set up a dissemination manage Virgin Records America, which would convey Blackground's resulting discharges all inclusive, including her self-titled third collection. 

Aaliyah started recording the collection in 1998. She recorded a couple of melodies, incorporating two with long-lasting teammate Timbaland, before dealing with "Romeo Must Die". In 1999, while chipping away at the record in New York City, Aaliyah called and asked Trent Reznor, one of her melodic symbols, to deliver a tune, however they couldn't facilitate their calendars. She expected to complete the collection before the finish of 2000 and continued its account while taping in Australia for "Ruler of the Damned" (2002), as she shot her part for the film amid the day and recorded melodies around evening time. She said in a meeting for "Announcement", "there were evenings when I went poorly the studio—I was excessively worn out. On the ends of the week, I constantly made it." Jomo Hankerson, Blackground president and Aaliyah's cousin, said that he needed to "reward the makers", who did not have any desire to "go most of the way around the globe!" He included that they eventually had "a delightful time ... making hot music". 

The majority of the collection's tunes were recorded at either Sony Studios in New York City or Sing Studios in Melbourne, including "Free Rap", which was done at the two studios. Aaliyah recorded "In excess of a Woman" at Manhattan Center Studios, "U Got Nerve" at Soundtracks Studios in New York City, "We Need a Resolution" at Westlake Studios, and "I Care 4 U" at Magic Mix Studios and Music Grinder Studios in Los Angeles. She had first recorded "I Care 4 U", composed by past teammate Missy Elliott, in 1996 for "One of every a Million", yet rejected it after that collection's fulfillment. Aaliyah worked with Blackground Records' in-house group of artists, musicians, and makers, including tenderfoot makers Bud'da, J. Name, Rapture, and Eric Seats. Music supervisor Jimmy Henchman, a companion of Aaliyah's director Barry Hankerson, helped organize the record's generation and orchestrated the makers and authors to work with the vocalist. 

A large portion of the collection's verses were composed by Static, from the R&B band Playa. While the band was developing separated, he was welcomed by Blackground to be a lead essayist for the collection subsequent to expressing "Are You That Somebody?" and "Attempt Again". Static was a piece of Aaliyah's nearby gathering of companions, which included Missy Elliott and Timbaland, and imparted a captivation to her. He observed Aaliyah to be perfect for his songwriting style, while she trusted that he could precisely depict her emotions. A quietly sexual lyricist, he expressed "Raise some static" for her in 1999, yet Blackground felt she was not prepared for the melody. Barry Hankerson said of his songwriting, "We generally were defensive over each lyric ... Be that as it may, he did things where you never felt affronted. You just felt like you caught somebody thinking ... he was clever ... Aaliyah relied upon him [and] he relied upon her." Elliott said that he was "a piece of that extension of Aaliyah growing up melodiously". While she examined the verses with Static, the artist counseled Bud'da about the sound and melodic course of the collection. She was keen on finding out about the UK carport scene at the time. 

In March 2001, Aaliyah wrapped up the collection in the wake of having taped her part in "Ruler of the Damned" for four months, which eventually deferred the collection's discharge. In Australia, she likewise completed a photograph shoot for "Aaliyah" with picture takers Jeff Dunas, Jonathan Mannion, David LaChapelle, and Albert Watson. The artist dealt with five pythons at the shoot and built up a liking for snakes, discovering them "hazardous, however very lovely" and delegate of her on the collection. She returned to the snake subject in her music video for "We Need a Resolution" in April and told MTV, "They live in isolation, [and] there are times throughout my life [when] I simply need to be without anyone else's input. There are times I can't make sense of myself. I feel they are exceptionally unpredictable animals, [but] in the meantime, they're provocative, as well. That is the reason they speak to "Aaliyah" entirely well." She portrayed the record as "a great impression of [myself] and the individual [I am] today", saying in a meeting for "Stream" magazine, "I am a youthful grown-up now, and I think this collection demonstrates my development vocally." "Aaliyah" was aced by Bernie Grundman at his studio in Los Angeles. 

A R&B and neo soul collection, "Aaliyah" highlights midtempo funk tunes, hip bounce finished uptempo tracks, and moderate sticks that drew on more established soul impacts. Alongside contemporary urban sounds, its music fuses Middle-Eastern impacts, quieted elective shake, and—especially on Timbaland's tunes for the collection—Latin timbres. "Never No More" blends both more seasoned soul and present day hip bounce sounds with string courses of action by maker Bud'da, while "Read Between the Lines" is a musical, advanced samba with Latin percussion. "Aaliyah"s generation highlights synthesizer tunes, vintage syndrums, contorted guitar, staccato courses of action, and layered, capriciously controlled vocals. John Mulvey of "NME" discovered its sound unobtrusive and lacking "grandiloquence and drama", while the magazine's Alex Needham compared its "powerful", high recurrence generation to name reggae and the dim, open move music of Dr. Dre and Massive Attack. In Stephen Thomas Erlewine's assessment, the collection was particular from the more seasoned soul leanings of Macy Gray and Jill Scott, as its music sounds unusual yet current, "turning out a skillet social exhibit of sounds, styles, and feelings". 

"Aaliyah"s beats were delivered in a way that made them sound divided, displaying techno and electro surfaces. Tracks, for example, "Free Rap", "Additional Smooth", and "Consider the possibility that" highlight offbeat melody structures exploring different avenues regarding goals. "I Can Be" and "Imagine a scenario where" fuse 2-step and shake components, despite the fact that the last tune draws especially from Detroit techno and modern shake. On the club-affected "In excess of a Woman", Aaliyah sang over cruel sounding synthesizer and guitar sounds, while "Free Rap" highlights submerged commotions, serene electronica in the style of the Neptunes, and agreeably delicate vocals proclaiming "it ain't simply cadence and blues". Ernest Hardy of "Moving Stone" contrasted the collection's experimentation with the sounds on OutKast's "Stankonia" (2000), Sade's "Darlings Rock" (2000), and Missy Elliott's "Miss E... So Addictive" (2001). As indicated by "Inclination Magazine"s Sal Cinquemani, "similar to Elliott's type bowing "So Addictive", "Aaliyah" gives a missing connection between hip-jump and electronica." 

The verses on "Aaliyah" investigate the complexities of sentimental love and stages in a relationship, for example, anguish, trivial captivation, and issues close to the finish of a relationship. Inconspicuous, happy diversion and clever audio effects, for example, amusing vocal control mix the topics of tragedy and sensuality. As indicated by Citysearch's Justin Hartung, the record "changes the disarray of youthful adulthood into thrilling opportunity", while "Billboard"s Rashaun Hall said every melody had a remarkable passionate character that go with the music's sonic assortment. Sway Waliszewski of "Connected" watched female strengthening themed tunes that demonstrate a "solid dignity" by Aaliyah, who "doesn't endure unfaithful miscreants ('You Got Nerve'), mind diversions ('I Refuse'), self-awed hunks ('Extra Smooth'), tattle and jealousy ('Loose Rap'), or physical maltreatment ('Never No More')". The key-moving, drum and bass-affected "Additional Smooth" addresses an energetic romance and is motivated by a discussion among Aaliyah and Static about how men endeavor to act smooth, while "Free Rap" is titled after the slang expression of a similar name and rejects sentimental admirers who go through trite pick lines. "Those Were the Days" impartially rejects a male darling, while "Consider the possibility that" irately compromises an unfaithful sweetheart and by expansion comparable men. On "I Care 4 U", the storyteller endeavors to support a companion who is shattered, yet ends up upset by lonely emotions she has for him. 

Aaliyah's vocals are in a controlled soprano style all through the collection. "Vibe" magazine's Hyun Kim contended that its melodies attract center to her singing more than her past records, "conveying it to the bleeding edge instead of concealing it behind the layered creation". "Raise some static" was sung with short of breath vocals by Aaliyah, who educates her darling on the most proficient method to satisfy her explicitly and likens her suggestive high to a medication high. Anthems, for example, "I Care 4 U", "Never No More", and "I Refuse" are sung all the more emotively, communicating despairing characteristics and hurt. On "I Can Be", Aaliyah sings from the point of view of a two-faced man's courtesan who needs to be his preeminent sweetheart. Alex Macpherson from "The Guardian" composed that "Aaliyah's clear, desensitized conveyance" on the tune "makes being the other lady appear to be a candidly masochistic type of self-medicine". Biographer Christopher John Farley said she "sincerely nitty gritty a melody" not at all like on her past collections and that "her delicate voice currently appeared to be something basic, a generously wind blowing through the parts of a major tree." According to Joshua Clover, Aaliyah drives melodic notes "into weird corners of syncopation's tricky design" on the more "shape-challenging" tracks. He composed that "she makes the sonics recount to the story, making significance outside the verses, delight past the snares." 

"Aaliyah" was discharged in July 2001. In the United States, it appeared at number two on the "Board" 200 collections graph, selling 187,000 duplicates in the seven day stretch of August 4. In spite of the fact that it was the most elevated deals seven day stretch of Aaliyah's profession, the collection at first sold slower than her past record, "One out of a Million". The vocalist intended to set out on the biggest show voyage through her vocation to help the collection, while Blackground and Virgin—intensely put resources into the record's prosperity—needed a solitary with a high diagram situation to help increment deals. "We Need a Resolution" had been discharged as the lead single on April 13, however did not get huge radio airplay and just achieved number fifty-nine on the "Board" Hot 100. In August, Aaliyah shot a music video for "In excess of a Woman" in Los Angeles and after that made a trip to the Bahamas to shoot a video for "Raise some static". Yet, after its consummation, she and a few group individuals who were coming back to the US kicked the bucket in a plane accident on August 25. Blackground officials were dubious when they would discharge the collection's next single and video. 

The collection's deals soar after Aaliyah's demise. Its deals had been lessening since the collection's discharge in July and remained at in excess of 447,000 duplicates sold. Updates on her passing was accounted for on the most recent day of Nielsen SoundScan's business following week, amid which "Aaliyah" sold 62,000 duplicates, a 41.5% expansion from its previous week's deals. The next week, it sold 305,500 duplicates and climbed from number 19 to number one on the "Board" 200. It was the record's most elevated deals week and denoted the first run through an account craftsman moved to number one after death since John Lennon in 1980 with his collection "Twofold Fantasy". It was likewise Aaliyah's solitary collection to top any of "Billboard"s outlines. The record sold more than one million duplicates by September 19 and 2.06 million duplicates by February 25, 2002. In the US, "Aaliyah" went through 68 weeks on the "Bulletin" 200 and, by December 2009, had sold 2.6 million duplicates. 

Blackground, which had finished its joint arrangement with Virgin in November, needed to send the video for "In excess of a Woman" to residential outlets, however it required the two names to cooperate. Blackground hence moved to Universal Records, and the video was first publicized in Europe. In the United Kingdom, "In excess of a Woman" was discharged as a solitary on January 7, 2002, and entered the singles outline at number one, while "Aaliyah" reemerged the collections graph at number 65; it had initially entered the diagram at number 25 on July 28, 2001. Two weeks after "In excess of a Woman" achieved number one, the collection bounced 17 spots to number five on January 27, 2002. "Aaliyah" proceeded to go through 31 weeks on the British outlines. It additionally achieved number nine on the record graphs in France, Germany, and the Netherlands, where it outlined for 33, 41, and 46 weeks, individually. As per the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), the record was the 34th smash hit collection on the planet amid 2001. 

"Aaliyah" was met with very positive audits from generally faultfinders. At Metacritic, which appoints a standardized rating out of 100 to audits from standard distributions, the collection got a normal score of 76, in view of 14 surveys. Michael Odell of "The Guardian" called it a faultless mix of pop and R&B that was "as much a leaflet for the present territory of R&B generation offices" as it was a grandstand for Aaliyah's singing. He found the music's surfaces "glimmering" and trusted its distinctive trademark to be "a fun loving and sure adjusting of the [R&B] standard". In the "Chicago Tribune", Brad Cawn composed that Aaliyah exhibited Sade's beauty and Missy Elliott's challenging with stylish neo soul that was "equivalent amounts of frame of mind and congruity, and all urban music flawlessness", while Russell Baillie from "The New Zealand Herald" regarded the music imaginative move fly on what he called "a strong, nitty gritty and disarmingly luring collection". Simon Price, composing for "The Independent", refered to the record as "additional proof that dark pop is the vanguard". In an audit for "The A.V. Club", Nathan Rabin contended that the collection built up Aaliyah as a critical craftsman unobscured by her partners, while Hardy from "Moving Stone" called it "a close faultless announcement of solidarity and freedom" in which Aaliyah investigated her "dreams and qualities". Composing for "Turn", Clover saw the record as her most significant work and said she had made "craftsmanship" out of Timbaland and Static's "formal artfulness" by "contributing sound plans with criticalness and passionate multifaceted design". 

A few analysts were progressively qualified in their recognition. Mulvey considered "Aaliyah" "smooth" and "fulfilling as opposed to unprecedented" in his survey for "NME". Despite the fact that he said it was reclaimed by Static's steady songwriting, Timbaland ought to have contributed more tunes as he would see it. Like Mulvey, "Q" commented that its music was respectable as opposed to imaginative, with some filler. In "Diversion Weekly", Craig Seymour composed that there were a couple of melodies that strayed from her melodic qualities, however somewhere else she "skillfully depicts love as part woozy rush, part beat hustling fear". Robert Christgau gave the record a three-star decent notice, designating "a pleasant exertion purchasers receptive to its superseding stylish or singular vision may well love". In his segment for "The Village Voice", he named "We Need a Resolution" and "U Got Nerve" as features and called Aaliyah "a captive to her beats, yet a glad slave". Connie Johnson from the "Los Angeles Times" was progressively basic, finding the generation unadventurous and the verses coming up short on the profundity and "individual disclosure that gives music some instantaneousness". 

"Aaliyah" was named the best collection of 2001 by "Inclination Magazine" and one of the ten best records of the year by "The Atlanta Journal-Constitution" and "Time" magazine. "NME" positioned it at number 39 on their year-end list. The collection completed 73rd in the Pazz and Jop, a yearly survey of American pundits distributed by "The Village Voice". Christgau, who made and regulated the survey, said Aaliyah at last "created material no one can deny" on "a great collection". The record additionally completed 37th in the yearly survey kept running by German music magazine "Spex". For the collection, Aaliyah was after death granted a NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Female Artist. At the 2002 American Music Awards, it won in the class of Favorite R&B/Soul Album. In 2002, "Aaliyah" got a Grammy Award assignment for Best R&B Album. "Raise some static" was assigned for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance. "In excess of a Woman" was selected in a similar classification in 2003. In 2005, "Aaliyah" was positioned number 66 on "GQ"s 2005 rundown of the "100 Coolest Albums in the World". "Stylus Magazine" positioned it 47 on their rundown of the "Main 50 Albums of 2000– 2005"; the production's David Drake positioned it eighth all alone rundown. "Vibe" included it as one of their "150 Essential Albums of the Vibe Era" in 2007. A couple of years after the fact, "Aaliyah" was named by "Inclination Magazine" as the 72nd best record of the 2000s decade. 

Alongside Aaliyah's prospering movie profession, the collection was a piece of her rising standard achievement in 2001. In a review audit, Steve Huey from AllMusic called it her most consummate record and said it "finished the artist's picture update into a sexy yet delicate grown-up". Erlewine, the site's senior editorial manager, viewed the collection as "an announcement of development and a shocking imaginative jump forward", while "BBC Music"s Daryl Easlea felt it made Aaliyah's two past achieved collections "look like activities in juvenilia". As per "PopMatters" writer Quentin B. Fit, she had never utilized her singing to supplement her music's inventive generation before with as much assortment, conviction, and accomplishment as on "Aaliyah", which he said was otherwise called "The Red Album" due to its red work of art. Spat trusted the record displayed the developing affinity between the vocalist and her partners while refuting inquiries concerning how she would keep recording music while expanding her profile. In "The Rolling Stone Album Guide" (2004), Keith Harris composed that "Aaliyah had developed from studio manikin to an incredible R&B prime example—a progressively mindful Ronnie Spector for a period that requires increasingly mindfulness of its young grown-ups." 

Aaliyah's re-development with the collection in mid-2001 had concurred with a time of pinnacle action in contemporary R&B, just as the prominence of neo soul. As indicated by Erlewine, "Aaliyah" was "one of the most grounded urban soul records of now is the right time", while "The Guardian" refered to it as the pinnacle of R&B's brilliant age "when the new century rolled over". Alexis Petridis, the paper's lead faultfinder, trusted Aaliyah had recorded her most captivating music in a year when R&B and hip jump exhibited the most inventiveness in prominent music. "The Guardian"s Rebecca Nicholson ascribed Timbaland's consequent business accomplishment with artists, for example, Justin Timberlake and Nelly Furtado to his experience delivering "Aaliyah", composing that he "hasn't verged on making anything as sonically shocking since". In spite of the fact that Jon Caramanica from "Vibe" trusted it "reclassifies the class", he said "Aaliyah" "might be the best soul collection of the youthful millenium", calling its music "brave in development, exquisite from conception ... damn close post-R&B". "Q" writer Eve Barlow credited the collection for "making an outline that can be heard crosswise over popular music today" with acts, for example, R&B vocalists Beyoncé and The Weeknd, and outside the box pop band The xx. 

The account sessions for "Aaliyah" delivered numerous extra tracks that were after death filed by Blackground and generally left unreleased on account of inward clashes and legitimate confusions between the mark, Aaliyah's family, and the makers. The aggregation collection "I Care 4 U" was discharged in 2002 and included six beforehand unreleased melodies from the sessions. 

Credits are adjusted from the collection's liner notes.