22nd Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry 

The 22nd Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry was an infantry regiment in the Union armed force amid the American Civil War. The 22nd Massachusetts was sorted out by Senator Henry Wilson (future Vice-President amid the Ulysses Grant organization) and was along these lines known as "Henry Wilson's Regiment." It was framed in Boston, Massachusetts, and set up on September 28, 1861, for a term of three years. 

Landing in Washington in October 1861, the regiment spent the accompanying winter in camp at Hall's Hill, close Arlington in Virginia. It turned out to be a piece of the Army of the Potomac, with which it would be related for its whole term of administration. The regiment saw its first activity amid the Siege of Yorktown in April 1862. It was engaged with the Peninsular Campaign, especially the Battle of Gaines' Mill amid which it endured its most noticeably bad setbacks (numerically) of the war. Their most exceedingly bad losses as far as rates occurred amid the Battle of Gettysburg (60 percent). The 22nd Massachusetts was available for basically the majority of the real fights in which the Army of the Potomac battled, including the Second Battle of Bull Run, the Battle of Antietam, the Battle of Fredericksburg, the Battle of Chancellorsville, the Battle of Gettysburg and Lieutenant General Ulysses Grant's Overland Campaign. The 22nd was particularly capable in encounter drill and was as often as possible sent in that limit all through the war. 

Amid the Siege of Petersburg in October 1864, the 22nd Massachusetts was expelled from the lines and sent home to Massachusetts. Of the 1,100 who at first had a place with the unit, just 125 returned toward the finish of their three years of administration. Of these misfortunes, about 300 were murdered in real life or kicked the bucket from wounds got in real life, around 500 were released because of wounds or illness, and roughly 175 were lost or released because of catch, acquiescence, or renunciation. 

Henry Wilson, a Senator from Massachusetts and administrator of the Senate's Committee on Military Affairs, saw the First Battle of Bull Run on July 21, 1861. The appalling annihilation of the Union armed force persuaded Wilson, and the government by and large, of the critical requirement for more troops. Following the fight, Wilson guaranteed both President Abraham Lincoln and Massachusetts Governor John Andrew that he would raise a full detachment including units of infantry, big guns, rangers and sharpshooters. 

Wilson's glory supported the practically prompt development of in excess of twelve organizations of infantry in and around Boston. The squeezing need to send troops to the front expected Wilson to desert his unique goal of raising various regiments of infantry and he rather chose the 10 organizations nearest to status, accordingly making the 22nd Massachusetts Regiment. To this regiment were appended the third Massachusetts Light Artillery and the second Company Massachusetts Sharpshooters. In this way, the 22nd Massachusetts ended up one of only a handful couple of infantry units in the Civil War with joined big guns and sharpshooters. 

A considerable lot of the officers of the 22nd, and a portion of the enrolled men, had quite recently finished a selection with early war regiments (the supposed "multi day regiments"), including the fifth Massachusetts and the sixth Massachusetts. Five of the 10 organizations were enlisted in Boston. The staying five originated from Taunton, Roxbury, Woburn, Cambridge and Haverhill. 

The regiment was marked into reality by Gov. Andrew on September 28, 1861. Wilson was designated its first colonel. The enlisted people of the 22nd Massachusetts prepared at a camp in Lynnfield, Massachusetts, amid September and left for the front, numbering 1,117, on October 8, 1861. Going by railroad, the regiment stopped in New York City, walking down Fifth Avenue, and was gotten with a formal function and the introduction of a national fight banner made by an advisory group of the women of New York. 

The 22nd touched base in Washington on October 11, and on October 13, walked over the Potomac to go into winter camp at Halls Hill, simply outside Arlington, Virginia. Here the Army of the Potomac was sorted out amid the winter of 1861– 1862. The 22nd turned out to be a piece of Brig. Gen. John H. Martindale's unit and was at first appended to the III Corps. 

On October 28, 1861, Col. Wilson surrendered his direction, turning the regiment over to Col. Jesse Gove. Gove, a Regular Army officer, had seen administration in the Mexican– American War. He was an exacting drill sergeant and, as per John Parker (the regimental history specialist) Gove before long turned into the "symbol of the regiment". Amid its first winter of administration, the 22nd stayed at Hall's Hill and wound up capable in military drill. 

Significant General George B. McClellan, instructing the Army of the Potomac, resolved to take the Confederate capital of Richmond by means of the Virginia Peninsula. This surprising move would, in principle, enable McClellan's military to move rapidly up the promontory instead of battling through Northern Virginia. Amid March 1862, the Army of the Potomac was step by step exchanged by water to Fortress Monroe toward the finish of the Virginia Peninsula. On March 10, 1862, the 22nd left their winter camp and were delivered to Fortress Monroe. By April 4, the regiment started to progress, alongside numerous different components of the Army of the Potomac, up the landmass. 

As Union powers moved toward Yorktown, Virginia they experienced guarded lines set up by Confederate Major General John B. Magruder. At first, Magruder's powers numbered just 11,000 with McClellan's numbering 53,000. McClellan additionally had the remainder of the Army of the Potomac "on the way" and Union troops outside of Yorktown would before long number more than 100,000. Regardless of this, McClellan trusted he confronted an a lot bigger power and settled in for a month-long attack of Yorktown. 

The 22nd Massachusetts saw their first activity of the war close Yorktown on April 5, 1862, as the regiment was requested to test the Confederate lines. Amid the activity, a bit of the regiment conveyed as skirmishers enduring an onslaught with extraordinary exactness. The 22nd's notoriety for ability at engagement drill would proceed all through the war and the regiment would every now and again be utilized in this limit. Through the span of the month-long attack, the 22nd was settled close Wormley Creek around southeast of Yorktown, every now and again framing up immediately in desire for an assault. On May 4, the Confederates emptied their lines, withdrawing towards Richmond. The 22nd was on picket obligation when gossipy tidbits about the clearing started to course. Colonel Gove resolved to research and propelled the 22nd towards the Confederate channels. As per the regimental student of history, Gove was the main Union warrior to mount the Confederate works and the 22nd's banner was the primary planted on the defenses outside of Yorktown. 

Throughout the following three weeks, McClellan drove his military northwest up the Peninsula towards Richmond. The 22nd gone by steamship and by foot, in the long run achieving Gaines' Mill, Virginia where they set up camp on May 26, 1862, about upper east of Richmond. Amid this development, the V Corps of the Union armed force was framed and the 22nd turned out to be a piece of the first Brigade, first Division, V Corps. The regiment would remain a piece of the V Corps for the span of their administration. 

In the wake of seeing minor activity in the Battle of Hanover Court House on May 27, the 22nd stayed in camp at Gaines' Mill for about a month as McClellan situated his military for a strike on Richmond. The men of the 22nd could see the steeples of Richmond from their camp. At this point, the regiment had been decreased to approximately 750 men because of ailment through the span of the crusade and minor setbacks in real life. 

On June 25, 1862, McClellan requested an inadequate hostile setting off the Seven Days Battles. On June 26, General Robert E. Lee, who had as of late assumed responsibility for the Army of Northern Virginia, propelled a challenging counter-hostile proposed to push McClellan's military far from Richmond. For the 22nd, the third day of the Seven Days Battles, the Battle of Gaines' Mill, turned out to be destroying as they endured their most noticeably bad setbacks of the war. 

The regimental student of history stated, "It was a dismal night for the Twenty-second. Not a man but rather had lost a friend, for one-portion of the individuals who walked in the first part of the day were no longer in the positions. Colonel Gove was killed and that was, in actuality, one of the best fiascos of the day." The 22nd Massachusetts and the 83rd Pennsylvania endured generally a similar loss rate and the two regiments lost a bigger number of men killed in real life than some other units on the field that day. The two regiments lost their colonels. 

The 22nd assumed little job in the following three days of battling, except for brief activity amid the Battle of Glendale amid which the regiment upheld the third Massachusetts Battery and was credited with sparing the battery from catch. By June 30, the regiment was stayed close Malvern Hill with the remainder of the V Corps. The Army of the Potomac had withdrawn generally amid a running battle about the previous six days and was enduring low spirit. In any case, by July 1, the Union armed force was in a solid position and, that day, amid the Battle of Malvern Hill, the Army of the Potomac at long last ceased Lee's hostile. The 22nd, amid this activity, was requested to help the fifth United States Battery. While terminating in accordance with the battery, the men of the 22nd sang "John Brown's Body" and depleted their 60 rounds of ammo. After they were pulled off the line, the 22nd walked during that time to Harrison's Landing. The regiment lost nine executed, 41 injured and eight detainees amid the Battle of Malvern Hill, around 20 percent. 

On July 15, 1862, while the 22nd was still in camp at Harrison's Landing, Lieutenant Colonel Griswold came back from debilitated leave, was elevated to colonel and took direction of the regiment. On August 14, the regiment broke camp and walked with the V Corps to Newport News, Virginia. McClellan had deserted his Peninsular Campaign and had been requested to move the Army of the Potomac back to Northern Virginia to help the development of a recently sorted out Union armed force, the Army of Virginia, under the direction of Major General John Pope. The 22nd was transported by steamship to Aquia Creek, Virginia, by railroad to Fredericksburg, and by August 28 they had walked with the V Corps to Gainesville, Virginia. Over the span of this walk, the 22nd was withdrawn from their unit and appointed to picket obligation. Accordingly, the regiment assumed no job in the ensuing Second Battle of Bull Run on August 30, 1862, in which the remainder of their detachment was intensely locked in. 

Following the shocking annihilation of Pope's military at the Second Battle of Bull Run, the Army of the Potomac, with McClellan still in order, was immediately rearranged outside of Washington amid the primary seven day stretch of September 1862. The 22nd came back to their old camp at Halls Hill, Virginia, which they had involved the past winter. Sen. Wilson visited the 22nd at Halls Hill. Finding only 200 war-torn men rather than the 1,100 he had enlisted, Wilson, with tears in his eyes, asked, "Is this my old regiment?" 

The 22nd did not remain long at Halls Hill. With the Army of the Potomac in chaos and the Confederates in all out attack mode, an assault on Washington was normal at any minute. The 22nd was moved to a few diverse cautious entrenchments outside of Arlington, Virginia amid the main seven day stretch of September. Lee, be that as it may, set out to attack Western Maryland, the lead components of his military intersection the Potomac on September 4, 1862. McClellan was moderate to respond to this advancement, yet started moving components of the Army of the Potomac northwest from Washington on September 6. On September 10, Lieutenant Colonel Tilton, having been discharged from Libby Prison through an officer trade, came back to the 22nd and took direction. The 22nd left Arlington on September 12. The walk through Maryland was recollected by the 22nd as wearisome and significantly dusty. 

As the Union armed force drew nearer, Lee persevered at Sharpsburg, Maryland along Antietam Creek. On September 17, 1862, the militaries occupied with the Battle of Antietam. The V Corps was held available for later in the focal point of Union lines amid the fight. The 22nd had an unmistakable perspective on the two flanks of the Union armed force and watched the ambushes that occurred through the span of the day. The V Corps, in any case, took no part in these attacks. History specialists have condemned McClellan for his awkward assaults at Antietam and for not submitting the V Corps which may have broken Lee's military. 

Lee emptied Sharpsburg on September 18, withdrawing towards Virginia. The 22nd, with different regiments of its corps, traveled through the town the following day. As the Confederate armed force traversed the Potomac, two divisions of the V Corps, including the 22nd Massachusetts, were requested to cross into Virginia through Blackford's Ford at Shepherdstown, Virginia (presently West Virginia). The development was an inadequate endeavor on McClellan's part to keep the getaway of Lee's military. The seeking after Union powers were hit with a definitive Confederate counterattack at the Battle of Shepherdstown on September 20, 1862, making the Union divisions rapidly retreat in confusion back over the Potomac. The 22nd battled over the waterway and achieved the Maryland shore "half suffocated". The commitment finished any endeavors by McClellan to seek after Lee's military. 

The 22nd Massachusetts stayed in camp on the Maryland side of the Potomac for over a month. On October 30, 1862, the 22nd broke camp and started walking south into Virginia. On November 5, Lincoln expelled McClellan from direction of the Army of the Potomac and supplanted him with Major General Ambrose Burnside. The military moved to Falmouth, Virginia, where Burnside invested weeks coordinating his assault on Fredericksburg directly over the Rappahannock River. 

The Army of the Potomac, having developed boat connects over the Rappahannock, started the Battle of Fredericksburg on the morning of December 13, 1862. The Confederate armed force involved the city of Fredericksburg and a high edge behind the city known as Marye's Heights. By late morning, Union powers had taken the city and started the strike on Marye's Heights. At roughly 3:30 toward the evening the 22nd Massachusetts, with the remainder of Colonel James Barnes' detachment, crossed one of the boat connects and traveled through a railroad slice to the edges of the city. The regiment numbered around 200 men. Barnes' detachment was requested to mitigate a unit of the IX Corps which had made a charge on the stone divider along Marye's Heights and become bound by Confederate flame. When they shaped up fight lines on the open slant before Marye's Heights, the 22nd was under extreme big guns discharge from the Confederates. As indicated by the regimental history specialist, "the men intuitively turned their sides to the tempest" of projectiles, shot and shell as they progressed and losses were substantial. Their unit achieved Nagle's detachment and the 22nd soothed the twelfth Rhode Island, taking sanctuary on ground secured by that regiment's setbacks. Here the 22nd terminated in inclined position, depleting their ammo, shouting and perking to keep up their fearlessness. 

Around dusk, the 22nd was mitigated by the twentieth Maine. Falling back to an indented street on the edges of Fredericksburg, the 22nd was as yet presented to Confederate mounted guns and sought shelter as well as can be expected. Huge numbers of the regiment had discarded their haversacks with an end goal to help their weight before the charge and were consequently without nourishment. Amid the night, they turned to looking through the haversacks of fallen troopers for apportions. 

Just before first light on December 14, ammo was issued and the 22nd pushed ahead marginally, to about the situation on the open slant that they had involved the day preceding. Here they went through one more day stuck to the ground, unfit to progress or resign because of the consistent discharge of Confederate sharpshooters. Dusk at last brought help as another unit had their spot on the field and the 22nd resigned to the city of Fredericksburg. 

The 22nd spent the following day, December 15, in the city of Fredericksburg, hearing gossipy tidbits that Burnside expected to actually lead another strike on the statures. Be that as it may, no assault appeared, night came, and the V Corps crossed the boat connects back to Falmouth, with the 22nd going about as back watchman. Amid the skirmish of Frederickburg, the 22nd lost 12 murdered and 42 injured, approximately 28 percent setbacks. 

The 22nd set up winter camp on the edges of Falmouth, Virginia on December 22, 1862. The camp was situated about upper east of Stoneman's Station, presently known as Leeland Station. The men constructed unrefined log cabins with ad libbed stacks made of mud and sticks. Here the regiment would stay for around a half year amid the principal half of 1863. The camp was named "Camp Gove" out of appreciation for their fallen colonel. 

While at Camp Gove, the 22nd Massachusetts, with the remainder of the V Corps, was every now and again sent on undertakings of differing significance. On January 20, 1863, the regiment partook in the notorious Mud March amid which Burnside endeavored to assault the flank of the Confederate armed force which was still stayed at Fredericksburg. The streets were impassable to the point that the Union armed force hindered and the whole exertion was prematurely ended. The 22nd came back to Camp Gove five days after they left. 

The 22nd additionally took part, in a minor limit, in the Battle of Chancellorsville. On April 27, Brig. Gen. Charles Griffin's division, including the 22nd, was requested to verify the portages along the Rapidan River. It was a long, fast, constrained walk for the division. The Confederate armed force propelled a challenging and fruitful flank assault against the Army of the Potomac at Chancellorsville on May 2, 1863, amid which the 22nd saw little activity. The Union armed force, gravely crushed, withdrew back over the Rappahannock and the 22nd came back to Camp Gove on May 8. 

In late May, Colonel Tilton of the 22nd was elevated to the direction of the unit and Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Sherwin accepted order of the 22nd. 

On May 28, 1863, the 22nd Massachusetts pressed up and left Camp Gove. Their corps was sent along the Rappahannock, upriver of Fredericksburg, as a perception power to figure out what developments were being made by Lee's military. In this, they were fruitless. Lee's military disappeared from Fredericksburg on June 3 and started a long walk that would prompt an intrusion of Pennsylvania. The 22nd educated of Lee's developments on June 13 when the V Corps was requested to walk northward. At this point, the whole Army of the Potomac was moving. The two militaries would in the long run meet, right around three weeks after the fact, at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. 

By June 30, 1863, the 22nd had achieved Union Mills, Maryland following quite a while of hard walking. On July 1, they walked to Hanover, Pennsylvania, totally ignorant that components of the Army of the Potomac had drawn in the Confederates some away in the main day of battling amid the Battle of Gettysburg. Not long after they settled down through the night, orders sought them to walk. The 22nd, and the remainder of the V Corps, walked during that time to Gettysburg, achieving the fight around sunrise on July 2. The V Corps was positioned well behind the focal point of the Union lines, anticipating arrangement to one flank or the other. The men of the 22nd tumbled to the ground and got a couple of hours rest even as the second morning of fight seethed not a long way from their position. At Gettysburg, the regiment had just 67 men. 

At around 4 p.m., the V Corps was requested to progress in help of the III Corps. Barnes' division passed north of Little Round Top and conveyed only south of the Wheatfield along a little, stony slope inside sight of the Rose farmhouse which was straightforwardly in their front. Once conveyed, the warriors of the 22nd started to heap paper cartridges on the ground before them, detecting they would hold that ground for quite a while. 

As the III Corps withdrew, Tilton's unit was legitimately presented to the approaching Confederates. The 22nd was before long connected by Kershaw's detachment of South Carolinians. Clearly frightened by the unexpected Confederate development and seeing that his correct flank was uncovered, Brig. Gen. Barnes, the 22nd's division officer, requested the withdrawal of his division. The men of the 22nd got their cartridges and yielded the ground. This withdrawal back over the Wheatfield to Trostle's Farm left a hole in the Union line. Barnes and Tilton were both subject to much analysis from different officers on the field for this withdrawal, which Barnes clearly requested without counseling his bosses. The hole left by Barnes' division was in the long run filled by detachments of the II Corps after hard battling. The 22nd battled from their new position along a stone divider on Trostle's Farm and was in the end dismantled back toward the north side of Little Round Top by around 6 p.m. 

On the third and last day of the Battle of Gettysburg, the 22nd was posted in the gorge between Little Round Top and Big Round Top. The ground was intensely lush and rough. Here they heaped up stones and took cover from the Confederate sharpshooters in Devil's Den going to their front. The regiment stayed in this position while Pickett's Charge, Lee's ineffective endeavor to break Union lines, occurred well north of the 22nd's position. 

Amid the Battle of Gettysburg, the regiment endured 15 executed and 25 injured or 60 percent. As far as rates, this spoke to the regiment's most noteworthy number of losses in an individual fight. 

On September 9, 1863, the 22nd was fortified by 200 draftees, by and by handling good numbers. Amid the last 50% of 1863, the 22nd was associated with some minor commitment along the Rappahannock River including the Second Battle of Rappahannock Station and the Battle of Mine Run. No critical advancement was made by the Army of the Potomac that fall, and the 22nd subsided into a camp close Brandy Station, Virginia which they named "Camp Barnes" after their division leader who had been injured at Gettysburg. In March 1864, Col. Tilton was diminished of order of his detachment and came back to the direction of the 22nd Massachusetts. 

On April 30, 1864, the 22nd broke camp and walked southeast from Rappahannock Station. Lieutenant General Ulysses Grant had now expected order of Union powers as general-in-boss and albeit Major General George Meade stayed in order of the Army of the Potomac, Grant was resolved to pursue the military in the field, coordinating its developments. The subsequent crusade amid the spring of 1864 was known as the Overland Campaign and saw persistent assaults with respect to the Union armed force under Grant. The fortified 22nd started the crusade with around 300 men. By the end of the battle, the regiment would be decreased to around 100. 

Amid the Battle of the Wilderness on May 5– 6, 1864, the regiment lost 15 executed and 36 injured. The regiment was intensely occupied with the Battle of Spotsylvania on May 9– 10. On May 10, the 22nd was requested to take a line of rifle pits that had been deserted by Union troops and taken by the Confederates. The 22nd sent as skirmishers under the direction of Major Mason Burt and progressed under overwhelming flame. The regiment was fruitful in taking the Confederate position, however at a substantial expense of 17 murdered and 57 injured, almost 50 percent. Amid the Battles of North Anna and Totopotomoy Creek, the 22nd acted again as skirmishers, winning commendation for their moves ahead of time of their division. 

At this point, Grant had driven Lee's military south to inside of Richmond. The last attack of the Overland Campaign accompanied the Battle of Cold Harbor—various pointless endeavors by Grant through the span of June 1– 3 to break the vigorously settled in Confederate lines. The 22nd was dynamic amid every one of the three days of the fight, especially on June 3 when they were again conveyed as skirmishers before their detachment, presently told by Col. Jacob B. Sweitzer, in the region of Bethesda Church. Sweitzer's detachment, with the 22nd in the development, made a charge crosswise over open ground, pushing back the Confederate powers in their front. Amid the Battle of Cold Harbor, the 22nd lost 11 murdered and 11 injured, presently numbering under 100. 

Lee's military presently delved in around Petersburg, Virginia and the long Siege of Petersburg initiated with a few frontal attacks on the Confederate position. The 22nd participated in the strike on June 18, 1864. Again the regiment was sent as skirmishers before their unit. They were requested to take a gorge close by the Norfolk Railroad. Progressing at a keep running despite substantial canister fire, the 22nd achieved the gorge. Be that as it may, in that position they were exposed to extreme rifle and big guns discharge from the Confederates, thus they pushed forward to the Norfolk Railroad cut, constraining the Confederates back to their entrenchments. In the strike on Petersburg, the 22nd lost seven murdered and 14 injured. 

Amid the last piece of June 1864, the 22nd was walked to a few unique positions along the attack lines outside of Petersburg, hoping to take part in another ambush. At last, around June 30, 1864, the regiment was positioned in the channels and stayed there for about a month and a half. 

On August 8, 1864, the 22nd was pulled from the channels and posted on gatekeeper obligation at City Point, Virginia, the fundamental supply station of the Union armed force. Maj. Gen. Meade had explicitly mentioned a drained unit whose term of administration was about up for this obligation. They stayed there until October 3, their three years of administration having terminated. Those of the regiment who had decided to re-enroll, alongside the rest of the draftees who had joined the unit in 1863, were solidified with the 32nd Massachusetts. The rest of the men of the 22nd who had served their three years and did not wish to re-enroll, 125 in number, came back to Boston by railroad, touching base on October 10. After services in Boston, the regiment was formally summoned out on October 17, 1864. 

After the war, a few previous individuals from the 22nd Massachusetts proceeded to accomplish remarkable achievements in different fields. 

Congressperson Henry Wilson, originator of the unit, was outstanding amid the war for his abolitionist political position. After the war, he ended up one of the main Radical Republicans in Congress, squeezing for social equality for previous slaves and brutal treatment of previous Confederates. In 1872, that year he was chosen Vice-President under Ulysses Grant, Wilson distributed the main volume of his "History of the Rise and Fall of the Slave Power", a serious analysis of slave proprietors and their essential job, as per Wilson, in achieving the Civil War. 

Nelson A. Miles joined the 22nd Massachusetts as a first lieutenant yet was before long exchanged. In 1862, he moved toward becoming colonel of the 61st New York Infantry. After the war, Miles turned into a colonel in the Regular Army and relentlessly ascended through the positions, eventually turning into the Commanding General of the United States Army in 1895. 

Arthur Soden filled in as a clinic steward with the 22nd Massachusetts. After the war, he proceeded to turn into a compelling figure amid the developmental long stretches of Major League Baseball as leader of the Boston Red Stockings and, quickly, as the leader of the National League. 

Marshall S. Pike was an outstanding artist, writer and musician before the war. He filled in as drum major for the 22nd regimental band and was kidnapped at the skirmish of Gaines' Mill. After his discharge in December 1862, he was released and continued his vocation as a performer and lyricist. 

As the remaining parts of the regiment were on the way back to Boston in October 1864, the officers met to shape a regimental relationship to compose yearly reunions of the officers. These reunions were in the long run opened to enrolled men and the reunions turned out to be extensive occasions. In 1870, the regimental affiliation was all the more formally composed with the race of officers and the foundation of by-laws. Its motivation was "to save the history and sustain [the 22nd's] deeds and their men". The reunions were regularly held at the Parker House in Boston. The affiliation composed various undertakings to pay tribute to the 22nd's previous individuals including setting a bust of Henry Wilson in the Massachusetts State House and the development, in 1885, of the 22nd Massachusetts regimental landmark close to the Wheatfield on the Gettysburg front line. 

The 22nd Massachusetts is memorialized by a gathering of Civil War re-enactors, the 22nd Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, Inc., who depict Company D of the regiment at different city occasions, instructive projects, and Civil War re-authorizations. The gathering depends on the South Shore of Massachusetts.