Bengali language development 

The Bengali Language Movement ( "Bhasha Andolôn") was a political development in previous East Pakistan (as of now Bangladesh) pushing the acknowledgment of the Bengali language as an official language of the then-Dominion of Pakistan so as to permit its utilization in government issues, the continuation of its utilization as a vehicle of training, its utilization in media, money and stamps, and to keep up its writing in the Bengali content. 

At the point when the Dominion of Pakistan was shaped by the parcel of India in 1947, it was made out of different ethnic and semantic gatherings, with the geologically non-bordering East Bengal area (that was renamed in 1956 as East Pakistan) having an essentially Bengali populace. In 1948, the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan appointed Urdu as the sole national language, starting broad challenges among the Bengali-talking lion's share of East Bengal. Confronting rising partisan pressures and mass discontent with the new law, the legislature prohibited open gatherings and revitalizes. The understudies of the University of Dhaka and other political activists challenged the law and sorted out a dissent on 21 February 1952. The development achieved its peak when police killed understudy demonstrators on that day. The passings incited far reaching common agitation. Following quite a while of contention, the focal government yielded and conceded official status to the Bengali language in 1956. 

The Language Movement catalyzed the attestation of Bengali national character in East Bengal and later East Pakistan, and turned into a herald to Bengali patriot developments, including the 6-Point Movement and in this way the Bangladesh Liberation War and Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. In Bangladesh, 21 February ("Ekushey February") is seen as Language Movement Day, a national occasion. The Shaheed Minar landmark was built close Dhaka Medical College in memory of the development and its unfortunate casualties. In 1999, UNESCO pronounced 21 February as International Mother Language Day, in tribute to the Language Movement and the ethno-phonetic privileges of individuals around the globe. 

The present countries, Pakistan and Bangladesh, were a piece of a unified India amid the British pilgrim rule. From the mid-nineteenth century, the Urdu language had been advanced as the "most widely used language" of Indian Muslims by political and religious pioneers, for example, Sir Khwaja Salimullah, Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, Nawab Viqar-ul-Mulk and Maulvi Abdul Haq. Urdu is an Indo-Aryan language of the Indo-Iranian branch, having a place with the Indo-European group of dialects. It created under Persian, Arabic and Turkic impact on apabhramshas (last etymological phase of the medieval Indian Aryan language Pali-Prakrit) in South Asia amid the Delhi Sultanate and Mughal Empire. With its Perso-Arabic content, the language was viewed as an indispensable component of the Islamic culture for Indian Muslims; Hindi and the Devanagari content were viewed as essentials of Hindu culture. 

While the utilization of Urdu developed basic with Muslims in northern India, the Muslims of Bengal (an area in the eastern piece of British Indian sub-mainland) essentially utilized the Bengali language. Bengali is an Eastern Indo-Aryan language that emerged from the eastern Middle Indic dialects around 1000 CE and grew impressively amid the Bengal Renaissance. As ahead of schedule as the late nineteenth century, social activists, for example, the Muslim women's activist Roquia Sakhawat Hussain were writing in Bengali to contact the general population and create it as a cutting edge artistic language. Supporters of Bengali restricted Urdu even before the parcel of India, when delegates from Bengal dismissed making Urdu the most widely used language of Muslim India in the 1937 Lucknow session of the Muslim League. The Muslim League was a British Indian ideological group that turned into the main impetus behind the production of Pakistan as a Muslim state separate from British India. 

After the parcel of India in 1947, Bengali-talking individuals in East Bengal, the non-coterminous eastern piece of the Dominion of Pakistan, made up 44 million of the recently framed Dominion of Pakistan's 69 million individuals. The Dominion of Pakistan's legislature, common administrations, and military, in any case, were commanded by staff from the western wing of the Dominion of Pakistan. In 1947, a key goals at a national instruction summit in Karachi upheld Urdu as the sole state language, and its elite use in the media and in schools. Resistance and dissents emerged right away. Understudies from Dhaka mobilized under the authority of Abul Kashem, the secretary of Tamaddun Majlish, a Bengali Islamic social association. The gathering stipulated Bengali as an official language of the Dominion of Pakistan and as a vehicle of training in East Bengal. Be that as it may, the Pakistan Public Service Commission expelled Bengali from the rundown of affirmed subjects, just as from cash notes and stamps. The focal instruction serve Fazlur Rahman made broad arrangements to make Urdu the main state language of the Dominion of Pakistan. Open shock spread, and numerous Bengali understudies met on the University of Dhaka grounds on 8 December 1947 to formally request that Bengali be made an official language. To advance their motivation, Bengali understudies sorted out parades and revitalizes in Dhaka. 

Driving Bengali researchers contended why Urdu ought not be the main state language. The author Abul Mansur Ahmed said if Urdu turned into the state language, the informed society of East Bengal would progress toward becoming 'uneducated' and 'ineligible' for government positions. The first Rastrabhasa Sangram Parishad (National Language Action Committee), an association for Bengali as a state language was shaped towards the finish of December 1947. Educator Nurul Huq Bhuiyan of the Tamaddun Majlish assembled the board of trustees. Afterward, Parliament part Shamsul Huq assembled another advisory group to push for Bengali as a state language. Get together part Dhirendranath Datta proposed enactment in the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan to enable individuals to talk in Bengali and approve its utilization for authority purposes. Datta's proposition was bolstered by lawmakers Prem Hari Burman, Bhupendra Kumar Datta and Sris Chandra Chattaopadhyaya of East Bengal, just as the general population from the district. Head administrator Liaquat Ali Khan and the Muslim League reviled the proposition as an endeavor to partition the Pakistani individuals, along these lines the enactment was crushed. 

Understudies of the University of Dhaka and different schools of the city sorted out a general strike on 11 March 1948 to dissent the oversight of Bengali language from authority use, including coins, stamps and enrollment tests for the naval force. The development repeated the interest that Bengali be proclaimed an official language of the Dominion of Pakistan. Political pioneers, for example, Shamsul Huq, Shawkat Ali, M Sirajul Islam, Kazi Golam Mahboob, Oli Ahad, Abdul Wahed and others were captured amid the energizes. Rally pioneer Mohammad Toaha was hospitalized in the wake of endeavoring to grab a rifle from a cop. Understudy pioneers, including Abdul Matin and Abdul Malek Ukil participated in the parade. 

Toward the evening of 11 March, a gathering was held to challenge police mercilessness and captures. A gathering of understudies walking towards the central priest Khawaja Nazimuddin's home was ceased before the Dhaka High Court. The rally altered its course and moved toward the Secretariat building. Police assaulted the parade harming a few understudies and pioneers, including A. K. Fazlul Huq. Proceeding with strikes were watched the accompanying four days. Under such conditions, the main pastor Nazimuddin marked an understanding with the understudy heads consenting to certain terms and conditions, without going along to the interest that Bengali be made a state language. 

In the tallness of community agitation, Governor-General of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah touched base in Dhaka on 19 March 1948. On 21 March, at a urban gathering at Racecourse Ground, he asserted that the language issue was planned by a "fifth segment" to isolate Pakistani Muslims. Jinnah further pronounced that "Urdu, and just Urdu" exemplified the soul of Muslim countries and would stay as the state language, marking the individuals who couldn't help contradicting his perspectives as "Foes of Pakistan". Jinnah conveyed a comparative discourse at Curzon Hall of the University of Dhaka on 24 March. At the two gatherings, Jinnah was hindered by expansive portions of the crowd. He later assembled a conference of a state language board of trustees of activity, and overruled the agreement that was marked by Khawaja Nazimuddin with the understudy chiefs. Before Jinnah left Dhaka on 28 March, he conveyed a discourse on radio reasserting his "Urdu-just" approach. 

Presently, the East Bengal Language Committee, managed by Maulana Akram Khan, was framed by the East Bengal government to set up a report on the language issue. The Committee finished its report on 6 December 1950, however it was not distributed until 1958. The legislature recommended that Bengali be written in Arabic content, as a potential answer for the language strife. 

The Urdu-Bengali discussion was reignited when Jinnah's successor, senator general Khawaja Nazimuddin, staunchly shielded the "Urdu-just" arrangement in a discourse on 27 January 1952. On 31 January, the "Shorbodolio Kendrio Rashtrobhasha Kormi Porishod" (All-Party Central Language Action Committee) was framed in a gathering at the Bar Library Hall of the University of Dhaka, led by Maulana Bhashani. The focal government's proposition of composing the Bengali language in Arabic content was eagerly contradicted at the gathering. The activity board of trustees required a full scale dissent on 21 February, including strikes and revives. While trying to keep the exhibition, the legislature forced Section 144 in Dhaka, accordingly forbidding any social event. 

At nine o'clock in the first part of the day, understudies started assembling on the University of Dhaka premises in insubordination of Section 144. The college bad habit chancellor and different authorities were available as furnished police encompassed the grounds. By a quarter past eleven, understudies accumulated at the college door and endeavored to break the police line. Police shot nerve gas shells towards the entryway to caution the understudies. A segment of understudies kept running into the Dhaka Medical College while others revived towards the college premises cordoned by the police. The bad habit chancellor requested that police quit terminating and requested the understudies to leave the zone. Be that as it may, the police captured a few understudies for abusing area 144 as they endeavored to leave. Rankled by the captures, the understudies met around the East Bengal Legislative Assembly and obstructed the officials' way, requesting that they present their request at the gathering. At the point when a gathering of understudies looked to storm into the structure, police opened flame and executed various understudies, including Abdus Salam, Rafiq Uddin Ahmed, Abul Barkat and Abdul Jabbar. As the updates on the killings spread, issue ejected over the city. Shops, workplaces and open transport were closed down and a general strike started. At the gathering, six lawmakers including Manoranjan Dhar, Boshontokumar Das, Shamsuddin Ahmed and Dhirendranath Datta mentioned that main priest Nurul Amin visit injured understudies in clinic and that the get together be suspended as an indication of grieving. This movement was upheld by some treasury seat individuals including Maulana Abdur Rashid Tarkabagish, Shorfuddin Ahmed, Shamsuddin Ahmed Khondokar and Mosihuddin Ahmed. Be that as it may, Nurul Amin declined the solicitations. 

Turmoil spread over the territory as expansive parades disregarded area 144 and censured the activities of the police. In excess of 30,000 individuals congregated at Curzon Hall in Dhaka. Amid the proceeded with challenges, police activities prompted the passing of four additional individuals. This provoked officers and assistants from various associations, including schools, banks and the radio station, to blacklist workplaces and join the parade. Nonconformists consumed the workplaces of two driving master government news organizations, the "Celebration Press" and the "Morning News". Police terminated on a noteworthy "janaza", or grieving rally, as it was going through Nawabpur Road. The shooting slaughtered a few people including dissident Sofiur Rahman and a nine-year-old kid named Ohiullah. 

During that time of 23 February, understudies of Dhaka Medical College chipped away at the development of a "Shaheed Smritistombho", or Monument of Martyrs. Finished at first light on 24 February, the landmark had a manually written note appended to it with the words ""Shaheed Smritistombho"". Initiated by the dad of the killed lobbyist Sofiur Rahman, the landmark was devastated on 26 February by police. On 25 February, mechanical laborers in the town of Narayanganj watched a general strike. A challenge pursued on 29 February whose members confronted extreme police beating. 

The administration blue-penciled news reports and retained precise setback figures amid the challenges. Most star government media considered Hindus and socialists in charge of empowering the turmoil and understudy agitation. The groups of Abul Barkat and Rafiq Uddin Ahmed attempted to accuse the police of homicide, yet the charges were expelled by the police. On 8 April government report on the occurrences neglected to demonstrate a specific legitimization for police firings on the understudies. At the point when the constituent get together reconvened on 14 April, procedures were slowed down by individuals from the Muslim League when officials from East Bengal looked to raise the language issue. 

In spite of the fact that the Language Movement is considered to have established the frameworks for ethnic patriotism in a significant number of the Bengalis of East Bengal and later East Pakistan, it additionally increased the social ill will between the specialists of the two wings of Pakistan. In the western wing of the Dominion of Pakistan, the development was viewed as a sectional uprising against Pakistani national interests. The dismissal of the "Urdu-just" arrangement was viewed as a negation of the Perso-Arabic culture of Muslims and the establishing belief system of Pakistan, the two-country hypothesis. The absolute most dominant lawmakers from the western wing of Pakistan looked at Urdu as a result of Indian Islamic culture, yet considered Bengali to be a piece of "Hinduized" Bengali culture. Most remained by the "Urdu" approach since they trusted that just a solitary language, one that was not indigenous to Pakistan, should fill in as the national language. This sort of reasoning likewise incited significant resistance in the western wing, wherein there existed a few phonetic gatherings. As late as in 1967, military despot Ayub Khan stated, "East Bengal is ... still under extensive Hindu culture and impact." 

The "Shorbodolio Kendrio Rashtrobhasha Kormi Porishod", with help from the Awami Muslim League, chose to recognize 21 February as "Shohid Dibosh" . On the main commemoration of the challenges, individuals crosswise over East Bengal wore dark identifications in solidarity with the people in question. Most workplaces, banks and instructive establishments were shut to watch the event. Understudy bunches made concurrences with school and police authorities to protect peace. In excess of 100,000 individuals collected at an open gathering held in Dhaka, where network pioneers required the prompt arrival of Maulana Bhashani and other political detainees. In any case, West Pakistani legislators, for example, Fazlur Rahman bothered sectional strains by announcing that any individual who needed Bengali to turn into an official language would be considered an "adversary of the state". Bengali understudies and regular people defied the confinements to praise the commemoration of the challenges. Exhibits broke out the evening of 21 February 1954 with different lobbies of the University of Dhaka bringing dark banners up in grieving. 

Political pressures reached a critical stage as races to the commonplace get together of East Bengal were held in 1954. The decision Muslim League impugned the resistance United Front alliance, which—driven by A. K. Fazlul Huq and the Awami League—needed more prominent common self-rule. A few United Front pioneers and activists were captured. A gathering of parliament's Muslim League individuals, led by leader Muhammad Ali Bogra, set out to give official acknowledgment to Bengali. This choice was trailed by a noteworthy influx of distress as other ethnic gatherings looked for acknowledgment of other territorial dialects. Defenders of Urdu, for example, Maulvi Abdul Haq sentenced any proposition to concede official status to Bengali. He drove a rally of 100,000 individuals to challenge the Muslim League's choice. Thus, the usage fizzled and the United Front won a larger part of seats in the authoritative get together, while the portrayal of the Muslim League was decreased to a memorable low. 

The United Front service requested the formation of the Bangla Academy to advance, create, and protect Bengali language, writing, and legacy. Notwithstanding, the United Front principle was transitory, as Governor General Ghulam Muhammad dropped the legislature and began Governor's standard on 30 May 1954. The United Front again shaped the service on 6 June 1955 after the representative's routine finished. The Awami League did not partake in this service however. 

Following the arrival of the United Front to control, the commemoration on 21 February 1956 was watched without precedent for a quiet climate. The Government upheld a noteworthy undertaking to build another Shaheed Minar. The session of the constituent get together was ceased for five minutes to express sympathy for the understudies killed in the police shootings. Significant energizes were sorted out by Bengali pioneers and every single open office and organizations stayed shut. 

On 7 May 1954, the constituent get together settled, with the Muslim League's help, to allow official status to Bengali. Bengali was perceived as the second official language of Pakistan on 29 February 1956, and article 214(1) of the constitution of Pakistan was rephrased to "The state language of Pakistan will be Urdu and Bengali." 

Be that as it may, the military government framed by Ayub Khan influenced endeavors to re-to set up Urdu as the sole national language. On 6 January 1959, the military routine issued an official proclamation and reestablished the official position of supporting the 1956 constitution's arrangement of two state dialects. 

Outside East Bengal, development for equivalent status of Bengali additionally occurred in the Indian territory of Assam. On 19 May 1961, 11 Bengalis were slaughtered in police terminating in Silchar Railway Station, Assam, while requesting state acknowledgment of Bengali language. In this manner, Bengali was given co-official status in the three Bengali-dominant part locale of Assam. 

In spite of the fact that the subject of authority dialects was settled by 1956, the military routine of Ayub Khan advanced the interests of West Pakistan to the detriment of East Pakistan. Notwithstanding shaping most of the national populace, the East Pakistani populace kept on being under-spoken to in the common and military administrations, and got a minority of state financing and other government help. This was basically because of absence of delegate government in the youngster state. For the most part because of territorial monetary lopsided characteristics sectional divisions developed, and support for the Bengali ethnic patriot Awami League, which summoned the 6-point development for more noteworthy commonplace self-governance. One interest was that East Pakistan be classified "Bangladesh" (Land/Country of Bengal), which in this way prompted the Bangladesh Liberation War. 

The Language Movement had a noteworthy social effect on Bengali society. It has propelled the improvement and festivity of the Bengali language, writing and culture. 21 February, celebrated as Language Movement Day or "Shohid Dibosh" (Martyrs' Day), is a noteworthy national occasion in Bangladesh. A month-long occasion called the Ekushey Book Fair is held each year to honor the development. "Ekushey Padak", one of the most astounding regular citizen grants in Bangladesh, is granted every year in memory of the penances of the development. Tunes, for example, Abdul Gaffar Choudhury's "Ekusher Gaan", set to music by Shaheed Altaf Mahmud, just as plays, masterpieces and verse assumed an extensive job in animating the general population's feelings amid the development. Since the occasions of February 1952, lyrics, tunes, books, plays, movies, kid's shows and works of art were made to catch the development from changed purpose of perspectives. Remarkable aesthetic delineations incorporate the sonnets "Bornomala, Amar Dukhini Bornomala" and "February 1969" by Shamsur Rahman, the film "Jibon Theke Neya" by Zahir Raihan, the stage play "Kobor" by Munier Chowdhury and the books "Ekushey February" by Raihan and "Artonaad" by Shawkat Osman. 

Two years after the main landmark was demolished by the police, another "Shaheed Minar" (Monument of Martyrs) was developed in 1954 to celebrate the nonconformists who lost their lives. Work on a bigger landmark planned by the modeler Hamidur Rahman started in 1957 with the help of the United Front service. Hamidur Rahman's model comprised of an expansive complex in the yard of the Dhaka Medical College Hostel. The plan incorporated a half-round section symbolizing a mother with her martyred children remaining at the dais in the focal point of the landmark. In spite of the fact that the inconvenience of military law in 1958 interfered with the work, the landmark was finished and initiated on 21 February 1963 by Abul Barkat's mom, Hasina Begum. Pakistani powers devastated the landmark amid the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, yet the Bangladeshi government recreated it in 1973. Ekushey Television, the principal private earthly TV station of Bangladesh was named after the Event of 21 February. 

The conditions of West Bengal and Tripura in India additionally pursue and commend the Day by paying tribute to the unrecognized yet truly great individuals. Besides, all the bengalees in India and abroad commend the Day for the penance of lives only for the First language. 

Bangladesh authoritatively sent a proposition to UNESCO to pronounce 21 February as International Mother Language Day. The proposition was upheld collectively at the 30th General Conference of UNESCO hung on 17 November 1999.