Task Copperhead 

Task Copperhead was a little military double dealing activity kept running by the British amid the Second World War. It framed piece of Operation Bodyguard, the spread arrangement for the attack of Normandy in 1944, and was expected to misdirect German insight with regards to the area of General Bernard Montgomery. The activity was brought about by Dudley Clarke in mid 1944 after he watched the film "Five Graves to Cairo". Following the war M. E. Clifton James composed a book about the task, "I Was Monty's Double". It was later adjusted into a film, with James in the number one spot job. 

The German central leadership anticipated Montgomery (a standout amongst the best-known Allied administrators) to assume a key job in any cross-channel bridgehead. Clarke and the other misdirection organizers contemplated that a prominent appearance outside the United Kingdom would propose that an Allied attack was not unavoidable. A fitting twin was discovered, M. E. Clifton James, who went through a brief span with Montgomery to acquaint himself with the general's quirks. On 26 May 1944, James flew first to Gibraltar and after that to Algiers, showing up where the Allies knew German knowledge specialists would spot him. He at that point flew subtly to Cairo and stayed secluded from everything until Montgomery's open appearance in Normandy following the attack. 

The activity did not seem to have any critical effect on German plans and was not announced high up the hierarchy of leadership. It was executed some time before D-Day, and amidst a few other Allied misleadings. German insight may have suspected a trap, or not credited much significance to the visit. 

In anticipation of the 1944 attack of Normandy, the Allied countries led a mind boggling arrangement of misdirections under the codename Bodyguard. The general point of the arrangement was to befuddle the German central leadership with regards to the definite area and timing of the intrusion. Critical time was spent developing the First United States Army Group, a notional armed force to compromise Pas de Calais, alongside political and visual duplicities to impart an anecdotal Allied fight plan. Copperhead was a little part of Bodyguard brought about by Dudley Clarke. Prior in the war Clarke had spearheaded the possibility of key double dealing, framing a duplicity office in Cairo named 'A' Force. Clarke and 'A' Force were not authoritatively responsible for Bodyguard arranging (a job that tumbled to the London Controlling Section), but since of the area of the duplicity the Cairo organizers sorted out a significant part of the task. 

On a visit to Naples in January 1944 Clarke had seen the film "Five Graves to Cairo", in which on-screen character Miles Mander shows up as Bernard Montgomery. The film includes one character imitating another and Clarke recommended endeavoring a similar trap, all things considered. He proposed an activity to misdirect German authorities as to Montgomery's area in the days preceding the Normandy arrivals (codenamed Operation Neptune). 

Montgomery was a standout amongst the most noticeable Allied leaders and the German central leadership anticipated that him should be available for any intrusion of France. Clarke trusted Montgomery's obvious nearness in Gibraltar and Africa would loan backing to the possibility that the Allies may design arrivals in southern France, as a component of Operation Vendetta, instead of over the Channel. While in London, in February 1944, Clarke, the London Controlling Section and Ops (B) drafted Copperhead in help of Vendetta. 

Mander, the on-screen character from "Five Graves to Cairo", was situated in Hollywood however observed to be excessively tall, all things considered. Another twin was distinguished however before he could be drafted into the activity he broke a leg in a motorbike mishap. In the long run, Lieutenant-Colonel J. V. B. Jervis-Reid, head of Ops (B), detected a photo of Meyrick Clifton James in the "News Chronicle". James, an Australian, had gone through 25 years as a performer before the war, and at the time was allocated to the Royal Army Pay Corps. Colonel David Niven, an outstanding British performer, was approached to contact James and offer him a screen test for future armed force films. When he touched base at the gathering, James was told his actual job. 

James was not an ideal remain in for Montgomery. He had lost a finger amid the First World War, so a prosthetic must be made. He had additionally never flown, so the London Controlling Section's Dennis Wheatley took James up for an experimental drill to ensure he didn't experience the ill effects of motion illness. At long last, James both drank vigorously and smoked stogies, while Montgomery was a nondrinker and detested smoking. The misdirection organizers were concerned that James may be spotted drinking, ruining the execution. Regardless of these hitches, and with Montgomery's endorsement, the arrangement went ahead. To get into character, James invested some energy with the general, acting like a columnist, to examine his characteristics. 

Unified backstabbers utilized their twofold operator system to flow the possibility that Montgomery would order ground powers amid the intrusion. At that point, on 26 May 1944, James flew medium-term from RAF Northolt to Gibraltar, where the Germans kept up a perception post ignoring the air terminal from over the Spanish outskirt. The plane needed to hover for an hour prior to arriving to permit James, who had snuck a jug of gin onto the flight, to calm down. He at that point went to breakfast with the British representative, Sir Ralph Eastwood, before withdrawing again for the landing strip. The Allies had orchestrated Ignacio Molina Pérez, a Spanish emissary known to be a German covert agent, to visit Government House. In the wake of watching James' flight, Pérez briskly crossed the fringe to ring his German handler. 

James at that point traveled to Algiers, where he was freely marched through the air terminal and headed to meet General Maitland Wilson, apparently for a gathering to examine activities against the south of France. Rather, he was moved discreetly to a remote estate by 'A' Force's Rex Hamer. Bits of gossip recommend this was on the grounds that James had been spotted smoking and stunning around Algiers, so the swindlers chose to stop his appearances. Whatever the reason, the following day, unusual, James was traveled to Cairo. He was to stay covered up there until the open revelation of Montgomery's quality in France. In the mean time, twofold operators in North Africa were utilized to broaden the disguise for a couple of more days, by implying Montgomery was still in the area. 

The effect of Copperhead is vague. The visit was accounted for up the German levels of leadership, and some twofold operators later gotten solicitations for data about Montgomery's developments. There is no sign that Montgomery's appearance influenced German perspectives on the fast approaching intrusion danger. Writing in 2011, history specialist Joshua Levine ascribes this to the way that the double dealing was completed ten days before D-Day, contending that there would be no explanation behind a flying visit to North Africa to block a fast approaching attack. 

Another factor was that, toward the beginning of May 1944, an uncontrolled specialist situated in Spain (who sold anecdotal insight to the Germans) had passed on subtleties of a gathering in Gibraltar between a few high-positioning Allied officers. Archives found after the war show that the Germans discovered this data suspect, and may have regarded Montgomery's appearance as similarly so. Albeit twofold operators got a few earnest solicitations from the Abwehr about his whereabouts it doesn't create the impression that this data was passed on to the German order in France. As indicated by caught adversary commanders, German insight trusted that it was Montgomery, however despite everything they speculated that it was a bluff. The Bodyguard duplicity had confounded the German direction as to Allied goals and the evident landing of Montgomery in Gibraltar added little to the image. 

James did not appreciate the experience. Despite the fact that he got comparable pay (£10 every day) to Montgomery amid the activity, it had been an upsetting task. Following Montgomery's open appearance on the Normandy foothold, James flew back to England and continued his job inside the Pay Corps and was cautioned not to examine the task. Dennis Wheatley, in his diaries, remarked that he felt James had been dealt with "pitifully" for his endeavors. 

In 1954 James composed a record of the activity, entitled "I Was Monty's Double" (distributed in the United States as "The Counterfeit General"). The British government made no endeavor to stop production, and in 1958 the book was adjusted into a film of a similar name. James featured, both as himself and Montgomery, close by John Mills as a knowledge specialist.