Today (The Smashing Pumpkins tune) 

"Today" is a tune by American elective musical crew The Smashing Pumpkins, composed by lead vocalist and guitarist Billy Corgan. The tune, however apparently playful, contains dull verses. Corgan composed the melody about multi day in which he was having self-destructive contemplations, exemplified by the reference to self-mutilation in the extension ("Pink strip scars /that never forget /I attempted so hard /to wash down these second thoughts"). The differentiation between the terrible topic of the tune and the delicate instrumental part amid the sections, combined with utilization of incongruity in the verses, left numerous audience members uninformed of the tune's story of sorrow and distress. The melody switches back and forth between tranquil, fantastic sections and uproarious chorales with layered, mutilated guitar. 

"Today" was discharged in September 1993 as the second single from the band's second collection and significant mark debut, "Siamese Dream". In spite of the fact that Corgan settled on "Seraph Rock", the lead single from the collection, to be the opening track, "Today" and its follow-up "Incapacitate" are credited in AllMusic for advancing the band and "sen[ding] ["Siamese Dream"] into the stratosphere". "Today" has been commonly generally welcomed by faultfinders; a "Blender" article portrayed it as having "accomplished a surprising status as one of the characterizing melodies of its age, impeccably reflecting the broke estrangement of American youth during the 1990s". 

After the discharge and minor accomplishment of the band's introduction collection, "Gish", The Smashing Pumpkins were being advertised as "the following Nirvana". In any case, the band was encountering a few challenges at the time. Drummer Jimmy Chamberlin was experiencing an inexorably serious dependence on heroin; James Iha and D'arcy Wretzky had as of late separated their sentimental relationship; and Billy Corgan had turned out to be overweight, discouraged to the point of pondering suicide, and tormented by a mental obstacle. Corgan reviewed that "after the primary collection, I turned out to be totally self-destructive. It was an eight-month gloom, plus or minus a month, and I was entirely self-destructive for around a few months." Under the weight and different intricacies, the Pumpkins entered the Triclops Sound Studios in Atlanta to record the follow-up to "Gish". 

"Today" was the primary melody Corgan composed for "Siamese Dream". Corgan stated, "The day after I composed 'Today', my administrator heard it and stated, 'It's a hit', and I surmise as it were, it was." Corgan played oneself recorded demo to maker Butch Vig and to the remainder of his band, every one of whom reacted emphatically. "Today" as of now had a harmony movement and a tune, however Corgan felt there should have been an opening riff to the melody. At some point, "all of a sudden, I heard the opening lick note for note in my mind", Corgan said. "When I included the opening riff, it totally changed the character of the tune. All of a sudden, I had a melody that was beginning calm and after that got extremely uproarious." Soon a short time later, Virgin Records officials were sent to determine the status of the band subsequent to finding out about their issues, however were satisfied with the demo. The response from the officials just served to put more weight on Corgan; subsequently, he recorded the majority of the guitar and bass parts himself, including on the completed variant of "Today". 

"Siamese Dream" was finished in the wake of pursuing four months the due date and extensively surpassing its financial plan. Virgin Records officials considered "Today" to be the perfect lead single, yet Corgan needed "Angel Rock", one of the last melodies composed for the collection, as the lead single. Eventually, "Seraph Rock" was discharged first, yet it was just an unassuming achievement. "Today" brought the band prevalence through wide radio airplay and an effective music video. 

"Today" is written in the key of E-level real (E) and played in standard tuning. While Corgan quickly considered basically tuning the guitar down a half-advance and playing the melody as though it were in the key of E, he stated, "There was something about the E voicing that I enjoyed. So it's totally, deliberately in E, not E." "Today" is one of the "Siamese Dream" tunes on which Corgan took over Iha and D'arcy's obligations on guitar and bass to guarantee quality; Wretzky later expressed that Corgan "can accomplish something in three takes where it would possibly take me 20". 

The tune, crossing three minutes and 21 seconds, starts with a one-measure opening guitar riff that suggests the E major-pentatonic scale. Corgan utilizes this riff (alongside minor departure from it) to stress certain parts and to show moves in the melody. After the riff is played multiple times, the remainder of the band enters sponsored with criticism driven guitars. Ned Raggett of Allmusic remarked on the tune's capacity to "switch back and forth between more quiet, nearly Cure-like areas and the more intense crunches, [and Corgan's] prospective trademark guitar style taking My Bloody Valentine's very own entrancing riffing to progressively available outcomes". The chorale, comprising of various guitar tracks playing barre harmonies, is a case of the band's propensity to overdub a few mood guitar tracks. While the tune does exclude a standard guitar solo, a short melodic guitar part shows up amid the extension. Corgan clarified: "The little guitar break over the C harmony is really an advances test that we laid in reverse. At that point there's a strange vocal impact that moves over the speakers, a 'yan-yan-yan-yan' thing, which was created by utilizing a Roland Space Echo to recover on the final expression of the vocal line, 'I wanna turn you on. 

The dim, amusing verses of "Today", portraying multi day when Corgan was feeling discouraged and self-destructive, stand out from the instrumentation. Michael Snyder of the "San Francisco Chronicle" said that the melody is "out and out beautiful as shake anthems go" yet that "Corgan figures out how to pass on the thrill and unfortunate discharge he looks for." Corgan told "Moving Stone" that "I was truly suicidal ... I just idea it was entertaining to compose a tune that said today is the best day of your life since it can't deteriorate." Corgan later looked at composing the verses of "Today" and "Incapacitate" to "tearing [his] guts out". They played the tune live out of the blue on September 20, 1993, on "Late Night with David Letterman". 

The music video, coordinated by Stéphane Sednaoui, conveyed significantly more standard accomplishment to the band through rehashed airplay on MTV. The video appeared in September 1993. It was shot with low quality photographic hardware, which, similar to a few other early Pumpkins recordings, was a deliberate expressive choice. Corgan said that the plot of the video was motivated by a memory he had of a dessert truck driver who, after leaving his place of employment, gave out his staying load of frozen yogurt to the area youngsters. This picture was then merged with Sednaoui's own sensibilities enlivened by the film "Zabriskie Point". The video is accessible on "The Smashing Pumpkins – Greatest Hits Video Collection (1991– 2000)" DVD, discharged in 2001. 

The video starts with Corgan perusing a comic book wearing a frozen yogurt man uniform. A clasp of the introduction to the melody is played and halted over and again before the tune starts. Gatherings of at least two individuals are kissing each other around Corgan as he drives in a dessert van through a desert. Corgan gets a dress-wearing Iha and the two drive for some time before halting at a service station, where Chamberlin and Wretzky show up as gas orderlies. After Iha changes into a yellow and white cattle rustler outfit, the band paints the van in a huge number of hues. More individuals are appeared in the slopes as the band heads out from the corner store in the van. Notwithstanding, Corgan is at last kicked out of the van, and the video closes with Corgan strolling off the street wearing a cowhand cap as the van heads out. The video was shot on August 29, 1993. The opening shots were taped outside the Taft Hardware • Wilsons building situated at 331 Center Street, Taft, CA, 93268, on the fourth road side of the structure. 

"Today" has gotten commonly positive audits. Ned Raggett of AllMusic considered the tune a "without a moment's delay raging yet infectious crush single". Johnny Black of "Blender" noticed that the melody "has accomplished a surprising status as one of the characterizing tunes of its age". Robert Christgau refered to "Today" as one of the features of "Siamese Dream". Notwithstanding, "Stylus Magazine"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Brett Hickman said "nothing can make 'Today' solid new once more. This is a prime case of the power that radio and MTV have in destroying an extraordinary melody." "Today" topped "Eye Weekly" magazine's year-end rundown of best singles, and furthermore showed up at number 32 on "NME"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s year-end rundown of best singles. 

"Today" was a standout amongst the best early singles by The Smashing Pumpkins, and moreover has been perceived as one of the melodies that carried the Pumpkins into the standard. The tune was, at the season of its discharge, the most noteworthy graphing melody by the band, cresting at number four on the "Board" Modern Rock Tracks. The melody additionally achieved a pinnacle position of number 28 on the "Announcement" Mainstream Rock Tracks, and was one of the primary Pumpkins tunes to diagram in the UK, topping at number 44. "Today" was later called one of the "hits that took the cool elective band into arena shake an area" by the BBC's Dan Tallis in a survey of the band's most noteworthy hits collection, "Spoiled Apples", and comparatively alluded to as the "Crushing Pumpkins' celebrity lane to the celebrated fraternity places of elective shake radio" by Nick Sylvester of Pitchfork Media. 

"Today" has showed up on a few Smashing Pumpkins official discharges, including the band's most prominent hits collection "Spoiled Apples" and the crate set "Siamese Singles". A live form of "Today" performed in the band's main residence of Chicago was incorporated on the 1994 video discharge "Vieuphoria" and on its buddy collection "Earphoria", and was lauded as "a triumphant chronicle" by Pitchfork's Chris Dahlen. An alternate live account from Chicago shows up on the special collection "Live in Chicago 23.10.95" and the melody is included on 14 volumes of "Live Smashing Pumpkins". The tune has likewise showed up in various forms on a few Smashing Pumpkins bootlegs, for example, "Unplugged: 100% Pure Acoustic Performances", which incorporates informal live accounts and acoustic chronicles. 

"Today" has been incorporated into a couple of arrangement collections. The eighteenth volume of "Outside the box Top 20", a "Tune Maker"- supported assemblage arrangement which fills in as a "period case of U.K. independent music", highlights "Today" as its fourth track. The tune shows up on a two-plate MTV Dutch import, "Shake Am Ring", a gathering of hit singles from the mid 1990s. 

The tune has been secured for a few tribute collections. "A Gothic– Industrial Tribute to Smashing Pumpkins" includes a move music-affected variant of the tune by modern band Shining. Solomon Burke Jr., the child of persuasive soul performer Solomon Burke, contributed a "profoundly modified" interpretation of "Today" for "", playing out the tune in a Motown style. Different fronts of "Today" for tribute collections incorporate exhibitions by Armor for Sleep on "" and by Death Rawk Boy on "Apparition Children /Friends and Enemies". The fundamental guitar entry was additionally examined by Japanese hip-jump act Dragon Ash in its tune "Thankful Days". It was secured by John Craigie on his collection "Abandon the Fire". Deerhunter reinterpreted the melody live in 2015, after a legitimate question between frontman Bradford Cox and Corgan, "changing the tune's opening riff into a 10-minute commotion pop spontaneous creation".