Solomon P. Sharp 

Solomon Porcius Sharp (August 22, 1787 – November 7, 1825) was an American lawyer and legislator, filling in as lawyer general of Kentucky and an individual from the United States Congress and the Kentucky General Assembly. His homicide by Jereboam O. Beauchamp in 1825 is alluded to as the Beauchamp– Sharp Tragedy or "The Kentucky Tragedy." 

Sharp started his political vocation speaking to Warren County, in the Kentucky House of Representatives. He quickly served in the War of 1812, at that point came back to Kentucky and was chosen to the U.S. Place of Representatives in 1813. He was re-chosen to a second term, however his help of a questionable bill with respect to administrator pay rates cost him his seat in 1816. Aligned with Kentucky's Debt Relief Party, he came back to the Kentucky House in 1817; in 1821, he acknowledged Governor John Adair's arrangement to the post of Attorney General of Kentucky. Adair's successor, Joseph Desha, re-designated him to this position. In 1825, Sharp surrendered as lawyer general to come back to the Kentucky House. 

In 1820, gossipy tidbits surfaced that Sharp had fathered a stillborn ill-conceived youngster with Anna Cooke, a grower's little girl. Sharp denied the charge, and the prompt political impacts were negligible. At the point when the charges were continued amid Sharp's 1825 General Assembly crusade, adversaries advanced the claim that the youngster was a mulatto. Regardless of whether Sharp made such a case, or whether it was gossip begun by his political foes, stays in uncertainty. Jereboam Beauchamp, who had hitched Cooke in 1824, vindicated the respect of his better half by lethally cutting Sharp at his home from the get-go the morning of November 7, 1825. Sharp's homicide motivated anecdotal works, most strikingly Edgar Allan Poe's incomplete play "Politian" and Robert Penn Warren's tale "World Enough and Time" (1950). 

Solomon Sharp was conceived on August 22, 1787, at Abingdon, Washington County, Virginia. He was the fifth kid and third child of Captain Thomas and Jean (Maxwell) Sharp, a Scottish lady. Through the male line he was an incredible extraordinary grandson of John Sharp, Archbishop of York. His dad Thomas Sharp was a veteran of the Revolutionary War, taking an interest in the Battle of King's Mountain. The family quickly moved to the region close Nashville, Tennessee, and to North Carolina, before settling for all time around 1795 at Russellville, Logan County, where they lived in a log lodge close to the Muddy River. 

Sharp "[intermittently attended] one of Logan County's foundations" amid his youth years; the schools of Logan County were crude at that point. He read the law and was admitted to the bar in 1806. He opened a training in Russellville, yet before long moved to the busier Warren County seat of Bowling Green, which had 154 occupants in 1810. He occupied with land theory, in some cases in organization with his sibling, Dr. Leander Sharp, and by 1824, had gained 11,000 sections of land, generally north of the Barren River in Warren County. 

In the wake of getting built up, on December 17, 1818, Sharp at 31 years old wedded Eliza T. Scott, the girl of a doctor who had filled in as an officer in the War of 1812. She was from Frankfort or more him in social standing. They had three kids together. He moved the family to the state capital of Frankfort in 1820 for his political profession. 

In 1809, Sharp was chosen to speak to Warren County in the Kentucky House of Representatives. Amid his residency, he bolstered the governing body's race of Henry Clay to the U.S. Senate, the production of a state lottery, and the making of a foundation in Barren County. He served on various boards of trustees, and for a period, filled in as between time speaker of the house amid the General Assembly's second session. He was re-chosen in 1810 and 1811. By 1810, the province had almost 12,000 occupants. Amid the 1811 session, Sharp worked with Ben Hardin to verify section of a bill to guarantee that state officers and lawyers at law would not be engaged with dueling. He likewise contradicted a measure permitting harsher treatment of slaves. 

Sharp's political administration was hindered by the War of 1812. On September 18, 1812, he enrolled as a private in the Kentucky local army, serving under Lieutenant Colonel Young Ewing. After twelve days, in a quick ascent notwithstanding for the state army, he was elevated to major and made a piece of Ewing's staff. Ewing's unit was put under the order of general Samuel Hopkins amid his insufficient campaign against the Shawnee. Altogether, the endeavor kept going forty-two days and never connected with the foe. Sharp perceived the estimation of a record of military administration in Kentucky governmental issues, be that as it may; he was in the end was elevated to the position of colonel. 

In 1812, Sharp was chosen to the Thirteenth Congress as an individual from the United States House of Representatives and sat down at 25 years old, the base for race. Lining up with the War Hawks, he guarded President James Madison's choice to lead the nation into the war, and bolstered a proposition to offer of land to any British weaklings. Sharp likewise "[passionately denounced] Federalist obstacle of the war exertion". In a discourse on April 8, 1813, he restricted repayment for those cheated in the Yazoo land outrage in Mississippi. He aligned with South Carolina's John C. Calhoun in supporting the Second Bank of the United States. 

Sharp was re-chosen to the Fourteenth Congress, amid which he filled in as executive of the Committee on Private Land Claims. He upheld the questionable Compensation Act of 1816 supported by individual Kentuckian Richard Mentor Johnson. The measure, which paid Congressmen a level pay as opposed to paying them once a day for the days when they were in session, was disliked with the voters of his region. At the point when the following congressional session opened in December 1816, Sharp turned around his position and casted a ballot to revoke the law, however the harm was at that point done; he lost his seat in the House in the following race. 

In 1817, Sharp was again chosen to the Kentucky House of Representatives. Amid his term, he bolstered measures for inner enhancements, however contradicted the production of a state wellbeing board and a proposition to open the state's empty terrains to the widows and vagrants of troopers murdered in the War of 1812. Most strikingly, he upheld the production of 46 new banks in the state, and proposed a duty on the parts of the Bank of the United States in Lexington and Louisville. 

In May or June 1820, Anna Cooke, an unmarried grower's girl in her mid 30s, guaranteed that Sharp was the dad of her ill-conceived tyke; Sharp denied her case. The stillborn youngster was reputed to have dull skin, and some guessed that it was a mulatto, with a dark dad. After her dad's passing and the clearance of their manor in Fairfax County, Virginia, Cooke had moved with her mom and kin to Warren County somewhere in the range of 1805 and 1810, when she may have met Sharp. Notwithstanding losing the kid, Cooke endured the passings of three of her five siblings somewhere in the range of 1818 and 1821. 

The outrage before long lessened for Sharp, as Anna had a notoriety for being "a freethinker, peruser of sentimental fiction, and a profligate". Albeit Sharp's political adversaries would keep on pointing out his putative kid in future crusades, his notoriety remained to a great extent clean. 

In 1821, Sharp started a battle for a seat in the Kentucky Senate. His adversary, lawyer John U. Waring, was a quite rough and quarrelsome man, as often as possible in court as a result of fights. (In 1835, he shot and slaughtered the lawyer Samuel Q. Richardson). 

Waring sent two undermining letters to Sharp, and on June 18, 1821, distributed a handbill assaulting Sharp's character. After five days, Sharp stopped battling for the senatorial seat. He acknowledged an arrangement by Governor John Adair to the situation of lawyer general of Kentucky. Sharp's assignment was consistently affirmed by the governing body on October 30, 1821. 

Sharp got down to business at a basic time Kentucky's history. As yet reeling from the money related Panic of 1819, state lawmakers had part into two camps: the individuals who bolstered enactment positive to indebted individuals (the Debt Relief Party) and the individuals who supported the insurance of loan bosses (ordinarily called Anti-Reliefers.) Sharp hosted related to the Relief Gathering, as had Governor Adair. 

In the 1824 presidential decision, Sharp estranged a portion of his voting demographic by supporting his previous House associate John C. Calhoun rather than Kentucky's most loved child, Henry Clay. When unmistakably Calhoun's offered would flop, Sharp advocated Andrew Jackson. He filled in as secretary of a gathering of Jackson supporters in Frankfort on October 2, 1824. 

After Governor Adair's term lapsed in 1825, he was prevailing by another Relief Party part, General Joseph Desha. Desha and Sharp had been partners in Congress, and Desha re-delegated Sharp as lawyer general. The Relief group in the council passed a few estimates positive to account holders, yet the Kentucky Court of Appeals struck them down as unlawful. Unfit to gather the votes to evacuate the unfriendly judges on the Court of Appeals, Relief partisans in the General Assembly passed enactment to nullify the whole court and make another one, which Governor Desha speedily loaded with thoughtful judges. For a period, two courts guaranteed expert as Kentucky's court after all other options have run out; this period was alluded to as the Old Court-New Court debate. 

Sharp's job in the Relief Party's arrangement to cancel the old court and supplant it with another, increasingly positive court isn't known. As he was the organization's boss lawful insight, students of history trust he was firmly included. He is known to have issued the request for Old Court agent Achilles Sneed to turn over his records to New Court representative Francis P. Blair. By rehearsing as state lawyer general under the steady gaze of the New Court to the rejection of the Old Court, Sharp given it a proportion of authenticity. 

On May 11, 1825, Sharp was picked to speak to the Desha organization in respecting the Marquis de Lafayette, a saint of the American Revolution, to Kentucky. At a dinner in Lafayette's respect three days after the fact, Sharp toasted the visitor of respect: "The People: Liberty will dependably be protected in their sacred keeping." Shortly following this occasion, Sharp surrendered as lawyer general, likely on the grounds that Relief Party advocates figured he would be progressively helpful as an individual from the General Assembly. 

The Anti-Relief partisans named previous Senator John J. Crittenden for one of the two seats distributed to Franklin County in the state House. The Relief Party countered with Sharp and Lewis Sanders, a noticeable region legal counselor. Amid the strongly challenged crusade, both John U. Waring and Patrick Henry Darby, a land theorist, said such Sharp's reality was in danger in the event that he won. Rivals restored the charges of Sharp's ill-conceived tyke. It was additionally asserted that Sharp had guaranteed that the youngster was mulatto and said he had an authentication from Cooke's maternity specialist with that impact; regardless of whether Sharp made this case may never be known beyond a shadow of a doubt. In spite of the contention, Sharp got the most votes in the decision, winning by 69 out of a sum of 1600 votes cast in the province. 

"It was a place where there is the fiddle and whisky, sweat and supplication, pride and wickedness. - Robert Penn Warren, "World Enough and Time: A Romantic Novel" (1950) 

In the early long periods of November 7, 1825, the day the General Assembly was to open its session, a man thumped on the entryway of Sharp's home. At the point when Sharp addressed the entryway, the guest snatched him with his left hand and utilized his entitlement to wound him in the heart with a harmed knife. Sharp kicked the bucket at around two o'clock in the first part of the day. In the wake of lying in state in the House of Representatives Hall, he was covered in Frankfort Cemetery. 

Due to the sharpness of the battle and the planning of the homicide, hypothesis mounted that Sharp had been murdered by an Anti-Relief factional. For quite a while, bits of gossip voyaged that Darby was ensnared in his passing. Sharp's political opponent, John J. Crittenden, endeavored to dull such allegations by specifically presenting a goals censuring the homicide and offering a $3000 remunerate for the catch of the professional killer. The trustees of the city of Frankfort included a reward of $1000, and an extra $2000 remunerate was raised from private sources. In the 1825 session of the General Assembly, a measure to shape Sharp County from Muhlenberg County kicked the bucket on the floor because of the turbulent legislative issues of the session. 

In the examination that pursued, the proof immediately indicated Jereboam O. Beauchamp, 23, who had hitched the a lot more established Anna Cooke in 1824. (She was a contemporary of Sharp). On November 11, 1825, a four-man group captured Beauchamp at his home in Franklin. 

He was attempted and indicted for Sharp's homicide on May 19, 1826. His sentence – execution by hanging – was to be completed on June 16, 1826. Beauchamp mentioned a stay of execution with the goal that he could compose a defense of his activities; he kept on declaring his avenging his better half's respect. The solicitation was in all actuality, permitting Beauchamp to finish his book, "The Confession of Jereboam O. Beauchamp: who was hanged at Frankfort, Ky., on the seventh day of July, 1826, for the homicide of Col. Solomon P. Sharp". After two suicide endeavors with his significant other, who kicked the bucket because of the second episode, Beauchamp was hanged for his wrongdoing on July 7, 1826. Beauchamp's "Admission" was distributed in 1826. A few versions included "The Letters of Ann Cook" as an addendum. Students of history debate whether Cooke was their creator. 

The next year, Sharp's sibling, Dr. Leander Sharp, stated "Vindication of the Character of the Late Col. Solomon P. Sharp" to shield him from the charges contained in Beauchamp's admission. In "Vindication", Dr. Sharp depicted the executing as a political death: he named Patrick Darby, a fanatic of the Anti-Relief group, as co-schemer with Beauchamp, an Anti-Relief stalwart. Darby took steps to sue Sharp in the event that he distributed his "Vindication"; and Waring took steps to murder him. Regarding these dangers, Sharp did not distribute his work; every surviving original copy stayed in his home, where they were found numerous years after the fact amid a rebuilding. 

The occasions have propelled various works of fiction, dramatization and history: