Roy Dowling 

Bad habit Admiral Sir Roy Russell Dowling, (28 May 1901 – 15 April 1969) was a senior authority in the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). He filled in as Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), the RAN's most noteworthy positioning position, from 1955 until 1959, and as Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC), precursor of the job of Australia's Chief of the Defense Force, from 1959 until 1961. 

Conceived in northern New South Wales, Dowling entered the Royal Australian Naval College in 1915. Subsequent to graduating in 1919 he went to ocean on board different Royal Navy and RAN vessels, and later spent significant time in gunnery. In 1937, he was given order of the sloop . Following the flare-up of World War II, he saw activity in the Mediterranean performance center as official officer of the Royal Navy cruiser , and endure her sinking by a German U-vessel in March 1942. Coming back to Australia, he filled in as Director of Plans and later Deputy Chief of Naval Staff before assuming responsibility for the light cruiser in November 1944. His accomplishments in the South West Pacific earned him the Distinguished Service Order. 

Dowling took direction of the RAN's first plane carrying warship, , in 1948. He ended up Chief of Naval Personnel in 1950, and Flag Officer Commanding HM Australian Fleet in 1953. Not long after in the wake of taking up the situation of CNS in February 1955, he was elevated to bad habit chief naval officer and designated a Companion of the Order of the Bath. As CNS he needed to manage deficiencies of cash, labor and hardware, and with the expanding job of the United States with all due respect arranging, to the detriment of conventional ties with Britain. Knighted in 1957, Dowling was Chairman of COSC from March 1959 until May 1961, when he resigned from the military. In 1963 he was named a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order and ended up Australian Secretary to Queen Elizabeth II, serving until his passing in 1969. 

Roy Russell Dowling was conceived on 28 May 1901 in Condong, a township on the Tweed River in northern New South Wales. His folks were sugar stick monitor Russell Dowling and his better half Lily. The young entered the Royal Australian Naval College (RANC) at Jervis Bay, Federal Capital Territory, in 1915. An underachiever scholastically, he exceeded expectations at games, and wound up boss cadet commander before graduating in 1918 with the King's Medal, granted for "polite bearing, character, great impact among his colleagues and officer-like characteristics". The next year he was presented on Britain as a sailor, experiencing preparing with the Royal Navy and seeing administration on and . By January 1923 he was back in Australia, serving on board the cruiser . He was elevated to lieutenant in March. In April 1924, "Adelaide" joined the Royal Navy's Special Service Squadron on its overall journey, taking in New Zealand, Canada, the United States, Panama, and the West Indies, before docking in September at Portsmouth, England. There Dowling left the ship for his next arrangement, preparing as a gunnery officer and serving in that limit at . 

After his arrival to Australia in December 1926, Dowling went through eighteen months on and , where he kept on gaining practical experience in gunnery. In July 1928, he took on an instructional job at the gunnery school in Flinders Naval Depot on Western Port Bay, Victoria. He wedded Jessie Blanch in Melbourne on 8 May 1930; the couple had two children and three little girls. Jessie went with him on his next presenting on Britain initiating in January 1931. He was elevated to lieutenant leader on 15 March, and was selected gunnery officer on the light cruiser in May. Dowling came back to Australia in January 1933, and was delegated squadron gunnery officer on board the overwhelming cruiser that April. The ship worked fundamentally inside Australian waters throughout the following two years. In July 1935, Dowling assumed responsibility for the gunnery school at Flinders Naval Depot. He was elevated to authority on 31 December 1936. The next month, he accepted direction of the recently appointed "Grimsby"- class sloop , completing obligations in the South West Pacific. Finishing his residency on "Swan" in January 1939, he was quickly relegated to the Navy Office, Melbourne, before coming back to Britain in March for obligation at HMS "Pembroke", where he anticipated presenting on board the yet-on be-appointed enemy of air ship cruiser, . 

Dowling ended up official officer on HMS "Naiad" when the ship was dispatched in 1940. Following administration with the British Home Fleet, the cruiser exchanged to the Mediterranean Station in May 1941, where she partook in the Battle of Crete. She was associated with activity against German torpedo water crafts the evening of 20/21 May. On 22 May, in the wake of drawing in a German destroyer with , "Naiad" was seriously harmed via air assault. Following fixes, she moved toward becoming lead of the fifteenth Cruiser Squadron and directed shore bombardments in help of Allied troops amid the Syrian crusade in June and July. She likewise escorted caravans resupplying Malta. In December, "Naiad" took an interest in the First Battle of Sirte against Italian maritime powers. On 11 March 1942, she was torpedoed by a German U-vessel off the Egyptian coast, and sank in a little more than twenty minutes. Dowling stayed in the water for 90 minutes before being protected by a destroyer. 

Having endure "Naiad"s sinking, Dowling came back to Australia and was selected Director of Plans at the Navy Office in July 1942. In September the next year he was made Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff (DCNS) and raised to acting skipper; his rank ended up substantive in June 1944. As DCNS, he was associated with arranging the post-war Navy's sythesis, which out of the blue was to incorporate plane carrying warships. He characterized the elements of oceanic power in October 1943 as: 

In November 1944, Dowling was given order of the light cruiser , which had been experiencing fix and refit in Sydney since being torpedoed by a Japanese submarine in the Solomons on 20 July 1943. Dowling took her on her squeeze journey to Melbourne on 30 December, before leaving for the South West Pacific Area in February 1945. The next month, "Hobart" bolstered the US powers that recovered Cebu amid the freedom of the Philippines. She shelled Tarakan Island before the Allied attack on 1 May and, soon thereafter, secured the Australian sixth Division's tasks at Wewak. The cruiser bolstered the Allied arrivals on Brunei in June, and on Balikpapan in July. For his "exceptional strength, ability and activity" amid these tasks, Dowling was granted the Distinguished Service Order (DSO), gazetted on 6 November 1945. 

Dowling joined the Australian unexpected at the surrender of Japan in Tokyo Bay on 2 September 1945. Following the suspension of threats, "Hobart" moved toward becoming lead of HM Australian Squadron, and Dowling banner skipper and head of staff to Commodore John Collins, the squadron leader. The war had negatively affected Dowling's wellbeing, and he required leave before starting his next arrangement in May 1946 as Director of Ordnance, Torpedoes and Mines at the Navy Office. Back Admiral James Goldrick, in the "Australian Dictionary of Biography", saw that Dowling "was pushed into the most astounding places of the RAN to a great extent because of the substantial losses of World War II". At the point when John Armstrong—the main likewise qualified and progressively senior Navy chief—was articulated unfit for seagoing obligation, Dowling was allowed to order Australia's first plane carrying warship, , authorized in England on 16 December 1948. In April the next year, two months after the ship's overdue acknowledgment into administration because of early stage struggles, Dowling set out "Sydney" for Australia with two squadrons of warriors on board. In June 1950, he was elevated to commodore and named Second Naval Member and Chief of Naval Personnel, serving in this limit until the finish of 1952. His term concurred with the flare-up of the Korean War, and resultant expanded requests on labor. Dowling was delegated a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1953 New Year Honors, before making a trip to London to go to the Imperial Defense College. Brought to raise naval commander up in July 1953, he returned home to take up the post of Flag Officer Commanding HM Australian Fleet that December, serving through the next year. He needed to manage reductions to activities expedited by government stringency after the finish of the Korean War. 

On 24 February 1955, Dowling succeeded Vice Admiral Sir John Collins as First Naval Member, Australian Commonwealth Naval Board, and Chief of Naval Staff (CNS). He was elevated to bad habit chief naval officer on 7 June, and selected a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in the Queen's Birthday Honors two days after the fact. On 15 June, he joined individual head of staff Lieutenant General Henry Wells and Air Marshal John McCauley, Prime Minister Robert Menzies, and senior government individuals in favoring a draft mandate for the job of the Far East Strategic Reserve (FESR); this made Commonwealth powers accessible for the battle against socialist radicals in Malaya, just as for the security of Malaya and Singapore against outer animosity. The Navy's commitment to the FESR was to be somewhere around two destroyers or frigates on a continuous premise, just as a yearly visit by a plane carrying warship. The destroyers and , as of now in the district on an activity, were promptly dedicated, and Dowling traveled to Singapore to actually report the arrangement and the explanations behind it to the boats' groups. 

Dowling was an early backer for the foundation of an Australian submarine armada; in 1963, after a few false begins, the first of six "Oberon"- class submarines was requested. As a feature of a general Western pattern that saw with alert the expanding ability of the Soviet Navy's surface armada, Dowling additionally attempted to improve the hostile intensity of the Fleet Air Arm. In March 1956, he ventured to such an extreme as proposing buy of atomic weaponry for the RAN's De Havilland Sea Venoms. Amid quite a bit of Dowling's residual time as CNS, looked with the oldness of HMAS "Sydney" and as per its two-transporter strategy, the Navy attempted fruitlessly to gain another and bigger plane carrying warship to expand . Having confidence in the support of generally close ties between the RAN and the Royal Navy, he attempted to facilitate his strategies as CNS with those of Britain's First Sea Lord, Earl Mountbatten. Considering the arrangements of the ANZUS settlement and the nonappearance of reasonable supplies from Britain, the RAN started to turn reluctantly towards the United States as far as technique and hardware, as Dowling disclosed to Mountbatten: 

Different issues confronting the RAN amid Dowling's term as CNS were its assignment—since the start of the 1950s—to third place behind the other military regarding Federal spending designations, its substitution by the RAAF as the nation's first line of barrier, and a lack of labor. Dowling himself considered "division from families, absence of houses, over business, high wages and extra time installment in civvie road" as the foundations for the Navy's failure to draw in and hold work force; the Allison Report in 1958 brought about different upgrades to support conditions, which diminished wastage. The RANC had moved to Flinders Naval Depot in 1930, and Dowling was satisfied to have the capacity to direct its arrival to Jervis Bay in 1958, the prior year he moved the workplace of the CNS to Canberra. 

Dowling was selected a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in the 1957 New Year Honors, and finished his term as CNS on 23 February 1959. On 23 March he took over from Sir Henry Wells as Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC), a job hinting that of the modern Chief of the Defense Force. He was prevailing as CNS by Vice Admiral Henry Burrell. Joyfully astonished by his arrangement as Chairman of COSC, Dowling wanted to change the position to such an extent that it would practice direction specialist over the administration boss, however in this he was to be frustrated. The position's rank continued as before as the leaders of the Army, Navy and Air Force, and was in charge of putting their perspectives on military issues to the Minister for Defense. Different mishaps amid his residency incorporated the Defense Department's choice—repealed after his term—to disband the Fleet Air Arm, and the Federal government's inability to back him when he reported at a SEATO public interview in March 1961 that Australia was set up to mediate militarily in the second Laotian emergency should it become vital. In September 1959, amid the primary Laotian emergency, the Australian government had approved Dowling to submit "an infantry regiment, a squadron of RAAF warriors, air transport, and two RAN destroyers" to help US and SEATO powers, however no mediation occurred. 

Dowling resigned from the military on 27 May 1961 and was prevailing as Chairman of COSC via Air Marshal Sir Frederick Scherger. In spite of the fact that quick to verify a conciliatory arrangement, nothing was offered to him and, as a rehearsing Anglican, he rather busied himself with chapel issues in Canberra. In July 1962, the administration gave him obligation regarding sorting out Queen Elizabeth II's forthcoming illustrious visit. In this job he was required to liaise with the state governments to design the Queen's schedule, and to turn into an individual from the regal family unit for the term of the visit, the first run through an Australian visit organizer had been given such close access to a meeting ruler. He was remunerated with arrangement as a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO) as of 27 March 1963, and wound up Australian Secretary to the Queen on 1 November that year. Dowling was likewise the Australian Red Cross Society's Canberra executive from 1962 to 1967; at the time he assumed control over the chairmanship, Lady Dowling was acting leader of the association, without Lady William Oliver. Roy Dowling kicked the bucket of a heart assault on 15 April 1969 in Canberra Hospital. He was given a maritime burial service at St John's Church, and incinerated. His better half and five kids endure him.