Fanny Imlay 

Frances "Fanny" Imlay (14 May 1794 – 9 October 1816), otherwise called Fanny Godwin and Frances Wollstonecraft, was the little girl, conceived with only one parent present, of the British women's activist Mary Wollstonecraft and the American business theorist and representative Gilbert Imlay. Wollstonecraft expounded on her regularly in her later works. Fanny experienced childhood in the family of revolutionary political rationalist William Godwin, the single man of her mom, with his second spouse and their joined group of five kids. Fanny's relative Mary grew up to state "Frankenstein" and wedded Percy Bysshe Shelley, a main Romantic artist, who created a sonnet on Fanny's demise. 

Despite the fact that Gilbert Imlay and Mary Wollstonecraft lived respectively cheerfully for brief periods when the introduction of Fanny, he left Wollstonecraft in France amidst the Revolution. While trying to resuscitate their relationship, Wollstonecraft headed out to Scandinavia on business for him, taking the one-year-old Fanny with her, however the undertaking never revived. Subsequent to experiencing passionate feelings for and wedding Godwin, Wollstonecraft kicked the bucket not long after in the wake of conceiving an offspring in 1797, leaving the three-year-old Fanny in the hands of Godwin, alongside their infant little girl Mary. 

After four years, Godwin remarried and his new spouse, Mary Jane Clairmont, brought two offspring of her own into the marriage, most fundamentally—from Fanny Imlay and Mary Godwin's point of view—Claire Clairmont. Wollstonecraft's girls disdained the new Mrs Godwin and the consideration she paid to her very own little girl. The Godwin family turned into an inexorably awkward spot to live as strains rose and obligations mounted. The young Mary and Claire gotten away by running off to the Continent with Shelley in 1814. Fanny, abandoned, endured the worst part of her stepfather's indignation. She turned out to be progressively secluded from her family and ended it all in 1816. 

Fanny Imlay was the little girl of the British women's activist author Mary Wollstonecraft and the American business person Gilbert Imlay. Both had moved to France amid the French Revolution, Wollstonecraft to rehearse the standards spread out in her fundamental work "A Vindication of the Rights of Woman" (1792) and Imlay to participate in theoretical business adventures. The two met and became hopelessly enamored. At a certain point amid Wollstonecraft and Imlay's relationship, the couple could meet just at a tollbooth among Paris and Neuilly, and it was there that their little girl was imagined; Fanny was thusly, in Godwin's words, a "hindrance youngster". Frances "Fanny" Imlay, Wollstonecraft's first youngster, was conceived in Le Havre on 14 May 1794, or, as the birth testament expressed, on the 25th day of Floreal in the Second Year of the Republic, and named after Fanny Blood, her mom's dearest companion. Despite the fact that Imlay never hitched Wollstonecraft, he enrolled her as his significant other at the American department to ensure her once Britain and France did battle in February 1793. A great many people, including Wollstonecraft's sisters, expected they were hitched—and therefore, by augmentation, that Fanny was real—and she was enlisted all things considered in France. 

At first, the couple's coexistence was pure. Wollstonecraft energetically kept in touch with one companion: "My daughter starts to suck so "manfully" that her dad figures saucily on her composition the second piece of the R[igh]ts of Woman" [emphasis in original]. Imlay before long tired of Wollstonecraft and local life and left her for significant lots of time. Her letters to him are loaded with penniless dissuasions, clarified by most commentators as the outflows of a profoundly discouraged lady yet by some because of her conditions—alone with a newborn child amidst the French Revolution. 

Wollstonecraft came back to London in April 1795, looking for Imlay, yet he dismissed her; the following month she endeavored to end it all, yet he spared her life (it is hazy how). In a last endeavor to win him back, she set out upon a perilous excursion to Scandinavia from June to September 1795, with just her one-year-old little girl and a house cleaner, so as to direct some business for him. Wollstonecraft's adventure was overwhelming not just in light of the fact that she was venturing out to what some thought about an almost uncouth area amid a period of war, yet in addition since she was going without a male escort. When she came back to England and understood that her association with Imlay was finished, she endeavored suicide a second time. She went out on a blustery night, strolled around to splash her garments, and after that hopped into the River Thames, where an outsider safeguarded her. 

Utilizing her journals and letters from her adventure to Scandinavia, Wollstonecraft composed a rumination on her movements and her relationship—"Letters Written in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark" (1796)— in which, in addition to other things, she praised parenthood. Her maternal association with her little girl incited her to ponder a lady's place on the planet: 

You realize that as a female I am especially appended to her—I feel in excess of a mother's affection and tension, when I think about the reliant and abused condition of her sex. I fear in case she ought to be compelled to forfeit her heart to her standards, or standards to her heart. With trembling hand I will develop reasonableness, and love delicacy of supposition, in case, while I loan new becomes flushed to the rose, I hone the thistles that will wound the bosom I would fain watch—I fear to unfurl her brain, in case it should render her unfit for the world she is to possess—Hapless lady! what a destiny is thine! 

Wollstonecraft pampered love and consideration on her little girl. She started two books, drawn from her own involvement, identified with Fanny's consideration: a child rearing manual entitled "Letters on the Management of Infants" and a perusing preliminary entitled "Exercises". In one area of "Exercises", she portrays weaning: 

When you were ravenous, you started to cry, since you couldn't talk. You were seven months without teeth, continually sucking. Be that as it may, after you got one, you started to chew an outside layer of bread. It was not some time before another came pop. At ten months you had four pretty white teeth, and you used to nibble me. Poor mamma! Still I didn't cry, since I am not a kid, yet you hurt me without question. So I said to dad, it is time the young lady ought to eat. She isn't underhanded, yet she harms me. I have given her an outside layer of bread, and I should search for some other milk. 

In 1797, Wollstonecraft became hopelessly enamored with and wedded the rationalist William Godwin (she had turned out to be pregnant with his youngster). Godwin developed to adore Fanny amid his undertaking with Wollstonecraft; he brought her back a mug from Josiah Wedgwood's stoneware industrial facility with a "F" on it that charmed both mother and little girl. Wollstonecraft passed on in September of that year, from inconveniences bringing forth Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, who endure. Three-year-old Fanny, who had been scarred from smallpox, was informally embraced by her stepfather and given the name of Godwin. Her duplicate of Wollstonecraft's solitary finished youngsters' book, "Unique Stories from Real Life" (1788), has the initials "F. G." written in substantial print in it. As indicated by the predominant elucidation of Godwin's journal, it was not until Fanny turned twelve that she was educated in an imperative discussion with Godwin that he was not her common dad. In the main life story of Fanny, Janet Todd debate this perusing, contending rather that the discussion was about Fanny's future. She thinks that its improbable that Fanny would have been uninformed of her inceptions in the open and liberal Godwin family. 

After Wollstonecraft's demise, Godwin and Joseph Johnson, Wollstonecraft's distributer and dear companion, reached Fanny's dad, however he was uninterested in bringing up his tyke. (Neither Wollstonecraft nor her little girl at any point saw Gilbert Imlay after 1796.) Wollstonecraft's two sisters, Eliza Bishop and Everina Wollstonecraft, Fanny's solitary two living female relatives, were on edge to think about her; Godwin, detesting them, turned down their offer. A few times all through Fanny's youth Wollstonecraft's sisters asked Godwin to enable them to raise their niece and each time he cannot. Godwin himself did not appear to be especially prepared for parenthood and he currently had two little kids to raise and no consistent wellspring of pay. Notwithstanding, he was resolved to think about them. Amid these early long periods of Fanny's life, Joseph Johnson filled in as an "informal trustee" for her as he had incidentally for her mom. He even willed her £200, however Godwin owed Johnson quite a lot of cash upon his passing in 1809 that Johnson's beneficiaries requested Godwin pay the cash back as a component of his unfulfilled obligations. 

In spite of the fact that Godwin was attached to his youngsters, he was, from multiple points of view, poorly prepared to think about them. As Todd clarifies, he was continually irritated by their commotion, requesting quiet while he worked. In any case, when he traveled to Dublin to visit Wollstonecraft's sisters, he missed the young ladies monstrously and kept in touch with them much of the time. 

On 21 December 1801, when Fanny was seven, Godwin wedded Mary Jane Clairmont, a neighbor with two offspring of her own: three-year-old Claire and six-year-old Charles. She had never been hitched and was looking, as Godwin, for budgetary dependability. Despite the fact that Clairmont was accomplished and very much voyaged, the vast majority of Godwin's companions loathed her, discovering her foul and unscrupulous. They were shocked that Godwin could supplant Mary Wollstonecraft with her. Fanny and her relative Mary hated their stepmother and whined that she favored her very own kids to them. On 28 March 1803, child William was destined to the couple. 

In spite of the fact that Godwin respected Wollstonecraft's works, he didn't concur with her that ladies ought to get similar training as men. In this way, he periodically read to Fanny and Mary from Sarah Trimmer's "Breathtaking Histories" (1786) and Anna Laetitia Barbauld's "Exercises for Children" (1778– 79), be that as it may, as per Todd, he didn't make careful arrangements with their instructions and dismissed the books Wollstonecraft had composed for Fanny. William St Clair, in his history of the Godwins and the Shelleys, contends that Godwin and Wollstonecraft talked broadly about the training they needed for their kids and that Godwin's compositions in "The Enquirer" mirror these exchanges. He battles that after Wollstonecraft's demise Godwin kept in touch with a previous student to whom she had been close, presently Lady Mountcashell, asking her recommendation on the most proficient method to bring up and instruct his little girls. In her history of Mary Shelley, Miranda Seymour concurs with St Clair, contending that "all that we think about his little girl's [Mary's and apparently Fanny's] early years recommends that she was being instructed in a method for which her mom would have affirmed", calling attention to that she had a tutor, a guide, a French-talking stepmother, and a dad who composed youngsters' books whose drafts he read to his very own first. It was the new Mrs Godwin who was basically in charge of the training given to the young ladies, however she showed her own little girl more, including French. Fanny got no formal instruction after her stepfather's marriage. However, the grown-up Imlay is depicted by C. Kegan Paul, one of Godwin's most punctual biographers, as "accomplished, chipper, shrewd, a great letter-essayist, and a fantastic local supervisor". Fanny exceeded expectations in illustration and was educated music. In spite of Godwin's secularism, the majority of the kids were taken to an Anglican church. 

The Godwins were always paying off debtors, so Godwin came back to writing to help the family. He and his significant other began an "Adolescent Library" for which he composed kids' books. In 1807, when Fanny was 13, they moved from the Polygon, where Godwin had lived with Wollstonecraft, to 41 Skinner Street, close Clerkenwell, in the city's bookselling region. This removed the family from the crisp nation air and into the filthy, rank, inward roads of London. Albeit at first fruitful, the business step by step fizzled. The Godwins additionally kept on getting more cash than they could manage the cost of from liberal companions, for example, distributer Joseph Johnson and Godwin aficionado Francis Place. 

As Fanny Imlay grew up, her dad progressively depended on her to pacify tradespeople who requested bills be paid and to request cash from men, for example, Place. As per Todd and Seymour, Imlay had faith in Godwin's hypothesis that incredible scholars and specialists ought to be upheld by supporters and she trusted Godwin to be both an extraordinary author and an incredible logician. For an incredible duration, she composed letters approaching Place and others for cash to help Godwin's "virtuoso" and she helped run the family with the goal that he could work. 

Godwin, never one to mince words, expounded on the distinctions he saw between his two girls: 

My very own little girl [Mary] is extensively better in limit than the one her mom had previously. Fanny, the oldest, is of a tranquil, unassuming, unshowy mien, to some degree given to slothfulness, which is her most prominent blame, however calm, watching, unconventionally clear and particular in the workforce of memory, and arranged to practice her very own musings and pursue her own judgment. Mary, my girl, is the turn around of her in numerous points of interest. She is independently striking, to some degree imperious, and dynamic of brain. Her craving for learning is incredible, and her constancy in all that she embraces is practically invulnerable. My own girl is, I accept, lovely; Fanny is in no way, shape or form attractive, however when all is said in done inclining. 

The scholarly universe of the young ladies was extended by their presentation to the abstract and political circles in which Godwin moved. For instance, amid previous American VP Aaron Burr's deliberate outcast from the United States after his quittance on conspiracy charges, he regularly invested energy with the Godwins. He significantly appreciated crafted by Wollstonecraft and had taught his girl as indicated by the statutes of "A Vindication of the Rights of Woman". He was restless to meet the little girls of the lady he respected and alluded to Fanny, Mary, and Claire as "goddesses". He invested a large portion of his energy chatting with Imlay about political and instructive themes. Burr was inspired by the Lancastrian showing strategy and took Fanny to see a model school in 1811. 

It was not Burr, yet the Romantic artist and essayist Percy Bysshe Shelley who had the best effect on Imlay and her sisters' lives. Inspired by Godwin's "Political Justice", Shelley kept in touch with him and the two began relating. In 1812, Shelley inquired as to whether Imlay, at that point 18 and the little girl of one of his saints, Mary Wollstonecraft, could come live with him, his new spouse, and her sister. Having never really met Shelley and being doubtful of his inspirations (Shelley had absconded to wed his better half, Harriet), Godwin won't. At the point when Shelley at last came to visit the Godwins, every one of the three young ladies were fascinated of him, especially Imlay. Both Shelley and Imlay were keen on talking about radical governmental issues; for instance, Shelley got a kick out of the chance to go about as though class were unimportant, yet she contended that it was critical in day by day issues. 

In 1814, Shelley invested a lot of energy at the Godwins' and he and Imlay may have become hopelessly enamored. Afterward, Claire Clairmont guaranteed that they had been. Imlay was sent to Wales in May of that year; Todd guesses that Godwin was endeavoring to isolate her from Shelley while Seymour implies that Mrs Godwin was attempting to improve her gloomy disposition. In the interim, the Godwin family turned out to be significantly progressively awkward as Godwin sank further into obligation and as relations among Mary and her stepmother turned out to be progressively antagonistic. Mary Godwin comforted herself with Shelley and the two began an energetic relationship. At the point when Shelley announced to Godwin that the two were enamored, Godwin detonated in indignation. Notwithstanding, he required the cash that Shelley, as a blue-blood, could and was happy to give. Disappointed with the whole circumstance, Mary Godwin, Shelley, and Claire Clairmont kept running off to Europe together on 28 June 1814. Godwin briskly brought Imlay home from Wales to enable him to deal with the circumstance. Her stepmother composed that Imlay's "feeling was profound when she known about the dismal destiny of the two young ladies; she can't get over it". Amidst this fiasco, one of Godwin's protégés killed himself, and youthful William Godwin fled from home and was absent for two days. At the point when updates on the young ladies' venture wound up open, Godwin was pilloried in the press. Life in the Godwin family unit turned out to be progressively stressed. 

At the point when Mary Godwin, Claire Clairmont, and Shelley came back from the Continent in September 1814, they took a house together in London, infuriating Godwin even more. Imlay felt pulled between the two family units: she felt faithful both to her sisters and to her dad. Both loathed her choice not to pick a side in the family dramatization. As Seymour clarifies, Imlay was in a troublesome position: the Godwin family unit felt Shelley was a risky impact and the Shelley family scorned her dread of damaging social traditions. Additionally, her aunties were thinking about her for a showing position as of now, however were hesitant due to Godwin's stunning "Diaries of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman" (1798). Seymour composes, the "couple of bashful visits Fanny made to see Mary and [Claire] in London were demonstrations of incredible boldness; she got little a debt of gratitude is in order for them". In spite of the fact that trained by Godwin not to address Shelley and her sisters, Imlay cautioned them of loan bosses who knew about Shelley's arrival (he additionally was in the red). Her endeavors to induce Clairmont to come back to the Godwins' persuaded Shelley that she was of Godwin's gathering and he started to doubt her. Imlay was additionally still in charge of requesting cash from Shelley so as to reimburse her dad's obligations; notwithstanding Shelley's fundamental elopement with two of his little girls, Godwin consented to acknowledge £1,200 from Shelley. At the point when Mary Godwin brought forth a little girl in February 1815, she quickly sent for Imlay, especially as both she and the newborn child were sick. Godwin chastised Imlay for resisting his requests not to see her stepsister and her hopelessness expanded. After the passing of the kid, Imlay paid increasingly visit visits to the couple. 

Before long, Clairmont turned into an admirer of the Romantic writer Lord Byron, and Mary Godwin and Shelley had a second tyke on 24 January 1816, who was named William after Godwin. In February, Imlay went to visit the Shelleys, who had settled in Bishopsgate. Godwin's obligations kept on mounting, and keeping in mind that he requested cash from Shelley, Godwin still would not see it is possible that him or his little girl. As of now, Charles Clairmont (Imlay's progression sibling), disappointed with the pressure in the Godwin family, left for France and would not help the family any further. At around a similar time, Claire Clairmont, Mary Godwin, and Shelley left for the Continent, looking for Byron. Godwin was startled. He depended on Shelley's cash, and the stain on his family's notoriety possibly expanded when the open discovered that the gathering had left to join the daring Byron. 

In the midst of the majority of this family strife, Imlay still discovered time to consider bigger social issues. The idealistic communist Robert Owen came to visit Godwin in the late spring of 1816 and he and Imlay examined the situation of the working poor in Britain. She concurred with huge numbers of Owen's recommendations, yet not every one of them. She chose, at last, that his idealistic plan was excessively "sentimental", on the grounds that it depended intensely on the generosity of the rich to forfeit their riches. That equivalent summer, George Blood—the sibling of Fanny Imlay's namesake—came to meet her out of the blue and revealed to her accounts of her mom. After this gathering she kept in touch with Mary Godwin and Shelley: "I have decided never to live to be a disfavor to "such a mother"... I have discovered that on the off chance that I will try to defeat my shortcomings I will discover being's to love and regard me" [emphasis in original]. 

Before Mary Godwin, Clairmont, and Shelley had left for the Continent, Imlay and Mary had a noteworthy contention and no way to go to a compromise. Imlay endeavored in her letters to Mary to cover up the relationship, yet her feeling of depression and confinement in London was discernable. She kept in touch with Mary of "the awful perspective I for the most part work under and which I futile undertaking to dispose of". Numerous researchers ascribe Imlay's expanding misery to Mrs Godwin's threatening vibe towards her. Kegan, and others, battle that Imlay was liable to the equivalent "outrageous despondency to which her mom had been subject, and which stamped different individuals from the Wollstonecraft family". Meandering among the mountains of Switzerland, baffled with her association with Shelley, and engaged by the composition of "Frankenstein", her sister was unsympathetic. 

The gathering came back from the Continent, with a pregnant Clairmont, and settled in Bath (to secure her notoriety, they endeavored to shroud the pregnancy). Imlay saw Shelley twice in September 1816; as indicated by Todd's elucidation of Fanny's letters, Fanny had prior endeavored to request a challenge to join the gathering in Europe and she rehashed these interests when she saw Shelley in London. Todd trusts that Imlay asked to be permitted to remain with them since life in Godwin's home was deplorable, with the consistent monetary stresses and Mrs Godwin's stubborn lecturing, and that Shelley won't, worried about anybody finding out about Clairmont's condition, above all else somebody he accepted may educate Godwin (Shelley was being sued by his significant other and was stressed over his own notoriety). After Shelley left, Todd discloses that Imlay kept in touch with Mary "to clarify again her yearning to be safeguarded". 

Toward the beginning of October 1816, Imlay left Godwin's home in London and ended it all on 9 October by taking an overdose of laudanum at a hotel in Swansea, Wales; she was 22. The subtleties encompassing her demise and her inspirations are questioned. The majority of the letters with respect to the occurrence were pulverized or are missing. In his 1965 article "Fanny Godwin's Suicide Re-analyzed", B. R. Pollin spreads out the significant hypotheses that had been advanced with respect to her suicide and which keep on being utilized today: 

Pollin expels the first of these, as have most later biographers, contending that Imlay approached her mom's compositions and Godwin's "Diaries of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman" which straightforwardly talk about the conditions of her introduction to the world. Imlay herself even makes this qualification in letters to her stepsister Mary Godwin. 

Pollin is likewise suspicious of the second clarification, indicating Imlay's letter to Mary of 3 October 1816 in which she shielded her progression mother: "Mrs. Godwin could never do both of you a purposeful damage. Mamma and I are not extraordinary companions, yet constantly alive to her ethics, I am on edge to shield her from a charge so unfamiliar to her character." 

Pollin finds no proof that Imlay had been declined a situation at her aunties' school, just that such a plan may have been "in thought", as Godwin later composed, despite the fact that Seymour allows this clarification some credibility. St Clair claims that Imlay was en route to join her maternal aunties in Ireland when she chose to end it all. He trusts that it was to be a trial visit, to check whether she could be an instructor in their school. Godwin's advanced biographer, Richard Holmes, expels this story. 

In his overview of the letters of the Godwins and the Shelleys, Pollin reaches the resolution that Imlay was not burdensome. She is as often as possible depicted as cheerful and looking toward the future and portrays herself along these lines. The notices of despondency and misery are explicit and identified with specific occasions and disease. Richard Holmes, in his history of Percy Shelley, contends that "her horrifying and cold suspension between the Godwin and Shelley families was unmistakably the root condition" of her suicide. Locke contends that "most likely on the grounds that she could retain no a greater amount of the agonies of Skinner Street, her dad's failure to pay his obligations or compose his books, her mom's unending fractiousness and anger", all of which she accused on herself, she ended it all. 

Pollin to a great extent concurs with Todd, theorizing that Imlay saw Percy Shelley in Bath and he "some way or another fizzled her", making her end it all. Seymour and others theorize that Shelley's solitary disappointment was to satisfy his budgetary guarantees to Godwin and it was this that helped push Imlay over the edge; she was persuaded, similar to her dad, "that the commendable have a flat out ideal to be bolstered by the individuals who have the value to give". Todd, then again, concurs with Pollin and conjectures that Imlay went to see Mary Godwin and Shelley. Todd contends that Imlay had love for Shelley and felt that his house was her solitary sanctuary. Depending on pieces of verse that Shelley may have composed after Imlay's demise, Todd infers that Shelley saw her in Bath and rejected her requests since he expected to ensure Claire's notoriety for being admirably as his own as of now. Todd additionally takes note of that Imlay had worn her mom's stays, which were weaved with the initials "M.W.", and the most delightful garments she possessed. She had enhanced herself with a Swiss gold watch sent to her from Geneva by the Shelleys and an accessory, so as to establish a decent connection. After Shelley dismissed her, Todd closes, Imlay chose to end it all. 

The evening of 9 October, Imlay registered with the Mackworth Arms Inn in Swansea and trained the housemaid not to bother her. That night Mary Godwin, remaining in Bath with Shelley, got a letter Imlay had sent before from Bristol. Her dad in London additionally got a letter. The disturbing idea of the letters incited both Godwin and Shelley to set out for Bristol without a moment's delay (in spite of the fact that they voyaged independently). When they followed her to Swansea on 11 October, they were past the point of no return. Imlay was discovered dead in her room on 10 October, having taken a lethal portion of laudanum, and it was just Shelley who remained to manage the circumstance. Imlay left behind an unaddressed note, portraying herself as "tragic", maybe alluding to Mary Wollstonecraft's depiction of her as "my deplorable young lady" in the note she composed on "Exercises" before she herself endeavored suicide: 

I have since quite a while ago confirmed that the best thing I could do was to put a conclusion to the presence of a being whose birth was sad, and whose life has just been a progression of torment to those people who have harmed their wellbeing in trying to advance her welfare. Maybe to know about my passing will give you torment, yet you will before long have the gift of overlooking that such an animal at any point existed as 

The note seems to have initially been marked, yet the name was detached or consumed off with the goal that her body couldn't be recognized. At the point when the declaration was imprinted in the nearby paper, "The Cambrian", along these lines, it didn't allude to Imlay explicitly. 

At the investigation, Imlay was proclaimed "dead", instead of a suicide or a madness injured individual, which spared her body from different insults. Todd estimates that Shelley orchestrated Imlay to be pronounced "dead" (a nickname progressively normal for the wealthy) and expelled any recognizing things, for example, her name on the note. She additionally reasons that to secure the remainder of the family, he would not guarantee her body. Nobody else guaranteed Imlay's body and it was presumably covered in a poor person's grave. Actually, Godwin kept in touch with Percy Shelley: 

Do nothing to wreck the lack of clarity she so much wanted, that currently settles upon the occasion. It was, as I stated, her last wish ... Think what is simply the circumstance of my better half and, presently denied of every one of our youngsters however the most youthful [William]; and don't open us to those inactive inquiries, which to a psyche in anguish is one of the severest preliminaries. 

We are right now in uncertainty in the case of amid the main stun we will not say she is gone to Ireland to her aunties, a thing that had been in contemplation ... What I have above all else with dismay is the open papers; and I thank you for your alert as it may follow up on this. 

Since suicide was viewed as shocking, offensive, and evil at the time, which may have harmed Godwin's matter of fact, the family recounted to different stories in regards to Imlay's demise so as to conceal reality, including that she had taken some time off, that she had passed on of a cold in Wales, that she had kicked the bucket of an "incendiary fever", that she was living with her mom's sisters, or, whenever compelled to concede suicide, that Imlay killed herself since Shelley cherished Mary Godwin and not her. Neither Percy nor Mary notice Imlay's demise in their enduring letters from this time. Claire Clairmont guaranteed in a letter to Byron that Percy turned out to be sick as a result of her demise, yet as Holmes notes, there is no other proof for this affirmation. However Locke composes that Shelley disclosed to Byron he felt "a far severer anguish" over Imlay's suicide than over Harriet's (his wife's) suicide only two months after the fact. 

While there is no known picture of Imlay, a couple of months after her demise, Shelley wrote the lyric cited toward the start of this article. As Seymour expresses, "[p]ublished by Mary without remark, it has dependably should imply his last gathering with her relative."