Worldwide Environment and Trade Study 

The Global Environment and Trade Study (GETS) was a non-benefit inquire about foundation set up in 1994 to examine the mind boggling linkages between worldwide exchange and ecological manageability. GETS bolstered various research extends on the lawful, financial, and natural parts of exchange and condition. 

GETS was focused at Yale University. 

GETS likewise contemplated the extending job of common society in worldwide administration. 

In 2004, the GETS Board chose that an adequate sum had been practiced throughout the decade, and that the time had come to end the task. 

GETS had four noteworthy achievements: 

The organizers of GETS were: James Cameron, Steve Charnovitz, Daniel Esty, and Mark Ritchie. 

In 2000, Monica Araya joined the GETS Board and concentrated on condition, exchange and venture issues in creating nations. 

Some staff related with GETS included Orin Kirshner, who filled in as Executive Director from 2001– 2003, Beatrice Chaytor, Hari Osofsky, and John Wickham. 

GETS had three noteworthy partaking organizations—the Foundation for International Environmental Law and Development (situated in London), the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy (situated in Minneapolis), 

furthermore, the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy (situated in New Haven) 

Moreover, GETS worked together with various research establishments in created and creating nations. 

GETS held approach meetings or workshops in Cancun, Geneva, London, Miami, New York, Seattle, Tokyo, and Washington. 

GETS additionally held a noteworthy Conference in Singapore in June 1996 co-supported with the National University of Singapore. Toward the finish of that Conference, the co-seats (Tommy Koh, Dan Esty, and James Cameron) issued an announcement with a few suggestions, a considerable lot of which were embraced by the WTO, other worldwide associations, and governments in ensuing years. 

The significant funders of GETS included: the Ford Foundation, the U.S. Natural Protection Agency, the Netherlands Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment, the German-Marshall Fund, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, the Center for Global Partnership/Japan Foundation, the Pew Charitable Trusts, and the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. 

A review on aggressiveness and the Council's work was as of late composed by Martin Neil Baily and Robert Z. Lawrence. 

Principals and scientists upheld by GETS delivered many books and articles on exchange and nature, and related points amid its ten years of activity. Among them were: 

"Accomplishing Harmony in Trade and Environment," http://www.gets.org/pages/concordance/.