Night of January sixteenth 

Night of January sixteenth is a showy play by Russian-American creator Ayn Rand, propelled by the passing of the "Match King", Ivar Kreuger. Set in a court amid a homicide preliminary, an unordinary highlight of the play is that individuals from the crowd are picked to play the jury. The court hears the instance of Karen Andre, a previous secretary and admirer of agent Bjorn Faulkner, of whose murder she is charged. The play does not legitimately depict the occasions prompting Faulkner's passing; rather the jury must depend on character declaration to choose whether Andre is liable. The play's closure relies upon the decision. Rand's goal was to perform a contention among independence and congruity, with the jury's decision uncovering which perspective they favored. 

The play was first created in 1934 in Los Angeles under the title Woman on Trial; it got positive audits and appreciated moderate business achievement. Maker Al Woods took it to Broadway amid the 1935– 36 season and re-titled it "Night of January sixteenth". It drew consideration for its creative gathering of people part jury and turned into a hit, running for seven months. Doris Nolan, in her Broadway debut, got positive analysis for her depiction of the lead job. A few territorial creations pursued. An off-Broadway restoration in 1973, under the title Penthouse Legend, was a business and basic disappointment. A film dependent on the play was discharged in 1941; the story has additionally been adjusted for TV and radio. 

Rand had many warmed question with Woods over content changes he needed for the Broadway generation. Their debate peaked in an assertion hearing when Rand found Woods had redirected a part of her sovereignties to pay for a content specialist. Rand despised the progressions made for the Broadway creation and the adaptation distributed for beginner preparations, so in 1968 she re-altered the content for production as the "complete" variant. 

Rand drew motivation for "Night of January sixteenth" from two sources. The first was "The Trial of Mary Dugan", a 1927 acting about a showgirl arraigned for murdering her well off darling, which gave Rand the plan to compose a play highlighting a preliminary. Rand needed her play's consummation of rely upon the aftereffect of the preliminary, instead of having a fixed last scene. She put together her unfortunate casualty with respect to Ivar Kreuger, a Swedish businessperson known as the "Match King" for the matchstick-fabricating imposing business models he claimed, before he was discovered dead in March 1932. At the point when Kreuger's business domain turned out to be monetarily shaky, he shot himself subsequent to being blamed for executing devious and perhaps unlawful money related arrangements. This occurrence enlivened Rand to make the injured individual a businessperson of incredible aspiration and questionable character, who had given a few people thought processes in his homicide. 

Rand expressed "Night of January sixteenth" in 1933. She was 28 and had been in the United States for a long time subsequent to emigrating from the Soviet Union, where her solid enemy of Communist feelings had put her in danger. Rand had never composed a phase play, however had worked in Hollywood as a lesser screenwriter for Cecil B. DeMille, and later in RKO Studios' closet office. In September 1932, Rand sold a unique screenplay, "Red Pawn", to Universal Studios and quit RKO to complete her first novel, "We the Living". She composed the stage play with the desire for profiting from it while completing her novel. By 1934 her operator was endeavoring to sell the play and the novel, however both were over and over rejected. "Red Pawn" was retired and Rand's agreement for revamps on it lapsed. Rand's better half, performer Frank O'Connor, was getting just minor jobs with little pay, leaving the couple in money related troubles. With the remainder of her cash from "Red Pawn" depleted, Rand got an idea for her new play from Al Woods, who had created "The Trial of Mary Dugan" for Broadway. The agreement incorporated a condition that Woods could make changes to the content. Attentive that he would wreck her vision of the play to make an increasingly regular show, Rand turned Woods down. 

Not long after she dismissed the idea from Woods, Rand acknowledged an idea from Welsh performer E. E. Clive to organize the play in Los Angeles. It initially opened at the Hollywood Playhouse as "Lady on Trial"; Clive created, and Barbara Bedford played Andre. The creation opened on October 22, 1934, and shut in late November. 

Toward the finish of the play's kept running in Los Angeles, Woods reestablished his idea to create the play on Broadway. Despite the fact that he was an eminent maker of numerous acclaimed plays in a vocation of over three decades, Woods had lost a lot of his fortune in the mid 1930s and had not delivered a hit in quite a while. Being denied by an amateur creator stunned him and expanded his advantage. Woods still needed the privilege to make content changes, yet he made acclimations to the agreement to give Rand more impact. She reluctantly consented to his terms. 

Rand touched base in New York City toward the start of December 1934 fully expecting the opening in January. The play's financing fizzled, deferring the creation for a while until Woods masterminded new financing from theater proprietor Lee Shubert. At the point when work continued, Rand's association with Woods immediately soured as he requested changes she later mocked as "a garbage stack of worn, superfluous exaggerated gadgets". Woods had made his prosperity on Broadway with tasteless melodramas, for example, "Nellie, the Beautiful Cloak Model" and suggestive comedies, for example, "The Demi-Virgin". Woods was not intrigued by what he called Rand's "highfalutin discourses", inclining toward the sensational clash to concentrate on solid components, for example, regardless of whether the respondent had a weapon. The progressions to Rand's work incorporated the production of another character, a firearm moll played by Shubert's special lady. 

The agreement among Woods and Rand enabled him to procure partners on the off chance that he thought it fundamental, paying them a restricted bit of the creator's eminences. He initially contracted John Hayden to immediate, paying him one rate point from Rand's 10-percent eminence. Despite the fact that Hayden was an effective Broadway executive, Rand despised him and later called him "a ratty Broadway holder on". As tryouts for the play started in Philadelphia, Woods requested further content changes and was disappointed by Rand's refusal to make some of them. He connected with Louis Weitzenkorn, the creator of the past hit "Five Star Final", to go about as a content specialist. Rand's association with Weitzenkorn was more regrettable than hers with Woods or Hayden; she and Weitzenkorn contended over political contrasts just as his thoughts for the play. Woods gave Weitzenkorn another rate point from Rand's eminences without educating her. Rand recorded a case against Woods with the American Arbitration Association; she questioned Weitzenkorn accepting any segment of her eminences, and told the mediation board Weitzenkorn had added just a solitary line to the play, which was cut after the tryouts. After hearing this declaration, one of the mediators reacted suspiciously, "That was he did?" In two hearings, the board decided that Weitzenkorn ought to get his settled upon one percent, however that Woods couldn't deduct the installment from Rand's sovereignties since she had not been told ahead of time. Regardless of the question among Rand and Woods, the play opened at Shubert's Ambassador Theater on September 16, 1935, where it ran effectively for seven months. It shut on April 4, 1936, after 283 exhibitions. 

At the point when the play's prosperity on Broadway was clear, Woods propelled creations of the play in different urban communities, beginning with San Francisco. It opened there at the Geary Theater on December 30, 1935, and kept running for five weeks with Nedda Harrigan ahead of the pack job. Harrigan remained with the show when it moved to the El Capitan Theater in Los Angeles, where it opened on March 1, 1936. After the Broadway generation shut, Woods began a street visit that included creations in Boston and Chicago. 

Global creations of the play included shows in London, Montreal, and Sydney. The generation in London opened on September 29, 1936, where Phoebe Foster played the lead job for her first appearance on the London arrange. It shut after 22 exhibitions. A creation in Montreal opened on June 16, 1941, featuring Fay Wray as Andre and Robert Wilcox as Regan. In Sydney, the play opened at the Minerva Theater on June 19, 1944, with Thelma Grigg as Andre. 

"Night of January sixteenth" was first distributed in a release for beginner theater associations in 1936, utilizing a form altered by show teacher Nathaniel Edward , which included further changes to dispense with components, for example, swearing and smoking. Rand repudiated this adaptation in light of the changes. In 1960, Rand's protégé Nathaniel Branden gotten some information about completing an open perusing of the play for understudies at the Nathaniel Branden Institute. Rand did not need him to utilize the beginner form; she made a reexamined content that killed the greater part of Woods' and 's changes. She had her "last, conclusive variant" distributed in 1968 with a presentation about the play's history. 

In 1972, Rand endorsed an off-Broadway restoration of the play, which utilized her favored rendition of the content, including a few dozen further little changes in language past those in the 1968 variant. The recovery additionally utilized her unique title, "Penthouse Legend". It was created by Phillip and Kay Nolte Smith, a wedded couple who were companions with Rand. Kay Smith likewise featured in the generation under the stage name Kay Gillian. It opened at the McAlpin Rooftop Theater on February 22, 1973, and shut on March 18 after 30 exhibitions. 

"Night of January sixteenth" was the last showy accomplishment for either Rand or Woods. Rand's next play, "Perfect", went unsold, and a 1940 phase adjustment of "We the Living" floundered. Rand made enduring progress and money related soundness with her 1943 novel, "The Fountainhead". Woods delivered a few more plays; none were hits and when he passed on in 1951, he was bankrupt and living in an inn. 

The plot of "Night of January sixteenth" fixates on the preliminary of secretary Karen Andre for the homicide of her manager, business official Bjorn Faulkner, who swindled his organization of a huge number of dollars to put resources into the gold exchange. In the wake of a money related accident, he was confronting insolvency. The play's occasions happen altogether in a court; Faulkner is never observed. The evening of January 16, Faulkner and Andre were in the penthouse of the Faulkner Building in New York City, when Faulkner clearly tumbled to his demise. Inside the three demonstrations, the examiner Mr. Stone and Andre's barrier lawyer Mr. Stevens consider observers whose declarations fabricate clashing stories. 

Toward the start of the main demonstration, the judge asks the court representative to call members of the jury from the group of onlookers. When the members of the jury are situated, the indictment contention starts. Rock clarifies that Andre was Faulkner's secretary, yet in addition his darling. He says Faulkner abandoned her to wed Nancy Lee Whitfield and terminated Andre, inspiring Andre to kill him. Rock at that point calls a progression of observers, beginning with the medicinal inspector, who affirms that Faulkner's body was so harmed by the fall that it was difficult to decide if he was slaughtered by the effect or was at that point dead. An old night guardian and a private specialist portray the occasions they saw that night. A police monitor vouches for finding a suicide note. Faulkner's religious servant disapprovingly portrays the sexual connection among Andre and Faulkner, and says she saw Andre with another man after Faulkner's marriage. Nancy Lee affirms about her and Faulkner's romance and marriage, depicting both as unspoiled. The demonstration closes with Andre standing up of swing to blame Nancy Lee for lying. 

The second demonstration proceeds with the arraignment's case, with Flint calling John Graham Whitfield—Faulkner's dad in-law and leader of Whitfield National Bank. He affirms about a huge advance he made to Faulkner. In his questioning, safeguard lawyer Stevens recommends the advance was utilized to purchase Faulkner's marriage to Whitfield's little girl. After this declaration, the arraignment rests and the barrier contention starts. A penmanship master affirms about the mark on the suicide note. Faulkner's accountant portrays occasions between Andre's expulsion and the evening of Faulkner's passing, and related monetary issues. Andre stands up and portrays her association with Faulkner as the two his darling and his accomplice in budgetary misrepresentation. She says she didn't disdain his marriage since it was a business arrangement to verify credit from the Whitfield Bank. As she clarifies the purposes behind Faulkner's supposed suicide, she is hindered by the entry of "Guts" Regan, a notorious hoodlum, who discloses to Andre that Faulkner is dead. Notwithstanding being on preliminary for Faulkner's homicide, Andre is stunned by this news and swoons. 

The last demonstration proceeds with Andre's declaration; she is currently serious instead of rebellious. She says that she, Faulkner, and Regan had schemed to counterfeit Faulkner's suicide so they could escape with cash stolen from Whitfield. Regan, who was likewise infatuated with Andre, gave the stolen body of his effectively dead group partner, "Lefty" O'Toole, to toss from the structure. In interrogation, Flint proposes Andre and Regan were utilizing learning of past crimes to extort Faulkner. Stevens at that point calls Regan, who affirms that he was because of meet Faulkner at an escape plane in the wake of leaving the stolen body with Andre; in any case, Faulkner did not arrive and the plane was absent. Rather than Faulkner, Regan experienced Whitfield, who gave him a watch that was, as per Regan, to purchase his quietness. Regan later found the missing plane, which had been scorched with what he presumes is Faulkner's body inside. Stone's questioning offers an elective hypothesis: Regan put the stolen body into the plane to make question about Andre's blame, and the check from Whitfield was insurance cash to Regan's pack. In the play's Broadway and beginner forms, the following observer is Roberta Van Rensselaer, an outlandish artist and spouse of O'Toole, who trusts Regan murdered her better half. This character does not show up in Rand's favored rendition of the play. Stevens at that point reviews two observers to catch up on issues from Regan's declaration. The barrier and arraignment at that point give their end contentions. 

The jury resigns to cast a ballot while the characters rehash features from their declaration under a spotlight. The jury at that point comes back to declare its decision. One of two short endings pursues. Whenever found not liable, Andre thanks the jury. Whenever found blameworthy, she says the jury have saved her from ending it all. In Reeid's novice variant, after either decision the judge scolds the attendants for their terrible judgment and announces that they can't serve on a jury once more. 

Albeit best known as "Night of January sixteenth", the play's title changed on various occasions and a few elective titles were considered. Rand's working title was "Penthouse Legend". At the point when Clive got the play, he thought Rand's title recommended a dream story that would dishearten potential benefactors. The play was classified "The Verdict" amid the Hollywood Playhouse practices, yet opened there with the title "Lady on Trial". At the point when Woods took the play to Broadway, he demanded another title. He offered Rand a decision between "The Black Sedan" and "Night of January sixteenth". Rand preferred not one or the other, yet picked the last mentioned. Woods later recommended two more name changes, however did not execute them. Preceding the opening, he considered renaming the play "The Night is Young". After the play opened, he considered changing its name every day to coordinate the present date. 

At the point when Rand distributed her rendition of the play in 1968, she composed that in spite of the fact that she hated the Broadway title, it was excessively outstanding to transform it once more. She consented to utilizing "Penthouse Legend" as the title for the 1973 restoration creation. 

The play's hero and lead female job is the respondent, Karen Andre. Woods thought about a few on-screen characters for the job, yet with Rand's help he cast a surprising decision, a performing artist named Doris Nolan. It was Nolan's Broadway debut; her past expert acting knowledge was a fizzled endeavor at finishing a film scene. At 17 years of age, she was given a role as an apparently more seasoned femme fatale. Woods was Nolan's administrator and got a commission from her agreement. Nolan was unpracticed and was anxious all through practices. At the point when different performing artists visited, she dreaded they were there to supplant her. Despite the fact that Rand later said she was "not an electrifying performer", analysts adulated her execution. Nolan left the cast in March to take a film contract from Universal Studios. 

Rand effectively pushed for Walter Pidgeon to be thrown in the job of "Guts" Regan. Woods questioned at first, yet in the end gave Pidgeon the part. As with Nolan, commentators affirmed the decision. Pidgeon left the creation after about a month to play a job in another play, "There's Wisdom in Women". Regardless of Rand's protests, he was supplanted with William Bakewell; Rand suggested Morgan Conway, who assumed a similar job in "Lady on Trial". 

The choice of a jury from the play's gathering of people was the essential emotional development of "Night of January sixteenth". It made worries among a significant number of the makers who considered and dismissed the play. Despite the fact that Woods preferred the thought, Hayden stressed it would devastate the showy figment; he dreaded crowd individuals may won't take part. Effective jury choices amid reviews showed this would not be an issue. This analysis disseminated following the play's prosperity; it wound up celebrated for its "jury trick". 

The play's jury has here and there enrolled acclaimed members; the Broadway determinations were fixed to approach VIPs known to be in the group of onlookers. The jury for the Broadway opening included lawyer Edward J. Reilly—who was known from the Lindbergh capturing preliminary prior that year—and boxing champion Jack Dempsey. At a unique act for the visually impaired, Helen Keller sat on the jury. The act of utilizing big name attendants proceeded all through the Broadway run and in different creations. 

Woods chose the jury for the Broadway run would utilize some jury administration principles of the New York courts. One such principle was the installment of attendants three dollars for every day for their interest, which implied the chose crowd individuals benefitted by no less than 25 pennies in the wake of subtracting the ticket cost. Another was that no one but men could serve on a jury, in spite of the fact that Woods made special cases, for instance at the execution Keller visited. He later extricated the standard to permit ladies members of the jury at early show exhibitions two times per week. In contrast to an ordinary criminal preliminary, decisions required just a dominant part vote as opposed to unanimity. 

Rand depicted "Night of January sixteenth" as "a feeling of-life play". She didn't need its occasions to be taken actually, however to be comprehended as a portrayal of various methods for moving toward life. Andre speaks to an eager, sure, non-traditionalist way to deal with life, while the indictment witnesses speak to similarity, jealousy of achievement, and the craving for control over others. Rand trusted the jury's choice at every execution uncovered the frame of mind of the attendants towards these two clashing faculties of life. Rand upheld independence and considered Andre "not blameworthy". She said she needed the play to pass on the perspective: "Your life, your accomplishment, your joy, are of central significance. Satisfy your most noteworthy vision of yourself regardless of what the conditions you may experience. A lifted up perspective on confidence is man's most honorable quality". She said the play "is certifiably not a philosophical treatise on profound quality" and speaks to this view just fundamentally. Rand would later clarify an express reasoning, which she called "Objectivism", especially in her 1957 novel "Map book Shrugged" and in genuine papers, however "Night of January sixteenth" originates before these progressively philosophical works. 

A few later pundits have translated the play as an impression of Rand's initial enthusiasm for the thoughts of German logician Friedrich Nietzsche. Writing teacher Shoshana Milgram saw components of Nietzsche's profound quality in the depictions of Bjorn Faulkner, who "never thought of things as right or off-base". Others discovered criticalness in Rand's esteem of the play's criminal characters. Student of history Jennifer Burns said Rand "discovered guiltiness an overpowering representation for independence" on account of the effect on her of "Nietzsche's transvaluation of qualities [that] changed culprits into legends". Rand kept up culpability was not the essential quality of the characters; she said a criminal could fill in as "a smooth image" of autonomy and resistance to congruity, however expressed, "I don't think, nor did I think when I composed this play, a swindler is a courageous character or that a good broker is a scoundrel". Rand biographer Ronald Merrill expelled this clarification as a concealment for the play's advancement of Nietzschean thoughts that Rand later rejected. He called the play "an incredible and smooth supplication for the Nietzschean perspective" of the predominance of the "superman"; this is spoken to by Faulkner, whom Merrill translates as dismissing outer good expert and the "slave ethical quality" of customary individuals. Biographer Anne Heller said Rand "later revoked her sentimental interest with hoodlums", making the characters' guiltiness a shame for her. 

Since its debut, "Night of January sixteenth" has had a blended gathering. The underlying Los Angeles keep running as "Lady on Trial" got complimentary surveys; Rand was disillusioned that audits concentrated on the play's drama and its similitude to "The Trial of Mary Dugan", while giving little consideration to viewpoints she considered increasingly essential, for example, the differentiating thoughts of independence and similarity. In spite of the fact that Rand later depicted the creation as "seriously crippled by absence of assets" and "skilled, yet fairly unexciting", it performed sensibly well in the cinematic world amid its short run. 

The Broadway creation got to a great extent positive surveys that commended its drama and the acting of Nolan and Pidgeon. "Commonweal" portrayed it as "very much built, alright composed, outstandingly directed ... also, phenomenally acted". The "Brooklyn Daily Eagle" said the activity came in "fits and begins", however lauded the acting and the oddity of the utilization of a jury. "New York Post" commentator John Mason Brown said the play had a few blemishes, yet was an energizing, better than expected drama. Streams Atkinson gave it a negative audit in "The New York Times", calling it "the standard blend of hokum". An audit from "Theater Arts Monthly" was likewise pompous, considering the play an "in vogue amusement" that would be "fun in a parlor" however appeared "quite stupid" in front of an audience. A few surveys concentrated on Woods as the wellspring of the play's sure traits since he had numerous past dramatic triumphs. "Time" said Woods was rehashing a fruitful recipe from "The Trial of Mary Dugan". Audits that adulated these components were a humiliation to Rand, who believed Woods' progressions to be negative. Once more, analysts disregarded the more extensive subjects that Rand thought about essential. 

Proficient preparations in other North American urban communities regularly gotten positive audits. Austin B. Fenger depicted the creation at San Francisco's Geary Theater as "darned great theater" that was "very much acted" and "freshly composed". Charles Collins said the Chicago creation was "a top of the line story" that was "very much acted by an outstandingly chosen cast". Thomas Archer's survey of the Montreal generation portrayed it as "reasonable" and "engrossing". 

The London creation in 1936 got for the most part positive audits yet was not a business achievement. A commentator for "The Times" adulated Foster's execution as "tense and excellent". In "The Daily Telegraph", analyst W. A. Darlington said the show would be famous with crowds, however the creation finished its keep running in under a month. The survey in "The Glasgow Herald" portrayed it as a "solid, fast spine chiller", however with sub-par exchange to "The Trial of Mary Dugan". The analyst for "The Spectator" was progressively basic, saying the play itself was "solid", yet was undermined by "average playing" from "terrible on-screen characters". 

The 1973 restoration as "Penthouse Legend" was a disappointment and gotten firmly negative audits. A commentator for "The Village Voice" complimented the story's exaggerated plot winds however said it was "ludicrously seriously expressed" and depicted the generation as "regular and self-evident". In "The New York Times", Clive Barnes called the play dull and said the acting was "not especially great". It shut inside half a month. 

Scholastics and biographers exploring the play have likewise communicated blended sentiments. Theater researcher Gerald Bordman pronounced it "an unexceptional court dramatization" made well known by the jury component, in spite of the fact that he noted commendation for the acting of Breese and Pidgeon. History specialist James Baker depicted Rand's introduction of court conduct as farfetched, yet said groups of onlookers excuse this in light of the fact that the play's emotional minutes are "so much fun". He said the play was "extraordinary stimulation" that is "held together by a massively appealing lady and a contrivance", however "it isn't reasoning" and neglects to pass on the subjects Rand had at the top of the priority list. Jennifer Burns communicated a comparable view, expressing that the play's endeavors to depict independence had "questionable results ... Rand expected Bjorn Faulkner to exemplify courageous independence, yet in the play he puts on a show of being minimal in excess of a corrupt businessperson with a preference for unpleasant sex". Writing researcher Mimi Reisel Gladstein portrayed the play as "noteworthy for emotional creativity and topical substance". Rand biographer Anne Heller thought of it as "drawing in, if stilted", while Ronald Merrill portrayed it as "a skillfully developed show" undermined by "Rand's particular failure to compose a viable secret plot without leaving openings". Riddle commentator Marvin Lachman noticed the curiosity of the utilization of a jury yet called the play implausible with "stilted discourse" and "cliché characters". 

The motion picture rights to "Night of January sixteenth" were at first acquired by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) in October 1934 as a conceivable vehicle for Loretta Young. They enlisted Rand to compose a screenplay, however the undertaking was rejected. After MGM's choice terminated, Woods considered making a film form through his very own generation organization, however in 1938 RKO Pictures purchased the rights for $10,000, an expense split among Woods and Rand. RKO considered Claudette Colbert and Lucille Ball as conceivable stars, however they likewise abandoned the adjustment. The rights were exchanged to Paramount Pictures in July 1939 for $35,000. Foremost discharged a film in 1941; Rand did not take an interest in the creation. The movie was coordinated by William Clemens, and Delmer Daves, Robert Pirosh, and Eve Greene were locked in to set up another screenplay. 

The new screenplay modified the plot altogether, concentrating on Steve Van Ruyle (Robert Preston), a mariner who acquires a situation on the leading body of an organization headed by Bjorn Faulkner (Nils Asther). In contrast to the play, in which Faulkner is as of now dead, he shows up in the film as a living character who is clearly killed. Doubt falls on Faulkner's secretary Kit Lane (Ellen Drew); Van Ruyle chooses to examine the supposed wrongdoing. Faulkner is found covering up in Cuba in the wake of faking his very own demise. Rand said just a solitary line from her unique exchange showed up in the motion picture, which she expelled as a "shoddy, trashy profanity". The film got little consideration when it was discharged, and most audits of it were negative. 

In 1989, "Gawaahi", a Hindi-language adjustment of "Night of January sixteenth" was discharged. Indian performing artist Zeenat Aman drove a cast that included Shekhar Kapur and Ashutosh Gowariker. 

"Night of January sixteenth" was adjusted for a few TV treasury arrangement during the 1960s. The first was WOR-TV's "Broadway Television Theater", which broadcast its adjustment on July 14, 1952, with a cast that included Neil Hamilton and Virginia Gilmore. On CBS, the "Lux Video Theater" exhibited a variant of "Night of January sixteenth" on May 10, 1956, featuring Phyllis Thaxter as Andre. In the United Kingdom, Maxine Audley played the lead job for an "ITV Play of the Week" communicate on January 12, 1960; Cec Linder played the head prosecutor. The communicate had been planned for October 6, 1959, yet was postponed to keep away from its conceivable translation as political discourse before the general race held soon thereafter. A radio adjustment of the play was communicated on the BBC Home Service on August 4, 1962.