Different Worlds, Universe Science Fiction, and Science Stories 

Different Worlds, Universe Science Fiction, and Science Stories were three related US magazines altered by Raymond A. Palmer. "Different Worlds" was propelled in November 1949 by Palmer's Clark Publications and went on for a long time in its previously run, with generally welcomed stories, for example, "Captivated Village" by A. E. van Vogt and "Path in the Middle of the Air", one of Ray Bradbury's "Martian Chronicle" stories. Since Palmer was both distributer and manager, he was allowed to pursue his very own article approach, and exhibited a wide cluster of sci-fi. 

Palmer entered an organization with a Chicago representative in 1953 to make Bell Publications, and printed "Universe Science Fiction" from June 1953. Palmer utilized the new organization to surrender "Different Worlds" and dispatch "Science Stories", so as to escape from Clark Publications' money related challenges. Subsequently "Science Stories" can be viewed as a continuation of "Different Worlds". "Science Stories" was outwardly appealing yet contained no critical fiction. "Universe", then again, was dull in appearance, yet incorporated some generally welcomed stories, for example, Theodore Sturgeon's "The World Well Lost", which analyzed homosexuality, a dubious subject for the time. 

Palmer's Chicago accomplice lost intrigue, so he took over both "Science Stories" and "Universe Science Fiction" under another organization. In 1955 he winnowed the two magazines and brought back "Different Worlds", numbering the issues to influence the new magazine to show up a continuation of both the first "Different Worlds" and furthermore of "Universe". In this new manifestation the magazine was less fruitful, yet printed Marion Zimmer Bradley's first novel, "Hawks of Narabedla". In 1957 Palmer changed the focal point of the magazine to unidentified flying articles (UFOs), retitling it "Flying Saucers from Other Worlds", and after the September 1957 issue no more fiction showed up. Palmer in the long run settled on "Flying Saucers, Mysteries of the Space Age" as the title, and in that structure it made due until June 1976. 

In 1945, Raymond Palmer, the editorial manager of "Stunning Stories", distributed "I Remember Lemuria", by Richard Shaver, in the March 1945 issue. The story, about ancient civic establishments, clarified every one of the catastrophes on Earth as crafted by wickedness robots. Palmer displayed the story as a blend of truth and fiction, and the reaction from perusers was sufficient that he purchased more stories from Shaver, and advanced what he called the "Shaver Mystery". Dissemination developed drastically, however the distributer, Ziff-Davis, ended up frightened at the scorn the narratives were attracting the press, and requested Palmer to tone down the material. Palmer agreed, however wanted to leave. He framed his very own distributing organization, Clark Publications, in 1947, and propelled "Destiny" in 1948. In 1949 Palmer left Ziff-Davis, and propelled "Different Worlds Science Stories" in review design; the supervisor was recorded as Robert N. Webster, an alias used to cover his exercises since he was all the while working at Ziff-Davis when the principal issue showed up. Palmer had intended to disperse free duplicates of the main issue to fans at that year's World Science Fiction Convention in Cincinnati. Printing delays implied the magazine did not show up until late in the year. At the tradition Palmer reported that "Robert N. Webster" was his nom de plume, gave the tradition coordinators the first fine art for the primary issue available to be purchased. He additionally met, and quickly procured, Bea Mahaffey, a Cleveland fan, as his overseeing supervisor, beginning with the fourth issue, dated May 1950. 

Palmer arranged another sci-fi (sf) title, "Creative ability", to be propelled in the fall of 1950, yet in June, he endured a genuine mishap and was incidentally deadened, and Mahaffey took over in his nonattendance. Palmer had the capacity to help with altering the two magazines even while in the emergency clinic, however by September he chose to pitch "Creative ability" to William Hamling, and keep "Different Worlds". In spite of the high spread cost of 35 pennies, "Different Worlds" did all around ok for Palmer to build the distribution recurrence from every other month to like clockwork, however confronted challenge from two new magazines propelled at about a similar time: "The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction", the primary issue of which had showed up toward the finish of 1949, and "Cosmic system Science Fiction", which distributed its first issue in October 1950. Both were effective, with higher spending plans than Palmer had the capacity to manage, and "Different Worlds" endured subsequently. The magazine was doing all around ok for Palmer to move it to month to month production toward the finish of 1952. It remained on an ordinary calendar until the July 1953 issue, yet Palmer's funds in the end exacerbated to the indicate that he was not able pay his printer. 

Palmer was reached by a Chicago specialist keen on beginning a sf magazine, and accepted the open door to determine his budgetary issues by shaping another organization, Bell Publications, in association with the agent (whose name was never uncovered), and beginning two magazines: "Universe Science Fiction" and "Science Stories". "Universe's" first issue showed up in June 1953, while "Different Worlds" was all the while being distributed. It was financed by Palmer's accomplice, and planned as an every other month, however in truth the initial four issues were on a quarterly calendar. It was altered by Palmer and Mahaffey, who utilized the aggregate nom de plume "Chime" for the initial two issues. "Science Stories" followed in October, additionally altered by Palmer and Mahaffey as "George Bell", and distributed by Bell Publications; this was viably a similar magazine as "Different Worlds Science Stories", with "Different Worlds" dropped from the title. In the second issue of "Science Stories", Palmer clarified the purpose behind the new magazine: "For an assortment of reasons—and let's face it, the greater part of them were money related—we needed to make an impromptu choice to suspend "Different Worlds" and supplant it with the magazine you are presently perusing. We called the typesetter, stopped work on the August "OW", and lifted the publication and stories we required for "Science Stories" No. 1 from "OW" material close by". Supporters of "Different Worlds" were given the choice to proceed with their membership with whichever of the two magazines they favored. 

At the point when the mysterious businessperson lost enthusiasm for the venture Palmer got him out, financed by the clearance of his half offer in Clark Publications, which had distributed "Different Worlds" and "Destiny". He established Palmer Publications and assumed control over the new magazines with "Universe's" third issue and "Science Stories"' second issue, and deserted the nom de plume. He propelled "Spiritualist Magazine", which, similar to "Destiny", distributed mysterious material, both truth and fiction. "Science Stories" neglected to sell well, and stopped to show up after the April 1954 issue, yet "Universe" kept, going every other month after the March 1954 issue. An aggregate of ten issues showed up under the title "Universe Science Fiction", and with the May 1955 issue the title "Different Worlds Science Fiction" returned. The new form of "Different Worlds" at first conveyed both "Universe's" numbering and the issue numbering from the first keep running of "Different Worlds". Palmer shut the workplaces in Evanston, Illinois, and altered the magazine from his home in Wisconsin; Mahaffey kept on chipping away at the magazine via mail from Cincinnati. From November 1955 the configuration changed to mash measure: this was against the overall market twists, as practically every one of the pulps had vanished at this point. In 1956 a startling assessment bill constrained Palmer to let Mahaffey go, and he ran the magazine without anyone else starting there on. 

The next year Palmer exchanged the magazine's concentration to flying saucers. To attempt to keep up the current readership while pulling in new perusers, Palmer stressed sf and flying saucers in exchange issues: for instance, the June 1957 issue was titled "FLYING SAUCERS from Other Worlds", and the July issue was "Flying Saucers from OTHER WORLDS". He additionally trusted that each issue would be kept longer on newspaper kiosks if the wholesalers thought they were managing two magazines. The analysis did not last; from the July/August 1958 issue the title was abbreviated to "Flying Saucers", and the magazine stopped to convey fiction. Palmer resigned to Amherst, Wisconsin, and assumed control over its printing. Bibliographic sources center around the sci-fi issues, and don't record the magazine after 1958, however it proceeded with distribution until 1976 as a genuine magazine. 

Palmer's enthusiasm for the Shaver Mystery did not decrease when he left "Astounding Stories", and the lead story for the primary issue of "Different Worlds" was Shaver's "The Fall of Lemuria", still displayed as truth in the appearance of fiction. The spread delineation was by Malcolm Smith, a continuous craftsman for "Stunning." Palmer proclaimed in the primary issue that he needed to display sci-fi from over the range: hard-science accounts of the thoughtful that showed up in "Surprising Science Fiction", and stories illustrative of the styles of the other driving magazines—"Astounding", "Planet Stories", and "Exciting Wonder Stories". Notwithstanding this huge numbers of the tales in the principal issue were normal. A great part of the primary issue's substance were by "Astounding" regulars, and it at first created the impression that the new magazine would not be particularly unique in relation to Palmer's "Stunning Stories", however inside a couple of issues the quality improved detectably. 

Not at all like pretty much every other sf magazine available, "Different Worlds" was altered and distributed by a similar individual, which implied there were no limitations on Palmer's article approach. He endeavored to discover new and brave material, and in the early long stretches of the magazine, he got a portion of the better stories being distributed. Mike Ashley, a history specialist of sci-fi, refers to Eric Frank Russell's "Beloved Devil"; "Representation of a Narcissus" by Raymond F. Jones; "Path in the Middle of the Air", one of Ray Bradbury's "Martian Chronicles" stories; and two stories by A.E. van Vogt: "Charmed Village", one of van Vogt's best-enjoyed stories, and "War of Nerves", some portion of his "Voyage of the Space Beagle" arrangement. Fritz Leiber contributed "The Seven Black Priests", one of his Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser stories, and E.E. Smith, who had turned out to be celebrated for his space musical shows, changed to dream with "Tedric", which showed up in the March 1953 issue. Poul Anderson and Gordon R. Dickson contributed "Legends Are Made", the first in their Hoka arrangement, and Palmer acquired fiction from other surely understood scholars, for example, Fredric Brown and Wilson Tucker. Incompletely in light of rivalry from the recently propelled "Cosmic system Science Fiction" and "The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction", Palmer was unfit to get enough material of this quality to fill the magazine, and the majority of the rest of the narratives were unremarkable space experiences. Ashley remarks that the disgrace of the Shaver Mystery clung to Palmer and harmed the magazine; and recommends that a great part of the best-quality work in "Different Worlds" was because of the impact of Mahaffey, who as Ashley would see it "had amazing preference for fiction". A high purpose of the genuine pieces was a progression of articles by L. Sprague de Camp, shortened from his book "Lost Continents: The Atlantis Theme ever", which kept running from 1952 to 1953. The spreads were appealing, regularly with work of art on the two spreads, by understood specialists, for example, Malcolm Smith, Robert Gibson Jones, Harold McCauley, and Hannes Bok."Science Stories" kept up a similar high caliber of fine art. The primary issue, dated October 1953, was painted by Bok, who additionally did the inside outline for Jack Williamson's story dependent on the spread. The staying three spreads were by Virgil Finlay, Albert A. Nuetzell, and Jones; Wendy Bousfield, a sf student of history, considers the last one the best, and furthermore singles out the last issue's inside outlines, all by Finlay, for recognition. The composing was not up to the standard of the craftsmanship, with Jack Williamson and Mack Reynolds the main two creators whose notoriety has endured. A lower page check implied less true to life material and perusers' specializations, (for example, letters) in "Science Stories" than in "Different Worlds", however Palmer discovered space for kid's shows and notices for his very own books, for example, "The Coming of the Saucers", composed with Kenneth Arnold. 

"Science Stories" was outwardly alluring however needed essential story lines. "Universe Science Fiction" adopted the contrary strategy, with uninteresting spreads and poor inside craftsmanship, yet it had generous story lines in the initial two issues, which sf history specialist E.F. Casebeer ascribes to Mahaffey's impact. Murray Leinster, Mark Clifton and Mack Reynolds added to the early issues, with Robert Bloch, giving "Steady Reader", Theodore Sturgeon, and "The World Well Lost"; a treatment of homosexuality dubious for the 1950s. When Palmer turned out to be increasingly required with the magazine again the craftsmanship improved, with Finlay, Lawrence Stevens, and Edd Cartier contributing great inside delineations. In Casebeer's view the Finlay and Lawrence representations were the best the magazine brought to the table, and he considers the nature of the fiction to have gone downhill after a genuinely encouraging begin. In the last three issues the craftsmanship was additionally powerless, with low quality highly contrasting spreads and minimal inside workmanship. 

The principal issue of the resuscitated "Different Worlds", in May 1955, had a high contrast spread picture; later issues came back to shading, however until 1956 these were all reprints of spreads from the main manifestation of the magazine. For the front of the November 1955 issue (the first in mash group) Palmer republished fine art by J. Allen St. John from the back front of the November 1952 issue; St. John's work of art had spared another Palmer magazine, "Fabulous Adventures", from undoing in 1939. The nature of the fiction dropped from the periodic highs of the main keep running of "Different Worlds". "Birds of prey of Narabedla", the principal novel by Marion Zimmer Bradley, showed up in 1957, and Palmer likewise gotten her first Darkover tale, "Sword of Aldones", however he never ran it and in the long run restored the original copy to Bradley. Palmer would have liked to distribute "Tarzan on Mars", a novel by Stuart Byrne that utilized anecdotal universes made by Edgar Rice Burroughs, yet he was unfit to get approval from the Burroughs bequest, and needed to hold the thought. 

Palmer had for some time been keen on UFOs, and ran an article in "Different Worlds" in 1951 titled "I Flew in a Flying Saucer", bylined "Commander A.V.G.", however Lester del Rey reports in his history of sf magazines that it might have been composed by Palmer himself. Inevitably Palmer chose to drop sci-fi; from June 1957 just three issues—June, July and September—included fiction; from that point it was a true to life magazine about UFOs. He wrote in the accompanying issue that he would print updates on flying saucers and bits of gossip, and would expose any cases he could demonstrate counterfeit. Throughout the following twenty years he included such periphery thoughts, for example, that the earth was not round, and in December 1959 ran an article in "Flying Saucers" that asserted the earth was molded like a doughnut, and that flying saucers began from an unexplored source on the world's surface. In 1965 Palmer distributed an article by Delmar H. Bryant that exposed that the earth was empty, however the next year again proposed that the earth may be doughnut molded. On the June 1970 issue, the spread picture demonstrated a doughnut molded earth from space; Palmer guaranteed this was proof from a satellite photo. 

"Different Worlds" was altered by Raymond Palmer and distributed by Clark Publications from November 1949 to July 1953, and by Palmer Publications from May 1955 until at any rate November 1957. "Science Stories" and "Universe Science Fiction" were at first distributed by Bell Publications, for one and two issues, separately; from that point both were distributed by Palmer Publications. The two magazines were altered by Palmer and Bea Mahaffey. "Universe" and "Science Stories" were in summary configuration for every one of their issues and were evaluated at 35 pennies; "Different Worlds" started as a condensation and changed to mash with the November 1955 issue, and was 35 pennies until in any event the finish of 1958. "Different Worlds" had 160 pages for the primary run, and 128 pages when it returned in May 1955, dropping to 96 pages for the mash issues, until in any event the November 1957 issue. Both "Universe" and "Science Stories" had 128 pages all through their runs. 

After it turned into a true to life magazine, the title changed to "Flying Saucers, The Magazine of Space Conquest" with the July/August 1958 issue. In 1961 the title changed twice progressively, first to "Flying Saucers, The Magazine of Space Mysteries", lastly to "Flying Saucers, Mysteries of the Space Age", which it held until it stopped distribution in 1976.