Attack of Thessalonica (1422– 1430) 

The attack of Thessalonica somewhere in the range of 1422 and 1430 saw the Ottoman Empire under Sultan Murad II catch the city of Thessalonica. Thessalonica stayed in Ottoman hands for the following five centuries, until it turned out to be a piece of the Kingdom of Greece in 1912. 

Thessalonica had just been under Ottoman control from 1387 to 1403 preceding coming back to Byzantine standard in the fallout of the Battle of Ankara. In 1422, after the Byzantines bolstered Mustafa Çelebi as an opponent actor against him, Murad assaulted Thessalonica. Unfit to give labor or assets to the city's resistance, its ruler, Andronikos Palaiologos, gave it over to the Republic of Venice in September 1423. The Venetians endeavored to convince the Sultan to perceive their ownership, however bombed as Murad considered the city his by right and the Venetians to be gatecrashers. This impasse prompted an Ottoman barricade of Thessalonica, which sporadically erupted with direct assaults on the city. In the meantime, the contention was for the most part battled as a progression of assaults by the two sides against different's regions in the Balkans and the Aegean islands. The Venetians over and again endeavored to apply weight by obstructing the entry of the Dardanelles at Gallipoli, with little achievement. 

The barricade immediately diminished the occupants to close starvation, and drove numerous to escape the city. The limitations set on them by the attack, the failure of Venice to appropriately supply and protect the city, the infringement of their standard rights, and uncontrolled profiteering by Venetian authorities prompted the development of a genius surrender party inside the city, which picked up quality among the occupants. The city's metropolitan religious administrator, Symeon, urged his rush to stand up to. In any case, by 1426, with Venice's failure to verify tranquility all alone terms apparent, a greater part of the neighborhood populace had come to incline toward a surrender to stay away from the loot that would go with a coercive victory. Venice's endeavors to discover partners against the Ottomans additionally fizzled: the other local sovereigns either sought after their very own course, were themselves opposing to the Venetians, or were crushed by the Ottomans. 

Following quite a while of uncertain trades, the opposite sides arranged for a last showdown in 1429. In March, Venice formally announced war on the Ottomans, however and, after its all said and done the preservationist trade privileged running the Republic were uninterested in raising a military adequate to ensure Thessalonica, let alone to compel the Sultan to look for terms. In mid 1430, Murad had the capacity to focus his powers against Thessalonica, overwhelming it on 29 March 1430. The privations of the attack and the ensuing sack decreased the city to a sad remnant of its previous self, from maybe upwards of 40,000 occupants to , and required substantial scale resettlement in the next years. Venice finished up a harmony settlement with the Sultan in July, perceiving the new business as usual. Throughout the following couple of decades, the opposition among Venice and the Ottomans transformed into a competition over control of Albania. 

In the fourteenth century, the incipient Ottoman Empire were a rising force in the Near East. In the wake of stifling quite a bit of Anatolia, with the catch of Gallipoli in 1354, Ottoman Turks additionally obtained a solid footing in the Balkans. The Christian forces of the area, prominently the declining Byzantine Empire, were frail and separated, permitting a fast Turkish extension over the locale, directed both by the Ottomans themselves and by semi-autonomous Turkish "ghazi" warrior-groups. In 1369 the Ottomans had the capacity to catch Adrianople, the third-most vital city of the Byzantine Empire after its capital Constantinople and Thessalonica. Thessalonica, governed by the Byzantine ruler and future head Manuel II Palaiologos (), itself surrendered in 1387 after a protracted attack (1383– 1387), alongside the urban communities of Christopolis and Chrysopolis. 

At first the surrendered urban areas were permitted finished self-sufficiency in return for installment of the "haraç" survey charge. Following the passing of Emperor John V Palaiologos in 1391, nonetheless, Manuel II got away Ottoman care and went to Constantinople, where he was delegated ruler, succeeding his dad. This irritated Sultan Bayezid I, who devastated to the staying Byzantine regions, and afterward turned on Chrysopolis, which was caught by tempest and to a great extent pulverized. Thessalonica submitted again to Ottoman principle as of now, perhaps after a short time of opposition, however was dealt with all the more tolerantly: despite the fact that the city was brought under full Ottoman control, the Christian populace and the Church held the majority of their assets, and the city held its establishments. 

Thessalonica stayed in Ottoman hands until 1403, when Emperor Manuel II agreed with Bayezid's oldest child Süleyman in the Ottoman progression battle that broke out after the devastating annihilation of the Ottomans and the catch of Bayezid at the Battle of Ankara against the Turco-Mongol victor Timur in 1402. In return for his help by the Treaty of Gallipoli, the Byzantine ruler verified the arrival of Thessalonica, some portion of its hinterland, the Chalcidice promontory, and the beach front area between the waterways Strymon and Pineios. 

In spite of the reclamation of Byzantine guideline, relations among Thessalonica and Constantinople stayed pained, with Thessalonica's neighborhood gentry desirously guarding their broad benefits, which as indicated by present day researchers added up to virtual self-sufficiency. This was a piece of a more extensive marvel bore witness to for a few urban areas amid the only remaining century of Byzantine history, as focal expert debilitated and radial inclinations showed themselves. For Thessalonica's situation, an inclination to seek after expanded autonomy from the magnificent capital had been clear in any event since the Zealot development of the mid-fourteenth century, and had been strengthened by Manuel II's independent routine in 1382– 1387. In this manner, after they came back to Byzantine control Thessalonica and the encompassing district were given as an independent appanage to John VII Palaiologos. After his demise in 1408, he was prevailing by Manuel's third child, the Despot Andronikos Palaiologos, who was administered by Demetrios Leontares until 1415. Amid this time, Thessalonica delighted in a time of relative harmony and flourishing, as the Turks were distracted with their own common war, despite the fact that it was assaulted by the adversary Ottoman actors in 1412 (by Musa Çelebi) and 1416 (amid the uprising of Mustafa Çelebi against Mehmed I). When the Ottoman common war finished, the Turkish weight on the city developed once more. Similarly as amid the 1383– 1387 attack, this prompted a sharp division of conclusion inside the city between groups supporting obstruction, if essential with Western European ("Latin") help, and those asking accommodation to the Ottomans. 

The inevitable victor in the Ottoman common war, Mehmed I (), kept up great relations with the Byzantines who had bolstered him. The increase of Murad II () changed the circumstance, as John VIII Palaiologos (), the beneficiary obvious and "true" official for the sickly Manuel II, set up Mustafa Çelebi as an adversary to Murad. Subsequent to overcoming his rival, Murad, resolved to quench the remainders of the Byzantine state, laid attack, fruitlessly, to Constantinople from 10 June to 6 September 1422. In June 1422, Bürak Bey, the child of Evrenos, helped by different Ottoman marcher-rulers of the Balkans, assaulted Thessalonica also, and attacked its rural areas and the western part of Chalcidice. 

As per the city's metropolitan cleric, Symeon (in office 1416/17– 1429), both he and Despot Andronikos sent rehashed requests for help to Constantinople, yet the supreme government was shy of assets and engrossed with its very own issues. In the long run, a solitary anonymous leader was sent to the city, however he carried neither men nor cash with him. This administrator proposed setting up a typical reserve of the natives to help the protection, yet this proposition met with fervent resistance, especially from the well off privileged people, who might normally have borne the brunt of the expense. The ordinary citizens moreover demonstrated reluctant to contribute; when the news spread that the Ottomans had offered a quiet settlement, gave that Despot Andronikos left the city, the average people even revolted for a convenience with the Ottomans. 

By then a gathering of blue-bloods influenced the Despot to look for the help of the Republic of Venice, an activity most likely taken without counseling Constantinople. In spring 1423, by means of the Venetian province of Negroponte, he educated the Venetians of his aim to hand over the city to them. When he educated the Venetians, they were shocked. The main conditions Andronikos joined to his offer were that the property, traditions and benefits of the city's occupants, their entitlement to exchange and go back and forth uninhibitedly, and the situation of the city's Orthodox Church be regarded, and that Venice promise to safeguard the city against the Ottomans. The sixteenth century writer Pseudo-Sphrantzes claims that Andronikos sold the city for 50,000 ducats, and this announcement was frequently acknowledged by researchers until the mid-twentieth century. This isn't referenced in some other source, nor is it found in the first reports relating to the issue, as appeared by the researchers Konstantinos Mertzios and Paul Lemerle. Then again, the Venetian agents delegated to supervise the handover were approved to give a whole of 20,000– 40,000 aspers from the income of the city as a yearly appropriation to Andronikos, should he demand it. 

The offer touched base in Venice at a perfect time. The decision of Francesco Foscari on 15 April 1423 as Doge of Venice had set a defender of an increasingly forceful and steadfast position against Ottoman expansionism at the leader of the Republic. However, most of the Great Council of Venice was as yet overwhelmed by the more careful propensities of the trader honorability that governed the Republic and they dreaded the interruption to exchange that open war with the Ottomans would bring. Since the Fourth Crusade, the Venetians had intentionally embraced an approach of continuously procuring stations, strongholds and islands from the crumbling Byzantine Empire, giving bases that verified Venice's profitable exchanging joins with the East. For quite a while Venice had seen Thessalonica as a conceivable development target, particularly as Constantinople appeared to be nearly tumbling to the Turks. Along these lines in 1419, Venice restored an office in the city, headed by a neighborhood Greek, George Philomati, and after his passing in 1422 by his sibling Demetrios. 

At a session of the Great Council on 7 July, Andronikos' offer was acknowledged. The board sent notification to the Venetian states in the Aegean Sea—Negroponte, Nauplia, Tinos and Mykonos, and the vassal Duke of Naxos—to get ready boats to claim the city, while the Republic's "bailo" at Constantinople was told to verify the consent of Emperor Manuel. After seven days Santo Venier and Niccolo Giorgio were named "provveditori" (diplomat agents) and entrusted with going to Greece and, if Despot Andronikos were all the while willing, assuming control over the city and organizing its resistance by employing hired soldiers. Giorgio was then to go before the Sultan, illuminate him of Venice's procurement of the city and legitimize it as a convenient to keep the city from being caught by different Christians, who may have been unfriendly to the Sultan. The emissaries were additionally to orchestrate harmony both between the Sultan and the Republic, and between the Sultan and Emperor Manuel. Sovereign Manuel obviously gave his consent to the proposition, for on 14 September 1423 six Venetian galleys, joined by one Byzantine kitchen, entered the harbor of Thessalonica. The Venetians were welcomed by a happy populace as friends in need. For the Thessalonians, Venetian principle implied not just security from the Turks—nearly 5,000 Ottoman troops were assaulting the city—however more promptly, a protected stream of provisions. 

By the by, vast portions of the populace kept on supporting the looking for of a settlement with the Ottomans; the works of Metropolitan Symeon record that various occupants fled right now to the Ottomans. This notion even incorporated a few individuals from the respectability: the contemporary Byzantine antiquarian Doukas records that not long after in the wake of assuming control over the city, the Venetians detained four driving blue-bloods, driven by a certain Platyskalites, for their relationship with the Ottomans. The four men were banished, first to Crete, and after that to Venice itself and Padua. Simply after the fall of Thessalonica in 1430 were the two survivors discharged. The contemporary Venetian "Morosini Codex" records an account of a scheme—rejected as "hostile" by Donald Nicol—driven by Despot Andronikos to hand over the city to the Turks. The plot was allegedly found in November 1423, and Andronikos and his supporters were banished, with the Despot sent to Nauplia in the Morea. 

The Venetians would have liked to verify Ottoman agree to the control of Thessalonica. In any case, when the "provveditore" Giorgio endeavored to complete his central goal to the Sultan's court, most likely in February 1424, he was ineffective to the point of being captured and detained by Murad. The Ottomans would not acknowledge the handover, considering the Venetian nearness illicit by virtue of their past ideal to the city through triumph. The Ottoman mentality was summed up by the answer purportedly given by Murad to Venetian envoys looking for harmony, as recorded by Doukas: 

At the point when updates on Giorgio's capture touched base in Venice, the Great Council chose to supplant both him and Venier. The initial two decisions for substitution, Jacopo Trevisan and Fantino Michiel, cannot, yet in May 1424, Bernardo Loredan was named duke (senator) of the city, with Jacopo Dandolo as chief (military officer), for a two-year term. Meanwhile, Venier was told to verify the arrival of Giorgio, and acknowledgment from the Sultan of Venetian command over Thessalonica, the encompassing towns, and the fortification of Kortiach (Mount Chortiatis). In return, he was to offer a yearly tribute of 1,000 to 2,000 ducats, and to appropriate annuities to the Sultan's central retainers. Similar directions were given to the new commander general of the armada, Pietro Loredan, who cruised for Thessalonica. In the event that he found the city under attack, Loredan was to assault Gallipoli—where he had scored a noteworthy triumph in 1416—impede the entry of Ottoman troops over the Dardanelles, and if practicable, to attempt and work up resistance to the Sultan among neighboring rulers. To stress the way that Venice did not want war, Loredan was told to educate the neighborhood Turkish officers that his activities were just as a result of the detainment of Giorgio and the attack of Thessalonica, which they had gained lawfully. 

This set the example for the six-year struggle between the Ottomans and Venice over control of Thessalonica. While the Ottomans barricaded and assaulted Thessalonica from land, attempting to starve it into surrender, the Republic sent rehashed international safe havens to verify acknowledgment of her ownership of Thessalonica in return for a yearly tribute. To back up their political endeavors, the Venetians attempted to put weight on the Sultan by working up inconvenience along the Ottomans' outskirts, supporting endeavors for an enemy of Ottoman campaign, and sending their armada to assault Gallipoli. The Ottomans in like manner endeavored to occupy Venice by propelling strikes of their own on Venetian belongings in the Aegean. 

The Venetians had a conceivable and willing partner in the individual of Junayd, leader of the Turkish Aydinid realm in focal western Anatolia. Junayd was a fit and vivacious ruler who attempted to shape an expansive enemy of Ottoman union with another Turkish territory, the Karamanids of focal Anatolia, and to restore the Ottoman common war by sending another Ottoman sovereign, Ismail, to Rumelia (the Ottoman-managed some portion of the Balkans). Over the span of this contention, Murad aligned himself with Venice's opponent, the Republic of Genoa, to barricade the banks of Junayd's space and keep Ismail from setting sail. Junayd was at long last stifled in spring 1425, denying Venice of his help. In February 1424, Murad closed a harmony with the Byzantines, who returned practically every one of the terrains they had picked up in 1403 and, decreased to Constantinople and its environs, wound up tributary vassals to the Ottomans yet again. 

Endeavors at a campaign, in the interim, vacillated on the diligent competition of Venice and the King of Hungary, Sigismund, the hero of the fizzled enemy of Ottoman Crusade of Nicopolis in 1396, over ownership of Dalmatia. Both Venice and Hungary endeavored to misuse the transitory Ottoman shortcoming and the subsequent strife in the Balkans to extend their regions—Venice in Dalmatia and Albania, Sigismund in Bosnia, Serbia, and Wallachia. Venice seized Zara, Split, and other Dalmatian urban areas from Hungary somewhere in the range of 1412 and 1420. This arrangement carried the Republic into struggle with the Despot of Serbia, Stefan Lazarević () somewhere in the range of 1420 and 1423, driving the last to look for the guide of the Ottomans. The Emperors Manuel II and John VIII, alongside the King of Poland Władysław II Jagiełło, endeavored to impact a compromise among Venice and Sigismund, yet futile. It was just in 1425, when Murad II, liberated from dangers to his Anatolian assets, went on the counter-hostile, that Venice itself perceived the need of a collusion with Sigismund. By and by, in spite of extra weight for a rapprochement from Savoy and Florence, Sigismund won't. This debate enabled the Ottomans to bring Serbia and Bosnia once more into vassalage, and after Murad ceased Sigismund's development at the Siege of Golubac in 1428, a détente was orchestrated between the two forces. 

Meanwhile, in spite of the exercises of Loredan around Gallipoli, the circumstance in Thessalonica was so desperate by October 1424 that the Great Council needed to approve the dispatch to the city of somewhere in the range of 150 and 200 fighters, just as provisions and cash. On 13 January 1425, the Venetians chose to prepare 25 galleys, a bizarrely substantial and costly endeavor, for the following year; Fantino Michiel was named chief general. The armada cruised in April, and was requested that both settle issues in the Venetian provinces and with consoling the Thessalonians of Venetian help. Michiel was additionally educated to reach the Sultan and vow impressive aggregates to the Grand Vizier, Çandarlı Ibrahim Pasha, and different individuals from the Ottoman court, so as to pick up a thoughtful hearing. The Republic proposed to reestablish the salt dish that the Sultan had recently controlled, just as the tribute of 100,000 aspers that Despot Andronikos had paid. The Venetians won't, be that as it may, to enable the Turks in the city to be attempted by their own "kadi", as had been the situation under Andronikos, and demanded the reestablishment of traditions posts at the city doors. Michiel was additionally entrusted with verifying the arrival of Venetian natives taken amid an Ottoman strike into the Morea the past March, and re-affirming the past harmony settlement of 1419, including, if conceivable, the compensation of the Marquisate of Bodonitsa to its ruler, Niccolo III Zorzi. 

In July 1425, ten Venetian galleys under Michiel embraced an undertaking east along the shores of Macedonia: the Venetians discovered Ierissos relinquished by its Ottoman army, yet brimming with arrangements, which they stacked onto their boats. In the wake of setting flame to the town and five different fortresses in the region, the armada moved onto Christopolis. The Venetians found the manor held by a 400-in number power of Ottoman "sipahis," under the order of Ismail Bey. The principal endeavor to arrive, driven by Alvise Loredan, was repelled, and simply after every one of the boats summoned their powers were the Venetians ready to conquer Ottoman obstruction in a four-hour-long fight: 41 Turks were killed, including Ismail Bey, and 30 taken prisoner. In the wake of reinforcing the site with a stone divider and earthworks, and leaving an army of 80 troopers and 50 crossbowmen to hold it, the armada withdrew. The Turks before long came back with a bigger power of 10,000– 12,000 men, and after around twenty days, and regardless of losing around 800 men, the Ottomans raged the manor. Unfit to get away, a large portion of the Venetians were slaughtered and the rest taken prisoner. 

On 21 July Manuel II passed on, and John VIII formally moved toward becoming Emperor. Accordingly Murad, who was profoundly unfriendly towards John, propelled his powers on strikes around Thessalonica and Zetouni (Lamia) in Central Greece. In the meantime, the Greeks of Thessalonica sent a government office to the Great Council to grumble of infringement of their rights by the duke and commander. In addition to other things, they demanded that the Venetians sustain Kassandreia on the western Chalcidice, to shield the Kassandra Peninsula from Ottoman attacks. Accordingly, Michiel involved the stronghold of Kassandreia, which he refortified and reinforced by the development of two littler fortresses in the zone. He at that point caught the Platamon Castle, on the contrary side of the Thermaic Gulf, by tempest, subsequent to setting flame to its primary bailey when the Ottoman army would not surrender. Platamon was fixed however most likely relinquished before long, for it isn't referenced once more. Following Michiel's solicitation, the Great Council sent 200 men from Padua to man Thessalonica and the posts of Kassandreia, and approved the chief general to keep up four galleys in the territory. From his letters to the Great Council, it creates the impression that Michiel was all the while occupied with exchanges with the Ottomans, as a feature of which he offered 20,000 aspers per year to the Ottoman legislative leader of Thessaly, Turahan Bey, and to the Grand Vizier. In the meantime, as indicated by the "Codex Morosini", a faker professing to be Mustafa Çelebi touched base in Thessalonica, and assembled a developing after of Turks who believed him to be the genuine child of Sultan Bayezid. Pseudo-Mustafa propelled attacks against Murad's powers from the city, however after both Mustafa and the Venetian skipper were nearly caught amid one of these activities, on 3 September the Great Council issued guidelines to stop such assaults, and keep the entryways of the city shut. 

In April 1426, Michiel drew close to a settlement with the Ottoman representative at Gallipoli, whereby the Republic would keep Thessalonica in return for 100,000 aspers per year, the privilege of question between Turks in the city to be settled by their own "kadi", and free and untaxed development of dealers to and from the city. The arrangements foundered once more, be that as it may, as the Ottomans demanded their control of Kassandra and Chortiatis, which they proposed as springboards for the inevitable triumph of the city. In the meantime, the Ottomans propelled a civic chairman assault on the city with allegedly 30,000 men, yet the nearness of five Venetian galleys in the city, conceivably equipped with little guns, helped the safeguards repulse the assault. As indicated by the report of Loredan and Dandolo to the Great Council, 700 crossbowmen kept an eye on the dividers, and more than 2,000 Turks were slaughtered before the attack fizzled. 

On 6 May, another duke and skipper for the city were chosen: Paolo Trevisan and Paolo Orio. In July 1426, the new Venetian commander general, Andrea Mocenigo, was told to continue arrangements, yet surrender to the Ottomans ownership of Kassandra and Chortiatis. Then again, the harmony settlement should be exhaustive, including the Latin masters of the Aegean, who were Venetian natives and customers. Coming up short that, Mocenigo was to assault Gallipoli. In August, the Despot of Serbia, Stefan Lazarević, offered his administrations as go between. On 28 November, Mocenigo figured out how to get Murad's consent to a harmony settlement on the expansive lines of the understanding proposed by Michiel, then again, actually Venice would pay a yearly tribute of 150,000 aspers and expanded annuities for senior individuals from the Ottoman court, and would surrender Chortiatis. Regardless of the Republic's longing to finish up a harmony settlement, the months and years delayed without an understanding. Benedetto Emo, selected diplomat to the Sultan in July 1427 with the express motivation behind sanctioning the arrangement, was supplanted in August 1428 by Jacopo Dandolo. Dandolo was told, if vital, to offer a further increment of the tribute to 300,000 aspers, and a complete aggregate of blessings from 10,000– 15,000 ducats and a further 2,000 ducats as annuities; further totals could be offered in return for ownership of the environs of Thessalonica, Kassandra, and the salt works. Dandolo did not have any more accomplishment than his forerunner: the Sultan requested of him the surrender of Thessalonica, and when Dandolo answered that he didn't have specialist to do this, the Sultan had him tossed behind bars, where he was left beyond words. 

All through the encounter over Thessalonica, the Ottomans propelled consistent attacks against Venetian belongings in Albania. In late-winter 1428, the Ottoman armada propelled a noteworthy strike against Venetian belongings in Greece: 40 to 65 vessels struck the island of Euboea and took around 700 Venetian natives prisoner, before proceeding to attack the environs of the two Venetian stations of Modon and Coron in the southwestern Morea. At the point when news landed in Venice on 22 April, despite the fact that the earlier year's watchman armada under Guido da Canal was still abroad, a gatekeeper armada of 15 galleys was approved to chase the Ottoman thieves, under Andrea Mocenigo. In the occasion, the new armada did not cruise until September, after Canal's armada was vanquished at Gallipoli by an alliance of Ottoman and Christian boats. The Ottoman maritime risk turned out to be especially intense right now because of the abandonment of the Duke of Naxos, Giovanni II Crispo (). In spite of the fact that a Venetian native and vassal of the Republic, mounting Ottoman weight on his assets had constrained the Great Council to approve him to go into a different harmony arrangement with the Ottomans, which Crispo appropriately did. Accordingly, Crispo was compelled to adequately help the Turks in their very own attacks, and stopped flagging the Venetians in Euboea of approaching Ottoman strikes through reference points. Toward the beginning of March 1429, an Ottoman armada even showed up before Thessalonica, and caught two Venetian vessels. 

As indicated by the Venetian congressperson Andrea Suriano, Venice spent by and large 60,000 ducats for each year in this apparently vain clash, yet the Venetians themselves were reluctant to submit their assets completely to Thessalonica; its closeness to the focal point of Ottoman power made their capacity to hold it far fetched in the long haul, while in the meantime, closer to home, Venice was seeking after a contention with the Duchy of Milan over control of northern Italy. The Republic had since a long time ago attempted to abstain from pronouncing war on the Ottomans, however at this point it had minimal decision: Dandolo's detainment, the expanding Ottoman maritime danger (with the open help of the Genoese states at Chios and Lesbos), related as far as possible of their war with Hungary, clarified to the Venetians that the Sultan was planning to settle the subject of Thessalonica by power. Therefore, on 29 March 1429, the Great Council casted a ballot an official assertion of war against the Sultan, and requested more ships to be enacted to join the armada. 

On 11 May, the actor Mustafa showed up before the Great Council, and was given an endowment of 150 ducats for his administrations. On 4 June another duke and skipper were chosen for Thessalonica, Paolo Contarini and Andrea Donato, after the initial three sets picked all declined the post, regardless of the fine appended to refusal; a reasonable sign of the reluctance of the Venetian nobles to attempt this unrewarding and hazardous undertaking. On 1 July, Mocenigo assaulted the Ottoman boats at Gallipoli, however despite the fact that he drove his leader to get through the palisade securing the Ottoman safe haven, the other Venetian vessels did not pursue, driving Mocenigo to pull back with substantial setbacks. Indeed, even now, Venice would not submit its full power to the contention: when Suriano, as a defender of the hawkish group, proposed to arm an armada of 14 sends and take part in a progressively definitive approach against the Ottomans in January 1430, the proposition was voted against, despite the fact that it was fairly unassuming and plainly lacking to compel the Sultan to settle. Rather, the Great Council taught the new chief general, Silvestro Morosini, to look for the intervention of the Byzantine Emperor for a settlement on the lines of the past understandings. 

Mindful of their own shortcoming, the Venetians attempted to shape unions with other local rulers who dreaded Ottoman expansionism. Exploiting the Ottomans' distraction with the Siege of Golubac, Ibrahim II of Karaman () had figured out how to deal with the territory of Hamid, and in August 1429, through the intercession of King Janus of Cyprus (), the Venetians moved toward Ibrahim for a collusion against Murad. Instead of bringing about a military partnership, notwithstanding, the possibility of a Venetian-Cypriot-Karamanid alliance served to carry the Ottomans closer with the other incredible Muslim intensity of the Eastern Mediterranean, the Mamluks of Egypt, and start a period where the two states made basic reason against Latin nearness in the region. The Venetians additionally attempted to impact Murad towards a harmony with the danger presented by the aspirations of Timur's child Shahrukh, particularly after the last's thrashing of the Kara Koyunlu in September 1429 brought him inside striking separation of the Ottomans' Anatolian spaces: contemporary talk credited to him not just a craving to reestablish his dad's strength over the locale, however to cross the Ottoman domains into Rumelia, and come back to Azerbaijan by means of the northern shore of the Black Sea. In the occasion, Shahrukh resigned to winter in Azerbaijan, whereupon Murad requested his general Hamza Bey to lead his powers from Anatolia to Europe in February 1430, and sent him against Thessalonica. 

Inside Thessalonica, the attack prompted much misery, and the masses rapidly wound up disappointed with their new experts. By the winter of 1426– 1427, conditions in the blockaded city moved toward the purpose of starvation. The Thessalonians were compelled to subsist on bread alone, and even that demonstrated hazardous—the experts were compelled to demand more shipments of wheat from Venice when supplies ran perilously low. The states of "extraordinary neediness, passing, and desperation" made the Greek populace increasingly anxious, and even the individuals who had some time ago respected the Venetians started to falter. The absence of sustenance even risked the city's protections, since a large number of the soldier of fortune watches on the dividers, paid by Venice with wheat rather than money, deserted to the Turks when their apportions were late. This circumstance turned out to be logically more terrible, and when of the last Ottoman assault in 1430, numerous fighters had no weapons since they had sold them for nourishment. 

The privations of the attack prompted a mass migration of the city's populace, as residents with the capacity to leave sold their assets and fled to Constantinople, other Venetian-controlled Greek domains, or to the Turks. From a populace differently announced at between 20,000– 25,000, or even upwards of 40,000, by contemporary Italian sources, it is evaluated that just 10,000– 13,000 were left by 1429/30. The Venetian experts endeavored to put a stop to this by forbidding the occupants from leaving the city, banning "all business, home loans, and exchanges of property, both versatile and resolute", and devastating the houses and other property—even trees—of individuals who had left the city. They trusted that the pulverization would serve an obstruction to the individuals who stayed behind. Combined with a few occurrences of mediation, theory, and profiteering for the benefit of the Venetian specialists, these measures promoted estrange the Thessalonians. By April 1425, a Byzantine church official who had his family escape the city composed of the "oppression of the city by the Venetians", and comparable estimations about Venetian oppression are resounded in all contemporary Byzantine sources. In their international safe haven in July 1425, the Thessalonians presented a rundown of 21 grievances and requests, including fixed apportions of corn for poor people and the bringing down of assessment levy and suspension of overdue debts and obligation related disciplines for the span of the attack, since the end of the entryways implied that individuals could never again get to their fields, which were moreover crushed by the Turks. In a session on 23 July 1425, the Great Council acquiesced to huge numbers of their requests and mentioned that its authorities regard the traditions and privileges of the residents and work together with the nearby gathering of twelve nobles in the administration of the city. 

Whatever the Venetian endeavors to verify harmony, the Thessalonians were very much aware, in the expressions of the Byzantinist Donald Nicol, that Murad "was playing for time" and he "was never going to be accommodated to the Venetian control of the Thessalonica". As the antiquarian Apostolos Vacalopoulos put it, the overall view rapidly turned into that "since Thessalonica was bound at some point or another to fall into Turkish hands, it is desirable over surrender gently there and after that, thus keep away from the sufferings which would follow if the Turks needed to take the city by power." As conditions inside the city exacerbated, the genius surrender current made progress among the Thessalonians. This is prove from the compositions of Metropolitan Symeon, who relates that amid one assault in 1425 or 1426, numerous natives (counting a portion of those guarding the dividers) fled to the Ottomans. Symeon assumed a critical job as a representative and pioneer of the city's masses amid the attack. A fervently Hesychast and hostile to Latin prelate who had restricted the handover of the city to the Roman Catholic Venetians, dreading their "adulterating" impact, the Metropolitan endeavored to reinforce his run's Orthodox character against both the Latin Venetians and the Muslim Turks, just as stir their will to stand up to. He sorted out reiterations that strutted the city's symbol of the Hodegetria, and conveyed lessons about the city's effective conveyance from past attacks through the intercession of her supporter, Demetrius of Thessalonica. Subsequently, he developed as the main defender of opposition, and notwithstanding his enemy of Latin ill will, the Venetians thought of him as "a most steadfast worker of the Republic". His demise in September 1429 added to the expanding crippling of the city's masses, who thought of it as a sign of the city's fall. 

In summer 1429, the Thessalonians sent a second consulate to Venice to grumble about the limitations set on passage and exit from the city, proceeded with infringement of their rights, blackmail by the Venetian specialists, the poor supply circumstance, the disregard of fixing the city's strongholds and the absence of military stores, and the Venetian hired fighters who were in contact with the Turks outside the dividers. On 14 July, the Great Council gave generally consoling responses to a rundown of 31 requests, yet the expanding disappointment by the Greek populace with Venetian standard was obvious. The observer John Anagnostes reports that by the winter of 1429, most of the populace had come to support a surrender to the Turks. Sultan Murad knew about the circumstance inside the dividers, and twice sent Christian officers in his administration into the city to prompt an insubordination to the Venetians. Notwithstanding, as Anagnostes composes, the populace was at that point so decreased in number, and partitioned among itself, that no regular reason could be made. Moreover, the Thessalonians feared the Venetians, as they had enlisted an exceptional power of gatekeepers, the "Tzetarioi," and given them the expert to slaughter anybody pushing a surrender. 

A squadron of three galleys under Antonio Diedo touched base to strengthen the city on 17 March 1430, yet without any result. A gather of the city's accessible safeguards demonstrated that they got the job done to man just a half or 33% of the crenelles, and they were lacking in both deadly implement and confidence. Updates on Murad's methodology at the leader of a military reputed to number 190,000 men caused far reaching dread among the masses. 

The Sultan showed up before the city on Sunday, 26 March, soon after early afternoon. Likely educated of the discontent inside the dividers by Greek deserters, the Sultan seems to have anticipated the simple appearance of his military to compel the city to surrender, or to flag an uprising of the people against the Venetian battalion. In this vein he sent Christian officers to the dividers, to call upon the occupants to surrender, however they were driven off by bolts from the dividers before they had opportunity to finish their addresses. The Sultan at that point started arrangements to surprise the city, which went on for three days. On the 28th, Murad sent another idea of surrender, however this also was rejected. On that night, a subaltern officer entered the city to educate the Venetian commandants that the Turks had arranged six boats at the Vardar River for use against the Venetian galleys in the harbor, which had been left helpless since every single accessible power were gathered in keeping an eye on the city divider. Expecting that their retreat would be removed, the Venetian officers requested Diedo and his men to pull back from the divider to man the boats and the harbor guards. They didn't, nonetheless, advise the populace, and around midnight, Christians from the Ottoman camp moved toward the dividers and declared that the last attack would happen the following day, from land and ocean. The news spread all through the city and froze the people, who went through the night in alarmed vigil in the houses of worship. The frenzy spread further when Diedo's withdrawal to the harbor wound up known. Without other data, the Thessalonians trusted that the Venetians were getting ready to relinquish them and escape. Therefore, various protectors just relinquished their situations on the dividers and came back to their homes. 

At day break on 29 March 1430, the Ottomans propelled their assault under the direction of Sinan Pasha, the "beylerbey" (military senator) of Rumelia. The primary load of the assault fell on the less all around kept up eastern area of the dividers, between the Trigonion and the site of the later Heptapyrgion stronghold, where the Sultan himself drove the assault. The Ottomans brought attack motors, stepping stools, and boards forward, and utilized them to undermine the dividers. Hassock toxophilism demonstrated urgent, for their shots had the capacity to bind the safeguards and hit numerous who endeavored to peer over the fortifications. Accordingly, a significant part of the safeguards' arrival fire was visually impaired, and they started gradually surrendering their positions. At last, at the fourth hour, the Ottoman troops got through at different focuses along the divider; as indicated by Anagnostes, the main Ottomans climbed the divider in the eastern area, which had been left practically unprotected. As the regular citizen populace was being slaughtered, the Venetians fled to the harbor as well as can be expected—"one in his mantle, the other in his undershirt" in the expressions of the report to the Great Council. Many figured out how to run away to Diedo's boats, and thus to Negroponte. Others were less lucky: the Venetians lost more than 270 men from the cookroom groups alone. Various senior authorities, including the child of duke Paolo Contarini, and Leonardo Gradenigo, commander of one of the galleys, likewise fell. Subtleties on the attack were given by a letter sent by the Venetians of Negroponte to Venice on 2 April, after the exiles from the fall of the city touched base there, and the onlooker record of John Anagnostes. On their arrival to Venice, the two Venetian authorities of Thessalonica dealt with indictments of carelessness and were detained; they were in all probability cleared, notwithstanding, for by 1432 both were by and by dynamic in the Republic's legislative issues. 

Following long-standing custom for a city surprised, the ravaging went on for three days. As per Anagnostes, 7,000 occupants, including himself, were kidnapped to be sold in the slave markets of the Balkans and Anatolia, albeit many were therefore delivered by the Despot of Serbia, Đurađ Branković. The city's landmarks endured substantial harm in the sack, especially the house of prayer of Hagios Demetrios, as fighters scoured them for valuable articles and shrouded treasure. This harm was intensified later when the Sultan requested that marble segments be taken from them and taken to his capital, Adrianople, to clear a shower. On the fourth day, Sultan Murad entered the city himself and implored at the Church of the Acheiropoietos, which turned into the city's first mosque. The Sultan at that point reestablished request, removing the warriors from the homes they had involved and returning them to their proprietors. Just 2,000 of the populace were left after the sack, huge numbers of whom changed over to Islam. The Sultan before long took measures to repopulate the city. He guaranteed to restore their properties to those occupants who had fled on the off chance that they returned, and now and again even recovered hostages from the sack himself. Likewise, he acquired Muslim and Christian pilgrims from different territories of Macedonia. An incredible number of void houses were reallocated and given to the pilgrims, while the greater part of the principle places of worship were changed over to mosques. The Turks settled for the most part in the upper piece of the city, from where they could more readily control it. 

The Venetians were shocked when the city fell; the armada under Morosini was all the while cruising off the western shoreline of Greece. Following their standard system, they responded by sending their armada to barricade Gallipoli and cut off section of the Dardanelles. Nonetheless, the Republic was at this point prepared to withdraw itself from this profitless endeavor, and before long trained Morosini to look for harmony. In July, Hamza Bey marked a harmony bargain with the Venetians (sanctioned on 4 September) whereby Venice perceived its loss of Thessalonica, reestablished entry of the Dardanelles, and recognized Ottoman overlordship over Patras in the Morea, with a yearly tribute of 236 ducats. In return, the Venetians verified the Sultan's acknowledgment of their assets in Albania: Durazzo, Scutari, and Antivari. 

Following the catch of Thessalonica, the Ottomans proceeded to expand their standard over western Greece. A couple of months after the fall of the city Ioannina surrendered to Hamza Bey and Carlo II Tocco acknowledged Ottoman suzerainty over the southern leftover of the Despotate of Epirus around Arta. Venice moved to put Tocco's island assets of Zante, Cephalonia, and Leucas under her security. Therefore, for the following 50 years, until the finish of the First Ottoman– Venetian War in 1479, the fundamental field of showdown among Venice and the Ottomans was to be Albania, a region of indispensable significance to the two forces, as from that point the Ottomans could undermine Italy herself. 

Thessalonica stayed in Ottoman hands until October 1912, when it was caught by the Kingdom of Greece amid the First Balkan War. Its staying Muslim populace left the city amid the Greco-Turkish populace trade in 1923.