Candid McNamara (RAAF officer) 

Air Vice Marshal Francis Hubert (Frank) McNamara, (4 April 1894 – 2 November 1961) was an Australian beneficiary of the Victoria Cross, the most elevated enhancement for valor even with the adversary that can be granted to an individual from the British and Commonwealth powers. Presenting with the Australian Flying Corps, he was regarded for his activities on 20 March 1917, when he saved an individual pilot who had been constrained down behind foe lines. McNamara was the main Australian pilot—and the just a single in World War I—to get the Victoria Cross. He later turned into a senior officer in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). 

Conceived and instructed in Victoria, McNamara was an educator when he joined the state army before World War I. In 1915, he was chosen for pilot preparing at Central Flying School, Point Cook, and exchanged to the Australian Flying Corps the next year. He was situated in the Middle Eastern Theater with No. 1 Squadron when he earned the Victoria Cross. In 1921, McNamara enrolled as a flying officer in the recently framed RAAF, ascending to the position of air bad habit marshal by 1942. He held senior posts in England and Aden amid World War II. Resigning from the Air Force in 1946, McNamara kept on living in Britain until his passing from heart disappointment in 1961. 

Conceived in Rushworth, Victoria, McNamara was the first of eight youngsters to William Francis McNamara, a State Lands Department officer, and his better half Rosanna. He started his tutoring in Rushworth, and finished his optional training at Shepparton Agricultural High School, which he had entered by means of a grant. The family moved to Melbourne in 1910. 

McNamara joined the school cadets in 1911, and was appointed a second lieutenant in the 49th Battalion (Brighton Rifles), a local army unit, in July 1913. He turned into an instructor subsequent to moving on from Melbourne Teachers' Training College in 1914, and educated at different schools in Victoria. He likewise joined up with the University of Melbourne, however his examinations were hindered by the episode of World War I. 

As a local army officer, McNamara was activated for administration in Australia when war was pronounced in August 1914. In the wake of serving quickly at bases in Queenscliff and Point Nepean, Victoria, McNamara went through Officers Training School at Broadmeadows in December. He started teaching at the Australian Imperial Force Training Depot, Broadmeadows, in February 1915. Elevated to lieutenant in July, he quickly volunteered for a military flight course at Central Flying School, Point Cook. 

Chosen for flying preparing at Point Cook in August 1915, McNamara made his first solo trip in a Bristol Boxkite on 18 September, and graduated as a pilot in October. On 6 January 1916, he was appointed as assistant to No. 1 Squadron, Australian Flying Corps (additionally referred to until 1918 as No. 67 Squadron, Royal Flying Corps). In March, McNamara left Melbourne for Egypt on board HMAT "Orsova", touching base in Suez the next month. He was approved to No. 42 Squadron RFC in May to go to the Central Flying School at Upavon, England; his secondment to the RFC was gazetted on 5 July 1916. 

Finishing his course at Upavon, McNamara was presented back on Egypt in August, however was hospitalized on 8 September with orchitis. Released on 6 October, he served quickly as a flying teacher with No. 22 Squadron RFC, before coming back to No. 1 Squadron. McNamara flew with C Flight, told by Captain (later Air Marshal Sir) Richard Williams. On his first fight, a surveillance mission over Sinai, McNamara was unconscious that his plane had been hit by hostile to airplane fire; he came back to base with his motor's oil supply nearly depleted. Flying B.E.2s and Martinsydes, he attempted further exploring and bombarding missions in the resulting months. 

On 20 March 1917, McNamara, flying a Martinsyde, was one of four No. 1 Squadron pilots participating in an attack against a Turkish railroad intersection close Gaza. Inferable from a lack of bombs, the flying machine were each outfitted with six extraordinarily adjusted 4.5-inch howitzer shells. McNamara had effectively dropped three of his shells when the fourth detonated rashly, severely injured him in the leg with shrapnel, an impact he compared to being "hit with a heavy hammer". Having swung to make a beeline for base, he detected a kindred squadron part from a similar mission, Captain Douglas Rutherford, on the ground close to his crashlanded B.E.2. Unified pilots had been hacked to death by adversary troops in comparative circumstances, and McNamara saw that an organization of Turkish mounted force was quick moving toward Rutherford's position. Regardless of the unpleasant landscape and the slash in his leg, McNamara arrived close Rutherford trying to safeguard him. 

As there was no extra cockpit in the single-situate Martinsyde, the brought down pilot bounced onto McNamara's wing and held the swaggers. McNamara slammed while endeavoring to take off in view of the impacts of his leg wound and Rutherford's weight overbalancing the flying machine. The two men, who had gotten away further damage in the mishap, set flame to the Martinsyde and dashed back to Rutherford's B.E.2. Rutherford fixed the motor while McNamara utilized his gun against the assaulting mounted force, who had started shooting at them. Two other No. 1 Squadron pilots overhead, Lieutenant (later Air Marshal Sir) Roy "Dwindle" Drummond and Lieutenant Alfred Ellis, likewise started strafing the adversary troops. McNamara figured out how to begin the B.E.2's motor and take off, with Rutherford in the onlooker's cockpit. In extreme agony and near passing out from loss of blood, McNamara flew the harmed flying machine back to base at El Arish. 

Having affected what was portrayed in the Australian authority history of the war as "a splendid break in the very scratch of time and under hot flame", McNamara "could just discharge depleted swearwords" before he lost cognizance not long after landing. Cleared to medical clinic, he nearly kicked the bucket following a hypersensitive response to a normal lockjaw infusion. McNamara must be given counterfeit breath and stimulants to keep him alive, yet recuperated rapidly. A contemporary news report proclaimed that he was "before long sitting up, eating chicken and drinking champagne". On 26 March, McNamara was prescribed for the Victoria Cross by Brigadier General Geoffrey Salmond, General Officer Commanding Middle East Brigade, RFC. Drummond, Ellis, and Rutherford all composed explanations on 3– 4 April bearing witness to their companion's activities, Rutherford pronouncing that "the danger of Lieut. MacNamara being murdered or caught was great to the point that even had he not been injured he would have been defended in not endeavoring my rescue – the reality of his previously being injured makes his activity one of exceptional gallantry – his assurance and asset and articulate negligence of threat all through the task was deserving of the most astounding acclaim". The sole VC granted to an Australian pilot in World War I, McNamara's enhancement was proclaimed in the "London Gazette" on 8 June 1917: 

Elevated to skipper on 10 April 1917, McNamara turned into a flight officer in No. 4 Squadron AFC (additionally referred to until 1918 as No. 71 Squadron RFC), yet was unfit to keep flying because of the leg wound he endured on 20 March. He was invalided back to Australia in August on board HT "Boorara", and given a legend's welcome on entry in Melbourne. Observed to be restoratively unfit for dynamic administration, McNamara was released from the Australian Flying Corps on 31 January 1918. Frenzy brought about by the interruption into Australian waters of the German marauder "Wolf" brought about him being reviewed to the AFC and put accountable for an ethereal surveillance unit situated in South Gippsland, Victoria, flying a Royal Aircraft Factory F.E.2B and later a Maurice Farman Shorthorn. In September 1918, he was posted as a flying teacher to Point Cook, where he saw out the rest of the war. 

Following the disbandment of the AFC, McNamara exchanged to the Australian Air Corps (AAC) in April 1920. He was not offered an arrangement in the AAC at first, be that as it may, and verified one simply after Captain Roy King dissented the circumstance by surrendering his own place in the new administration for McNamara, whom he depicted as "this exceptionally great and courageous officer". McNamara was contributed with his Victoria Cross by the Prince of Wales at Government House, Melbourne, on 26 May. He enrolled in the recently settled Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) in 1921. Positioned flying officer (privileged flight lieutenant), he was one of the first twenty-one officers reporting in real time Force's quality at its development that March. Presented on RAAF Headquarters in Melbourne as Staff Officer Operations and Intelligence, McNamara was given direction of No. 1 Flying Training School (No. 1 FTS) at Point Cook in July 1922. He was advanced squadron pioneer in March 1924 and the next month wedded Hélène Bluntschli, a Belgian national he had met in Cairo amid the war, at St Patrick's Cathedral; his best man was individual officer Frank Lukis. 

McNamara made a trip to England in 1925 for a long time trade with the Royal Air Force, serving at No. 5 Flying Training School, RAF Sealand, and the Directorate of Training at the Air Ministry, London. Coming back to Australia in November 1927, he was delegated Second-in-Command No. 1 FTS. In 1928, McNamara continued his examinations at the University of Melbourne, having prior neglected to pass the essential tests to enter the RAF Staff College, Andover. Low maintenance understudy at the college, he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in International Relations (inferior distinctions) in 1933. McNamara ended up Commanding Officer No. 1 FTS in October 1930, and was elevated to wing authority one year later. He was set responsible for RAAF Station Laverton, Victoria, including No. 1 Aircraft Depot, in February 1933. McNamara was brought to gather commander up in 1936, and went to the Imperial Defense College, London, the next year. He was designated a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1938 New Year Honors. 

At the point when World War II broke out in September 1939, McNamara was filling in as Air Liaison Officer at Australia House in London, a position he had held since January 1938. In a matter of seconds before being advanced air commodore in December, he upheld building up a gathering base to go about as a home office for the RAAF in England and "by and large to watch the interests of Australian staff" who were positioned there. By November 1940 he had turned around his situation, for an Air Ministry proposition to process work force of all nationalities in a single RAF base camp. In the occasion, RAAF Overseas Headquarters was framed on 1 December 1941; Air Marshal Richard Williams was selected Air Officer Commanding (AOC) and McNamara Deputy AOC. McNamara ended up acting air bad habit marshal and acting AOC of RAAF Overseas Headquarters when Williams came back to Australia in January 1942 for what was relied upon to be an impermanent visit; Williams was thusly presented on Washington, D.C. furthermore, McNamara held direction of the central station until the year's end. 

McNamara was delegated AOC British Forces Aden in late 1942, and landed to take up the posting on 9 January 1943. Portrayed in the official history of Australia in the war as a "backwater", British Forces Aden's principle capacities were leading enemy of submarine watches and escorting caravans. McNamara flew on these missions at whatever point he could, for the most part as an eyewitness, however adversary contact was uncommon. He was designated a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in the 1945 New Year Honors, and came back to London in March. That month McNamara was profoundly influenced by the loss of his dear companion Peter Drummond, who had helped continue assaulting mounted force under control amid his Victoria Cross activity in 1917. Drummond's Consolidated B-24 Liberator vanished close to the Azores "in transit" to Canada and all on board were assumed slaughtered; McNamara needed to break the news to his widow, Isabel. McNamara's wellbeing had additionally experienced introduction to the desert dust in Aden, and he was unfit to take up his next position as the RAAF's agent at the Ministry of Defense until September. His whole war was spent outside Australia. 

McNamara was summarily resigned from the RAAF in 1946, alongside a few other senior administrators and veterans of World War I, authoritatively to clear path for the progression of more youthful and similarly fit officers. His job abroad had regardless turned out to be excess. He was released from the Air Force on 11 July. In May 1946, the British government offered McNamara the situation of Senior Education Control Officer in Westphalia, Germany, under the support of the Allied Control Commission. He later progressed toward becoming Deputy Director of Education for the British Zone of Occupation. McNamara kept on living in England in the wake of finishing his work with the Commission in October 1947, and served on the National Coal Board in London from 1947 to 1959. He passed on of hypertensive heart disappointment on 2 November 1961, matured 67, in the wake of enduring a fall at his home in Buckinghamshire. Made due by his better half and two youngsters, he was covered at St Joseph's Priory, Austin Wood, Gerrards Cross, after a vast burial service. 

Disenthralled by his rejection from the RAAF and the small severance he got from the Australian Government, McNamara demanded that his Victoria Cross not be come back to Australia after his passing; his family given it to the RAF Museum, London. An individual No. 1 Squadron pilot, Lieutenant (later Air Vice Marshal) Adrian Cole, portrayed McNamara as "calm, insightful, steadfast and dearest by all ... the last Officer for whom that high respect would have been anticipated". He was one of only a handful couple of Victoria Cross beneficiaries to in this manner accomplish senior position in the equipped administrations, however RAAF student of history Alan Stephens thought about that his arrangements were "in the primary daily practice" and that his one incredible deed prompted "a level of distinction that he maybe discovered troublesome". Biographer Chris Coulthard-Clark summed up McNamara's "situation" as that of "a basically customary man" push into the spotlight by one "genuinely astonishing scene". His name is borne by Frank McNamara Park in Shepparton, Victoria, and the Frank McNamara VC Club at Oakey Army Aviation Center, Queensland.