Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption 

Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption is a 2000 pretending computer game created by Nihilistic Software and distributed by Activision. Set in White Wolf Publishing's World of Darkness, the diversion depends on White Wolf's pretending amusement "" and pursues the undertakings of Christof Romuald, a twelfth century French crusader who is slaughtered and in this manner resuscitated as a Vampire. The amusement portrays Christof's hundreds of years long voyage from the Dark Ages of twelfth century Prague and Vienna to advanced London and New York City looking for his mankind and his abducted love, the religious recluse Anezka. 

"Recovery" is exhibited in the first-and third-individual points of view. The player controls Christof and up to three partners through a direct structure, giving the player missions to advance through a set account. Certain activities submitted by Christof all through the amusement can raise or lower his humankind, influencing which of the diversion's three endings the player gets. As a Vampire, Christof is permeated with an assortment of capacities and forces that can be utilized to battle or keep away from adversaries and hindrances. Utilization of these capacities depletes Christof's supply of blood which can be renewed by drinking from adversaries or honest people. It incorporates multiplayer ongoing interaction called "Storyteller", which enables one player to make an account for a gathering of players with the capacity to alter the amusement progressively in response to the players' activities. 

Established in March 1998, Nihilistic's twelve-man group started advancement of "Recovery" the next month as their first amusement. It took the group two years to finish on a financial plan of . The group depended on eight outside temporary workers to give components that the group couldn't supply, for example, music and fine art. The diversion's advancement was troublesome: late changes to programming constrained the designers to desert finished code and resources; an emphasis on top notch illustrations and sound implied that the amusement ran inadequately on some PC frameworks; and the first extent of the diversion surpassed the diversion's calendar and spending plan, compelling the group to drop arranged highlights. 

"Recovery" was discharged for Microsoft Windows on June 7, 2000, with a Mac OS adaptation following in November 2001. The amusement got a blended basic reaction; commentators commended its illustrations and its multiplayer usefulness, yet were captivated by the nature of the story and battle. It got the 1999 Game Critics Awards for Best Role-Playing amusement. It was sufficiently fruitful to justify the generation of a continuation, "", which was discharged in November 2004 as a backhanded spin-off set in the equivalent anecdotal universe. 

"Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption"— abbreviated to "Reclamation"— is a pretending amusement (RPG) exhibited basically from the third-individual point of view; the playable character is appeared on the screen while a discretionary first-individual mode used to see the character's prompt condition is accessible. The camera can be uninhibitedly turned around the character and situated above it to give a more prominent diagram of the quick zone. The amusement pursues a direct, mission-based structure. Association is accomplished by utilizing a mouse to tap on an adversary or natural article to assault it or to initiate it. Association is setting based; tapping on a foe starts battle, while tapping on an entryway makes it open or close. 

The playable character can lead a gathering of three extra partners into fight, controlling their activities to assault a solitary foe or to utilize explicit forces. Characters can be set to one of three modes: guarded, unbiased, or hostile. In cautious mode, the character stays far off from fights, while hostile mode sends the character straightforwardly into fight. The primary character and dynamic partners are spoken to by representations on screen that mirror their current physical or passionate state, appearing, outrage, bolstering, or the nearness of wounds or staking—having been cut through the heart and rendered stable. 

The player can get to different long-range and scuffle weapons including swords, shields, withdraws from, stakes, and heavenly water. A few weapons have an auxiliary, all the more dominant assault; for instance a sword can be spun to behead an adversary. Since they are vampires, partners and adversaries are vulnerable to harm from daylight. Controls (vampiric powers) are utilized to enhance physical assaults. Each control can be overhauled, turning into an all the more dominant adaptation of itself; on the other hand, other in-amusement advantages can be picked up. The amusement highlights trains that enable the player to improve the character's physical capacities, for example, speed, quality, or strength. Orders can likewise enable the player to entrance a foe or a potential encouraging injured individual, render the character imperceptible to escape location, transform the character into fog, call snakes to assault foes, mend, resuscitate their partners, and transport to a safe house. Each order can be redesigned up to multiple times, influencing the capacities' lengths, the size of the harm or their impact, and the expense of utilizing it. The characters' wellbeing and controls are dependent on blood, which must be recharged by benefiting from the living—including other gathering individuals—or discovering blood compartments, for example, containers and plasma sacks. Drinking an honest to death and other negative activities lessens the player's mankind, improving the probability of entering a free for all when harmed or low on blood, amid which they aimlessly assault companion and adversary. 

Finishing goals and overcoming adversaries is remunerated with experience focuses, which are utilized to open or update existing controls and improve every character's insights, for example, quality or dexterity. Weapons, defensive layer, and different extras can be obtained or redesigned utilizing cash or significant things, which are gathered all through the amusement. The character's stock is network based; objects involve an apportioned measure of room, requiring the administration of the extra room accessible. A belt enables a few things to be chosen for prompt use amid ongoing interaction, for example, mending things, without the need to get to them in the fundamental stock. The principal form of the amusement enables advancement to be spared just in the fundamental character's safe house or safehouse; it naturally spares other information at explicit focuses. An update to the amusement empowered players to spare their in-diversion information anytime in the in-amusement story. 

"Reclamation" includes an online multiplayer segment which enables players to participate in situations together. One player expect the job of the Storyteller, managing different players through a situation utilizing the Storyteller interface. The interface enables the Storyteller to make or adjust situations by setting things, beasts, and characters over the guide. Character insights, for example, experience focuses, capacities, and controls, can likewise be adjusted. At long last, the Storyteller can accept the job of any character at some random time. These capacities enable the Storyteller to progressively control the play condition while different players navigate it. 

The occasions portrayed in "Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption" happen in two timeframes: twelfth century Prague and Vienna, and late-twentieth century London and New York City. The diversion is set in the World of Darkness; it portrays a world in which vampires, werewolves, evil spirits, and different animals impact mankind's history. The vampires are separated into seven Clans of the Camarilla—the vampire government—each with unmistakable characteristics and capacities. The Toreadors are the nearest to humankind—they have an enthusiasm for culture; the Ventrue are respectable, ground-breaking pioneers; the Brujah are romantics who exceed expectations at battling; the Malkavians are either reviled with craziness or favored with knowledge; the Gangrel are mavericks in synchronization with their carnal nature; the Tremere are undercover, conniving, and use blood enchantment; and the tremendous Nosferatu are sentenced to stay covered up in the shadows. "Recovery" likewise includes the Cappadocian family; the Society of Leopold—cutting edge vampire seekers; the Assamite tribe of professional killer vampires; the Setite group; the Tzimisce faction, the Giovanni family, and the Sabbat—vampires who revel in their temperament, grasping the brute inside. 

The fundamental character of "Reclamation" is French crusader Christof Romuald, a once-glad, religious church knight who is changed into a Brujah vampire. With his religious confidence pulverized, Christof is compelled to reassess his comprehension of good and malicious as he adapts to his new life. Christof's stay to mankind is the religious recluse Anezka, a human with an unadulterated soul who adores Chrisof even after his change. As an individual from the Brujah under Ecaterina the Wise, Christof aligns with Wilhem Streicher, the Gangrel Erik, and the Cappadocian Serena amid his voyages through twelfth century Prague. Different characters in this period incorporate the slave owner Count Orsi, the Tremere Etrius, and the Ventrue Prince Brandl. 

Christof proceeds with his journey into the late-twentieth century, where he aligns with the Brujah Pink, the oppressed Toreador Lily, and the Nosferatu Samuel. Different characters incorporate the 300-year-old human pioneer of the Society of Leopold, Leo Allatius—who has unnaturally broadened his life expectancy by devouring vampire blood—and the Setite pioneer Lucretia. Amid his adventure, Christof clashes with Vukodlak, an amazing Tzimisce vampire goal on usurping the groups' precursors and taking their capacity for himself. Caught in an enchanted rest by the individuals who restrict his plot, Vukodlak directions his devotees to help restore him. 

In 1141 in Prague, crusader Christof Romuald is injured in fight. He recuperates in a congregation, where he is thought about by a cloister adherent called Anezka. The pair right away begin to look all starry eyed at yet are limited by their responsibilities to God. Christof enters an adjacent silver mine to execute a huge Tzimisce vampire who is tormenting the city. Christof's triumph is noted by the nearby vampires, one of whom, Ecaterina the Wise, transforms him into a vampire to keep another faction from taking him. 

At first resistant, Christof consents to go with Ecaterina's hireling Wilhem set for ace his new vampiric capacities. Subsequently, he meets with Anezka and will not spoil her with his reviled state. At Ecaterina's safe house, the Brujah enlighten Christof regarding a looming war between the Tremere and Tzimisce tribes that will pulverize people got up to speed in it. Wilhem and Christof gain the support of the neighborhood Jews and Cappadocians, who give their part Serena to the Brujah cause. The Ventrue sovereign Brandl tells the gathering that in Vienna, the Tremere are snatching people to transform them into devils—servitors dependent and engaged by Vampire blood. The gathering penetrate the Tremere chantry in Prague, and prevent the Gangrel Erik from being transformed into a Gargoyle, and he goes along with them. Christof discovers that Anezka, looking for Christof's reclamation, has visited the Tremere and Tzimisce tribes, and the Vienna Tremere fortress, Haus de Hexe. There, the Tremere pioneer Etrius transforms Erik into a Gargoyle, constraining Christof to murder him. Etrius uncovers that the Tzimisce snatched Anezka. 

Coming back to Prague, Christof finds the Tzimisce in close-by Vyšehrad Castle have been uncovered to the people, who have propelled a strike on the structure. Christof, Wilhem, and Serena penetrate the mansion and find that the ground-breaking, sleeping Vukodlak has oppressed Anezka as a demon. Anezka rejects Christof and gets ready to restore Vukodlak, yet the outside ambush crumples the palace upon them. 

In 1999, the Society of Leopold unearths the site of Vyšehrad Castle; they recoup Christof's body and take it to London, where he is awoken by a female voice. He discovers that the occasions at Vyšehrad and the subsequent human uprising separated the vampires into two organizations: the Camarilla who try to avoid humankind and the Sabbat who try to recover territory over it. The Society's removal additionally empowers Vukodlak's supporters to recuperate Vyšehrad. Subsequent to getting away, Christof meets Pink, who consents to support him. They discover that the Setite family has been shipping Vyšehrad stash to New York City and penetrate a Setite whorehouse to pick up data. They slaughter the Setite pioneer Lucretia and enlist Lily, a subjugated whore. 

Christof, Pink, and Lily travel to New York City on board a stash send, salvage the Nosferatu Samuel from the Sabbat, and penetrate a distribution center putting away the Vyšehrad booty. There they experience Wilhem, who is presently a Sabbat under Ecaterina following the breakdown of their gathering. Wilhem uncovers that Pink is a professional killer working for Vukodlak. Pink getaways and Wilhem rejoins Christof, planning to recover the humankind he has yielded amid the past 800 years. Together, Christof, Wilhem, Lily, and Samuel find that Vukodlak is covered up underneath a congregation inside his Cathedral of Flesh and that Anezka is still in his subjugation. In the house of prayer they find that Vukodlak has awoken; he attempts to impact Christof by offering him Anezka then uncovering that she is totally reliant on Vukodlak's blood and will kick the bucket without him. Christof cannot and Vukodlak drops the gathering into passages underneath the church building. Christof finds the Wall of Memories, which hold Anezka's recollections of the most recent centuries, appearing kept on trusting as Vukodlak found better approaches to pollute and torment her. She in the end yielded her guiltlessness to pick up Vukodlak's trust, utilizing her situation to defer his restoration more than many years until, without any alternatives left, she petitioned God for Christof's arrival. The gathering comes back to the Cathedral and fights Vukodlak. 

The consummation of "Recovery" changes relying on the amount of humankind Christof has held amid the amusement. In the event that the amount is extraordinary, Christof accommodates with Anezka and transforms her into a vampire, saving her from death. In the event that his mankind is moderate, he surrenders to Vukodlak and turns into a fiend; Vukodlak double-crosses Christof and powers him to kill Anezka. A lesser amount of mankind results in Christof murdering Vukodlak by drinking his blood. Significantly enabled, Christof neglects his mankind, murders Anezka, and delights in his new power. 

The improvement of "Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption" started at Nihilistic Software in April 1998, not long after the engineer's establishing in March that year. Its advancement was openly reported in March 1999. Meaning to move far from the principal individual diversions the colleagues had taken a shot at with past organizations, Nihilistic arranged a structure and story for a cutting edge RPG with comparative topics and gothic style to those of the "" arrangement. After distributer Activision moved toward the group utilizing the White Wolf permit, they adjusted pieces of their unique plan to fit the "Vampire" arrangement, which turned into the first structure for "Reclamation". Support by Id Software originator John Carmack helped Nihilistic choose to work with Activision. The Nihilistic group created "Recovery" more than two years; the group extended to twelve individuals before the finish of improvement. The advancement group included Nihilistic President and CEO Ray Gesko, lead software engineer Rob Huebner, world fashioner Steve Tietze, level creator Steve Thoms, lead craftsman Maarten Kraaijvanger, craftsman Yujin Kiem, workmanship expert Anthony Chiang, and developers Yves Borckmans and Ingar Shu. 

Activision gave a financial plan of US$1.8 million; the sum was deliberately kept low to make the undertaking reasonable for Nihilistic and diminish the hazard to Activision, which was moderately unpracticed with RPGs at the time. Skeptical's administration was focused on the whole group working in a one-room condition without any dividers, entryways, or workplaces, trusting this would constrain the individual gatherings to convey and enable every division to react to inquiries promptly, sparing hours or long periods of improvement time. "Redemption"s story was created with contribution from Wolf; it was co-composed by Daniel Greenberg, an author for the source pen-and-paper RPG. 

The little size of the group prompted Nihilistic depending on eight outside contractual workers to give components the group couldn't supply. Scratch Peck was picked to give sounds impacts, surrounding circles, and extra voice accounts dependent on his past work on "Inauspicious Fandango" (1998). Kevin Manthei gave the melodic score to the amusement's twelfth century areas, while a team called Youth Engine gave the cutting edge segments' score. Some work of art was re-appropriated; Peter Chan ("Day of the Tentacle" (1993) and "Horrid Fandango") created idea craftsmanship to set up the vibe of the amusement's surroundings, and Patrick Lambert created character ideas and full-shading illustrations for the modelers and artists to utilize. Huebner considered the most vital outside relationship was with a little new business called Oholoko, which delivered realistic films for the diversion's story components and endings. Agnostic met with different PC liveliness firms yet their costs were unreasonably costly for the undertaking spending plan. 

"Reclamation" was formally discharged to assembling on May 30, 2000. The amusement highlights 300,000 lines of code, with a further 66,000 lines for JAVA contents. In January 2000, it was declared that Nihilistic was looking for a studio to port "Reclamation" to the Sega Dreamcast computer game support, anyway this adaptation was never discharged. In February 2001, after the arrival of the PC form, it was reported that MacSoft was building up a MacOS adaptation of the diversion. 

Skeptical at first took a gander at existing diversion motors, for example, the Quake motor and Unreal Engine, yet chose those motors, which were essentially intended for first-individual shooters, would not be adequate for its point-and-snap driven RPG and chose to make its own motor for improvement of "Recovery". This was the NOD motor, which the designers could redo for the amusement's 3D point of view and pretending mechanics. The group additionally thought about that building up its very own motor would enable it to openly reuse code for future ventures or to permit the motor for benefit. Gesture was prototyped utilizing the Glide application programming interface (API) in light of the fact that the group trusted it would be progressively steady amid the motor's improvement, proposing that once the motor was increasingly finished, it is moved to a progressively broad API intended to help a wide scope of equipment, for example, Direct3D. Be that as it may, when a fundamental motor was set up in Glide, the software engineers directed their concentration toward ongoing interaction and usefulness. By June 1999, "Reclamation" was all the while running in Glide, which by then come up short on a portion of the essential highlights the group expected to exhibit at that year's Electronic Entertainment Expo. At the point when the group in the long run changed to Direct3D, it was compelled to desert some custom code it had worked to adjust for Glide's restrictions, for example, surface and realistic administration, which required the re-sending out of many dimensions and models for the new programming. The late API switch additionally constrained the time accessible to test the diversion's similarity on a wide scope of equipment. The group concentrated on structure the diversion for equipment quickened frameworks to evade the confinements of supporting a more extensive scope of frameworks, which had limited the improvement of the organization originators' past amusement, "" (1997). 

The developers recommended utilizing 3D Studio Max for workmanship and level structure, which would set aside extra cash by enabling the organization to permit a solitary bit of programming, however the lead craftsmen effectively campaigned against this arrangement, trusting that enabling the separate groups to pick the product would enable them to work generally productively. Huebner said this spared the undertaking additional time than some other choice made amid advancement. The dimension originators picked QERadiant to exploit their past experience utilizing the product while chipping away at Id Software's "Shake" arrangement. Id enabled Nihilistic to permit QERadiant and adjust it to make an altered instrument for its 3D surroundings. Since QERadiant was a completed, useful apparatus, it enabled the dimension creators to start creating levels from the venture's begin and afterward send out them into the NOD motor, as opposed to hanging tight for as long as a half year for Nihilistic to build up a custom instrument or learning another 3D level manager. In two years, the three dimension planners worked more than 100 in-amusement situations for "Recovery". They acquired outlines and portrays of structures from medieval Prague and Vienna to more readily speak to that period and areas. The four-man workmanship group driven by Kraaijvanger utilized Alias Wavefront Maya to make 3D craftsmanship. Skeptical's administration needed Kraaijvanger to utilize a more affordable instrument however yielded when the expense was observed to be lower than had been suspected. All through the undertaking, the workmanship group worked more than 1,500 3D models. 

Toward the beginning of improvement, Nihilistic needed to help altering of the amusement by the client network, having seen the advantages to the network while taking a shot at different diversions. Staff who chipped away at "Jedi Knight" knew the experience of making another, altered programming language considered COG that gave the developers the outcomes they needed yet cost time and critical venture assets. With "Recovery", they needed to consolidate a current scripting motor that would all the more effectively empower clients to additionally build up the amusement as opposed to building up their very own code once more, which would devour a long time of improvement time. The group tried different dialects, yet wound up mindful of another studio, Rebel Boat Rocker, which was getting consideration for its utilization of the Java language. Addressing that studio's lead software engineer Billy Zelsnak, Nihilistic chose to try different things with Java, having minimal earlier information of it. The language effectively incorporated into the NOD motor without issues, giving an institutionalized and openly distributable scripting motor. A few planners were prepared to utilize Java to enable them to fabricate the few hundred contents required to drive the diversion's storyline. 

The Nihilistic group utilized their experience adjusting a current property for the "Star Wars" amusements to plan "Reclamation". Thinking that the vast majority would be acquainted with vampire tropes, the group composed the amusement expecting players would not require a clarification of the class' basic components, while empowering them to investigate White Wolf's augmentations to the mythos. While deciphering the pen-and-paper RPG to a computer game, the group upgraded a portion of the orders to make them less difficult to get it. For instance, in the pen-and-paper diversion, the "Mutable" discipline incorporates the capacities to find in obscurity, develop hooks, liquefy into the ground, and change into a creature, anyway in "Reclamation" these were made into individual orders to make them in a split second available, rather than requiring the player to choose Protean and afterward select one of the sub-capacities. 

Huebner said the group battled with restriction. From commencement, the group had built up its benefits for a top of the line framework to guarantee the completed venture would have top-of-the-go designs, and in such a case that important, it could more effectively downsize the craftsmanship down than scale it up. Be that as it may, the workmanship groups were not ceased from delivering new resources, bringing about "Reclamation" requiring roughly 1GB of extra room to introduce. Moreover, surfaces were made in 32-bit shading, models were very point by point—highlighting somewhere in the range of 1,000 and 2,000 triangles each by and large—and levels were enlightened with high-goals light-maps. Since the amusement was intended for top of the line PC frameworks, it depended on calculations to downsize the models; joined with the high detail craftsmanship resources, "Recovery" was saddling to keep running on low-and mid-extend frameworks. Agnostic had expected to incorporate both 16-bit and 32-bit renditions of the diversion surfaces, and distinctive sound quality dimensions to enable players to pick which variants to introduce, however the CD-ROM design was not roomy enough to oblige more than one adaptation of the amusement. The completed item scarcely fitted onto two CD-ROMs; some stable resources were expelled to fit the organization. This made the amusement utilize a lot of PC assets and restricted the capacity to port it to progressively constrained comfort situations. 

The software engineers recognized at an opportune time that pathfinding—the capacity of the variable-sized characters to explore through nature—would be an issue. Huebner refered to the trouble of programming characters to explore a situation in which level creators are allowed to include stairs, slopes, and other 3D objects. They thought of a brief arrangement and wanted to improve the pathfinding later into advancement. When they appropriately tended to the issue, a significant number of the dimensions were practically finished and highlighted couple of markers the software engineers could use to control development. They could recognize walkable tiles yet not dividers, precipices, and other ecological dangers. Perfect arrangements, for example, making zones for characters could stroll through would have set aside a lot of effort to retroactively include into the 100 made dimensions, so the developers went through half a month making little, iterative fixes to hide the undeniable blunders in the pathfinding and leave more subtle ones flawless. 

From the start, the group needed to make a terrific RPG, however were limited by their financial plan and calendar. They were hesitant to cut any substance, for example, one of the timeframes or the multiplayer angle, and they chose to delay the first discharge date from March 2000 to June that year. They additionally downsized the extent of their multiplayer testing and dropped the arranged arrival of an intelligent pre-dispatch demo. The deferral enabled Nihilistic to hold the majority of the planned structure however they were compelled to evacuate the capacity to play the whole single-player crusade as a group web based, making up for this by including two multiplayer situations manufactured utilizing levels from the single-player diversion. Huebner said they didn't design properly for multiplayer when constructing the Java contents for the single-player diversion, which means the contents did not work viably in multiplayer mode. 

The multiplayer "Storyteller" mode was considered right off the bat in the improvement cycle. Redirecting from the run of the mill passing match or co-employable ongoing interaction multiplayer modes, Storyteller required Nihilistic to build up an interface that could give one player, the Storyteller, enough control to run a specific situation, and change occasions in the diversion progressively without making it too complex to even consider understanding for the normal player. A great part of the innovation was easy to actualize, requiring average multiplayer programming segments that would enable clients to associate with one another. The biggest assignment required the improvement of an interface that could give the Storyteller command over the parts of a multiplayer diversion without it ending up excessively intricate. The interface needed to contain arrangements of items, characters, and different assets, and choices to control those assets. It must be generally available utilizing a mouse as info, saving the console for not so much normal but rather more propelled directions. The mode was enlivened by the content based Multi-User Dungeon, a multiplayer ongoing virtual world in which high-positioning clients can control the amusement's condition and powerfully make undertakings. 

"Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption" was discharged for Microsoft Windows on June 7, 2000. The diversion's discharge incorporated an independent duplicate of the amusement, and a Collector's Edition containing a duplicate of the diversion, a hardbound, constrained release of White Wolf's "Book of Nod" chronicling the main Vampire, a Camarilla pendant, the diversion's procedure direct, and an elective amusement case spread. The Collector's Edition likewise incorporated a duplicate of the amusement's soundtrack, including melodies by Type O Negative, Gravity Kills, Ministry, Darling Violetta, Cubanate, Primus, Youth Engine, and Kevin Manthei. Skeptical likewise discharged Embrace, a dimension editorial manager with access to the diversion's code to enable fans to alter levels and contents. A Mac OS form was discharged in November 2001. 

Amid its first week at a bargain, the Microsoft Windows rendition of "Reclamation" was the third smash hit diversion behind "The Sims" and "Who Wants To Be A Millionaire second Edition". Offers of the Collector's Edition were exclusively followed; it was the fifth top of the line amusement that equivalent week. As indicated by the deal following firm PC Data, "Reclamation" had sold around 111,193 units crosswise over North America by October, procuring $4.88 million. Around 57,000 units were sold in Germany by March 2001. It went through four months on its rundown of the 30 top-selling amusements, cresting at number 5 in July 2000, preceding leaving the graphs in October. "Recovery" got an advanced discharge on the GOG.com administration in February 2010. "Reclamation" sufficiently made progress to justify the 2004 arrival of a backhanded spin-off, "", which was set in the equivalent anecdotal universe and was created by Troika Games. 

"Vampire: The Masquerade – Redemption" got a blended basic reaction. The collecting audit sites GameRankings and Metacritic give it a score of 75% (in view of 33 surveys) and 74 out of 100 (in view of 22 audits), separately. Commentators contrasted it with other effective RPGs, including "Diablo II", "Deus Ex", "", and the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. 

The amusement's designs got close consistent acclaim. Amusement Revolution said its "splendid" illustrations were among the best in gaming and "People to come" said the designs were the best in any PC RPG. "PC Games" said it was the most appealing PC amusement at the time, "ArsTechnica" said it was the best diversion to take a gander at and watch since "The Last Express" (1997), and "PC Gamer" stated, "there has never been an all the more flawlessly made RPG". The dimension plan and situations were commended for the dimension of detail, giving an agonizing, climatic tasteful with "meticulous" detail. Analysts likewise made positive remarks about the diversion's lighting impacts. On the other hand, "PC Gaming World" (CGW) said that while the diversion was alluring, the visuals were shallow and neglected to accentuate the amusement's frightfulness components. They were additionally incredulous of the third-individual in-amusement camera situating, asserting that it clouded the zone straightforwardly before the player and did not enable the player to look upwards. 

Reactions to the story were conflicted; a few commentators called it solid with great discourse; others said it was poor. GameRevolution and CGW called the discourse poor, brash, and frequently excessively verbose; specifically CGW said a few addresses turned into an "excruciatingly long delay" that just served to postpone the arrival of control to the player. Different sources called it one of the most extravagant, most immersing stories to be found outside movies and books, and more unique than generally RPGs. "PC Games" condemned the straight storyline, and said the couple of discourse decisions accessible to the player had no genuine effect on the narrating. CGW said the direct story anticipated "Reclamation" from being a genuine RPG on the grounds that it needed connection with numerous characters, and the absence of player sway on the story influenced it to appear just as they were not building characters yet rather were getting them to the story achievements. As indicated by "PC Gamer", while the diversion's linearity was a negative, it kept the account tight and convincing. 

Commentators differently valued and detested the voice acting. Amusement Revolution and "PC Games" said the acting went from sufficient to great, while CGW said the voices were wrong and the twelfth century European voices seeming like present day Americans, yet that the cutting edge time included better performing artists. "ArsTechnica" said the acting was conflicting yet was superior to that of "Deus Ex". The climate impacts, foundation sound, and ill humored music were said to mix together well and help submerge the player in the diversion's reality. CGW said the sound quality was here and there poor. 

Quite a bit of Redemption's analysis centered around specialized issues when it was discharged, undermining the diversion experience or making it unplayable. A few commentators noted issues with the underlying absence of a capacity to spare amusement advance anytime, which implied that withering or specialized issues with the diversion could require them to reload a past spare, and after that rehash as long as 30 minutes of ongoing interaction. CGW included that the redundant ongoing interaction implied that losing advancement and rehashing it was a specific drawback. "People to come", who furnished the amusement with a score of 3 out of 5, said that "Reclamation" was possibly just a couple of patches from being a 5 out of 5 diversion, notwithstanding specialized issues. "PC Gamer"s audit even included suggested directions for cheats that worked around the specialized blemishes. 

CGW said the in-diversion battle turned into a confounding chaos once partners wound up included, to a limited extent because of poor Artificial Intelligence (AI) that made them use controls generously and become low on blood subsequently. The AI was viewed as lacking for the amusement; pathfinding disappointments implied partners would wind up stuck on ecological articles or each other amid battle, go through their costliest capacities on foes paying little respect to their risk, and were poor at remaining alive in fight. Adversaries were also expelled for either not seeing the playable character in evident conditions or neglecting to react to assaults on themselves. 

Battle was additionally reprimanded; "PC Games" called the diversion "minimal in excess of a hack-and-slice experience", and said the amusement's attention on battle was counter to the more noteworthy spotlight on political interest and social collaboration common in the source "Vampire – the Masquerade" tabletop amusement. "ArsTechnica" said that battle was at first fun however extremely redundant, and it turned into an errand by the later phases of the diversion, noticing that each foe prison comprised of four dimensions loaded up with indistinguishable adversaries, while "People to come" said the quantity of foes and the trouble of vanquishing them frequently implied the playable character would flee or bite the dust. The redundant battle was likewise censured by different analysts, who detested that it included over and over tapping on adversaries until they were dead; and fleeing if the playable character was going to kick the bucket against unending influxes of foes. Controls were viewed as supportive in change up battle, however fights were too quick paced to permit the strategic utilization of a wide scope of forces due to the powerlessness to delay the battle to permit the issuing of requests. 

Amusement Revolution said the multiplayer include was a disclosure and worth the expense of the diversion alone. "PC Games" said it was imaginative and may fill in as a motivation for future diversions. "PC Gamer" said the multiplayer mode was the reclaiming component of the diversion, however it was as yet damaged by bugs. Others noticed that parts of the multiplayer interface were lacking, for example, the powerlessness to store custom discourse, requiring the Storyteller to type message progressively amid interactivity. 

At the 1999 Game Critics Awards, "Recovery" was named Best RPG in front of the main individual activity RPG, "Deus Ex". In 2014, Gameranx recorded the amusement as one of the 22 Best Vampire rounds ever.