Cardinal-nephew 

A cardinal-nephew (; ; ) was a cardinal raised by a pope who was that cardinal's relative. The act of making cardinal-nephews began in the Middle Ages, and achieved its zenith amid the sixteenth and seventeenth hundreds of years. The last cardinal-nephew was named in 1689 and the training was smothered in 1692. "Nepotism" initially alluded explicitly to this training, when it showed up in the English language around 1669. From the center of the Avignon Papacy (1309– 1377) until Pope Innocent XII's enemy of nepotism bull (an ecclesiastical sanction), "Romanum decet pontificem" (1692), a pope without a cardinal-nephew was the special case to the standard. Each Renaissance pope who made cardinals selected an in respect to the College of Cardinals, and the nephew was the most widely recognized decision, albeit one of Alexander VI's manifestations was his own child. 

The foundation of the cardinal-nephew advanced more than seven centuries, following improvements ever of papacy and the styles of individual Popes. From 1566 until 1692, a cardinal-nephew held the curial office of the Superintendent of the Ecclesiastical State, known as the Cardinal Nephew, and along these lines the terms are some of the time utilized conversely. The curial office of the Cardinal Nephew just as the foundation of the cardinal-nephew declined as the intensity of the Cardinal Secretary of State expanded and the transient intensity of popes diminished in the seventeenth and eighteenth hundreds of years. 

The rundown of cardinal-nephews incorporates no less than fifteen, and conceivably upwards of nineteen popes (Gregory IX, Alexander IV, Adrian V, Gregory XI, Boniface IX, Innocent VII, Eugene IV, Paul II, Alexander VI, Pius III, Julius II, Leo X, Clement VII, Benedict XIII, and Pius VII; maybe likewise John XIX and Benedict IX, on the off chance that they were truly advanced cardinals; just as Innocent III and Benedict XII, if in certainty they were identified with their lifts); one antipope (John XXIII); and a few holy people (Charles Borromeo, Guarinus of Palestrina, and maybe Anselm of Lucca, on the off chance that he was extremely a cardinal). 

The production of cardinal-nephews originates before the various leveled superiority of cardinals inside the Roman Catholic Church, which became out of the 1059 pronouncement of Pope Nicholas II, "In nomine Domini", which set up cardinal diocesans as the sole balloters of the Pope, with the assent of cardinal elders and cardinal ministers. The principal realized cardinal-nephew is Lottario (), seniore, cousin of Pope Benedict VIII (1012– 1024), chosen around 1015. Benedict VIII likewise raised his sibling Giovanni (the future Pope John XIX) and his cousin Teofilatto (the future Pope Benedict IX) as cardinal-elders. The main known cardinal-nephew after 1059 is Anselm of Lucca, the nephew or sibling of Pope Alexander II (1061– 1073), despite the fact that until the finish of twelfth most of the supposed instances of such arrangements are questionable, either in light of the fact that the connection between the Pope and cardinal isn't demonstrated, or on the grounds that the cardinalate of the ecclesiastical brother is unsure. Be that as it may, it is certain that the advancements of ecclesiastical relatives to the College of Cardinals were regular in thirteenth century. 

As indicated by student of history John Bargrave, "by the Council of Bazill, Session 21, the quantity of cardinals was not to be over 24, and no nephew of the Pope or of any cardinal was to be of that number. ("Session" 23.)" 

Pope Clement VI (1342– 1352) made more cardinal-nephews than some other pontiff, including six on September 20, 1342, the best number of cardinal-nephews raised at one time. The capitulation of the 1464 ecclesiastical meeting restricted the Pope it chose (Pope Paul II) to designating one cardinal-nephew, alongside different conditions intended to expand the intensity of the College of Cardinals and decrease the Pope's capacity to weaken that control. 

The Fifth Council of the Lateran pronounced in 1514 that the consideration of relatives was to be lauded, and the production of cardinal-nephews was regularly suggested or legitimized dependent on the need to think about poor relatives. A cardinal-nephew could more often than not anticipate gainful arrangements; for instance, Alessandro Farnese, cardinal-nephew of Pope Paul III (1534– 1549) held 64 benefices all the while notwithstanding the bad habit chancellorship. 

Pope Paul IV (1555– 1559), in his seniority, was said to have "fallen totally under the cardinal-nephew's impact"; Paul IV's cardinal-nephew, Carlo Carafa, was blamed in August 1558 by a Theatine of alluring a Roman respectable lady, Plautila de' Massimi, who had come into ownership of an excessive measure of cash and gems, yet the allegations were expelled by the pontiff. Holy person Charles Borromeo, cardinal-nephew of Pope Pius IV (1559– 1565), had guaranteed the subjection of the "secretarius intimus" to the Cardinal Nephew, which came to be some of the time known as the "secretarius maior". Pius IV was famous for nepotism: somewhere in the range of 1561 and 1565 he exchanged more than 350,000 "scudi" to his relatives. 

Following the Council of Trent (1563), Pope Pius V (1566– 1572) drew up the terms for the workplace of the Superintendent of the Ecclesiastical State, who was to deal with the transient issues of the Papal States and the remote relations of the Holy See. After fruitlessly endeavoring to isolate the obligations of the Superintendent between four non-familial cardinals, Pius V agreed to the urgings of the College of Cardinals and his Spanish minister, and delegated his grandnephew, Michele Bonelli, as Superintendent, separating his obligations with an ecclesiastical bull of March 14, 1566. In any case, Pius V persistently abstained from assigning any genuine self-sufficient capacity to Bonelli. 

The Cardinal Nephew (additionally called "cardinale padrone" or "Secretarius Papae et superintendens status ecclesiasticæ": "Administrator of the Ecclesiastical State", ) was an official legate of the Roman Curia, roughly equal to the Cardinal Secretary of State, which consumed its capacities after the workplace of Cardinal Nephew was abrogated in 1692. The workplace has been compared by students of history to an "executive", ""modify conscience"", or "bad habit pope". The Cardinal Nephew was for the most part among a Pope's first cardinal manifestations, and his "animal" was generally joined by a salute from the firearms of Castel Sant'Angelo. 

Following the Avignon Papacy, the Cardinal Nephew was in charge of the otherworldly and transient administration of the Comtat Venaissin, where the Avignon Popes had dwelled; in 1475, Pope Sixtus IV raised the Diocese of Avignon to the position of an archbishopric, to the advantage of his nephew Giuliano della Rovere. 

The terms of the workplace of Cardinal Nephew were built up by an ecclesiastical brief created and refined by Pius V's successors to Paul V (1605– 1621). The Cardinal Nephew was additionally the correspondence contact for every single ecclesiastical nuncio and gubernatorial legates, and the regent for two assemblages: the Consulta and the Congregazione del Buon Governo. The Cardinal Nephew was likewise the commander general of the ecclesiastical armed force and a "channel through which streamed benefices one way and gold the other". 

In any case, these formal capacities just came into power amid the pontificates of surprisingly frail Popes; most Cardinal Nephews were the "true" elastic stamp of the pontiff himself. 

In spite of the fact that Pope Leo XI (1605) passed on before he had the capacity to lift his nephew, Roberto Ubaldini, Ubaldini was raised by Leo XI's successor, Pope Paul V in 1615. 

A few history specialists consider Scipione Borghese, cardinal-nephew to Pope Paul V, to be the "prototypical agent" of a cardinal-nephew, not at all like those before him, made to "accommodate and manage the lasting social and monetary climb of the ruling ecclesiastical family into the positions of the high Roman nobility". For instance, in 1616, 24 of the 30 monasteries having a place with Borghese were leased, a training the Council of Trent had endeavored to wipe out. An exhaustive monetary investigation of Borghese's cardinalate by Reinhard Volcker (in light of a progression of surviving record books) looks at the systems Borghese used to develop riches amid his uncle's pontificate and non-clerical resources before his uncle's demise, which Volcker considers to be commendable of Baroque ecclesiastical families. It is evaluated that Paul V Borghese had exchanged to his family around 4% of the complete salary of the Holy See amid his pontificate. Borghese's own incomes in 1610 were 153,000 "scudi" contrasted with the simple 4,900 "scudi" that comprised his whole family's pay in 1592. 

Pope Gregory XIV (1590– 1591) started the act of making cardinal-nephews whose formal arrangement harmonized "accepted" with their assignment, and was hence independent from the ordinal procedure for making cardinals, and, when he became sick, he approved his cardinal-nephew, Paolo Emilio Sfondrato, to utilize the "Fiat ut petitur", a power which was later decreased at the asking of the College. Paul V issued a "motu proprio" on April 30, 1618, formally offering on his cardinal-nephew a similar specialist Pope Clement VIII had given to Pietro Aldobrandini, starting what student of history Laurain-Portemer calls "l'age classique'" of nepotism. 

Pope Gregory XV's (1621– 1623) cardinal-nephew, Ludovico Ludovisi, the principal cardinal-nephew known as "il cardinale padrone" ("the Cardinal supervisor") amassed an immense range of benefices: the priestly district of Bologna, 23 nunneries, the directorship of the Apostolic Signatura, just as the workplaces of the bad habit chancellor and high-chamberlain, and had the capacity to have a large portion of them redistributed among 17 of his family upon his passing. These benefices and workplaces got Ludovisi more than 200,000 scudi every year, and he is considered to have worked out "increasingly boundless expert" than any past cardinal-nephew. Strikingly, cardinal-nephews were permitted to make "facultas testandi" to will the prizes of their benefices to common relatives. Gregory XV's successor, Urban VIII (1623– 1644) gathered two uncommon boards of trustees of scholars, both of whom supported this training. 

Not every single Cardinal Nephew were cardinal-nephews in the strictest sense. Indeed, ecclesiastical history specialist Valérie Pirie considers not having a nephew a "colossal resource for an eventual Pope" as it left the position open for a partner cardinal. For instance, Pope Clement X gave the workplace to Cardinal Paoluzzi-Altieri, whose nephew had as of late hitched Laura Caterina Altieri, the sole beneficiary of Clement X's family. Numerous history specialists consider Olimpia Maidalchini, the sister-in-law of Pope Innocent X (1644– 1655), to have been an "accepted" Cardinal Nephew; the position was formally held by her child, Camillo Pamphili, at that point her nephew, Francesco Maidalchini (after Pamphili disavowed his cardinalate so as to marry), and (after Francesco demonstrated awkward) Camillo Astalli, her cousin. 

Popes frequently had just a couple of decisions for the formation of a Cardinal Nephew. As per ecclesiastical antiquarian Frederic Baumgartner, Pope Sixtus V's (1585– 1590) rule "began gravely" in light of the fact that Alessandro Peretti di Montalto was "his solitary nephew qualified for the workplace, yet he could scarcely serve the Pope as a reliable comrade", making a few cardinals will not go to his instatement. Another ecclesiastical student of history Ludwig von Pastor takes note of that "the hardship of Pope Pamphilj was that the main individual in his family who might have had the characteristics important to fill such a position was a lady". 

Pope Innocent XI (1676– 1689) disdained the training and just acknowledged his race as Pope after the College of Cardinals assented to his arrangements for change, which incorporated a restriction on nepotism. Be that as it may, Innocent XI threw in the towel after thrice neglecting to accomplish the help of most of his cardinals for a bull forbidding nepotism, which had been drearily formed somewhere in the range of 1677 and 1686. Blameless XI rejected pleas from inside the ecclesiastical court to bring his solitary nephew, Livio Odescalchi, the ruler of Sirmio, to Rome, in spite of the fact that he elevated Carlo Stefano Anastasio Ciceri, a removed relative, cardinal on September 2, 1686. Honest XI's successor, Pope Alexander VIII (1689– 1691), was the last Pope to make a Cardinal Nephew. Alexander VIII likewise fixed another change of Innocent XI by reestablishing the incomes of the previous Chancery to the Vice-Chancellor, who was, at the time, his cardinal-nephew, Pietro Ottoboni. Edith Standen, an advisor to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, calls Ottoboni the "last and unquestionably not least glorious precedent" of the "wonder of a terminated species, the Cardinal-Nephew". 

Until 1692 (and some of the time from there on), the cardinal-nephew (or a lay nephew) would be the main historian of the Pope, normally evacuating the documents to a family file upon the demise of the pontiff. Specifically, the recorded accumulations of the Barberini, Farnese, Chigi, and Borghese families contain vital ecclesiastical reports. 

Pope Innocent XII (1691– 1700) issued an ecclesiastical bull on June 22, 1692, "Romanum decet pontificem", forbidding the workplace of Cardinal Nephew, constraining his successors to hoisting just a single cardinal relative, taking out different "sinecures" generally held for cardinal-nephews, and topping the stipend or enrichment the nephew of a Pope could get to 12,000 scudi. "Romanum decet pontificem" was later fused into the Code of Canon Law of 1917 in ordinances 240, 2; 1414, 4; and 1432, 1. In 1694, Innocent XII's arrangement of changes was finished up with a costly battle to dispense with the "dishonesty" of workplaces while repaying their present holders. These changes are seen by certain researchers as a deferred response to the money related emergency made by the nepotism of Pope Urban VIII (1623– 1644). 

Nonetheless, notwithstanding following "Romanum decet pontificem", just three of the eight Popes of the eighteenth century neglected to make a nephew or sibling cardinal. The College of Cardinals obviously favored guideline by nephews than by top picks, which they saw as the option; for instance, the College encouraged Pope Benedict XIII (1724– 1730) to choose a cardinal-nephew, who they trusted would supplant Benedict XIII's famous lieutenant Niccolò Coscia. Pope Gregory XIII (1572– 1585) additionally must be encouraged by key figures in the College to select his cardinal-nephew: Filippo Boncompagni. 

The cardinal-nephews of the eighteenth century declined in impact as the intensity of the Cardinal Secretary of State expanded. The congregation of Pope Benedict XIII (1724– 1730) is portrayed by student of history Eamon Duffy as "every one of the disasters of nepotism without the nephew". 

Neri Maria Corsini, cardinal-nephew of Pope Clement XII (1730– 1740) was by a long shot the most dominant cardinal-nephew of the eighteenth century, by virtue of his uncle's propelled age and visual impairment. In any case, Clement XII's successor, Pope Benedict XIV (1740– 1758) was portrayed by Hugh Walpole as "a cleric without sluggishness or intrigue, a ruler without top choices, a Pope without nephews". 

Romualdo Braschi-Onesti, cardinal-nephew of Pius VI (1775– 1799), was the penultimate cardinal-nephew. In spite of Pius VI's ancestry to a respectable Cesena family, his solitary sister had hitched a man from the poor Onesti family. Along these lines, he dispatched a genealogist to find (and blow up) some hint of honorability in the Onesti ancestry, an undertaking which yielded just a winding association with Saint Romualdo. 

After the tempestuous 1800 ecclesiastical meeting, Pope Pius VII (1800– 1823) disregarded the establishment of the cardinal-nephew and rather depended on his Cardinal Secretary of State, Ercole Consalvi. Amid the nineteenth century, the main nephew of a Pope made cardinal was Gabriele della Genga Sermattei, nephew of Pope Leo XII, made cardinal by Pope Gregory XVI on February 1, 1836. Despite the fact that the regulation of nepotism vanished in the eighteenth century, "pietas" (obligation to family) remained a topic of ecclesiastical organization into the twentieth century, albeit once in a while with the clear intercession of an ecclesiastical uncle. Following the case of Pius VI, Popes Leo XIII (who raised his sibling, Giuseppe Pecci, cardinal on May 12, 1879) and Pius XII (1939– 1958) debilitated the formal curial administration for a parallel government, in which relatives frequently figured unmistakably. The loss of transient control over the Papal States ("true" in 1870 with the "Roman Question" and "by law" in 1929 with the Lateran Treaty) additionally dispensed with the basic conditions which had figured noticeably in the family governmental issues of prior Popes. 

Indeed, even into the eighteenth century, the cardinal-nephew was a characteristic power representative at the meeting following his uncle's demise, as a figure whom cardinals burning of proceeding "business as usual" could rally around. Specifically, the cardinal-nephew regularly directed the reliability of his uncle's "animals", whom he for the most part had a job in naming. For instance, Alessandro Peretti di Montalto drove his uncle's animals in the ecclesiastical meeting of 1590 notwithstanding being just 21. As per meeting student of history Frederic Baumgartner, "the reason for such arrangements was guaranteeing that the Pope's family would have power and impact for an any longer time than the concise period that a Pope could hope to rule". An eminent special case is Pope Gregory XV (1621– 1623) who declined on his passing bed the solicitation of Ludovico Ludovisi to name more relatives to the College, saying he had "enough to record to God for the disgraceful ones he had selected". 

Notwithstanding, cardinal-nephews were not ensured the administration of their uncle's "animals"; for instance, in the ecclesiastical gathering, 1621, Scipione Borghese could check just twenty-nine votes (a small amount of his uncle's fifty-six cardinals), Pietro Aldobrandini controlled just nine (of his uncle's thirteen residual cardinals), and Montalto just five of his uncle's outstanding cardinals. Truth be told, universal contentions once in a while overpowered family loyalties when cardinal-nephews were moderately "inadequately composed". As Pope Innocent X (1644– 1655) passed on with the workplace of Cardinal Nephew empty his group demonstrated partitioned and leaderless in the conference, despite the fact that his sister-in-law Olimpia Maidalchini was welcome to address the cardinals from inside the fenced in area, the main lady so respected. 

"Instruzione al cardinal Padrone around il modo come si deve procurare una fazione di cardinali con tutti I requisiti che deve avere per lo stabilimento della sua grandezza" ("Instructions to the main cardinal on the most proficient method to make a group of cardinals with every one of the essentials for the foundation of his loftiness"), found in the document of the Santa Maria de Monserrato offers exhortation to cardinal-nephews for uniting power inside the College of Cardinals. Another content, the "Ricordi dati da Gregorio XV al cardinale Lodovisio suo nipote" ("Memoir tended to by Gregory XV to his Nephew Cardinal Lodovisio") offers guidance for how to ascend inside the Curia. 

An examination of the five ecclesiastical meetings somewhere in the range of 1605 and 1644 demonstrates that cardinal-nephews were commonly ineffective in choosing their picked competitors, despite the fact that the victor was normally a cardinal made by the expired Pope. Crown-cardinals specifically, when they condescended to venture out to Rome for the gathering, would in general restrict the race of cardinal-nephews, despite the fact that they similarly contradicted the race of crown-cardinals of different rulers. All in all, a cardinal-nephew needed to outlast at least one successors of his uncle to progress toward becoming viewed as "papabile", both on account of their childhood and their propensity to be accused for any disagreeable ecclesiastical strategies of their uncles. 

An ecclesiastical race could bring a sensational difference in fortune for a cardinal-nephew, frequently carrying the previous top choices into struggle with the new Pope. For instance, Prospero Colonna and Francisco de Borja were suspended, and Carlo Carafa was executed. The ecclesiastical conference, May 1605, is one case of a meeting where a competitor (Antonmaria Sauli) was vanquished in light of the fact that enough different cardinals were persuaded of the requirement for "a Pope willing to rebuff the cardinal-nephews for burglarizing the papacy". A cardinal-nephew was additionally a potential danger to any future pontiff; for instance, Ludovisi came to lead the resistance against Pope Urban VIII (1623– 1644), notwithstanding looking at calling a committee against the Pope (which never happened as Ludovisi kicked the bucket in 1632) on the grounds that "nobody else had the remaining to face Urban's titanic temper". 

Nepotism is a typical element ever of, especially in societies where character and devotion are resolved more at the dimension of the family than that of the country state. The utilization of nephews, as opposed to coordinate relatives, is a result of the convention of administrative abstinence inside the Catholic Church, albeit genetic drop from uncles to nephews is additionally found in the patriarchate of the Assyrian Church of the East. 

The making of relatives and referred to partners as cardinals was just a single manner by which medieval and Renaissance Popes endeavored to weaken the intensity of the College of Cardinals as a "clerical adversary" and propagate their impact inside the congregation after their demise. The establishment of the cardinal-nephew had the impact both of enhancing the Pope's family with attractive benefices and of modernizing the organization of the papacy, by enabling the pontiff to manage through an intermediary which was all the more effectively esteemed error prone when vital and gave a formal separation between the individual of the pontiff and the everydayness of ecclesiastical undertakings. 

Gregorio Leti's "Ecclesiastical Nepotism, or the True Relation of the Reasons Which Impel the Popes to make their Nephews Powerful" (1667) is one case of contemporary analysis of the organization of the cardinal-nephew; Leti holds the uncommon refinement of having "all" of his productions on the "File Librorum Prohibitorum" ("List of Prohibited Books"). The "Catholic Encyclopedia" of 1913 protected the organization of the cardinal-nephew as an important countermeasure to the interest of the old Church. As per Francis A. Burkle-Young, fifteenth century Popes specifically thought that it was important to hoist their relatives to the College of Cardinals because of their doubt of the crown-cardinals, Roman baronial families, and Italian royal families who likewise populated the school. 

As per Thomas Adolphus Trollope, an acclaimed ecclesiastical history specialist, "the insidiousness created by them in and to the congregation has been well near deadly to it; and it kept on expanding until expanding risk cautioned the Pontiffs to avoid. The most exceedingly terrible cardinals, giving, obviously, the material for the most exceedingly awful Popes, have been generally cardinal nephews, the impulse to the production of such having been rendered too extraordinary to even think about being opposed by the excessive enormity of the influence, respect, and riches ascribed to the individuals from the Sacred College. The estimation of these extraordinary "prizes" was enormous to the point, that the "cap" turned into an object of aspiration to rulers, and it was the essential item with a long arrangement of Popes to present it on their family." 

The curial office of Cardinal Secretary of State from numerous points of view advanced from the jobs in the past filled via cardinal-nephews. From 1644 to 1692, the intensity of the Cardinal Secretary of State was basically contrarily corresponding to that of the Cardinal Nephew, to whom the Secretariat was subordinate. Amid certain pontificates, for instance that of Pope Pius V (1566– 1572) and his nephew Michele Bonelli, the cardinal-nephew and secretary of state were one and the equivalent. 

As indicated by Baumgartner, "the ascent of a unified organization with expert civil servants with vocations in the ecclesiastical administration" demonstrated more successful than nepotism for future Popes and in this manner "extraordinarily diminished the requirement for ecclesiastical nephews". The ascent of the Cardinal Secretary of State was the "most evident component of this new methodology".