Divine force of War: Betrayal 

Divine force of War: Betrayal is a two-dimensional (2D) side-looking over activity experience versatile amusement created by Javaground and Sony Online Entertainment's (SOE) Los Angeles division, and distributed by Sony Pictures Digital. Discharged for cell phones supporting the Java Platform, Micro Edition (Java ME) on June 20, 2007, it is the third portion in the "Divine force of War" arrangement, and the fifth sequentially. Inexactly dependent on Greek folklore, "Selling out" is set in antiquated Greece with retribution as its focal theme. The player controls the hero Kratos, who turned into the new God of War subsequent to executing the previous, Ares. Kratos is encircled for the homicide of Argos and seeks after the genuine professional killer crosswise over Greece, bringing about an encounter with Olympian detachment Ceryx. 

"Double-crossing" is the main portion in the arrangement to be discharged on a non-PlayStation stage and displayed as a 2D side-looking over diversion. Regardless of the restrictions of the versatile stage, in contrast with its home comfort partners, it holds the activity arranged methodology of its ancestors, with a similar mix of combo-based battle, platforming, and baffle diversion components. Despite the fact that "Divine force of War" is essentially a home comfort arrangement, "Treachery" was commended for its loyalty to the arrangement as far as ongoing interaction, workmanship style, and designs: "the genuine article third diversion in the executioner establishment". It got grants for "Remote Game of the Month" (June 2007) and "Best Platform Game" (remote) of 2007. 

Despite the fact that introduced in two-dimensional side-looking over organization, the diversion holds the activity arranged methodology of its forerunners, with the player controlling the character Kratos in a similar mix of battle, platforming, and confuse amusement components. Platforming components incorporate hopping crosswise over gaps, climbing stepping stools, and swinging on ropes. A few riddles require Kratos to move a crate over a switch (along these lines initiating it), or moving a case to utilize it as a hopping off point to achieve a pathway inaccessible with typical bouncing. Amusement length is roughly two to four hours, and it comprises of ten dimensions. 

Kratos holds his fundamental weapon of the past portions, the Blades of Athena: a couple of sharp edges appended to chains that are folded over the character's wrists and lower arms. In interactivity, the sharp edges can be swung obnoxiously in different moves. Kratos uses the otherworldly capacities Medusa's Gaze and Army of Hades obtained in the first "Divine force of War", just as the auxiliary weapon, the Blade of Artemis, with each offering elective battle choices, giving him an assortment of approaches to assault and slaughter adversaries (e.g., Medusa's Gaze quickly swings foes to stone). Enemies experienced in "Treachery" principally come from Greek folklore, including Gorgons, minotaurs, and cerberuses, just as those made for the diversion, for example, the humanoid flunkies of the god Hades, including dead riders and undead legionnaires. Notwithstanding the primary interactivity, "Selling out" incorporates a reward "Field Mode" where players must murder a specific number of foes without biting the dust before accessing the Arena's upper dimensions. 

Likewise with the past diversions in the "Lord of War" establishment, "Divine force of War: Betrayal" is set in a substitute variant of old Greece, populated by the Olympian Gods and different creatures of Greek folklore. Occasions are set between those of the amusements "" (2010) and "Divine force of War II" (2007). The hero is Kratos, a previous Captain of Sparta's military who turned into the new God of War in the wake of murdering his antecedent, Ares, the past God of War. Different characters incorporate Argos, the mammoth pet of the goddess Hera; an obscure professional killer; and the Olympian envoy Ceryx, the child of Hermes and primary opponent. Zeus, the King of the Gods, is an inconspicuous character. 

Kratos is driving the Spartan armed force in a frenzy crosswise over Greece. Amid the battle, he is assaulted by various monsters driven by Argos, who was sent by the divine beings to stop Kratos. After a progression of engagements, Argos is executed by an obscure professional killer, who outlines Kratos trying to turn the divine beings against him. The Spartan seeks after his adversary crosswise over Greece to find the character of the professional killer, yet is moderated by steady assaults from the flunkies of Hades, the God of the Underworld. Zeus sends Ceryx to convey a message to Kratos: stop the steady interest and notice the pulverization previously caused. Kratos, in any case, fights and slaughters Ceryx, which incidentally enables the professional killer to get away. Kratos then understands his activities have additionally distanced the divine beings, and Zeus will before long act in light of his disobedience. 

"Lord of War: Betrayal" was declared by Sony Online Entertainment at a question and answer session in Los Angeles in May 2007. The amusement uses an aggregate of 110 distinct activitys and highlights a 2D interpretation of the arrangement's three dimensional (3D) designs. The character workmanship and liveliness were finished by WayForward Technologies. The main sound segments are an instrumental score in the fundamental menu and foundation sounds (e.g., conflicting weapons). In August 2007, Phil Cohen, maker, planner, and diversion executive for "Selling out", talked about the troubles in building up a "Divine force of War" amusement for a cell phone. Cohen said that albeit pleasant, the best test was making a solitary tileset and palette swapping plan that was sufficiently various to depict different conditions with just a few hundred kilobytes, and that met arrangement maker Santa Monica Studio's exclusive expectations. He composed the underlying structure report among September and October 2005, and returned to it in August 2006, the month advancement began. The variants for top of the line handsets were finished in April 2007, with definite forms for low-end handsets finished by June 2007. The porting group adjusted the amusement to more than 200 handsets in only weeks. 

Cohen expressed that one test was catching the vibe of "Divine force of War"s visual look and interactivity configuration, given the restricted preparing force and memory on most handsets—confounding riddle configuration, traps, condition cooperation, and adversary conduct. He noticed that both David Jaffe and Cory Barlog (amusement chiefs of "Divine force of War" and "Lord of War II", separately) guaranteed the "Disloyalty" advancement group caught the vibe of the battle and visual style, and were "useful with criticism and positive help". The group additionally worked intimately with Eric Williams, the comfort amusement's lead battle planner. In keeping the "look and feel" consistent with the establishment, the improvement group played "Divine force of War" widely to examine the pacing and traps in the comfort discharges. The improvement group likewise worked intimately with Marianne Krawczyk, the essayist of the "Divine force of War" comfort diversions. Krawczyk utilized "Disloyalty" to connect the occasions between "Lord of War" and "Divine force of War II", incorporate extra backstory, and to clarify why the connection between the divine beings and Kratos had changed. 

"Treachery" got blended to-positive gathering, including acclaim for its constancy to the arrangement regarding interactivity, workmanship style, and illustrations. Levi Buchanan of IGN called it "the genuine article third diversion in the executioner establishment". Thus, Matt Paprocki of Blogcritics composed, ""Betrayal" is an undeniable expansion of the "Divine force of War" establishment, and it gains its title". He said it is "a standout amongst the best portable amusements you'll ever play, and has genuinely made the arrangement an important piece of the present computer game scene." with respect to savagery, Chris Antista of GamesRadar expressed that it is "perhaps the goriest thing your versatile's at any point seen". Despite the fact that not a "progressive encounter", "Pocket Gamer"s Will Freeman said "it is an altogether amazing, absolutely strong discharge that portable stage fans will savor." Modojo's Justin Davis said that while "Selling out" is sufficiently convincing to play right to the end, "[it did not] feel like I was having some good times." 

The setting touchy assaults got applause and analysis. Antista stated, "[the thing] fans will be grateful for is the triumphant return of the relevant assaults", yet included that the control confinements were the "main genuine issue", as the affectability of the cursor catch can result in a fizzled combo, "And the bounce catch sends you forward toward the path no doubt about it." Buchanan noticed that the logical assaults "can demonstrate frustratingly dubious as you have a short measure of time to enter the directions, yet the controls on most handsets are very little". 

Remarking on the battle, Paprocki said that in spite of the streamlined combo framework, the engineers have "figured out how to inject the sheer ruthlessness and power "Divine force of War" is known for inside the limits of the [mobile] stage." Because of the improved framework, circumstances which require Kratos' mysterious capacities are uncommon. In any case, if players do utilize these capacities, choosing them is a "trouble in the scramble of a fight", expecting players to spin through their whole stock. Paprocki additionally reprimanded the absence of an autosave highlight, as the amusement does not spare the player's position while getting a telephone call, which "can prompt horrendous dissatisfaction." Freeman said that the mix of the weapons and brisk time occasions make the battle "a persuading elucidation regarding the activity in the first reassure recreations". Davis said that in spite of the fact that there are baffle and platforming components, the center is "obviously on the battle" and felt that the battle framework was "somewhat shallow". He said it appears as though the bounty of adversaries "exist exclusively to go about as punching (or cutting, figuratively speaking) packs for Kratos". 

IGN named "Selling out" "Remote Game of the Month" for June 2007. In their Best of 2007 – Wireless Awards, they named it the "Best Platform Game".