Go Man Go 

Go Man Go (1953– 1983) was an American Quarter Horse stallion and race horse. He was named World Champion Quarter Running Horse multiple times in succession, one of just two ponies to accomplish that qualification. Go Man Go was viewed as of troublesome disposition. While hanging tight in the beginning entryway for his absolute first race, he tossed his racer, separated the door, and ran alone around the track; he was in the end gotten and proceeded to win the race. Amid his five years of rivalry until his retirement from hustling in 1960 he had 27 wins, procuring more than $86,000 (roughly $ starting at 2019). 

Neither of Go Man Go's folks dashed. His sire (father), the Thoroughbred stallion Top Deck, was reproduced by the King Ranch. His dam (mother) hailed from Louisiana; Go Man Go is thought to have picked up his quickness on the track from her. For the principal long stretches of Go Man Go's dashing vocation, his proprietor confronted trouble in enrolling him with the American Quarter Horse Association (AQHA), an issue that stayed uncertain until 1958. 

Go Man Go proceeded to sire two All American Futurity victors and seven Champion Quarter Running Horses. He was enlisted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame, as were two of his posterity. His girls likewise delivered, or were the moms of, various race victors, including the Hall of Fame individuals Kaweah Bar and Rocket Wrangler. The chief of hustling for the AQHA once thought about his effect on Quarter Horse dashing and reproducing to that of Man o' War in Thoroughbred dashing, or that of human competitors, for example, Ben Hogan and Babe Ruth. 

Go Man Go was foaled in Wharton, Texas in 1953, because of the second reproducing between the Thoroughbred stallion Top Deck and the Appendix Quarter Horse female horse Lightfoot Sis. Top Deck was reared by the King Ranch, and was unraced. J. B. Ferguson had acquired Lightfoot Sis when her then-proprietor, Octave Fontenot of Prairie Ronde, Louisiana, chose to escape the pony rearing business. Ferguson paid $350 for her (roughly $ starting at 2019) and reared her in 1952 to Top Deck (TB), bringing about Go Man Go's introduction to the world the following year. Ferguson additionally bought Top Deck, after the stallion harmed himself as a yearling. 

Lightfoot Sis demonstrated great short speed in her family, in spite of the fact that she was unraced because of damage as a filly that left her visually impaired in one eye. Her sire was the Thoroughbred stallion Very Wise, and her dam was a Quarter Horse female horse named Clear Track. 

Scott Wells, a hustling journalist, wrote in "The Speedhorse Magazine" that Go Man Go "grew up fit and hard-boned, since quite a while ago bodied and since a long time ago hipped, however not the most attractive pony on the planet. Not the most attractive, simply the best." Go Man Go had a notoriety for being hard to deal with. His coach once told Walt Wiggins, Sr. that Go Man Go was "jes plain mean as a bear more often than not". All through his hustling vocation, Go Man Go remained mean. One of his racers, Robert Strauss, reviewed later that Go Man Go "was ornery from the day I met him, yet he was the best pony I at any point rode". 

In his five-year dashing profession, Go Man Go contended in 47 races. He seemed to take normally to dashing; amid his preparation he kept running off with his rider—his possible racer Robert Strauss—before he should run. As Strauss stated, "When we were breaking him, he kept running off with me before we at any point needed him to run. That is to say, simply level kept running off with me." Robert's sibling Eldridge, who was the mentor, once worked the foal less a large portion of a shoe and Go Man Go still dealt with a period of 18.9 seconds for a separation. 

At the times before his absolute first race started, Go Man Go flipped over in the beginning door, unseated his rider, smashed through the front, and went around the entire track. He at last enabled himself to be gotten and reloaded into the beginning door and proceeded to win that race. He won his next five races with an all out lead of nine horse-lengths. He confronted Vandy's Flash, himself a World Champion Quarter Racing Horse, multiple times. Their keep going gathering, on September 6, 1959 at Ruidoso Downs, was additionally Go Man Go's last race, and was the just a single of their races won by Vandy's Flash. 

Go Man Go won 27 times, set second 9 times and was third 3 times. Since he put so consistently, before the finish of his hustling profession tracks experienced issues filling races if other dashing stables realized he was entered. His race profit were $86,151 (around $ starting at 2019) with 88 AQHA hustling focuses, which earned him a Superior Race Horse grant just as a Race Register of Merit from the AQHA. The best speed rating, or dashing evaluation, he accomplished was AAAT, the most noteworthy evaluation granted at the time. Go Man Go was named World Champion Quarter Running Horse for a long time running, from 1955 to 1957. He was the initial two-year-old to win the title. He was a various stakes victor, and his successes incorporated the Pacific Coast Quarter Racing Association Futurity, LA Autumn Championship, and the Clabbertown G Stakes, which he won multiple times in succession. At his retirement, he held the world records at and , just as age and sex records at . Go Man Go is as yet the main stallion who has been World Champion Quarter Running Horse multiple times, and, alongside the female horse Woven Web (TB), is one of just two steeds to be three-time victors of the honor. 

In 1955, when Go Man Go was a two-year-old, A.B. Green boasted that he expected to purchase the pony from Ferguson. Despite the fact that Ferguson did not have any desire to sell, he believed he needed to at any rate set a cost. In the wake of hearing gossipy tidbits that Green was set up with a clerk's check for $40,000 (roughly $ starting at 2019), Ferguson set the cost at $42,000 money (around $ starting at 2019) and twenty-one breedings to the stallion. Amazingly, Green had that a lot of money accessible; Ferguson felt constrained to sell Go Man Go. After two years, at a Los Alamitos race meet, Green guaranteed that his most up to date horse, Double Bid, could outrace Go Man Go. This angered Ferguson, who had quite recently entered Go Man Go's full sibling Mr Mackay in a race with Double Bid. Ferguson wager Green $42,000 (around $ starting at 2019) against Go Man Go that Mr Mackay would beat Double Bid in the up and coming race. Mr Mackay won the race, and Ferguson recaptured responsibility for Man Go. Later in 1960, in light of the fact that he likewise claimed Go Man Go's full sibling, father, and mother, he sold Go Man Go to Frank Vessels Sr. furthermore, Bill and Harriet Peckham for $125,000 (roughly $ starting at 2019). Afterward, be that as it may, each of the three steeds held by Ferguson kicked the bucket rashly. 

Green kept running into issues with Go Man Go's enlistment. Around then, the AQHA had two kinds of enrollment, the Appendix and the Tentative. Reference section enrolled ponies were the posterity of Thoroughbreds and either Tentative-enlisted Quarter Horses or Appendix-enlisted Quarter Horses. Go Man Go was initially enrolled in the Appendix, as his dam was an Appendix-enlisted horse. The best approach to progress out of the Appendix into the Tentative library was to qualify on execution grounds and pass an adaptation examination led by the AQHA. Go Man Go absolutely qualified under the execution criteria, yet his compliance was with the end goal that he took after a Thoroughbred more than he looked like a Quarter Horse. Green realized that so as to expand his stud charges—the cost paid for the privilege to breed a horse to a stallion—Go Man Go expected to procure a standard enlistment number rather than his Appendix number. So Green engaged the Executive Committee of the AQHA, which had the expert to grant Tentative numbers to steeds paying little respect to adaptation test results. In both 1956 and 1957, the council declined to make a move, holding on to assess the nature of Go Man Go's first foals before settling on a choice. At long last, in 1958, they granted Go Man Go number 82,000 in the Tentative vault. 

Resigned to the rearing shed, Go Man Go right off the bat demonstrated his value as a stallion. Of his first foal crop, conceived in 1958, three achieved the finals of the All American Futurity: Mr Meyers, Dynago Miss and Angie Miss. His stud expense in 1960 was $500 (around $ starting at 2019), however by 1963 it had ascended to $2,500 (roughly $ starting at 2019). He sired 942 foals, of which 552 earned their Race Register of Merit. Seventy-two of his posterity were granted a Superior Race Horse grant. Among his get, or posterity, were Go Josie Go, Dynago Miss, Duplicate Copy, Story Man, and Hustling Man. His little girl Goetta won the All American Futurity and was enlisted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame. Another little girl, Ought To Go was likewise accepted into the AQHA Hall of Fame. Two grandget were additionally accepted into the AQHA Hall of Fame: Kaweah Bar and Rocket Wrangler. Eight of his posterity won Champion Quarter Running Horse grants. His entrance posting his posterity who won Race Register of Merits in the "Quarter Racing Digest" covers five full pages in addition to part of another. As a broodmare sire, or maternal grandsire, his little girls have delivered Rocket Wrangler, Mr Kid Charge, Kaweah Bar, and Go Together. As of April 2008, his posterity had earned over $7,000,000 on the course. 

As a rearing stallion, Go Man Go kept on having a notoriety for being a rapscallion, in spite of the fact that Kathlyn Green, spouse of A. B. Green, debated that picture. She said that he got a kick out of the chance to have his lip pulled, and would hang over the slow down entryway trusting that individuals will tag along and pull on it for him. Be that as it may, she said of him "he totally loathed getting his feet messy". Go Man Go went through various hands after Green claimed him, including Les Gosselin, Frank Vessels, and Harriett Peckham, who was his proprietor by 1972. In 1967, when Vessels sold his half-enthusiasm for Go Man Go to Briarwood Farms, the arrangement was said to be a record cost for a Quarter Horse. Go Man Go kicked the bucket in 1983 and was covered close to the central station of the Buena Suerte Ranch in Roswell, New Mexico. His crown-molded stone tombstone is engraved: "Go Man Go, The King." 

Go Man Go was enlisted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 1990. A further respect was the naming of a stakes race after him, the Grade I Go Man Go Handicap keep running in September at Los Alamitos. Walt Wiggins, a hustling reporter and creator, said of Go Man Go: "He was a splendid speedhorse, some state the quickest ever. He was wild and rash, a rebel at first, and frequently a jokester who only occasionally observed the uniqueness of his abilities or the earnestness of his bonus. He had natural enormity and couldn't mind less." Dan Essary, who was Director of Racing for the AQHA for a long time, portrayed Go Man Go's effect on the Quarter Horse breed as "He was to Quarter Horse hustling what Babe Ruth was to baseball, what Ben Hogan was to Golf and what Man o'War was to Thoroughbred dashing. Ponies may have run quicker and steeds have earned more cash, yet the acclaim of Go Man Go waits."