William Cooley 

William Cooley (1783– 1863) was one of the primary American pilgrims, and a territorial chief, in what is currently known as Broward County in the territory of Florida. His family was killed by Seminoles in 1836, amid the Second Seminole War. The assault, known as the "New River Massacre", caused prompt relinquishment of the region by whites. 

Cooley was conceived in Maryland, however little else is thought about his life preceding 1813, when he touched base in East Florida, a territory of Spanish Florida, as a major aspect of a military endeavor. He built up himself as a rancher in the northern piece of the territory before moving south, where he exchanged with nearby Indians and kept on cultivating. Amid the period in which the district was exchanged from Spanish to U.S. administration, he favored locals in a land debate against a vendor who had gotten a huge concede from the King of Spain and was ousting the Indians from their territories. Discontent with the activities of the Spanish, he moved to the New River region in 1826 to get beyond what many would consider possible from the Spanish impact. 

In New River, Cooley continued himself as a salvager and rancher, developing and processing arrowroot. His fortune and impact developed: he turned into the primary lawman and judge in the settlement, other than being a land appraiser. Nearby Indians considered him in charge of what they saw as a confusion including the homicide of one of their boss, and assaulted the settlement in vengeance on January 4, 1836. 

Cooley endure the assault and lived for a further . He held regulatory positions in Dade County, moved to Tampa in 1837, and had a short spell working for the U.S. Armed force as a guide and messenger. He moved to the Homosassa River region in 1840, where he turned into the primary postmaster and was a Hernando County possibility for the Florida House of Representatives. Coming back to Tampa in 1847, he was one of the principal city councilors, serving before he kicked the bucket in 1863. 

Cooley was conceived in Maryland in 1783; little else is thought about him preceding 1813. Cooley has been alluded to as William Cooley Jr., William Coolie, William Colee and William Cooly. 

Cooley touched base in East Florida in 1813, amid a joint battle of Tennessee and Georgia powers. A few sources offer credit to the theory that Cooley battled with the Tennessee Volunteers under Colonel John Williams; different sources state he was a lieutenant in the Georgia Militia, battling under Colonel Samuel Alexander from Georgia. Cooley gained property in Girt's Landing on the St. Marys River, near where the military units crossed East Florida that equivalent year. Afterward, he went toward the west bank of the St. Johns River, settling in a region south of present day Jacksonville. 

Cooley later moved to Alligator Pond (close present-day Lake City), where he set up a ranch and exchanged with the nearby Seminole clan driven by Chief Micanopy. The region of East Florida was formally exchanged from Spain to the United States in 1821, under the terms of the 1819 Adams– Onís Treaty. In 1820, Spanish vendor Don Fernando de la Maza Arredondo started settlement of a case in the Alachua domain, which had been allowed to him by King Ferdinand VII of Spain. Cooley consulted with Don Fernando for the benefit of the uprooted Indians yet was fruitless. Cooley moved away in 1823—perhaps to get away from the Spanish impact—toward the north bank of the New River. 

Like the other New River pilgrims, Cooley did not purchase land; he essentially involved the land with the expectation that the United States would in the end study the territory and allow possession to the present pioneers. The settlement was principally populated by Bahamians, who made due by turtling, angling, shipbuilding and destroying. 

In 1830, Bahamian Frankee Lewis, who in 1788 had been one of the zone's first pilgrims, sold her business advantages to Richard Fitzpatrick. After Fitzpatrick's entry, the settlement of roughly flourished with the presentation of an estate routine dependent on dark subjection. 

Cooley's fundamental occupation was assembling, handling and sending Florida arrowroot, a starch produced using the base of the coontie plant. Arrowroot was utilized to make bread batter, wafers and scones; its protection from waste made it particularly supported for use on boats. Mash staying in the wake of handling was utilized as a compost or for creature feed. Ideal conditions for arrowroot development added to the nearness of a few hundred Indians in the region—arrowroot being a staple of their eating regimen. The market cost for the starch was (somewhere in the range of 17¢ and 35¢ per kg), and the geology of the stream and the great execution of his apparatus—the yield was near — brought Cooley incredible flourishing. His favorable luck enabled him to devote a lot of his opportunity to investigation of the zone as far north as Lake Okeechobee and brought him expanding political impact. Almost certainly, he wedded Nancy Dayton, a previous Indian hostage, on December 2, 1830. 

Richard Fitzpatrick, at that point the proprietor of a fruitful ranch with coconut and lime trees, plantains, and sugarcane, squeezed for the arrangement of Cooley as Justice of the Peace in 1831, making Cooley in charge of arbitrating debate of people and property, discipline of minor guilty parties by fines and whippings, and oversight of the exercises of wreckers. Genuine guilty parties were imprisoned in Key West. At that point, Cooley claimed a boat and took trips not exclusively to take detainees however to exchange coontie, sugarcane, and tropical organic product with Cape Florida, Indian Key, Key West and Havana. 

While exchange and cultivating exercises were unmistakable, destroying was the most imperative monetary action in the repayment. Northern papers began a crusade against destroying in 1832, asserting that the movement was only a camouflage for theft; the underscored their case. Cooley, as of now accountable for administering destroying, got a regional arrangement as appraiser of the sunk vessels and their cargoes. The quality of storm seasons influenced the action, and the particularly dynamic 1835 season brought significantly greater benefits. 

By 1835, Cooley had two children and one girl. The young men were named Almonock and Montezuma, after two neighborhood Indian boss. His ten-year-old girl and his nine-year-old child were coached by the couple Mary E. Rigby and Joseph Flinton. 

Cooley was delegated as an appraiser of property and slaves for Union Bank of Florida. His partner, Richard Fitzpatrick, obtained his coontie and citrus manor on the Miami River for $2,500. In this way, Fitzpatrick was chosen as delegate for Monroe County to the Territorial Legislative Council. The consistent vote in favor of Fitzpatrick in New River was addressed by the "Key West Inquirer". Cooley's direct was certainly addressed too, since as Justice of the Peace, Cooley led the non-mystery balloting. In Key West, Fitzpatrick lost to William Hackley. 

The Cooley property in New River had a house that was "twenty feet by fifty feet [6 by 15 m], one story high, worked of cypress logs, fixed and amazed with 1-1/2 inch [4 cm] boards". No less than three dark slaves and a few Indians developed sugar stick, corn, potatoes, pumpkins and different vegetables on the twenty-section of land (eight-hectare) property, which likewise had a pen with eighty swines. The coontie watermill was twenty-seven by fourteen feet . Cooley's Key West possessions incorporated a processing plant, two stockpiling houses, kitchen and slave quarters; coconut, lime and orange trees; and trained and wild fowl. 

Cooley kept up well disposed relations and exchange with the Seminole Indians in the zone. In the mid nineteenth century, Creek Indians had moved from Alabama and joined the Seminoles. In 1835, white pilgrims murdered Creek boss Alibama and consumed his cottage in a question. As Justice of the Peace, Cooley imprisoned the pioneers, yet they were discharged because of inadequate proof after a consultation at the Monroe County Court in Key West. The Creek individuals accused Cooley, saying he retained proof. The developing uneasiness between the Creeks and the whites prompted the Creeks' resettlement to the Okeechobee zone. 

Major Francis L. Dade, military commandant at Key West, got knowledge that Cuba and Spain were furnishing the Indians; examinations did not affirm the talk. Reports originating from Fort Brooke, close present-day Tampa, noticed that Indians in the region were opposing requests from the central government to emigrate to Mississippi, repudiating the attestations made by the administrative experts that the Indians had consented to emigrate calmly. Dade, two organizations of officers, and the majority of the accessible arms were sent to Fort Brooke at Tampa Bay, the port assigned for the initiation of the Indians' resettlement. The Indians replied by concentrating the majority of their powers in the New River district. On December 28, 1835, Dade and 107 soldiers were trapped in transit from Tampa Bay to Fort King, close present-day Ocala. Just three warriors endure; the aggressors lost just three men. 

After six days, Cooley drove a substantial undertaking to free the "Gil Blas", a ship that had stranded the earlier year. The size of the activity required the majority of the settlement's capable men. On the following day, January 4, 1836, the Indians assaulted the settlement. 

Somewhere in the range of fifteen and twenty Indians attacked the Cooley house, overwhelming the coach and scalping him. Cooley's better half got their baby child and attempted to hurried to the waterway, however was shot about from the house. The shot executed her and the child. Cooley's nine-year-old child kicked the bucket from a broke skull, and his little girl was shot. Two of Cooley's dark slaves vanished. 

The guide's child heard the shouts by the waterway and returned to recover his mom and two more youthful sisters. He figured out how to circumvent, going south by pontoon to the Cape Florida Lighthouse. En route, he cautioned the general population at Arch Creek and Miami River of the assault, inciting them to escape too. 

After the assault, the Indians burnt the house and left without assaulting different abodes. The following day, Cooley returned to cover the dead; it is misty who cautioned the salvager's group to the assault. Subsequent to remaining at the settlement for three days, Cooley went to the Cape Florida Lighthouse. One of the missing slaves showed up, detailing that he perceived the aggressors as having been colleagues of the Cooley family. The slave had heard the Indians crediting the slaughter to a demonstration of retribution for Cooley's having neglected to acquire the conviction of Chief Alibama's killers. 

Cooley assumed responsibility for the beacon place to stay. Richard Fitzpatrick sent sixty slaves from his Miami ranch to the beacon. Dreading more assaults and mindful of the problematic security of the beacon, the pioneers and slaves boarded Cooley's yacht and littler vessels and got away to Indian Key, north of Key West. Judge Marvin, a Key West equity, blamed Seminole (or Calusa, contingent upon the source) boss Chakaika of driving the New River Settlement assaulting gathering. This was not demonstrated, however it is realized that Chakaika was an essential head who composed the overwhelming assault on Indian Key in 1840. 

At the point when Cooley touched base at Indian Key, he was educated that Indians had endeavored to procure arms and ammo however had been repulsed by the battalion in the island's stronghold. In the interim, more than from close-by looked for asylum in the post. Guns were rescued from the "Gil Blas"; the ship was later scorched to deny the Indians an opportunity to recuperate anything from it. Troublesome ocean conditions and dread of inescapable assaults threatened the islanders. Cooley requested development of fortresses at New River and Cape Sable, however news before long originated from the Miami River detailing the all out pulverization of all white property, slowing down every single new activity. 

Cooley returned to New River and found the Indians had come back to plunder the settlement and had consumed a few different houses and ranches. A case for compensation of his misfortunes was denied in 1840 by the United States House of Representatives. Touching base at Key West on January 16, 1836, on board the steamboat "Champion", he was delegated transitory beacon guardian, remaining until April of that year. 

Cooley continued his life as a wrecker. Later that equivalent year, he worked again as equity of the harmony and expected a situation as an authoritatively delegated barker. 

Steady assaults and talk spreading intensified the requests of Floridian people group pioneers, constraining the Navy to send Lieutenant Levin M. Powell to Key West. Lieutenant Powell constructed a little power of , and , fortified by and the United States Revenue Cutter 

"Washington", directed by Captain Day. Powell called Cooley to be his guide in the undertaking in view of his insight into Indian pioneers and traditions. Powell had blended achievement, in spite of the fact that by December 1836 the circumstance was leveled out at the coasts. Cooley returned to his standard obligations in Indian Key (Dade County Seat); not long after, he moved to Tampa yet at the same time worked periodically as a guide. 

General Thomas Jesup, headquartered in Fort Dade, made Cooley an express rider in mid 1837 to convey messages between Tampa Bay and Fort Heilman, a passage of . That equivalent year, reports flowed that Cooley was spreading gossipy tidbits about a Seminole head driving an insubordination including dark slaves and Indians. Apprehensive that Cooley could be straightforwardly included, the general had him cross examined. A while later, a disturbed Cooley surrendered his position. 

Cooley become a close acquaintence with Captain William Bunce, a retailer endeavoring to keep Indians in the zone, as they spoke to a wellspring of shabby work. He ended up included again in neighborhood legislative issues, this time against General Jesup, who needed to expel all Indians from Florida. Judge Steele, a newcomer from Connecticut, was Cooley's partner in this battle. 

By 1840, he lived in Leon County, with a solitary slave. Cooley was living close to the Homosassa River, where the Armed Occupation Act of 1842 permitted the appropriation of land awards. His authority empowered him to get his very own license as well as grants for . An extensive correspondence with the General Land Office was in the long run closed acceptably for him and different pioneers. In 1843, he was a contender for a seat in the Florida House of Representatives for the recently made Hernando County, however he lost to James Gibbons. After two years, he turned into the principal postmaster in Homosassa and County Commissioner of Fisheries. He sold his property give to Senator David Levy Yulee consecutively somewhere in the range of 1846 and 1847 and moved back to Tampa. 

From 1848 to 1860, Cooley procured a few properties in the Tampa locale, including one at Worth's Harbor. By 1850, he lived with seven slaves and was a Captain of the "Silver Grays"— a state army for the home guard of Tampa during the 1850s. He possessed a general store in the city, in the long run sold to an individual from the Tampa Masonic Lodge. He was named Port Warden of Tampa in 1853. By 1855, Cooley had turned into an innovator in nearby governmental issues; he was the director at a gathering of the Democratic Party in Tampa, with individuals enlisted, on August 4, 1855. He was gotten as a substitute councilman for two months in the primary Tampa gathering, served an entire year term starting in February 1857, and returned in 1861 for another full term. Cooley evaluated his own riches at $10,060 in 1860. 

Cooley kicked the bucket in 1863 in Hillsborough County, Florida. His will was written in 1862 yet recorded simply after Cooley's passing, documented by Francis Matthews, who distinguished himself as his child in-law. In the archive, Cooley is alluded to as William "Cooly". Cooley left his bequest to companions, foundations, a lady called Fanny Anne recorded as his girl (spouse of Francis Matthews), and three grandsons and four granddaughters, yet there is no proof that they were his blood relatives. Colee Hammock Park in Fort Lauderdale is situated close to the site of his old home in the New River Settlement.