Edgar Towner 

Edgar Thomas Towner, VC, MC (19 April 1890 – 18 August 1972) was an Australian beneficiary of the Victoria Cross, the most elevated enhancement for chivalry "even with the adversary" that can be granted to individuals from the British and Commonwealth military. A lieutenant in the Australian Imperial Force amid the First World War, Towner was granted the Victoria Cross for his activities on 1 September 1918, amid an assault on Mont St. Quentin on the Western Front. 

Conceived in Queensland to a cultivating family, Towner enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force in 1915. Presented on the vehicle segment of the 25th Battalion, he served in Egypt until his unit was sent toward the Western Front. He at that point exchanged to the second Machine Gun Battalion where he was authorized as a lieutenant and twice referenced in despatches for his administration. Amid June 1918, Towner drove an automatic rifle area in assault close Morlancourt and helped the infantry in achieving its destinations under substantial shoot, for which he was granted the Military Cross. In September, again instructing an automatic rifle area, he was engaged with the Allied counteroffensive that broke the German lines at Mont St. Quentin and Péronne. Battling for thirty hours subsequent to being injured, his "obvious boldness, activity and commitment to obligation" earned him the Victoria Cross, which was introduced by King George V in April 1919. 

Released in August, Towner came back to Australia. He was delegated an executive of the Russleigh Pastoral Company, and quickly re-enrolled amid the Second World War, when he was elevated to major. A sharp geographer, he was granted the Dr Thomson Foundation Gold Medal in 1956 for his topographical work. Unmarried, he kicked the bucket in 1972 at 82 years old. 

Edgar Towner was conceived on 19 April 1890, at Glencoe Station close Blackall, Queensland, to Edgar Thomas Towner, a touching rancher, and his Irish spouse Greta (née Herley). He was taught at Blackall State School and in Rockhampton, in spite of the fact that he likewise gotten private guidance from his mom. Subsequent to leaving school Towner dealt with his dad's brushing property until 1912, when he obtained place that is known for his own. He named the property "Valparaiso" and chipped away at its improvement until the episode of the First World War. 

On 4 January 1915, Towner enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force. Allocated to the vehicle area of the 25th Battalion as a private, he left on board HMAT "Aeneas" from Brisbane on 29 June, headed for Egypt. The troopship landed in August, and the regiment spent the remainder of the month preparing in the desert before exchanging to the Gallipoli Peninsula. Towner, be that as it may, stayed in Egypt with the military's transportation components. 

Following the Allied departure of Gallipoli, the 25th Battalion came back to Egypt in December 1915, where Towner rejoined its positions on 10 January 1916. He was elevated to sergeant on 1 February, before withdrawing with the legion at Alexandria the next month to join the British Expeditionary Force on the Western Front. Landing at Marseilles, the unit was the main Australian force to touch base in France. 

In July 1916, the 25th Battalion partook in its first real Western Front activity at the Battle of Pozières, some portion of the Somme hostile. The legion endured 785 setbacks between 25 July and 7 August. It was quickly exchanged to a "calmer division of the front in Belgium" before coming back to activity on the Somme in October. On 3 November, Towner was exchanged to the Australian Machine Gun Corps and was relegated to the second Machine Gun Battalion of the second Australian Division, and was designated to the seventh Brigade's Machine Gun Company. He was appointed as a second lieutenant fifteen days after the fact, and accepted direction of the brigade's vehicle area. 

Elevated to lieutenant on 24 February 1917, Towner's administration with his vehicle segment earned him acclaim for his "dedication to obligation and predictable great work", and on 9 April he was Mentioned in the Despatches of Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig. Towner was allowed leave to the United Kingdom in January 1918. He got a second Mention in Despatches on 7 April 1918, the warning of which was distributed in an enhancement to the "London Gazette" on 28 May. 

The evening of 10/11 June 1918, Towner was in order of an assault rifle area amid an assault toward the south of Morlancourt. One of the first to achieve the target, he sent his area and got its firearms without hesitation "in all respects rapidly". By utilizing caught German assault rifles he had the capacity to expand his segment's discharge and offer help to the organization to his right side as it progressed, seized, and united its position. Amid the morning of 11 June, one of the posts held by the Australian infantry was passed up German cannons; overcoming automatic weapon and expert sharpshooter discharge, Towner went out in sunlight to help rearrange the post. Refered to for his "happy and untiring frame of mind" and for "set[ing] an obvious model", Towner was granted the Military Cross for his activities. The declaration of the honor and going with reference was distributed in an enhancement to the "London Gazette" on 24 September 1918. 

On 1 September 1918, Towner was in direction of No. 3 Section of the seventh Machine Gun Company amid an assault on Mont St. Quentin, close Péronne. Equipped with four Vickers automatic rifles, the segment was appended to the correct flank of the 24th Australian Infantry Battalion, whose essential target was to catch the summit of Mont St. Quentin. To achieve this, the contingent would need to progress through the town of Feuillaucourt before moving down to the Péronne street. The Australians started their development at 06:00 behind a mounted guns screen, with Towner's segment covering a front of . Perceivability was restricted by downpour, and Australian setbacks before long started to mount. Finding a German automatic rifle that was causing overwhelming misfortunes among the propelling troops, Towner surged the position and without any help executed the team with his gun. Having caught the weapon, he at that point turned it on the Germans. 

Once Feuillaucourt had fallen, the 24th Battalion proceeded to the Péronne street. In any case, the Germans had involved a brush of trees and set up solid obstruction, stopping the development. German troops were watched massing for a counter-assault, so Towner pushed ahead with a few of his men, two Vickers weapons, and the caught German firearm, and brought the gathering Germans under concentrated discharge, exacting numerous losses. Endeavoring to resign, a gathering of twenty-five German officers were cut off by Towner's weapons and taken prisoner. Under overwhelming approaching discharge, Towner at that point explored over open territory to find worthwhile positions from which his firearms could offer further help. When he pushed his area ahead, the heavy armament specialists had the capacity to connect more gatherings of German troopers; their forceful activity empowered the development to be reestablished, and the regiment accomplished the front of an indented segment of the Péronne street. Be that as it may, on rejoining them Towner found that his area was developing shy of ammo, so he advanced back over the discharge cleared ground and found a German assault rifle, which he presented alongside a few boxes of ammo. This he brought enthusiastically "in full perspective on the foe"; his viable flame constrained the Germans to resign further, and permitted one of the slowed down Australian flanks to push ahead. 

German heavy armament specialists had involved an ordering vantage ignoring the indented street, and started to pour down substantial flame around Towner's position. One of the slugs struck his head protector, causing a vast injury to his scalp. Declining to be cleared for therapeutic treatment, Towner kept shooting his firearm as the German weight expanded and the circumstance became basic. Inevitably the Australian infantry were compelled to resign a short separation, however with all its group having progressed toward becoming setbacks, one firearm was deserted. Alone, Towner dashed out over a dead zone and recovered the weapon. With this weapon he "kept on drawing in the foe at whatever point they showed up", putting a German automatic weapon out of activity with his exact discharge. 

For the duration of the night, Towner frequented the forefronts and "kept on battling and ... motivate his men". He gave supporting flame to the 21st Australian Infantry Battalion as they ambushed a vigorously braced pit on Mont St. Quentin's summit, and over and over inspected the German position to gave an account of troop developments. The following morning his segment helped with spurning a substantial German counterattack before Towner was at long last cleared with depletion—thirty hours subsequent to being injured. At first admitted to the 41st Casualty Clearing Station, he was transported via train to the second Red Cross Hospital at Rouen. For his activities amid the fight, Towner was granted the Victoria Cross—the third of six Australians to get the award amid the battling around Mont St. Quentin and Péronne. 

The full reference for Towner's Victoria Cross showed up in an enhancement to the "London Gazette" on 14 December 1918, perusing: 

Following his recovery, Towner was conceded three weeks leave to England from 14 September 1918. He rejoined his unit on 12 October and, for six days, was appended to the School of Instruction. Following thirteen days leave in France amid late November, he returned again to the second Machine Gun Battalion on 12 December. 

On 10 April 1919, Towner went to an inauguration service in the assembly hall of Buckingham Palace, amid which he was finished with his Victoria Cross and Military Cross by King George V. After three weeks he boarded HT "Karagola", destined for Australia. Landing at Sydney on 14 June 1919 he advanced toward Brisbane, and was released from the Australian Imperial Force on 16 August 1919. 

Towner resettled on his property, however was compelled to sell Valparaiso in 1922 after he was unfit to raise adequate assets to buy domesticated animals. He went through the following three years functioning as a jackaroo, until he went into an organization on Kaloola station, a property situated close Longreach, in 1925. Towner in the end purchased out his accomplice and expected another association with the Russleigh Pastoral Company, Isisford. He was later designated a chief of the organization. 

With the Second World War approaching, Towner enrolled in the Citizens Military Force on 8 August 1939 and was delegated a commander to the 26th Battalion. After a period as an organization officer he was elevated to brief major and second-in-order of the regiment, under individual Victoria Cross beneficiary Lieutenant Colonel Harry Murray. Be that as it may, Towner resigned from the military because of sick wellbeing on 21 February 1942, and came back to his property at Kaloola. 

A sharp geographer, Towner would regularly vanish into the shrubbery for quite a long time, for study or investigation. As an individual of the Royal Geographical Society of Australia and individual from the Royal Historical Society of New South Wales, he took a specific enthusiasm for investigating the life of the wayfarer Sir Thomas Mitchell. In 1946, he effectively campaigned the Australian Government to issue a postage stamp celebrating the centennial of Mitchell's revelations in focal Queensland. He tended to the Royal Geographical Society of Australasia in Brisbane in 1955, and was granted the Dr Thomson Foundation Gold Medal for his land work the next year. Towner's location was distributed in 1957, in a booklet entitled "Lake Eyre and its Tributaries". 

Towner never wedded, and on 18 August 1972 kicked the bucket at Longreach Base Hospital at 82 years old. His memorial service occurred three days after the fact, with countless residents coating the avenues to see his pine box go by on a firearm carriage. Following an administration at St Andrew's Church, he was covered with full military distinctions at the Longreach Town Cemetery. When of his demise, Towner had amassed a homestead containing 25,000 sheep. He remains the most astounding designed serviceman from Queensland. On 24 April 2009, a statue of Towner created by Melbourne artist William Eicholtz was disclosed in his introduction to the world town of Blackall. Enlivened by an article composed by a nearby student, the network raised A$80,000 to commission a landmark in Towner's memory.