Chicado V 

Chicado V (1950 – ) was a Champion Quarter Horse race horse foaled (conceived) in 1950, and thought about one of the extraordinary broodmares of her breed. She was reared by Frank Vessels of Los Alamitos, California, and prepared by Earl Holmes. 

Chicado V began just multiple times since knee issues cut off her hustling vocation. In any case, she won her initial two begins while breaking or paralleling track records, and was given the title of co-Champion Quarter Running Two-Year-Old Filly by the American Quarter Horse Association (AQHA) in 1952. The following year she ran her last four races, winning once and setting one more speed record. After her last race, in , she was resigned from the track to turn into a broodmare, and had nine foals. Two of her posterity were named Champion Quarter Running Horses, and every one of her foals had a sum of seven stakes race wins. One of her little girls, Table Tennis, proceeded to turn into a prominent broodmare herself, as tabled Tennis' girl Rapid Volley and granddaughter Perks. Nonetheless, three of Chicado V's children—Triple Chick, Three Chicks, and The Ole Man—were her best known posterity; every one of the three wound up driving sires and are the fundamental driver of her notoriety. She was accepted into the AQHA's American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2006. 

Chicado V was reared by Frank Vessels of Los Alamitos, California and foaled in 1950. She was an individual from the Quarter Horse breed, and the AQHA enlisted her in their stud book as number 29,689. She was a girl of Chicaro Bill out of the broodmare Do Good, herself an individual from the AQHA Hall of Fame. Chicado V was a full sister to Senor Bill, a remarkable racehorse and rearing stallion, just as a stepsister to Clabber II and Do Win, two other extraordinary racehorses. Chicaro Bill's dam, or mom, was a female horse named Verna Grace, who was known as Fair Chance when she dashed. Through Chicaro Bill, Chicado V was a descendent of the AQHA Hall of Fame part Traveler just as the Thoroughbred Hall of Fame part Peter Pan. On her dam's side, she followed to Louisiana Quarter Horse bloodlines just as to the AQHA Hall of Famer Peter McCue. 

Whenever develop, Chicado V stood tall. She was a darker horse, with an associated star, stripe, and clip all over as her solitary markings, or recognizing marks. Baron Holmes, a long-lasting mentor who began his hustling vocation as a man of the hour for Vessels, had the consideration of Chicado V after she was conceived, and said of her that she "was delicate, genuine delicate—in all things. She was conceived broke[n]." When she remained in a beginning door for a race, Holmes said she resembled a rabbit, since "she had huge ears and that is everything you could see, she was pretty much nothing". She likewise had a body deformity, or compliance blame, in that she had calf-knees. 

Chicado V was conveyed for race preparing as a two-year-old, at first to her proprietor's mentor, Farrell Jones, who preferred neither her calf-knees nor her propensity for running inadequately in preparing. She reliably hung behind different ponies in gathering preparing runs, and Jones sent her back to Vessels, who at that point sent her to mentor Eddie Moreno. Moreno completed her preparation and sent her to the track for her first race, a challenge that she won while setting another reputation for a two-year-old of 18.1 seconds. Her execution induced Jones to yield, and he returned her to his preparation outbuilding. Her knees would not enable her to be hustled frequently, and she just began afresh as a two-year-old, a race at Bay Meadows Racetrack that she won while squaring with the reputation of 17.2 seconds for the separation. 

Following a 11-month break, Chicado V came back to the track as a three-year-old, yet her legs kept on making issues. She began multiple times amid her three-year-old year, winning once, with one moment and 33% spot. In her success at Pomona, the site of her first win, she brought down the reputation for the separation from 18.1 to 17.9 seconds. Her knees kept on being an issue, and despite the fact that she never separated, or wound up unfit to run, she was resigned in December 1953. 

As a racehorse, Chicado V kept running up a record of three successes, one moment, and 33%, in six begins once again two years. She earned a Race Register of Merit in 1952 from the AQHA, the most reduced dimension dashing honor given by the AQHA, just as the most astounding conceivable speed rating of AAAT, a proportion of how quick she had the capacity to run. She was a stakes race victor, or victor of a race kept running by the higher quality ponies, and was given the title of co-Champion Quarter Running Two-Year-Old Filly by the AQHA in 1952. Her race profit were $5,215 (around $ starting at 2019), despite the fact that the official race record from the AQHA does not list any stakes wins. A large number of the early hustling records did not make it into the AQHA's PCs, so the absence of stakes wins on the record does not imply that different records recording them are off base. 

As a broodmare, Chicado V brought forth nine foals, or children, somewhere in the range of 1955 and 1968, seven stallions and two horses. Seven earned their Race Register of Merit with the AQHA. Four of her foals—Triple Chick, Three Chicks, The Ole Man, and Chicado Chick—were sired by Three Bars (TB), an individual from the AQHA Hall of Fame. Her other five foals were sired by five distinct stallions, individually War Bam, Spotted Bull, Anchor Watch, Double Bid, and individual Hall of Famer Go Man Go. In a 1959 meeting, Vessels felt that Chicado V was the best broodmare he possessed. Vessels further expressed that he "wouldn't part with her" and that he "would be insane to offer her". 

Chicado V's first foal was Triple Chick, who was fathered by Three Bars, a 1955 darker stallion. Triple Chick was unraced, however he stays number 48 on the AQHA's All Time Leading Broodmares Sire List By Winners, a posting of maternal grandsires of race ponies masterminded by the quantity of wins their grandget, or grandkids, have won as of the finish of 2007. Her next foal was War Chic, a 1956 roan stallion, who was evaluated AAAT on the circuit. He was likewise a stakes victor, and won 12 out of 21 begins with income of $35,453 (roughly $ starting at 2019). War Chic was named Champion Two-Year Old Colt in 1958. Chicado V's next foal was a horse, named Table Tennis, who won two stakes races, just as eight different races, out of 35 begins, with an AAAT rating and $35,197 (roughly $ starting at 2019). She was named Champion Three Year Old Filly in 1960. Chicado V's fourth foal was Three Chicks, a 1959 darker stallion, and a full kin to Triple Chick. Three Chicks won two stakes races, alongside one other race in ten begins. He was appraised AAAT on the track just as procuring an AQHA Champion honor in the show ring after his hustling vocation was finished. His absolute race income were $22,625 (roughly $ starting at 2019). Three Chicks stays number 42 on the AQHA's All Time Leading Broodmare Sires By Winners. 

In 1960, Chicado V foaled Chicado Chick, a cove stallion, another full kin to Three Chicks and Triple Chick. Chicado Chick began multiple times on the track, winning twice for $1,752 (roughly $ starting at 2019) in race profit alongside an AAA speed rating, the second most astounding velocity rating conceivable at the time. He likewise earned a Performance Register of Merit and an AQHA Championship from the AQHA as a show horse after his dashing profession was finished. The 1961 foal was Anchor Chic, an inlet stallion. Grapple Chic began multiple times, with three successes for all out profit of $2,126 (roughly $ starting at 2019) and an AAAT speed rating. Chicado V had no foal in 1962, however in 1963, she foaled The Ole Man, a roan stallion and another full kin to Triple Chick, Three Chicks and Chicado Chick. The Ole Man won two stakes races just as 6 different races in 33 begins. He earned an AAAT speed rating and $20,657 (around $ starting at 2019) absolute race rewards. The Ole Man stays number 55 on the All Time Leading Broodmare Sires By Winners. Chicado V's penultimate foal was Successor, an inlet stallion who began multiple times, yet never won a race; he was evaluated AA on the track. Chicado V's last foal, Alisal, was a 1968 sound horse who never dashed. 

Chicado V's foals won seven stakes races for a complete prize cash of $118,107 (roughly $ starting at 2019), and two earned AQHA Championships. Table Tennis proceeded to turn into an exceptional broodmare herself, foaling Rapid Volley by Three Bars (TB), among others. Fast Volley delivered Perks by Easy Jet. Advantages was another remarkable broodmare who proceeded with the maternal family achievement, yet it was as a dam of stallions that Chicado V is best known; three of her children—Triple Chick, Three Chicks, and The Ole Man—ended up driving race sires. Triple Chick sired race steeds, yet show ponies also, including Boston Mac and Triple's Image. Three Chicks sired the All American Futurity champ Three Oh's and the racehorse stallion Azure Three. The Ole Man sired 1,876 foals, including 15 stakes victors and 10 AQHA Champions. 

Chicado V kicked the bucket in February 1972, while in foal to Alamitos Bar. A stakes race at Los Alamitos Race Course was named in her respect, beginning in 1960. In 2006 she was enlisted into the AQHA Hall of Fame.