Tommy Amaker 

Harold Tommy Amaker Jr. (; conceived June 6, 1965) is an American school ball mentor and the head mentor of the Harvard University men's b-ball crew. He has likewise trained for the University of Michigan and Seton Hall University. He played point protect and later filled in as an associate mentor at Duke University under Mike Krzyzewski. An All-American player, Amaker set various records and earned numerous distinctions and grants. He took Seton Hall to the post season in every one of his four seasons as their mentor, helped Michigan win the National Invitation Tournament the year after a trial restriction from postseason play, and had the three most elevated single-season win aggregates in the historical backdrop of Harvard ball, the school's initial six Ivy League titles and first NCAA competition triumph. 

Amaker was a secondary school b-ball McDonald's All-American and a Parade All-American. As a school ball player, he set the greater part of the helps records and numerous takes records for Duke b-ball. He additionally set the Atlantic Coast Conference single-season amusements played and recreations began records. Among his various awards, he was the main champ of the NABC Defensive Player of the Year, and he was a third group All-American. 

Amaker was an associate mentor for the Duke Blue Devils men's ball under Krzyzewski for nine seasons. His initial four seasons were a piece of a five-year dash of Final Four appearances by Duke (counting consecutive national titles). As a head mentor, Amaker took the Seton Hall Pirates to postseason competitions (NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament – 2000 and National Invitation Tournament – 1998, 1999, and 2001) in every one of his four seasons as their mentor. He managed the disturbance and purposeful assents of the University of Michigan b-ball outrage in his first years with Michigan, where he in the end won the 2004 National Invitation Tournament with the 2003– 04 Michigan Wolverines men's b-ball crew and completed as the sprinter up with Michigan in the 2006 National Invitation Tournament. 

In his residency as Harvard men's b-ball mentor, he was the main mentor to lead the Crimson to triumph over a positioned rival with the . He likewise instructed the 2009– 10 Harvard Crimson men's b-ball crew into the postseason (2010 CollegeInsider.com Tournament) in his third year there, which incorporated the most noteworthy single-season triumph all out (21) in school history. In the late spring of 2010, the NCAA decided that Amaker had submitted an enrolling infringement, bringing about NCAA-commanded enlisting limitations, the college's first NCAA punishment of the men's ball program. The 2010– 11 group turned into the main Harvard men's ball crew to secure an offer of the Ivy League title and outperformed the earlier season win all out (23). The 2011– 12 group turned into the first in school history to show up in the Associated Press (AP) and Coaches Polls and, for the third year straight, settled another school record for wins (26). Amaker's 2011– 12, 2012– 13, 2013– 14 and 2014– 15 groups rehashed as Ivy League champions. The 2012– 13 group gave Harvard its first NCAA competition triumph. The 2013– 14 group posted a record 27 wins. Amaker turned into the best mentor in school history in 2016. 

Amaker was conceived in Falls Church, Virginia, in 1965. He was raised by a single parent, Alma Amaker, a secondary school English educator. Despite the fact that not a piece of Amaker's young life, his dad went to a portion of Amaker's secondary school ball games. 

Amaker dwelled in Falls Church, yet he went to W.T. Woodson High School in Fairfax, Virginia, since his mom was an instructor in Fairfax County. Her activity enabled her to pick among the region schools, her decision made in light of the fact that the school's ball mentor, Red Jenkins, who called Amaker "T-flying creature," had been awed with his exhibitions at his childhood summer class since Amaker was 10 years of age. He started playing varsity for Woodson by December, making him the primary first year recruit to play varsity in the school's history. His mom, whom Jenkins called "his first mentor and his best mentor," went to his practices and evaluated papers in the mentor's office. 

Duke University b-ball head mentor Mike Krzyzewski, who had quite recently finished his first season as Duke mentor, was nearby to assess Johnny Dawkins in a 1981 Washington D.C. summer class diversion, yet was persuaded to remain for a second amusement to see Amaker play. Krzyzewski met Amaker's mom and stated, "Mrs. Amaker, your child is going to look extraordinary in Duke blue." At the time, Amaker had needed to play for the Maryland Terrapins since his sister Tami went to the University of Maryland, College Park and Amaker adored Maryland star monitor John Lucas. He was selected in the end to Duke by right hand mentor Chuck Swenson, who might later turn into an associate mentor amid Amaker's initial five seasons at Michigan from 2001 to 2006. 

Amaker played on the 1983 McDonald's All-American Team and was likewise named to the Parade All-American group. As indicated by the "Fairfax Connection", the area changed the tenets with respect to where educators could send their kids because of Amaker's prosperity at Woodson. 

Amaker was a star point monitor at Duke in the wake of turning into a first year recruit starter for head mentor Krzyzewski. He drove the group in helps three years and in takes four seasons. While at Duke his flat mate for away recreations was Mike Brey. 

Dawkins played point protect for the 1982– 83 Blue Devils, however moved to shooting monitor the next year to clear path for Amaker. At the point when Amaker joined the 1983– 84 Blue Devils, unranked Duke, driven by Dawkins and Amaker, won its initial seven diversions, the longest series of wins of fourth-year head mentor Krzyzewski's profession. Amaker had a field objective exactness of over 65 percent in those diversions. He drove Duke to the NCAA Tournament amid his 1984 green bean and 1985 sophomore seasons, however neither one of the teams progressed to the Sweet Sixteen (territorial elimination rounds). In the quarterfinal round of the 1984 ACC Men's Basketball Tournament against the Mark Price-drove Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets, Amaker hit the diversion winning shot with the score tied and under 10 seconds left in extra time. In certain examples, Amaker's resistance changed the amusement by restricting spill infiltration and driving low shooting rates paying little heed to whether he had prominent hostile commitments. 

Amid Amaker's lesser year (1985– 86), Duke won the debut NIT Season Tip-Off (at that point known as the preseason National Invitation Tournament) and Amaker had nine aids the title amusement against a Danny Manning-drove Kansas group. In the March Carolina– Duke contention amusement against North Carolina Amaker stole the ball from Jeff Lebo and made a layup that gave Duke a late first half important lead it never surrendered. The success secured Duke's first ordinary season ACC Championship since 1966. As indicated by ESPN school b-ball shading analyst Dick Vitale, Amaker had a notoriety for putting weight on the ball. That year, he helped the group win the 1986 ACC Men's Basketball Tournament, including a title amusement triumph over the Price-drove Georgia Tech. 

Duke entered the 1986 NCAA Tournament positioned number one with a group that was worked around the cautious endeavors of its watchmen, Dawkins and Amaker. In the last four with Duke sticking to a 69– 67 lead in a rematch against Kansas, Amaker pulled down the last bounce back and sank two securing free tosses in the last five seconds. The success sent Duke to the title amusement, giving the group its 21st back to back triumph and a NCAA record 37 single-season triumphs. "Chicago Tribune" columnist Robert Markus depicted Amaker and Dawkins as the best gatekeeper mix in the nation, in spite of the fact that Vitale portrayed Amaker as obscure. 

The 1985– 86 Blue Devils completed as national sprinter up in the 1986 NCAA Tournament to Louisville. That year, Amaker recorded 81 takes, second to Jim Spanarkel by then in Duke history. He set the profession takes record, which remained until Shane Battier broke it in 2001. Amaker likewise holds the Duke single-year NCAA Tournament record with 18 takes in 1986, which had been a competition record. That year, he had seven takes in two competition amusements—against Old Dominion in the second round on March 15 and Louisville in the last on March 31. This seven-take all out remained as the single-diversion NCAA competition record for a long time until the 1993 NCAA Tournament when Darrell Hawkins had eight for Arkansas against and Grant Hill had eight for Duke against . The seven takes was a title diversion record that was tied by Mookie Blaylock in the 1988 NCAA Tournament for Oklahoma against Kansas and was outperformed by Ty Lawson in the 2009 NCAA Tournament for North Carolina against Michigan State. Amaker was chosen to the 1986 Division I Basketball Tournament All-NCAA Final Four Team. The 1986 Duke group graduated four of its five starters (Dawkins, Mark Alarie, Jay Bilas and David Henderson), leaving Amaker with an unpracticed supporting cast for his senior season. That year, Amaker was a representative against medication and liquor maltreatment as a major aspect of a NCAA-Fiesta Bowl tranquilize training TV program. 

Muggsy Bogues, Amaker's ACC rival, was his flat mate amid the July 1986 FIBA World Championship. He played in no less than two recreations in the competition, the first for a minor two minutes against Puerto Rico, however he assumed a conspicuous job in the USA's success over Italy. Amaker won a gold decoration while serving on the US national group in the FIBA World Championship, which filled in as the ball competition for the 1986 Goodwill Games. 

Senior Amaker filled in as group chief for the 1986– 87 Blue Devils, and he drove Duke back to the 1987 NCAA competition, where they progressed to the Sweet Sixteen preceding losing to inevitable boss Indiana. The key players in the group that year were Amaker and sophomore Danny Ferry. Amid his senior season, the National Collegiate Athletic Association organized the three-point field objective. Amaker drove Duke in three point shooting that year. He hit a three-point shot with 1:39 staying in additional time against 17– 0 (4– 0 ACC) Horace Grant-drove Clemson to give Duke the lead for good. Half a month later, with the score tied in guideline at 60 against and on a two-on-one quick break with 16 seconds left, Amaker took a hop shot. Krzyzewski said Duke lost the diversion since it didn't play as keen as its adversary and Markus depicted this model in his segment. In Amaker's last home amusement, he made a bounce shot with 1:15 residual that put number seventeen Duke, which made each of the six of its free tosses in the last 45 seconds, ahead for good in its rematch against number thirteen Clemson. In the 1987 competition he drove Duke in scoring in its last two recreations, including 23 against the Rick Calloway/Keith Smart/Steve Alford-drove Indiana, who was trained by Bobby Knight, Krzyzewski's school mentor. 

That year, the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC) granted Amaker with the principal Henry Iba Corinthian Award (otherwise called the NABC Defensive Player of the Year). Amaker was chosen to the 1987 NCAA Men's Basketball All-American third group by the NABC. He was named to the 1987 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament All-Midwest Regional Team. He was a 1987 All-ACC second group honoree and earned the group co-MVP grant with Ferry that year. Amaker earned a four year college education in financial matters in 1987 from Duke. 

Amaker set numerous Duke profession and single-season helps records. He held the record for single-season aids the years somewhere in the range of 1986 and 1990, which was broken by Bobby Hurley. Hurley additionally broke Amaker's records in profession helps per diversion (5.1, 1987– 93) and vocation helps (708, 1987– 92). Steve Wojciechowski broke Amaker's records in single-season helps to turnover proportion (2.88, 1985– 97) and profession helps to turnover proportion (2.11, 1987– 98). Despite the fact that his single-season helps records were outperformed by Hurley's first year recruit, sophomore and senior season sums, regardless it remains a record for a Duke junior. He additionally held Duke's profession NCAA competition help normal record with 57 out of 12 diversions for a 4.7 normal until Hurley outperformed it with 145 out of 20 recreations for a 7.3 normal. His school single-diversion helps record of 14 that he tied (Kevin Billerman, March 2, 1974, versus North Carolina) versus on February 19, 1986, was not broken until Hurley's senior 1993 season is as yet a record for a lesser. 

Amaker holds a few Duke and ACC records for recreations played. Amaker, Alarie and Dawkins have all begun 40 amusements for the 1985– 86 Duke group and both Ferry and Billy King have played 40 diversions in a season. Amaker's 138 sequential amusements began outperformed Alarie and Dawkins' aggregates of 133. His 138 sequential recreations played was a Duke record until Chris Duhon played 144 of every a column finishing in 2004. Continuous recreations began isn't appeared in the 2009– 10 Atlantic Coast Conference Media Guide records segment. Be that as it may, no ACC player has ever played in excess of 40 diversions in a season. 

Following his school ball profession, Amaker was drafted by the Seattle SuperSonics in the third round of the 1987 NBA Draft with the 55th pick generally speaking. He was additionally drafted in the first round of the April 1987 United States Basketball League's draft by the Staten Island Stallions. He was respected to be too little to even think about playing in the NBA at and . He was cut from the SuperSonics group on October 21, 1987. Consequently, he went through three days with the Wyoming Wildcatters of the Continental Basketball Association in Casper, Wyoming. He immediately chosen he needed to come back to Duke to seek after a Master of Business Administration (MBA). 

Amaker acknowledged an alumni associate position on Krzyzewski's staff at Duke in 1988 while seeking after his MBA degree from the Fuqua School of Business; the group achieved the Final Four of the 1989 NCAA Tournament. He was an associate mentor from 1989 through 1997, amid which Duke won two NCAA Championships (1991 and 1992) and showed up (1990 and 1994). By 1992, Duke had been to five back to back conclusive fours. While an associate mentor, he declined various Division I head training openings. Duke likewise won four standard season Atlantic Coast Conference men's b-ball titles (1991, 1992, 1994 and 1997) and the 1992 ACC Men's Basketball Tournament. The 1994– 95 season was violent. In October 1994, Krzyzewski experienced back medical procedure. He endeavored to come back to instructing two weeks after the fact yet in the end was re-admitted to Duke University Hospital for four days in January because of related intricacies. He in the long run surrendered control of the group for the season to interval mentor Pete Gaudet. 

After Wimp Sanderson was constrained out as mentor of Alabama in 1992, Amaker was under thought to supplant him. In 1993, he was the main possibility to expect the head training work at Northwestern when Bill Foster moved to one side to fill in as break athletic executive, however at age 27, he declined the activity when it was offered, taking note of that he had just been hitched one year and saying "It came down to us taking a gander at a circumstance where we were very complimented, yet a circumstance that wasn't directly for us now." That late spring Amaker was one of two school ball individuals from the 10-man determination advisory group for the United States Olympic Team. In 1994, he was at the front of the line to supplant Kevin O'Neill, who left Marquette for work at Tennessee. In 1995, USC was in exchanges to employ Amaker to supplant between time mentor Charlie Parker, who supplanted George Raveling following an auto collision. The reason his exchanges with USC fizzled was pay since Amaker was both a Duke associate mentor and earned an extra $100,000 (US$ in dollars) through a late spring youth day camp. That mid year, Duke advanced Amaker from right hand ball mentor to relate head mentor. Krzyzewski came back to training in October 1995. USC proceeded to procure Parker, who did not last a full season as head mentor. In 1996, Amaker was reputed to be at the front of the line to supplant interval mentor Steve Lavin at UCLA in 1997. At the point when the Northwestern activity opened up again in 1997, he was not under thought in light of the fact that athletic executive Rick Taylor looked for an applicant with Division I head training postseason experience. 

In 1997, Amaker took the head training position at Seton Hall, who had missed the post season in the two earlier years. At 31, Amaker turned into the most youthful head ball mentor in Big East Conference history. At that point, he took Seton Hall to the NCAA competition once (2000) – when his group came to the "Sweet Sixteen" – and to the National Invitation Tournament multiple times (1998, 1999 and 2001). 

The earned the 6th seed in the 1998 Big East Men's Basketball Tournament, however were expelled in the first round by eleventh-seeded in additional time in the first round. They wound up in the 1998 National Invitation Tournament where they lost in the first round to tumble to a last record of 15– 15. Subsequent to returning Seton Hall to the post season, Amaker was considered for the Michigan work, yet they chose to make break mentor Brian Ellerbe a full-time head mentor. 

Seton Hall's earned the ninth seed in the 1999 Big East Men's Basketball Tournament. They vanquished eighth-seeded in the first round, however lost by one point to top-seeded Connecticut, who proceeded to win the national title. They were welcome to the 1999 National Invitation Tournament where they lost in the first round to and again completed 15– 15. 

As per ESPN, Amaker enlisted the #2 enrolling class in the country for the class of 2000 while at Seton Hall. The class comprised of Eddie Griffin (positioned by some as the top secondary school player in the country), Andre Barrett, and Marcus Toney-El. The Pirates were positioned high on numerous specialists' pre-season rankings. The 1999– 2000 Seton Hall group earned the fifth seed in the 2000 Big East Men's Basketball Tournament and earned a triumph against twelfth-seeded in the first round, yet lost to fourth-seeded Connecticut. The first round success gave the group 20 triumphs and no Big East group had accomplished that number of triumphs without getting welcome to the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament in the 21-year history of the meeting. They were welcome to the 2000 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament where they were seeded tenth in the East Region. They knocked off seventh-seeded Oregon and second-seeded Temple. In the Sweet Sixteen round they were expelled by third-seeded and completed with a 22– 10 record. 

The earned the Big East West Division's 6th seed in the 2001 Big East Men's Basketball Tournament and beat the East Division three seed St. John's and west two seed Georgetown. They were crushed in the elimination rounds by east top seed and finished the year at 16– 15. They were welcome to the 2001 National Invitation Tournament where they lost in the first round to . The accompanying season, Amaker surrendered as the Seton Hall head mentor and moved toward becoming head mentor at Michigan, supplanting Ellerbe, who had been terminated. Amaker met with Michigan athletic executive Bill Martin in an inn anteroom as opposed to leasing a room since Martin needed to set aside extra cash. News of the gathering found its way back to ESPN and the New Jersey press was not kind to Amaker, indicating that he was underhanded and childish. 

Amaker acquired a Michigan Wolverines men's ball crew that was five years into the examination of the University of Michigan b-ball embarrassment. The Wolverines restricted Amaker's previous tutor Krzyzewski and the 2001– 02 Duke Blue Devils in his seventh amusement as head mentor, however his group lost. In spite of the fact that the 2001– 02 Wolverines completed at 11– 18, Amaker had the capacity to lead the tenth-seeded group to a triumph over seventh-seeded in the 2002 Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament before losing to two seed, . 

Michigan completed the 2002– 03 season with a 17– 13 record, however sat out both that year's NCAA and NIT competitions because of the willful postseason boycott. The group had prohibited itself from post season play before the season began. Regardless, throughout the season the group had earned a three seed and a first round bye in the 2003 Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament, however was vexed in the second round by Indiana. At the finish of the period, the NCAA included a second year of post season ineligibility to convey the seriousness of the discipline to a dimension it considered progressively fitting. 

Amaker's 2003– 04 group earned a fifth seed and first round bye in the 2004 Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament where it crushed fourth-seeded Iowa before losing to top-seeded Illinois. The group experienced progressive successes in the 2004 National Invitation Tournament against , and . The group won the title amusement against , giving Amaker his most astounding single-season triumph aggregate up to that point in time with a 23– 11 record. Amaker, who has would in general maintain a strategic distance from the spotlight, was not on the court as his group commended the school ball convention of cutting of the nets in festivity of a title at the 2004 NIT. 

The 2004– 05 group just accomplished a nine seed in the 2005 Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament when it lost in the first round to eighth-seeded . It posted a 13– 18 record (4– 12 in gathering) and completed ninth in the meeting. 

The Wolverines' 2005– 06 group was a high rate shooting, restrained and adjusted group. It was seeded seventh in the 2006 Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament yet lost to the tenth seeded Minnesota Golden Gophers. The group had been positioned 37th in the Ratings Percentage Index before the diversion, making them a strong contender for a 2006 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament welcome. The misfortune sent them to the 2006 National Invitation Tournament where they were a main seed, and they completed as the sprinter up to . En route to its sprinter up completion, the group vanquished ninth-seeded , fifth-seeded (2OT), third-seeded and fifth-seeded . The group finished with a 22– 11 (8– 8) record. 

Michigan's 2006– 07 group earned an eight seed in the 2007 Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament, when it crushed the ninth-seeded Minnesota Golden Gophers before surrendering to top-seeded Ohio State. In the wake of getting a three seed, Michigan progressed to the second round of the 2007 National Invitation Tournament by beating before tumbling to . The group completed with a 22– 13 record yet just 8– 8 in gathering play. 

Amaker was attributed for reestablishing the moral notoriety of a Michigan program which had been discolored by embarrassment. Be that as it may, he was scrutinized in the press for being unfit to take the Wolverines to the NCAA competition in six seasons in charge. A few fans and sportswriters contended that Amaker's Michigan groups would in general underachieve and go into disrepair in weight circumstances, especially in meeting, out and about and toward the finish of the customary season. On March 17, 2007, Amaker was terminated by the University of Michigan. Amaker was paid $900,000 to purchase out the rest of the years on his agreement. 

On April 11, 2007, Amaker was named head men's b-ball mentor at Harvard University. Harvard's enlisting procedure had included meeting the underclassmen in the group who favored Amaker to choices that included Mike Jarvis and Mike Gillian. Upon his entry, Harvard had persevered through five back to back non-winning seasons, a streak that Amaker would not end until his third year. Amaker turned into the main African American among the head mentors of Harvard's 32 athletic groups. Amaker's Harvard group beat his previous group, Michigan, in his eighth diversion as mentor at Harvard amid the 2007– 08 season. It was the school's first win ever against a BCS gathering school. 

"The New York Times" distributed an accusatory article in March 2008, raising claims of reduced scholarly models among Amaker's top of the line of enlisted people and conceivably ill-advised enrolling rehearses. Pushed by this negative exposure, the Ivy League office led a four-month examination and "discovered that no infringement of NCAA or Ivy League rules happened", clearing Amaker and his staff totally. Commonly, the NCAA would acknowledge the consequences of a formal examination performed by a meeting office be that as it may, for this situation, the NCAA at first postponed and afterward in the end dismissed the Ivy League's discoveries totally. The NCAA initiated its own examination which at last took two years to finish. 

Amaker's Harvard squad crushed then-positioned Boston College (#17 AP Poll – #24 Coaches' Poll) on January 7, 2009 for the main win over a positioned group in the program's history. His 2008– 09 enrolling class was the first run through an Ivy League establishment was positioned in the best 25 by ESPN. 

The accompanying season, the 2009– 10 Harvard group played aggressively against #14 positioned Connecticut getting 30 points and 9 bounce back from senior Jeremy Lin on December 6. Despite the fact that they held the lead just once, they were inside 4 points in the last seconds of the amusement. They likewise won their December 9 rematch with by a 74– 67 edge. In the wake of training Harvard to its most noteworthy single-season win all out ever behind the play of Lin, Harvard was welcome to take an interest in the 2010 CollegeInsider.com Tournament. The group was vanquished in the first round by . Amid the season, Amaker was a candidate for the main Ben Jobe Award as the top minority Division I school ball mentor, and was perceived by Fox Sports as the 2010 Ivy League Coach of the Year. Amaker was referenced for the 2010 head mentor opening at St. John's. 

In the mid year of 2010, the NCAA educated Harvard that Amaker's conduct comprised impermissible selecting conduct. Harvard and the NCAA arranged a settlement in which the college would "proclaim" what the NCAA agreed to characterize as auxiliary infringement. Under the terms of the understanding, Harvard acknowledged reformatory enlisting limitations for the 2010– 11 season. These were the first NCAA punishments at any point surveyed against the Harvard men's ball program and the principal case of the Ivy League being overruled on a formal guidelines understanding. 

Under Amaker's initiative, the 2010– 11 group tied with Princeton for the 2010– 11 Ivy League men's ball season title, which was the school's first men's b-ball Ivy League title since the class was shaped in the 1956– 57 season. Harvard completed the season an ideal 14– 0 at home, which outperformed the earlier season's school record of 11 home successes. Harvard's 12 gathering amusement wins built up a school record. The group's triumph over Colorado was the Crimson's first against a Big 12 Conference adversary since that gathering initiated play in 1996. His fourth season likewise denoted the fourth straight season that Harvard vanquished somewhere around one power gathering adversary. Despite the fact that Harvard never showed up in the 2010– 11 NCAA Division I men's ball rankings, for half a month amid the season they got a vote in the AP Poll. On March 7, Harvard got a vote in both the AP Poll and the Coaches' Poll. Harvard confronted Ivy League co-champion Princeton in a one-amusement playoff and lost by a 63– 62 edge. Princeton earned the 2011 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament programmed offer, while Harvard earned an everywhere offer to the 2011 National Invitation Tournament, denoting the school's first appearance in the National Invitation Tournament. On March 15, Harvard was vanquished by a 71– 54 edge in the first round. The last record of 23– 7 set up a school record for number of wins, outperforming the earlier season's aggregate of 21. Amaker was again a finalist for the Ben Jobe Award, was a finalist for the Hugh Durham Award and was chosen by the NABC as the District 13 Coach of the Year. He was named Ivy League mentor of the year by Collegeinsider.com. 

The 2011– 12 Harvard group crushed then-positioned Florida State (#22 AP Poll – #20 Coaches' Poll) on November 25, 2011 for the school's second win over a positioned group in the program's history, and the most elevated positioned rival in the Coaches' Poll that Harvard had vanquished up to that point. On December 5, 2011, Harvard showed up in either the AP Poll (25) or Coaches' Poll (24). It left Brown as the main residual Ivy League school to have never been positioned in the AP Poll and leaves just seven schools that have played Division I b-ball since the AP Poll started that have never been positioned in it. Harvard was the principal Ivy League group positioned in the Coaches' Poll since the 2009– 10 Cornell Big Red and the primary Ivy League group positioned in the AP Poll since the 1997– 98 Princeton Tigers, who completed eighth in the survey. By January 2, the group accomplished rankings of 22 in the AP Poll and 21 in the Coaches' Poll. The group was additionally positioned 21st in the Coaches' Poll on February 6. The group set up another record for single-season wins just as single-season non-association wins and tied the record for gathering diversion wins. Amaker was chosen by the U.S. B-ball Writers Association as the 2011– 12 Men's District I (ME, VT, NH, RI, MA, CT) Coach of the Year. He won the NABC Coach of the Year for District 13 and was again a finalist for both the Ben Jobe Award and the Hugh Durham Award. On March 6, 2012, Harvard earned its originally offer to the NCAA Tournament since 1946. 

On October 6, 2012, Amaker was enlisted into his secondary school's debut corridor of distinction class. Amaker's 2012– 13 Harvard group entered the season influenced by the 2012 Harvard conning embarrassment. Rather than being the most loved as initially expected, the group was anticipated to complete second to Princeton by different media sources on the grounds that Kyle Casey and Brandyn Curry pulled back because of the embarrassment. Casey and Curry had been first-group and second-group All-Ivy determinations for the 2011– 12 Ivy League men's ball season, separately. The two players pulled back with expectations of protecting their last year of athletic qualification following the examination. Amid the season, the group vanquished Boston College its fifth continuous triumph against Boston College Eagles men's ball, making Amaker an ideal 6– 0 against the Atlantic Coast Conference. The 2012– 13 Harvard group conquered the withdrawal of its senior co-commanders to rehash as 2013 Ivy League champions, which earned Harvard a trek to the 2013 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. On March 21, fourteenth seeded Harvard earned the school's first NCAA Tournament triumph by a 68– 62 edge and its first triumph over a main 10 adversary when it crushed third seeded New Mexico (#10 AP Poll – #10 Coaches' Poll). Two evenings later, Harvard lost to Arizona 74– 51. Following the season, Amaker was accepted into the New England Basketball Hall of Fame class of 2013. Amaker won the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association (NSSA) Clarence "Enormous House" Gaines College Basketball Coach of the Year in Division I as the top minority mentor, the NABC Coach of the Year for District 13 and was again a finalist for the Ben Jobe Award. In August, Amaker was drafted into his fourth Hall of Fame (Washington Metro Basketball Hall of Fame). 

The 2013– 14 group won the 2013 Great Alaska Shootout and 2013– 14 Ivy League gathering normal season title with a 13– 1 record and posting a school record 27 wins against 5 routs. The group entered the 2014 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament with a number twelve seed where it vanquished a (#15 AP Poll – #14 Coaches' Poll) Cincinnati group that was seeded fifth. Harvard in the end lost to number (#11/13) four seed Michigan State. The group was the main Ivy League school to win diversions in successive NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournaments since the 1983– 84 Princeton Tigers. 

The 2014– 15 group was the principal Ivy League group to show up since the 2001– 02 Princeton Tigers men's ball crew finished a seven-year keep running for Princeton. They were the third Ivy group to make four continuous NCAA Basketball Tournament appearances, an accomplishment last achieved by the 1991– 92 Princeton Tigers men's ball crew. 

On December 7, 2016, in a contention challenge against Boston College, Amaker earned his 179th success with the 2016– 17 group, outperforming Frank Sullivan as Harvard's record-breaking most dominating mentor. Amaker drove the 2017– 18 Harvard Crimson to an offer of the 2017– 18 Ivy League men's b-ball season normal season title. The group achieved the title round of the 2018 Ivy League Men's Basketball Tournament, however lost to Penn acquiring a programmed offer to the 2018 National Invitation Tournament. 

Amaker is hitched to Stephanie Pinder-Amaker, who is an authorized clinical therapist. The couple met at Duke. Amaker's grandma is Annie Deskins. Amaker's mom, Alma, kept on making him the sauce for his most loved dinner of spaghetti and expedited delivery it to him from her home in Falls Church, Virginia, amid his profession in any event until his days at Michigan. As indicated by Duke partner Bilas, Amaker was very style cognizant and endeavored to be a trailblazer. 

At Michigan, his day by day schedule included breakfast at a nearby inn where he read "USA Today". At Harvard, when a month, he gathers for breakfast at the Cambridge, Massachusetts, eatery Henrietta's Table with a gathering of noted African-American researchers and businesspeople driven by Harvard Law School teacher Charles Ogletree to examine sociopolitical issues. Amaker is known for his trademark mock turtleneck shirts, every one of which has his initials monogrammed into the neckline, and for wearing a games coat at every news gathering. In contrast to the majority of his companions, Amaker maintains a strategic distance from the press and won't complete a radio or TV program. 

Amaker was cherished in the Duke Athletic Hall of Fame in 2001. He was an individual from the top managerial staff for USA Basketball. Amid his time on the load up he filled in as an individual from the Men's Collegiate and Men's Senior National Committees, where he chose individuals from the United States 1996 Olympic gold award group. Amaker possesses two vintage Mercedes-Benz vehicles and is a Washington Redskins fan.