Flight Unlimited 

Flight Unlimited is a 1995 aerobatic pilot training program computer game created and distributed by Looking Glass Technologies. It enables players to direct proliferations of true flying machine and to perform aerobatic moves. They may fly uninhibitedly, race through gliding rings against a clock or take exercises from a virtual flight teacher. The educator shows fundamental and propelled systems, extending from rudder swings to moves, for example, the tailslide, Lomcovák and Immelmann turn. 

"Flight Unlimited" was simply the main distributed diversion discharged by Looking Glass Technologies. It was planned to build up the organization as a computer game distributer and to contend with pilot test program establishments, for example, "Microsoft Flight Simulator". Venture pioneer Seamus Blackley, a molecule physicist and novice pilot, imagined the amusement in 1992. He felt that other pilot training programs neglected to pass on the experience of genuine flight, and he responded by coding a reproduced environment for "Flight Unlimited" in light of constant computational liquid elements. Aerobatic pilot Michael Goulian embraced the diversion and helped the group in making it all the more consistent with life. 

"Flight Unlimited" got positive audits from commentators and was a business achievement; its deals surpassed 780,000 duplicates by 2002. Analysts praised its authenticity, flight guidance, designs and feeling of flight, however some scrutinized its high framework prerequisites. The amusement was trailed by two continuations: "Flight Unlimited II" (1997) and "Flight Unlimited III" (1999). A battle situated successor, "Flight Combat", was discharged in 2002 as "Jane's Attack Squadron" after a progression of misfortunes. Before long "Flight Unlimited"s finish, Blackley was terminated from Looking Glass. He proceeded to plan "" at DreamWorks Interactive and later initiate the Xbox venture at Microsoft. 

"Flight Unlimited" is a three-dimensional (3D) pilot training program computer game: its ongoing interaction is a reenactment of steering certifiable planes. Players may control the Bellanca Decathlon, Extra 300S, Pitts Special S-2B, Sukhoi Su-31 and Grob G103a Twin II sailplane. The amusement starts at the fixed-base administrator (FBO) interface—a safe 3D room whose substance speak to menu choices. For instance, the player connects with a column of scale plane models to choose a flying machine, and with a world globe to change runway areas. Six settings are accessible, including Sedona, Arizona and Springfield, Vermont. 

The player may start trip on a runway or runway, or noticeable all around. Flying machine are controlled through console, joystick, head-mounted showcase or particular information gadgets, for example, pedals. Amid flight, a few third-and first-individual camera points might be chosen. For instance, the third-individual Flyby View puts the camera before the plane as it flies past, while the principal individual Three-Way View shows more data about the plane's position and speed than different edges. Certain camera points, including the Three-Way View and 3-D Cockpit see, give the player mimicked flight instruments, for example, an altimeter, velocity marker, accelerometer, variometer and tachometer. The amusement is intended to enable players to perform aerobatic moves, for example, the Immelmann turn, tailslide, Lomcevak and Cuban Eight. Exhibitions might be recorded and played back, with controls that enable the player to stop, rewind and quick forward. Whenever, the player may stop a chronicle and resume departure starting there. 

The diversion contains exercises that spread fundamental and propelled flight procedures, running from rudder swings to testing aerobatic moves. A reproduced flight educator offers continuous guidance dependent on the player's execution. Endorsements are earned by performing great amid exercises. In Hoops courses, the player attempts a period preliminary through rings that skim in the sky, with the choice to empower a "phantom plane" of the most astounding score. Four sorts of Hoops courses are accessible: Basic, Challenge, Distance and Trick. The latter is expected as an exceedingly requesting trial of the player's aerobatic capacity. The diversion's sole non-fueled air ship, the Grob G103a Twin II sailplane, includes its very own amusement mode concentrated on vitality the executives. The player endeavors to utilize the bearing of the breeze, thermals—which practically happen above zones that retain more warmth, for example, fields and parking areas—and the orographic lift brought about by inclines to remain airborne for whatever length of time that conceivable. 

The idea of "Flight Unlimited" began from Looking Glass Technologies' discontent with contemporary pilot training programs. Organization fellow benefactors Paul Neurath and Ned Lerner needed to build up an extraordinary diversion in the class, and Neurath considered the thought amid the creation of "" and "". In 1992, Seamus Blackley, who had been embraced graduate examinations in molecule material science at the Fermilab explore office, was enlisted through a need promotion that Lerner had put on a notice board. At the organization, Blackley modified the material science displaying framework for a dashing amusement and structured countless material science shows. He ended up interested by material science programming. A beginner pilot and flight aficionado, Blackley made Lerner broad inquiries about his prior diversion "Toss Yeager's Advanced Flight Trainer", which Blackley held in high respect. In response to Blackley's energy, Neurath proposed that the organization build up a "conventional Cessna sim". 

Notwithstanding, Blackley rather proposed an aerobatics preparing reproduction, which he had imagined while perusing an aerobatics magazine on a Lexington, Massachusetts transport. Working together with "Ultima Underworld II" developer Greg Travis, he made a thirty page idea archive that sketched out the amusement. His center thought was to reproduce the "yummy, instinctive, liquid inclination that you get when flying a genuine plane". He needed the venture to endure more likeness to a play area than to a computer game, and he tried to give it basic controls and reasonable territory to diminish the expectation to learn and adapt for tenderfoots. Blackley accepted the job of undertaking pioneer and afterward connected with the group in "flaring sessions" to produce thoughts. As indicated by software engineer Doug Church, Blackley's idea of the amusement was not completely grown, however he unmistakably communicated his considerations and propelled the group. The main months of the task delivered divergent models that showed imminent highlights. The organization resolved to full improvement of the amusement in mid 1993, and creation started in March. 

Blackley's first goal was to code the amusement's mimicked material science. He started by settling on a programming technique—specifically, he looked for one that would enable flying machine to play out the "blade edge turn" move that he had seen at flying demonstrations. In 1995, he said that he had never played a pilot test program with a precise feeling of flight. He later depicted his conviction that the class had stagnated, and that flight diversions were assessed "by [their] execution of the standard list of capabilities", instead of by their charm. Blackley explored material science programming in contemporary pilot test programs, and he found that many utilized substantial databases of wind passage and plane tangible hardware data to manage how air ship would work in prerecorded situations. Higher-end test systems utilized a "Newtonian" framework, in which variable based math based estimations of power vectors decide a plane's situation progressively. Nonetheless, Blackley trusted that neither framework effectively mimicked the experience of flight. 

In response, he utilized his insight into molecule material science to make an ongoing computational liquid elements (CFDs) display for "Flight Unlimited". The outcome is a reproduced environment: air goes about as a liquid that consequently responds to the state of any item set inside it. Blackley gave the precedent that a folding chair, whenever put inside the diversion's constant CFDs demonstrate, would fall only on account of its shape. The amusement's planes fly in light of the fact that the communication of their engineering with the air makes lift, similarly as with genuine airplane. Alters in the plane's course are brought about by the collaboration of their flight control surfaces (ailerons, lifts and rudders) with the mimicked climate. Since it reenacts the elements of trip progressively, the framework takes into consideration aerobatic moves that were outlandish in past pilot training programs. In 1994, Blackley said that it was conceivably the main flight code intended for aerobatics. In developing the CFDs model, Blackley and the group worked from the Navier– Stokes conditions of smooth movement, which Blackley depicted as "terrible, entangled fractional differential conditions". As indicated by "PC Gaming World", Blackley did not try to speak to the conditions with immaculate exactness, and he was fulfilled when the outcomes were reliable and the vibe that they created was right. 

In the wake of programming a fundamental variant of the CFDs show, Blackley utilized a few projects to analyze the reenacted flows of air that streamed over a model of a level plate. He balanced the code until the plate fell sensibly, and after that developed test models for a plane wing and fuselage. He in the end constructed a total however broken plane by utilizing information from "pinhead books". By perusing airplane structure manuals, he found that the issues were brought about by his plane's mistaken tail and focal point of gravity. Following this, he made an accurate three-dimensional model of the Extra 300S over about three days. As he had not yet reproduced the physical properties of its propeller, Blackley modified the plane to be moved from the back. Be that as it may, the precise model performed legitimately in the mimicked environment. 

Craftsmen Mike Marsicano and Kurt Bickenbach assumed basic jobs in the formation of the diversion's flying machine models, which were worked in 3D Studio. As reference material, the group captured genuine planes at a few landing strips, and they got diagrams and datasheets from flying machine producers. The diversion's Grob G103a Twin II sailplane depended legitimately on the one that Blackley possessed at the time. The modernity of the ongoing CFDs convoluted the 3D demonstrating procedure, as the planes required precise geometry to fly appropriately. While endeavoring to meet this objective, nonetheless, Bickenbach said that the models he made were excessively definite, which made the group battle with execution issues identified with the high number of polygons. Lessening the number modified the plane's shape, which thusly decreased its flight authenticity; this required a harmony among act and precision. To get sound for the planes, Greg LoPiccolo and Tom Streit—previous bassist and street chief, separately, of the band Tribe—visited a Florida merchant of Russian aerobatic air ship. The two set amplifiers inside the cockpits and alongside the motors, and they flew each plane at different paces while recording with an advanced sound tape machine. Consolidating this material with computerized accounts of wind sounds, the group molded a physical science based sound framework: hints of the breeze and motor are adjusted progressively dependent on wind speed in the amusement. 

The flight teacher was made by developer Andrew Grant and voiced by Tom Streit. It screens the player's controller contribution amid "each edge of liveliness". On the off chance that a move is endeavored, the teacher "adds the underlying control developments" and predicts which move is being performed. The educator at that point gives counsel on the most proficient method to finish the move and offers direction if an oversight is made. Concede trusted that the code is now and then "excessively meticulous", and he expressed that it anticipates that players should perform moves more absolutely than is humanly conceivable. The group at first wanted to incorporate an online multiplayer part, which would have enabled 64 planes to fly in a similar region—in this way enabling players to rival each other. In any case, the component was not executed into the last diversion. The staff individuals additionally tried to incorporate aerobatic rivalries in which the player could take part, yet the thought was dropped due to troubles with authenticity. Issues with misleadingly savvy judges were additionally a factor in the component's expulsion. 

"Flight Unlimited"s territory illustrations were made with stereophotogrammetry. The group assembled aeronautical photos from areas in France and the United States. They joined a few pictures of every region to make computerized proliferations generally in size. Every area in the amusement depended on two stereoscopic arrangements of photos, which were prepared for over 72 hours by a "committed Pentium concealed in a dim corner". From the differentiating pictures, the PC created a territory "information cover" with 3D stature varieties. While the group had considered utilizing satellite or reconnaissance flying machine pictures to make the amusement's landscape designs, they found that the goals was deficient. Material from geographic data frameworks was likewise contemplated, yet partner maker Paul Schaffer said that it would have been "cosmically costly" to get information with the essential goals. 

Subsequent to collecting a playable demo of "Flight Unlimited", the group mentioned help from that point US Aerobatic Team part Michael Goulian, who filled in as a flight teacher at the close-by Hanscom Field. In view of the amusement's flight code, Goulian had the capacity to execute aerobatic moves inside under three minutes of playing the diversion; and he later played out his "whole essential aerobatic schedule". Blackley told "PC Gamer US" that, while Goulian detested pilot test programs, "When he flew "Flight Unlimited", he just said 'truly cool.' I was so psyched". Goulian helped the group amid the following year of advancement: he co-structured the amusement's flight exercises and exhorted the group on acclimations to the plane models. Aerobatic pilot Patty Wagstaff was additionally counseled. At a certain point, the group experienced issues while testing a move in the amusement's Sukhoi Su-31, and Blackley was worried that he would need to improve the diversion's material science code. In any case, Goulian called a partner—a Russian pilot—who instructed them to make up for the plane's unusually substantial ailerons. Utilizing his recommendation on flying this present reality plane, the group found that the move worked accurately. Goulian supported "Flight Unlimited" and composed the foreword to its official procedure manage. 

The illustrations and material science code expanded the amusement's framework prerequisites, and the group attempted to enhance execution amid advancement. They attempted to improve the amusement's memory use: the procedure expended about as much time as the production of the material science display, as per Church. Developer Eric Twietmeyer ran week by week trial of the amusement's execution by handicapping certain pieces of the code, for example, the material science figurings—to detach which parts utilized the most memory. By 1994, Blackley's material science code took up just 1% of CPU time, with the rest allotted to the landscape renderer. Blackley upgraded his code by changing over the numerical estimations of air from the 3D diversion world into a "math-accommodating space", amid which time the Navier-Stokes conditions are connected. A short time later, the information is come back to 3D space. As indicated by "PC Gaming World", this technique expanded speed by "a factor of 100, with no misfortune in exactness." The group experienced difficulty with complex memory-related glitches amid advancement. Church called them "insane", and developer Greg Travis noticed that investigating the landscape store framework was a "bad dream". 

While driving the group, Blackley received a free style of supervision. As per "Opening the Xbox" creator Dean Takahashi, "Blackley [was not] ultra-sorted out. His concept of good administration was to welcome somebody over for a gourmet supper and have an easygoing discussion about work". In any case, Takahashi composed that "Blackley endeavored to move his group", and he portrayed craftsman James Dollar's conviction that, "rather than other Looking Glass chiefs, he didn't assume control over undertakings and make others feel idiotic". Amid the initial two years of creation, the group was partitioned into little gatherings that took a shot at the amusement's components independently. For instance, Blackley modified the amusement's material science, while Eric Twietmeyer and Tim Day made the landscape renderer. In any case, Doug Church later said that, while "the group [did] a cluster of cool stuff, the FBO, the flight show, the educator, the renderer, so on", the outcome "was practically similar to four separate projects, with no association". Following the consummation of the simultaneously created "Framework Shock", a critical piece of that amusement's group—including Church, Marc LeBlanc and Rob Fermier—moved to "Flight Unlimited" to include connective material. At the time, Church said that it was hard to merge the amusement's components, yet he later expressed that they to a great extent mixed by the end. 

"Flight Unlimited" was independently published by Looking Glass Technologies. Their past recreations had been produced for other computer game distributers, and had created $90 million absolute income for those organizations. Nonetheless, Ronald Rosenberg of "The Boston Globe" detailed that Looking Glass was "never again fulfilled as a private cabin player making due on eminences". Doug Church later clarified that the organization needed to independently publish so as to get away from the "treadmill of hanging tight for advances", which would enable them to make long haul arrangements without expecting to fulfill the quick requests of a distributer. In late 1994, Looking Glass reported that funding speculators, including Matrix Partners and Institutional Venture Partners, had furnished the organization with $3.8 million. The aggregate was expected to finance the improvement and self-production of "Flight Unlimited". As indicated by Michael Humphreys of Matrix Partners and Ruthann Quindlen of Institutional Venture Partners, the choice was mostly affected by the past achievement of the organization's prime supporters, Paul Neurath and Ned Lerner. 

Mirror expected "Flight Unlimited" as an entryway into the computer game distributing industry. As indicated by Lerner, the possibility of independently publishing had been viewed as when the organization was established. In 1995, Looking Glass anticipated that offers of "Flight Unlimited" would build eminence incomes to $10 million that year, up from $1.5 million out of 1994. Jeffrey A. Kalowski, the organization's VP of money and organization, expected that the amusement would recover its improvement expenses and make an arrival before the year's end. He anticipated that, over the accompanying 12 to year and a half, the organization's number of representatives would increment from 52 to 82. The organization's official VP and general chief, Jerry Wolosenko, told "The Boston Globe" that the organization planned to distribute six recreations every year. As indicated by Doug Church, the weight for "Flight Unlimited" to succeed implied that the simultaneously created "Framework Shock", which was not independently published, got little consideration from the organization's administration. 

"Flight Unlimited" was put in direct challenge with a few noteworthy pilot training program establishments. Prior to the diversion's discharge, Shelby Bateman of "Cutting edge Magazine" stated, "1995 will be a genuine dogfight in the flight-sim and ethereal battle classifications, and LookingGlass is wagering its bankroll ... that it can catch noteworthy piece of the overall industry from any semblance of Microsoft "Pilot training program" and the presentation of Spectrum HoloByte's "Hawk 4.0", among others." Describing the circumstance, Johnny L. Wilson of "PC Gaming World" stated, "The diversions that sell enormous are the ones that enable you to explode stuff, in this way, in the event that anything, that could be an issue for "Flight Unlimited"." Doug Church clarified that, on the grounds that the amusement did not include battle and looked somewhat like "Microsoft Flight Simulator", the group spent "numerous late evenings" on promoting methodologies. Be that as it may, he noticed that the diversion had a wide intrigue among the individuals who tried it amid advancement, which he called "a great sign". Conversing with Bernie Yee of "PC Gamer US", Paul Neurath said that he figured the amusement would sell well. Yee noticed that Neurath "completely [expected] it to demonstrate more prominent than "Microsoft Flight Simulator"". 

In January 1995, Looking Glass demonstrated "Flight Unlimited" close by "" at the Winter Consumer Electronics Show, under their "Vivid Reality" showcasing name. In March 1995, the "Boston Globe" announced that the group was performing "eleventh hour checks" of the amusement to set it up for shipment to a Midwestern United States Compact Disk producer. As indicated by the paper, Looking Glass wanted to start by transportation 100,000 units to retailers in Canada and the United States. Another 100,000 duplicates were to be sent to France, Germany and the United Kingdom sometime in the not too distant future. In any case, upon the diversion's June 7, 1995 discharge for MS-DOS, 200,000 units were conveyed at the same time in the United States and Europe. The amusement's European discharges were restricted with German, French and English content and voice acting, which was made conceivable by "close coordination with worldwide accomplices". Adaptations for Macintosh and Windows 95 were later discharged; the previous was appeared at the Macworld Expo in April 1996. 

"Flight Unlimited" was a business achievement. It appeared in twelfth spot on a June 1995 deals outline gathered by NPD Group, while "Microsoft Flight Simulator 5.1" came out ahead of the pack. The amusement proceeded to sell in excess of 300,000 duplicates by 1997, and more than 780,000 by 2002. As per Constantine von Hoffman of the "Boston Herald", "Flight Unlimited" effectively contended with "Microsoft Flight Simulator". "PC Gamer"s Lee Buchanan composed that it "takes off over the pack of flight recreations", and he believed it to be "the best time [he had] had in an automated cockpit". Blunt Vizard of "Mainstream Mechanics" hailed it as "the new top weapon of pilot test programs", and Doug Bailey of "The Boston Globe" believed it to be the "primary genuine test to Microsoft's predominance of the class". "The Record"s David Noack trusted that the amusement's material science and stereoscopic landscape set "another standard in flight reproduction". Composing for "PC Gaming World", Bob and John Nolan expressed, "On the off chance that anything, you ought to at any rate investigate this item, since you'll be taking a gander at the fate of reproductions." 

The diversion was a finalist in the twelfth Annual Awards for Technical Excellence held by "PC Magazine", whose staff called it "the test system by which all others will be judged." It was named the best recreation of 1995 by "PC Games Strategy Plus" (tied with "Apache"), and the best of 1996 by "Macworld", whose manager Steven Levy composed that it "places you in contact with what makes flying unique." Inside Mac Games and "PC Gamer" both selected "Flight Unlimited" as the reenactment of the year, in spite of the fact that it lost these honors to "A-10 Cuba!" and "Apache", individually. 

Vizard expressed that "Flight Unlimited"s "progressed computational liquid elements make [each] plane respond as indicated by spec". Buchanan praised the liquid model for making a "vibe of real flight [that] is out and out heavenly", while "PC Magazine"s staff remarked that it makes "planes carry on more like genuine air ship than any test system we have seen". Weave and John Nolan called the diversion's material science programming "historic", and Chris Ware of the "Lexington Herald-Leader" observed the amusement to be the most exact recreation of trip past "those multimillion-dollar pilot test programs [used by] military pilots and space explorers". Noack concurred: he composed that the amusement "is about as near flying inside heading off to the airplane terminal". In 1996, "PC Gaming World" exhibited "Flight Unlimited" with a Special Artistic Achievement Award For Physical Model. The magazine's staff adulated Blackley's customizing for pushing the class "higher into the domain of recreation", and recorded the amusement's refined material science display as #5 on its rundown of "the 15 most ideal approaches to kick the bucket in PC gaming". 

Product discovered "Flight Unlimited" receptive and noticed its "straightforwardness of utilization and profundity of guidance". Buchanan hailed the exercise mode as "a blessing from heaven for any sprouting pilot". An essayist for "The Washington Post" called the diversion "[the] world's first genuinely simple to-utilize pilot test program" and "a great section item", in which "rank novices can simply dispatch the program and begin cruising right away". "The Washington Post"s John Gaudiosi composed that, while numerous amusements in the class are excessively intricate, "Flight Unlimited" lets "the individuals who aren't scientific geniuses ... experience the rushes of trick flying." He discovered its control plot easy to get it. Paradoxically, Bailey found the amusement troublesome and at first "baffling": he grumbled that he needed to play the exercise mode before taking off. Denny Atkin of "PC Gaming World" described the diversion's expectation to absorb information as steep, on account of the precision of the material science programming, yet he noticed the versatile trouble choices. Bailey later prescribed the amusement in a Christmas shopping guide. He composed that "it tends to be hard to ace. In any case, when you're up, it merits the inconvenience." 

An essayist for "The Washington Post" remarked that "genuine flight oddities will like the dashing and propelled moves". As indicated by Gaudiosi, devoted players will adapt "about optimal design and trick flying"; he believed the last to be "hard stuff, even with green bands directing you". So also, Buchanan portrayed the Hoops courses as "unbelievably requesting", and Atkin refered to that mode's Trick trouble level as "incredibly extreme". Weave and John Nolan composed that individuals who "love to circle around the skies of "Pilot test program 5" will go bananas for" the aerobatics; yet the pair remarked that battle pilot training program players "may get somewhat tense once the amazing force wears off." However, Atkin trusted that just those "perpetually discontent without something to shoot at" could be frustrated by the absence of battle: different players will "be too caught up with arranging airborne ballet performances, pulling off outrageous aerobatic stunts, or simply getting a charge out of a peaceful take off down the edge line to miss that stuff". In like manner, Ware called the peaceful ongoing interaction "invigorating", and Buchanan expressed, "If [you are] a fight tired veteran of air battle sims, "Flight Unlimited" may be only the kind of [rest and relaxation] you need." 

Atkin found the cockpit and landscape designs to look "practically genuine". He remarked, "At regular intervals a sim goes along that gives commentators a chance to utilize the 'sets new benchmarks for illustrations' buzzword, and "Flight Unlimited" is the 1995 section in this club." Bob and John Nolan called "Flight Unlimited" "a definitive hotshot piece for your new Pentium", on account of "inconceivable" designs better than those of some other PC diversion. Gaudiosi agreed: he described the visuals as "photograph sharp" and "superior to anything any I have seen". "PC Magazine"s staff found the designs "amazing" and "considerably more shocking than those in "Microsoft Flight Simulator"". Product noticed the "dazzling 3-D photograph sensible view", while Bailey expressed that the "illustrations are splendidly rendered and prodigy by easily". Buchanan called "Flight Unlimited"s landscape "simply radiant" and Vizard depicted it as "incredibly genuine". Buchanan trusted that "what you hear in "Flight Unlimited" is just as great as what you see", on account of "completely persuading" audio effects. Atkin adulated the teacher as "a standout amongst the best employments of voice ever in a sight and sound title". 

Bailey composed that the diversion needs "a genuine bulky machine" to run appropriately; Atkin expressed that the "huge torque necessity will limit numerous gamers to bring down goals and detail levels". Bounce and John Nolan comparatively discovered that the amusement "pigs figuring power". Buchanan composed that the framework prerequisites recorded on the back of the diversion's case "must be a joke", and that an elite PC is important to run the amusement. In 1996, "PC Gamer US" gave the diversion a "Unique Achievement in Graphics" grant. The editors stated, "While it requires the most advanced PC equipment available to be delighted in, "Flight Unlimited" rewards gamers with the absolute most dazzling view at any point found in a flight sim." 

"Flight Unlimited" was simply the first of three distributed titles discharged by Looking Glass Technologies. Notwithstanding, the following two items, "" (1996) and "English Open Championship Golf" (1997), were business disappointments. Thus, the organization stopped independently publishing and was left in desperate monetary conditions. Doug Church later clarified that Looking Glass' endeavor to distribute came at a troublesome time for the computer game industry: "the other fair sized distributers were for the most part leaving business or getting purchased". He trusted that the organization had been "overextending itself" with the endeavor, and that it was "being somewhat overambitious and somewhat presumptuous". 

"Flight Unlimited" was expected to be trailed by a battle arranged spin-off, which was created under the working title "Flight Combat". In 1995, Seamus Blackley told "PC Gamer US" that he needed the amusement to "feel so genuine that pilots will be apprehensive. They'll "feel" the firearm hits." Talking to "PC Gaming World", he expressed that the diversion would show players "a similar educational modules [as] the Air Force", and that it would highlight aggressive online play. In any case, an organization director, recently instated by funding speculators who disdained Looking Glass' administration style, rather requested that Blackley make an immediate continuation of "Flight Unlimited". The two contended routinely, and Blackley later blamed the supervisor for "ripp[ing] the guts out of Looking Glass". In light of Blackley's refusal to make "Flight Unlimited II", the director terminated him. Blackley left the organization in late 1995 with fashioner Austin Grossman, and both were procured by DreamWorks Interactive to make "". He later led improvement of the Xbox at Microsoft. 

Constantine Hantzopoulos coordinated "Flight Unlimited II", which was distributed by Eidos Interactive in 1997. The group couldn't keep utilizing the ongoing computational liquid elements of "Flight Unlimited" in light of the fact that, as indicated by Hantzopoulos, it was "all discovery spaghetti code from Seamus". The aerobatics focal point of its forerunner was dropped for general regular citizen aeronautics. The improvement of "Flight Combat" was alluded to amid the generation of "Flight Unlimited II". A third diversion, "Flight Unlimited III", was distributed by Electronic Arts in 1999; and it proceeded with the emphasis on general flying. That year, "Flight Combat" was authoritatively reported as the World War II-themed, Electronic Arts-distributed "Flight Combat: Thunder Over Europe", however its name was in the long run changed to "Jane's Attack Squadron". The amusement was dropped as an outcome of Looking Glass Studios' conclusion in 2000. In any case, it was later wrapped up by engineer Mad Doc Software and discharged in 2002 by distributer Xicat Interactive.