I Don't Remember 

"I Don't Remember" is a melody by Australian elective musical gang Powderfinger, from the collection "Dream Days at the Hotel Existence". It made its radio presentation on 9 July 2007 on Australian radio stations, and was in this manner discharged as a solitary and computerized download on 4 August 2007 in Australia, 3 September 2007 in New Zealand, and 13 August 2007 in the United States. 

The melody was composed by Powderfinger lead artist Bernard Fanning, and impacted by bassist John Collins. The riff was then created by guitarist Ian Haug. The melody is tied in with accommodating troubles and contentions, as opposed to moving the fault. 

"I Don't Remember" was praised by certain commentators, who valued its vitality, while different analysts were progressively basic, naming it a "promotion melody". The music video additionally gotten basic approval, particularly for the spoofs it contained. Notwithstanding the audits, the single graphed inadequately, achieving number 42 on the ARIA Singles Chart. 

The tune was composed by the band's lead artist, Bernard Fanning, following a night he went through drinking with bassist John Collins towards the finish of the account period of "Dream Days at the Hotel Existence". The melody was composed by Fanning on guitar, yet he later composed the fundamental riff on piano, which was then changed over into a lead guitar riff performed by Ian Haug. The guitars for the melody are altogether tuned down one stage; while the guitar finger situating is played as if in the key of C major, the detuning brings the key of the tune down to Bb, with the tune opening with Bb's relative minor, G minor. Amid the account stage, Fanning recommended "relaxing" the primary riff by returning it to the piano, and even recorded this idea; anyway this piano form did not finish up in the last collection blend, nor was it included as a B-side on the single. 

"I Don't Remember" was recorded in Los Angeles amid pre-creation for "Dream Days at the Hotel Existence". It contains a basic acoustic riff, like a few tunes on past collections including "Vulture Street". While recording the melody in January 2007, Fanning said in a meeting that: 

This importance was additionally clear in the melody's verses. In the second line, Fanning states that "I committed an error that I'll never outperform", before clarifying that it doesn't make a difference whose blame it is, in saying "I realize you required somebody to accept all negative consequences/I realize you required somebody to accuse". In the second refrain, Fanning again repeats that he feels torment in the misstep that was made, when he says "I found my heart and it broke like glass/I committed that error that I'll never outperform". 

John Collins said of the tune: 

At the point when Powderfinger first played the tune to Benmont Tench, who might highlight in a piano job all through the collection, he commented that it helped him to remember Buffalo Springfield, who was a motivation of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. Fanning answered that "we were thinking increasingly about the Heartbreakers", showing the melodic style expected in "I Don't Remember", yet in addition paying tribute to Tench, whom the band would work with broadly. Tench performed with the band on the collection form of the melody. 

The music video for "I Don't Remember" was made by Fifty Films, who had recently teamed up with the band on the recordings for "Like a Dog", "(Baby I've Got You) On My Mind", and "Lost and Running", all selected for ARIA Awards. 

The music video begins a school transport with youngsters playing and tossing things, and highlights a young man who at that point chooses the track "I Don't Remember" on his iPod and shuts his eyes. He at that point longs for a school show for a band called "Littlefinger", a farce of the band for which he is the lead artist "Bernie", a satire of Bernard Fanning. The band and gathering of people are made out of grade school understudies. Kids are seen offering a chocolate milk called smilo, an interpretation of Milo, and a camera team for "Channel [Z]" and columnist "Su-Mi". This is a spoof of Yumi Stynes, a moderator from Australian music station Channel V. The finish of the clasp demonstrates that it was a fantasy being had by the understudy who played the lead artist for "Littlefinger". 

Numerous components of "I Don't Remember's" video got positive basic reaction for the utilization of kids in it. Kathy McCabe of "The Daily Telegraph" condensed basic sentiments towards the video, by proposing in her audit that "[maybe] groups ought to get children to play them in recordings for eternity". 

In his audit of "Dream Days at the Hotel Existence", "Envoy Sun HiT" columnist Cameron Adams asserted that "I Don't Remember" was a greater amount of an ad style melody, like "Lost and Running", the main single discharged from the collection. Adams expressed that "'I Don't Remember' isn't the following single without reason—it does all that you expect a Powderfinger single to, maybe an increasingly fitting 'promotion' for this collection." Sputnikmusic benefactor James Bishop portrayed "I Don't Remember" as unimaginative, and yet said that it demonstrated Powderfinger "haven't overlooked how to compose a decent tune". 

Allmusic commentator Clayton Bolger, nonetheless, depicted it emphatically as an "arena song of devotion" and expressing that it was a genuine case of the "trademarks of great Powderfinger" exhibited on the collection. The survey named the tune a "pick". Web Wombat's survey of the collection likewise treated the melody decidedly, naming it "exemplary Powderfinger." Reviewer Andrew Tijs from CitySearch Brisbane expressed that the tune is "an easily emotive clank shake tune with a deliberate ensemble and Fanning's matchless vocal", however furnishes blended audits when contrasted and different tunes by the gathering, taking note of that "It's no scary number like 'The Day You Come', nor does it have 'Like a Dog'<nowiki>'</nowiki>s growl, nor 'On My Mind'<nowiki>'</nowiki>s bar shake shiver." 

"I Don't Remember" was performed normally on the Across the Great Divide Tour, for the most part with positive reactions. FasterLouder analyst gumbuoy expressed that "The new tunes are brilliant live; I Don't Remember has more vitality than its recorded partner (Lost and Running)", after by adulating the collection and execution in general. 

"I Don't Remember" entered the Australian Singles Chart at #43, at that point slid to #47 in its second week, yet then achieved its zenith position of #42 in its third week. It at that point stayed in the graphs for the accompanying three weeks in the upper forties, and after that dropped off the diagram. It was discharged as a solitary in New Zealand and the United States likewise, yet neglected to graph, notwithstanding moderate airplay in New Zealand. "I Don't Remember" outlined at #66 on the Triple J Hottest 100, 2007. 

Powderfinger 

Extra artists 

Creation