Phillip Davey 

Phillip Davey, (10 October 1896 – 21 December 1953) was an Australian beneficiary of the Victoria Cross, the most elevated honor for valor in fight that can be granted to an individual from the Australian military. Davey enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force in December 1914, and joined his unit, the tenth Battalion, on the island of Lemnos on 10 April 1915. Alongside his unit, he arrived at Anzac Cove, Gallipoli, on 25 April. He battled at Anzac until he was emptied debilitated toward the beginning of November, coming back to Australia the next January. 

Davey set out for England in June 1916, and rejoined his contingent on the Western Front in October. In January 1918 he was granted the Military Medal for valiance in protecting an injured man enduring an onslaught. He was elevated to corporal in April. Ahead of the pack up to the catch of Merris in June, he slaughtered an eight-man German automatic rifle group, sparing his company from obliteration, for which he was granted the Victoria Cross. Amid this activity he was seriously injured. He came back to Australia to be released, and was utilized by South Australian Railways over numerous prior years kicking the bucket in 1953, having languished over years with bronchitis and emphysema. He was covered with full military distinctions in the AIF Cemetery, West Terrace. His awards are shown in the Hall of Valor at the Australian War Memorial. 

Phillip Davey was conceived on 10 October 1896 at Unley, South Australia, to William George Davey, a woodworker, and his better half Elizabeth O'Neill; he was one of five children of the couple who might see administration in World War I. Phillip went to Flinders Street Model School and Goodwood Public School. After his tutoring, he was engaged with well exhausting and opal mining in Central Australia; at the episode of war he was a steed driver. 

On 22 December 1914, matured 18, Davey enrolled as a private in the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) and was presented on the second fortifications to the tenth Battalion. He cruised for Egypt from Melbourne on 2 February 1915. He joined the third Brigade's tenth Battalion on board the in the port of Mudros on the island of Lemnos in the northeastern Aegean Sea on 10 April 1915. The third Brigade had been picked as the covering power for the arrival at Anzac Cove, Gallipoli, on 25 April. The unit left on the warship and the destroyer , and subsequent to exchanging to strings of paddling water crafts at first towed by steam pinnaces, the regiment started paddling aground at about 4:30am. 

Davey took an interest in the overwhelming battling at the arrival and resulting channel fighting guarding the foothold. After a few episodes of disease, he was emptied to Egypt with enteric fever toward the beginning of November. In January 1916 he was repatriated to Australia to recuperate his wellbeing. He re-set out at Melbourne in June, touched base in the United Kingdom in August, and left for France the next month. While he had been recovering, the infantry developments of the AIF had been pulled back from Gallipoli to Egypt, at that point exchanged toward the Western Front in France and Belgium. Davey rejoined the tenth Battalion toward the beginning of October. 

From the time Davey restored, the tenth Battalion turned through cutting edge, hold, preparing and weakness obligations, chiefly in the Somme stream part. In February 1917, it took an interest in an activity at Le Barque, southwest of Bapaume. On 15 March, Davey was coincidentally injured by a hand explosive while the regiment was in camp, however came back to obligation not exactly a month later, amid the Battle of Arras. He was elevated to spear corporal toward the beginning of May, at which time the contingent was battling in a help job at Bullecourt. In September, the brigade was focused on the Battle of Menin Road at Polygon Wood. The next month Davey was gassed while the tenth Battalion was soothing troops in the bleeding edge close Westhoek Ridge; he came back to his unit toward the beginning of November. 

Through the winter of 1917/1918, the regiment pivoted through different obligations, all through the forefront. On 3 January 1918, Davey protected an injured fighter under substantial flame, and was granted the Military Medal for grit in the field. The suggestion read: 

Davey was elevated to corporal on 24 April 1918, and that night the tenth Battalion directed an activity close Méteren. The next month he was segregated to Tidworth in England as an educator, yet came back to his unit at his own solicitation on 23 June. After five days, he was with his brigade amid a "tranquil entrance" task close Merris. His activities in without any assistance disposing of a German automatic weapon post brought about the honor of the Victoria Cross, the most noteworthy honor for bravery in fight that can be granted to an individual from the Australian military. The reference read: 

Davey's unit was before long alleviated by a save detachment that restored the post. The tenth Battalion activity had seized of the German cutting edge, alongside thirty-five detainees, six automatic weapons and two "Minenwerfer" channel mortars, for the loss of fifty setbacks. Davey had supported injuries to his back, stomach area and legs, and was cleared to England. After he had recuperated adequately he gotten his Victoria Cross at Buckingham Palace on 12 September, and was then set out to come back to Australia the next month. He was released from the AIF on 24 February 1919. An individual VC beneficiary, Arthur Blackburn later stated, "I think all concur that no VC was ever preferred earned over Phil Davey's". Four of Davey's siblings had likewise enrolled, Claude, Richard, Joseph and Arthur, one of them apparently being younger than fifteen when he signed up. His siblings Claude and Richard were additionally granted the Military Medal amid World War I, Claude being executed in real life in 1917. 

In the wake of coming back from the war, Davey worked for South Australian Railways as a worker and linesman more than three periods somewhere in the range of 1926 and 1946: 27 April 1926 to 4 October 1938; 6 March 1939 to 12 February 1942; and 17 December 1943 to 22 February 1946. He wedded Eugene Agnes Tomlinson on 25 August 1928; they had no youngsters. In the wake of languishing over numerous years with bronchitis and emphysema, Davey kicked the bucket on 21 December 1953 of a coronary impediment. He was covered at the West Terrace AIF Cemetery, Adelaide, with full military distinctions. 

Just as the Victoria Cross, Military Medal, 1914– 15 Star, British War Medal and Victory Medal for his administration in World War I, Davey was later granted the King George VI Coronation Medal and Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Medal. His decoration set, including his Victoria Cross, was introduced to the Australian War Memorial in Canberra in 1967, and is shown in the Hall of Valor.