Bill Newton 

William Ellis (Bill) Newton, VC (8 June 1919 – 29 March 1943) was an Australian beneficiary of the Victoria Cross, the most noteworthy embellishment for valor even with the foe that can be granted to an individual from the British and Commonwealth military. He was respected for his activities as a plane pilot in Papua New Guinea amid March 1943 when, in spite of extreme enemy of air ship fire, he squeezed home a progression of assaults on the Salamaua Isthmus, the remainder of which saw him compelled to discard his air ship in the ocean. Newton was still authoritatively posted as missing when the honor was made in October 1943. It later risen that he had been kidnapped by the Japanese, and executed by decapitating on 29 March. 

Brought up in Melbourne, Newton exceeded expectations at game, playing cricket at youth state level. He joined the Citizen Military Forces in 1938, and enrolled in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) in February 1940. Portrayed as having the dash of "an Errol Flynn or a Keith Miller", Newton filled in as a flying educator in Australia before being presented on No. 22 Squadron, which started working Boston light aircraft in New Guinea late in 1942. Having recently participated in the Battle of the Bismarck Sea, he was on his fifty-second mission when he was shot down and caught. Newton was the main Australian pilot to get a Victoria Cross for activity in the South West Pacific auditorium of World War II, and the sole Australian to be so finished while flying with a RAAF squadron. 

Conceived in the Melbourne suburb of St Kilda on 8 June 1919, Bill Newton was the most youthful offspring of dental specialist Charles Ellis Newton and his second spouse Minnie. His three more established half-kin from Charles' prior marriage included two siblings, John and Lindsay, and a sister, Phyllis. Bill entered Melbourne Grammar School in 1929, yet after two years changed to the close-by St Kilda Park Central School as the family pay was decreased through the effect of the Great Depression. In 1934, matured fifteen, he had the capacity to come back to Melbourne Grammar where, notwithstanding battling with his schoolwork, he finished his Intermediate endorsement. He surrendered further examination when his dad kicked the bucket all of a sudden of a heart assault at the age of fifty-one, and started working in a silk distribution center. 

Considered while at school to be a future chief in the network, Newton was additionally a skilled all-round sportsman, playing cricket, Australian standards football, golf and water polo. A quick bowler in cricket, he was companions with Keith Miller, and gathered the Victorian Cricket Association (VCA) Colts bowling trophy for 1937– 38, while Miller gathered the proportionate batting prize. In January 1938, Newton rejected Test batsman Bill Ponsford—still the main Australian to twice score 400 out of a top of the line innings—for four out of a Colts diversion at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. The next year, he picked up choice in the Victorian Second XI. He opened the bowling against the New South Wales Second XI—his sole match—taking an aggregate of 3/113 including the wickets of Ron Saggers and Arthur Morris who, similar to Miller, proceeded to progress toward becoming individuals from the "Invincibles". 

Newton had been a sergeant in his cadet corps at school, and joined the Citizens Military Force on 28 November 1938, filling in as a private in the automatic weapon segment of the sixth Battalion, Royal Melbourne Regiment. Still utilized in the silk distribution center when World War II broke out in September 1939, he surrendered to join the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) on 5 February 1940. He had before endeavored to enroll when he turned eighteen of every 1937, except his mom would not give her authorization; with Australia now at war, she submitted. His siblings—dental practitioners by calling, similar to their dad—additionally enrolled in the military, John as a specialist lieutenant in the Royal Australian Navy and Lindsay as a chief in the Army Medical Corps. 

Newton embraced his underlying preparing with No. 1 Elementary Flying Training School in Parafield, South Australia, flying De Havilland Tiger Moths, and with No. 21 (City of Melbourne) Squadron at RAAF Station Laverton, Victoria, flying CAC Wirraways. He was granted his wings and authorized as a pilot officer on 28 June 1940. Following propelled preparing on Avro Ansons with No. 1 Service Flying Training School at RAAF Point Cook in September, he was chosen to turn into a flight educator. He finished the essential course at Central Flying School in Camden, New South Wales, and was elevated to flying officer on 28 December. He in this manner started preparing understudies under the Empire Air Training Scheme at No. 2 Service Flying Training School close Wagga, under the direction of Group Captain Frederick Scherger. 

In October 1941, Newton exchanged to No. 5 Service Flying Training School at Uranquinty. He discovered guidance baffling, as he yearned for a battle task. His fortunes changed in February 1942, when he was chosen for the route seminar on Ansons at the General Reconnaissance School based at Laverton. From that point he was sent to No. 1 Operational Training Unit at Sale, Victoria, for change to Lockheed Hudson twin-engined light planes amid March and April. 

Elevated to flight lieutenant on 1 April 1942, Newton was presented the next month on No. 22 (City of Sydney) Squadron, based at RAAF Station Richmond, New South Wales. Already outfitted with Hudsons, the unit had quite recently started changing over to the further developed Douglas Boston when Newton arrived. A companion depicted him as a "major reckless, agreeable man who could drink the greater part of us under the table, was a decent pilot, great at games, and had special insight with young ladies". No. 22 Squadron was occupied with guard escort and hostile to submarine watches off Sydney from July to September, before moving north to Townsville, Queensland. In November, it was conveyed to Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea, under the control of No. 9 Operational Group RAAF. 

Newton attempted the first of his fifty-two operational fights on 1 January 1943, under the authority of his boss, Squadron Leader Keith Hampshire. Amid February, Newton flew low-level missions through rainstorm conditions and perilous mountain territory, assaulting Japanese powers extended against Allied troops in the Morobe region. Toward the beginning of March, he partook in the Battle of the Bismarck Sea, one of the key commitment in the South West Pacific theater, bombarding and strafing Lae runway to keep its power of foe warriors taking off to capture Allied flying machine assaulting the Japanese armada. Newton picked up a notoriety for driving directly at his objectives without equivocal move, and continually abandoning them on fire; this earned him the moniker "The Firebug". The Japanese heavy weapons specialists, be that as it may, apparently knew him as "Blue Cap", from his propensity for wearing an old blue cricket top on tasks. Notwithstanding the perils of the air war in New Guinea, he was cited as saying, "The troops on the ground ought to get two decorations each, before any pilot gets one". 

On 16 March 1943, Newton drove a foray on the Salamaua Isthmus in which his Boston was hit over and again by Japanese enemy of air ship fire, harming fuselage, wings, fuel tanks and undercarriage. Notwithstanding this he proceeded with his assault and dropped his bombs at low dimension on structures, ammo dumps and fuel stores, returning for a second go at the objective so as to strafe it with automatic rifle shoot. Newton figured out how to recover his disabled machine to base, where it was observed to be set apart with ninety-eight shot gaps. After two days, he and his two-man team made a further assault on Salamaua with five different Bostons. As he besieged his assigned focus on, Newton's plane apparently burst into flares, raked by gun discharge starting from the earliest stage. Endeavoring to keep his flying machine on high as far as might be feasible to make tracks in an opposite direction from adversary lines, he had the capacity to dump in the ocean around seaward. 

The Boston's guide, Sergeant Basil Eastwood, was murdered in the constrained landing however Newton and his remote administrator, Flight Sergeant John Lyon, endure and figured out how to swim shorewards. A few of the other airplane in the flight orbited the territory; one came back to base straight away to educate Hampshire, and the rest of later compelled to withdraw through absence of fuel. Newton and Lyon initially advanced inland with the assistance of locals, intending to contact an Australian Coastwatcher, however therefore came back to the coast. There they were caught by a Japanese watch of No. 5 Special Naval Landing Force. The two pilots were taken to Salamaua and examined until 20 March, before being moved to Lae where Lyon was bayoneted to death on the requests of Rear Admiral Ruitaro Fujita, the senior Japanese officer in the zone. Newton was reclaimed to Salamaua where, on 29 March 1943, he was formally decapitated with a Samurai sword by Sub-Lieutenant Uichi Komai, the maritime officer who had caught him. Komai was executed in the Philippines before long, and Fujita ended it all toward the finish of the war. 

It was at first trusted that Newton had neglected to escape from the Boston after it jettisoned into the ocean, and he was posted as absent. Squadron Leader Hampshire had promptly dispatched a foray to recoup the pair that were most recently seen swimming for shore, however no indication of them was found. After two weeks, he composed a letter to Newton's mom in which he depicted her child's valor and communicated the expectation that he may yet be discovered alive. Hampshire finished up, "Bill is one of those uncommon colleagues I will miss for quite a while, and on the off chance that it is to be, recall for an age". The subtleties of his catch and execution were just uncovered soon thereafter in a journal found on a Japanese officer. Newton was not explicitly named, however conditional proof obviously recognized him, as the journal section recorded the decapitation of an Australian flight lieutenant who had been shot somewhere near enemy of air ship shoot on 18 March 1943 while flying a Douglas air ship. The Japanese spectator portrayed the detainee as "formed" notwithstanding his looming execution, and "unshaken to the last". After the beheading, a sailor cut open the dead man's stomach, announcing "Something for a day or two ago. Take that." 

General Headquarters South West Pacific Area, while discharging subtleties of the execution on 5 October, at first wouldn't name Newton. Beside the absence of total conviction as to ID, Air Vice Marshal Bill Bostock, Air Officer Commanding RAAF Command, fought that naming him would change the effect of the news upon Newton's individual No. 22 Squadron individuals "from the indifferent to the firmly close to home" and consequently "genuinely influence spirit". Updates on the abomination incited stun in Australia. While trying to reduce uneasiness among the groups of other missing pilots, the Federal government declared on 12 October that the relatives of the killed man had been educated of his demise. 

Newton was granted the Victoria Cross for his activities on 16– 18 March, turning into the main Australian pilot to acquire the adornment in the South West Pacific performance center of World War II, and the just one while flying with a RAAF squadron. The reference, which erroneously inferred that he was shot down on 17 March as opposed to the next day, and as having neglected to escape from his sinking airplane, was declared in the "London Gazette" on 19 October 1943: 

Covered at first in a plain bomb hole in Salamaua, Newton's body was recuperated and re-buried in Lae War Cemetery after Salamaua's catch by Allied troops in September 1943. In mid 1944, the as of late built No. 4 Airfield in Nadzab was renamed Newton Field in his respect. For a long time, the tale of Newton's demise was interlaced with that of an Australian commando, Sergeant Len Siffleet, who had likewise been caught in New Guinea. A renowned photo appearing going to be executed with a katana was found by American troops in April 1944 and was thought to have delineated Newton in Salamaua. Notwithstanding, no photo of the aviator's execution is known to exist. 

Newton's mom Minnie was given her child's Victoria Cross by the Governor-General, the Duke of Gloucester, on 30 November 1945. She gave it to the Australian War Memorial, Canberra, where it stays in plain view with his different awards. Newton is additionally celebrated on Canberra's Remembrance Driveway. During the 1990s, his companion Keith Miller effectively battled to guarantee that the Victoria Racing Club deserted an arrangement to rename the William Ellis Newton Steeplechase—keep running on Anzac Day—after a business support. Later in the decade, Miller likewise openly addressed Australia Post's prohibition of Newton from a progression of stamps highlighting prominent Australians, for example, cricketer Sir Donald Bradman. A plaque committed to No. 22 Squadron was disclosed at the Australian War Memorial by the Chief of Air Force, Air Marshal Angus Houston, on 16 March 2003, the sixtieth commemoration of Newton's assault on Salamaua.