Try not to Stop the Music (Rihanna melody) 

"Try not to Stop the Music" is a melody recorded by Barbadian artist Rihanna for her third studio collection, "Great Girl Gone Bad" (2007). It was discharged worldwide on September 7, 2007, as the fourth single of the collection. The melody was composed by Tawanna Dabney and its makers StarGate; Michael Jackson additionally got a songwriting credit for the inspecting of the line "Mom state, mom sa, mama ko-ssa" from Jackson's 1983 single "Wanna Be Startin' Somethin". Both Rihanna and Jackson were sued by Cameroonian performer Manu Dibango, who affirmed that the snare started in his 1972 tune "Soul Makossa". "Try not to Stop the Music" is a move track that highlights cadenced gadgets utilized basically in hip jump music. 

Numerous music columnists applauded the examining of the "Mother say, mom sa, mama ko-ssa" snare. The tune got various honors, including a Grammy Award assignment for Best Dance Recording. "Try not to Stop the Music" achieved number one of every nine nations, including Australia, France, Germany, and Switzerland. Achieving number four on the UK Singles Chart, it was guaranteed gold by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). The single topped at number three on the US "Board" Hot 100 and number one on the US "Announcement" Dance Club Songs diagrams. Confirmed multiple times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), it has sold more than 3.7 million duplicates in the US. 

Anthony Mandler recorded the tune's music video in Prague. In the video, Rihanna and her companions sneak into the back of a sweet store that contains a mystery club, and she parties with club-goers. The artist performed "Don't Stop the Music" at the 50th Annual Grammy Awards and the NRJ Music Awards in 2008, and included it on her Good Girl Gone Bad, Last Girl on Earth, Loud and Diamonds World Tour set records. The American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP) remembered it as a standout amongst the most-performed melodies of 2009. English account craftsman Jamie Cullum discharged a front of the tune as the second single from his 2009 collection "The Pursuit", and his form outlined in a few European nations. 

"Try not to Stop the Music" was composed and created by the Norwegian generation couple StarGate, with extra songwriting by Tawanna Dabney. Michael Jackson got a songwriting credit for the examining of the line "Mother say, mom sa, mama ko-ssa" from his 1983 single "Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'". Tim Sturges and Phillip Ramos gave extra generation to the tune. It was recorded at Battery Studios in New York City and Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles by Mikkel S. Eriksen and Al Hemberger. Phil Tan and Josh Houghkirk blended the single, and StarGate gave vocal creation and instrumentation. 

In February 2009, Cameroonian performer Manu Dibango recorded a claim guaranteeing that "Don't Stop the Music" and "Wanna Be Startin' Somethin utilized the "Mother say, mom sa, mama ko-ssa" snare without his consent. As indicated by Dibango, the line is from his 1972 single "Soul Makossa". Agence France-Presse announced that Jackson conceded that he acquired the line for "Wanna Be Startin' Somethin and settled out of court. At the point when Rihanna approached Jackson in 2007 for consent to test the line, he supposedly endorsed the solicitation without reaching Dibango previously. Dibango's lawyers got the case under the steady gaze of a court Paris, requesting €500,000 in harms and requesting Sony BMG, EMI and Warner Music to be "banished from accepting 'mother say mom sa'- related pay until the issue is settled". The judge decided that Dibango's case was forbidden: a year sooner, an alternate Paris-territory judge had required Universal Music to incorporate Dibango's name in the liner notes of future French arrivals of "Don't Stop the Music", and at the season of this prior court appearance, Dibango had pulled back lawful activity, subsequently deferring his ethical ideal to look for further harms. 

"Try not to Stop the Music" was the fourth single from Rihanna's third collection, "Great Girl Gone Bad" (2007). Prior to its discharge, two special remixes of the melody (Solitaire's More Drama and the Wideboys Club Mix) were added to computerized outlets in Canada and the United States on August 7, 2007. On September 7, an EP of the single was discharged by means of the iTunes Store in certain nations including Australia, Italy, New Zealand and Spain. The EP contains the Wideboys Club Mix and instrumental and collection forms of the melody. That day, "Don't Stop the Music" was discharged as a CD single in Germany with a similar material as the EP and the melody's music video. The next month, it was discharged as a CD single in France. Def Jam Recordings gave the tune to contemporary hit radio stations in the United States on January 15, 2008, and to cadenced contemporary stations seven days after the fact. Nine remixes, including the collection variant of the melody, were discharged on May 14 to computerized outlets in regions including Australia, Germany, New Zealand and Spain. 

"Try not to Stop the Music" is a four-minute, 27-second move tune, written in the key of F minor in like manner time, with a moderate rhythm of 123 beats for every moment. Rihanna's voice ranges from F to A. The syncopated tune tests an assortment of layered rhythms, with hip-jump rhythms and a substantial bass drumbeat prevailing. The tested "Mother say, mom sa, mama ko-ssa" was added to the game plan as a corresponding throbbing theme. 

Sal Cinquemani of "Inclination Magazine" depicted "Don't Stop the Music" as having a fun vibe like Rihanna's 2006 single "SOS". As per Fraser McAlpine of BBC's Chart Blog, Rihanna's vocals on the tune seem as though she recorded them to an alternate support track, "at that point offered them to some geeky beatmatcher with a broad accumulation of dim electro and great pop." McAlpine contrasted the refrains' vocal tune with that of Aaliyah's single "Attempt Again", the chorale to Madonna's "La Isla Bonita", and the base track to Eric Prydz-style stupor music. After the arrival of Rihanna's single "Just Girl (In the World)" in 2010, numerous faultfinders contrasted its piece and structure with "Don't Stop the Music". 

Music columnists commended the testing of the "Mother say, mom sa, mama ko-ssa" snare. For Pitchfork Media's Tom Breihan—who portrayed "Don't Stop the Music" as "a stunning piece of euroclub craziness joined with synth and bass"— the snare from Jackson's track easily mixes into the tune's ground-breaking beat. Scratch Levine of Digital Spy called "Don't Stop the Music" "splendid and accidental", and said that it was the best single with a Jackson composing credit since his 1997 "Blood on the Dance Floor". "PopMatters" Quentin B. Fit composed that "the Michael Jackson-testing 'Don't Stop the Music', moves the kind of tail plume shaking you can possibly deliver when you're reciting, 'Mother say, mom sa, mama ko-ssa. 

McAlpine called Rihanna's vocals "candidly expelled, somewhat far off and mischievous, however a smidge despairing and sad". As per a "New York Times" commentator, in "Don't Stop the Music" Rihanna "[found] richness in a ... serious techno beat". In 2012, "Announcement" positioned the tune thirteenth on its rundown of "Rihanna's 20 Biggest Billboard Hits" ever; they stated, "we oppose you to get the snare from this beating 2007 dancefloor most loved crazy." 

"Try not to Stop the Music" won the Best International Song grant at the 2008 NRJ Music Awards. It was named for Single of the Year at the 2008 Teen Choice Awards, losing to the Jonas Brothers' "The point at which You Look Me in the Eyes". The tune was assigned for Best Dance Recording at the 50th Grammy Awards, losing to Justin Timberlake's "LoveStoned/I Think She Knows". At the 2009 Kids' Choice Awards "Don't Stop the Music" was named as Best Favorite Song, losing to Beyoncé's "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)". At the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers Pop Music Awards, ASCAP remembered it as a standout amongst 2009's most-performed tunes. "Try not to Stop the Music" was a triumphant tune at the 2009 BMI Pop Awards. In 2014, David Drake of the magazine "Complex" called the single "one of the soonest shots discharged in the mainstreaming of move music" contrasted and regular 2007 top-forty toll. 

"Try not to Stop the Music" appeared at number 94 on the US "Announcement" Hot 100 graph in the issue dated December 8, 2007, and topped at number three on February 16, 2008, turning into Rihanna's fourth top-three single. It beat the US Dance Club Songs diagram (Rihanna's 6th number-one single), achieved number two on the Pop Songs graph and number 74 on the Hot R&B/Hip Hop Songs outline. "Try not to Stop the Music" had sold 3.7 million advanced duplicates in the US as of June 2015, and has been affirmed four-times platinum from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The melody achieved number two on the Canadian Hot 100, staying on the diagram for a sum of 52 weeks. It was Rihanna's second melody to achieve the diagram's main three, after "Umbrella". 

In Australia, "Don't Stop the Music" appeared at number 22 on February 3, 2008. Following three weeks, on February 24, the melody crested at number one and stayed there for about a month. It was Rihanna's third number-one single in the nation, after "SOS" and "Umbrella", staying on the graph for 27 weeks. "Try not to Stop the Music" graphed at number 12 on the multi year-end Australian Singles Chart. In 2015, the melody was affirmed multiple times platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for offers of more than 350,000 computerized duplicates. The single appeared at number 31 in New Zealand on October 12, 2007. In the wake of fluctuating for about a month, it crested at number three for a week and spent a sum of 22 weeks on the diagram. "Try not to Stop the Music" was affirmed gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ) in April 2008 for offers of more than 7,500 advanced duplicates. 

In the United Kingdom, the melody appeared at number 68 on December 15, 2007. Following seven weeks on the diagram, it topped at number four. In July 2013, the tune was guaranteed gold by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for offers of more than 400,000 advanced duplicates. The single was 24 on the multi year-end UK Singles Chart. "Try not to Stop the Music" appeared on the French Singles Chart on October 27, 2007, Rihanna's first number-one single on the graph. Staying at number one for about fourteen days, the melody spent a sum of 34 weeks on the diagram. On the German Singles Chart, it appeared at number two on September 24, 2007. Following two weeks, it achieved number one, remaining there for two successive weeks. "Try not to Stop the Music" was confirmed gold by the Bundesverband Musikindustrie for shipments of 100,000 duplicates. It was effective on the Swiss Singles Chart, topping at number one for five weeks. The tune achieved number one in Austria, Flanders and Wallonia in Belgium, Hungary and the Netherlands. 

The melody's music video was coordinated by Rihanna's standard executive, Anthony Mandler, and shot in a dance club in Prague, the Czech Republic. The video was carefully discharged on iTunes on July 26, 2007. It was transferred on Rihanna's Vevo channel on YouTube on November 21, 2009. 

In the video Rihanna and two companions land at a dance club in a yellow taxi, and enter a treat store where a kid is remaining with his mom. Rihanna advises the kid not to tell anybody where they are going, and the artist and her companions sneak into the back of the store (where there is a mystery dance club entrance). The account is intercut with Rihanna singing the tune against a divider and moving in the club. After she enters the club, she checks her cosmetics in a bathroom as she sings. 

Rihanna comes back to the move floor for the melody, moving and singing with her companions. Her individual club-goers applaud alongside the example from "Wanna Be Startin' Somethin. VH1's Christopher Rosa positioned the video eighteenth on his rundown of Rihanna's 20 hottest recordings: "This move by-numbers tune gets a facelift with its lively, enthusiastic video including R as the undisputed ruler of the clubs". 

"Try not to Stop the Music" was the fourteenth tune on the set rundown of Rihanna's 2007– 2009 Good Girl Gone Bad Tour, her first world visit. The artist's execution in Manchester was discharged in the United Kingdom through iTunes, and is highlighted on the "Great Girl Gone Bad Live" DVD. Rihanna performed "Don't Stop the Music" at the 2008 NRJ Music Awards in Cannes on January 26, 2008. She sang the tune at the 50th Grammy Awards on February 10, 2008 as half of a variety with "Umbrella" with American funk band The Time. On June 20, 2008 Rihanna was a visitor on NBC's "Today Concert Series" at Rockefeller Center in New York City, performing "Don't Stop the Music", "Umbrella" and "Soak up the adulation". 

After the 2009 United Kingdom arrival of her fourth collection, "Appraised R", Rihanna gave a Nokia limited time show at the Brixton Academy in London. She performed melodies from the new collection, including "Russian Roulette", "Hang tight" and "Hard" (the remainder of these sung with Young Jeezy). Rihanna additionally performed "Don't Stop the Music" and other recently discharged melodies, including "Disturbia", "Unfaithful" and "Soak up the adulation". On December 4, 2009 the artist performed on "The Release", MySpace Music's urban-music show arrangement. Rihanna played out her new material, squashed up with more seasoned tunes including "Don't Stop the Music", "Carry on with Your Life" and "Run This Town", against a foundation of stacked vintage TVs and silver mannequins. 

On February 1, 2010, Rihanna performed "Don't Stop the Music" and "Hard" on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show". She performed at the 2010 Kids' Choice Awards on March 27, 2010 in the Pauley Pavilion of the UCLA grounds, singing "Don't Stop the Music", "Hard" and her 2010 single "Discourteous Boy". To advance "Appraised R", Rihanna set out upon the 2010– 2011 Last Girl on Earth Tour (her second overall visit), where she played out the tune. In June 2011, Rihanna started the Loud Tour, her third major overall visit, where the single was twentieth on the set rundown. She performed "Don't Stop the Music" at Radio 1's Hackney Weekend on May 24, 2012 as the thirteenth melody on the set rundown, with a mammoth in front of an audience sphinx. The tune was on the set rundown for Rihanna's 2013 Diamonds World Tour, where she sang it as a component of a mixture with "S&M" and "Just Girl (In the World)". She likewise played out the melody at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards in a variety with "Just Girl (In the World)", "We Found Love" and "Where Have You Been". 

Amid the 6th period of the move unscripted tv arrangement "America's Best Dance Crew", the artists Phunk Phenomenon played out a Charlie Chaplinesque music-lobby variant of "Don't Stop the Music". In 2011, the California outside the box pop pair The Bird and the Bee secured the melody and posted it on SoundCloud. South Korean chronicle craftsman Hyoyeon, some portion of the young lady bunch Girls' Generation, secured the tune amid the gathering's 2011 visit. Her variant was incorporated on their second live collection, "2011 Girls' Generation Tour", which was discharged on April 11, 2013. In October 2011 Rihanna joined L.A. Reid at his home in the Hamptons to enable him to pass judgment on male candidates for the main period of the American form of "The X Factor", where competitor Philip Lomax played out a stripped-down variant of "Don't Stop the Music" for Rihanna and Reid. The tune was performed by the Treblemakers in the 2012 film "Pitch Perfect", and was incorporated on its soundtrack. 

English vocalist and musician Jamie Cullum secured "Don't Stop the Music" on his 2009 collection, "The Pursuit". Created by Martin Terefe, the melody was carefully discharged as the second single from the collection on January 25, 2010. Cullum's form substituted the first's electro-house groove with a "crooked" acoustic bass and "brushed" drumming. His version is in the key of A minor and set in like manner time at 100 beats for each moment, and his voice ranges from C to F. 

As indicated by "PopMatters" Will Layman, the piano forms the notch from delicate to uproarious (a system utilized by Herbie Hancock amid the 1960s). Adrian Edwards of BBC Music composed that Cullum's variant of "Don't Stop the Music" is a standout amongst the best tunes on "The Pursuit", and that "the novel creation methods and his broken-voiced arguing to his young lady on the move floor would mix well in any club with strobe lighting and the clunk of glasses at the bar." Cullum's adaptation crested at number two on the Ultratip outline in Belgium, number 28 in the Netherlands and number 58 in Germany. A music video for the tune was discharged on December 2, 2009 on Cullum's YouTube Vevo channel. 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "The Pursuit" (Decca Records). 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Good Girl Gone Bad" (Def Jam Recordings, SRP Records).