Thomas Ellison 

Thomas Rangiwahia Ellison, otherwise called Tom Ellison or Tamati Erihana (c. 1867 – 2 October 1904) was a New Zealand rugby association player and legal counselor. He drove the principal New Zealand agent rugby group sorted out by the New Zealand Rugby Football Union (NZRFU) on their 1893 voyage through Australia. Ellison additionally played in the 1888– 89 New Zealand Native football crew on their epic 107-coordinate visit, scoring 113 points, and 43 attempts with the side. 

Conceived in Otakou, Otago Heads, Ellison was instructed at Te Aute College, where he was acquainted with rugby. In the wake of moving to Wellington, Ellison played for the Poneke Football Club, and was chosen to play for Wellington area. He was enrolled into Joe Warbrick's secretly composed Native football crew in 1888, and kept on playing for both Poneke and Wellington on his arrival from that visit. In 1892, he began to refine and promote the wing-forward arrangement of play, which was a crucial component of New Zealand rugby's prosperity until 1932. At the first NZRFU yearly broad gathering in 1893, he recommended that the playing shades of the New Zealand side ought to be prevalently dark with a silver greenery—a playing strip that would give the group their renowned name "Everything being equal". He resigned from playing rugby in the wake of captaining the 1893 New Zealand side to New South Wales and Queensland, however proceeded in the game as a mentor and executive. Ellison was the creator of an instructing manual, "The Art of Rugby Football", distributed in 1902. 

Just as being one of the first Māori admitted to the bar, rehearsing as a specialist, and later as a lawyer, Ellison additionally stood ineffectively for the Southern Maori parliamentary seat a few times. Subsequent to contracting tuberculosis in 1904, he was quickly systematized before kicking the bucket soon thereafter. 

Thomas Rangiwahia Ellison was conceived in Otakou at Otago Heads, to Raniera Taheke Ellison and Nani Weller, at some point somewhere in the range of 1866 and 1868. He was named after his fatherly granddad, and his center name, "Rangiwahia", was given to pay tribute to his incredible uncle. Ellison was Māori: of Ngāi Tahu and Kāti Māmoe innate legacy through his mom, and of Te Āti Awa legacy through his dad. Acquainted with rugby at the time of around 14 by his cousins at Otakou, Ellison later composed of his first amusement: 

In the wake of finishing his training at Otakou Native School, Ellison was granted a grant in 1882 to go to the celebrated Māori optional school Te Aute College in the Hawke's Bay. He began playing composed rugby there, and amid his last two years played in the school group that won the Hawke's Bay senior club title. Sometime down the road Ellison asserted that at Te Aute he adapted, "about all I at any point knew about forward play". 

In the wake of moving to Wellington, Ellison joined the Poneke Football Club in 1885. The Poneke group played junior club rugby at the time, however were elevated to the senior challenge in the wake of winning every one of their matches that year. Following their advancement the side won the Wellington club title every year from 1886 to 1889. Ellison was chosen to play for the Wellington commonplace group in 1885, and kept on being chosen for Wellington until 1892. He in the end earned 23 tops—an extensive number for the time. At first Ellison played as a forward or on the wing, however later played half-back. 

In mid 1888 Joe Warbrick endeavored to sort out a private gathering of Māori players to visit Great Britain—later known as the New Zealand Native football crew. A cousin of Ellison's, Jack Taiaroa, who had visited with the New Zealand group that made a trip to New South Wales in 1884, helped Warbrick select players for his proposed visit. It was undoubtedly a result of Taiaroa that Ellison was convinced to join Warbrick's Natives group. Warbrick in the end gathered a side that included both Māori and non-Māori New Zealand-conceived players, and a few players brought into the world abroad. The last group comprised of 26 players, and visited New Zealand before leaving to Melbourne. They at that point visited Great Britain, Australia, lastly New Zealand once more—the outing kept going 14 months. Ellison played for the most part as a forward all through the visit, and played somewhere around 83 of the group's 107 matches; including at least 58 in Britain. 

Ellison played the majority of the Natives' three internationals—against Ireland, Wales, and England. The Ireland coordinate was the main worldwide of the visit, two months after their entry in the British Isles. The apparatus was played at Lansdowne Road, Dublin, on 1 December 1888, with Ellison in the advances. Ireland drove 3– 0 at half-time, however the Natives improved extensively in the second-half, scoring four attempts. The third attempt scored was by Ellison after a counter-assault by George Williams. The attempt was not changed over, yet the solid completion from the New Zealanders gave the group a 13– 4 triumph. The Irish press were astounded by the misfortune and emphatically reprimanded their group, yet Ireland proceeded to overcome Wales later that season. The match against Wales was soon thereafter, 22 December, in Swansea. Again Ellison played in the advances, and the Natives commanded for noteworthy times of the match. Ellison made a few in number runs, and at one point crossed the attempt line just to be conveyed over into play. They neglected to score, in any case, and Wales were successful 5– 0 (one transformation and two attempts to nil). 

A standout amongst the most remarkable occasions of the Natives' visit happened amid the match against England at Blackheath. Inferable from a disagreement regarding the arrangement of the International Rugby Football Board, England had not played a universal in about two years. This added to somewhere around twelve of their group lacking universal experience—anyway a large number of their players were from solid club and area sides. The match was remarkable for a debate between the New Zealanders and the match official—Rowland Hill. Right off the bat in the second half Ellison endeavored to handle the English player Andrew Stoddart, and in the process figured out how to rip his shorts off. The Natives' players instantly framed a hover around Stoddart to enable him to supplant his garments without being presented to the looks of the group. While this was occurring one of the English players, Frank Evershed, got the ball and scored an attempt. The New Zealanders challenged, trusting that play had halted in the wake of guaranteeing Stoddart had called "dead ball". Slope granted the attempt nonetheless, making a few of the Native players leave the field in dissent. The distressed players were in the long run influenced to return, however not before Hill had restarted play. Ellison was exceptionally condemning of Hill; especially on the grounds that Hill was additionally Secretary of England's Rugby Football Union. Composing after the visit, Ellison said of the episode: "gross as these mistakes were, they were immaterial when contrasted and another that Mr Hill submitted at the start of the diversion, viz, refereeing at all in that amusement". 

The group was commonly very generally welcomed outside London, and particularly in north, where rugby was commanded by the regular workers. Response to the group in the south, where the government funded school foundation controlled the diversion, was more negative, and the sportsmanship of the group was reprimanded. In spite of this, Ellison obviously appreciated the experience of visiting with the group, and in 1902 he expressed—"I will always remember the excursion, despite the amazingly substantial program of apparatuses we needed to experience. Maybe the most magnificent piece of our encounters was tasted less on the field of play as off it". 

Thomas Eyton, one of the advertisers of the visit, said of Ellison's commitment—"His insight into the better purposes of the amusement, his weight, quality and action rendered his administrations important." Ellison took an interest in the greater part of the Natives' matches, scoring 113, and 43 attempts on visit; this included 23 attempts in Britain and Ireland, four in New South Wales, five in Queensland, and ten in New Zealand. 

After finish of the visit, Ellison kept on playing for Poneke and Wellington. While playing with his club, Ellison actualized the utilization of a wing-forward and seven-man scrum positional framework. It isn't known precisely who designed the situation of wing-forward, yet Ellison asserted in "The Art of Rugby Football" that he had created it; history specialist Greg Ryan claims the position was created in northern England, and that Ellison just refined it in the wake of finding it amid the Natives' visit. The unmistakable component of wing-forward assume was their job of nourishing the ball into the scrum, and consequently clutching one of the hookers while the ball advanced through the scrum to the half-back. With the wing-forward bound to the side of the scrum, the restricting half-back would then need to move past them to handle the player with the ball; this would build the measure of time the half-back would have possessing the ball before their inverse could handle them. Ellison asserted that he concocted the position while playing for Poneke after he "thought that it was inconceivable for the most brilliant of arbitrators to identify and plentifully punish off-side impedances of rivals set on ruining my passes". 

Notwithstanding the starting points of the position, Ellison was instrumental in advancing its reception all through New Zealand. Despite the fact that it is indistinct whether the wing-forward was utilized amid the 1893 voyage through Australia, when of the All Blacks' first Test coordinate, played amid their 1903 Australian visit, the position was engrained inside the New Zealand style of play. The utilization of a wing-forward incited debate both in New Zealand, and later in the British Isles after the All Blacks visited there in 1905; wing-advances were regularly blamed for off-side block of the resistance half-back. As per Ellison be that as it may, in the event that the position was executed legitimately, at that point there would be no reason for grumbling. The wing-forward proceeded as an indispensable part of New Zealand rugby until long-standing objections from the associations of the Home Nations brought about the position being prohibited by the International Rugby Football Board in 1932. 

In 1892, the New Zealand Rugby Football Union (NZRFU—later renamed New Zealand Rugby Union) was framed by most of New Zealand's common rugby associations. Ellison was a Wellington commonplace head, and in 1893 at the debut NZRFU yearly broad gathering proposed the playing strip for the first formally authorized New Zealand side—dark top, dark shirt with white plant, white knickerbockers and dark tights. The white knickerbockers were in the long run supplanted with dark shorts, and the uniform itself depended on that ragged by the Native group Ellison had visited with. The dark uniform roused the moniker "All Blacks"— a name which has been received by the New Zealand national group since their Northern Hemisphere visit. 

The first NZRFU endorsed New Zealand group was framed to visit New South Wales and Queensland in 1893, and Ellison was chosen as their skipper. Three different individuals from the New Zealand Natives' group were likewise chosen for the side. Ellison played seven matches on the visit, including matches against New South Wales and Queensland. The group won ten of their eleven matches—the one misfortune being to New South Wales in Sydney. Notwithstanding scoring two attempts, Ellison kicked six changes and an objective from an imprint to give him 23 for the visit—the second most noteworthy of any player. The visit was the finish of his cooperation in the game as a player. 

Ellison's finished playing record included 117 matches, 68 of which were five star amusements. He scored an aggregate of 160 vocation focuses, including 51 attempts. Ellison proceeded with contribution with rugby as a common head, commonplace official, and director. As a manager, he recommended that players be monetarily made up for wages missed while on long visits; this was in 1898—about a century prior to rugby surrendered its novice status. This proposition connected explicitly to visits that went outside New Zealand; composing at the time with respect to the beginner guidelines, Ellison said "I feel that these laws were never planned to apply to expanded visits abroad." In 1902 he distributed "The Art of Rugby Football", an instructing manual on rugby that likewise included records of his encounters as a player. As indicated by writer Hayden Meikle the book was one of rugby's "spearheading writings", while Greg Ryan composed that the book "remains a great work on early rugby technique." 

Outside of his inclusion in rugby, Ellison was an attorney, and was one of the first Māori admitted to the bar. He rehearsed as a translator for the Land Courts and as a specialist; later, he functioned as a lawyer in the acts of Brandon and Hislop in Wellington. Ellison was additionally associated with legislative issues, and stood fruitlessly for the Southern Maori parliamentary seat a few times against Tame Parata, just as working for government thought of Ngāi Tahu land claims. He wedded Ethel May Howell, a little girl of John Howell, on 22 March 1899; the couple had three youngsters, just a single of whom endure early stages, little girl Hinemura who kicked the bucket in 1989. In 1904 Ellison was hit down with tuberculosis, and was admitted to Porirua Lunatic Asylum before kicking the bucket on 2 October that equivalent year. Ellison was covered in Otakou, Otago Heads, following the first arrangement of an internment at Karori. Delegates of Ellison's folks caught the body in Porirua, and his better half and Public Trustee at that point concurred for him to be covered at Otakou. There his headstone understands "One of the best rugby footballers New Zealand at any point had". 

Ellison's effect on New Zealand rugby is to such an extent that Māori scientist Malcolm Mulholland expressed he was "seemingly the player who contributed the most to New Zealand rugby". In 1916, while examining the topic of the best player New Zealand had created, the pseudonymous "Touchline" stated: "I am set up to state that the late T. R. Ellison... was the best of all." He proceeded to state: 

Ellison has been enlisted into the Māori Sports Hall of Fame, and in 2005 was recorded as one of "New Zealand's Top 100 History Makers". The New Zealand Native Football crew was enlisted into the World Rugby Hall of Fame (at that point the International Rugby Board Hall of Fame) in 2008, the principal side granted the respect.