John Wark 

John Wark (brought into the world 4 August 1957) is a Scottish previous footballer who invested the greater part of his playing energy with Ipswich Town. He won a record four Player of the Year grants before getting to be one of the four debut individuals from the club's Hall of Fame. Wark had long spells at the club, which bookended his vocation, and a third, brief interval separating his briefer periods at Liverpool and Middlesbrough. An adaptable player, Wark played the greater part of his expert amusements as a midfielder, in spite of the fact that he here and there played as a focal safeguard and once in a while as a striker. 

Conceived in Glasgow, Wark spoke to Scotland in worldwide football, winning 29 tops and scoring seven objectives. This included determination for Scotland in the 1982 FIFA World Cup in which he showed up and scored twice. 

Amid his playing vocation, Wark showed up in the film "Break to Victory". Since resigning as an expert player in 1996, he has kept on working for Ipswich Town—since September 2008 in the corporate neighborliness division. His personal history, "Wark On", was distributed in 2009. 

Wark was conceived on 4 August 1957, in Glasgow Royal Maternity Hospital to guardians Alex and Helen. The third of four kids, he has a more seasoned sister Wilma, more seasoned sibling Alex and more youthful sibling Andrew. The family lived in a four-story apartment obstruct in Partick. The family was ruined: Wark's folks couldn't bear the cost of a bunk and as a little tyke, he dozed in a cabinet from a sideboard. In spite of the fact that dedicated John, Wark was before long alluded to by his family as Johnny, a humble that stuck all through his footballing profession. 

In the mid 1960s, the family moved to another apartment obstruct, this time in Scotstoun, and Wark's dad verified work at adjacent Albion Motors. The new home suited a back yard in which Wark played football from the age of six. He said "[f]ootball appeared to possess 99 percent of my time as a youth" as he endeavored to copy his sibling Alex, who had turned into an expert at St Mirren. Wark went to Scotstoun Primary School, where he moved toward becoming chief of the football crew. On moving to auxiliary school, he was chosen for the Glasgow Schools agent group. He additionally played for Drumchapel Amateurs at the under-14 level, where he was, for a period, overseen by David Moyes' dad, likewise named David. 

Amid Wark's time at Drumchapel, he pulled in the consideration of Celtic. He prepared with the club at their Parkhead ground, before getting an encouragement to sign student frames for the club. As a deep rooted Rangers fan with whom Celtic have a remarkable contention and with enthusiasm from "a few English clubs", including Bristol City, Manchester City and Ipswich Town, Wark slowed down on the offer. He trialed with both Ipswich Town and Manchester City, and chose Ipswich when the last remained wary. On landing in Portman Road, Town supervisor Bobby Robson, later portrayed by Wark as the individual in football "who had the single greatest effect on [him]", by and by invited him and Wark marked with the club as a student. 

Wark began his profession at Ipswich in the young group, at first playing at left back before moving to the focal point of barrier and sometimes involving the privilege back position. He joined as an expert for the club on his seventeenth birthday celebration. Chosen for the senior squad as a substitution for the harmed Kevin Beattie, Wark made his first-group debut on 27 March 1975 in the 3– 2 FA Cup sixth round (third replay) triumph over Leeds United; the amusement was played at Leicester City's Filbert Street. An apprehensive and nostalgic Wark was consoled by director Robson: 

"My presentation was in the quarter-last of the FA Cup against the Leeds group of Giles and Bremner. He [Robson] stated, 'I wouldn't place you in the group in the event that I didn't think you were sufficient'. He was a dad figure also on the grounds that I was yearning to go home. On the off chance that it hadn't been for the supervisor I would have been straight back to Glasgow." 

Showing up instead of harmed regulars, Wark finished the season still on the young group, and experienced achievement in the last of the FA Youth Cup, crushing West Ham United 5– 1. He spent a significant part of the 1975– 76 season playing for the stores, and was given the club's Young Player of the Year grant, in spite of showing up for the senior group. Moving into midfield, Wark showed up in the 1976– 77 season, scoring his first objectives for the club, (10, taking all things together) assuming control over punishment kicking obligation; he likewise gotten his first red card. 

In the June 1977, Wark was chosen for the Scotland squad out of the blue, for a well disposed match against East Germany; in any case, a torn hamstring supported in pre-season preparing finished any opportunity of a universal presentation. The damage likewise kept him out of first-group football until January 1978, when he returned for a match against Cardiff City in the third round of the 1977– 78 FA Cup. 

Apathetic association exhibitions that season implied that Ipswich completed only three over the transfer zone, however the season finished in achievement in the FA Cup. Wark scored in a 3– 1 triumph over West Bromwich Albion in the semi-last, and showed up in the last at Wembley as a feature of a side that astonished top choices Arsenal, winning 1– 0. Wark commented, "We were dark horses however on the day we pounded them." Wark did not contact the ball for the initial 18 minutes of the match, and as the players left the pitch at half-time, David Geddis said to Wark, "Ensure you hit it between the posts in the second-half. Keep away from the white bits." In the second 50% of the amusement, Wark "disregarded Geddis' recommendation and hit Pat Jennings' correct post twice with practically indistinguishable swerving right-foot shots from outside the punishment region". 

Twice in the three seasons that pursued, Ipswich came extremely close to winning the League title, yet completed as sprinters up to Liverpool and Aston Villa, individually. Be that as it may, Ipswich won the club's solitary European trophy when they lifted the 1980– 81 UEFA Cup. Wark set a challenge record by scoring 14 objectives—including two, one in every leg—in the last as Ipswich defeated Dutch side AZ 67 Alkmaar 5– 4 on total. Wark's record equalled the long-standing scoring record in an European challenge, set by José Altafini of A.C. Milan in the 1962– 63 European Cup. Wark's own triumph that year was to win an European honor, Young Player of the Year, and increase the approval of his kindred experts in England to procure the PFA Player of the Year grant. He finished the 1980– 81 season with 36 objectives. 

Wark kept on playing for Ipswich, however after Robson left to move toward becoming England administrator in 1982, the side was progressively separated by new chief Bobby Ferguson. Following a rejected interest for a pay increment, Wark presented an exchange demand, which was acknowledged. He marked for Liverpool for £450,000 on 10 March 1984. At the time, Liverpool had won the group title multiple times, the European Cup multiple times and the League Cup multiple times in the first eight seasons. 

Wark's last full season at Portman Road, 1982– 83, had seen him record the most astounding group objectives count of his vocation. He scored 20 objectives in 42 class amusements, however it was insufficient to keep Ipswich from slipping to ninth spot in the last table – their most reduced position since completing eighteenth in 1978. 

The therapeutic examination for Wark's exchange to some degree shocked him: 

"I was fairly shocked when the specialist went into the Anfield boot room", Wark said. "He was little in stature and I really wanted to distinguish the smell of liquor on his breath as he acquainted himself with me. I was considerably increasingly shocked when he reported we would remain put to direct the therapeutic examination. "He took my circulatory strain, took a gander at the perusing and murmured 'that is fine'. At that point something happened that right up 'til the present time regardless I can't get over. He requested that I twist down and contact my toes. "Doing whatever it takes not to demonstrate my shock, I did precisely as he asked and as I lifted my head he talked once more, this opportunity to report 'you've passed'. That was it, my Liverpool medicinal." 

Wark made his presentation for the club on 31 March 1984 out of a 2– 0 association win against Watford at Vicarage Road, and scored Liverpool's opening objective in the 58th moment. Liverpool won the English association title that season, and Wark showed up to gain himself an award. His unordinary capacity as a goalscoring midfielder was in plain view when he completed the 1984– 85 season as the club's top goalscorer, in front of productive striker Ian Rush, with a count of 27 objectives in 62 appearances—an objective each 2.3 recreations. Wark's season included three cap deceives, one each in the League, the FA Cup and the European Cup. Liverpool met all requirements for the 1985 European Cup Final however the match was dominated by the Heysel Stadium Disaster, a catastrophe Wark recalls as "a bad dream memory". 

In the 1985– 86 season, Wark showed up, scoring multiple times, yet passed up the club's run-in to their League and FA Cup "twofold", because of a broken lower leg endured soon after the turn of 1986, trailed by an Achilles ligament damage. He in the end recovered his wellness yet attempted to recapture his place in the Liverpool group until damage to Steve McMahon permitted him back in. Wark went ahead as a late substitute (however as indicated by him, never contacted the ball) when Liverpool lost the 1987 League Cup Final to Arsenal. No longer a piece of supervisor Kenny Dalglish's arrangements following the entry of new midfielders including John Barnes, Wark was sold back to Ipswich on 4 January 1988 for £100,000. Disregarding more monetarily rewarding ideas from both Watford and Coventry City, he pursued Bobby Robson's recommendation: "Cash isn't all that matters—go where you will be most joyful." Wark left the Merseyside club with a record of 42 objectives in 108 appearances, an objective each 2.6 amusements. 

Ipswich had been consigned year and a half before Wark's arrival to the club were all the while playing in the second level of English football. Amid this second spell at Ipswich, Wark was near being an ever-present in the side: he missed only two diversions in two seasons. He was the club's equivalent top-scorer in the 1988– 89 season, offering the accomplishment to advances Dalian Atkinson and Jason Dozzell. 

Following three periods of mid-table completions, chief John Duncan was sacked and supplanted by John Lyall. With his agreement terminating, Wark got what he viewed as a "derisory" offer from Lyall, which he declined. When he turned into a free operator, Wark marked on a free exchange for Second Division rivals Middlesbrough in August 1990. In his two extra seasons with Ipswich, Wark had scored 20 objectives, and won the club's Player of the Year grant in the two seasons. 

Wark marked for Middlesbrough, the main club to demonstrate "a distinct enthusiasm" in him, on a two-year contract, moving back to play in the focal point of safeguard. He showed up and helped the group to seventh spot before the finish of the period and capability for the Second Division play-offs. Following a 1– 1 draw with Notts County at Ayresome Park, Wark was educated by director Colin Todd that he would not be chosen for the second leg. Wark was offended; Middlesbrough lost the second leg 1– 0. Todd left from the club and was supplanted by Lennie Lawrence, who demanded that all players live "inside an hour of Ayresome Park". Wark was all the while living in Ipswich at the time and following a "reasonable understanding" with Lawrence, Wark's agreement was ended and he turned into a free specialist once more. 

Staying without a club before the beginning of the 1991– 92 season, Wark prepared with Ipswich to stay in shape, and rejected enthusiasm for his administrations from Leyton Orient, Colchester United and Falkirk. At the point when Ipswich endured a progression of wounds among their safeguards, they offered him an agreement, at first on seven days by-week premise, before verifying a year-long arrangement. Wark showed up in the primary period of his third spell with the club. Early outcomes in the season were magnificent; the club won seven of their initial 11 coordinates in the association. In the FA Cup, Ipswich advanced to a fifth round experience against Liverpool; when the attach went to a replay at Anfield, Wark got an overwhelming applause from the two arrangements of fans. Ipswich lost the match 3– 2 after additional time, having driven 2– 1 in the primary time frame. Ipswich proceeded to complete firmly in their group crusade and were delegated Second Division champions and advanced into the recently shaped Premier League. Wark finished the season as the club's Player of the Year for the third time. 

Wark consented to another one-year contract for the 1992– 93 season and was approached to highlight in a Sky Sports notice to advance the debut Premier League rivalry. Ipswich were the main Premier League club to stay unbeaten after eight recreations (a grouping that incorporated Wark's first Premier League objective in a 1– 1 draw with Tottenham Hotspur). Ipswich went fourth in February and there was discussion of at long last winning that title that had escaped them more than once amid Wark's first spell there, however 13 sequential recreations without a success came about a sixteenth spot complete in the table, only three points over the assignment zone, and just a success on the last day of the period ensured their survival. Wark, presently matured 37, verified one more one-year contract without further ado before the finish of the 1993– 94 season. Ipswich were spared from transfer in the last round of matches (for the second season running, another great begin had offered path to a late season droop), politeness of damage time winning objective scored by Mark Stein of Chelsea at Stamford Bridge, which guaranteed that Ipswich's kindred strugglers Sheffield United went down. Wark proceeded to be casted a ballot the club's Player of the Year for a record fourth time. 

Ipswich and Wark fared more regrettable in the 1994– 95 season. The club lost 9– 0 to Manchester United amid a season in which Ipswich "recorded less triumphs and endured a bigger number of thrashings than in any battle in the club's history". He was sent off in the away amusement at Norwich, where the group lost 3– 0. Wark showed up in the accompanying season, fundamentally as a result of persevering foot damage. In spite of his appearance in three additional matches in the 1996– 97 season, and a tribute against Arsenal at Portman Road, Wark played his last proficient match against Tranmere Rovers on 30 November 1996 at 39 years old. By this stage, he was the club's most seasoned player. Of an all out 826 group matches played by Wark as an expert, he showed up for Ipswich. , he is Ipswich Town's third-most elevated unsurpassed scorer, with 179 objectives scored for the club, regardless of once in a while showing up as a striker. 

From 1979, Wark was chosen to play for his nation, as a rule as a safeguard, in the long run winning 29 tops for Scotland and scoring seven objectives. Muscle head Stein was the Scotland chief who gave him his introduction, in a diversion hung on 19 May 1979, a British Home Championship coordinate against Wales at Ninian Park; Scotland lost 3– 0. Wark scored his first worldwide objective seven days after the fact on 26 May, again in a British Home Championship amusement, this time against England at Wembley. Wark's opening exertion was insufficient, as Scotland were vanquished 3– 1. After seven days Wark played for Scotland in a well disposed against Argentina at Hampden Park. In any case, the amusement is best associated with the execution of Diego Maradona who scored his first universal objective and whose execution drove Argentina to an agreeable 3– 1 win over the Scots. 

After a 3– 1 home thrashing by Belgium in December 1979, Wark was not chosen again for his nation until February 1981 for the 1982 World Cup qualifying match away against Israel. Following a fruitful capability crusade, Wark was incorporated into the Scotland squad that went to the World Cup in Spain under Stein's initiative. Wark played three diversions and scored two objectives, the two of which were Scotland's opening match against New Zealand, an amusement Scotland won 5– 2. Scotland were thumped out in the gathering stage. 

Wark's last appearance for Scotland came in September 1984, under Stein; he was supplanted for Paul McStay at half-time in a 6– 1 triumph over Yugoslavia. 

Wark has hitched twice—first to Toula, on 1 July 1981, with whom he has a child, Andrew, conceived in June 1983. He wedded Karen at Gretna Green in April 2009. They live in Onehouse close Stowmarket in Suffolk. 

In 1981, Wark was one of a few Ipswich players who showed up close by stars including Bobby Moore and Pelé in the Second World War football film "Getaway to Victory", which featured Sylvester Stallone, Michael Caine and Max von Sydow. Wark played a character called Arthur Hayes, yet his solitary line was named because of his wide Glaswegian pronunciation. 

Following his retirement from playing football expertly, Wark kept on living in Suffolk, in the same way as other ex-Ipswich players, including Allan Hunter, Mick Mills, Roger Osborne and Mick Lambert. Regardless of his retirement from the expert positions, Wark kept playing football as a beginner, and marked for Woodbridge Town in 1999 close by previous Ipswich colleague Paul Mason. He likewise played veterans football for Windsor and Eton, played with Soccer AM's "Badgers" group at the Millennium Stadium, and has spoken to the Liverpool veterans in the Sky Sports Masters arrangement. 

In 2005, Wark was casted a ballot as the BBC TV program Football Focus "unequaled clique legend" by Ipswich Town fans. In 2008 Radio Suffolk declared that he would join their critique group as a summariser, nearby previous colleagues Kevin Beattie and Bryan Hamilton. Wark was working in the corporate friendliness office at Ipswich Town in September 2008. As of March 2014, he stays in that activity. 

Wark's life account "Wark On" was distributed on 9 April 2009. The book contained material that picked up media intrigue. Wark expressed that he made "a little fortune by beating tickets for the FA Cup Final to an obscure black market ticket tout". "Wark utilized a lot of the money to help pay for his wedding while a partner bankrolled a house augmentation. He included: "Different groups had done it, so is there any valid reason why we shouldn't? These days it's illicit yet in those days it was viewed as an advantage." The report additionally featured Wark's "burrow" at the current "harvest of stars" at Anfield. He stated: "None of that part would have been sufficient in my time at Anfield." 

Wark played as a focal protector, midfielder and, once in a while, as a striker. Wark was a strange player; he had the capacity to play as a protective midfielder yet break forward to score. As indicated by previous partner Terry Butcher, this was on the grounds that his associates would drop back to cover for him: "I played with John Wark, who was a sitting midfielder however was one of the top scorers in England and Europe. In the event that you see it, at that point do it, as long as the others spot it and spread for you." 

Wark was not an "especially skilled" player, however, as per football columnist Jim White, one who embraced cooperation and camaraderie: "There is no doubt that the 'one-for-all, for one' mindset produced in the Anfield changing area was the motor that drove the extraordinary group. With players, for example, Alan Kennedy, John Wark, Sammy Lee and Craig Johnston, no one could guarantee this was a gathering of first rate administrators in the way, state, of the present Real Madrid. Consistently, they played as an element more prominent than the total of its parts." He has been portrayed as "a guarded midfielder with a bewildering goalscoring record". 

Throughout the years, Wark has turned out to be intently connected with his mustache. Owen Slot portrayed the player as "Ipswich's undying mustache", while Wark himself notes "... it is something of a trademark, regardless of whether individuals are continually calling me Bruce ..." 

In 2006 Wark picked up the last spot in the survey 100 Players Who Shook the Kop, directed by the liverpoolfc.tv site. The rundown was incorporated because of a fan overview: "More than 110,000 supporters all designated their very own Top 10 players arranged by effect made". 

In 2007, the Professional Footballers' Association surveyed aficionados of all Football League clubs, as to "their No 1 player" as a feature of the "century festivities of the players' association"; Wark was the decision of Ipswich fans. Around the same time, Wark was one of four Ipswich Town players to be enlisted into the club's Hall of Fame. 

Champ 

Sprinter up 

Champ 

Sprinter up