Enthiran 

Enthiran () is a 2010 Indian Tamil-language sci-fi activity movie composed and coordinated by S. Shankar. It is the main portion in the "Enthiran" establishment. The film stars Rajinikanth and Aishwarya Rai in lead jobs; Danny Denzongpa, Santhanam and Karunas assume supporting jobs. The soundtrack collection and foundation score were formed by A. R. Rahman while the discoursed, cinematography, altering and craftsmanship heading were dealt with by Madhan Karky, R. Rathnavelu, Anthony and Sabu Cyril individually. 

The story rotates around the battle of researcher Vaseegaran (played by Rajinikanth) to control his creation, an android named Chitti (likewise played by Rajinikanth), after Chitti's product is moved up to enable it to fathom and display human feelings. The task reverse discharges when the robot begins to look all starry eyed at the researcher's better half (Rai), and is controlled by Bohra (Denzongpa), an opponent researcher, into getting to be murderous. 

In the wake of being slowed down in the improvement stage for almost 10 years, the film's foremost photography started in 2008 and endured two years. The film denoted the introduction of Legacy Effects studio (which was in charge of the film's prosthetic make-up and animatronics) in Indian film. "Enthiran" was discharged worldwide on 1 October 2010, alongside its named variants: "Robot" in Hindi and "Robo" in Telugu. Delivered by Kalanithi Maran, it was India's most costly film up to that point. 

The film got commonly positive audits upon discharge. Faultfinders were especially keen to Rajinikanth's execution, Rathnavelu's cinematography, Cyril's specialty bearing and the enhanced visualizations by V. Srinivas Mohan. "Enthiran" rose as the top-gaining Indian film of 2010 and is the fourth-most elevated earning South Indian film ever. It won two Indian National Film Awards, three Filmfare Awards, seven Vijay Awards and two Screen Awards. "Enthiran" was followed up by its independent continuation, "2.0", which discharged in 2018. 

Following a time of research, the researcher Vaseegaran makes a refined android robot with the assistance of his associates, Siva and Ravi, to commission it into the Indian Army. He presents the robot, named Chitti, at an apply autonomy gathering in Chennai. Chitti helps Sana, Vaseegaran's restorative understudy sweetheart, cheat in her examination, at that point spares her from being ambushed by a gathering of hooligans. Vaseegaran's coach, Professor Bohra, is covertly occupied with a venture to make comparative android robots for a psychological oppressor association, however has so far been ineffective. 

Vaseegaran plans Chitti for an assessment by the Artificial Intelligence Research and Development (AIRD) Institute, which is going by Bohra. Amid the assessment, Chitti endeavors to cut Vaseegaran at Bohra's direction, which persuades the assessment council that the robot is a risk and can't be utilized for military purposes. Vaseegaran's push to refute Bohra comes up short when he conveys Chitti to protect individuals from a consuming structure. The robot spares the majority of them, including a young lady named Selvi who was washing at the time, however she is embarrassed at being seen bare on camera and escapes, just to be hit and killed by a truck. Vaseegaran requests one month to alter Chitti's neural mapping to empower it to comprehend human conduct and feelings, to which Bohra concurs. While nearing the due date, Chitti winds up irate with Vaseegaran, showing to him that it can show feelings. 

Chitti utilizes Sana's course books to effectively help Sana's sister Latha bring forth a kid. Bohra salutes Vaseegaran on the accomplishment and permits Chitti to pass the AIRD assessment. Chitti creates sentimental affections for Sana after she compliments Chitti by kissing it. Whenever Vaseegaran and Sana understand this, Sana discloses to Chitti that they are just companions. Disheartened by Sana's dismissal, yet still infatuated with her, Chitti intentionally falls flat an assessment directed by the Indian Army. Infuriated, Vaseegaran slashes Chitti into pieces, which are dumped by Siva and Ravi into a landfill site. 

Bohra visits the site to recover Chitti, which has now reassembled itself, but in a harmed state. Bohra inserts a red chip inside Chitti while reproducing it, changing over it into rendition 2.0, which is increasingly forceful and unempathetic. It then gatecrashes Vaseegaran and Sana's wedding, captures Sana, makes imitations of itself and executes Bohra. Utilizing its robot armed force, Chitti possesses AIRD and causes pandemonium in the city. In the wake of educating Sana that it has obtained the human capacity to duplicate, Chitti wishes to wed her with the goal that a machine and a person can bring forth a prearranged youngster, however Sana won't. It in the long run discovers Vaseegaran, who entered AIRD to stop it, and about executes him before the police show up. The following fight between Chitti's robot armed force and the police faculty prompts a ton of property decimation and numerous setbacks. Vaseegaran in the long run catches Chitti utilizing an attractive divider and gets to its inward control board, whereby he trains the various robots to self-destruct. He at that point evacuates Chitti's red chip, quieting it. 

In a court hearing, Vaseegaran is condemned to death for the losses and harms brought about by the robot armed force, yet Chitti clarifies that it was Bohra who caused its degenerate conduct and demonstrates the court video film of Bohra introducing the red chip. The court discharges Vaseegaran, while requesting that Chitti be destroyed. Left with no decision, Vaseegaran asks Chitti to disassemble itself. While bidding a fond farewell, Chitti apologizes to Vaseegaran and Sana, who excuse it, before disassembling itself. 

The film's setting at that point movements to 2030. Chitti is presently a historical center display. An inquisitive school understudy on trip asks her guide for what reason it was destroyed, to which Chitti reacts, ""Naan sinthikka arambichen"" ("I began considering"). 

Following the consummation of his first directorial adventure in Hindi, "Nayak" (2001), S. Shankar reported his next venture, "Robot", which was to highlight Kamal Haasan and Preity Zinta. The film was to be delivered by the now-ancient organization Media Dreams, a division of Pentamedia Graphics. The film was accounted for to be a modern techno-spine chiller set in Chennai in around 2200 or 3000 AD. Regardless of the fruition of a photoshoot including Haasan and Zinta, the venture was retired because of booking clashes with Haasan. Shankar thusly begun work on "Young men" (2003). 

After "Young men", Shankar started chip away at his next element featuring Vikram, which was at first announced by Rediff.com to be "Robot" resuscitated, however was later uncovered as "Anniyan" (2005). One month post the arrival of his activity film "Sivaji" in June 2007, he moved toward Shah Rukh Khan for the lead in "Robot". Khan was going to deliver it under his own standard, Red Chillies Entertainment, however in October that year the undertaking was authoritatively prematurely ended because of inventive contrasts between the two. 

The undertaking was restored in January 2008 with Eros International and the London-based generation organization Ayngaran International willing to create the film. The state administration of Tamil Nadu conceded charge exclusions for movies titled in Tamil, bringing about the new generation being renamed "Enthiran". While Sujatha Rangarajan was initially doled out to compose the exchange for the film, Madhan Karky took over after Rangarajan's passing in February 2008. In December 2008, Eros International pulled back from subsidizing the venture after monetary challenges brought about by the movies disappointment of "Drona" (2008) and "Yuvvraaj" (2008), with the resulting takeoff of Ayngaran International, which battled with the worldwide money related emergency of 2007– 08. The film's creation and discharge rights were sold to Sun Pictures. 

In January 2008, Rajinikanth acknowledged the lead job in the film for a compensation of 450 million (Indian rupees). Shankar revised the first content to suit Rajinikanth's acting style. In a meeting with the Tamil channel Sun TV, held not long after the film's discharge in October 2010, Rajinikanth uncovered that Shankar, following the arrival of his "Indian" in 1996, had drawn closer and pitched three storylines for him to consider for his next endeavor. Rajinikanth was inspired with two of the contents and consented to star in the movies, which progressed toward becoming "Sivaji" and "Enthiran". The third content described by Shankar concentrated on a trying muscle head; it in the long run progressed toward becoming "I" (2015). 

In spite of the fact that Aishwarya Rai was Shankar's unique decision for the female lead in 2001, she declined it attributable to a bustling timetable and was supplanted by Zinta. At the point when Shankar resuscitated the task with Rajinikanth, contenders for the part included Priyanka Chopra, Deepika Padukone, Shriya Saran and Rai, who was at last chosen and paid 60 million. Rai's voice was named by Savitha Reddy. 

A few performing artists were considered for the job of Professor Bohra, including Amitabh Bachchan, J. D. Chakravarthy, Sathyaraj and British performing artist Ben Kingsley, yet it was Danny Denzongpa who in the end got it, making "Enthiran" his first film in Tamil. Naming for Denzongpa was given by Kadhir. Comics Santhanam and Karunas were cast to depict Vaseegaran's partners Siva and Ravi individually. 

The soundtrack collection and foundation score were made by A. R. Rahman. Vairamuthu, P. Vijay and Madhan Karky composed the verses for the tunes. Manoj Bharathiraja, child of producer P. Bharathiraja, was marked on to be an associate chief after he moved toward Shankar. Likewise filling in as right hand chiefs were Atlee, Shree and Karthik G. Krish. Sabu Cyril, notwithstanding being the movie's specialty chief, showed up as Shah, a translator among Bohra and the psychological militant association. 

R. Rathnavelu was employed as the cinematographer after Ravi K. Chandran, Nirav Shah and Thiru were considered. Anthony was the film's editorial manager. Yuen Woo-ping, known for his work in "The Matrix" set of three and the "" films, was chosen to be the trick co-ordinator, while Legacy Effects, an enhanced visualizations studio situated in the United States, were accountable for the prosthetic make-up and animatronics in the film. Munich-based film specialized organization, Panther, were in charge of the crane shots. The film's caption subtitling was finished by Rekha Haricharan. 

Manish Malhotra and Mary E. Vogt were picked to plan the film's ensembles. Fifty-seven ensembles were utilized for Rai, including a "Mexican innate" look that she wore amid the shooting of the "Kilimanjaro" fragment. As indicated by make-up craftsman Banu, no prosthetics were utilized for Rajinikanth to abstain from troubling him by retention his time on set. Extra make-up was by Vance Hartwell, a representative of Legacy Effects. 

The visual appearance of Chitti depended on the G.I. Joe activity figures. For Chitti's "miscreant robot" look, its hair was spiked and dark colored shaded focal points were utilized for its eyes, while for its "great robot" look, green hued focal points were utilized. The wig utilized for Chitti's "lowlife robot" look had a silver streak in the center, made out of Yak hair, while its calfskin coat was structured by Vogt. To make Vaseegaran look develop, the group made Rajinikanth sport an Oakley facial hair. Suits made of copper were utilized for Chitti's ensembles. 

For Sabu Cyril's sets, Shankar required around twice as much studio floor space concerning his past film. In the wake of dismissing Ramoji Film City for specialized reasons, "Enthiran" maker, Kalanithi Maran, took a half year to set up three cooled studio floors ashore in Perungudi claimed by Sun TV Network. Shooting started on 15 February 2008 at AVM Studios in Chennai. After the underlying phases of shooting, Shankar and Rathnavelu visited the world for three weeks, exploring for intriguing recording areas. They visited Austria, Germany, Peru, Brazil and Argentina, searching for a background to shoot the "Kilimanjaro" and "Kadhal Anukkal" portions, in the long run settling on Peru and Brazil. "Kilimanjaro" was taped at the remains of the Incan city of Machu Picchu in Peru, with some 100 Brazilian additional items. It was arranged by Raju Sundaram and administered by Fernando Astete, executive of the Machu Picchu archeological park. "Kadhal Anukkal" was taped in Lençóis Maranhenses National Park in northeastern Brazil. 

The shooting for's first experience with the worldwide mechanical autonomy gathering was finished in December 2008 at Sri Sivasubramaniya Nadar College of Engineering and Vellore Institute of Technology, where more than 400 students were utilized as additional items. Further film was shot more than five days at the Ennore Port on the Mitsui O.S.K. Lines vehicle bearer, "Neptune Ace". An activity grouping where Chitti spares Sana from hooligans was taped in Lonavla, under the supervision of the activity choreographer Peter Hein. Scenes including Rajinikanth as Chitti were caught more than five days at the Perungudi Dump Yard in Chennai. Sabu Cyril told Uma Kannan of "The New Indian Express" that the sets for the peak grouping, which was taped at Mayajaal, comprised of a tar street and glass structures which rose to , and that aluminum composite boards, answered to have cost 50 million, were additionally used to plan the sets. 

The set for "Arima", a succession arranged by Prabhu Deva, was planned and built by Cyril at Ramoji Film City. Shooting of the number occurred over 22 days in April 2009. Junior specialists were utilized by Rathnavelu to wear veils of Rajinikanth. For the grouping entitled "Irumbile Oru Irudhaiyam", arranged by Remo D'Souza and highlighting Rai and Rajinikanth as Chitti, three distinct sets were utilized: one of copper, one of gold and one in silver. The melodic number, which was shot in AVM Studios for eight days, was the last segment of the film's essential photography. D'Souza consolidated the popping style of road moves, however experienced troubles in playing out the move developments pair with the robot, and with the confinements made by the unbending ensembles. Key photography finished on 7 July 2010. 

Awed with the film's content, V. Srinivas Mohan turned into the enhanced visualizations manager in December 2007. He requested that Shankar increment the recording plans by a half year to incorporate pre-generation necessities. Both Mohan and Shankar visited a few special visualizations organizations, including the New Zealand-based Weta Digital and the United States-based Industrial Light and Magic, Cafe FX and Tippett Studio before joining forces with Legacy Effects. The first Eros-Ayngaran special visualizations spending plan was 700 million, yet after Sun Pictures took over creation, it was essentially decreased to 200 million. Therefore, the enhanced visualizations group needed to discard and adjust a few successions, making Chitti wear shades for a large portion of the film to decrease the expense and troublesomely of energizing his eyes. 

After a progression of previsualisation tests, incorporating a scene in which Chitti bounces on a train to spare Sana, Mohan in the long run chose to utilize the strategy in 40 out of the 60 visual impacts scenes included in the film, comprising of 2,000 takes. Further previsualisation supervision was led by P. C. Sanath of Firefly Creative Studios, an enhanced visualizations organization situated in Hyderabad. 3D storyboards were developed utilizing 3D animation projects for each scene in the film and were shot from various edges. In a meeting with Malathi Rangarajan of "The Hindu", Mohan said that the majority of the pre-generation work took one-and-a-half years to finish. 

Rathnavelu utilized the 435 Xtreme camera and furthermore composed a 1,600-page manual, in which he recorded the majority of the conceivable points from where he could film the characters Rajinikanth played. Heritage Effects and the Hong Kong-based special visualizations organizations Kinomotive Studios and Menfond Electronics assumed liability for the film's CGI work. To make the robots with Rajinikanth's appearance, a total output of his face in 3D digital arrangement in all conceivable lighting conditions was led utilizing the Doom Light Stage, so his face could be imitated on the mannequins. The procedure, as indicated by Shankar, was recently utilized in "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" (2008). The robot Chitti included in the film was a mannequin made by a Legacy Effects group of 100 technicians in Los Angeles. For each mechanical mannequin utilized, six puppeteers were utilized to control the mannequin's developments. 

"Enthiran" centers around the fight among man and machine. Notwithstanding Shankar's case that "Enthiran" was an absolutely unique thought, it has been contrasted with Mary Shelley's 1818 novel "Frankenstein", attributable to the comparative personae of Chitti and Frankenstein's beast, the two of which betray their particular makers. K. Moti Gokulsing and Wimal Dissanayake, in their book "Routledge Handbook of Indian Cinemas", noticed the similitude between the two works, contending that Chitti was "controlled by Bohra to turn into a Frankenstein-like figure". Composing for "The A.V. Club", Genevieve Koski watched, "The plot of "Enthiran" is basically "Frankenstein" through [Isaac] Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics." 

Chief and film pundit Sudhish Kamath called "Enthiran" "a hero film, a science fiction experience, a triangular romantic tale with a trace of the Ramayana", while commenting that "Enthiran" similitudes to "The Terminator" (1984) were "more than self-evident. Not simply outwardly—where we see the Superstar with one human eye and one scarred metallic eye yet in addition purposefully spelt out when the terrible robot declares that he has made Terminators." Kamath contrasted two of the film's robots with C-3PO and R2-D2, droids from the "Star Wars" film arrangement, which was referenced in "Enthiran" when Vaseegaran alludes to one of his manifestations as "R2". 

In spite of the fact that Shankar at first asserted that "Enthiran" would be made for all gatherings of people, including those lacking PC education, the film is affected by and makes references to numerous logical standards identifying with the fields of designing, software engineering and apply autonomy, including terabytes and Asimov's laws of mechanical technology. Visual references are made to the science books "A Briefer History of Time" (2005) and "Freakonomics" (2005). In his book "Visual Perception and Cultural Memory: Typecast and Typecast(e)ing in Malayalam Cinema", Sujith Kumar Parayil takes note of the similitudes between Kalabhavan Mani's job in the film to the one Mani played in the Malayalam film "Sallapam" (1996). 

For "Enthiran's" soundtrack and score, A. R. Rahman utilized the Continuum Fingerboard, an instrument he had tried different things with beforehand in the tune "Rehna Tu" from Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra's show film "Delhi-6" (2009). The film likewise denoted the introduction of Rahman's little girl Khatija as a playback artist. 

The soundtrack collection to "Enthiran" was discharged on 31 July 2010 at the Putrajaya International Convention Center in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The Tamil and Telugu adaptations were discharged by Think Music, while the Hindi variant was discharged by Venus Music. Think Music acquired the discharge privileges of the Tamil and Telugu renditions of the collection for 70 million. The collection of the film's Telugu rendition, "Robo", was discharged on 6 August 2010, while its Hindi variant, "Robot", was discharged on 14 August 2010. After the second day of discharge, the collection's Tamil form achieved the main position in the Top 10 World Albums diagram on iTunes, making it the principal Tamil collection to do as such. 

"Enthiran" was discharged on 1 October 2010 of every three dialects—in Tamil as "Enthiran", in Hindi as "Robot" and in Telugu as "Robo". The first form was in Tamil, while the Hindi and Telugu variants were named. The film was discharged in 2,250 theatres around the world, incorporating 500 theatres in Tamil Nadu, 350 theatres in Andhra Pradesh, 128 theatres in Kerala, 23 theatres in Karnataka, and 750 theatres in North India. With an expected spending plan of 1.321.62 billion, "Enthiran" was India's most costly film up to that point, outperforming the Hindi film "Blue" (2009), which was taped on a financial plan of 750 million. 

"Enthiran" turned into the primary Tamil film to be discharged at the Colosseum kino, a Norwegian auditorium complex in Oslo, and it was screened at the 21st Bath Film Festival, held in the United Kingdom in 2011. Moreover, a form of the film, altered to a running length of two hours, was discharged in Japan in May 2012, and later screened at the 24th Tokyo International Film Festival, where it won an uncommon honor under the area "Winds of Asia– Middle East". By open interest, the first, unedited form was later discharged in that nation. 

The main publication for "Enthiran" was discharged on 8 September 2008. The film's trailer was discharged on 11 September 2010, at the Sathyam Cinemas theater complex in Chennai. To advance "Enthiran", AGS Entertainment sorted out a celebration from 25 September 2010 until its discharge date, in which they screened prominent movies of Rajinikanth at the organization's performance center in Villivakkam. In Coimbatore, the Department of Posts printed 100,000 post cards promoting the film. Sun Pictures contributed a sum of 500 million on special exercises. 

Advance appointments for the film started two weeks before the discharge date in the United States. In the Jackson Heights neighborhood in New York, tickets were sold out inside ten minutes of going discounted. In Kerala the appropriation rights were sold for 50 million, while in Karnataka they were sold for 100 million. The dispersion rights in Mumbai were sold to Shringar Films. In the United Kingdom, "Enthiran" was discharged by Ayngaran International, while "Robot" was discharged by B4U Network. DVD advertising in India was dealt with by Moser Baer; Ayngaran International discharged the two-DVD set of the film in early 2011. 

The writer Aarur Thamizhnadan made a grumbling with the Chennai Metropolitan Police against the movie producers in November 2010, expressing that the makers copied his 1996 novel "Jugiba". Thamizhnadan requested 10 million from the executive and makers for harms and documented an argument against Kalanithi Maran. In June 2011, the Madras High Court expelled the case after an appeal recorded by Maran denying the claim was endorsed. 

The day by day paper "Business Line" revealed that "Enthiran" earned 580 million from all forms in the opening end of the week, and "The Economic Times" expressed it got 1.17 billion before the finish of its opening week. As per a February 2015 report by "Hindustan Times", the film has netted ₹2.56 billion worldwide in its lifetime. Indo-Asian News Service expressed in July 2015 that the film netted ₹2.90 billion from the two its unique and named renditions. "Enthiran" turned into the top-procuring Indian film of 2010 in front of "My Name Is Khan" and "Dabangg" and turned into the most astounding netting Tamil film ever by then. 

As of January 2018, "Enthiran" is the fourth-most noteworthy earning South Indian film ever after S. S. Rajamouli's two-section recorded fiction films "" (2017) and "" (2015), and Pa. Ranjith's hoodlum dramatization "Kabali" (2016). Film industry India evaluated that "Enthiran" got 1.95 billion crosswise over India with the Tamil adaptation netting 1.20 billion, the Telugu rendition netting 530 million and the Hindi variant netting 220 million. The site assessed the abroad income of the film (counting its named renditions) at around $12 million as of November 2010 with the Tamil variant netting $11 million and the remaining $1 million rolling in from the Telugu and Hindi adaptations. "Enthiran" gathered 1.05 billion in Tamil Nadu alone, a record it held for a long time before being outperformed by "" (2017), which netted 1.526 billion. 

"Enthiran" got positive audits from faultfinders in India, with acclaim especially coordinated at Rathnavelu's cinematography, Cyril's craft bearing, Srinivas Mohan's special visualizations and Rajinikanth's execution as Chitti. Aniruddha Guha of "Day by day News and Analysis" gave the film a rating of four out of five stars and trusted it had the "best enhancements at any point found in a Tamil film" and that it was "a standout amongst the most engaging Tamil movies—over all dialects—at any point made." Both Nikhat Kazmi of "The Times of India" and Kaveree Bamzai of "India Today" evaluated the film four out of five stars. Kazmi called it "the ideal escape film". Bamzai lauded Rajinikanth's acting in the film and stated, "Rajni discloses to us why robot sapiens are better than homo sapiens". 

Both Anupama Chopra of NDTV and Pavithra Srinivasan of Rediff.com gave "Enthiran" a rating of three-and-a-half stars out of five. Chopra reprimanded the film's parts in the second half, portraying them as "unnecessarily extended and discordant", yet finished up her survey by saying, ""Robot" rides on Rajinikanth's shoulders and he never stoops under the weight. Helped by sweet garments, make-up and embellishments, he makes Chitti charming." Srinivasan, nonetheless, said that Shankar "strikes the harmony between sci-fi and masala remainder." She reasoned that, "However you see it, is one of those uncommon movies that give you simply enough material to pull you in, and have a good time." Rajeev Masand of CNN-News18 gave a rating of three out of five stars and stated, "At last, it's the incredible enhancements and a roused exhibition from that keeps the film new." Mayank Shekhar, composing for "Hindustan Times", evaluated it three stars and stated, "Leave aside jokes running on the Internet. This film, only a couple of feet excessively long, is fine excitement without anyone else." 

Malini Mannath of "The New Indian Express" noted "Enthiran" for having "A drawing in content, splendid enhancements, and a carefree legend who still conveys his appeal easily." Karthik Subramanian of "The Hindu" saw that performers "will in general become mixed up in embellishments films." Subramanian trusted it was not the situation in "Enthiran": "Rajinikanth and [Aishwarya Rai] convey the motion picture on their shoulders, and considering the way that a significant part of the acting more likely than not been before green screens, one needs to state that nothing looks fake directly through." interestingly, Gautaman Bhaskaran of "Hindustan Times" evaluated it two out of five stars, composing that "Shankar's work slips into a noisy, overdramatic and misrepresented chaos". 

"Enthiran" has gotten a rating of 60% on the survey aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes, in light of ten audits, with a normal rating of 5.3/10. Lisa Tsering from "The Hollywood Reporter" stated, "Rajinikanth is such a boss, that Chuck Norris fears him." She commended the recording areas, particularly the "Kilimanjaro" tune arrangement, however reprimanded the length of the film's peak divides. Genevieve Koski from "The A. V. Club" trusted that "Enthiran" was "entirely great" and presumed that "in the event that you lean toward expand ensembles and move music blended in with your executioner robot activity, hope to appreciate as long as an hour of "Enthiran"." Marc Savlov of "The Austin Chronicle" called "Enthiran" "the best prophetically catastrophic science fiction romcom-acting move off date motion picture of the year." Roger Moore, composing for the "Orlando Sentinel", gave a blended survey, assessing it as a "sensational kitschy Indian melodic about a robot worked for national guard yet who finds his human side." 

Following the movie's screening at the Mumbai International Film Festival, American movie chief Oliver Stone commended "Enthiran" creativity. On the other hand, Joe Leydon of "Assortment" trusted that Shankar "riffs on everything" from "Frankenstein" to "The Terminator", however proposed that the movie was a "staggering concoction of American-style, f/x-driven science fiction scene and a Bollywood melodic." Akifumi Sugihara, chief of the Film Business division of Nikkatsu, expressed that the film was "somewhat one of a kind, fascinating, amusing and attractive." Miwako Fujioka, an individual from the Japan-based Happinet Corporation, called "Enthiran" "a Bollywood "Transformers" sort of film with a ton of Indian flavors in it." 

At the 58th National Film Awards, "Enthiran" won for Best Special Effects and Best Production Design. It won in three classes at the 58th Filmfare Awards South for Best Cinematographer, Best Art Director and Best Costume Design. At the fifth Vijay Awards, it was designated in fourteen classes and won in seven, including Best Villain and Favorite Hero for Rajinikanth, Favorite Film and Favorite Director. At the seventeenth Screen Awards, the film won honors under the Best Special Effects and Spectacular Cutting Edge Technology classes. 

In an individual gratefulness letter to Shankar following the movie's discharge, the chief K. Balachander portrayed Shankar as India's James Cameron, "Enthiran" as India's "Symbol" (2009) and Sun Pictures as India's Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. "Enthiran" was the main Tamil film highlighted on the Internet Movie Database (IMDb) rundown of the 50 best movies of 2010. The film was additionally included as a contextual analysis in a postgraduate elective course of the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad, "Contemporary Film Industry: A Business Perspective". 

Scenes from "Enthiran", especially one known as the "Odd one out" scene, have been spoofed in consequent movies, including "Mankatha" (2011), "Osthe" (2011), "Singam II" (2013), just as in the Telugu films "Dookudu" (2011) and "Nuvva Nena" (2011). In the film, Chitti regularly presents himself by expressing the clock rate of his focal handling unit, which is 1 terahertz (10 hertz), and his irregular access memory limit, which is 1 zettabyte (10 bytes). This presentation discourse, which is spoken by Chitti as "Hey, I'm Chitti, speed 1 terahertz, memory 1 zettabyte" ended up well known. Rajinikanth highlighted in an appearance job as Chitti in the sci-fi film "Ra.One" (2011). 

On Rajinikanth's 64th birthday celebration, an office named Minimal Kollywood Posters planned notices of Rajinikanth's movies, in which the Minion characters from the "Terrible Me" establishment are dressed as Rajinikanth. The advanced workmanship was hand drawn on a computerized cushion by Gautham Raj. One of the blurbs delineated a changed Minion, reminiscent of Chitti's "miscreant robot" look in "Enthiran". In March 2015, Kamath, in his audit of the sci-fi film "Chappie", contrasted its eponymous lead character with Chitti as far as learning human feelings. 

In September 2015, author Jeyamohan reported that the pre-creation phase of a continuation of "Enthiran" was "going on going all out" and that key photography would start once Rajinikanth completed the process of taping for "Kabali", before that year's over. Nirav Shah would be the cinematographer and A. R. Rahman would return as music executive, while Muthuraj would deal with the craftsmanship bearing. The continuation would be shot in 3D, not at all like its antecedent which was shot in 2D and changed over to 3D in after generation. Titled "2.0", the film entered generation in December 2015 and was discharged on 29 November 2018. Rajinikanth repeated his job as Vaseegaran and Chitti with the extra cast played by Akshay Kumar and Amy Jackson.