William Bostock 

Air Vice Marshal William Dowling Bostock, (5 February 1892 – 28 April 1968) was a senior officer in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Amid World War II he drove RAAF Command, the Air Force's primary operational arrangement, with obligation regarding the protection of Australia and air offensives against Japanese focuses in the South West Pacific Area. His accomplishments in the job earned him the Distinguished Service Order and the American Medal of Freedom. General Douglas MacArthur depicted him as "one of the world's best aviators". 

A veteran of World War I, Bostock first considered battle to be an officer in the Australian Imperial Force at Gallipoli, at that point as a pilot in the Royal Flying Corps on the Western Front, where he earned the Belgian Croix de guerre. He joined the recently framed RAAF in 1921 and by 1941 had ascended to turn into its third most senior officer, filling in as Director of Training from 1930 to 1931, boss of No. 3 Squadron from 1931 to 1936, and Director of Operations and Intelligence from 1938 to 1939. 

The Deputy Chief of the Air Staff at the episode of World War II, Bostock was viewed as a main contender for the situation of Chief of the Air Staff in 1942 however was disregarded for Air Commodore George Jones, a companion of twenty years. Selected Air Officer Commanding RAAF Command before long, Bostock ended up engaged with a severe and long-running debate with Jones over control of the Air Force in the South West Pacific. Following his retirement from the RAAF in 1946, he turned into a writer and later a Federal Member of Parliament. 

Bostock was conceived in Surry Hills, an inward city suburb of Sydney, to an English dad, additionally named William, and a Spanish mother, Mary. He was taught at The School, Mount Victoria, in the Blue Mountains district of New South Wales, where he finished his lesser testament. The family later moved to Burwood, in Sydney's Inner West. In the wake of leaving school Bostock was utilized as an understudy with the Marconi Company for more than two years, and invested energy adrift as a remote administrator. 

In November 1914, Bostock joined the second Signal Troop of the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) as a sapper. He arrived at Gallipoli on 25 April 1915, serving there until August, when he was cleared experiencing looseness of the bowels. He came back to dynamic obligation in January 1916, and was elevated to spear corporal the next month. Raised to sergeant, Bostock was presented on Egypt with the ANZAC Mounted Division in April 1916, and saw activity against Turkish powers in the Sinai Peninsula. 

Bostock exchanged from the AIF to the Royal Flying Corps Special Reserve on 18 February 1917, and was dispatched as a trial second lieutenant. He was presented on No. 48 Squadron in August, after pilot preparing in Egypt and England. Bostock battled on the Western Front and was granted the Belgian Croix de guerre. He was invalided back to Britain in March 1918, after which he exchanged to the recently made Royal Air Force (RAF). 

Bostock wedded his Australian life partner, Gwendolen Norton, in Southampton on 6 March 1919. The couple had two little girls, one of whom, Gwendolen Joan, would fill in as a figure officer in the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force (WAAAF) amid World War II. Bostock resigned from the RAF and came back to regular citizen life in Australia that October. In September 1921, he joined the as of late shaped Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) and was dispatched a flying officer. He turned into a companion and tutor to Flying Officer (later Air Marshal Sir) George Jones, a different universe War I veteran, who had flown with the Australian Flying Corps and had joined the Air Force in March. By mid-1922 Bostock had been elevated to flight lieutenant. 

Having served at No. 1 Flying Training School (No. 1 FTS), Point Cook, since entering the RAAF, Bostock was presented on Britain in 1926 to go to RAF Staff College, Andover. While there he was rebuked by the school's commandant, by means of letter, because of the specific school he had decided for his little girl and in light of the fact that he did his very own planting; Bostock was said to have restored the letter stamped "noted and disregarded". On his arrival to Australia as a squadron chief in 1928, he assumed responsibility for No. 1 FTS, and moved toward becoming Director of Training at RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne, in December 1929. From 1931 to 1936 Bostock was leader (CO) of No. 3 Squadron, flying Westland Wapitis and, later, Hawker Demons. At the time, his situation as No. 3 Squadron administrator served as CO of the unit's base, RAAF Station Richmond, New South Wales. A wing administrator from 1934, he was named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the King's Birthday Honors on 31 May 1935. Following a two-year posting in Britain on the staff of No. 1 Bomber Group, Bostock was elevated to assemble chief on 1 September 1938 and made Director of Operations and Intelligence. Inside a year he had progressed toward becoming Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. 

The Deputy Chief of the Air Staff position that Bostock involved at the flare-up of World War II was another one that at first expanded, and later replaced, a current Assistant Chief of the Air Staff job. In contrast to the Assistant Chief, the Deputy had the specialist to act instead of the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) whenever required. This expanded status saw Bostock given a spot on Australia's Joint Planning Committee. He was the RAAF's representative to a guard gathering in Singapore in October 1940; the Australian unexpected found the nearby powers poorly arranged for an assault by the Japanese and suggested huge increments in air ability, both in Australia and the Pacific Islands, to meet the danger. Bostock climbed quickly in rank amid this period, getting to be acting air commodore on 1 June 1940 and substantive air bad habit marshal on 1 October 1941. He was designated a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1942 New Year Honors. 

Third in status in the RAAF after Air Marshal Richard Williams and Air Vice Marshal Stanley Goble, and considered, in the expressions of history specialist Chris Coulthard-Clark, to be "among the Air Force's best minds" at the time, Bostock was a prime contender for the situation of CAS in May 1942. He was additionally first decision of the occupant CAS, Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Burnett, whose two-year term was reaching an end. Bostock's closeness to Burnett, who had made no mystery of his scorn for John Curtin's Federal Labor government, harmed his odds for determination and his companion, George Jones, at that point just a substantive wing officer and acting air commodore, took the position. In spite of the fact that he had expected to be made CAS, Bostock heartily complimented Jones, potentially anticipating that his (Bostock's) new job as head of staff to the Commander of Allied Air Forces, Lieutenant General George Brett, with obligation regarding air activities in the South West Pacific Area (SWPA), would demonstrate the more imperative arrangement in a period of war. 

In August 1942, General Douglas MacArthur, Supreme Commander SWPA, supplanted Lieutenant General Brett with Major General (later General) George Kenney. Kenney made two new developments subordinate to Allied Air Forces Headquarters: the US Fifth Air Force and RAAF Command. Bostock was picked to be Air Officer Commanding RAAF Command, with twenty-four Australian squadrons available to him in addition to one each from the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. The main Australian air battle units in the SWPA not under Bostock's order were those situated in New Guinea as No. 9 Operational Group RAAF (No. 9 OG), constrained by Fifth Air Force. RAAF Command was accused of guarding Australia, aside from in the north-east, ensuring the ocean paths to New Guinea, and leading tasks against Japanese delivery, runways and different establishments in the Dutch East Indies. 

Before the finish of 1943, No. 9 OG, initially the RAAF's portable strike development, had viably turned into a static battalion drive in New Guinea. Bostock recommended that it be renamed Northern Area Command to all the more likely mirror its present capacity. Kenney asked Bostock to raise another RAAF portable arrangement, which prompted the foundation of No. 10 Operational Group (No. 10 OG) on 13 November 1943 at Nadzab, under the order of Group Captain Frederick Scherger. In February 1944, RAAF Command took over a considerable lot of the units of No. 9 OG, just as obligation regarding the Port Moresby and Milne Bay divisions. Bostock again prescribed changing No. 9 OG's name to Northern Area, and furthermore proposed changing No. 10 OG's name to Tactical Air Force, RAAF, in perspective on its expanded quality from the imbuement of new squadrons. No. 9 OG wound up Northern Command on 11 April. On 14 September, Bostock had a crowd of people with Prime Minister Curtin, wherein the last sketched out his inclinations for the organization of RAAF Command, especially that it ought to be spoken to in forward Allied activities, and utilized principally in the help of Australian ground powers. Bostock agreed; Curtin in the interim approved changing No. 10 OG's name to First Tactical Air Force (No. 1 TAF), with impact from 25 October. RAAF Command's supplement had now swelled to forty-one Australian squadrons. 

On 15 March 1945, Bostock set up a forward home office on Morotai Island to legitimately control No. 1 TAF for the up and coming Oboe tasks, the reoccupation of Borneo. Kenney gave him duty regarding all Allied air activities south of the Philippines, and the Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) units which were situated in the Solomon Islands to help the Bougainville Campaign were appointed to RAAF Command. Bostock wrote to Kenney, "I am especially on edge that the first Tactical Air Force should keep on being utilized as a forward hostile arrangement instead of in a battalion job". In April, Kenney's Allied Air Headquarters issued a request that Bostock would be named Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief RAAF Command, since he had a few Air Officers Commanding (AOCs) answering to him. Bostock appropriately passed on this difference in classification to his subordinate units yet Air Force Headquarters in Melbourne vetoed the adjustment in June. 

Bostock had control of the USAAF Fifth and Thirteenth Air Forces, just as No. 1 TAF, amid Operation Oboe One, the intrusion of Tarakan, initiating 1 May 1945. At this point RAAF Command involved approximately 17,000 work force. On Operation Oboe Six, the attack of Labuan– Brunei in June, Bostock likewise had available to him air ship situated in Australia under Western and North-Western Area Commands. For Operation Oboe Two, the intrusion of Balikpapan in July, Bostock marshaled forty Allied squadrons. His point, working together with that of Kenney and I Corps authority Lieutenant General Leslie Morshead, was to convey the heaviest flying siege conceivable against adversary focuses, to empower Australian attack powers to arrive with negligible setbacks. Together with a maritime flood, this brought about a "scene of indefinable ruin" on the combat zone, and enabled seventeen influxes of troops to land their arrival make without misfortune. MacArthur called the Labuan air hostile "faultless", while General Sir Thomas Blamey, Commander-in-Chief of the Australian Military Forces, complimented Bostock on his "high request of control" and "prepared and full participation" all through the Borneo crusade. 

From 1942, the structure of the RAAF was isolated with the end goal that Bostock was in operational charge of the Air Force in the South West Pacific yet depended on Air Vice Marshal Jones as CAS for provisions of labor and hardware, while Jones was ostensibly in order of the whole RAAF however had no impact in coordinating its real air tasks against Japan. The circumstance was, as indicated by George Odgers, a wellspring of "intense individual strain" between the two senior officers for the rest of the war. It was exacerbated by the way that despite the fact that the CAS was "by right" leader of the RAAF, Jones' position of air bad habit marshal was no higher than Bostock's. Aviation based armed forces history specialist Alan Stephens later remarked: "The arrangement of separated order... was not a perfect course of action, however with men of altruism it could have worked. Unfortunately Bostock and Jones were not of that mind..." 

Bostock's relationship to Kenney allowed him to overlook operational solicitations from Jones, while Jones kept on declaring regulatory power over Bostock's direction. At the point when Jones endeavored to expel Bostock from RAAF Command in April 1943 and supplant him with Air Commodore Joe Hewitt, AOC of No. 9 Operational Group, Bostock engaged Kenney, who prompted Jones that he was against any such difference in direction. Kenney took steps to heighten the issue to the Australian government, and some time later MacArthur revealed to Curtin that Hewitt "was not a sufficient substitution" for Bostock. The issue was permitted to drop, yet the contention proceeded. In January 1945, a sharp arrangement of links was traded between the two air bad habit marshals. Jones grumbled to Bostock of the last's "resistant tone" and "rehashed endeavors to usurp specialist of this Headquarters". Bostock answered that as AOC RAAF Command he seemed to be "capable to Commander, Allied Air Forces, and not, rehash not, subordinate to you", and that he would "keep on taking the most grounded special case to your ridiculous and clueless obstruction". 

Their fight was accused for adding to the low spirit that hastened the alleged "Morotai Mutiny" of April 1945, when a gathering of senior pilots in the First Tactical Air Force presented their abdications as opposed to keep on assaulting what they accepted to be useless targets. Alarmed to the issue by No. 1 TAF's officer, Air Commodore Harry Cobby, Bostock spoke to the pilots to pull back their abdications. As per student of history Kristen Alexander, his techniques were interpreted as an endeavor to "influence the circumstance to leave or to in any event spread it up"; one of the "rebels", Squadron Leader John Waddy, cited Bostock as saying, "I will leave these applications on the table and on the off chance that you lift them up, all records and all notes of any of this undertaking will be canceled from Air Force records and documents and nothing will be caught wind of it". At the point when the pilots would not drop the issue, Bostock flagged Jones, prompting that he observed resolve on the island to be at a "hazardously low dimension" and suggesting the CAS supplant Cobby with Air Commodore Scherger. Kenney agreed with Bostock, and Jones sacked Cobby. A consequent examination vindicated the stand taken by the pilots; one of them, Wing Commander Kenneth Ranger, told the request of Jones and Bostock: "I lament the battling and wrangling between them which is normal information all through the Air Force. Consistently there are occasions of it." 

The contention between the officers achieved its nadir amid the intrusion of Tarakan in May 1945, when Jones grounded RAAF aircraft squadrons booked to participate in the assault because of their groups having surpassed their month to month standard of flying hours. Bostock was not counseled about the choice and completely expected to see Australian airplane as he looked for the Allied developments from a US warship amid the fight. He later said that he would have fortunately "fallen through a split in the loads up on the deck" when he saw just American flying machine flying overhead, and needed to apologize to Kenney for the RAAF's nonattendance. Over all, the double arrangement of control and the strain between its two senior officers confounded the RAAF's endeavors in the field and diminished its effect on Allied technique in the Pacific. 

Bostock and Jones spoke to the RAAF at the Japanese surrender on board on 2 September 1945. RAAF Command was disbanded that day. Bostock was one of a few senior Air Force leaders summarily resigned from the get-go in 1946, for his situation six years before the obligatory retirement age of 60. Among the purposes behind Bostock's expulsion were, as indicated by private government papers, a "powerlessness to work in concordance with certain other high positioning RAAF officers", and "absence of parity and energy about duty". He requested the choice, refering to a letter from MacArthur that depicted him as "one of the world's best airmen ... unrivaled in each regard", however was fruitless. Papers brought up issues about Bostock's takeoff, "The Herald" in Melbourne theorizing on the part played by competitions inside the administration. 

After his retirement from the military, Bostock went into news-casting and become an avionics reporter for "The Herald". He composed a progression of articles reprimanding the Air Force's association and showing his side of the account of RAAF Command, spurred somewhat by his conviction that the official history of Australia in World War II would neglect to sufficiently cover it. The articles caused extensive discussion and incited the Minister for Air, Arthur Drakeford, to make a formal reaction in Federal Parliament, marking Bostock's charges "malignant and unjustified". 

Bostock was brightened twice in 1948 for his war administration, in March with the Distinguished Service Order "in acknowledgment of recognized administrations while in direction of air activities in the Borneo Campaign amid the period March to September, 1945", and in April with the American Medal of Freedom with Silver Palm. He entered legislative issues in 1949, remaining as a Liberal Party possibility for the Federal Division of Indi in Victoria. Chosen to the House of Representatives, he held his seat until being crushed in the 1958 survey. Bostock served on a joint advisory group for remote undertakings and in some cases clashed with his very own gathering on issues of barrier approach. He kept on adding to "The Herald" while in government. Amid parliamentary discussions in 1951 and again in 1957, Bostock represented "a coordinated protection drive with a solitary priest", pushing amalgamation of the four separate Departments of Defense, Air, Navy and Army into one Department of Defense, headed by the Minister for Defense. He further suggested that a solitary Commander-in-Chief lead the Army, Navy and Air Force; the Chief of the General Staff, the Chief of the Naval Staff, and the Chief of the Air Staff would report legitimately to the new position. In 1973 the single-administration offices were annulled for a widely inclusive Department of Defense, and by 1984 a Chief of the Defense Force position had developed to legitimately order each of the three equipped administrations through their individual boss. 

Bostock's significant other Gwendolen passed on in 1947, and he wedded 33-year-old Nanette O'Keefe in Melbourne on 1 June 1951; they had three children. He claimed a property close Benalla, in rustic Victoria, where he kicked the bucket in 1968. Made due by his second spouse and his five youngsters, Bostock was agreed an Air Force burial service and incinerated.