Carnotaurus 

Carnotaurus is a sort of extensive theropod dinosaur that lived in South America amid the Late Cretaceous time frame, from around 72 to 69.9 million years prior. The main realized species is Carnotaurus sastrei. Gotten from the Latin words "carnis" signifying "tissue" and "taurus" signifying "bull", the name "Carnotaurus" signifies "meat-eating bull", an inference to the creature's flesh eating diet and bull-like horns. 

"Carnotaurus" is a determined individual from Abelisauridae, a group of vast theropods that involved the extensive predatorial specialty in the southern landmasses, which once shaped the supercontinent Gondwana, amid the Cretaceous. The phylogenetic relations of "Carnotaurus" inside Abelisauridae are unsure; however it is thought to have been most firmly identified with either "Majungasaurus" or "Aucasaurus". It is known from a solitary very much saved skeleton and is a standout amongst the best-comprehended theropods from the Southern Hemisphere. The skeleton, found in 1984, was revealed from the La Colonia Formation in the Chubut Province of Argentina. 

"Carnotaurus" was a delicately manufactured, bipedal predator, estimating long and weighing in any event . As a theropod, "Carnotaurus" was very particular and unmistakable. It had thick horns over the eyes, an element concealed in all different rapacious dinosaurs, and an extremely profound skull sitting on a solid neck. "Carnotaurus" was additionally described by little, minimal forelimbs and long, thin hindlimbs. The skeleton is saved with broad skin impressions, appearing mosaic of little, non-covering scales around 5 mm in width. The mosaic was hindered by huge knocks that lined the sides of the creature, and there are no insights of quills. 

The particular horns and the solid neck may have been utilized in battling conspecifics. As indicated by discrete investigations, equaling people may have battled each other with snappy head blows, by moderate pushes with the upper sides of their skulls, or by smashing each other head-on, utilizing their horns as safeguards. The sustaining propensities for "Carnotaurus" stay vague: a few investigations propose the creature had the capacity to chase down exceptionally expansive prey, for example, sauropods, while different examinations discover it preyed mostly on moderately little creatures. "Carnotaurus" was very much adjusted for running and was potentially one of the quickest extensive theropods. 

"Carnotaurus" was a vast yet delicately manufactured predator. The main realized individual was about long, making "Carnotaurus" one of the biggest abelisaurids. While "Ekrixinatosaurus" and conceivably "Abelisaurus", profoundly fragmented, would have been comparative or bigger in size, a recent report found that just "Pycnonemosaurus", at , was longer than "Carnotaurus", which was assessed at . Its mass is evaluated to have been and in isolated examinations that utilized distinctive estimation strategies. "Carnotaurus" was an exceptionally specific theropod, as observed particularly in attributes of the skull, the vertebrae and the forelimbs. The pelvis and hindlimbs, then again, remained moderately preservationist, looking like those of the more basal "Ceratosaurus". Both the pelvis and hindlimb bones were long and thin. The left thigh bone of the individual estimates 103 cm long, yet demonstrates a normal distance across of just 11 cm. 

The skull, estimating long, was relatively shorter and more profound than in some other vast predatory dinosaur. The nose was tolerably wide, not as decreasing as found in increasingly basal theropods like "Ceratosaurus", and the jaws were bended upwards. As in different abelisaurids, the facial bones, particularly the nasal bones, were molded with various little openings and spikes. Throughout everyday life, a wrinkled and potentially keratinous skin would have secured these bones. An unmistakable pair of horns distended at a slant over the eyes. These horns, framed by the frontal bones, were thick, cone-molded yet in cross-area fairly vertically straightened, and estimated long. Throughout everyday life, they would most likely have shaped the hard centers of any longer keratinous horns. The relatively little eyes were arranged in the upper piece of the keyhole molded orbita (eye attachments). The upper part was marginally pivoted forward, likely allowing some level of binocular vision. 

The teeth were long and slim, rather than the typically short teeth seen in different abelisaurids. On each side of the upper jaws there were four premaxillary and twelve maxillary teeth, while the lower jaws were outfitted with fifteen dentary teeth for every side. As opposed to the powerful looking skull, the lower jaw was shallow and pitifully built, with the dentary (the chief jaw bone) associated with the rearmost jaw bones by just two contact focuses. The lower jaw was found with hyoid bones, in the position they would be in if the creature was alive. These slim bones, supporting the tongue musculature and a few different muscles, are infrequently found in dinosaurs since they are not associated with different bones and subsequently get lost effectively. 

The vertebral segment comprised of ten cervical (neck), twelve dorsal, six intertwined sacral and an obscure number of caudal (tail) vertebrae. The neck was almost straight, instead of having the S-bend seen in different theropods, and furthermore surprisingly wide, particularly towards its base. The highest point of the neck's spinal segment included a twofold line of extended, upwardly coordinated hard procedures called epipophyses, making a smooth trough on the highest point of the neck vertebrae. These procedures were the most elevated purposes of the spine, transcending over the surprisingly low spinous procedures. The epipophyses presumably given connection territories to an extraordinarily solid neck musculature. A comparable twofold column was additionally present in the tail, framed there by profoundly changed caudal ribs, in front view projecting upwards in a V-shape, their internal sides making a smooth, level, top surface of the front tail vertebrae. The finish of each caudal rib was outfitted with a forward anticipating snare formed development that associated with the caudal rib of the previous vertebra. 

The forelimbs were relatively shorter than in some other huge rapacious dinosaurs, including "Tyrannosaurus". The lower arm was just a quarter the extent of the upper arm. There were no carpalia in the hand, so the metacarpals verbalized straightforwardly with the lower arm. The hand demonstrated four essential digits, however obviously just the center two of these finished in finger bones, while the fourth comprised of a solitary support like metacarpal that may have spoken to an outer 'goad'. The fingers themselves were intertwined and fixed, and may have needed paws. "Carnotaurus" contrasted from all different abelisaurids in having relatively shorter and progressively vigorous forelimbs, and in having the fourth, support like metacarpal as the longest bone in the hand. A recent report proposes that the arms were minimal in abelisaurids, on the grounds that nerve filaments in charge of improvement transmission were decreased to a degree found in the present emus and kiwis, which additionally have minimal forelimbs. 

"Carnotaurus" was the principal theropod dinosaur found with a critical number of fossil skin impressions. These impressions, found underneath the skeleton's correct side, originate from various body parts, including the lower jaw, the front of the neck, the shoulder support, and the rib confine. The biggest fix of skin relates to the foremost piece of the tail. Initially, the correct side of the skull additionally was secured with vast patches of skin—this was not perceived when the skull was readied, and these patches were coincidentally obliterated. All things considered, the surface of a significant part of the correct side of the skull is altogether different from that of the left side, and likely demonstrates a few highlights of the scalation example of the head. 

The skin was developed of a mosaic of polygonal, non-covering scales estimating around in width. This mosaic was partitioned by flimsy, parallel notches. Scalation was comparative crosswise over various body parts except for the head, which evidently demonstrated an alternate, sporadic example of scales. There is no proof of plumes. Interestingly for theropods, there were substantial handle like knocks running at the edges of the neck, back and tail in sporadic lines. Each knock demonstrated a low edge and estimated in measurement. They were separate from one another and increased towards the creature's top. The knocks most likely speak to groups of dense scutes, like those seen on the delicate ornamentation running along the body midline in hadrosaurid ("duck-charged") dinosaurs. Stephen Czerkas (1997) proposed that these structures may have secured the creature's sides while battling individuals from similar species (conspecifics) and different theropods, contending that comparable structures can be found on the neck of the cutting edge iguana where they give restricted insurance in battle. 

"Carnotaurus" is a standout amongst the best-comprehended genera of Abelisauridae, a group of huge theropods limited to the antiquated southern supercontinent Gondwana. Abelisaurids were the predominant predators in the Late Cretaceous of Gondwana, supplanting the carcharodontosaurids and possessing the natural specialty filled by the tyrannosaurids in the northern mainlands. A few eminent qualities that advanced inside this family, including shortening of the skull and arms just as idiosyncrasies in the cervical and caudal vertebrae, were increasingly articulated in "Carnotaurus" than in some other abelisaurid. 

Despite the fact that connections inside Abelisauridae are discussed, "Carnotaurus" is reliably appeared to be a standout amongst the most determined individuals from the family by cladistical investigations. Its closest relative may have been either "Aucasaurus" or "Majungasaurus"; this uncertainty is to a great extent because of the inadequacy of the "Aucasaurus" skull material. An ongoing audit recommends that "Carnotaurus" was not firmly identified with either "Aucasaurus" or "Majungasaurus", and rather proposed "Ilokelesia" as its sister taxon. 

"Carnotaurus" is eponymous for two subgroups of Abelisauridae: the Carnotaurinae and the Carnotaurini. Scientistss don't all around acknowledge these gatherings. The Carnotaurinae was characterized to incorporate all inferred abelisaurids with the rejection of "Abelisaurus", which is viewed as a basal part in many investigations. In any case, a 2008 audit recommended that "Abelisaurus" was an inferred abelisaurid. Carnotaurini was proposed to name the clade shaped via "Carnotaurus" and "Aucasaurus"; just those scientistss who consider "Aucasaurus" as the closest relative of "Carnotaurus" utilize this gathering. 

The following is a cladogram distributed by Canale and associates in 2009. 

The main skeleton (holotype MACN-CH 894) was uncovered in 1984 by an endeavor driven by Argentinian scientist José Bonaparte. This campaign likewise recuperated the unconventional sharp sauropod "Amargasaurus". It was the eighth campaign inside the task named "Jurassic and Cretaceous Terrestrial Vertebrates of South America", which began in 1976 and was supported by the National Geographic Society. The skeleton is very much saved explained (still associated together), with just the back 66% of the tail, a significant part of the lower leg, and the rear feet being annihilated by enduring. Amid fossilization, the skull and particularly the gag were pounded along the side, while the premaxilla were pushed upwards onto the nasal bones. Therefore, the upward ebb and flow of the upper jaw is falsely overstated in the holotype. The skeleton had a place with a grown-up individual, as demonstrated by the combined sutures in the braincase. It was discovered lying on its correct side, appearing run of the mill demise present with the neck bowed back over the middle. Abnormally, it is protected with broad skin impressions. In perspective on the hugeness of these impressions, a second undertaking was begun to reinvestigate the first unearthing site, prompting the recuperation of a few extra skin patches. 

The skeleton was gathered on a homestead named "Pocho Sastre" close Bajada Moreno in the Telsen Department of Chubut Province, Argentina. Since it was installed in a vast hematite solidification, a hard sort of shake, readiness was entangled and advanced gradually. In 1985, Bonaparte distributed a note exhibiting "Carnotaurus sastrei" as another sort and species and quickly portraying the skull and lower jaw. The nonexclusive name (Latin "carno" [carnis] – "substance" and "taurus" – "bull") alludes to the bull-like horns, while the particular name "sastrei" respects Angel Sastre, the proprietor of the farm where the skeleton was found. An extensive portrayal of the entire skeleton followed in 1990. After "Abelisaurus", "Carnotaurus" was the second individual from the family Abelisauridae that was found. For quite a long time, it was by a wide margin the best-comprehended individual from its family, and furthermore the best-comprehended theropod from the Southern Hemisphere. It was not until the 21st century that comparable very much protected abelisaurids were depicted, including "Aucasaurus", "Majungasaurus" and "Skorpiovenator", enabling researchers to rethink certain parts of the life systems of "Carnotaurus". The holotype skeleton is shown in the Argentine Museum of Natural Sciences, Bernardino Rivadavia; reproductions can be found in this and different galleries around the globe. Stone workers Stephen and Sylvia Czerkas made an actual existence measured figure of "Carnotaurus" that was already in plain view at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County. This model, requested by the exhibition hall amid the mid-1980s, is likely the principal life rebuilding of a theropod demonstrating exact skin. 

Initially, the stones in which "Carnotaurus" was found were allocated to the upper piece of the Gorro Frigio Formation, which was viewed as roughly 100 million years of age (Albian or Cenomanian organize). Afterward, they were acknowledged to relate to the a lot more youthful La Colonia Formation, dating 72 to 69.9 million years prior (Late Cretaceous, Lower Maastrichtian organize). Accordingly, "Carnotaurus" was the most recent South American abelisaurid known. By the Late Cretaceous, South America was at that point separated from both Africa and North America. 

The La Colonia Formation is uncovered over the southern incline of the North Patagonian Massif. Most vertebrate fossils, including "Carnotaurus", originate from the arrangement's center area (called the "center facies affiliation"). This part likely speaks to the stores of a situation of estuaries, salt marshes or waterfront fields. The atmosphere would have been regular with both dry and moist periods. The most well-known vertebrates gathered incorporate ceratodontid lungfish, turtles, crocodiles, plesiosaurs, dinosaurs, reptiles, snakes and warm blooded animals. A portion of the snakes that have been found have a place with the families Boidae and Madtsoidae, for example, "Alamitophis argentinus". Turtles are spoken to by no less than five taxa, four from Chelidae (Pleurodira) and one from Meiolaniidae (Cryptodira). Among the marine reptiles is the plesiosaur "Sulcusuchus erraini" of the family Polycotylidae. Warm blooded creatures are spoken to by "Reigitherium bunodontum", which was viewed as the principal record of a South American docodont, and "Argentodites coloniensis", potentially of Multituberculata. In 2011, the disclosure of another enantiornithine feathered creature from the La Colonia Formation was reported. 

"Carnotaurus" is the main known savage bipedal creature with a couple of horns on the frontal bone. The utilization of these horns isn't altogether clear; a few elucidations have rotated around use in battling conspecifics, in presentation, or in executing prey. 

Greg Paul (1988) recommended that the horns were butting weapons and that the little orbita would have limited the likelihood of harming the eyes while battling. Gerardo Mazzetta and associates (1998) recommended that "Carnotaurus" utilized its horns in a path like rams. They determined that the neck musculature was sufficiently able to assimilate the power of two people crashing into their heads frontally at a speed of 5.7 m/s each. Fernando Novas (2009) deciphered a few skeletal highlights as adjustments for conveying blows with the head. He recommended that the shortness of the skull may have made head developments speedier by lessening the snapshot of idleness, while the solid neck would have permitted solid head blows. He additionally noticed an improved unbending nature and quality of the spinal section that may have developed to withstand stuns led by the head and neck. 

Different examinations recommend that equaling "Carnotaurus" did not convey fast head blows, however pushed gradually against one another with the upper sides of their skulls. Accordingly, the horns may have been a gadget for the conveyance of pressure powers without harm to the cerebrum. This is upheld by the leveled upper sides of the horns, the unequivocally combined bones of the highest point of the skull, and the failure of the skull to endure quick head blows. 

Gerardo Mazzetta and partners (1998) recommend that the horns may likewise have been utilized to harm or slaughter little prey. Despite the fact that horn centers are obtuse, they may have had a comparative structure to current bovid horns if there was a keratinous covering. Nonetheless, this would be the main detailed case of horns being utilized as chasing weapons in creatures. 

Examination of the jaw structure of "Carnotaurus" by Mazzetta and associates (1998, 2004, 2009) proposes that the creature was able to do fast nibbles, however not solid ones. Brisk chomps could easily compare to solid nibbles while catching little prey, as appeared by investigations of current crocodiles. These specialists likewise noticed a high level of adaptability (kinesis) inside the skull and particularly the lower jaw, fairly like present day snakes. Versatility of the jaw would have permitted "Carnotaurus" to gulp down little prey things. Also, the front piece of the lower jaw was pivoted, and in this way ready to climb and down. At the point when squeezed downwards, the teeth would have anticipated forward, permitting "Carnotaurus" to spike little prey things; when the teeth were bended upwards, the now in reverse anticipating teeth would have upset the gotten prey from getting away. Mazzetta and associates additionally discovered that the skull had the capacity to withstand powers that show up while pulling on vast prey things. "Carnotaurus" may in this way have nourished essentially on moderately little prey, yet additionally had the capacity to chase extensive dinosaurs. 

This elucidation was addressed by François Therrien and associates (2005), who found that the gnawing power of "Carnotaurus" was twice that of the American gator, which may have the most grounded chomp of any living tetrapod. These specialists additionally noted analogies with current Komodo mythical serpents: the flexural quality of the lower jaw diminishes towards the tip directly, showing that the jaws were not appropriate for high exactness getting of little prey yet to convey cutting injuries to debilitate huge prey. As an outcome, as per this investigation, "Carnotaurus" must have chiefly gone after huge creatures, perhaps by snare. 

Robert Bakker (1998) found that "Carnotaurus" principally encouraged upon huge prey, particularly sauropods. As he noticed, a few adjustments of the skull—the short nose, the generally little teeth and the solid back of the skull (occiput)— had freely developed in "Allosaurus". These highlights propose that the upper jaw was utilized like a serrated club to cause wounds; huge sauropods would have been debilitated by rehashed assaults. 

Mazzetta and associates (1998, 1999) assumed that "Carnotaurus" was a quick sprinter, contending that the thigh bone was adjusted to withstand high twisting minutes while running. The capacity of a creature's leg to withstand those powers restricts its top speed. The running adjustments of "Carnotaurus" would have been exceptional than those of a human, despite the fact that not exactly great as those of an ostrich. Researchers figure that Carnotaurus had a top speed of up to every hour. 

In dinosaurs, the most imperative locomotor muscle was situated in the tail. This muscle, called the caudofemoralis, appends to the fourth trochanter, an unmistakable edge on the thigh bone, and pulls the thigh bone in reverse when contracted. Scott Persons and Phil Currie (2011) note that in the tail vertebrae of "Carnotaurus", the caudal ribs did not jut on a level plane ("T-molded"), however were calculated against the vertical pivot of the vertebrae, shaping a "V". This would have given extra space to a caudofemoralis muscle bigger than in some other theropod—the bulk was determined at per leg. In this manner, "Carnotaurus" could have been one of the quickest expansive theropods. While the caudofemoralis muscle was augmented, the epaxial muscles arranged over the caudal ribs would have been relatively littler. These muscles, called the longissimus and spinalis muscle, were in charge of tail development and strength. To keep up tail solidness notwithstanding decrease of these muscles, the caudal ribs bear forward anticipating forms interlocking the vertebrae with one another and with the pelvis, hardening the tail. As an outcome, the capacity to make tight turns would have been reduced, in light of the fact that the hip and tail must be turned all the while, dissimilar to in different theropods.