Focal Coast Mariners FC 

Focal Coast Mariners Football Club is an Australian expert soccer club situated in Gosford, on the Central Coast of New South Wales. It contends in the A-League, under permit from Football Federation Australia (FFA). The Mariners were established in 2004 and are one of the eight unique A-League groups. It is the principal pro athletics club from the Gosford district to contend in a national challenge. In spite of being viewed as one of the littlest market clubs in the group, the Central Coast Mariners have guaranteed one A-League Championship from four Grand Final appearances and topped the table to win the A-League Premiership twice. The club has additionally showed up in the AFC Champions League multiple times. 

The club plays matches at Central Coast Stadium, a 20,059-situate arena in Gosford; its motivation fabricated preparing office, Mariners Center of Excellence, is situated in the suburb of Tuggerah. The office is likewise home to an adolescent group that contends in the National Youth League. The English EFL Championship group Sheffield United has put resources into the Central Coast-based club, and the Mariners has connection concurrences with a few universal clubs. 

The Mariners' primary supporters' gathering is known as the Yellow Army, for the shade of the club's home unit. The club imparts a contention to Newcastle Jets, known as the F3 Derby, after the past name of the motorway that associates the urban communities of the groups. Matt Simon is the Mariners' record-breaking driving goalscorer as of December 2014, with 49 objectives in all rivalries. The group record for matches played is held by John Hutchinson, who has showed up in 263 diversions for the Mariners. 

Focal Coast Mariners' offered for an establishment in the Football Federation Australia's new A-League rivalry was gone for filling the one spot for a local group that was assigned by the FFA. Media hypothesis before the declaration of the establishments in the new alliance recommended that the Mariners' offered might be ideal because of its fresh recruits. Support from previous Australian global player and club specialized chief Alex Tobin, just as Clean Up Australia identity Ian Kiernan—who might go about as debut club director—additionally reinforced its proposition. As the main provincial bidder, Central Coast was relied upon to make it into the group as a matter of course. Following a detailed marked arrangement with the FFA, the club marked previous Northern Spirit mentor Lawrie McKinna as administrator and Ian Ferguson, a previous Rangers and Northern Spirit player, as mentor. To help the FFA's objectives of structure the profile of the game, the Mariners made formal connections with neighborhood state group Central Coast United. On 1 November 2004, after much desire, the club was reported as one of eight groups to turn out to be a piece of FFA's household rivalry, the A-League. The choice made Central Coast Mariners the first Gosford-based pro athletics group to play in a national challenge. 

At the season of the arrangement of the new class in 2004, the club was possessed by Spirits Sports and Leisure Group. The club reported its scan for a star player under the alliance's recompense for one star player outside of the $1.5 million pay top, demanding that the player ought not take a gander at the situation as a retirement support. Mentor Lawrie McKinna looked for enthusiasm from Australia national football crew players Ante Milicic and Simon Colosimo, and reported that he may sign more than the three under-20 players required by group rules. Early worries for the club focussed on worries over budgetary solidness, yet in the wake of framing an association with innovation organization Toshiba and a money infusion from neighborhood representative John Singleton, the club's monetary stresses were facilitated. McKinna was quick to sign nearby player Damien Brown of Bateau Bay, some time ago of the Newcastle Jets. In a choice which provoked the player to pronounce that he was "euphoric", Brown turned into the main player to sign with the club. Club administrator Lyall Gorman was satisfied that a nearby had turned into an "establishment player" and part of Brown's job is help with choice of more youthful players from the neighborhood. By early December 2004, the club had made an unfaltering establishment of player signings and started dealings with previous Perth Glory striker Nik Mrdja, marking him later in the month as its star aggressor. Mrjda was a standout amongst the most unmistakable players in the last period of the National Soccer League, scoring the last objective to verify Perth Glory's finals win. The club's administration was hesitant to sign a star player outside of the $1.5 million pay top, stipulating that they "would need to contribute on the pitch and get individuals to go to the ground." 

The Mariners' debut season was viewed as a reverberating accomplishment by most; the group came to the 2006 A-League Grand Final subsequent to completing third amid the standard season. Focal Coast was vanquished by Sydney FC 1– 0 before a horde of 41,689—a challenge record at the time. The Mariners likewise won the 2005 Pre-Season Cup, overcoming Perth Glory in the last 1– 0. Before the 2006– 07 A-League season, the Mariners verified the administrations of then-Australian global Tony Vidmar from NAC Breda for a long time. This was the club's first marquee marking, following the lead of Sydney FC (Dwight Yorke) and Adelaide United (Qu Shengqing). Focal Coast again achieved the fabulous last in the 2006 Pre-Season Cup, losing to Adelaide United 5– 4 on punishments after the score was tied 1– 1 after additional time. The Mariners at that point took part in the 2006– 07 A-League season, however was unfit to pick up a spot in the last arrangement, completing 6th after the ordinary season. 

Club chief Noel Spencer was discharged by the Mariners, at that point marked to take an interest in the Asian Champions League by Sydney FC after the 2006– 07 season, and Alex Wilkinson was selected the new skipper. Just 22 years old at the time, Wilkinson had played each conceivable focused counterpart for the Mariners up to his arrangement. In February 2008, Central Coast Mariners marked a course of action with English Football League Championship side Sheffield United. The association was one of a few associations the Mariners made with outside clubs; other accomplice clubs included Ferencváros of Hungary, Chengdu Blades of China and São Paulo of Brazil. The understanding advantages the club by giving a chance to the young program and senior side to draw from the list of Sheffield United through exchanges. The groups likewise framed a property advancement joint endeavor, in the expectations that Central Coast could utilize a lot of salary to grow and support their Mariners Youth Academy. 

The 2007– 08 season saw Central Coast win its first prevalence on objective distinction in front of Newcastle, following a last round that started with Central Coast and three different clubs level on 31 points. The last arrangement started with a 2– 0 misfortune to Newcastle in the principal leg of its significant semi-last, yet the Mariners constrained the attach to additional time by holding a 2– 0 lead in the second leg following an hour and a half. A 94th-minute objective by Sasho Petrovski, who had scored prior to level the tie, gave Central Coast a 3– 2 success on total, putting the Mariners through to the 2008 A-League Grand Final. In a rematch with Newcastle, the Jets crushed Central Coast 1– 0 in the Grand Final, which finished in contention due to an uncalled handball against Newcastle in Central Coast Mariners punishment box amid the end seconds of the match. Whenever called, the foul would have given Central Coast an extra shot and an opportunity to balance. As Mariners players questioned arbitrator Mark Shield's choice, goalkeeper Danny Vuković struck Shield on the arm, bringing about a prompt sending off and later suspension. Vuković was suspended from both household and worldwide challenge for nine months, with an extra a half year's suspended boycott; the last time frame was decreased to three months on bid. In spite of further interests, the boycott was in the long run affirmed by FIFA in June, to incorporate restricting the youthful manager from contending at the 2008 Olympic Games. The boycott kept going into October; accordingly, Central Coast marked previous Manchester United and Australian universal manager Mark Bosnich on a seven-week contract. 

Prior to the 2008– 09 season, Central Coast was anticipated to be among the A-League pioneers, yet had a kept running of three misfortunes straight to end the standard season. Indeed, even with the losing streak, the club barely fit the bill for the finals, completing in fourth, two in front of Sydney F.C. furthermore, Wellington Phoenix. Focal Coast lost 4– 1 on total in their minor semi-last against Queensland Roar, finishing the group's season. 

In February 2010, after the club's 2009– 10 season, McKinna moved into another job, getting to be Central Coast's Football and Commercial Operations Manager. Socceroos associate administrator Graham Arnold was named as the club's new chief, turning into its second director. Ahead of the pack up to the 2010– 11 season, various moves brought about changes to the club's squad. The Mariners declared the marking of 2005 Under 20s World Cup champ Patricio Pérez of Argentina in June 2010, trailed by Dutch safeguard Patrick Zwaanswijk. In July 2010, it was declared that the Mariners' ladies' group would not contend in the 2010– 11 W-League rivalry. The club expressed that money related reasons were behind the choice, after Football NSW pulled back its subsidizing. 

Regardless of generally low desires in the number one spot up to the season, the 2010– 11 season was more fruitful for the club than 2009– 10; the A-League and youth alliance groups both completed second in their individual classes in the normal season. The senior group was then vanquished by the premiers, Brisbane Roar, 4– 2 on total more than two legs in the real semi-last, before crushing Gold Coast United 1– 0 in the Preliminary Final to fit the bill for the 2011 A-League Grand Final against Brisbane. By achieving the Grand Final, the club additionally met all requirements for the 2012 AFC Champions League. In a title coordinate that the A-League's site called "great", Central Coast was vanquished 4– 2 out of a punishment shootout subsequent to driving 2– 0 with three minutes staying in additional opportunity to wrap sprinters up for the third time. 

The 2011– 12 season was correspondingly fruitful, as the club won the prevalence for the second time in its history with 51 points, two more than second-place Brisbane. The club neglected to fit the bill for a second progressive Grand Final, however, losing 5– 2 on total to Brisbane in the real semi-last and 5– 3 on punishments after a 1– 1 draw with Perth Glory in the Grand Final Qualifier. 

On 21 April 2013, after three misfortunes in Grand Finals, Central Coast won its initial A-League title, crushing first-year side Western Sydney Wanderers 2– 0 in the Grand Final at Allianz Stadium. Arnold re-marked with the club for a further two seasons on 30 August 2013, yet on 14 November it was affirmed that he had marked a two-year contract to move toward becoming supervisor of J. Group Division 1 side Vegalta Sendai, beginning in January 2014. Previous associate administrator Phil Moss was named the new head mentor. Sailors general administrator Peter Turnbull left the club also, and New Zealand universal Michael McGlinchey moved to the J. Group to play for Arnold's new side. Focal Coast completed the 2013– 14 A-League normal season in third spot, behind sprinter up Western Sydney on objective contrast. In the semi-last, the Mariners' title trusts finished with a 2– 0 misfortune to Western Sydney; the amusement came three days after the group was killed from the 2014 AFC Champions League in the wake of losing to Japanese club Sanfrecce Hiroshima 1– 0 to complete toward the end in their gathering. 

In what was Moss' first pre-season as mentor, he did little to change what Arnold had worked at the club. The main significant changes in the side were with the expansion of Senegalese worldwide Malick Mané and Hungarian Richárd Vernes, and Marcos Flores leaving the club, with Mile Sterjovski resigning. Sailors started the season on a high, advancing to the semi-finals of the 2014 FFA Cup and crushing neighborhood rivals Newcastle Jets 1– 0 at home in the opening round of the A-League. Anyway the season before long turned with the group neglecting to verify a success for the rest of the year. After their end from the 2015 AFC Champions League qualifying play-off by Chinese side Guangzhou R&F and a proceeded with poor association record after a short mid-season break, the club remained down Moss as head mentor. The choice was made on 6 March 2015, with Mariners designating specialized executive Tony Walmsley in a between time limit and commander John Hutchinson in a double player-mentor job, until the finish of the period. Portuguese player Fábio Ferreira additionally joined the group at the last part of the period. On 15 April Walmsley was reported as Mariners' perpetual specialized chief and head mentor for the 2015– 16 season. The declaration came regardless of a conclusion to the season in which the club completed the alliance in eighth position. 

The Mariners had their most noticeably bad A-League exhibition to date in the 2015– 16 season. Their 13, the least in club history, brought about a last-place completion, and they set a group record by losing 20 recreations while winning just 3, a record low for the Mariners. Focal Coast permitted 70 objectives, the most allied history, and had an objective distinction of −37, the most exceedingly terrible by an A-League group. The Mariners' aggregates of objectives yielded at home and away (32 and 38 separately) were likewise A-League records, and they went the whole season without a perfect sheet. 

In the 2016 FFA Cup, the Mariners endured a 2– 1 misfortune to Green Gully SC at Green Gully Reserve, winding up only the second A-League group to be dispensed with by a state association group in the FFA Cup. Following this misfortune the club sacked Walmsley on 8 August 2016, with training obligations in the leadup to the 2016– 17 season taken up by colleague mentor John Hutchinson in a guardian job. 

On 29 August 2016, Paul Okon was procured as Central Coast's full-time mentor, succeeding the sacked Tony Walmsley. 

In Okon's introduction as Central Coast supervisor, the Mariners drew 3– 3 with Perth Glory at Nib Stadium, subsequent to returning from 3– 0 down at half time. 

Okon accomplished his first win as Central Coast director in his fifth diversion in control: a 2– 1 success over safeguarding champions Adelaide United at Hindmarsh Stadium on 6 November 2016. 

On 2 August 2017, for the second continuous year, the Mariners were thumped out of the FFA Cup by a state class group in the first round, in the wake of losing 3– 2 to Blacktown City. This gave the Mariners the questionable respect of being the initial A-League group to have been thumped out twice in the FFA Cup by state alliance restriction. 

The home shirt worn by the Mariners is for the most part yellow with sleeves that are naval force blue. The away uniform is a generally plain naval force blue shirt with yellow as an optional shading. In the 2011– 12 season, the club had its units produced by Hummel, as the A-League's Reebok bargain had terminated at the finish of the 2010– 11 season. In September 2012, it was declared that the Mariners had marked a two-year manage Kappa for them to be the official attire provider. The group logo is a yellow football at the focal point of a blue twisting wave, which symbolizes the shorelines of the Central Coast. 

Since 2012, the Mariners have worn uncommon pink units for one match in October to fund-raise and mindfulness for Pink Ribbon Day, some portion of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. The Mariners club gathered gifts at the ground, just as selling the match-worn packs on online sale website eBay with continues setting off to the philanthropy. 

Focal Coast Mariners plays home diversions at Central Coast Stadium, Gosford. It is situated in Grahame Park, between the Gosford Central Business District and the Brisbane Water foreshore. It is developed to benefit as much as possible from its area, being open at the southern end, giving separated perspectives on Brisbane Water through a line of substantial palm trees. It is inside strolling separation of Gosford railroad station and is nearby the Central Coast Leagues Club. 

While the arena has a limit of 20,059, the most astounding participation for a Mariners diversion is 19,238 against Newcastle Jets in cycle 19 of the 2007– 08 season. Troubles in illustration onlookers drove the Mariners to plan coordinates in the 2013– 14 and 2014– 15 seasons from Central Coast Stadium, at North Sydney Oval and Brookvale Oval. The club's objective was to play nearer to its fan base in north Sydney, which lion's share proprietor Michael Charlesworth assessed to be about 20% of its all out supporters. Following attendances at North Sydney Oval that were like those at Central Coast Stadium, Football Federation Australia CEO David Gallop proposed in December 2014 that it would be improbable that the club would be allowed to keep playing in north Sydney. 

The dynamic supporters' gathering for the Mariners is known as the Yellow Army, who sit in straight 16 of Central Coast Stadium amid home recreations. Notwithstanding the Yellow Army, there is a Central Coast Mariners Official Supporters Club, which was built up amid 2013. The Central Coast district has around 300,000 occupants, which gives the Mariners the A-League's littlest neighborhood fan base. Likewise, the Mariners gained a little market picture among pundits. 

The Mariners built up a solid contention with Newcastle Jets all through their first season, regularly alluded to as the F3 Derby. The naming is a title recently utilized for the Sydney– Newcastle Freeway, the significant motorway which joins the two clubs' urban areas. The contention's inceptions go back to before the groups played against one another in the A-League. A May 2005 Oceania Club Championship capability coordinate, which went to a punishment shootout that the Mariners won, made antagonistic vibe between the sides. In the amusement, a handle by Central Coast's Mrdja penniless one of Newcastle player Andrew Durante's legs, making him miss the accompanying A-League season; Mrdja offered no statement of regret for the handle, disquieting Jets players. Fanatics of the clubs combat verbally when one 2011 derby coordinate, driving the "Newcastle Herald's" Josh Leeson to call their activities "youthful and ridiculous." In later seasons, the F3 Derby has increased less consideration in the press than the derbies in Melbourne and Sydney, yet Central Coast player Nicholas Fitzgerald keeps up that "the players fans still pay attention to it very." 

Focal Coast likewise have a contention with Sydney FC. Like Newcastle, Sydney FC is close in vicinity to Central Coast. In 2006, the "Focal Coast Express Advocate's" Richard Noone called the Central Coast– Sydney contention "Apparently A-League's fiercest". 

Through an interest in the Mariners by Sheffield United the club has the accompanying universal affiliations: 

Furthermore, the club has a player advancement organization with the accompanying universal clubs: 

The club likewise has formal associations with the accompanying associations in Australia: 

<br> 

John Hutchinson right now holds the group record for number of all out recreations played with 268 matches in all rivalries. Previous skipper Alex Wilkinson has the second most appearances for the club with 203 matches. Adam Kwasnik is the third most topped player with 158 appearances. Starting at 2014, Central Coast's unequaled most elevated goalscorers in all rivalries is Matt Simon with 45 objectives, one more than Adam Kwasnik. Daniel McBreen has scored the third most objectives for the club with 29. Focal Coast's most noteworthy participation at its home arena, Central Coast Stadium, is 19,238 against Newcastle Jets in their cycle 19 match of the 2007– 08 season. This was the second most astounding group at the ground for any game since the primary match at Central Coast Stadium in February 2000.