Agrippina (musical drama) 

Agrippina (HWV 6) is a "musical drama seria" in three acts by George Frideric Handel with a lyrics via Cardinal Vincenzo Grimani. Made for the Venice "Carnevale" season, the musical show recounts to the account of Agrippina, the mother of Nero, as she plots the defeat of the Roman Emperor Claudius and the establishment of her child as head. Grimani's lyrics, considered a standout amongst the best that Handel set, is a "hostile to chivalrous humorous parody", brimming with topical political references. A few experts trust that it mirrors Grimani's political and strategic contention with Pope Clement XI. 

Handel made "Agrippina" toward the finish of a three-year visit in Italy. It debuted in Venice at the Teatro San Giovanni Grisostomo on 26 December 1709. It demonstrated a prompt achievement and a phenomenal arrangement of 27 back to back exhibitions pursued. Spectators applauded the nature of the music—quite a bit of which, with regards to the contemporary custom, had been obtained and adjusted from different works, including crafted by different writers. Regardless of the clear open excitement for the work, Handel did not advance further stagings. There were infrequent preparations in the years following its debut however Handel's musical dramas, including "Agrippina", dropped out of style in the mid-eighteenth century. 

In the twentieth century "Agrippina" was resuscitated in Germany and debuted in Britain and America. Exhibitions of the work have turned out to be always normal, with creative stagings at the New York City Opera and the London Coliseum in 2007. Current basic assessment is that "Agrippina" is Handel's first operatic artful culmination, brimming with freshness and melodic development which have made it a standout amongst the most mainstream musical dramas of the continuous Handel restoration. 

Handel's most punctual musical drama organizations, in the German style, date from his Hamburg years, 1704– 06, affected by Johann Mattheson. In 1706 he made a trip to Italy where he stayed for a long time, building up his compositional aptitudes. He originally settled in Florence where he was acquainted with Alessandro and Domenico Scarlatti. His first musical drama formed in Italy, however as yet mirroring the impact of Hamburg and Mattheson, was "Rodrigo" (1707, unique title "Vincer se stesso ê la maggior vittoria"), was introduced there. It was not especially effective, yet was a piece of Handel's procedure of figuring out how to create musical show in the Italian style and to set Italian words to music. 

Handel at that point invested energy in Rome, where the execution of musical show was taboo by Papal pronouncement, and in Naples. He put forth a concentrated effort to the sythesis of cantatas and oratorios; around then there was little distinction (aside from expanding length) between cantata, oratorio and musical drama, all dependent on the variation of "secco" recitative and "aria da capo." Works from this period incorporate "Dixit Dominus" and the sensational cantata "Aci, Galatea e Polifemo", written in Naples. While in Rome, presumably through Alessandro Scarlatti, Handel had turned out to be familiar with Cardinal Grimani, a recognized negotiator who composed libretti in his extra time, and went about as an informal showy specialist for the Italian illustrious courts. He was clearly inspired by Handel and requested that he set his new lyrics, "Agrippina". Grimani proposed to introduce this musical show at his family-possessed performance center in Venice, the Teatro San Giovanni Grisostomo, as a component of the 1709– 10 "Carnevale" season. 

Grimani's lyrics depends on much a similar story utilized as the subject of Monteverdi's 1642 musical drama "L'incoronazione di Poppea". Grimani's lyrics focuses on Agrippina, a character who does not show up in Monteverdi's darker adaptation. Grimani stays away from the "admonishing" tone of the later "musical drama seria" libretti composed by such recognized bosses as Metastasio and Zeno. As indicated by the pundit Donald Jay Grout, "incongruity, duplicity and interest overrun the amusing adventures of its all around characterized characters." All the primary characters, with the sole special case of Claudius' hireling Lesbus, are chronicled, and the wide layout of the lyrics draws intensely upon Tacitus' "Records" and Suetonius' "Life of Claudius." It has been proposed that the hilarious, passionate character of the Emperor Claudius is a personification of Pope Clement XI, to whom Grimani was politically contradicted. Certain parts of this contention are likewise reflected in the plot: the competition among Nero and Otho reflect parts of the discussion over the War of the Spanish Succession, in which Grimani bolstered the Habsburgs and Pope Clement XI France and Spain. 

As indicated by John Mainwaring, Handel's first biographer, "Agrippina" was made in the three weeks following Handel's entry in Venice in November 1709, a hypothesis bolstered by the signature original copy's Venetian paper. 

In creating the musical show Handel acquired broadly from his before oratorios and cantatas, and from different authors including Reinhard Keiser, Arcangelo Corelli and Jean-Baptiste Lully. This routine with regards to adjusting and acquiring was regular at the time yet is conveyed to more noteworthy lengths in "Agrippina" than in practically the majority of Handel's other major emotional works. The suggestion, which is a French-style two-section work with an "exciting" allegro, and everything except five of the vocal numbers, depend on prior works, however subject as a rule to critical adjustment and improving. 

Instances of reused material incorporate Pallas' "Col raggio placido", which depends on Lucifer's aria from "La resurrezione" (1708), "O voi dell'Erebo", which was itself adjusted from Reinhard Keiser's 1705 musical show "Octavia". Agrippina's aria "Non ho cor che per amarti" was taken, as a rule unaltered, from "Se la morte non vorrà" in Handel's prior emotional cantata "Qual ti reveggio, goodness Dio" (1707); Narcissus' "Spererò" is an adjustment of "Sai perchè" from another 1707 cantata, "Clori, Tirsi e Fileno"; and parts of Nero's aria in act 3, "Come nube che fugge dal vento", are acquired Handel's oratorio "Il trionfo del rhythm" (all from 1707). Afterward, some of "Agrippina's" music was utilized by Handel in his London musical shows "Rinaldo" (1711) and the 1732 rendition of "Acis and Galatea", for each situation with practically zero change. The main music by Handel displayed in London may have been Agrippina's "Non ho cor che", transposed into Alessandro Scarlatti's musical show "Pirro è Dimitrio" which was performed in London on 6 December 1710. The "Agrippina" suggestion and different arias from the musical show showed up in pasticcios performed in London somewhere in the range of 1710 and 1714, with extra music given by different arrangers. Echoes of "Ti vo' giusta" (one of only a handful couple of arias formed explicitly for "Agrippina") can be found noticeable all around "He was loathed", from Handel's "Savior" (1742). 

Two of the fundamental male jobs, Nero and Narcissus, were composed for castrati, the "geniuses of their day" in Italian musical show. The musical show was modified altogether previously and perhaps amid its run. One model is the two part harmony for Otho and Poppaea in act 3, "No, no, ch'io non apprezzo", supplanted with two solo arias before the principal execution. Another is Poppaea's aria "Ingannata", supplanted amid the keep running with another of outrageous virtuosity, "Pur punir chi m'ha ingannata", either to stress Poppaea's recently discovered goals at this crossroads of the musical drama or, as is thought more probable, to compliment Scarabelli by allowing her an extra chance to flaunt her vocal capacities. 

The instrumentation for Handel's score pursues intently that of all his initial musical dramas: two recorders, two oboes, two trumpets, three violins, two cellos, viola, timpani, contrabassoon and harpsichord. By the norms of Handel's later London musical shows this scoring is light, yet there are by and by what Dean and Knapp depict as "snapshots of magnificence when Handel applies the full "concerto grosso" treatment." "Agrippina", Handel's second Italian musical show, was likely his last arrangement in Italy. 

On hearing that her better half, the Emperor Claudius, has passed on in a tempest adrift, Agrippina plots to verify the honored position for Nero, her child by a past marriage. Nero is apathetic about this task, yet agrees to his mom's desires ("Con saggio tuo consiglio"). Agrippina acquires the help of her two freedmen, Pallas and Narcissus, who hail Nero as the new Emperor before the Senate. 

With the Senate's consent, Agrippina and Nero start to rise the position of authority, yet the function is hindered by the passage of Claudius' worker Lesbus. He declares that his lord is alive ("Allegrezza! Claudio giunge!"), spared from death by Otho, the officer of the military. Otho himself affirms this and uncovers that Claudius has guaranteed him the position of royalty as a characteristic of appreciation. Agrippina is disappointed, until Otho furtively trusts to her that he cherishes the delightful Poppaea more than he wants the position of royalty. Agrippina, mindful that Claudius likewise cherishes Poppaea, sees another chance of promoting her aspirations for Nero. She goes to Poppaea and advises her, dishonestly, that Otho has hit a deal with Claudius whereby he, Otho, gains the position of royalty however offers Poppaea to Claudius. Agrippina encourages Poppaea to turn the tables on Otho by telling the Emperor that Otho has requested her to reject Claudius' considerations. This, Agrippina accepts, will make Claudius disavow his guarantee to Otho of the honored position. 

Poppaea trusts Agrippina. At the point when Claudius touches base at Poppaea's home she reviles what she accepts is Otho's injustice. Claudius withdraws in wrath, while Agrippina skeptically supports Poppaea by proclaiming that their kinship will never be broken by duplicity ("Non ho cor che per amarti"). 

Pallas and Narcissus understand that Agrippina has deceived them into supporting Nero and choose to have no more to do with her. Otho arrives, anxious about his approaching crowning ordinance ("Coronato il crin d'alloro"), trailed by Agrippina, Nero and Poppaea, who have come to welcome Claudius. All consolidate in a triumphal tune ("Di timpani e trombe") as Claudius enters. Each in turns pays tribute to the Emperor, however Otho is icily rebuked as Claudius reprimands him as a trickster. Otho is crushed and offers to Agrippina, Poppaea, and Nero for help, yet they all reject him, abandoning him in bewilderment and gloom ("Otton, qual portentoso fulmine" trailed by "Voi che udite il mio lamento"). 

Be that as it may, Poppaea is contacted by her previous dearest's melancholy, and miracles on the off chance that he probably won't be blameless ("Bella pur nel mio diletto"). She devises an arrangement and when Otho approaches her, she claims to talk in her rest relating what Agrippina has revealed to her before. Otho, as she expected, catches her and furiously challenges his guiltlessness. He persuades Poppaea that Agrippina has betrayed her. Poppaea swears retribution ("Ingannata una sol volta", exchange aria "Pur punir chi m'ha ingannata") however is diverted when Nero approaches and pronounces his affection for her. In the interim, Agrippina, having lost the help of Pallas and Narcissus, figures out how to persuade Claudius that Otho is as yet plotting to take the position of royalty. She prompts Claudius that he should end Otho's aspirations for the last time by relinquishing for Nero. Claudius concurs, trusting that this will empower him to win Poppaea. 

Poppaea now designs some trickery of her own, with an end goal to redirect Claudius' rage from Otho with whom she has now accommodated. She shrouds Otho in her room with directions to listen cautiously. Before long Nero lands to squeeze his adoration on her ("Coll'ardor del tuo bel center"), yet she deceives him into covering up also. At that point Claudius enters; Poppaea reveals to him that he had before misjudged her: it was not Otho but rather Nero who had requested her to dismiss Claudius. To demonstrate her point she requests that Claudius claim to leave, at that point she gathers Nero who, thinking Claudius has gone, resumes his energetic charming of Poppaea. Claudius abruptly returns and furiously rejects the disheartened Nero. After Claudius withdraws, Poppaea brings Otho out of stowing away and the two express their everlasting affection in discrete arias. 

At the royal residence, Nero tells Agrippina of his inconveniences and chooses to repudiate love for political aspiration ("Come nube che fugge dal vento"). Be that as it may, Pallas and Narcissus have at this point uncovered Agrippina's unique plot to Claudius, with the goal that when Agrippina encourages the Emperor to yield the position of royalty to Nero, he blames her for bad form. She at that point guarantees that her endeavors to verify the position of royalty for Nero had from the start been a stratagem to defend the honored position for Claudius ("Se vuoi pace"). Claudius trusts her; all things considered, when Poppaea, Otho, and Nero arrive, Claudius reports that Nero and Poppaea will wed, and that Otho will have the position of royalty. Nobody is happy with this course of action, as their wants have all changed, so Claudius in a soul of compromise inverts his judgment, offering Poppaea to Otho and the royal position to Nero. He at that point brings the goddess Juno, who plummets to articulate a general gift ("V'accendano le tede I raggi delle stelle"). 

The date of "Agrippina"s first execution, about which there was at one time some vulnerability, has been affirmed by an original copy bulletin as 26 December 1709. The cast comprised of some of Northern Italy's driving vocalists of the day, incorporating Antonio Carli in the number one spot bass job; Margherita Durastanti, who had as of late sung the job of Mary Magdalene in Handel's "La resurrezione"; and Diamante Scarabelli, whose extraordinary accomplishment at Bologna in the 1697 pasticcio "Perseo" enlivened the distribution of a volume of eulogistic refrain entitled "La miniera del Diamante". 

"Agrippina" demonstrated incredibly well known and set up Handel's worldwide notoriety. Its unique keep running of 27 exhibitions was exceptional for that time. Handel's biographer John Mainwaring composed of the primary execution: "The auditorium at pretty much every respite reverberated with yells of "Viva il caro Sassone!" ('Long live the darling Saxon!') They were flabbergasted with the greatness and sublimity of his style, for they had never known till then every one of the forces of concordance and balance so firmly masterminded and persuasively joined." Many others recorded overwhelmingly positive reactions to the work. 

Somewhere in the range of 1713 and 1724 there were creations of "Agrippina" in Naples, Hamburg, and Vienna, in spite of the fact that Handel himself never resuscitated the musical drama after its underlying run. The Naples generation incorporated extra music by Francesco Mancini. In the later eighteenth, and all through the nineteenth hundreds of years, Handel's musical dramas fell into lack of definition, and none were arranged somewhere in the range of 1754 and 1920. In any case, when enthusiasm for Handel's musical dramas stirred in the twentieth century, "Agrippina" got a few restorations, starting with a 1943 generation at Handel's origin, Halle, under conductor Richard Kraus at the Halle Opera House. In this execution the alto job of Otho, made for a lady, was changed into a bass joined by English horns, "with cataclysmic consequences for the sensitive parity and surface of the score", as indicated by Winton Dean. The Radio Audizioni Italiane delivered a live radio communicate of the musical drama on 25 October 1953, the musical drama's first introduction other than in front of an audience. The cast included Magda László in the title job and Mario Petri as Claudius, and the execution was directed by Antonio Pedrotti. 

A 1958 act in Leipzig, and a few additional stagings in Germany, went before the British première of the musical drama at Abingdon, Oxfordshire, in 1963. This was followed in 1982 by the principal completely proficient creation in England. It was performed by Kent Opera with the director, Ivan Fischer, making his introduction with the organization and the ensemble playing on extravagant instruments. Felicity Palmer played the title job. In 1983 the musical drama came back to Venice, for an execution under Christopher Hogwood at the Teatro Malibran. In the United States a show exhibition had been given on 16 February 1972 at the Academy of Music in Philadelphia, however the musical show's first completely organized American execution was in Fort Worth, Texas, in 1985. That equivalent year it achieved New York, with a show exhibition at Alice Tully Hall, where the musical drama was portrayed as a "real irregularity". The Fort Worth execution was immediately trailed by further American stagings in Iowa City and Boston. The truly educated execution development enlivened two period instrument creations of "Agrippina" in 1985 and 1991 separately. Both were in Germany, the first was in the Schlosstheater Schwetzingen, the other at the Göttingen International Handel Festival. 

There have been various creations in the 21st century, including a 2002 ultramodern arranging by chief Lillian Groag at the New York City Opera. This creation, resuscitated in 2007, was portrayed by "The New York Times" commentator as "odd ... exhibited as wide parody, a "Springtime for Hitler" form of "I, Claudius"", despite the fact that the melodic exhibitions were for the most part adulated. In Britain, the English National Opera (ENO) organized an English-language form in February 2007, coordinated by David McVicar, which got an extensively positive basic reaction, despite the fact that pundit Fiona Maddocks distinguished highlights of the creation that decreased the work: "Music so clever, innovative and others conscious requires no additional overlaying". A portion of the later recoveries utilized countertenors in the jobs composed for castrati. 

"Agrippina" is viewed as Handel's first operatic magnum opus; as indicated by Winton Dean it has few opponents for its "sheer freshness of melodic creation". Grimani's lyrics has additionally been adulated: "The New Penguin Opera Guide" depicts it as a standout amongst the best Handel at any point set, and acclaims the "light touch" with which the characters are strikingly depicted. "Agrippina" in general may be, in the perspective on the researcher John E. Sawyer, "among the most persuading of all the author's sensational works". 

Elaborately, "Agrippina" pursues the standard example of the time by exchanging recitative and "da capo" arias. As per eighteenth century musical drama tradition the plot is fundamentally conveyed forward in the recitatives, while the melodic intrigue and investigation of character happens in the arias—in spite of the fact that now and again Handel breaks this form by utilizing arias to propel the activity. With one special case the recitative areas are "secco" ("dry"), where a basic vocal line is joined by continuo as it were. The irregularity is Otho's "Otton, qual portentoso fulmine", where he ends up victimized of the position of authority and abandoned by his cherished Poppaea; here the recitative is joined by the symphony, as a methods for featuring the dramatization. Senior member and Knapp depict this, and Otho's aria which pursues, as "the pinnacle of the musical drama". The nineteenth century melodic scholar Ebenezer Prout singles out Agrippina's "Non ho cor che per amarti" for unique acclaim. He calls attention to the scope of instruments utilized for embellishments, and composes that "an examination of the score of this air would likely dumbfound some who believe Handel's organization is needing in assortment." 

Handel made more use than was then regular of instrumental backup in arias, yet in different regards "Agrippina" is comprehensively run of the mill of a more seasoned operatic convention. Generally the arias are brief, there are just two short groups, and in the group of four and the trio the voices are not heard together. Be that as it may, Handel's style would change almost no in the following 30 years, a point reflected in the audits of the Tully Hall execution of "Agrippina" in 1985, which allude to a "series of pleasant aria and groups, any of which could be confused with crafted by his develop London years". 

Of the primary characters, just Otho isn't ethically wretched. Agrippina is a deceitful rogue; Nero, while not yet the beast he would move toward becoming, is spoiled and double-dealing; Claudius is self important, careless, and something of a clown, while Poppaea, the first of Handel's sex little cats, is likewise a liar and a tease. The freedmen Pallas and Narcissus are self-serving and lascivious. All, notwithstanding, make them recover highlights, and all have arias that express certified feeling. The circumstances in which they wind up are some of the time comic, yet never ludicrous—like Mozart in the Da Ponte musical shows, Handel abstains from snickering at his characters. 

In "Agrippina" the "da capo" aria is the melodic structure used to show character with regards to the musical drama. The initial four arias of the work represent this current: Nero's "Con raggio", in a minor key and with a plunging figure on the key expression "il trono ascenderò" ("I will climb the honored position") describes him as frail and hesitant. Pallas' first aria "La mia sorte fortunata", with its "wide-jumping melodic expressing" presents him as a striking, gallant figure, diverging from his opponent Narcissus whose thoughtful nature is shown in his fragile aria "Volo right now" which promptly pursues. Agrippina's starting aria "L'alma mia" has a fake military structure which mirrors her outward power, while inconspicuous melodic expressing sets up her genuine passionate state. Poppaea's arias are consistently light and cadenced, while Claudius' short love melody "Vieni O cara" gives a look at his internal sentiments, and is viewed as one of the pearls of the score. 

Grimani's lyrics is loaded with incongruity, which Handel reflects in the music. His settings at times outline both the surface significance, as characters endeavor to mislead one another, and the concealed truth. For example, in her aria in act 1, "Non ho cor che per amarti", Agrippina guarantees Poppaea that double dealing will never damage their new kinship, while deceiving her into destroying Otho's odds for the position of authority. Handel's music lights up her misdirection in the tune and minor modular key, while a basic, accentuated cadenced backup indicates lucidity and receptiveness. In act 3, Nero's declaration that his enthusiasm is finished and that he will never again bound by it (in "Come nube che fugge dal vento") is set to mixed music which proposes that he is misdirecting himself. In Otho's "Coronato il crin" the fomented idea of the music is the opposite the "euphoric" tone of the lyrics recommends. Differences between the power of the lyrics and the enthusiastic shade of the real music would form into a steady component of Handel's later London musical dramas. 

The file of Chrysander's release (see underneath) records the accompanying numbers, barring the "secco" recitatives. Variations from the lyrics are additionally noted. 

Act 1 

Act 2 

Act 3 

Handel's signature score gets by, with the Sinfonia and first recitatives missing, however is demonstrates huge contrasts from the lyrics, because of changes made for the primary exhibitions. Handel's performing score is lost. Three early composition duplicates, most likely dating from 1710, are held in Vienna; one of these may have been a blessing from Grimani to the future Emperor Charles VI. These duplicates, apparently dependent on the lost performing score, show further transforms from the signature. A composition from the 1740s known as the "Blossom score" is portrayed by Dean as "a variety in indiscriminate request". 

In around 1795 the British writer Samuel Arnold delivered a release dependent on early duplicates; this version, while it contains blunders and mistakes, has been designated "presumably a sensible impression of early exhibitions". The Chrysander release of 1874 tends to "clear Arnold aside when he is correct and tail him when he isn't right." Musicologist Anthony Hicks calls it "a tragic endeavor to accommodate the signature content with Arnold and the wordbook, the outcome being a composite adaptation of no expert." 

In 1950 Barenreiter distributed Hellmuth Christian Wolff's version, arranged for the 1943 Halle restoration and mirroring the throwing of basses for Otto and Narcissus, notwithstanding when they sing what might somehow or another be the alto part in the last ensemble. It displays a German adjustment of the recitatives and worked out embellishments for the da capo arias just as various cuts. The B level fugue G 37 shows up as a demonstration II suggestion alongside other instrumental music. 

A version by John E Sawyer showed up in 2013 as arrangement II vol. 3 of the "Hallische Händelausgabe". It depends on the 1709 rendition, with expressive dance music obtained from Rodrigo, and contains two reference sections with included and remade music just as erased adaptations from the signature. 

Notes 

Sources 

Further perusing