Nafaanra 

Nafaanra (some of the time composed Nafaara, articulated ) is a Senufo language spoken in northwest Ghana, along the outskirt with Ivory Coast, east of Bondoukou. It is spoken by roughly 61,000 individuals. Its speakers call themselves Nafana, however others call them Banda or Mfantera. Like other Senufo dialects, Nafaanra is a tonal language. It is fairly an exception in the Senufo language gathering, with the topographically nearest relatives, the Southern Senufo Tagwana– Djimini dialects, roughly toward the west, on the opposite side of Comoé National Park. 

The essential word request is subject– object– action word, similar to Latin and Japanese. Like other Niger– Congo dialects, it has a thing class framework, with things ordered by five unique classes, which additionally influences pronouns, descriptive words and copulas. The phonology includes a qualification between the length of vowels and whether they are oral or nasal (as in French or Portuguese). There are likewise three particular tones, an element imparted to the next Senufo dialects. Nafaanra syntax highlights both tense and perspective which are set apart with particles. Numbers are for the most part shaped by adding cardinal numbers to the number 5 and by increasing the numbers 10, 20 and 100. 

Nafaanra is flanked by Kulango dialects toward the west, while Deg (a Gur language) and Gonja (Kwa) are found toward the north and east. The nearest eastern neighbor is the Mande language Ligbi, whose speakers are likewise called "Banda") which, as Nafaanra, is an exception to its very own family. Southeast and south of Nafaanra and Ligbi, the Akan language Abron (likewise Bron or Brong) is spoken. 

The Nafana individuals live in the north-west corner of the Brong-Ahafo Region of Ghana, amassed mostly in Sampa (capital of the Jaman North region) and Banda. There are two provincial variations of Nafaanra: Pantera of Banda, and Fantera of Sampa. Bendor-Samuel gives a 79% related relationship on the Swadesh list between the two lingos, implying that they share numerous fundamental words for all intents and purpose. The Banda tongue is viewed as focal. The expressions "Fantera" and "Pantera" originate from different people groups and are viewed as derogatory by the Nafana. 

The Nafana individuals state that they originate from a town called Kakala in Ivory Coast. Their oral history says that a portion of their kin are still there, and on the off chance that they return they won't be permitted to leave once more. They landed in the Banda zone after the Ligbi individuals, who originated from Begho (Bigu, Bighu) to the zone in the mid seventeenth century. 

Numerous Nafana are bilingual in Twi, the territorial most widely used language, to some degree. As indicated by SIL, half of the general population can "fulfill routine social requests and restricted necessities in different spaces", while 20% can speak Twi "with adequate auxiliary exactness and vocabulary to take an interest viably in most formal and casual discussions on commonsense, social, and word related subjects". The staying 30% are either ready to keep up without a doubt, exceptionally straightforward eye to eye discussions on commonplace points (15%) or unfit to speak Twi by any means (15%). 15– 25% of the Nafana individuals are proficient in Twi, while just 1– 5% are educated in Nafaanra. 

Nafaanra is the second language of the around 70 Dompo individuals living in the nearby region of Banda. Dompo is their first language, thought to be wiped out until a field work outing of Blench in 1998 demonstrated the opposite. 

Maurice Delafosse was the main etymologist to make reference to Nafaanra, calling it "a much scattered Senufo clan" in 1904. Westermann in his order of West-African dialects, likewise assembled Nafaanra with Senufo, evidently dependent on the word list found in Rapp. This grouping is affirmed by Bendor-Samuel, who puts together his inner Senufo characterization with respect to the near word records in Swadesh et al. 

It is less clear which specific Senufo branch Nafaanra is identified with generally intently. Bendor-Samuel gives a 60% related relationship on the Swadesh list with "Tenere" (a western Senari lingo), 59% with "Focal Senari" (the Senari vernacular spoken around Korhogo), and 43% with the non-Senufo dialects Mo (or Deg), Kabre (or Kabiye), and Dogon. The moderately low scores of about 60% point to a fairly far off relationship. Moreover, Mensah and Tchagbale build up an intercomprensibility factor of 38% with "Tyebaara" (Senari), inferring that Nafaanra is just remotely identified with this lingo. Nafaanra has been likely connected to Palaka (Kpalaga) by Manessy, while Mills recommends a connection with the southern Tagwana– Djimini branch. 

Nafaanra has seven oral and five nasalized vowels. A distinction in vowel length can have any kind of effect in significance, as in ', "to go", versus ', "obsession" or "o", "we" versus "oo", "we will". Additionally, the phonemic contrastiveness of nasalization can be seen in "sii", "to conceive an offspring," versus "", "to manufacture". The vowel framework intently looks like that of other Senufo dialects. It resembles the two Northern Senufo dialects Supyire and Mamara in having just five nasal against seven oral vowels. In the orthography, nasalization of vowels is set apart by including the letter "n" after the vowel. 

In the table underneath, orthographic images are incorporated between sections on the off chance that they vary from the IPA images. Note particularly the utilization of "j" for IPA and the utilization of "y" for IPA , regular in African orthographies. 

The consonant arrangement of Nafaanra is genuinely like that of other Senufo dialects. Nafaanra has just a single authenticated palatal fricative, , involving a halfway position between the Northern Senufo dialects (Mamara, Supyire) that have both and its voiced partner , and the Central and Southern Senufo dialects (for example Karaboro, Senari, Djimini) that have no palatal fricatives by any stretch of the imagination. 

Like the other Senufo dialects, Nafaanra has three contrastive tones: High, Mid and Low. Tone is typically not set apart in the Nafaanra orthography. Models are: 

The Mid tone some of the time has a rising component, the High tone here and there is liable to downstep (a tonal procedure bringing about a High tone being acknowledged ease off than a first High volume), and an upstep is additionally found. The "rising component" of Mid might be identified with the way that two distinctive Mid tones are found in some other Senufo dialects (for example Sucite and Supyire). The High tone downstep (connoted by a raised outcry mark) happens in the accompanying setting: 

Almost certainly, the tonal bringing down found in this specific precedent is identified with the low tone nasal prefix found in future tense developments in some other Senufo dialects. Truth be told, Supyire demonstrates a comparative marvel in future tense developments with an immediate item (in other future tense developments, a low tone nasal is found). 

By and large in any case, downstep is more boundless than in Supyire; a comparative marvel is found in Palaka, Tagwana, and Djimini. 

An upstep is found in the basic tense of high tone action words: 

The Nafaanra syllable contains a vowel and a limit of three consonants. A nasal consonant may happen as a syllable all alone, in which case it is known as a "syllabic nasal". The fundamental syllable structure can be rendered as (C)(C)V(C), with an inclination for CV and CVV. Position C may contain any consonant, in spite of the fact that word-introductory/r/does not happen. Position C may contain just trills (/r/) or approximants (/w, l, j/). Position C may contain just nasals (), in which case the syllable all in all is nasalized. 

Senufo dialects have a regular Niger– Congo thing class (or sex) framework. Additions on things mark participation of one of the five thing sexual orientations. Pronouns, descriptive words and copulas mirror the thing sex of the ostensible they allude to. Albeit none of the sources on Nafaanra gives any subtleties, it tends to be deduced from a concise word list given by Jordan that the Nafaanra thing class framework takes after that of other Senufo dialects. 

The fundamental word request in Nafaanra is subject– object– action word, as can be found in the accompanying sentence: 

Jordan records the accompanying rundown of pronouns, remarking, "Despite the fact that the pronoun framework shows up very straightforward, it ends up entangled in light of the fact that every one of the tenses are appeared by a blend of pronoun in addition to molecule." 

Tense and angle in Nafaanra are by and large encoded in two spots: in preverbal particles and on the action word structure. Nafaanra has past, later past, and future tenses and continuative perspective. In a straightforward sentence, the request of the different constituents can be rendered as pursues: . At the point when the negative addition "- n" is available, no intertwining of preverbal particles happens. Nafaanra furthermore communicates some strained/angle matters by utilization of certain time intensifiers and helper action words. 

Past tense is set apart by the preverbal molecule "ná" (high tone, instead of the low tone continuative molecule). Future tense is set apart by the molecule "wè". Basic sentences without a preverbal tense molecule are translated as later past (here and there called "quick"). On the off chance that angle checking is missing, straightforward sentences are commonly deciphered as "completive". 

Continuative perspective (some of the time called "dynamic") signifies an activity that is continuous or monotonous. Continuative viewpoint is typically stamped both by a preverbal molecule "nà" (low tone) and by a difference in the action word structure. The action word "sɛ́", "go" utilized in the sentences underneath has the continuative structure "síé". In sentences where both past tense molecule "ná" and continuative molecule "nà" are available, they consolidate to give the melded molecule "náà". In sentences in the ongoing past tense, the preverbal continuative molecule is precluded and continuative angle is appeared on the action word. 

Two classes of action words can be separated based on their conduct in aspectually stamped sentences. One class of action words has two aspectually unmistakable structures, as found in the above model sentences. Another class of action words does not recognize perspective—one and a similar structure appears in both completive and continuative angle. In sentences in the ongoing past tense, this offers ascend to uncertainty since the preverbal continuative molecule is discarded there. In this way, the sentence "kòfí blú" can be translated in the accompanying two different ways: 

Impressive combination happens between pronominal subjects and the preverbal particles. For instance, "ná" "" wires with "pé", "they", to deliver "prá sɛ́" (they-go-completive), "they went", and "wè" "" wires with "pé" in "píè sɛ́" (they-go-completive), "they will go". 

Questions can be framed in a few different ways in Nafaanra. Essential yes– no inquiries are developed by including a sentence-last inquiry marker "rá". Constituent inquiries (now and again called "Wh-questions" or "question word questions") are doubly checked. They contain a sentence-introductory inquiry word and are set apart with a sentence-last inquiry marker "hin". 

The cardinal numbers without tonal checking are displayed underneath; where conceivable, the tone design is included based the rundown in Rapp. Some Supyire associates are given for correlation. Numbers six to nine are determined by adding the numbers one to four to "kɔɔ", "five", by methods for the combination "na". 

The numbers 11– 19 are framed by adding 1– 9 to 10 by methods for the combination "mbɔ", for example "kɛmbɔnunu", "eleven", "kɛmbɔkunɔ", "fifteen". During the tens and higher, the Nafaanra and Supyire frameworks separate. Augmentation of "fulo", "twenty," and expansion of "kɛ", "ten", (by methods for the combination "ná") is utilized to frame the 30– 90 tens. Maybe shockingly, there are impressive contrasts between Rapp (1933) and Jordan (1980) here. In Rapp's 60, 70 and 80, "féle" is by all accounts used to stamp ten, which conjoined with 6, 7 and 8 shapes 60, 70 and 80. 

Rapp (1933) thinks about the Nafaanra numerals for three ("táárɛ") and hundred ("lafaa") with "estimated time of arrival" and "ke-lafa" from Mpre, a heretofore unclassified language from Ghana. It ought to be noted anyway that Mpre "estimated time of arrival" is Kwa-like (cf. Brong "esã", Ga "etɛ"), while the Nafaanra structure "táárɛ" is straightforwardly identified with the structures found in the other (non-Kwa) Senufo dialects (for example Supyire "tàànrè"). 

Nafaanra "lafaa" "hundred" is a run of the mill Kwa numeral and is most likely obtained from one of the encompassing Kwa dialects (cf. Dangme "làfá", Gonja "kì-làfá", Ewe "alafá"). Rapp's ramifications of proclivity among Mpre and Nafaanra appears to be subsequently ridiculous at this dimension. 

Morphophonological shifts happen all over, most strikingly the decrease of "kúnɔ", "five" to "kɔ́ɔ̀" (saving the tone design) and the change from "lafaa" to "lafɛɛ" in the hundreds. 

The three essential shading expressions of Nafaanra are: "wɔɔ", "dark", "finge", "white", and "ɲiɛ", "red". Likewise with descriptors in Senufo dialects, the type of the shading words mirrors the thing class of the thing that is changed. 

The related structures in firmly related Supyire are "- ɲyɛ-", "red; warm shaded", and "- fyìn-", "white; light hued", in Supyire. These modifiers are identified with the separate action words "fíníŋɛ́", "be white; brighten" and "ɲááŋá", "be red; blush", which thusly are causative types of the now old action words "fini","be white" and "ɲana", "be red". 

Test Nafaanra sentences from the SIL: 

There is generally minimal distributed on or in the Nafaanra language. The primary etymological production to make reference to Nafaanra is Delafosse (1904), containing a few notes on the Nafana individuals and a genuinely broad relative Senufo word list, however it came up short on any legitimate tonal stamping. Rapp (1933) is a supplement to an article on the Kulango language containing a German-Nafaanra ("Nafana-Sprache") word rundown of around 100 things, assembled amid a stay of four hours at Sampa. Rapp notes in passing that exceptional consideration was paid to the stamping of the tones. 

After a time of quiet on Nafaanra, Painter (1966) showed up, comprising of essential word arrangements of the Pantera and Fantera lingos. The SIL language specialist Dean Jordan distributed an article on Nafaanra talk in 1978, and together with his better half Carol Jordan has created an interpretation of the New Testament, which showed up in 1984. Kropp-Dakubu's 1980 "West African language information sheets" vol II contains a couple of pages on Nafaanra set up together in the late seventies by Dean and Carol Jordan, including a phonology, a rundown of things, a rundown of pronouns, a rundown of numbers, and some precedent sentences; tones are not stamped. A progressively itemized phonology of Nafaanra by Jordan, likewise containing a Swadesh list, showed up in 1980. A few books of Nafana society stories have been distributed by the Summer Institute of Linguistics. Mensah and Tchagbale in their 1983 phonetic chart book of Ivory Coast incorporate a near Senufo word rundown of around 120 things; Nafaanra is available under the name "Nafara of Bondoukou". An orthography of Nafaanra, lacking tonal checking, is incorporated into Hartell (1993). The region where Nafaanra is spoken has been the subject of later archeological-anthropological investigations (Stahl 2004).