The Slave Community 

The Slave Community: Plantation Life in the Antebellum South is a book composed by American antiquarian John W. Blassingame. Distributed in 1972, it is one of the main verifiable investigations of subjugation in the United States to be exhibited from the viewpoint of the oppressed. "The Slave Community" negated those antiquarians who had deciphered history to recommend that African American slaves were mild and agreeable "Sambos" who delighted in the advantages of a paternalistic ace slave relationship on southern ranches. Utilizing brain research, Blassingame investigates criminal slave accounts distributed in the nineteenth century to presume that a free culture created among the subjugated and that there were an assortment of identity types displayed by slaves. 

Despite the fact that the significance of "The Slave Community" was perceived by researchers of American bondage, Blassingame's decisions, approach, and sources were vigorously reprimanded. History specialists scrutinized the utilization of slave accounts that were viewed as temperamental and one-sided. They scrutinized Blassingame's choice to bar the in excess of 2,000 meetings with previous slaves directed by the Works Progress Administration (WPA) during the 1930s. Antiquarians contended that Blassingame's utilization of mental hypothesis demonstrated unhelpful in his elucidation. Blassingame shielded his decisions at a 1976 gathering of the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History and in 1979 distributed an updated and broadened release of "The Slave Community". In spite of reactions, "The Slave Community" is a primary content in the investigation of the life and culture of slaves in the before the war South. 

Ulrich Bonnell Phillips composed the principal major verifiable investigation of the twentieth century managing servitude. In "American Negro Slavery" (1918), Phillips alludes to slaves as "negroes, who generally were by racial quality agreeable as opposed to disobedient, carefree rather than melancholy, affable and charming rather than gloomy, and whose very imperfections welcomed paternalism instead of constraint." "American Negro Slavery" is injected with racial talk and maintains recognitions about the inadequacy of dark individuals regular in the southern United States at the time. Albeit African American scholastics, for example, W. E. B. Du Bois condemned Phillips' portrayal of slaves, the book was viewed as the definitive content on bondage in America until the 1950s. 

Phillips' elucidation of subjection was tested by Kenneth M. Stampp in "The Peculiar Institution: Slavery in the Ante-Bellum South" (1956) and Stanley M. Elkins in "Servitude: A Problem in American Institutional and Intellectual Life" (1958). Stampp's examination does not have the bigot elucidation found in "American Negro Slavery" and methodologies the issue from the position that there is no intrinsic contrast among blacks and whites. He addresses the truth of estate paternalism depicted by Phillips: "the truth of prior to the war paternalism ... should be isolated from its whimsical environment and fundamentally investigated." Elkins additionally expels Phillips' case that African American slaves were inherently accommodating "Sambos". He contends that slaves had rather been infantilized, or "made" into Sambos, by the ruthless treatment got because of slaveowners and supervisors. Elkins looks at the procedure to the infantilization of Jews in Nazi inhumane imprisonments. 

Like Phillips, Stampp and Elkins depended on manor records and the works of slaveowners as their principle essential sources. Stampp concedes that "few solicit what the slaves themselves thought from subjugation." Historians expelled the composed works of slaves, for example, the nineteenth century criminal slave accounts as problematic and one-sided in view of their altering by abolitionists. Researchers likewise overlooked the 2,300 meetings led with previous slaves in the late 1930s by the WPA Federal Writers' Project. As history specialist George P. Rawick brings up, more weight was regularly given to white sources: the "aces administered the past truth be told" yet additionally "rule its recorded history." 

The 1970s, in any case, saw the distribution of revisionist contemplates that withdrew from the conventional historiography of servitude. Concentrating on the point of view of the slave, new investigations consolidated the slave accounts and WPA interviews: George Rawick's "From Sunup to Sundown: The Making of the Black Community" (1972), Eugene D. Genovese's "Move, Jordan, Roll: The World the Slaves Made" (1974), Peter H. Wood, "Dark Majority: Negroes in Colonial South Carolina from 1670 Through the Stono Rebellion" (1974), Leslie Howard Owens' "This Species of Property: Slave Life and Culture in the Old South" (1976), Herbert G. Gutman's "The Black Family in Slavery and Freedom, 1750– 1925" (1976), and Lawrence W. Levine's "Dark Culture and Black Consciousness: Afro-American Folk Thought from Slavery to Freedom" (1977). One of the more questionable of these investigations was John W. Blassingame's "The Slave Community". 

In "The Slave Community", Blassingame contends that "students of history have never deliberately investigated the beneficial encounters of American slaves." He states that by focusing on the slaveowner, antiquarians have displayed a twisted perspective on manor life that "strips the captive of any significant and unmistakable culture, family life, religion, or masculinity." Blassingame traces that the dependence on grower sources drove antiquarians like Elkins to emulate grower generalizations of slaves, for example, the "accommodating half-man, half kid" Sambo. Taking note of the organization slaves had over their lives, he battles, "Instead of relating to and submitting absolutely to his lord, the slave clutched numerous leftovers of his African culture, picked up a feeling of worth in the quarters, invested the greater part of his energy free from reconnaissance by whites, controlled essential parts of his life, and did some by and by significant things all alone volition." 

As per Blassingame, African culture was not by any stretch of the imagination expelled from slave culture through the procedure of oppression and "was significantly more impervious to the clubs that was servitude than antiquarians have up to this point suspected." "African survivals" persevered as people stories, religion and otherworldliness, music and move, and language. He affirms that the maintenance of African culture went about as a type of protection from oppression: "Everything considered, the couple of Africans subjugated in seventeenth-and eighteenth-century America seem to have endure their horrible encounters without winding up wretchedly tame, puerile, or accommodating" and "since a staggering level of nineteenth-century Southern slaves were local Americans, they never experienced this sort of stun [the Middle Passage] and were in a situation to build mental resistances against complete reliance on their lords." 

Blassingame declares that antiquarians have talked about "what could be commonly depicted as slave 'culture,' yet give minimal strong data on life in the quarters." He contends that culture created inside the slave network free of the slaveowners' impact. Blassingame notes, "Prior to the war dark slaves made a few novel social structures which helped their weight of mistreatment, advanced gathering solidarity, gave approaches to verbalizing animosity, continuing expectation, building confidence, and regularly spoken to everyday issues generally free from the control of whites." 

Blassingame noticed that a significant number of the society stories told by slaves have been followed by African researchers to Ghana, Senegal, and Mauritania to people groups, for example, the Ewe, Wolof, Hausa, Temne, Ashanti, and Igbo. He comments, "While a considerable lot of these stories were conveyed over toward the South, the African component seems most obviously in the creature stories." One noticeable model talked about by Blassingame is the Ewe story of "Why the Hare Runs Away", which is a swindler and tar-infant story told by southern slaves and later recorded by essayist Joel Chandler Harris in his Uncle Remus stories. Southern slaves regularly included African creatures like elephants, lions, and monkeys as characters in their people stories. 

As Christian ministers and slaveowners endeavored to eradicate African religious and profound convictions, Blassingame contends that "in the United States, numerous African religious customs were combined into one—voodoo." Voodoo clerics and sorcerers guaranteed slaves that they could make experts kind, hurt adversaries, guarantee love, and recuperate ailment. Different religious survivals noted by Blassingame incorporate memorial service ceremonies, grave embellishing, and formal moving and singing. 

Slaveowners and state governments attempted to keep slaves from making or playing melodic instruments as a result of the utilization of drums to flag the Stono Rebellion in 1739. Blassingame, notwithstanding, brings up that disregarding limitations, slaves had the capacity to manufacture a solid melodic convention drawing on their African legacy. Music, melodies, and moves were like those performed or played in Africa. Instruments duplicated by slaves incorporate drums, three-stringed banjos, gourd rattles, and mandolins. 

All things considered, Blassingame infers that culturally diverse trades happened on southern ranches, contending that "cultural assimilation in the United States included the common connection between two societies, with Europeans and Africans obtaining from one another." Blassingame attests that the most huge occasion rotated around Protestant Christianity (basically Baptist and Methodist temples): "The quantity of blacks who got religious guidance in prior to the war white holy places is critical in light of the fact that the congregation was the main foundation other than the manor which assumed a noteworthy job in acculturating the slave." Christianity and oppressed dark clergymen gradually supplanted African religious survivals and spoke to another part of slave culture which the slaves used to make their own networks. While priests lectured compliance within the sight of the slaveowners and different whites, slaves regularly met stealthily, "undetectable" administrations unsupervised by whites. In these "imperceptible holy places", slaves could talk about opportunity, freedom, and the judgment of God against slaveowners. 

Slave relational unions were illicit in southern states, and slave couples were as often as possible isolated by slaveowners through deal. Blassingame awards that slaveowners had authority over slave relational unions. They urged monogamous connections to "make it simpler to train their slaves. ... A dark man, they contemplated, who adored his significant other and his youngsters was more averse to be insubordinate or to flee than would a 'solitary' slave." Blassingame takes note of that when a slave couple lived on a similar estate, the spouse saw the whipping and assaulting of his better half and the closeout of his kids. He comments, "Nothing shown his weakness as much as the slave's powerlessness to keep the coercive clearance of his better half and kids." 

By the by, Blassingame contends that "anyway as often as possible the family was broken it was fundamentally in charge of the slave's capacity to get by on the manor without ending up absolutely subject to and accommodating to his lord." He fights: 

Blassingame attests that slave guardians endeavored to shield newborn children and youthful kids from the ruthlessness of the manor. At the point when youngsters comprehended that they were subjugated (normally after their first whipping), guardians discouraged furious inclinations to flee or look for retribution. 

Kids watched fathers showing two conduct types. In the quarters, he "acted like a man", rebuking whites for the abuse of himself and his family; in the field working for the ace, he seemed faithful and accommodating. As per Blassingame, "Now and again youngsters disguised both the genuine identity qualities and the opposing standards of conduct of their folks." He trusts that kids perceived accommodation as an advantageous technique to keep away from discipline and the conduct in the quarters as the genuine social model. Blassingame finishes up, "In [the slave father's] family, the slave not just figured out how to maintain a strategic distance from the blows of the ace, yet in addition drew on the affection and compassion of its individuals to raise his spirits. The family was, so, an imperative survival system." 

Blassingame recognizes three generalizations in the writing of the before the war south: 

Legitimately testing Elkins' infantilization theory, Blassingame contends that antiquarians have concentrated a lot on the Sambo identity type and the job of paternalism. "The Sambo generalization was so inescapable in prior to the war Southern writing that numerous students of history, moving forward without any more research, contend that it was a precise portrayal of the predominant slave identity." 

As per Blassingame, the Sambo figure developed from white Americans' frames of mind toward Africans and African Americans as intrinsically primitive, latent, superstitious, and untainted. Southern essayists wanted to shield subjection from charges of maltreatment and mercilessness leveled by northern abolitionists, so Sambo turned into a typical depiction to legitimize and clarify the requirement for ranch paternalism. At last, slaveowners utilized the Sambo generalization to mitigate their own feelings of trepidation and tensions about the potential resistance of their slaves. Blassingame comments, "in such manner, Nat, the genuine and potential revolutionary, remains at the center of white impression of the slave. With Nat perpetually in the wings, the production of Sambo was practically compulsory for the Southerner's passionate security. Like a man pretending to be unafraid to support his mettle, the white man "had" to depict the slave as Sambo." 

In spite of slaveowner paternalism and charges of accommodation, Blassingame battles, "There is overpowering proof, in the essential sources, of the Negro's protection from his subjugation and of his undying adoration for opportunity." Blassingame diagrams endeavors of captives to flee and revolt, especially the Stono Rebellion of 1739, Charles Deslondes' revolt in 1811, Nat Turner's revolt of 1831, and the interest of outlaw slaves in Florida battling with Seminoles amid the Seminole Wars. Blassingame reasons that the Sambo and Nat generalizations "were genuine." He clarifies, "The more dread whites had of Nat, the more solidly attempted to put stock in Sambo so as to escape suspicion." 

Blassingame presumes that there were an assortment of identity types shown by slaves situated on a scale between the two boundaries of Sambo and Nat. He contends that varieties present in ranches, supervisors, and bosses gave the slave "considerably more opportunity from restriction and more freedom and independence than his institutionally characterized job permitted. Therefore, the slave did not need to be puerile or degradedly tame so as to stay alive." Blassingame looks at subjugation on southern ranches to the treatment of detainees in Nazi inhumane imprisonments with an end goal to show that "the most essential factor in causing infantilism, complete reliance, and meekness in the camps was the genuine danger of death which left barely any, options for the prisoners." He comments, "Set on a continuum of all out establishments, the death camp is far expelled from the Southern estate." According to Blassingame, the objective of the nonsensically composed and understaffed manor was not the methodical torment and annihilation of its workers, who were "worth in excess of a slug". 

In "The Slave Community", Blassingame utilizes analyst Harry Stack Sullivan's relational hypothesis to translate the conduct of slaves on prior to the war manors. Sullivan asserts that "huge others", people with the most capacity to compensate and rebuff singular conduct, were basically in charge of deciding conduct. Relational scholars contend that "standards of conduct are controlled by the qualities of the circumstance, how the individual sees them, and his social demeanors at the time." The most vital part of identity is confidence. Blassingame clarifies, "Our feeling of confidence is uplifted or brought down by our view of the pictures others have of us." Interpersonal conduct rotates around the predominant accommodating tomahawks: "One type of conduct will in general evoke its supplement: strength prompts accommodation and the other way around. The degree of accommodation regularly relies upon the structure of the gathering to which the individual has a place." 

Another mental hypothesis utilized by Blassingame is job hypothesis. As per this hypothesis, "an individual's conduct is commonly dictated by the socially characterized jobs or the standards of conduct expected of him in specific circumstances." Blassingame declares that through applying relational and job hypothesis to the outlaw slave stories, students of history can decide "the degree to which slaves acted the manner in which their lords anticipated that them should act" and how the Sambo, Jack, and Nat identity types can be deluding. 

Blassingame fights that students of history have "intentionally disregarded" life accounts of ex-slaves, especially the outlaw slave stories. "Subsequently", contends Blassingame, "a lot of accentuation has been put on non-conventional sources in this examination with an end goal to depict all the more plainly the slave's perspective on servitude and to find some new bits of knowledge into the operations of the framework." He depends vigorously on stories by Henry Bibb, Henry Clay Bruce, Elizabeth Keckley, Samuel Hall, Solomon Northup, Charles Ball, Jermain Wesley Loguen, William Wells Brown, John Brown, Robert Anderson, William Grimes, Austin Steward, and Frederick Douglass. Blassingame's dialog of the African slave exchange, Middle Passage, and African culture depends on Olaudah Equiano's "The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano, or Gustavus Vassa, the African" (1794). 

As opposed to tolerating the outlaw slave accounts truly, Blassingame confesses to examining his perusing of the writings. He takes note of that contentions against the utilization of these personal histories utilized by students of history rotate around unwavering quality: "Numerous antiquarians won't utilize these records since they have felt the criminal, as the essential sufferer in the organization, was unfit to give a target record of servitude." Still, Blassingame safeguards his dependence on life accounts, noticing, "The representation of the foundation of subjugation which rises up out of the stories isn't the straightforward picture of terrible that most students of history have persuaded they contain. Rather, the criminals' manors are inhabited with a similar scope of saints and reprobates, highly contrasting, which one for the most part finds in humankind." Therefore, Blassingame finishes up: 

Other than outlaw slave stories, Blassingame utilizes abolitionist periodicals, for example, "The Liberator", "National Anti-Slavery Standard", "Pennsylvania Freeman", "Abolitionist Slavery Bugle", and "Virtuoso of Universal Emancipation". As indicated by Blassingame, these periodicals printed slave meetings, letters, and collections of memoirs, however "gave significantly more inclusion to white Southerners than to slaves and often republished articles, letters, and procedures from an expansive number of Southern papers". 

An essential source that Blassingame did not counsel in his examination was the WPA slave interviews. While he concedes that "slave interviews rival personal histories in their disclosures about the inward elements of subjugation, ... the overwhelming altering of the WPA interviews makes them unquestionably more hard to use than dark personal histories." He expounds on his analysis of the meetings in a 1975 article in the "Diary of Southern History". He depicts how white questioners regularly erased material in opposition to the paternalistic picture of the prior to the war South which they needed to show. Blassingame finishes up, "Uncritical utilization of the meetings will lead unavoidably to a shortsighted and mutilated perspective on the ranch as a paternalistic organization where the main element of life was shared love and regard among bosses and slaves." 

Blassingame expands on the historiography of Phillips, Stampp, and Elkins, however he recognizes the impact of Charles S. Sydnor's "Subjugation in Mississippi" (1933), Orville W. Taylor's "Negro Slavery in Arkansas" (1958), Eugene D. Genovese's "The Political Economy of Slavery" (1961), and Ann J. Path's compilation of expositions "The Debate Over Slavery: Stanley Elkins and His Critics" (1971). 

The significance of "The Slave Community" as one of the main investigations of subjugation from the point of view of the slave was perceived by students of history. The book in any case got substantial analysis by scholastics who couldn't help contradicting Blassingame's decisions, approach, and sources. Student of history George P. Rawick noted in 1976, in any case, that the analysis "ought not dark the way that [Blassingame's] book was of such legitimacy as to warrant investing our energy censuring it four years after its production. However, in the same way as other great books, it ought to have been something more." 

In "The History Teacher", Keith Polakoff remarks that "just with the distribution of Blassingame's work do we acquire out of the blue a point by point examination of the every day lives of the slaves on substantial ranches, with some keen theory about the powers to which they were oppressed. David Goldfield writes in "Agrarian History" that the book was the most amazing and adjusted endeavor to comprehend the slave's reactions to manor life to date. Carl N. Degler writes in the "Washington Post" that Blassingame's examination comes "closer than any past investigation to responding to the inquiry 'how was it to be a slave?'" 

All things considered, Blassingame's decisions, technique, and sources got generous analysis from students of history. Marian DeB. Kilson's audit in the "American Historical Review" depicted Blassingame's points as "defectively acknowledged" on the grounds that he "does not have an unmistakable explanatory viewpoint". She discovered his discourse of slave identity types "entrancing" and "his methodological points ... critical" however "not efficiently sought after". Kilson trusts that Blassingame at last bombed in his examination since "his scholarly mix of social and mental introductions presently can't seem to be completely accomplished." Orville W. Taylor battles in the "Diary of Negro History" that Blassingame tended to overgeneralize and make "unsubstantiatable cases to creativity and uniqueness". 

In the "Diary of Political Economy", financial student of history Stanley L. Engerman gripes that the book isn't "composed by or for business analysts" and makes "restricted utilization of monetary investigation". He proceeds, "Given the worry with the 'individual self-governance' and culture of the slave, a great part of the book is committed to the African legacy; to slave music, religion, and fables; and to the talk of the slave family and other individual connections." Engerman yields that "The Slave Community" "is a book composed during an era of progress in the understanding of subjection and dark culture", however "the writer now and again appears to be uncertain of the course in which he is pointing." He reasons that Blassingame's "examination is fragmented in its introduction of an alternate and progressively complex scene" despite the fact that he "successfully demonstrates the troubles of the inhumane imprisonment picture and the Sambo fantasy". 

Students of history censured Blassingame for expelling the WPA slave meets and depending exclusively on criminal slave accounts. In the "Diary of American History", Willie Lee Rose composes that Blassingame's utilization of the outlaw slave accounts is defaced by his disregard of the WPA interviews. Kenneth Wiggins Porter respects Blassingame's reliance on printed sources as a "noteworthy shortcoming" and trusts he doesn't utilize enough white sources like ranch records and travel stories, especially Frederick Law Olmsted's record of life in the prior to the war South. As indicated by George Rawick, "We frantically need work that delineates and breaks down the lives of dark ladies under servitude. We have had in all respects to a great extent a male-ruled writing about servitude." He notes, "Blassingame, lamentably, does not help us at all in this errand." Rawick infers that if Blassingame had counseled the WPA slave interviews, he would have built up an image of the "courageous battles of dark ladies for the benefit of themselves and of the entire dark network". 

Students of history showed shifting reactions to Blassingame's utilization of mental hypothesis. In an audit in the "William and Mary Quarterly", George Mullin is particularly incredulous of Blassingame's utilization of brain science, expressing that Blassingame "reduc[es] slave conduct and culture to an issue of jobs and mental qualities". He presumes that an "E. P. Thompson for the American Black people group amid subjugation is still off-organize", and that the point needs investigation by a social or financial student of history. Rawick states that Blassingame's "first real mistake lies in embracing the entirely faulty deterministic social mental job speculations related with ... Irving Goffman and Henry Stack Sullivan." He grumbles that it "spoofs the essential multifaceted nature of the 'brain science' of the mistreated who all the while see themselves in socially negative terms while battling against the perspective on themselves and their conduct". Rawick is persuaded that Blassingame would have achieved similar ends from the sources without the utilization of brain research "on the grounds that the verifiable proof as observed through an unadulterated responsibility to the battles of the slaves and a similarly solid threatening vibe toward the experts would have driven him there." On the other hand, Eugene D. Genovese and Earl E. Thorpe lauded Blassingame for his utilization of mental hypothesis, yet concede they incline toward Freudian and Marxist understandings over Sullivanian hypothesis. 

In 1976, the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History met in Chicago and held a session on "The Slave Community". Specialists included Mary Frances Berry, Herbert Gutman, Leslie Howard Owens, George Rawick, Earl Thorpe, and Eugene Genovese. Blassingame reacted to questions and investigates from the board. The dialog prompted the distribution of a treasury altered by Al-Tony Gilmore called "Returning to Blassingame's" The Slave Community": The Scholars Respond" (1978). The book incorporates articles by the specialists just as James D. Anderson, Ralph D. Carter, John Henrik Clarke, and Stanley Engerman. Blassingame's exposition, "Rethinking "The Slave Community": A Response to Critics" shows up in the volume. 

Since its production in 1972 and correction in 1979, "The Slave Community" has impacted resulting historiographical takes a shot at subjection in the United States. In a 1976 release of "Move, Jordan, Roll", Eugene Genovese clarifies that Blassingame's book "exhibits that the distributed records of rampant slaves can be lighting up". The creators of "Retribution with Slavery" (1976) utilize Blassingame's discoveries to challenge the statements of Robert William Fogel and Stanley Engerman in "" (1974). In "Slave Religion: The "Undetectable Institution" in the Antebellum South" (1978), Albert J. Raboteau remarks, "We ought to talk about the 'intangibility' of slave religion with incongruity: it is the disregard of slave sources by students of history which has been the fundamental driver of this imperceptibility." Raboteau credits Blassingame and others for showing the estimation of slave sources. Student of history Charles Joyner's persuasive investigation "Somewhere near the Riverside: A South Carolina Slave Community" (1984) is strengthened by the discoveries of "The Slave Community" and depends on comparative proof. 

History specialist Deborah Gray White expands on Blassingame's examination of the family life of the slaves in "Ar'n't I a Woman?: Female Slaves in the Plantation South" (1985). Her contention is like Blassingame's: "This present investigation investigates slave ladies in America and contends that they were not agreeable, subordinate, or smug and that they were not expected to be so." White examines the Mammy and Jezebel generalizations frequently connected to African American ladies by white Americans. She calls "The Slave Community" "a work of art" however comments that "Blassingame focused on the way that numerous bosses perceived the male as the leader of the family. He saw that amid romance men complimented ladies and overstated their ability. There was, nonetheless, little discourse of the complementary exercises of slave ladies." She infers that Blassingame "portrayed how slave men picked up status in the family, however he didn't do likewise for ladies." 

Elizabeth Fox-Genovese mentions comparative objective facts in "Inside the Plantation Household: Black and White Women of the Old South" (1988). She takes note of that "The Slave Community", like other historiography created during the 70s, "did not straightforwardly address ladies' history, despite the fact that a large number of the students of history were touchy to ladies' understanding. The greater part of the male creators had completed a substantial piece of their work before the improvement of ladies' history as a control, and even the most delicate were hampered by a scarcity of sources and by newness to the inquiries women's activists would before long raise." 

After the 1976 Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History meeting and the distribution of "Returning to Blassingame's" The Slave Community in 1978, Blassingame delivered a modified and extended release of "The Slave Community" in 1979. In the new prelude, Blassingame affirmed that the book must be modified as a result of George Bentley, a subjugated, expert subjection Primitive Baptist serve from Tennessee who pastored a white church during the 1850s. Blassingame needed to "explain the bunch situations presented by George Bentley", yet he likewise needed to respond to the inquiries, difficulties, and evaluates raised by researchers since the distribution of "The Slave Community". 

Blassingame clarifies that he consolidated the proposals distributed in "Returning to Blassingame's" The Slave Community "without long protestation or contention". The most huge changes made to the content include further talk of African social survivals, slave family life, slave culture, and cultural assimilation. Blassingame included a part titled "The Americanization of the Slave and the Africanization of the South" where he draws parallels between the cultural assimilation of African American slaves in the American South, African slaves in Latin America, and European slaves in North Africa and the Ottoman Empire. He looks at the change of slaves in the southern states to Protestant Christianity, European slaves in North Africa to Islam, and African slaves in Latin America to Catholicism. 

Blassingame addresses the historiography of subjugation distributed somewhere in the range of 1972 and 1978 in the reexamined version. For example, he challenges Robert Fogel and Stanley Engerman's financial and factual investigation of servitude in "Time on the Cross". Blassingame composes: 

Evaluating the updated release in the "Diary of Southern History", Gary B. Plants proposes, "With or without contention and amendment, "The Slave Community" remains a noteworthy book, and the writer's position that the greater part of the two slaves and slaveowners lay between the stereotyped boundaries demonstrates strong. Their precise area on a size of one to ten will dependably remain a matter of sentiment." 

Except if noticed, all references from "The Slave Community" are from the 1979 reconsidered release