Tommy Phillips 

Thomas Neil Phillips (May 22, 1883 – November 30, 1923) was a Canadian expert ice hockey left winger. Like different players of his period, Phillips played for a few unique groups and classes. Most remarkable for his time with the Kenora Thistles, Phillips additionally played with the Montreal Hockey Club, the Ottawa Hockey Club, the Toronto Marlboros and the Vancouver Millionaires. Through the span of his profession Phillips took an interest in six difficulties for the Stanley Cup, the title trophy of hockey, winning twice: with the Montreal Hockey Club in 1903 and with the Kenora Thistles, which he captained, in January 1907. Following his playing vocation, Phillips worked in the timber business until his passing in 1923. 

A standout amongst the best guarded advances of his period, Phillips was additionally known for his overall expertise, especially his solid shot and continuance, and was considered, nearby Frank McGee, one of the two best players in all of hockey. His more youthful sibling, Russell, additionally played for the Thistles and was an individual from the group when they won the Stanley Cup. At the point when the Hockey Hall of Fame was established in 1945, Phillips was one of the first nine inductees. 

Phillips was conceived in conceived in Rat Portage, Ontario, on May 22, 1883, the most youthful of three kids, to James and Marcelline Phillips. James Phillips, who was conceived in Fifeshire, Scotland, on October 14, 1822, had prepared as a stonemason and moved to Canada to help manufacture railroads. He had a child and two little girls from a past marriage. On April 30, 1877 he wedded Marcelline (née Bourassa), a local of Buckingham, Quebec. Their first kid, a child named Robert, was conceived in 1878, trailed by a girl, Margaret, in 1879; both were conceived in Ottawa. In 1882 James acknowledged an occupation in Western Ontario as administrator of development for the Canadian Pacific Railway cross-country rail line, and the family moved to Rat Portage, close to the Ontario outskirt with Manitoba. Here a fourth tyke, Russell, was conceived in 1888. Russell would likewise play hockey, winning the Stanley Cup with Phillips in 1907. 

As a youthful kid Phillips figured out how to play hockey, and by 1895 he had joined the Rat Portage Thistles junior club, a group of players for the most part matured 12 to 16. Phillips helped the group win the 1895– 96 transitional dimension title of the Manitoba and Northwest Hockey Association. By 1899– 00 Phillips had joined the senior Thistles group, and would be named skipper the accompanying season, when they won the senior association title. Phillips quickly earned recognition for his continuance: in a period when players played the whole match and would frequently drift to monitor vitality, Phillips could play at a quick pace the whole diversion, with an after death paper report expressing that he "could play for a whole 60 [minutes] at full speed and be as crisp toward the end as he was toward the begin." His expertise was at that point obvious at the time, with the "Rodent Portage Miner" lauding him as one "of the best spread focuses in the west, being a quick shot, a high lifter and an overwhelming check." A forward when he joined the senior Thistles, Phillips played spread point for the 1900– 01 season, before moving to left wing in 1901– 02; he to a great extent stayed in that situation for the remainder of his vocation. 

Viewed as a standout amongst the best players in Northwestern Ontario, Phillips moved east to Montreal in September 1902 to ponder electrical designing at McGill University. He joined the college's hockey group, which had quite recently moved to another Canadian college association, and was promptly named skipper. Phillips just played one counterpart for McGill, on January 23, 1903, against Queen's University; McGill lost 7– 0. Days after the amusement the Montreal Hockey Club approached Phillips to go along with them for their Stanley Cup challenge arrangement against the Winnipeg Victorias. This required the endorsement of the other college clubs, which concurred on the condition that Phillips end his McGill vocation, which he did. Montreal won the arrangement; Phillips completed third in the group in scoring with six objectives in four amusements. Phillips likewise earned commendation for his protective play, especially his capacity to stop Tony Gingras, one of the top players on the Victorias. 

Later in 1902 Phillips moved to Toronto to go to the Central Business School. He joined the Toronto Marlboros and, subsequent to changing positions to wanderer, was viewed as the group's best player. The Marlboros won both the Toronto city and the Ontario Hockey Association senior titles, and felt sufficiently sure with Phillips on the program to challenge the Ottawa Hockey Club for the Stanley Cup. The Marlboros lost the arrangement; Phillips had the most helps, however likewise the most punishment minutes of any player in the arrangement, with eight and fifteen, separately. He was likewise respected by Ottawa correspondents to be by a wide margin the best player on the Marlboros, with one saying he was "excessively quick a man for the organization in which he is voyaging." 

Phillips moved back to Rat Portage in 1904 when he took in his dad was passing on. Offered work with a timber organization, and a C$1,000 reward to play hockey for the Thistles, he remained in the city, a lot to the mistake of the Marlboros, who had needed him to remain in Toronto. Rodent Portage was amalgamated with neighboring towns in 1905 and was renamed Kenora. Because of their vicinity to Manitoba, the Thistles played in the Manitoba Hockey League. In the 1904– 05 season Phillips had the second-most objectives in the group and in the alliance, with twenty-six, two less than Billy McGimsie. The Thistles won the Manitoba association title, enabling them to challenge for the Stanley, held at the time by the Ottawa Senators. At this point Phillips was viewed as a standout amongst the best players in Canada, equivalent to Frank McGee of the Senators. The "Montreal Herald" announced that "the vast majority of individuals will answer that either Frank McGee or Tom Phillips is" the best player in the nation. In the main round of the test arrangement against Ottawa, Phillips scored the initial two objectives, at that point included another three in the second 50% of the amusement as the Thistles won by a score of 9– 3. Ottawa won the second diversion, 4– 2, while Phillips was held inconsequential. In the third and choosing round of the arrangement, Phillips scored a cap trap, including the first of the amusement, in spite of the fact that Ottawa won 5– 4 to hold the Cup. 

The Thistles won the Stirling Cup as heroes of western Canada in the 1905– 06 season, which permitted them the privilege to challenge for the Cup once more, since won by the Montreal Wanderers. There was a late-winter that year, and with common ice utilized at the time, the arrangement needed to hold up until the accompanying winter. In the 1906– 07 season, Phillips drove the alliance in objectives, with eighteen. In the principal round of the Thistles' effective two-amusement, all out objective Stanley Cup challenge against the Wanderers in January 1907, Phillips scored every one of the four objectives in the Thistles' 4– 2 triumph; he lined that up with three objectives in the second diversion, a 8– 6 triumph, giving the Thistles a 12– 6 win. A two-diversion rematch two months after the fact saw the group lose; Phillips' nine objectives, and sixteen punishment minutes drove the two classes. 

Preceding the beginning of the 1907– 08 season, he was offered somewhere in the range of $1,500 and $1,800 to play for the Wanderers, however rather marked with the Ottawa Senators for a compensation of $1,500. Phillips clarified that he was prepared to sign with the Wanderers, however the agreement he got did exclude everything guaranteed. In marking with Ottawa, Philips rejoined Harry Westwick and Alf Smith, who had both joined the Thistles for their Stanley Cup protection in March 1907. It additionally likely made him the most generously compensated hockey player in Canada. He completed the season with twenty-six objectives, two behind the scoring chiefs, his partner Marty Walsh and Russell Bowie of the Victorias. 

In spite of the fact that offered a high pay to remain in Ottawa, Phillips chose to leave the group, and preceding the 1909 hockey season joined the Edmonton Hockey Club of the Alberta Amateur Hockey Association (AAHA). The Edmonton group had marked a few prominent players from Eastern Canada to play for the group in the Cup challenge; just two players in the group were from Edmonton, with the rest originating from the east. Phillips and Lester Patrick, another player from the east, never at any point achieved Edmonton; they met their group in Winnipeg on its route east for the Cup challenge. Phillips, who was paid $600 for the two-amusement arrangement, played in the primary diversion against the Montreal Wanderers, which Edmonton lost 7– 3, yet broke his lower leg and was compelled to miss the second diversion, a 7– 6 Edmonton win. 

Over the late spring Phillips was welcomed by Patrick to move to Nelson, British Columbia, where the last was assembling a club of star players to challenge for the Cup. He played in 1909– 10 with the neighborhood group, resigning after the season and accepting a situation as a supervisor of a timber organization in Vancouver. Whenever Patrick and his sibling Frank framed the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA) in 1911, Phillips was persuaded to leave retirement and go along with one of the groups in the new alliance, the Vancouver Millionaires. Phillips completed the 1912 season fourth on Vancouver in objectives, and seventh by and large in the alliance, with seventeen of every fourteen diversions. Phillips, who understood that his aptitudes had decreased, resigned for a second time toward the finish of the period. A dear companion of the Patricks, he stayed near the group, and once in a while administered coordinates after his retirement. 

Subsequent to resigning from hockey Phillps ran his very own wood organization and later moved to Toronto in 1920. In the wake of having a tooth pulled in 1923, he kicked the bucket of blood harming at 40 years old. At the point when the Hockey Hall of Fame was established in 1945, Phillips was enlisted as one of the initial nine inductees. He was additionally drafted into the Northwestern Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 1987.