21st Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Skanderbeg 

The 21st "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Skanderbeg" (first Albanian) was a German mountain infantry division of the "Waffen-SS", the furnished wing of the German Nazi Party that served nearby, however was never formally part of, the Wehrmacht amid World War II. 

The division was created around the core of an ethnic Albanian force which had quickly observed battle against the Yugoslav Partisans in eastern Bosnia as a component of the thirteenth "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian). Made out of Albanians with for the most part German and Yugoslav "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic German) officers and non-charged officers, it was given the title "Skanderbeg" after medieval Albanian ruler George Kastrioti Skanderbeg, who guarded the area of Albania against the Ottoman Empire for over two decades in the fifteenth century. 

"Skanderbeg" never achieved divisional quality, being at most a detachment estimated arrangement of somewhere in the range of 6,000 and 6,500 troops. In May 1944, individuals from the division captured 281 Jews in Pristina and gave them over to the Germans, who transported them to the Bergen-Belsen death camp, where many were murdered. The division itself was better known for this activity and for killing, assaulting, and plundering in transcendently Serb regions than for taking an interest in battle tasks for the benefit of the German war exertion. Its solitary critical military moves made spot amid a German enemy of Partisan hostile in the German involved region of Montenegro in June and July 1944. Following those tasks, the unit was conveyed as a gatekeeper compel at the chromium mines in Kosovo, where it was rapidly overwhelm by the Partisans, prompting boundless renunciation. Fortified by German "Kriegsmarine" staff and with less than 500 Albanians staying in its positions, it was disbanded on 1 November 1944. The rest of the individuals were fused into the seventh SS Volunteer Mountain Division "Prinz Eugen". After the war, divisional administrator "SS-Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen-SS" August Schmidhuber was discovered liable of war wrongdoings by a court in Belgrade and executed in 1947. 

On 7 April 1939, five months before the flare-up of World War II, the Kingdom of Italy attacked Albania. The nation was overwhelm in five days, and Italian King Victor Emmanuel III acknowledged the crown offered by the Parliament of Albania. The Royal Albanian Army was consolidated into the Royal Italian Army and an emissary was selected to manage the nation as a protectorate. Following the Axis attack of Yugoslavia on 6 April 1941, Italian Albania was extended to incorporate nearby pieces of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia fused for the most part from the Yugoslav "banovinas" (territorial subdivisions) of Vardar and Morava. A large portion of Kosovo was added to Albania, and in the first place, Albanians living there eagerly respected the Italian occupation. Some Kosovo Albanians even proposed that Albanians were "Aryans of Illyrian legacy". Albeit authoritatively under Italian principle, the Albanians in Kosovo were given control of the locale and urged to open Albanian-language schools, which had been prohibited by the Yugoslav government. The Italians additionally gave the occupants Albanian citizenship and enabled them to fly the banner of Albania. The Royal Italian Army removed the vast majority of the Serbs and Montenegrins that had settled Kosovo amid the interwar period. The Kosovo Albanians detested the Serbs for the mistreatment they had encountered at their hands amid the Balkan Wars, World War I, and under Yugoslav standard. They exploited their changed conditions, assaulted their Serb neighbors, and consumed the homes of upwards of 30,000 Serb and Montenegrin pioneers. 

Albania stayed involved by Italy until its surrender to the Allies in September 1943. In August of that year, looked with the fast approaching breakdown of the Italian war exertion, Germany sent the second Panzer Army to the Balkans to assume control over territories recently involved by Italy. One of the Italian territories seized by the Germans was Albania, where the XXI Mountain Corps of "Generaloberst" Lothar Rendulic's second Panzer Army had been conveyed. A Wehrmacht emissary general, and an exceptional agent of Heinrich Himmler, SS-"Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen-SS und Polizei" Josef Fitzthum, were both situated in the Albanian capital of Tirana. The Germans assumed responsibility for every Albanian power that had been teaming up with the Italians preceding their capitulation, including the "Balli Kombëtar", an enemy of socialist and patriot local army. The Germans reinforced the Albanian armed force and gendarmerie, however immediately chose those troops were problematic. That year, various Albanians from Kosovo and the Sandžak locale were enlisted into the thirteenth "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian), a "Waffen-SS" division made to a great extent out of Bosnian Muslims and Croats with for the most part German officers, that worked in the manikin Independent State of Croatia (). A key selection representative among Albanians for the "Waffen-SS" was "SS-Standartenführer" Karl von Krempler. For around a half year the division included around 1,000 ethnic Albanians from Kosovo and the Sandžak who made up the first Battalion of the second Regiment (I/2), which later turned into the first Battalion of the 28th Regiment (I/28). The division later enrolled a further 500 men from the Sandžak. 

The arrangement of an Albanian "Waffen-SS" division was Fitzthum's thought, at first restricted by the German Foreign Ministry delegate for the Balkans Hermann Neubacher, and furthermore by the leader of the Reich Main Security Office "SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Polizei" Ernst Kaltenbrunner, who impacted Himmler to hold it. Be that as it may, the Albanian government upheld the thought; even with expanding challenges Himmler before long altered his opinion, and in February 1944 the thought got Adolf Hitler's endorsement. 

In February 1944, Hitler endorsed the production of an Albanian "Waffen-SS" division that was to serve just inside Kosovo, and was expected to secure ethnic Albanians yet stay under German control. It was intended to be one of three Muslim "Waffen-SS" divisions serving in the Balkans, the other two being the thirteenth SS Division and the 23rd "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Kama" (second Croatian). Himmler's objective was to extend "Waffen-SS" enrolling in the Balkans and structure two corps of two divisions each, with one corps to work in the district of Bosnia in the Independent State of Croatia and the other in Albania. These corps would then be joined with the "Volksdeutsche" seventh SS Volunteer Mountain Division "Prinz Eugen" and together would frame a Balkan "Waffen-SS" mountain armed force of five divisions. 

In March 1944, Bedri Pejani, the administrator of the Second League of Prizren, an association made after the Italian surrender to propel the interests of Kosovo Albanians, proposed to Hitler that a power of 120,000– 150,000 Kosovo Albanian volunteers be raised to battle the Yugoslav and Albanian partisans. Pejani requested that the German authority give the Albanians hardware and supplies to battle the socialist rebellion, and mentioned the development of the fringes of the German manikin province of Albania to the detriment of the German involved region of Serbia and the German involved domain of Montenegro. These solicitations were not satisfied. In any case, in April 1944, Himmler requested the foundation of the new Albanian volunteer division that Hitler had approved. It was consequently named after the medieval Albanian warrior Skanderbeg. By this point, the Germans and a few individuals from the Albanian manikin government trusted that around 50,000 ethnic Albanians could be enlisted to join the "Waffen-SS". The Germans had at first imagined a power of 10,000– 12,000 men for the Albanian SS division. Himmler saw the Muslim Albanians as a potential wellspring of labor in Germany's war against the Yugoslav Partisans, who confronted noteworthy challenges in enlisting Kosovo Albanians to join their positions. 

On 17 April 1944, the Albanian contingent of the thirteenth SS Division was exchanged by means of rail straightforwardly from battle in Bosnia to Kosovo to shape some portion of the new Albanian division. The head of "Waffen-SS" enlistment, SS-"Obergruppenführer" Gottlob Berger, answered to Himmler that the Albanians "... were very dismal about leaving." Himmler himself anticipated "extraordinary helpfulness" from the unit since the Albanians that battled in the thirteenth SS Division had turned out to be "exceptionally energetic and trained" in the battle against the Partisans in the NDH. After the war, Bosnian Muslim previous individuals from the thirteenth SS Division expressed that while with the division the Albanians had shot unarmed regular citizens and were "fierce". 

On 23 May, Fitzthum noticed the disappointment of the Albanian units that had been utilized in activities against the Partisans. He revealed that he had disintegrated four Albanian legions sorted out by the Wehrmacht, depicting most Albanian armed force and gendarmerie officers as "thoroughly degenerate, unusable, wayward and untrainable." The Germans found that Kosovo Albanians were more helpful than Albanians from Albania-legitimate. This was principally on the grounds that they dreaded an arrival to Yugoslav principle. Hence, a large number of the division's enlisted people were Kosovo Albanians, albeit some were outcasts from Albania-legitimate. The nature of the vast majority of these volunteers was poor, and just somewhere in the range of 6,000 and 6,500 were viewed as appropriate to get preparing. Those that were acknowledged were a mix of around 1,500 previous Royal Yugoslav Army detainees of war, components of the fizzled Albanian armed force and gendarmerie, volunteers from both pre-war and extended Albania, and recruits from families that had multiple children. The Albanians may have joined for a scope of reasons, including access to current weapons and military preparing, to help change the outskirts of Albania, retribution, and even the open door for plundering. 

The enrollment of Albanian regular folks was composed in close collaboration with the Albanian manikin government. In June 1944, Neubacher effectively dislodged Pejani, whom he considered "crazy". The Albanian Minister of the Interior and new executive of the Second League of Prizren, Xhafer Deva, was a key factor in enlisting Albanians for the new division. Fitzthum, who had built up a dear companionship with Deva, noticed that the conservative and hostile to Serb government official was imperative for German enlistment endeavors. Rather than the thirteenth SS Division, the utilization of Islam as a motivating force to join the "Waffen-SS" vanished totally from the German plan, while the use of ethnic strains turned out to be substantially more critical. No field imam is reported in the new division and ideological preparing was maintained a strategic distance from totally, in light of the fact that the Germans expected that such guidance would annoy their newcomers. 

The division was established as the "21. Waffen-SS Gebirgsdivision der SS Skanderbeg (albanische Nr.1)" on 1 May 1944, as a feature of the XXI Mountain Corps. Most or the majority of the division's officers, non-dispatched officers (NCOs), and authorities were German, and were fundamentally given by the seventh and thirteenth SS Divisions, which observably debilitated those developments. The divisional gunnery regiment was framed from the first Albanian Artillery Regiment. The division was set under the direction of SS-"Standartenführer" August Schmidhuber, who was elevated to SS-"Oberführer" in June. Individuals made a religious vow utilizing the Quran, promising "jihad against unbelievers." The division was initially furnished with caught Italian Carro Armato M15/42 tanks, which ended up being questionable. Its battalion was situated in the town of Prizren. 

From the get-go, it turned out to be certain that a large portion of the division's Muslim Albanian individuals appeared to be intrigued just with regards to settling scores with their Christian Serb foes, who turned into the objective of various monstrosities. So as to put a stop to the violations, the Germans needed to incapacitate contingents of the division in the towns of Peć and Prizren and capture the Albanian officers, with one boss notwithstanding being sent to jail in Germany. On 14 May 1944, individuals from the division attacked Jewish homes in Pristina, captured 281 Jews and gave them over to the Germans, who sent them to the Bergen-Belsen death camp, where many were slaughtered. The student of history Noel Malcolm depicts this occasion as "the most despicable scene in Kosovo's wartime history." The division was later engaged with a slaughter of Albanian partisans. It was likewise in charge of the ejection of up to 10,000 Slavic families from Kosovo as new Albanian pioneers landed from the poor territories of northern Albania. The entry of these Albanians was empowered by Italian specialists, and it is assessed that upwards of 72,000 Albanians were settled or re-settled in Kosovo amid the war. Between 28 May and 5 July 1944, the division captured a sum of 510 Jews, socialists and other enemies of fundamentalists and turned them over to the Germans. It likewise completed retaliatory hangings of suspected saboteurs. 

In June 1944, "Skanderbeg" occupied with vast scale field moves in eastern Montenegro. In Andrijevica, the division summarily executed in excess of 400 Orthodox Christian regular people. It took part in tasks "Endlich" (Finally) and "Falkenauge" (Hawkeye) in June and July, just as "Draufgänger" (Daredevil), amid which it was the fundamental power utilized by the Germans. These activities were centered around the obliteration of solid Partisan powers in the Đakovica, Peć and Mokra Gora territories. Before the finish of Operation "Draufgänger", in excess of 400 men had betrayed or generally disappeared. As indicated by Neubacher, the division was thoughtlessly dedicated to battling in the beginning times of its preparation and performed inadequately. Somewhere in the range of 18 and 27 August, the division battled the Partisans in and around Debar however neglected to catch the city. Amid the mid year of 1944, Deva was sidelined inside the League. Fitzthum was so worried about the effect this would have on the improvement of the division that he kept in touch with Himmler. Before the finish of August 1944, the Germans had chosen that the division was just of utilization for essential guarding obligations. A few individuals were accused of guarding chromium mines close Kosovo before the zone was overwhelm by the Partisans. In the following conflicts, one of the division's regiments lost in excess of 1,000 men and numerous Albanians left. A portion of the departures happened after a Partisan hostile upper east of Gusinje. Armed force Group E announced that the division's execution demonstrated that it had "definitely no military esteem." 

On 1 September 1944, individuals from the division positioned in Tetovo and Gostivar mutinied, slaughtering their German officers and NCOs. At this point, the division numbered less than 7,000 men, short of what 33% of its planned quality. Inside two months of its underlying sending, 3,500 had abandoned. Himmler acquired 3,000– 4,000 "Kriegsmarine" (German naval force) work force from Greece to make up the numbers, however this had little impact on the division's battling capacity. The abandonments were basically brought about by Germany's annihilations, genuine deficiencies in nourishment and hardware, just as from watching steady overflights by the United States Army Air Force, Allied purposeful publicity, and the moving toward end of Germany's military authority in the Balkans. Further purposes behind the raising number of renunciations incorporated the news that both Bulgaria and Romania had joined the Allies, Josip Broz Tito's acquittal which finished on 15 September, and an interest by Albania's Party of Labor that battling age men join the National Liberation Front. 

By the start of October 1944, the division's quality had tumbled to around 4,900 men, less than 1,500 of whom were fit for battle. Among April and October, 3,425 had betrayed, establishing over a large portion of the division's quality. Schmidhuber detailed that even the 697 individuals from the legion that had served in the thirteenth SS Division had abandoned. The unit was cursed by deficiencies of hardware and weapons, and an absence of German staff to prepare newcomers, as shown by the way that over the late spring and fall just a solitary legion had been prepared for battle. Schmidhuber held his men in disdain, and he, his bosses, and Fitzthum disclosed their inability to make a compelling security drive by slandering the Albanians' way of life and military notoriety. Afterward, less-included individuals from the Wehrmacht expressed that the vital issue in regards to the unit's unwavering quality may have been that the Germans did not work intimately with the Albanians at the nearby dimension. In mid-October, the division was occupied with substantial battling around Đakovica. It additionally supported the Wehrmacht in its methodical withdrawal from Kosovo, covering the Wehrmacht's flanks and drawing in the Partisans. At this point, abandonments had altogether influenced the division's quality, and its 86 officers and 467 NCOs were left with a power of just 899 men, about portion of whom were Albanian. On 24 October, "Generaloberst" Alexander Löhr, the officer of Army Group E, requested that every single Albanian individual from the division be incapacitated and discharged. 

On 1 November 1944, the division was disbanded. Kosovo Albanians waged war against the Partisans after discovering that the district would not be brought together with Albania after the war, in spite of prior Partisan guarantees. Barbarities happened when 30,000 Partisans were sent to Kosovo to suppress Albanian opposition in the area. Somewhere in the range of 3,000 and 25,000 Kosovo Albanians were executed in the resulting viciousness. 

The staying German troops and previous maritime faculty were redesigned as the regimental "Kampfgruppe Skanderbeg" under the order of SS-"Obersturmbannführer" Alfred Graf. The unit pulled back from the Kosovo district in mid-November alongside the remainder of the German troops in the territory. Numerous Serbs and Montenegrins then delivered retribution against the area's ethnic Albanians, particularly teammates and the individuals who had been individuals from the division. In his unequivocally remorseful history of the seventh SS Division, which he directed at the time, Otto Kumm composed that "Kampfgruppe Skanderbeg" came to Ljubovija on the Drina waterway, it was set under the order of the seventh SS Division, which was verifying the stream intersections around there. As indicated by Kumm, the "Kampfgruppe" held the towns of Zvornik and Drinjača amid the primary portion of December 1944 as a feature of the Ljubovija bridgehead. It pulled back over the Drina and battled its route north, towards Brčko on the Sava stream, where it mitigated the Wehrmacht powers holding the town. In late December, the "Kampfgruppe's" attack firearm battery was focused on the Syrmian Front at Vinkovci. The rest of the "Kampfgruppe" was conveyed to Bijeljina. 

In January 1945, the bunch of maritime work force that endure were exchanged to the 32nd SS Volunteer Grenadier Division 30 Januar, and the remainders of the previous division were rearranged as II Battalion of the fourteenth SS Volunteer Mountain Infantry Regiment of the seventh SS Division. On 21 January 1945, Schmidhuber was elevated to SS-"Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen-SS" and put in direction of the seventh SS Division. After the war, he was discovered liable of war wrongdoings and hanged. In February 1945, the contingent was disbanded out and out and its residual labor was doled out to the German police regiment close Zagreb. 

The division itself was considered to have been a military disappointment. Not one of its individuals was granted an Iron Cross while serving in it. Schmidhuber saw that, "[w]ith a light mortar you can essentially pursue him [the Albanian] around the globe. Amid the assault he goes just to the extent he discovers something to take or sack. For him, the war is over when he catches a goat, a plowshare or the wheel of a sewing machine." Professor Paul Mojzes composes that the division was better known for carrying out monstrosities against Serbs than it was for adding to the German war exertion. Its job in ousting Jews from Kosovo has been tested by the Albanian student of history Shaban Sinani, who asserts that the division did not take an interest in any extraditions for the Germans' benefit. David Patterson, a student of history gaining practical experience in hostile to Semitism and the Holocaust, composes that the division "assumed a noteworthy job in rendering the Balkans "Judenrein" in the winter of 1943– 1944." During the Kosovo War of 1998– 1999, the American columnist Chris Hedges affirmed that some Kosovo Liberation Army pioneers were straightforwardly slipped from individuals from the division and were ideologically impacted by it. Malcolm has tested this case. 

The division's distinguishing proof image was the Albanian twofold headed hawk. Regardless of its short presence, a neckline fix portraying a goat-peaked protective cap was fabricated for the division however there is no proof that it was ever utilized. Photos exist of a machine-woven sleeve band with the title "Skanderbeg", yet this was granted to the fourteenth SS Volunteer "Gebirgsjäger" Regiment of the seventh SS Division in harvest time 1944, and not to this division. Individuals from the unit staff were shot wearing an Albanian arm shield portraying a dark Albanian twofold headed bird on a red field. A considerable lot of the division's Muslim individuals wore conventional dim hued skull tops rather than the standard SS field top. Others wore the customary Albanian highlander cap, the "Qeleshe". 

The essential units of the division were: