Robert de Chesney 

Robert de Chesney (kicked the bucket December 1166) was a medieval English Bishop of Lincoln. He was the sibling of a critical imperial authority, William de Chesney, and the uncle of Gilbert Foliot, progressively Bishop of Hereford and Bishop of London. Instructed at Oxford or Paris, Chesney was Archdeacon of Leicester before his decision as religious administrator in December 1148. 

Chesney filled in as an illustrious equity in Lincolnshire amid his priestly district, and kept up a cozy association with his nephew, Foliot. He was likewise an early supporter of Thomas Becket, and gave the youthful priest an office in his see right off the bat in Becket's profession. In spite of the fact that appeared by King Stephen of England, including the privilege to a mint, Chesney was available at the crowning ordinance of King Henry II of England in 1154 and proceeded to serve Henry as an imperial equity. Around 1160, Chesney wound up entangled in a question with St Albans Abbey in the see of Lincoln, over his privilege as minister to oversee the monastery. The question was in the long run settled when the convent conceded Chesney land as an end-result of his surrendering any privilege to regulate St Albans. 

Chesney was dynamic in his ward; more than 240 documents identifying with his episcopal vocation endure. They show him intervening debate between religious houses and giving exclusions and rights in his see. Chesney purchased a house in London to fill in as an episcopal living arrangement, developed an episcopal castle in Lincoln, and established a religious house outside the city. He kicked the bucket in December 1166, likely on the 27th, and was covered in Lincoln Cathedral. 

After Henry I's passing in 1135, the progression was questioned as the ruler's solitary real child, William, had kicked the bucket in 1120. The primary contenders were the lord's nephews, Stephen, Count of Boulogne and his senior sibling Theobald II, Count of Champagne, and his enduring genuine little girl, Matilda, normally known as the Empress Matilda in light of her first marriage to the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry V. After Matilda was bereaved in 1125, she came back to her dad in England, who at that point verified her marriage to Geoffrey, Count of Anjou. Every one of the magnates of England and Normandy were required to pronounce fealty to Matilda as Henry's beneficiary, however after Henry I's demise in 1135 Stephen hurried to England and had himself delegated, before Theobald or Matilda could respond. The Norman noblemen acknowledged Stephen as Duke of Normandy, and Theobald placated himself with his assets in France. Be that as it may, Matilda was less patient: she verified the help of the lord of Scotland, David I, her maternal uncle, and the help of her relative Robert, Earl of Gloucester, an ill-conceived child of Henry I, in 1138. 

Stephen was at first secure on his position of authority be that as it may, by 1139, stresses had showed up. David I attacked England in 1138, and a portion of the English nobles revolted, however Stephen had managed the two dangers by April 1139. Soon thereafter, he captured Roger, the Bishop of Salisbury, and his nephews Nigel, the Bishop of Ely and Alexander, the Bishop of Lincoln, who were amazing ministers as well as essential imperial executives. In September 1139, Matilda arrived in England to challenge the honored position, bolstered by her stepbrother Robert. Stephen himself was caught in February 1141 by Matilda's powers, however Robert's resulting catch by powers faithful to Stephen soon thereafter permitted his trade for Stephen in November 1141. The outcome was a compelling stalemate, with Stephen controlling pieces of the nation and others under the control of Matilda's supporters. Amid the 1140s, Matilda's better half, Geoffrey of Anjou, wrested Normandy from Stephen. 

Chesney's family began from Quesnay-Guesnon in the Calvados area of Normandy close Bayeux in France, however they had settled in the Midlands of England and held grounds there, especially in Oxfordshire. His folks were Roger de Chesney and Alice de Langetot. His sibling William de Chesney remained a layman, and ended up one of Oxfordshire's driving landowners. Another sibling, Reginald, was the abbot of Evesham Abbey. Chesney's sister Agnes was hitched to Robert Foliot, steward to the Earl of Huntingdon. Agnes and Robert were most likely the guardians of Gilbert Foliot, later Bishop of Hereford and Bishop of London. In spite of the fact that it is a gather that Foliot's mom was a kin of Chesney, it is sure that Chesney was Gilbert's uncle. 

Chesney likely gone to schools in either Oxford or Paris, as sometime down the road he was alluded to with the title of "magister", implying that he was taught. He was Archdeacon of Leicester by around 1146, and held the prebend of Stow. He was additionally a standard of the house of prayer of St. George at Oxford Castle. 

Chesney was chosen to the See of Lincoln on 13 December 1148, by his house of God part, obviously without outside obstruction. He was sanctified by Theobald of Bec at Canterbury Cathedral on 19 December, the day after his appointment as a cleric. 

Gilbert Foliot's letters give some foundation to Chesney's decision, demonstrating that King Stephen of England and Stephen's sibling Henry of Blois, the Bishop of Winchester, endeavored to verify Lincoln for one of their relatives: the regal applicants were the abbots of Fécamp, Westminster, and St Benet's of Hulme. They were dismissed by Pope Eugene III, preparing for the part to choose Chesney. Foliot relates that the balloters from the part headed out to London, where they continued to choose Chesney before Foliot, Theobald, and some different clerics. That account is negated by Chesney's calling of compliance to Theobald, which guarantees that the decision occurred on 13 December 1148 at Westminster. Henry of Huntingdon and Ralph de Diceto, both medieval recorders, endorsed of the race and referenced the consistent idea of Chesney's choice. That Chesney's sibling William was a firm supporter of Stephen's presumably accommodated Stephen and his sibling to Chesney's decision. 

Chesney came back to Lincoln on 6 January 1149, where he got a letter from Arnulf, the Bishop of Lisieux in Normandy, complimenting him on his arrangement. Arnulf additionally solicited Chesney to help the reason from Henry fitzEmpress, Empress Matilda's oldest child and a contender for the English position of authority. 

Correspondence among Chesney and his nephew Gilbert Foliot recommends their relationship was very close. Foliot emphatically bolstered his uncle's appointment for Lincoln, keeping in touch with Pope Eugene III to support ecclesiastical endorsement of the decision. Foliot later arranged a duplicate of the "Review" for his uncle, which exhibits Chesney's enthusiasm for Roman law. Some of Archbishop Theobald's letters, composed to Chesney and recorded in John of Salisbury's gathering of letters, contain the most punctual recorded citations from Gratian's "Decretum" in an English source. They were a piece of a letter sent by Theobald to Chesney talking about troublesome legitimate cases, and giving guidance on the most proficient method to determine them. 

Not long after his sanctification, Chesney was given a duplicate of the recently refreshed form of Henry of Huntingdon's "Historia Anglorum"; Huntingdon had been a kindred archdeacon. Chesney was available at a few of King Stephen's courts, and the lord named the diocesan as the neighborhood equity for Lincolnshire. 

At the stature of the common war amid Stephen's rule, and not long after Chesney's sanctification, the cleric went about as an underwriter for the settlement between Ranulf de Gernon, the Earl of Chester, and Robert de Beaumont, the Earl of Leicester, attracted up to constrain the battling between the two barons amid the common war. Chesney was available at the legatine gathering held by Theobald in March 1151, and was one of the judges, alongside Theobald and Hilary of Chichester, the Bishop of Chichester, in a question between the priests of Belvoir Priory and a mainstream assistant over the privilege of the representative to a congregation. Chesney selected the future Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas Becket, to a prebend in his house of God section amid the last piece of Stephen's rule. 

The common war finished with the Treaty of Winchester, late in 1153, which gave that Matilda's child Henry would succeed Stephen after his passing. At the point when Stephen kicked the bucket the following year, this turned into an enduring harmony. In the most recent year of Stephen's rule, in mid-1154, Chesney gained the privilege to work a mint in the town of Newark, allowed in interminability. In any case, as there are no enduring coins, it appears that the mint was not in task for long. Chesney likewise gained the privilege of equity in the city of Lincoln, and was associated with the business life of his bishopric, setting up a reasonable in the town of Banbury in 1154. 

Chesney saw a contract of Henry fitzEmpress' before Henry's progression to the position of royalty as Henry II, and was available at the sanctification of Roger de Pont L'évêque as Archbishop of York on 10 October 1154. The cleric at that point was available at Henry II's crowning celebration on 19 December 1154, and seems to have kept on going about as an illustrious equity in Lincolnshire amid the early piece of King Henry II's rule; the 1156 Pipe Roll has the sheriff of the province representing 10 marks emerging from the supplications of the priest in the district. Chesney was regularly with the regal court, as he bore witness to various Henry II's contracts amid the early piece of the ruler's rule, and went with him to northern England in 1158 and to Normandy in 1160. 

The religious administrator filled in as the judge in a question in 1158 between a senior member from the bishopric of York and a native of Scarborough, in which the layman asserted that the dignitary had blackmailed expansive entireties of cash from him by more than once accusing his significant other of infidelity and fining her. The senior member's activities were in opposition to a regal declaration, yet despite the fact that he showed up under the steady gaze of a regal court he got away mainstream punishments since he was a representative. The aftereffect of the case, a forerunner to the later Becket debate, stimulated King Henry's outrage, yet the demise of the ruler's sibling Geoffrey and the lord's ensuing travel to the Continent to manage that issue implied that the issue was in the end dropped. 

In 1161 Chesney ended up involved in a debate with St Albans Abbey, coming about because of his endeavors to uphold his right, as cleric, to direct religious houses inside his see. Despite the fact that Pope Alexander III sent an ecclesiastical bull to England requesting the case to be heard by a board of two priests, King Henry II felt that the ecclesiastical request encroached on his regal rights and had the case chosen at the imperial court. In 1155– 1156 St Albans had verified ecclesiastical benefits from the English Pope Adrian IV, who had recently been a priest there, that exempted the convent from diocesan supervision, and it was these benefits that Chesney tested. Chesney verified the ecclesiastical bull as well as a regal commission to examine the privileges of the convent as they were in the season of King Henry I. The last mien of the case occurred in 1163, at a regal chamber at Westminster, where the nunnery created both the ecclesiastical benefits and a manufactured contract of Offa of Mercia in help of their case. As Chesney was unfit to deliver any records in help of his own position, the ruler and chamber told the diocesan that they supported the monastery's motivation. The ruler additionally decided that the monastery was an illustrious exclusive church, and consequently had extraordinary exceptions. At last, a trade off was come to, whereby the convent repaid the precinct with some land as an end-result of the diocesan disavowing his cases. 

Right off the bat in 1162 Chesney was gathered to Normandy by the lord, alongside Roger, the Archbishop of York, Hugh de Puiset, the Bishop of Durham, and Hilary of Chichester, so as to loan their help to the decision of Thomas Becket to the see of Canterbury. In July 1163, Chesney was available at the illustrious court held at Woodstock Palace, which incorporated the Welsh ruler Rhys ap Gruffydd, the sovereign of Northern Wales Owain Gwynedd, and King Malcolm IV of Scotland. The two Welsh rulers and the Scots' the best did respect to Henry II while at this court. In 1163 Chesney was pardoned from going to an ecclesiastical committee at Tours in light of his wellbeing, yet he went to the regal committees of Clarendon and Northampton in 1164, which managed the developing question, presently known as the Becket discussion, between the lord and Becket. At those gatherings Chesney endeavored to induce Becket to bargain, however was fruitless. The ruler accordingly sent Chesney to northern England as a nomad equity in 1166. 

Chesney's commitments to the lord's military battles on the landmass caused him monetary troubles; at the season of his demise he was owing debtors to a moneylender. 

Chesney's "acta", or reports, contain numerous instances of him settling legal question, showing how dynamic he was in his ward. More than 240 of his "acta" have endure, a significant number of them concerning the religious houses inside his locale. Chesney was named an ecclesiastical judge-delegate at any rate once, and it was in his court that the instance of Philip de Broy, a standard in Bedfordshire blamed for killing a knight, was heard. The case was one of those that added to King Henry's assurance that criminous representatives ought to be liable to illustrious equity, not simply ministerial equity. 

Notwithstanding legal undertakings, Chesney attempted to guarantee great relations with his house of prayer section, and permitted them exclusions from episcopal locale. He likewise allowed the church of his ward to dispatch the installment of chrism cash and renounced the customary yearly installment from the archdeacons of the bishopric to the diocesan. He smothered unlicensed schools in Huntingdon and utilized various taught representatives; his "acta" quite often incorporate one observer entitled "magister", and frequently upwards of six. 

Chesney was a developer in his see, where he requested the development of the episcopal royal residence. He additionally established a Gilbertine place of groups simply outside the city of Lincoln, the convent of St Catherine, not long after the request was perceived by the papacy in 1148. Surprisingly for its time it was established for men, in spite of the fact that Gilbertine devout houses normally obliged the two people. In 1161 he purchased the Old Temple in London as a house for himself. These consumptions added to his money related challenges, alongside imperial requests, which prompted protests about Chesney's spending. Another reason for protest was that he gave away a portion of his domains as marriage partitions for his nieces. Chesney additionally was a supporter to the town of Banbury, to which he conceded the privilege to hold a reasonable some time before 1154. 

The careful date of Chesney's demise is dubious. It might have been 27 December 1166; the occasion is honored on both 26 and 27 December. He was covered in the eastern cross walkway of Lincoln Cathedral, along the north side. The cutting edge student of history David Knowles composed that Chesney was "not a man of solid character or chose assessments". 

Chesney left somewhere around ten books to Lincoln Cathedral, of which seven endure. Five of the seven demonstrate a consistency of penmanship, prompting theory that there may have been a scriptorium at Lincoln Cathedral amid Chesney's residency, yet other enduring books that were in the house of God library in the meantime don't share any penmanship or different attributes; Chesney may basically have charged the books in the meantime from similar copyists. 

Notwithstanding Foliot, the siblings Gerard, a standard of Lincoln, and Martin, treasurer of Lincoln, were likewise Chesney's nephews. He may likewise have been identified with Fulk de Chesney, another ordinance at Lincoln. Chesney assisted the vocation of Richard Barre, who turned into an author and a regal judge and first shows up in the record as an observer to a portion of Chesney's archives amid 1160– 1164. Geoffrey of Monmouth's last work, the "Vita Merlini", was devoted to Chesney. Foliot possessed a duplicate of the "Review", some portion of the "Corpus iuris civilis", that had initially been sparkled for Chesney. 

Generally, Chesney's forerunner Alexander has been credited with authorizing the baptismal text style in Lincoln Cathedral, made of Tournai marble. Late grant has provided reason to feel ambiguous about uncertainty this thought, and proposes that the text style was rather cut on Chesney's requests, and appointed after 1150.