2007 Appalachian State versus Michigan football match-up 

The 2007 Appalachian State versus Michigan football match-up was a customary season school football match-up between the Appalachian State Mountaineers and Michigan Wolverines. It was held at Michigan Stadium in Ann Arbor on September 1, 2007, and was the primary round of the period for the two groups. The Wolverines entered the diversion positioned No. 5 in both significant Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) surveys and news sources believed them to be preseason top picks to win the Big Ten meeting title just as conceivable contenders for the national title, while the Mountaineers were positioned No. 1 in The Sports Network's Football Championship Subdivision (FCS) survey and were preseason top choices to win their third continuous FCS national title. 

Recreations among FBS and FCS groups commonly result in disproportionate triumphs for the FBS group, and the Appalachian State– Michigan diversion was not expected to be a special case. The anticipated result was an unbalanced triumph for Michigan. Las Vegas sportsbooks did not give a wagering line. The diversion was additionally the first to be communicated on the then-new Big Ten Network. It started with a solid first half for Appalachian State, who held a 28– 17 lead toward the finish of the half. Michigan recaptured the lead at 32– 31 in the final quarter, however Appalachian State led the pack for a second time on a short field objective with 26 seconds left. The Mountaineers obstructed a diversion winning field objective endeavor from Michigan toward the finish of guideline to verify a 34– 32 win. 

Quickly hailed as one of the best bombshells in school football history, the diversion filled in as the lead story of "SportsCenter" and was the main story for the next week's release of "Sports Illustrated". Appalachian State turned into the second FCS group to overcome a positioned FBS group, and because of the diversion Michigan dropped out of the best 25 of the AP Poll completely, denoting the first run through a group had tumbled from the main five to out of the survey totally as the consequence of a solitary amusement. In the outcome of the diversion, the Associated Press revised their surveying arrangement to make FCS groups qualified for the AP Poll, which had recently been constrained to FBS groups. 

The Appalachian State Mountaineers completed the 2007 season with a 13– 2 record and won a third successive FCS title. They likewise turned into the main FCS group to get cast a ballot in the last AP Poll, tying South Florida for the 34th by and large positioning. Michigan completed their season 9– 4, winning the Capital One Bowl, and positioned No. 18 in the last AP Poll. A rematch in 2014 at Michigan Stadium was won definitively by the Wolverines, 52– 14. The 2014 rematch was the Mountaineers' first amusement as a FBS school. 

The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is part into three divisions: Division I, Division II, and Division III. As per the NCAA, Division I comprises of "the biggest projects that give the most physically related budgetary guide for understudy competitors". Division I football is part into two subdivisions: the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) and the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). "USA Today" takes note of that the FBS is viewed as the level at which significant Division I colleges play, while the FCS is a level in which littler projects contend. FBS part groups are permitted to have up to 85 grant players, while FCS part groups are permitted to grant 63 grants. Be that as it may, FCS groups can partition their 63 grants by giving a few players 'incomplete grants'. FBS groups compete to play in bowl amusements, while FCS groups expect to fit the bill for a postseason competition. The two subdivisions were made in 1978, and no other Division I sports are part in such a way. The distinction between the two subdivisions is sufficiently incredible that John V. Lombardi, a previous chancellor at UMass, which played FCS football before moving to FBS in 2012, and a previous president at FBS-level Florida and Louisiana State, said that "even a dreadful group in [FBS] football has higher perceivability than an extraordinary group in [FCS]." 

FBS groups are permitted to plan FCS groups, and one win against a FCS group can be checked towards their bowl-qualified status gave the FCS group meets certain grant prerequisites. FCS groups are frequently paid upwards of USD $500,000 for taking an interest in amusements against FBS groups. This course of action for the most part results in unbalanced misfortunes for FCS groups, yet the cash FCS schools procure from amusements against FBS groups helps finance their athletic divisions, just as offering more extensive introduction for their athletic projects. 

Appalachian State had routinely planned FBS groups, playing against schools, for example, Auburn in 1999, Kansas and LSU in 2005, and NC State in 2006. They likewise had recreations against Wake Forest in each season from 1979 to 1996, just as in 1998, 2000, and 2001. Appalachian State had won six of these diversions, every one of them against Wake Forest. The Mountaineers had not beaten a FBS group since 2000. Michigan, a notable school football control with a huge fan base, had never played a FCS group. As indicated by Appalachian State athletic chief Charlie Cobb, the two schools had holes in their timetable as late as February 2007; the fellowship between Mountaineers mentor Jerry Moore and Wolverines mentor Lloyd Carr assumed a key job in finishing the arrangement. While endeavoring to decide the measure of cash Appalachian State would be paid for playing Michigan, arrangements between the two schools achieved a stop. Moore went to class authorities and encouraged them to acknowledge any offer Michigan gave them; he disclosed to them that "It's an open door diversion. It'll be a one-shot, unique arrangement to go up there and play. It's a mind boggling condition." Appalachian State at last settled on a $400,000 installment as a byproduct of playing against Michigan to open the 2007 season. 

Michigan was relied upon to helpfully vanquish Appalachian State, who entered the amusement as extensive dark horses. Las Vegas sports books did not offer a wagering line since they trusted that it would be a jumble. The day preceding the amusement, an Associated Press article said that the Mountaineers were "practically sure to lose seriously" and "aren't required to be anything over conciliatory sheep." Another article anticipated that Michigan would effortlessly win, yet that Michigan's unpracticed auxiliary could be tried by quarterback Armanti Edwards. This shortcoming is the thing that the Mountaineers would have liked to profit by: they went through a large portion of the week paving the way to the diversion concentrating amusement film, and felt that the Michigan guard tended to leave the center of the field exposed. Then again, the Mountaineers came up short on the profundity of the Wolverines, having 22 less grant players. 

Appalachian State were positioned as the No. 1 group in the preseason FCS survey from The Sports Network, getting 67 out of 70 ahead of all comers cast a ballot. The group had won the past two FCS national titles and were top picks to win a third successive title as indicated by news sources. They had additionally won their last 14 amusements, the longest in either Division I subdivision at the time. They had a general record of 6– 34– 1 against major FBS groups. The Mountaineers ran a no-group, spread alternative framework, which they executed in 2005, their first title season. Two of the significant hostile weapons for the group were Edwards, who had scored 15 passing touchdowns and 15 hurrying touchdowns in 2006, and running back Kevin Richardson, who had scored a FCS-record 30 surging touchdowns in 2006. The protective unit for the Mountaineers was helmed by Corey Lynch, a security; the Mountaineer safeguard positioned eleventh in surge guard and 35th in pass barrier amid the 2006 season, however the group lost five of its six best tacklers from that season, just as cautious lineman Marques Murrell, who drove the FCS in sacks amid the 2006 season. In spite of misfortunes at the protective line, the auxiliary, the group's cautious solid point, remained for all intents and purposes unblemished from the past season. The Mountaineers' kicker was senior Julian Rauch, who made 10 out of 14 field objective endeavors amid the 2006 season. 

Michigan entered the diversion as the No. 5-positioned group in both the AP Poll and the Coaches' Poll. News sources anticipated the group as top picks to win the Big Ten gathering, and as contenders for a national title. Michigan highlighted a solid senior class of hostile handle Jake Long, half back Mike Hart, and quarterback Chad Henne, every one of whom had chosen to remain in school instead of proclaim qualification for the NFL Draft. The players credited their choice to a few components, for example, Michigan having lost their last three diversions to match Ohio State and the Wolverines' dash of three successive bowl misfortunes. The three additionally wanted to complete their school vocations on a high note. Imprint Schlabach of ESPN.com expressed that "[the trio], alongside recipients Mario Manningham and Adrian Arrington, gives Michigan what could conceivably be a standout amongst the most hazardous offenses in school football". Preceding the season, the group named Hart and Long as chiefs, alongside linebacker Shawn Crable, a fifth-year senior. Michigan intended to open the amusement in a three-beneficiary arrangement, which can possibly spread the restricting barrier out; Michigan mentor Lloyd Carr noticed that "when you have a portion of the expertise that we have at the wide collector positions and can spread a safeguard out, that is [a] positive." in the meantime, Michigan was foreseen to run just a constrained choice of plays from this set, to confine the capacity of their up and coming adversaries to build up a successful course of action against them. Michigan's safeguard, which drove the FBS in run guard in 2006, lost seven starters from the past season, including four All-Americans (cornerback Leon Hall and cautious linemen Alan Branch, David Harris, and LaMarr Woodley), every one of whom were drafted in the initial two rounds of the 2007 NFL Draft. Wolverines linebacker Chris Graham, a senior, anticipated that the guard should be characterized by speed, noticing that each situation on the resistance was "stacked in speed". 

The amusement was the first ever to be communicated on the Big Ten Network. At the time the system had roughly 17 million supporters, the majority of which originated from an arrangement with DirecTV. As per Mark Silverman, the leader of the Big Ten Network, just a "little rate" of Wolverine fans had the capacity to watch it. Silverman credited this to the way that Comcast and Charter, two of the significant satellite TV suppliers in the territory of Michigan, did not convey the Big Ten Network. Thom Brennaman gave play-by-play discourse, Charles Davis executed as the shading expert, and Charissa Thompson revealed from the sidelines. The amusement denoted Thompson's introduction as a sideline expert on any system, while Brennaman and Davis were progressively experienced, having secured prominent school football match-ups, for example, the 2007 Fiesta Bowl and the 2007 BCS National Championship Game for Fox Sports. 

The climate amid the diversion was clear and bright, with temperatures in the mid-70s °F (low-20s °C) and wind traveling north at 10– 15 miles (16– 24 kilometers) every hour. The arbitrator, the leader of the administering group, was John O'Neill. By and large participation was recorded as 109,218. The diversion commenced at 12:07 p.m. also, finished at 3:40 p.m., having endured a sum of three hours and thirty-seven minutes. 

Michigan got the ball first, with Mike Massey restoring the Julian Rauch kick to the Michigan 33-yard line. Michigan picked up a first down in the wake of changing over a third and one with a three-yard kept running by Mike Hart. Chad Henne then finished a 18-yard go to Massey, trailed by a 33-yard surge from Hart, pushing Michigan to the four-yard line of Appalachian State. Hart at that point ran the ball in for a touchdown, and the resulting additional point made the score 7– 0. Appalachian State's CoCo Hillary took the kickoff to the 26-yard line of the Mountaineers. After the Mountaineers opened with a keep running for no addition and a six-yard finishing, Armanti Edwards finished a 68-yard touchdown go to Dexter Jackson. The additional point was changed over, tying the score at 7– 7. The accompanying two drives brought about three-and-outs for the two groups, yet after a Mountaineer punt left limits at the Michigan 48-yard line, the Wolverines mounted a ten-play, 52-yard drive finishing in a ten-yard touchdown go from Henne to Greg Matthews. The additional point gave Michigan a 14– 7 lead. Appalachian State began their drive with 3:09 left in the quarter at their own 35-yard line, finishing nine plays and heading to the Michigan 36 yard-line before the finish of the quarter. 

Following the beginning of the second quarter, Appalachian State ran another six plays, finishing the drive with a nine-yard touchdown go by Edwards to Hans Batichon. The additional point again leveled the score, this time at 14– 14. Michigan was constrained into a three-and-out and needed to punt the ball, with Appalachian State beginning their next drive at the Michigan 37. On the fifth play of the following drive, the Mountaineers scored a touchdown on a 20-yard go from Edwards to Jackson. The Mountaineers changed over the additional point endeavor, giving them the lead at 21– 14. Michigan started their next drive at their 20-yard line, and drove down to the Appalachian State 40-yard line in four plays. Their next play, a Brandon Minor keep running for five yards, was trailed by a Minor keep running for no yards and a fragmented pass. The Wolverines picked to pull out all the stops on fourth down yet neglected to change over, turning the ball over to Appalachian State. The accompanying Mountaineer drive highlighted nine running plays in succession, the last a six-yard kept running by Edwards for a touchdown. The additional point was fruitful, expanding the Mountaineer lead and making the score 28– 14. Michigan restored the following kickoff to their 32-yard line, with 2:15 left on the clock. The Wolverines headed to the Appalachian five-yard line, at last making due with a field objective with 23 seconds left, slicing Appalachian State's lead to eleven points. 

Appalachian State restored the opening kickoff of the second half to their own 36-yard line, however Michigan protector Morgan Trent caught an Edwards toss on the second play of the drive. Michigan took ownership at the Appalachian State 40-yard line, heading to the 25-yard line before kicking a field objective to diminish the Mountaineer lead to eight points. Appalachian State started play after the kickoff at their very own 24-yard line, driving 64 yards in 11 plays and scoring a 31-yard field objective to make the score 31– 20 Appalachian State. After the resulting kickoff, Michigan ran four plays before Minor bobbled the ball on the fifth. The bumble was recuperated by Appalachian State protector Pierre Banks at the Michigan 28-yard line. Be that as it may, Appalachian State neglected to get a first down on the resulting drive, and Rauch missed a 46-yard field objective endeavor. Michigan went three-and-out on their next drive and needed to punt, yet a mishandle by Edwards on the accompanying Appalachian State drive was recuperated by Michigan safeguard John Thompson, giving them control of the ball at the Appalachian State 31-yard line. Michigan drove 31 yards more than six plays, scoring a touchdown on a four-yard kept running by Hart. The Wolverines went for a two-point change, yet neglected to change over, making the score 31– 26 for Appalachian State. Appalachian State got the kickoff at their very own 26-yard line with 19 seconds left in the second from last quarter, and the quarter finished after a six-yard consummation by Edwards to Batichon. 

Appalachian State proceeded with their drive yet were compelled to punt in the wake of being halted on third down. Michigan started their drive at the Appalachian State 34-yard line, yet a Henne pass was caught by Mountaineer safeguard Leonard Love on the fourth play of the drive. Love restored the ball 26-yards, and Appalachian State started the drive at their own 41-yard line, yet were compelled to punt in the wake of going three-and-out. Michigan got this show on the road the ball at their own 24-yard line and mounted a nine-play, 43-yard drive to the Appalachian State 33-yard line. On the last play, a fourth and five, Henne's pass fell fragmented, turning the ball over to Appalachian State, who were again immediately compelled to punt. Subsequent to restoring the punt to their own 46-yard line, Hart ran the ball 54 yards for a touchdown, giving Michigan the lead 32– 31 with 4:36 left. Michigan went for two, however the change endeavor fizzled. Edwards was picked off on the primary play of the resulting drive, giving Michigan control of the ball at the Appalachian State 43-yard line. Michigan ran five plays before endeavoring a 43-yard field objective. The endeavor was blocked, nonetheless, giving Appalachian State control of the ball with 1:37 left. With no timeouts left, the Mountaineers drove 69 yards down the field in a little more than a moment in diversion time, setting up a Rauch field objective from 24 yards out with 26 seconds left. The endeavor was great, giving Appalachian State a 34– 32 lead. Michigan recovered control of the ball on the resulting kickoff, and a 46-yard go from Henne to Mario Manningham gave the Wolverines a 37-yard field objective endeavor with six seconds left on the clock. The endeavor was hindered by Corey Lynch, verifying a 34– 32 win by the Mountaineers. 

Appalachian State recorded 227 yards through the air, while Michigan completed with 233 yards. Michigan completed with fundamentally all the more surging yards, recording 246 hurrying yards instead of the 160 hurrying yards picked up by Appalachian State. Altogether, the Wolverines recorded 479 all out yards of offense, while Appalachian State recorded 387 all out yards. The Wolverines recorded 23 first downs, four more than the Mountaineers, while Appalachian State turned the ball more than multiple times, one more than Michigan. The two groups recorded seven punishments, yet Michigan recorded more punishment yards. Appalachian State held the edge in time of ownership, holding the ball for 12 seconds; Michigan held the ball for 48 seconds. 

Appalachian State quarterback Armanti Edwards finished 17 of 23 goes for 227 yards, three touchdowns, and two interferences while averaging 9.9 yards per toss. Kevin Richardson drove the group in surging yards, running the ball multiple times for 88 yards, and Edwards was second in the group with 17 scrambles for 62 yards and one touchdown. Edwards represented every one of the four Mountaineer touchdowns. Dexter Jackson drove the group in getting, getting three goes for 98 yards and two touchdowns; he likewise had one convey for 19 yards. 

Michigan quarterback Chad Henne finished 19 of 37 goes for 233 yards, with a normal of 6.3 yards per toss; he tossed one touchdown and one interference. Mike Hart, who missed right around two quarters because of thigh damage, drove Michigan in hurrying, recording 188 yards and three touchdowns on 23 conveys. Greg Matthews drove the Wolverines in getting, representing 68 yards and one touchdown on seven gets. 

Pierre Banks drove the Mountaineers in handles, recording 12 handles in general. Banks likewise recorded the main sack for the Mountaineers and recuperated a bungle. Corey Lynch completed second with 11 handles, just as obstructing a kick. Leonard Love recorded the main block attempt for the Mountaineers. For Michigan, Shawn Crable drove the group with 10 handles. Crable additionally constrained a bobble and recorded 1.5 sacks. Chris Graham completed with 9 handles, the second-most on the Wolverines. Brandent Englemon and Morgan Trent each captured a pass, while Tim Jamison, Terrance Taylor, and Will Johnson got full or halfway credit for sacks. 

Appalachian State was collectively chosen as the No. 1 group in the FCS football survey in the week after their triumph against Michigan. Albeit a few voters in the AP Poll expressed they might want to vote in favor of Appalachian State, the Mountaineers were ineligible to get cast a ballot on the grounds that the survey was just constrained to FBS groups; accordingly, the AP altered their arrangement the next week to permit FCS groups to get cast a ballot in the AP Poll. The Mountaineers got 19 in the week 3 version of the AP Poll and 5 in the week 4 release of the AP Poll. The group likewise stretched out their series of wins to 17 recreations before losing to Wofford in week 5. Appalachian State lost to match Georgia Southern in week 7, dropping them to 5– 2 and 2– 2 in the Southern Conference (SoCon), which set them in a poor position to rehash for a third back to back time as gathering champions. Notwithstanding, the Mountaineers won the majority of their staying standard season recreations to complete 9– 2, and their 5– 2 Southern Conference record was sufficient to procure an offer of the SoCon gathering title with Wofford, yet Wofford asserted the meeting's programmed offer. As an everywhere offer, the group scored a nearby success over James Madison (28– 27) and afterward vanquished Eastern Washington (38– 35) in the initial two rounds of the FCS playoffs, Appalachian State effectively crushed Richmond (55– 35) in the elimination rounds and Delaware (49– 21) in the title amusement, winning their third back to back FCS National Championship. They turned into the primary group to win three back to back FCS titles, and the main Division I football crew to win three successive titles since Army, who had won three straight titles from 1944 to 1946. Toward the finish of the period, the Mountaineers turned into the main FCS group to get cast a ballot in the last AP Poll. They got five votes, which put Appalachian State at a tie for 34th in general with South Florida. 

Michigan's misfortune to Appalachian State viably finished their odds of winning a national title. The Wolverines dropped out of the best 25 altogether on the AP Poll the next week, the first run through a group had missed the main 25 in the AP Poll the week after they were in the best 10. In their next diversion, Michigan lost to Oregon 39– 7, the biggest edge of annihilation for Michigan since 1968. Following the misfortune to Oregon, Michigan won their next eight amusements, driving the group to rank as high as No. 13 in the AP Poll. After Michigan lost their last two diversions, finishing the ordinary season with a 8– 4 record, they dropped off the survey completely. After Michigan's season-finishing misfortune to Ohio State, Carr declared he would resign as the group's mentor after their bowl diversion. The Wolverines got a solicitation to the Capital One Bowl, where they crushed Florida 41– 35 to complete their season 9– 4. Following their success in the Capital One Bowl, Michigan completed at No. 18 in the last AP Poll. 

Thom Brennaman promptly hailed the diversion as one of the best miracles ever of; Charissa Thompson told mentor Jerry Moore that it was "one of the best bombshells in school football history." Many news sources portrayed it as one of, if not the best, disturbs in the historical backdrop of school football. The success denoted the first run through a FCS group had beaten a positioned FBS program. Dan Wetzel of Yahoo! Sports composed that: "This amusement should be the prime case of what had turned out badly in cash hungry school football. The forces that be had extended the season a few years back, including an additional diversion so huge schools could acquire cream-puff rivals while gathering millions in income. Michigan had never played an I-AA adversary in its history. Presently we know why, the Wolverines were dodging them. Rather than a simple tune-up for Michigan, Appalachian State leaves with its most significant triumph ever "and" a check for $400,000 that should be their compensation for getting rebuffed." "Sports Illustrated" author Stewart Mandel composed that he felt "totally unfit" to put the amusement into point of view, and said "there's no coherent reason at all this ought to have occurred. Be that as it may, it did. What's more, it wasn't the smallest piece fluky." He likewise communicated dissatisfaction that he would not have the capacity to vote in favor of the Mountaineers in his AP Poll ticket, clarifying that "it might well turn out that Michigan was horribly misrepresented, however all I know is this: There won't be 25 different groups that achieve more this opening end of the week than Appalachian State did Saturday. There won't be five." Pat Forde of ESPN.com called it "the most bewildering school football result I can recollect," saying that "despite everything we'll be discussing it a couple of decades from now. Particularly in the storage spaces of each enormous longshot, where they'll state, 'If Appalachian State can beat Michigan, for what reason wouldn't we be able to stun the world, too?.'" He felt the annoyed was especially noteworthy in light of the fact that upsets of such an extent don't occur regularly in school football. "The New York Times" essayist Viv Bernstein called the amusement "one of the greatest surprises in school football history" and called it "a staggering resentful about any measure." The diversion was the lead story on "SportsCenter" and was the main story for the next week's version of "Sports Illustrated"; Appalachian State wide collector Dexter Jackson was highlighted on the spread, which has the feature "Alltime Upset: Appalachian State Stuns No. 5 Michigan." 

In 2012, Jerry Hinnen of CBS Sports depicted it as "the greatest surprise of the previous five years of school football", and portrayed it as having "set the table" for an "epically disorganized" 2007 season just as "four years of feature making upsets to pursue." Dennis Dodd of CBS Sports said in 2012 that "we may never observe its preferences again." He said that the amusement "reminded us why the school diversion is the best," however felt that such an outcome would turn out to be all the more impossible later on, the same number of gatherings are moving to increment to nine meeting recreations, decreasing the need to play FCS groups. 

Since Appalachian State's triumph, three different FCS groups have crushed positioned FBS groups. In 2010, James Madison crushed thirteenth positioned Virginia Tech 21– 16. In 2013, Eastern Washington beat 25th-positioned Oregon State, 49– 46. The year additionally observed North Dakota State record a 24– 21 triumph over Kansas State, the shielding Big 12 champions. On September 17, 2016, North Dakota State crushed #13 Iowa 23– 21 of every an amusement played in Iowa City, Iowa. 

Only minutes after the diversion finished, Appalachian State understudies started celebrating on the two principle boulevards in Boone, North Carolina: King Street and Rivers Street. The gathering in the end progressed to Kidd Brewer Stadium, Appalachian State's home field, and tore down one of the goalposts. The understudies continued to convey the goalpost over a mile before saving it in the front yard of the school's chancellor, Kenneth E. Peacock. He approved of this, saying "in the same class as today was for Appalachian State, they can take it up there and put it down. I can hardly wait to arrive and see it." Several understudies hopped bare into the duck lake behind ASU's eating corridor, a grounds custom for celebrating enormous football triumphs. At the point when the group came back to their arena in transports at 11:00 p.m., they were welcomed by a horde of thousands of understudies and fans. It took the group 20 minutes to get from their transports to the storage space because of the group. The festival in Boone was not constrained to Appalachian State's grounds; the Boone Mall was "overwhelmed" with vehicles, and a games attire shop conveying ASU gear, Sports Fanatic, revealed that deals were multiple times higher than ordinary. 

In Ann Arbor, Michigan, the response was far various. "The Ann Arbor News" revealed that the Michigan fans who went to the amusement were "shell-stunned." Appalachian State's success additionally demonstrated prevalent among aficionados of Michigan's adversaries. The Associated Press revealed that, following the finish of Ohio State's 38– 6 home triumph against Youngstown State, Ohio Stadium broadcast the last minutes of the Appalachian State-Michigan amusement on the arena's wide screen; albeit the majority of the fans had officially left, the result "inspired a huge thunder" from the rest of the participants. Correspondingly, "The Daily Collegian" revealed that as Penn State was shutting a 59– 0 home triumph over Florida International, the update "Twenty seconds to play final quarter, Appalachian State 34, Michigan 32" was declared over the arena's loudspeak. The understudy segment and a few Penn State players immediately swarmed within Beaver Stadium to watch the end seconds on in-arena TVs; when the amusement winning kick was blocked, they "combined into a mosh pit" in festivity. 

The "Detroit Free Press" detailed that the most intense cheers amid Michigan State's home triumph against UAB came when the scoreboard showed the last score of the Appalachian State versus Michigan diversion; to close his postgame question and answer session, Michigan State cautious facilitator Pat Narduzzi expressed: "And Michigan lost, as well." The Ohio State storage space emitted into a "thunder" after the players scholarly of Michigan's misfortune. Then again, Michigan State running back Javon Ringer communicated frustration at the amusement's outcome, saying "I kinda truly needed [Michigan] to be undefeated for us." Ohio State mentor Jim Tressel gave a comparable response, saying that "I'm never happy when a meeting adversary loses outside of your diversion with them... You're continually pulling for your brethren in the Big Ten." ESPN.com revealed that in the hours after the amusement, "no less than one road seller was doing lively business selling naturally stamped Mountaineers T-shirts close to the Ohio State grounds", while stores close to the grounds were "overwhelmed with solicitations for apparatus bearing the Mountaineers' gold and dark hues and logo", essentially from Ohio State fans who were cheering over their opponent's thrashing. Appalachian State's grounds book shop got an expansive number of telephone calls from individuals needing to purchase gear, huge numbers of them from Ohio, however were unfit to offer them in substantial amounts because of a state law precluding college book shops from pitching things to individuals who are not understudies, workforce, or graduated class. 

In 2011, Appalachian State and Michigan consented to play a rematch, booked for 2014 to be the season-opener for the two groups. Appalachian State was paid $850,000 to play this diversion. Michigan's athletic chief, Dave Brandon, felt a rematch would be a fantastic method to pick up consideration for Michigan football and said "The systems were battling about who gets the opportunity to broadcast that diversion." Jerry Moore said that "To have the University of Michigan welcome us back is a definitive compliment for us as a program and a college. We're thankful for the chance to have another age of players experience a gameday at the Big House and to test themselves against school football's unsurpassed most dominating project." Appalachian State played their first year of football in the FBS in 2014 and joined the Sun Belt Conference as full individuals. The rematch was vastly different this time around, with Michigan beating Appalachian State 52– 14; Appalachian State never held a lead in the amusement.