Witchfinder General (film) 

Witchfinder General (titled onscreen as Matthew Hopkins: Witchfinder General) is a 1968 British-American blood and guts movie coordinated by Michael Reeves and featuring Vincent Price, Ian Ogilvy and Hilary Dwyer. The screenplay was by Reeves and Tom Baker dependent on Ronald Bassett's tale of a similar name. Made on a low spending plan of under £100,000, the motion picture was co-delivered by Tigon British Film Productions and American International Pictures. The story subtleties the intensely fictionalized dangerous witch-chasing adventures of Matthew Hopkins, a seventeenth century English legal advisor who professed to have been selected as a "" by Parliament amid the English Civil War to find magic and black magic. The film was retitled The Conqueror Worm in the United States trying to connect it with Roger Corman's prior arrangement of Edgar Allan Poe-related movies featuring Price notwithstanding its account bearing no connection to Poe's accounts, with American prints book-finishing the film through Price perusing the main sonnet through portrayal. 

Chief Reeves included numerous scenes of serious onscreen torment and viciousness that were considered surprisingly twisted at the time. Upon its showy discharge all through the spring and summer of 1968, the motion picture's abhorrent substance was met with sicken by a few film commentators in the UK, regardless of having been widely edited by the British Board of Film Censors. In the US, the film was appeared flawless and was a film industry achievement, yet it was totally overlooked by analysts. 

"Witchfinder General" in the long run formed into a clique film, incompletely owing to Reeves' 1969 passing from a medication overdose at 25 years old, just nine months after "Witchfinder"s discharge. Throughout the years, a few unmistakable faultfinders have advocated the film, including J. Hoberman, Danny Peary, Robin Wood and Derek Malcolm. In 2005, the magazine "All out Film" named "Witchfinder General" the fifteenth most noteworthy blood and guts movie ever. 

In 1645, amid the English Civil War, Matthew Hopkins (Vincent Price), a go getter witchhunter, exploits the breakdown in social request to force a reign of fear in East Anglia. Hopkins and his right hand, John Stearne (Robert Russell), visit a great many villages, mercilessly tormenting admissions out of speculated witches. They charge the neighborhood judges for the work they do. 

Richard Marshall (Ian Ogilvy) is a youthful Roundhead. In the wake of enduring a short encounter and slaughtering his first aggressor (and along these lines sparing the life of his Captain), he rides home to Brandeston, Suffolk, to visit his sweetheart Sara (Hilary Dwyer). Sara is the niece of the town minister, John Lowes (Rupert Davies). Lowes gives his consent to Marshall to wed Sara, letting him know there is inconvenience going to the town and he needs Sara far away before it arrives. Marshall asks Sara for what reason the elderly person is alarmed. She reveals to him they have been compromised and progressed toward becoming outsiders in their very own town. Marshall pledges to Sara, "breathe a sigh of relief and nobody will hurt you. I put my pledge to that." At the finish of his military leave, Marshall rides back to join his regiment, and chances upon Hopkins and Stearne on the way. Marshall gives the two men bearings to Brandeston then rides on. 

In Brandeston, Hopkins and Stearne quickly start gathering together suspects. Lowes is blamed at his home and tormented. He has needles stuck into his back (trying to find the alleged "Villain's Mark"), and is going to be slaughtered, when Sara stops Hopkins by offering him sexual supports in return for her uncle's wellbeing. Be that as it may, soon Hopkins is summoned to another town. Stearne exploits Hopkins' nonappearance by assaulting Sara. At the point when Hopkins returns and discovers what Stearne has done, Hopkins will have nothing further to do with the young lady. He educates Stearne to start tormenting Lowes once more. Presently before withdrawing the town, Hopkins and Stearne execute Lowes and two ladies. 

Marshall comes back to Brandeston and is appalled by what has happened to Sara. He promises to slaughter both Hopkins and Stearne. In the wake of "wedding" Sara in his very own service formulating and teaching her to escape to Lavenham, he rides off independent from anyone else. Meanwhile, Hopkins and Stearne have progressed toward becoming isolated after a Roundhead watch endeavors to appropriate their steeds. Marshall finds Stearne, yet after a ruthless battle, Stearne can get away. He reunites with Hopkins and illuminates him of Marshall's craving for retribution. 

Hopkins and Stearne enter the town of Lavenham. Marshall, on a watch to find the King, learns they are there and rapidly rides to the town with a gathering of his warrior companions. Hopkins, notwithstanding, having prior discovered that Sara was in Lavenham, has set a device to catch Marshall. Hopkins and Stearne outline Marshall and Sara as witches and take them to the manor to be cross examined. Marshall looks as needles are over and again poked into Sara's back, however he will not admit to black magic, rather vowing again to execute Hopkins. He breaks free from his bonds and stamps all over, while his military confidants approach the manor cell. Marshall gets a hatchet and over and again strikes Hopkins. The fighters go into the room and are sickened to perceive what their companion has done. One of them puts the damaged yet at the same time living Hopkins out of his wretchedness by shooting him dead. Marshall's mind snaps and he yells, "You took him from me! You took him from me!" Sara, likewise evidently on the precarious edge of madness, shouts wildly again and again. 

Tigon British Film Productions possessed the rights to Ronald Bassett's 1966 novel, "Witchfinder General", which was approximately founded on the verifiable Matthew Hopkins, a self-portrayed "witchhunter" who professed to have been dispatched by Parliament to arraign and execute witches. Hopkins was in truth never given an official order to chase witches. Tony Tenser, the originator and CEO of Tigon, had perused Bassett's book while it was still in kitchen structure and acquired the rights on motivation before production. Regardless of the novel being "dull tacky mainstream history", Tenser felt it "had some extension, had some broadness to it; there was canvas for a film." Tenser offered the film to Michael Reeves, who had quite recently finished Tigon's "The Sorcerers" (1967), featuring Boris Karloff. 

Reeves furnished a story layout which met with Tenser's eager endorsement. Tenser promptly started assembling a fundamental spending plan, and mentioned that Reeves rapidly total a full film content, worrying to Reeves that the generation would need to begin by September of that year to abstain from shooting amid chilly climate. Reeves brought in his beloved companion Tom Baker (who had co-stated "The Sorcerers" with Reeves) to help him with the content. Reeves and Baker started drafting a screenplay considering Donald Pleasence solidly as the film's star. In any case, when American International Pictures ended up associated with the generation, they demanded that their agreement star, Vincent Price, be given the lead, and Pleasence was dropped from the film. With the sudden difference in star, Reeves and Baker needed to reexamine their unique idea of displaying Hopkins as "ineffectual and inadequate … a silly specialist figure", which they had trusted Pleasence could play to flawlessness. They knew the tall, forcing Price, with his long history of loathsomeness jobs, would need to be to a greater degree a clear miscreant, and they made changes to their content likewise. 

As was required by law for British film creations of that time, the finished first draft of the screenplay was exhibited by Tenser to the British Board of Film Censors (BBFC) on 4 August to decide whether any conceivable oversight issues could be foreseen. Around the same time, a fundamental report was issued by a BBFC analyst, who, noticing that Tenser was a "primate", alluded to the screenplay as "flawlessly brutal" and "ghoulish". The content was come back to Tenser a couple of days after the fact, with a progressively itemized report from a similar inspector, which portrayed the screenplay as "an investigation in twistedness in which everything about brutality and enduring is affectionately abided on … a film which pursued the content at all intently would keep running into perpetual oversight inconvenience." After a second draft was in this way composed and sent to the BBFC just eleven days after the main draft, the response was almost the equivalent. It was come back to Tenser with a "comprehensive rundown" of prerequisites to diminish the film's conceivable unsavoriness. 

Reeves and Baker finished a third and last draft that was "generously conditioned down" in substance from the past endeavors. This form of the screenplay, which was recorded with just a couple of minor corrections amid the generation, was missing a significant number of the more express snapshots of savagery portrayed in the first submitted drafts: the passing fits of the pre-credits hanging injured individual, Lowes getting cut multiple times with a steel spike, and a sharpshooter's unfortunate casualty somersaulting through the air and pummeling into a tree. A grouping delineating the Battle of Naseby was to be taped, amid which an officer's head was to be cut off on screen. Most essentially, the film's finale was totally modified. In the first consummation, Stearne falls in with a gathering of rovers and endeavors to assault one of their ladies, who effectively wards off her aggressor by diving her thumbs at him, blinding him. The vagabonds at that point stake him to death. Marshall arrives and persuades the wanderers to help him in ambushing Hopkins. Hopkins is violently beaten by Marshall, who powers an "admission" out of the bloodied man. Marshall mostly suffocates Hopkins (whose thumbs have been attached to his feet), at that point at last hangs him. Tenser had recently communicated concerns with respect to the extent of the Battle of Naseby arrangement just as the rover finishing, taking note of that these would both require the work of extra gatherings of additional items. He requested that Reeves and Baker expel the fight grouping and disentangle the closure for the last draft. 

Generation started on 18 September 1967 with a financial plan of £83,000. Thirty-two thousand pounds was given by AIP, with £12,000 for Price's consumptions and expenses, and £20,000 for generation costs. Philip Waddilove, a previous BBC radio and record maker, contributed £5,000 as an end-result of partner maker charging. In spite of the fact that the film would be the greatest planned title in Tigon's history, for AIP their piece of the financial backing spoke to a generally little use of cash. Very little as far as genuine quality was normal by AIP heads Samuel Z. Arkoff and James H. Nicholson, and the motion picture was proposed to be simply a tax benefit. 

The insides were recorded in two uniquely changed over flying machine sheds close Bury St. Edmunds in Suffolk, which were rented for £1,500; this cost-measure brought about a significant part of the exchange being re-recorded later, on the grounds that the tin tops of the storages caused a reverberation. The outside shots run from the Dunwich Coast (for the scene with the angler) to Langley Park outside London (for the scene where Stearne escapes catch). The following shot of the snare after the opening credits was recorded at Black Park in southeast Buckinghamshire, an area oftentimes utilized by Hammer Film Productions. Lavenham Square (in Lavenham, Suffolk), site of the witch-consuming scene, was the genuine Lavenham Market Square; the group brought down TV radio wires and phone wires and Waddilove contracted a careful selector from a nearby service organization for £10, in light of the fact that the unit couldn't manage the cost of a camera crane. The wide open vistas found in the pursuit scenes on horseback were shot on the Stanford Battle Area close Thetford, Norfolk—the maker, through associations with the administration, had the capacity to rent portions of the territory. The congregation utilized in the film is St John The Evangelist in Rushford in Norfolk. The channel suffocating and hanging scenes were recorded at Kentwell Hall, in Long Melford. The peak of the film was shot at Orford Castle, on the bank of East Anglia, which is an English Heritage property. Taping wrapped as booked on 13 November 1967. 

The creation went generally easily with the exception of the persistently adversarial relationship that created among Reeves and Price. Reeves kept its an obvious fact from everybody related with the generation that the American performing artist was not his decision for the job, and the chief's remarks had achieved the on-screen character back in the US. Reeves rejected the kindness of meeting Price at Heathrow Airport when he touched base in England, a "conscious censure determined to outrage both Price and AIP." "Take me to your goddamn youthful virtuoso," Price supposedly said to co-maker Philip Waddilove, who welcomed the on-screen character at the airplane terminal rather than Reeves. At the point when Price went on area and met Reeves out of the blue, the youthful executive told the performing artist, "I didn't need you, "regardless I" don't need you, yet I'm screwed over thanks to you!" 

As per Kim Newman in his book, "Bad dream Movies", when Reeves made a proposal on the set, Price protested and told the chief: "I've made 87 films. What have "you" done?" And Reeves reacted: "I've made three great ones." "Reeves abhorred me," Price later reviewed. "He didn't need me at all for the part. I didn't care for him, either. It was one of the main occasions throughout my life that I've been in an image where the executive and I just conflicted." 

Value felt that every one of the on-screen characters on the set had a troublesome time with the chief, clarifying: "Michael Reeves couldn't speak with performing artists. He would stop me and state, 'Don't move your head that way.' And I would state, 'Similar to what? What do you mean?' He'd state, 'There—you're doing it once more. Try not to do that'." Price supposedly turned out to be so angry with Reeves that he would not watch the film's dailies. 

In one scene, Reeves required Price to shoot his flintlock between the ears of the steed he was riding. When Price understood that Reeves had requested that a real clear charge was to be utilized so the weapon's puff of smoke would be unmistakable, he yelled, "What? You need the weapon to go blast between the ears of this screwing pester? How would you believe he will respond?" However, Reeves demanded and, when the weapon went off, the steed raised and sent Price tumbling onto the ground. Cost was not harmed but rather he was amazingly infuriated by the episode. 

On the last day of shooting, Price appeared on the set obviously inebriated. Reeves fumed to Waddilove, "He's smashed—how could he be tanked on my set! I'll murder the charlatan." Waddilove before long found that Reeves wanted to dispense excruciating retribution on the performing artist. Amid arrangements for Price's brutal demise scene, the chief was caught educating Ogilvy to "truly lay into Vincent" with the stage hatchet. In spite of the fact that when the scene was taped Ogilvy undoubtedly reacted with blows that were not faked, Waddilove had prior discovered some froth cushioning and fitted Price's ensemble with it, shielding the performer from any damage. 

Notwithstanding the pressure between the two men amid the creation, when Price saw the motion picture the next year, he conceded that he at last comprehended what Reeves had been after and composed the youthful chief a ten-page letter applauding the film. Reeves composed Price back, "I realized you would think so." Years after Reeves' demise, Price stated, "I understood what he needed was a calm, laid-back, threatening execution. He got it, however I was battling him pretty much at all times. Had I realized what he needed, I would have collaborated." 

Notwithstanding his troublesome association with Price, Reeves needed to manage a couple of generation issues amid the shooting. On the principal day, Price was tossed from his steed and sent back to his lodging to recuperate. The performing artist came back to work the next day. Towards the finish of taping, a strike was considered when the British experts association took in the generation organization was not employing a sufficiently substantial group as required by association rules. After an additional man was procured, the team continued working. On two events, Reeves was shy of performing artists. Waddilove supplanted a missing performing artist as a Roundhead officer amid Wymark's one-day scene. Waddilove's better half, Susi, played one of the ladies in the creature fenced in area amid the witch-consuming grouping. 

The film's vicious peak was altered together in its present shape because of a coherence issue. In the screenplay, the trooper played by Nicky Henson should shoot both Price "and" Ogilvy dead. In any case, the on-screen character just had one flintlock gun, which had been plainly settled in past scenes, and was along these lines just ready to shoot one individual. At the point when the blunder was found, Reeves promptly told the performer: "OK, simply shoot Vincent and I'll get Ian to shout and yell and go frantic and solidify outline on Hilary Dwyer shouting." 

A few "interchange" bare scenes were recorded amid the generation. Set in a bar and including neighborhood "vixens", the groupings were allegedly exclusively proposed for the motion picture's German discharge adaptation. Reeves would not participate in the taping of these arrangements and they were finished by the group after the "ordinary" forms of the scenes had been shot, with Tigon's Tenser going about as chief. As indicated by Waddilove, Louis M. Heyward showed up at the area just to guarantee those extra scenes were taped. The credits read, "Extra scenes by Louis M Heyward." According to Ogilvy, this was an in-joke on the grounds that for Reeves, "extra scenes" signified "some prick of a maker putting his paddle in and wrecking what the executive had done." 

For now is the ideal time, "Witchfinder General" was viewed as an uncommonly cruel film involvement. English movie control John Trevelyan was purportedly an inaccessible cousin of Michael Reeves and acknowledged the chief's well meaning plans when Reeves clarified why he felt it was important to incorporate such exceptional brutality in the motion picture. Trevelyan in any case contended, "The film gave the feeling that it was misusing viciousness, and specifically, twistedness for business reasons." Consequently, the film was cut widely by the British Board of Film Censors for its UK discharge. Almost two complete minutes of what was portrayed as "overabundances of vicious severity" were expelled. Reeves consented to make a portion of the underlying minor cuts himself, yet when extra and progressively broad requests were made he resolutely would not participate in any further altering. 

Trevelyan guaranteed that Reeves later kept in touch with him a letter conceding that the cuts were not as hurtful as he had anticipated. No duplicate of the letter has ever surfaced, and dependent on a few different remarks the executive hence made about how the alters "destroyed the movie", Reeves' biographer Benjamin Halligan trusts Trevelyan may have some way or another "misremembered" the presence of this letter, mistaking it for a prior note from the chief in which he made a request for the BBFC's tolerance. 

Indeed, even the truncated rendition was met with extensive debate by UK film faultfinders. Dilys Powell in "The Sunday Times" griped "seventeenth century hanging, consuming, assaulting, shouting, and Vincent Price as England's prize torment manager. Particularly disgusting." "The Guardian" felt the film was loaded up with "unnecessary perversion." Margaret Hinxman of "The Sunday Telegraph" expelled it as a "savage event." Nonetheless, a few faultfinders felt the film was worth honors. John Russell Taylor in the London "Times Saturday Review" said the film "…  is cheerfully and intentionally a blood and guts movie: in other words, it has no specific demands to being anything else … There is much in it which would win Michael Reeves an essential notoriety in the event that he were managing some progressively self important, however on a very basic level not any more genuine subject … Mr. Reeves is never again simply encouraging. He as of now has genuine accomplishments behind him: not simply great blood and guts movies, however great movies, period." "Movies and Filming" noted, ""Witchfinder General" has no unequivocal 'message', yet it says something about the springs of despondency and it says it strongly. It is an exceptionally alarming film … Matthew Hopkins is the best of Price's ongoing exhibitions. "Witchfinder General" is decidedly not a thriller; it is, be that as it may, an exceptionally astonishing one … " "Month to month Film Bulletin" watched, "Not since "Peeping Tom" has a film excited such a clamor about terribleness and unwarranted brutality as this one … the tone of the film is strangely quieted, with torment and passing in bounty, yet seen unassumingly and without stress … Throughout the entire film there is a striking feeling of a period out of joint, which comes as much from the stray gatherings of officers who conflict against inconspicuous assailants in the forested areas or hang tediously about by the wayside trusting that fight will start, as from the grisly wrongdoings submitted for the sake of religion by Matthew Hopkins." 

Writer Alan Bennett was especially rebuffed by "Witchfinder". In his normal section in "The Listener", distributed eight days after the film's discharge, Bennett clarified how he felt blood and gore movies ought to dependably be "punctuated by paunch giggles" and assaulted Reeves' totally humorless motion picture as "the most constantly savage and ethically spoiled film I have seen. It was a debasing background by which I mean it made me feel messy." Although Reeves was rankled, his reaction showed that he trusted Bennett's response was confirmation that his choice to incorporate such outrageous viciousness was the right way to deal with the material. In his letter distributed in "The Listener", Reeves noted: "Definitely the most improper thing in any type of diversion is the molding of the group of onlookers to acknowledge and appreciate violence … Violence is horrendous, debasing and ignoble. Seeing that one is going to indicate it on the screen by any means, it ought to be exhibited all things considered—and the more individuals it stuns into sickened acknowledgment of these certainties the better. I wish I could have seen Mr. Bennett hysterically endeavoring to wash away the 'messy' feeling my film gave him. It would have been evidence of the way that "Witchfinder General" fills in as proposed." 

AIP heads Arkoff and Nicholson had initially contributed their segment of the financial plan as a tax benefit, however when they were screened the finished film they were bewildered by its quality. Nicholson revealed to Louis Heyward, "It is a standout amongst the best we have gotten from England. Everyone considers the best generation in the Poe arrangement for as far back as couple of years." Arkoff noticed that "Michael Reeves drew out certain components in Vincent that hadn't been found in quite a while. Vincent was increasingly savage in the image. Michael truly drawn out the balls in him. I was astonished how alarming Vincent was in that … I hadn't anticipated it." 

In the US, the film was not expose to any control whatsoever, and was discharged for all intents and purposes flawless to AIP's standard blend of drive-ins and grindhouses. Be that as it may, trying to interface the film with Roger Corman's prior Edgar Allan Poe arrangement of movies, it was retitled "The Conqueror Worm". Brief introduction and epilog portrayals (by Price) taken from Poe's lyric were added to legitimize the new title. As Danny Peary noted in his "Clique Movies" book, the movie went almost unnoticed by pundits amid its US discharge: "The few napping exchange analysts who saw it regarded it as simply one more section in AIP's Edgar Allan Poe series … and gave it such dreary notification that future appointments were rare." "Hollywood Citizen News" was dismayed by the movie: "A disrespect to the makers and scripters, and a miserable analysis on the craft of filmmaking … a movie with such inhuman fierceness and orgiastic perversion, one thinks about how it at any point passed traditions to be discharged in this nation." The exchange diary "Film industry" noticed that: "Devotees of the blood and guts movie will be happy to realize that Vincent Price has returned to add another representation to his display of curve fiends … washed in the most stomach-beating gore imaginable … " "Assortment" opined that "Dwyer gives proof of acting ability, yet she and all principals are hampered by Michael Reeves' unremarkable content and normal course." Despite the absence of basic help, the motion picture was an unassuming achievement stateside, procuring $1.5 million for AIP as indicated by "Cinefantastique" magazine. In his life story of Reeves, Benjamin Halligan claims the film made $10 million in the US. 

The film's retitling by AIP caused a minor fracas in Hong Kong. A gathering of British mariners had seen the motion picture at the base film under its unique title and multi week later accidentally observed the motion picture again in a nearby film, playing under the American discharge title. They promptly requested their cash back and, when the chief won't, they tipped over litter canisters, tossed popcorn at the screen, and "nearly destroyed the theater." The administrator altered his opinion and paid the mariners back at the cost of the tickets, and sent a bill to AIP for the harms. 

Extremely not long after its underlying discharge in the spring of 1968, a few faultfinders started supporting the film in the UK and US. Robin Wood composed that ""Witchfinder General" is positively [Reeves'] most effectively accomplished work … what one is promptly struck by is the confirmation and power of what is on the screen… the English farmland is felt as a genuine nearness: it is hard to consider different movies in which it has been utilized so delicately and seriously. With it is related Paul Ferris' signature music, which recommends a conventional air without being genuine citation. Against the harmony and fruitfulness of nature is set the corruption of men." David Pirie, who composed broadly and excitedly about the film in his 1973 book "A Heritage of Horror", audited the film in 1971 for "Time Out", remarking: "a standout amongst the most close to home and develop explanations in the historical backdrop of British cinema … The exhibitions are commonly magnificent, and no film previously or since has utilized the British wide open in an incredible same way." Danny Peary noticed, ""The Conqueror Worm" is a dazzling film from various perspectives, yet likely Reeves' most noteworthy accomplishment is that he had the capacity to keep up an exceptional energy all through, until the film finishes as it started, with a lady (this time Sara) shouting." In 2000, Derek Malcolm included "Witchfinder General" as a major aspect of his arrangement "The Century of Films", a rundown of what he viewed as the one hundred most "masterfully or socially essential" motion pictures of the twentieth Century. Malcolm attested that the film "is a standout amongst the most habitually watchable at any point made in Britain" and "rises above its kind with the sheer panache of its creation." In 2005, J. Hoberman of the "Town Voice" expressed that the movie "has for quite some time been a faction item – to a limited extent since its gifted 25-year-old executive, Michael Reeves, passed on of a medication overdose before the film's discharge, yet principally in light of the fact that it is a remarkably distressing story of political evil … Reeves shot on area and the motion picture has a powerful harvest time quality impeccably coordinated by Price's overripe performance … it stays contemporary, and notwithstanding alarming, in its inspiration of pessimistic Puritanism and mass misdirection." 

In his 2007 book, "Frenzy Unchained: A Reading of Virgil's 'Aeneid", Lee Fratantuono portrayed "Witchfinder General" as an advanced retelling of the primary topics of Virgil's epic "Aeneid", and its focal picture of the tenacious idea of fierceness and franticness and its capacity to degenerate basically great saints. Fratantuono has composed that in the film Reeves "has caught precisely the purpose of Virgil's incredible epic of frenzy and its frightening decision." 

Author Mark Thomas McGee noticed that "Witchfinder General" "did phenomenal business and commenced a second influx of Edgar Allan Poe motion pictures" created by American International Pictures, including Gordon Hessler's "The Oblong Box" featuring Price (initially booked to be coordinated by Reeves, however given over to Hessler after Reeves bowed out seven days preceding generation) and "Murders in the Rue Morgue" (1971). Hessler's "Cry of the Banshee" (1970), which included "Witchfinder" co-stars Price and Hilary Dwyer, was likewise ambiguously connected with Poe in promotions ("Edgar Allan Poe Probes New Depths of Terror!"); it was expelled by AllMovie as "a repeating of "Witchfinder General"." This new Poe "arrangement" was fleeting and adequately over by 1971. 

As indicated by AIP's Louis Heyward, "Witchfinder General" "was effective in Germany—it was the best of the brutality pictures—it began a vogue." "Copycat" films financed, or somewhat financed, by German creation organizations included "Characteristic of the Devil" (1970), with Herbert Lom and Udo Kier, "The Bloody Judge" (1970), coordinated by Jesus Franco and featuring Christopher Lee, and "Hexen geschändet und zu Tode gequält" (1973), discharged in the U.S. a long time later on record as "Characteristic of the Devil Part II". 

Tigon's own "The Blood on Satan's Claw" (1970) was delivered "as a successor, in soul if not in story" to "Witchfinder General", and acquired Reeves' use of "the typically peaceful English farmland as a position of fear." Mark Gatiss has alluded to the film as a prime case of a fleeting subgenre he called "people repulsiveness", gathering it with "Satan's Claw" and "The Wicker Man". 

A few faultfinders keep up that Ken Russell's "The Devils" (1971) was affected by Reeves' film, with one essayist calling Russell's motion picture "the zenith of the 'verifiable' witch-mistreatment films begun by "Witchfinder General"." However, Russell said that he abhorred Reeves' film, portraying it as "one of the most exceedingly terrible motion pictures I have ever observed and unquestionably the most queasy." 

The film has impacted substantial metal music. In 1980, the motion picture motivated a band to call themselves Witchfinder General. Another metal band, Cathedral, discharged a 1996 EP titled "Hopkins (The Witchfinder General)", including a melody of a similar name. That tune additionally showed up on their collection, "The Carnival Bizarre" and the music video was incorporated as an additional on the U.K. DVD arrival of Reeves' film. The tune "Witchfinder General" likewise showed up on substantial metal band Saxon's 2004 collection titled "Lionheart". 

The film was the motivation for a BBC Radio 4 play "Vincent Price and The Horror of The English Blood Beast" by Matthew Broughton, first communicate in March 2010. 

Carl Douglas, well known for chronicle the disco tune "Kung Fu Fighting" in the 1970's likewise recorded "Witchfinder General" in 1974, on the collection titled "The Soul of the Kung Fu Fighter". 

In 2016, chief Nicolas Winding Refn uncovered that he had purchased the change rights to "Witchfinder General". 

While a few commentators have applauded the film for its apparent "verifiable exactness", others have unequivocally scrutinized its adherence to recorded actuality. Dr. Malcolm Gaskill, Fellow and previous Director of Studies in history at Churchill College, Cambridge, and creator of "Witchfinders: A seventeenth Century English Tragedy", scrutinized the movie for the Channel 4 History site, calling it "a crime of authentic truth" while recognizing that "there is a lot to be said for "Witchfinder General"— however as a movie, not as history." Based simply on its dimension of recorded exactness, Gaskill gave the movie "3 stars" on a size of 0– 10. 

Gaskill had a few grumblings in regards to the film's "contortions and flights of extravagant". While Hopkins and his associate John Stearne truly tortured, attempt and hang John Lowes, the vicar of Brandeston, Gaskill takes note of that other than those fundamental actualities the film's account is "totally invented." In the motion picture, the anecdotal character of Richard Marshall seeks after Hopkins tenaciously to death, however as a general rule the "upper class, officers and ministry, who undermined his work in print and at law" were in quest for Hopkins all through his (brief) deadly profession, as he was never legitimately endorsed to play out his witch-chasing obligations. Also, Hopkins wasn't cut out to death, he "shriveled far from utilization at his Essex home in 1647". Vincent Price was 56 when he played Hopkins, yet "the genuine Hopkins was in his 20s". As per Gaskill, one of the film's "most striking blunders is its absolute exclusion of court cases: witches are just tormented, at that point dangled from the closest tree." 

Control and melodic rights issues kept a total, unblemished rendition of "Witchfinder General" from being discharged on tape, LaserDisc or DVD for a long time. Albeit uncensored showy prints have been accessible for authentic showings in the US for quite a long while, video arrivals of the title were over and again traded off. 

The "Fare Version", which contained both the recently cut brutality and interchange shots of topless nakedness taped for abroad discharge, was passed whole by the BBFC in 1995, and discharged on VHS by Redemption. In 2001, a DVD was discharged in the UK by Metrodome comprising of two forms, the total "Executive's Cut" containing the two minutes of recently controlled viciousness, and the previously mentioned "Fare Version", additionally with the savagery unblemished yet including shots of nakedness added to specific successions. In the two forms, the two minutes of brutality have been taken from what has been portrayed as "a grainy VHS source." Some pundits whined that watching the film as such was a regularly "bumping" or "diverting" seeing knowledge. What's more, the soundtrack of the recently embedded bare shots had "brief scraps of sound rehashing itself on account of the planning engaged with embeddings the recently cut film". 

In the US, while oversight of the film has never been a factor, the film in any case encountered various postponements in showing up on home video in its initially planned structure. At the point when Orion Pictures procured the rights to a significant number of AIP's titles during the 1980s, they were unfit to likewise buy rights to the melodic soundtracks of a portion of the movies, and included synthesizer scores by writer Kendall Schmidt in lieu of the first music. "Witchfinder General" was one of these "issue" titles. For a considerable length of time, Paul Ferris' acclaimed full instrumental score was not accessible in the US on home video discharges, despite the fact that it was incorporated on showy and syndicated TV prints. The HBO tape discharge from the late 1980s used the Orion form, which likewise incorporated the bare additions. Tim Lucas noticed that the expressed soundtrack to these recently included "fiery" shots "doesn't coordinate it effectively." 

In 2005, essayist Steve Biodrowski announced that a "conclusive rendition" of the film had been reestablished and would be discharged in the US on DVD by MGM-UA in August of that year, as a feature of their Midnite Movies arrangement. After Sony acquired the rights to the MGM movie library, James Owsley (Director of Restorations at MGM) prompted Philip Waddilove (one of "Witchfinder General"s makers) that the date of the DVD discharge was deferred until October 2006. In a meeting directed in August 2005, Waddilove uncovered that he had learned Sony had "little enthusiasm" in the movie and no official declaration of any pending DVD discharge had ever been made. Waddilove noticed that "the vital at Sony doesn't greenlight DVDs of anything more seasoned than ten years!!" However, the film was for sure discharged under the Midnite Movies standard on 11 September 2007 by twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment. The discharge incorporates the total, whole form of the film with the Ferris score unblemished. Value's opening and shutting portrayal attached to the AIP "Victor Worm" adaptation, just as the other naked arrangements, were not accessible on this discharge, however they were incorporated into the UK Blu-beam discharge from Odeon Entertainment issued in June 2011. The Blu-beam used a similar top quality exchange as the 2007 MGM DVD and was totally whole. In 2013, Scream Factory incorporated the film as a feature of the organization's multi-title Vincent Price Blu-beam enclose set discharged fall of 2013.