George Fox 

George Fox (July 1624 – 13 January 1691) was an English Dissenter, who was an author of the Religious Society of Friends, regularly known as the Quakers or Friends. The child of a Leicestershire weaver, he lived in the midst of social change and war. He defied the religious and political experts by proposing an unordinary, inflexible way to deal with the Christian confidence. He went all through Britain as a contradicting minister, regularly being abused by the opposing experts. In 1669, he wedded Margaret Fell, widow of a well off supporter, Thomas Fell; she was a main Friend. His service extended and he made voyages through North America and the Low Countries. He was captured and imprisoned various occasions for his convictions. He spent his last decade working in London to sort out the growing Quaker development. Regardless of despise from certain Anglicans and Puritans, he was seen with deference by the Quaker convert William Penn and the Lord Protector, Oliver Cromwell. 

George Fox was conceived in the firmly Puritan town of Drayton-in-the-Clay, Leicestershire, England (presently known as Fenny Drayton), 15 miles (24 km) west-south-west of Leicester. He was the oldest of four offspring of Christopher Fox, a fruitful weaver, called "Upright Christer" by his neighbors, and his better half, Mary Lago. Christopher Fox was a churchwarden and was moderately rich; when he kicked the bucket in the late 1650s he left his child a generous inheritance. From youth Fox was of a genuine, religious manner. There is no record of any formal tutoring yet he figured out how to peruse and compose. "When I came to eleven years old", he stated, "I knew immaculateness and honesty; for, while I was a kid, I was instructed how to stroll to be kept unadulterated. The Lord instructed me to be steadfast, in every way, and to act dependably two different ways; viz., internally to God, and ostensibly to man." Known as a fair individual, he likewise announced, "The Lord instructed me to be loyal in all things...and to keep to Yea and Nay no matter what." 

As he grew up, his relatives "thought to have made me a cleric" however he was rather apprenticed to a neighborhood shoemaker and grazier, George Gee of Mancetter. This fit his insightful personality and he turned out to be outstanding for his tirelessness among the fleece brokers who had dealings with his lord. A steady fixation for Fox was the quest for "effortlessness" throughout everyday life, which means quietude and the relinquishment of extravagance, and the brief timeframe he spent as a shepherd was imperative to the development of this view. Around a mind-blowing finish he composed a letter for general dissemination calling attention to that Abel, Noah, Abraham, Jacob, Moses and David were all guardians of sheep or dairy cattle and in this way that scholarly training ought not be viewed as a fundamental capability for service. 

George Fox knew individuals who were "teachers" (devotees of the standard religion), yet by the age of 19 he had started to look down on their conduct, specifically drinking liquor. He records that, in petition one night in the wake of leaving two colleagues at a drinking session, he heard an inward voice saying, "Thou seest how youngsters go together into vanity, and elderly individuals into the earth; thou must spurn all, youthful and old, keep out of all, and be as an outsider unto all." 

Driven by his "inward voice", Fox left Drayton-in-the-Clay in September 1643, pushing toward London in a condition of mental torment and perplexity. The English Civil War had started and troops were positioned in numerous towns through which he passed. In Barnet, he was torn by wretchedness (maybe from the allurements of the retreat town close London). He on the other hand shut himself in his space for a considerable length of time at once or went out alone into the wide open. After just about a year he came back to Drayton, where he drew in Nathaniel Stephens, the pastor of the place where he grew up, in long exchanges on religious issues. Stephens thought about Fox as a talented young fellow however the two differ on such a significant number of issues that he later called Fox frantic and opposed him. 

Throughout the following couple of years Fox kept on going around the nation as his specific religious convictions came to fruition. On occasion he effectively looked for the organization of ministry however found no solace from them as they appeared to be unfit to help with the issues alarming him. One, in Warwickshire, prompted him to take tobacco (which Fox hated) and sing hymns; another, in Coventry, lost his temper when Fox inadvertently remained on a bloom in his greenery enclosure; a third recommended phlebotomy. He ended up interested by the Bible, which he contemplated indefatigably. He wanted to discover among the "English Dissenters" an otherworldly understanding missing from the set up chapel however dropped out with one gathering, for instance, since he kept up that ladies had spirits: 

He contemplated the Temptation of Christ, which he contrasted with his very own otherworldly condition, however drew quality from his conviction that God would support and save him. In supplication and contemplation he went to a more noteworthy comprehension of the idea of his confidence and what it required from him; this procedure he called "opening". He likewise came to what he considered a profound inward comprehension of standard Christian convictions. Among his thoughts were: 

In 1647 Fox started to lecture freely: in commercial centers, fields, delegated gatherings of different sorts or even now and again "steeple-houses" after the administration. His ground-breaking lecturing started to pull in a little after. It isn't clear when the Society of Friends was shaped however there was surely a gathering of individuals who frequently voyage together. At first, they called themselves "Offspring of the Light" or "Companions of the Truth", and later essentially "Companions". Fox appears to have at first wanted to establish an organization yet just to announce what he saw as the unadulterated and certified standards of Christianity in their unique straightforwardness, however he a short time later demonstrated incredible ability as a religious organisor in the structure he provided for the new society. 

There were a large number opponent Christian groups holding various suppositions; the climate of question and disarray allowed Fox a chance to advance his own convictions through his own lessons. Fox's proclaiming was grounded in sacred writing however was essentially viable in view of the serious individual experience he had the capacity to extend. He was scorching about impropriety, trickery and the demanding of tithes and asked his audience members to lead lives without wrongdoing, staying away from the Ranter's antinomian view that an adherent turns out to be naturally righteous. By 1651 he had assembled other skilled ministers around him and kept on wandering the nation in spite of a cruel gathering from certain audience members, who might whip and beat them to push them away. As his notoriety spread, his words were not invited by all. As a solid evangelist, he heaved question and logical inconsistency to the essences of his rivals. The love of Friends as quiet holding up punctuated by people talking as the Spirit moved them appears to have been entrenched at this point, however it isn't recorded how this became; Richard Bauman declares that "talking was a critical component of the gathering for love from the most punctual long periods of Quakerism." 

Fox griped to made a decision about choices he thought about ethically wrong, as in his letter looking into it of a lady due to be executed for burglary. He battled against the paying of tithes, which financed the built up chapel and regularly went into the pockets of truant landowners or religious universities far from the paying parishioners. In his view, as God was all over the place and anybody could lecture, the built up chapel was superfluous and a college capability immaterial for a minister. Strife with common specialist was unavoidable. Fox was detained a few times, the first at Nottingham in 1649. At Derby in 1650 he was detained for sacrilege; a judge derided Fox's admonishment to "tremble at the expression of the Lord", calling him and his adherents "Quakers". Following his refusal to battle against the arrival of the government (or to wage war under any circumstances), his sentence was multiplied. The refusal to swear promises or wage war came to be a considerably more imperative piece of his open proclamations. Refusal to make vows implied that Quakers could be arraigned under laws convincing subjects to vow devotion, just as making affirming in court risky. In a letter of 1652 ("That which is set up by the sword"), he encouraged Friends not to utilize "lustful weapons" however "profound weapons", saying "let the waves [the intensity of nations] break over your heads". 

In 1652, Fox lectured for a few hours under a walnut tree at Balby, where his supporter Thomas Aldham was instrumental in setting up the main gathering in the Doncaster territory. Around the same time Fox felt that God drove him to rise Pendle Hill where he had a dream of numerous spirits coming to Christ. From that point he headed out to Sedbergh, where he had heard a gathering of Seekers were meeting, and lectured over a thousand people on Firbank Fell, persuading many, including Francis Howgill, to acknowledge that Christ may address individuals legitimately. Toward the month's end he remained at Swarthmoor Hall, close Ulverston, the home of Thomas Fell, bad habit chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, and his better half, Margaret. At around this time the "specially appointed" gatherings of Friends started to be formalized and a month to month getting was set together in County Durham. Margaret turned into a Quaker and, in spite of the fact that Thomas did not change over, his recognition with the Friends demonstrated powerful when Fox was captured for irreverence in October. Fell was one of three managing judges, and had the charges rejected on a detail. 

Fox stayed at Swarthmoor until summer 1653 at that point left for Carlisle where he was captured again for irreverence. It was even proposed to kill him however Parliament mentioned his discharge as opposed to have "a youthful man ... bite the dust for religion". Further detainments came at London, England in 1654, Launceston in 1656, Lancaster in 1660, Leicester in 1662, Lancaster again and Scarborough in 1664– 1666 and Worcester in 1673– 1675. Charges typically included causing an aggravation and going without a pass. Quakers fell foul of sporadically authorized laws disallowing unapproved love while activities roused by faith in social fairness—declining to utilize or recognize titles, take caps off in court or bow to the individuals who viewed themselves as socially unrivaled—were viewed as ill bred. While detained at Launceston Fox expressed, "Christ our Lord and ace saith 'Swear not in the least, yet let your correspondences be yea, yea, and nay, nay, for at all is more than these cometh of evil.' ... the Apostle James saith, 'My brethren, over all things swear not, neither by paradise, nor by earth, nor by some other vow. In case ye fall into judgment.'" 

In jail George Fox kept composition and lecturing, feeling that detainment carried him into contact with individuals who required his assistance—the corrections officers just as his kindred detainees. In his diary, he told his justice, "God stays not in sanctuaries made with hands." He additionally looked to set a model by his activities there, accepting punishment silently while being beaten and declining to demonstrate his captors any blue emotions. 

Parliamentarians became suspicious of monarchist plots and dreadful that the gathering making a trip with Fox expected to oust the legislature: at this point his gatherings were normally drawing in hordes of over a thousand. In mid 1655 he was captured at Whetstone, Leicestershire and taken to London under furnished gatekeeper. In March he was brought before the Lord Protector, Oliver Cromwell. In the wake of certifying that he had no expectation of waging war Fox had the capacity to talk with Cromwell for a large portion of the morning about the Friends and prompted him to tune in to God's voice and obey it so that, as Fox left, Cromwell "with tears in his eyes stated, 'Come back again to my home; for if thou and I were nevertheless an hour of multi day together, we ought to be closer one to the next'; including that he wished [Fox] not any more sick than he did to his very own spirit." 

This scene was later reviewed for instance of "talking truth to control", a proclaiming method by which ensuing Quakers wanted to impact the incredible. Despite the fact that not utilized until the twentieth century, the expression is identified with the thoughts of plain discourse and straightforwardness which Fox rehearsed, yet persuaded by the more common objective of killing war, bad form and mistreatment. 

Fox requested of Cromwell through the span of 1656, soliciting him to reduce the abuse from Quakers. Soon thereafter, they met for a second time at Whitehall. On an individual dimension, the gathering went well; in spite of contradictions between the two men, they had a specific compatibility. Fox welcomed Cromwell to "set out his crown at the feet of Jesus"— which Cromwell declined to do. Fox met Cromwell again twice in March 1657. Their last gathering was in 1658 at Hampton Court, however they couldn't represent long or meet again as a result of the Protector's exacerbating sickness—Fox even composed that "he resembled a dead man". Cromwell kicked the bucket in September of that year. 

One early Quaker convert, the Yorkshireman James Nayler, emerged as an unmistakable minister in London around 1655. A rupture started to shape among Fox's and Nayler's adherents. As Fox was held detainee at Launceston, Nayler moved south-westwards towards Launceston aiming to meet Fox and mend any crack. In transit he was captured himself and held at Exeter. After Fox was discharged from Launceston gaol in 1656, he lectured all through the West Country. Touching base at Exeter late in September, Fox was brought together with Nayler. Nayler and his devotees would not expel their caps while Fox implored, which Fox took as both an individual slight and a terrible model. At the point when Nayler wouldn't kiss Fox's hand, Fox advised Nayler to kiss his foot. Nayler was irritated and the two separated caustically. Fox expressed, "there was currently an insidious soul ascended among Friends". 

After Nayler's own discharge later that year he rode into Bristol triumphantly filling the role of Jesus Christ in a re-establishment of Palm Sunday. He was captured and taken to London, where Parliament crushed a movement to execute him by 96– 82. Rather, they requested that he be pilloried and whipped through both London and Bristol, marked on his brow with the letter B (for blasphemer), drilled through the tongue with a super hot iron and detained in isolation with hard work. Nayler was discharged in 1659, however he was a broken man. On meeting Fox in London, he tumbled to his knees and asked Fox's absolution. Without further ado subsequently, Nayler was assaulted by cheats while making a trip home to his family, and kicked the bucket. 

The abuses of these years—with around a thousand Friends in jail by 1657—solidified Fox's conclusions of customary religious and social practices. In his proclaiming, he regularly accentuated the Quaker dismissal of submersion by water; this was a valuable method for featuring how the attention of Friends on internal change varied from what he saw as the superstition of outward custom. It was likewise purposely provocative to disciples of those works on, giving chances to Fox to contend with them on issues of sacred writing. This example was additionally found in his court appearances: when a judge moved him to expel his cap, Fox riposted by asking where in the Bible such a directive could be found. 

The Society of Friends turned out to be progressively sorted out towards the decade's end. Substantial gatherings were held, including a three-day occasion in Bedfordshire, the forerunner of the present Britain Yearly Meeting framework. Fox dispatched two Friends to go around the nation gathering the declarations of detained Quakers, as proof of their mistreatment; this prompted the foundation in 1675 of Meeting for Sufferings, which has proceeded to the present day. 

The 1650s, when the Friends were most fierce, was a standout amongst the most imaginative times of their history. Amid the Commonwealth, Fox had trusted that the development would turn into the significant church in England. Contradictions, abuse and expanding social unrest, nonetheless, drove Fox to experience the ill effects of an extreme gloom, which left him profoundly harried at Reading, Berkshire, for ten weeks in 1658 or 1659. In 1659, he sent parliament his most politically extreme handout, "Fifty nine Particulars set down for the Regulating things", yet the year was chaotic to the point that it never thought about them; the report was not republished until the 21st century. 

With the rebuilding of the government, Fox's fantasies of building up the Friends as the prevailing religion appeared at an end. He was again blamed for intrigue, this time against Charles II, and devotion—a charge he disdained. He was detained in Lancaster for five months, amid which he kept in touch with the ruler offering exhortation on administration: Charles should cease from war and local religious abuse, and dishearten pledge taking, plays, and maypole amusements. These last proposals uncover Fox's Puritan leanings, which kept on impacting Quakers for a considerable length of time after his passing. By and by, Fox was discharged subsequent to exhibiting that he had no military desire. 

At any rate on one point, Charles tuned in to Fox. The seven hundred Quakers who had been detained under Richard Cromwell were discharged, however the administration stayed questionable about the gathering's connections with other, progressively rough, developments. A revolt by the Fifth Monarchists in January 1661 prompted the concealment of that organization and the suppression of different Nonconformists, including Quakers. In the fallout of this endeavored upset, Fox and eleven different Quakers issued a broadside broadcasting what ended up known among Friends in the twentieth century as the "harmony declaration": they subscribed to contradict every single outward war and hardship as in opposition to the desire of God. Not every one of his supporters acknowledged this announcement; Isaac Penington, for instance, contradicted for a period contending that the state had an obligation to shield the guiltless from malevolence, if essential by utilizing military power. In spite of the declaration, abuse against Quakers and different nonconformists proceeded. 

Penington and others, for example, John Perrot and John Pennyman, were uneasy at Fox's expanding power inside the development. Like Nayler before them, they saw no motivation behind why men should evacuate their caps for petition, contending that people ought to be treated as equivalents and on the off chance that, as indicated by the witness Paul, ladies should cover their heads, at that point so could men. Perrot and Penington lost the contention. Perrot emigrated to the New World, and Fox held initiative of the development. 

Parliament instituted laws which denied non-Anglican religious gatherings of in excess of five individuals, basically making Quaker gatherings illicit. Fox directed his adherents to transparently abuse laws that endeavored to stifle the development, and numerous Friends, including ladies and kids, were imprisoned throughout the following more than two decades. Then, Quakers in New England had been exiled (and some executed), and Charles was exhorted by his councilors to issue a mandamus denouncing this training and enabling them to return. Fox had the capacity to meet a portion of the New England Friends when they came to London, invigorating his enthusiasm for the settlements. Fox was unfit to go there promptly: he was detained again in 1664 for his refusal to swear the pledge of loyalty, and on his discharge in 1666 was engrossed with hierarchical issues—he standardized the arrangement of month to month and quarterly gatherings all through the nation, and stretched out it to Ireland. 

Visiting Ireland additionally allowed him the chance to lecture against what he saw as the overabundances of the Roman Catholic Church, specifically the utilization of custom. Later Quaker reporters have noted purposes of contact between the groups: both case the real nearness of God in their gatherings, and both permit the aggregate feeling of the congregation to enlarge Biblical instructing. Fox, be that as it may, did not see this, raised as he was in a completely Protestant condition antagonistic to "Popery". 

Fox wedded Margaret Fell of Swarthmoor Hall, a woman of high social position and one of his initial believers, on 27 October 1669 at a gathering in Bristol. She was ten years his senior and had eight youngsters (everything except one of them Quakers) by her first spouse, Thomas Fell, who had passed on in 1658. She was herself extremely dynamic in the development, and had crusaded for balance and the acknowledgment of ladies as ministers. As there were no ministers at Quaker weddings to play out the service, the association appeared as a common marriage endorsed by the principals and the observers at a gathering. Ten days after the marriage, Margaret came back to Swarthmoor to proceed with her work there while George returned to London. Their common religious work was at an amazing core together, and they later teamed up on a lot of the organization the Society required. Soon after the marriage, Margaret was detained at Lancaster; George stayed in the south-east of England, ending up so sick and discouraged that for a period he lost his sight. 

By 1671 Fox had recouped and Margaret had been discharged by request of the King. Fox set out to visit the English settlements in America and the West Indies, staying there for a long time, potentially to counter any leftovers of Perrot's instructing there. Following a voyage of seven weeks, amid which dolphins were gotten and eaten, the gathering touched base in Barbados on 3 October 1671. From that point, Fox sent an epistle to Friends illuminating the job of ladies' gatherings in the Quaker wedding function, a point of contention when he returned home. One of his proposition recommended that the imminent couple ought to be met by an all-female gathering preceding the marriage to decide if there were any monetary or different hindrances. In spite of the fact that ladies' gatherings had been held in London throughout the previous ten years, this was a development in Bristol and the north-west of England, which numerous there felt went excessively far. 

Fox composed a letter to the senator and get together of the island in which he discredited charges that Quakers were working up the captives to revolt and endeavored to insist the universality of Quaker convictions. After a stay in Jamaica, Fox's first landfall on the North American landmass was at Maryland, where he took part in a four-day meeting of neighborhood Quakers. He stayed there while different of his English partners made a trip to different settlements, since he wished to meet some Native Americans who were keen on Quaker ways—however he relates that they had "an extraordinary question" among themselves about whether to take an interest in the gathering. Fox was inspired by their general disposition, which he said was "affable and cherishing". He hated the recommendation (from a man in North Carolina) that "the Light and Spirit of God ... was not in the Indians", a recommendation which Fox discredited. Fox left no record of experiencing slaves on the terrain. 

Somewhere else in the states, Fox set up authoritative frameworks for the Friends, similarly as he had done in Britain. He likewise lectured numerous non-Quakers, a few however not every one of whom were changed over. 

Pursuing broad goes around the different American states, George Fox came back to England in June 1673 sure that his development was immovably settled there. Back in England, be that as it may, he discovered his development strongly isolated among common Friends, (for example, William Rogers, John Wilkinson and John Story) who opposed foundation of ladies' gatherings and the intensity of the individuals who dwelled in or close London. With William Penn and Robert Barclay as partners of Fox, the test to Fox's authority was in the end put down. Be that as it may, amidst the debate, Fox was detained again to will not swear pledges in the wake of being caught at Armscote, Worcestershire. His mom passed on soon after becoming aware of his capture and Fox's wellbeing started to endure. Margaret Fell appealed to the ruler for his discharge, which was in truth, however Fox felt too powerless to even consider taking up his movements right away. Recovering at Swarthmoor, he started managing what might be distributed after his demise as his diary and committed his opportunity to his composed yield: letters, both open and private, just as books and expositions. Quite a bit of his vitality was given to the theme of promises, having turned out to be persuaded of its significance to Quaker thoughts. By declining to swear, he felt that he could demonstrate the veracity of the estimation of truth in regular daily existence, just as to God, whom he connected with truth and the inward light. 

For three months in 1677 and a month in 1684, Fox visited the Friends in the Netherlands, and composed their gatherings for control. The principal trip was the more broad, bringing him into what is currently Germany, continuing along the coast to Friedrichstadt and back again more than a few days. In the mean time, Fox was taking an interest in a question among Friends in Britain over the job of ladies in gatherings, a battle which took quite a bit of his vitality and left him depleted. Coming back to England, he remained in the south so as to endeavor to end the question. He pursued the establishment of the province of Pennsylvania, where Penn had given him over of land, with intrigue. Abuse proceeded, with Fox captured quickly in October 1683. Fox's wellbeing was winding up more terrible, yet he proceeded with his exercises—keeping in touch with pioneers in Poland, Denmark, Germany, and somewhere else about his convictions, and their treatment of Quakers. 

In the most recent long stretches of his life, Fox kept on taking an interest in the London Meetings, and still made portrayals to Parliament about the sufferings of Friends. The new King, James II, acquitted religious protesters imprisoned for inability to go to the built up chapel, prompting the arrival of around 1,500 Friends. Despite the fact that the Quakers lost impact after the Glorious Revolution, which ousted James II, the Act of Toleration 1689 put a conclusion to the consistency laws under which Quakers had been aggrieved, allowing them to collect unreservedly. 

Two days in the wake of lecturing, of course, at the Gracechurch Street Meeting House in London, George Fox kicked the bucket somewhere in the range of 9 and 10 p.m. on 13 January 1691. He was entombed in the Quaker Burying Ground, Bunhill Fields, after three days within the sight of thousands of grievers. 

Fox's diary was first distributed in 1694, in the wake of altering by Thomas Ellwood—a companion and partner of John Milton—with a prelude by William Penn. Like most comparable works of its time the diary was not composed contemporaneously to the occasions it depicts, but instead aggregated numerous years after the fact, a lot of it directed. Portions of the diary were not in reality by Fox at everything except rather are built by its editors from different sources and composed as though by him. The difference inside the development and the commitments of others to the improvement of Quakerism are to a great extent prohibited from the account. Fox depicts himself as dependably morally justified and constantly vindicated by God's mediations for his sake. As a religious collection of memoirs, Rufus Jones contrasted it with so much fills in as Augustine's "Admissions" and John Bunyan's "Effortlessness Abounding to the Chief of Sinners". It is, however, a strongly close to home work with minimal emotional power that just prevails with regards to speaking to perusers after considerable altering. Antiquarians have utilized it as an essential source as a result of its abundance of detail on standard life in the seventeenth century, and the numerous towns and towns which Fox visited. 

Several Fox's letters—generally planned for wide course, alongside a couple of private correspondences—were likewise distributed. Composed from the 1650s onwards, with so much titles as "Companions, look for the tranquility all things considered" or "To Friends, to know each other in the light", they give tremendous understanding into the detail of Fox's convictions, and demonstrate his assurance to spread them. These compositions, in the expressions of Henry Cadbury, Professor of Divinity at Harvard University and a main Quaker, "contain a couple of new expressions of his own, [but] are for the most part portrayed by an overabundance of scriptural language and today they appear to be dull and monotonous". Others call attention to that "Fox's lessons, wealthy in scriptural allegory and normal discourse, acquired expectation a dull time." Fox's sayings have discovered a crowd of people past Quakers, with numerous other church bunches utilizing them to delineate standards of Christianity. 

Fox is portrayed by Ellwood as "smooth in face, masculine in personage, grave in motion, respectful in discussion". Penn says he was "affable past all types of rearing". We are informed that he was "plain and ground-breaking in lecturing, intense in supplication", "a discerner of other men's spirits, and particularly ace of his own", skilful to "talk a word in due season to the conditions and limits of most, particularly to them that were exhausted, and needed soul's rest"; "valiant in affirming reality, striking in shielding it, tolerant in languishing over it, undaunted as a stone". 

Fox's impact on the Society of Friends was huge, and his convictions have to a great extent been conveyed forward by that gathering. Maybe his most huge accomplishment, other than his transcendent impact in the early development, was his administration in conquering the twin difficulties of government indictment after the Restoration and interior question that undermined its steadiness amid a similar period. Not the majority of his convictions were welcome to all Quakers: his Puritan-like restriction to expressions of the human experience and dismissal of religious investigation, thwarted advancement of these practices among Quakers for quite a while. 

The name of George Fox is regularly conjured by conventionalist Friends who detest present day liberal demeanors to the Society's Christian starting points. In the meantime, Quakers and others can identify with Fox's religious experience, and even the individuals who can't help contradicting a considerable lot of his thoughts see him as a pioneer. 

Walt Whitman, who was raised by guardians enlivened by Quaker standards, later expressed: "George Fox represents something as well—a suspected—the prospect that wakes in quiet hours—maybe the most profound, most everlasting idea dormant in the human spirit. This is the possibility of God, converged in the musings of good right and the everlasting status of character. Extraordinary, incredible is this idea—yes, more prominent than all else." 

Essential sources 

Different versions of Fox's diary have been distributed now and again since the main imprinting in 1694: 

Optional sources