Dobroslav Jevđević 

Dobroslav Jevđević (, ; 28 December 1895 – October 1962) was a Bosnian Serb government official and self-designated Chetnik administrator (, војвода) in the Herzegovina locale of the Axis-involved Kingdom of Yugoslavia amid World War II. He was an individual from the interwar Chetnik Association and the Organization of Yugoslav Nationalists, a Yugoslav National Party individual from the National Assembly, and a pioneer of the restriction to King Alexander somewhere in the range of 1929 and 1934. The next year, he turned into the purposeful publicity boss for the Yugoslav government. 

Following the Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, he turned into a Chetnik pioneer in Herzegovina and joined the Chetnik development of Draža Mihailović. Jevđević worked together with the Italians and later the Germans in activities against the Yugoslav Partisans. Despite the fact that Jevđević perceived the expert of Mihailović, who knew about and affirmed of his joint effort with Axis powers, various factors successfully rendered him free of Mihailović's direction, aside from when he worked intimately with Ilija Trifunović-Birčanin, Mihailović's assigned administrator in Dalmatia, Herzegovina, western Bosnia and southwestern Croatia. 

Amid the joint Italian– Chetnik Operation Alfa, Jevđević's Chetniks, alongside other Chetnik powers, were in charge of executing somewhere in the range of 543 and 2,500 Bosnian Muslim and Catholic regular folks in the Prozor district in October 1942. They likewise took an interest in one of the biggest Axis hostile to Partisan tasks of the war, Case White, in the winter of 1943. His Chetniks later converged with other collaborationist powers that had pulled back towards the west, and were put under the direction of the SS General Odilo Globocnik of the Operational Zone of the Adriatic Littoral. Jevđević fled to Italy in the spring of 1945, where he was captured by Allied military specialists and kept at a camp in Grottaglie. He was in the long run set free, having gotten extensive Allied help. Yugoslavia's solicitations for removal were overlooked. Jevđević moved to Rome and lived under an accepted name. In the years following the war, he gathered reports for different western insight benefits and printed hostile to socialist productions. He lived in Rome until his demise in October 1962. 

Dobroslav Jevđević was conceived on 28 December 1895 in the villa of Miloševac in Prača, close to the town of Rogatica, in the Austro-Hungarian-involved Bosnia Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire, to Dimitrije and Angela Jevđević ("née" Kosorić). Jevđević's dad was a Serbian Orthodox minister, and the family was of Montenegrin Serb starting point. Jevđević was brought up in the Christian confidence and went to auxiliary school in Sarajevo. There, he joined the progressive association known as Young Bosnia and turned into a companion of Gavrilo Princip, the professional killer who executed Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria on 28 June 1914. The day of the death, Jevđević's dad was captured by the Austro-Hungarian police for his associations with the Serb progressive association "Narodna Odbrana" (National Defense). He was accused of high treachery, condemned to death by hanging in April 1916 and executed in Banja Luka. 

Jevđević was a fruitful author and writer in his childhood. He considered law at the colleges of Zagreb, Belgrade, and Vienna and spoke Serbian, Italian, German and French. Jevđević's political vocation started in 1918. Amid the interwar period, he was a standout amongst the most compelling Serb government officials in Bosnia. He was an individual from the Chetnik Association, a forcefully Serb-bullhead political development of more than 500,000 individuals driven by Kosta Pećanac. He was likewise one of the pioneers of the Independent Democratic Party of Yugoslavia and headed the development's military wing, the Organization of Yugoslav Nationalists, which threatened those Serbs in Bosnia, Herzegovina and Croatia who would not join the gathering. Jevđević later turned into a parliamentary hopeful of the resistance Yugoslav National Party in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. He was chosen to the Yugoslav Parliament a sum of multiple times, speaking to the locale of Rogatica then Novi Sad, and was a restriction chief amid King Alexander's autocracy of 1929– 34. His propensity to coordinate with different Yugoslav political groups earned him the notoriety of "being happy to pitch himself to any political gathering as an end-result of individual favors or headway". In 1935, he was designated as the Yugoslav government's purposeful publicity boss by Prime Minister Bogoljub Jevtić. Jevđević affirmed of the making of the Banovina of Croatia in 1939 and supported a huge Serb partner that would incorporate a large portion of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This promotion attracted him near the different Chetnik affiliations that existed amid the interwar period. In 1941, his cousin, Colonel Dušan Radović, left Yugoslavia and joined the Royal Air Force. 

Jevđević fled to Budva on the Montenegrin coast following the Axis attack of Yugoslavia in April 1941. That month, the Germans and Italians made a manikin state known as the Independent State of Croatia (; NDH), which actualized destructive approaches against Serbs, Jews and Romanis. The Serb populace started to oppose, and Jevđević turned into a conspicuous pioneer of the Chetnik uprising against NDH experts in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1941. 

He was known for his genius Italian feelings before the war, and Chetnik pioneer Draža Mihailović tongue in cheek depicted him as "an Italian who likes Serbs". Jevđević and pre-war Chetnik pioneer Ilija Trifunović-Birčanin tried to work with the Italians in the conviction that an Italian control of both Bosnia and Herzegovina would constrain the capacity of the NDH to complete its enemy of Serb arrangements. Jevđević purportedly trusted that the Italians would permit the development of a Serbian province of Bosnia and Herzegovina under their assurance, however they were increasingly keen on acquiring the down to earth help of his Chetniks in battling the Partisans than helping him accomplish his political points. In the late spring of 1941, Jevđević built up connections with the Italians, advancing Trifunović-Birčanin and himself as non military personnel delegates for the eastern Bosnian Chetniks of Jezdimir Dangić. 

On 20 October 1941, Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin met and consented to team up with the leader of the data division of the Italian VI Corps. In late January 1942, Jevđević offered to help the Italians in the event that they involved Bosnia, and to compose Chetnik separations to work close by Italian units in their battle against the socialist drove Partisans. These contacts included General Renzo Dalmazzo, administrator of the Italian VI Corps, and Chetnik pioneers Stevo Rađenović, Trifunović-Birčanin, Dangić and Jevđević. In February, Jevđević counseled with one of Dangić's supporters, Boško Todorović, who educated him to consult with the new administrator of the Italian Second Army, Mario Roatta, to organize the withdrawal of NDH and German troops from eastern Bosnia, to be supplanted by a solely Italian organization. Both Jevđević and Todorović inspired Dalmazzo with the impact they had the capacity to apply over the eastern Bosnian Chetniks, yet Todorović was executed by the Partisans in Herzegovina in late February. The impact Jevđević had was shown when Serb patriot equipped gatherings in the Goražde and Foča regions swung over to an enemy of Partisan and master Italian mentality when they were educated of Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin's ties with VI Corps home office. The designs for Italian venture into eastern Bosnia were later talked about among Jevđević and NDH State Secretary Vjekoslav Vrančić. 

Dalmazzo asked Roatta to extend Italian connections with Serb patriot bunches into a union with them. Right now, the Italians were searching for partners to reestablish request, battle the Partisans, and bolster their political cases to NDH domain, and were under the feeling that the different Serb patriot bunches were much better composed than they really were. For instance, Roatta was under the feeling that Jevđević spoke to the Herzegovinian Chetniks, and that they were lined up with Dangić. Toward the beginning of March, Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin all of a sudden told the Italians that they were successfully responsible for a Chetnik development, and were prepared to work together with the Italians on the last's terms. Jevđević made an impression on Dalmazzo clarifying that the Herzegovinian Chetniks needed to retaliate for Todorović and were focusing around Nevesinje prepared to show their steadfastness to the Italians. Regardless of their announcements, Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin confronted critical challenges; the Serb patriot bunches presently couldn't seem to exhibit their military incentive to the Italians, and not the majority of the equipped gatherings even recognized their initiative. 

In the spring and summer of 1942, Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin consistently visited towns in the Goražde, Kalinovik and Foča regions, empowering the neighborhood regular folks and Chetnik separations to act dependably towards the Italians. The Italians were unfit to increase German help for their arrangement to utilize Chetnik bunches as assistants amid the joint Italian-German enemy of Partisan Operation Trio in April– May. In May, Jevđević met with German knowledge officers in Dubrovnik and was asked whether he would collaborate in the placation of Bosnia. Mihailović knew about and approved the collaborationist courses of action went into by Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin. Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin as often as possible met with Chetnik authority Momčilo Đujić in Split, and the three men squabbled about how to isolate the money related help they were getting from the Italians. 

In an inward Chetnik report of June 1942, Jevđević asserted that the Partisan ordinary units contained many "Jews, Gypsies and Muslims". In July 1942, he issued a declaration to the "Serbs of eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina" guaranteeing that: 

Jevđević accused the Partisans of having "devastated Serb holy places and set up mosques, synagogues and Catholic sanctuaries". In mid-1942, the Chetniks ended up mindful that the Italians were intending to a great extent pull back from huge pieces of the NDH that they had been possessing in power up to that time. Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin advised the Italians that in light of this, Mihailović was thinking about clearing Serb regular folks from Herzegovina to Montenegro and moving Montenegrin Chetniks north to meet the Ustaše, who were required to release another influx of savagery on Serb regular people. Over 22– 23 July 1942, Mihailović led a gathering with Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin in Avtovac, Herzegovina. On the second day of the meeting, Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin ventured out to adjacent Trebinje where they met with Herzegovinian Chetnik pioneers Radmilo Grđić and Milan Šantić. The German office in Sarajevo revealed that this gathering set up a definitive objectives and prompt technique of the Herzegovinian Chetniks as: 

Under the protection of the Italians, the Chetniks completely ethnically purged eastern Herzegovina of its Croats and Muslims in July and August 1942. In light of a slaughter of non-Serbs in Foča in August, Jevđević issued a declaration to the Muslims in eastern Herzegovina requesting that they join the Chetniks in their battle against the Ustaše. He expressed: "I for one trust that in a future express the Muslims have no other decision yet to at last and certainly acknowledge Serb nationality and revoke their theoretical moving between the Serb and Croat countries, most importantly in light of the fact that every one of the grounds in which the Muslims live will undeniably and sacredly progressed toward becoming piece of the Serb state substance." That month, Roatta reached Jevđević and "legitimized" 3,000 of his Chetniks, formally approving them to work in eastern Herzegovina. 

In the pre-winter of 1942, Jevđević adopted a profoundly unexpected strategy in comparison to other Chetnik pioneers and talked for teaming up with the Muslims to shape Muslim Chetnik units in the battle against the Ustaše and the Partisans. He supported such resistance in regions where the Muslims were ensured by the Germans, and thought of it as a strategic need while focusing on that "there can be no obvious solidarity with them". In late September or early October 1942, Jevđević and Chetnik authority Petar Baćović held converses with Muslim pioneer Ismet Popovac and consented to frame a Muslim Chetnik association. Jevđević then encouraged the Italian military to involve all of Bosnia and Herzegovina so as to end Ustaše rule and guaranteed the help of 80 percent of the populace, comprising of Serbs and Muslims. In the meantime, he mentioned that the Germans concede self-rule to Bosnia and Herzegovina until the finish of the war, refering to that the Muslims were "tried companions of the Germans both in the prior and in the present period". Despite the fact that Jevđević endeavored to enlist Muslims while utilizing the Bosnian want for self-governance to help his partnership with the possessing Axis powers, nothing created from these solicitations. 

Towards the finish of August 1942, Mihailović issued mandates to Chetnik units, incorporating those working in the NDH, for example, Jevđević's powers, requesting them to get ready for a huge scale hostile to Partisan activity close by Italian and NDH troops. In September 1942, mindful that they were unfit to vanquish the Partisans alone, the Chetniks attempted to induce the Italians to embrace a substantial activity against the Partisans in western Bosnia. Trifunović-Birčanin met with Roatta on 10 and 21 September and encouraged him to embrace this activity at the earliest opportunity to clear the Partisans from the Prozor– Livno zone and offered 7,500 Chetniks as help on the condition they be given the essential arms and supplies. He was fruitful in acquiring a few arms and guarantees of activity. The proposed activity, looked with restriction from Ustaše pioneer Ante Pavelić and a mindful Italian central leadership, was almost dropped, yet after Jevđević and Trifunović-Birčanin guaranteed to collaborate with Croat and Muslim enemy of Partisan units, it proceeded, with less Chetnik contribution. 

Toward the beginning of October 1942, Jevđević and Baćović, with 3,000 Chetniks from Herzegovina and southeast Bosnia, took an interest in the Italian-drove Operation Alfa. This included a two dimensional push towards the town of Prozor. German and NDH troops drove from the north, and Italian and Chetnik powers pushed from the Neretva River. Prozor and some littler towns were caught by the joined Italian– Chetnik compel. Individual Chetnik groups, following up on their own, continued to consume various Muslim and Catholic towns, and executed somewhere in the range of 543 and 2,500 non-Serbs in the Prozor territory. Their conduct maddened the NDH government and the Italians needed to arrange the Chetniks to pull back. Some were released by and large while others were sent to northern Dalmatia to help Đujić's powers. A month after the slaughter, Jevđević and Baćović composed a self-basic report on Prozor to Mihailović, planning to separate themselves from the activities of the troops. 

In a gathering with Roatta in November 1942, Jevđević acquired Italian consent to "sanction" another 3,000 Chetniks and acknowledgment of practically all of eastern Herzegovina as a "Chetnik zone". Consequently, the Chetniks needed to guarantee not to assault Muslim and Croat regular folks and consented to having an Italian contact officer inserted in the entirety of their developments of regiment quality or more. On 15 November 1942, Jevđević consented to help the Italian choice to begin outfitting Muslim enemy of Partisan gatherings. This help nearly cost him his life when a few Chetniks, who firmly restricted the equipping of Croat and Muslim enemy of Partisan gatherings by the Italians, visited Mostar with the expectation of killing him. 

Before the finish of 1942, Chetnik– Italian coordinated effort was standard. Chetnik powers were incorporated into the Italian getting ready for Case White, a noteworthy Axis against Partisan hostile which was to be propelled on 20 January 1943. On 3 January, Jevđević partook in an Axis arranging gathering for Case White in Rome, alongside senior German, Italian and NDH administrators. The plans incorporated the 12,000 Chetniks under Jevđević's order, and on 23 February 1943 he finished up a concurrence with the Germans that they would not cross the Neretva River and that contact among German and Chetnik troops would be kept away from. Right off the bat in the activity, Jevđević closed an understanding for collaboration with the administrator of NDH troops in Mostar. Later in the task Jevđević mentioned, through the Italians, the help of the seventh SS Volunteer Mountain Division Prinz Eugen in guarding Nevesinje, which confronted serious weight from Partisan powers that had gotten through the Chetnik lines at the Battle of the Neretva River. In spite of the fact that the Italians likewise made this solicitation themselves, the Germans declined, expressing that the division was saved for different assignments. 

After the demise of Trifunović-Birčanin in February 1943, Jevđević, alongside Đujić, Baćović, and Radovan Ivanišević, promised to the Italians to carry on Trifunović-Birčanin's approaches of intently teaming up with them against the Partisans. The Italians had the capacity to apply weight on Jevđević, as his sibling and life partner were interned in Italy. Mihailović obviously felt that Jevđević had surpassed his position by going to the Case White arranging gathering in Rome, and without a doubt, when the Yugoslav government in a state of banishment granted Jevđević the Order of Karađorđe's Star in mid 1943 for his administrations to the Serb populace amid the Ustaše slaughters of 1941, Mihailović smothered the declaration of the honor on account of the idea of Jevđević's concurrence with the Italians, despite the fact that the reason may likewise have been on the grounds that he knew about Chetnik vengeance killings of Herzegovinian Catholics and Muslims because of barbarities submitted by the Ustaše in Croatia. Strains among Mihailović and Jevđević turned out to be apparent to the point that Mihailović supposedly took steps to "string [him] up from the closest tree". In March, Jevđević freely requested a conclusion to the Chetnik murdering of Croats in Herzegovina. In May, Benito Mussolini at last surrendered to German weight and requested Italian troops to co-work in the incapacitating of Chetnik gatherings. Jevđević was promptly put under house capture. 

His home capture did not keep going long, as in the next month, Mihailović sent Jevđević to Slovenia to give an account of the province of Chetnik powers there. Jevđević started creating contacts with the Germans preceding the Italian capitulation in September 1943. On 3 September, he headed out to Rome by means of Rijeka and reached German knowledge administrations. This denoted the start of his joint effort with the Germans. Following the German control of NDH region that had recently been held by the Italians, Jevđević moved to Trieste and remained at the Hotel Continental. There, he sorted out uprooted Chetniks and organized them to be come back to the town of Opatija. He remained in Trieste until January 1944, when he migrated to Opatija with Chetniks from Trieste who had been put under his order. He at that point moved his Chetniks to Ilirska Bistrica, and worked together with the Germans until the finish of the war. 

In December 1944, Jevđević's 3,000 outstanding warriors joined Đujić's Chetniks, Dimitrije Ljotić's Serbian Volunteer Corps, and the remainders of Milan Nedić's Serbian Shock Corps, which were under the order of "SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Waffen-SS" (SS General) Odilo Globocnik, the Higher SS and Police Leader of the Adriatic Littoral. Notwithstanding this, they endeavored to contact the western Allies in Italy with an end goal to verify remote guide for a proposed enemy of socialist hostile to reestablish royalist Yugoslavia. They were altogether honored by Serbian Orthodox priest Nikolaj Velimirović upon his landing in Slovenia. On 11 April 1945, a unit of Jevđević's Chetniks, alongside three regiments of the Serbian Volunteer Corps, walked into south-western Croatia with the point of connecting up with the Montenegrin Volunteer Corps of Pavle Đurišić, which was walking crosswise over Bosnia trying to achieve Slovenia. The aid venture came past the point of no return, in light of the fact that the Montenegrin Volunteer Corps had just been vanquished by NDH powers at the Battle of Lijevče Field close Banja Luka, after which Đurišić was caught and murdered. The alleviation drive at that point walked north to Slovenia, where it battled the Partisans before withdrawing into Austria. These Chetniks were thusly caught by the Allies and repatriated to Yugoslavia, where they were summarily executed by the Partisans. Jevđević remained very compelling among the Chetniks until the finish of the war. 

In the spring of 1945, Jevđević fled to Italy, where he was captured by Allied powers and kept at a camp in Grottaglie. An expected 10,000 Chetniks purportedly tailed him and Đujić into the nation. Jevđević was interned in Grottaglie for quite a while alongside others, including the previous Ustaše chief for Banja Luka, Viktor Gutić. Amid this time, a prosecution was issued against him in Sarajevo. It charged that under his direction in "the main portion of October 1942 in and around Prozor [the Italians and Chetniks] butchered and murdered 1,716 people of both genders, of the Croatian and Muslim countries, and ravaged and consumed around 500 families". Jevđević got significant Allied help in Italy in spite of being needed by British experts regarding these claims. On paper, the Chetniks in Italy were recorded as "surrendered foe work force", however were to a great extent seen with compassion by the Allies, who thought about them hostile to German. Henceforth, numerous Chetnik detainees were given British Army outfits and given non-soldier obligations all through Italy, for example, guarding weapons and supplies. In August 1945, Jevđević turned into the administrator of a camp for incapacitated Chetniks in Cesena. He was in the end set free and Yugoslavia's solicitations for removal were disregarded. 

As per the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Jevđević lived in Rome under the assumed names "Giovanni St. Angelo" and "Enrico Serrao". He invested the majority of his energy and cash quarreling with émigré Yugoslav legislators, attempting to demonstrate that his joint effort with the Italians was fundamental so as to secure the number of inhabitants in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Partisans and Germans. He turned into an individual from the Association of Free Journalists of Central-Eastern Europe, and filled in as a source for the Italian knowledge benefits somewhere in the range of 1946 and 1947. Amid this period, he distributed a secret periodical called the "Regal Yugoslav Intelligence Bulletin" which he imparted to the Italians. Jevđević additionally added to various papers, including the Serb patriot "Srbobran". In 1946, he helped structure the Serbian National Committee in Rome and, with assistance from Achille Marazza, distributed a skillet Serb and hostile to Croat paper, "Srpske Novine", in Eboli. He additionally settled contacts with Italian neo-extremist gatherings and with an enemy of socialist gathering called the Committee of Nations Oppressed by Russia. 

Difference over who might lead the 10,000 Chetnik banishes in Italy swelled into a quarrel between Jevđević, Đujić and General Miodrag Damjanović in mid-1947. Damjanović had been selected by Mihailović in March 1945 to lead the Chetniks into northwestern Italy. Jevđević and Đujić would not acknowledge this and guaranteed that they were Mihailović's solitary successors as pioneers of the Chetnik development. 

By 1949, the CIA guaranteed that Jevđević's insight material was being utilized by the Italian Ministry of Interior, the United States Counterintelligence Corps, British Forensic Science Service in Trieste, and French knowledge benefits in Rome and Paris. His insight journalists included Đujić, who scattered his knowledge reports to the CIA, Konstantin Fotić, the previous Yugoslav represetative to the United States, and Miro Didek, Croat government official Vladko Maček's so called insight delegate in Rome. The insight reports were for the most part gathered from exiles escaping Yugoslavia and touching base in Italy through Trieste and from émigré bunches in Italy and Greece. By 1949, Jevđević professed to have framed an expansive system of hostile to socialist proselytizers in Italy and insight accumulation focuses in Albania, Bulgaria and Greece. The CIA trusted that these cases were misrepresented, if not so much imaginary. In 1951, Jevđević started printing an enemy of socialist, professional Chetnik distribution from a unidentified religious establishment in Italy. Issues were routinely sent to Yugoslav outcasts and previous Chetniks living in the United States, Canada, Australia and different European nations. 

In May and June 1952, Jevđević visited Canada and tended to the Congress of the Serbian National Defense ("Srpska Narodna Odbrana") in Niagara Falls in regards to improvements inside Italy's Serb émigré network. The next year, he and Đujić issued an announcement in Chicago proclaiming their aim to arrange Chetnik bunches against Damjanović, who had since emigrated to Germany. Jevđević later gotten undermining letters cautioning him not to proceed with such an arrangement inspired by a paranoid fear of separating the Yugoslav diaspora. Little is known about his exercises after 1953. He kept on living in Rome until his demise in October 1962.