LSWR N15 class 

The LSWR N15 class was a British 2– barrel 4-6-0 express traveler steam train structured by Robert W. Urie. The class has a perplexing form history spreading over three sub-classes and eight years of development from 1919 to 1926. The primary cluster of the class was developed for the London and South Western Railway (LSWR), where they pulled overwhelming express trains toward the south coast ports and further west to Exeter. After the Lord Nelsons they were the second greatest express traveler trains in the Southern Railway. 

Following the gathering of railroad organizations in 1923, the LSWR turned out to be a piece of the Southern Railway (SR) and its attention office gave the N15 locomotives names related with Arthurian legend; the class consequently getting to be known as King Arthurs. The Chief Mechanical Engineer (CME) of the recently framed organization, Richard Maunsell, altered the Urie trains in the light of operational experience and expanded the class solidarity to 74 trains. Maunsell and his Chief Draftsman James Clayton consolidated a few upgrades, prominently to the steam circuit and valve gear. 

The new trains were worked more than a few groups at Eastleigh and Glasgow, prompting the epithets of "Eastleigh Arthurs" and "Scotch Arthurs" in administration. The class was exposed to smoke redirection tests in 1926, turning into the principal British class of steam train to be fitted with smoke diverters. Maunsell's successor, Oliver Bulleid, endeavored to improve execution by adjusting exhaust game plans. The trains kept working with British Railways (BR) until the finish of 1962. One model, 30777 "Sir Lamiel", is protected as a major aspect of the National Collection and can be seen on mainline railtours. 

Robert Urie finished his H15 class blended traffic 4-6-0 plan in 1913 and the model was worked in August 1914. It demonstrated a checked improvement in execution over Dugald Drummond's LSWR T14 class 4-6-0 when tried on nearby and express traveler trains. The presentation of ten H15 motors into administration matched with the flare-up of the First World War, which avoided development of further class individuals. In spite of the intrusion brought about by the contention, Urie foreseen that peacetime increments in traveler traffic would require longer trains from London toward the south-west of England. Traveler loadings on the substantial pontoon trains to the London and South Western Railway's (LSWR) ports of Portsmouth, Weymouth and Southampton had been expanding preceding the war, and was starting to beat the capacities of the LSWR's traveler train armada. His reaction was to deliver a cutting edge, standard express traveler structure like the H15. 

Preliminaries embraced in 1914 with the H15 class model had shown to Urie that the essential plan demonstrated extensive speed potential on the Western area of the LSWR from Basingstoke westwards, and could shape the premise of an incredible new class of 4-6-0 express traveler train with bigger driving wheels. The LSWR required such a train, which would need to adapt to expanding train stacks on this long and burdensome course toward the West Country. The outcome was the N15 class configuration, finished by Urie in 1917. It joined highlights from the H15 class, including eight-wheel twofold bogie tenders with outside plate outlines over the haggles Walschaerts valve gear. High running plates along the evaporator were held for simplicity of oiling and support. 

In spite of the similitudes, the N15 class spoke to a refinement of the H15 layout. The barrels were expanded in size to in distance across, the biggest utilized on a British steam train around then. The generous heater configuration was additionally not the same as the parallel variant utilized on the H15, and turned into the main decreased sorts to be built at Eastleigh Works. In opposition to evaporator development rehearses somewhere else where decreasing started close to the firebox, it was confined to the front end of the N15's barrel to diminish the width of the smokebox, and therefore the weight conveyed by the front bogie. The plan additionally highlighted Urie's structure of tight breadth "stovepipe" smokestack, a vast vault spread over the evaporator, and his "Eastleigh" superheater. 

The N15 configuration was affirmed by the LSWR the board council, however the request for development was delayed until wartime control of crude materials was loose. Government endorsement was acquired in mid– 1918, and Eastleigh Works started to deliver the LSWR's first new train class since 1914. The principal trains, later referred to by crew members as the "Urie N15s", were worked in two ten-motor groups by the LSWR's Eastleigh Works between 1918– 19 and 1922– 23. Of the primary bunch, the model, No. 736 entered administration on 31 August 1918, with four all the more showing up between September 1918 and April 1919. They shared a comparative profile to Urie's H15 class with the utilization of level sided Drummond-style taxis with delicately bending rooftops. The twofold bogie tenders were apparently comparable in appearance to those utilized on the H15s, albeit fortified amid development with additional inner propping to hold of water. 

A lack of copper postponed fulfillment of Nos. 741– 745, and the remainder of the cluster rose up out of Eastleigh in November 1919. After the running-in of Nos. 736– 745 and a heightening of the LSWR timetable toward the West Country, a second clump of ten was requested in October 1921. They entered administration over the period June 1922– March 1923, and were numbered in the arrangement 746– 755. 

At "Gathering" in January 1923, the LSWR turned out to be a piece of the new Southern Railway, whose Chief Mechanical Engineer was Richard Maunsell. Maunsell wanted to present his very own structures of express traveler train, one of which was to turn into the future Lord Nelson class. In spite of this, there was a momentary need to keep up existing administrations that required change and extension of Urie's N15 plan. 

Maunsell's anticipated structure of express traveler train was not prepared for presentation amid the late spring timetable of 1925, so a third group of ten N15s was requested for development at Eastleigh. This bunch was a piece of an exceptional LSWR request to revamp 15 of Drummond's ineffective 4-chamber F13, G14 and P14 classes 4-6-0s into 2– barrel H15 class trains. Just the five F13s were changed over to H15s; the staying ten G14 and P14s (Nos. 448– 457, renumbered E448– E457) were revamped as N15s, executing alterations to Urie's unique structure. 

The adjustments are credited to Maunsell's Chief Draftsman James Clayton, who had exchanged to Ashford railroad works in 1914 from Derby works. They were the consequence of participation between the South Eastern and Chatham Railway (SECR) and the Great Western Railway (GWR) when Maunsell was favored to the Railway Executive Committee amid the First World War. The point was to make a progression of standard cargo and traveler trains for use all through Britain, and implied that Clayton was aware of the most recent GWR advancements in steam plan. These included streamlined steam entries, long-travel valves, the expansion of intensity through decreased barrel sizes and higher evaporator weight. 

Maunsell started preliminaries with Urie N15 No. 442 in 1924, and demonstrated that better execution could be gotten by adjusting the steam circuit, valve travel and draughting plans. Subsequently, Clayton diminished the N15 barrel breadth to and supplanted the wellbeing valves with Ross pop valves set to evaporator weight. The Urie kettle was held, however the Eastleigh superheater was supplanted by a Maunsell type with 10 percent more noteworthy superheating surface region. This was enhanced by a bigger steam chest and an expanded distance across smokestack throwing exceptionally intended for the reconstructs. It joined an edge and capuchon to control exhaust stream into the environment. Valve occasions (the planning of valve developments with the cylinder) were likewise reexamined to advance effective steam utilization and the wheels were re-adjusted to lessen hammerblow. 

When revamping was finished, just the numbers, smokebox entryways with focus fixing handles and the level sided taxis survived from the G14 and P14 classes. The remakes held their particular Drummond "watercart" tenders, which were adjusted with the evacuation of the unpredictable injector feedwater warming hardware. The "watercart" tenders were of water and coal limit. The ten reconstructs turned into the principal individuals from the King Arthur class after entering administration. 

As the Drummond G14 and P14 4-6-0s were reconstructed to the N15 determination at Eastleigh, an absence of generation limit because of fix and redesign implied that Maunsell requested a further bunch of 20 trains from the North British Locomotive Company in 1924. The organization had under-cited to pick up the agreement, which implied that creation of the group was surged. The need to keep up an escalated timetable on the Southern Railway's Western area incited an expansion of the request to 30 trains (Nos. E763– E792). Their development in Glasgow would pick up them the "Scotch Arthurs" epithet in administration. They were altogether conveyed toward the Southern Railway by October 1925, and included the front-end refinements utilized on the Drummond reconstructs. 

The North British bunch was worked toward the Southern's new composite stacking measure and contrasted from past clusters in having an Ashford-style taxi dependent on that utilized on the N class. Not at all like the Drummond taxi held by Nos. 448– 457 and E741– E755, the Ashford taxi was of an all-steel development and had a rooftop that was flush with the taxi sides, enabling it to be utilized on measure limited courses in the east of the system. It was motivated by the standard taxi created in 1904 by R. M. Deeley for the Midland Railway, and was one of various Midland highlights acquainted by Clayton with the SECR and in this way the Southern Railway. The smokebox entryway was reconsidered to the Ashford design, which precluded the utilization of focal fixing handles for clips around the boundary. The bunch was fitted with the Urie-structured, North British-manufactured limit twofold bogie tenders. 

With the "Scotch Arthurs" in administration, the Southern Railway had a plentiful armada of express traveler trains for its Western segment courses. As a feature of a procedure of armada institutionalization, the Operating Department communicated a craving supplant out of date trains on the Eastern and Central areas with the King Arthur class. In May 1925, a cluster of 25 trains (Nos. E793– E817) in view of the Scotch Arthurs was requested for development at Eastleigh with littler firebox grinds and improved water warming surfaces. After the initial 14 (Nos. E793– E806) were assembled, it was chosen to cease development for Maunsell's new 4-barrel Lord Nelson class plan in June 1926. 

The Operating Department expected to furnish Nos. E793– E807 with six-wheel, limit tenders for use on the previous SECR lines of the Eastern segment. These were to supplant Scotch Arthurs Nos. E763– E772 on pontoon train obligations. This was on the grounds that the tenders appended to Nos. E763– E772 were more qualified to the more extended courses of the Western area. The last ten motors (Nos. E808– E817) were for the previous LBSCR courses of the Central segment, where short turntables limited delicate size to the Ashford assortment utilized on the N class. After the request was changed to the Lord Nelson class plan, 14 N class tenders were fitted to Nos. E793– E806 for utilize the Central area. The high draw-gear (the connection among train and delicate) of the N class tenders required adjustment to the edges underneath the taxi. 

At the point when the previous Drummond G14 and P14 4-6-0s were remade to Maunsell's N15 determination in February 1925, the Southern Railway chose to offer names to all express traveler trains. In light of the railroad's relationship with the West of England, the Public Relations Officer, John Elliot proposed that individuals from the N15 class ought to be named after characters and places related with the legend of King Arthur. At the point when Maunsell was recounted the choice to name the trains, he answered: "Reveal to Sir Herbert [Walker] I have no protest, however I caution you, it won't have any effect to the working of the motors". Walker was the General Manager of the Southern Railway, who had disclosed to Elliot that Maunsell's consent was required. The first G14 to be reconstructed, No. E453, was given the primary name and dedicated "Lord Arthur". The Urie trains (up to this point alluded as N15s as opposed to King Arthurs) were likewise given names associated with Arthurian legend and were alluded to as "Urie Arthurs"; the Maunsell clumps of N15s were nicknamed the "Eastleigh" and "Scotch Arthurs". 

The N15 class was expected to pull overwhelming communicates over the long LSWR mainlines between Waterloo, Weymouth, Exeter and Plymouth. Trains were changed at before the redesigning of the South Western Mainline in 1922, when quick going through to Exeter was conceivable. The Southern Railway's thought process control re-association following the Grouping of 1923 saw the class designated to sheds over the system and utilized on to crosscountry trains. Activities were extended to increasingly limited Central and Eastern segment mainlines in 1925, and reasonably adjusted class individuals pulled worker and substantial vessel trains from to and communicates to . In 1931, No. E780 "Sir Persant" pulled the debut "Bournemouth Belle" Pullman train from Waterloo to . 

In peacetime, the class was once in a while utilized on quick cargo from Southampton Docks, in spite of the fact that it was normal to see them at the head of cargo and troop trains amid the Second World War. Ten "Urie Arthurs" were exchanged to the London and North Eastern Railway (LNER) in October 1942, and were based at Heaton shed for use on cargo and intermittent traveler prepares in the north east and southern Scotland. They came back toward the Southern Railway in July 1943 after the presentation of United States Army Transportation Corps S160 class 2-8-0s into administration. From 1945 the King Arthur class normally nominated for Bulleid's new Pacifics, which were encountering poor workableness because of mechanical disappointments. The whole class came into British Railways possession in 1948: they could be found in many zones of the Southern Region on medium-length communicates and halting trains on the ex-LSWR mainline. 

In 1926 the N15 class turned into the first in Britain outfitted with smoke diverters, with a few structures tried. Trials were embraced all through 1926 and incorporated the fitting of a bended plate over the smokebox of No. E753 "Melisande" to channel air from underneath the fireplace to lift the fumes over the train when moving. Nos. E450 "Sir Kay" and E753 "Sir Gillemere" had air scoops appended to the fireplace, while E772 "Sir Percivale" was fitted with substantial, square German-type smoke diverters. At last, No. E453 "Ruler Arthur" was fitted with little, rectangular smoke diverters fitted to the handrails on the smokebox sides. The trials created blended outcomes, and Maunsell mentioned the help of the University of London in organizing wind burrow tests . These brought about a standard plate configuration (outlined in the infobox), which was continuously fitted to the class from late 1927 onwards. 

Under LSWR possession, the N15s were at first generally welcomed by groups, however the clump before long picked up a notoriety for poor steaming on long runs. Through running of the class into Exeter was halted for motor changes at Salisbury, and Urie credited the issue to poor driving method. A progression of preliminary runs changed this suspicion, and showed that steam weight progressively diminished on the level. The preliminaries likewise uncovered that the vigorous development of the movement created the heaviest hammerblow of any British train class, and had caused split edges on the test train. 

Another analysis from train teams concerned the uncovered taxi in terrible climate, which required the establishment of a covering sheet over the back of the taxi and the front of the delicate, confining rearward vision. The 1921 Coal Miners' strike implied that two class individuals (Nos. 737 and 739) were changed over to oil-consuming. One of the changed trains in this manner burst into flames at Salisbury shed, and both were returned to coal terminating before the year's over. At the point when the LSWR was amalgamated into the Southern Railway in 1923, Urie had done little to cure the inadequacies of the N15s, and it tumbled to his successor to improve the class. 

At the point when Maunsell acquired the plan as CME of the Southern Railway, he started preliminaries utilizing the weakest N15 (No. 442) in 1924. The outcomes demonstrated that better execution could be gotten by modifying the steam circuit, valve travel and draughting plans, in spite of the fact that the initial two suggestions were regarded unreasonably expensive for prompt usage by the Locomotive Committee. Eight additional King Arthur-type boilers were requested from North British and fitted to N15s Nos. 737– 742 by December 1925 out of a push to improve steaming. The remaining Urie boilers were fitted with standard Ross pop wellbeing valves to ease support. Maunsell additionally tended to draughting issues brought about by the tight Urie "stovepipe" fireplace. The fumes plans were altered on No. 737 utilizing the King Arthur smokestack structure and decreased distance across blastpipes. This demonstrated effective, and all "Urie N15s" were adjusted over the period 1925– 1929. The oil-consuming hardware was refitted to Nos. 737 and 739 amid the 1926 General Strike and expelled in December of that year. 

Starting in 1928, everything except No. 755 had their barrel breadth decreased from to when reestablishments were expected, improving rate on level areas of railroad, however influencing their execution on the slopes west of Salisbury. No. 755 "The Red Knight" was adjusted in 1940 by Maunsell's successor, Oliver Bulleid with his very own structure of chambers and streamlined steam sections. This was hitched to a Lemaître different stream blastpipe and wide-breadth stack, enabling the train to deliver exhibitions similar to the more dominant Lord Nelson class. Four different N15s were so changed with four more on request, however the last were dropped because of wartime deficiencies of metal. The delicate fumes of the Lemaître numerous fly blastpipe hastened an acclimation to the smoke diverters on three changed over trains, with the tops calculated to the vertical trying to improve wind stream along the kettle cladding. This neglected to accomplish the ideal impact, and the last two altered trains held the Maunsell-style redirectors. 

The last alterations to the "Urie N15s" included the change of five trains (Nos. 740, 745, 748, 749 and 752) to oil-terminating in 1946– 1947. This was because of an administration plan to address a post-war coal deficiency. The oil tanks were created from welded steel and fitted inside the delicate coal space. After starting issues with No. 740 "Merlin" were amended, the oil-terminated trains demonstrated great entertainers on Bournemouth administrations. A further expansion to the oil-terminated trains was electric headcode and taxi lighting, which was held when the motors returned to coal-terminating in 1948. 

The improved front-end design connected to the primary bunch of "Eastleigh Arthurs" (Nos. E448– E457) guaranteed persistent quick running on level areas of track around London, in spite of the fact that their affinity for speed was now and then traded off over the sloping landscape west of Salisbury. Within orientation of the Drummond "watercart" tenders demonstrated hazardous, as they were unreasonably little for the heap conveyed and experienced water entrance. The maintenance of the tall Drummond taxi kept utilize far from the Western area of the Southern Railway. In spite of these issues, their operational dependability provoked the administration to organize the visit of No. E449 "Sir Torre" to the Darlington Railway Centenary festivals in July 1925. No. E449 likewise recorded paces of up to on the South West Mainline close in 1929. This demonstrated with the correct parts, Urie's unique plan could perform well. 

In spite of the effective utilization of altered N15 parts to revamp Nos. E448– E457, the precisely comparable "Scotch Arthurs" demonstrated disillusioning when put into administration from May 1925. The execution of those allotted toward the Eastern area was unconcerned, and neglected to enhance the twofold headed ex-SECR 4-4-0s they were to supplant. Reports of poor steaming and hot driving and delicate wheel axleboxes were normal from crew members and shed fitters. After examination, the issues were ascribed to poor workmanship amid development as the North British Locomotive Company underquoted generation expenses to pick up the agreement. Deformities were found in evaporator development over the clump, and required six substitution boilers, re-riveting, re-fitting of cylinders and substitution of firebox remains. The hot driving wheel axleboxes were brought about by the principle outlines being twisted. A 1926 report proposed that every single influenced train ought to be taken to Eastleigh for fix. Once fixed, the "Scotch Arthurs" demonstrated as competent as the remainder of the class in administration. 

"Scotch Arthurs" Nos. E763– E772 got new tenders somewhere in the range of 1928 and 1930 of every a progression of delicate trades with the Lord Nelson and LSWR S15 classes. This guaranteed they could trade their Urie bogie tenders with the Ashford plan for use on the shorter Eastern area courses. While helpful for the list assistants at Battersea shed, any exchange toward the Western area was hampered due to their shorter range. By 1937, all had returned to the Urie bogie tenders, however Nos. E768– E772 were appended to new Maunsell flush-sided tenders with brake vacuum supplies fitted behind the coal space. These were again swapped with Maunsell LSWR-style bogie tenders fitted to the Lord Nelson class. 

The second group of "Eastleigh Arthurs" dislodged the ex-K class tanks and ex-LBSCR H2 "Atlantic" 4-4-2 trains on the and courses separately. They were all around loved by teams and utilized on this piece of the system until the landing of charge. No. E782 "Sir Brian" was utilized on the previous Great Northern principle line for execution preliminaries against the SECR K and K1 class tanks following a railroad mishap at Sevenoaks, Kent in 1927. The tests were directed by the London and North Eastern Railway's CME, Sir Nigel Gresley, who remarked that the class was precarious at high speeds. The shakiness was brought about by movement hammerblow and exacerbated by anomalies in track-work. This made over the top pressure the axleboxes and poor riding qualities on the footplate. In spite of this, the class profited by a brilliant upkeep routine. 

Maunsell's substitution Oliver Bulleid trusted that there was little need to improve draughting on this arrangement. Nonetheless, reports of poor steaming with No. 792 "Sir Hervis de Revel" allowed him a chance to preliminary a Lemaître various stream blastpipe and wide-width stack on a Maunsell Arthur in 1940. This did not improve execution to the degree of No. 755 "The Red Knight". Under British Railways possession, the train was re-fitted with the Maunsell smokestack in March 1952 with no further issues revealed. In another wartime test, Bulleid fitted No. 783 "Sir Gillemere" with three slight "stovepipe" smokestacks in November 1940. These were set in a triangular arrangement to lessen perceivability of fumes from the air in light of assaults made by low-flying airplane on Southern Railway trains. The "stovepipes" were diminished to two, creating a savage fumes shoot that removed residue inside passages and under scaffolds. The test was stopped in February 1941 and the train re-fitted with a Maunsell King Arthur smokestack. The last examination was with sparkle capturing hardware in light of lineside fires brought about by low quality coal. Nos. 784 "Sir Nerovens" and 788 "Sir Urre of the Mount" were fitted with new wide-distance across smokestacks in late 1947. Test-trains indicated blended outcomes and the preliminaries were halted in 1951 after upgrades in coal quality and the fitting of inside smokebox sparkle arrestors. 

The detail varieties over the class implied the "Urie N15s" were set into store over the winters of 1949 and 1952. The Maunsell King Arthur models were simpler to keep up, and the substantial number of current Bulleid Pacific and British Railways Standard classes had the capacity to embrace comparative obligations. The "Urie N15s" were brought into administration amid the mid year months, despite the fact that their weakening condition was shown when No. 30754 "The Green Knight" was pulled back with broke casings in 1953. The moderate running-down of the "Urie N15s" proceeded between 1955– 1957, and a few were put away before withdrawal. The last three were pulled back from Basingstoke shed, with No. 30738 "Ruler Pellinore" the last guide to stop task in March 1958. All were separated for scrap, however their names were given to 20 BR Standard class 5 trains distributed toward the Southern Region between 1959– 1962. 

The Maunsell King Arthur class additionally confronted a lessening in appropriate work on the Central and Eastern areas following the presentation of BR Standard class 5 and BR Standard class 4-6-0s of every 1955. The slow withdrawal of the "Urie N15s", H15s and SR N15x classes introduced a chance to supplant the maturing Drummond "watercart" tenders fitted to Nos. 448– 457 with Urie bogie tenders. This agreed with a 1958 program to comparatively change the Ashford tenders fitted to eight of the second clump "Eastleigh Arthurs". The class stayed unblemished until the fulfillment of the Eastern area zap when 17 were made repetitive in 1959. More withdrawals occurred in 1960 when an expansion in Bulleid Pacifics dispensed toward the Western area decreased accessible work. The positions diminished to 12 out of 1961, and further withdrawals decreased the class to one, No. 30770 "Sir Prianius". The class outlived the more up to date – however less various – Lord Nelson class by one month when No. 30770 was pulled back from Basingstoke Shed in November 1962. 

Under LSWR possession, the "Urie N15s" were painted in Urie's LSWR sage green uniform for traveler trains. This was particular from Drummond's savvy green since it was increasingly olive in shading, and yellowed with cleaning and enduring. High contrast lining designed the kettle groups and outskirts of the wise green boards. The lettering was in overlaid: the initials "LSWR" situated in favor of the delicate, the train number on the cabside. 

The main Southern uniform proceeded with that of the LSWR, however with primrose yellow exchanges appearing and the train number, put on the delicate. The covering isolating the dark outskirt on delicate and taxi side boards was changed to yellow. Primrose yellow exchanges, appearing and the train number, were put on the delicate. An "E" prefix was situated over the delicate number (for example E749), meaning that the class was enlisted for support at Eastleigh works. The overlaid numerals on the cabside and delicate back were supplanted by a cast oval plate with "Southern Railway" around the edge and the number situated in the inside. Yellow numerals were painted onto the front cushion bar to ease recognizable proof. In February 1925 Maunsell built up a more profound green with high contrast lining. This was connected to his new King Arthur class trains and the "Urie N15s" were likewise painted when redesigns were expected. Wheels were olive-green with dark tires. From 1929 the "E" prefix was evacuated and the cast numerals on the delicate back were expelled and supplanted with yellow exchanges (for example 749). 

In May 1938, after Bulleid's arrangement as CME, No. 749 "Iseult" was trialed in splendid unlined light green with yellow-painted square numerals supplanting the cast numberplates. The delicate was given two structures of lettering, with "SOUTHERN" on one side and the initials "SR" on the other. The Board of Directors objected and Bulleid repainted the train in darker malachite green with highly contrasting covering (this would later be connected to his Pacifics). The legend "SOUTHERN" in square lettering stayed on the delicate, however the number was migrated to the cabside on one side and the smoke redirector on the other. Both were painted in a light "daylight yellow". No. 749 was come back to Maunsell's green uniform. 

A few varieties of the Maunsell green, Urie sage green and Bulleid malachite green attires were attempted with dark, white/dark, and yellow coating, some brandishing a green board on the smoke diverters. Be that as it may, from 1942 to 1946, amid the Second World War, individuals from the class under update were turned out in unlined-dark uniform as a wartime economy measure, with green-shaded daylight yellow lettering. The last Southern attire utilized from 1946 returned to malachite green, with yellow/dark coating, and daylight yellow lettering. A portion of the class (Nos. 782 and 800, "Sir Brian" and "Sir Persant") did not get this uniform. 

English Railways gave the class the power arrangement of 5P after nationalization in 1948. For the main 18 months the trains brandished a transitional attire: Southern Railway malachite green with "English RAILWAYS" on the delicate in daylight yellow lettering. As every individual from the class wound up due for a substantial general upgrade, they were repainted in the new standard British Railways express traveler attire of Brunswick green with orange and dark covering from April 1949. At first, the British Railways "Cycling Lion" peak was situated on the delicate, supplanted from the 1957 by the later "Ferret and Dartboard" peak. 

Numbering was at first a continuation of the Southern Railway framework, however a 'S' prefix was added to signify a pre-nationalization train, so that No. 448 would progress toward becoming No. s448. As every train wound up due for redesign and got its new attire, the numbering was changed to the British Railways standard numbering framework, in the arrangement 30448– 30457 for the initial ten and 30736– 30806 for the rest. 

After the poor steaming of the Urie cluster was tended to, the class demonstrated well known among teams, precisely solid and able to do high speeds. Nonetheless, their substantial hammerblow at speed implied that they were inclined to harsh riding and shakiness. The two Maunsell bunches with their streamlined steam entries and better draughting game plans were unrivaled in execution, and were a famous decision when Bulleid's trains were inaccessible. Their utilization of standard parts extensively facilitated support, and the fitting of various delicate and taxi sizes implied couple of operational confinements for the class on mainline courses. The class gave numerous long stretches of administration, and were noted for their capacity to "carry out the responsibility". The zap of the Eastern and Central segments and the expanding number of Bulleid Pacifics in administration implied the absence of a reasonable job for the class under British Railways possession. Despite the decrease in work, high mileages were gotten with No. 30745 "Tintagel" accomplishing in administration. 

The choice to save an individual from the class was made in November 1960. It was first planned to safeguard the King Arthur class doyen No. 453 "Ruler Arthur", and it was put away for a period after withdrawal in 1961 pending rebuilding to historical center condition. Be that as it may, it was chosen to reestablish the protected train to as-assembled condition, and the absence of a reasonable Drummond "watercart" delicate blocked this thought. No. 453 was therefore rejected and it was chosen to protect one of the North British-manufactured clump, No. 30777 "Sir Lamiel", pulled back in October 1961. "Sir Lamiel" was named after a character in Thomas Malory's "Le Morte d'Arthur", Sir Lamiel of Cardiff. This train was reestablished to Maunsell attire as No. E777, and turned out to be a piece of the National Collection. It was reestablished to the later British Railways uniform in 2003, and No. 30777 can be seen at the Great Central Railway and on the railroad organize pulling mainline railtours starting at 2010. 

Hornby Railways produce a model of the N15 in OO check.