Jonathan Agnew 

Jonathan Philip Agnew, (brought into the world 4 April 1960) is an English cricket supporter and a previous expert cricketer. He was conceived in Macclesfield, Cheshire, and taught at Uppingham School. He is nicknamed "Aggers", and, less regularly, "Spiro" – the last mentioned, as per "Debrett's Cricketers' Who", after previous US Vice President Spiro Agnew. 

Agnew had a fruitful five star vocation as a quick bowler for Leicestershire from 1979 to 1990, returning quickly in 1992. In top of the line cricket he took 666 wickets at a normal of 29.25. Agnew won three Test tops for England, just as playing three One Day Internationals in the mid-1980s, despite the fact that his whole worldwide profession endured simply under a year. In district cricket, Agnew's best seasons came around the finish of his vocation, after his last worldwide match, when he had figured out how to swing the ball. He was second-and third-driving wicket-taker in 1987 and 1988 separately, including the accomplishment of 100 wickets in a season in 1987. He was named as one of the five Cricketers of the Year by "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac" in 1988. 

While still a player, Agnew started a vocation in cricket news-casting and editorial. Since his retirement as a player, he has turned into a main voice of cricket on radio, as the BBC Radio cricket reporter and as a pundit on "Test Match Special". He has additionally contributed as an individual from Australian supporter Australian Broadcasting Corporation's "Show off" group. Agnew's on-air "leg over" remark on "Test Match Special", made to individual pundit Brian Johnston in 1991, incited laughing fits amid a live communicate and response from crosswise over England. The episode has been casted a ballot "the best donning discourse ever" in a BBC survey; Michael Henderson, one of Agnew's friends and adversaries, has depicted him as "an ace broadcaster ... the pick of the games reporters at the BBC." 

Agnew was conceived on 4 April 1960 at West Park Hospital in Macclesfield, Cheshire, to Philip and Margaret Agnew. His folks' inevitable marriage was declared in "The Times" in 1957: Philip Agnew was portrayed as "the main child of Mr and Mrs Norris M. Agnew of Dukenfield Hall, Mobberley, Cheshire" and Margaret as "most youthful little girl of Mr and Mrs A.F.V. McConnell of Hampton Hall, Worthen, Shropshire". The Agnews had a second child in June 1962 and were recorded as living at "Bainton close Stamford, Lincs"; in April 1966, a little girl, Felicity, was conceived and was declared as "a sister for Jonathan and Christopher". Agnew's fatherly grandma, Lady Mona Agnew, passed on matured 110 years and 170 days in 2010 and was on the rundown of the 100 longest-lived British individuals ever. 

Jonathan Agnew experienced childhood with the family ranch and first getting to be mindful of cricket matured "eight or nine"; his dad would bear a radio and tune in to "Test Match Special": 

"The program started an enthusiasm for me, similarly it has in so a huge number of thousands of youngsters as the years progressed, touching off an energy that endures forever." 

Driven by early happiness regarding the media inclusion of cricket, Agnew built up an affection for playing the diversion. Toward the finish of days spent watching cricket on TV in a passed out stay with the discourse given by the radio, Agnew would go into the greenery enclosure and practice his bowling for a considerable length of time, attempting to mirror the players he had seen. Agnew's dad, a beginner cricketer, showed him the basics of the game, including an offspin activity, as he needed his child to form into a bowler like him. Another family association with cricket was his first cousin, Mary Duggan, who was a ladies' Test player for England from 1948 to 1963. 

From the age of eight, Agnew boarded at Taverham Hall School close Norwich. His first cricket mentor was Eileen Ryder and, as per Agnew, following "two or three years" an expert touched base at the school: Ken Taylor, a previous batsman for Yorkshire who had played three Tests for England in the late 1950s and mid 1960s. 

Agnew went to Uppingham School for his optional training, and left in 1978 with nine O-levels and two A-levels in German and English. From the age of 16 he built up his abilities as a right-arm quick bowler out of school hours at Alf Gover's cricket school while at Surrey County Cricket Club. That mid year, he saw quick bowler Michael Holding take 14 wickets in the 1976 Oval Test coordinate, an execution of pace bowling alluded to as "destroying" by cricket essayist Norman Preston, which established a long term connection on Agnew. Over 30 years after the fact he composed of his bowling amid his schooldays: 

"For an eighteen-year-old bowler I was abnormally quick, and delighted in threatening our adversaries, be they students (8 wickets for 2 runs and 7 for 11 stick in the memory) or, even better, the educators in the yearly staff coordinate. This, I accumulate, used to be a cordial issue until I turned up, and I savored the opportunity to settle a couple of scores in the interest of my companions – for whom I was what might be compared to a contracted professional killer – just as for myself." 

He started playing for Surrey's second XI in 1977, yet Surrey made no move to sign him as a player. Leicestershire County Cricket Club did anyway observe Agnew's amazing exhibitions in nearby club cricket and for Uppingham School, for whom he took 37 wickets at a bowling normal of 8 out of 1977, and marked him while he was as yet a student in time for the 1978 season. 

On his top notch debut against Lancashire in August 1978, the 18-year-old Agnew bowled to England universal David Lloyd, an opening batsman with nine Test tops. Detailed in "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac", Lloyd "was part of the way through a forward cautious push when his off stump was despatched most of the way towards the Leicestershire wicket-manager." Agnew took one wicket in every inning of the match, and did not bat; Leicestershire won by an innings. 

Agnew won a Whitbread Brewery grant toward the finish of his presentation season, an accomplishment he attributes to the impact of his region commander, Ray Illingworth: he had taken just six top of the line wickets at a normal of 35. Illingworth was cited in "The Times" as saying that Agnew might have been "the second quickest bowler" in England in 1978, behind just Bob Willis. The honor managed him the chance to spend a winter in Australia building up his aptitudes, close by individual victors Mike Gatting, Wayne Larkins and Chris Tavaré, and to be trained by previous England quick bowler, Frank Tyson. Every one of the four proceeded to play Test cricket. On that Australia visit, Agnew played his solitary youth Test, however stood out as truly newsworthy when welcome to bowl at the visiting England group in the nets: 

"He struck the commander, Mike Brearley, a terrible blow in the face. It was, Agnew reviews, just a delicate conveyance off two paces that took off a wet fix; yet it didn't prevent the feature scholars. Such early exposure did him no favors, however when a bowler arrives who is youthful, quick and English, a peaceful settling-in period to one of the more troublesome apprenticeships in game is frequently denied him." – "Wisden" 

Agnew's 1979 season was disturbed by damage. The Editor's Notes of the 1980 "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac" announced, under the heading "Britain's Promising Youngsters", that Agnew had fortified himself over the winter by felling trees. Agnew's own record is that 1979– 80 was "the most noticeably bad winter of his life", in spite of the fact that his memory is that he spent it filling in as a lorry driver. He did, in any case, make his List A constrained overs debut in 1979, playing only once, against the Sri Lanka visiting group – his aggressive List A presentation followed in 1980, in the Benson and Hedges Cup against Scotland: he bowled only three overs (for five runs) and did not bat. 

Agnew's profession did not at first satisfy his initial guarantee. In his initial six seasons as a top of the line cricketer, his biggest pull of wickets was 31 of every 1980. The 1984 season was his leap forward year: he played 23 top of the line matches, taking 84 wickets at a normal of 28.72. Playing in the warm-up diversion against Cambridge University, he accomplished figures of 8– 47 (taking 8 wickets while surrendering 47 runs) from 20.4 overs and was incorporated into the main group for the County Championship coordinates that pursued. He conveyed that accomplishment forward into the County Championship, getting wickets for Leicestershire including a ten wicket coordinate pull against Surrey in June, and five wickets in an innings against Kent in the days paving the way to the fifth Test against West Indies. The England selectors observed and, with the West Indies driving the arrangement 4– 0, Agnew and Richard Ellison were given introductions, in an at last ineffective exertion to dodge the "blackwash". 

"Wisden" depicts how in the main innings, Agnew's precision was influenced by debutant nerves, yet an improved showcase in the second innings brought about figures of 2– 51. Agnew portrays how Ian Botham helped him secure the two wickets, getting Gordon Greenidge in the slips, and passing on some counsel on the most proficient method to expel Viv Richards, Botham's incredible companion: "Botham stated: 'Right. Try not to pitch a solitary ball up at him. Have two men back for the snare, and bowl short every ball.' This I accomplished for three overs or thereabouts, by which time Viv was looking somewhat exasperated, however was certainly on the back foot. At long last I pitched one up, the extraordinary man missed it and umpire David Constant decided that Richards was LBW for 15." "Wisden" called the pair of batsmen Agnew's "first celebrated exploited people in Test cricket". 

Britain's next match was an irregular home Test against Sri Lanka and Agnew held his place in the England group. At the time, Sri Lanka were viewed as the minnows of world cricket: this was just their twelfth Test coordinate and their first at Lord's, yet they ruled the match, taking a 121-run lead on first innings and proclaiming twice. It was a failure for England and, in a batsman-accommodating match in which the Sri Lankans piled on 785 keeps running for only 14 wickets, Agnew endured. "Wisden" portrayed England's pacemen as insufficient; Agnew's match figures were 2– 177 off 43 overs. Poor execution and muscle damage restricted him to blowing away a solitary on the most recent day; later, Agnew pondered other negative parts of this match: "I felt a total outcast, not part of the set-up. I think the inclination in the changing area was that the diversion had been somewhat of a chicken up." 

Britain visited India and Sri Lanka that winter. Agnew supplanted the harmed Paul Allott after the second Test. Be that as it may, he neglected to be chosen for a Test coordinate, with England's choice to handle two spinners (Pat Pocock and Phil Edmonds) in each Test having an influence in restricting Agnew's chances. Agnew played only one top notch coordinate on the visit, versus South Zone in Secunderabad, accomplishing match figures of seven wickets at a normal of 29, yet he played in three One Day Internationals (ODIs), two in India and one in Australia. His presentation ODI was promising, as he took 3– 38 out of a losing cause. Notwithstanding, in his staying two ODIs, he demonstrated pricey, taking no further wickets and yielding in excess of seven runs an over in each. 

Agnew started the 1985 season competing with the built up England quick bowlers to get over into the Test side. Over the winter, the side had been settled, with Norman Cowans and Chris Cowdrey playing each of the five Tests. Neil Foster and Richard Ellison shared the third spot nearby the spinners, playing two and three Tests separately. Cowdrey and Ellison had battled with the ball, both averaging more than 70. In any case, the side was widely rebuilt for the principal Test of that mid year's Ashes arrangement. Of the bowlers who had played the last Test in India, just Cowans had endure the winnow and it set the tone for the arrangement. Britain won the main Test, yet dropped Cowans and Peter Willey, supplanting them with Phil Edmonds and Foster. In the wake of losing the second Test, and battling with the ball in the third Test, when Australia made 539 full scale in their solitary innings, England chose to roll out further improvements. 

Agnew had performed reliably in district cricket through June and July, finishing in what was to be, factually, his best minute as a bowler. Playing against Kent, he took 9– 70 in the primary innings. His planning was impeccable and he was called up for the Fourth Test at Old Trafford to accomplice Ian Botham and Paul Allott in an all-Cheshire conceived crease assault. The match completed as a draw, and Agnew neglected to take a wicket. He was consigned from an opening bowler in the main innings, to fifth bowler in the second, in which he just bowled nine overs. He was in this manner dropped again from the side, just for Richard Ellison to concrete his place with match-winning exhibitions that helped case the Ashes for England. 

In the 1987 season, Agnew accomplished the accomplishment of 100 top of the line wickets in an English cricket season when he took 101 wickets for his region. He was the principal Leicestershire player to accomplish this achievement since Jack Birkenshaw in 1968, which was the season before the area program was extraordinarily decreased, making the accomplishment considerably less normal. By this stage, he was taking a shot at neighborhood radio amid the winters and he found the consolation of the extra salary and vocation way a central point in his improved structure. "Wisden" wanted to ascribe his prosperity to "bowling off a shorter run and ... a fiendish slower ball added to his arsenal". The accomplishment prompted him being chosen as one of the five "Wisden" Cricketers of the Year. 

Agnew's structure stayed great: he pursued his 1987 accomplishment of taking the second-most wickets in the County Championship by taking the third-most in 1988. In 1989, with two years of good structure behind him and England losing 4– 0 in the 1989 Ashes arrangement, Agnew "came frustratingly near the review to the England group that I had set my heart on." 

District skipper and companion of Agnew, David Gower was England chief, and various quick bowlers from around the nation called the phone in the Leicestershire changing area, to disclose to Gower that they were harmed and inaccessible for the Sixth Test. As per Agnew's record, Gower was at a misfortune with respect to whom to call into the squad. 

Agnew reviews that region partner Peter Willey made a proposal: 

"'Shouldn't something be said about Agnew?' recommended Peter Willey ... 'He's bowling quite well right now.' David's face lit up. 'Obviously!' he said. 'Jonathan, you're in. Return home, prepare your England stuff, and I'll call first thing tomorrow ...' Even however I was roughly the seventeenth decision, this was as yet phenomenal news ... After three disillusioning Test appearances, this was my additional opportunity, and the chance to set the record straight ... [The following day] the phone at long last rang. 'Got some terrible news, I'm apprehensive,' David started. 'I couldn't convince Ted Dexter or Mickey Stewart, so you're in no more. They've gone for Alan Igglesden. Know anything about him?' With that, David probably referred to his impact as England chief was finished – and to be sure Graham Gooch succeeded him after that Test. I felt completely crushed, and realized I could never play for England again, which had been my fundamental persuading power. So when the "Today" paper offered me the post of cricket reporter the accompanying summer, it was a simple choice to make. I may have been just thirty, which was no age to resign from expert cricket, and I could without much of a stretch have played for an additional five years. However, it was certainly time to proceed onward." 

Agnew formally resigned from playing proficient cricket toward the finish of the accompanying season: Leicestershire's last match of the 1990 Championship season was his last top of the line diversion. Matured 30, Agnew took 1– 42 in Derbyshire's solitary innings and scored 6 in his solitary swing to bat. In 1992, two years after retirement, Leicestershire encountered damage emergency before their NatWest Trophy semi-last against Essex. Agnew addressed a solicitation to help and played, completing the match with figures of 12– 2– 31– 1 (bowling twelve overs, including two lady overs, and taking one wicket for 31 runs). Leicestershire won the match and advanced to the last, yet Agnew decided not to play. 

Agnew's best top notch bowling figures were 9 for 70 and he took six ten-wicket pulls in 218 matches. In the 1988 Cricketer of the Year publication on Agnew, "Wisden" noticed that "his pace originates from a whippy wrist activity and co-ordination ... In the field, Agnew has now and again gave off an impression of being moving with his bootlaces integrated, yet his long run-up was one of the more smooth in the diversion. In any case, it was the shortening of that run-up, and a chopping down of pace, which drove to ... accomplishments [late in his career]" 

As a batsman, Agnew had a few highs, however it was his flimsier suit. His most elevated top of the line batting score was 90, beginning at first as nightwatchman in 1987 against Yorkshire, at North Marine Road Ground, Scarborough. "Wisden" remarked, "Agnew hit a stupendous, profession best 90 from 68 balls, including six sixes and eight fours, and afterward took the initial five Yorkshire wickets to fall". "Wisden" remarked that Agnew was no all-rounder, yet he could "absolutely bat ... on his day he can pulverize anything pitched up around off stump." a similar piece noticed his standard playing style, "playing hard however dependably with a feeling of fun". 

Agnew considers his playing vocation as having had two periods: 

"My profession could be separated up into two areas: the first being the point at which I was an absolute quick bowler and played for England when I likely ought not have done; and the second being the point at which I backed off somewhat, figured out how to swing the ball and did not play for England when I most likely ought to have done. His last Test was just a year after his England introduction, and his first and last ODIs were played not exactly a month separated. Cricket reporter Colin Bateman opined, "his short lived taste of Test cricket ought to have been added to in 1987 and 1988 when he was the most predictable quick bowler in the nation, taking 194 wickets, however in 1989, when England were edgy for pace bowlers, his exclusion added up to wanton disregard by a routine which scrutinized his craving". In 1988, when Agnew was chosen as a "Cricketer of the Year", "Wisden" recorded this decision on the oppositeness of Agnew's Test profession: "Got some information about Agnew's oversight, the director of selectors, P. B. H. May, communicated worry about his wellness – rather a confusing proclamation to make about somebody who bowled a greater number of overs than some other quick bowler in the Championship." 

Agnew started picking up understanding as a writer in 1987, while as yet playing cricket, when at the welcome of John Rawling he took off-season work with BBC Radio Leicester as a games maker. It was amid this period that he "experienced passionate feelings for radio", and following his retirement, he had a short stretch as boss cricket essayist of "Today" paper. While covering the 1990– 91 Ashes arrangement for "Now", he was drawn closer by Peter Baxter about joining "Test Match Special". Miserable at certain publication choices that had been taken amid his time with the paper, Agnew consented to go to a meeting after the visit. 

Agnew joined Test Match Special in 1991, in time for the primary Test match of the late spring. He was at first a lesser individual from the "Test Match Special" group, taking in around other people from figures, for example, Brian Johnston, Henry Blofeld and Bill Frindall. That year, he was likewise selected the BBC's cricket reporter, taking over from "Test Match Special" partner, Christopher Martin-Jenkins. In 2007, when asked which sports writer he most regarded, Martin-Jenkins named Agnew, on the grounds that he "consolidates shrewd news coverage with obviously easy relational abilities." He has additionally commentated for the Australian ABC Radio system amid Ashes arrangement in Australia. 

At the point when Channel 4 won the telecom rights to TV inclusion of England's home Test coordinates in 1998, Agnew was drawn closer by the telecaster and offered an occupation on the critique group. Agnew declined the chance, selecting to remain BBC cricket journalist, to some degree since he was a "radio man" and partially out of faithfulness. The next year, England facilitated the 1999 Cricket World Cup. The BBC had the UK TV rights, yet with such huge numbers of expert TV cricket moderators now at Channel 4 and consequently inaccessible to the BBC, Agnew was approached to display the inclusion. His memories of the experience are that it was something of a preliminary, helped just by the accomplished Richie Benaud close by him: 

Notwithstanding his composition and broadcasting work, Agnew's analysis has been recorded for a few PC amusements, including the International Cricket Captain and Brian Lara Cricket arrangement. He is an investor in TestMatchExtra.com Ltd, an organization which runs the site of a similar location and gained "The Wisden Cricketer" magazine from BSkyB in December 2010. 

From 2001 to 2005, Agnew gave the voice of Flynn, the oval-molded screen, on youngsters' gameshow "50/50". 

Agnew has won numerous honors for his telecom, including two Sony Awards for Best Reporter (1992 and 1994), and Best Radio Broadcaster of the Year (2010), an honor from the Association of Sports Journalists. Agnew was made an Honorary Doctor of Arts by De Montfort University, Leicester in November 2008, and an Honorary Doctor of Letters by Loughborough University in July 2011. 

His companions in games news coverage have much of the time remarked on Agnew's aptitudes as a supporter and author. Michael Henderson, in the fallout of the Stanford cricket discussion, composed of Agnew as an "ace broadcaster ... the pick of the games reporters at the BBC ... Agnew's is a normal, sensible voice in an amusement that is going potty. Impartial, calm, he has turned out to be one of the best experts the BBC has ever had. In his downplayed way he represents the diversion: not the general population who play it." 

In 2016 Agnew was an individual from the BBC editorial group at the 2016 Summer Olympics, covering equestrian occasions. He gains £150,000 – £199,999 as a BBC sports reporter. 

Agnew was named as a Deputy Lieutenant of Leicestershire in October 2015, and as a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2017 New Year Honors for administrations to broadcasting. 

In 2001, Agnew was a piece of the BBC group that was sent to Sri Lanka to cover England's Test coordinate arrangement. Because of perplexity and a column over communicating rights, the BBC group ended up banned from the Galle International Stadium, where the primary Test was to happen. Agnew and Pat Murphy wouldn't be crushed and "evacuated to the fortification defenses ignoring the ground and communicate their program from that point. With both group and gear shielded from the sun by an umbrella held by Mr Agnew's driver, Simmons, it made a beautiful scene." The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) CEO, Tim Lamb ended up associated with dialogs and the "Test Match Special" group were permitted to come back to the ground. 

"The Daily Telegraph" called Agnew and Murphy's exertion, "new statures of creativity". Agnew's response to the occasion was, "It's a dismal day for everybody associated with English cricket. Is it extremely that cricket is getting so insatiable that everybody who needs to come and investigate the amusement for the benefit of the diversion will must be charged for it?" However, he stayed energetic about the circumstance: "Really I get fairly even more an all encompassing perspective on it from up here than I did yesterday in my analysis box. There's a little street that keeps running round the back of the ground. All way of individuals are trundling here and there – transports, bicycles and minimal three wheeled tuk-tuks – it's somewhat fun." 

In 2004, the Zimbabwe government restricted media from following the England cricket group voyage through the nation. Agnew's response was aggressive, showing up on BBC Breakfast and giving his feeling that the boycott gave the ECB an opportunity to pull back from the disputable visit and that they should accept the open door. 

In the late spring of 2008, at that point England chief Michael Vaughan responded irritably on-air to inquiries by Agnew about his batting structure. At the point when Vaughan surrendered presently, Mike Atherton, writing in "The Times", remarked that it had been an unusual upheaval that was an omen of the abdication. At the point when Atherton had himself been England commander, Agnew had driven the calls for Atherton to leave over a debate known as the "earth in the pocket" issue. Individual BBC analyst Jack Banister felt that Agnew's remarks were wrong, however just to the degree that he had alluded to his kinship with Atherton: Banister prompted Agnew that he should keep on being straightforward and direct as a columnist. 

Agnew was associated with a minor debate in regards to an appearance by Lily Allen on "Test Match Special" in 2009. "The Daily Telegraph" announced that "the cricket-cherishing Allen struck up a moment compatibility with Agnew, and the BBC got to a great extent positive criticism for the 30-minute meeting", however Will Buckley, composing for "The Observer", depicted Agnew's "affectionate desire" as "positioned ... immovably on the pervy side of things". Agnew was irate, noticing he "gave ... Will Buckley 24 hrs to apologize for considering me a degenerate, and he has declined ... As you can envision, I have taken being known as a sick person seriously." Allen herself bolstered Agnew: "[I] truly think this Will Buckley fellow ought to apologize to ... [Agnew], he didn't be anything however kind and polite to me amid our meeting. I don't realize 1 individual that concurs with The Observer on this one." Buckley in the end apologized. 

Agnew has been known to giggle at or incorporate intermittent sexual insinuation while on air. The most eminent of these events occurred in August 1991, when Agnew was commentating with Brian Johnston. In an audit of the day, Johnston was portraying how Ian Botham, while batting, had overbalanced and attempted, yet fizzled, to venture over his stumps. Botham was therefore given out hit wicket. Agnew's remark on this activity was: "He simply didn't exactly get his leg over." Botham had pulled in various features amid his profession for his sexual adventures and in British English, "getting one's leg over" is a code word for having sex. 

The remark prompted "Johnston, an admirer of student insinuation to equal Frankie Howerd, emitting in a Krakatoa of grunts, cries, wheezes and, at last, wild giggling." Johnston endeavored to proceed with his synopsis, in spite of being practically unfit to represent snickering. He managed to state "Aggers, for the wellbeing of goodness, stop it" between seizures of merriment. 

The episode was heard by a large number of suburbanites driving home from work, a large number of whom were compelled to quit driving since they were chuckling so much: a two-mile automobile overload at the passage to the Dartford Tunnel was purportedly brought about by drivers unfit to pay the toll because of giggling. After fourteen years, in 2005, Agnew's line, "Simply didn't exactly get his leg over" was casted a ballot "the best donning analysis ever" by audience members to BBC Radio 5 Live. The other eight finalists included Kenneth Wolstenholme's "They thoroughly consider it's everything – it is presently!" and Ian Robertson's "This is the one. He drops for World Cup glory ... It's up! It's finished! He's done it! Jonny Wilkinson is England's legend once more". Agnew and Johnston verified 78% of the votes. 

Agnew's first marriage was to Beverley in 1983; it finished in separation in 1992, a year after he progressed toward becoming BBC cricket reporter. He has expounded on the job that cricket played in the breakdown of the relationship, contrasting his conditions and those of then England batsman Graham Thorpe. He likewise secured that his position meddled with his association with his youngsters: I had two youthful kids, matured seven and five ... it was rapidly obvious that for me to have care of my little girls – or even to shape an association with them – was made unimaginable by my activity. What chance do you have when, be it playing Test cricket or commentating on it, you are away for a considerable length of time at once every single winter? ... There was one event when I didn't perceive my oldest, Jennifer, when I came back from one tour ... my kids keep on asking me for what valid reason I didn't leave and accept a position that would have kept me in the nation and enabled me to see them all the more regularly. I locate that one particularly difficult to reply." Agnew has along these lines remarried: he met Emma Agnew, current manager of BBC East Midlands Today, when they cooperated on BBC Radio Leicestershire. 

Agnew experiences Dupuytren's contracture, an ailment that influences the connective tissue in his grasp. He has had various activities to address the dynamic condition, which makes the hands contract into a paw like position. 

Amid Agnew's playing profession, a debate with partner Phillip DeFreitas pulled in media consideration: when DeFreitas poured salt over Agnew's lunch, Agnew reacted by tossing DeFreitas' cricket pack and unit from the changing area overhang. Previous England cricketer Derek Pringle has expounded on Agnew's comical inclination, portraying him as "crazy". The pair visited Sri Lanka together on England B's 1986 visit. Pringle reviews that one hot day when England were in the field, Agnew came in for lunch: "It's ****ing intensely hot on the field, and when you get over it ****ing scorching in the changing area," Agnew shouted. "At that point, what do you get for lunch, ****ing scorching curry?" 

It was accounted for in different papers in 2013 that Agnew had offered to go with Brian Dodds, his second spouse's ex, to the Dignitas helped suicide facility in Zurich after Dodds was determined to have engine neurone illness. Dodds kicked the bucket in England from the ailment in 2005. 

Agnew has composed four books: