Recovery (Rihanna tune) 

"Recovery" is a tune recorded by Barbadian vocalist Rihanna for her third studio collection, "Great Girl Gone Bad" (2007). Def Jam Recordings overhauled the tune to contemporary hit radio in the United States on October 6, 2008, as the eighth and last single from the collection. It was discharged in the United Kingdom as a CD single on December 8, 2008. Advancement of "Recovery" started while Rihanna was going with Timbaland on Justin Timberlake's FutureSex/LoveShow visit in 2007. Timberlake composed the melody as a team with his makers, Hannon Lane and Timbaland, and gave extra vocals. "Recovery" is a mid-paced R&B tune with a passionate, despairing ensemble; the verses are about the hero's agonizing recollections of her previous darling, who is depicted figuratively as an infection. 

"Recovery" achieved top-ten positions on the singles diagrams in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Norway. It achieved number 16 on the UK Singles Chart and number 18 on the US "Board" magazine's Hot 100. It was affirmed twofold platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Anthony Mandler coordinated the going with music video, which was shot in Vasquez Rocks Park, close Los Angeles. It won the Urban Music Award for Best Music Video. Rihanna performed "Recovery" on the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour (2007– 09), and every so often on the Last Girl on Earth (2010– 11). 

"Recovery" is one of the three melodies created and delivered by Timbaland for Rihanna's third studio collection, "Great Girl Gone Bad". Timbaland was on visit with Justin Timberlake to advance Timberlake's 2006 collection "FutureSex/LoveSounds", which Timbaland had additionally created. In the wake of finishing a show in Chicago, they joined Rihanna in the studio, where Timberlake tried different things with beats and songs. Weeks after the fact, the three got together in New York City, where Timberlake had just conceptualized a melody for Rihanna. Timbaland, who needed to form a melody called "Recovery" for Rihanna, was creating a beat, when Timberlake came in and ad libbed the tune over it. Hannon Lane co-composed and co-delivered the melody, and Demacio Castellon recorded and blended it in 2007 at Roc The Mic Studios in New York City. Rihanna's stretch with Timbaland likewise brought about "Offer Me Candy" and "Lemme Get That", created for "Good Girl Gone Bad". 

Timberlake told "Stimulation Weekly" that he trusted "Recovery" to be "the scaffold for [Rihanna] to be acknowledged as a grown-up in the music business". Rihanna told Robert Copsey of Digital Spy that she delighted in working with Timberlake, and gained much from the sessions. She stated, "Working with Justin in the studio is simply extraordinary. He's a fun person and likes to make every one of the sessions charming. He's additionally such a virtuoso with regards to verses." 

"Recovery" was the eighth and last single to be discharged from Rihanna's third studio collection "Great Girl Gone Bad" (2007). As indicated by American music magazine "Rap-Up", both "Breakin' Dishes" and "Recovery" were potential single discharges, however "Recovery" was picked. Def Jam Recordings discharged the melody for airplay on contemporary hit radio in the United States on October 6, 2008. On November 3, 2008, it was discharged to cadenced contemporary and urban contemporary radio stations. The single was discharged in the UK by Mercury Records on December 8, 2008, as a CD single containing both the collection form and an instrumental rendition of "Recovery". On a similar date, it was discharged as an advanced download in Ireland. A live exhibition of the tune, recorded in Manchester amid Rihanna's Good Girl Gone Bad Tour (2007– 09), was discharged for download on the UK and Ireland iTunes Stores. The execution was highlighted on Rihanna's DVD "Great Girl Gone Bad Live". 

On December 12, 2008, the melody and its instrumental rendition were discharged on iTunes and 7digital in ten nations, including Australia, Italy, New Zealand, Spain and Switzerland. In January 2009, it was discharged as a CD single in Germany, with a similar material as in the UK discharge. In mid 2009, Timbaland marked an agreement with Verizon Communications, under which he would make music solely for BlackBerry Storm cell phone proprietors. He was contracted to work with different craftsmen and remix their tunes, which would be accessible for Verizon clients to download at no additional expense. "Recovery" was the primary tune remixed for the task, and this form was discharged in Canada and the US on May 19, 2009, by means of iTunes. 

"Recovery" is a mid-rhythm R&B ditty with an unpretentious steady rhythm. As indicated by the computerized sheet music distributed by Sony/ATV Music Publishing, it is written in the key of G minor and set in like manner time, with a modestly moderate furrow. The vocal range ranges almost an octave and a half from F to B. "Recovery" opens with a string area, played by Stevie Blacke, and a violin, cello, and tambourine instrumental section with Hannon Lane's console song. Rihanna then sings the opening lines, "Infant, child, when we initially met, I never felt something so solid". 

Commentators noted likenesses among the structures of "Recovery" and a portion of Timberlake's melodies, for example, "What Goes Around... Comes Around" and "Cry Me a River". Spence D. of IGN composed that the tune has a "R&B swoon", like Rihanna's past singles. In a meeting with Margeaux Watson for "Excitement Weekly", Rihanna clarified the significance of the tune's verses: "'Rehab' is an allegorical tune. Recovery actually just methods we need to get over the person. So we talk about registering ourselves with recovery, which means we need to get over him. What's more, we contrast the person with an ailment or an enslavement." Watson further considered the tune a "lovesick ditty". 

Rodney Dugue of "The Village Voice" called it one of the champion tunes on "Great Girl Gone Bad", and Sarah Rodman of "The Boston Globe" said it was basic to the collection. Quentin B. Fit of PopMatters considered it a "little jewel" and contrasted it with Babyface's cooperation with Madonna on her 1994 single "Soak up the adoration". "Bulletin" magazine considered the tune a feature of the collection, with "smooth helped Timberlake foundation vocals, strain filled creation, and differentiating strings and guitars." "Vibe's" Shanel Odum, while investigating "Great Girl Gone Bad", noticed that the collection transcendently comprises of up-beat tunes, while the anthems are its frail part, in the end being "spared" by "Recovery". Spence D. of IGN expressed that Timberlake and Rihanna function admirably together, because of their comparable vocal extents. He composed that the tune "returns to Rihanna's old styled R&B swoon, the section being worked around tambourine shakes, acoustic guitar twirls, and an inconspicuous steady rhythm." Doug Rule of "Metro Weekly" composed that "Recovery" "is its own particular tune—and a getting one at that—however the similarity to a standout amongst Timberlake's best is unquestionable." Sylvia Patterson from "The Guardian" portrayed the melody as a "sorrowful story of lost love feeling like a cataclysmic recovery emergency". 

Tom Breinan of Pitchfork Media composed that Rihanna "comes nearer than expected to delineating something taking after human feeling, yet despite everything she falls off seeming like a robot customized to mimic Alanis Morissette." Neil Drumming of "Stimulation Weekly" expressed, "Recovery is a sad overdose of mid-rhythm acting". Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine said that "Recovery" demonstrates that Timberlake "is in an ideal situation writing verses about provocative backs or dicks in boxes"— a reference to Timberlake's 2006 singles "SexyBack" and "Dick in a Box". 

"Recovery" entered the US "Bulletin" Hot 100 outline at number 91 on November 22, 2008, and crested at number 18, making it Rihanna's twelfth US top-twenty single. It likewise crested at number 17 on "Board's" Pop Songs outline and at number 52 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs graph. The melody rose to number 19 on the Canadian Hot 100 outline, having begun at number 56 on December 6, 2008. It entered the Australian ARIA Singles Chart at number 37 on November 17, 2008 and in the end achieved number 26, accordingly turning into Rihanna's twelfth sequential top-thirty single in Australia. In New Zealand, it originally entered the singles outline at number 24 on October 27, 2008, and rose to number 12. On January 11, 2009, it was guaranteed gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ), 12 weeks after it originally diagrammed. 

"Recovery" first showed up in the UK Singles Chart at number 51 on November 22, 2008. Following two weeks, it turned into the best gainer on the outline, climbing twenty-seven spots to number 24, and in the week from that point onward, it achieved its pinnacle of 16. In excess of 160,000 duplicates of the tune have been sold in the UK. The single appeared at number 33 on the Ö3 Austria Top 40 and crested at number nine. In Germany it achieved number 4 and turned into Rihanna's 6th top-five single. "Recovery" began at number 18 in the Dutch Top 40 on January 17, 2009, and topped at number 3 in its fourth week on the graph. In Norway it entered the singles graph at number 19 and moved to number 4, turning into Rihanna's seventh top-five single in that nation. It crested at number 8 on the Slovakian singles graph, turning into Rihanna's fifth global top-ten single, and her 6th top-ten single in Slovakia. 

It has additionally crested at #1 in Israel, the main nation in which it did. 

Rihanna taped the music video for "Recovery" with Justin Timberlake at Vasquez Rocks Park, close Los Angeles, on October 22, 2008. It was coordinated by Anthony Mandler, who coordinated the recordings for Rihanna's 2008 singles "Soak up the adoration" and "Disturbia". Photos of the generation were spilled around the same time. Tim Nixon of "The Sun" composed that the "intensely hot science" among Rihanna and Timberlake more likely than not been troublesome for their accomplices to watch. Simon Reynolds of Digital Spy said that Timberlake's accomplice Jessica Biel was "said to be 'wiped out to her stomach' in the wake of seeing Rihanna wearing a noteworthy outfit while taping with Timberlake." Timberlake told "Access Hollywood", "I'm the person in the video, so I needed to give them all weaknesses about that. Be that as it may, no doubt we had an incredible time, we messed about at the shoot more often than not." The video debuted November 17, 2008, on MTV. 

The video starts as Rihanna, sparsely dressed and wearing fishnet tights, remains against a convertible vehicle in a desert. Timberlake, wearing a calfskin coat and dark pants, lands on a bike. He unfastens his coat to chill off and washes in pink-hued water before welcome Rihanna at her Airstream trailer. The pair at that point climb onto the hood of the vintage vehicle. In the following scene, Timberlake plays a guitar while lying on an expansive rocket. All through the video, Timberlake and Rihanna fluctuate their stances from sultry to guarded. 

David Balls of Digital Spy stated, "The pop pair put in such a profoundly charged, easily sexual presentation that it's nothing unexpected Justin's woman was a long way from cheerful." Tim Nixon of "The Sun" noticed, "seeing hot Rihanna—clad in a progression of enticing outfits—squirming around with Justin is a genuine treat." In his book "Post Cinematic Affect" (2010), Steven Shaviro composed that, in the recordings of "Recovery", "Love Sex Magic" and "4 Minutes", Timberlake "emanates a covering sexual warmth", and that these recordings "can be appeared differently in relation to the recordings from Timberlake's own "Future Sex/Love Sounds" collection which Joshua Clover convincingly portrays as a 'homosocial' trade among Timberlake and his maker Timbaland". The "Recovery" video won the Best Music Video grant at the 2009 Urban Music Awards. 

On April 28, 2008, Rihanna performed at the Pepsi Center with Kanye West, N.E.R.D, and Lupe Fiasco. She sang "Recovery" and different melodies from "Great Girl Gone Bad". John Wenzel of "The Denver Post" composed that "Recovery" and different melodies "would have profited by all the more sponsorship vocals, or maybe an increasingly engaged act approach". To advance the single, Rihanna performed "Recovery" live on November 23, 2008, at the 2008 American Music Awards, where she won the honors for Favorite Pop/Rock Female Artist and Favorite Soul/R&B Female Artist. At the honors function, she performed it wearing an eye fix, which she later evacuated after she was brought down to the fundamental stage. 

"Recovery" was the fourth tune on the set rundown for Rihanna's Good Girl Gone Bad Tour . Her execution in Manchester was discharged in the UK through iTunes and is highlighted on the "Great Girl Gone Bad Live" DVD. Rihanna performed "Recovery" on February 7, 2009, at a pre-Grammy party. She was booked to perform at the 51st Grammy Awards function, however dropped her execution after a quarrel with her then beau, vocalist Chris Brown. 

"Recovery" was the twelfth melody on Rihanna's set rundown for her 2010 Last Girl on Earth Tour, all through which she performed it on an advisor's sofa embellished with metal throws of human heads and appendages. David Sprague of "Assortment" called her execution of "Recovery" at Madison Square Garden dishearteningly heavy. Ben Ratliff from "The New York Times" composed that "Rihanna's lip twist amid 'Recovery' and her low hip-crush amid 'Inconsiderate Boy' were the raving successes of her non-verbal communication." Deborah Linton of "City Life" composed that Rihanna "even figures out how to make a mental lounge chair look hot". Linton called the show's stage sets amazing and innovative. Rick Massimo of "The Providence Journal" composed that Rihanna "resembled a neon-sign interpretation of herself amid 'Recovery', seldom tended to the group of onlookers, and didn't transcend level banality in that until the very end of the show". "Recovery" and Rihanna's 2009 single "Russian Roulette" were avoided from the set rundown amid the visit's Australian leg. 

Credits are taken from the "Great Girl Gone Bad" liner notes.