Arthur Gilligan 

Arthur Edward Robert Gilligan (23 December 1894 – 5 September 1976) was an English top of the line cricketer who captained the England cricket group multiple times in 1924 and 1925, winning four Test matches, losing four and drawing one. In top notch cricket, he played as a beginner, essentially for Cambridge University and Sussex, and captained the last group somewhere in the range of 1922 and 1929. A quick bowler and hard-hitting lower request batsman, Gilligan finished the twofold in 1923 and was one of "Wisden's" Cricketers of the Year for 1924. At the point when his playing profession finished, he held a few essential positions in cricket, including that of England selector and leader of the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC). A prominent figure inside cricket, he was broadly viewed as wearing and inviting. Amid his playing days, Gilligan was an individual from the British Fascists. He went to the notice of the Australian mystery administration amid the 1924– 25 MCC visit, and it is conceivable he built up little fundamentalist gatherings in Australia. It is obscure to what extent he remained a part, however the association for all intents and purposes stopped to exist by 1926. 

Gilligan played cricket for Dulwich College before the First World War, at that point for Cambridge, twice winning his blue. He quickly played area cricket for Surrey yet moved to Sussex in 1920. Following a moderate begin to his area vocation, he quickly improved and in association with Maurice Tate set up an imposing bowling notoriety. First playing for England in 1922, he was selected Test chief in 1924. In the last year, Gilligan was at the stature of his structure when he endured a hit to his heart while batting. The strain influenced his bowling, which was never again as powerful, however regardless he captained England in Australia amid the 1924– 25 season. The arrangement was lost, yet both he and his group were famous and regarded. In following years, he played less regularly; he surrendered as Sussex commander in 1929 and resigned three years after the fact. He in this way turned into an author, writer and cricket observer while keeping up his associations with Sussex. 

As a commander, Gilligan was very much preferred by players and reporters, albeit many did not trust he was a viable strategist. By the by, under his initiative, Sussex turned into an appealing, focused group. He energized the look for youthful ability, and the players thusly found turned into the foundation of the club into the 1930s. As a defender, he roused his groups to turn out to be great handling sides. Furthermore, as MCC skipper of a group which visited India in 1926– 27, he urged Indians to assume liability for their very own cricket board as opposed to permitting white Englishmen to run Indian cricket, and campaigned the MCC to give Test coordinate status on the Indian group. As MCC president, he had an influence in the D'Oliveira undertaking in 1968. He passed on in 1976, matured 81. 

Gilligan was conceived in Denmark Hill, a territory of Camberwell in London. He was the second of three children, every one of whom played top of the line cricket, to Willie Austin Gilligan and Alice Eliza Kimpton. The family had a solid association with Sussex; Gilligan pursued Sussex County Cricket Club as a kid, and later played club cricket there. In the wake of going to Fairfield School, he was instructed at Dulwich College from 1906 until 1914 where he set up a donning notoriety in games and cricket. In the last game, he played in the school initial eleven, as did his siblings; in 1913, every one of the three young men played in the group. Gilligan played in the eleven somewhere in the range of 1911 and 1914 and captained the side in his last two years. In 1914, he came top of the school batting and bowling midpoints. Chosen to play delegate schools cricket at Lord's Cricket Ground in 1914, he took ten wickets altogether and scored one fifty in the two matches. By the models of school cricket, his pace was noteworthy, and Surrey welcomed him to play for their second eleven amid the school occasions of 1913 and 1914; his dad was an individual from that province's board of trustees, and Gilligan fit the bill to play through his London birth. 

In 1914, Gilligan entered Pembroke College, Cambridge, however his life at the college was hindered by the First World War. He battled in France with the Lancashire Fusiliers from 1915, filling in as Captain in the eleventh brigade. At the point when the war finished, Gilligan came back to Pembroke and continued his cricket vocation. 

Following the war, Cambridge University experienced an absence of value bowling toward the beginning of the 1919 cricket season. Thusly, Gilligan confronted little challenge for his place in the group and took 32 wickets at a normal of under 27 in Cambridge matches, which pundits thought about a poor return. He established a greater connection when, batting at number eleven in the request, he scored 101 against Sussex and shared a last-wicket association of 177 out of 65 minutes with John Naumann. A couple of days after the fact, Gilligan won his blue—the granting of the Cambridge "hues" to sportsmen—by showing up in the University Match against Oxford. On the most recent day of the three-day coordinate, he took five wickets for 16 keeps running in 57 conveyances to complete with bowling figures of six for 52 (six wickets taken for 52 runs surrendered). As per "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac", this was the best bowling execution in the University Match for a long time, despite the fact that Cambridge lost the match. Towards the finish of the period, Gilligan played three top of the line matches for Surrey and showed up in a celebration amusement, in spite of the fact that he achieved little with bat or ball. In all five star diversions in 1919, he scored 231 keeps running at a batting normal of 17.76 and took 35 wickets at 31.57. Toward the finish of the period, he changed districts; his family associations in the region, and the nearness of his sibling Harold in the group, drove him to enlist with Sussex. 

Gilligan held his situation in the Cambridge group in 1920 and yet again played against Oxford. In the University Match, he was incapable with the ball as the clammy conditions did not suit his style of bowling. Toward the finish of the Cambridge expression, Gilligan, playing as a novice, made his Sussex debut. "The Times" later remarked that in 1920, Gilligan was "known as a quick yet temperamental bowler, a dashing and powerless batsman and a mid-off without his equivalent in England". "Wisden" remarked on his 1920 execution: "[He] stayed stationary, doing nothing out of the basic either as bowler or batsman for Cambridge, and demonstrating a positively costly bowler for Sussex". In all top of the line cricket, he scored 624 keeps running at a normal of 17.33 and took 81 wickets at 23.55. Along these lines, Gilligan left Cambridge and joined Gilbert Kimpton and Co., a general produce dealers in London in which his dad was a senior accomplice. 

Gilligan played for Sussex all through the 1921 season and as indicated by "Wisden" "made an unmistakable development". His batting record was like the past season, in spite of the fact that he expanded his number of wickets in the season to 90 at a normal of 30.64. "Wisden" takes note of that his bowling was not measurably great, however that his greatest effect came in handling, which was "splendid in the extraordinary. He was portrayed on all hands as the best mid-off in England." In 1922, Gilligan expected the Sussex captaincy from Herbert Wilson. The group's outcomes were not amazing, however "Wisden" said that the group were alluring to watch and exceeded expectations in handling, in which Gilligan shown others how its done. Gilligan later reviewed that he got extraordinary help from George Cox, the senior expert in the group. By and by, Gilligan had his best season to date with bat and ball; he scored 916 runs and took 135 wickets at a normal of 18.75. In view of his great structure, he was chosen in the esteemed Gentlemen v Players coordinate at Lord's. Showing up for the Gentlemen, a group of novices, his handling specifically awed observers. He was chosen in a further delegate coordinate, when he played for the "Remainder of England" against Yorkshire, the County Champions. In the last diversion, he took eight wickets altogether. Toward the finish of the period, Gilligan was incorporated into the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) group to visit South Africa and play a Test arrangement. 

On the voyage through South Africa, MCC were driven by Frank Mann. Gilligan was named as bad habit chief in inclination to Percy Fender, who was quite appreciated as a commander however not well known with the cricket experts. Gilligan played in two of the five Tests, the first and last. His Test debut went ahead 23 December 1922 out of a match which England lost. The group were increasingly effective amid his second appearance; he took six wickets in the match, and his batting at a significant phase of the match—he scored 39 not out in the second innings—was indispensable in a triumph which gave the arrangement to England 2– 1. Altogether, Gilligan stepped through nine Exam wickets at 22.37, and in all top notch diversions, caught 26 wickets at a normal of 22.03. 

Amid 1923, in the wake of coming back to England, Gilligan had his best season in area cricket. He took 163 wickets at 17.50 and scored 1,183 keeps running at a normal of 21.12 to finish the twofold of 1,000 runs and 100 wickets in a season for the main time in his profession. With Maurice Tate, whose development as a pace bowler was empowered by Gilligan, he built up a blowing away association which demonstrated successful the accompanying two seasons. Gilligan scored two centuries and multiple times took at least five wickets in an innings. Because of his exhibitions, he was named as one of "Wisden's" Cricketers of the Year. The reference noticed that he was currently "among the main beginner cricketers of the day", and was probably going to play for England once more. It closed: "It isn't asserted for Arthur Gilligan, by even his hottest admirers, that he can be classed among extraordinary quick bowlers, yet he is an exceptionally decent one, joining with the correct demeanor and enthusiastic vitality simply the additional piece of pace that to numerous batsmen is so tacky." 

Following overwhelming misfortunes to Australia in two Test arrangement promptly following the war, the England selectors expected to choose another chief. Straight to the point Mann drove the group amid the voyage through South Africa, the group's solitary Tests somewhere in the range of 1921 and 1924. As indicated by the cricket essayist Alan Gibson, Mann was somewhat too old to even think about being a practical applicant and his batting was not exactly of the required standard. Different potential outcomes from the get-go in the season included Fender and Arthur Carr. Rather, the selectors designated Gilligan as commander for the 1924 arrangement against South Africa, trying to evaluate whether he had the playing capacity to legitimize his choice in the job. Cricket columnist E. W. Swanton composes that Gilligan was the favored competitor of the compelling Lord Harris, which may have helped his arrangement. Gibson portrays Gilligan at the time as "29 years of age, an alluring, grinning identity". Gilligan started the season great. He and Tate, in the weeks moving toward the primary Test, built up a notoriety for being the best opening bowlers on the planet. At the time, the best batting groups in England were Surrey and Middlesex; in continuous matches, Gilligan and Tate expelled these sides for 53 and 41 individually. In the last diversion, Gilligan took eight for 25, and he and Tate bowled a few province sides out for low scores. In the principal Test coordinate, on Gilligan's introduction as England skipper, the pair bowled South Africa out for 30 runs. Gilligan took six wickets for seven runs, and "Wisden" detailed that "He bowled quick and with any measure of flame. Multiple times amid the innings he took a wicket following sending down a no ball". At the point when South Africa pursued on, he took five for 83, to complete the diversion with 11 wickets. Britain won the second Test, similar to the first, by an innings; Gilligan took five wickets in the diversion, and before the finish of June had 74 wickets in all top notch matches at a normal of 15. At this stage, the press and open had incredible desires for progress for Gilligan and Tate on the imminent voyage through Australia. 

Toward the start of July, Gilligan played for the Gentlemen against the Players at the Oval. In the main innings, he was struck vigorously over his heart by a conveyance from Frederick Pearson; clearly he was harmed, and he was out in a matter of seconds a short time later. Despite the fact that the Gentlemen v Players coordinate at the Oval was less renowned than its Lord's partner and for the most part made a difference less to members, Gilligan batted the following day and scored a century batting at number 10. All things considered, the Gentlemen lost the amusement by six wickets. Gilligan was never again as viable a cricketer, and he later surrendered that batting in the second innings was a mix-up. All things considered, the strain of the innings did as much mischief as the first blow, in spite of the fact that Gibson later composed that Gilligan's resulting long life proposes that he was not very severely harmed, and that it is improbable a lot of harm was finished. By and by, Gibson closes "there is no uncertainty that he was gravely shaken up, and whatever the reason, the enchantment withdrew". 

Gilligan played in the following Test coordinate, absent much achievement, and for the Gentlemen at Lord's. The impacts of the damage at that point constrained him to rest in the next weeks and he missed the fourth Test. When he returned for the last Test, he didn't take any wickets and completed the Test arrangement with 17 wickets at a normal of 18.94, setting him second in the England bowling midpoints behind Tate. He batted only multiple times in the arrangement, scoring 77 keeps running at 25.66. Britain won the arrangement 3– 0, and albeit South Africa had not ended up being a solid group, a few England players—including Gilligan—had inspired pundits. Gilligan kept on taking wickets in the last phases of the period, however was less effective than before his damage. Toward the finish of the period, he had 103 wickets at 19.36 and 864 keeps running at 21.07. 

By mid-July, Gilligan had been named as commander of the MCC group to visit Australia toward the finish of the English cricket season, and was relied upon to be one of the main bowlers. He had, be that as it may, confronted some analysis of his captaincy. Two players in the England group amid the South Africa arrangement took a stand in opposition to his strategies: Cec Parkin distributed a very basic article in the press and never played for England again; George Macaulay conflicted with Gilligan on the field amid one Test. The ensuing nonattendance of the two men from the visit generously debilitated the bowling quality of the group. In spite of the fact that Gilligan was commonly well known for his merry and agreeable methodology, the press trusted Fender to be the better skipper. Be that as it may, the cricket experts at Lord's objected to Fender's flighty strategies and approach. Columnists later uncovered that, sooner or later in the season, the selectors had first requested that Frank Mann skipper, however he was unfit to acknowledge the welcome. 

Following his damage in 1924, Gilligan could never again bowl quick and, as a player, had little impact on the 1924– 25 voyage through Australia; his exhibitions were hampered by further wounds. His best bowling figures of four for 12 came in the opening match and his solitary century came in the second diversion; he passed fifty just yet again on the visit. His administration demonstrated persuasive in one fundamental regard. In past arrangement, Australia had been better than England in the field, however as indicated by Gibson, Gilligan "changed the English handling, a division in which they started to contrast and Australia, out of the blue since the war and conceivably since the mid 1900s. This had much impact on the England sides of the following couple of years". Anyway an Australian paper assessed that England dropped 21 gets in the five Tests, which may have affected on the arrangement result; Australia won 4– 1. Different parts of Gilligan's initiative were less fruitful; his captaincy needed strategic advancement, and the Australian commander Herbie Collins demonstrated prevalent in this regard. As indicated by Gibson, commentators asserted that Gilligan "was excessively nice on the better purposes of law". Likewise, his inability prompted rout in one warm-up match that the MCC could have drawn, and reporters expelled him as gullible and nice on the field. Notwithstanding, he was monstrously famous with the Australian open and very much loved by his group. Gibson, writing in 1979, noticed that Gilligan "was, and is, a standout amongst the most famous commanders England have sent to Australia". Amid the visit, Gilligan was the focal point of a lot of attention. The periodical "Cricket" portrayed him as "'a standout amongst the most affable identities possible", while previous Australian Test chief Monty Noble composed that Gilligan was the "sort of man who, in the most unostentatious way, can accomplish more than every one of the government officials and statesmen to concrete the relations between the Homeland and the Dominions". His sportsmanship, including his effortlessness and merriment in annihilation, made him, as indicated by Noble, an ideal English man of his word and a "Domain manufacturer". 

After Australia won the initial two Tests, Parkin, writing in England, again scrutinized Gilligan's administration in the press and incited a minor contention by proposing that Jack Hobbs ought to accept the captaincy. The third Test was a lot nearer, despite the fact that England were seriously hampered by wounds to three bowlers, including Gilligan himself. These wounds may have influenced the result of the arrangement. Australia won by the little edge of 11 runs, however Gilligan took his group near triumph with a limited innings of 31. Britain won the fourth Test, their first triumph over Australia since the war, yet lost the last amusement. Pundits made a decision about that the group played well and did not endure disrespect, in spite of the outcome. Gibson takes note of that the visit "was fruitful in everything except for triumph, and this was detected by the English open, who collected in expansive numbers to respect the side home". In the Test arrangement, Gilligan took 10 wickets at a normal of 51.90 and scored 64 keeps running at 9.14. Gibson makes a decision about that the greater part of his wickets were great batsmen, and numerous bowlers had poor figures in an arrangement that created a substantial number of runs, so this record isn't as poor as it shows up. In all top of the line diversions on visit, Gilligan took 28 wickets at 38.39 and scored 357 keeps running at 17.85. He didn't play in any more Tests. 

The MCC visit occurred against a foundation of social unsettling influence in Australia. There were worries inside Australian culture over the developing impact of socialism and, as indicated by the history specialist Andrew Moore, a few reporters trusted that the visit would ease strain. It was normal that Gilligan's impact and ubiquity would additionally help this procedure. Notwithstanding, amid the visit, the Australian mystery administration were educated by the London specialists that Gilligan and the MCC visit chief Frederick Toone were individuals from the British Fascists. Despite the fact that the association never accomplished a similar dimension of impact in Britain as the British Union of Fascists, which shaped in 1932, the British Fascists were prominent for a brief span amid the mid-1920s. The essential focal point of the association was to restrict socialism, yet MI5 considered its danger sufficiently genuine to warrant putting driving individuals under reconnaissance. Furthermore, the British Foreign Office knew that the British Fascists had built up certain connections abroad. Moore recommends that it is conceivable that Gilligan and Toone utilized the visit as a chance to set up connections in Australia. The group visited numerous pieces of Australia and went to numerous get-togethers which displayed a chance to examine legislative issues. Not long after the visit's decision, the Commonwealth Investigative Branch revealed proof that the British Fascists had built up parts in a few Australian urban areas, despite the fact that they didn't have the foggiest idea how this had occurred. Moore trusts that "it might be absolutely circumstantial that the Australian part of the British Fascists was set up so not long after the MCC visit", yet is almost certain that Gilligan and Toone conveyed Fascist writing to Australia for circulation. Notwithstanding, Moore composes that "the British Fascists' Australian tasks were little brew undoubtedly" and of little outcome. 

Gilligan gave additional proof of his political convictions at the finish of the visit, when he composed an article called "The Spirit of Fascism and Cricket Tours" for "The Bulletin", a production of the British Fascists. He composed: "'In ... cricket visits it is basic to work exclusively on the lines of Fascism, for example the group must be great companions and out for a certain something, and one thing just, to be specific the benefit of the side, and not for any self-greatness". Moore makes a decision about that the article was neither elegantly composed nor especially enticing, however takes note of that different journalists at the time made the association between game, cricket, the philosophy of the British Empire and Fascism. 

There is no proof to state to what extent Gilligan kept up his association with the British Fascists after the visit, nor in the event that he did as such by any means. By 1926, the association had part and blurred from view. 

A repeat of the impacts of his damage in 1924 confined Gilligan's cricket in 1925. Showing up in less diversions and bowling far less every now and again than in past seasons, he scored 542 keeps running at 15.05 and took just eight wickets. He bowled in the initial four rounds of the period, however in his staying seventeen appearances played just as a batsman. In 1926, he was progressively effective and his exhibitions helped Sussex to ascend from thirteenth to tenth in the County Championship. Playing more recreations, he scored 1,037 keeps running at 30.50, the most noteworthy occasional batting normal of his vocation, and took 75 wickets at 20.74. That season, albeit never again considered for a spot in the England group himself, Gilligan joined the board of Test selectors, and as an outcome missed some cricket for Sussex. He distributed a book on that late spring's visit by Australia called "Collins' Men". 

Amid the winter of 1926– 27, with different competitors inaccessible, Gilligan was picked to commander a MCC group which visited India; the side was not completely delegate and did not play Test matches. In five star recreations, he scored three fifties and, bowling rarely, took ten wickets on the visit. The group, the first to visit India under the shades of the MCC, was exceptionally fruitful. Gilligan left the greater part of the everyday association to his bad habit skipper, Raleigh Chichester-Constable, and did not pay attention to his discourse making obligations especially. He in any case had a few issues to manage. One of his players, Jack Parsons, rejected for religious motivations to play in any matches in which play occurred on a Sunday; Gilligan took steps to send him home however at last he consented to play on condition that he could leave at an early stage a Sunday to go to religious administrations. Parsons was likewise transparently incredulous of racial and social separation that he saw. Gilligan mediated at one moment that his group's experts were avoided from certain solicitations in Calcutta and told their hosts that nobody would go to the capacities if the experts were excluded. Both the donning and social projects for the visit were requesting, and Gilligan needed to go to most capacities inspired by a paranoid fear of culpable the European or Indian hosts. The individuals from the group were left depleted, requiring the utilization of fortifications to their number, including the incidental utilization of English cricketers who were instructing in India, and on a few events, the Maharajah of Patiala, who was an individual from the MCC and qualified for play. 

The visit was initially considered to empower cricket-playing Europeans living in India. Yet, as it was financed by the Maharajah of Patiala, the group played Indian sides, instead of the European sides conceived by the visit's coordinators. Gilligan, as opposed to numerous Englishmen, was cheerful to play Indian groups and effectively urged Indians to sort out their own cricket instead of surrender it over to white Englishmen. As per the cricket essayist Mihir Bose, Gilligan, in contrast to other people, "met Indians on terms of impeccable correspondence". He effectively urged the Indians to frame their very own cricket board and guaranteed to put forth a defense with the Lord's specialists for India to turn into a Test playing group. He did as such, and in 1929 India turned into an individual from the Imperial Cricket Conference. Bose calls attention to that Gilligan's uplifting frame of mind towards Indians, and that of the MCC while giving India Test status, was extraordinarily unique in relation to that of generally Englishmen. As far as the headway of Indian cricket, Bose composes that "Gilligan's impact was tremendous". 

Gilligan kept on playing for Sussex until 1932. In 1927, he scored 828 keeps running at 27.60, yet did not bowl in the principal half of the period and took only 29 wickets at 24.65. The accompanying season, he scored 942 keeps running at 26.91, including his last five star century, and took 76 wickets at 26.27. In 1929, his last season as chief, he played just multiple times; he didn't score a fifty, found the middle value of 7.22 with the bat and took four wickets. He was often influenced by damage; his sibling Harold captained Sussex in his nonattendance and accepted the job all day in 1930. Harold additionally took over as commander of a MCC group which visited New Zealand in the winter of 1929– 30 when Gilligan pulled back inferable from sickness. Throughout the following three seasons, Gilligan showed up irregularly for Sussex and the MCC, yet scored just a single fifty and took only five wickets altogether in that time. His last top of the line appearance was for H. D. G. Leveson Gower's group against Oxford in 1932. He later played a few philanthropy recreations amid the Second World War, including some for Sussex and for the Royal Air Force. In all top notch cricket, Gilligan scored 9,140 keeps running at a normal of 20.08 and took 868 wickets at 23.30. In 11 Test matches, he scored 209 keeps running at a normal of 16.07 and took 36 wickets at 29.05, in spite of the fact that 26 of these wickets came in the five Tests he played before his damage. As chief in nine Tests, he won four matches and lost four; the staying diversion was drawn. 

At the pinnacle of his vocation, Gilligan was a quick bowler. He bowled with his arm very low, yet was extremely exact; his standard methodology was to go for the stumps or to endeavor to actuate the batsmen to edge the ball to be gotten in the slips. As per his "Wisden" tribute, he "viewed it as a cardinal sin to bowl short". Following his damage, he couldn't achieve his previous speed and was decreased to medium pace. In this style, he kept on having some accomplishment at district level. His batting was based mostly around driving the ball. He batted low in the request, and endeavored to score rapidly, especially against quick bowling. A few of his hundreds of years were scored against the best groups, and frequently in troublesome circumstances. He exceeded expectations as a defender; his "Wisden" eulogy expressed: "At mid-off he has had few adversaries". 

As a skipper, Gilligan was not strategically refined but rather was capable at motivating his players. His Sussex groups were not steady but rather ended up appealing to watch; under Gilligan's heading the group positioned among the best handling sides in England. The off side defenders were nicknamed the "ring of iron". His "Wisden" eulogy expressed: "In a few seasons by his emphasis on handling and on assaulting cricket and by his very own great precedent he raised Sussex from being nothing specifically to one of the greatest attracts England." According to "The Times", Gilligan's captaincy established the frameworks for the province's relative achievement during the 1930s. In the official history of Sussex, author Christopher Lee proposes: "The ten years from 1920 as far as possible of Gilligan's captaincy in 1930 saw the blooding of probably the most renowned names in Sussex and England cricket. Gilligan himself was a blend of novice brightness and expert painstaking quality which unavoidably realized analysis." 

Gilligan additionally widely instructed and addressed around the region, investing energy in the English winters raising the group's profile. He supported the look for encouraging youthful cricketers, and the greater part of the club's proficient cricketers amid its effective years during the 1930s were found amid Gilligan's drive for new ability. Percy Fender trusted that Gilligan permitted the group's experts a more noteworthy state in Sussex's undertakings than recently allowed. Bumper composed that Gilligan's groups delighted in playing under him and that Gilligan was a standout amongst the most well known chiefs in province cricket. Cricket author R. C. Robertson-Glasgow stated: "With him there was no sharpnesses, no trivial limitations, no numerical cricket. He won or lost plumb straight". Swanton composed that "Gilligan was basically an amicable man, hail-individual well-met, and it is difficult to imagine that in the realm of game he at any point made an adversary." 

Gilligan wedded his first spouse, Cecilia Mary Matthews, in April 1921, however she effectively petitioned for legal separation in October 1933 on the grounds of her significant other's unfaithfulness. He wedded again in 1934; he met his second spouse, Katharine Margaret Fox, on a skiing trip. 

Following his retirement from cricket, Gilligan started to work in news-casting. He composed a few cricket books, including a past filled with Sussex cricket in 1932. He ended up one of the primary radio cricket analysts, broadcasting in Australia on the 1932– 33 Ashes arrangement and covering ensuing visits of MCC groups to Australia for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. A well known and regarded analyst, he built up an on-air association with previous Australian batman Vic Richardson. In Gilligan's eulogy, "Wisden" watched "Gilligan was, as might be envisioned, an ace of the discretionary remark if any tedious occurrence happened". He was additionally an individual from the BBC radio analysis group for Tests somewhere in the range of 1947 and 1954. In 1955, he composed a book, "The Urn Returns", about the 1954– 55 Ashes arrangement, won by England. In England, he expounded on cricket for the "News Chronicle". Amid the Second World War, Gilligan served in the Royal Air Force as a welfare officer; he was charged a pilot officer and rose to the position of squadron pioneer. 

At the point when his cricket profession finished, Gilligan kept up his association with Sussex, of which he was later made an Honorary Life Member. He filled in as director, benefactor and leader of the district, and helped numerous neighborhood clubs in the territory. He picked up a decent notoriety as a speaker and teacher, and furthermore built up an enthusiasm for golf in later years: he was leader of the English golf association in 1959, chief of the County Cricketers' Golfing Society from 1952 until 1972, and leader of the last association until his passing. 

An Honorary Life Member of the MCC, Gilligan filled in as MCC president from 1967 to 1968. Amid his residency, the MCC was associated with contention over the non-choice of Basil D'Oliveira to visit South Africa. The South African government did not need D'Oliveira in the England group on the grounds of his shading. Gilligan, in his ability as MCC president, knew about this having seen a private letter which conveyed the unequivocal danger from the South African executive B. J. Vorster that the inevitable visit would be dropped if D'Oliveira were chosen. Nonetheless, he and the other people who saw the letter, G. O. B. Allen and Billy Griffith, individually the MCC treasurer and secretary, hushed up about this data. At the point when the English selectors met to pick the group, Gilligan, Allen and Griffith were available to speak to the MCC. A BBC program in 2004 asserted that Gilligan compelled the selectors to forget D'Oliveira, however D'Oliveira's biographer Peter Oborne recommends that Allen conveyed unquestionably more impact at the gathering. He composes of Gilligan's part in the issue: "It is inappropriate to make a lot of Gilligan's humiliating past. Given that presidents are designated for just a year, it was a solid president in reality who could force his identity on the perpetual MCC secretariat of Griffith and Allen, and Gilligan was not a solid president." Initially D'Oliveira was let well enough alone for the group, however when a player pulled back with damage, the selectors included him as a substitution; the South African government banished D'Oliveira from participating and the MCC dropped the visit. 

In 1971, a stand named after Gilligan was opened at Hove Cricket Ground, however this was crushed in 2010 as a major aspect of a redevelopment. Gilligan kicked the bucket in Pulborough, Sussex, on 5 September 1976, matured 81.