2006 Chick-fil-A Bowl 

The 2006 Chick-fil-A Bowl was a postseason school football coordinate between the Georgia Bulldogs and the Virginia Tech Hokies at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta, Georgia. The University of Georgia spoke to the Southeastern Conference (SEC) and Virginia Tech spoke to the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) in the challenge. The amusement was the last challenge of the 2006 football season for each group and brought about a 31– 24 Georgia triumph, despite the fact that spread bettors favored Virginia Tech to win by three. In return for the privilege to pick the main ACC group after the Bowl Championship Series determinations, bowl delegates paid US$3.25 million to the ACC, while the SEC, whose fifth group was chosen, gotten $2.4 million. The consolidated $5.65 million payout was the seventh-biggest among all school football bowl diversions, and the fourth-biggest non-BCS bowl amusement payout. 

In an amusement that was relied upon to be a cautious battle, Virginia Tech took a 21– 3 lead in the main half. After halftime, Georgia addressed Tech's first-half achievement, thanks to some extent to four second-half turnovers by Tech quarterback Sean Glennon. Virginia Tech's No. 1 positioned protection battled in the second half, permitting 153 yards (of 200 aggregate) in the last 30 minutes. As time ran out, Georgia held a one-touchdown lead, 31– 24, having beaten back a very late Tech rally. 75,406 people went to the amusement, making it the tenth back to back Peach Bowl sellout, the biggest group to ever go to an occasion at the Georgia Dome, and the third-biggest bowl diversion as far as participation for the 2006– 2007 season. Each school sold out its designation of 18,500 tickets rapidly. 31,922 people went to the Chick-fil-A "fan fest" before the amusement, setting another participation record. Virginia Tech's misfortune conveyed it to a last 2006 record of 10– 3, while Georgia's last amusement win earned it a record of 9– 4. 

Starting with the 2006 amusement, the Chick-fil-A Bowl had bought the privilege to choose the most noteworthy positioned Atlantic Coast Conference group after delegates from the Bowl Championship Series made their determination. As per the official determination runs still utilized today, the group picked to speak to the ACC must be inside one gathering triumph of the staying, most elevated positioned meeting group or be positioned in excess of five spaces in front of the ACC group with the best Conference record accessible in the last BCS Standings. 

In picking the SEC adversary, the Chick-fil-A Bowl choice board of trustees reserved the option to choose the primary SEC school after the Bowl Championship Series, Cotton Bowl Classic, Capital One Bowl, and Outback Bowl made their choices. Similarly as in the ACC, the determination board of trustees couldn't choose a SEC group with two a larger number of misfortunes than the most astounding accessible group. The bowl earned the privilege to choose these groups by means of its multimillion-dollar payout framework, which ensures a specific measure of cash to the taking an interest meetings. Preceding 2006, the Chick-fil-A Bowl (at that point known as the Peach Bowl) coordinated the No. 5 group in the SEC versus the No. 3 group in the ACC. After the bowl expanded its payout to $2.8 million per squad, it at that point was given the second pick from the ACC, with the Gator Bowl dropping to third. 

Leeman Bennett, the previous head mentor of the Atlanta Falcons and Tampa Bay Buccaneers, filled in as executive of the determination board, which had the errand of picking the best groups from those made accessible by the choice criteria set by the two gatherings. The panel would have around one month to choose the two teams that would pull in the vast majority to the amusement and create the biggest conceivable TV group of onlookers. This reality wiped out ACC sprinter up Georgia Tech from the choice procedure, as the Yellow Jackets had effectively played Georgia before in the season, in this manner making a potential Georgia-Georgia Tech confrontation less appealing. What's more, that matchup, while alluring to football fans in the Atlanta region (the site of the Chick-fil-A Bowl and home to Georgia Tech), would have less intrigue to audience members outside the Georgia territory. Directing the determination advisory group was the Chick-fil-A Bowl Executive Committee, which comprised of delegates from different Atlanta organizations and the Chick-fil-A company. 

On the morning of December 3, 2006, Chick-fil-A Bowl agents chose Virginia Tech to speak to the ACC in the 2006 Chick-fil-A Bowl. A couple of hours after the fact, Georgia was chosen as the second 50% of the matchup. Two days after the choices were reported, the amusement was pronounced sold out, the tenth continuous sellout in the joined history of the Peach and Chick-fil-A Bowls. Georgia and Virginia Tech each were appointed starting portions of 18,500 tickets for circulation, and following the snappy offers of those ticket alliances, each requested and got extra tickets to disperse. 

The amusement was the third time Virginia Tech and the University of Georgia confronted each other on the football field. The two past diversions—one out of 1931 and the other in 1932—brought about one misfortune and one win for each group. Different gambling clubs and wagering associations favored Virginia Tech by 2.5– 3 when setting their point spread. 

Media discourse of the amusement in the weeks paving the way to kickoff fixated on the Hokies' No. 1-broadly positioned resistance and Georgia's fifth positioned SEC safeguard. Most savants anticipated a low-scoring amusement, and a couple anticipated a "full scale guarded war". Seven days before leaving for Atlanta, Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer uncovered that Ike Whitaker, Virginia Tech's reinforcement quarterback, would not be going to the amusement for undisclosed reasons. It was later uncovered that Whitaker had been admitted to a liquor treatment focus in Salem, Virginia. 

For Georgia, dialog fixated on the play-calling obligations of right hand mentor Mike Bobo. Bobo had been named the impermanent hostile organizer for the Bulldogs after then-right hand facilitator Neil Calloway had been named the new head mentor at the University of Alabama-Birmingham. Calloway would stay with the Bulldogs as the hostile line mentor amid the Chick-fil-A Bowl, however Bobo would assume control over his job as hostile facilitator for the diversion. It was just the second time that Bobo executed as a play-guest for the Bulldogs, the past amusement having come in Georgia's normal season nearer, a 15– 12 win against Georgia Tech. 

With the fifth-positioned resistance in the SEC going toward the main positioned scoring barrier in the country, consideration focused on the probability of a low-scoring guarded battle. Specifically noteworthy were the two groups' quarterbacks and how they would almost certainly toll against such an extreme barrier. Georgia battled on offense for a significant part of the period, bringing about a fight for the beginning quarterback position between senior Joe Tereshinski and green bean Matthew Stafford. In spite of the fact that Stafford was in the long run given the beginning job, he battled in his first year, finishing 126 of 235 passes (53.6%) for 1,620 yards, with 12 interceptions heading into the Chick-fil-A Bowl. On the contrary side of the field, Virginia Tech would begin redshirt sophomore Sean Glennon. Named the beginning quarterback toward the start of the 2006 season, Glennon supplanted Marcus Vick, who had been removed from Virginia Tech toward the finish of the earlier year. While not as factually effective as Marcus Vick, Glennon still figured out how to lead the Hokies to their third back to back 10-win season, and had the edge over Stafford as far as experience. 

On the ground, it gave the idea that Virginia Tech had the edge in understanding, driving Georgia's guard to focus on ceasing Tech's run diversion. Virginia Tech running back Branden Ore endured a lower leg damage in the Hokies' normal season diversion against Wake Forest, yet took the field in the Chick-fil-A Bowl. The equivalent couldn't be said for Georgia, whose unique beginning running back, Thomas Brown, endured a season-finishing knee damage in October. Filling his job were two unpracticed players: Kregg Lumpkin and Danny Ware. Compensating for this naiveté, the two players were trained by Tony Ball, a previous Virginia Tech wide recipients mentor with bits of knowledge into the Tech guard. 

With Ore still not completely recouped from his damage and two unpracticed players on the Georgia side, it created the impression that the groups' passing offenses would need to take up the slack. Virginia Tech's Eddie Royal, with 452 receiving yards, drove the two groups in getting yardage coming into the amusement. Georgia's accepting corps was driven by wide beneficiary Mohammed Massaquoi and tight end Martrez Milner. Massaquoi got 28 passes for 348 yards and two touchdowns coming into the diversion, while Milner had 27 receptions for two touchdowns. 

Every offense would confront intense resistance noticeable all around and on the ground. The Virginia Tech guard, driven by junior linebackers Vince Hall and Xavier Adibi, was required to exhibit a test for the Georgia offense. "You endeavor to locate some sort of confound, yet it's hard to do", Georgia head mentor Mark Richt said before kickoff. "That is for what reason they're the best (resistance) in the nation. Their inside guarded linemen are, extremely solid and physical, and, truly, every other person is worked for speed. Their edge rushers are huge, and their linebackers are extraordinary and physical. Their protective backs would all be able to run and hit. It will be a genuine test." Of specific worry for quarterback Matt Stafford were Virginia Tech's cornerbacks, whom he would need to experience so as to finish goes to his beneficiaries. "They play sort of an unexpected plan in comparison to a ton of groups so it would be extreme on the off chance that you just had multi week to attempt to get ready for these folks", Stafford said in a meeting preceding the diversion. "They trust their corners a great deal, however they have great ones and can. They lock up a ton of time single beneficiary side since they have a decent corner down there that plays on the limit." 

Georgia's barrier, positioned fifth in the SEC, was no less a worry for Virginia Tech's offense. "Barrier is one of the significant parts of the SEC", said Georgia focus Nick Jones before the diversion. "You face extraordinary safeguards throughout each and every week, and we face an incredible multi all week every week practically speaking against our resistance. We've been facing extraordinary resistances and incredible work force, so it's just the same old thing new for us." Heading into the amusement, Georgia was positioned ninth in absolute safeguard, surrendering just 264 yards per diversion, and 22nd in scoring barrier, permitting a normal of simply 17.1 points an amusement. 

The 2006 Chick-fil-A bowl commenced on December 30, 2006 at 8:00 p.m. The amusement was broadly broadcast on ESPN, with over 5 million family units tuning into the diversion at home, enough to acquire ESPN a TV rating of 4.8 for the communicate. 75,406 people went to the amusement face to face, making it the tenth successive Chick-fil-A Bowl sell-out, the first since "Peach" was dropped from the title, the biggest group ever to go to an occasion at the Georgia Dome, and the third-biggest bowl diversion regarding participation for the 2006– 2007 season. 31,922 people went to the Chick-fil-A "fan fest" preceding the diversion, setting another participation record. Because of the nearness of Atlanta to the University of Georgia's primary grounds in Athens, Georgia, gave Georgia a home-field advantage. be that as it may, the Virginia Tech fans, known for making a trip well to their bowl appearances, rapidly purchased out their school's apportioning of tickets and guaranteed an isolated group. 

Resistance commanded in the principal quarter of the amusement. Virginia Tech got the opening kickoff, yet neglected to gain by its opening drive on account of an individual foul punishment that constrained the Hokies to punt. On its first belonging, Georgia moved into scoring position affability of a 26-yard kept running by Kregg Lumpkin. Neglecting to propel the ball further, Georgia sent in kicker Brandon Coutu who kicked a 39-yard field objective to give Georgia the early lead, 3– 0. 

The two groups continued to exchange assets, with no side ready to pick up favorable position over the other's barrier. Tech got the kickoff from Georgia, however was again hampered by punishments in the wake of acquiring a first down. After the Virginia Tech punt, Georgia went three-and-out, punting to the Hokies, who likewise went three-and-out. 

In the wake of taking belonging without anyone else 16-yard line, Georgia quarterback and genuine green bean Matthew Stafford caused the principal defining moment of the diversion as he tossed a capture to Brenden Hill of Virginia Tech. Beginning somewhere down in Georgia region, Virginia Tech was additionally helped by an individual foul on Georgia, which set up a first-and-objective circumstance for Virginia Tech on the Georgia 6-yard line. A two-yard kept running by Virginia Tech full back Branden Ore conveyed the ball nearer to the objective line and finished the principal quarter of play. 

Toward the finish of the principal quarter, Georgia drove Virginia Tech 3– 0. 

The second quarter started with Virginia Tech inside the Georgia 10-yard line. After two fruitless plays, Virginia Tech was at long last ready to achieve the end zone on a Branden Ore one-yard surge in a fourth-and-one circumstance. The touchdown and additional point gave Virginia Tech a 7– 3 lead with 13:23 left in the half. 

Georgia started its first belonging with a 25-yard kickoff return, however neglected to gain a first down even with an intense Hokie cautious exertion. Georgia punter Gordon Ely-Kelso kicked a 56-yard punt following the Virginia Tech guarded stop. A breakdown in unique groups inclusion by Georgia permitted Virginia Tech kick returner Eddie Royal to break free, restoring the kick 56 yards back to the first line of scrimmage. Because of the great field position given by the arrival, Virginia Tech had the capacity to drive the staying 30 yards to the end zone. Branden Ore earned his second touchdown of the amusement, making the score 14– 3 with 6:13 staying on the clock. 

After a short return, Georgia QB Stafford got down to business on the Georgia 24-yard line. Two inadequate passes and one sack later, Georgia was again punting. Virginia Tech again was in phenomenal field position, beginning their own 47-yard line. Rather than hurrying the ball, as had been the pattern for the Tech offense up to that point, Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer required a trap play. At the snap, quarterback Sean Glennon lateraled the football to wide collector Eddie Royal. Instead of running the ball, Royal tossed the ball downfield, finding the Georgia resistance napping. Tight end Sam Wheeler, the objective of the toss, had been left revealed by a resistance anticipating a run. The pass was finished, and Wheeler ran unhampered 53 yards for a touchdown. The play took 19 seconds to execute, and gave Virginia Tech a 21– 3 lead with 4:00 staying in the half. 

Georgia was again unfit to gain a first down in the resulting ownership, and endeavored three straight surging plays that earned an aggregate of six yards. After a Georgia punt, Virginia Tech ran two hurrying plays before endeavoring a similar Royal pass that had gone for a touchdown before. Georgia, having foreseen the play, sacked Royal for lost two yards, finishing the first half. 

At halftime, Virginia Tech drove Georgia 21– 3. 

Since Virginia Tech had gotten the opening kickoff, Georgia got the ball to open the second half. Stafford had the capacity to associate with wide beneficiary Mario Raley for a 24-yard increase, taking Georgia to the 50-yard line, yet Virginia Tech's resistance solidified and Georgia was compelled to punt. Stuck at their ten-yard line by the Georgia punt, Virginia Tech went three-and-out and was itself compelled to punt. 

A 19-yard punt return by Mikey Henderson place Georgia into great field position. Stafford benefited from the chance, finishing a 26-yard go to place Georgia into field-objective range. After three fruitless plays, kicker Brandon Coutu associated on a 51-yard field objective to slice the Virginia Tech lead to 21– 6. 

On the kickoff following the field objective, Georgia head mentor Mark Richt requested an irregular onside kick. Amazed by the unforeseen play, the Virginia Tech inclusion group was unfit to recuperate the ball, which was jumped upon by the kicker, Brian Mimbs. With another possibility at offense and a feeling of confidence activated by the fruitful onside kick, Georgia drove down the field. Supported by 20 yards in punishments against Virginia Tech, the drive brought about a six-yard touchdown go to Martrez Milner. The touchdown and additional point supported Georgia's spirit and slice the score to 21– 13, Virginia Tech driving by eight. 

The second from last quarter found some conclusion as Virginia Tech attempted to answer the two Georgia scores. Tech quarterback Sean Glennon associated on a 29-yard go to Eddie Royal, driving the Hokies to the Bulldog 47-yard line as the clock hit zero. 

Toward the finish of the second from last quarter, Virginia Tech still driven Georgia, 21– 13. 

The final quarter started with Virginia Tech scanning for an approach to answer Georgia's past two scores and suppress the energy Georgia had grabbed. On the third play of the quarter, be that as it may, Virginia Tech quarterback Sean Glennon tossed a capture to Georgia's Tony Taylor. Starting alone 35-yard line, Georgia exploited the slip-up rapidly, kindness of a 15-yard individual foul punishment and a 41-yard fruition from Stafford to Milner. Georgia, planning to tie the time, endeavored and finished a two-point change. The subsequent scores tied the amusement at 21– 21 with 12:39 staying in the diversion. 

Virginia Tech's would like to answer were crushed on the principal play after Georgia's kickoff as Glennon mishandled the snap, losing the ball to Georgia's Quentin Moses. Georgia neglected to get a first down after the turnover, yet the mishandle turned into three for the Bulldogs, as kicker Brandon Coutu associated on his third field objective of the day, giving Georgia its first lead since the principal quarter, 24– 21. 

After the Georgia kickoff, Glennon was again caught by Tony Taylor, who earned his second block attempt on the day and made Glennon's third turnover. Taylor restored the ball 16 yards to the Tech one-yard line, setting up a simple touchdown for the Bulldogs. With 6:54 residual, Georgia took a 31– 21 lead over Virginia Tech. 

On the resulting Tech ownership, Tech's quarterback kept on playing ineffectively. On the third play following the kickoff, Glennon was captured for the fourth time in the amusement. The downfield capture attempt set up Georgia at their very own 11-yard line. Georgia surged the ball multiple times, compelling Virginia Tech to utilize two timeouts so as to stop the clock. The punt by Georgia's Ely-Kelso was ineffectively done, and voyaged just 15 yards before leaving limits. 

Because of the incredible field position, Virginia Tech appeared in position for a simple score. Be that as it may, after a fast Tech initially down, the Georgia barrier hardened and Tech was compelled to make due with a field objective. The 28-yard kick by Brandon Pace slice Georgia's lead to 31– 24, however just 3:42 stayed on the clock. Because of the brief timeframe remaining, Virginia Tech was compelled to endeavor an onside kick so as to get another opportunity at offense. The kick was recuperated by Georgia, nonetheless, and the Bulldogs continued to surge the ball in three back to back plays, compelling the Hokies to utilize their last timeout so as to preserve time for one last drive. 

Georgia's punt folded into the end zone for a touchback, and with 1:28 staying in the amusement, Virginia Tech started the last drive without anyone else 20-yard line. Any pressure was before long defused by the Georgia barrier, which constrained three incompletions and a sack. Glennon's endeavor at a Hail Mary pass missed the mark, giving Georgia the success with a last score of 31– 24. 

The 18-point rebound was the biggest for Georgia under mentor Mark Richt up to that point. In acknowledgment of their exhibitions amid the diversion, Georgia linebacker Tony Taylor and quarterback Matthew Stafford were named the protective and hostile MVPs of the amusement, individually. Taylor's two captures tied the Georgia bowl record for block attempts, first set by Scott Woerner and Ronnie Harris. The four Virginia Tech turnovers brought about 18 Georgia points. Georgia's sole turnover brought about seven for Virginia Tech. 

Over 33% of Georgia's 71 rushing yards went ahead a solitary 26-yard keep running in the main quarter by halfback Kregg Lumpkin. After the run, Lumpkin would accumulate just 13 additional yards in the staying three quarters of play. Over portion of Georgia's all out hostile yards (200 absolute yards) got through the air from Stafford, who completed with 129 passing yards, one interception, and one touchdown. Roughly a third (41 yards) of Stafford's passing yards went ahead a solitary fruition in the final quarter. Another long pass play got Stafford 24 yards. Together, the two plays represented portion of Stafford's all out passing yards. Seven different fulfillments got just 64 yards, a normal of simply over 9 yards a play. 

Georgia's kicking diversion had an unmistakably more dynamic day than its offense. Punter Gordon Ely-Kelso booted seven punts and kicker Brandon Coutu nailed three field goals. The field objectives, kicked from 39, 51, and 28 yards away and two additional focuses made Coutu Georgia's driving scorer in the diversion, gaining 11 points. Ely-Kelso got 264 yards in punts, a normal of 37.7 yards per kick. Despite the fact that not long, the punts were sufficiently high noticeable all around to enable Georgia's uncommon groups to get downfield and anticipate long punt returns. Just two of Ely-Kelso's punts were returned by Tech kick returner Eddie Royal, and one return was for negative yardage. 

Georgia's barrier dealt with a solid exhibition measurably and in genuine terms. The most clear instances of this were the three interceptions and one constrained bobble that ended up being the defining moment in the diversion. Two of the block attempts were gotten by linebacker Tony Taylor, who additionally had nine tackles, two for lost yards. The handles tied him with Paul Oliver, who likewise had nine. The third capture attempt originated from Kelin Johnson, while the bumble was constrained by Charles Johnson. Johnson had a functioning day also. Notwithstanding the constrained bobble, he recorded four tackles, two sacks, and a pass break-up. 

The guarded play of Taylor, Oliver, and Johnson enormously influenced the course of the amusement and is evident in Georgia's season of ownership and normal beginning position in every one of the quarters. Amid the first and second quarters, Georgia had normal beginning positions without anyone else 19 and 26-yard lines, separately. Their first-quarter time of ownership was simply 5:41, and their second-quarter ownership time was 6:34. Amid the third and fourth quarters, when every one of the four Virginia Tech turnovers occurred, Georgia's season of ownership bounced to 10:41 and 7:47, separately. In the second from last quarter, their normal beginning belonging increased ten yards to the Georgia 36, and amid the last quarter, their normal beginning position was the Virginia Tech 36-yard line. This reality enabled Georgia to gain by the Virginia Tech turnovers, transforming them into focuses on the scoreboard. 

Sean Glennon's four turnovers tied a vocation high for block attempts and conveyed his season capture attempt imprint to 11. He finished 13 of his 26 passes for 94 yards and a consummation level of half. The passing aggregate of 94 yards was the second-most minimal aggregate in the whole season, coming behind just a November 4 diversion in Miami where Glennon go for only 86 yards despite an extreme barrier. In a measurement unordinary for the 2006 season, Glennon was by all account not the only Tech player to finish a pass. Wide recipient Eddie Royal's 53-yard TD pass made him simply the third Virginia Tech player to finish a go amid the 2006 season. The play on which Royal made his toss, a parallel WR pass, had been endeavored once beforehand in the season amid a 38– 27 misfortune to Georgia Tech. 

On the ground, the Hokies had even less accomplishment than they did noticeable all around. Branden Ore, Tech's beginning half back, earned 42 yards in 20 short rushes amid the amusement. With a long keep running of eight yards, Ore was held under wraps by Georgia's protection. The main other Hokie to accomplish positive yardage on the ground was reinforcement half back Kenny Lewis, who just overseen five yards. Glennon was sacked multiple times, when bumbling the ball. These sacks cleared out the 11 hurrying yards he figured out how to pick up amid his scrambles for yardage. In the second quarter, Virginia Tech was supported by magnificent field position, empowering them to score three hostile touchdowns. Tech's normal beginning field position in that quarter was the Georgia 48-yard line, considering simple scores notwithstanding for a battling offense. 

Likewise with Georgia, Virginia Tech's kicking and exceptional groups demonstrated to have more accomplishment than either part of the offense. Virginia Tech kicker Brandon Pace scored a solitary 28-yard field objective late in the final quarter, and punter Nic Schmitt shot four punts for an aggregate of 195 yards, averaging 48.8 yards a punt. Pace's field objective set off a late-diversion rally by Virginia Tech, which had been paralyzed by a Georgia onside kick and a few capture attempts tossed by Glennon. Schmitt's long punts, in the interim, denied Georgia great field position in the primary portion of the diversion. Just in the second half, when Glennon's block attempts enabled Georgia to begin the Tech side of the field, was the Georgia offense ready to achieve the end zone. In the first and second quarters, Georgia's normal beginning position was their very own 19-yard line and possess 26-yard line, separately. 

That beginning field position demonstrated a help for the Virginia Tech protection, which just permitted 200 total yards in the diversion. Tech linebacker Vince Hall drove the Hokies and every single cautious player with 13 tackles in the diversion. Tech recorded one capture attempt amid the amusement, civility of Brenden Hill, who additionally made three tackles. Georgia's hostile line, in spite of beginning just six grant hostile linemen, permitted only two sacks to the Virginia Tech barrier. Chris Ellis and Noland Burchette each earned a solitary sack, representing lost 15 total yards. 

The success over #14 Virginia Tech empowered the Bulldogs to break into the Top 25 rankings in the last school football survey of the period. Georgia was ranked #23 in the nation because of its success over the Hokies, who dropped to #19 nationally following the misfortune. The misfortune snapped a six-amusement series of wins by Virginia Tech and finished the Hokies' offered at ending up only the fourth group in school history to win 11 diversions in a season. The 2006 Georgia Bulldogs, thus, turned into the principal group in school history to vanquish three back to back positioned groups. No. 5 Auburn, No. 16 Georgia Tech, and No. 14 Virginia Tech all tumbled to Georgia in November or December. The diversion and the countless fans it pulled in infused an expected $35 million into the Atlanta territory economy, for the most part because of nourishment, inn, and different costs acquired by visiting fans. 

In August 2007, Frank Beamer shut group practices to outside onlookers without precedent for 20 years. He refered to worries about obscure people watching Virginia Tech practice in Atlanta before the Hokies' misfortune to Georgia, possibly prompting the annihilation. Amid the 2007 season, Virginia Tech quarterback Sean Glennon was supplanted as the Hokies' starter by first year recruit Tyrod Taylor, making numerous savants point to the four captures Glennon tossed in the Chick-fil-A Bowl for instance of his disappointment as a quarterback. Brian Mimbs, the previous stroll on who kicked and recuperated the onside kick that started Georgia's rally was named the Bulldogs' beginning punter for the 2007 season, in part because of his execution in the Chick-fil-A Bowl. 

Toward the finish of the 2007 NCAA Division I FBS football season, both Georgia and Virginia Tech were named to Bowl Championship Series bowl amusements, demonstrating an expansion over their 2006 exhibitions. Georgia earned an offer to the 2008 Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, Louisiana against the Hawaii Warriors, who they crushed, 41– 10. Virginia Tech, having won the 2007 ACC Championship Game, earned a programmed offer to the 2008 Orange Bowl in Miami, Florida, losing 24– 21 to the Kansas Jayhawks.