1880 Democratic National Convention 

The 1880 Democratic National Convention was held June 22 to 24, 1880, at the Music Hall in Cincinnati, Ohio, and selected Winfield S. Hancock of Pennsylvania for President and William H. English of Indiana for Vice President in the United States presidential decision of 1880. 

Six men were authoritatively possibility for selection at the tradition, and a few all the more likewise gotten votes. Of these, the two driving applicants were Hancock and Thomas F. Bayard of Delaware. Not formally an applicant, however using a substantial impact over the tradition, was the Democratic candidate from 1876, Samuel J. Tilden of New York. Numerous Democrats trusted Tilden to have been unreasonably denied of the administration in 1876 and wanted to rally around him in the 1880 battle. Tilden, notwithstanding, was equivocal about his readiness to take part in another crusade, driving a few agents to desert to different applicants, while others remained faithful to their old leading figure. 

As the tradition opened, a few representatives favored Bayard, a traditionalist Senator, and some others bolstered Hancock, a lifelong warrior and Civil War saint. Still others rushed to men they saw as surrogates for Tilden, including Henry B. Payne of Ohio, a lawyer and previous delegate, and Samuel J. Randall of Pennsylvania, the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. The first round of balloting was uncertain. Before the second round, Tilden's withdrawal from the crusade ended up known for certain and delegates rushed to Hancock, who was selected. English, a traditionalist government official from a swing state, was assigned for Vice President. Hancock and English were barely crushed in the race against Republicans James A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur that harvest time. 

In 1876, Republican Rutherford B. Hayes of Ohio crushed Democrat Samuel J. Tilden of New York in the most fervently challenged decision to that time in the country's history. The outcomes at first demonstrated a Democratic triumph, yet the appointive votes of a few states were fervently debated until insignificant days before the new president was to be initiated. Individuals from the two gatherings in Congress consented to meet a bi-fanatic Electoral Commission, which at last chose the race for Hayes. Most Democrats trusted Tilden had been burglarized of the administration, and he turned into the main contender for assignment in 1880. Meanwhile, issues of levy change and the best quality level partitioned the nation and the real gatherings. 

The money related issue assumed a huge job in choosing the chosen people in 1880, yet had little impact on the general race crusade. The discussion concerned the reason for the United States dollar's esteem. Only gold and silver coin had ever been lawful delicate in the United States until the Civil War, when the mounting expenses of the war constrained Congress to issue "greenbacks" (dollar notes supported by government bonds). They paid for the war, however brought about the most serious swelling since the American Revolution. After the war, bondholders and different leasers (particularly in the North) needed to come back to a highest quality level. In the meantime, account holders (regularly in the South and West) profited by the manner in which swelling paid off their obligations, and specialists and some agents loved the manner in which expansion made for simple credit. The issue cut crosswise over gatherings, delivering disagreement among Republicans and Democrats alike and producing an outsider, the Greenback Party, in 1876, when both real gatherings selected hard cash men. Fiscal discussion strengthened as Congress successfully demonetized silver in 1873 and started reclaiming greenbacks in gold by 1879, while restricting their course. By the 1880 tradition, the country's cash was upheld by gold alone, however the issue was a long way from settled. 

Discussion over taxes would come to assume an a lot bigger job in the battle. Amid the Civil War, Congress raised defensive taxes higher than ever. This was done mostly to pay for the war, however incompletely in light of the fact that high duties were prominent in the North. A high duty implied that outside merchandise were progressively costly, which made it simpler for American organizations to sell products locally. Republicans upheld high levies as an approach to secure American occupations and increment success. Democrats, for the most part, considered them to be making products superfluously costly and adding to the developing government incomes when, with the finish of the Civil War, that much income was never again required. Numerous Northern Democrats bolstered high taxes, nonetheless, for the equivalent financial reasons that their Republican neighbors did, so while Democratic stages required a levy "for income just," their speakers stayed away from the inquiry however much as could reasonably be expected. 

Samuel Jones Tilden started his political profession in the "Barnburner," or Free Soil, group of the New York Democratic Party. He was a fruitful legal counselor and had amassed an impressive fortune. A pupil of previous president Martin Van Buren, Tilden was first chosen to the New York State Assembly in 1846. Tilden deserted with Van Buren to the 1848 Free Soil Party tradition before coming back to the Democratic party after the decision. In contrast to some free-soil Democrats, Tilden remained with his gathering during the 1850s as opposed to exchanging his faithfulness to the recently shaped Republican gathering. At the point when the Civil War started, he stayed faithful to the Union and viewed himself as a War Democrat. In 1866, he progressed toward becoming administrator of the New York State Democratic gathering, a post he held for a long time. Tilden at first collaborated with Tammany Hall, the New York City political machine of William "Manager" Tweed, yet the two men before long moved toward becoming foes. In the mid 1870s, as reports of Tammany's defilement spread, Tilden took up the reason for change. He framed an adversary group that caught control of the gathering and drove the push to reveal verification of Tammany's debasement and expel its men from office. Tweed was before long arraigned and sentenced; Tammany was debilitated and improved, however not vanquished. 

The triumph over Tammany prepared for Tilden's race to a two-year term as representative in 1874. As a prevalent, reformist legislative head of a substantial swing state, Tilden was a characteristic contender for the administration in 1876, when one of the fundamental issues was the debasement of the organization of President Ulysses S. Concede. He was selected on the second poll, and crusaded on a stage of change and sound cash (for example the highest quality level). His adversary was Governor Rutherford B. Hayes of Ohio, in like manner noted for his trustworthiness and hard-cash sees. After the firmly challenged race, with the inquiry still uncertain, Congress and President Grant consented to present the question to a bipartisan Electoral Commission, which would decide the destiny of the debated discretionary votes. Tilden contradicted the thought, however numerous Democrats upheld it as the best way to maintain a strategic distance from a second Civil War. The commission casted a ballot 8– 7 to honor Hayes the debated votes. Congressional Democrats submitted in Hayes' decision, yet at a value: the new Republican president pulled back government troops from Southern capitals after his initiation. Tilden was crushed—burglarized, as he would like to think and that of his supporters. 

Tilden went through the following four years as the hypothetical Democratic applicant in 1880. In 1879, he declined to keep running for another term as senator and concentrated rather on structure support for the 1880 presidential designation. He thought about a large number of his previous companions (counting Senator Thomas F. Bayard of Delaware) adversaries now for their help of the Electoral Commission, and tried to keep the "extortion of '76" in the spotlight and polish his own future application by having his congressional partners examine the occasions of the post-decision moving. For ten months starting in May 1878, the Potter Committee, led by Democratic Congressman Clarkson Nott Potter of New York, examined claims of extortion and debasement in the states which had challenged appointive votes in 1876. As opposed to deliver convincing proof of Republican misbehavior, as Tilden's supporters trusted, the board of trustees absolved Tilden of bad behavior, however revealed clashing proof that indicated state race authorities of the two gatherings in a negative light. This, and Tilden's declining wellbeing, made numerous Democrats question his office. All things considered, Tilden's assumed capacity to convey New York, joined with his political association and individual fortune, made him a genuine contender. 

The first of these capabilities was broken with the Republican triumph in the New York gubernatorial race in 1879. In that race, a rejuvenated Tammany split from the ordinary Democratic gathering in a support debate with Tilden's group (presently known as the "Irving Hall Democrats"). Tammany ran its new pioneer, "Genuine" John Kelly, as a free contender for representative, enabling the Republicans to convey the state with a majority of the vote. Tilden started to falter, issuing vague proclamations about whether he would run once more. Bits of gossip coursed fiercely in the months prior to the tradition, with no complete word from Tilden. As the New York designation left for the national tradition in Cincinnati, Tilden gave a letter to one of his main supporters, Daniel Manning, proposing that his wellbeing may drive him to decrease the assignment. Tilden would have liked to be selected, yet just on the off chance that he was the consistent decision of the tradition; if not, Manning was endowed to make the substance of Tilden's letter accessible to the New York assignment. When it turned out to be certain that the assignment would be challenged, Manning uncovered the substance of the Tilden letter; it was dubious and uncertain, however once is substance ended up known to Tilden's home state delegates, they interpretted it as a withdrawal. The New York assignment currently believed Tilden's nomination to be finished, and looked for another leading figure. 

One recipient of Tilden's takeoff from the scene was Senator Thomas F. Bayard of Delaware. Bayard was the scion of an old political family in Delaware and had spoken to his state in the United States Senate since 1869. As one of an overall bunch of preservationist Democrats in the Senate at the time, Bayard started his profession restricting vivaciously, assuming inadequately, the Republican dominant part's arrangements for the Reconstruction of the Southern states after the Civil War. Like Tilden, Bayard bolstered the best quality level and had a notoriety for trustworthiness. At the 1876 tradition, Bayard had put a far off fifth in the balloting, yet bolstered Tilden's motivation in the general race, talking on his sake around the nation. The political fellowship between the two immediately soured in the decision's outcome as Bayard upheld the Electoral Commission and Tilden restricted it. Bayard trusted the commission was the main option in contrast to common war, and filled in as one of the Democratic individuals; Tilden accepting this as an individual disloyalty. 

In the four years that pursued, Bayard tried to construct support for another keep running at the selection. He and Tilden went after help among Eastern moderates due to their help for the best quality level. The best quality level was less famous in the South, however there Bayard stacked his years-long backing in the Senate for genius Southern traditionalist approaches against Tilden's political machine and riches in the challenge for Southern representatives. A hit to Bayard's motivation came in February 1880 when the "New York Sun", a paper well disposed to Tilden, distributed a transcript of a discourse Bayard made in Dover, Delaware, in 1861. As the conditions of the Deep South were withdrawing from the Union, a youthful Bayard had broadcasted "with this severance, or insurgency, or defiance, or by whatever name it might be called, the State of Delaware has nothing to do", and encouraged that the South be allowed to pull back from the Union in harmony. To numerous in the South, this affirmed their perspective on Bayard as their hero, however incomprehensibly it debilitated Bayard's help with different Southerners, who expected that a previous Peace Democrat could never be worthy to Northerners. In the meantime, Bayard's firm position on the cash question pushed a few Democrats to help Major General Winfield Scott Hancock, who had not been related to either outrageous in the gold– silver discussion and had a military record that spoke to Northerners. As the tradition opened, Bayard was still among the main hopefuls, yet was a long way from sure of triumph. 

Winfield Scott Hancock spoke to an irregular juncture in the post-war country: a man who had faith in the Democratic Party's standards of states' rights and constrained government, however whose enemy of secessionist conclusion was irreproachable. A local of Pennsylvania, Hancock moved on from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1844 and started a forty-year profession as a warrior. He presented with unique excellence in the Mexican– American War and in the prior to the war peacetime armed force. At the flare-up of the Civil War, Hancock stayed faithful to the Union. He was elevated to brevet brigadier general in 1861 and put in order of a detachment in the Army of the Potomac. In the Peninsula Campaign of 1862, he drove a basic counterattack and earned the moniker "Hancock the Superb" from his authority, Major General George B. McClellan. At Antietam, he drove a division in the Union triumph and was elevated to significant general. Hancock's sparkling minute came at the Battle of Gettysburg when he sorted out the dissipated troops, aroused safeguards, and was injured on the third day as his troops turned back Pickett's Charge. 

Since 1864, when he got a solitary spontaneous vote at the Democratic National Convention, Hancock had been an enduring competitor. As military legislative leader of Louisiana and Texas in 1867, Hancock had won the regard of the white traditionalist populace by issuing his General Order Number 40, in which he expressed that if the inhabitants of the area acted gently and the regular citizen authorities played out their obligations, at that point "the military power should stop to lead, and the common organization continue its normal and legitimate territory." He had a bigger after at the 1868 tradition, completing as high as second spot in certain rounds of balloting. In 1876, Hancock again drew a significant after, however never completed higher than third spot at that year's tradition. In 1880, another Hancock blast started, this time focused for the most part in the South. In March of that year, the "New Orleans Picayune" ran a publication that required the general's selection, incompletely for his identity—a war legend with preservationist political standards—and halfway for his identity not—a known factional of either side of the money related or tax discusses. As Tilden and Bayard rose and fell in the estimation of Democratic voters, Hancock's offered for selection assembled steam. Some were uncertain whether, following eight years of Grant, himself a previous general, the gathering would be insightful to give the designation to another "man on horseback", however Hancock stayed among the main contenders as the tradition started that June. 

A few different competitors touched base in Cincinnati with agents swore to them. Previous Representative Henry B. Payne, an Ohio mogul, had assembled various previous Tilden supporters to his motivation. Payne was a corporate legal advisor and hard cash advocate, yet in addition a relative obscure outside Ohio. In April 1880, the "New York Star" distributed a story that Tilden had quit the race and educated the Irving Hall group to back Payne for the administration. Tilden never affirmed the talk, yet after his letter of June 1880 to the New York assignment, a significant number of his supporters considered Payne among their possible decisions. Payne, similar to Bayard, had served on the Electoral Commission of 1876, yet had by and by kept up Tilden's kinship. He kept up his reliability to Tilden until the tradition, when his withdrawal was sure. Payne was upset by a kindred Ohioan, Senator Allen G. Thurman, who controlled their house state's appointment. Thurman resembled a characteristic successor to Tilden, as a famous preservationist from a swing state with a foundation as a lawyer, however he, similar to Bayard, had earned Tilden's animosity by serving on the Electoral Commission. Thurman was additionally less married to the best quality level than some Northeastern agents would endure. 

Another future beneficiary to Tilden was Samuel J. Randall, since 1863 a congressman from Philadelphia. Like Tilden, Randall was traditionalist on the cash question be that as it may, bizarrely for a Democrat, he bolstered high levies to secure American industry. He additionally supported enactment to decrease the intensity of imposing business models. Tilden had bolstered Randall in his mission to progress toward becoming Speaker of the House, and Randall gave back where its due by residual a steadfast Tilden man up to the tradition. He presently sought after the help of the previous Tilden followers as he continued looking for the administration. Previous Governor Thomas A. Hendricks of Indiana, Tilden's 1876 running mate, likewise looked for a case on the past chosen one's help. He originated from a urgent swing state that the Democrats had barely conveyed in 1876 and had some help in the Midwestern states. His fame with representatives from the Northeast was hindered by his perspectives on the cash question; he favored the individuals who needed looser cash. 

Two hopefuls remained with rather less help. William Ralls Morrison of Illinois had served in Congress since 1873 and was best known for upholding duty decreases notwithstanding hailing from a protectionist area. He instructed little help outside his home state, and was viewed as just a most loved child. Equity Stephen Johnson Field of the United States Supreme Court was better known, yet at the same time a far-fetched victor. The main applicant from the Far West, Field was regarded as a researcher of the law, however had significantly decreased his odds with his home province of California by striking down enemy of Chinese enactment in that state in 1879. All things being equal, a few spectators, including Edwards Pierrepont, looked at Field as a probable decision for the designation. 

The agents collected on June 22, 1880, at Cincinnati's Music Hall. The setting was a substantial, red block working in the High Victorian Gothic style, which had opened in 1878. Planned, as the name proposes, for melodic exhibitions, the corridor likewise worked as Cincinnati's conference hall until a different structure was built in 1967. William Henry Barnum of Connecticut, the director of the Democratic National Committee, called the tradition to arrange at 12:38 p.m. An opening supplication was exhibited by Unitarian priest Charles William Wendte. At that point, George Hoadly, a Tilden partner and future legislative head of Ohio, was chosen brief director. Hoadly tended to the group, at that point deferred the tradition until 10:00 a.m. the following day, with the goal that the Committee on Credentials could think about specific question among the agents. 

Toward the beginning of the second day, June 23, the Committee on Permanent Organization declared the program of officers, including the lasting president, John W. Stevenson of Kentucky. Before the representatives could formally choose Stevenson, they heard the report on the Committee on Credentials. Two opponent groups of Massachusetts Democrats had consented to bargain, both being conceded as a unified assignment. A comparative question in New York was not settled so effectively: Tammany Hall and Tilden's Irving Hall had sent opponent assignments also, nor was eager to settle. The Committee had casted a ballot to consider the Irving Hall Democrats to have been normally chosen; Tammany was thus rejected. Discussion pursued, in which a few agents asked bargain, with the possibility that a unified designation would help join the gathering in New York in the coming general race. The contention was unpersuasive, as the representatives embraced the Committee's choice by a vote of 457 to 205½; Tammany was exiled. Stevenson was then introduced as changeless administrator and, as the Committee on Resolutions had not wrapped up the stage, the agents proceeded onward to selections. 

The representative called the move of states one after another in order. The principal assignment to name an applicant was California. John Edgar McElrath, an Oakland lawyer, rose to assign Justice Stephen J. Field. Lauding Field's excellencies and learning, McElrath guaranteed that, whenever named, "he will clear California like the breezes that blow through her Golden Gate." George Gray, Delaware's Attorney General and a future United States Senator, next designated Thomas F. Bayard. Dim, in a discourse that revealed his esteem for the Senator, said of Bayard: 

Illinois was the following state to offer a name, as previous Representative Samuel S. Marshall rose to present that of his recent associate, William R. Morrison. Marshall quickly alienated the South by contrasting Morrison with Abraham Lincoln, and announced that Morrison's confidence in tax decrease would be a "tower of solidarity" in the decision. 

Next, Senator Daniel W. Voorhees of Indiana talked in the interest of Thomas A. Hendricks, lauding Hendricks as an applicant of national solidarity: "[T]o the South, who has been progressively loyal? Toward the North, who has been more genuine? Toward the East, who has been something more, more astute, progressively moderate and increasingly reliable? Also, toward the West I need not claim, for he is our very own child." The following couple of states made no assignments. At the point when the roll achieved New York, there were cries from the group for Tilden, and some perplexity when that state's appointment made no selection. 

The following designation originated from Ohio, as John McSweeney put forth the defense for Senator Allen G. Thurman. "Extraordinary in virtuoso, right in judgment," as McSweeney depicted him in an extensive discourse, Thurman was "of unrivaled expert articulation with regards to one side, with a perfect name, he stands forward as a conceived pioneer of the general population." Next came the Pennsylvania designation, from which Daniel Dougherty rose. Dougherty, a Philadelphia legal counselor, gave a short and viable discourse for Winfield Scott Hancock. 

As Dougherty completed his discourse, representatives and observers yelled uproariously for Hancock. Following five minutes, the cheers died down. Representative Wade Hampton III of South Carolina, a previous Confederate general, next addressed applause Hancock, saying "we of the South would feel safe in his grasp", yet said that Bayard was eventually his decision "since we trust he is the most grounded man". Richard B. Hubbard, a previous legislative head of Texas and Confederate trooper, talked in support Hancock as his state backed the Pennsylvanian's assignment. Hubbard applauded Hancock's lead as military legislative head of Texas and Louisiana, saying, "in our hour of distress, when he held his capacity because of the incredible prevailing Republican party ... there stood a man with the constitution before him, understanding it as the dads read it; that the war having finished we continued the habiliments that as a privilege have a place with us, not as a vanquished territory, however as a free people." The last couple of states were called and the assignments finished. After a movement to suspend fizzled, the representatives continued straightforwardly to the balloting. 

The representative called the move of the states once more, and a band played "Yankee Doodle" and "Dixie" as the votes were counted. The outcomes demonstrated that the representatives had dissipated their votes to an assortment of competitors, with nobody near the 492 important to name (around then, Democratic traditions required a 66% larger part for assignment). There was an unmistakable outline, be that as it may, as Hancock and Bayard, with 171 and 158½ individually, were a long ways in front of the pack. The following nearest, Payne, had not exactly 50% of Hancock's number, with 81. After one minor move of ½ vote, the aggregates were reported to the agents. They casted a ballot to suspend throughout the afternoon, making room for the off-site dealings that would impact the following day's ticket. 

The agents gathered the following day, June 24, to continue the balloting. Before that could start, Rufus Wheeler Peckham of the New York designation created Tilden's letter and read it to the group. The main notice of Tilden's name incited fervor, however the significance of the message before long calmed the group. Peckham reported that, with Tilden's withdrawal, New York, presently upheld Samuel J. Randall. Moving then to the second ticket, more than one hundred agents pursued Peckham's lead in voting in favor of Randall, boosting his aggregate to 128½, simply over Bayard's 112. In any case, the move to Hancock had been more noteworthy. Before the sums were reported to the group, Hancock had accumulated 320 agents to him; when the casting a ballot halted, nonetheless, Wisconsin, and New Jersey changed the majority of their votes to Hancock. Pennsylvania included those of their votes that were not as of now for Hancock. At that point Smith M. Weed of New York, a Tilden compatriot, declared that his state, as well, would move the majority of its 70 votes to Hancock. From that point onward, as indicated by the gathering records, "each agent was on his feet and the thunder of ten thousand voices totally suffocated the full military band in the display." 

About the majority of the rest of the states currently charged for Hancock. At the point when the second vote was at last counted, Hancock had 705. Just Indiana shunned totally participate, throwing its 30 votes in favor of Hendricks; two Bayard voters from Maryland and one Tilden man from Iowa were the rest of the hold-outs. After the second round was counted, the assignment was made consistent. A few delegates at that point addressed acclaim Hancock and guarantee that he would triumph in the coming decision. Indeed, even Tammany's John Kelly was allowed to talk. Kelly swore his group's dedication to the gathering, saying, "Let us join as a band of siblings and view each other sympathetic and positively." 

<nowiki>*</nowiki> The hopeful was not formally named. 

<br> 

Swinging to different issues, the agents tuned in as Susan B. Anthony tended to them with a request for ladies' suffrage. The representatives made no move, and proceeded onward to the stage, which Henry Watterson of Kentucky read so anyone might hear. The soul of unanimity proceeded as the representatives affirmed it without contradiction. The stage was, in the expressions of student of history Herbert J. Clancy, "intentionally dubious and general" on certain focuses, intended to interest the biggest number conceivable. In it, they swore to work for "sacred precepts and conventions," to contradict centralization, to support "legitimate cash comprising of gold and silver", a "duty for income just", and to put a conclusion to Chinese movement. A large portion of this was uncontroversial, however the "levy for income just" would turn into a noteworthy purpose of discussion in the coming effort. 

At long last, the representatives swung to the bad habit administration. Edmund Pettus, speaking to Alabama, moved the selection of William Hayden English, an investor and previous delegate from Indiana. English, an individual from the Indiana assignment, was genuinely obscure to generally designates. He had been a Bayard aficionado and was known as an effective specialist and hard cash supporter; all the more critically, he hailed from an imperative swing state. While Hendricks was a superior known agent of Indiana, Easterners in the gathering favored English, who they saw as sounder on the cash question. A few states backed the selection. John P. Irish of Iowa assigned previous senator Richard M. Diocesan of Ohio at the same time, after the various states communicated support for English, the Ohio assignment mentioned that Bishop's name be pulled back and English's selection made consistent; the movement conveyed. 

Keeping with the custom at the time, Hancock did not battle actually, however remained at his post at Fort Columbus on Governors Island, in New York Harbor and met with guests there (as General Grant had in 1868, Hancock stayed on dynamic obligation all through the crusade). The two gatherings' battles started with an emphasis on the applicants instead of the issues. Vote based papers assaulted the Republican chosen one, James A. Garfield of Ohio, over bits of gossip about debasement and self-managing in the Crédit Mobilier undertaking, among others. Republicans portrayed Hancock as clueless on the issues, and a portion of his previous friends in-arms gave basic discourses with respect to his character. Democrats never clarified shouldn't something be said about their triumph would improve the country; Hancock biographer David M. Jordan later portrayed their message as essentially "our man is superior to your man". 

The two gatherings realized that, with the finish of Reconstruction and the disappointment of dark Southerners, the South would be strong for Hancock, netting 137 appointive votes of the 185 required for triumph. To this, the Democrats required just include a couple of the firmly adjusted Northern states; New York (35 constituent votes) and Indiana (15) were two of their fundamental targets, however New Jersey and the Midwestern states were likewise battlegrounds. Right off the bat in the battle, Republicans utilized their standard strategy of "waving the bleeding shirt", that is, reminding Northern voters that the Democratic Party was in charge of severance and four years of common war, and that in the event that they held power they would turn around the increases of that war, disrespect Union veterans, and pay Confederate veterans benefits out of the government treasury. With fifteen years having gone since the finish of the war, and Union officers at the head of the two tickets, the wicked shirt was of less impact than it had been previously. 

By October, Republicans moved to another issue: the tax. Seizing on the Democratic stage's require a "tax for income just", Republicans revealed to Northern specialists that a Hancock administration would debilitate the tax security that kept them in steady employments. Hancock exacerbated things when, endeavoring to strike a moderate position, he said "the duty question is a nearby inquiry". The appropriate response appeared to be just to fortify the Republicans' portrayal of him as unmindful of the issues. At last, less than two thousand votes isolated the two competitors, yet in the Electoral College, Garfield had a simple triumph over Hancock, 214 to 155. 

Books 

Articles 

Site