Albertosaurus 

Albertosaurus (; signifying "Alberta reptile") is a sort of tyrannosaurid theropod dinosaurs that lived in western North America amid the Late Cretaceous Period, about 70 million years back. The sort species, "A. stone coffin", was obviously confined in range to the cutting edge Canadian area of Alberta, after which the class is named. Researchers differ on the substance of the variety, with some perceiving "Gorgosaurus libratus" as a second species. 

As a tyrannosaurid, "Albertosaurus" was a bipedal predator with modest, two-fingered hands and a huge head that had many extensive, sharp teeth. It might have been at the highest point of the evolved way of life in its nearby biological community. While "Albertosaurus" was expansive for a theropod, it was a lot littler than its bigger and progressively renowned relative "Tyrannosaurus rex", growing nine to ten meters in length and potentially weighing under 2 metric tons. 

Since the principal disclosure in 1884, fossils of in excess of 30 people have been recouped, giving researchers an increasingly point by point information of "Albertosaurus" life systems than is accessible for most different tyrannosaurids. The disclosure of 26 people at one site gives proof of pack conduct and permits investigations of ontogeny and populace science, which are unthinkable with lesser-known dinosaurs. 

"Albertosaurus" was littler than some different tyrannosaurids, for example, "Tarbosaurus" and "Tyrannosaurus". Run of the mill "Albertosaurus" grown-ups estimated up to long, while uncommon people of incredible age could develop to be over long. A few free mass appraisals, gotten by various strategies, recommend that a grown-up "Albertosaurus" weighed somewhere in the range of 1.3 tonnes and 1.7 tons (1.9 tons). 

"Albertosaurus" imparted a comparative body appearance to all different tyrannosaurids. Regularly for a theropod, "Albertosaurus" was bipedal and adjusted the substantial head and middle with a long tail. Nonetheless, tyrannosaurid forelimbs were very little for their body measure and held just two digits. The rear appendages were long and finished in a four-toed foot on which the main digit, called the hallux, was short and did not achieve the ground. The third digit was longer than the rest. "Albertosaurus" may have had the capacity to achieve strolling paces of 14−21 km/hour (8−13 mi/hour). At any rate for the more youthful people, a high running rate is conceivable. 

Two skin impressions from "Albertosaurus" are known, both appearing. One fix is found with some gastralic ribs and the impression of a long, obscure bone, demonstrating that the fix is from the midsection. The scales are pebbly and progressively increased and to some degree hexagonal fit as a fiddle. Likewise protected are two bigger component scales, set 4,5 cm separated from one another. Another skin impression is from an obscure piece of the body. These scales are little, precious stone formed and organized in columns. 

The enormous skull of "Albertosaurus", which was roosted on a short, S-molded neck, was about long in the biggest grown-ups. Wide openings in the skull (fenestrae) diminished the heaviness of the head while additionally giving space to muscle connection and tangible organs. Its long jaws contained, the two sides joined, at least 58 banana-molded teeth; bigger tyrannosaurids had less teeth, "Gorgosaurus" no less than 62. In contrast to most theropods, "Albertosaurus" and different tyrannosaurids were heterodont, with teeth of various structures relying upon their situation in the mouth. The premaxillary teeth at the tip of the upper jaw, four for every side, were a lot littler than the rest, all the more firmly stuffed, and D-molded in cross area. Like with "Tyrannosaurus", the maxillary (cheek) teeth of "Albertosaurus" were adjusted by and large structure to oppose horizontal powers applied by a battling prey. The chomp power of "Albertosaurus" was less imposing, notwithstanding, with the greatest power, by the rear teeth, achieving 3,413 Newtons. Over the eyes were short hard peaks that may have been brilliantly hued throughout everyday life and utilized in romance to pull in a mate. 

William Abler saw in 2001 that "Albertosaurus" tooth serrations take after a break in the tooth finishing in a round void called an ampulla. Tyrannosaurid teeth were utilized as holdfasts for pulling tissue off a body, so when a tyrannosaur pulled back on a bit of meat, the strain could make a simply split like serration spread through the tooth. Nonetheless, the nearness of the ampulla conveyed these powers over a bigger surface zone, and diminished the danger of harm to the tooth under strain. The nearness of entry points finishing off with voids has parallels in human designing. Guitar producers use entry points finishing off with voids to, as Abler depicts, "confer rotating areas of adaptability and unbending nature" to wood they work. The utilization of a drill to make an "ampulla" of sorts and keep the proliferation of breaks through material is likewise used to secure flying machine surfaces. Abler exhibited that a plexiglass bar with entry points called "kerfs" and penetrated gaps was over 25% more grounded than one with just routinely put cuts. In contrast to tyrannosaurs, old predators like phytosaurs and "Dimetrodon" had no adjustments to keep the break like serrations of their teeth from spreading when exposed to the powers of nourishing. 

"Albertosaurus" was named by Henry Fairfield Osborn in a one-page note toward the finish of his 1905 depiction of "Tyrannosaurus rex". The name respects Alberta, the Canadian region set up that year, in which the primary remains were found. The nonexclusive name likewise fuses the Greek expression "σαυρος"/"sauros" ("reptile"), the most well-known addition in dinosaur names. The sort species is "Albertosaurus stone coffin"; the particular name is gotten from Ancient Greek σαρκοφάγος ("sarkophagos") signifying "substance eating" and having a similar historical underpinnings as the memorial service compartment with which it shares its name: a mix of the Greek words σαρξ/"sarx" ("tissue") and φαγειν/"phagein" ("to eat"). In excess of 30 examples of any age are known to science. 

The sort example is a fractional skull, gathered in the mid year of 1884 from an outcrop of the Horseshoe Canyon Formation nearby the Red Deer River, in Alberta. This example, found on June 9, 1884, was recouped by a campaign of the Geological Survey of Canada, driven by the well known geologist Joseph Burr Tyrrell. Because of an absence of particular gear the practically total skull must be somewhat verified. In 1889, Tyrrell's partner Thomas Chesmer Weston found an inadequate littler skull related with some skeletal material at an area close-by. The two skulls were allocated to the previous species "Laelaps incrassatus" by Edward Drinker Cope in 1892, in spite of the fact that the name "Laelaps" was distracted by a sort of vermin and had been changed to "Dryptosaurus" in 1877 by Othniel Charles Marsh. Adapt would not perceive the new name made by his archrival Marsh. Be that as it may, Lawrence Lambe utilized the name "Dryptosaurus incrassatus" rather than "Laelaps incrassatus" when he portrayed the remaining parts in detail in 1903 and 1904, a mix originally instituted by Oliver Perry Hay in 1902. Without further ado later, Osborn brought up that "D. incrassatus" depended on nonexclusive tyrannosaurid teeth, so the two Horseshoe Canyon skulls couldn't be certainly alluded to that species. The Horseshoe Canyon skulls likewise varied uniquely from the remaining parts of "D. aquilunguis", type types of "Dryptosaurus", so Osborn made the new name "Albertosaurus stone casket" for them in 1905. He didn't portray the remaining parts in any extraordinary detail, refering to Lambe's finished depiction the prior year. The two examples (the holotype CMN 5600 and the paratype CMN 5601) are put away in the Canadian Museum of Nature in Ottawa. By the mid twenty-first century, a few concerns had emerged that, because of the harmed condition of the holotype, "Albertosaurus" may be a "nomen dubium", a "questionable name" that must be utilized for the sort example itself on the grounds that different fossils couldn't dependably be relegated to it. In any case, in 2010, Thomas Carr set up that the holotype, the paratype and practically identical later discovers all mutual a solitary normal one of a kind attribute or autapomorphy: the ownership of a developed pneumatic opening in the back edge of the side of the palatine bone, demonstrating that "Albertosaurus" was a legitimate taxon. 

On 11 August 1910, American scientist Barnum Brown found the remaining parts of a substantial gathering of "Albertosaurus" at another quarry close by the Red Deer River. In light of the expansive number of bones and the restricted time accessible, Brown's gathering did not gather each example, yet made a point to gather stays from the majority of the people that they could distinguish in the bonebed. Among the bones kept in the American Museum of Natural History accumulations in New York City are seven arrangements of right metatarsals, alongside two detached toe bones that did not coordinate any of the metatarsals in size. This showed the nearness of no less than nine people in the quarry. Scientist Philip J. Currie of the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology rediscovered the bonebed in 1997 and continued hands on work at the site, which is presently situated inside Dry Island Buffalo Jump Provincial Park. Further uncovering from 1997 to 2005 turned up the remaining parts of 13 additional people of different ages, including a humble two-year-old and an old individual evaluated at over long. None of these people are known from complete skeletons, and most are spoken to by stays in the two historical centers. Unearthings proceeded until 2008, when the base number of people present had been built up at 12, based on safeguarded components that happen just once in a skeleton, and at 26 whenever reflected components were included while contrasting in size because of ontogeny. An aggregate of 1,128 "Albertosaurus" bones had been verified, the biggest centralization of vast theropod fossils known from the Cretaceous. 

In 1911, Barnum Brown, amid the second year of American Museum of Natural History activities in Alberta, revealed a fragmentary fractional "Albertosaurus" skull at the Red Deer River close Tolman Bridge, example AMNH 5222. 

William Parks portrayed another species in 1928, "Albertosaurus arctunguis", in light of an incomplete skeleton without the skull unearthed by Gus Lindblad and Ralph Hornell close to the Red Deer River in 1923, however this species has been viewed as indistinguishable to "A. stone casket" since 1970. Parks' example (ROM 807) is housed in the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto. 

Somewhere in the range of 1926 and 1972, no "Albertosaurus" fossils were found by any means; in any case, since the seventies, there has been an enduring increment in the known material. Aside from the Dry Island bonebed, six additional skulls and skeletons have since been found in Alberta and are housed in different Canadian historical centers: examples RTMP 81.010.001, found in 1978 by beginner scientist Maurice Stefanuk; RTMP 85.098.001, found by Stefanuk on 16 June 1985; RTMP 86.64.001 (December 1985); RTMP 86.205.001 (1986); RTMP 97.058.0001 (1996); and CMN 11315. Be that as it may, because of vandalism and mishaps, no whole and complete skulls could be verified among these finds. Fossils have additionally been accounted for from the American conditions of Montana, New Mexico, and Wyoming, however these likely don't speak to "A. stone casket" and may not have a place with the class "Albertosaurus". 

In 1913, scientist Charles H. Sternberg recouped another tyrannosaurid skeleton from the somewhat more established Dinosaur Park Formation in Alberta. Lawrence Lambe named this dinosaur "Gorgosaurus libratus" in 1914. Different examples were later found in Alberta and the US province of Montana. Finding, to a great extent because of an absence of good "Albertosaurus" skull material, no noteworthy contrasts to isolate the two taxa, Dale Russell pronounced the name "Gorgosaurus" a lesser equivalent word of "Albertosaurus", which had been named first, and "G. libratus" was renamed "Albertosaurus libratus" in 1970. An animal groups refinement was kept up on account of the age distinction. This expansion expanded the worldly scope of the sort "Albertosaurus" in reverse by a few million years and its geographic range southwards by several kilometers. 

In 2003, Philip J. Currie, profiting by considerably more broad finds and a general increment in anatomical learning of theropods, contrasted a few tyrannosaurid skulls and accompanied the end that the two species are more unmistakable than recently suspected. The choice to utilize a couple of genera is fairly discretionary, as the two species are sister taxa, more firmly identified with one another than to some other species. Perceiving this, Currie all things considered prescribed that "Albertosaurus" and "Gorgosaurus" be held as independent genera, as he presumed that they were not any more comparable than "Daspletosaurus" and "Tyrannosaurus", which are quite often isolated. What's more, a few albertosaurine examples have been recuperated from Alaska and New Mexico, and Currie recommended that the "Albertosaurus"- "Gorgosaurus" circumstance might be cleared up once these are portrayed completely. Most creators have pursued Currie's proposal, however some have not. 

Aside from "A. stone casket", "A. arctunguis" and "A. libratus", a few different types of "Albertosaurus" have been named. These are today observed as more youthful equivalent words of different species or as "nomina dubia", and are not appointed to "Albertosaurus". 

In 1930, Anatoly Nikolaevich Riabinin named "Albertosaurus pericolosus" in light of a tooth from China, that presumably had a place with "Tarbosaurus". In 1932, Friedrich von Huene renamed "Dryptosaurus incrassatus", not considered a "nomen dubium" by him, to "Albertosaurus incrassatus". Since he had recognized "Gorgosaurus" with "Albertosaurus", in 1970, Russell likewise renamed "Gorgosaurus sternbergi" (Matthew and Brown 1922) into "Albertosaurus sternbergi" and "Gorgosaurus lancensis" (Gilmore 1946) into "Albertosaurus lancensis". The previous species is today observed as an adolescent type of "Gorgosaurus libratus", the last as either indistinguishable to "Tyrannosaurus" or speaking to a different class "Nanotyrannus". In 1988, Gregory S. Paul based "Albertosaurus megagracilis" on a little tyrannosaurid skeleton, example LACM 28345, from the Hell Creek Formation of Montana. It was renamed "Dinotyrannus" in 1995, however is currently thought to speak to an adolescent "Tyrannosaurus rex". Likewise in 1988, Paul renamed "Alectrosaurus olseni" (Gilmore 1933) into "Albertosaurus olseni"; this has discovered no broad acknowledgment. In 1989, "Gorgosaurus novojilovi" (Maleev 1955) was renamed by Bryn Mader and Robert Bradley as "Albertosaurus novojilovi"; today this is viewed as an equivalent word of "Tarbosaurus". 

On two events, species dependent on substantial "Albertosaurus" material were reassigned to an alternate class: in 1922 William Diller Matthew renamed "A. stone coffin" into "Deinodon stone coffin" and in 1939 German scientist Oskar Kuhn renamed "A. arctunguis" into "Deinodon arctunguis". 

"Albertosaurus" is an individual from the theropod family Tyrannosauridae, in the subfamily Albertosaurinae. Its nearest relative is the somewhat more seasoned "Gorgosaurus libratus" (once in a while called "Albertosaurus libratus"; see beneath). These two species are the main depicted albertosaurines; other undescribed species may exist. Thomas Holtz discovered "Appalachiosaurus" to be an albertosaurine in 2004, however his later unpublished work finds it simply outside Tyrannosauridae, in concurrence with different creators. 

The other significant subfamily of tyrannosaurids is the Tyrannosaurinae, which incorporates "Daspletosaurus", "Tarbosaurus" and "Tyrannosaurus". Contrasted and these vigorous tyrannosaurines, albertosaurines had thin forms, with proportionately littler skulls and longer bones of the lower leg (tibia) and feet (metatarsals and phalanges). 

The following is the cladogram of the Tyrannosauridae dependent on the phylogenetic investigation led by Loewen "et al." in 2013. 

Most age classifications of "Albertosaurus" are spoken to in the fossil record. Utilizing bone histology, the age of an individual creature at the season of death can regularly be resolved, permitting development rates to be assessed and contrasted and different species. The most youthful known "Albertosaurus" is a two-year-old found in the Dry Island bonebed, which would have weighed around 50 kilograms (110 lb) and estimated somewhat more than long. The example from a similar quarry is the most seasoned and biggest known, at 28 years old. At the point when examples of middle of the road age and size are plotted on a chart, a "S"- molded development bend results, with the most quick development happening in a four-year time span finishing around the sixteenth year of life, an example additionally observed in different tyrannosaurids. The development rate amid this stage was every year, in light of a grown-up 1.3 tonnes. Different examinations have recommended higher grown-up loads; this would influence the extent of the development rate, yet not the general example. Tyrannosaurids comparable in size to "Albertosaurus" had comparative development rates, despite the fact that the a lot bigger "Tyrannosaurus rex" developed at just about multiple times this rate ( every year) at its pinnacle. The finish of the quick development stage recommends the beginning of sexual development in "Albertosaurus", in spite of the fact that development proceeded at a slower rate all through the creatures' lives. Sexual development while still effectively developing seems, by all accounts, to be a common quality among little and extensive dinosaurs just as in vast warm blooded animals, for example, people and elephants. This example of moderately early sexual development varies strikingly from the example in feathered creatures, which postpone their sexual development until after they have got done with developing. 

Amid development, through thickening the tooth morphology changed so much that, had the relationship of youthful and grown-up skeletons on the Dry Island bonebed not demonstrated they had a place with a similar taxon, the teeth of adolescents would probably have been distinguished by measurable investigation as those of an alternate animal types. 

Most known "Albertosaurus" people were matured 14 years or more at the season of death. Adolescent creatures are once in a while found as fossils for a few reasons, chiefly conservation inclination, where the littler bones of more youthful creatures were less inclined to be safeguarded by fossilization than the bigger bones of grown-ups, and gathering predisposition, where littler fossils are less inclined to be seen by authorities in the field. Youthful "Albertosaurus" are moderately extensive for adolescent creatures, yet their remaining parts are as yet uncommon in the fossil record contrasted and grown-ups. It has been proposed that this wonder is an outcome of life history, instead of inclination, and that fossils of adolescent "Albertosaurus" are uncommon on the grounds that they just did not bite the dust as regularly as grown-ups did. 

A theory of "Albertosaurus" life history proposes that hatchlings kicked the bucket in substantial numbers, yet have not been safeguarded in the fossil record because of their little size and delicate development. After only two years, adolescents were bigger than some other predator in the district beside grown-up "Albertosaurus", and more armada of foot than the greater part of their prey creatures. This brought about a sensational diminishing in their death rate and a comparing uncommonness of fossil remains. Death rates multiplied at age twelve, maybe the aftereffect of the physiological requests of the fast development stage, and afterward multiplied again with the beginning of sexual development between the ages of fourteen and sixteen. This raised death rate proceeded all through adulthood, maybe because of the high physiological requests of reproduction, including pressure and wounds got amid intraspecific challenge for mates and assets, and inevitably, the regularly expanding impacts of senescence. The higher death rate in grown-ups may clarify their progressively normal safeguarding. Large creatures were uncommon in light of the fact that couple of people endure sufficiently long to accomplish such sizes. High newborn child death rates, trailed by decreased mortality among adolescents and an abrupt increment in mortality after sexual development, with not very many creatures achieving most extreme size, is an example seen in numerous cutting edge huge warm blooded animals, including elephants, African bison, and rhinoceros. A similar example is additionally observed in different tyrannosaurids. The correlation with present day creatures and different tyrannosaurids loans backing to this life history speculation, however inclination in the fossil record may at present assume a substantial job, particularly since more than 66% of all "Albertosaurus" examples are known from one region. 

The Dry Island bonebed found by Barnum Brown and his team contains the remaining parts of 26 "Albertosaurus", the most people found in one region of any huge Cretaceous theropod, and the second-a large portion of any expansive theropod dinosaur behind the "Allosaurus" collection at the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry in Utah. The gathering is by all accounts made out of one old grown-up; eight grown-ups somewhere in the range of 17 and 23 years of age; seven sub-grown-ups experiencing their quick development stages at somewhere in the range of 12 and 16 years of age; and six adolescents between the ages of 2 and 11 years, who had not yet achieved the development stage. 

The close nonattendance of herbivore remains and the comparable condition of safeguarding basic to the numerous people at the "Albertosaurus" bonebed quarry drove Currie to presume that the region was not a predator trap like the La Brea Tar Pits in California, and that the majority of the saved creatures kicked the bucket in the meantime. Currie claims this as proof of pack conduct. Different researchers are distrustful, seeing that the creatures may have been driven together by dry spell, flood or for different reasons. 

There is copious proof for gregarious conduct among herbivorous dinosaurs, including ceratopsians and hadrosaurs. Be that as it may, just once in a while are such a large number of dinosaurian predators found at a similar site. Little theropods like "Deinonychus" and "Coelophysis" have been found in totals, as have bigger predators like "Allosaurus" and "Mapusaurus". There is some proof of gregarious conduct in different tyrannosaurids too. Fragmentary survives from littler people were found close by "Sue", the "Tyrannosaurus" mounted in the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, and a bonebed in the Two Medicine Formation of Montana contains no less than three examples of "Daspletosaurus", protected nearby a few hadrosaurs. These discoveries may certify the proof for social conduct in "Albertosaurus", albeit a few or the majority of the above territories may speak to impermanent or unnatural collections. Others have conjectured that rather than social gatherings, probably a portion of these finds speak to Komodo mythical beast like mobbing of remains, where forceful challenge prompts a portion of the predators being executed and ripped apart. 

Currie has additionally estimated on the pack-chasing propensities for "Albertosaurus". The leg extents of the littler people were tantamount to those of ornithomimids, which were most likely among the quickest dinosaurs. More youthful "Albertosaurus" were most likely similarly armada footed, or if nothing else quicker than their prey. Currie conjectured that the more youthful individuals from the pack may have been in charge of driving their prey towards the grown-ups, who were bigger and all the more dominant, yet additionally slower. Adolescents may likewise have had unexpected ways of life in comparison to grown-ups, filling predator specialties between the tremendous grown-ups and the littler contemporaneous theropods, the biggest of which were two requests of greatness littler than grown-up "Albertosaurus" in mass. A comparable circumstance is seen in present day Komodo mythical beasts, with hatchlings starting life as little insectivores before developing to turn into the predominant predators on their islands. Nonetheless, as the safeguarding of conduct in the fossil record is exceedingly uncommon, these thoughts can't promptly be tried. In 2010, Currie, however as yet supporting the chasing pack theory, conceded that the fixation could have been realized by different causes, for example, a gradually rising water level amid an all-encompassing flood. 

In 2009, analysts speculated that smooth-edged openings found in the fossil jaws of tyrannosaurid dinosaurs, for example, "Albertosaurus" were brought about by a parasite like "Trichomonas gallinae", which taints winged animals. They recommended that tyrannosaurids transmitted the contamination by gnawing one another, and that the disease disabled their capacity to eat sustenance. 

In 2001, Bruce Rothschild and others distributed an investigation looking at proof for pressure cracks and ligament separations in theropod dinosaurs and the suggestions for their conduct. They found that just a single of the 319 "Albertosaurus" foot bones checked for pressure cracks really had them and none of the four hand bones did. The researchers found that pressure cracks were "altogether" less normal in "Albertosaurus" than in the carnosaur "Allosaurus". ROM 807, the holotype of "A. arctunguis" (presently alluded to "A. stone coffin"), had a profound gap in the iliac edge, despite the fact that the describer of the species did not perceive this as neurotic. The example additionally contains some exostosis on the fourth left metatarsal. In 1970, two of the five "Albertosaurus stone casket" examples with humeri were accounted for by Dale Russel as having obsessive harm to them. 

In 2010, the strength of the Dry Island "Albertosaurus" gathering was accounted for upon. Most examples hinted at no malady. On three phalanges of the foot odd hard goads, comprising of irregular solidifications of the ligaments, alleged enthesophytes, were available, their motivation obscure. Two ribs and a gut rib hinted at breaking and mending. One grown-up example had a left lower jaw demonstrating a cut injury and both recuperated and unhealed chomp marks. The low number of variations from the norm contrasts positively and the wellbeing state of a "Majungasaurus" populace of which it in 2007 was built up that 19% of people indicated bone pathologies. 

As per a logical paper distributed in 2012, "Albertosaurus" could apply a nibble power of around 42,000 newtons. 

Every single recognizable fossil of "Albertosaurus stone casket" are known from the upper Horseshoe Canyon Formation in Alberta. These more youthful units of this geologic arrangement date to the early Maastrichtian phase of the Late Cretaceous Period, 70 to 68 Ma (million years prior). Promptly underneath this development is the Bearpaw Shale, a marine arrangement speaking to a segment of the Western Interior Seaway. The seaway was retreating as the atmosphere cooled and ocean levels died down towards the finish of the Cretaceous, uncovering land that had recently been submerged. It was anything but a smooth procedure, be that as it may, and the seaway would occasionally ascend to cover portions of the area all through Horseshoe Canyon before at last retreating inside and out in the years after. Because of the changing ocean levels, a wide range of situations are spoken to in the Horseshoe Canyon Formation, including seaward and close shore marine natural surroundings and beach front living spaces like tidal ponds, estuaries and salt marshes. Various coal creases speak to antiquated peat swamps. Like the majority of the other vertebrate fossils from the development, "Albertosaurus" remains are found in stores set down in the deltas and floodplains of substantial streams amid the later 50% of Horseshoe Canyon times. 

The fauna of the Horseshoe Canyon Formation is outstanding, as vertebrate fossils, including those of dinosaurs, are very normal. Sharks, beams, sturgeons, bowfins, gars and the gar-like "Aspidorhynchus" made up the fish fauna. Warm blooded creatures included multituberculates and the marsupial "Didelphodon". The saltwater plesiosaur "Leurospondylus" has been found in marine silt in the Horseshoe Canyon, while freshwater situations were populated by turtles, "Champsosaurus", and crocodilians like "Leidyosuchus" and "Stangerochampsa". Dinosaurs command the fauna, particularly hadrosaurs, which make up half of all dinosaurs known, including the genera "Edmontosaurus", "Saurolophus" and "Hypacrosaurus". Ceratopsians and ornithomimids were likewise extremely normal, together making up another third of the known fauna. Alongside a lot rarer ankylosaurians and pachycephalosaurs, these creatures would have been prey for a various exhibit of meat eating theropods, including troodontids, dromaeosaurids, and caenagnathids. Blended with the "Albertosaurus" stays of the Dry Island bonebed, the bones of the little theropod "Albertonykus" were found. Grown-up "Albertosaurus" were the zenith predators in this condition, with middle of the road specialties perhaps filled by adolescent albertosaurs.