Hellingly Hospital Railway 

The Hellingly Hospital Railway was a light railroad claimed and worked by East Sussex County Council, utilized for transporting coal and travelers to Hellingly Hospital, a mental clinic close Hailsham, from the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway's Cuckoo Line at Hellingly rail route station. 

The railroad was developed in 1899 and opened to travelers on 20 July 1903, after its zap in 1902. After the railroad gathering of 1923, traveler numbers declined so remarkably that the clinic specialists never again considered traveler use of the line to be efficient, and that administration was pulled back. The railroad shut to cargo in 1959, after the clinic's choice to change over its coal boilers to oil, which rendered the railroad pointless. 

The course took a for the most part direct way from an intersection quickly south of Hellingly Station, past Farm and Park House Sidings, halting spots to stack and empty produce and supplies from sheds of the emergency clinic. A significant part of the railroad has been changed over to pathway, and a significant number of the structures once in the past served by the line are presently relinquished. 

In 1897, East Sussex County Council obtained of land at Park Farm, around three miles (5 km) north of Hailsham, from the Earl of Chichester, to be the site of another district crazy person haven that turned out to be Hellingly Hospital. Development chip away at the medical clinic started in 1900, to the plan of George Thomas Hine, who had structured the close-by Haywards Heath Asylum. Building materials were transported to the site by a  mile (2 km) standard measure private siding from the merchandise yard at Hellingly railroad station on the Cuckoo Line. The association was worked by the shelter's developers, Joseph Howe and Company, and was approved by the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway (LBSCR) on condition that East Sussex Council paid the expense, evaluated at £1,700. 

A little wooden stage was worked at Hellingly railroad station, inverse the fundamental line stage. This had no association with the station structures and was utilized just for the exchange of travelers between principle line and medical clinic prepares, and kept anchored off when not being used. Coal yards and sidings were likewise worked at Hellingly station. The emergency clinic opened to patients, and the railroad to travelers, on 20 July 1903. 

The railroad left the Cuckoo Line at Hellingly Station. Despite the fact that the railroad joined the Cuckoo Line at both the northern and southern closures of the stage, for all intents and purposes no through trains ran. Because of the game plan of the lines at the intersection with the Cuckoo Line, traveler trains to and from the emergency clinic switched south of Hellingly station. 

In the wake of leaving the fundamental line promptly south of Hellingly, the railroad disregarded gated level intersections at Park Road and New Road. Homestead Siding, a solitary siding on the west of the line past the intersections, was a gathering point for the ranch's rural produce in the early long periods of the railroad, however later dropped out of utilization. The line climbed almost the entire way from here to the medical clinic at 1 out of 50. Somewhere between Hellingly and the medical clinic the line entered the emergency clinic grounds, going toward the west of Park House Siding, which served the clinic's Park House annexe. 

As it moved toward the emergency clinic, the line split; the southern fork prompted a siding toward the north-west of the medical clinic, while the other turned strongly east and south through practically 180° before part once more. One fork kept running into an extensive workshop and the other prompted a short stage, which was at first utilized for travelers. Following the suspension of traveler administrations it was changed over into a coal dock. 

The line had no signs or programmed focuses to control the exchanging between lines at intersections with the fundamental line and with the sidings. On the way to deal with a dimension crossing the fire fighter kept running ahead with a warning, to stop the traffic; he additionally physically worked the focuses. 

Joseph Howe and Company utilized a 0-4-0 saddle tank train to transport building materials amid the emergency clinic's development. The train was acquired new in 1900, and sold in 1903 after the fruition of the medical clinic and zap of the line. 

In 1902, the choice was taken to zap the railroad utilizing power produced from the emergency clinic's own capacity plant, the line was zapped at 500 V DC utilizing a solitary overhead line. The emergency clinic was additionally associated with the nearby 11 kV power appropriation framework. 

Designers Robert W. Blackwell and Co gave a little 0-4-0 electric train fit for pulling two stacked coal wagons. It isn't realized where the train was produced, as the organization has no record, however the structure of the controls proposes that it might have been imported from Germany. A little railcar with space for 12 passengers was additionally given. The train and the railcar were each fitted with a solitary trolley shaft to gather power from the overhead wire. The traveler vehicle was utilized for the term of traveler benefits on hold, and the train from the jolt of the line until conclusion in 1959. Around then, it was the most seasoned operational electric train in the British Isles. 

At the railroad gathering of 1923, the LBSCR turned out to be a piece of the Southern Railway and the understandings between the medical clinic (renamed the East Sussex Mental Hospital in 1919) and the LBSCR were refreshed. The wooden stage at Hellingly station was radically abbreviated in 1922. Since administration levels relied upon patient numbers and the emergency clinic's coal and nourishment necessities, the line never worked to a timetable. By 1931, traveler numbers had tumbled to such a degree, that the emergency clinic specialists never again considered traveler utilization of the line to be efficient, and the traveler administration was pulled back. The traveler vehicle was moved to the medical clinic grounds, fitted with a canopy, and turned into the emergency clinic's games structure. making due into the mid-1990s before being crushed in a flame begun by vandals. The wooden stage at Hellingly station was evacuated in 1932, and the stage at the clinic was changed over into a coal inlet. 

There were just two minor mishaps: a vehicle that slammed into the train while driving through the emergency clinic grounds, and a wagon whose brakes fizzled while stabled at Farm Siding, which moved down the line to Hellingly station. 

On 22 November 1939, plans were set up for the reclamation of traveler administrations to permit emergency vehicle trains to achieve the clinic, and authorisation was given for their activity. In any case, the line was never used to transport patients, as in spite of the fact that Park House was utilized as a medical clinic by the Canadian Army amid the Second World War, patients left emergency vehicle trains at Hellingly station and were exchanged to Park House by street. 

In the late 1950s, the medical clinic, under the control of the Hailsham Hospitals Management Committee since the 1948 foundation of the National Health Service, chose to change over its boilers from coal to oil. The railroad was in this manner never again expected to transport coal; the keep going burden was conveyed on 10 March 1959, and the vacant coal wagon came back to Hellingly on 25 March 1959. 

Under the terms of the understanding between the emergency clinic experts, the LBSCR, and its successors, the medical clinic specialists were obliged to keep the railroad in decent shape to permit its utilization by principle line wagons. With a significantly decreased requirement for products traffic to the medical clinic following the change of the boilers, it was chosen that the railroad was not worth the cost of proceeded with upkeep and fundamental overhauling, and the line was formally shut on 25 March 1959 after the flight of the last coal wagon. 

The line was utilized for incidental trips by railroad aficionados for a brief period after authority conclusion, utilizing the electric train and a brake van obtained from British Railways. The careful date of the last run isn't recorded; the last recorded utilization of the line was a trip sorted out by the Norbury Transport and Model Railway Club on 4 April 1959, however it is realized that later journeys ran. In the mid 1960s a railroad society in Yorkshire proposed to purchase the track as a protected rail line. Be that as it may, as the mental medical clinic was as yet open the solicitation was not viewed as useful, and the track was lifted in the mid 1960s. The fittings and train were discarded by H.Ripley and Sons of Hailsham. 

The Cuckoo Line shut not long after the Hospital Railway. Hellingly station shut to travelers on 14 June 1965, and the line shut for merchandise traffic on 26 April 1968. The station building total with stage is currently a private home, and the Cuckoo Line trackbed was changed over to the Cuckoo Trail long-separate pathway in 1990. A significant part of the course of the Hospital Railway is additionally now a pathway. 

Hints of the railroad can in any case be seen, including a cast iron post that bolstered the overhead wire, the remaining parts of the motor shed (torched in 2004), and a short segment of track. Hellingly Hospital is currently shut Approval for redevelopment as a lodging complex was gotten in 2009.