La Peau de vexation 

La Peau de vexation (, "The Skin of Sorrow" or "The Wild Ass' Skin") is a 1831 novel by French author and writer Honoré de Balzac (1799– 1850). Set in mid nineteenth century Paris, it recounts to the tale of a young fellow who finds an enchantment bit of shagreen that satisfies his each craving. For each desire in all actuality, be that as it may, the skin shrivels and expends a bit of his physical vitality. "La Peau de shame" has a place with the "Études philosophiques" gathering of Balzac's grouping of books, "La Comédie humaine". 

Before the book was finished, Balzac made fervor about it by distributing a progression of articles and story parts in a few Parisian diaries. Despite the fact that he was five months late in conveying the original copy, he prevailing with regards to producing adequate intrigue that the novel sold out immediately upon its distribution. A second version, which incorporated a progression of twelve other "philosophical stories", was discharged one month later. 

Despite the fact that the novel uses fabulous components, its primary center is a sensible depiction of the overabundances of middle class realism. Balzac's prestigious tender loving care is utilized to portray a betting house, a classical shop, an illustrious feast, and different areas. He likewise incorporates subtleties from his very own life as a battling essayist, setting the principle character in a home like the one he involved toward the beginning of his scholarly profession. The focal subject of "La Peau de embarrassment" is the contention among want and life span. The enchantment skin speaks to the proprietor's life-drive, which is exhausted through each statement of will, particularly when it is utilized for the securing of intensity. Disregarding an alert from the retailer who offers him the skin, the hero avariciously encircle himself with riches, just to get himself hopeless and broken down at the story's end. 

"La Peau de mortification" solidly settled Balzac as an essayist of noteworthiness in France. His group of friends augmented essentially, and he was looked for energetically by distributers for future undertakings. The book filled in as the impetus for a progression of letters he traded with a Polish noblewoman named Ewelina Hańska, who later turned into his significant other. It additionally motivated Giselher Klebe's musical drama "Bite the dust tödlichen Wünsche". 

In 1830 Honoré de Balzac had just started to accomplish acknowledgment as an author. Despite the fact that his folks had convinced him to make his calling the law, he declared in 1819 that he needed to turn into a creator. His mom was troubled, however she and his dad consented to give him a little salary, relying on the prerequisite that he commit himself to composing, and convey to them half of his gross pay from any distributed work. Subsequent to moving into a little room close to the Bibliothèque de l'Arsenal in Paris, Balzac composed for one year, without progress. Baffled, he moved back to his family in the suburb of Villeparisis and acquired cash from his folks to seek after his artistic desire further. He went through the following quite a long while composing straightforward potboiler books, which he distributed under an assortment of aliases. He shared a portion of his salary from these with his folks, yet by 1828 despite everything he owed them 50,000 francs. 

He distributed out of the blue under his own name in 1829. "Les Chouans", a novel about royalist powers in Brittany, did not succeed economically, yet it made Balzac known in scholarly circles. He made a noteworthy progress later that year when he distributed "La Physiologie du mariage", a treatise on the establishment of marriage. Supported by its notoriety, he added to his distinction by distributing an assortment of short stories and expositions in the magazines "Revue de Paris", "La Caricature", and "La Mode". He in this manner made associations in the distributing business that later helped him to acquire audits of his books. 

At the time, French abstract hungers for phenomenal stories had been whetted by the 1829 interpretation of German essayist E. T. A. Hoffmann's gathering "Incredible Tales"; the gothic fiction of England's Ann Radcliffe; and French creator Jules Janin's 1829 novel "L'âne Mort et la Femme Guillotinée" ("The Dead Donkey and the Guillotined Woman"). In spite of the fact that he arranged a novel in a similar custom, Balzac hated the expression "awesome", alluding to it once as "the profane program of a sort in its first flush of freshness, certainly, yet as of now an excess of worn by the insignificant maltreatment of the word". 

The legislative issues and culture of France, in the mean time, were in a state of chaos. In the wake of ruling for six questionable years, King Charles X was compelled to relinquish amid the July Revolution of 1830. He was supplanted by Louis-Philippe, who named himself "Lord of the French" (as opposed to the standard thing "Ruler of France") trying to separate himself from the "Ancien Régime". The July Monarchy brought an entrenchment of average frames of mind, in which Balzac saw complication and powerless authority. 

The title "La Peau de dismay" first showed up in print on 9 December 1830, as a passing notice in an article Balzac composed for "La Caricature" under the nom de plume Coudreux. His scrapbook incorporates the accompanying note, most likely composed in the meantime: "L'invention d'une peau qui représente la strive. Conte oriental." ("The innovation of a skin that speaks to life. Oriental story.") Multi week later, he distributed a story section called "Le Dernier Napoléon" in "La Caricature", under the name "Henri B...". In it, a young fellow loses his last Napoleon coin at a Parisian betting house, at that point proceeds to the Pont Royal to suffocate himself. Amid this beginning time, Balzac did not have a favorable opinion of the undertaking. He alluded to it as "a bit of exhaustive drivel in the scholarly sense, yet in which [the author] has tried to present sure of the circumstances in this hard life through which men of virtuoso have gone before accomplishing anything". A little while later, however, his conclusion of the story improved. 

By January 1831 Balzac had produced enough enthusiasm for his plan to verify an agreement with distributers Charles Gosselin and Urbain Canel. They concurred on 750 copies of an octavo version, with a charge of 1,125 francs paid to the endless supply of the manuscript – by mid-February. Balzac conveyed the novel in July. 

Amid the interceding months, in any case, he gave looks at his flighty advancement. Two extra pieces showed up in May, some portion of a plan to advance the book before its distribution. "Une Débauche", distributed in the "Revue des deux mondes", portrays an orgiastic banquet that highlights consistent bantering and talk from its average members. The other section, "Le Suicide d'un poète", was imprinted in the "Revue de Paris"; it concerns the challenges of an eventual writer as he endeavors to make up for his absence of assets. In spite of the fact that the three pieces were not associated into a cognizant story, Balzac was excerpting characters and scenes from his novel-in-advance. 

The epic's postponed distribution was a consequence of Balzac's dynamic public activity. He spent numerous evenings eating at the homes of companions, including author Eugène Sue and his paramour Olympe Pélissier, just as the women's activist essayist George Sand and her darling Jules Sandeau. Balzac and Pélissier had a concise illicit relationship, and she turned into the principal darling with whom he showed up out in the open. In the long run he expelled himself from Paris by remaining with companions in suburbia, where he subscribed to completing the work. In pre-summer he enabled Sand to peruse an almost completed original copy; she delighted in it and anticipated it would progress admirably. 

At long last, in August 1831, "La Peau de dismay: Conte philosophique" was distributed in two volumes. It was a business achievement, and Balzac utilized his associations in the realm of Parisian periodicals to have it looked into broadly. The book sold rapidly, and before the month's over another agreement had been marked: Balzac would get 4,000 francs to distribute 1,200 additional duplicates. This second version incorporated a progression of twelve different stories with fabulous components, and was discharged under the title "Romans et contes philosophiques" ("Philosophical Novels and Stories"). A third version, revised to fill four volumes, showed up in March 1833. 

"La Peau de embarrassment" comprises of three segments: "Le Talisman" ("The Talisman"), "La Femme sans cœur" ("The Woman without a Heart"), and "L'Agonie" ("The Agony"). The primary release contained a Preface and a "Moralité", which were extracted from ensuing forms. A two-page Epilog shows up toward the finish of the last segment. 

"Le Talisman" starts with the plot of "Le Dernier Napoléon": A young fellow named Raphaël de Valentin bets his last coin and loses, at that point continues to the waterway Seine to suffocate himself. In transit, be that as it may, he chooses to enter an irregular shop and thinks that its loaded up with interests from around the globe. The old businessperson drives him to a bit of shagreen holding tight the divider. It is recorded with "Oriental" composing; the elderly person calls it "Sanskrit", however it is uncertain Arabic. The skin guarantees to satisfy any desire of its proprietor, contracting somewhat upon the satisfaction of each longing. The businessperson is happy to let Valentin take it without charge, however asks him not to acknowledge the offer. Valentin waves away the retailer's alerts and takes the skin, wanting for an imperial dinner, loaded up with wine, ladies, and companions. He is promptly met by associates who welcome him to such an occasion; they invest hours eating, drinking, and talking. 

Section two, "La Femme sans cœur", is described as a flashback from Valentin's perspective. He grumbles to his companion Émile about his initial days as a researcher, living in neediness with an older landowner and her little girl Pauline, while attempting vainly to win the core of an excellent yet standoffish lady named Foedora. En route he is guided by a more established man named Eugène de Rastignac, who urges him to inundate himself in the realm of high society. Profiting by the generosity of his landowners, Valentin moves his way into Foedora's friend network. Unfit to win her fondness, in any case, he turns into the hopeless and down and out man found toward the beginning of "Le Talisman". 

"L'Agonie" starts quite a while after the dining experience of parts one and two. Valentin, having utilized the charm to verify an expansive salary, finds both the skin and his wellbeing decreasing. He attempts to break the revile by disposing of the skin, yet comes up short. The circumstance makes him alarm, shocked that further wants will rush a mind-blowing finish. He composes his home to maintain a strategic distance from the likelihood of wanting for anything: his worker, Jonathan, masterminds sustenance, garments, and guests with exact consistency. Occasions outside his ability to control cause him to want for different things, be that as it may, and the skin keeps on subsiding. Frantic, the wiped out Valentin endeavors to discover some method for extending the skin, and travels to the spa town of Aix-les-Bains in the desire for recuperating his essentialness. 

With the skin no bigger than a periwinkle leaf, he is visited by Pauline in his room; she communicates her affection for him. When she learns reality about the shagreen and her job in Raphaël's destruction, she is stunned. Raphaël can't control his longing for her and she hurries into an abutting space to escape him thus spare his life. He beats on the entryway and proclaims the two his adoration and his craving to kick the bucket in her arms. She, in the interim, is endeavoring to murder herself to free him from his craving. He separates the entryway, they perfect their adoration in a searing snapshot of enthusiasm, and he bites the dust. 

In spite of the fact that he favored the expression "philosophical", Balzac's epic depends on an incredible reason. The skin allows a universe of probability to Valentin, and he utilizes it to fulfill numerous wants. Compelled into a duel, for instance, he clarifies how he need neither maintain a strategic distance from his adversary's discharge nor point his own weapon; the result is inescapable. He fires without consideration, and slaughters the other man in a split second. Somewhere else, the otherworldly characteristics of the skin are shown when it opposes the endeavors of a scientific expert and a physicist to extend it. 

This consideration of the fabulous, nonetheless, is for the most part a structure by which the creator talks about human instinct and society. One faultfinder proposes that "the story would be much the equivalent without it". Balzac had utilized powerful components in the potboiler books he distributed under "pen names", yet their quality in "Peau de vexation" flagged a defining moment in his way to deal with the utilization of imagery. While he had utilized fabulous items and occasions in prior works, they were for the most part basic plot focuses or uncomplicated gadgets for tension. With "La Peau de mortification", then again, the charm speaks to Valentin's spirit; in the meantime, his downfall is emblematic of a more prominent social decrease. Balzac's genuine foci in the 1831 novel are the intensity of human want and the idea of society after the July Revolution. French author and faultfinder Félicien Marceau even recommends that the imagery in the novel permits a cleaner investigation than the individual contextual investigations of other Balzac books; by expelling the examination to a dynamic dimension, it turns out to be less convoluted by varieties of individual identity. As an everyman, Valentin shows the basic attributes of human instinct, not a specific individual's way to deal with the difficulty offered by the skin. 

In his Preface to the novel's first version, Balzac ruminates over the helpfulness of incredible components: "[Writers] design the valid, by relationship, or they "see" the item to be depicted, regardless of whether the article comes to them or they go toward the object ... Have men the ability to bring the universe into their mind, or is their cerebrum a charm with which they abrogate the laws of existence?" Critics concur that Balzac's objective in "La Peau de vexation" was the previous. 

The tale is broadly refered to as an imperative early case of the authenticity for which Balzac wound up celebrated. Portrayals of Paris are one model: the novel is loaded up with real areas, including the Palais Royal and the Notre Dame Cathedral. The portrayal and characters suggest over and over to craftsmanship and culture, from Gioachino Rossini's musical show "Tancredi" to the statue of Venus de Milo. 

The book's third passage contains a long portrayal of the procedure and reason behind the custom in betting houses whereby "the law pillages you of your cap at the beginning." The climate of the foundation is depicted in exact detail, from the essences of the players to the "oily" backdrop and the tablecloth "worn by the grinding of gold". The accentuation on cash evoked in the first pages – and its appear differently in relation to the broken down surroundings – mirrors the novel's topics of social association and financial realism. 

The conversion of pragmatist detail with representative significance proceeds with when Valentin enters the old fashioned shop; the store speaks to the planet itself. As he meanders about, he visits the world through the relics of its different ages: "Each place where there is earth appeared to have contributed some stray part of its adapting, some case of its craft." The shop contains a work of art of Napoleon; a Moorish yataghan; an icon of the Tartars; representations of Dutch burgomasters; a bust of Cicero; an Ancient Egyptian mummy; an Etruscan vase; a Chinese winged serpent; and several different items. The display of human action achieves an ethical crossroads when the retailer drives Valentin to Raphael's representation of Jesus Christ. It doesn't deflect him from his objective, be that as it may; just when he finds the skin does Valentin choose to prematurely end his self-destructive mission. In doing as such, he exhibits mankind favoring self image over perfect salvation. 

Toward the beginning of the novel, Balzac incorporates a picture from Laurence Sterne's 1759 novel "Tristram Shandy": a surprising line attracted the air by a character trying to express the opportunity appreciated "while a man is free". Balzac never clarified his motivation behind the utilization of the image, and its essentialness to "La Peau de vexation" is the subject of discussion. In his thorough survey of "La Comédie humaine", Herbert J. Chase interfaces the "serpentine squiggle" to the "twisted plan" of Balzac's epic. Pundit Martin Kanes, in any case, proposes that the picture symbolizes the inconceivability of language to express a thought completely. This difficulty, he proposes, is legitimately identified with the contention among will and information shown by the retailer toward the beginning of the novel. 

Balzac dug his very own life for subtleties in the initial segments of "La Peau de Chagrin", and he likely demonstrated the hero Raphaël de Valentin on himself. Subtleties related by Valentin of his ruined living quarters are personal inferences to Balzac's most punctual days as a creator: "Nothing could be uglier than this garret, anticipating its researcher, with its grimy yellow dividers and scent of neediness. The material fell in a precarious slant, and the sky was noticeable through chinks in the tiles. There was space for a bed, a table, and a couple of seats, and underneath the most elevated purpose of the rooftop my piano could stand." Although they take into consideration a level of adornment, biographers and commentators concur that Balzac was drawing from his very own understanding. 

Different pieces of the story additionally get from the creator's life: Balzac once went to a dining experience held by the Marquis de Las Marismas, who intended to dispatch a newspaper – a similar circumstance in which Valentin ends up subsequent to communicating his first wish to the charm. Afterward, Valentin visits the musical show outfitted with a ground-breaking set of glasses that enable him to watch each imperfection in the ladies in front of an audience (to make preparations for want). These may likewise have been drawn from Balzac's involvement, as he once wrote in a letter about a lot of "divine" musical drama glasses he requested from the Paris Observatory. 

Progressively critical is the association between the ladies in the novel and the ladies throughout Balzac's life. A few commentators have noted critical likenesses between Valentin's endeavors to win the core of Foedora and Balzac's captivation by Olympe Pélissier. A scene in which Valentin covers up in Foedora's room to watch her disrobe is said to originate from a comparable circumstance wherein Balzac furtively watched Pélissier. It's likely that Pélissier was not the model for Foedora, notwithstanding, since she acknowledged Balzac's advances and kept in touch with him cordial letters; Foedora, on the other hand, proclaims herself outside the span of any intrigued darling. Faultfinders concur that the "Lady without a Heart" depicted in the novel is a composite of other ladies Balzac knew. The character of Pauline, in the mean time, was likely affected by another of Balzac's courtesans, Laure de Berny. 

Toward the beginning of the book, the businessperson examines with Valentin "the extraordinary mystery of human life". They comprise of three words, which Balzac renders in capital letters: VOULOIR ("to will"), POUVOIR ("to be capable"), and SAVOIR ("to know"). Will, he clarifies, devours us; control (or, in one interpretation, "to have your will") obliterates us; and information mitigates us. These three ideas structure the philosophical establishment of the novel. 

The charm interfaces these statutes to the hypothesis of vitalism; it physically speaks to the existence power of its proprietor, and is diminished with each activity of the will. The retailer attempts to caution Valentin that the most astute way lies not in practicing his will or verifying force, yet in building up the psyche. "What is habit", he solicits Valentin, "if not an abundance of will and control?" Overcome with the potential outcomes offered by the skin, nonetheless, the young fellow laughs in the face of any potential risk and grasps his longing. After getting the charm, he proclaims: "I need to live with abundance." Only when his life compel is almost exhausted does he perceive his error: "It all of a sudden struck him that the ownership of intensity, regardless of how huge, did not carry with it the learning of how to utilize it ... [he] had everything in his capacity, and he had done nothing." 

The will, Balzac alerts, is a dangerous power that looks for just to get control except if tempered by learning. The businessperson displays a foil for Valentin's future self, offering study and mental improvement as an option in contrast to expending want. Foedora additionally fills in as a model for protection from the debasement of will, seeing that she looks for consistently to energize want in others while never yielding to her own. That Valentin is most joyful living in the material filth of his small garret – lost in study and composing, with the great hearted Pauline offering herself to him – underscores the incongruity of his hopelessness toward the finish of the book, when he is encompassed with the products of his material want. 

The tale extrapolates Balzac's examination of want from the person to society; he expected that the world, as Valentin, was losing its way because of material abundance and confused needs. In the betting house, the orgiastic banquet, the classical shop, and the discourses with men of science, Balzac looks at this situation in different settings. The desire for economic wellbeing to which Valentin is driven by Rastignac is significant of this abundance; the perfect yet unattainable Foedora symbolizes the joys offered by high society. 

Science offers no panacea. In one scene, a gathering of specialists offer a scope of immediately detailed suppositions with regards to the reason for Valentin's weakness. In another, a physicist and a scientist concede rout in the wake of utilizing a scope of strategies intended to extend the skin. These logical methodologies come up short on a comprehension of the genuine emergency, and are in this way destined to fall flat. Despite the fact that it is just appeared in glimpses – the picture of Christ, for instance, painted by Valentin's namesake, the Renaissance craftsman Raphael – Balzac wished to remind perusers that Christianity offered the possibility to temper lethal overabundance. In the wake of bombing in their endeavors to extend the skin, the scientist announces: "I have faith in the villain"; "And I in God", answers the physicist. 

The defilement of abundance is identified with social disorder in a portrayal toward the beginning of the last segment. Physically weak however living in supreme extravagance, Raphaël de Valentin is portrayed as holding in his eyes "an unprecedented knowledge" with which he can see "everything at once":That articulation was agonizing to see ... It was the enigmatic look of powerlessness that must perforce relegate its wants to the profundities of its own heart; or of a grumpy person getting a charge out of in creative energy every one of the delights that his cash could acquire for him, while he decays to reduce his crowd; the appearance of a bound Prometheus, of the fallen Napoleon of 1815, when he learned at the Elysee the strategical bumble that his adversaries had made, and requested twenty-four hours of direction in vain ... 

The epic sold out following going marked down, and was evaluated in each real Parisian paper and magazine. Now and again Balzac composed the audits himself; utilizing the name "Comte Alex de B—", he declared that the book demonstrated he had accomplished "the stature of virtuoso". Free surveys were less clearing, yet in addition exceptionally positive. Artist Émile Deschamps applauded the beat of the novel, and the religious reporter Charles Forbes René de Montalembert demonstrated enthusiastically that it featured the requirement for greater otherworldliness in the public arena all in all. Albeit a few pundits chastised Balzac for delighting in pessimism, others felt it just mirrored the state of French society. German essayist Johann Wolfgang von Goethe pronounced it a sparkling case of the "hopeless debasement of the French country". Commentators contend about whether Goethe's remarks were acclaim for the novel or not. 

This tempest of attention caused a whirlwind of movement as perusers around France mixed to acquire the novel. Balzac's companion and "La Caricature" proofreader Charles Philipon kept in touch with the writer multi week after production: "there is no getting hold of "La Peau de vexation". Grandville needed to quit everything to peruse it, in light of the fact that the bookkeeper sent round each half-hour to inquire as to whether he had wrapped up." Friends close and far kept in touch with Balzac showing their comparable challenges in finding duplicates. The second version was discharged one month later, and it was trailed by satires and subsidiary works from different authors. Balzac's companion Théophile Gautier incorporated an entertaining reverence in his 1833 story gathering "Les Jeunes-France" while, amid a diversion of the banquet from Balzac's tale, a character says: "This is the time when I should pour wine down my waistcoat ... It says so in high contrast on page 171 of "La Peau de chagrin" ... What's more, this is the place I need to hurl a 100-sou coin noticeable all around to see whether there's a God." 

The epic set up Balzac as an unmistakable figure in the realm of French writing. Distributers battled among themselves to distribute his future work, and he turned into a backbone on the rundown of welcome for social capacities around Paris. Balzac invested heavily in his novel's prosperity, and proclaimed to the supervisor of the diary "L'Avenir" that "Elle est donc le "point de départ" de mon ouvrage" ("This is the "purpose of takeoff" for my collection of work"). Reliably well known even after his passing, "La Peau de shame" was republished multiple times somewhere in the range of 1850 and 1880. 

When he built up his plan for sorting out the majority of his books and stories into a solitary arrangement called "La Comédie humaine", Balzac set "La Peau de shame" toward the beginning of the area called "Études philosophiques" ("Philosophical Studies"). Like different works in this category – including the also personal "Louis Lambert" (1832) – it manages logic and the powerful. Be that as it may, it additionally gives a scaffold to the authenticity of the "Études des mœurs" ("Study of Manners"), where most of his books were found. 

The fame of the novel reached out to Ukraine, where a noble named Ewelina Hańska read about Balzac's books in papers she got from Paris. Fascinated, she requested duplicates of his work, and she read them with her cousins and companions around Volhynia. They were awed by the understanding he appeared toward ladies in "La Physiologie du mariage", however felt that "La Peau de embarrassment" depicted them in an unfeeling and unforgiving light. Hańska composed a letter to Balzac, marked it as "L'étrangère" ("The Stranger"), and sent it from Odessa on 28 February 1832. 

With no arrival address, Balzac was left to answer in the "Periodical de France", with the expectation that she would see the notice. She didn't, yet composed again in November: "Your spirit grasps hundreds of years, monsieur; its philosophical ideas have all the earmarks of being the product of long investigation developed by time; yet I am let you know are as yet youthful. I might want to know you, however feel I have no compelling reason to do as such. I know you through my very own profound sense; I picture you in my own particular manner, and feel that on the off chance that I were to really set eyes upon you, I ought to right away shout, 'That is he!'" 

In the long run she uncovered herself to him, and they started a correspondence that went on for a long time. Despite the fact that she stayed dependable to her significant other Wacław, Mme. Hańska and Balzac appreciated an enthusiastic closeness through their letters. At the point when the aristocrat kicked the bucket in 1841, the French writer started to seek after the relationship outside the composed page. They marry in the town of Berdychiv on 14 March 1850, five months before he kicked the bucket. 

Since it was among the principal books he discharged under his own name, Balzac did not utilize characters in "La Peau de embarrassment" from past works. He did, in any case, present a few people who reemerged in later stories. Most critical of these is Eugène de Rastignac, the more established noble man who mentors Valentin in the awful methods for high society. Thirty pages into the composition of his 1834 novel "Le Père Goriot", Balzac all of a sudden crossed out the name he had been utilizing for a character – Massiac – and utilized Rastignac. The connection among educator and understudy in "La Peau de dismay" is reflected in "Le Père Goriot", when the youthful Rastignac is guided in the methods for social "realpolitik" by the in disguise criminal Vautrin. 

Balzac utilized the character Foedora in three different stories, however inevitably thought of her out of them subsequent to choosing different models for social womanliness. In later releases of "La Peau de dismay", he changed the content to name one of the brokers "Taillefer", whom he had presented in "L'Auberge rouge" (1831). He likewise utilized the name Horace Bianchon for one of the specialists, accordingly associating the book to the popular doctor who shows up in thirty-one stories in "La Comédie humaine". So distinctively had the specialist been rendered that Balzac himself got out for Bianchon while lying on his deathbed. 

The utilization of repeating characters loans Balzac's work an attachment and environment dissimilar to some other arrangement of books. It empowers a profundity of portrayal that goes past straightforward portrayal or discourse. "At the point when the characters return", noticed the faultfinder Samuel Rogers, "they don't venture all of a sudden; they rise up out of the protection of their own lives which, for an interim, we have not been permitted to see." Although the unpredictability of these characters' lives definitely driven Balzac to make blunders of order and consistency, the missteps are viewed as minor in the general extent of the task. Perusers are all the more frequently harried by the sheer number of individuals in Balzac's reality, and feel denied of vital setting for the characters. Analyst author Arthur Conan Doyle said that he never endeavored to peruse Balzac, since he "didn't have the foggiest idea where to start". 

Balzac's epic was adjusted for the lyrics of Giselher Klebe's 1959 musical show "Kick the bucket tödlichen Wünsche" ("The Deadly Wishes"). 1977– 1978 the German writer Fritz Geißler made "Das Chagrinleder" after a lyrics by Günther Deicke. In 1989– 1990 the Russian writer Yuri Khanon composed the artful dance "L'Os de embarrassment" ("The Shagreen Bone"), in view of Balzac's content, which incorporated a musical show interval of a similar name. In 1992 a biographic pseudo-narrative as a musical drama film dependent on his musical drama "L'os de Chagrin" () was discharged. 

The epic has likewise been refered to as a conceivable effect on Oscar Wilde for his 1890 novel "The Picture of Dorian Gray", in spite of the fact that this speculation is dismissed by generally researchers. The hero, Dorian Gray, gets a supernatural representation that ages while he remains everlastingly energetic. 

Russian writing pro Priscilla Meyer keeps up in her book How the Russians Read the French, that both La Peau de Chagrin and Pere Goriot were widely paralleled, subverted and reversed, by Dostoevsky in Crime and Punishment. 

In 1960 Croatian artist Vladimir Kristl made an energized short entitled "Šagrenska koža" ("The Piece of Shagreen Leather") propelled by Balzac's tale. 

Close to an amazing finish, Austrian psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud felt a unique association with Balzac's tale, since he trusted that his reality was contracting like Valentin's charm. Determined to have a deadly tumor, Freud made plans to end it all. After re-perusing "La Peau de shame", he said to his specialist: "This was the correct book for me to peruse; it manages contracting and starvation." The following day, his specialist regulated a deadly portion of morphine, and Freud passed on. 

In 2011 French executive Marianne Badrichani organized an adjustment of "La Peau de Chagrin" in London's Holland Park.