Ferugliotheriidae 

Ferugliotheriidae is one of three known families in the request Gondwanatheria, a baffling gathering of wiped out warm blooded animals. Gondwanatheres have been named a gathering of questionable affinities or as individuals from Multituberculata, a noteworthy terminated mammalian request. The best-known agent of Ferugliotheriidae is the sort "Ferugliotherium" from the Late Cretaceous age in Argentina. A second class, "Trapalcotherium", is known from a solitary tooth, a first lower molariform (molar-like tooth), from an alternate Late Cretaceous Argentinean region. Another variety known from a solitary tooth (for this situation, a fourth lower premolar), "Argentodites", was first portrayed as a random multituberculate, yet later recognized as potentially identified with "Ferugliotherium". At long last, a solitary tooth from the Paleogene of Peru, LACM 149371, maybe a last upper molariform, and an ongoing example from Mexico, may speak to related creatures. 

Ferugliotheriids are known from disengaged, low-delegated (brachydont) teeth and potentially a piece of a lower jaw. "Ferugliotherium" is assessed to have weighed 70 g (2.5 oz). The incisors are long and procumbent and contain a band of polish on just piece of the tooth. The jaw section contains a long tooth attachment for the incisor and bears a bladelike fourth lower premolar, looking like those of multituberculates. The premolar of "Argentodites" is comparative. Two upper premolars additionally look like multituberculate teeth, however whether these premolars are referable to Ferugliotheriidae is dubious. Molariforms are rectangular and brachydont and comprise of longitudinal lines of cusps, associated by transverse peaks and isolated by transverse wrinkles. Lower molariforms have two cusp lines, and the single known putative upper molariform has three. Low-delegated and bladelike teeth as observed in ferugliotheriids may have been transformative antecedents of the high-delegated (hypsodont) teeth of the other gondwanathere family, Sudamericidae. 

Most ferugliotheriids originate from the Late Cretaceous age (Campanian– Maastrichtian ages, 84– 66 million years back, or mya) of Argentina, where they may have lived in a muddy or seashore condition. They existed together with vertebrates, for example, dryolestoids and an assortment of different creatures, including dinosaurs. Ferugliotheriids may have been herbivores or omnivores. 

The primary individual from the family Ferugliotheriidae to be found, "Ferugliotherium windhauseni", was named in 1986 by Argentinean scientist José F. Bonaparte based on a tooth from the Late Cretaceous Los Alamitos Formation of Argentina. Bonaparte set "Ferugliotherium" as the main individual from the new family Ferugliotheriidae, which he probably allocated to the request Multituberculata, an expansive gathering of terminated warm blooded creatures (unmistakable from the two monotremes and therians, the two noteworthy gatherings of living well evolved creatures) that was especially far reaching in the northern landmasses (Laurasia), however had never recently been found in the south (Gondwana). In 1990, Bonaparte named another species, "Vucetichia gracilis", from Los Alamitos. He put it in the family Gondwanatheriidae, together with "Gondwanatherium", another Los Alamitos warm blooded animal, inside the request Gondwanatheria, which additionally contained the family Sudamericidae, at that point with the single class "Sudamerica". Bonaparte considered the gondwanatheres to be presumably most firmly identified with the xenarthrans (sloths, armadillos, and insect eating animals) inside a gathering called Paratheria. 

Additionally in 1990, Bonaparte combined the family Gondwanatheriidae into Sudamericidae and, together with David Krause, reclassified Gondwanatheria as a multituberculate suborder that included both Ferugliotheriidae and Sudamericidae, hence dismissing a connection among gondwanatheres and xenarthrans. Krause, Bonaparte, and Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska redescribed "Ferugliotherium" in 1992 and recommended that the teeth that "Vucetichia" depended on may have been worn examples of "Ferugliotherium". They put "Ferugliotherium" among multituberculates and recommended that it might be a piece of the suborder Plagiaulacoidea. The next year, Krause affirmed that "Vucetichia gracilis" is an equivalent word of "Ferugliotherium windhauseni". Together with Bonaparte, he additionally proposed to arrange gondwanatheres as a superfamily (Gondwanatherioidea) inside Plagiaulacoidea, including the families Ferugliotheriidae and Sudamericidae. In 1996, Kielan-Jaworowska and Bonaparte probably recognized a lower jaw part with a multituberculate-like fourth lower premolar (p4) from Los Alamitos as "Ferugliotherium". Based on the morphological highlights of the jaw part, they contended that gondwanatheres are not firmly identified with some other multituberculate gathering, and therefore set them in their very own suborder, Gondwanatheria. 

In 1999, Rosendo Pascual and partners depicted a lower jaw of "Sudamerica", which had already just been known from disconnected teeth. This jaw part demonstrated that "Sudamerica" had four molariform teeth on each side of the lower jaws, more than any multituberculate, and therefore they expelled gondwanatheres from Multituberculata and viewed their affinities as unsure. As a result, Kielan-Jaworowska and partners barred Gondwanatheria from multituberculates, yet distinguished the jaw section and a couple of upper premolars of "Ferugliotherium" as uncertain multituberculates in a 2001 paper and a 2004 book. Be that as it may, in 2009 Yamila Gurovich and Robin Beck recognized these fossils as "Ferugliotherium" and contended for a cozy connection between gondwanatheres (counting Ferugliotheriidae) and multituberculates. 

During the 2000s, extra individuals from Ferugliotheriidae were depicted. In 2004, Francisco Goin and associates depicted a solitary baffling tooth from the Paleogene of Peru, LACM 149371; their best gauge was that it spoken to an individual from Ferugliotheriidae. Based on a solitary p4, Kielan-Jaworowska and partners named "Argentodites coloniensis", from the Late Cretaceous La Colonia Formation of Argentina, in 2007 as a multituberculate, perhaps referable to the suborder Cimolodonta. Gurovich and Beck contended, in any case, that the p4 of "Argentodites" did not contrast substantially from that in the jaw they assigned to "Ferugliotherium", and that "Argentodites" depended on an example of either "Ferugliotherium" or a firmly related creature. Guillermo Rougier and associates portrayed warm blooded animals from the Allen Formation, a third Argentinean arrangement of comparable age, in 2009, including another ferugliotheriid, "Trapalcotherium matuastensis". They likewise respected "Argentodites" as a probable relative of "Ferugliotherium" and proposed that Ferugliotheriidae are either multituberculates or firmly identified with them. 

Ferugliotheriids are known from a couple of dozen secluded teeth and a tentatively apportioned jaw part. Most fossils are alluded to "Ferugliotherium"; "Trapalcotherium" and "Argentodites" were each portrayed based on a solitary tooth. Their exact dental recipe is obscure, however incisors, premolars, and molariform teeth have been recognized. Gurovich recommended that "Ferugliotherium" had one incisor (potentially two in the upper jaw), no canines, a couple of premolars, and two molars on each side of the lower and upper jaws. 

Dissimilar to the high-delegated (hypsodont) sudamericids, ferugliotheriid teeth were low-delegated (brachydont). Moreover, sudamericid molariforms will in general be bigger and are bolstered by one expansive root, however the littler ferugliotheriids have no less than two roots under their molariforms. "Ferugliotherium" is evaluated to have weighed 70 g (2.5 oz). 

The incisors, known just from "Ferugliotherium", are procumbent and long. Three lower and four upper incisors are known. As is normal in warm blooded animals with comparably molded (gliriform) incisors, the lower incisors are all the more along the side packed, are less bended, structure a more noteworthy point between the front side and the wear aspect at the tip, and are less curved fit as a fiddle than the uppers. The lacquer band is limited to the side that faces the lips in both the lower and upper incisors (the lower side in the brings down and the upper side in the uppers). 

The example MACN Pv-RN 975, first portrayed by Kielan-Jaworowska and Bonaparte in 1996, might be a jaw piece of "Ferugliotherium", in spite of the fact that it has additionally been recognized as an inconsequential multituberculate. The fossil jelly a bladelike premolar, distinguished as the fourth premolar, and the bit of the jawbone underneath it. A diastema (hole) is available between the premolar and the incisor that would have been situated before it. The alveolus (attachment) of the lower incisor broadens entirely through the fossil. The p4 bears eight edges on the two sides of the longitudinal peak and is upheld by two roots at the front and back. The p4 doled out to "Argentodites" likewise has eight edges on the two sides, which dive from cusps on the upper edge, and roots at the front and back. As per Kielan-Jaworowska and associates, it varies from that of MACN Pv-RN 975 in its adjusted, instead of rakish shape. Notwithstanding, Gurovich and Beck credit this distinction to the way that the last has experienced significantly more wear. 

Two fossils have been deciphered as confined lower premolars of "Ferugliotherium", yet nor is still viewed in that capacity. Two other teeth have been distinguished as upper premolars of "Ferugliotherium"; likewise with the jaw piece, they may likewise speak to a vague multituberculate. One of the two jelly two longitudinal lines of cusps, of which one contains four and the other something like two cusps. The other is all the more ineffectively saved, however may speak to a similar tooth position. These teeth take after multituberculate upper premolars. 

Four putative first lower molariforms (mf1s) of "Ferugliotherium" are known, and the main known tooth of "Trapalcotherium" is additionally thought to be a mf1. "Ferugliotherium" mf1s are generally rectangular, with adjusted corners, and bear two longitudinal lines of cusps. There are four cusps in the lingual line (in favor of the tongue) and three in the labial column (the side of the lips). The cusps are associated with cusps in the other column by transverse edges and isolated from cusps in their very own lines by three transverse wrinkles. Two intensely worn "Ferugliotherium" mf1s were initially recognized as upper molars of "Vucetichia gracilis" by Bonaparte in 1990. One of the two jam the roots; at the front and back, there were two roots, melded at their bases. The mf1 of "Trapalcotherium" contrasts just in certain subtleties; among others, the cusps are less unmistakable from the peaks. The sole mf2 of "Ferugliotherium" is the holotype. It bears two lines of two cusps. The cusps in the front and back sets are associated by a wide edge and the two sets are isolated by a profound wrinkle. Transverse edges between the cusps like those seen in ferugliotheriids are not known in any multituberculate. Then again, by and large examples of cusps and edges are basically comparable among "Ferugliotherium", "Gondwanatherium", and "Sudamerica", showing that the three are firmly related. 

One "Ferugliotherium" tooth is believed to be a first upper molariform (MF1). It is practically rectangular and bears three longitudinal lines of cusps. There are five cusps in the center line, which is arranged at a slant, four cusps in one of the lines in favor of the tooth, and a few in the other line as an afterthought. As in the lower molariforms, the cusps are associated by transverse edges and isolated by wrinkles. LACM 149371, the baffling perhaps ferugliotheriid tooth from Peru, is a triangular tooth bearing six or seven cusps, which are associated by peaks and encompass two profound fossae (bowls) and a third shallower fossa. 

With its low-delegated teeth, "Ferugliotherium" may have been an insectivore or omnivore, as comparable multituberculates, for example, "Mesodma", which is thought to have eaten bugs, different arthropods, seeds, and additionally nuts. The wear on "Ferugliotherium" teeth proposes that the creature may have eaten some plant material. The high-delegated sudamericids are thought to have been herbivores benefiting from rough vegetation, in spite of the fact that their exact eating regimen isn't known. In the transformative history of gondwanatheres, hypsodont teeth are thought to have developed from brachydont forerunners. Gurovich speculates that the foremost molariforms of sudamericids may have advanced from bladelike premolars as observed in "Ferugliotherium". 

Fossils of Argentinean ferugliotheriids originate from the Los Alamitos ("Ferugliotherium"), La Colonia ("Ferugliotherium" and "Argentodites"), and Allen Formations ("Trapalcotherium"). Every one of the three are around a similar age, dating to the Campanian (84– 71 mya) or more probable the Maastrichtian (71– 66 mya), yet the La Colonia Formation is maybe somewhat more youthful. The Los Alamitos and Allen Formations may have been kept in a boggy conditions, and the depositional condition of the La Colonia Formations may have been an estuary, salt marsh, or beach front plain. 

In every one of the three arrangements, the mammalian fauna is commanded by the ancient gathering Dryolestoidea; the Los Alamitos Formation has additionally created the sudamericid "Gondwanatherium". Just seven mammalian teeth have been found in the Allen Formation. Each of the three additionally contain stays of various different creatures, including dinosaurs, creatures of land and water, and fish. 

The Santa Rosa fossil site, where LACM 149371 was found, is in the Ucayali Region of Peru. The Santa Rosa fauna likewise contains fossils of different remarkable types of marsupials and hystricognath rodents, a conceivable bat, and some notoungulates (a one of a kind wiped out gathering of South American ungulates). The age of this fauna is vague, and appraisals extend from close to the Eocene– Oligocene limit (~35 mya) to the late Oligocene (~25 mya). The Santa Rosa well evolved creatures may have lived in a savanna living space that contained streams. 

All the more as of late, an example has been found in the Cerro del Pueblo Formation of Mexico, bearing a few similitudes to "Ferugliotherium". On the off chance that a ferugliotheriid, this would broaden the clade's range into the Maastrichtian of North America. 

The scope of the Ferugliotheriidae is in general increasingly restricted, both in degree and time, than that of Sudamericidae; sudamericids have been recorded from the Late Cretaceous to Miocene of Argentina, the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar and India, the Middle Eocene of Antarctica, and maybe the Cretaceous of Tanzania (TNM 02067, probably alluded to Sudamericidae). By the by, ferugliotheriids might be the main gondwanatheres to have had a nearness in the northern half of the globe.