Western Chalukya design 

Western Chalukya design (), otherwise called Kalyani Chalukya or Later Chalukya engineering, is the particular style of ornamented engineering that developed amid the standard of the Western Chalukya Empire in the Tungabhadra area of present day focal Karnataka, India, amid the eleventh and twelfth hundreds of years. Western Chalukyan political impact was at its top in the Deccan Plateau amid this period. The focal point of social and sanctuary building action lay in the Tungabhadra area, where vast medieval workshops fabricated various landmarks. These landmarks, provincial variations of previous dravida (South Indian) sanctuaries, structure a peak to the more extensive territorial sanctuary engineering custom called Vesara or "Karnata dravida". Sanctuaries of all sizes worked by the Chalukyan engineers amid this time remain today as instances of the design style. 

Most striking of the numerous structures dating from this period are the Mahadeva Temple at Itagi in the Koppal locale, the Kasivisvesvara Temple at Lakkundi in the Gadag area, the Mallikarjuna Temple at Kuruvatti in the Bellary region and the Kallesvara Temple at Bagali in the Davangere region. Different landmarks remarkable for their craftsmanship incorporate the Kaitabheshvara Temple in Kubatur and Kedareshvara Temple in Balligavi, both in the Shimoga area, the Siddhesvara Temple at Haveri in the Haveri region, the Amrtesvara Temple at Annigeri in the Dharwad region, the Sarasvati Temple in Gadag, and the Dodda Basappa Temple at Dambal, both in the Gadag locale. 

The enduring Western Chalukya landmarks are sanctuaries worked in the Shaiva, Vaishnava, and Jain religious customs. None of the military, common, or cultured engineering has endure; being worked of mud, block and wood, such structures might not have withstood rehashed intrusions. 

The focal point of these structural advancements was the locale enveloping the present-day Dharwad region; it included zones of present-day Haveri and Gadag areas. In these locale, around fifty landmarks have made due as proof of the across the board sanctuary working of the Western Chalukyan workshops. The impact of this style reached out past the Kalyani locale in the upper east to the Bellary area in the east and to the Mysore district in the south. In the Bijapur– Belgaum locale toward the north, the style was blended with that of the "Hemadpanti" sanctuaries. In spite of the fact that a couple of Western Chalukyan sanctuaries can be found in the Konkan locale, the nearness of the Western Ghats most likely kept the style from spreading westwards. 

In spite of the fact that the essential arrangement of the Western Chalukya style started from the more seasoned "dravida style", a considerable lot of its highlights were exceptional and impossible to miss to it. One of these distinctive highlights of the Western Chalukyan design style was an enunciation that can at present be found all through current Karnataka. The main special cases to this theme can be found in the region around Kalyani, where the sanctuaries display a "nagara" (North Indian) verbalization which has its very own novel character. 

Rather than the structures of the early Badami Chalukyas, whose landmarks were bunched around the metropoleis of Pattadakal, Aihole, and Badami, these Western Chalukya sanctuaries are broadly scattered, mirroring an arrangement of neighborhood government and decentralization. The Western Chalukya sanctuaries were littler than those of the early Chalukyas, a reality recognizable in the decreased stature of the superstructures which overshadow the places of worship. 

The Western Chalukya workmanship developed in two stages, the primary enduring around a fourth of a century and the second from the earliest starting point of eleventh century until the finish of Western Chalukya rule in 1186 CE. Amid the primary stage, sanctuaries were worked in the Aihole-Banashankari-Mahakuta area (arranged in the early Chalukya heartland) and Ron in the Gadag locale. A couple of temporary workshops assembled them in Sirval in the Gulbarga region and Gokak in the Belgaum region. The structures at Ron bear likenesses to the Rashtrakuta sanctuaries in Kuknur in the Koppal locale and Mudhol in the Bijapur region, proof that similar workshops proceeded with their action under the new Karnata tradition. The develop and last stage achieved its top at Lakkundi (Lokigundi), an important seat of the royal court. From the mid-eleventh century, the craftsmans from the Lakkundi school moved south of the Tungabhadra River. In this manner the impact of the Lakkundi school can be found in a portion of the sanctuaries of the Davangere region, and in the sanctuaries at Hirehadagalli and Huvinahadgalli in the Bellary locale. 

Impacts of Western Chalukya design can be observed in the topographically far off schools of engineering of the Hoysala Empire in southern Karnataka, and the Kakatiya administration in present-day Andhra Pradesh. Here and there called the "Gadag style" of design, Western Chalukya engineering is viewed as a forerunner to the Hoysala design of southern Karnataka. This impact happened in light of the fact that the early developers utilized by the Hoysalas originated from articulated focuses of medieval Chalukya workmanship. Further landmarks in this style were assembled by the Western Chalukya rulers as well as, additionally by their primitive vassals. 

An average Western Chalukya sanctuary might be analyzed from three angles – the essential floor plan, the compositional enunciation, and the figure models. 

The fundamental floor plan is characterized by the extent of the place of worship, the span of the sanctum, the conveyance of the structure mass, and by the "pradakshina" (way for circumambulation), if there is one. 

Building explanation alludes to the fancy parts that offer shape to the external mass of the hallowed place. These incorporate projections, breaks, and portrayals that can create an assortment of examples and layouts, either ventured, stellate (star-formed), or square. Whenever ventured (likewise called "ventured jewel of anticipating corners"), these segments structure five or seven projections on each side of the holy place, where everything except the focal one are anticipating corners (projections with two full faces made by two breaks, left and right, that are at right points with one another). Assuming square (likewise called "square with basic projections"), these parts structure three or five projections on a side, just two of which are anticipating corners. Stellate examples structure star focuses which are ordinarily 8-, 16-, or 32-pointed and are sub-partitioned into hindered and continuous stellate segments. In an 'intruded' stellate arrangement, the stellate blueprint is hindered by symmetrical (right-edge) projections in the cardinal headings, bringing about star focuses that have been skipped. Two essential sorts of engineering enunciation are found in Indian design: the southern Indian "dravida" and the northern Indian "nagara". 

Figure models are smaller than usual portrayals that remain without anyone else, including design parts on pilasters, structures, molds, and complete towers. They are commonly arranged as "figure form" or "other enriching highlights". Once in a while, rich figure model can darken the verbalization of a sanctum, when portrayals of divine beings, goddesses, and legendary figures are in wealth. 

Chalukyan sanctuaries fall into two classes – the first being sanctuaries with a typical "mantapa" (a colonnaded lobby) and two holy places (known as "dvikuta"), and the second being sanctuaries with one "mantapa" and a solitary altar ("ekakuta"). The two sorts of sanctuaries have at least two passageways offering access to the principle corridor. This configuration contrasts from both the structures of the northern Indian sanctuaries, which have a little shut "mantapa" prompting the altar and the southern Indian sanctuaries which by and large have an extensive, open, ordered "mantapa". 

The Chalukyan planners held highlights from both northern and southern styles. In any case, in the general game plan of the fundamental sanctuary and of the auxiliary places of worship, they slanted towards the northern style and would in general form one primary holy place with four minor sanctuaries, making the structure a "panchayatna" or five-shrined complex. Chalukyan sanctuaries were, quite often, constructed confronting the east. 

The Sanctum (cella) is associated by a vestibule ("ardha mantapa" or bet chamber) to the shut "mantapa" (additionally called the "navaranga"), which is associated with the open "mantapa". Every so often there can be at least two open "mantapas". In Shaiva sanctuaries, straightforwardly inverse the sanctum and inverse the shut "mantapa" is the "nandi mantapa", which cherishes a vast picture of Nandi, the bull specialist of Shiva. The sanctuary more often than not has no "pradakshina". 

The columns that help the top of the "mantapa" are solid shafts from the base up to the neck of the capital. In this way, the tallness of the "mantapa" and the general size of the sanctuary were constrained by the length of the stone shafts that the planners had the capacity to acquire from the quarries. The tallness of the sanctuary was additionally compelled by the heaviness of the superstructure on the dividers and, since Chalukyan draftsmen did not utilize mortar, by the utilization of dry workmanship and holding stones without clasps or establishing material. 

The nonattendance of mortar permits some ventilation in the deepest pieces of the sanctuary through the permeable stone work utilized in the dividers and roofs. The unassuming measure of light entering the sanctuaries comes beyond all detectable inhibitions lobbies from all headings, while the extremely quelled enlightenment in the internal shut "mantapa" comes just through its open entryway. The vestibule gets even less light, making it important to have some type of fake lighting (for the most part, oil lights) notwithstanding amid the day. This counterfeit wellspring of light maybe includes "secret" to the picture of the divinity loved in the sanctum. 

From the eleventh century, recently joined highlights were either founded on the customary "dravida" plan of the Badami Chalukyas, as found in the Virupaksha and Mallikarjuna Temples at Pattadakal, or were further elaborations of this explanation. The new highlights created a closer juxtaposition of compositional parts, unmistakable as a progressively jam-packed adornment, as can be found in the Mallikarjuna Temple at Sudi in the Gadag locale and the Amrtesvara Temple at Annigeri in the Dharwad region. 

The designers in the Karnataka district appear to have been roused by engineering improvements in northern India. This is prove by the way that they joined enhancing scaled down towers (multi-aedicular towers delineating superstructures) of the "Sekhari" and "Bhumija" types, upheld on pilasters, at the same time with these advancements in the sanctuaries in northern India. The smaller than normal towers spoke to hallowed places, which thus spoken to divinities. Sculptural delineations of divinities were commonly careful despite the fact that normal. Other northern thoughts they fused were the column bodies that showed up as divider projections. Understood developments joining these highlights are found at the Kasivisvesvara Temple and the Nannesvara Temple, both at Lakkundi. 

In the eleventh century, sanctuary ventures started utilizing soapstone, a type of greenish or pale blue dark stone, despite the fact that sanctuaries, for example, the Mallikarjuna Temple at Sudi, the Kallesvara Temple at Kuknur, and the sanctuaries at Konnur and Savadi were worked with the once conventional sandstone in the "dravida" enunciation. 

Soapstone is found in plenitude in the locales of Haveri, Savanur, Byadgi, Motebennur and Hangal. The extraordinary antiquated sandstone building squares utilized by the Badami Chalukyas were supplanted with littler squares of soapstone and with littler stone work. The principal sanctuary to be worked from this material was the Amrtesvara Temple in Annigeri in the Dharwad area in 1050 CE. This structure was to be the model for some other time, increasingly verbalized structures, for example, the Mahadeva Temple at Itagi. 

Soapstone was additionally utilized for cutting, displaying and etching of parts that could be depicted as "plump". In any case, the completion of the engineering parts contrasted with the before sandstone sanctuaries is a lot better, bringing about lavish shapes and velvety adornments. Ventured wells are another component that a portion of the sanctuaries included. 

The 11-century sanctuary building blast proceeded in the twelfth century with the expansion of new highlights. The Mahadeva Temple at Itagi and the Siddhesvara Temple in Haveri are standard developments consolidating these advancements. In view of the general arrangement of the Amrtesvara Temple at Annigeri, the Mahadeva Temple was worked in 1112 CE and has indistinguishable building segments from its forerunner. There are anyway contrasts in their enunciation; the "sala" (rooftop under the finial of the superstructure) and the scaled down towers on pilasters are etched rather than formed. The contrast between the two sanctuaries, fabricated fifty years separated, is the more unbending displaying and enhancement found in numerous parts of the Mahadeva Temple. The well proportioned carvings of the eleventh century were supplanted with an increasingly serious etching. 

As improvements advanced, the Chalukyan manufacturers adjusted the unadulterated "dravida" tower by diminishing the stature of each ventured story and duplicating their number. From base to top, the succeeding stories get littler in circuit and the highest story is topped with a crown holding the "kalasa", a finial in the state of an ornamental water pot. Every story is so lavishly enhanced that the first "dravida" character turns out to be practically undetectable. In the "nagara" tower the engineers altered the focal boards and specialties on every story, shaping a pretty much ceaseless vertical band and recreating the vertical groups up the focal point of each face of the ordinary northern style tower. Old and new structural segments were compared yet presented independently. A few superstructures are basically a mix of southern "dravida" and northern "nagara" structures and is named "Vesara Shikhara" (additionally called Kadamba Shikhara). 

The typically northern ventured precious stone arrangement of anticipating corners was embraced in sanctuaries worked with an altogether "dravida" explanation. Four twelfth century structures developed by this arrangement are surviving: the Basaveshwara Temple at Basavana Bagevadi, the Ramesvara Temple at Devur and the sanctuaries at Ingleshwar and Yevur, all in the region of the Kalyani locale, where "nagara" sanctuaries were normal. This arrangement appeared in northern India just in the eleventh century, a sign that building thoughts voyaged quick. 

A noteworthy improvement of this period was the presence of stellate (star-molded) sanctums in a couple of sanctuaries worked of the conventional sandstone, for example, the Trimurti Temple at Savadi, the Paramesvara Temple at Konnur and the Gauramma Temple at Hire Singgangutti. In each of the three cases, the holy place is a 16-pointed continuous star, a ground-plan not found anyplace else in India and which totally separates these sanctuaries from the 32-pointed intruded on star plans of "bhumija" sanctums in northern India. 

The stellate arrangement discovered prominence in the soapstone developments, for example, the Doddabasappa Temple at Dambal too. Contemporary stellate plans in northern India were every one of the 32-pointed intruded on sorts. No sanctuaries of the 6-, 12-, or 24-indicated stellate plans are known exist anyplace in India, except for the extraordinary sanctuary at Dambal, which can be portrayed either as a 24-pointed continuous arrangement, or a 48-pointed arrangement with vast square purposes of 90 degrees substituting with little short purposes of 75 degrees. The upper levels of the seven-layered superstructure look like cogged wheels with 48 marks. The Doddabasappa Temple and the Someshvara Temple at Lakshmeshwara are instances of outrageous variations of an essential "dravida" verbalization. These sanctuaries demonstrate that the modelers and specialist were deliberately making new structures of compositional segments out of conventional strategies. 

In the mid thirteenth century, twelfth century qualities stayed noticeable; in any case, numerous parts that were once in the past plain ended up designed. This change is seen in the Muktesvara Temple at Chaudayyadanapura (Chavudayyadanapura) and the Santesvara Temple at Tilavalli, both in the Haveri locale. The Muktesvara Temple with its exquisite "vimana" was revamped amidst the thirteenth century. In the Tilavalli Temple, all the engineering parts are lengthened, giving it a proposed swarmed look. The two sanctuaries are worked with a "dravida" explanation. Aside from colorful "dravida" explanations, a few sanctuaries of this period have "nagara" enunciation, worked in the ventured precious stone and the square arrangement regular to a "nagara" superstructure. Outstanding among sanctuaries with a ventured precious stone style are the Ganesha Temple at Hangal, the Banashankari sanctuary at Amargol (which has one "dravida" holy place and one "nagara" sanctum), and a little hallowed place that is a piece of the group at the Mahadeva Temple. At Hangal, the engineers had the capacity to give a "sekhari" superstructure to the place of worship, while the lower half got a "nagara" verbalization and delineations of small scale "sekhari" towers. The style of workmanship with a square arrangement is found at Muttagi and the Kamala Narayana Temple at Degoan. 

Sanctuaries worked in and around the Kalyani area (in the Bidar locale) were very not the same as those inherent different areas. Regardless, the explanation was "nagara", and the sanctuary plan generally speaking was either ventured precious stone or stellate. The heights relating to these two plans were comparable in light of the fact that star shapes were delivered by turning the corner projections of a standard ventured plan in augmentations of 11.25 degrees, bringing about a 32-pointed intruded on plan in which three star focuses are skipped in the focal point of each side of the altar. Instances of ventured jewel plans getting by in Karnataka are the Dattatreya Temple at Chattarki, the Someshvara Temple in Kadlewad, and the Mallikarjuna and Siddhesvara at Kalgi in the Gulbarga region. The "nagara" holy place at Chattarki is a ventured jewel of anticipating corners with five projections for each side. Due to the ventured precious stone arrangement, the divider columns have two completely uncovered sides, with a high base square enlivened with a reflected stalk theme and two extensive divider pictures above. The shapes and enrichments on the remainder of the divider column have a striking similarity to the genuine columns supporting the roof. 

The other sort is the square arrangement with straightforward projections and breaks however with a plausibility of both "sekhari" and "bhumija" superstructures. The arrangement does not have any extra components spare those that get starting from the earliest stage. The breaks are basic and have only one huge divider picture. The essential normal for these "nagara" sanctuaries in the Kalyani area is that they not just contrast from the "dravida" sanctuaries in the north Karnataka locale yet from the "nagara" sanctuaries north of the Kalyani district also. These distinctions are show in the enunciation and in the shapes and ornamentation of individual design segments, giving them an extraordinary spot in Chalukyan engineering. Sanctuaries that fall in this classification are the Mahadeva Temple at Jalsingi and the Suryanarayana Temple at Kalgi in the present day Gulbarga area. The arrangement and the "nagara" verbalization of these sanctuaries are equivalent to establish toward the north of the Kalyani area, yet the subtleties are extraordinary, delivering an alternate look. 

The Western Chalukya embellishing innovativeness concentrated on the columns, entryway boards, lintels ("torana"), domical rooftops in coves, external divider enrichments, for example, "Kirtimukha" (figure of deformity faces regular in Western Chalukya adornment), and scaled down towers on pilasters. Despite the fact that the fine art of these craftsmans does not have any distinctive highlights from a separation, a closer examination uncovers their preference for improvement. An abundance of carvings, groups of parchment work, figural bas-reliefs and board models are generally firmly pressed. The entryways are very ornamented yet have a design system comprising of pilasters, a formed lintel and a cornice top. The sanctum gets diffused light through punctured window screens flanking the entryway; these highlights were acquired and changed by the Hoysala manufacturers. The external divider improvements are all around rendered. The Chalukyan craftsmans expanded the outside of the divider by methods for pilasters and half pilasters. Scaled down beautifying towers of various sorts are upheld by these pilasters. These towers are of the "dravida" layered sort, and in the "nagara" style they were made in the "latina" (mono aedicule) and its variations; the "bhumija" and "sekhari". 

The Jain Temple, Lakkundi denoted an imperative advance in the improvement of Western Chalukya external divider ornamentation, and in the Muktesvara Temple at Chavudayyadanapura the craftsmans presented a twofold bended anticipating eave ("chhajja"), utilized hundreds of years after the fact in Vijayanagara sanctuaries. The Kasivisvesvara Temple at Lakkundi encapsulates a progressively develop advancement of the Chalukyan engineering in which the pinnacle has a completely communicated climbing line of specialties. The craftsmans utilized northern style towers and communicated it in an adjusted "dravida" layout. Little towers of both "dravida" and "nagara" types are utilized as ornamentation on the dividers. With further improvement, the divisions between stories on the superstructure turned out to be less set apart, until they nearly lost their distinction. This advancement is exemplified in the Dodda Basappa Temple at Dambal, where the first "dravida" structure must be distinguished subsequent to perusing out the elaborate encrustation that covers the outside of every story. 

The dividers of the "vimana" beneath the "dravida" superstructure are beautified with straightforward pilasters in low help with strikingly displayed figures between them. There are completely beautified surfaces with continuous breaks and projections with more profound specialties and ordinary models. The embellishment of the dividers is stifled contrasted with that of the later Hoysala engineering. The dividers, which are separated into several projections and breaks, produce an exceptional impact of light and shade, an aesthetic vocabulary acquired by the Hoysala manufacturers in the decades that pursued. 

A vital element of Western Chalukya rooftop workmanship is the utilization of domical roofs (not to be mistaken for the European kinds that are worked of voussoirs with transmitting joints) and square roofs. The two sorts of roofs start from the square shaped in the roof by the four bars that lay on four columns. The arch over the four focal columns is typically the most alluring. The arch is built of ring after ring of stones, each on a level plane had relations with ring littler than the one beneath. The top is shut by a solitary stone piece. The rings are not solidified but rather held set up by the tremendous load of the roofing material above them pushing down on the rump of the arch. The triangular spaces made when the arch springs from the focal point of the square are loaded up with arabesques. On account of square roofs, the roof is separated into compartments with pictures of lotus rosettes or different pictures from Hindu folklore. 

Columns are a noteworthy piece of Western Chalukya engineering and were delivered in two primary sorts: columns with substitute square squares and a formed round and hollow area with a plain square-square base, and ringer molded machine turned columns. The previous sort is more energetic and more grounded than the chime formed sort, which is made of soapstone and has its very own nature. Imaginative workmanship was utilized on soapstone shafts, generally cut into the required shapes utilizing a machine. Rather than arduously pivoting a pole to acquire the last completion, laborers added the last contacts to an upstanding shaft by utilizing sharp devices. A few columns were left unpolished, as prove by the nearness of fine depressions made by the pointed end of the apparatus. In different cases, cleaning brought about columns with fine intelligent properties, for example, the columns in the sanctuaries at Bankapura, Itagi and Hangal. This column workmanship achieved its apex in the sanctuaries at Gadag, explicitly the Sarasvati Temple in Gadag city. 

Outstanding in Western Chalukya engineering are the beautifying entryway boards that keep running along the length of the entryway and over on top to frame a lintel. These embellishments show up as groups of carefully etched fretwork, formed colonettes and parchments scribed with small figures. The groups are isolated by profound tight channels and depressions and keep running over the highest point of the entryway. The sanctuary plan frequently incorporated a substantial inclining cornice of twofold bend, which anticipated outward from the top of the open "mantapa". This was planned to decrease heat from the sun, obstructing the cruel daylight and keeping water from pouring in the middle of the columns. The underside of the cornice looks like woodwork due to the rib-work. Periodically, a straight slabbed cornice is seen. 

Figural model on friezes and boards changed amid the period. The saints from the Hindu sagas Ramayana and Mahabharata, portrayed regularly in early sanctuaries, become less, restricted to just a couple of thin friezes; there is a relating increment in the delineation of Hindu divine beings and goddesses in later sanctuaries. Portrayal of gods above smaller than normal towers in the breaks, with a beautifying lintel above, is basic in twelfth century sanctuaries, yet not in later ones. Figures of blessed men and moving young ladies were regularly etched for profound specialties and breaks. The utilization of section figures portraying moving young ladies wound up basic on columns under shafts and cornices. Among creature designs, the elephant seems more frequently than the steed: its expansive volumes offered fields for ornamentation. Suggestive figures are once in a while observed in Chalukyan sanctuaries; the Tripurantakesvara Temple at Balligavi is an exemption. Here, suggestive model is restricted to a tight band of friezes that go around the outside of the sanctuary. 

In what was a takeoff from tradition, the Western Chalukyan figure models of divine beings and goddesses bore firm structures and were rehashed again and again in the numerous sanctuaries. This was rather than the naturalistic and casual stances utilized in the before sanctuaries in the district. Excepting intermittent misrepresentations in represent, every important god had its own posture contingent upon the manifestation or structure delineated. Predictable with figure form in different pieces of India, these figures were familiar instead of characterized in their musculature, and the drapery was diminished to a couple of unmistakable lines on the body of the picture. 

Western Chalukyan divinity models were very much rendered; exemplified best by that of Hindu goddess Sarasvati at the Sarasvati sanctuary in Gadag city. A great part of the drapery on the bust of the picture is ornamentation involving gems made of pearls around her throat. An intricate heap of twists shapes her hair, some of which trails to her shoulders. Over these wavy tresses and behind the head is a layered coronet of gems, the bended edge of which ascends to frame a corona. Starting from the waist, the picture is wearing what is by all accounts the most fragile of material; with the exception of the example of weaving followed over it, it is hard to tell where the drapery starts and where it closes. 

From the eleventh century, compositional explanation included symbols between pilasters, little towers bolstered by pilasters in the openings of dividers, and, once in a while, the utilization of divider columns to help these towers. These small scale towers were of the southern "dravida" and northern "bhumija" and "sekhari" types and were for the most part used to expound "dravida" kinds of explanation. The miniatures on single pilasters were designed with a defensive flower lintel on top, a type of enhancement ordinarily given to delineation of divine beings. These elaborations are seen in the Amrtesvara Temple at Annigeri. These miniatures ended up basic in the twelfth century, and the impact of this northern verbalization is found in the Kasivisvesvara Temple at Lakkundi and in the close-by Nannesvara Temple. 

The smaller than usual towers bear better and increasingly exquisite subtleties, demonstrating that structural thoughts voyaged quick from the north toward the south. Design and ornamentation had advanced from a shaped structure to an etched structure, the sharpness some of the time giving it a three-dimensional impact. The foliage enrichments changed from cumbersome to thin, and an adjustment in the smaller than expected towers on double pilasters is seen. The eleventh century miniatures comprised of a cornice ("kapota"), a story ("vyalamala"), a balustrade ("vedika") and a rooftop ("kuta") with an attractive trim, while in the twelfth century, point by point "dravida" smaller than usual towers with numerous little levels ("tala") came into vogue. Some twelfth century sanctuaries, for example, the Kallesvara Temple at Hirehadagalli have scaled down towers that don't remain on pilasters however rather are bolstered by overhangs, which have specialties underneath that ordinarily contain a picture of a god. 

The Western Chalukyan rulers Shaivas (admirers of the Hindu god Shiva) committed a large portion of their sanctuaries to that God. They were anyway tolerant of the Vaishnava or Jain beliefs and committed a few sanctuaries to Vishnu and the Jain tirthankaras separately. There are a few situations where sanctuaries initially devoted to one god were changed over to suit another confidence. In such cases, the first directing god can now and then still be recognized by notable intimations. While these sanctuaries had a similar essential arrangement and design sensibilities, they varied in certain subtleties, for example, the perceivability and pride of spot they managed the distinctive gods. 

Similarly as with every single Indian sanctuary, the god in the sanctum was the most obvious pointer of the sanctuary's commitment. The sanctum (Garbhagriha or cella) of a Shaiva sanctuary would contain a Shiva "linga", the all inclusive image of the divinity. A picture of Gaja Lakshmi (associate of the Hindu god Vishnu) or a picture of Vishnu riding on Garuda, or even only the Garuda, connotes a Vaishnava sanctuary. Gaja Lakshmi, be that as it may, by virtue of her significance to the Kannada-talking locales, is found on the lintel of the passageway to the mantapa (pillared corridor) in all sanctuaries independent of confidence. 

The cutting on the anticipating lintel on the entryway to the sanctum has the picture of a "linga" or here and there of Ganapati (Ganesha), the child of Shiva on account of Shaiva sanctuaries or of a situated or upstanding Jain holy person (Tirthankar) on account of Jain sanctuaries. 

The sukanasi or extraordinary curved specialty at the base of the superstructure (Shikhara or tower) additionally contains a picture demonstrative of the dedicators' group or confidence. Over the lintel, in a profound and luxuriously created architrave can be discovered pictures of the Hindu trimurti (the Hindu group of three of gods) Brahma, Shiva and Vishnu underneath angled moves of arabesque. Shiva or Vishnu possesses the inside relying upon the organization the sanctuary was devoted to. 

Every so often, Ganapati and his sibling Kartikeya (Kumara, Subramanya) or the "saktis", the female partners, can be found at either end of this cutting. Carvings of the stream Goddesses Ganga and Yamuna are found at either end of the foot of the entryway to the hallowed place in early sanctuaries. 

The Western Chalukya dynastic guideline finished in the late twelfth century, yet its design heritage was acquired by the sanctuary manufacturers in 

southern Karnataka, a locale then under the control of the Hoysala domain. Extensively, Hoysala design is gotten from a variation of Western Chalukya engineering 

that rose up out of the Lakshmeshwar workshops. The development of the Chennakesava Temple at Belur was the primary significant task appointed by Hoysala King Vishnuvardhana in 1117 CE. This sanctuary best embodies the Chalukyan taste the Hoysala craftsmans acquired. 

Maintaining a strategic distance from overdecoration, these specialists left uncarved spaces where required, despite the fact that their detailed doorjambs are exhibitionistic. Here, on the external dividers, the figures are not overcompensated, yet they are expressive and cautiously stylish. The Hoysala manufacturers utilized soapstone generally as structure material, a pattern that began amidst the eleventh century with Chalukyan sanctuaries. Other basic creative highlights between the two Kanarese administrations are the lavish "Salabhanjika" (column section figures), the machine turned columns and the makara torana (lintel with legendary brutal figure). The overshadow the altar in a Hoysala sanctuary is a firmly shaped type of the Chalukya style tower. 

At the point when the Vijayanagara Empire was in power in the fifteenth and sixteenth hundreds of years, its workshops favored stone over soapstone as the structure material for sanctuaries. Be that as it may, an archeological disclosure inside the illustrious focus at Vijayanagara has uncovered the utilization of soapstone for ventured wells. These ventured wells are designed altogether of finely completed soapstone organized symmetrically, with steps and arrivals dropping to the water on four sides. This plan indicates solid affinities to the sanctuary tanks of the Western Chalukya– Hoysala period. 

Dissimilar to the Badami Chalukyan sanctuaries included in itemized ponders by Henry Cousens (1927), Gary Tartakov (1969) and George Michell (1975), Western Chalukyan design endured disregard in spite of its significance and more extensive use. As of late in any case, researchers have come back to the advanced Karnataka district to concentrate on a more drawn out sequence, exploring a bigger land territory, making definite investigations of epigraphs and giving more significance to singular landmarks dating from the eleventh through thirteenth hundreds of years. 

The primary point by point investigation of Western Chalukya design was by M.A. Dhaky (1977), who utilized as a beginning stage two medieval epigraphs that asserted the engineers were bosses of different sanctuary frames. This examination concentrated specifically on the wealth of the Western Chalukya scaled down divider places of worship (aedicules). An essential knowledge picked up from this work was that the designers of the district found out about sanctuary shapes from different locales. These structures to them seemed "fascinating", yet they figured out how to replicate them with pretty much dominance, contingent upon the degree of their nature with the other locales' structure customs. This cognizant varied endeavor to openly utilize components from different districts in India was called attention to by Sinha (1993) also. 

An original work by Adam Hardy (1995) analyzed the Karnataka sanctuary building convention over a time of 700 years, from the seventh century to the thirteenth century, and checked on more than 200 temples worked by four traditions; Badami Chalukya, Rashtrakuta, Western Chalukya and Hoysala. The investigation secured "dravida" and "nagara" style landmarks and the contrasts between the "dravida" convention in present day Karnataka and that of neighboring Tamil Nadu and made it conceivable to decipher the numerous compositional subtleties as a major aspect of a bigger plan. 

The sanctuaries and epigraphs of the Western Chalukyas are secured by the Archeological Survey of India and the Directorate of Archeology and Museums– Government of Karnataka. In the expressions of student of history S. Kamath (2001), "The Western Chalukyas left behind probably the best landmarks of creative legitimacy. Their manifestations have the pride of spot in Indian workmanship custom". 

The Mahadeva Temple at Itagi devoted to Shiva is among the bigger sanctuaries worked by the Western Chalukyas and maybe the most well known. Engravings hail it as the 'Head among sanctuaries'. Here, the fundamental sanctuary, the sanctum of which has a "linga", is encompassed by thirteen minor places of worship, each with its own "linga". The sanctuary has two different sanctuaries, devoted to Murthinarayana and Chandraleshwari, guardians of Mahadeva, the Chalukya administrator who sanctified the sanctuary in 1112 CE. 

The Siddheshwara sanctuary in the Haveri locale has figures of divinities of various religions. The sanctuary may have been blessed first as a Vaishnava sanctuary, later taken over by Jains and in the end turning into a Shaiva sanctuary. The corridor in the sanctuary contains models of "Uma Mahesvara" (Shiva with his associate Uma), Vishnu and his partner Lakshmi, Surya (the sun god), Naga-Nagini (the snake goddess), and the children of Shiva, Ganapati and Kartikeya. Shiva is portrayed with four arms, holding his properties: the "damaru" (drum), the "aksamala" (chain of dabs) and the "trishul" (trident) in three arms. His lower left arm lays on Uma, who is situated on Shiva's lap, grasping him with her correct arm while looking into his face. The figure of Uma is very much embellished with festoons, vast studs and wavy hair. 

A few sanctuaries, in a takeoff from the standard, were committed to gods other than Shiva or Vishnu. These incorporate the Surya (depicted as 'Suryanarayana') altar at the Kasi Vishveshwara sanctuary complex and a Jain sanctuary devoted to Mahavira, both at Lakkundi; the Taradevi sanctuary (worked in a Buddhist structural style) at Dambal in the Gadag region; the Mahamaya sanctuary committed to a tantric goddess at Kuknur in the Koppal region, and the Durga sanctuary at Hirekerur in the Haveri region. 

Book 

Web