Icelandic Phallological Museum 

The Icelandic Phallological Museum (), situated in Reykjavík, Iceland, houses the world's biggest showcase of penises and penile parts. The gathering of 280 examples from 93 types of creatures incorporates 55 penises taken from whales, 36 from seals and 118 from land warm blooded creatures, purportedly including Huldufólk (Icelandic mythical beings) and trolls. In July 2011, the historical center acquired its first human penis, one of four guaranteed by would-be givers. Its separation from the benefactor's body did not work out as expected and it was diminished to a grayish-dark colored withered mass that was salted in a container of formalin. The historical center keeps on looking for "a more youthful and a greater and better one." 

Established in 1997 by from that point forward resigned instructor Sigurður Hjartarson and now kept running by his child Hjörtur Gísli Sigurðsson, the historical center became out of an enthusiasm for penises that started amid Sigurður's youth when he was given a steers whip produced using a bull's penis. He acquired the organs of Icelandic creatures from sources around the nation, with acquisitions running from the front tip of a blue whale penis to the baculum of a hamster, which must be seen with an amplifying glass. The exhibition hall guarantees that its accumulation incorporates the penises of mythical people and trolls, however, as Icelandic fables depicts such animals as being undetectable, they can't be seen. The gathering additionally includes phallic craftsmanship and specialties, for example, lampshades produced using the scrotums of bulls. 

The gallery has turned into a well known vacation spot with a huge number of guests a year and has gotten global media consideration, including a Canadian narrative film called "The Final Member", which covers the historical center's journey to acquire a human penis. As indicated by its statement of purpose, the historical center intends to empower "people to embrace genuine investigation into the field of phallology in a composed, logical style." 

The exhibition hall's originator Sigurður Hjartarson filled in as an instructor and vital for a long time, showing history and Spanish at Reykjavík's Hamrahlid College throughout the previous 26 years before his retirement. As a kid, he possessed a bull's pizzle, which was given to him to use as a dairy cattle whip. He started gathering penises after a companion heard the tale of the bull's penis in 1974 and gave him four new ones, three of which Sigurður provided for companions. Colleagues at whaling stations started bringing him whale penises too, and the accumulation developed from that point, extending through gifts and acquisitions from different sources around Iceland. 

The organs of ranch creatures originated from slaughterhouses, while anglers provided those of pinnipeds and the littler whales. The penises of bigger whales originated from business whaling stations, in spite of the fact that this source evaporated after the International Whaling Commission executed a worldwide prohibition on business whaling in 1986. Sigurður had the capacity to keep on gathering whale penises by reaping them from the 12– 16 whales that succumb to stranding on the Icelandic coast every year. He likewise acquired the penis of a polar bear shot by anglers who found the creature floating on float ice off the Westfjords. 

Sigurður was helped by his family, however not without some infrequent humiliation. His girl Þorgerður reviews that she was once sent to a slaughterhouse to gather an example yet arrived similarly as the laborers were taking a mid-day break: "Somebody asked, 'What's in the crate?' I needed to state, 'I'm gathering a solidified goat penis.' After that I stated, 'I will never gather for you again.'" According to Sigurður, "Gathering penises resembles gathering anything. You can never stop, you can never get up to speed, you can generally get another one, a superior one." 

The accumulation was at first housed in Sigurður's office at the school until he resigned from his educating work. He chose, more as a side interest than work, to put it on open presentation in Reykjavík and was granted an allow from the city gathering of ISK 200,000 to help the opening of a historical center in August 1997. By 2003, it was drawing in 5,200 guests per year, of which 4,200 were from abroad. He put the exhibition hall available to be purchased in 2003, yet additionally offered it to the city of Reykjavík as a blessing. In any case, he was ineffective in acquiring money related help from the state or city. When he resigned in 2004, he could never again manage the cost of the lease on the historical center's premises. 

After his retirement, he moved alongside his gathering to Húsavík, an angling town with a populace of around 2,200 individuals found upper east of the capital. The historical center was housed in a little structure, previously an eatery, that was set apart with a mammoth wooden penis and a stone phallus remaining outside in the city. The town's occupants were at first doubtful of the fresh introduction, yet came to acknowledge it when they were induced that there was nothing obscene about the historical center. 

In 2012 he gave over the accumulation to his child, Hjörtur Gísli Sigurðsson (depicted by "Slate" as "the world's solitary inherited penis-historical center administrator"). It was migrated from Húsavík to Reykjavík's principle shopping road at Laugavegur 116. Its previous area in Húsavík is currently home to The Exploration Museum. An idea from a well off German to purchase the historical center for ISK 30 million (US $232,000/€186,000) and a proposition to move it to the United Kingdom were both turned down, as Hjörtur demands that "the exhibition hall must be in Iceland." He plans to keep gaining new penises since you can "generally show signs of improvement, more up to date one ... a greater size or better shape, you know?" 

As per University of Iceland anthropologist Sigurjón Baldur Hafsteinsson, Icelanders' resistance of the historical center is a pointer of how Icelandic culture has changed since the 1990s, when a recently chosen neoliberal government encouraged a progressively open attitude toward stimulation, inventiveness and the travel industry that has "empowered new plans to rise freely". He has recorded the criticalness of the exhibition hall's job in Icelandic culture in a book, "Phallological historical center". 

As per the historical center's site, the accumulation contains 280 examples from 93 types of creatures. They go from probably the biggest to the absolute littlest penises in the creature world. Its biggest display is a bit of a blue whale's penis estimating long and gauging , which "Iceland Review" has named "a genuine Moby Dick". The example is only the tip, as the whole organ, when unblemished, would have been about long and weighed about . The baculum of a hamster, just long, is the littlest thing in the gathering and needs an amplifying glass to be seen. Sigurður has depicted the accumulation as the result of "37 years of gathering penises. Someone needed to do it." 

The historical center likewise has a "fables area" showing legendary penises; its online inventory records examples taken from mythical beings, trolls, kelpies, and "The Nasty Ghost of Snæfell". Sigurður says that the mythical being's penis, which the exhibition hall's list depicts as "curiously enormous and old", is among his top choices. It can't be seen, as Icelandic old stories holds that mythical people and trolls are undetectable. The folkloric penises likewise incorporate those of a merman, a one-legged, one-outfitted and one-peered toward beast called a Beach-Murmurer, an Enriching Beach Mouse (said to draw "cash from the ocean to enhance her proprietor"), and an Icelandic Christmas Lad discovered dead at the foot of a mountain in 1985 and whose penis was exhibited to the gallery by a previous civic chairman of Reykjavík. 

The exhibition hall's site expresses that it empowers "people to attempt genuine examination into the field of phallology in a sorted out, logical style", giving due conspicuousness to a field that as of not long ago has just been "a marginal field of concentrate in other scholarly teaches, for example, history, craftsmanship, brain science, writing and other imaginative fields like music and artful dance." The gallery intends to gather penis examples from each warm blooded creature in Iceland. It additionally shows phallic work of art and penis-related items or "phallobilia, for example, lampshades produced using the scrotums of bulls. Different shows go "from an eighteenth century etching delineating the circumcision of Christ to a twentieth century plastic penis pacifier." Most of the accumulation has been given, and the main buy to date has been an elephant's penis estimating almost long. The penises are either safeguarded in formaldehyde and showed in containers or are dried and hung or mounted on the dividers of the exhibition hall. 

Sigurður has utilized an assortment of systems to save the penises, incorporating conservation in formaldehyde, pickling, drying, stuffing and salting. One especially vast penis taken from a bull has been changed over into a mobile stick. Huge numbers of the gallery's shows are enlightened by lights made by Sigurður from rams' gonads. Sigurður has additionally cut wooden phalluses, which can be found enhancing different articles around the exhibition hall, and has a necktie brightened with pictures of phalluses that he wears on uncommon events. 

Josh Schonwald of Salon.com depicted his impressions of the exhibition hall when he visited in 1998: 

The historical center is open each day and by July 2011 was drawing in up to 11,000 guests yearly. 60% of the historical center's guests are accounted for to be ladies, however as indicated by the writers of the "Harsh Guide to Iceland", referencing the gallery "makes the staff at the vacationer office become flushed with shame." The exhibition hall's visitor book incorporates remarks, for example, "I've never observed such a significant number of penises– and I went to all inclusive school!" (from a New Zealand guest), "They're greater in the USA," (from somebody from Wisconsin) and "Is there a vagina historical center?" On this point, Sigurður has stated, "I'm just gathering the male organ. Another person needs to do the other activity. I'd be keen on how they would save it. I think vaginas are better alive." (There used to be a spring up historical center called "Exhibition hall of Vaginal Imagination" in Rotterdam in the Netherlands.) 

For a long time, the gallery tried to get a human penis. Sigurður had the capacity to get human balls and a prepuce from two separate benefactors; the prepuce was given by Iceland's National Hospital after a crisis circumcision activity. The historical center additionally contains models of 15 penises dependent on the Iceland national handball crew. As the group had won the silver decoration at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, the penises were produced using a silvered material. Sigurður claims that despite the fact that they are not shown in a similar request as the people appeared in the photo that goes with them, "their spouses would remember them." According to "Slate", these figures were made by Sigurður's girl, Þorgerður Sigurðardóttir, and depended individually experience instead of any learning of the group. The group's goalkeeper denies that the figures are throws. 

The historical center has so far gotten promises from four men—an Icelander, a German, an American and a Briton—to give their penises. Canadian movie producer Zach Math remarks that the American, Tom Mitchell, "is a normal person however he has this peculiarity where he thinks about his penis as a different substance from his body—Elmo. He has this fantasy he needs it to be the most popular penis on the planet." According to Sigurður, Mitchell "needed to have his penis cut off amid his lifetime and after that visit the historical center." Mitchell sent a cast of his penis to fill in as a substitute meanwhile, alongside photos of it spruced up as Santa Claus and Abraham Lincoln. The giver additionally inked his penis with the Stars and Stripes to make it look all the more engaging. He says that "I've generally thought it'd be truly cool for my penis to be the main genuine penis VIP" and has made it the star of its own comic book, "Elmo: Adventures of a Superhero Penis". 

The Icelandic giver was a 95-year-elderly person from close-by Akureyri who was said to have been a womanizer in his childhood and needed to give his penis to the gallery to guarantee his "interminable acclaim". Sigurður said that, even at 95 years old, the contributor stayed dynamic, "both vertically and on a level plane". In any case, the benefactor was said to be worried that "his penis is contracting as he gets more seasoned and he is concerned it probably won't make an appropriate show." His penis was given need over those of the non-Icelandic givers as per the exhibition hall's central goal to show the organs of Icelandic well evolved creatures. Evacuating and protecting it was anything but a simple suggestion, as Sigurður clarified: "The contributor and the specialists are in understanding, it must be taken while the body is warm. At that point drain it and siphon it up. On the off chance that it cools you can't do anything, so [the donor] is anxious to have it taken warm and treated to be saved with nobility." 

In January 2011, the Icelandic contributor kicked the bucket and his penis was carefully expelled with the goal that it could be added to the historical center's accumulation. The penectomy was not by any stretch of the imagination fruitful and left the penis "a grayish-dark colored, wilted mass". As indicated by Sigurður, "I ought to have extended it and sewn it at the back to keep it in pretty much a typical position". Rather, it "went straightforwardly into the formaldehyde". Albeit frustrated with the outcomes, Sigurður communicated certainty that "I will get a more youthful and a greater and better one soon." Visitors' most basic response to the saved human penis is "that it's old, you know, somewhat contracted, and the male individuals ["sic"] state 'gracious, I trust mine won't resemble this when I get old. Sigurður has considered giving his very own penis to the exhibition hall when he bites the dust yet said that it relies upon his better half: "In the event that she bites the dust first, my example would go in here. In the event that I bite the dust first, well I can't state. She may state no." 

American author and on-screen character Jonah Falcon, known for his amazingly estimated penis, was welcomed by the gallery through "The Huffington Post" to give his part after his passing. It was declared in May 2014 that Falcon had acknowledged the proposition, recommending a showcase nearby a sperm whale to be designated "Jonah and the whale", after the scriptural story. 

The exhibition hall is the subject of "The Final Member", a film by Canadian documentarians Zach Math and Jonah Bekhor. It profiles Sigurður and his journey to get a human penis for the historical center, recounting to the account of the American and Icelandic givers and looking at the semi unthinkable nature of the exhibition hall's gathering. Bekhor says: "I wouldn't state it's a Rorschach test, yet relying upon how you respond to it truly says a great deal regarding what your relationship is with that component of the human life structures. It's a truly intriguing wonder and we're extremely inquisitive to perceive how crowds react." The film debuted on 1 May 2012 at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival.