Seattle Sounders FC 

Seattle Sounders FC is an American expert soccer club situated in Seattle, Washington. The Sounders contend as an individual from the Western Conference of Major League Soccer (MLS). The club was set up on November 13, 2007, and started play in 2009 as a MLS extension group. The Sounders are a phoenix club, conveying a similar name as the first establishment that contended in the North American Soccer League from 1974 to 1983. 

The club's lion's share proprietor is Adrian Hanauer, and its minority proprietors are Joe Roth, the bequest of Paul Allen and Drew Carey. Previous USL Sounders mentor and associate mentor Brian Schmetzer took over as head mentor in July 2016 after the flight of Sigi Schmid. The Sounders play their home group matches at CenturyLink Field, with a diminished limit of 41,000 seats for generally coordinates. Alongside a few composed gatherings, a 53-part walking band called 'Sound Wave' underpins the club at each home match. Seattle contends with adversary MLS clubs Portland and Vancouver for the Cascadia Cup. 

The Sounders played their debut coordinate on March 19, 2009, winning 3– 0 over the New York Red Bulls. Seattle has been among the alliance's best groups, winning the U.S. Open Cup multiple times, the Supporters' Shield in 2014, and the MLS Cup in 2016. The group has fit the bill for the MLS Cup Playoffs in every one of its ten seasons and contended in the CONCACAF Champions League multiple times, progressing to the elimination round once. The group set another MLS record for normal participation in every one of its initial five seasons. The Sounders are positioned as a standout amongst the most significant establishments in North America. 

The group's players have included joint top goalscorers Clint Dempsey and Fredy Montero, just as long-term commander Osvaldo Alonso, and current skipper Nicolás Lodeiro. The Sounders likewise work a players' foundation and lower division groups that have delivered homegrown players, including forward Jordan Morris and current Newcastle United F.C. safeguard DeAndre Yedlin. 

Indeed, even before the principal urban areas in the United States were picked to have Major League Soccer crews, Seattle was viewed as a suitable area for an expert group. In 1994, as the U.S. was getting ready to have the FIFA World Cup, in excess of 30 urban communities were seeking after the rights to a MLS group, Seattle being among them. Notwithstanding, in spite of the solid soccer fan base in Seattle, the nonappearance of a soccer-just arena was a downside to setting up a MLS group. Urban areas looking for thought for a debut MLS group were likewise expected to verify 10,000 confirmations from fans for season tickets. By the June 3, 1994 due date for MLS group offers, Seattle coordinators had verified less than 1,500 such confirmations. These low numbers were a consequence of rivalry between the ticket crusade for the MLS extension group and for the American Professional Soccer League (APSL) Sounders development group. 

In a June 14, 1994 declaration, Seattle was excluded among the initial seven urban communities to be granted a MLS group. Five additional groups were to be reported later in the year, and to improve their odds this time, Seattle MLS coordinators started working with the University of Washington to verify utilization of Husky Stadium as an interval arena while they sought after the development of a perpetual soccer-explicit office. In November 1994, the beginning of the principal MLS season was deferred until 1996, and it was noticed that the nonappearance of a "sufficient grass-field office" in the region and the nearness of the new APSL Seattle Sounders group had frustrated Seattle's MLS offered. At last, Seattle was not among the urban areas picked to build up a group amid the main period of MLS. 

In 1996, as Seattle Seahawks proprietor Paul Allen worked with the city to fabricate another football arena for his group, the capability of a MLS extension group that could be a co-inhabitant helped drive open help for the exertion. Huge numbers of the state's voters upheld the submission to develop Seahawks Stadium since it was likewise expected to be an expert soccer scene. While the arena issue was being settled, another issue developed. By 2000, MLS was moving far from class worked groups to speculator worked groups, so well off people would need to venture forward for Seattle to get a MLS extension group. 

In 2003, Seattle was again recorded as a plausibility for a MLS development group when the ten-group class declared designs to venture into new markets. In 2004, MLS magistrate Don Garber showed that Seattle had been "close" to accepting the development group eventually granted to Salt Lake. Adrian Hanauer, at that point proprietor of the United Soccer League's (USL) Sounders (some time ago the APSL Sounders), was in talks with MLS around an expected installment of $1 million to verify rights to a Seattle establishment for 2006. Nonetheless, when Seattle was disregarded again in 2006, Hanauer reported that he would not have the capacity to verify a development group without the assistance of more speculators willing to cover the expanding MLS establishment charges which had developed past $10 million. 

In 2007, Hanauer collaborated with Hollywood maker Joe Roth to make another offer for MLS venture into Seattle, at an expense of $30 million. Paul Allen, whose First and Goal organization worked Qwest Field (presently CenturyLink Field), joined the possession gather that equivalent year, making the offer the most encouraging yet for Seattle. Amid the main seven day stretch of November 2007, bits of gossip started to manufacture that MLS would declare a venture into Seattle the next week, and that the possession bunch had taken on a fourth part, TV character Drew Carey. In a question and answer session on November 13, 2007, it was reported that Seattle had been granted an extension group. The declaration denoted the arrival of top-level soccer to Seattle out of the blue since the disintegration of its North American Soccer League (NASL) group in 1983. The declaration likewise implied that the Seattle Sounders of the USL First Division would play its last season the year prior to the new MLS establishment was shaped. 

"Seattle Sounders FC" was declared as the group name on April 7, 2008, alongside the group logo, hues and identification plan, in an introduction held at the Space Needle. Sigi Schmid was presented as the club's first head mentor on December 16, 2008, in the wake of leaving the Columbus Crew following their MLS Cup triumph. 

Seattle Sounders FC, the group's fifteenth group, started play in the 2009 season. Every one of the 22,000 season ticket bundles offered by the club for its debut season were sold, giving them the most season ticket holders in MLS. The club played its first home match on March 19, 2009 before a sold-out horde of 32,523, vanquishing the New York Red Bulls 3– 0. Amid the pre-coordinate functions, the primary Golden Scarf was granted to MLS Commissioner Don Garber. Seattle was the main MLS development group to win its initial three matches, and they did as such with a shutout in each. The club set a state record for participation at a soccer coordinate on August 5, 2009, when 66,848 went to a well disposed match with FC Barcelona, a record which was later broken when they facilitated Manchester United before 67,052 fans. 

On September 2, 2009, the Sounders turned into the second MLS development group allied history (Chicago was the first) to win the U.S. Open Cup competition in its first season. They did as such by overcoming D.C. Joined 2– 1 out and about at RFK Stadium. In winning the U.S. Open Cup competition, they met all requirements for the starter round of the 2010– 11 CONCACAF Champions League. 

On October 17, 2009, the Sounders turned into the third MLS development group allied history to fit the bill for the playoffs in its first season. They secured a playoff compartment with a fight against eminent loss triumph over the Kansas City Wizards 3– 2 at Kansas City. Seattle completed the customary season with a record of 12 wins, 7 misfortunes, and 11 draws. The club set another MLS record for normal participation with 30,943 fans for every match. Its debut season arrived at an end in the 2009 MLS Cup Playoffs with a misfortune in the meeting semi-finals to the Houston Dynamo by a 1– 0 total score in a two-legged arrangement. Amid the 2009 season, each of the 15 Sounders MLS customary season home matches, its home playoff match, and its four home U.S. Open Cup matches (played at Starfire Sports Complex) were sold out. 

Before the principal match of the Sounders' second season, the club expanded the quantity of season ticket holders to 32,000. The principal match of the period was played at CenturyLink Field, with Seattle facilitating another MLS extension group, the Philadelphia Union. The Sounders won 2– 0 on objectives from Brad Evans and Fredy Montero. In any case, Seattle pursued the success by losing 8 of its next 14 matches. In the last 50% of the normal season, Seattle turned around its fortune. The group won 10 of its last 15 coordinates, and secured a playoff compartment for the second back to back year with a 2– 1 success on October 10, 2010 at Kansas City. They completed the season with 14 wins, 10 misfortunes, and 6 ties. In the playoffs, the Sounders were disposed of in the meeting semi-finals by the Los Angeles Galaxy on a 3– 1 total score. The club broke its very own single-season participation record, averaging 36,173 fans for each match, and again sold out each association coordinate. 

The Sounders likewise contended in two extra rivalries amid the 2010 season – the CONCACAF Champions League and the U.S. Open Cup. In the Champions League, Seattle advanced through the primer round, beating Isidro Metapán 2– 1 on total, yet was killed in the gathering stage. In the U.S. Open Cup, Seattle won matches at Portland and at home against the Los Angeles Galaxy and Chivas USA before achieving the last, which they facilitated at CenturyLink Field against the Columbus Crew. On October 5, 2010, Seattle won the U.S. Open Cup last, 2– 1, turning into the principal group since 1983 to rehash as U.S. Open Cup champions. The last was played before a U.S. Open Cup record horde of 31,311, and the triumph guaranteed Seattle's arrival to the Champions League in 2011. 

The Sounders started the 2011 season by facilitating the opening match of the MLS season for the third straight year, losing 1– 0 to the Los Angeles Galaxy. The season likewise observed the passage of the Portland Timbers and Vancouver Whitecaps into MLS, taking into account the recovery of the Cascadia Cup; the Sounders won the glass with an unbeaten record against the two clubs. On April 22, 2011, in a match against the Colorado Rapids, Seattle's star midfielder Steve Zakuani endured a broken leg in a test by the Rapids' Brian Mullan, which finished his season. In spite of difficulties and a moderate begin to the season (the club won only 3 of its initial 10 coordinates), the Sounders proceeded to complete the season with the second-best record in the class at 18 wins, 9 draws, 7 misfortunes, and met all requirements for the playoffs for a third continuous year. On October 4, 2011, Seattle won its third successive U.S. Open Cup, turning into the principal club to do as such in 42 years, as they vanquished the Chicago Fire 2– 0 before another competition record horde of 35,615 at CenturyLink Field. In the MLS playoffs, Seattle lost its Western Conference semi-last arrangement 3– 2 on total to Real Salt Lake. The club lost the main leg 3– 0 in Salt Lake, and could just net two objectives in the second leg at home. 

Sounders midfielder Mauro Rosales was perceived by the group as the 2011 Newcomer of the Year. In 2011, Seattle again broke its own alliance record for normal participation at 38,496. On October 15, 2011, the club facilitated the third-biggest group ever for a solitary MLS coordinate, as 64,140 individuals went to the last normal season home match against the San Jose Earthquakes, charged as a sendoff for goalkeeper Kasey Keller. In the 2011– 12 CONCACAF Champions League, Seattle turned out to be just the second MLS group in history to win a focused match in Mexico, overcoming CF Monterrey 1– 0 on August 23, 2011. The club completed second in its gathering and progressed to the quarterfinals, losing 7– 3 on total to inevitable sprinters up Santos Laguna in the wake of taking a 2– 1 lead at home and losing 6– 1 in Mexico. 

Seattle opened the 2012 season with a keep running of five straight successes in April and May, however fell into a month-long, nine-coordinate winless streak in June. The winless streak finished in a match on July 7, which saw the arrival of Steve Zakuani from restoration, against the Colorado Rapids. Seattle achieved the U.S. Open Cup Final for the fourth back to back year, turning into the main group to do as such since 1937, yet lost to Sporting Kansas City in a punishment shootout after a 1– 1 draw. In Champions League amass play, the group progressed to the knockout round with four straight successes, each including an objective from Sammy Ochoa. The Sounders completed third in the Western Conference and fit the bill for the playoffs, where they progressed out of the first round without precedent for the group's history. In the Conference Championship, Seattle fell 3– 0 to Los Angeles in the principal leg and came extremely close to tying the arrangement on total, winning the second leg 2– 1 yet losing 4– 2 on total subsequent to yielding an away objective. The 2012 season finished without a noteworthy trophy for the Sounders, without precedent for their MLS history, and the group neglected to meet all requirements for the 2013– 14 CONCACAF Champions League. The top scorer allied play was 28-year-old striker Eddie Johnson, who scored 14 objectives in his first season with the club; he earned Comeback Player of the Year respects for his execution, which came after an ineffective spell with different European clubs. 

Amid the 2013 preseason, the Sounders marked their first homegrown player, directly back DeAndre Yedlin, veteran protector Djimi Traoré, and forward Obafemi Martins, who paid his discharge condition to his Spanish club. Long-lasting forward Fredy Montero left Seattle on advance to Colombian club Millonarios F.C. in January and, by July, was credited to Sporting CP in Portugal with an alternative to purchase; Montero was sold for all time to Sporting in 2014. The Sounders started the 2013 season with the knockout round of the 2012– 13 Champions League, confronting Mexican club Tigres UANL in the quarterfinals. In the wake of losing 1– 0 in the away leg and surrendering an away objective in the arrival leg, the Sounders scored three unanswered objectives in the second half to win 3– 1 and development to the elimination rounds. With the success, the Sounders turned into the principal MLS group to dispose of a Mexican group in the knockout phase of CONCACAF Champions League. Seattle by and by played Santos Laguna in the elimination round, however neglected to progress in the wake of losing 1– 0 at home and attracting 1– 1 Torreón. The Sounders proceeded with their five-year dash of setting another MLS normal participation record, achieving 44,038 of every 2013. 

The Sounders started the MLS season with a keep running of five matches without a success, the most exceedingly bad begin in the group's history, because of wounds to key players. The Sounders neglected to progress in the U.S. Open Cup in the wake of losing to second-division Tampa Bay Rowdies in the third round, denoting the finish of the group's seven-year dash of appearances in the later adjusts. As players came back to the group, Seattle improved to a six-win, four-misfortune record in 14 coordinates by late June. In August 2013, the Sounders finished the marking of U.S. national group skipper Clint Dempsey from Tottenham Hotspur for $9 million, the biggest move bargain in the alliance's history, and a record pay of $32 million more than four years. The group's proceeded with keep running of wins place them into Supporters' Shield conflict in September, coming extremely close to the alliance driving Red Bulls, however tumbled to fourth place in the gathering after a keep running of four straight misfortunes in October. The Sounders beat the Colorado Rapids 2– 0 in the knockout round, and attracted rivals Portland the gathering elimination round. Seattle fell 2– 1 to the Timbers in the home leg and were crushed 3– 2 in Portland, thumping the Sounders out in an exhibition that neglected to satisfy desires. 

The Sounders kept on breaking the MLS normal participation record for the fourth and fifth back to back year in 2012 and 2013, with a normal of 43,144 and 44,038, separately. The higher attendances were helped by the opening of extra segments in the Hawks' Nest, just as the opening of the upper deck of CenturyLink Field for select normal matches. The August 25, 2013, home match against the Portland Timbers drew a horde of 67,385, the second-biggest independent participation allied history. 

After a frustrating 2013 season, the Sounders supplanted beginning goalkeeper Michael Gspurning with Toronto's Stefan Frei. A few veteran players, including Eddie Johnson, Patrick Ianni, Jhon Kennedy Hurtado, Mauro Rosales, and Steve Zakuani, left the club as a major aspect of a noteworthy rebuild; Brad Evans was named as club skipper. Marco Pappa, an accomplished MLS player and Guatemalan global, was added to the group. Homegrown player DeAndre Yedlin was exchanged to Tottenham Hotspur however was credited back to Seattle until the finish of the MLS season. 

The Sounders progressed to the 2014 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Final and crushed the Philadelphia Union in additional time, to win their fourth trophy of the competition. On October 25, 2014, the last round of the 2014 ordinary season, the Sounders vanquished the LA Galaxy 2– 0 to verify and win their first Supporters' Shield. 

Entering the playoffs as the top seed, Seattle crushed FC Dallas on the away objectives guideline and progressed toward the Western Conference Championship to confront the LA Galaxy by and by. The Sounders tied the Galaxy on total score yet lost on the away objectives rule in the wake of losing 1– 0 away and winning 2– 1 at home. LA would proceed to win the MLS Cup. 

Previous Real Salt Lake general administrator Garth Lagerwey was employed by the club in January 2015, supplanting Adrian Hanauer. 

Seattle was unfit to rehash their accomplishments in the 2014 season. The season began effectively, with a few key successes that saw the group at the highest point of the Western Conference by June. Amid a 2015 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup coordinate against the Portland Timbers on June 16, be that as it may, Obafemi Martins left the amusement with crotch damage and Clint Dempsey was suspended in the wake of tearing an official's wallet, however he would be summoned for the 2015 CONCACAF Gold Cup. 

The damage and suspension of the group's principle assaulting pair prompted a demise winding amid the late spring, with Seattle winning just a single match in nine recreations. By late August, Martins had recouped and driven the group to a 8-coordinate unbeaten streak to verify a playoff spot, completing fourth in the Western Conference. The Sounders had additionally effectively beaten their gathering in the 2015– 16 CONCACAF Champions League, beating the Vancouver Whitecaps and Club Deportivo Olimpia, with two successes, one draw, and one misfortune. Paraguayan universal Nelson Haedo Valdez was marked as the club's most current assigned player, and was joined by individual global signings Andreas Ivanschitz and Román Torres in August 2015; Erik Friberg likewise came back to the club after his stretch in Europe. 

Amid the playoff's opening knockout round, the Sounders vanquished the LA Galaxy 3– 2, finishing a "revile" for the club, who had lost to LA in every one of the three past playoff matchups. The playoff run would finish in the following round, the Western Conference semi-finals against FC Dallas, amid a punishment shootout after the two groups were tied on total score after additional time in Frisco, Texas. 

In November 2015, Adrian Hanauer was made lion's share proprietor of the club, succeeding Joe Roth. The club set another participation record amid the 2015 season, with a normal participation of 44,247. 

Before the 2016 season, Obafemi Martins unexpectedly left the club to sign with Shanghai Greenland Shenhua F.C. in the Chinese Super League, a move that would hamper the Sounders' offense amid the season. The move was alleviated to some degree by the marking of homegrown item Jordan Morris. GM Lagerwey likewise exchanged Marco Pappa and Lamar Neagle to different clubs in the offseason. 

Amid the primary portion of the 2016 season, the Sounders neglected to meet desires, setting close to the base of the group with 6 wins, 12 misfortunes, and 2 draws. Following a 3– 0 misfortune on July 24 to Sporting Kansas City, in which the Sounders had just a single shot, Schmid left the club on common terms and was supplanted by long-term colleague mentor Brian Schmetzer. That day, the club reported their marking of Uruguayan midfielder Nicolás Lodeiro on an assigned player contract, just as the arrival of previous assigned player Álvaro Fernández. In spite of the lazy begin just as the loss of midfielder Clint Dempsey, who was constrained in August to quit playing after assessments for an unpredictable heartbeat, the Sounders ascended from ninth spot to fourth place in the Western Conference and met all requirements for the 2016 MLS Cup Playoffs, with eight successes, two misfortunes, and four draws. Schmetzer was named as lasting head mentor accordingly. 

Toward the finish of the standard season, Jordan Morris was named the MLS Rookie of the Year subsequent to scoring the most objectives of any American freshman in MLS (12), and Nicolás Lodeiro was named MLS Newcomer of the Year for his 4 objectives and 8 aids 13 appearances. The Sounders progressed from the Knockout Round of the playoffs through a 1– 0 success over Sporting Kansas City, and beat FC Dallas 4– 2 on total to come back to the Conference Final. The Sounders at that point vanquished the Colorado Rapids 3– 1 on total in the last, securing a spot in their first-since forever MLS Cup. On December 10, 2016, the Sounders vanquished Toronto FC 5– 4 out of a punishment shootout, to win MLS Cup 2016, their first MLS title in establishment history, going the entire match without a shot on objective. The group's execution was known as a "cinderella season" and hailed as a standout amongst the most emotional MLS seasons to date. 

The Sounders started their title protection with the signings of two institute graduates and a few veteran players from MLS and abroad. Dempsey likewise came back from his rest and scored in his first match before being called up to the U.S. national group for World Cup capability. The season started with just five successes in the initial 17 matches, yet was trailed by a 13-coordinate unbeaten streak and extra successes to secure a second-place spot in the Western Conference. In the playoffs, the Sounders beat the Vancouver Whitecaps and Houston Dynamo to win the Western Conference and come back to the MLS Cup, by and by confronting Toronto at BMO Field. Seattle lost 2– 0 to Toronto, who secured the principal local treble in MLS history. 

Seattle started the 2018 season with a raced to the quarterfinals of the CONCACAF Champions League, where they lost 3– 1 on total to inevitable victors C.D. Guadalajara. Amid the Round of 16, Jordan Morris harmed his ACL and was esteemed unfit to play for the remainder of the period. Without Morris and a few harmed beginning players, the Sounders lost nine of their initial 15 coordinates and were put base of the Western Conference by June. The club marked another Designated Player, Peruvian forward Raúl Ruidíaz, that month and started a long unbeaten streak that brought about a playoff position in late August. 

On September 1, the club broke the MLS record for most sequential successes in the post-shootout period, having won eight back to back matches. They at that point stretched out that success streak to nine diversions as they beat Vancouver 2– 1 on September 15, preceding in the end losing to the Philadelphia Union on September 19. The Sounders completed second in the Western Conference with 18 wins, 11 misfortunes, and 5 draws. With 14 wins in the last 16 matches of the period, the Sounders finished the best half season allied history. Minority proprietor Paul Allen passed on from complexities identified with non-Hodgkin lymphoma on October 15, 2018, leaving his stake in the Sounders to a domain executed by his sister Jody Allen, with no long haul plan reported . Seattle at that point confronted the Portland Timbers in the Conference Semifinals, losing the away leg 2– 1 and winning the home leg 3– 2 to tie the arrangement on total after additional time. In the following punishment shootout, Portland won 4– 2; the home leg is viewed as a standout amongst the best playoff coordinates allied history because of its sensational completion. 

The identification configuration takes after a heraldic shield, and comprises of two layers which speak to "the organization between the proprietorship, the network, the players and the fans". The logo fuses the Space Needle, a globally perceived Seattle milestone. The official group hues are Sounder Blue, implying the waters of the Puget Sound; Rave Green, speaking to the woodlands of the Pacific Northwest; and Cascade Shale, speaking to the Cascade Range toward the east of Seattle. Fans picked a name for the group in an online survey held between March 27 and 31, 2008. The underlying rundown of possibilities – Seattle FC, Seattle Republic and Seattle Alliance – intentionally did exclude Seattle Sounders so as to give a new beginning. Notwithstanding the names having been chosen through fan examine and inside panels, the exclusion of the customary Sounders name disillusioned numerous in the Seattle people group. In light of the kickback, the group included a fourth write-in alternative for the group name, taking into consideration any name to be recommended on the ticket. Of the in excess of 14,500 votes got in picking the new group name, 49% of the votes incorporated some type of the name "Sounders". After reporting the name of the club, Hanauer recognized the centrality of keeping with custom: "The group playing at the most elevated amount in our area has dependably been called Sounders. Beginning with the NASL and after that the USL first Division, we currently get the opportunity to make a different and particular personality with the new MLS group." (The naming of the first Seattle Sounders (NASL) group was, truth be told, as the aftereffect of a challenge to name the group in 1974, in which the best three picks were Sounders, Seahawks and Mariners, in a specific order.) 

The group's proprietorship uncovered the primary Sounders shirt on May 28, 2008, and reported Microsoft as the group's support in a five-year bargain worth around $20 million. As a major aspect of the understanding, Xbox marking showed up on the facade of the Sounders' pullovers and all through the arena, starting with the Xbox 360 and Xbox Live and later supplanted with the Xbox One (just appeared as "XBOX"). Notwithstanding employing a specialist to investigate other pullover associations in 2012, the Microsoft sponsorship was over and over reached out with a one-year contract in 2013, for the accompanying season, and 2014, enduring through the finish of the 2016 season. The second expansion came in the midst of gossipy tidbits that Emirates was keen on a sponsorship as a major aspect of their showcasing effort in Seattle. The pullover has been adjusted a few times to incorporate advancements for Xbox diversions, including Halo 5 and Gears of War 4. 

The Sounders contracted ability firm WME-IMG to investigate new pullover sponsorship and other publicizing openings in 2017, in the blink of an eye before the termination of the Microsoft contract. On January 17, 2019, the group declared that Seattle-based online retailer Zulily would turn into the shirt support in a multiyear pullover bargain at an undisclosed expense. Zulily additionally took over sponsorship of the NWSL's Seattle Reign, however naming rights to the pitch at CenturyLink Field was not part of the agreement. 

Seattle Sounders FC plays home matches at CenturyLink Field in Seattle, likewise home to the Seattle Seahawks. Sounders minority proprietor Paul Allen is likewise the proprietor of the Seahawks, who have a 30-year rent on CenturyLink Field. In view of this relationship, the Sounders utilizes CenturyLink Field without paying rent. For Sounders coordinates, the field is classified "The Xbox Pitch at CenturyLink Field" as a feature of the sponsorship manage Microsoft. 

CenturyLink Field is a 69,000-situate arena intended for the two groups. The Sounders falsely limit the arena's ability for MLS matches, with certain seating areas secured with coverings to give "a progressively personal environment". In any case, the club opens the whole arena for global well disposed matches and some group matches. The group's unique marketable strategy expected just 12,000 tickets for each amusement. In view of high starting interest, limit with regards to the arena was restricted to 24,500 for the start of the debut 2009 season. Be that as it may, inferable from proceeded with extreme interest, limit has been expanded on different occasions, to 38,500 for the 2012 season and to 39,115 for 2015 season. On October 7, 2012, a record was set up when a horde of 66,452 went to a Sounders 3– 0 win over the adversary Portland Timbers: the second-most elevated to-date in MLS. The Sounders at that point beat their own record on August 25, 2013 again against the Timbers with 67,385 in participation for Clint Dempsey's home introduction, a 1– 0 success for the Sounders. 

While the Sounders right now play on FieldTurf, CenturyLink Field has recently had transitory normal grass introduced for universal soccer occasions. In 2012, a refreshed FieldTurf surface was introduced and confirmed by FIFA with a 2-star quality rating, the most astounding conceivable rating. On the off chance that a MLS rule change requires normal grass playing surfaces, the field will be for all time supplanted with common grass. 

The group's preparation offices and workplaces are situated at the Starfire Sports Complex in close-by Tukwila. Littler than CenturyLink Field, Starfire is additionally used to have U.S. Open Cup matches. Sounders delegates have said they favor the more cozy air for littler glass matches. 

The Sounders FC Alliance was built up in line with minority proprietor Drew Carey. In light of the fan relationship at FC Barcelona, individuals from the Alliance can cast a ballot on the evacuation of the general director and on other group choices. Season ticket holders become programmed individuals, while non-season ticket holders may get tied up with the Alliance for an expense. Enrollment benefits incorporate casting a ballot benefits, a solicitation to the yearly gathering and other group advantages. Individuals may likewise be chosen to the Sounders FC Alliance Council by getting no less than 25 selections from different individuals on a yearly premise. The main vote on holding or supplanting Sounders general supervisor Adrian Hanauer was booked to be held between October to December 2012. After 13,775 votes enrolled, Hanauer was held by the Alliance. Drew Carey is the administrator of the Sounders FC Alliance. 

Carey additionally mentioned that the Sounders have their very own walking band, the first of its sort in MLS. This prompted the production of the Sound Wave, a 53-part walking band comprising of metal and walking percussion. The band plays music from various kinds, for example, Latin, shake and pop, and sits on the north end of CenturyLink Field. The March to the Match, in which fans walk from Occidental Park to CenturyLink Field before each home match, has been joined by the Sound Wave. 

Other than the Alliance, there are as of now four perceived, autonomous supporters bunches for the Sounders. Emerald City Supporters (ECS), which framed in 2005 to help the USL Sounders, is the biggest supporter gathering and sits in the south end of the arena in areas 121– 123. "Eastside Supporters" is a gathering which can be found in area 150 which they call "The Pod". Gorilla FC is a Sounders supporters gather that sits in the south end of CenturyLink Field in Sections 119 and 120. "The North End Faithful" sit in the north end of the arena underneath the "Falcons Nest" in areas 100 and 144– 152. 

The Seattle– Portland and Seattle– Vancouver competitions framed in the mid-seventies in the NASL and carried on through to the USL and MLS. In 2004, the fan-based Cascadia Cup was made to formalize the challenge between the Seattle, Portland, and Vancouver USL groups. The trophy is traded by the three groups' supporters gatherings and depends on the consequences of certain customary season matches. The Cascadia Cup was challenged without Seattle for two seasons after the Sounders entered MLS in 2009, yet Portland and Vancouver were granted development groups that started play in 2011. 

The fan-made Heritage Cup rivalry with the San Jose Earthquakes started in the 2009 MLS season. MLS groups that carry on the names of their NASL ancestors are qualified to contend. The consequences of their class matches decide the champ. 

In spite of the fact that there is no official competition between the Sounders and Los Angeles Galaxy, the two groups have met a few times in the MLS Cup Playoffs. The connection between previous head mentors Bruce Arena and Sigi Schmid, the two best allied history, additionally played a factor in the clubs' competition. Schmid later filled in as the Galaxy's head mentor from 2017 to 2018, not long after his takeoff from the Sounders. 

The possession gathering of the club is made out of four speculators. The lion's share proprietor is the previous proprietor of the now dead USL-1 group Seattle Sounders Adrian Hanauer, with minority proprietors Joe Roth, a Hollywood maker; the home of Paul Allen, Microsoft fellow benefactor and proprietor of the Seattle Seahawks and Portland Trail Blazers; and Drew Carey, entertainer and diversion show have. Roth was the greater part proprietor from 2007 to 2015, when he surrendered the job to Hanauer, who had been supplanted as general chief before that year. Allen's association took into account the group to impart certain assets to the Seahawks, including over portion of the group's full-time staff, with consolidated ticket, showcasing, and money related activities. This game plan finished on April 30, 2014, with the Sounders turning into a completely free business activity. 

Brian Schmetzer is the Sounders' present head mentor. He was elevated to between time head mentor from his job as right hand mentor after Sigi Schmid went separate ways with the club on common terms in July 2016. Schmetzer was made perpetual head mentor in November 2016, after the group's capability for that year's playoffs. The club's associate mentors are Ante Razov, a resigned MLS player, and Djimi Traoré, a resigned Sounders player who played for Liverpool F.C. Tom Dutra was procured in 2008 as the club's goalkeeper mentor. 

Garth Lagerwey was contracted from Real Salt Lake in January 2015 as the club's general director and President of Soccer, supplanting Adrian Hanauer. Previous MLS player and Everett, Washington local Chris Henderson was named specialized chief on January 24, 2009. Previous Sounders protector Taylor Graham was contracted as the club's Vice President of Business Operations in 2012, supplanting long-lasting Seattle Seahawks official Gary Wright. 

SportsBusiness Journal and SportsBusiness Daily perceived Seattle Sounders FC as the Professional Sports Team of the Year in 2009 on account of the group's record-setting achievement in participation, just as making the playoffs in its debut season. Previous Seahawks and Sounders CEO Tod Leiweke was perceived by the Puget Sound Business Journal as the paper's 2009 Executive of the Year. Gary Wright was named MLS Executive of the Year in 2009. In 2012, he was named Seattle Sports Star Executive of the Year. 

A recent report by Forbes positioned the Sounders number one in the association as far as yearly incomes ($50 million) and working salary ($10 million). Thus, the Sounders were additionally positioned as the most profitable establishment ($245 million) in MLS – a 717% increment over the extension expense it paid to join the alliance. The Sounders monetary achievement is driven in vast part by their high participation figures. 

The Sounders association reported in 2014 that it would handle a second-division save group in the United Soccer League, overseen by the group and in part possessed by individuals from a fan-claimed gathering. The group, at first named Seattle Sounders FC 2 (S2), started play at the Starfire Sports Complex in 2015, under the administration of previous collaborator mentor Ezra Hendrickson. In 2017, the Sounders declared that the group would move to Cheney Stadium in Tacoma, with business tasks exchanged to the Tacoma Rainiers baseball club, in front of an arranged rebrand and soccer-explicit arena to be worked in 2020. The group ended up known as the Tacoma Defiance in front of the 2019 season. 

The Sounders were likewise partnered with a novice ladies' group, Seattle Sounders Women, that plays at Starfire Sports Complex. A different, proficient ladies' group, Seattle Reign FC, started play in 2013 in the momentum top dimension of U.S. ladies' soccer, the National Women's Soccer League (NWSL). The group was rebranded as Reign FC and moved to Tacoma in 2019, additionally increasing incomplete possession from Adrian Hanauer and his family. 

The Sounders built up their associated foundation group in 2010, and employed administrator Dick McCormick and specialized chief Darren Sawatzky to create nearby players. The foundation fields groups in four age levels in the U.S. Soccer Development Academy framework, and is partnered with youth clubs in Washington, North Carolina, and Central California. A few institute items have been marked by the Sounders under the MLS Homegrown Player Rule, including DeAndre Yedlin, Sean Okoli, Jordan Morris, and Henry Wingo. 

In January 2012, the Sounders reported an association with the Tacoma Tide, a novice group in the USL Premier Development League, to rebrand as Seattle Sounders FC U-23 and name Sawatzky as head mentor. The U-23 group fields institute players marked from their college groups, as a major aspect of the player improvement framework. 

Since 2014, TV rights in English for territorially communicated matches are held by Tribune Media, with diversions airing on either KCPQ (Q13) or sister station KZJO (JoeTV) inside the Seattle advertise. English transmissions are called by Keith Costigan, who works close by previous Sounders goalkeeper Kasey Keller for shading critique and previous Sounders midfielder Steve Zakuani for examination. Already, matches broadcast on KING-TV and KONG from 2009 to 2013. Matches are broadcast in Spanish on Univision station KUNS, tied down by Jaime Mendez with investigators Diego Arrioja and Jhon Kennedy Hurtado. In 2018, the group reestablished its concurrences with KCPQ and KZJO; also, the group declared another gushing arrangement with YouTube TV for restrictive rights to stream the group's matches inside Washington state. This replaces a past syndication manage Root Sports Northwest. 

On radio, Sounders matches are brought in English on 950 KJR AM by Matt Johnson with investigation from Wade Webber, Danny Jackson, and Pete Fewing. The station likewise pretense a week by week show devoted to the Sounders on Tuesdays. KKMO (El Rey 1360 AM) communicates matches and a week by week appear in Spanish with editorial from Mario Rodriguez, Carlos Tapia, and Felipe Maqueda. 

Previous Seattle SuperSonics commentator Kevin Calabro and previous U.S. soccer star Greg Vanney called the play-by-play for the neighborhood communicates amid the Sounders' debut season in 2009. Nonetheless, they were supplanted by previous BBC cricket and general game observer Arlo White for the 2010 and 2011 seasons, who called English language communicates without an accomplice. In 2012, White was procured by NBC Sports Network to be the voice of their soccer inclusion. That prompted BBC observer Ross Fletcher turning into the club's TV and radio play-by-play analyst starting with the 2012 season, working close by Kasey Keller as the shading reporter. Fletcher left the club toward the finish of the 2015 season and was supplanted by Keith Costigan. 

Intense means a present Sounders player 

Incorporates MLS normal season objectives, MLS Cup playoff objectives, U.S. Open Cup objectives, and CONCACAF Champions League objectives. 

Not checked toward all out objectives. 

Striking implies current a Sounders player 

Incorporates MLS normal season objectives, MLS Cup playoff objectives 

Not checked toward all out objectives.