Francis Harvey 

Major Francis John William Harvey, VC (29 April 1873 – 31 May 1916) was an officer of the British Royal Marine Light Infantry amid the First World War. Harvey was after death granted the Victoria Cross, the most astounding military honor for bravery despite the adversary given to British and Commonwealth powers, for his activities at the stature of the Battle of Jutland. A long serving Royal Marine officer slipped of a military family, amid his vocation Harvey turned into a pro in maritime cannons, serving on numerous substantial warships as gunnery preparing officer and weapon authority. Uniquely mentioned for , the leader of the British battlecruiser armada, Harvey battled at the clashes of Heligoland Bight, Dogger Bank and Jutland. 

At Jutland, Harvey, albeit mortally injured by German shellfire, requested the magazine of Q turret on the battlecruiser "Lion" to be overwhelmed. This activity kept the huge amounts of cordite put away there from disastrously exploding in a blast that would have obliterated the vessel and all on board her. Despite the fact that he surrendered to his wounds seconds after the fact, his diminishing demonstration may have spared over a thousand lives and provoked Winston Churchill to later remark: "In the long, unpleasant, wonderful history of the Royal Marines there is no name and no deed which in its character and outcomes positions over this". 

Harvey was conceived in Upper Sydenham, Kent, the child of Commander John William Francis Harvey, RN and Elizabeth Edwards Lavington Harvey "née" Penny. At age 11 of every 1884, Harvey moved with his family to Southsea and he went to Portsmouth Grammar School, accomplishing phenomenal scholastic outcomes and appearing in dialects and discussing. Harvey was dropped from a military family; his incredible extraordinary granddad John Harvey had been murdered in the Glorious First of June in 1794 and his incredible granddad Admiral Sir Edward Harvey, GCB, RN and granddad Captain John Harvey of the ninth Regiment of Foot were likewise conspicuous military figures. 

In the wake of leaving school, Harvey picked a military profession and was acknowledged by both the Royal Military College, Sandhurst and the Royal Naval College, Greenwich for officer preparing. Picking the last school as a Royal Marines officer cadet, Harvey graduated in 1892 and the next year was made a full lieutenant, joining for his first seagoing bonus. After only a year adrift, Harvey was back on shore going to gunnery courses at , qualifying in 1896 as a teacher top of the line in maritime gunnery. Harvey was designated to the cruiser when she was authorized at Devonport on 8 June 1897 for administration on the Pacific Station. In 1898, while on the "Phaëton", he was decried by the Admiralty for a negative report he discharged on San Diego Harbor. Returning home that year, Harvey was given the situation of Assistant Instructor for Gunnery at Plymouth Division. Amid this period, Harvey wedded Ethel Edye and had one child, John. 

Somewhere in the range of 1898 and 1904 Harvey invested a lot of his energy connected to the Channel Fleet, on board and , rehearsing and educating in gunnery. On 28 January 1900 he was elevated to chief. In 1903 he was posted on board , the first of a string of huge ship arrangements instructing gunnery to the substantial units of the Channel Fleet. By 1909, Harvey had served on , and the new battlecruiser . In 1910 Harvey moved toward becoming Instructor of Gunnery at Chatham Dockyard and the next year was elevated to major, a report on the gunnery school remarking "Level of productivity in Gunnery Establishment at Chatham is exceptionally high both as respects general preparing and scrupulousness. Incredible credit is expected all concerned especially to Major F.J.W. Harvey, the I of G". 

The quality of this report accordingly picked up Harvey a situation as senior marine officer on board , the 27,000 ton leader of the British battlecruiser armada. "Lion" had eight 13.5-inch firearms and Harvey was positioned in an office under Q turret coordinating their task and flame. Under her new leader, Rear-Admiral David Beatty, Harvey filled in as the senior marine officer on board into the First World War, his first military crusade. 

Harvey did not need to hold up long to see activity, seeing battle out of the blue at the Battle of Heligoland Bight only weeks into the war. On 28 August 1914, "Lion" and her squadron of and , cleared into the Heligoland Bight where German and British cruiser powers were at that point occupied with a severe battle. One German cruiser had just been sunk when Beatty's power arrived, yet the German leader and cruiser were shocked in the haze and demolished by overwhelming bore shells from Beatty's battlecruisers. German Konteradmiral Leberecht Maass and more than 1,000 of his mariners were murdered, Harvey's firearms scoring a few hits on the cruisers. 

A half year later, Harvey's firearms again made serious harm a German power at the Battle of Dogger Bank. Over the earlier months, a German battlecruiser squadron under Rear-Admiral Hipper had crossed the North Sea and assaulted British waterfront towns on a few events. On 24 January 1915 another endeavor was made, however this time British signs investigators had recognized the German development and utilizing this data the Admiralty dispatched Beatty's power to block and obliterate them. Beatty and Hipper's squadrons crashed at 09:00 and amid the commitment that pursued, "Lion" was left uncovered by mis-correspondence between the boats, which prompted connecting with the wrong ship, leaving revealed thus ready to flame all the more precisely. The British lead was hard squeezed until one of "Lion"s shots entered one of s turrets. An enormous blast demolished the neighboring turret also and slaughtered 160 men, the German leader just making due because of the activities of mariner Wilhelm Heidkamp, who tweaked open the water valves to the magazines regardless of them sparkling intensely hot. 

"Lion" was seriously harmed in the activity by shells from the passing and with her motors coming up short, dropped back to draw in the previously sinking . Misread signals brought about the remainder of the British armada coming back to help "Lion" in this undertaking, permitting the remainder of the battered German armada to resign as the British demolished the hapless "Blücher" and 792 of her team. Following the fight, Harvey stayed on board "Lion" at Rosyth for the entire of 1915 and the initial five months of 1916, proceeding with his gunnery preparing and arrangements for real armada activity. His arrangements worked out as expected on the most recent day of May, when the British armada cruised to draw in the primary body of the German High Seas Fleet at the Battle of Jutland. 

Soon after Dogger Bank, Harvey had kept in touch with an individual RMLI officer in depicting his encounters: 

Beatty's battlecruisers drove the British armada in its assault, throwing south into the North Sea to discover the foe amid the evening of 31 May 1916. At 14:15, exploring cruisers detected the German vanguard and Beatty shut to assault the adversary with his fundamental power. Offered time to plan, Hipper was prepared for Beatty with his battlecruisers in line to confront Beatty's moving toward boats with their full broadsides. Cooler was additionally supported by the fundamental German warship armada under Vice-Admiral Reinhard Scheer, which was steaming northwards not far behind him. At 15:45 Beatty came extremely close to the German armada and the vanguards drew in each other with their opening fusillades. As the two squadrons shut, the Germans found the range preferred and quicker over the British, who were outlined against the sun. Thus, German shells beat the British boats while the German boats stayed immaculate for the main 10 minutes of the commitment. Amid this phase of the fight "Lion" was hit by nine shells from . One shell at 16:00 struck the correct upper corner of the left hand weapon port at the intersection of the face plate and the rooftop, and punched a bit of the 9-inch face plate into the turret before exploding, passing over the reinforced top of the turret and beginning a discharge, which a harm control party working from outside the turret battled to put out. 

The underlying blast slaughtered or injured everybody positioned in the weapon house itself. Harvey, in spite of extreme injuries and consumes, understood that the shell lift prompting the ship's fundamental forward magazine was stuck open. With the bring forth open, the blaze flame would quickly go down to the fundamental magazine bringing about a blast that would tear the ship in two and murder everybody ready. Stunning over the destruction of the turret, Harvey gave arranges down the voice pipe for the magazine ways to be shut and the magazine compartments to be overflowed, an activity which would keep the cordite in the magazines exploding. Swinging to his sergeant, the one man as yet standing, Harvey taught him to continue to the scaffold and give a full report to the ship's chief Ernle Chatfield (a standard drill in harm works out). Seconds after the fact, Harvey crumbled and kicked the bucket from his injuries. The sergeant went quickly to the scaffold and told the skipper of Harvey's moves before being made underneath to have his injuries dressed. 

When the turret had been hit the commander had requested Q magazine entryways shut and the magazine overwhelmed, the request going to the Transmitting Station beneath the heavily clad deck where Stoker first Class William Yeo was endowed with passing the request on. The magazine was thusly overflowed and bolted up close to the hit. Anyway the cordite pursues which had tumbled from weapon house after the hit were not expelled to wellbeing, and there were as yet prepared charges in the working load. A substantial number of crew members still stayed in the shell room, magazine giving room and working chamber. The flame which was thought to have been put out after the hit on the turret picked up quality and lighted the rest of the cordite charges, setting off a vast blast at 16:28 which executed the turret crew members, the fire of the blast coming to as high as the highest point of the ship's poles. Indeed, even with the safety measures taken close by, the magazine entryways were later observed to be seriously clasped – just the seawater in the magazine behind it kept the shoot coming to inside. Different boats of the battlecruiser armada were less fortunate; at about a similar time as Harvey's passing, was destroyed by a progression of magazine blasts that asserted 1,013 lives and only minutes after that HMS "Ruler Mary" detonated "like a puffball" in one gigantic segment of dark smoke, killing 1,275 mariners. Hours after the fact amid the principle battlefleet commitment, Rear-Admiral Horace Hood's lead was wrecked with 1,032 lives. Every one of the three boats were lost as the consequence of magazine blasts like the one barely kept away from on "Lion". 

Harvey's singed carcass was taken from the destruction of Q turret in the fallout of fight and covered adrift with full distinctions close by the other 98 lethal setbacks "Lion" had endured. His boldness despite unavoidable passing did not go unnoticed; he was referenced by name in Admiral Jellicoe's post-fight dispatch and he was after death granted the Victoria Cross. Harvey's widow Ethel was given the honor at Buckingham Palace by King George V on 15 September 1916. His decoration aggregate was later advanced to the Royal Marines Museum, Eastney Barracks by his child Lieutenant-Colonel John Malcolm Harvey of the King's Regiment in 1973. Harvey's name is recorded on the Chatham Naval Memorial to those with no known grave, regulated by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission.