Thomas C. Kinkaid 

Thomas Cassin Kinkaid (3 April 1888 – 17 November 1972) filled in as a chief naval officer in the United States Navy amid World War II. He manufactured a notoriety for being a "battling chief of naval operations" in the plane carrying warship skirmishes of 1942 and directed the Allied powers in the Aleutian Islands Campaign. He was Commander Allied Naval Forces and the Seventh Fleet under General of the Army Douglas MacArthur in the Southwest Pacific Area, where he led various land and/or water capable activities, and instructed an Allied armada amid the Battle of Leyte Gulf, biggest maritime skirmish of World War II and the last maritime fight between warships ever. 

Naturally introduced to a maritime family, Kinkaid was positioned in the lower half of his class on his graduation from the United States Naval Academy in June 1908. His initial dispatched administration was spent on board warships. In 1913, he started guidance in arms building and served in that field for a long time. He saw activity amid the 1916 United States control of the Dominican Republic. Amid World War I, he was joined to the Royal Navy before filling in as Gunnery Officer on board the warship . After the war, he was Assistant Chief of Staff to the Commander U.S. Maritime Detachment in Turkey. Kinkaid got his first direction, the destroyer , in 1924. He was Executive Officer of the ship when the 1933 Long Beach seismic tremor struck, and took an interest in aid projects. He got his second order in 1937, the overwhelming cruiser . 

From 1938 to 1941, Kinkaid was a maritime attaché in Italy and Yugoslavia. In the months preceding U.S. section into World War II, he directed a destroyer squadron. Elevated to raise chief of naval operations in 1941, he expected order of a U.S. Pacific Fleet cruiser division. His cruisers protected the plane carrying warship amid the Battle of the Coral Sea and amid the Battle of Midway. After that fight he took order of Task Force 16, a team worked around the transporter , which he drove amid the long and troublesome Solomon Islands crusade, partaking in the Battles of the Eastern Solomons and the Santa Cruz Islands. Kinkaid was put accountable for the North Pacific Force in January 1943 and instructed the activities that recovered control of the Aleutian Islands. He was elevated to bad habit chief naval officer in June 1943. 

In November 1943, Kinkaid moved toward becoming Commander Allied Naval Forces South West Pacific Area, and Commander of the Seventh Fleet, coordinating U.S. also, Royal Australian Navy powers supporting the New Guinea battle. Amid the Battle of the Surigao Strait he told the Allied ships in the last maritime fight between war vessels ever. Following the destruction of Japanese maritime power in the locale, the Allied naval forces upheld the battles in the Philippines and Borneo. Kinkaid was elevated to chief of naval operations on 3 April 1945. After the Pacific War finished in August 1945, the Seventh Fleet aided activities on the Korean and China coasts. Chief of naval operations Kinkaid was Commander Eastern Sea Frontier and the Sixteenth Fleet from 1946 until his retirement in May 1950. He was an individual from the National Security Training Commission for a significant part of the remainder of the decade. He likewise presented with the American Battle Monuments Commission for a long time. 

Thomas Cassin Kinkaid was conceived in Hanover, New Hampshire, on 3 April 1888, the second tyke and just child of Thomas Wright Kinkaid, a maritime officer, and his better half Virginia Lee née Cassin. At the time, Thomas Wright Kinkaid was on leave from the U.S. Naval force and utilized at the New Hampshire College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts. At the point when Thomas was just a year old, his dad was presented on , and the family moved to Sitka, Alaska, where a third youngster, Dorothy, was conceived in 1890. Throughout the following couple of years the family progressively moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Norfolk, Virginia; Annapolis, Maryland and Georgetown, Washington, D.C. 

Thomas went to Western High School for a long time before entering a U.S. Maritime Academy private academy. He looked for and verified an arrangement to Annapolis from President Theodore Roosevelt, and was approached to take the affirmation examination. The Navy was experiencing a time of development, and the admission of sailors was twofold that of two years sooner. Of the 350 who took the examination, 283 were conceded. The class was the biggest since the Academy had opened in 1845. 

Kinkaid was admitted to Annapolis as a sailor in July 1904. His educators included four future Chiefs of Naval Operations: William S. Benson, William V. Pratt, William D. Leahy and Ernest J. Ruler. In 1905 he took an instructional journey on . He additionally gone through about a month and a half on , his solitary experience of a warship under sail. In resulting years, his preparation travels were on and which, while much more up to date, were at this point additionally out of date. He took an interest in games, especially in paddling, gaining a seat in the Academy's eight-paddle hustling shell. He graduated on 5 June 1908, positioned 136th in his class of 201. 

Kinkaid's first presenting was on San Francisco where he joined the group of the war vessel , part of the Great White Fleet. Amid the following year, he circumnavigated the globe with the armada, visiting New Zealand and Australia. The armada came back to its home port of Norfolk, Virginia in February 1909. In 1910, Kinkaid took his examinations for the position of ensign however fizzled route. While his colleagues were advanced in June 1910, Kinkaid remained a sailor, pending the aftereffect of a cosmetics examination in December 1910. In July, he created pleurisy and was hospitalized in New York, New York before being sent to Annapolis to recover. At the time his dad was responsible for the Naval Engineering Experiment Station there, which permitted Kinkaid to remain with his folks while concentrating for his route examination. In October, he was presented on the ship whose captain, Commander William Sims, an Annapolis cohort of his father's, energized Kinkaid's initial enthusiasm for gunnery. Kinkaid passed his route examination on 7 December and was elevated to ensign on 14 February 1911, antedated to 6 June 1910. While still at Annapolis, Kinkaid met Helen Sherburne Ross (1892-1980), the little girl of a Philadelphia businessperson. The two were hitched on 24 April 1911 in the Silver Chapel of St. Imprint's Episcopal Church in Philadelphia in a function gone to by few visitors. Their marriage delivered no kids. They appreciated playing contract scaffold and golf, and Helen was the ladies' golf champion for the District of Columbia in 1921 and 1922. 

In 1913, Kinkaid, presently a lieutenant (junior evaluation), initiated a course in arms at the Naval Academy Postgraduate School. This comprised of four months of homeroom guidance pursued by visits with the main maritime arms producers, and finished up with a voyage through obligation at the Indian Head Naval Proving Ground. Understudies needed to resolve to stay in the Navy for somewhere around eight years. In the wake of finishing the four months in the study hall at Annapolis, Kinkaid started a three-month task at Midvale Steel, however this was hindered following two months by the United States control of Veracruz. Kinkaid was requested to answer to the gunboat for obligation in the Caribbean, amid which the ship took an interest in the 1916 United States control of the Dominican Republic. Kinkaid experienced harsh criticism out of the blue when the ship was terminated upon from aground. "Machias" answered with its assault rifles. When one stuck, Kinkaid presented himself to discharge to help with clearing the weapon. He shot it in light of gunfire against the ship. "Machias" returned home in December, and in February Kinkaid continued his arms contemplates and went to Bausch and Lomb in Rochester, New York, where he considered the production of spotting and flame control frameworks. In March he answered to the Washington Navy Yard, where he composed a leaflet ablaze control. He likewise made a structure for a human torpedo, yet the Bureau of Ordnance chose that his idea was unsound. He finished his weapons considers with visits at Bethlehem Steel, the Indian Head Naval Proving Ground and the Sperry Gyroscope Company in Brooklyn. 

In July 1916, Kinkaid answered to , the naval force's most up to date war vessel, as a gunfire spotter. He was elevated to lieutenant in January 1917. In November 1917, he was requested to regulate the conveyance of a recently created rangefinder from the Norfolk Navy Yard to the Grand Fleet. On achieving London, Kinkaid answered to Sims, presently a bad habit chief of naval operations, who at that point requested Kinkaid to convey mystery reports to Admiral William S. Benson at a gathering with Allied maritime pioneers in Paris. A short time later, Kinkaid came back to the United Kingdom and tried the rangefinder at on Whale Island, Hampshire. He visited optical works in London, York and Glasgow to think about the British Royal Navy's rangefinders, and the Grand Fleet at its harbors. On coming back to the United States in January 1918, he visited Sperry Gyroscope and Ford Instruments to counsel with them ablaze control frameworks. Elevated to lieutenant administrator in February 1918, he was presented on "Pennsylvania"s sister send, . In May 1919, "Arizona" was sent to cover the Greek control of Smyrna. For his administrations from September 1918 to July 1919, Kinkaid was suggested for the Navy Distinguished Service Medal, however it was not granted. 

Following the typical example of substituting assignments above water and shorewards, Kinkaid was presented on a shore billet as the Chief of the Supply Section of the Bureau of Ordnance in Washington D.C. Amid this time he distributed two articles in the United States Naval Institute magazine "Procedures". The first, on the "Likelihood and Accuracy of Gun Fire", was a specialized article contending for more as opposed to greater weapons on war vessels and cruisers. The Washington Naval Conference would keep these thoughts from being incorporated, by limiting the number and size of warships and their weapons. The second, entitled "Maritime Corps, Specialization and Efficiency", contended for expanding the specializations of line officers instead of making separate corps of authorities, an increasingly dubious theme when maritime pilots were unsettling for the production of another pro part of their own. 

In 1922, Kinkaid ended up Assistant Chief of Staff to the Commander U.S. Maritime Detachment in Turkish Waters, Rear Admiral Mark L. Bristol. This visit saw the finish of the Greek control of Smyrna. The approval of the Treaty of Lausanne by Turkey brought about a draw-down of U.S. maritime powers in the district, decreasing Bristol's post to a fundamentally political one. In 1924, Kinkaid, whose father had kicked the bucket in August 1920, mentioned a presenting back on the United States attributable to his mom's evil wellbeing. The ship taking him back, the light cruiser , needed to cruise by method for Iran so as to gather the assemblage of Vice Consul Robert Imbrie, who had been murdered by a furious crowd in Tehran. 

Kinkaid got his first direction, the destroyer , on 11 November 1924. Since its home port was the Philadelphia Navy Yard and boats' commanders did not need to go through their evenings ready, Kinkaid had the capacity to live with Helen at her folks' home in Philadelphia. In July 1925, he was allocated to the Naval Gun Factory. He was elevated to leader in June 1926. For the following two years, he filled in as Fleet Gunnery Officer and Aide to the Commander in Chief, U.S. Armada, Admiral Henry A. Wiley. In 1929 and 1930, Kinkaid went to the Naval War College. This was trailed by obligation on the Navy General Board. He was then favored to the State Department as a Naval Advisor at the Geneva Disarmament Conference. 

Kinkaid next wound up Executive Officer of , one of the naval force's freshest war vessels, in February 1933. By fortuitous event the ship was at grapple in Long Beach, California when the 1933 Long Beach quake struck. Throughout the following couple of days a large number of mariners and marines took part in alleviation exercises. Kinkaid persuaded the commander to enable destitute groups of team individuals to remain on the ship, and raised canvases on the quayside to make family territories. He sent restorative and help supplies shorewards from "Colorado". 

In 1934, he came back to Washington for a voyage through obligation with the Bureau of Navigation, responsible for the Officers' Detail Section. Amid this time, Kinkaid came up for advancement to chief. Schoolmates including Richmond K. Turner and Willis A. Lee were chosen in January 1935, however Kinkaid was disregarded for advancement. In any case, with the assistance of solid wellness reports from his bosses, Rear Admirals William D. Leahy and Adolphus Andrews, he was chosen in January 1936 and, in the wake of passing the required physical and proficient examinations, was advanced on 11 January 1937. Kinkaid was then given his second seagoing direction, the substantial cruiser . He expected order from Captain Henry K. Hewitt on 7 June 1937. 

Kinkaid trusted his next task would be that of maritime attaché to London, however that activity went to Captain Alan G. Kirk. Kinkaid was offered and acknowledged the post in Rome. He took up his posting there in November 1938. In 1939, he was additionally authorize with the American consulate in Belgrade. Kinkaid revealed that Italy was caught off guard for war. Just in May 1940 did he caution that Italy was activating. Before long, he gained from Count Galeazzo Ciano that Italy would proclaim war on France and Britain somewhere in the range of 10 and 15 June 1940. He gave precise reports on the harm exacted by the British in the Battle of Taranto. He came back to the U.S. in March 1941. 

Kinkaid now confronted the possibility of choice to raise chief naval officer. He realized that skippers regularly required a specific measure of seagoing direction experience to be considered, but since his voyage through obligation on "Indianapolis" had been sliced short so as to take up the post in Rome, he didn't have enough months, and it was improbable that a billet as chief of a war vessel or cruiser would come up in adequate time before the following round of choices. He examined the issue with leader of the Officers' Detail Section at the Bureau of Navigation, Captain Arthur S. Carpender, an Annapolis schoolmate who had himself as of late been chosen for banner position. Carpender thought of an answer: he suggested Kinkaid for direction of a destroyer squadron. This was a seagoing direction, in spite of the fact that Kinkaid was to some degree senior for it. Great wellness reports as authority of Destroyer Squadron 8, situated in Philadelphia, brought about Kinkaid's advancement to raise chief naval officer in August 1941, in spite of having close to two years of complete order understanding. He turned into the remainder of his class to be elevated to signal position before the United States entered the war. Nobody positioning lower in the class was elevated to hail rank before retirement. 

Kinkaid was requested to soothe Rear Admiral Frank J. Fletcher as authority of Cruiser Division 6, comprising of the substantial cruisers , "Minneapolis" and "San Francisco". This was a piece of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, based at Pearl Harbor. He didn't achieve his new order until after the Japanese assault on Pearl Harbor, which brought the U.S. into the war. When he achieved Hawaii, Kinkaid remained with his brother by marriage, the Commander in Chief, U.S. Armada, Admiral Husband E. Kimmel, who was hitched to Kinkaid's sister Dorothy. Kinkaid went with Fletcher as an eyewitness amid the endeavor to calm Wake Island, and did not formally accept direction of the division until 29 December 1941. 

The conventional activity of cruisers was exploring and screening, however with the loss of the greater part of the war vessels at Pearl Harbor these jobs generally go to the plane carrying warships, while the cruisers' principle mission wound up safeguarding the transporters against air assault. Kinkaid's cruisers framed piece of Rear Admiral Aubrey W. Fitch's Task Force 11, which was worked around the bearer . Team 11 rendezvoused with Fletcher's Task Force 17, worked around the bearer , on 1 May 1942. Kinkaid then moved toward becoming leader of the Task Group 17.2, the screening cruisers and destroyers of the two bearers. Transporter fighting was in its outset, and at this stage American bearers neither left satisfactory quantities of warriors, nor skillfully utilized what they had. At the point when Task Force 17 was assaulted three days after the fact in the Battle of the Coral Sea, the weight of shielding the Task Force fell on Kinkaid's heavy armament specialists. Their errand was confused by the radical moving of the transporters enduring an onslaught, which made it unimaginable for the screen to keep station. Regardless of the heavy weapons specialists' earnest attempts, the two transporters were hit, and "Lexington" burst into flames and sank. As far as it matters for him in the fight, Kinkaid was granted the Navy Distinguished Service Medal. 

Kinkaid was separated with the cruisers "Astoria", "Minneapolis" and "New Orleans", and four destroyers on 11 May 1942 and cruised for Nouméa, while Fletcher took the remainder of Task Force 17 to Tongatapu. Kinkaid then traveled north to join the Vice Admiral William F. Halsey's Task Force 16. Kinkaid's power turned out to be a piece of its screen which was under the direction of Rear Admiral Raymond A. Spruance. Soon after Task Force 16 came back to Pearl Harbor, Halsey was hospitalized with an extreme instance of dermatitis and, on his proposal, was supplanted as authority of Task Force 16 by Spruance. Kinkaid then moved toward becoming officer of the screen, otherwise called Task Group 16.2. He was one of just four American banner officers present amid the consequent Battle of Midway. In any case, he saw little activity, as Task Force 16 did not go under assault. 

After the fight, Spruance wound up head of staff to Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, the Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet (CINCPAC) and Pacific Ocean Areas (CINCPOA). In Halsey's proceeded with nonappearance, Kinkaid progressed toward becoming administrator of Task Force 16, worked around the transporter , despite the fact that he was not a pilot, and his involvement with bearers had been confined to instructing their screens at the Battle of the Coral Sea and the Battle of Midway. Toward the beginning of July Kinkaid was informed by Nimitz about designs for an arrival in the Solomon Islands, codenamed Operation Watchtower. For this activity, Kinkaid's Task Force 16 would be one of three transporter teams under Fletcher's general direction. To ensure his leader, "Undertaking", Kinkaid had the warship , overwhelming cruiser , antiaircraft cruiser , and five destroyers. The expansion of the new war vessel and its twenty/38 bore double reason firearms incredibly fortified Task Force 16's antiaircraft guards. 

The American arrival on Guadalcanal evoked an enraged response from the Japanese, who sent their armada to strengthen the Japanese army on Guadalcanal. Fletcher's transporters had the mission of ensuring the ocean paths to the Solomons.The two bearer powers conflicted in the Battle of the Eastern Solomons. Kinkaid arranged his bearer team in a roundabout development, with "Big business" at the middle, the cruisers at 10 and 2 o'clock and the war vessel behind at 6 o'clock. This turned out to be an error. With a top speed of , the ship fell behind the transporter when the last quickened to while enduring an onslaught, denying itself of the insurance of the war vessel's firearms. "Venture" went under direct assault by Japanese contenders, taking three bomb hits that slaughtered 74 of its group. Unprecedented endeavors allowed the transporter to keep working air ship, yet it was compelled to come back to Pearl Harbor for fixes. In his report after the fight, Kinkaid prescribed that the quantity of contenders conveyed by every transporter be additionally expanded. As far as it matters for him in the fight, he was granted his second Distinguished Service Medal. 

Team 16 came back toward the South Pacific in October 1942, without a moment to spare to make part in the definitive move of the crusade, the Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands, when the Japanese Army and Navy attempted to recover the landing strip of Guadalcanal. Notwithstanding "Endeavor", Kinkaid's power incorporated the ship "South Dakota", overwhelming cruiser "Portland", against flying machine cruiser "San Juan", and eight destroyers. Luckily, both "Venture" and "South Dakota" had been fitted with the new Bofors 40 mm enemy of flying machine firearms. In the three early transporter fights, Kinkaid had been a subordinate leader. This time he was in generally direction, accountable for Task Force 61, which included the two his own Task Force 16 and Rear Admiral George D. Murray's Task Force 17, worked around the plane carrying warship . The fight unfurled gravely. "Hornet" was sunk, and "Endeavor", "South Dakota" and "San Juan" were seriously harmed. Pilots like Murray and John H. Towers accused Kinkaid, as a non-pilot, for the loss of "Hornet". It turned into a dark imprint on Kinkaid's record. The Japanese had won another strategic triumph, however Kinkaid's bearers had picked up the Americans valuable time to get ready and fortify. 

On 4 January 1943, Kinkaid moved toward becoming Commander of the North Pacific Force (COMNORPACFOR) following the disappointment of his forerunner, Rear Admiral Robert A. Theobald, to work agreeably with the U.S. Armed force. Order connections in the North Pacific were muddled. Maritime powers went under Fletcher's Northwestern Sea Frontier. The troops in Alaska, including Brigadier General William O. Head servant's Eleventh Air Force, were directed by Major General Simon B. Buckner, Jr., who was responsible to the leader of the Western Defense Command, Lieutenant General John L. DeWitt. Kinkaid's order was in charge of organizing these powers and retaking the Aleutian Islands caught by the Japanese. He found the Army anxious to coordinate, yet experienced more trouble with Rear Admiral Francis W. Rockwell, the leader of the Amphibious Force, Pacific Fleet, and later the IX Amphibious Force. Rockwell was an Academy cohort of Kinkaid's, who was higher ranking than him in rank, and persuaded that he would both arrangement and direction the land and/or water capable period of the activity as opposed to Kinkaid. 

The War Department's unique arrangement was to assault the primary power on Kiska Island, yet it took Kinkaid's recommendation to sidestep Kiska for an attack on the less intensely safeguarded Attu Island. Kinkaid moved his central station to Adak to be with those of Buckner and Butler, and at Buckner's recommendation built up a joint wreckage where their two staffs ate dinners together. In any case, the land and/or water capable arranging was done in San Diego by Rockwell and his U.S. Marine Corps guide, Brigadier General Holland M. Smith. The Battle of Attu was just the third American land and/or water capable task of the war, and was brought through to an exorbitant accomplishment under troublesome conditions. The moderate rate of advancement shorewards caused Kinkaid to mitigate the Army administrator, Major General Albert E. Dark colored and supplant him with Major General Eugene M. Landrum. In June 1943 Kinkaid was elevated to bad habit naval commander, accordingly evacuating any waiting questions about who was in control, and granted his third Distinguished Service Medal. He presently arranged Operation Cottage, the a lot bigger intrusion of Kiska. This was completed as arranged, however the trespassers found that the Japanese had just emptied the islands. In September 1943, Kinkaid was supplanted by Vice Admiral Frank Fletcher. 

In November 1943, Kinkaid supplanted Carpender as Commander Allied Naval Forces, Southwest Pacific Area, and the Seventh Fleet, known as "MacArthur's Navy". General Douglas MacArthur had twice mentioned Carpender's alleviation, and Kinkaid's record working with the Army in Alaska settled on him a coherent decision. Australian papers hailed the arrangement of a "battling naval commander", yet neither MacArthur nor the Australian government had been counseled about the arrangement, which was made by the Commander in Chief, United States Fleet, Admiral Ernest King. This was an infringement of the worldwide understanding that had built up the Southwest Pacific Area. The Navy Department at that point declared that the supplanting of Carpender with Kinkaid was just a proposition, and MacArthur and the Prime Minister of Australia, John Curtin, were inquired as to whether Kinkaid was worthy. They concurred that he was. In his new job, Kinkaid had two experts. As leader of the Seventh Fleet, he was liable to King, yet as Commander Allied Naval Forces, Kinkaid was responsible to MacArthur. Tasks were led based on "common participation" instead of "solidarity of direction", and relations between the Army and Navy were bad. Kinkaid was not the most senior maritime officer in the theater, for the Royal Australian Navy's Admiral Sir Guy Royle and the Royal Netherlands Navy's Admiral Conrad Helfrich were both senior to him. 

Notwithstanding the unpromising association with the military, Kinkaid's most troublesome subordinate was a U.S. Naval force officer, as had been the situation with Rockwell in the Aleutians. This time, the subordinate was Rear Admiral Ralph W. Christie, the officer of Task Force 71, the Seventh Fleet's submarines. Christie ordinarily welcomed a returning submarine at the dock and granted improvements on the spot. This training circumvent military and maritime honor loads up, and irritated Kinkaid in light of the fact that affirmation of sinkings was cultivated by Ultra, and updates on honors given so rapidly could establish a security break. Kinkaid gave Christie and his different subordinates orders restricting pierside grants, and the honor of armed force awards to naval force staff. In June 1944, Christie went with a war watch on Commander Samuel D. Dealey's submarine . A short time later, Christie met with MacArthur and related the occasions of the war watch to the general, who chose to grant Dealey the Distinguished Service Cross and Christie the Silver Star. Whenever "Harder" was lost with Dealey and all hands on its next watch, Christie prescribed Dealey for the Medal of Honor. Kinkaid turned down the proposal in light of the fact that Dealey had effectively gotten the Distinguished Service Cross for a similar watch. Infuriated, Christie sent a dispatch to Kinkaid in an effectively understandable low-request code that condemned him and encouraged him to reevaluate. Angry with both Christie's frame of mind and his misfortunes, which included Dealey and Kinkaid's nephew, Lieutenant Commander Manning Kimmel on in July 1944, Kinkaid mentioned Christie's help. On 30 December 1944, Christie was supplanted by Captain James Fife Jr. 

Different powers under Kinkaid's order incorporated the cruisers of Task Force 74 under Rear Admiral Victor Crutchley, Task Force 75 under Russell S. Berkey, and Task Force 76, the VII Amphibious Force, under Rear Admiral Daniel E. Barbey. The fundamental job of the Seventh Fleet was supporting MacArthur's drive along the northern bank of New Guinea with a progression of 38 land and/or water capable tasks, typically coordinated by Barbey. Kinkaid went with MacArthur for the arrival in the Admiralty Islands, where the two men came aground a couple of hours after the strike troops. With 215 vessels included, Operations Reckless and Persecution in April 1944 together established the biggest task in New Guinea waters. It was followed one after another by four additional tasks, at Wakde, Biak, Noemfor and Sansapor. 

For MacArthur's hotly anticipated come back to the Philippines in October 1944, the Seventh Fleet was enormously fortified by Nimitz's Pacific Fleet. Kinkaid told the strike actually, with Barbey's VII Amphibious Force as Task Force 78, joined by Vice Admiral Theodore S. Wilkinson's III Amphibious Force from the Pacific Fleet as Task Force 79. Kinkaid was likewise given Rear Admiral Jesse B. Oldendorf's Task Force 77.2, a siege constrain worked around six old war vessels that had endure the assault on Pearl Harbor, and Rear Admiral Thomas L. Sprague's Task Force 77.4, a power of escort bearers. Be that as it may, Vice Admiral Marc Mitscher's Task Force 38, the covering power of the quick transporters and ships, remained some portion of Admiral Halsey's Third Fleet, which was not under MacArthur or Kinkaid's direction. 

Halsey's requests, which offered need to the demolition of the Japanese armada, prompted the most questionable scene of the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Four Japanese teams merged on Kinkaid's powers in Leyte Gulf: a transporter team under Vice Admiral Jisaburō Ozawa, from the north; a power under Vice Admiral Takeo Kurita through the Sibuyan Sea; and two teams told by Vice Admirals Shōji Nishimura and Kiyohide Shima, which drew nearer by means of the Surigao Strait. Bearer air ship from Task Force 38 drew in Kurita in the Battle of the Sibuyan Sea, and constrained him to pull back. In a disputable choice, Halsey reasoned that Kurita was never again a risk and traveled north after Ozawa's power in any case, because of a misconception, Kinkaid trusted that Halsey was all the while guarding the San Bernardino Strait. Kinkaid conveyed all accessible Seventh Fleet vessels in the Surigao Strait under Oldendorf confronting Nishimura and Shima. 

In the Battle of the Surigao Strait that night, Kinkaid drew in the Japanese with his PT vessels and Oldendorf's destroyers, cruisers and ships. Oldendorf had the capacity to "cross the T" of the foe armada. It was the last event in history where war vessels battled one another. Of Nishimura's two war vessels and five lesser boats, just the destroyer endure; Kinkaid's PT constrain lost just "PT-493", with 3 slaughtered and 20 injured. In Oldendorf's team, just the destroyer was hit, for the most part by benevolent flame. All out Allied losses were 39 men murdered and 114 injured. 

Be that as it may, the triumph was damaged when Kurita's power backtracked and connected with Sprague's escort transporters in the Battle off Samar the following day. Oldendorf's power headed back however Kurita pulled back subsequent to sinking an escort transporter, two destroyers and a destroyer escort. After the war, Halsey shielded his activities in his diaries. Kinkaid's position was that: 

Following the downfall of Japanese maritime power in the locale, Kinkaid's Seventh Fleet bolstered the land crusades in the Philippines and the Borneo. Kinkaid was elevated to chief of naval operations on 3 April 1945. After the Pacific War finished in August 1945, the Seventh Fleet helped with landing troops in Korea and northern China to possess these zones and repatriate Allied detainees of war. Kinkaid chose not to arrive troops at Chefoo as initially taught in light of the fact that the city was in the hands of the Communist Eighth Route Army; Tsingtao was substituted. He was granted the Legion of Merit by the theater administrator in China, Lieutenant General Albert C. Wedemeyer, and the Grand Cordon of the Order of Precious Tripod by the Chinese government. 

Kinkaid came back to the United States to supplant Vice Admiral Herbert F. Leary as Commander Eastern Sea Frontier and Commander Sixteenth Fleet, making his home in the noteworthy Quarters A, Brooklyn Navy Yard. He served on a board led by Fleet Admiral Halsey which likewise included Admirals Spruance, Towers and Vice Admiral Marc Mitscher, whose task was to assign 50 of the 215 serving back chiefs of naval operations for early retirement. Kinkaid was before long confronting this destiny himself, when the House Armed Services Committee looked to lessen the quantity of four-star rank officers in 1947. Kinkaid was one of three chief naval officers, the others being Spruance and Hewitt, who might need to resign or be diminished in rank to raise naval commander. After some campaigning, this was turned away, and they were allowed to stay in the evaluation until 1 July 1950, past Kinkaid's retirement age. Retirement functions, including a motorcade through New York City, were hung on 28 April 1950 and Kinkaid formally resigned two days after the fact. 

In December 1946, it was reported that Halsey, Spruance and Turner had been granted the Army Distinguished Service Medal. A message before long touched base from MacArthur expressing that he couldn't perceive any reason why Kinkaid ought not justify a similar honor, which had been suggested by Krueger amid the war. The award was properly exhibited by General Courtney Hodges in a service on Governors Island on 10 April 1947. The Australian government regarded Kinkaid with a privileged Companion of the Order of the Bath, which was introduced by the envoy at a service at the international safe haven in Washington on Australia Day, 26 January 1948. Kinkaid had just been made Grand Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau by Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands in 1944. In March 1948, he was made a Grand Officer of the Order of Leopold and gave the Croix de guerre with Palm in a function at the Belgian international safe haven in Washington, D.C. 

He filled in as the maritime agent with the National Security Training Commission from 1951 until it was abrogated in 1957, and with the American Battle Monuments Commission for a long time, starting in 1953. In this limit, he went to the commitment of the Cambridge American Cemetery and Memorial, Brittany American Cemetery and Memorial, Rhone American Cemetery and Memorial, Manila American Cemetery and Memorial and the East Coast Memorial. He likewise visited Australia and New Zealand in 1951. Until 1961, he went to the yearly reunions held to observe General MacArthur's birthday, 26 January, joining MacArthur and his old partners, including Krueger and Kenney. Kinkaid passed on at Bethesda Naval Hospital on 17 November 1972 and was covered with military distinctions at Arlington National Cemetery on 21 November. The Navy named an after him. was propelled by his widow Helen at the Ingalls Shipbuilding Division of Litton Industries at Pascagoula, Mississippi on 1 June 1974.