2008 Monaco Grand Prix 

The 2008 Monaco Grand Prix (formally the LXVI Grand Prix de Monaco) was a Formula One engine race hung on 25 May 2008 at the Circuit de Monaco; challenged over 76 laps, it was the 6th race of the 2008 Formula One season. The race was won by the season's inevitable Drivers' Champion, Lewis Hamilton, for the McLaren group. BMW Sauber driver Robert Kubica completed second, and Felipe Massa, who began from post position, was third in a Ferrari. 

Conditions were wet toward the beginning of the race. Massa kept up his lead into the principal corner, however his partner Kimi Räikkönen was passed for second by Hamilton, who had begun in third position on the lattice. Hamilton endured a punctured tire on lap six, driving him to make a pit prevent from which he returned the race in fifth spot. As the track dried and his opponents made their very own pit stops Hamilton turned into the race chief, a position he held until the finish of the race. Kubica's system enabled him to pass Massa amid their second pit stops, after the last's Ferrari was compelled to change from wet to dry tires. Räikkönen dropped over from fifth position to ninth in the wake of slamming into Adrian Sutil's Force India late in the race. Sutil had begun from eighteenth on the lattice and was in fourth position before the episode, which permitted Red Bull driver Mark Webber to complete fourth, in front of Toro Rosso driver Sebastian Vettel in fifth. 

The race was Hamilton's second win of the period, his first in Monaco, and the outcome implied that he drove the Drivers' Championship, three points in front of Räikkönen and four in front of Massa. Ferrari kept up their lead in the Constructors' Championship, 16 points in front of McLaren and 17 in front of BMW Sauber, with 12 races of the period remaining. 

The Grand Prix was challenged by 20 drivers, in ten groups of two. The groups, otherwise called "constructors", were Ferrari, McLaren-Mercedes, Renault, Honda, Force India-Ferrari, BMW Sauber, Toyota, Red Bull-Renault, Williams-Toyota and Toro Rosso-Ferrari. Tire provider Bridgestone conveyed four distinctive tire types to the race: two dry-climate tire aggravates, the gentler set apart by a solitary white stripe down one of the furrows, and two wet-climate intensifies, the extraordinary wet additionally set apart by a solitary white stripe. 

Prior to the race, Ferrari driver Kimi Räikkönen drove the Drivers' Championship with 35 points, and his colleague Felipe Massa was second with 28 points. McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton was third, additionally on 28 points, with one win less than Massa; BMW driver Robert Kubica was fourth on 24 points, in front of his partner Nick Heidfeld on 20 points. In the Constructors' Championship, Ferrari were driving with 63 points, 19 points in front of BMW Sauber, and 21 points in front of McLaren-Mercedes. 

Ferrari had reacted to Hamilton's success in the opening round of the period in Australia by winning every one of the ensuing four races, giving them a directing lead in the Constructors' Championship. Ferrari's predominance had been featured by two one-two completions: Massa in front of Räikkönen in Bahrain and Räikkönen's success over Massa at the accompanying round in Spain. A solid drive in spite of a negative methodology had helped Hamilton to part the Ferrari drivers on the platform in Turkey, coming next, behind Massa however in front of Räikkönen. Ferrari had not won in Monaco since 2001, and had been unfit to coordinate McLaren's pace in 2007. After tests at the Circuit Paul Ricard in mid-May, Räikkönen said his group had built up a solid vehicle for the tight, low-speed Monaco circuit, however regardless they expected a test from McLaren and BMW Sauber. Hamilton guaranteed that McLaren would be focused at Monaco, yet Kubica played down his group's odds, saying "I figure a success will be troublesome." 

Toro Rosso's principle 2008 vehicle, the STR3, was additionally presented that end of the week; the group had utilized an altered variant of their 2007 vehicle, the STR2, for the opening five races. Initially due to be presented at the past race in Turkey, an accident in testing had left the group shy of extra parts, deferring the vehicle's race debut. As the STR3 utilized an unexpected transmission in comparison to that utilized in the STR2, Toro Rosso driver Sebastian Vettel was compelled to assume a five-position punishment on the matrix for an unscheduled difference in gearbox. His partner Sébastien Bourdais got away from a comparative punishment since he had neglected to complete the race in Turkey, permitting him a free gearbox change. 

Three practice sessions were held before the Sunday race – two on Thursday, and one on Saturday. The Thursday morning and evening sessions each kept going 90 minutes; the third session, on Saturday morning, went on for 60 minutes. One hour into the primary session, authorities saw a free channel spread in the go through Beau Rivage, and suspended practice. Ferrari and McLaren took the best four spots after the resumption – Räikkönen in front of Hamilton, McLaren driver Heikki Kovalainen, and Massa. Behind Williams driver Nico Rosberg, Kubica was the best of the BMW Saubers in 6th; his colleague Heidfeld was compelled to resign due to a motor disappointment, and ceased his vehicle in Casino Square after simply 13 laps. Regardless of further postponements amid the second session – both Renault drivers smashed in discrete episodes at Sainte Devote, requiring the marshals to clear the track of debris – Hamilton again demonstrated solid, quickest in front of Rosberg, Räikkönen, Massa, Kovalainen and Kubica. Aside from the Renault drivers, two additional vehicles struck the boundaries: Toyota driver Jarno Trulli scratched the divider out of Piscine; Adrian Sutil's Force India lost its front wing in the wake of labeling the hindrance at Rascasse. While light downpour fell on Saturday morning, Kovalainen set the quickest time in the last session, before losing control at Piscine and harming the back of his vehicle. The downpour expanded as the marshals cleared the flotsam and jetsam, and in the resulting poor track conditions Kovalainen's time stayed unbeaten. Hamilton oversaw second quickest, in front of Räikkönen, Rosberg, Kubica and Massa. 

Saturday evening's passing session was isolated into three parts. In the initial 20-minute time span, vehicles completing sixteenth or lower were disposed of. The second passing time frame went on for 15 minutes, toward the finish of which the quickest ten vehicles went into the last time frame, to decide their lattice positions for the race. Autos neglecting to make the last time frame were permitted to be refueled before the race yet those contending in it were not, thus conveyed more fuel than they had done in the before qualifying sessions. 

Massa secured his third post position of the period with a period of 1:15.787, and was joined on the first line by partner Räikkönen. Hamilton took third spot on the framework, with a passing time simply 0.052 seconds slower than Massa's. Kovalainen defeated Kubica to take fourth, the last attempting to get heat into his tires for his last run. Rosberg's assaulting style took him to 6th; Renault driver Fernando Alonso, Trulli and Red Bull driver Mark Webber involved the following three spots. Webber's partner David Coulthard finished his second session in the boundaries after the passage, after his vehicle jolted sideways at the peak under braking. In spite of the fact that Coulthard was safe, the situation of his stricken vehicle and the ensuing alert banners encompassing it denied numerous drivers the chance to make their last flying laps in the session. Honda driver Jenson Button, who took twelfth behind Timo Glock of Toyota, censured the disturbance for his execution, having arranged his vehicle explicitly for the last run. Heidfeld experienced comparable tire issues to his partner and oversaw thirteenth; Williams driver Kazuki Nakajima and Honda driver Rubens Barrichello took the following two places in front of Bourdais in the new STR3. Renault driver Nelson Piquet arranged from seventeenth and Vettel oversaw eighteenth before his gearbox punishment downgraded him to nineteenth. The Force Indias of Sutil and Giancarlo Fisichella qualified slowest; Fisichella's punishment for a difference in gearbox in the wake of morning practice implied he began from twentieth on the lattice. 

On Sunday morning Coulthard turned into the third driver to bring about a gearbox punishment, in the wake of changing his transmission following his accident amid qualifying. The punishment moved him from tenth to fifteenth on the network. As opposed to Saturday's dry passing session, visit showers splashed the track on Sunday morning, making hustling dangerous and possibly perilous. In spite of the fact that the showers died down by early evening, they continued 20 minutes before the begin, the variable conditions constraining groups to defer tire decisions for whatever length of time that conceivable. When of the three-minute cautioning most drivers had decided on the standard wet tire; just Piquet began the race on the outrageous wet. Kovalainen's motor slowed down as the vehicles set off on their arrangement lap; his vehicle was pushed back to the pit path by his mechanics, where it was restarted and another controlling wheel fitted to take care of the issue. 

Massa held his lead into the principal corner at Sainte Devote, while behind him Hamilton utilized the pit path exit to pass Räikkönen down within. Kovalainen's emptied fourth position was filled by Kubica, as Alonso moved into fifth, passing Rosberg. The last made a pit stop not long after for another front wing in the wake of reaching Alonso at the clip, elevating Trulli to 6th. These positions were kept up for a few laps, however the separations between the vehicles expanded, to a limited extent on the grounds that the splash hurled by their wheels made close dashing troublesome. The conditions turned out to be vital when Hamilton reached obstructions outwardly of Tabac on lap six, requiring his arrival to the pit path for another arrangement of tires. The McLaren mechanics fuelled the vehicle for a more extended second stretch and Hamilton developed in fifth, the separations between his rivals' autos bringing about him losing just three spots amid the pit stop. Alonso had a comparative mishap to Hamilton's at Massenet two laps later, and developed in seventh in the wake of setting and taking on extraordinary wets. 

Massa's lead – 12 seconds throughout the second-set Räikkönen by lap six – was diminished to nothing when the security vehicle was sent on the eighth lap. Coulthard and Bourdais had collided with the boundaries at Massenet only seconds separated, requiring the marshals to isolate the vehicles and lift them off the track. At the point when the security vehicle pulled off after three laps, Massa merged his lead over his partner. Räikkönen, be that as it may, was called into the pit path for a drive-through punishment after to neglecting to have his tires connected by the three-minute cautioning before the race, dropping him back to fourth. Kubica, presently second, led the pack when Massa slid off down the getaway street at Sainte Devote, the whole Ferrari rejoining in second as the downpour facilitated. The two swapped positions again after their pit stops – Kubica on lap 26 and Massa on lap 33 – yet Hamilton, conveying more fuel than his opponents, led the pack. 

As a dry line showed up on the track, Hamilton broadened his lead over Massa, from 13 to 37 seconds, when he made a pit stop for the second time on lap 54. His planning demonstrated blessed, as he changed to dry tires similarly all things considered a technique developed as the most grounded, and he rose 13 seconds in front of Massa. The Ferrari's very own pit stop two laps later dropped Massa behind Kubica. Hamilton's lead was diminished when the security vehicle by and by conveyed on lap 62 after Rosberg smashed at Piscine, hitting the two sides of the track and dispersing trash. Rosberg was safe. 

Of the 20 cars which began the race, Sutil had picked up the most places continuously wellbeing vehicle period. The Force India began from eighteenth, rose one spot after Kovalainen was pushed back to the pit path, passed Piquet on the second lap and Bourdais a lap later. Sutil profited as Button, Rosberg, Glock and Trulli made pit stops for fixes over the accompanying laps, to sit in eleventh by lap 14. Alonso, on extraordinary wet tires behind Heidfeld, endeavored to pass the BMW at the clip, however succeeded just in harming his front wing and shaping a stationary line behind him. He additionally profited by surpassing three autos under yellow banners and would have been punished on the off chance that he had completed the race. Sutil exploited the circumstance and passed four vehicles to take seventh, behind Heidfeld and Webber. Running a long first stretch until lap 53, he moved to fourth as the autos in front of him made pit stops. Vettel increased 12 places from the begin, doing combating with Barrichello and Nakajima at an early stage before bouncing a few places on his first stretch as his adversaries made pit stops, in the end changing to dry tires when he halted on lap 52. Webber improved three spots from the begin to sit in 6th, in front of Vettel, Barrichello and Nakajima. 

The security vehicle was pulled back on lap 68. Later on a similar lap, Räikkönen lost control of his vehicle under braking out of the passage, and when he recaptured control his speed was too incredible to even consider avoiding an impact with Sutil. The Ferrari harmed its front wing and made a pit stops for a substitution before continuing, however the harm to Sutil's back suspension prompted his retirement. Webber profited by the episode and moved to fourth place, while Räikkönen dropped back to ninth. 

The moderate pace amid the opening laps implied the race finished following two hours, or 76 laps, as opposed to the 78 laps initially planned. Hamilton, regardless of enduring a moderate cut on the last lap, crossed the end goal to take his first win in Monaco. Kubica followed in second, in front of Massa and Webber. Vettel took the STR3 to its first focuses in its lady race, coming fifth, in front of Barrichello and Nakajima. Kovalainen recuperated from his slow down to complete eighth, one spot in front of Räikkönen, who set the quickest lap of the race on lap 74, a 1:16.689. He was trailed by Alonso, Button, Glock and Trulli. Heidfeld was the remainder of the characterized finishers, in fourteenth position, four laps behind Hamilton. Fisichella resigned with a gearbox disappointment after 36 laps; Piquet – two laps after he changed to dry tires on lap 46 – completed his race in the hindrances at Sainte Devote. Sutil, Rosberg, Coulthard and Bourdais were the four different retirements. 

The main three finishers showed up in Prince Albert II of Monaco's Royal box to gather their trophies. In the ensuing public interview Hamilton said that conditions right off the bat in the race made driving troublesome: "When the climate is this way, when it begins to rain and we had a thought it was going to begin to dry, the vital thing is to keep it on the track yet I can't clarify how troublesome it was for us all. You were aquaplaning constantly and you were tiptoeing nearly." Hamilton likewise said that his accident at Tabac had been the consequence of a flood of water running over the track, making his vehicle oversteer and bringing about a cut to his correct back tire. By and by, he lauded his group and procedure for helping him take the triumph. Kubica said that tire issues in his center stretch implied he was unfit to overwhelm Massa, who was driving a heavier vehicle. Seeing Glock's prosperity on dry tires, Kubica requested that his group roll out a comparable improvement, bringing about his pass on Massa. Amid the post-race talk with Massa said that in spite of the fact that he was fuelled as far as possible of the race after his first pit stop, the drying track constrained him to pit again for new tires: "It was a disgrace that we committed a little error on the procedure yet it is a great idea to be on the platform." 

Sutil communicated his failure in the wake of being thumped out of the race when he was on course to record his group's first focuses: 

Räikkönen apologized to Sutil for their crash, censuring cold brakes for his loss of control. Mike Gascoyne, Force India's specialized boss, required the stewards to examine the episode, however after thought no move was made. "The dissatisfaction is that if that was a Force India driver hitting a best on the planet we'd hope to get an a couple of race boycott, yet the other route round nothing ever appears to occur" said Gascoyne. Sutil was called to the stewards' room and denounced for passing three vehicles under yellow banners on lap 13. Since he had resigned, he was issued with just a notice, yet had he completed the race he would have been allowed a 25-second time punishment, which would have dropped him out of the point-scoring positions. 

Hamilton's success was applauded by Jackie Stewart, a three-time champ of the Monaco Grand Prix. "At his age, Lewis can win this race ordinarily," he said. "This is the principal, I trust, of numerous triumphs for him in Monaco with the goal that he can join the greats of Formula One." Damon Hill, the 1996 World Champion, said Hamilton "did great without a doubt. I was most awed, and the race in general was likewise an extraordinary notice for what F1 ought to be about." The race result left Hamilton driving the Drivers' Championship with 38 points. Räikkönen, who neglected to score in Monaco, was second on 35 points, one point in front of Massa and three in front of Kubica. Heidfeld was 6th on 20 points. In the Constructors' Championship, Ferrari kept up their lead with 69 points, McLaren bounced to second on 53 points, and BMW Sauber dropped to third on 52 points, with 12 races of the period remaining.