2008 Hungarian Grand Prix 

The 2008 Hungarian Grand Prix (formally the Formula 1 ING Magyar Nagydíj 2008) was a Formula One engine race hung on 3 August 2008, at the Hungaroring in Mogyoród, close Budapest, Hungary. It was the eleventh race of the 2008 Formula One season. Challenged over 70 laps, the race was won by Heikki Kovalainen for the McLaren group, from a second position begin. Timo Glock completed second in a Toyota vehicle, with Kimi Räikkönen third in a Ferrari. It was Kovalainen's first Formula One triumph, which made him the game's 100th driver to win a World Championship race, and it was Glock's first platform wrap up. 

Most of the race comprised of a duel between Lewis Hamilton and Felipe Massa, who drove for McLaren and Ferrari, individually. Hamilton began from shaft position yet was beaten at the main corner by Massa, who passed him around the outside. The two title rivals started a fight for the lead that was settled when Hamilton continued a punctured tire simply over part of the way through the race, giving Massa a lead of more than 20 seconds over Kovalainen. The Ferrari's motor, be that as it may, fizzled with three laps remaining, enabling the McLaren driver to win. Räikkönen set the race's quickest lap in the other Ferrari, yet was hampered by a poor passing act and was stuck behind Fernando Alonso (Renault) and Glock thus for practically the majority of the race. 

As a result of the race, Hamilton broadened his lead in the World Drivers' Championship to five points over Räikkönen, with Massa a further three behind. Robert Kubica, who completed eighth in the wake of discovering his BMW Sauber vehicle uncompetitive at the Hungaroring, slipped to 13 points behind Hamilton, in front of colleague Nick Heidfeld and Kovalainen. In the World Constructors' Championship, McLaren passed BMW Sauber for second position, 11 points behind Ferrari. 

The Grand Prix was challenged by 20 drivers in ten groups of two. The groups, otherwise called "constructors", were Ferrari, McLaren-Mercedes, Renault, Honda, Force India-Ferrari, BMW Sauber, Toyota, Red Bull-Renault, Williams-Toyota and Toro Rosso-Ferrari. Prior to the race, Ferrari was in the number one spot of the Constructors' Championship with 105 points, 16 in front of BMW Sauber and a further three before McLaren. Competing for fourth spot were Toyota, Red Bull and Renault, all inside two of one another however in excess of 60 behind McLaren. In the Drivers' Championship, Lewis Hamilton (McLaren) drove with 58 points, in front of Ferrari partners Felipe Massa and Kimi Räikkönen, who were on 54 and 51 points individually. BMW drivers Robert Kubica (48) and Nick Heidfeld (41) were fourth and fifth in the title, trailed by Heikki Kovalainen, who had scored 28 points in the second McLaren. 

Following the German Grand Prix on July 20, the groups directed testing sessions at the Jerez circuit from July 22– 25. Each group was restricted to of testing amid the 2008 logbook year, a decrease contrasted and past seasons. Sebastian Vettel (Toro Rosso) set the quickest time of the first and second days, while Mark Webber (Red Bull) bested the third day's running, and Heikki Kovalainen was quickest on the last day of testing. A few groups tried utilizing Bridgestone smooth tires, as arrangement for the change from furrowed to smooth tires for the 2009 season, and BMW Sauber tried a Kinetic Energy Recovery System, likewise for the next year. Among different groups, Force India's test pilot, Vitantonio Liuzzi, tried the group's new "consistent move" gearbox in front of the framework's race début later in the year, while Timo Glock of Toyota participated after a substantial accident at the German Grand Prix. 

In the week paving the way to the race, a gathering between the groups at Ferrari's base camp in Maranello brought about the development of another agent body, the Formula One Teams Association (FOTA), which was driven by Ferrari president Luca di Montezemolo. McLaren group primary Ron Dennis said the foundation of FOTA was proposed to empower more noteworthy co-activity between the groups, especially in surrounding new donning and specialized guidelines, and to go about as a stabilizer to the game's current overseeing body, the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) and the organization in charge of its business the board, Formula One Management (FOM). 

On July 31, the day preceding the occasion's sans first practice sessions occurred, McLaren affirmed the group would hold Kovalainen for 2009 close by Hamilton, while the coordinators of the Hungarian Grand Prix marked an arrangement with Bernie Ecclestone, the leader of FOM, to keep facilitating the race until 2016. 

A few groups rolled out specialized improvements to their vehicles for the Grand Prix. Ferrari adjusted the F2008 undercarriage's cooling framework and bodywork following high brake wear and motor water temperatures at the German Grand Prix. McLaren and Force India presented reconsidered streamlined bundles for their MP4-23 and VJM01 suspension, went for expanding the measure of downforce, and accordingly hold, created by the bodywork. Power India likewise conveyed its consistent move gearbox to the occasion. Ferrari, Honda and Toyota likewise débuted raised motor spreads, nicknamed "shark-blades" for the manner in which they extended toward the back wing, and Honda presented another back suspension bundle. 

The game's sole tire provider, Bridgestone, gave two details of furrowed dry tires for the race, assigned Soft (additionally alluded to as the "prime" tire) and Super Soft (likewise alluded to as the "choice" tire). The Super Soft compound was recognized by a white stripe in one of the tire's scores. Just like the case for the majority of the 2008 Grands Prix, the guidelines stipulated that all autos should utilize the two kinds of tire over the span of the race, and every driver was constrained to seven arrangements of dry tires for the end of the week. 

Three practice sessions were held before the Sunday race—two on Friday from 10:00 to 11:30 and 14:00 to 15:30 neighborhood time, and a third on Saturday morning somewhere in the range of 11:00 and 12:00. The principal practice session occurred in dry conditions. The encompassing temperature was among , and the track temperature went from amid the hour-significant lot. Massa set the session's quickest time with a lap of 1 minute and 20.981 seconds, just about four-tenths of a second in front of his partner Räikkönen. The two McLaren drivers were third and fourth, Kovalainen in front of Hamilton. Fernando Alonso and Nelson Piquet Jr. set the fifth and eighth-quickest occasions individually for Renault; they were isolated by Glock and Kubica. Their partners, Heidfeld and Toyota driver Jarno Trulli, finished the main ten. Vettel's Toro Rosso vehicle was tormented by a water power issue; this confined him to finishing just four planned laps, and he was slowest in general. 

The second practice session was held in comparable climate to the main; the main distinction was a somewhat higher pinnacle track temperature of . Amid this session, Hamilton set the snappiest lap time, a 1:20.554; Kovalainen completed with the third-quickest time. The Renault drivers were again speedy—Piquet in second and Alonso fourth—in spite of the fact that the group's Executive Director of Engineering, Pat Symonds, conceded the two vehicles were running with marginally lower fuel loads than typical, improving their execution. Räikkönen and Massa slipped to fifth and 6th individually, their best occasions one-thousandth of a second separated. They were in front of Heidfeld, Kubica, Trulli and Williams driver Nico Rosberg. Vettel's vehicle was all the while experiencing the hydrodynamics issue and he finished only five laps, again setting the slowest time of the session. 

Saturday's climate was again dry for the third and last practice session, with surrounding temperature between and track temperature from . Hamilton again set the quickest time, a 1:20.228, faster than his best on Friday. This put him promptly in front of Massa, Glock, Kovalainen and Piquet. Heidfeld was a lot more joyful with the setup of his vehicle and set the 6th quickest time, yet Kubica endured a mechanical issue that confined him to 18th position. Vettel had an inconvenience free session and set the eighth-quickest time, one position behind colleague Sébastien Bourdais. Räikkönen and Rosberg finished the main ten in front of qualifying. 

Saturday evening's passing session was partitioned into three parts. In the initial 20-minute time span, vehicles completing sixteenth or lower were disposed of. The second passing time frame kept going 15 minutes, toward the finish of which the quickest 10 vehicles went into the last time frame to decide their network positions for the race. Autos neglecting to make the last time frame were permitted to be refueled before the race, however those contending in it were not and conveyed more fuel than they had done in the before qualifying sessions to see them through the initial segment of the race. The session was held in dry climate somewhat more sweltering than any of the free practice sessions; the surrounding temperature extended between , while track temperature ran between . 

Hamilton set the quickest time in the first and only pieces of the session, which secured him shaft position with a lap of 1:20.899. Despite the fact that he was satisfied with the treatment of his McLaren—he said that he had never been increasingly agreeable in the vehicle—he trusted that he could have recorded a quicker lap, as he committed a slight error going into Turn Five. Hamilton was joined on the first column by his colleague Kovalainen, who recorded a lap time 0.241 seconds slower and was fuelled for an extra two laps in the race. Massa set the session's quickest time of 1:19.068 amid its second part, however was deferred by different vehicles, which kept him from warming his tires adequately to accomplish the most extreme hold conceivable. He dropped to third by and large in the last piece of qualifying. Räikkönen was on a heavier fuel load than his colleague yet committed an error on his last flying lap that limited him to sixth place. That deserted him Kubica and Glock on the matrix. Kubica accomplished his aggressive time in spite of taking care of issues, which drove him to depict his lap as his best so far of the period, while Glock recorded the best passing aftereffect of his vocation up to this point. Alonso qualified in seventh position with Piquet in tenth on a substantial fuel load; the Renault colleagues were part by Webber and Trulli. As the Soft tires were required to perform preferred in the race over the Super Softs, the McLaren drivers' utilization of one less arrangement of the Soft tires than their Ferrari partners amid the passing session proposed Hamilton and Kovalainen may have had a tire exhibition advantage in the race. This was on the grounds that the Soft tire was the quickest tire decision through the span of a solitary lap, notwithstanding the hypothetical execution favorable position of the Super Soft; Ferrari utilized one more arrangement of Soft tires than McLaren before understanding this was the situation. 

Vettel was the quickest driver not to progress into the last session, qualifying eleventh; his best time of 1:20.131 was a little more than a second slower than Massa's pace in the second session. His colleague, Bourdais, set the fourteenth quickest lap, yet was punished five positions on the lattice for blocking Heidfeld amid the initial segment of qualifying, a postpone which restricted the BMW Sauber driver to the sixteenth quickest time. The Toro Rosso drivers were part before Bourdais' punishment by Jenson Button—who discovered his Honda's reconsidered suspension a huge improvement—and David Coulthard, who trusted the Hungaroring did not suit the dealing with qualities of his Red Bull RB4 skeleton. Rosberg made it into the second piece of qualifying, yet did not finish any laps from there on after his Williams vehicle built up a water power issue. Kazuki Nakajima (Williams), Rubens Barrichello (Honda) and Force India drivers Giancarlo Fisichella and Adrian Sutil neglected to progress past the initial segment of qualifying, and along these lines finished the last columns of the network. In the initial segment of qualifying (the main area in which all drivers participated), the whole field was secured by just shy of three seconds. 

The race occurred toward the evening from 14:00 nearby time, in dry and radiant climate, with an encompassing temperature of among , and a track temperature running from . The race-day participation was 84,000. Not surprisingly, the race was communicated around the world, with the "World Feed" inclusion being delivered by FOM. Each driver aside from Coulthard began the Soft compound tires. Massa made a decent begin his solitary staying new arrangement of Soft tires, pushing forward of Kovalainen from the matrix and drawing close by Hamilton into the primary corner. Hamilton held within line for the turn, yet Massa braked later than the McLaren driver and passed him around the outside. Behind the main three in the once-over to the primary corner, Glock pushed forward of Kubica, while Alonso surpassed Räikkönen. Barrichello made the best begin in the field, moving from seventeenth to 13th place toward the finish of the primary lap, while Vettel made a poor begin and lost four places over a similar separation. Toward the finish of the first lap, Massa drove from Hamilton, Kovalainen, Glock, Kubica, Alonso, Räikkönen, Webber, Trulli, Piquet, Coulthard, Heidfeld, Barrichello, Button, Vettel, Bourdais, Rosberg, Nakajima, Fisichella and Sutil. 

Massa and Hamilton quickly started to pull clear of Kovalainen. On lap 3, Button surpassed his partner Barrichello for thirteenth position, however both Honda drivers were stuck behind Heidfeld, who was conveying a heavier fuel load than them. As the race advanced, Massa started to open a little lead over Hamilton, who put his McLaren into a "fuel-sparing mode", endeavoring to bounce in front of Massa later in the race by making a pit stop after the Ferrari driver. Likewise, the high track temperature was to the Ferrari case's favorable position, as it was simpler on its tires than the McLaren and had the capacity to run them at a working temperature of up to 10 °C (18 °F) lower, bringing about less tire wear. By lap 18, Massa had a lead of 3.5 seconds over Hamilton, who thusly was practically 8 seconds in front of Kovalainen. Glock was a further 3 seconds behind the second McLaren driver, however was illustration in front of Kubica in fifth, who was discovering his BMW Sauber hard to drive in race conditions with an absence of grasp and security under braking, and was holding up a gathering of vehicles behind him. 

Massa, Kubica and Webber were the initial three drivers to make pit stops by coming in on lap 18. The McLaren mechanics coordinated Massa's stop to gauge the measure of fuel he got, and when Hamilton made his very own first stop on the following lap, they fuelled him to keep running for three laps longer than the Ferrari in the second stretch of the race. Kovalainen assumed control over the lead of the race for two laps before his pit stop on lap 21 returned it to Massa. Piquet was the remainder of the main sprinters to make a pit stop, on lap 25, enabling him to hop in front of Kubica, Trulli and Webber. Further down the request, Vettel made an unscheduled pit stop on lap 20 and resigned two laps later with an overheating motor. Before the finish of lap 26, the majority of the main drivers on two-stop methodologies had taken their pit stops. The race request was Massa driving from Hamilton, Kovalainen, Glock, Coulthard (who was yet to pit), Alonso, Räikkönen, Piquet, Trulli, Kubica, Webber, Heidfeld, Button, Barrichello, Bourdais, Rosberg, Nakajima, Fisichella and Sutil. 

Hamilton rejoined the race following his first pit stop 2.6 seconds behind Massa, and expected to remain inside roughly 3.5 seconds of the Ferrari driver to pick up track position after the second round of pit stops. Massa started to pull away once more, facilitating the hole open to 4 seconds by lap 32, while Hamilton bolted his front-left wheel as he endeavored to stay aware of the Ferrari, level recognizing the tire simultaneously. The two kept on setting quickest laps as they pulled far from the remainder of the field. On lap 29, Coulthard made his first pit quit, dropping to 12th place subsequently. Catch, Barrichello, Bourdais, Rosberg, Nakajima, Fisichella and Sutil additionally made their first pit stops at this phase of the race. Three of these drivers experienced postponements amid their pit stops which dropped them down the running request: Barrichello and Bourdais endured streak fires, while Rosberg's fuel hose stuck, losing him time. 

At the front of the field, Massa kept on pulling endlessly slowly from Hamilton; the hole between the two had ascended to 5 seconds before the finish of lap 40. On the accompanying lap, Hamilton's front-left tire collapsed moving toward Turn Two; the resultant moderate lap back to the pit path and stop for a substitution tire dropped him to tenth spot. Massa now had a 23-second lead over Kovalainen and impeded his pace in like manner, altering the execution of the motor to put it under less mechanical pressure. He made his last pit stop on lap 44, permitting Kovalainen to lead the pack until his very own stop four laps later, giving Massa back his lead. On lap 41, Heidfeld made his solitary pit quit, dropping from eleventh to twelfth position. In the accompanying laps, different drivers influenced their second stops, to aside from Nakajima, who changed to a one-stop procedure at his first visit to his pit box. Behind the main trio of Massa, Kovalainen and Glock, Räikkönen advanced of Alonso regardless of running off the street just before his pit stop; after he left the pit path, Piquet fought off Trulli as they combat for position. The pit stop succession enabled Hamilton to move back up the request, to sixth place behind Alonso. Further back, Bourdais endured another glimmer fire on lap 45, and made another visit to the pit path one lap later to have fire quencher froth tidied up his cap visor. Rosberg was the last booked driver to make a pit stop, on lap 58. Most of the drivers kept running with Soft tires for the initial two stretches of the race, at that point changed to the Super Soft compound for the last spell. 

At the finish of lap 59, with the planned pit stops finished, the running request was Massa driving from Kovalainen, Glock, Räikkönen, Alonso, Hamilton, Piquet, Trulli, Kubica, Webber, Heidfeld, Coulthard, Button, Nakajima, Rosberg, Fisichella, Sutil, Barrichello and Bourdais. Running in clean air without a vehicle preceding him out of the blue, Räikkönen set the quickest lap of the race at 1:21.195, on lap 61, as he shut the nine-second hole to Glock at a rate of one moment for each lap. Hamilton got Alonso at a comparable rate, however his back Super Soft tires started to overheat and he was unfit to establish any further connection in the wake of shutting the hole to 1.5 seconds. On lap 62, Sutil endured a cut brought about by a brake disappointment and turned into the second retirement of the race. In the end laps, Kovalainen decreased his shortage to Massa to 15 seconds, yet the Ferrari driver had all the earmarks of being in order of the race. Be that as it may, as Massa began lap 68, his motor fizzled abruptly, compelling him to resign from the lead with three laps remaining. Kovalainen was therefore advanced into the lead, which he held to take the principal triumph of his Formula One vocation in a period of 1'37:27.067, at a normal speed of . Kovalainen was the 100th driver to win a Formula One World Championship race. Glock similarly guaranteed the best aftereffect of his profession, and first platform complete, with second position. Räikkönen assumed the last position on the platform in spite of a disappointment in his vehicle's back suspension amid the last couple of laps. Alonso and Piquet completed on either side of Hamilton, who was in fifth position, driving Symonds to depict the race as his group's best of the year up until this point. Trulli completed seventh, in front of Kubica, who was very frustrated with the uncompetitive execution of his vehicle at the Grand Prix nearest to his nation of origin of Poland. His partner, Heidfeld, completed in tenth spot between the two Red Bull drivers, both of whom were likewise disillusioned by their group's execution. Catch, Nakajima, Rosberg and Fisichella filled the following spots, a lap behind the pioneer, while Barrichello was two laps down in 16th position after the deferral at his first pit stop. Massa was characterized in 17th place, in front of Bourdais, who was the last finisher. 

Despite the fact that Kovalainen was pleased with his first Formula One triumph, he ascribed a great part of the credit for his success to karma. After the race he stated, "I feel somewhat upset for Felipe and Lewis. They both drove extraordinary races, however I know how it feels when things turn out badly—I've had a couple of comparable minutes this year. I endeavored to put weight on Felipe, particularly amid the last stretch. I felt something may occur on the off chance that I did that, you never know, however regardless I thought that it was difficult to accept when I saw his Ferrari ablaze." As of 2019, the race remains Kovalainen's solitary Formula One win. Glock was satisfied with second position and talked about how he had devoted additional preparation to improve his race begins. He said he had focussed on not committing any errors in the end laps as Räikkönen shut, rather than keeping up the hole. Räikkönen depicted his race as "baffling and exhausting" because of the measure of time he spent stuck behind slower autos. 

The platform finishers were dominated in the media by inclusion of the evil fortune of both the end of the week's pace-setters, Hamilton and Massa. Massa specifically was adulated for his execution. The Ferrari group foremost, Stefano Domenicali, said it was, "the best race of his profession. It was awesome the manner in which he dealt with the race." Journalist Mark Hughes portrayed it as "very likely his best race to date", and partner Simon Arron named it as "one of the best evenings of his F1 profession". Both attracted thoughtfulness regarding his controlled hostility at the main corner of the race, trailed by his constant, botch free pace. Arron, specifically, noticed that Massa's first-corner passing move was more common of Hamilton's assaulting style than his own, and was a "pivotal turning point" in Massa's title crusade. Hamilton himself later communicated astonishment that Massa had the capacity to surpass him in such a way, and cautioned his adversary that "it won't occur once more". Hughes portrayed the Grand Prix as "a return race", in that the pioneers had experienced inconsistency, and the victor had not been in dispute on speed alone; It was a circumstance reminiscent of prior occasions in the game, when the vehicles were commonly less solid. 

Bridgestone chief of motorsport Hirohide Hamashima said Hamilton's cut was most likely brought about by flotsam and jetsam, despite the fact that because of the harm the tire had continued, the exact idea of the disappointment was difficult to decide. He additionally expressed that Hamilton's tire was progressively powerless against garbage harm since he had level seen it before in the race. Massa said he had no earlier sign of his motor disappointment. The issue was later followed to an interfacing bar disappointment brought about by a pollution in the segment material. An indistinguishable issue caused Räikkönen to resign from the accompanying race, the 2008 European Grand Prix. 

As a result of the race, Hamilton broadened his lead in the Drivers' Championship to five points in front of Räikkönen, who pushed forward of Massa in the standings. Kubica kept up fourth spot; Kovalainen's success moved him to inside three points of Heidfeld in fifth. In the Constructors' Championship, Ferrari kept on driving, however McLaren bounced in front of BMW Sauber for second position. Behind Toyota, Renault pushed forward of Red Bull. Regardless of his expanded lead, Hamilton recognized that he anticipated that the Ferrari drivers should be considerable adversaries in the season's seven residual races. After the possible finish of the title to support Hamilton by one point, the Hungarian Grand Prix was featured as a standout amongst Massa's most clear lost open doors in his offer to win the title.