2008 Brazilian Grand Prix 

The 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix (formally the XXXVII Grande Prêmio do Brasil) was a Formula One engine race hung on 2 November 2008 at the Autódromo José Carlos Pace, Interlagos, in São Paulo, Brazil. It was the eighteenth and last race of the 2008 Formula One season. The 71-lap race was won by Ferrari driver Felipe Massa in the wake of beginning from post position; this was the remainder of Massa's 11 wins. Fernando Alonso completed second in a Renault, and Kimi Räikkönen third in a Ferrari. 

Massa began the race nearby Toyota driver Jarno Trulli. Massa's colleague Räikkönen started from third beside McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton. Downpour fell minutes before the race, deferring the begin, and as the track dried Massa built up a lead of a few seconds. More downpour late in the race made the last couple of laps slippery for the drivers, yet couldn't keep Massa from winning the Grand Prix. Sebastian Vettel of Toro Rosso completed in fourth spot behind Alonso and Räikkönen. Hamilton passed Toyota's Timo Glock in the last corners of the race to complete fifth, verifying him the focuses expected to take the Drivers' Championship. 

Hamilton got acclaim from numerous in the Formula One people group, including previous bosses Damon Hill and Michael Schumacher. The McLaren driver additionally gotten official congrats from Queen Elizabeth II and British executive Gordon Brown. Massa's success and Räikkönen's third spot helped Ferrari win the Constructors' Championship. The Grand Prix was David Coulthard's last race; the Scot resigned after 246 race begins. 

Heading into the last race of the period, McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton was driving the Drivers' Championship with 94 points; Ferrari driver Felipe Massa was second with 87 points, seven behind Hamilton. A limit of ten were accessible for the last race, which implied that Massa could at present win the title if Hamilton completed in 6th spot or lower. Something else, Hamilton would be champion. In case of a points tie, Massa would win the title on a tally back, having more successes. Behind Hamilton and Massa in the Drivers' Championship, Robert Kubica was third with 75 points in a BMW, and Massa's Ferrari partner Kimi Räikkönen was fourth with 69 points. In the Constructors' Championship, Ferrari were driving with 156 points and McLaren– Mercedes were second with 145 points, 11 points behind, with a limit of 18 points accessible. In the event that the two Ferrari drivers completed in the best six, the group would verify the Constructors' Championship, regardless of whether the McLaren drivers were to complete as the main two. Preceding this race, Hamilton was censured by numerous savants for not keeping a calm attitude at the 2008 Japanese Grand Prix. "The Times" writer Edward Gorman said that Hamilton should win the title, however: 

Previous Formula One group proprietor Eddie Jordan made contention when he said that "if Massa endeavors to take him out as he did in Japan so as to take the title then Lewis must be prepared for it," including "In the event that he attempts that on, at that point Lewis needs to transform his wheel into Massa to guarantee he doesn't complete the race either – he needs to take his wheel off." Both Hamilton and Massa rejected the remarks; Massa said "Having filthy has never been impact of my amusement. I don't need anything to do with it. The main thing at the forefront of my thoughts is winning the race." 

The weekend stamped David Coulthard's last race. Coulthard's Red Bull RB4 was improved in the shades of "Wings forever", a philanthropy committed to bringing issues to light of spinal rope wounds. Coulthard said "I'm devoting my last race to the vision of making paraplegia treatable". Red Bull Racing got endorsement from the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile, Formula One's overseeing body, to run Coulthard's vehicle in unexpected hues in comparison to his colleague Mark Webber. This was likewise the last Formula One race communicated by ITV in the United Kingdom and Telecinco in Spain; the rights went to the BBC and La Sexta, separately, for 2009. Additionally, this was the last race for the Honda group before they declared that they would destroy out of F1 because of the worldwide financial emergency. 

Three practice sessions were held before the race; the first on Friday morning and the second on Friday evening. The two sessions kept going 90 minutes. The third session was hung on Saturday morning and kept going 60 minutes. The two sessions on Friday were influenced by periodically moist conditions, which made the track decently elusive. Massa was speediest with a period of 1:12.305 in the primary session, under two-tenths of a second quicker than Hamilton. Räikkönen was simply off Hamilton's pace, trailed by Kubica, Heikki Kovalainen, and Fernando Alonso. Webber was seventh, still inside a second of Massa's time. In the second practice session, Alonso was quickest with a period of 1:12.296, under six-hundredths of a second speedier than second-put Massa. Jarno Trulli took third spot, in front of Räikkönen, Webber and Sebastian Vettel. Hamilton just overseen ninth spot, bolting his McLaren's haggles for hold. Kovalainen was just sufficiently brisk for fifteenth position. The Saturday morning session was hung on an a lot hotter track, which achieved temperatures as high as . Alonso was again speediest, posting a period of 1:12.141, barely quicker than both McLaren drivers. Massa, Vettel, and Nick Heidfeld balanced the main six positions. Räikkönen just overseen twelfth, neglecting to enhance his occasions set from the get-go in the session. 

The passing session on Saturday evening was part into three parts. The initial segment kept running for 20 minutes and wiped out the vehicles from qualifying that completed the session sixteenth or lower. The second piece of qualifying kept going 15 minutes and wiped out autos that completed in positions 11 to 15. The last piece of qualifying decided the situations from first to tenth, and chose shaft position. Vehicles which contended in the last session of qualifying were not permitted to refuel before the race, and all things considered conveyed more fuel than in the past sessions. 

Massa secured his 6th shaft position for the season, and his third continuous post at Interlagos, with a period of 1:12.368. He was joined on the first line of the framework by Trulli, in his best passing execution of the period. Räikkönen qualified third, however he was content with starting the race on the hustling line behind his colleague. Hamilton qualified fourth, a large portion of a second behind Massa, having struggled both Ferrari drivers for time amid the initial two qualifying sessions. Hamilton's moderate pace in the last passing session contrasted with the initial two recommended he was conveying more fuel than his title challengers. Hamilton's partner Kovalainen qualified fifth. Alonso, Vettel, Heidfeld, Sébastien Bourdais and Timo Glock balanced the best ten. Kubica just overseen thirteenth, having battled with generally speaking hold for a significant part of the day. Coulthard, in his last Formula One race, qualified fourteenth; Rubens Barrichello, in fifteenth, was snappier than Honda partner Jenson Button in seventeenth. The Williams and Force India drivers qualified at the back of the lattice, covering positions 16 to 20 with Button. 

The conditions on the network were sodden before the race, the air temperature at ; downpour or rainstorms were normal. The race was because of start at 15:00 local time (UTC-2), yet was deferred by ten minutes when substantial downpour hit the track at 14:56. Each group yet one replaced the tires on both their vehicles from dry-climate tires to middle of the road tires. Kubica's vehicle was the special case, staying on the evaporate set. Following the arrangement lap, Kubica came back to the pit path, his group replacing the vehicle's tires to intermediates. This implied the Polish driver would begin the race from the pit-path. 

Massa held his post position lead into the principal corner, trailed by Trulli, Räikkönen, Hamilton and Kovalainen. Coulthard was hit from behind by Nico Rosberg into turn two, turning him around. The Red Bull vehicle at that point slammed into Rosberg's Williams colleague Kazuki Nakajima. This harmed the suspension and constrained Coulthard to resign in his last race. Piquet spun off at the following corner, his vehicle hitting the obstructions. Kovalainen was passed by Alonso and Vettel mid-lap, dropping him to seventh. The mishaps of Coulthard and Piquet incited the arrangement of the wellbeing vehicle toward the finish of the principal lap. The track conditions started to dry at an early stage; Force India's Giancarlo Fisichella was the primary driver to stop for dry-climate tires, setting toward the finish of lap two. He stayed in 18th position. Hustling continued on lap five when the wellbeing vehicle maneuvered into the pit-path. Rosberg and Button both made pit stops on lap seven, each changing to dry-climate tires. Bourdais, Glock, Adrian Sutil and Nakajima pursued a lap later. By lap 11, the remainder of the field had changed to dry-climate tires. Fisichella profited by setting the most punctual for dry tires, climbing the request to a high of fifth position. 

Nakajima spun on lap 13, losing five seconds on the lap. On lap 15, Massa set another quickest lap of 1:16.888, and broadened his lead over Vettel. Hamilton stayed behind Fisichella, and however his McLaren vehicle seemed snappier, he was unfit to pass the Force India driver until lap 18. Glock passed Fisichella two laps later. Trulli and Bourdais crashed on lap 20 into turn one, sending the Toro Rosso driver over the grass. Bourdais lost six places and rejoined in 13th place. Trulli's Toyota colleague, Timo Glock, passed Fisichella later on in a similar lap for 6th. Massa and Sebastian Vettel exchanged quickest lap times; Vettel's 1:14.214 on lap 25 was outperformed by Massa's 1:14.161 a lap later. Nonetheless, Vettel made a pit stop before long, having been lighter-fuelled than his Ferrari rival. He rejoined in 6th position, behind Glock. Kovalainen passed Trulli and Fisichella in independent moves, increasing seventh position. On lap 36 Massa set the quickest lap of the race, a 1:13.736. 

Timo Glock was fuelled so he could total the race ceaselessly once more, when he made a pit stop on lap 36. Massa was the first of the title leaders to pit, on lap 38; Alonso and Hamilton made pit stops two laps after. At the point when Räikkönen made a pit stop on lap 43, Massa had recovered the lead, in front of Alonso. Räikkönen rejoined in front of Hamilton in third spot. Fisichella's stop was defaced by transmission issues, dropping him to 18th position when he continued. Vettel made a pit stop again on lap 51, his group fuelling him to the completion. He rejoined in fifth. By lap 54, Massa had broadened his effectively agreeable lead over Alonso to 9.6 seconds. Vettel was shutting in rapidly on Hamilton, the McLaren driver expecting to complete no lower than fifth to win the title. 

Light downpour started to fall on lap 63. Heidfeld made a pit stop and his BMW pit team replaced his tires to intermediates, resounding their methodology at the Belgian Grand Prix which had conceded the German a platform position. Kovalainen made a pit stop on lap 65; Alonso and Räikkönen made a pit stop a lap later. Hamilton and Vettel ended their fight for fourth position when they came into the pit path to change onto transitional tires on lap 66. Glock stayed on his dry-climate tires and rose from seventh to fourth place as those in front of him made pit stops. Massa made a pit stop on lap 67, implying that the majority of the leaders, except for Glock, were currently on middle of the road tires. The downpour started to fall vigorously on lap 69, as Hamilton ran wide, which permitted Vettel to take fifth position. As Massa crossed the end goal to win the race, Hamilton fought Vettel for the essential guide required toward win the title. Be that as it may, Vettel and Hamilton passed Glock in the last corners, the Toyota driver battling for hold as his dry-climate tires slid on the wet track. Untimely satisfaction in the Ferrari carport before long swung to dissatisfaction as Hamilton completed the race in fifth position, securing the title by a solitary point and getting to be Formula One's most youthful title champ until Vettel in 2010. Räikkönen's third-place complete behind Alonso was sufficient to verify Ferrari the constructors' title. After the race, one of the Honda vehicles burst into flames. 

The main three finishers showed up on the platform and in the ensuing question and answer session. Massa said that he had "nearly done everything superbly", and communicated his mistake that notwithstanding winning the race he had not won the title. In any case, he gave his congrats to Hamilton for his title win: 

Massa's Ferrari partner Kimi Räikkönen communicated dissatisfaction in the result of the Drivers' Championship, yet recognized the help of his group, saying "we succeeded at least the group title". Ferrari president Luca di Montezemolo was purportedly so irate with the outcome, be that as it may, that he crushed the TV he was seeing the race on. McLaren supervisor Ron Dennis adulated Hamilton, saying "He just continues conveying and, toward the day's end, he's only two years into his profession. So there's far to go." 

Hamilton got official congrats from Queen Elizabeth II, following comparable praises from British head administrator Gordon Brown and Opposition Leader David Cameron. Previous Formula One victors likewise complimented Hamilton; 1996 hero Damon Hill called the McLaren driver "one of the best drivers we have had in this nation". Various boss Michael Schumacher lauded both Hamilton and Massa, saying the Ferrari driver's execution showed his triumphant capacities. Massa was applauded for his sportsmanship after the race; Joe Saward of GrandPrix.com said "He took rout with a beauty and a style that one seldom finds in present day sport." 

In any case, Eddie Jordan said that Hamilton "didn't generally give himself the most obvious opportunity with regards to winning the championship – and was exceptionally fortunate". The previous group manager called McLaren's procedure "a fiasco". GrandPrix.com communicated skepticism in the result: "It was a standoff so unrealistic that even Hollywood would not have made a film of it. The scriptwriters would have been snickered out of the studios." Autosport magazine essayist Adam Cooper called the race "epic". In the wake of considering other Formula One title finales, Cooper closed "nothing has ever coordinated what we saw [in Brazil]". 

Timo Glock stayed certain the choice to remain on dry-climate tires, when different groups were setting for wet-climate tires, was a right one: "We were running seventh before the downpour came and we would have most likely completed there on the off chance that it had been absolutely dry. Rather we completed 6th so demonstrates the technique was the correct one." Glock included that the conditions were so poor "I didn't realize that Lewis had overwhelmed me until after the race". 

Kubica's completion in 11th position implied that he lost third spot in the title to Räikkönen. After the race, Kubica said "We committed an excessive number of errors amid the end of the week and this is the outcome." His group said that they had gotten the wrong data about track conditions toward the beginning of the race, which drove them to keep the Polish driver's vehicle on dry-climate tires when the remainder of the field had changed to intermediates. 

David Coulthard communicated his failure in his initial exit from his last Formula One race, saying that "I'm pretty gutted, it's not how I needed to end my vocation." The Scottish driver said that he had intended to perform doughnuts for the group, a festival disheartened in Formula One. Coulthard left Formula One after 15 years with 246 race begins and 13 wins. Red Bull group key Christian Horner said "It's an extraordinary disgrace for David to be dispensed with from his last Grand Prix at the main corner, however he can think back on a long and distinguished profession where he's accomplished a lot." Coulthard kept on working for Red Bull Racing in 2009 as a testing and improvement advisor.