2008 Japanese Grand Prix 

The 2008 Japanese Grand Prix (formally the XXXIV Fuji Television Japanese Grand Prix) was a Formula One engine race hung on 12 October 2008, at the Fuji Speedway, Oyama, Japan. It was the sixteenth race of the 2008 Formula One season. The 67-lap race was won by Fernando Alonso for the Renault group from fourth position on the beginning network. Robert Kubica completed second for BMW Sauber, and Kimi Räikkönen third for Ferrari. 

Lewis Hamilton, the possible Drivers' Champion, drove the Championship going into the race, and began from shaft position nearby Räikkönen. Hamilton's McLaren partner Heikki Kovalainen started from third, by Alonso. At the principal corner Hamilton braked late, compelling Räikkönen wide. Hamilton was later given a punishment, and was censured by the British hustling press for overaggressive driving. Ferrari driver Felipe Massa, Hamilton's important Championship rival, was punished after an occurrence on lap two in which he contacted Hamilton's vehicle, making it turn. The episode dropped Hamilton to the back of the field, from where he was unfit to recover a scoring position. Massa later slammed into Sébastien Bourdais of Toro Rosso. Bourdais was punished after the race, and downgraded from 6th to tenth position. The punishment provoked boundless analysis from the hustling media and ex-drivers. 

The triumph was Alonso's second back to back win; he began from fifteenth on the lattice to win the Singapore Grand Prix two weeks earlier. Kubica held off a decided assault from Räikkönen in the end laps to come in just short of the win. Massa's seventh spot limited his hole to Hamilton in the Drivers' Championship to five. Ferrari built up a noteworthy lead over the McLaren group in the Constructors' Championship, with two races of the period remaining. 

The Grand Prix was challenged by 20 drivers, in ten groups of two. The groups, otherwise called "constructors", were Ferrari, McLaren-Mercedes, Renault, Honda, Force India, BMW Sauber, Toyota, Red Bull Racing, Williams and Toro Rosso. 

Before the race, McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton drove the Drivers' Championship with 84 points, and Ferrari driver Felipe Massa was second with 77 points. Behind them in the Drivers' Championship, Robert Kubica was third with 64 points in a BMW Sauber, and Massa's Ferrari colleague Kimi Räikkönen was fourth with 57 points. Kubica's colleague Nick Heidfeld was fifth with 56 points. In the Constructors' Championship, McLaren– Mercedes were driving with 135 points, one point in front of their adversaries Ferrari, whom they had surpassed at the past race. BMW Sauber were third with 120 points. In the fight for fourth spot, Renault had 51 points, five points in front of Toyota. 

A messed up pit stop at the Singapore Grand Prix had downgraded Massa from first position to the back of field. With three races staying in the Championship and a seven-point deficiency, Massa stayed certain about his title shots: "On the off chance that you see the end result for me in Singapore where my hole went from one point to seven so all of a sudden, at that point you need to think of it as could without much of a stretch go the other path also." Hamilton underscored the esteem that a moderate hustling system could hold for his title possibilities: 

Fernando Alonso's triumph at the Singapore Grand Prix was his first Formula One win since rejoining the Renault group, in the wake of driving for McLaren in 2007. In the wake of qualifying in fifteenth and making an early pit stop, Alonso had figured out how to bounce to the front of the race when his partner Nelson Piquet Jr. slammed. Left with no chance to pit, the leaders needed to postpone their stops until the harm was cleared, permitting the intensely fuelled Alonso to move to the front once they did as such. In spite of the fact that Alonso addressed whether his Renault group could coordinate the pace of Ferrari and McLaren at Fuji, he said "We should stay focussed and attempt to rehash our dimension of execution from Singapore to battle at the front." Renault's specialized chief Bob Bell said that the group's improvement from the beginning of the period was empowering, yet "we perceive that we're not going to update McLaren and Ferrari this season". Ringer said that the target for the last races was to win more Grands Prix and, critically, secure fourth position in the Constructors' Championship from Toyota. 

The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the game's administering body, propelled the Formula One part of their Make Cars Green battle at the Japanese Grand Prix. For the end of the week, the depressions in the tires were painted green to advance ecologically cordial driving. FIA president Max Mosley said "The FIA is resolved to guarantee that future interest in engine game will likewise help drive the improvement of innovations that will profit general society on the loose." As is typical for a Formula One race, Bridgestone conveyed two distinctive tire mixes to the race; the milder of the two set apart by a solitary white stripe down one of the sections. 

Three practice sessions were held before the Sunday race—two on Friday, and a third on Saturday. The Friday morning and evening sessions each kept going 90 minutes. The third session was hung on Saturday morning and endured 60 minutes. The Friday sessions were held in dry and bright conditions. Hamilton was speediest in the primary session, with a period of 1:18.910 that was under two-tenths of a second quicker than Massa. McLaren driver Heikki Kovalainen was simply off Massa's pace; Räikkönen, Alonso and Piquet adjusted the best six, still inside a second of Hamilton's time. In the second practice session, Timo Glock, of Toyota, was quickest with a period of 1:18.383, in front of Alonso, Hamilton, Massa, Räikkönen and Red Bull driver Mark Webber. The best seventeen drivers set occasions inside a second of Glock's quickest lap, showing an aggressive field. The Saturday morning session was hung on a moist track, where hold was poor and numerous drivers were compelled to utilize the pursue off regions sliding off the track. Kubica was snappiest with his last lap of the session at 1:25.087; Glock, Piquet, Nick Heidfeld of BMW, Kazuki Nakajima of Williams, Red Bull driver David Coulthard, and Massa balanced the main seven positions. Hamilton oversaw just eleventh, however was in front of Kovalainen and Räikkönen, in sixteenth and 17th positions, individually. Both Adrian Sutil and Giancarlo Fisichella of Force India burned through a large portion of the session in their carport, enduring various mechanical issues. 

The passing session on Saturday evening was part into three parts. The initial segment kept running for 20 minutes, and autos that completed the session sixteenth or lower were wiped out from qualifying. The second piece of qualifying kept going 15 minutes and dispensed with vehicles that completed in positions 11 to 15. The last piece of qualifying decided the situations from first to tenth, and chose shaft position. Vehicles which neglected to make the last session could refuel before the race, so ran lighter in those sessions. Autos which contended in the last session of qualifying were not permitted to refuel before the race, and in that capacity conveyed more fuel than in the past sessions. 

Hamilton secured his 6th shaft position of the period with a lap time of 1:18.404. He was joined on the first line by Räikkönen, who was quickest for the majority of the last session. Temporarily sitting in third as the session attracted to a nearby, Massa was pushed back to fifth as Kovalainen and Alonso set in last-minute laps to fill the second column of the framework. Kubica took 6th spot, in front of both Toyota vehicles of Jarno Trulli and Glock and the Toro Rossos of Sebastian Vettel and Sébastien Bourdais. Coulthard bettered colleague Webber when he qualified eleventh; Piquet split the Red Bull drivers in twelfth. The main Japanese driver in the field, Nakajima, oversaw fourteenth in front of his Williams partner Nico Rosberg. Heidfeld could just accomplish sixteenth spot, ten places behind his BMW partner Kubica. Heidfeld spent most of the main session battling with the set-up of his vehicle. The Honda vehicles of Rubens Barrichello and Jenson Button filled the ninth line before the constructor's home group. The Force Indias qualified last; Sutil easily outqualified his colleague Fisichella by 0.8 seconds, to sit in 19th place. 

The conditions on the framework were dry before the race. The air temperature was and the track temperature was ; conditions were relied upon to stay steady all through the race. A large portion of the leaders started the race on the harder compound tire; just Massa was utilizing the gentler choice. Räikkönen quickened quicker than Hamilton off the line, advancing beyond him down the primary straight, yet the McLaren driver maneuvered into the Ferrari's slipstream, before swerving to surpass Räikkönen in within the corner. Going into the main corner, Hamilton severely bolted up his front wheels while braking and ran wide; in spite of the fact that there was no contact, Räikkönen was likewise constrained wide in shirking. This was then trailed by contact with Kovalainen, which at long last constrained Räikkönen off the track. Each of the three drivers dropped down the field because of the episode. Kubica led the pack in front of Alonso and Kovalainen after the corner, maintaining a strategic distance from impacts as different vehicles bolted their tires on the virus track. Fisichella crashed into the back of Barrichello, dissipating carbon fiber over the track. Coulthard slammed into Bourdais and afterward Piquet, supporting suspension harm and sliding into the obstructions after turn two. Nakajima left the track endeavoring to stay away from Coulthard, in spite of the fact that he figured out how to rejoin subsequent to losing his front wing. The Japanese driver made a pit stop toward the finish of the lap for another wing. 

Toward the finish of the main lap, Kubica drove from Alonso, Kovalainen, Trulli, Massa, Hamilton and Räikkönen. On lap two, Massa braked late into the chicane at turn 10, quickly letting Hamilton past, before running over the kerbs on the exit from the corner and hitting the McLaren driver's vehicle. Hamilton was spun round by the contact and made a pit stop toward the finish of the lap for new tires and more fuel, which dropped him to eighteenth spot. Massa proceeded in seventh spot. On lap eight Räikkönen passed Trulli into turn 10 to take fourth position. In third spot, over a second in front of the Ferrari driver, Kovalainen set another quickest lap of 1:19.258 on lap 12 to which Räikkönen reacted with a 1:19.193 four laps later. Two additional drivers joined Coulthard in retirement before the first round of fuel stops: Glock made a pit stop on lap five and again on lap six, preceding resigning on account of taking care of challenges coming about because of a broken seat fixing; Sutil resigned on lap nine with a cut brought about by running over carbon fiber shards. 

On lap 17, Massa and Hamilton were given drive-through punishments, Massa for crashing into Hamilton and Hamilton for constraining Räikkönen off the track into turn one. Hamilton took his punishment right away. Massa made a pit stop for fuel and tires on the following lap, before coming into the pit path again on lap 20 to serve his punishment, which dropped him to fourteenth spot, one spot in front of Hamilton. In the interim, Kubica and Räikkönen made pit stops on lap 17 for tires and fuel. On a similar lap, Kovalainen dismantled over to the side of the track with motor issues and resigned from the race. Alonso made a pit stop on lap 18, rising in front of Kubica to take the temporary lead, with autos in front still to pit. Trulli, Vettel and Bourdais made pit stops over the accompanying six laps. Fisichella resigned from the race with gearbox issues on lap 21. Piquet took his first pit stop on lap 28, rising in front of Bourdais as Alonso opened the hole on Kubica to 7.8 seconds. Massa overwhelmed Button to take twelfth position one lap later. 

Alonso lapped reliably in the low 1:19 territory, setting the new quickest lap of the race on lap 41, a 1:19.101, to stretch out his lead over Kubica to more than 12 seconds. Räikkönen was five seconds behind Kubica in third. Alonso made a pit stop for the second time on lap 43 and changed to the gentler compound tire. Kubica, whining of understeer over the group radio, made his second stop on lap 46, two laps in front of Räikkönen. Trulli, Bourdais, Vettel and Piquet made pit stops throughout the following five laps, their groups giving them adequate fuel to complete the race. As Bourdais left the pit-path in seventh spot on lap 51, Massa, who was eighth, however yet to make his last pit stop, endeavored to pass him and the two autos crashed at the principal corner. Massa spun, yet rejoined the race behind Bourdais. Three laps later, the stewards declared that they were exploring the occurrence, and would settle on their choice after the race. On lap 52, Räikkönen endeavored to pass Kubica on the way to deal with turn one subsequent to drafting behind him up the straight, however Kubica drove directly as a blocking move, braked late, and protected his position. On the accompanying lap Kubica endeavored to repeat his square, however Räikkönen out-braked him into turn one, and the two drew close by. Kubica held within line on the turn three remaining hander, and drove the dashing line as Räikkönen left the track at the run-off zone. Räikkönen then rejoined behind the BMW driver. Kubica confronted comparable difficulties from Räikkönen throughout the following two laps into turn one, however he effectively protected his position. 

Massa made a pit stop on lap 53, and rejoined behind Heidfeld in tenth. He in this way set the quickest lap of the race on lap 55, a 1:18.426. In the interim, Piquet had the capacity to close the hole on Räikkönen to under a second, prior losing time by running wide at turn five on lap 60. Massa passed Heidfeld for ninth on a similar lap, and started surrounding Webber. On lap 65, Massa drafted down the straight and endeavored to pass Webber, who shielded his situation by heading to one side. Intersection the track limit into the finish of the pit-path, Massa figured out how to pass Webber, and out-braked him into turn one, to take eighth spot. Alonso crossed the end goal on lap 67 to take his second win of the period, five seconds in front of Kubica. Räikkönen was third, in front of Piquet, Trulli, Bourdais, Vettel and Massa. Webber took ninth on hold, in front of Heidfeld, who battled with a substantial vehicle and neglected to enhance a poor passing act. Rosberg completed before Hamilton, in eleventh. Barrichello and Button took the following two positions; the two drivers accused their Honda vehicles for their uncompetitive execution at the Fuji circuit. Nakajima completed last, in fifteenth, unfit to recoup after his constrained pit-stop from the get-go in the race. 

The main three finishers showed up in the consequent question and answer session where Alonso said that the choice to run a shorter second stretch than Kubica (between the first and second pit stops) was his choice: "At times you can do it, once in a while you can't however today the vehicle was impeccable and I had the capacity to do it." Alonso included that he believed in the vehicle to perform at the rest of the Grands Prix: "The inclination I have now is that we can do anything". Kubica said that his second-set completion was superior to his success at the Canadian Grand Prix prior in the season. He included that to complete the platform after BMW Sauber's inability to improve the vehicle from the earliest starting point of the period was an "extraordinary outcome for the group in, I think, a troublesome minute". Räikkönen said that he was "somewhat frustrated on the grounds that being in the lead position in the principal corner yet then being pushed out didn't help and being in the front could have given us a superior outcome however in any case, that is hustling". He included that Kovalainen's contact with him at the main corner had caused taking care of challenges in his vehicle, which left him unfit to enhance his third-set completion. 

Forty minutes after the race, Bourdais got a 25-second punishment from the stewards for his crash with Massa on lap 50. This downgraded him from 6th to tenth, and elevated Massa to seventh, giving him one more Championship point. Bourdais accused Massa for the occurrence: 

Massa rejected obligation, and concurred with the stewards' choice: "I believe there's little to state: I had just entered the divert and he hit me from behind, turning me round." The punishment was to a great extent condemned in the media. GrandPrix.com called the punishment "unusual", saying that Bourdais "couldn't simply vanish". James Allen of ITV said that in light of FIA race chief Charlie Whiting's declaration preceding the race, which showed that vehicles leaving the pit-path would have option to proceed, the punishment was "ludicrous". French brandishing paper "L'équipe" scrutinized the stewards for their mediation, saying that the two drivers held their lines and the impact was only a dashing occurrence. Imprint Blundell, who drove in Formula One for a long time, called for previous drivers to be a piece of the stewards gatherings which grant punishments: "You can analyze bits of paper, charts, telemetry, yet you don't have the foggiest idea about what's happening in a driver's mind until you've encountered it." Blundell's proposal in the long run moved toward becoming certainty - the 2010 season presented a framework whereby a previous F1 driver went about as a steward amid every Grand Prix. 

Lewis Hamilton was scrutinized for his forceful crash into the main corner by a significant part of the British press. Edward Gorman of "The Times" portrayed Hamilton's turn as "recklessness and untamed animosity", including that Hamilton "bet with a kamikaze endeavor to move beyond Räikkönen". The BBC's Andrew Benson said that "Hamilton is still in a solid position however the Englishman should remove the missteps that have described his season in the event that he isn't to lose the title for the second year straight." In Italy, "La Gazzetta dello Sport" said that Hamilton's begin experienced "his standard over the top animosity". Hamilton said "I committed an error and I paid for it." 

Massa's touch on Hamilton's vehicle on lap two was named by the McLaren driver "as purposeful as it could be". Massa rejected the claim, saying "I had two wheels on the rock. I couldn't stop the vehicle and I was on the rock since he pushed me into the rock." Media inclusion of the occurrence proposed that however the contact was Massa's blame, it was unexpected. Simon Arron, composing for "The Daily Telegraph", said Hamilton's allegation of intentional contact was "contemptible and hasty", including that the contact was essentially a dashing occurrence. The hole between the drivers in the Drivers' Championship after the race remained at five, to support Hamilton, with two races remaining. In the Constructors' Championship, McLaren's inability to score focuses, joined with Ferrari's third and seventh, moved Ferrari to a noteworthy lead.