1952 Winter Olympics 

The 1952 Winter Olympics (Norwegian: "Vinter-OL 1952"), formally known as the VI Olympic Winter Games (French: Les "Strives Jeux olympiques d'hiver"), occurred in Oslo, Norway, from 14 to 25 February 1952. 

Talks about Oslo facilitating the Winter Olympic Games started as ahead of schedule as 1935; the city needed to have the 1948 Games, yet World War II made that inconceivable. Rather, Oslo won the privilege to have the 1952 Games in a challenge that included Cortina d'Ampezzo in Italy and Lake Placid in the United States. The majority of the settings were in Oslo's metropolitan territory with the exception of the snow capped skiing occasions, which were held at Norefjell, from the capital. Another lodging was worked for the press and dignitaries, alongside three residences to house competitors and mentors, making the primary present day competitor's town. The city of Oslo bore the money related weight of facilitating the Games as a byproduct of the income they produced. 

The Games pulled in 694 competitors speaking to 30 nations, who took part in 22 events. Japan and Germany made their profits to winter Olympic challenge, subsequent to being compelled to miss the 1948 Games in the repercussions of World War II. Germany was spoken to exclusively by West German competitors since East Germany declined to contend as a brought together group. Portugal and New Zealand made their Winter Olympic presentations, and out of the blue ladies were permitted to contend in crosscountry skiing. 

Norwegian truck driver Hjalmar Andersen won three out of four speed skating occasions to turn into the most improved competitor at the Games. Germany continued its previous noticeable quality in bobsleigh, with wins in the four-and two-man occasions. Dick Button of the United States played out the primary triple bounce in worldwide challenge to guarantee his second back to back men's figure skating Olympic title. The 1952 Games highlighted one show sport, bandy, however just three Nordic nations contended in the competition. Norway ruled the general decoration tally with 16 awards, seven of them gold. The Games shut with the introduction of a banner that would be passed starting with one Winter Olympics have city then onto the next. The banner, which wound up known as the "Oslo banner", has been shown in the host city amid each resulting Winter Games. 

Oslo had fruitlessly offered to have the 1936 Winter Olympics, losing to Germany, which had facilitated the 1936 Summer Olympics. Around then, the country that facilitated the Summer Olympics likewise facilitated the Winter Olympics. After the 1936 Games, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) chose to grant the Winter and Summer Games to various nations, yet the Games were suspended amid World War II. London facilitated the main post-war Games, the 1948 Summer Olympics, and prescribed Oslo as the host city for the 1948 Winter Games, however the city gathering declined. Rather, the 1948 Winter Olympics were held in St. Moritz, Switzerland. 

Norwegians were uncertain about facilitating a Winter Olympics. Socially, they were against aggressive winter sports, especially skiing occasions, in spite of the accomplishment of Norwegian competitors at past Winter Games. However, the coordinators trusted the 1952 Games could be a chance to elevate national solidarity and to demonstrate the world that Norway had recouped from the war. Competing with Oslo for the privilege to have the Games were Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, and Lake Placid, United States. The IOC casted a ballot to grant the 1952 Winter Games to Oslo on 21 June 1947 at the 40th IOC Session in Stockholm, Sweden. Afterward, Cortina d'Ampezzo was granted the 1956 Games, and Lake Placid—which had facilitated the 1932 Winter Olympics—was picked to have the 1980 Winter Games. Norway turned into the principal Scandinavian nation to have a Winter Olympics, and the 1952 Winter Games were the first to be held in a country's capital. 

An extraordinary board was doled out to sort out the 1952 Games, which comprised of four Norwegian games authorities and four delegates from the district of Oslo, including civic chairman Brynjulf Bull. The advisory group was set up by December 1947. The city of Oslo financed the Games totally, in return for keeping all the income created. To oblige the convergence of competitors and mentors, quarters for contenders and care staff were structured and developed, with three new offices (trailblazers of the competitor's towns of later Games) constructed. The city of Oslo paid to have another lodging developed, the Viking, utilized for IOC delegates, away dignitaries, and as the correspondence center of the Games. Without precedent for a Winter Games, an indoor ice hockey field was built, which facilitated the eight-group competition. Oslo's current focal field, Bislett Stadium, was utilized for the opening and shutting functions, and for speed skating occasions. Upgrades to the field included better stable and lighting frameworks, rebuilt club house and press rooms, and the expansion of a therapeutic focus. 

In the outcome of the German control of Norway amid World War II, against German notion started to influence arrangements for the 1952 Olympics. Discourses were held to think about whether Germany ought to be permitted to take part in the Games. At the point when in 1950, the West German Olympic Committee mentioned acknowledgment by the IOC, it brought up the issue of whether their investment would cause political blacklists in the up and coming Games. When the IOC perceived the West German Olympic Committee, West Germany was then formally welcomed to contend at the 1952 Winter Games. East Germany was welcome to take an interest with West Germany, as a bound together group, yet they declined. 

At first Norway was hesitant to invite German competitors and others thought about Nazi sympathizers. For instance, Norwegian speed skater Finn Hodt was not permitted to contend in the Norwegian speed skating group since he teamed up with the Nazis amid the war. In the long run, notwithstanding the worry, Norway consented to enable German and Japanese competitors to contend. The Soviet Union sent no competitors to Oslo, regardless of being perceived by the IOC. They had expected to enter a group in the ice hockey competition, however connected past the point where it is possible to join the International Ice Hockey Federation. 

Decorations were granted in 22 occasions challenged in four games (eight orders). 

The opening functions were held in Bislett Stadium on 15 February. Ruler George VI of Great Britain had kicked the bucket on 6 February 1952 with his girl Elizabeth II accepting the position of authority as ruler, eight days before the beginning of the Games. Therefore, all national banners were flown at half-pole, and Princess Ragnhild opened the Games instead of her granddad, King Haakon VII, who was in London going to the burial service. This was the first run through an Olympic Games had been pronounced open by a female authority. The motorcade of countries was held by custom, with Greece first, the remainder of the countries continuing by Norwegian in sequential order request, with the host country last. The British, Australian, Canadian and New Zealand groups all wore dark arm groups at the opening functions in memory of their ruler. After the motorcade of countries the Olympic fire was lit. On 13 February, toward the beginning of the debut Winter Olympics burn hand-off, the light was lit in the hearth of the Morgedal House, origin of skiing pioneer Sondre Norheim. The light transfer kept going two days and occurred altogether on skis. At the opening services the last light conveyor, Eigil Nansen, got the Olympic light and skied to a trip of stairs where he expelled his skis, climbed, and touched off the fire. 

The bobsleigh and snow capped skiing occasions were held the day preceding the opening services. Rivals in these occasions were unfit to go to the celebrations in Oslo; thusly straightforward opening functions were held at Frognerseteren, site of the bobsleigh occasions, and Norefjell, site of the elevated skiing occasions. 

Following a 16-year break from the Olympics Germany made a triumphant come back to the bobsleigh rivalry, winning the two-and four-man occasions. The outcomes for both bobsleigh occasions were the equivalent, with the United States and Switzerland taking silver and bronze individually. Fritz Feierabend from Switzerland contended in both the two-and four-man rivalries. His two bronze decorations were the fourth and fifth in an Olympic vocation that spread over 16 years and three Olympics. There were no weight limitations on the bobsleigh competitors, and the normal load for every individual from the triumphant German four-man group was , which was more than the Olympic heavyweight enclosing champion 1952. Seeing the undue favorable position overweight competitors conveyed to their groups, the International Federation for Bobsleigh and Toboganning established a weight limit for future Olympics. 

The majority of the speed skating occasions were held at Bislett Stadium. Americans Ken Henry and Don McDermott set first and second in the 500-meter race, yet Norwegian truck driver Hjalmar Andersen charged the fanatic group by winning the 1,500, 5,000 and 10,000-meter occasions; his edges of triumph were the biggest in Olympic history. Dutchman Wim van der Voort put second in the 1,500 meters and his kinsman Kees Broekman set second to Andersen in the 5,000 and 10,000-meter races, turning into the primary Olympic speed skating medalists from the Netherlands. Missing from the challenge was previous best on the planet Kornél Pajor. The Hungarian-conceived speed skater had won both long separation races at the World Championships held in Oslo in 1949 and afterward deserted to Sweden, yet was unfit to acquire Swedish citizenship so as to contend in 1952. 

There were three snow capped skiing occasions on the Olympic program: the slalom, monster slalom and downhill. The two people contended in each of the three occasions, held at Norefjell and Rødkleiva. The monster slalom made its Olympic introduction at the 1952 Games. Austrian skiers overwhelmed the challenge, winning seven out of a conceivable 18 awards, including Othmar Schneider who won gold and silver in the men's slalom and downhill. Norwegian Stein Eriksen won gold in the men's goliath slalom and silver in the slalom. Greek slalom skier Antoin Miliordos fell multiple times on his run and crossed the end goal in reverse. American skier Andrea Mead Lawrence was the main twofold gold medalist, winning the monster slalom and the slalom. She was the principal skier from the United States to win two elevated skiing gold awards. 

All the crosscountry occasions were held by the ski hop slope at Holmenkollbakken. As had been the situation in 1948 there were three men's occasions: 18 kilometers, 50 kilometers, and a hand-off. Added to the Olympic program out of the blue was a ten-kilometer race for ladies. All the crosscountry awards were won by Nordic nations, and Finnish skiers won eight of the twelve conceivable. Lydia Wideman of Finland turned into the principal female Olympic boss in crosscountry skiing; her partners Mirja Hietamies and Siiri Rantanen won silver and bronze separately. Veikko Hakulinen won the 50-kilometer men's race to start an Olympic vocation that would finish in seven awards, three of them gold. Hallgeir Brenden won the 18-kilometer race and helped Norway take the silver in the 4 × 10-kilometer transfer. Brenden proceeded to win another gold in the men's 15-kilometer race in 1956, and a silver in the hand-off in 1960. 

The nordic joined occasion was held at the crosscountry and ski hop settings. Out of the blue, the ski hop part occurred first with contenders taking three bounces from the Holmenkollbakken. The 18-km crosscountry skiing occasion occurred the following day. Results were counted by the best two imprints were scored, alongside the consequences of the crosscountry race, to decide a champ. Norwegians Simon Slåttvik and Sverre Stenersen won the gold and bronze individually. Stenersen proceeded to win the gold at the 1956 Games in a similar occasion. Heikki Hasu from Finland won the silver, keeping a Norwegian range of the decorations. 

Groups more than 100,000 welcomed the ski jumpers as they contended at Holmenkollbakken. In 1952 there was just a single occasion, the men's typical slope, which was hung on 24 February. The King, Prince Harald, and Princess Ragnhild were in participation. The Norwegian competitors did not disillusion the group, as Arnfinn Bergmann and Torbjørn Falkanger put first and second; Swedish jumper Karl Holmström took the bronze. Norwegian competitors won the ski bouncing gold award in each Winter Olympics from 1924 to 1952. 

There were three occasions in the Olympic figure skating rivalry: men's singles, ladies' singles and blended sets. The occasions were held at Bislett Stadium on an arena developed inside the speed skating track. 

Dick Button of the United States won the men's singles occasion. Helmut Seibt of Austria took silver and James Grogan of the United States won bronze. Catch turned into the primary figure-skater to arrive a triple hop in rivalry when he played out the triple circle in the men's free skate. English skater Jeannette Altwegg won the gold decoration in the ladies' singles, the silver was granted to American Tenley Albright, who proceeded to win gold at the 1956 Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo, and Jacqueline du Bief of France won the bronze. The German a couple pair of Ria and Paul Falk won the blended sets rivalry. They crushed Americans Karol and Peter Kennedy, who set second, and Hungarian kin Marianna and László Nagy, who won the bronze decoration. 

A lion's share of the ice hockey matches occurred at Jordal Amfi, another hockey arena worked for the Olympics. Nine groups played in the competition and Canada again won the gold award. Canada had won everything except one Olympic hockey competition so far, yet in 1956 the Soviet group started to contend and finished Canadian predominance. Canada was spoken to by the Edmonton Mercurys, a beginner hockey group supported by the proprietor of a Mercury vehicle vendor. Canada played the United States to a three all tie on the last day to secure the gold, and the Americans won silver. Norwegian paper "Dagbladet" condemned the outcome, calling the diversion "fixed ahead of time". The official report of the USOC for the 1952 Olympics covers the amusement from an alternate point of view. Accroding to the report, before the finish of the diversion against Canada, the Americans were rationally and physically depleted and subsequent to scoring the third objective and tying the amusement they chose to concentrate on resistance all together not to lose silver. Note that Canadians at the time were viewed as top notch and notwithstanding tying that group was practically outlandish. Sweden and Czechoslovakia wound up tied for third (Czechoslovakia vanquished the Swedes in the straight on amusement, however as per the standards at the time they needed to play a sudden death round diversion since they were tied in focuses). Sweden won that diversion and vindicated the misfortune in the round-robin. The Czechs trusted they had effectively won the bronze when they vanquished the Swedes in the round-robin, calling the choice to play a tie-breaking amusement a "plot of the industrialist nations". Canadian group was scrutinized for its unpleasant play; despite the fact that body checking was lawful, it was not regularly utilized by European groups, and adversaries and observers alike took a dreary perspective on that style of play. 

The IOC campaigned the sorting out board of trustees to have either military watch or twisting as a show sport. The board of trustees rather chosen bandy, which had never been incorporated into the Winter Games. Bandy, which is mainstream in nordic nations, is played by groups of eleven on an open air soccer field-sized ice arena, utilizing a little ball and sticks about long. As it was a show sport, the players were ineligible for awards. Three countries took an interest: Finland, Norway and Sweden. Every one of the three groups won one diversion and lost one amusement; with Sweden winning the challenge dependent on number of objectives scored, trailed by Norway in second spot, and Finland in third spot. Two of the diversions were played at Dæhlenenga Stadium and one at Bislett Stadium. 

At the 1952 Winter Games the end functions were an unmistakable program posting, not at all like past Winter Games when the end services were held straightforwardly after the last occasion. The end functions were held in Bislett Stadium, on Monday evening, 25 February. The banner bearers entered the arena in a similar request they pursued for the opening services. That night four decoration services were additionally held for the ladies' crosscountry race, the men's crosscountry hand-off, the ski hopping rivalry, and the ice hockey competition. 

Since 1920, the "Antwerp banner" has been passed from host city to have city amid shutting functions for the Summer Games. The city of Oslo gave an Olympic banner to build up a similar convention for the Winter Games. Brynjulf Bull, Oslo's city hall leader, passed the banner to the leader of the IOC, Sigfrid Edström, who proclaimed the banner was to go from host city to have city for future Winter Games. The banner, which came to be known as the "Oslo Flag", has since been safeguarded in a presentation case, with the name of each Winter Olympics have city engraved on metal plaques, and is conveyed to each Winter Games to be shown. An imitation is utilized amid the end services. 

After the banner service the Olympic fire was doused, an extraordinary speed skating race was held, and the figure skating contenders gave a display, trailed by 40 children wearing national outfits playing out an ice move. For a finale, to the nearby the Games, the lights were quenched and a 20-minute firecrackers show lit up the night sky. 

With a seating limit of 29,000, Bislett Stadium turned into the highlight of the Games. It was the scene for the speed skating occasions and the figure skating rivalry. Bislett was sufficiently extensive for a speed skating track, and a figure skating ice-arena of ; a snow bank isolated the track and the arena. Since Bislett was an open air field, the sorting out advisory group picked Tryvann Stadion and Hamar Stadion as optional elective skating settings to be utilized the instance of awful climate. In 1994 Hamar turned into the scene for the speed skating occasions at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer. 

The Oslo Winter Games were the first to include an Olympic ice hockey competition hung on counterfeit ice. Another arena was worked for the hockey competition in a neighborhood of eastern Oslo, called Jordal Amfi, which suited 10,000 observers in stands rising steeply from the arena. 23 of the 36 hockey matches were played at Jordal Amfi, with the rest of the matches played at Kadettangen, Dælenenga idrettspark, Lillestrøm Stadion and Marienlyst Stadion. 

The crosscountry races and ski-hop rivalry were held at Holmenkollbakken, found generally from the focal point of Oslo. The normal number of onlookers caused worries about traffic, so another street was developed and the current lane augmented. Holmenkollbakken was worked in 1892 and enhancements were expected to fulfill global guidelines. The first wood ski-bounce was supplanted with a solid pinnacle and hop that was long. New stands were worked to situate 13,000 individuals, and a zone was included at the base of the slope to suit 130,000 observers. 

The slopes and territory in the encompassing region satisfied the aggressive needs for a first class crosscountry ski occasion. A notice board was posted toward the begin and end goals to enable observers to screen the advancement of the contenders. The crosscountry and nordic joined races started and finished at the base of the ski hop slope. The represents the ski hop rivalry must be expelled amid the crosscountry races; onlookers had just a little region from which to watch the races however were permitted on the course to applaud the contenders. 

The high skiing occasions were part among Norefjell and Rødkleiva. The slalom courses were at Rødkleiva, situated on a similar mountain as Holmenkollen and Frognerseteren. The course had a height distinction, through and through, of and was long. A rope tow must be worked to convey the skiers from the base to the highest point of the slope. The declining race and the monster slalom—which made its Olympic presentation in 1952—were held at Norefjell, which was from Oslo and the main scene found far from the capital city. Work must be done to make the zone appropriate for Olympic challenge. An extension crosswise over Lake Krøderen was worked to help lighten transportation blockage. Another inn, two ski lifts, and another street were likewise built. 

There was no changeless bobsleigh kept running in Norway. Rather the coordinators fabricated a transitory course out of snow and ice. This is regularly wrongly accepted to have been worked at Korketrekkeren. From Frognerseteren a different long, 13-turn course was structured and manufactured. The bobsleigh run was first built and tried in 1951, at that point remade for the Games in 1952. A vehicle was utilized to restore the bobsleighs to the beginning of the track. 

Thirty countries sent contenders, which was the most elevated number of members at a Winter Games. New Zealand and Portugal participated in the Winter Olympic Games out of the blue. Australia, Germany, and Japan returned following a 16-year nonappearance. South Korea, Liechtenstein, and Turkey contended in 1948 however did not take an interest in the 1952 Games. 

<noinclude> 

The official opening functions were hung on 15 February, albeit two littler services were hung on 14 February to accommodate with rivalry plans. From 15 February until 25 February, the day of the end functions, no less than one occasion last was held every day. 

These are the countries that beaten the decoration check at the 1952 Winter Games. 

Notes 

References