A. E. J. Collins 

Arthur Edward Jeune "James" Collins (18 August 1885 – 11 November 1914), normally now known by his initials A. E. J. Collins, was an English cricketer and warrior. He held, for a long time, the record of most elevated score in cricket: as a 13-year-old student, he scored 628 not out more than four evenings in June 1899. Collins' record-production innings drew an expansive group and expanding media intrigue; onlookers at the Old Cliftonian coordinate being played adjacent were attracted away to watch the lesser school building cricket coordinate in which Collins was playing. Regardless of this accomplishment, Collins never played top of the line cricket. Collins' 628 not out remained as the record score till January 2016 when an Indian kid, Pranav Dhanawade, scored 1009 out of a school amusement. 

Collins joined the British Army in 1902 and learned at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, before turning into an officer in the Royal Engineers. He served in France amid the First World War, where he was executed in real life in 1914 amid the First Battle of Ypres. Collins had been referenced in despatches and furthermore spoke to the Royal Military Academy at cricket and rugby association. 

Collins was conceived in Hazaribagh, India, to Arthur Herbert Collins, a judge in the Indian Civil Service, and Mrs Esther Ida Collins. It had been imagined that both of his folks had kicked the bucket when he started his training at Clifton College, Bristol, where he held a grant. Nonetheless, the 1901 registration demonstrates that Arthur's mom was in reality still alive. 

He joined Clifton College in September 1897, turning into an individual from Clark's House, in spite of the fact that he later moved to North Town House. Clifton had a brilliant notoriety for game. W.G. Effortlessness scored 13 top of the line hundreds of years on the Close (Clifton's first XI ground), and he sent his children to the school. Collins played half-back for the rugby XV, and was additionally in the cricket XI. He won a bronze award for boxing at the government funded schools competition in Aldershot in 1901. 

Tim Rice, in a 9 June 1999 article for "The Telegraph" to commend the century of the score, entitled "On the seventh day AEJ Collins rested", depicted him accordingly: 

In 1899, as a 13-year-old student, Collins scored what was then the most elevated at any point recorded cricket score of 628 not out. This accomplishment occurred amid a lesser school building cricket coordinate between Clarke's House and North Town House. Such matches were ageless, played to a completion anyway long they took. The match was played on an outfield off Guthrie Road, Bristol, presently named "Collins Piece". The ground had both a poor surface and a surprising shape: it was exceptionally short (just long), with a divider just away framing the limit on one side, while the opposite side was a delicate incline falling ceaselessly towards the school sanatorium out there. The pitch involved the focal of the restricted field, with the limit just behind each arrangement of stumps. Hits to the long limit, down the slant, must be altogether run, yet the three short limits meant two runs. 

The match initiated on Thursday, 22 June, to exploit two half-day occasions while the school group played their yearly match against Old Cliftonians adjacent. Collins, a right-gave batsman, won the hurl for Clarke's House and batted first. Collins hit his first stroke at around 3.30 pm. By the end of play at 6 pm, he had scored 200 runs, having been dropped on 50, 100 and 140. 

School exercises permitted another more than two hours' play on Friday, 23 June, and by then updates on an excellent innings had gone round the school. So splendid was his play that even the group viewing an Old Cliftonian coordinate being played close-by lost its advantage and a substantial group watched Collins' extraordinary execution. Collins' innings nearly finished at 400 when a simple catch was dropped by the most youthful player on the field, 11-year-old Victor Fuller-Eberle, yet at around 5.30 pm, in the wake of batting for around five hours, blissful praise broke out when he passed Andrew Stoddart's reality record score of 485. Toward the second's end day, he stayed unbeaten on 509 and the group on 680 for 8. His innings was accounted for as a world record in "The Times" paper on Saturday 24 June; the paper, be that as it may, gave Collins' score by the end of play on Friday as 501, his age as 14 and mis-revealed his name as "A. E. "G." Collins". 

The match continued in the lunch hour on Monday, 26 June, at 12:30 pm, with an extensive group. Before the finish of play, Collins had been dropped once more, on 556, to achieve 598, yet another wicket had fallen, and Collins was coming up short on accomplices. On Tuesday, 27 June, the school specialists expanded the hours accessible for play trying to complete the match. The groups developed and media intrigue heightened, as "The Times" again provided details regarding the match on Tuesday, and the interruption to class life was significant. Collins hit out, with his methodology being portrayed as "out and out careless". He was dropped twice more, on 605 and 619. After only 25 minutes' play, Collins lost his last accomplice, Thomas Redfern, gotten by Victor Fuller-Eberle at point for 13, with Collins' score on 628. Collins had played under seven hours' cricket, helping his bat through his side's innings. He had scored 1 six, 4 fives, 31 fours, 33 threes, 146 twos and 87 singles. "The Times" by and by ran a report, giving the last figures for Collins' innings in its Wednesday release of 28 June—by and by, be that as it may, they incorrectly spelled his third introductory. 

North Town House, discouraged, were bowled out for 87 of every hour and a half on Tuesday. The match continued on Wednesday 28 June, when North Town's second innings went far and away more terrible, making 61 in a little more than 60 minutes, so Clarke House won by an innings and 688 runs. Collins indicated capacity as an all-rounder, with his right-arm medium pace bowling taking 11 wickets for 63 runs. 

The scorebook hangs in the structure at Clifton right up 'til the present time. The scorers confronted a troublesome errand in precisely recording the innings. One of them, Edward Peglar, is said to have commented that Collins' score was "628, give or take twenty will we say". The other scorer for the match was J. W. Lobby, whose father in 1868 had batted with Edward Tylecote, who later played Test cricket for England and whose name is on a lyric kept with the Ashes urn. Tylecote had before set a world-record score of 404 not out in 1868, likewise at Clifton. Corridor later composed that "The bowling likely merited all the noble scorn with which Collins treated it, sending an extensive number of pulls full pitch over the fives courts into the swimming showers to the threat of the inhabitants." 

Collins wound up open property for quite a while after the match, everlastingly connected with his incredible score. "Today all men talk about him", kept in touch with one paper, "… he has a notoriety for being incredible as the most publicized cleanser: he will be deified." After leaving school, he never needed to be helped to remember his renowned innings; all things considered, he has been recalled well past his very own lifetime. 

Inside two years, 31-year-old Australian Test cricketer Charles Eady verged on breaking the record, when he made 566 for Break-o'- Day against Wellington in Hobart in under eight hours spread more than three weeks in March 1902. This stayed, for over a century, the nearest challenge to Collins' record: his score was at last beaten in January 2016 by Pranav Dhanawade, a 15-year-old Indian kid who scored 1,009 not out from 327 balls for KC Gandhi School against Arya Gurukul School in Mumbai. Just five different players, Prithvi Shaw (546), Dadabhoy Havewala (515), JC Sharp (505 not out), Malhotra Chamanlal (502 not out), and Brian Lara (501 not out) have ever scored in excess of 500 keeps running in one innings in any type of cricket. Lara is the main individual to have accomplished a score of more than 500 keeps running in top of the line cricket. 

Collins pursued a military vocation, passing his placement tests to the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, in September 1901 and speaking to the Royal Military Academy at both football and rugby just as cricket, scoring a century in a match against the Royal Military College, Sandhurst. He joined the British Army the next year, being charged as a second lieutenant in the Royal Engineers on 21 December 1904. In spite of the constraints on his game that the military administration caused, he played a few counterparts for Old Cliftonians, his regiment, and the military, residual a free-hitting batsman. He played at Lord's in 1913 for Royal Engineers Cricket Club against Royal Artillery Cricket Club, scoring 58 and 36 keeps running in the two innings, however he never played top of the line cricket. He likewise joined Clifton Rugby Football Club in February 1905, however never transcended the second XV. He presented with the second Sappers and Miners in India, and was elevated to lieutenant on 23 June 1907. 

Collins wedded Ethel Slater in the spring of 1914 and was sent to France when the First World War broke out soon thereafter. He was executed in real life on 11 November 1914 at the First Battle of Ypres, while filling in as a skipper with the fifth Field Company, Royal Engineers, at 29 years old. He was motioning for more men to ensure the flank of his channel when he was injured; he was hauled again into the channel by Sapper Farnfield (23900) yet he kicked the bucket an hour later. The fifth Field Company completed the internments of its Company on 12 November. Because of the ceaseless battling about this zone for the following four years what survived from his grave and remains were never found, however his name is recorded at the Menin Gate Memorial in Belgium. Prior to his demise, he had been referenced in despatches. His more youthful sibling Herbert (a lieutenant in the 24th Battalion of the Manchester Regiment and furthermore an old Cliftonian) was executed in real life on 11 February 1917, matured 27. Collins' better half, Ethel, lived as a widow for more than fifty years, kicking the bucket on 1 September 1966 in Haslemere.