Francis Poulenc 

Francis Jean Marcel Poulenc (; 7 January 189930 January 1963) was a French author and musician. His creations incorporate "mélodies", solo piano works, ambiance music, choral pieces, musical shows, ballet performances, and symphonic show music. Among the best-known are the piano suite "Trois mouvements perpétuels" (1919), the artful dance "Les biches" (1923), the "Show champêtre" (1928) for harpsichord and ensemble, the Organ Concerto (1938), the musical drama "Discoursed des Carmélites" (1957), and the "Gloria" (1959) for soprano, choir and symphony. 

As the main child of a prosperous maker Poulenc was relied upon to pursue his dad into the family firm, and he was not permitted to select at a music school. To a great extent self-instructed musically, he considered with the piano player Ricardo Viñes, who turned into his tutor after the writer's folks passed on. Poulenc before long went under the impact of Erik Satie, under whose tutelage he ended up one of a gathering of youthful writers referred to by and large as "Les Six". In his initial works Poulenc wound up known for his high spirits and flippancy. Amid the 1930s a significantly more genuine side to his inclination rose, especially in the religious music he created from 1936 onwards, which he exchanged with his all the more cheerful works. 

Notwithstanding forming, Poulenc was a practiced piano player. He was especially celebrated for his performing associations with the baritone Pierre Bernac (who additionally exhorted him in vocal composition) and the soprano Denise Duval, visiting in Europe and America with each, and making numerous accounts. He was among the principal authors to see the significance of the gramophone, and he recorded broadly from 1928 onwards. 

In his later years, and for a considerable length of time after his demise, Poulenc had a notoriety, especially in his local nation, as a silly, lightweight writer, and his religious music was regularly neglected. Amid the 21st century more consideration has been given to his genuine works, with numerous new creations of "Exchanges des Carmélites" and "La voix humaine" around the world, and various live and recorded exhibitions of his melodies and choral music. 

Poulenc was conceived in the eighth arrondissement of Paris, the more youthful tyke and just child of Émile Poulenc and his significant other, Jenny, "née" Royer. Émile Poulenc was a joint proprietor of the Poulenc Frères, a fruitful maker of pharmaceuticals (later Rhône-Poulenc). He was an individual from a devout Roman Catholic family from Espalion in the département of Aveyron. Jenny Poulenc was from a Parisian family with wide aesthetic interests. In Poulenc's view, the opposite sides of his inclination became out of this foundation: a profound religious confidence from his dad's family and a common and masterful side from his mother's. The pundit Claude Rostand later portrayed Poulenc as "half priest and half mischievous kid". 

Poulenc experienced childhood in a melodic family unit; his mom was an able musician, with a wide collection going from traditional to less raised works that gave him a long lasting preference for what he called "delightful terrible music". He took piano exercises from the age of five; when he was eight he initially heard the music of Debussy and was entranced by the innovation of the sound. Different writers whose works impacted his advancement were Schubert and Stravinsky: the previous' "Winterreise" and the last's "The Rite of Spring" established a profound connection on him. At his dad's request, Poulenc pursued a regular school profession, learning at the Lycée Condorcet in Paris as opposed to at a music center. 

In 1916 a beloved companion, Raymonde Linossier (1897– 1930), acquainted Poulenc with Adrienne Monnier's bookshop, the "Maison des Amis des Livres". There he met the "cutting edge" artists Guillaume Apollinaire, Max Jacob, Paul Éluard and Louis Aragon. He later set a significant number of their ballads to music. Around the same time he turned into the student of the piano player Ricardo Viñes. The biographer Henri Hell remarks that Viñes' impact on his student was significant, both as to pianistic strategy and the style of Poulenc's console works. Poulenc later said of Viñes: 

He was a most awesome man, a strange hidalgo with gigantic moustachios, a level overflowed sombrero in the most perfect Spanish style, and catch boots which he used to rap my shins when I didn't change the accelerating enough. ... I respected him frantically, in light of the fact that, right now, in 1914, he was the main virtuoso who played Debussy and Ravel. That gathering with Viñes was foremost in my life: I owe him everything ... As a general rule it is to Viñes that I owe my youngster endeavors in music and all that I think about the piano. 

At the point when Poulenc was sixteen his mom kicked the bucket; his dad passed on two years after the fact. Viñes turned out to be in excess of an educator: he was, in the expressions of Myriam Chimènes in the "Woods Dictionary of Music and Musicians", the young fellow's "otherworldly coach". He urged his student to make, and he later gave the debuts of three early Poulenc works. Through him Poulenc turned out to be neighborly with two authors who helped shape his initial advancement: Georges Auric and Erik Satie. 

Auric, who was a similar age as Poulenc, was an early engineer musically; when the two met, Auric's music had just been performed at vital Parisian show scenes. The two youthful authors shared a comparative melodic viewpoint and enthusiasms, and for an amazing remainder Auric was his most confided in companion and guide. Poulenc called him "my actual sibling in soul". Satie, an unconventional figure, disengaged from the standard French melodic foundation, was a coach to a few rising youthful arrangers, including Auric, Louis Durey and Arthur Honegger. After at first rejecting Poulenc as a middle class novice, he yielded and conceded him to the hover of protégés, whom he called ""Les Nouveaux Jeunes"". Poulenc portrayed Satie's effect on him as "quick and wide, on both the profound and melodic planes". The piano player Alfred Cortot remarked that Poulenc's "Trois mouvements perpétuels" were "impressions of the amusing standpoint of Satie adjusted to the delicate principles of the present scholarly circles". 

Poulenc made his début as a writer in 1917 with his "Rapsodie nègre", a ten-minute, five-development piece for baritone and chamber gathering; it was committed to Satie and debuted at one of a progression of shows of new music kept running by the artist Jane Bathori. There was a design for African expressions in Paris at the time, and Poulenc was pleased to keep running over some distributed refrains purportedly Liberian, yet brimming with Parisian lane slang. He utilized one of the lyrics in two segments of the song. The baritone drew in for the main execution lost his nerve on the stage, and the writer, however no vocalist, hopped in. This "jeu d'esprit" was the first of numerous instances of what Anglophone faultfinders came to call "leg-Poulenc". Ravel was diverted by the piece and remarked on Poulenc's capacity to imagine his very own old stories. Stravinsky was sufficiently awed to utilize his impact to verify Poulenc an agreement with a distributer, a thoughtfulness that Poulenc always remembered. 

In 1917 Poulenc became more acquainted with Ravel all around ok to have genuine discourses with him about music. He was disheartened by Ravel's decisions, which commended authors whom Poulenc barely cared about over those he enormously respected. He told Satie of this miserable experience; Satie answered with a contemptuous designation for Ravel who, he stated, talked "a heap of refuse". For a long time Poulenc was ambiguous about Ravel's music, however continually regarding him as a man. Ravel's humility about his very own music especially spoke to Poulenc, who looked for an incredible duration to pursue Ravel's precedent. 

From January 1918 to January 1921 Poulenc was a recruit in the French armed force in the most recent months of the First World War and the prompt post-war period. Among July and October 1918 he served at the Franco-German front, after which he was given a progression of helper posts, finishing as a typist at the Ministry of Aviation. His obligations permitted him time for sythesis; the "Trois mouvements perpétuels" for piano and the Sonata for Piano Duet were composed at the piano of the nearby primary school at Saint-Martin-sur-le-Pré, and he finished his first tune cycle, "Le bestiaire", setting ballads by Apollinaire. The sonata did not make a profound open impression, yet the melody cycle made the author's name known in France, and the "Trois mouvements perpétuels" quickly turned into a global achievement. The exigencies of music-production in wartime showed Poulenc much composition for whatever instruments were accessible; at that point, and later, a portion of his works were for unordinary blends of players. 

At this phase in his vocation Poulenc was aware of his absence of scholastic melodic preparing; the pundit and biographer Jeremy Sams composes that it was the arranger's good karma that the open state of mind was betraying late-sentimental richness for the "freshness and insouciant appeal" of his works, in fact unsophisticated however they were. Four of Poulenc's initial works were debuted at the Salle Huyghens in the Montparnasse region, where somewhere in the range of 1917 and 1920 the cellist Félix Delgrange introduced shows of music by youthful arrangers. Among them were Auric, Durey, Honegger, Darius Milhaud and Germaine Tailleferre who, with Poulenc, ended up referred to all in all as ""Les Six"". After one of their shows, the commentator Henri Collet distributed an article titled, "The Five Russians, the Six Frenchmen and Satie". As indicated by Milhaud: 

In totally self-assertive style Collet picked the names of six authors, Auric, Durey, Honegger, Poulenc, Tailleferre and myself, for no other explanation than that we knew one another, that we were companions and were spoken to in similar projects, yet without the smallest worry for our diverse frames of mind and our distinctive natures. Auric and Poulenc pursued the thoughts of Cocteau, Honegger was a result of German Romanticism and my leanings were towards a Mediterranean melodious art ... Collet's article established such a wide connection, that the Groupe des Six had appeared. 

Cocteau, however comparable in age to "Les Six", was something of a dad figure to the gathering. His abstract style, "incomprehensible and lapidary" in Hell's expression, was hostile to sentimental, succinct and disrespectful. It extraordinarily spoke to Poulenc, who made his first setting of Cocteau's words in 1919 and his toward the end in 1961. At the point when individuals from "Les Six" teamed up with one another, they contributed their own individual segments to the joint work. Their 1920 piano suite "L'Album des Six" comprises of six independent and inconsequential pieces. Their 1921 artful dance "Les mariés de la visit Eiffel" contains three areas by Milhaud, two each by Auric, Poulenc and Tailleferre, one by Honegger and none by Durey, who was at that point separating himself from the gathering. 

In the mid 1920s Poulenc stayed worried at his absence of formal melodic preparing. Satie was suspicious of music universities, however Ravel prompted Poulenc to take organization exercises; Milhaud proposed the author and instructor Charles Koechlin. Poulenc worked with him irregularly from 1921 to 1925. 

From the mid 1920s Poulenc was generally welcomed abroad, especially in Britain, both as an entertainer and a writer. In 1921 Ernest Newman wrote in "The Manchester Guardian", "I watch out for Francis Poulenc, a young fellow who has just barely touched base at his twenties. He should form into a farceur of the primary request." Newman said that he had once in a while heard anything so scrumptiously foolish as parts of Poulenc's tune cycle "Cocardes", with its backup played by the strange blend of cornet, trombone, violin and percussion. In 1922 Poulenc and Milhaud headed out to Vienna to meet Alban Berg, Anton Webern and Arnold Schönberg. Neither of the French authors was affected by their Austrian associates' progressive twelve-tone framework, yet they respected the three as its driving advocates. The next year Poulenc got a commission from Sergei Diaghilev for a full-length expressive dance score. He chose that the subject would be a cutting edge adaptation of the established French "fête galante". This work, "Les biches", was a quick achievement, first in Monte Carlo in January 1924 and afterward in Paris in May, under the course of André Messager; it has stayed a standout amongst Poulenc's best-known scores. Poulenc's new big name after the accomplishment of the expressive dance was the sudden reason for his offense from Satie: among the new companions Poulenc made was Louis Laloy, an author whom Satie respected with intractable ill will. Auric, who had quite recently delighted in a comparable triumph with a Diaghilev expressive dance, "Les Fâcheux", was likewise disavowed by Satie for turning into a companion of Laloy. 

As the decade advanced, Poulenc delivered a scope of pieces, from tunes to orchestral compositions and another artful dance, "Aubade". Damnation recommends that Koechlin's impact at times restrained Poulenc's normal straightforward style, and that Auric offered valuable direction to enable him to show up in his real nature. At a show of music by the two companions in 1926, Poulenc's tunes were sung out of the blue by the baritone Pierre Bernac, from whom, in Hell's expression, "the name of Poulenc was destined to be indistinguishable." Another entertainer with whom the writer came to be intently related was the harpsichordist Wanda Landowska. He heard her as the soloist in Falla's "El retablo de maese Pedro" (1923), an early case of the utilization of a harpsichord in a cutting edge work, and was promptly taken with the sound. At Landowska's solicitation he composed a concerto, the "Show champêtre", which she debuted in 1929 with the Orchestre Symphonique de Paris led by Pierre Monteux. 

The biographer Richard D. E. Burton remarks that, in the late 1920s, Poulenc may have appeared to be in a lucky position: expertly fruitful and freely wealthy, having acquired a generous fortune from his dad. He purchased a substantial nation house, Le Grande Coteau, at Noizay, Indre-et-Loire, south-west of Paris, where he withdrew to create in quiet environment. However he was harried, attempting to deal with his sexuality, which was transcendently gay. His first genuine issue was with the painter Richard Chanlaire, to whom he sent a duplicate of the "Show champêtre" score engraved, "You have transformed me, you are the daylight of my thirty years, an explanation behind living and working". By the by, while this undertaking was in advancement Poulenc proposed marriage to his companion Raymonde Linossier. As she was very much aware of his homosexuality as well as impractically appended somewhere else, she rejected him, and their relationship ended up stressed. He endured the first of numerous times of dejection, which influenced his capacity to make, and he was crushed in January 1930 when Linossier kicked the bucket abruptly at 32 years old. On her passing he expressed, "All my childhood withdraws with her, all that piece of my life that had a place just with her. I sob ... I am presently twenty years more established". His issue with Chanlaire diminished in 1931, however they stayed deep rooted companions. 

Toward the beginning of the decade, Poulenc came back to composing melodies, following a two-year break from doing as such. His "Epitaphe", to a ballad by Malherbe, was written in memory of Linossier, and is depicted by the piano player Graham Johnson as "a significant melody in each sense". The next year Poulenc composed three arrangements of tunes, to words by Apollinaire and Max Jacob, some of which were not kidding in tone, and others reminiscent of his prior cheerful style, as were others of his works of the mid 1930s. In 1932 his music was among the first to be communicated on TV, in a transmission by the BBC in which Reginald Kell and Gilbert Vinter played his Sonata for clarinet and bassoon. At about this time Poulenc started an association with Raymond Destouches, an escort; as with Chanlaire prior, what started as an energetic issue changed into a profound and enduring kinship. Destouches, who wedded during the 1950s, stayed near Poulenc until the finish of the writer's life. 

Two disconnected occasions in 1936 consolidated to move a stiring of religious confidence and another profundity of earnestness in Poulenc's music. His kindred writer Pierre-Octave Ferroud was killed in an auto accident so vicious that he was executed, and very quickly a short time later, while on vacation, Poulenc visited the asylum of Rocamadour. He later clarified: 

A couple of days sooner I'd quite recently known about the heartbreaking demise of my colleague ... As I thought about the delicacy of our human edge, I was attracted afresh to the life of the soul. Rocamadour had the impact of reestablishing me to the confidence of my youth. This asylum, without a doubt the most seasoned in France ... had everything to enamor me ... A similar night of this visit to Rocamadour, I started my "Reiterations à la Vierge noire" for female voices and organ. In that work I endeavored to get over the climate of "worker commitment" that had struck me so coercively in that grand house of prayer. 

Different works that pursued proceeded with the author's freshly discovered earnestness, including numerous settings of Éluard's surrealist and humanist sonnets. In 1937 he created his first major ceremonial work, the Mass in G major for soprano and blended choir "a cappella", which has turned into the most much of the time performed of all his consecrated works. Poulenc's new structures were not all in this genuine vein; his coincidental music to the play "La Reine Margot", featuring Yvonne Printemps, was pastiche sixteenth century move music, and wound up well known under the title "Suite française". Music commentators for the most part kept on characterizing Poulenc by his cheerful works, and it was not until the 1950s that his genuine side was generally perceived. 

In 1936 Poulenc started giving continuous presentations with Bernac. At the École Normale in Paris they gave the debut of Poulenc's "Cinq poèmes de Paul Éluard". They kept on performing together for over twenty years, in Paris and universally, until Bernac's retirement in 1959. Poulenc, who formed 90 songs for his teammate, thought of him as one of the "three incredible gatherings" of his expert profession, the other two being Éluard and Landowska. In Johnson's words, "for a quarter century Bernac was Poulenc's advocate and still, small voice", and the author depended on him for guidance on tune composing, yet on his musical shows and choral music. 

Consistently, Poulenc was well known with British groups of onlookers; he set up a productive association with the BBC in London, which communicate a considerable lot of his works. With Bernac, he made his first voyage through Britain in 1938. His music was likewise mainstream in America, seen by numerous individuals as "the pith of French mind, style and high spirits". In the most recent long periods of the 1930s, Poulenc's arrangements kept on shifting among genuine and happy works. "Quatre motets pour un temps de pénitence" (Four Penitential Motets, 1938– 39) and the melody "Bleuet" (1939), an elegiac reflection on death, stand out from the tune cycle "Fiançailles pour rire" (Light-Hearted Betrothal), which recovers the soul of "Les biches", in the assessment of Hell. 

Poulenc was quickly a trooper again amid the Second World War; he was called up on 2 June 1940 and served in an enemy of flying machine unit at Bordeaux. After France surrendered to Germany, Poulenc was grounded from the military on 18 July 1940. He spent the late spring of that year with family and companions at Brive-la-Gaillarde in south-focal France. In the early months of the war, he had formed minimal new music, rather re-arranging "Les biches" and adjusting his 1932 Sextet for piano and winds. At Brive-la-Gaillarde he started three new works, and once back at his home in Noizay in October he began a fourth. These were "L'Histoire de Babar, le petit éléphant" for piano and storyteller, the Cello Sonata, the artful dance "Les Animaux modèles" and the tune cycle "Banalités". 

For a large portion of the war, Poulenc was in Paris, giving presentations with Bernac, focusing on French tunes. Under Nazi principle he was in a helpless position, as a known gay (Destouches barely kept away from capture and expelling), yet in his music he made numerous signals of disobedience of the Germans. He set to music stanzas by writers noticeable in the French Resistance, including Aragon and Éluard. In "Les Animaux modèles", debuted at the Opéra in 1942, he incorporated the tune, rehashed a few times, of the counter German melody "Vous n'aurez pas l'Alsace et la Lorraine". He was an organizer individual from the Front National (pour musique) which the Nazi experts saw with doubt for its relationship with prohibited performers, for example, Milhaud and Paul Hindemith. In 1943 he composed a cantata for unaccompanied twofold choir planned for Belgium, "Figure humaine", setting eight of Éluard's ballads. The work, finishing with "Liberté", couldn't be given in France while the Germans were in charge; its first execution was communicated from a BBC studio in London in March 1945, and it was not sung in Paris until 1947. The music pundit of "The Times" later composed that the work "is among the best choral works within recent memory and in itself expels Poulenc from the class of "petit maître" to which numbness has for the most part been substance to consign him." 

In January 1945, authorized by the French government, Poulenc and Bernac flew from Paris to London, where they got an excited welcome. The London Philharmonic Orchestra gave a gathering in the arranger's respect; he and Benjamin Britten were the soloists in an exhibition of Poulenc's Double Piano Concerto at the Royal Albert Hall; with Bernac he gave presentations of French "mélodies" and piano works at the Wigmore Hall and the National Gallery, and recorded for the BBC. Bernac was overpowered by the open's reaction; when he and Poulenc ventured out on the Wigmore Hall organize, "the group of onlookers rose and my feeling was with the end goal that as opposed to singing, I started to sob." After their fortnight's remain, the two returned home on the principal vessel train to leave London for Paris since May 1940. 

In Paris, Poulenc finished his scores for "L'Histoire de Babar, le petit éléphant" and his first musical drama, "Les mamelles de Tirésias" (The Breasts of Tiresias), a short opéra bouffe of around an hour's term. The work is a setting of Apollinaire's play of a similar name, arranged in 1917. Sams depicts the musical drama as "brave topsy-turveydom" covering "a more profound and sadder theme – the need to repopulate and rediscover a France attacked by war". It was debuted in June 1947 at the Opéra-Comique, and was a basic achievement, however did not demonstrate prominent with the general population. The main female job was taken by Denise Duval, who turned into the arranger's most loved soprano, visit presentation accomplice and dedicatee of a portion of his music. He called her the songbird who made him cry (""Mon rossignol à larmes""). 

Not long after the war, Poulenc had a short illicit relationship with a lady, Fréderique ("Freddy") Lebedeff, with whom he had a little girl, Marie-Ange, in 1946. The kid was raised without knowing who her dad was (Poulenc was as far as anyone knows her "back up parent") however he made liberal arrangement for her, and she was the key recipient of his will. 

In the post-war period Poulenc challenged arrangers of the more youthful age who dismissed Stravinsky's ongoing work and demanded that just the statutes of the Second Viennese School were legitimate. Poulenc safeguarded Stravinsky and communicated doubt that "in 1945 we are talking as though the stylish of twelve tones is the main conceivable salvation for contemporary music". His view that Berg had accepted serialism to the extent it could go and that Schoenberg's music was presently "desert, stone soup, artificial music, or beautiful nutrients" earned him the hatred of authors, for example, Pierre Boulez. Those contradicting Poulenc endeavored to paint him as a relic of the pre-war time, pointless and unprogressive. This drove him to concentrate on his progressively genuine works, and to endeavor to induce the French open to hear them out. In the US and Britain, with their solid choral conventions, his religious music was every now and again performed, however exhibitions in France were a lot rarer, so people in general and the pundits were regularly unconscious of his genuine sytheses. 

In 1948 Poulenc made his first visit to the US, in a two-month show visit with Bernac. He returned there every now and again until 1961, giving presentations with Bernac or Duval and as soloist on the planet debut of his Piano Concerto (1949), charged by the Boston Symphony Orchestra. 

Poulenc started the 1950s with another accomplice in his private life, Lucien Roubert, a voyaging sales rep. Expertly Poulenc was gainful, composing a seven-melody cycle setting sonnets by Éluard, "La Fraîcheur et le feu" (1950), and the "Stabat Mater", in memory of the painter Christian Bérard, formed in 1950 and debuted the next year. 

In 1953, Poulenc was offered a commission by La Scala and the Milanese distributer Casa Ricordi for an artful dance. He considered the account of St Margaret of Cortona yet found a move variant of her life impracticable. He liked to compose a musical show on a religious topic; Ricordi recommended "Exchanges des Carmélites", an unfilmed screenplay by Georges Bernanos. The content, in light of a short story by Gertrud von Le Fort, portrays the Martyrs of Compiègne, nuns guillotined amid the French Revolution for their religious convictions. Poulenc thought that it was "such a moving and honorable work", perfect for his lyrics, and he started sythesis in August 1953. 

Amid the arrangement of the musical drama, Poulenc endured two blows. He learned of a debate between Bernanos' domain and the essayist Emmet Lavery, who held the rights to dramatic adjustments of Le Fort's tale; this made Poulenc stop chip away at his musical drama. At about a similar time Roubert turned out to be gravely sick. Extraordinary stress pushed Poulenc into a mental meltdown, and in November 1954 he was in a facility at L'Haÿ-les-Roses, outside Paris, vigorously calmed. When he recouped, and the scholarly rights and sovereignty installments debate with Lavery were settled, he continued work on "Exchanges des Carmélites" in the middle of broad visiting with Bernac in England. As his own riches had declined since the 1920s he required the generous salary earned from his presentations. 

While dealing with the musical show, Poulenc formed little else; special cases were two "mélodies", and a short instrumental development, "Bucolique" in an aggregate work, "Varieties sur le nom de Marguerite Long" (1954), to which his old companions from "Les Six" Auric and Milhaud additionally contributed. As Poulenc was composing the last pages of his musical show in October 1955, Roubert kicked the bucket at the age of forty-seven. The writer kept in touch with a companion, "Lucien was conveyed from his suffering ten days back and the last duplicate of "Les Carmélites" was finished (observe) at the exact instant my dear inhaled his last." 

The musical drama was first given in January 1957 at La Scala in Italian interpretation. Among at that point and the French debut Poulenc presented a standout amongst his most well known late works, the Flute Sonata, which he and Jean-Pierre Rampal performed in June at the Strasbourg Festival. After three days, on 21 June, came the Paris debut of "Exchanges des Carmélites" at the Opéra. It was a huge achievement, to the writer's impressive help. At around this time Poulenc started his last sentimental relationship, with Louis Gautier, a previous warrior; they remained accomplices as far as possible of Poulenc's life. 

In 1958 Poulenc set out on a joint effort with his old companion Cocteau, in an operatic adaptation of the last's 1930 monodrama "La Voix humaine". The work was created in February 1959 at the Opéra-Comique, under Cocteau's course, with Duval as the awful left lady addressing her previous darling by phone. In May Poulenc's 60th birthday celebration was denoted, a couple of months late, by his last show with Bernac before the last's retirement from open execution. 

Poulenc visited the US in 1960 and 1961. Among his works given amid these treks were the American debut of "La Voix humaine" at Carnegie Hall in New York, with Duval, and the world debut of his Gloria, a huge scale work for soprano, four-section blended chorale and symphony, directed in Boston by Charles Munch. In 1961 Poulenc distributed a book about Chabrier, a 187-page investigation of which an analyst wrote during the 1980s, "he composes with adoration and knowledge of a writer whose sees he shared on issues like the supremacy of song and the fundamental reality of cleverness." crafted by Poulenc's most recent a year included "Sept répons des ténèbres" for voices and ensemble, the Clarinet Sonata and the Oboe Sonata. 

On 30 January 1963, at his level inverse the Jardin du Luxembourg, Poulenc endured a deadly heart assault. His memorial service was at the adjacent church of Saint-Sulpice. In consistence with his desires, none of his music was performed; Marcel Dupré played works by Bach on the fantastic organ of the congregation. Poulenc was covered at Père Lachaise Cemetery, close by his family. 

Poulenc's music is basically diatonic. In Henri Hell's view, this is on the grounds that the primary component of Poulenc's melodic craftsmanship is his melodic blessing. In the expressions of Roger Nichols in the "Woods" word reference, "For [Poulenc] the most critical component of all was tune and he discovered his way to an immense treasury of unfamiliar tunes inside a territory that had, as per the most exceptional melodic maps, been overviewed, worked and depleted." The reporter George Keck states, "His tunes are straightforward, satisfying, effectively recalled, and regularly candidly expressive." 

Poulenc said that he was not imaginative in his symphonious language. The arranger Lennox Berkeley composed of him, "Every single through hey life, he was substance to utilize customary agreement, however his utilization of it was so individual, so quickly unmistakable as his own, that it gave his music freshness and legitimacy." Keck considers Poulenc's consonant language "as excellent, intriguing and individual as his melodic writing ... clear, basic harmonies moving in clearly characterized tonal zones with chromaticism that is seldom more than passing". Poulenc possessed no energy for melodic hypotheses; in one of his many radio meetings he required "a détente to making by hypothesis, precept, rule!" He was pretentious of what he saw as the obstinacy of modern followers to dodecaphony, driven by René Leibowitz, and extraordinarily lamented that the reception of a hypothetical methodology had influenced the music of Olivier Messiaen, of whom he had before had high expectations. To Hell, practically the entirety of Poulenc's music is "straightforwardly or in a roundabout way roused by the absolutely melodic relationship of the human voice". Poulenc was a meticulous expert, however a fantasy developed up – ""la légende de facilité"" – that his music came effectively to him; he remarked, "The legend is understandable, since I do everything to cover my endeavors." 

The piano player Pascal Rogé remarked in 1999 that the two sides of Poulenc's melodic nature were similarly essential: "You should acknowledge him overall. On the off chance that you remove either part, the genuine or the non-genuine, you crush him. On the off chance that one section is eradicated you get just a pale photocopy of what he truly is." Poulenc perceived the division, however in the entirety of his works he needed music that was "solid, clear and strong – music as honestly French as Stravinsky's is Slav". 

Poulenc's foremost works for substantial symphony include two ballet performances, a "Sinfonietta" and four console concertos. The first of the ballet productions, "Les biches", was first performed in 1924 and stays a standout amongst his best-known works. Nichols writes in "Forest" that the unmistakable and tuneful score has no profound, or even shallow, imagery, a reality "emphasizd by a small section of fake Wagnerian metal, total with emotive minor 9ths". The initial two of the four concertos are in Poulenc's cheerful vein. The "Show champêtre" for harpsichord and symphony (1927– 28), inspires the field seen from a Parisian perspective: Nichols remarks that the flourishes in the last development infer the trumpets in the sleeping shelter of Vincennes in the Paris rural areas. The Concerto for two pianos and symphony (1932) is likewise a work expected simply to engage. It draws on an assortment of complex sources: the primary development finishes in a way reminiscent of Balinese gamelan, and the moderate development starts in a Mozartian style, which Poulenc slowly rounds out with his very own trademark individual contacts. The Organ Concerto (1938) is in a significantly more genuine vein. Poulenc said that it was "on the edges" of his religious music, and there are sections that draw on the congregation music of Bach, however there are additionally intervals in windy well known style. The second artful dance score, "Les Animaux modèles" (1941), has never equalled the ubiquity of "Les biches", however both Auric and Honegger commended the author's consonant style and creative arrangement. Honegger expressed, "The impacts that have chipped away at him, Chabrier, Satie, Stravinsky, are presently totally absorbed. Tuning in to his music you think – it's Poulenc." The "Sinfonietta" (1947) is an inversion to Poulenc's pre-war silliness. He came to feel, "I dressed unreasonably youthful for my age ... [it] is another variant of "Les biches" however young ladies ["biches"] that are forty-eight years old – that is ghastly!" The Concerto for piano and ensemble (1949) at first caused some failure: many felt that it was anything but a development on Poulenc's pre-war music, a view he came to share. The piece has been reconsidered in later years, and in 1996 the author Claire Delamarche evaluated it as the arranger's best concertante work. 

Poulenc, an exceedingly practiced musician, normally made at the piano and composed numerous pieces for the instrument all through his profession. In Henri Hell's view, Poulenc's piano composing can be isolated into the percussive and the gentler style reminiscent of the harpsichord. Damnation thinks about that the best of Poulenc's music for piano is in the backups to the melodies, a view shared by Poulenc himself. By far most of the piano works are, in the perspective on the essayist Keith W Daniel, "what may be called 'miniatures'". Glancing back at his piano music during the 1950s, the arranger saw it basically: "I endure the "Mouvements perpétuels", my old "Suite en ut" [in C], and the "Trois pieces". I like especially my two accumulations of Improvisations, an Intermezzo in A level, and certain Nocturnes. I censure "Napoli" and the "Soirées de Nazelles" without respite." 

Of the pieces refered to with endorsement by Poulenc, the fifteen Improvisations were made at interims somewhere in the range of 1932 and 1959. All are brief: the longest endures somewhat more than three minutes. They shift from quick and balletic to delicate lyricism, antiquated walk, "perpetuum versatile", waltz and an impactful melodic picture of the vocalist Édith Piaf. Poulenc's favored Intermezzo was the remainder of three. Numbers one and two were formed in August 1934; the A level followed in March 1943. The observers Marina and Victor Ledin portray the work as "the epitome of the word 'beguiling'. The music appears to be basically to move off the pages, each solid after another in such a legitimate and normal way, with expert articulation and obvious Frenchness." The eight nocturnes were created crosswise over about 10 years (1929– 38). Regardless of whether Poulenc initially considered them as an indispensable set, he gave the eighth the title "To fill in as Coda for the Cycle" ("Pour servir de Coda au Cycle"). Despite the fact that they share their nonexclusive title with the nocturnes of Field, Chopin and Fauré, Poulenc's don't take after those of the prior arrangers, being "night-scenes and sound-pictures of open and private occasions" instead of sentimental tone sonnets. 

The pieces Poulenc found just passable were all early works: "Trois mouvements perpétuels" dates from 1919, the Suite in C from 1920 and the Trois pièces from 1928. All comprise of short areas, the longest being the "Hymne", the second of the three 1928 pieces, which keeps going around four minutes. Of the two works their arranger singled out for reprimand, "Napoli" (1925) is a three-development picture of Italy, and "Les Soirées de Nazelles" is portrayed by the writer Geoffrey Bush as "what might be compared to Elgar's "Puzzler Variations"" – small scale character representations of his companions. In spite of Poulenc's contempt for the work, Bush judges it brilliant and clever. Among the piano music not referenced, positively or brutally, by Poulenc, the best realized pieces incorporate the two Novelettes (1927– 28), the arrangement of six miniatures for kids, "Villageoises" (1933), a piano form of the seven-development "Suite française" (1935), and "L'embarquement pour Cythère" for two pianos (1953). 

In "Woods", Nichols isolates the chamber works into three unmistakably separated periods. The initial four sonatas originate from the early gathering, all composed before Poulenc was twenty-two. They are for two clarinets (1918), piano couple (1918), clarinet and bassoon (1922) and horn, trumpet and trombone (1922). They are early instances of Poulenc's numerous and differed impacts, with echoes of lavish "divertissements" nearby eccentric harmonies, some affected by jazz. Every one of the four are portrayed by their brevity – under ten minutes each – their wickedness and their mind, which Nichols depicts as corrosive. Other chamber works from this period are the "Rapsodie nègre", FP 3, from 1917 (essentially instrumental, with brief vocal scenes) and the Trio for oboe, bassoon and piano (1926). 

The chamber works of Poulenc's center period were written during the 1940s. The best known is the Sextet for Piano and Wind (1932), in Poulenc's carefree vein, comprising of two energetic external developments and a focal "divertimento"; this was one of a few chamber works that the arranger ended up disappointed with and modified broadly a few years after their first execution (for this situation in 1939– 40). The sonatas in this gathering are for violin and piano (1942– 43) and for cello and piano (1948). Composing for strings did not come effectively to Poulenc; these sonatas were finished after two fruitless before endeavors, and in 1947 he annihilated the draft of a string group of four. The two sonatas are transcendently grave in character; that for violin is committed to the memory of Federico García Lorca. Observers including Hell, Schmidt and Poulenc himself have respected it, and to some degree the cello sonata, as less compelling than those for wind. The "Aubade", "Concerto choréographique" for piano and 18 instruments (1930) accomplishes a practically symphonic impact, regardless of its humble number of players. The other chamber works from this period are courses of action for little groups of two works in Poulenc's lightest vein, the "Suite française" (1935) and the "Trois mouvements perpétuels" (1946). 

The last three sonatas are for woodwind and piano: for woodwind (1956– 57), clarinet (1962), and oboe (1962). They have, as per "Woods", become installations in their collections in light of "their specialized mastery and of their significant excellence". The "Elégie" for horn and piano (1957) was made in memory out of the horn player Dennis Brain. It contains one of Poulenc's uncommon journeys into dodecaphony, with the concise work of a twelve-note tone push. 

Poulenc formed tunes all through his profession, and his yield in the class is broad. In Johnson's view, the greater part of the best were written during the 1940s. In spite of the fact that generally fluctuated in character, the melodies are overwhelmed by Poulenc's inclination for specific writers. From the start of his vocation he supported refrains by Guillaume Apollinaire, and from the mid-1930s the essayist whose work he set regularly was Paul Éluard. Different artists whose works he as often as possible set included Jean Cocteau, Max Jacob, and Louise de Vilmorin. In the perspective on the music faultfinder Andrew Clements, the Éluard tunes incorporate a large number of Poulenc's most noteworthy settings; Johnson calls the cycle "Tel Jour, Telle Nuit" (1937) the writer's "watershed work", and Nichols sees it as "a magnum opus qualified to remain adjacent to Fauré's "La bonne chanson"". Clements finds in the Éluard settings a significance "universes from the weak, witty surfaces of Poulenc's initial symphonic and instrumental music". The first of the "Deux poèmes de Louis Aragon" (1943), titled essentially "C", is depicted by Johnson as "a gem known the world over; it is the most irregular, and maybe the most moving, tune about the desolates of war at any point formed." 

In an outline of the tunes in 1973, the melodic researcher Yvonne Gouverné stated, "With Poulenc, the melodic line coordinates the content so well that it appears here and there to finish it, because of the blessing which the music has for entering the very substance of a given sonnet; no one has preferred made an expression over Poulenc, featuring the shade of the words." Among the lighter pieces, one of the arranger's most mainstream tunes is a setting of "Les Chemins de l'amour" for Jean Anouilh's 1940 play as a Parisian three step dance; by complexity his "monolog" "La Dame de Monte Carlo", (1961) a delineation of an old lady dependent on betting, demonstrates the author's difficult comprehension of the repulsions of discouragement. 

Aside from a solitary early work for unaccompanied choir ("Chanson à boire", 1922), Poulenc started composing choral music in 1936. In that year he delivered three works for choir: "Sept chansons" (settings of stanzas by Éluard and others), "Petites voix" (for kids' voices), and his religious work "Reiterations à la Vierge Noire", for female or kids' voices and organ. The Mass in G major (1937) for unaccompanied choir is depicted by Gouverné as having something of an extravagant style, with "essentialness and blissful fuss on which his confidence is writ huge". Poulenc's freshly discovered religious subject proceeded with "Quatre motets pour un temps de pénitence" (1938– 39), however among his most vital choral works is the mainstream cantata "Figure humaine" (1943). Like the Mass, it is unaccompanied, and to prevail in execution it requires vocalists of the most elevated quality. Other "a cappella" works incorporate the "Quatre motets pour le temps de Noël" (1952), which make extreme requests on choirs' cadenced exactness and pitch. 

Poulenc's significant works for choir and ensemble are the "Stabat Mater" (1950), the "Gloria" (1959– 60), and "Sept répons des ténèbres" (Seven responsories for "Tenebrae", 1961– 62). Every one of these works depend on formal writings, initially set to Gregorian serenade. In the "Gloria", Poulenc's confidence conveys what needs be in a rich, happy way, with interims of pious quiet and spiritualist inclination, and a completion of peaceful serenity. Poulenc wrote to Bernac in 1962, "I have completed Les Ténèbres. I think it is delightful. With the Gloria and the Stabat Mater, I think I have three great religious works. May they save me a couple of days in Purgatory, in the event that I barely abstain from going to damnation." "Sept répons des ténèbres", which Poulenc did not live to hear performed, utilizes a vast symphony, yet in Nichols' view it shows another grouping of thought. To the commentator Ralph Thibodeau, the work might be considered as Poulenc's own memorial and seems to be "the most cutting edge of his holy structures, the most sincerely requesting, and the most intriguing musically, practically identical just with his "showstopper sacrum", the musical show, "Discoursed des Carmélites"." 

Poulenc swung to musical drama just in the last 50% of his vocation. Having accomplished distinction by his mid twenties, he was in his forties before endeavoring his first musical drama. He credited this to the requirement for development before handling the subjects he set. In 1958 he told a questioner, "When I was 24 I had the capacity to express "Les biches" [but] clearly except if an arranger of 30 has the virtuoso of a Mozart or the intelligence of Schubert he couldn't state "The Carmelites" – the issues are excessively significant." In Sams' view, each of the three of Poulenc's musical dramas show a profundity of inclination far off from "the negative beautician of the 1920s": "Les mamelles de Tirésias" (1947), in spite of the wild plot, is loaded with wistfulness and a feeling of misfortune. In the two avowedly genuine musical dramas, "Exchanges des Carmélites" (1957) and "La Voix humaine" (1959), in which Poulenc delineates profound human anguish, Sams sees an impression of the writer's own battles with wretchedness. 

As far as melodic system the musical dramas show how far Poulenc had originated from his guileless and uncertain beginnings. Nichols remarks in "Forest" that "Les mamelles de Tirésias", sends "expressive performances, patter two part harmonies, chorales, falsetto lines for tenor and bass infants and ... prevails with regards to being both entertaining and wonderful". In every one of the three musical shows Poulenc drew on before writers, while mixing their impact into music undeniably his own. In the printed score of "Exchanges des Carmélites" he recognized his obligation to Mussorgsky, Monteverdi, Debussy and Verdi. The commentator Renaud Machart composes that "Exchanges des Carmélites" is, with Britten's "Dwindle Grimes", one of the incredibly uncommon musical dramas composed since the Second World War to show up on musical show programs everywhere throughout the world. 

Notwithstanding when he composed for a substantial ensemble, Poulenc utilized the full powers sparingly in his musical shows, frequently scoring for woodwinds or metal or strings alone. With the significant contribution of Bernac he demonstrated incredible expertise recorded as a hard copy for the human voice, fitting the music to the tessitura of each character. When of the remainder of the musical shows, "La Voix humaine", Poulenc felt ready to give the soprano stretches of music with no instrumental backup by any means, however when the symphony plays, Poulenc requires the music to be "washed in exotic nature". 

Poulenc was among the writers who perceived during the 1920s the vital job that the gramophone would play in the advancement of music. The primary account of his music was made in 1928, with the mezzo-soprano Claire Croiza joined by the writer at the piano, in the total melody cycle "La bestiaire" for French Columbia. He made various accounts, for the most part for the French division of EMI. With Bernac and Duval he recorded his very own considerable lot tunes, and those of different arrangers including Chabrier, Debussy, Gounod and Ravel. He had the piano influence in chronicles of his "Babar the Elephant" with Pierre Fresnay and Noël Coward as storytellers. In 2005, EMI issued a DVD, "Francis Poulenc and Friends", highlighting taped exhibitions of Poulenc's music, played by the arranger, with Duval, Jean-Pierre Rampal, Jacques Février and Georges Prêtre. 

A 1984 discography of Poulenc's music records accounts by in excess of 1,300 conductors, soloists and gatherings, including the conductors Leonard Bernstein, Charles Dutoit, Milhaud, Charles Munch, Eugene Ormandy, Prêtre, André Previn and Leopold Stokowski. Among the artists, notwithstanding Bernac and Duval, the rundown incorporates Régine Crespin, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau, Nicolai Gedda, Peter Pears, Yvonne Printemps and Gérard Souzay. Instrumental soloists incorporate Britten, Jacques Février, Pierre Fournier, Emil Gilels, Yehudi Menuhin and Arthur Rubinstein. 

Complete arrangements of Poulenc's performance piano music have been recorded by Gabriel Tacchino, who had been Poulenc's solitary piano understudy (discharged on the EMI name), Pascal Rogé (Decca), Paul Crossley (CBS), Eric Parkin (Chandos) and Olivier Cazal (Naxos). Basic arrangements of the ambiance music have been recorded by the Nash Ensemble (Hyperion), and an assortment of youthful French artists (Naxos). 

The world debut of "Discoursed des Carmélites" (in Italian, as "Dialoghi delle Carmelitane") was recorded and has been discharged on CD. The principal studio recording was not long after the French debut, and from that point forward there have been something like ten live or studio chronicles on CD or DVD, a large portion of them in French yet one in German and one in English. 

The opposite sides to Poulenc's melodic nature caused misjudging amid his life and have kept on doing as such. The writer Ned Rorem watched, "He was profoundly sincere and wildly erotic"; this still leads a few commentators to underestimate his reality. His firm adherence to song, both in his lighter and genuine works, has likewise made some view him as unprogressive. In spite of the fact that he was very little impacted by new advancements in music, Poulenc was in every case distinctly intrigued by crafted by more youthful ages of arrangers. Lennox Berkeley reviewed, "In contrast to certain specialists, he was really intrigued by other individuals' work, and shockingly keen to music far expelled from his. I recollect him playing me the records of Boulez's "Le marteau sans maître" with which he was at that point recognizable when that work was considerably less notable than it is today." Boulez did not take a complementary view, commenting in 2010, "There are dependably individuals who will take a simple scholarly way. Poulenc coming after "Sacre [du Printemps]". It was not advance." Other arrangers have discovered more legitimacy in Poulenc's work; Stravinsky kept in touch with him in 1931: "You are really great, and that is the thing that I find over and over in your music". 

In his last years Poulenc watched, "if individuals are as yet keen on my music in 50 years' time it will be for my "Stabat Mater" instead of the "Mouvements perpétuels"." In a century tribute in "The Times" Gerald Larner remarked that Poulenc's forecast wasn't right, and that in 1999 the arranger was broadly celebrated for the two sides of his melodic character: "both the intense Catholic and the underhanded kid, for both the Gloria and Les Biches, the two Les Dialogs des Carmélites and Les Mamelles de Tirésias." At around a similar time the essayist Jessica Duchen portrayed Poulenc as "an effervescing, percolating mass of Gallic vitality who can move you to both chuckling and tears inside seconds. His language talks plainly, straightforwardly and others consciously to each age."