Keith Johnson (cricket executive) 

Keith Ormond Edley Johnson, MBE (28 December 1894 – 19 October 1972), was an Australian cricket executive. He was the chief of the Australian Services cricket group in England, India and Australia following World War II, and of the Australian group that visited England in 1948. The 1948 Australian cricket group earned the sobriquet "The Invincibles" by being the primary side to finish a voyage through England without losing a solitary match. 

Johnson joined the Australian Board of Control for International Cricket in 1935 as an agent for New South Wales and served in the Royal Australian Air Force amid World War II, performing advertising work in London. With the partnered triumph in Europe, top of the line cricket continued and Johnson was selected to deal with the Australian Services group, which played England in a progression of celebratory matches known as the Victory Tests to introduce the post-war period. The arrangement was very fruitful, with extraordinary groups raising substantial sums for war foundations. Therefore, further matches were planned and Johnson's men visited British India and Australia before being retired. Johnson's organization was viewed as a main consideration in the achievement of the visit. 

In 1948, Johnson dealt with the Australian voyage through England, which again brought record benefits and attendances, notwithstanding Australia's staggering predominance. Johnson's administration of the visit—which produced a lot of media consideration—was again commended. Be that as it may, in 1951– 52, the Australian Board of Control avoided Sid Barnes from the group for "reasons other than cricket". Barnes prosecuted the issue, and in the following preliminary, his legal counselor humiliated Johnson, who negated himself a few times under questioning. Following the preliminary, Johnson left the board and took no further part in cricket organization. 

Johnson was conceived on 28 December 1894 in the inward Sydney suburb of Paddington. He later moved toward the north shore suburb of Mosman, where he filled in as a specialist before serving quickly in the third Field Company Army Engineers. On 8 October 1916, amidst World War I, Johnson enrolled in the First Australian Imperial Force as a heavy armament specialist in the fifth Field Artillery Brigade. His unit left Sydney on 10 February 1917 and set out toward Europe. He came back to Australia on 1 July 1919. 

After the finish of World War I, Johnson wedded his better half Margaret. Johnson joined the Australian Board of Control for International Cricket in 1935 as an agent for the New South Wales Cricket Association, having been partnered with the Mosman Cricket Club in Sydney Grade Cricket. He had gone to the yearly broad gathering in September 1934 as an intermediary for Billy Bull, who was going back to Australia with the national group, which had been visiting England. 

Amid World War II, Johnson served in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). He enrolled in the RAAF on 13 April 1942 in Sydney. Johnson rose to the position of flight lieutenant and was conveyed to London, where he did advertising work at the RAAF's abroad central station. In June 1945, he was delegated as chief of the Australian Services cricket group on its voyage through Britain for the Victory Tests, India and Australia from mid-1945 to mid 1946. Authoritatively a military unit, the group's boss was Squadron pioneer Stan Sismey of the RAAF, in spite of the fact that the on-field commander was Warrant officer Lindsay Hassett of the Second Australian Imperial Force. 

Wisden Cricketers' Almanac adulated Johnson's hierarchical work in organizing the administrations' visit: "An outsider to this nation, he found the program in just skeleton structure; and that the visit demonstrated such a triumph from each perspective was because of his diligent work and obligingness." The chronicle republished Johnson's message of gratitude to the English cricket network in full before the group cruised to India. 

The Victory Tests began in May 1945 between the Australian Services and England in festivity of the united triumph in Europe. In past seasons, the English cricket director and previous skipper Pelham Warner had composed matches between the RAAF and different English military groups as a statement of disobedience against Nazi air strikes, and the Victory Tests were a continuation of this, in spite of the fact that the matches were just three days in length and did not have Test status. 

In the First Victory Test, the Australian Servicemen scratched home by six wickets with just two balls and minutes to save. The last pre-war arrangement among England and Australia in 1938 had been an attritional and harsh challenge, however in the luminosity of the war triumph, the cricketers played colorfully with relinquish before pressed groups. The alluring, assaulting style of play was generally lauded by pundits and the match raised £1,935 for war alleviation philanthropies. Britain at that point leveled the arrangement by winning the Second Victory Test at Bramall Lane, Sheffield with a hard-battled fight, by 41 runs. Australia won the Third Victory Test by four wickets late on the last day and drew the Fourth Victory Test at Lord's. That would have been the finish of the arrangement, but since of the record participation of 93,000 at Lord's, another match was added. Britain drew the arrangement by winning the Fifth Victory Test before another limit swarm. The Victory Tests were viewed as an extraordinary achievement, with a complete participation of 367,000 and brilliant and assaulting play. 

Because of the suddenly solid achievement of the Victory Tests, the administration of Australia, following up on the driving force of Foreign Minister H.V. "Doc" Evatt, requested the Australian Services to defer their grounding. With the group collecting quite a lot of cash for war foundations, the legislature guided them to travel home through India and Ceylon to play further matches, so as to raise more assets for the Red Cross. 

Johnson wound up in a troublesome circumstance amid the Indian leg of the visit. The group—for the most part made up of RAAF staff—had been sick with nourishment harming and looseness of the bowels, and traversed the Indian subcontinent by long train ventures. The aviators needed to go via air, and took steps to forsake the visit or supplant Hassett, an AIF part, with either Keith Carmody or Keith Miller, who were RAAF military pilots. Be that as it may, the standoff was finished when Sismey masterminded a RAAF plane to transport the group. On the playing field, it was anything but a glad visit for Johnson and his men. They lost the three-coordinate arrangement against India 1– 0 and recorded just a single triumph, against South Zone, in their nine matches. 

Johnson's group touched base in Australia towards the finish of 1945, yet the equipped administrations and Australian Board of Control requested them to play another arrangement against the different Australian states. Johnson had looked for apparatuses for his group in Australia, however this was before the Evatt had included the matches in the subcontinent. He begged the chairmen to perceive that the players were at that point exhausted, however was disregarded. The Services performed inadequately; in the wake of playing out continuous draws against Western Australia and South Australia, they were smashed by an innings by both Victoria and New South Wales, before illustration against Queensland and Tasmania, the littlest state in the nation. 

Johnson was associated with another authoritative question amid the Australian leg of the battle. Cec Pepper—whom colleagues Miller and Dick Whitington viewed as a standout amongst the best all rounders on the planet and a sureness for Australian Test determination—advanced for leg before wicket against Australian commander Don Bradman in the match against South Australia. The intrigue was turned down and Pepper whined to the umpire Jack Scott, inciting Bradman—who was likewise an individual from the Australian Board of Control and the leading body of the South Australian Cricket Association—to ask Scott whether Pepper's conduct was worthy. As he was a representative of the SACA, Scott offered an explanation to Bradman, and he held up a grumbling about Pepper to the Australian Board of Control. Pepper was never chosen for Australia. Cricket antiquarian Gideon Haigh said that "Johnson was plainly steamed at the undertaking, and furthermore by the disappointment of the [national] choice board [Bradman among them] ... to send Pepper, second just to Miller as a cricketer in the Services XI, to New Zealand". Johnson endeavored to mediate for Pepper's benefit, without much of any result, in spite of the fact that the other board individuals asserted that no weight had been set on the selectors to prohibit Pepper. 

The home leg of the visit was a poor end to the long and exhausting Australian Services battle. As the military men played ineffectively in Australia, the national selectors inferred that their accomplishments against England more likely than not been against frail restriction, and just Hassett and Miller were chosen for the Australian voyage through New Zealand. Johnson at that point orchestrated England's first post-war voyage through Australia, in 1946– 47. 

Johnson was a late arrangement as supervisor for the 1948 voyage through England, taking over from his New South Wales partner Bill Jeanes, who was secretary of the Australian Board of Control and had dealt with the past Australian voyage through England in 1938. Jeanes had turned out to be progressively disliked among the players as a result of a methodology that Haigh called "progressively meddlesome and liverish". 

Driven by Bradman—generally viewed as the best batsman ever—the Australians experienced their 34 matches without annihilation, gaining the sobriquet "The Invincibles". They won 25 of their matches, 17 of these by an innings, and smashed England 4– 0 in the five Tests, winning most recreations intensely. 

Regardless of the Australians' mastery of the neighborhood groups, the English open demonstrated exceptional dimensions of enthusiasm for the cricket. Record entryway takings were enlisted at most scenes, notwithstanding when downpour influenced the matches, and the record participation for a Test coordinate in England was broken twice, in the Second Test at Lord's and the Fourth Test at Headingley. The 158,000 observers that viewed the procedures at Headingley remain a record for a Test on English soil. Accordingly, Australia made £82,671 from the visit, bringing about a benefit of £54,172. The prominence of the group implied that they were immersed with solicitations for social meetings with government authorities and individuals from the illustrious family, and they needed to juggle a plenty of off-field commitment, with 103 days of planned cricket over the course of about 144 days. Thus, Johnson was overflowed with telephone calls and letters, which he needed to take care of independent from anyone else, as he was the main manager among the visiting party. Bradman later said he was stressed that Johnson's eager work would cause medical issues since he "worked like a slave day and night" and that "it was the tribute to a bulldog assurance to oversee the activity". The columnist Andy Flanagan said that Johnson was "'on the ball' each moment of the waking day, and it is sheltered to state a large portion of the night as well." 

Johnson was again adulated by Wisden in its report on the 1948 visit. "Obligation for the smooth running of the visit and general amicability of the group was expected to a great extent to the director, Mr Keith Johnson, persevering and constantly pleasant," it said. "Paying tribute to the dependability of the players, Mr Johnson said there had not been a harsh note in the gathering all through the visit." Flanagan marked Johnson as "principled, saved, stately, phenomenally productive and circumspectly reliable". He proceeded to state that "No association, no body corporate, no individual would ever want to have an increasingly steadfast, a progressively committed, or a progressively faithful officer...Although to the world by and large all the applause and greatness for the unequaled triumph the visit ended up being goes to Sir Donald Bradman, just the individuals who went with the group will ever have an appropriate origination of the part played in that triumph by Keith Johnson." Bradman said that Johnson "made companions and generosity wherever both for himself and the group, and no side could have wanted for a superior Manager". On the voyage back to Australia, the players gave Johnson a silver Georgian salver, with their marks engraved on the token. 

In a "goodbye message" to England cited in Wisden, Johnson said that the "most enduring memory" would be the group's visit to Balmoral Castle. Johnson said "We believed we were going into an Englishman's home and into his family heart". "It was hard to trust that we were being engaged by Royalty. My own desire would be for everyone in the Empire to go through an hour or so with the King and Queen. It would do them an enormous measure of good." 

Johnson's case of visit congruity and player dedication in 1948 was tossed into an alternate light by occasions under four years after the fact. The opening batsman Sid Barnes—a center individual from the 1948 group—was looking for an arrival to Test cricket. Barnes was known for being a to some degree offbeat self-advertiser. Amid the 1948 visit, Barnes sorted out a large number of business bargains while not playing cricket, and abstained from paying traditions obligations on the tremendous measure of products he procured in Britain by landing at Melbourne rather than Sydney. 

Barnes then made himself inaccessible for top of the line cricket, liking to seek after business interests rather, and criticized the expense paid for the 1949– 50 voyage through South Africa. He composed a section for Sydney's "The Daily Telegraph", titled "Like It or Lump It", in which he regularly parodied the organization of the amusement. 

In any case, in 1951– 52, Barnes made an arrival to cricket, and looked for choice in the national group to play the West Indies amid the 1951– 52 Australian season. Australia had been unfit to locate a dependable opener to go with Barnes' previous accomplice Arthur Morris. Australia's batsmen battled in the initial two Tests, and before the Third Test, Barnes scored 107 against Victoria, putting on 210 in association with Morris for New South Wales. "The Sporting Globe" in Melbourne had judiciously anticipated that the board would protest if the selectors picked Barnes. 

Barnes was properly chosen for the Third Test by a board of three, led by his previous skipper Bradman, however the decision was vetoed by the Australian Board of Control "for reasons outside of cricket". Bradman was one of four board individuals to help Barnes' choice, while 10 protested, including Johnson. 

The matches occurred and Barnes did not play. He was unfit to discover why he had been rejected and was surrendered to showing up before the board at its next gathering in September 1952 to request a clarification. 

Meanwhile, the group was not declared at the planned time because of the postponement brought about by the veto. Writers found the story and Barnes turned into a "cause célèbre" for a long time, missing all the rest of the Tests. Theory proliferated with regards to the idea of his alleged wrongdoings. These included hopping the entryway at a ground when he overlooked his player's pass, offending the imperial family, robbery from colleagues, inebriation, taking a vehicle, leaving his vehicle in another person's space, or that Barnes had satirized the load up in the portrayal going with the home films he made of the 1948 visit. In later years, a record of obscure creation with respect to Barnes' conduct was kept in the NSWCA library. It blamed Barnes for enabling youthful onlookers to enter the playing field to handle the ball as opposed to doing as such himself, and of maligning umpires by measuring his hands over his eyes and appearing by suggesting that they were visually impaired. 

Barnes kept on scoring intensely, and amid one match, he ran into Johnson, who purportedly apologized to him for the avoidance from the group. Be that as it may, Johnson exhorted Barnes to "stay silent and state nothing" and included that "You will leave everything right, you will be a conviction for the 1953 excursion [to England]". 

On 24 April 1952, a letter showed up in Sydney's "Every day Mirror" from Jacob Raith, a cook from Stanmore in Sydney, in light of a letter from Barnes' companion Stacy Atkin, which censured the board for vetoing Barnes' determination. Raith's letter said that the board more likely than not had valid justification to avoid Barnes. 

The Board of Control had recently allowed itself the ability to prohibit a player from the national group "on grounds other than cricket capacity" following the poor conduct of certain individuals from the 1912 group that visited England. Rather, Barnes sued Raith for criticism and drew in a top Sydney legal counselor, Jack Shand—portrayed by Haigh as "the preeminent preliminary attorney of his day"— to speak to him, with the point of revealing the purposes behind his rejection. Bradman felt that Raith's letter was a planned set-up to give Barnes an affection to prompt a preliminary. The slander preliminary, held in August 1952, was a sensation, Johnson, still an individual from the board, was the focal figure. As indicated by Haigh, "it was viably the Board, not Raith, in the dock". 

It developed all around rapidly amid the preliminary that Raith had no specific information of the functions of the board. A progression of executives approached to state that Barnes had supposedly gotten into mischief on the 1948 visit, despite the fact that Johnson's legitimate report as administrator had made no notice of any disharmony. Aubrey Oxlade, the executive of the board and one of the four board individuals who casted a ballot to endorse Barnes' choice, said that the batsman's careless activities were "whimsical things" and "not genuine by any stretch of the imagination". Afterward, Frank Cush, another board part who had bolstered Barnes' consideration, answered "none by any stretch of the imagination" when inquired as to whether there were any real explanations behind barring Barnes. Selector Chappie Dwyer said "I have an extremely high assessment of him as a cricketer ... what's more, I have no complaint to him as a man". 

Johnson was called as an observer, and, under addressing from Shand, an alternate story turned out. Johnson concurred that his composed report of the 1948 visit had said that the group had carried on "in a way befitting commendable delegates of Australia" and that "on and off the field their lead was model". In any case, in a verbal report, Johnson said he had attracted the board's thoughtfulness regarding different crimes by Barnes that, as he would like to think, were adequately genuine to warrant the player's prohibition from future Australian Test sides. Johnson said that Barnes had appeared "general hesitance for anything relishing of power". The offenses included accepting pictures as the Australian group was displayed to the imperial family on the playing field amid the Test coordinate at Lord's, requesting that consent travel alone in England (Barnes' family was living in Scotland at the time), and "kidnapping" twelfth man Ernie Toshack to play tennis amid the match at Northampton on a court "300 yards from the structure". Under interrogation, Johnson said that Barnes' taking photos of the illustrious family at Lord's was the most genuine of these offenses. He conceded he had not realized that Barnes had gotten authorization from the MCC and the regal family's convention boss to take the photographs. Shand likewise settled that Barnes had then demonstrated the movies to fund-raise for different philanthropies. He further demonstrated that Barnes had not fomented when helped to remember the approach against players meeting with relatives on visit. Notwithstanding, Johnson trusted that the aggregate impact of the offenses "justified oversight from the group" and he saw no issue in the way that his verbal counsel to the board prescribing Barnes' avoidance was inconsistent with the composed report on the 1948 visit. Under strain from Shand, Johnson conceded that "I don't generally compose what I think". As per Haigh, "Shand easily curved him [Johnson] back to front". 

Shand had almost decreased Johnson to tears, having recently caused a senior cop to cry amid the knowing about a regal commission the prior year. An associate of Shand's reviewed his "ability of implication in tone which could disturb and bring an observer into threat". Shand then gotten some information about a speculative instance of Barnes being chosen later on. Johnson sidestepped the matter of whether he would choose the player until Shand requested that he expect that "Barnes is in the most ideal structure and he is the best cricketer in Australia", to which Johnson answered that he would not. 

On the preliminary's second day, not long after Barnes had taken to the testimony box, Raith's direction pulled back his customer's protection. It had been his errand, he stated, to demonstrate a request that the charge in Raith's letter was valid, and that Barnes had not been prohibited fancifully. Insight commented that "sometimes in the historical backdrop of defamation activities has such a request bombed so totally and absolutely." The case finished by then; Barnes was vindicated, and Raith's guidance issued him with an open expression of remorse. As indicated by individual executive Alan Barnes, Johnson was a "wide-open kind of chap" who was defenseless against moving. Associates exhorted Johnson to enlist a legal counselor before the case began, however he can't, saying that the defamation case was simply a donning matter, not a lawful one. 

After the slander preliminary, Johnson left the board on 9 February 1953, and had no further impact in cricket organization in Australia. He additionally left the NSWCA and pulled back his candidature for the supervisor's situation for the 1953 voyage through England. Philip Derriman wrote in his history of the NSWCA that Johnson "might be said to have been a casualty of that undertaking no not exactly Barnes". Johnson kept in touch with the Australian Board of Control, apparently offering his abdication on the grounds of challenges in making a trip to gatherings, and expressing gratitude toward different individuals for their "cordiality, participation and help". He was not referenced in the board minutes again until his demise was noted just about two decades later. 

Johnson held the help of a considerable lot of the players: six Victorian individuals from the 1948 group, including Lindsay Hassett, Ian Johnson and Neil Harvey, wrote to the "Messenger" paper in Melbourne communicating their "certainty, regard and friendship" for the visit chief. Derriman depicted Johnson as a "chivalrous, quiet, innocuous man for whom nothing was an excessive amount of inconvenience. As a cricket official, he was effective and devoted." Johnson was delegated a Member of the Order of the British Empire for administrations to cricket in the 1964 Queen's Birthday Honors, and passed on in 1972 in the wake of falling when ascending to give a discourse at a philanthropy lunch in Sydney.