No chance to get Out (2004) 

No chance to get Out (2004) was an expert wrestling pay-per-see (PPV) occasion created by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It occurred on February 15, 2004 at the Cow Palace in Daly City, California. It was the 6th occasion delivered under the No Way Out name and featured wrestlers from the SmackDown! brand. 

The occasion is best associated with the headliner, which saw Eddie Guerrero rout WWE Champion Brock Lesnar to win the title, his sole big showdown before his demise in 2005. In the undercard, Kurt Angle vanquished The Big Show and John Cena in a Triple Threat match to acquire a title coordinate for the WWE Championship at WrestleMania XX. Besides, Chavo Guerrero vanquished Rey Mysterio. 

No chance to get Out netted over US$450,000 ticket deals from a participation of around 11,000 and got 350,000 pay-per-see purchases, and was instrumental in aiding WWE increment its compensation per-see income by $11.9 million contrasted with the earlier year. Like the occasion, the DVD got good surveys. 

The occasion comprised of eight expert wrestling matches with wrestlers associated with previous scripted quarrels, and storylines. Wrestlers were depicted as either lowlifess or fan top choices as they pursued a progression of pressure building occasions, which finished in a wrestling match or arrangement of matches. All wrestlers had a place with the SmackDown! brand – a storyline division in which WWE doled out its representatives to an alternate program, the other being Raw. 

In the wake of winning a 15-man fight imperial (a match in which members are disposed of until one individual stays as the victor) on the January 29, 2004 scene of "SmackDown!", Eddie Guerrero earned the privilege to challenge for the WWE Championship at No Way Out against the boss, Brock Lesnar in a standard wrestling match, otherwise called a singles match.<ref name="SD1/29a"></ref><ref name="SD1/29b"></ref> Outside the storyline with Guerrero, Lesnar was associated with an organized competition with Goldberg, an individual from the "Crude" program. The fight among Lesnar and Goldberg started at the Royal Rumble, WWE's past pay-per-see occasion which included the two brands. Lesnar meddled in the Royal Rumble coordinate, a 30-man fight regal, assaulting and taking out Goldberg from the match. On the seven day stretch of January 26, 2004, Lesnar and Goldberg led special in-ring sections on individual scenes of "Crude" and "SmackDown!", in which they offended each other.<ref name="1/29"></ref> The next week on a scene of "Crude", because of the competition reaching out between the two projects, General Manager Steve Austin gave Goldberg the choice of going to No Way Out by giving him a first column ticket. That Thursday on "SmackDown!", the storyline among Guerrero and Lesnar was upgraded when they started a fight after an in-ring meeting segment.<ref name="2/5a"></ref><ref name="2/5b"></ref> 

On the February 5, 2004 scene of "SmackDown!", the General Manager Paul Heyman planned a Triple Threat coordinate between The Big Show, Kurt Angle and John Cena for No Way Out. The victor of that match would confront the WWE Champion at WrestleMania XX for the title. The contention kept on building up the next week, when Angle was planned to group with Guerrero to confront The Big Show and Lesnar, however the last was depicted as being oblivious behind the stage. Cena then supplanted Angle in the match and crushed the resistance with Guerrero.<ref name="SD2/12a"></ref><ref name="SD2/12b"></ref> 

In February 2004, WWE Cruiserweight Champion Rey Mysterio created "Intersection Borders", which was No Way Out's legitimate signature tune. In this storyline, Chavo Guerrero wound up desirous of the consideration Mysterio earned because of account the melody. Accordingly, Heyman advanced a match between the two at No Way Out for the WWE Cruiserweight title amid the February 5, 2004 scene of "SmackDown!". The next week on "SmackDown!", Mysterio was joined by Jorge Páez, an expert fighter and beloved companion of Mysterio who showed up in his "Intersection Borders" music video, to his match against Tajiri. Mysterio vanquished Tajiri however was assaulted by Guerrero and Chavo Guerrero, Sr. after the match until Paez interceded and helped Mysterio. 

Before the occasion started and publicized live on pay-per-see, Tajiri, Sakoda and Akio crushed Último Dragón, Billy Kidman, and Paul London in a 6-Man Tag Team Match on "Sunday Night Heat. 

After "Sunday Night Heat", the compensation per-see started with an impairment match -a label group coordinate in which a group of two wrestlers face a group of three. WWE Tag Team Champions Rikishi and Scotty 2 Hotty shielded their titles against The Basham Brothers (Doug Basham and Danny Basham) and Shaniqua. Amid the match Hotty endeavored a worm on Shaniqua, yet Shaniqua countered by clotheslining Hotty. The challengers had the favorable position until Hotty clotheslined the Bashams, making them flip over the top ring rope and into ringside. A short time later, Rikishi conveyed a Samoan drop. Rikishi then secured Shaniqua to hold the titles. 

Next was a Singles coordinate, in which Jamie Noble was blindfolded as he confronted his storyline sweetheart Nidia. Nidia would exploit Noble's failure to see by performing tricks that made him fall. In the end, Noble had the capacity to apply the guillotine stifle on Nidia. Honorable won the match after he constrained her to submit with this move. 

The third challenge was a label group coordinate, in which The World's Greatest Tag Team (Shelton Benjamin and Charlie Haas) confronted the APA (Bradshaw and Faarooq). At a certain point, Bradshaw played out a Clothesline from Hell on Haas. Benjamin at that point conveyed a superkick to Bradshaw and stuck him to pick up the success for his group. After the match, Goldberg was seen touching base at the field and being escorted to his seat by field security. In the ring, General Manager Paul Heyman gave a limited time in-ring portion on how "SmackDown!" was the better program over "Crude". Lesnar would come down to the ring to elevate his match and to affront Goldberg. As a feature of the storyline, Goldberg promptly hopped over the blockade into the ring, where Lesnar played out a lance on Goldberg anyway he recovered and conveyed a Jackhammer to Lesnar. Goldberg was then escorted out of the field by security. 

This squabble was trailed by a match between Hardcore Holly and Rhyno. Before the match started, Holly and Rhyno fought on the on-ramp, before they entered the ring. Once there, Holly executed a superplex, however, as they recovered, Rhyno conveyed a Gore that made Holly take off of the ring. A while later, Holly conveyed an Alabama pummel for the pinfall. 

In the fifth match Rey Mysterio (overseen by Jorge Paez), protected his WWE Cruiserweight Championship against Chavo Guerrero (overseen by his dad Chavo Guerrero, Sr.) During the battle, Mysterio played out a 619 on Guerrero, prompting an assault by Paez on Guerrero, Sr. The official arranged Paez behind the stage. The two contenders wrestled uncertainly until Mysterio conveyed a second 619. Amid the second grouping of the move, Guerrero snatched Mysterio's legs and accomplished a situation with his shoulders spread in order to win both a pinfall and the WWE Cruiserweight title. 

The accompanying match was the triple danger coordinate between United States Champion Big Show, John Cena and Kurt Angle, with the victor confronting the WWE Champion at WrestleMania XX. For the term of the match, The Big Show, who remained at and weighed , utilized his body size further bolstering his good fortune as he squashed, or effectively and immediately performed proceeds onward, Cena and Angle. From that point, Cena conveyed a "FU", while Angle tossed Big Show out of the ring with an Angle Slam. Edge at that point connected a lower leg lock on Cena, constraining him to submit. Accordingly, Angle won a WWE Championship coordinate at WrestleMania XX. 

The headliner highlighted Brock Lesnar protecting the WWE Championship against Eddie Guerrero. The development to the match had featured the certainty and physical strength of the hero against the specialized aptitude, insight and flexibility of the challenger; dubiously, Guerrero's genuine issues with and recuperation from chronic drug use were alluded to, both as an indication of the challenger's evil presences, and his versatility. As anticipated by the development, Lesnar utilized his size favorable position over Guerrero all through the match. As Lesnar endeavored a "F-5", he thumped down the ref. Lesnar then endeavored to exploit the arbitrator's state, as he went to recover the WWE title belt to hit Guerrero. In the mean time, Goldberg descended into the ring and conveyed a lance to Lesnar. Since the arbitrator was crippled, Guerrero couldn't be excluded for Goldberg's obstruction. As Goldberg withdrew, Guerrero countered Lesnar's second F5 into a DDT on the title belt while the ref recovered awareness. Guerrero kicked the belt out of the ring to keep the ref from seeing it and played out his Frog sprinkle to stick Lesnar and win the WWE Championship from him. 

At WrestleMania XX, WWE Champion Eddie Guerrero vanquished challenger Kurt Angle by means of pinfall and held his title. John "Bradshaw" Layfield, depicting another character after the semi-retirement of his label group accomplice Faarooq,<ref name="SD3/18"></ref> tested Guerrero for the WWE Championship and crushed him at The Great American Bash to win the title. Guerrero neglected to recover the title from Layfield in a steel confine coordinate on "SmackDown!". After Guerrero's demise in November 2005, WWE held Tribute Shows on "Crude" and "SmackDown!" During these projects, No Way Out was the fundamental feature of Guerrero's vocation, as it was the place he won his solitary World Championship. John Cena started a contention with The Big Show over his WWE United States Championship and, at WrestleMania XX, Cena crushed Show to win the title. Goldberg and Lesnar proceeded with their competition, prompting a match advanced at WrestleMania XX, in which Goldberg crushed Lesnar. After their match, Goldberg and Lesnar left the organization, in spite of the fact that Lesnar would make his arrival in April 2012 and Goldberg made his arrival in October 2016. 

Rey Mysterio and Chavo Guerrero's storyline over the WWE Cruiserweight Championship likewise kept, coming full circle in a fight illustrious match at WrestleMania XX including different wrestlers. Guerrero last dispensed with Mysterio to hold his title in this match. After the Draft Lottery, a fake games draft lottery in which wrestlers exchanged projects, Rico was drafted to SmackDown!, while Shelton Benjamin was drafted to Raw, in the process part up The World's Greatest Tag Team. A short time later, Haas and Rico won the WWE Tag Team Championship from Rikishi and Scotty 2 Hotty on "SmackDown!" 

The Cow Palace field more often than not can suit 13,000, however the limit was decreased for No Way Out 2004. This occasion earned over $450,000 from a rough participation of 11,000 which was the greatest permitted. It likewise gotten 350,000 pay-per-see purchases. No chance to get Out helped World Wrestling Entertainment acquire $43.7 million in income from pay-per-see occasions versus $31.8 million the earlier year; Linda McMahon, at that point CEO of WWE, affirmed this announcement on June 21, 2004 of every a quarterly budgetary report. The occasion got generally positive surveys. Canadian Online Explorer's expert wrestling segment depicted the occasion as ""Smackdown!" us our cash's value the previous evening yet they likewise set up what's most likely going to be the best match at Wrestlemania." Kevin Sowers from PWTorch portrayed the headliner between Eddie Guerrero and Brock Lesnar as "one to recollect for quite a while." The occasion was discharged on DVD on March 16, 2004. After its discharge, the DVD got a rating of 8.5 out of 10 points by IGN.