Over the Rainbow (Connie Talbot collection) 

Over the Rainbow is the presentation collection of the kid vocalist Connie Talbot, and was discharged 26 November 2007 by Rainbow Recording Company. Talbot, who had entered the open eye after her appearance on the primary arrangement of "England's Got Talent" at age six, marked with Rainbow, an autonomous name, after quickly recording with Sony BMG. "Over the Rainbow" comprises totally of fronts of pop and Christmas melodies, and was recorded basically in an extra room in the place of Talbot's auntie, in an endeavor not to intrude on Talbot's youth by upsetting her normal exercises. Albeit open appearances were at first kept to a base, Talbot made appearances to advance the collection, and performed in open a few times after the British discharge. 

"Over the Rainbow" got poor audits. In spite of the fact that commending Talbot's voice, commentators noticed an absence of profundity in the exhibitions, and scrutinized the propriety of discharging and rating work by such a youthful craftsman. The collection topped at number 35 on the UK Albums Chart. In spite of its poor graph execution, extra duplicates of the collection must be squeezed after deals were higher than anticipated. Talbot later visited Asia in help of the collection; "Over the Rainbow" made more progress on Asian graphs, achieving number one in Taiwan, South Korea and Hong Kong. 

"Over the Rainbow" was rereleased on 18 June 2008 with a refreshed track list, supplanting a portion of the Christmas-themed tracks of the first with increasingly broad spreads. The main single from the collection, a front of Bob Marley's "Three Little Birds," was discharged in June 2008, and a music video for the melody was shot in Jamaica. On 14 October, the collection was discharged in the US, showing up on a few "Board" diagrams. Talbot visited the US to advance the collection, showing up on national TV. 

Connie Talbot entered the open eye showing up, matured six, on the principal arrangement of the truth program "England's Got Talent", achieving the last. After quickly recording with Sony BMG, Talbot was marked to Rainbow Recording Company, a branch of the name Rhythm Riders made explicitly for her. To create "Over the Rainbow", Talbot worked with John Arnison, at that point administrator to Gabrielle and Billy Ocean, and Marc Marot, a previous overseeing chief of Island Records. It was delivered and blended by Simon Hill and Rob May. An account plan was worked out so Talbot could proceed with her ordinary school exercises while recording the collection in her auntie Vicky's extra room, which her mom depicted as "a superior arrangement" than the one offered by Sony BMG, "which has not denied her of her youth". Talbot said that "it was simply stunning that we could do it in my aunt's home". Arnison and Marot requested that the Talbot family "record a rundown of the tunes that Connie would sing at her birthday party" to help pick the track posting, and after that "considered" including progressively grown-up tunes on the collection. Talbot herself demanded that they should. 

The last form of "Over the Rainbow" was recorded at Olympic Studios, on 12 October 2007. Arnison portrayed the account procedure by saying that Talbot "hadn't sung nursery rhymes; she'd generally sung exemplary tracks. So it was very a simple errand to make the record". The collection was discharged on 26 November 2007, with an underlying squeezing of 50,000 duplicates. Nonetheless, an extra 120,000 must be made after the collection sold out in only days. 

"Over the Rainbow" was re-discharged on 18 June 2008, with the new form being made accessible for pre-request in May. The re-discharge included three new tracks to supplant the Christmas-themed tunes on the first collection. The new tracks were made accessible from Talbot's authentic site with the goal that the individuals who purchased the first need not purchase the re-discharge. Talbot's front of Bob Marley's "Three Little Birds" was discharged as a solitary on 10 June 2008, and a music video was shot in Jamaica to for the discharge. "Over the Rainbow" was discharged in the US on 14 October, and Talbot made a trip to the nation with her family to promote it. Talbot's front of "I Will Always Love You" was discharged as a solitary in the US on 7 April, alongside a recently recorded form of "You Raise Me Up". 

Despite the fact that Arnison guaranteed he didn't "have any desire to put [Talbot] through the limited time granulate which most specialists experience since she is excessively youthful", Talbot showed up after the arrival of "Over the Rainbow". These included featuring the Great Bridge Christmas and Winter Festival, which nearby police took steps to drop except if swarms clamoring to achieve the tent in which Talbot was performing could be brought leveled out. At the occasion, on 7 December 2007, Talbot was cited as saying "I cherish it here, it's splendid, extremely fun", however she must be introduced organize by the police. Talbot performed freely in Walsall's HMV store, and in Birmingham's Centenary Square. Television appearances included spaces on GMTV and "5 News", both upon the arrival of the collection's discharge. 

In April and May 2008, Talbot visited Asia to advance "Over the Rainbow". Asian columnists ascribed her accomplishment in the district to her recordings on YouTube, with scholars for the "Sun.Star" taking note of that her most-saw video had been looked out for 14 million times, and Bernard Koh, of "The Straits Times", saying that recordings of Talbot's exhibitions had been looked out for 30 million occasions. The visit made stops in South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore, and Talbot and her family came back to England in late May. 

News that "Over the Rainbow" was to be discharged in the US brought about Talbot getting consideration from American press sources including Fox Business Network and MarketWatch. Kerri Mason, composing for Reuters, portrayed Talbot's recordings as "viral", and included that she had been viewed on YouTube more than 46 million times. Talbot made a trip to the US for a special visit to agree with the discharge, where she performed on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" and showed up as a visitor on "The Oprah Winfrey Show". She showed up in Los Angeles, Philadelphia, New York City and Washington D.C. Following the TV appearances, offers of the collection were helped in the US. Talbot again made a trip to the US to advance her single "I Will Always Love You" in April 2009, returning again in May. Appearances incorporated an act on "Great Day New York" on Fox Broadcasting Company's WNYW. 

"Over the Rainbow" got negative audits from music commentators. Sharon Mawer, of AllMusic, adulated Talbot, saying that she "can sing, for a seven-year-old, and the majority of the notes (if not every one of them) are organized appropriately and sung to the correct pitch; the planning is fine as well". In any case, she contended that the collection had "no believing, no feeling, no acknowledgment of what every melody is about". Mawer at last gave "Over the Rainbow" a rating of two out of five stars. Scratch Levine, composing for Digital Spy, said in an audit of the collection that Talbot had a "sweet, unadulterated voice", however that there is "no subtlety or profundity to her execution". In spite of the fact that granting the collection two out of five, he said that "there's something intrinsically off-base about granting a star rating to a seven-year-old", and that "the strongly grown-up idea of melodic legitimacy ought to have nothing to do with [her music]". 

Analysts writing in the British paper the "Harlow Star" likewise remarked on Talbot's age, saying that "there's no uncertainty she's a sweet young lady with a pleasant voice", however asking whether there is "something characteristically amiss with pushing a youngster into the spotlight at such a youthful age". Rashvin Bedi, composing for Malaysian paper "The Star", applauded the collection, saying that "Connie sings easily and deals with the high notes commendably", yet asked whether "individuals would purchase a collection of similar tunes sung by a 20-year-old". 

The collection entered in the British collection diagrams at 35 on 8 December 2007, however was at the base of the graphs by Christmas, in spite of having been tipped as a potential Christmas number one. It stayed in the diagrams for five weeks, cresting at 35. Be that as it may, the collection was affirmed gold in Britain toward the beginning of December, with Talbot being introduced a gold plate by Phillip Schofield on daytime TV program "This Morning". 

Following Talbot's voyage through Asia, it was accounted for that the collection had achieved number one on the outlines in Taiwan, South Korea and Hong Kong, just as achieving number three in Singapore. The collection has gotten platinum accreditation in Taiwan and Hong Kong, and twofold platinum in Korea, selling 30,000 duplicates. In the US, the collection showed up on three outlines. It included on the Top Heatseekers graph for nine weeks, topping at number 7, on the Kid Albums diagram for about a month, cresting at number 8, and on Top Independent Albums outline for multi week, at number 43. 

"Three Little Birds" taken from "Over the Rainbow", was discharged as Talbot's first single on 10 June 2008 in the UK, and was discharged close by the collection in the US on 14 October. Bedi, composing for the Malaysian paper "The Star", said that "Three Little Birds" was her main tune on "Over the Rainbow". 

The single crested at number 3 on the Independent Singles Charts in the United Kingdom, and entered the "Board" Hot Singles Sales diagram at number 2, dropping to 3 the following week. 

It at that point raised back to number 2, and, on the 6th week, achieved number 1. Talbot got consideration from the British press due to the single's prosperity, with the "Every day Mail" and "Day by day Telegraph" crediting her accomplishment in America to her intrigue to the Christian market, and to the achievement of her recordings on YouTube. 

Talbot's dad, Gavin, talked about the tune achieving number one, saying "When we got the telephone get back to we were driving from completing a series of radio meetings in London and Connie was snoozing in the back of the vehicle. When we revealed to her she just took it in her walk. I just can hardly imagine how she is number one in America. We are altogether pleased with her. It is a major accomplishment – individuals have quite recently fancied her." He additionally said it was "a major stun to hear she was number one. It is colossal." 

As of November 2008, the single has sold in excess of 250,000 duplicates around the world. 

The music video for the single Three Little Birds was distributed on June 9, 2013. 

A music video for the melody was shot in Jamaica in late March/early April 2008. 

Talbot was cited as saying that "going to Jamaica was the best thing I've done for the current year". The video starts with pictures of Talbot skirting through a patio nursery, which is then supplanted with a picture of her singing on a shoreline. She at that point joins a kid whose guardians had been contending and plays with them and others in a field, at that point hits the dance floor with them on the shoreline. The kids are then lead to a phase, where Talbot executes as the others sing and play melodic instruments. The video closes with Talbot in the patio nursery, skirting far from the camera. 

"Over The Rainbow" taken from "Over the Rainbow", was discharged as Talbot's second single toward the finish of June 2013 in the UK. The music video for the single Over The Rainbow was distributed on May 14, 2013. 

"Over The Rainbow" taken from "Over the Rainbow", was discharged as Talbot's third single on July 2013 in the UK. The music video for the single I Have A Dream was distributed on May 24, 2013. 

"Grin" taken from "Over the Rainbow", was discharged as Talbot's fourth single on August 2008 in the UK. The music video for the single Smile was distributed on June 9, 2013. 

"White Christmas" taken from "Over the Rainbow", was discharged as Talbot's fifth single on November 2008 in the UK. The music video for the single White Christmas was distributed on November 20, 2013. 

<br>