2007 ACC Championship Game 

The 2007 Dr. Pepper ACC Championship Game included the Boston College Eagles and the Virginia Tech Hokies in a standard season school football match-up that decided the meeting's victor for the 2007 season. Virginia Tech crushed Boston College 30– 16 to win the ACC football title. The amusement, held at Jacksonville Municipal Stadium in Jacksonville, Florida, was a rematch of a normal season diversion that occurred on October 25, in Blacksburg, Virginia. In that amusement, Boston College, obligingness of a late-diversion rebound by quarterback Matt Ryan, won 14– 10. 

Following the misfortune, Virginia Tech won five straight recreations to win the Coastal Division of the ACC, while Boston College staggered, losing two diversions before vanquishing the Clemson Tigers to win the Atlantic Division and portrayal in the Championship Game. Most pre-amusement media inclusion of the occasion give the diversion a role as an open door for Virginia Tech to vindicate its prior misfortune. Likewise, the victor of the diversion would be granted a programmed offer to the Bowl Championship Series 2008 Orange Bowl amusement in Miami, Florida on January 3, 2008. In spite of Boston College's prior success over Virginia Tech, spread bettors favored Virginia Tech by five. 

In the opening quarter of the diversion, the Eagles took a 7– 0 lead on a 51-yard bumble return for a touchdown. The Eagles' offense commanded the primary portion of the diversion measurably, yet neglected to add to its initial lead until the second quarter, when a field objective made it 10– 0. Virginia Tech replied with their very own touchdown, however Boston College reacted with a seven-play, 74-yard touchdown drive of its own. At that point came maybe the most urgent play of the diversion. Amid the additional point kick following the Boston College touchdown, Virginia Tech's Duane Brown obstructed the kick, which was gotten by the Hokies' cornerback Brandon Flowers, who returned it 75 yards for a guarded two-point change. 

The play changed the energy of the diversion. Virginia Tech included a tying touchdown before halftime, and after a scoreless second from last quarter, two Matt Ryan capture attempts brought about 14 points for Virginia Tech and a 30– 16 Virginia Tech win. With the triumph, the Hokies earned their second Atlantic Coast Conference football title in four years and their first Orange Bowl offer since 1996. 

The ACC Championship Game matches the victor of the Coastal and Atlantic Divisions of the Atlantic Coast Conference. A meeting title amusement was included 2005, because of the alliance's extension the earlier year, including previous Big East individuals Miami, Virginia Tech, and Boston College. With the expansion of Boston College, the ACC comprised of 12 teams, enabling it to hold a meeting title amusement under NCAA rules. 

Florida State crushed Virginia Tech, 27– 22 in the main ACC Championship amusement. The next year, the diversion, held in Jacksonville, Florida, set Wake Forest against Georgia Tech, with Wake Forest winning 9– 6. Before the 2007 season started, most games journalists and surveyors anticipated that Florida State would win the Atlantic Division while Virginia Tech would win the Coastal Division, setting up a rematch of the 2005 ACC Championship Game. 

In October, Florida State lost consecutive ACC meeting recreations to Wake Forest and Miami, disposing of them from conflict for their division title. Boston College, which had completed second in the preseason Atlantic Division survey, was positioned No. 2 in the nation after Florida State's misfortune to Miami. Virginia Tech, which endured a 48– 7 rout on account of then-No. 2 LSU, all things considered stayed at the highest point of the Coastal Division standings as the Eagles passed the Seminoles for the Atlantic Division lead. 

On October 25, Boston College headed out to Blacksburg, Virginia, home of Virginia Tech, for a Thursday night amusement communicate on ESPN. In substantial downpour, Virginia Tech's barrier ruled for the vast majority of the amusement. As time kept running down, be that as it may, Boston College quarterback Matt Ryan organized two late-diversion touchdown drives, scoring 14 points in the last 2 minutes to win 14– 10. The triumph apparently fixed Boston College's course to a national title diversion, while the misfortune conceivably imperiled Virginia Tech's odds of being chosen to play in the ACC Championship Game. Throughout the following two weeks, nonetheless, Boston College was angry with Florida State and Maryland. The Eagles revitalized to win their last two amusements—against Miami and Clemson—to secure the division title. Virginia Tech, in the mean time, was undefeated through the rest of its calendar, including a division-securing prevail upon its archrival, Virginia. This implied the ACC Championship Game in Jacksonville would be a rematch between these two division champions. 

In the weeks paving the way to the amusement, there was much media dialog of things to come site of the diversion because of Jacksonville's lapsing contract to have the ACC Championship. The media additionally talked about whether Virginia Tech would be out for retribution against Boston College after its very late thrashing in Blacksburg on October 25. In spite of its past misfortune, spread bettors favored Virginia Tech to win, with most supporting the Hokies by 4.5– 5 points. 

The diversion was the fifteenth challenge between Boston College and Virginia Tech and was their second of the 2007 season. The primary gathering, which occurred in 1993 in the Big East meeting, brought about a 48– 34 Boston College win. Somewhere in the range of 1993 and 2003, Boston College and Virginia Tech had every year as influence of their gathering plans. The groups did not meet in 2004 after Virginia Tech's turn to the Atlantic Coast Conference. At the point when Boston College followed in 2005, the schools continued gathering amid the ordinary season, playing in 2005, 2006, and 2007. 

Following the 2006 ACC Championship Game, the Gator Bowl Association, which directed the ACC Championship Game amid its initial two years of presence, was granted a one-year expansion to its two-year contract to have the amusement. The 2006 diversion experienced poor participation, bringing about over $1 million in misfortunes for the Gator Bowl Association. In the off-season, the Gator Bowl Association pronounced that if deals did not improve for the 2007 ACC Championship diversion, the amusement's Jacksonville future would be in peril. Participation for the 2006 diversion was low because of high travel costs originating from Jacksonville's separation from the partaking schools, and the 2007 members—Boston College and Virginia Tech—confronted a similar issue. 

With Jacksonville's future as host in uncertainty, agents from Charlotte, North Carolina, Tampa, Florida, and Jacksonville visited the ACC workplaces to anteroom to have the 2008 amusement. Orlando, Florida, which had been an early contender to have the 2008 diversion, was disposed of from thought before the gatherings occurred. As kickoff moved nearer, the Gator Bowl Association communicated dismay with the poor ticket deals, saying that almost 20,000 tickets stayed unsold as of the seven day stretch of the amusement and that on the off chance that it was anything but a sellout, the diversion would likely not stay in Jacksonville. 

Media consideration was likewise aimed at the groups' hostile abilities. Boston College quarterback Matt Ryan was named the Atlantic Coast Conference Player of the Year in the week paving the way to the diversion. In the primary portion of the 2007 season, Ryan had been noticeably referenced in competitor records for the Heisman Trophy, school football's most astounding individual honor. In spite of the fact that Ryan's late-diversion rebound in their past amusement against Virginia Tech had made him a leader, the group's two resulting misfortunes to unranked groups dropped him from conflict for the Heisman. Phenomenal exhibitions in a division-securing succeed at Clemson and against Miami appeared to return Ryan to Heisman-hopeful structure, in any case, and heading into the ACC Championship Game, Ryan had all the earmarks of being the greatest hostile risk for Boston College. 

Virginia Tech's offense was driven by an unordinary two-quarterback framework, as junior Sean Glennon imparted time to rookie Tyrod Taylor. While Glennon ended up being a superior pocket passer, Taylor's snappiness empowered him to scramble out of inconvenience and increase positive yardage notwithstanding when no open recipients were accessible for passes. Until the last round of the period, either Taylor or Glennon was hampered by damage and restricted the two-quarterback framework's adequacy. In spite of the fact that the two-quarterback framework demonstrated powerful against Virginia, there were still inquiries regarding how well such a surprising setup would work in the ACC Championship Game. 

On the ground, Taylor's hostile scrambling, while compelling, was not Virginia Tech's essential hurrying weapon. Running back Brandon Ore, Virginia Tech's starter at the position, would need a decent diversion, investigators anticipated, if the Hokies needed to win. Mineral, who endured a few wounds amid the 2006 season, neglected to create significant hostile yardage until late in the season, disillusioning numerous fans who trusted he would rehash his magnificent 2006 performance on the field. With a 146-yard act against Virginia in the last round of the ordinary season, Ore appeared to have recaptured his 2006 form and guaranteed achievement in the ACC Championship Game. 

The Boston College ground offense was driven by running back Andre Callender, who had maybe his greatest round of the year amid the division-securing match against Clemson two weeks sooner. In that diversion, Callender completed with 75 rushing yards. Because of the achievement of Matt Ryan's passing assault, be that as it may, Callender was utilized generally as a backfield collector and was the group's driving beneficiary measurably amid the 2007 season. In the standard season, Callender amassed 905 yards hurrying, 613 yards accepting, and 13 total touchdowns. Callender's typical reinforcement, running back A.J. Streams, was suspended for the ACC Championship Game. 

Virginia Tech's resistance was viewed as more grounded than that of Boston College. For the ACC Championship Game, Virginia Tech returned senior linebacker Vince Hall to the beginning lineup. Corridor had sat out four straight recreations, including the past Boston College coordinate, subsequent to enduring a broken lower arm and wrist. ESPN named Hall and Xavier Adibi, Tech's other senior linebacker, the "best linebacker couple in the nation". 

On Virginia Tech's cautious auxiliary, Brandon Flowers, one of Tech's beginning cornerbacks, was a second-group All-ACC protective determination and had five interceptions in the season. Helping Flowers would be Victor "Macho" Harris, who had likewise gotten five interceptions amid the normal season. Amid the 2007 season, Sports Illustrated called the two "possibly the best cornerback couple in America." 

Toward the finish of the normal season, Boston College was positioned 26th broadly in complete protection, and second broadly in run guard. Its pass protection, be that as it may, was positioned 106th in the nation, and since Boston College was without senior cornerback DeJuan Tribble, who was recuperating from a sprained knee tendon, it was normal that the Eagles' linebackers would need to play a decent amusement to stop Virginia Tech's passing offense. Jo-Lonn Dunbar, who had been named to the preseason watch list for the Bronko Nagurski Trophy (granted to the top protective player in the nation) was required to fill the holes and stop both surging and passing components of Virginia Tech's offense. 

What's more, wellbeing Jamie Silva would need to play a solid amusement to help the Boston College cornerback supplanting the harmed Tribble. Silva, an All-ACC cautious determination, drove the group with five capture attempts and was great in climbing to stop the keep running too. On edge line, cautious end Nick Larkin was a quarterfinalist for the Lott Trophy, an honor given to the protective player with the most "guarded effect" broadly. 

The 2007 ACC Championship Game commenced at 13:10 EST in Jacksonville, Florida. At kickoff, the climate was mostly shady, with winds from the upper east at . The air temperature was . The official participation gauge was 53,212, however by most records the real participation was far lower. Virginia Tech fans made up the greater part of the group, and less than 5,000 Boston College fans were available at the diversion. The diversion was communicated on ABC and got a TV rating of 4.1, putting it behind the SEC Championship Game and the Big 12 Championship Game, which earned appraisals of 5.9 and 6.6, individually. 

The Marching Virginians, Virginia Tech's walking band, and the "Shouting Eagles", the Boston College Marching Band, played the national song of praise before the amusement. The pre-amusement coin hurl included two individuals from the Wounded Warrior Project, a program that helps the physical restoration of injured American battle veterans coming back to the United States from battling abroad. One fighter from Virginia and another from Massachusetts were picked to toss the formal coin that would decide the amusement's beginning belonging. Overseeing the coin hurl was ref Jack Childress, who had likewise administered the debut ACC Championship Game. 

Virginia Tech won the opening coin hurl and conceded its alternative to the second half. Boston College got the opening kickoff, which was brought down at last zone for a touchback. Beginning at their own 20-yard line, the Eagles progressed down the field as quarterback Matt Ryan finished a few passes and running back Andre Callender contributed a few long runs. A pass impedance call against Virginia Tech, combined with a 10-yard kept running by Callender, put Boston College at the Virginia Tech 26-yard line. After three successive inadequate passes, Eagles kicker Steve Aponavicius endeavored a 36-yard field objective. Amid the field objective, Virginia Tech uncommon groups player Duane Brown got through the Eagles' line and hindered the kick, giving Virginia Tech ownership of the ball. 

Virginia Tech's offense, driven by quarterback Sean Glennon, started their first belonging at their very own 37-yard line. Nonetheless, a sack, a handle for misfortune, and a fragmented pass denied the Hokies' offense positive yardage and they were compelled to punt. Tech punter Brent Bowden dealt with a 54-yard kick that constrained the Eagles to begin at their own 14-yard line, however three major plays of 16, 19, and 19 yards drove the Eagles profound into Virginia Tech region. As previously, in any case, Virginia Tech's protection solidified and Boston College was constrained into a fourth down. Rather than endeavoring a long field objective, the Eagles rather endeavored to change over the fourth down yet were thwarted by an inadequate pass. 

On the Hokies' second hostile belonging, quarterback Tyrod Taylor assumed the field in position of Sean Glennon. Two fruitful passes and two short runs brought about two first downs and Virginia Tech propelled the ball over the 50-yard line and into Boston College domain. As Taylor endeavored to scramble for one more short run, be that as it may, he was handled behind the line of scrimmage and bungled the ball. The free ball was gathered up by Boston College protector Jamie Silva, who returned it 51 yards for a touchdown. The touchdown and consequent additional point were the main purposes of the diversion and gave Boston College a 7– 0 lead with 4 minutes staying in the quarter. 

After the kickoff, Virginia Tech's offense again neglected to propel the ball. After a three-and-out, the Hokies again punted. The ball voyaged 44 yards, constraining the Eagles to begin at their own 21-yard line. As the quarter found some conclusion, the Eagles drove the ball profound into Virginia Tech domain. Toward the finish of the main quarter, Boston College drove 7– 0. 

Toward the start of the second quarter, the Hokies' resistance started to solidify. Supported by a 10-yard holding punishment against the Eagles, Matt Ryan was compelled to finish a 14-yard pass on fourth and-9 to acquire a first down and keep the drive alive. Three fragmented passes pursued, notwithstanding, and the Eagles again made due with a field objective endeavor. This time, the 37-yard kick cruised through the uprights, giving Boston College a 10– 0 lead with 11:20 staying in the primary half. 

Virginia Tech's first hostile drive of the second quarter started on a favorable note as quarterback Sean Glennon finished a 16-yard go to wide beneficiary Josh Morgan. Following the play, a Boston College player submitted an individual foul, which added 15 yards as far as possible of the pass. Another long go by Glennon, combined with one more Boston College punishment, put Virginia Tech profound into the red zone, and the Hokies scored on a 5-yard touchdown go to Morgan. With 8:15 staying in the main half, Virginia Tech limited Boston College's lead to simply three points. 

On the following belonging, Boston College required just seven plays and just shy of three minutes to travel 74 yards. The drive finished in a 14-yard quarterback scramble for a touchdown. Duane Brown, who had obstructed the main Boston College field objective endeavor, again charged through the Boston College hostile line and hindered the additional point endeavor. This time, the ball bobbed under the control of Virginia Tech's Brandon Flowers, who returned it 75 yards for a protective two-point transformation. The play kept Boston College's lead inside a solitary touchdown and additional point. With 5:27 staying in the a large portion of, the score was currently 16– 9 for Boston College. 

Tech quarterback Sean Glennon's first go of the new belonging, long toss downfield, was blocked by Boston College protector Jamie Silva. The length of the pass implied that Boston College did not have great field position following the turnover. In the wake of gaining a brisk first down, the Eagles were ceased and compelled to punt. With 2:13 staying before halftime, the Hokies had one increasingly hostile chance. 

Starting at their very own 20-yard line, the Virginia Tech offense walked down the field. Running back Branden Ore ran 11 yards for a first down, and two long goes from Sean Glennon to wide beneficiary Eddie Royal put the Hokies into scoring position. In the wake of neglecting to increase first downs with short runs, Virginia Tech was compelled to utilize its timeouts to stop the clock and the primary half from terminating before they got an opportunity to score. On a third and-7 from the Boston College 13-yard line, Glennon at long last associated with wide beneficiary Josh Hyman, who crossed into the end zone for a touchdown. The additional point tied the diversion, 16– 16. 

With no time left to mount a noting drive, Boston College got the kickoff and let time run out. Heading into halftime, the two groups were tied, 16– 16. 

Since they conceded their choice to the second half amid the opening coin hurl, Virginia Tech got the ball to start the half. The Hokies kept on pivoting between quarterbacks Sean Glennon and Tyrod Taylor amid the ownership, and got two first downs, one through the air and the other on the ground. After Glennon was sacked at the 50-yard line, be that as it may, the drive sputtered and the Hokies were compelled to punt the ball. 

Boston College, in their first ownership of the second half, fared surprisingly more terrible than Virginia Tech. Two inadequate passes and a 5-yard postponement of amusement punishment constrained Boston College into a three-and-out belonging that brought about a punt. On its second belonging, Virginia Tech had a three-and-out drive, thanks to some degree to a 11-yard sack of Sean Glennon by Boston College's Kevin Atkins. 

In the wake of getting the punt, Boston College quarterback Matt Ryan associated on a 31-yard go to wide recipient Brandon Robinson. As previously, be that as it may, the offense slowed down. On fourth and-1 from the Virginia Tech 30-yard line, Ryan endeavored a pass that fell inadequate, turning the ball over on downs. Because of weight connected by the Boston College protection, the Hokies kept on experiencing issues moving the ball. 

The Hokies were compelled to punt once more, and Brent Bowden's 50-yard punt put the Eagles somewhere down in their very own domain. The drive started with a five-yard punishment against Boston College and finished two plays later in a six-yard misfortune on a sack of Matt Ryan by Hokie safeguard Barry Booker. Boston College punted, however the kick by Johnny Ayers voyaged only 34 yards before cruising too far out. 

Virginia Tech had great beginning field position at their very own 44-yard line. One speedy initially down later, the check ran out on the third quarter. As neither one of the teams had scored in the quarter, the score stayed tied at 16– 16. 

In spite of beginning nearly at midfield, the hostile drive that started toward the finish of the second from last quarter neglected to achieve field objective range, and the Hokies were compelled to punt. Boston College's offense fared no better, be that as it may, and punted after a three-and-out belonging. The ball was brought down at the Virginia Tech 16-yard line, and the Hokies started their first full hostile ownership of the fourth quarter. 

After an inadequate go from quarterback Tyrod Taylor, the Hokies got their first enormous hostile break of the second half. On a structured play, Taylor mixed for 31 yards, the biggest play in the amusement for the Hokies. Two fruitful keeps running by running back Branden Ore pursued, acquiring the Hokies 23 more yards and driving the offense profound into Boston College region. A false-begin punishment set the Hokie offense back, yet on the following play, quarterback Sean Glennon associated with wide recipient Eddie Royal on a 24-yard strike for a touchdown. The touchdown and additional point were the principal purposes of the second half and gave Virginia Tech a 23– 16 lead with 6:30 staying in the diversion. 

Boston College started its second ownership of the final quarter realizing it needed to score a touchdown to tie the diversion. Quarterback Matt Ryan had his best achievement of the day, associating on seven of ten passes amid the drive and grabbing 58 yards. The majority of the Eagles' yardage on the drive got through the air, and with 2:25 residual, the Eagles wound up at the Virginia Tech 14-yard line. Confronting a fourth down and requiring four yards for a first down, Matt Ryan fell back to endeavor a pass. The toss was caught by Virginia Tech's Vince Hall. 

Beginning at its own 10-yard line, Virginia Tech ran three straight running plays with an end goal to run the clock down and keep Boston College from having enough time to lead another hostile drive. After the third run was ceased for no addition, be that as it may, the Hokies were compelled to punt the ball. Boston College presently had 28 seconds to score a touchdown and either tie the amusement with an additional point or win it with a two-point transformation. 

The Boston College drive started individually 35-yard line. With brief period remaining, Boston College would need to finish at least one Hail Mary passes. In spite of the fact that the chances of finishing one such pass, not to mention a few, were low, numerous Virginia Tech fans stayed stressed, as Boston College had recently beaten the Hokies in comparative conditions prior in the season. Matt Ryan's initial two passes fell inadequate, and his third was caught by Virginia Tech's Xavier Adibi and returned 40 yards for a Virginia Tech touchdown. 

The score accompanied 11 seconds remaining and gave Virginia Tech its last lead, 30– 16. With no way to win, Boston College chose to give the clock a chance to run out subsequent to accepting the kickoff. Virginia Tech won the 2007 ACC Championship, 30– 16. 

Virginia Tech quarterback Sean Glennon was named the diversion's Most Valuable Player. Glennon completed the diversion having finished 18 of his 27 passes, procuring 174 passing yards, three touchdowns (18), and one interception. Boston College quarterback Matt Ryan had completed 33 of 52 for two interceptions, no passing touchdowns, and one surging touchdown. 

Each group completed with two turnovers—Virginia Tech bumbled the ball once and tossed one interception, while Boston College's offense tossed two. Each group earned seven points off of turnovers, and Virginia Tech blocked two kicks. The two blocked kicks successfully gotten five points for Virginia Tech, as the blocked field objective kept Boston College from scoring three points, and the other blocked kick was returned 75 yards for an uncommon guarded two-point change. The two blocked kicks by Virginia Tech were the first and second blocked kicks in ACC Championship Game history, and Boston College's bungle return for a touchdown was the main mishandle recuperation and guarded touchdown in ACC Championship Game history. 

66% of Virginia Tech's 300 total hostile yardage came by means of goes from quarterbacks Sean Glennon (174 yards) and Tyrod Taylor (28 yards). Glennon's three passing touchdowns tied an ACC Championship Game record set by previous Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick in 2005. Glennon additionally set the ACC Championship Game record for pass fruition rate (66.7%) by finishing 18 of his 27 passes. Taylor, in the interim, set ACC Championship Game records for longest run and longest quarterback keep running with a 31-yard scramble in the second quarter that helped set up the tying touchdown for Virginia Tech. Taylor completed the diversion with 36 rushing yards, the third-the vast majority of any player in the amusement. 

On the ground, Taylor's execution was enhanced by Tech running back Branden Ore, who drove all rushers with 55 yards on 19 rushes. Fourteen of Ore's 55 yards went ahead a solitary play part of the way through the final quarter when the Boston College's cautious line gave way, conceding Tech's sprinter into the guarded auxiliary. The run helped set up Virginia Tech's thumbs up touchdown later in the final quarter. Topping Tech's ground amusement were complimentary exhibitions by Kenny Lewis and Sean Glennon, every one of whom earned less than 10 yards, yet grabbed first downs on two plays. 

Driving all Tech collectors was Josh Morgan, who got eight goes for 55 yards and a touchdown. Eddie Royal additionally had a phenomenal amusement for the Hokies, getting two long goes of 11 yards on resulting plays in the second quarter. Illustrious' 2 catches drove the Hokies profound into Boston College region, setting up a 13-yard touchdown go to Josh Hyman that tied the amusement at halftime. Illustrious' greatest play, be that as it may, came part of the way through the final quarter when he got the thumbs up touchdown go from Sean Glennon. The 24-yard gathering was Royal's longest catch of the day, and the touchdown gave the Hokies a lead they would not give up for the remainder of the diversion. 

In spite of the fact that its offense performed well, it was Virginia Tech's uncommon groups and protection that earned it the success. Duane Brown's twin blocked kicks were the principal squares recorded in ACC Championship Game history and were the 116th and 117th blocked kicks recorded at Virginia Tech under head mentor Frank Beamer. Notwithstanding the squares, Tech exceptional groups exceeded expectations on punts and kickoffs. Tech punter Brent Bowden completed the day with seven punts for a sum of 324 yards. A 54-yard kick in the main quarter was the fourth-longest punt in ACC Championship Game history. 

On barrier, linebacker Vince Hall, in his second diversion in the wake of recouping from a broken lower arm, drove every cautious player with 11 tackles. Lobby likewise recorded a capture in the late phases of the final quarter that enabled Virginia Tech to rundown the clock and power Boston College into a hurried offense. Tied for third in general was Tech's Xavier Adibi, who recorded nine handles (one for misfortune) and got the amusement finishing capture attempt. Adibi restored the block attempt 40 yards for a protective touchdown that fixed the triumph for the Hokies. 

In spite of the fact that Boston College lost the diversion on the scoreboard, it won pretty much every measurable class. Quarterback Matt Ryan outflanked both Hokie quarterbacks consolidated in passing yardage, tossing for 305 yards. Ryan was incredibly exact through the air in the final quarter, tossing eight straight total passes, an ACC Championship Game record. Ryan additionally was shockingly effective on the ground, scrambling for Boston College's touchdown of the diversion—a 14-yard run in the second quarter that put Boston College ahead 16– 7. 

In the primary a large portion of, the Eagles offense recorded 20 first downs. In the second half, it oversaw only four first downs, three of which came in one drive in the final quarter. Because of second-half weight from Virginia Tech, Ryan was constrained into two late-amusement block attempts, including one that was returned for a Virginia Tech guarded touchdown. 

Ryan completed the diversion with 35 rushing yards, only one shy of Hokie quarterback Tyrod Taylor, who had been profoundly advanced as a sprinter heading into the amusement. Ryan completed fourth among all rushers, and Eagle running back Andre Callender, the sole running back on the Eagles' list, completed second, scrambling for 51 yards in the amusement. Callender diversion long 11-yard run helped set up the Eagles for a field objective endeavor right off the bat in the second quarter. 

Callender's genuine progress, nonetheless, was in the passing diversion, where he collected 92 yards, putting him first among all recipients in the amusement. Callender's 13 catches were an ACC Championship Game record and were the fourth-most astounding aggregate for a recipient in any diversion in ACC history. Wide recipient Kevin Challenger completed the amusement with 4 catches for 45 yards, while the Eagles' Rich Gunnell completed the diversion with 54 yards. Shockingly for the quantity of accepting yards recorded by the Eagles in the diversion, no Boston College recipient got a touchdown. 

Boston College punter Johnny Ayres kicked four punts an aggregate of 159 yards, including one long kick that voyaged 55 yards and set the imprint for the third-longest punt in ACC Championship Game history. Kicker Steve Aponavicius effectively kicked a 37-yard field objective right off the bat in the second quarter. in any case, after his second kick was blocked, Boston College head mentor Jeff Jagodzinski appeared to be hesitant to attempt long handle objectives and rather sent in the offense to endeavor to change over the fourth down. Out of four attempts, just a single fourth down was changed over into a first down. 

On safeguard, Boston College had more accomplishment than anticipated by pre-diversion inclusion. Jamie Silva's bumble return for a touchdown was the principal protective score in ACC Championship Game history. Silva completed the diversion with five handles (one for misfortune), one interception, the constrained bobble, and the protective touchdown. DeLeon Gause, in the interim, was the Eagles' driving tackler, recording 10 stops including one handle for misfortune. By and large, the Eagles recorded nine tackles for misfortune, keeping the Hokie offense in line for the greater part of the amusement. 

Virginia Tech's triumph in the ACC Championship Game had expansive wearing ramifications for the 2007– 2008 school football bowl season and later on location of the ACC Championship Game. The 2007 game infused around $10 million into the Jacksonville economy. A great many lodgings were filled by fans going to the diversion, and the effect they made was bigger than that of the earlier year's amusement, which included groups that had shorter separations to travel and whose fans had produced less interest for medium-term settlement. Regardless of the way that fans spent more in 2007 than at any past ACC Championship Game, poor ticket deals in the cinema world required a move. 

After poor participation in the ACC Championship Game at Jacksonville for the second in a row year, ACC authorities and agents of the meeting's part schools chose not to broaden the Gator Bowl Association's agreement to have the diversion. On December 12, the ACC declared that Tampa, Florida would have the amusement in 2008 and 2009 and Charlotte, North Carolina would have the diversion in 2010 and 2011. 

The urban communities were picked dependent on offers displayed to the ACC and its part schools. Every city mentioned and was conceded a two-year contract, bolting the ACC into the areas well ahead of time of the real recreations. Tampa was picked as the site of the 2008 game in light of the fact that Charlotte was booked to hold the yearly tradition of the Association for Career and Technical Education in the meantime as the diversion, and sufficient lodging space would not be prepared in time for the two occasions. 

With its success, Virginia Tech secured a programmed offer to the 2008 Orange Bowl. This caused gradually expanding influences in the bowl goals for all intents and purposes each bowl-qualified ACC group. In the 2007 season, the ACC had ensured tie-ins with eight bowl diversions. 

The ACC's agents to these dishes were picked in a progressive framework that permitted the Chick-fil-A Bowl to have the principal choice after the Orange Bowl's programmed pick of the victor of the ACC Championship Game. Following the Chick-fil-A Bowl were the Gator Bowl, Champs Sports Bowl, Music City Bowl, Meineke Car Care Bowl, Emerald Bowl, and Humanitarian Bowl, in a specific order. The ACC's concurrence with the dishes managed that the dishes would choose the most noteworthy positioning ACC group left after the dishes with higher determinations made their pick. Bowls would be permitted to skirt the most astounding residual group just if the following group was inside one gathering win of the most noteworthy outstanding group. In this manner, a bowl could choose a 5– 3 group over a 6– 2 group, yet couldn't choose a 4– 4 group over a 6– 2 group. 

With Virginia Tech acquiring a programmed offer to the Orange Bowl, the Chick-fil-A Bowl had the principal pick of the rest of the ACC groups. Boston College, by goodness of its misfortune in the ACC Championship Game, was the most astounding outstanding group, however Chick-fil-A Bowl delegates rather welcomed Clemson, which had completed behind Boston College in the Atlantic Division standings. In settling on their choice, Chick-fil-A Bowl delegates refered to Boston College's poor participation at the ACC Championship Game in Jacksonville. The Gator Bowl, which is additionally held in Jacksonville, was hesitant to pick a group that had partaken in the ACC Championship Game out of accomplishment that the group's fans would be reluctant to come back to Jacksonville so rapidly. The Gator Bowl Association mentioned and got a waiver from the alliance's severe bowl determination manages and chose Virginia over Boston College. 

The Champs Sports Bowl was along these lines compelled to choose Boston College. Boston College players and fans, inferable from the diminished status of the Champs Sports Bowl when contrasted and the Orange, Chick-fil-An, and Gator Bowls, were baffled with the choice and match against Michigan State. Had Boston College won the ACC Championship Game, it would have earned the programmed offered to the Orange Bowl, and Virginia Tech would have been chosen by the Chick-fil-A Bowl, which had prior communicated an enthusiasm for welcoming the Hokies to the amusement for a second in a row year. Clemson would have been knock down to the Gator Bowl, and Virginia would have been constrained into the Champs Sports Bowl. 

Other meeting title diversions