The Body (Buffy the Vampire Slayer) 

"The Body" is the sixteenth scene of the fifth period of the heavenly dramatization TV arrangement "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". The scene was composed and coordinated by arrangement maker Joss Whedon and initially publicized on the WB organize in the United States on February 27, 2001. In the arrangement, Buffy Summers is a young person picked by mysterious powers and blessed with superhuman forces to crush vampires, devils, and different shades of malice in the anecdotal town of Sunnydale. She is upheld in her battles by a nearby friend network and family, nicknamed the Scooby Gang. In "The Body", Buffy is frail as she happens upon her dormant mother, who has passed on of a mind aneurysm. 

Despite the fact that Buffy and her companions manage demise each week, regularly in grim and fabulous ways, in this scene they are dazed by the common passing of Joyce Summers, the separated from mother of Buffy and her sister Dawn and sporadically a mother figure to their companions. They battle to fathom what the misfortune intends to every one of them and to the gathering. Buffy must start to confront her life and her obligations as the Slayer without parental help and solace. The scene was deprived of all music—a customary staple of the "Buffy" arrangement—and muddling impacts were incorporated to pass on the feeling of uprooting and misfortune related with the demise of a nearby relative. 

"The Body" disclosed to wide praise, and has since been positioned by a few commentators as one of the best scenes of TV ever communicated. 

Buffy (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is helped from season one by her dear companions, who by and large allude to themselves as the Scooby Gang: Xander Harris (Nicholas Brendon), whose essential quality is his dedication to Buffy, and Willow Rosenberg (Alyson Hannigan), who starts fiddling with black magic and becomes continuously increasingly amazing. They are guided by Rupert Giles (Anthony Stewart Head), Buffy's "Watcher", and joined by Xander's sweetheart Anya Jenkins (Emma Caulfield), who was a retribution devil until her forces were removed. Anya is regularly at a misfortune to realize how to speak with people, and her discourse is often sudden. In the fourth season, Willow turned out to be impractically required with Tara Maclay (Amber Benson), additionally a witch. 

Each period of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" (regularly improved as "Buffy") presents a general topic scenes tie into. Roz Kaveney distinguishes family and having a place as the general subject of the fifth season. Buffy's mom Joyce (Kristine Sutherland) starts encountering cerebral pains toward the start of the period, once falling and requiring hospitalization. She in this manner has a cerebrum tumor expelled. She has been recuperating admirably. In the past scene, she gets blooms from a male suitor, which Buffy finds toward the finish of that scene. The fifth season likewise presents Dawn (Michelle Trachtenberg), Buffy's 14-year-old sister. Each season has an essential opponent called the Big Bad; in the fifth season this appears as an incredible goddess named Glory (Clare Kramer). 

Starting the latest relevant point of interest, Buffy arrives home and sees the roses sent from Joyce's suitor. She shouts to her mom and hears no answer. Buffy sees Joyce lying inert on the couch, gazing at the roof. 

In a flashback to a Christmas supper where all the Scoobies are available, having an average cheerful discussion as Joyce and Buffy talk about a pie that drops on the floor. The scene snaps back to Buffy in the lounge room, shaking Joyce and shouting at her. She requires an emergency vehicle and endeavors CPR, inadvertently snapping a rib all the while, yet without much of any result. Buffy calls Giles. The paramedics arrive and deal with Joyce and she restores, the paramedics announce it a wonder in the emergency vehicle, and Joyce, Buffy, and Dawn cheer in the medical clinic. Uncovered to be a dream of Buffy's, the scene snaps back to the lounge, where the paramedics keep on chipping away at Joyce until they stop and disclose to Buffy that Joyce is dead. They leave, and Buffy goes into the lobby and spews. Giles arrives and Buffy lets him know not to move the body, stunning herself by utilizing that word. 

At school, Dawn is crying in the restroom vexed that a young lady called her a monstrosity. In workmanship class she converses with a kid as they sketch, and the two offer a snapshot of comprehension about being vexed. Buffy arrives and hauls Dawn out of class into the corridor. Through the windows of the craftsmanship room, the class watches Buffy reveal to her that Joyce has had a mishap. The remainder of the discussion is stifled. Day break falls in the corridor, wailing. 

In Willow's quarters room, Tara endeavors to enable Willow to discover a shirt to wear. Xander and Anya arrive and twofold park. Willow alarms, dismissing shirt after shirt, not realizing how to show up for Buffy and Dawn. She inquires as to why her garments are dumb and she is whimsical, sobbing until Tara kisses and quiets her. Anya asks Xander what she should do; he can't reply. Willow changes her shirt again and Xander communicates his longing to discover Glory and precise equity, at that point whines about Joyce's careless specialists. Anya inquires as to whether they will see the body, at that point if the body will be cut open, and Willow reacts indignantly. Anya sorrowfully says she doesn't see how to carry on, or why Joyce can't return into her own body, unfit to comprehend human passing, she expresses that it is all "dumb and mortal", and nobody will reveal to her why things are occurring. Xander puts his clench hand through the divider, influencing him to drain however feel strangely better. As the gathering leaves to visit Buffy at the emergency clinic, Xander gets a stopping ticket. 

In the lounge area outside the mortuary, the specialist reveals to Buffy that Joyce passed on of an aneurysm all of a sudden and effortlessly. Taken off alone with Buffy, Tara reveals to her that her very own mom kicked the bucket when she was 17 and she experienced something comparable. Day break goes alone to the mortuary to see Joyce's body. While she is there, one of the bodies, presently a vampire, gets up. In the wake of seeing Dawn has not returned, Buffy goes to search for her and discovers her in the funeral home, being assaulted by the vampire. As Buffy battles and murders the vampire, the sheet tumbles from Joyce's face. Seeing her mom, Dawn asks where she went, as she connects with contact her cheek. 

From the beginning of composing the "Buffy" arrangement, Joss Whedon stated that it could never have an "uncommon scene" as in contemporary arrangement "Beverly Hills, 90210", "The Wonder Years", or "Gathering of Five", where the center cast of characters tends to a solitary issue (AIDS, tranquilize misuse, or liquor abuse, for instance) and resolve every one of the issues toward the end. Whedon was not keen on finding an invigorating exercise for "The Body". Or maybe, he needed to catch the separation and fatigue associated with the minutes and hours in the wake of finding a friend or family member has passed on, what he named "the dark powder in your mouth deadness of death". He didn't expect to determine any religious or existential inquiries regarding the finish of life, however needed to analyze the procedure in which an individual turns into a minor body. Whedon's mom, an instructor, likewise kicked the bucket of a cerebral aneurysm, and he drew without anyone else encounters, and those of companions and different journalists, in building the scene. He endeavored to accomplish an "unattractive physicality" in "The Body" to depict the annoying particulars engaged with endeavoring to fathom what is unfathomable. 

Little subtleties ended up critical: to ensure her pride Buffy pulls the trim of Joyce's skirt down after it rode up when she endeavored CPR; the camera centers around an easily get through wind rings while Buffy heaves; to underline Buffy's segregation, the scene has no outside setting up shots of the house. 

The opening grouping of "The Body" was additionally the end scene of the past scene, "I Was Made to Love You"; this is the main scene in the arrangement that was first disclosed without a "Formerly on "Buffy"" lead-in. The Christmas supper scene was utilized both to differentiate the obvious truth of the remainder of the scene, and to abstain from having the credits show up over the starting scenes where Buffy is attempting to resuscitate her mom. 

The scene is exhibited in four acts, each start in complete quiet and with a nearby shot of Joyce's pale, gazing face. Shooting the primary demonstration was troublesome for Gellar (Buffy). Whedon shot the scene where she discovers her mom as one long take, demonstrating her turn through the house and calling the paramedics, around multiple times. The remainder of the scenes in the demonstration were shot in succession. Toward the end, Giles arrives and furthermore endeavors to restore Joyce, however Buffy shouts, "shouldn't move the body!" Both Gellar and Trachtenberg (Dawn) were raised by single ladies, and Gellar later talked about the experience of acting something that was genuine and near her, expressing, "you attempt to isolate it decently well and in the meantime it includes that additional layer". When the scene was done with Gellar "at a fever pitch", they restarted it where she comes in the entryway cheerfully, which Whedon lamented for the passionate range Gellar was required to persevere. 

Kristine Sutherland (Joyce) was educated amid the third season that her character would be killed off, which she acknowledged in light of the fact that she planned to invest energy in Europe. She is missing from the majority of the fourth season since she was voyaging. She announced that the environment on the arrangement of "The Body" was weird and tense since she had been a standard character through the arrangement and she was abruptly playing a carcass. She found the part hard to play, for the stillness, however getting into the make-up, and lying on the funeral home table with different bodies. 

The most troublesome scene for Whedon to film was Willow freezing in her quarters room. Her fixation on what to wear to visit Buffy was enlivened by Whedon's own encounters when he was at a misfortune for what attach to wear for a companion's memorial service. He applauded Alyson Hannigan's acting, saying that she had the capacity to be reliably passionate in each take and make him and the team cry unfailingly. Whedon recognized his trouble talking on the DVD critique while viewing Hannigan in the scene. 

Whedon's dismissal of the "exceptionally extraordinary scene" position instigated him to address the physicality of Willow and Tara's relationship inside "The Body". Prior to this scene, they had clasped hands and moved on screen, however they had not kissed. A kind of TV specials managing female homosexuality created as the "lesbian kiss scene" during the 1990s, where a female character kissed another female yet no relationship is additionally investigated. Whedon set out to recognize Willow's and Tara's friendship without making it the essential focal point of the show. For endeavoring this, he got opposition from the airing system, the WB. Whedon educated them that the kiss among Willow and Tara was "not debatable". As indicated by Whedon, the discussion about the kiss was drawn closer by the system officials, who were worried about the quantity of gay connections on the system. Whedon countered that the kiss was "consistent with character" and said he would stop the show if the system denied it. It was the main time amid the arrangement he took steps to do as such. 

Whenever Willow and Tara initially met in the fourth season, the essayists did not expect the relationship to be sentimental but rather the on-screen characters had such science that, two scenes later, Whedon and the composition group took Alyson Hannigan and Amber Benson aside to educate them where it would go. For the remainder of the period, the sexual connection among Willow and Tara was spoken to figuratively by black magic, and none of the WB officials acknowledged it. At last, Whedon adulated the manner in which the WB took care of the showcase of fondness in "The Body", saying "They raised an eyebrow, yet they've been extraordinary. I give the WB props when it went to the [characters' first] kiss. What I need to demonstrate is genuine friendship, and 'The Body' ended up being the ideal spot to place it in. To the system's credit, they circulated it, yet they didn't publicize it. I imagined that was truly tasteful." Stephen Tropiano in "Prime Time Closet: A History of Gays and Lesbians on TV" composes that this methodology was "genuinely pivotal"; no long discourse, no tremendous revelation: "Like Willow, we're made to feel as though her affection for Tara is the most normal thing on the planet". Tropiano calls it "A straightforward kiss. A peaceful, straightforward minute. Two darlings kissing. Much the same as darlings do." 

Crowds responded more candidly than Whedon expected to Emma Caulfield's execution. Anya's unpolished honesty was like a plot contort, as watchers did not expect the profundity of affectability that she depicted in her monolog, which Whedon considers "the core of the experience" and pundit Noel Murray repeats as the "general purpose of the scene in bolded, capital letters". Xander's punching the divider and harming his hand served to give the four in this scene something to focus on, to divert their defenselessness, which was another aspect of the physicality of managing the emergency. Whedon utilized another long following shot from Joyce's face in the funeral home after the specialist down the corridor to talk with Buffy and the Scoobies to concrete the truth of their being so close in closeness, rather than slicing shots to give the likelihood that it was a piece of another set found elsewhere. The vampire that assaults Dawn in the funeral home was a touch numerous watchers removed to be from spot for the scene. This scene differentiates the more dream related passings basic in the arrangement with Joyce's practical demise. Besides, like Xander's stopping ticket and the hints of life outside Buffy's home, in Sunnydale vampires are an ordinary encounter, and it was proposed to demonstrate that life for Buffy proceeds. 

In Nikki Stafford's examination, the responses of Buffy, Dawn, Xander, Willow, Anya, and Tara speak to phases of Elisabeth Kübler-Ross' five phases of sadness in various parts. Joss Whedon expressed on the DVD analysis how astonished he was at the reaction from watchers who wrote to state that the scene enabled them to acknowledge the passing of a nearby relative, regardless of whether they had not recognized it for a considerable length of time or years. Joyce's demise was the first by characteristic causes in the arrangement. 

In "The Psychology of Joss Whedon", two scholastic analysts recognize the wellspring of Buffy's quality as her mom, matched with Giles' mentorship. Joyce did not know up and down that Buffy was a Slayer and experienced issues tolerating what her little girl was called to do. She was in any case constantly mindful and accessible when Buffy's certainty was shaken, and both Joyce's and Giles' dedication to her "gave her the confidence to employ her capacity to its maximum capacity". Joyce filled in as a parent figure to the majority of Buffy's companions, whose home lives were frequently flimsy or cold, in this way making her demise progressively impactful to every one of them. Willow makes reference to her folks a few times all through the arrangement, yet her dad is never observed. Her mom is depicted just once in "Gingerbread", at first as a scholastic so distracted with her profession that she is unfit to speak with Willow, and after that—with Joyce—under the spell of an evil presence and in the throes of sentimental hysteria, endeavoring to consume her own girl at the stake for being engaged with black magic. Xander's folks are portrayed by him and the individuals who have been to his home as alcoholic and verbally injurious. Indeed, even Anya, seriously needing in social graces, has lost somebody she appreciates and trusts. Giles additionally laments for the departure of a companion and—in one scene when the grown-ups fall under a spell making them retreat into a pre-adult express—a darling. Lorna Jowett in "Sex and the Slayer" composes that Joyce speaks to dependability and typicality. For the Scoobies, her demise pulverizes the dream that typical life is without inconvenience; it is similarly as trying as experiencing heavenly powers. 

Discovering her mom's body, Buffy at first denies what she sees, to the point of envisioning interchange substances. Whedon expressed that these smaller than normal dream arrangements resembled documentaries; individuals who locate their friends and family dead are frantic to envision an alternate, better result, and they make dreams that reason substantially more torment when they are compelled to come back to the cruelty of the real world. Later in the medical clinic, Buffy envisions what she may have had the capacity to do to spare Joyce, despite the fact that the specialist advises her there was not something to be finished. Willow and Xander express indignation and vulnerability. Anya, new to mortality and human associations, is uncorrupt in her honesty and questions. Xander's outrage and Anya's perplexity enable them to be mothered to some degree by Willow, who needs to deal with somebody. Sunrise is profoundly willfully ignorant, unfit to comprehend that the lady she thought she had realized for her entire life was no more. Tara, who has experienced the trial previously, speaks to the acknowledgment stage, alleviating and helping the others to work through what they are encountering. Buffy around the end additionally starts to see acknowledgment when she reveals to Dawn that the body in the funeral home isn't their mom; Joyce is no more. 

The scene likewise underscores another subject of the period: Buffy's reaction to powers that she can't battle. All through the season she experiences the considerably more dominant goddess Glory, however Joyce's passing abandons her inclination the most defenseless. In Joyce's passing there is no underhanded power to battle; she just bites the dust, and Buffy, with all her capacity, is not well prepared to get a handle on the tremendousness of her circumstance. In her stun, Buffy retreats to a virtuous mess, calling to her mom when she doesn't reply: "Mom? ... Mom? ... Mother?" Emma Caulfield was likewise provided the guidance for her voice to ascend to an untainted pitch toward the finish of her discourse to give a similar impact. As indicated by "Buffy" researcher Rhonda Wilcox, the topics of development and confronting grown-up obligations start with the flight of Buffy's sweetheart Riley Finn six scenes previously, and take shape in the first scene in which Buffy acknowledges she needn't bother with a beau to be satisfied. Toward the finish of that scene she is defied with Joyce's demise, which is completely investigated in "The Body". Confronting obligations turned into the real topic of the 6th season. One pundit expresses, "Intense as it seemed to be, murdering off Joyce was the sensible method to bring Buffy and Dawn nearer together, disjoin Buffy's last connections to girlhood and accentuate Buffy's powerlessness to acknowledge the cutoff points of her capacity, a common topic this season." 

Whedon utilizes a few perplexing impacts to increase the truth of the circumstances in the scene to the point that they appear to be strange. The long opening shot of Buffy getting back home and discovering Joyce was taped with one hand-held camera in consistent development as she strolls through the house to the telephone and back to her mom once more. The catches on Buffy's telephone are strangely vast, an impact that Whedon included on the grounds that he encountered it when his mom passed on. Buffy is so confused by the paramedic revealing to her that Joyce is dead that she can just concentrate on his mouth trying to comprehend what he is stating. The camera utilizes her point of view and just the base piece of the paramedic's face is in view. Rather than a typical "over-the-bear" see, Buffy is shot at a similar stature as the paramedic's shoulder, scarcely crushed into the edge as though to depict her, as indicated by Whedon, as caught by the real world. Kristine Sutherland expressed that the content was "astonishing", explicitly at catching the separation: "It's not something you can process. I mean mortality is simply not part of your vocabulary when no doubt about it." 

In the emergency clinic, as Buffy tunes in to the specialist affirm how Joyce kicked the bucket, the specialist says something, however the words "I need to deceive you to make you feel much improved" are spoken dissonantly, just as, as per film researcher Katy Stevens, Buffy "develops what she accepts to be an unmentionable truth—her culpability in her mom's passing". In a similar scene, Dawn is shot with a hand-held camera that floats, giving her a somewhat incredible minute as she battles to accept, not at all like what Buffy definitely knows, that her mom's body is a few doors down on a steel table. The scene with Buffy and Tara sitting in the lounge area was noted by Rhonda Wilcox for its existence in appearing as worn out and unmistakably unglamorous, especially on the grounds that she had been displayed with a particular goal in mind to draw in male watchers and was a representative for Maybelline while "Buffy" circulated. Buffy sits with circles under her eyes, unflattering hair, and drooped act by Tara, who had been reprimanded for being excessively overwhelming, regardless of her body type being increasingly run of the mill of ladies her age. 

Preeminent of the muddling impacts, to pundits and researchers, is Whedon's utilization of sound and quiet. While Buffy does mouth to mouth, she splits one of Joyce's ribs with a frightening snap. After Buffy regurgitates on the floor, she remains in the back entryway tuning in to life continuing: kids playing, somebody rehearsing a trumpet, and winged animals singing. Long stops between discourse make holes that turn cumbersome as the characters endeavor to consider what to state, made particularly eminent in an arrangement well known for its quick chat. The change between the Christmas supper scene and the lounge room scene is unexpected, and the sound of Buffy and Joyce yelling since they dropped a pie on the floor continues into the quietness of Joyce's dead face and Buffy remaining solitary in the family room. This impact is additionally utilized when moving between Buffy's substitute form of her mom being "all around great" in the medical clinic and the paramedics endeavoring to restore her. In the vehicle while in transit to Willow's residence, Anya is shot by a camera mounted on the front guard, isolated from the group of onlookers by the windshield. Xander, driving, faces the other way; neither of them talk and just the sound of the vehicle can be heard. Joyce Millman at Salon.com composes of the sound issues, "The impact was practically Bergmanesque in its obviousness. The creepy stillness and the long, spacey delays in discussion as characters attempted to explain their emotions overstated the feeling of time prolonging stopping." 

Katy Stevens takes note of that the discourse in "The Body" was recorded with amplifiers near the performing artists, making varieties in their voices—splits, rises, and murmurs—increasingly conspicuous to the gathering of people, to close the separation between the on-screen characters and the watcher. On the other hand, the scene in which Dawn is recounted Joyce's demise was shot through a vast study hall window, muting Dawn's passionate response, to detach Buffy and Dawn from the class and the gathering of people. A few snapshots of quietness pursue this scene. Whedon shot the discussion very close a few times, shooting over-the-shoulder and response shots, yet in the end ran with a more removed perspective. Michelle Trachtenberg later said of this impact, "clearly you know at last outcome there was no stable and I imagined that was really a standout amongst the most splendid thoughts [he's] ever had on the grounds that it enables everybody to kind of connect their own passionate attachment into whatever may have occurred in your life. I think it enabled the gathering of people to truly interface with Dawn out of the blue." 

Exhibiting the scene without music was Whedon's method for denying the group of onlookers any solace, driving them to recognize their own implications from the characters' activities and words. As two musicologists expound on this nonappearance, "Without music's acoustic medicine, all our sympathetic consideration is on the characters and their condition of bewilderment ... Music would give a conceptualization and a purification ... be that as it may, a purgation now would in some measure trivialize the misfortune." Television faultfinder Gareth McLean composes that this choice is "a move that makes it more gallant than, for example, "ER". There were no taking off strings or sad piano to trigger a passionate reaction. Rather the soundtrack took in the encompassing clamors of wind rings, entryways squeaking, strides on floor coverings. Discussions were stilted and ungainly, however the spaces in the middle of dependably made a difference." 

Commentators applauded the scene, and have kept on considering it one of the best scenes of TV ever communicated. David Bianculli in the "New York Daily News" praises the acting capacities of Sarah Michelle Gellar, Michelle Trachtenberg, Alyson Hannigan, and Amber Benson. "The Body", as per Bianculli is "Emmy-commendable ... It likewise will frequent you—however not in the typical route related with this as yet advancing, as yet accomplishing arrangement." Television commentator Alesia Redding and manager Joe Vince of the "South Bend Tribune" state, "I was bolted by this show ... This isn't only a standout amongst the best "Buffy" scenes ever. It's a standout amongst the best scenes of TV ever." Redding includes, "On the off chance that you watch this unfathomable scene and don't remember it as extraordinary TV, you're hopeless ... A 'dream' show conveys the most distinct and reasonable interpretation of death I've at any point seen, deftly portraying how a friend or family member who bites the dust abruptly turns into 'the body'." 

Gareth McLean in "The Guardian" rejects the idea that "Buffy" is like other "schmaltzy American teenager show(s)" like "Dawson's Creek": "This scene was a bold, legitimate and tweaking depiction of death and misfortune. The manner in which this was taken care of by Joss Whedon ... was cunning. Time backed off and the sentiment of deadness was tangible as Buffy and her pack endeavored to deal with Joyce's demise." McLean particularly valued the little subtleties of Buffy securing Joyce's respect and the perplexity appeared by the characters. He finishes up, "Joyce might be dead yet long live "Buffy the Vampire Slayer"." Joe Gross in the "Austin American-Statesman" calls the scene "devastatingly quiet" and expresses that "the whole cast and group ought to have gotten a type of Emmy for 'The Body. 

At Salon.com, Joyce Millman expresses, "there hasn't been a better hour of show on TV this year than ... 'The Body' ... You need to hand it to the scholars; Joyce's downfall came as a total amazement. Right then and there, Buffy's adolescence formally closes. Regardless of whether "Buffy" gets stiffed in each other Emmy classification this year, 'The Body' ought to persuade the naming board of trustees that Gellar is for genuine ... I can't recall the last time I saw an additionally twisting depiction of the stun of misfortune." Andrew Gilstrap at PopMatters announces it "perhaps the best hour of TV I've seen, bar none ... It is a fantastically moving scene, one that at long last concedes that you don't leave demise sound. It likewise demonstrates that, for all the gathering's killing knowledge, they truly weren't set up for death when it stole a friend or family member." Gilstrap proceeded to state the arrangement did not again address demise and sorrow of this extent until, in another stunning unforeseen development, Tara bites the dust of a stray discharge in the 6th season. Jerry McCormick in "The San Diego Union-Tribune" concurs, rating Joyce's passing as having a similar enthusiastic effect as Tara's in "Seeing Red", the two of which he recorded as the saddest in the arrangement. 

Kira Schlechter in "The Patriot-News" proclaims "The Body" "one of the best scenes of any arrangement consistently", expressing that the quietness and novel cinematography are "exceptional and the composing is splendid". Buffy and Dawn's discussion at her school, Schlechter says, is "emphatically twisting". At the point when the arrangement finished in 2003, Amy Antangelo in the "Boston Herald" and Siona LaFrance of the "New Orleans Times-Picayune" both evaluated the best "Buffy" scenes giving "The Body" measure up to charging at the top with "Quiet" and "Afresh, with Feeling", LaFrance assigning the scene a "moment exemplary". Jonathan Last in "The Weekly Standard" records "The Body" eighth out of the ten best "Buffy" scenes, composing that it is "the arrangement's most troublesome scene since it's genuine—and not genuine in the way "ER" or "The Practice" or "Law and Order", all hyper-renditions of the truth, are genuine. Sooner or later, a large portion of us will encounter multi day like Buffy has in 'The Body' and we sense that the scholars have gotten about everything about that day—directly down to the nonattendance of a melodic score—appropriate." In the A.V. Club, Noel Murray likewise discovers little subtleties convincing, for example, the camera's emphasis on the paper towel Buffy uses to cover the regurgitation on the floor covering. He does, notwithstanding, compose that a portion of the shots "fall off somewhat gimmicky, yet the ones that work are effective to the point that it appears to be negligible to gripe that Whedon tries too hard now and again. (Plus, various minutes are probably going to move diverse individuals.)" 

Notwithstanding applauding Gellar's regularly overlooked acting, "Buffy" researcher Ian Shuttleworth remarks on the cast and the nuanced deadness and perplexity of the characters, matched with the snapshots of quiet in the scene: "It is essentially one of the best bits of TV show, and the single best delineation of loss in any medium, that I have ever observed." Nikki Stafford, creator of "Nibble Me! The Unofficial Guide to Buffy the Vampire Slayer", calls "The Body" "an outright magnum opus", clarifying that it is "pass on the absolute most frightening, shocking, excruciating, and astounding hour of TV I have ever observed". She commends the whole cast similarly, however features Gellar, Alyson Hannigan, and Emma Caulfield. Stafford likewise lauded Kristine Sutherland—as did Whedon—for lying still with her eyes open for a considerable length of time upon hours more than eight days of taping. 

In 2015, Gavin Hetherington of SpoilerTV glanced back at the scene fourteen years after the fact. After investigating the scene, he called it "a standout amongst the greatest long periods of TV" he had ever observed and proceeded to state "I don't think some other otherworldly show has ever had a more delightful scene than "The Body"". 

At the point when the scene was initially communicated in the United States on the WB organize on February 27, 2001, it got a Nielsen rating of 3.5 and an offer of 5, and was viewed by 6 million watchers. The scene put fifth in its timeslot, and 82nd among communicate TV for the seven day stretch of February 26 – March 4, 2001. It was the most watched program on the WB that night, and the second most watched program that week, trailing "seventh Heaven". This was a slight increment from a 3.4 rating and 87th position accomplished by the past scene. The scene was discharged on DVD on October 28, 2002 in Region 2, and December 9, 2003 in Region 1. 

In spite of the fact that the scene got positive surveys, it was not assigned for any Emmy grants. Rhonda Wilcox ascribes this to the Emmys being a "bastion of traditionalist mainstream taste", consequently dismissing TV programs in the dream/sci-fi classifications. The content was designated for a Nebula Award, given for perfection in sci-fi/dream composing.