Æthelred of Mercia 

Æthelred (; passed on after 704) was King of Mercia from 675 until 704. He was the child of Penda of Mercia and went to the position of royalty in 675, when his sibling, Wulfhere of Mercia, kicked the bucket. Inside a time of his promotion he attacked Kent, where his armed forces pulverized the city of Rochester. In 679 he crushed his brother by marriage, Ecgfrith of Northumbria, at the Battle of the Trent: the fight was a noteworthy misfortune for the Northumbrians, and adequately finished their military association in English issues south of the Humber. It likewise for all time restored the kingdom of Lindsey to Mercia's ownership. Be that as it may, Æthelred was unfit to restore his forerunners' control of southern Britain. 

He was known as a devout and passionate Christian ruler, and he made numerous gifts of land to the congregation. It was amid his rule that Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury, revamped the congregation's diocesan structure, making a few new observes in Mercia and Northumbria. Æthelred become friends with Bishop Wilfrid of York when Wilfrid was removed from his find in Northumbria; Æthelred made Wilfrid Bishop of the Middle Angles amid his outcast and upheld him at the synod of Austerfield in around 702, when Wilfrid contended his case for the arrival of the clerical terrains he had been denied of in Northumbria. 

Æthelred's better half, Osthryth, was a girl of King Oswiu, one of the prevailing seventh century Northumbrian rulers. Osthryth was killed in obscure conditions in 697, and in 704 Æthelred relinquished, leaving the honored position to Wulfhere's child Coenred. Æthelred turned into a priest at Bardney, a religious community which he had established with his better half, and was covered there. Ceolred, who was Æthelred's child (however obviously not by Osthryth), progressed toward becoming lord after Coenred; it is additionally conceivable that Æthelred had another child named Ceolwald who was quickly ruler before Ceolred. 

By the seventh century, England was on the whole separated into kingdoms governed by the Anglo-Saxons who had come to Britain two hundred years prior. The kingdom of Mercia involved what is currently the English midlands. The starting point of the kingdom isn't recorded, however regal parentages safeguarded in the "Old English Saxon Chronicle" and the Anglian gathering concur that the illustrious houses were plunged from an author named Icel; the Mercian imperial house is consequently known as the Iclingas. The soonest Mercian ruler about whom positive chronicled data has endure is Penda of Mercia, Æthelred's dad. The bigger neighboring kingdoms included Northumbria toward the north, as of late joined from its constituent kingdoms of Bernicia and Deira, East Anglia toward the east, and Wessex, the kingdom of the West Saxons, toward the south. 

As indicated by "Religious History of the English People", a background marked by the English church composed by the eighth century priest Bede, there were seven early Anglo-Saxon rulers who held "imperium", or overlordship, over different kingdoms. The fifth of these was Edwin of Northumbria, who was murdered at the skirmish of Hatfield Chase by a joined power including Cadwallon, a British lord of Gwynedd, and Penda. After Edwin's passing, Northumbria quickly went to pieces into its two subkingdoms of Bernicia and Deira. Inside a year Oswald, Edwin's nephew, executed Cadwallon and rejoined the kingdoms, along these lines restoring Northumbrian authority over the south of England. In 642 Penda slaughtered Oswald at the skirmish of Maserfield, and Northumbria was again partitioned. Oswald's child Oswiu prevailing to the position of authority of Bernicia, and Osric's child Oswine to Deira, the southern of the two kingdoms. 

In 655, Oswiu crushed and executed Penda at the Battle of the Winwaed. Oswiu introduced Peada, a child of Penda, as lord of southern Mercia and ruled the northern half himself; after Peada was killed in 656 Oswiu assumed direct responsibility for all of Mercia. An upset in 658 lost Northumbrian overlordship and built up Wulfhere as lord. By the mid 670s, Wulfhere had turned into the most dominant lord in southern Britain, with a successful authority over all the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms aside from Northumbria. 

The primary hotspot for this period is Bede's "History", finished in around 731. Notwithstanding its emphasis on the historical backdrop of the congregation, this work additionally gives important data about the early Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. For Wessex and Kent, Bede had witnesses who provided him with subtleties of the congregation's history in every territory, except he seems to have had no such contact in Mercia, about which he is less very much educated. A further hotspot for this period is the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle", ordered toward the finish of the ninth century in Wessex. The "Chronicle"s mysterious recorder seems to have fused much data recorded in before periods. 

Æthelred was the child of Penda of Mercia. Penda's ruler, Cynewise, is named by Bede, who does not make reference to her kids; no different spouses of Penda are known thus it is likely yet not sure that she was Æthelred's mom. The "Old English Saxon Chronicle" gives Penda's age as fifty out of 626, and credits him with a thirty-year rule, yet this would put Penda at eighty years of age at the season of his passing, which is by and large idea far-fetched as two of his children (Wulfhere and Æthelred) were youthful when he was slaughtered. In any event as likely is that Penda was fifty years of age at his passing, instead of at his promotion. Æthelred's date of birth is obscure, however Bede depicts Wulfhere as an adolescent at the season of his increase in 658, so it is likely he and Æthelred were in their center youngsters around then. The early sources don't state whether Æthelred was more seasoned or more youthful than Wulfhere. 

Nothing is known about Æthelred's adolescence. He had another sibling, Peada, and two sisters, Cyneburh and Cyneswith; it is additionally conceivable that Merewalh, lord of the Magonsæte, was Æthelred's sibling. 

In 674, as per Stephen of Ripon, Wulfhere "worked up all the southern countries against [Northumbria]", yet he was crushed by Oswiu's child Ecgfrith who constrained him to surrender Lindsey, and to pay tribute. Wulfhere endure the thrashing, yet kicked the bucket in 675, potentially of infection, and Æthelred progressed toward becoming ruler. 

The principal recorded demonstration of Æthelred's reign is in 676, when his armed forces attacked Kent, obliterating Rochester, the seat of the ministers of West Kent. The purpose behind his assault isn't recorded, yet he may have wished to keep King Hlothhere of Kent from recapturing control of Surrey, which had been as of late brought into the Mercian circle by Wulfhere. It might likewise be that Æthelred wanted for retribution for the homicide of the children of Eormenred of Kent; the killings had been impelled by Ecgberht of Kent, Hlothhere's sibling, and it is conceivable that Æthelred was the uncle of the killed rulers. A third recommendation is that the lords of Essex requested the attack, because of late Kentish endeavors to pick up strength over the East Saxons. Despite the reason, Hlothhere was likely at that point compelled to acknowledge Æthelred's overlordship. The harm to the see of Rochester was great to the point that the occupant priest, Putta, resigned from his bishopric; his selected successor, Cwichhelm, likewise surrendered the see "as a result of its neediness". 

Right off the bat in Æthelred's rule, Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury, started a considerable redesign of the congregation in Mercia. In 675 he expelled Winfred from his situation as Bishop of Lichfield, and throughout the following four years he separated the huge Mercian see into the five wards of Leicester, Lichfield, Worcester, Dorchester and Hereford. Æthelred was a passionate lord, "more celebrated for his devout manner than his ability in war", and he made a few presents of land to the extending church, including stipends at Tetbury, Long Newnton, and Somerford Keynes. There is likewise a custom that Æthelred was related with the establishing of Abingdon Abbey, in southern Oxfordshire. 

Mercia had been in struggle with Northumbria since no less than 633, when Penda of Mercia crushed and executed Edwin of Northumbria at the Battle of Hatfield Chase. Be that as it may, there were discretionary relational unions between the two kingdoms: Æthelred's sister Cyneburh wedded Alhfrith, a child of Oswiu of Northumbria, and both Æthelred and his sibling Peada wedded little girls of Oswiu. Cyneburh's marriage to Alhfrith occurred in the mid 650s, and Peada's marriage, to Ealhflæd, pursued right away a while later; Æthelred's marriage, to Osthryth, is of obscure date however more likely than not happened before 679, since Bede makes reference to it in depicting the Battle of the Trent, which occurred that year. 

Bede does not specify the reason for the fight, just saying that it happened in the ninth year of Ecgfrith's rule. He is increasingly enlightening on the result. Ælfwine, the youthful subking of Deira, was slaughtered; Ælfwine was sibling to Osthryth and Ecgfrith, and was very much preferred in both Mercia and Northumbria since Æthelred's marriage to Osthryth. As indicated by Bede, his demise took steps to bring about additional conflict between the two kingdoms, however Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury, intervened:Theodore, the darling of God, enrolling God's assistance, covered the blazes of this terrible hazard by his healthy exhortation. Subsequently, harmony was reestablished between the lords and people groups, and in lieu of further carnage the standard pay was paid to King Ecgfrith for his sibling's demise. 

Æthelred claimed Lindsey again after the fight; the adjustment in control this time was enduring, and Lindsey remained some portion of Mercia until the Viking attack of the ninth century changed the guide of England. Strife among Northumbria and Mercia did not totally stop after this date: Scottish archives record that Æthelbald, an eighth century Mercian ruler, assaulted Northumbrian domain in 740 while King Eadberht of Northumbria was missing battling the Picts. Be that as it may, the Battle of the Trent adequately finished Northumbrian contribution in southern Britain. 

A contention between Bishop Wilfrid of York and the congregation and common foundation prompted Wilfrid's ejection from Northumbria and the division of his immense bishopric, and Æthelred favored Ecgfrith against Wilfrid. After Ecgfrith's passing in 685, Archbishop Theodore organized a compromise among Wilfrid and Aldfrith, Ecgfrith's successor, however in 692 Aldfrith and Wilfrid dropped out and Wilfrid went into outcast in Mercia. Æthelred now bolstered Wilfrid, making him cleric of the Middle Angles, and safeguarding him at the Council of Austerfield in around 702, when Wilfrid contended his case before a get together of religious administrators driven by Archbishop Berhtwald of Canterbury. Æthelred's help for Wilfrid involved him in debate with both Canterbury and Northumbria, and it isn't clear what his intention was, however it might be important that a portion of Wilfrid's cloisters were in Mercian domain. 

Two contracts of 681 show Æthelred giving area close Tetbury, on what is presently the outskirt among Gloucestershire and Wiltshire. This may demonstrate that Æthelred had the capacity to expand Mercian impact further into the region of the West Saxons, as Wulfhere had done before him. The West Saxons dealt with a huge military resurgence under Cædwalla, lord of Wessex from around 685 to 688, yet when Cædwalla withdrew for Rome on journey there may have been interior struggle before Ine, his successor, took the position of authority. Cædwalla had effectively vanquished the kingdoms of Sussex and Kent, and his resignation may have added to the agitated history of the southeast throughout the following couple of years. In Kent, Oswine developed as ruler, however just in eastern Kent; the western portion of the kingdom was administered by Swæfheard, child of Sæbbi, the lord of Essex. It is conceivable that Æthelred offered help to both Swæfheard and Oswine; for every ruler a contract gets by in which Æthelred affirms land stipends they made in Kent, and Æthelred's attack of Kent in 676 demonstrates his resistance to the customary Kentish regal house. A contract of Swæfheard's dated 691 is likewise of enthusiasm as it shows that Æthelred had attacked Kent; it has been recommended that Æthelred expected to put Wilfrid in the Archbishop's seat at Canterbury, yet in the event that so he was ineffective. Then again, Æthelred may have required help with Kent from the East Saxons who may have been autonomous of Mercia for 10 years or more at that point. The East Saxons returned to the Mercian circle throughout the following couple of years: a sanction of Æthelred's, dated somewhere in the range of 693 and 704, indicates him allowing area to Wealdhere, the priest of London, and in 704 Æthelred assented to a concede made by Swæfheard. The last sanction additionally seems to demonstrate that a "comes", or neighborhood official, was set up by the Mercians to ensure their interests. 

In spite of this proof of Mercian contribution in the southeast there is next to no sign that Æthelred had expansionist aspirations toward the south. The expanding quality of the West Saxons under Cædwalla and Ine would have restricted Mercian openings toward that path. The Northumbrians were never again a diversion; they had been contained north of the Humber since the Battle of the Trent, and turned out to be even to a lesser extent a danger after their unfortunate thrashing in 685 on account of the Picts. A conceivable clarification is that Æthelred was engrossed with war with the Welsh. It was additionally right now that the Hwicce came all the more unquestionably into the Mercian circle. The last Hwiccean ruler to take the title of lord was Oshere, who kicked the bucket in 685; yet from the mid-670s he looked for Æthelred's assent for his stipends, and Æthelred viewed him as a subking. Additional proof of Æthelred's contribution among the Hwicce originates from a sanction in which he allows land for a minster in Gloucestershire, in Hwiccean domain; the contract is for the most part thought to be a creation, yet it has all the earmarks of being founded on a true before source. 

Osthryth was killed in 697, for no good reason; as per Bede the killers were "her own kin, the Mercian chieftains". Bede records that Peada's demise, forty years sooner, originated from "the foul play, it is stated, of his own better half"; Peada's significant other was Ealhflæd, Osthryth's sister. Thus Osthryth's homicide may have been in retribution for Peada's death, however it has likewise been translated all the more straightforwardly as an indication of proceeding with antagonistic vibe among Northumbria and Mercia. Osthryth was covered at Bardney in Lindsey, the religious community where, at her encouraging, the relics of her uncle, Oswald of Northumbria, were kept and adored, however proof of obstruction at Bardney to the faction of Oswald is likewise characteristic of the poor relations between the two kingdoms. 

In 704, Æthelred surrendered to turn into a priest and abbot at Bardney, leaving the authority to his nephew Coenred. Seventh century Mercian rulers frequently disparaged religious foundations outside the Mercian heartlands, maybe as a method for picking up help in remote areas. Æthelred's and Osthryth's enthusiasm for Bardney is steady with this example. The support of the faction of regal holy people in zones past the focal Mercian lands likewise appears to have been a purposeful approach, and both Æthelred and Osthryth were later respected as holy people at Bardney. It creates the impression that Æthelred kept on having impact in the kingdom after his abandonment: a section in Stephen of Ripon's "Life of Wilfrid" demonstrates Æthelred bringing Coenred to him and encouraging him to make harmony with Wilfrid. The date of Æthelred's passing isn't recorded; however it is realized that he was covered at Bardney. 

Æthelred had no less than one child, Ceolred. As indicated by the thirteenth-century "Chronicon Abbatiae de Evesham", Ceolred was not the child of Osthryth, in spite of the fact that it doesn't name Ceolred's mom, and in the perspective on the student of history Ann Williams this may imply that Æthelred remarried after Osthryth's demise. Notwithstanding, Susan Kelly expresses that Osthryth was "in all likelihood (however not unquestionably)" Ceolred's mom. Ceolred prevailing to the royal position in 709, after Coenred surrendered in 709 to go to Rome on journey. One form of the regnal records for Mercia demonstrates a lord named Ceolwald ruling after Ceolred, and it is conceivable that Ceolwald, on the off chance that he existed, was likewise a child of Æthelred's. 

Essential sources 

Optional sources