2001– 02 South-West Indian Ocean typhoon season 

The 2001– 02 South-West Indian Ocean typhoon season had the soonest named tempest since 1992. Numerous tempests framed in the north-east segment of the bowl, and a few more started around Australia. The bowl is characterized as the waters of the Indian Ocean west of longitude 90°E to the shore of Africa and south of the equator. Eleven typhoons framed, contrasted with a normal of nine. Tropical frameworks were available amid 73 days, which was fundamentally higher than the normal of 58. 

Tropical typhoons in this bowl are observed by the Regional Specialized Meteorological Center (RSMC) in Réunion. The season began on November 1, 2001, and finished on April 30, 2002; for Mauritius and the Seychelles, the season proceeded until May 15. These dates traditionally delimit the time of every year when most tropical violent winds structure in the bowl; be that as it may, storms shaped both when the assigned season. The primary tempest was Andre, which rose up out of the Australian bowl as Tropical Cyclone Alex in late October. The most grounded tempest, Cyclone Hary, was the principal extreme tropical tornado since 2000; it hit Madagascar, where it caused lighter harm than anticipated however three passings. In January, Cyclone Dina left overwhelming harm in the Mascarene Islands, especially on Réunion, where it dropped of precipitation. The last tempest was Cyclone Kesiny, which slaughtered 33 people when it struck Madagascar amidst a political emergency. 

Météo-France's meteorological office in Réunion (MFR) is the authority Regional Specialized Meteorological Center for the South-West Indian Ocean, following every single tropical twister from the east shoreline of Africa to 90° E. The Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC), which is a joint United States Navy – United States Air Force team that issues tropical tornado admonitions for the district, additionally issued warnings for tempests amid the season. Following the season, the beginning of the tropical tornado year was changed to July 1, which characterizes the limit between tropical twister seasons. 

In spite of the fact that the past season was agreeable, the 2001– 02 season was dynamic and highlighted a few extraordinary tropical typhoons. Amid the season, eleven frameworks were named, which was marginally over the normal of nine. Nonetheless, nine of the frameworks achieved violent wind force, the second most noteworthy aggregate in 30 years. As far as both the quantity of frameworks and number of "twister days", the season was viewed as equivalent by MFR to the 1993– 94 season. In this season, there were 73 days on which tropical typhoons were dynamic, which was more than twice as much as the past season and 19 days over the normal. An arrangement of violent wind force was dynamic on 35 days, which was 15 days over the mean. Moreover, five of the frameworks achieved "serious tropical twister" status, including one – Hary – that accomplished the "exceptional tropical typhoon" organize. Action was generally disseminated all through the season and had the most punctual begin since 1992. Like most seasons inside the bowl, movement achieved a peak in late January. A few frameworks amid the season created in the eastern segment of the bowl, like 1993– 94; in contrast to that season, numerous tempests in 2001– 02 remained adrift all through their lifetime, in this way decreasing setbacks and harm. 

The Bureau of Meteorology (BoM) grouped a tropical low as Tropical Cyclone Alex on October 26 in the Australian locale. It was at first situated in a region of solid breeze shear, which counteracted huge fortifying. In any case, convection over the framework expanded on October 27, and it crossed into the South-West Indian Ocean at around a similar time. It was renamed Andre, turning into the most punctual date for the first named tempest since 1992. In the wake of achieving 10‑minute supported breezes of 100 km/h (65 mph), as indicated by the MFR, Andre started gradually debilitating, because of expanding shear. It moved for the most part toward the west-southwest before turning northwestward on October 29, around which time the convection isolated from the inside. Moving gradually, Andre later swung toward the southwest in the wake of debilitating to a tropical sorrow. Late on October 31, the framework was never again classifiable as a tropical framework, and the leftovers proceeded toward the west-southwest until being consumed by a trough on November 8. 

The storm trough brought forth a tropical low on November 24 in the Australian bowl. It moved toward the southwest, fortifying into Tropical Cyclone Bessi on November 27. After two days, it moved into the South-West Indian Ocean, and was renamed "Bako" on December 1. Situated in a comparative position to the past tempest, Bako fortified into a serious typhoon on December 1, supported by warm waters and slack breeze shear. The tempest swung toward the southeast on December 2, regardless of forecasts despite what might be expected, and soon thereafter it heightened further into a tropical violent wind, the first of the period. Be that as it may, on December 3, Bako debilitated once more into an extreme hurricane because of a lot cooler ocean surface temperatures and expanding northwesterly wind shear. It debilitated into a tropical misery on December 5, before progressing into an extratropical twister that day. RSMC La Reunion kept on following the remainders of Bako until December 9. 

On December 25, a virus front hauled over the focal Mozambique Channel. A powerless flow shaped in the Channel and moderate convection showed up on December 27. At that point on December 30, RSMC La Reunion assigned this low weight as a zone of aggravated climate and was named a tropical wretchedness on January 1, 2002. The JTWC likewise issued a Tropical Cyclone Formation Alert (TCFA) right off the bat December 31 and assigned it as Tropical Cyclone 08S the following day. As it moved further eastwards it fortified rapidly from a tropical dejection into a serious hurricane, with the Meteorological Services of Madagascar giving it the name Cyprien on January 1. Cyprien before long turned into a genuine risk to western Madagascar. Convection started to disseminate as wind shear expanded and that brought about brisk debilitating to a tropical sadness. As it made landfall on western Madagascar, it dropped substantial precipitation. 

Taking all things together, Cyprien obliterated 841 homes in the towns of Morombe and Morondava. Harm in the towns was evaluated at $180,000, however there were no passings. 

Violent wind Dina started in a tropical unsettling influence initially noted on January 15 close to the Chagos Archipelago. By January 17, the framework had sufficiently grown composed convection as it moved southwestward to be proclaimed a tropical melancholy. Quick strengthening happened presently, with the framework achieving twists in abundance of 120 km/h (75 mph) on January 18. Dina topped in power on January 20 as an exceptional tropical twister with winds of 210 km/h (130 mph). Hours after the fact, the tempest skirted Rodrigues Island going to its north. On January 21, the tempest brushed Mauritius and Réunion as a serious tropical twister before turning southward. Once on a southward course, relentless debilitating followed and the framework in the long run changed into an extratropical violent wind on January 25. The remainders of the tempest quickened southeastward and were retained into a polar trough on January 28. 

Crosswise over Mauritius and Réunion, exuberant downpours and ruinous breezes from the tornado brought about broad to "disastrous" harm. The whole island of Mauritius lost power amid the tempest and across the board basic harm occurred. Farming and property harm added up to US$47 million and US$50 million individually in the republic. Nine fatalities were ascribed to the tempest in Mauritius: five off the shoreline of Rodrigues Island and four on the principle island. Progressively broad harm was seen on Réunion where up to of downpour fell more than three days. Flooding devastated numerous homes, washed out streets, and caused calamitous agrarian harm. Dangerous breezes, estimated at up to , likewise disabled interchanges. Taking all things together, six individuals kicked the bucket on the island and misfortunes were evaluated at €200 million (US$190 million). 

A framework created inside an intermingling zone on January 20 close to the limit between the South-West Indian Ocean and the Australia area. Its dissemination turned out to be better characterized, and MFR started warnings on January 22. With an edge toward the south, it floated toward the southeast, moving toward 90°E, yet swinging toward the southwest before traverse. On January 23, the framework increased into a tropical sorrow. Gradually escalating, the misery wound up Tropical Storm Eddy on January 24. That day, the JTWC started warnings on Tropical Cyclone 11S, and it moved in the direction of the south. Subsequent to having encountered moderate breeze shear, Eddy entered a zone of increasingly good conditions, and its convection bit by bit sorted out. Right off the bat January 26, MFR updated it to a tropical typhoon, later assessing pinnacle winds of 130 km/h (80 mph). After that time, expanding wind shear debilitated Eddy to a hurricane, making it bend toward the west. By January 28, the flow was uncovered from the convection, and Eddy debilitated to a tropical wretchedness. It swung toward the southwest the following day, and scattered completely on January 30. 

The starting points of Francesca were from a tropical low that shaped in the Australia area on January 28, east of the Cocos Islands. This was close to a similar spot that Eddy had framed seven days earlier. The framework that moved toward becoming Francesca moved west-southwestward because of an edge toward the south. On January 30 it crossed into the South-West Indian Ocean, where wind shear counteracted critical improvement. On January 31, the framework escalated into a tropical sorrow, and late the following day the JTWC arranged it as Tropical Cyclone 12S. Wind shear lessened on February 2, which enabled the sadness to reinforce into Tropical Storm Francesca after convection expanded. It kept on increasing relentlessly, turning into a tropical violent wind on February 3. The following day, the JTWC redesigned Francesca to what could be compared to an insignificant sea tempest. 

A moving toward trough turned the tornado toward the southeast, and Francesca immediately built up a very much characterized eye. It quickly reinforced into an extreme tropical tornado, and achieved top breezes of 185 km/h (115 mph) on February 4, as indicated by MFR. The JTWC assessed crest 1‑minute breezes of 215 km/h (135 mph) when the tempest was situated about 1065 km (660 mi) southeast of Diego Garcia. Not long after cresting, Francesca started debilitating, losing its eye, until being an insignificant tropical typhoon on February 7. That day, it re-heightened somewhat and redeveloped an eye, in spite of the fact that it was fleeting. Expanding shear again debilitated Francesca, and on February 9 the twister decayed to a hurricane. Cooler waters brought on additional debilitating, which reduced convection over the inside. On February 11, Francesca progressed toward becoming extratropical, and the leftovers swung toward the southwest, scattering on February 14. 

On February 13, a few low weight territories were situated over east-focal Madagascar, with a zone of convection that all-inclusive northwestward the nation over toward Comoros. The framework dropped overwhelming precipitation, coming to in Tamatave in a 12‑hour period. In Mamoudzou, the capital of Mayotte, precipitation came to in 24 hours, which caused some harm on the island including a scaffold breakdown. A creating focus step by step turned out to be better sorted out, and it took an abnormal track seaward toward the upper east, controlled by an edge over Madagascar. On February 14, MFR characterized the framework as a zone of exasperates climate, updating it to a tropical aggravation the following day. Late on February 15, the JTWC started warnings on Tropical Cyclone 15S, and promptly the following day MFR redesigned it to Tropical Depression 10. Presently, the Meteorological Services of Madagascar overhauled the framework to Tropical Storm Guillame. 

Late on February 16, Guillame started building up a little eye, swinging toward the east around a similar time. With great conditions, including great surge, the framework immediately escalated into a reduced tropical tornado as it swung toward the southeast. Fortifying quickly halted on February 17, conceivable due to an eyewall substitution cycle, despite the fact that it continued the next day. Guillame bended toward the south and southwest, achieving crest winds of 195 km/h (120 mph) late on February 18; this made it an extreme tropical violent wind. The following day, the twister go about east of Mauritius before a moving toward trough swung it toward the southeast. In spite of the tempest's vicinity to the island, impacts there were unobtrusive, set apart by winds of and of downpour. The tornado started debilitating because of expanded breeze shear, and disintegrated beneath tropical violent wind status on February 21. A reinforcing edge turned Guillame toward the northwest, and the tempest dispersed on February 23. 

Typhoon Hary was the most grounded tropical violent wind of the period. Creating on March 5 from the rainstorm trough, the tempest at first moved by and large toward the west and bit by bit escalated. With positive conditions, Hary immediately strengthened on March 7, building up an eye and all around characterized outpouring. In the wake of achieving an underlying pinnacle, the typhoon quickly debilitated due to an eyewall substitution cycle, by which time the tempest turned southwestward toward Madagascar. Hary re-increased and achieved top breezes of 220 km/h (140 mph) on March 10 only seaward of eastern Madagascar, which made it the principal exceptionally serious tropical typhoon since 2000. 

In the wake of topping, Hary debilitated because of land communication, and it struck Madagascar southeast of Antalaha. In the wake of turning south over land, Cyclone Hary immediately moved seaward. There were three passings in the nation, one of which was from electric shock. There was locally substantial yield harm, and four scaffolds were decimated. Notwithstanding, the harm was viewed as negligible, given the power of the tempest. In the wake of influencing Madagascar, Hary quickened toward the southeast, and the eastern outskirts of the flow moved over Réunion. On the mountain pinnacles of the island, precipitation came to , despite the fact that it was substantially less close to the coast. The precipitation caused flooding, executing one individual, and 20,000 people were left without power. Hary moved toward becoming extratropical on March 13, despite the fact that its leftovers proceeded for a few days as an incredible mid-scope storm. 

On March 21, a tropical aggravation immediately created in the rainstorm trough in the south-focal Indian Ocean, about 1250 km (775 mi) east of Diego Garcia. An edge toward the south directed the framework toward the west-southwest, and moderate breeze shear in the district counteracted noteworthy fortifying. The convection gradually sorted out, and the gloom heightened into Tropical Storm Ikala at an opportune time March 25. At that point, the shear had diminished, albeit at first it was sufficiently able to keep the convection from covering the middle. A moving toward virus front turned the tempest toward the southeast on March 25, where upper-level conditions turned out to be increasingly good to fortify. Rainstorms expanded over the middle, and an eye started creating on March 26. The following day, Ikala strengthened into a tropical twister, achieving top breezes of 165 km/h (105 mph) as per MFR; the JTWC assessed top 1‑minute breezes of 205 km/h (125 mph). Not long after topping, expanded breeze shear and drier air from the front immediately debilitated Ikala, and it decayed beneath tropical tornado status on March 28. That day, the middle ended up uncovered from the convection, and on March 29 Ikala progressed toward becoming extratropical. The remainders swung toward the southwest before recurving toward the southeast on March 31, and Ikala was consumed by a virus front on April 3. 

Toward the beginning of April, the storm trough generated a tropical wretchedness at an early stage April 7 toward the upper east of the Cocos Islands in the Australian bowl. It moved toward the southwest because of an edge along the west shore of Australia, and immediately strengthened into Tropical Cyclone Dianne. Great conditions considered kept fortifying, and the tempest built up a little eye late on April 7. The following day, the tempest went into South-West Indian Ocean and was renamed Jery. Presently it escalated into a tropical twister, in spite of the fact that at that point, the conditions were never again as positive for fast strengthening. On April 9, MFR evaluated crest 10‑minute breezes of 150 km/h (90 mph); around a similar time, the JTWC assessed top 1‑minute breezes of 195 km/h (120 mph). 

While at pinnacle force, Jery started swinging toward the south, because of achieving the western edge of an edge. A moving toward trough expanded breeze shear over the tempest, making the convection lessen and uncover the middle. Late on April 10 it debilitated underneath tropical tornado status, and the following day Jery progressed toward becoming extratropical. Presently the remainders crossed into the Australian locale, scattering on April 13. 

Tornado Kesiny was the last named tempest of the period, shaping close to the equator on May 2, inside a trough improved by a beat of the Madden– Julian swaying that started three different tempests. Kesiny at first moved toward the southeast, yet later swung toward the southwest because of a fortifying edge. On May 6, it escalated into a tropical typhoon, yet later debilitated and was not expected to re-reinforce. In any case, Kesiny built up an eye and re-strengthened into a tropical twister on May 9, achieving top breezes of before striking Madagascar about southeast of Antsiranana. This made it the principal recorded tropical tornado to make landfall in the period of May in the bowl. It debilitated while crossing the nation, and in the wake of swinging toward the south it struck the nation again before scattering on May 11. 

Crosswise over Madagascar, Cyclone Kesiny dropped overwhelming precipitation, coming to in three days at Toamasina (the second biggest city in the nation). The downpours caused mudslides and flooding in the eastern bit of the nation, destroying the rice and maize harvests and leaving 5,000 people destitute. At any rate 33 bridges were pulverized, and numerous streets were harmed. An aggregate of 33 people were murdered, and 1,200 people were harmed. The violent wind struck amidst a political emergency, in which the best two competitors of the Malagasy presidential decision in 2001 announced themselves the champ; the occupant, who lost, endeavored to pronounce Toamasina the new capital city, and the political flimsiness upset aid ventures. 

The primary tempest of the period began from a region of convection east of Diego Garcia toward the beginning of October 2001. Moving southwestward, it gradually composed, with convection creating around a feeble dissemination. Late on October 3, MFR characterized the framework as a zone of exasperates climate. On October 5, the office renamed it as a tropical unsettling influence and later as Tropical Depression 1. The dissemination was incompletely presented because of wind shear, in spite of the fact that it had great surge. The JTWC started warnings on Tropical Cyclone 01S at 0600 UTC on October 6, assessing winds of about 65 km/h (40 mph). Because of the shear, the convection continuously lessened, inciting the MFR to minimize it to a tropical aggravation on October 7. The following day, the JTWC issued its last warning, taking note of that the framework was scattering. 

A zone of exasperates climate shaped on November 15 in the eastern piece of the bowl. It remained a zone of irritated climate for a couple of days before quickly fortifying into a tropical despondency on November 21. It scattered two days after the fact. This framework was likewise assigned as tropical violent wind by the JTWC. 

On February 5, a tropical low created in the Mozambique Channel. Delegated Tropical Disturbance 9 by MFR, the framework moved southeastward, scattering on February 6. The season finished with a tropical unsettling influence, which shaped on June 13 toward the east-southeast of Diego Garcia. It moved toward the south, and was keep going checked on June 15. 

A tropical unsettling influence is named when it achieves moderate typhoon quality. On the off chance that a tropical unsettling influence achieves moderate hurricane status west of 55°E, at that point the Sub-territorial Tropical Cyclone Advisory Center in Madagascar relegates the fitting name to the tempest; somewhere in the range of 55°E and 90°E, the Sub-local Tropical Cyclone Advisory Center in Mauritius is in charge of a similar assignment. Another yearly rundown is utilized each year so no names are resigned. 

This table records the majority of the tropical violent winds and subtropical twisters that were checked amid the 2001– 2002 South-West Indian Ocean typhoon season. Data on their force, term, name, and territories influenced, fundamentally originates from RSMC La Reunion. Demise and harm reports originate from either press reports or the significant national fiasco the board organization while the harm aggregates are given in 2002 USD.