Stigand 

Stigand (kicked the bucket 1072) was an Anglo-Saxon churchman in pre-Norman Conquest England who moved toward becoming Archbishop of Canterbury. His introduction to the world date is obscure, yet by 1020 he was filling in as an imperial cleric and counselor. He was named Bishop of Elmham in 1043, and was later Bishop of Winchester and Archbishop of Canterbury. Stigand was a guide to a few individuals from the Anglo-Saxon and Norman English regal administrations, serving six progressive rulers. Expelled by a few popes for his pluralism in holding the two sees, or priestly districts, of Winchester and Canterbury simultaneously, he was at long last dismissed in 1070, and his homes and individual riches were appropriated by William the Conqueror. Stigand was detained at Winchester, where he kicked the bucket without recovering his freedom. 

Stigand served King Cnut as a cleric at an imperial establishment at Ashingdon in 1020, and as a counsel at that point and later. He proceeded in his job of counsel amid the rules of Cnut's children, Harold Harefoot and Harthacnut. At the point when Cnut's stepson Edward the Confessor succeeded Harthacnut, Stigand without a doubt turned into England's principle overseer. Religious journalists of the time blamed Stigand for coercing cash and grounds from the congregation, and by 1066 the main bequests more extravagant than Stigand's were the imperial homes and those of Harold Godwinson. 

In 1043 Edward delegated Stigand to the see of Elmham. After four years he was designated to the see of Winchester, and after that in 1052 to the archdiocese of Canterbury, which Stigand held together with Winchester. Five progressive popes, including Nicholas II and Alexander II, suspended Stigand for holding both Winchester and Canterbury. Stigand was available at the deathbed of King Edward and at the royal celebration of Harold Godwinson as ruler of England in 1066. After Harold's passing, Stigand submitted to William the Conqueror. On Christmas Day 1066 Ealdred, the Archbishop of York, delegated William King of England. Stigand's suspension implied that he could just help at the crowning ceremony. 

Regardless of developing weight for his statement, Stigand kept on going to the imperial court and to bless diocesans, until in 1070 he was removed by ecclesiastical legates and detained at Winchester. His obstinacy towards the papacy was utilized as purposeful publicity by Norman promoters of the view that the English church was in reverse and required change. 

Neither the year nor the date of Stigand's introduction to the world is known. He was conceived in East Anglia, conceivably in Norwich, to an evidently prosperous group of blended English and Scandinavian family line, as is appeared by the way that Stigand's name was Norse however his sibling's was English. His sibling Æthelmær, likewise a minister, later succeeded Stigand as religious administrator of Elmham. His sister held land in Norwich, yet her given name is unrecorded. 

Stigand first shows up in the verifiable record in 1020 as an imperial pastor to King Cnut of England (ruled 1016– 1035). In that year he was designated to Cnut's congregation at Ashingdon, or Assandun, which was committed by the changing diocesan Wulfstan of York. Little is known about Stigand's life amid Cnut's rule, however he probably had a spot at the imperial court, as he saw intermittent sanctions. Following Cnut's demise Stigand progressively served Cnut's children, Harold Harefoot (ruled 1035– 1040) and Harthacnut (ruled 1040– 1042). After Harthacnut kicked the bucket Stigand turned into a consultant to Emma of Normandy, Cnut's widow and the mother of Harthacnut and his successor Edward the Confessor. He may have been Emma's minister, and it is conceivable that Stigand was at that point one of her consultants while Cnut was alive, and that he owed his situation at Ashingdon to Emma's impact and support. Since little is known about Stigand's exercises before his arrangement as a diocesan, it is hard to decide to whom he owed his position. 

Stigand was delegated to the see of Elmham soon after Edward the Confessor's crowning celebration on 3 April 1043, likely on Emma's recommendation. This was the principal episcopal arrangement of Edward's rule. The see of Elmham canvassed East Anglia in eastern England, and was one of the less fortunate episcopal sees around then. He was sanctified diocesan in 1043, yet soon thereafter Edward dismissed Stigand and denied him of his riches. Amid the following year, in any case, Edward returned Stigand to office. The purposes behind the affidavit are obscure, yet it was most likely associated with the synchronous tumble from intensity of the matron ruler, Emma. A few sources express that Emma had welcomed King Magnus I of Norway, an opponent petitioner to the English honored position, to attack England and had offered her own riches to help Magnus. Some speculated that Stigand had encouraged Emma to help Magnus, and guaranteed that his testimony was a result of this. Contributing variables in Emma and Stigand's fall incorporated Emma's riches, and aversion of her political impact, which was connected to the rule of the disagreeable Harthacnut. 

By 1046 Stigand had started to observe contracts of Edward the Confessor, demonstrating that he was by and by in illustrious support. In 1047 Stigand was meant the see of Winchester, however he held Elmham until 1052. He may have owed the elevation to Earl Godwin of Wessex, the dad in-law of King Edward, in spite of the fact that that is questioned by certain students of history. Emma, who had resigned to Winchester subsequent to recovering Edward's support, may likewise have affected the arrangement, either alone or working together with Godwin. After his arrangement to Winchester, Stigand was an observer to all the enduring contracts of King Edward amid the period 1047 to 1052. 

A few antiquarians, for example, Frank Barlow and Emma Mason, express that Stigand upheld Earl Godwin in his fight with Edward the Confessor in 1051– 1052; others, including Ian Walker, hold that he was impartial. Stigand, regardless of whether he was a supporter of Godwin's, did not go into outcast with the baron. The squabble began once again a battle between Eustace of Boulogne, brother by marriage of the ruler, and men of the town of Dover. The lord requested Godwin to rebuff the town, and the baron can't. Proceeded with weight from Edward undermined Godwin's position, and the duke and his family fled England in 1051. The baron returned in 1052 with a considerable outfitted power yet in the long run achieved a serene accord with the lord. Some medieval sources express that Stigand partook in the exchanges that achieved a harmony between the lord and his baron; the Canterbury original copy of the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" calls Stigand the ruler's cleric and consultant amid the arrangements. 

The Archbishopric of Canterbury wound up drawn into the contention among Edward and Godwin. Pope Leo IX was starting a change development later known as the Gregorian Reform. Leo originally centered around improving the church and denying simony – the purchasing and selling of administrative and clerical workplaces. In 1049 Leo IX openly articulated that he would look into English church matters and would research episcopal hopefuls all the more carefully before affirming them. At the point when Archbishop Edsige of Canterbury passed on in 1051 the priests of the basilica part chose Æthelric, a relative of Earl Godwin's, as diocese supervisor. Lord Edward restricted the decision and rather designated Robert of Jumièges, who was Norman and as of now Bishop of London. Other than promoting Edward's squabble with Godwin, the arrangement flagged that there were cutoff points to Edward's readiness to settle on clerical change. 

Despite the fact that not known as a reformer before his arrangement, Robert returned in 1051 from Rome, where he had gone to be affirmed by the papacy, and contradicted the ruler's decision for Bishop of London in light of the fact that the applicant was not appropriate. Robert's endeavors to recuperate church property that had been appropriated by Earl Godwin added to the squabble between the duke and the ruler. At the point when Godwin came back to England in 1052 Robert was prohibited and banished, following which King Edward named Stigand to the archbishopric. The arrangement was either a reward from Godwin for Stigand's help amid the contention with Edward or a reward from King Edward for effectively arranging a quiet end to the emergency in 1052. Stigand was the first non-priest to be selected to either English archbishopric since before the times of Dunstan (diocese supervisor from 959 to 988). 

The papacy would not perceive Stigand's rise, as Robert was as yet alive and had not been denied of office by a pope. Robert of Jumièges spoke to Leo IX, who gathered Stigand to Rome. At the point when Stigand did not show up, he was banished. History specialist Nicholas Brooks holds the view that Stigand was not banished as of now, but instead was requested to forgo any archiepiscopal capacities, for example, the sanctification of ministers. He contends that in 1062 ecclesiastical legates sat in board with Stigand, something they would not have done had he been banned. The legates did nothing to adjust Stigand's position either, albeit one of the legates later removed Stigand in 1070. Anyway Pope Leo IX and his successors, Victor II and Stephen IX, kept on viewing Stigand as uncanonically chose. 

Stigand did not head out to Rome to get a pallium, the band worn around the neck that is the image of a diocese supervisor's position, from the pope. Heading out to Rome for the pallium had turned into a specially, polished by some of his antecedents. Rather, some medieval writers express that he utilized Robert of Jumièges' pallium. It isn't known whether Stigand even requested of the papacy for a pallium not long after his arrangement. Inferable from the change development, Stigand most likely realized the solicitation would be fruitless. In 1058 Antipope Benedict X, who restricted a great part of the change development, gave Stigand a pallium. Be that as it may, Benedict was dismissed the next year; the changing party proclaimed Benedict an antipope, and invalidated every one of his demonstrations, including Stigand's pallium concede. The careful conditions that prompted Benedict conceding a pallium are obscure, regardless of whether it was at Stigand's solicitation or was given without inciting. 

After his interpretation to Canterbury, Stigand discharged Elmham to his sibling Æthelmær yet held the ward of Winchester. Canterbury and Winchester were the two most extravagant finds in England, and keeping in mind that point of reference permitted the holding of a rich see alongside a poor one, there was no point of reference for holding two rich sees simultaneously. He may have held Winchester out of covetousness, or his hang on Canterbury might not have been secure. Other than these, he held the monastery of Gloucester and the convent of Ely and maybe different nunneries too. Whatever his reasons, the maintenance of Winchester made Stigand a pluralist: the holder of more than one benefice in the meantime. This was a training that was focused for disposal by the developing change development in the congregation. Five progressive popes (Leo IX, Victor II, Stephen IX, Nicholas II and Alexander II) expelled Stigand for holding both Winchester and Canterbury in the meantime. It has been proposed by the student of history Emma Mason that Edward wouldn't expel Stigand in light of the fact that this would have undermined the illustrious right to select religious administrators and ecclesiastical overseers without ecclesiastical information. Further harming Stigand's position, Pope Nicholas II in 1061 proclaimed pluralism to be uncanonical except if affirmed by the pope. 

Stigand was later blamed for simony by ascetic writers, however all such allegations date to after 1066, and are along these lines presume inferable from the post-Conquest want to attack the English Church as degenerate and in reverse. The medieval recorder William of Poitiers additionally asserted that in 1052 Stigand concurred that William of Normandy, the future William the Conqueror, ought to succeed King Edward. This case was utilized as purposeful publicity after the Conquest, yet as per the history specialist David Bates, among others, it is probably not going to be valid. The situation of Stigand as leader of the congregation in England was utilized to great impact by the Normans in their publicity previously, amid and after the Conquest. 

The bishopric of York exploited Stigand's challenges with the papacy and infringed on the suffragans, or religious administrators owing compliance to an ecclesiastical overseer, ordinarily subject to Canterbury. York shared long been held for all intents and purpose with Worcester, yet amid the period when Stigand was banned, the see of York additionally guaranteed oversight over the sees of Lichfield and Dorchester. In 1062, be that as it may, ecclesiastical legates of Alexander II came to England. They didn't dismiss Stigand, and even counseled with him and regarded him as diocese supervisor. He was permitted to go to the committee they held and was a functioning member with the legates in the matter of the gathering. 

A significant number of the ministers in England did not have any desire to be sanctified by Stigand. Both Giso of Wells and Walter of Hereford made a trip to Rome to be blessed by the pope in 1061, instead of be sanctified by Stigand. Amid the concise period that he held a genuine pallium, in any case, Stigand consecrated Aethelric of Selsey and Siward of Rochester. Abbots of cloisters, be that as it may, came to Stigand for sanctification all through his time as diocese supervisor. These included not just abbots from ascetic houses inside his region, for example, Æthelsige as abbot of St Augustine's Abbey in Canterbury, yet in addition Baldwin as Abbot of Bury St. Edmunds and Thurstan as Abbot of Ely. After the Norman Conquest, Stigand was blamed for selling the workplace of abbot, yet no abbot was ousted for purchasing the workplace, so the charge is suspect. 

Stigand was presumably the most rich administrative benefactor of his period, when incredible men provided for houses of worship on a remarkable scale. He was an advocate to the Abbey of Ely, and gave huge gold or silver crosses to Ely, St Augustine's Abbey in Canterbury, Bury St. Edmunds Abbey, and to his house of God church at Winchester. The crosses given to Ely, Bury and Winchester all seem to have had about existence measure figures of Christ with coordinating figures of the Virgin and John the Evangelist, as is recorded in the religious chronicles, and were most likely for all time mounted over the special raised area or somewhere else. These would have been made with slim sheets of valuable metal over a wooden center. No equivalently early rood crosses with the side figures of Mary and John appear to endure, however we have expansive painted wooden crosses like the German Gero Cross of around 980, and the Volto Santo of Lucca (recharged with a later figure) which is known to have propelled Leofstan, Abbot of Bury (d. 1065) to make a comparable figure, maybe shrouded in valuable metal, on his arrival from a visit to Rome. To Ely he gave gold and silver vessels for the special stepped area, and a chasuble weaved in gold "of such endless workmanship and worth, that none in the kingdom is viewed as more extravagant or increasingly important". In spite of the fact that it doesn't create the impression that Stigand at any point went to Rome, there are signs that Stigand went on journey. A twelfth century life of Saint Willibrord, composed at the Abbey of Echternach in what is currently Luxembourg, records that "to this spot additionally came Stigand, the prominent diocese supervisor of the English". In the work, Stigand is recorded as giving rich blessings to the nunnery just as relics of holy people. 

Amid Edward's rule, Stigand was a compelling consultant at court and utilized his situation to expand his own riches just as that of his loved ones. Contemporary valuations of the terrains he controlled at the passing of King Edward, as recorded in Domesday Book, go to a yearly salary of around 2500 pounds. There is little proof, notwithstanding, that he improved either Canterbury or Winchester. He additionally delegated his adherents to sees inside his ward in 1058, having Siward named Bishop of Rochester and Æthelric introduced as Bishop of Selsey. Between his holding of two sees and the arrangement of his men to different finds in the southeast of England, Stigand was an imperative figure in shielding the coastline against intrusion. 

Stigand may have been responsible for the regal organization. He may likewise have been behind the push to find Edward the Atheling and his sibling Edmund after 1052, potentially to verify an increasingly satisfactory beneficiary to King Edward. His landholdings were spread crosswise over ten regions, and in a portion of those districts, his territories were bigger than the ruler's property. Albeit Norman advocates guaranteed that as ahead of schedule as 1051 or 1052 King Edward guaranteed the position of royalty of England to Duke William of Normandy, who later moved toward becoming King William the Conqueror, there is minimal contemporary proof of such a guarantee from non-Norman sources. By 1053, Edward most likely understood that he would not have a child from his marriage, and he and his guides started to scan for a beneficiary. Edward the Atheling, the child of King Edmund Ironside (ruled 1016), had been banished from England in 1017, after his dad's passing. Despite the fact that Ealdred, the Bishop of Worcester, went to the Continent looking for Edward the Exile, Ian Walker, the biographer of King Harold Godwinson, feels that Stigand was behind the exertion. At last, in spite of the fact that Edward returned to England, he kicked the bucket not long after his arrival, leaving a youthful child Edgar the Ætheling. 

Ruler Edward, on his deathbed, left the crown to his brother by marriage Harold Godwinson, the child of Earl Godwin. Stigand played out the memorial service administrations for Edward. Norman scholars guaranteed that Stigand delegated Harold as ruler in January 1066. This is for the most part thought to be false publicity, as it was to William's greatest advantage to depict Harold as uncanonically delegated. In the event that Harold was inappropriately delegated, at that point William was just asserting his legitimate legacy, and not dismissing a legitimate lord. The Bayeux Tapestry portrays Stigand at Harold's royal celebration, despite the fact that not really setting the crown on Harold's head. The English sources guarantee that Ealdred, the Archbishop of York, delegated Harold, while the Norman sources guarantee that Stigand did as such, with the contention between the different sources most likely following to the post-Conquest want to criticize Harold and delineate his crowning ritual as inappropriate. Ebb and flow verifiable research has demonstrated that the service was performed by Ealdred, inferable from the discussion about Stigand's position. In any case, one history specialist, Pauline Stafford, speculates that the two diocese supervisors may have blessed Harold. Another student of history, Frank Barlow, writing in 1979, felt that the way that a portion of the English sources don't name who blessed Harold "tip(s) the parity for Stigand". 

Stigand supported Harold, and was available at Edward the Confessor's deathbed. Stigand's dubious position may have impacted Pope Alexander II's help of William the Conqueror's intrusion of England. The reformers, driven by Archdeacon Hildebrand, later Pope Gregory VII, restricted the more established sort of religious administrator, rich and introduced by the lay forces. 

After the passing of Harold at the Battle of Hastings, Stigand worked with Earl Edwin and Earl Morcar, just as Archbishop Ealdred of York, to put Edgar the Ætheling on the honored position. This arrangement did not work out as intended, in any case, because of resistance from the northern barons and a portion of different religious administrators. Stigand submitted to William the Conqueror at Wallingford toward the beginning of December 1066, and maybe helped at his crowning liturgy on Christmas Day, 1066, despite the fact that the royal celebration was performed by Ealdred. William took Stigand with him to Normandy in 1067, in spite of the fact that whether this was on the grounds that William did not confide in the ecclesiastical overseer, as the medieval writer William of Poitiers asserts, is dubious. Stigand was available at the crowning ritual of William's ruler, Matilda, in 1068, albeit yet again the service was really performed by Ealdred. 

After the primary uprisings broke out in late 1067 William embraced a strategy of placation towards the congregation. He gave Stigand a spot at court, just as giving authoritative positions to Ealdred of York and Æthelwig, Abbot of Evesham. Diocese supervisor Stigand shows up on various illustrious sanctions in 1069, alongside both Norman and English pioneers. He even sanctified Remigius de Fécamp as Bishop of Dorchester in 1067. When the threat of defiance was past, in any case, William had no further need of Stigand. At a committee held at Winchester at Easter 1070, the religious administrators met with ecclesiastical legates from Alexander II. On 11 April 1070 Stigand was ousted by the ecclesiastical legate, Ermenfrid, Bishop of Sion in the Alps, and was detained at Winchester. His sibling Æthelmær, Bishop of Elmham, was additionally removed at a similar chamber. In a matter of seconds a short time later Aethelric the Bishop of Selsey, Ethelwin the Bishop of Durham and Leofwin Bishop of Lichfield, who was hitched, were removed at a chamber held at Windsor. There were three reasons given for Stigand's statement: that he held the church district of Winchester in majority with Canterbury; that he not just involved Canterbury after Robert of Jumièges fled yet in addition caught Robert's pallium which was abandoned; and that he got his own pallium from Benedict X, an enemy of pope. A few records express that Stigand appeared at the committee which dismissed him, however nothing is recorded of any guard that he endeavored. The charges against his sibling are no place expressed, prompting a conviction that the statements were basically political. That spring he had kept his own riches at Ely Abbey for supervision, however King William appropriated it after his statement, alongside his homes. The ruler delegated Lanfranc, a local of Italy and a researcher and abbot in Normandy, as the new diocese supervisor. 

Lord William seems to have left the activity for Stigand's testimony to the papacy, and did nothing to prevent Stigand's power until the ecclesiastical legates touched base in England to oust the diocese supervisor and change the English Church. Other than seeing contracts and sanctifying Remigius, Stigand seems to have been an individual from the illustrious board, and ready to move unreservedly about the nation. Be that as it may, after the entry of the legates, William did nothing to shield Stigand from statement, and the diocese supervisor later blamed the ruler for acting with dishonesty. Stigand may even have been amazed that the legates wished him removed. It was likely the demise of Ealdred in 1069 that moved the pope to send the legates, as that left just a single ecclesiastical overseer in England; and he was not viewed as real and unfit to bless religious administrators. The antiquarian George Garnett draws the parallel between the treatment of King Harold in Domesday Book, where he is basically overlooked as lord, and Stigand's treatment after his testimony, where his time as diocese supervisor is however much as could reasonably be expected treated as not happening. 

Stigand passed on in 1072 while still detained, and his demise was celebrated on 21 February or 22 February. At some point between his testimony and his passing the widow of King Edward and sister of King Harold, Edith of Wessex, visited him in his detainment and purportedly guided him to care more for himself. He was covered in the Old Minster at Winchester. 

At King Edward's passing, just the imperial bequests and the domains of Harold were bigger and wealthier than those held by Stigand. Medieval scholars censured him for his insatiability and for his pluralism. Hugh the Chanter, a medieval writer, asserted that the seized abundance of Stigand helped keep King William on the position of royalty. An ongoing investigation of his riches and how it was earned demonstrates that while he engaged in some exploitative strategies to increase a portion of his riches, different terrains were increased through legacy or through imperial support. A similar report demonstrates little proof that he plundered his episcopal homes, despite the fact that the record towards ascetic houses is progressively suspect. There is no objection in contemporary records about his private life, and the allegations that he submitted simony and was uneducated just date from the twelfth century. 

Albeit religious writers after the Norman Conquest blamed him for wrongdoings, for example, prevarication and murder, they don't give any proof of those violations. Very nearly 100 years after his passing, another Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas Becket, was insulted in 1164 by King Henry II's nobles with Stigand's destiny for setting out to contradict his lord. Present day history specialists sees will in general consider him to be either a wily government official and aloof religious administrator or to see him absolutely as far as his ministerial failings. The student of history Frank Stenton felt that his "entire profession demonstrates that he was basically a lawmaker". Agreeing with this, the history specialist Nick Higham said that "Stigand was a prepared government official whose vocation had been based on an exact perusing of the parity of intensity." Another student of history, Eric John, said that "Stigand had a reasonable case to be the most exceedingly awful diocesan of Christendom". In any case, the antiquarian Frank Barlow felt that "he was a man of refined tastes, a supporter of human expressions who was liberal to the religious communities which he held". Alexander Rumble contended that Stigand was unfortunate in living past the Conquest, expressing that one might say that Stigand was "unfortunate to live so long that he found in his lifetime not just the finish of the Anglo-Saxon state yet in addition the difficult of uncanonical, yet until now endured, rehearses by a flood of ecclesiastical changes".