Skirmish of Musa Qala 

The Battle of Musa Qala (additionally Qaleh or Qal'eh) was a British driven military activity in Helmand Province, southern Afghanistan, propelled by the Afghan National Army and the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) against the Taliban on 7 December 2007. Following three days of exceptional battling, the Taliban withdrew into the mountains on 10 December. Musa Qala was formally detailed caught on 12 December, with Afghan Army troops pushing into the town focus. 

The activity was codenamed "snakepit" (). Senior ISAF officers, including U.S. general Dan K. McNeill, the general ISAF leader, consented to the strike on 17 November 2007. It pursued over nine months of Taliban control of the town, the biggest the agitators controlled at the season of the fight. ISAF powers had recently involved the town, until a disputable withdrawal in late 2006. 

It was the primary fight in the War in Afghanistan in which Afghan armed force units were the vital battling power. Explanations from the British Ministry of Defense (MOD) underlined that the task was Afghan-driven, despite the fact that the capacity of Afghan units to work without NATO control was addressed amid the fight. Military commitment over Musa Qala is a piece of a more extensive clash between alliance powers and the Taliban in Helmand. Both when the fight, related battling was accounted for over a bigger region, especially in Sangin area toward the south of Musa Qala. 

Musa Qala is a town of around 15,000 to 20,000 individuals, with another 25,000 in the encompassing region. ISAF powers were first conveyed in the town in mid-June 2006, as a major aspect of the "company house" technique. This comprised of securing the area focuses of Northern Helmand with little separations of British ISAF troops, in line with the common senator Mohammed Daoud. This move met with a suddenly furious opposition from the Taliban and nearby tribesmen, who utilized ordinary, instead of uneven strategies, to drive the alliance from their positions. The detached British army wound up under attack and consistent assault for significant lots, and their substitutions must be gotten after a full fight assemble activity, codenamed Snakebite, got through Taliban lines toward the beginning of August. 

The battling finished in October 2006 when, in a dubious move, control was surrendered to nearby ancestral seniors. The arrangement was expected to see neither British nor Taliban powers in the town with an end goal to lessen strife and non military personnel losses. At the time, a British officer remarked: "There is a conspicuous peril that the Taliban could make the arrangement and afterward renege on it." The Taliban reneged on the understanding, rapidly over-running the town with 200 to 300 troops in February 2007. The Taliban seizure pursued a US airstrike that angered aggressors; a Taliban administrator's sibling and 20 supporters were murdered in the assault. An intersection of innate legislative issues, religion, and cash from the opium exchange guaranteed the uneasy ceasefire would not hold. At the time, the legislature asserted they could retake the town inside 24 hours, however that arrangement had been deferred to abstain from causing non military personnel losses. 

Musa Qala was the main noteworthy town held by the Taliban at the season of the ambush, and they had forced an exacting principle on its occupants. Unique councils were set up, articulating sentences of stoning, removal, or passing by hanging against the individuals who were viewed as foes, or who contradicted an exacting elucidation of the Sharia. Four men are referred to have been hanged as covert operatives amid this period. The Taliban likewise imposed overwhelming assessments, shut down schools, and drafted neighborhood men into their positions by power. Different hardships were reminiscent of past Taliban rule: men assaulted for not wearing facial hair; music restricted and chronicles crushed; ladies rebuffed for not wearing the burqa. The town is arranged in a noteworthy opium poppy developing region and a BBC journalist has detailed it to be the focal point of the heroin exchange Afghanistan. 

Ahead of the pack up to the attack on Musa Qaleh, individuals from the Brigade Reconnaissance Force gave essential knowledge to the up and coming activity. Alliance military moves and a development of troops and supplies proceeded for a considerable length of time before the strike. On 1 November, British powers began observation watches in anticipation of the assault. Amidst that month, the MOD revealed that troops from Brigade Reconnaissance Force (BRF), 40 Commando Royal Marines and the Right Flank Company of the Scots Guards were watching outside the town to befuddle the Taliban radicals and disturb their supply courses. 

In the days prior to the strike, surveillance watches infiltrated as close as a to the Musa Qala town focus. Several families were accounted for to have fled from the pending strike, after the alliance dropped pamphlets in notice. Moreover, the alliance verified the deserting of a basic inborn pioneer, Mullah Abdul Salaam, who had been legislative head of Uruzgan region under Taliban rule. A pioneer of the Alizai clan, Salaam was accounted for to be in arrangement with the alliance as right on time as October 2007, causing a fracture inside the Taliban. His absconding was by and by looked for by Afghan president Hamid Karzai and he brought upwards of 33% of the Taliban powers safeguarding Musa Qala to the alliance side. In any case, it is vague on the off chance that they battled in favor of the ISAF or just avoided the battle. 

Before the fight, two thousand activists were accounted for to hold the town. A comparative case of 2,050 "completely outfitted contenders" was made in late November by Enqiadi, a taliban leader. At the time, Enqiadi appeared to be certain that the entire of Helmand region would tumble to the Taliban in the winter of 2007– 08. Consequent appraisals decreased quantities of Taliban contenders, with an ISAF officer proposing that the greatest quality was more like a few hundred. 

The principle strike on Musa Qala started at 4 pm on 7 December. A few Taliban were supposedly murdered in US airstrikes as the assault started. That night approximately 600 American troopers from the 82nd Airborne Division were carried toward the north of the town in 19 helicopters. Chinook and Blackhawk troop bearers escorted by Apache assault helicopters were engaged with the strike. Amid the night the paratroopers got through Taliban channels to make room for further ground troops and after that burrowed guarded positions. Amid the assault, an Apache was hit by ground fire and had one motor thumped out yet the pilot, CW2 Thomas O. Malone, figured out how to arrive securely in spite of being harmed. In excess of 2,000 British troops of the Helmand Task Force (at that point under the course of 52nd Infantry Brigade), including Scots Guards, Brigade Reconnaissance Force shaped by 4/73 Special OP Bty and 2 YORKS, Household Cavalry, and Royal Marines from 40 Commando, wound up engaged with the activity. English troops set up a cordon around the town to help the US assault and furthermore started a development with Afghan troops from the south, west, and east, trading gunfire with the Taliban. While the BRF gave the US Paratroopers fire support from the west. In any event on the principal day of the fight these advances may have filled in as a bluff to occupy consideration from the principle US air strike. Danish and Estonian troops were likewise engaged with the underlying attack. 

Battling proceeded on 8 December. As British and Afghan fighters proceeded with their ground advance, US aviation based armed forces more than once assaulted the Taliban, including various enemy of airplane positions encompassing the town. The Taliban protected positions encompassed by minefields, a foremost risk to alliance powers. The strike gained ground regardless, with the Afghan Ministry of Defense announcing that day: "In this task up until this point, 12 fear mongers were killed, one caught and various weapons and ammo were seized." A British trooper, Sergeant Lee Johnson of the second Battalion The Yorkshire Regiment (Green Howards), was killed not long after 10 am on the eighth, when his vehicle drove over a mine; another fighter was truly harmed in the impact. 

Taliban powers took up new positions to safeguard the town on 9 December. Taliban sources recommended at the time that aggressors from close-by zones were entering the town to fortify its guard. Battling was on-experiencing the day and bombs planted by extremists kept on negatively affecting ISAF powers: an American trooper, Corporal Tanner J O'Leary of the 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment, was killed by the explosion of an ad libbed dangerous gadget. 

By 10 December, news outlets announced that the Taliban guerillas had pulled back north from the territory and that Afghan Army and ISAF powers were responsible for the town. The British MOD was increasingly mindful at the time, prompting that "enduring advancement" had been made yet that alliance powers stayed on the edges of Musa Qala. By and by, the Afghan government proposed that the alliance had "totally caught" the town. NATO reported the town's catch on the eleventh, anyway at the time the MOD proposed powers were all the while continuing mindfully "compound to compound", just authoritatively affirmed the catch of Musa Qala the following day. Afghan troops were called forward for the last push and by late morning on the twelfth were accounted for to be in the town focus, in a motion symbolizing their capacity to battle and thrashing the Taliban all alone. Lieutenant Colonel Richard Eaton, representative for Task Force Helmand, depicted the retaking of the town: 

Brigadier Andrew Mackay, leader of the Helmand Task Force, accentuated that the alliance's arrangement supported the less dedicated neighborhood contenders—the supposed "level two" Taliban—to split far from the more ideologically determined activists. This technique may have been fruitful; Afghan president Hamid Karzai pronounced that he had been drawn nearer by Taliban individuals needing to swap sides after a string of guerilla exactions against regular citizens. He stated: "They draped a kid of 15 from a roof and lit two gas canisters under him." Precise Taliban setbacks were not detailed in spite of the fact that the Afghan Defense Ministry proposed hundreds murdered, confined, or caught. The agitators guaranteed 17 Afghan armed force and ISAF murdered, and censured the British for no less than 40 regular folks passings, yet their cases may not be solid. 

Albeit savage in the main days, the fight did not deliver the house-to-house battle that had been dreaded; the Taliban to a great extent withdrew without extended obstruction. Poor climate conditions, including mist, may have enabled them to withdraw all the more effectively. Taliban representatives recommended the retreat was intended to keep away from proceeded airstrikes and non military personnel losses inside the town. When the town focus was achieved, battling demonstrated "unremarkable" and as per one senior US officer: "The urban focal point of Musa Qala was not altogether contradicted, it was not fundamentally blockaded". The last development into the town's principle bazaar by the Afghan Army was physically driven by an Advanced Search Team of the Royal Engineers of the British Army pursued by EOD and the fundamental Afghan power who raised their banner for the world's press. 

Musa Qala is only one flashpoint in the more extensive Helmand region crusade, an alliance exertion to unstick the Taliban from the unpredictable region, to a great extent driven by British powers. The fight to retake the town started struggle in bordering regions. In November 2007, when observation watches started, "awful" Taliban assaults were propelled in Sangin Valley, Helmand territory, toward the south, including one which saw Royal Marine Commandos persevere through two days of rocket and mortar fire. Only three days before the principle ambush, on 4 December, British powers endured a casualty toward the north of the town of Sangin, when Trooper Jack Sadler was killed by a roadside bomb. The week before the strike saw an assortment of different commitment in Helmand: the British stood up to continued assault close to the Kajaki Dam, upper east of Sangin; further west, Estonian, British and American troops were locked in close to the town of Nawzad at the focal point of Nawzad District. Danish powers under British order were assaulted in the town of Gereshk. 

In the days after the primary fight was propelled, Lieutenant Colonel Eaton affirmed that the Taliban were endeavoring to make weight in different territories yet that assaults on British bases had been rebuffed. One Taliban authority noted: "We have propelled assaults in Sangin and in Sarwan Kala (Sarevan Qaleh) ... We have requests to assault the British all over the place." When the primary Taliban retreat from Musa Qala happened battling proceeded somewhere else: on the eleventh and twelfth, withdrawing Taliban activists assaulted an administration focus in Sangin. They were rebuffed with 50 murdered, as indicated by the Afghan Defense Ministry. American, British, and other NATO exceptional powers were explicitly sent to keep the Taliban from pulling back north into Baghran District, and east into Orūzgān Province, their conventional shelter. 

English officers communicated fulfillment that Musa Qala had been recovered with no big guns shells or bombs hitting the town itself. Notwithstanding, they recognized that the Taliban had not been authoritatively vanquished and would most likely "have another go" in the zone. Taliban warriors were accepted to have converged once again into the nearby rustic populace after the thrashing, their customary dress giving basic spread. In the days after the fight, counter-assaults on the town were viewed as likely and alliance authorities proposed continued barrier would be vital; British powers intend to fortify Musa Qala yet have accentuated that future safeguard of the town will be to a great extent Afghan controlled. The hopeful picture of Afghan ability exhibited by ISAF order has been tested. A correspondent on the ground, composing for "The Times", noticed that the Afghan powers "could scarcely work without NATO's assurance and NATO needed to coax them to push ahead". 

English Prime Minister Gordon Brown was in Helmand at the season of the attack, visiting troops at Camp Bastion. He proposed accomplishment at Musa Qala would give a stage toward Afghan harmony and guaranteed proceeded with recreation help. Alliance and Afghan government plans incorporate the development of a neighborhood mosque, the modifying of a region focus, police structures, schools, and the fix of the power framework. The legislative head of Helmand, Assadullah Wafa, said a designation would visit Musa Qala to appropriate 5,000 tons of help to returning regular people in the quick fallout of the fight. On 26 December, engineers from 69 Gurkha Field Squadron, 36 Engineer Regiment moved into Musa Qala and began reconstructing the area focus. Their undertaking incorporates the development of a border fence made of Hesco bastions, and sangars (watchtowers) made of sandbags. 

Different Taliban supplies were seized by alliance powers following the fight. On 13 December, British and Afghan armed force units found bomb manufacturing plants and weapons stores as they moved further into the edges of Musa Qala and looked Taliban positions. In the meantime, the primary regular people began to come back to the zone, some with reports of Taliban disciplines and claims of dynamic Pakistani and Arab jihadis. Another introduction of British technique in Helmand is to utilize military power to control the impact of neighborhood tranquilize noblemen, whose exchange underpins the guerillas. On 16 December, British troops consumed an expected £150 to £200 million worth of heroin that had been found in a medication manufacturing plant and different structures in Musa Qala. 

The key reason for controlling Musa Qala is both to crush Taliban activities in south-western Afghanistan and to fill in as an image of Afghan National Army and ISAF quality; the town had taken on notorious extents, as indicated by British authorities. The Taliban, be that as it may, keep on getting a charge out of noteworthy non military personnel support in spite of their monstrosities and the more extensive battle to prevail upon the area stays troublesome. Troop deficiencies have made it troublesome for NATO to hold regions seized from the Taliban in southern Afghanistan. 

Non military personnel come back to the town was moderate, with shops still covered on 16 December. Regular citizen loss reports were clashing: one occupant guaranteed 15 dead bodies lay in a solitary road and another that his family were dead under rubble. The alliance rejected such cases, conceding just that two kids had been harmed, and potentially murdered, when a vehicle driving at high speeds towards ISAF troops amid the fight toppled when the driver was shot dead. 

Alliance and Afghan experts proceeded with their endeavors to prevail upon Taliban sympathizers. Anyway a "miscommunication between experts" made some pressure. In late December, two western negotiators were removed from Afghanistan. Representative Assadullah Wafa blamed them for holding mystery chats with the Taliban and proposing rewards to them; the mystery talks were denied as a misconception by an UN representative. In January 2008, Mullah Abdul Salaam was selected legislative leader of Musa Qala region by the Afghan government, a motion that was planned to urge other Taliban administrators to change sides. 

News reports referenced various Taliban administrators having taken an interest in the Battle of Musa Qala, many revealed executed or caught: