Valston Hancock 

Air Marshal Sir Valston Eldridge (Val) Hancock, (31 May 1907 – 29 September 1998) was a senior officer in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). He filled in as Chief of the Air Staff from 1961 to 1965. An alum of the Royal Military College, Duntroon, Hancock exchanged to the RAAF in 1929 and qualified as a pilot. His regulatory preparing at Duntroon saw him principally involve staff posts, including Deputy Director of Operations and Intelligence at RAAF Headquarters from 1931 to 1935, and Director of Works and Buildings from 1937 to 1939. Amid the early long stretches of World War II, he instructed No. 1 Bombing and Gunnery School, and held senior arranging and regulatory positions. He in the end observed battle in the Aitape– Wewak crusade of the Pacific War amid 1945. Flying Bristol Beaufort light planes, he drove first No. 100 Squadron, and later No. 71 Wing. His activities earned him the Distinguished Flying Cross. 

After the war, Hancock turned into the debut commandant of RAAF College. His resulting positions included Deputy Chief of the Air Staff from 1951 to 1953, Air Member for Personnel from 1953 to 1955, and Air Officer Commanding (AOC) No. 224 Group RAF in Malaya, in charge of all Commonwealth aviation based armed forces in the district, from 1957 to 1959. Selected a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1958, he filled in as AOC RAAF Operational Command from 1959 to 1961, preceding being elevated to air marshal and initiating his term as Chief of the Air Staff. He was knighted in 1962. In his job as the Air Force's senior officer, Hancock started redevelopment of RAAF Base Learmonth in north Western Australia, as a component of a chain of forward landing strips for the guard of the landmass. He likewise assessed potential trades for the RAAF's English Electric Canberra plane, choosing the American "TFX" (later the General Dynamics F-111) as the most reasonable for Australia's needs, however he didn't prescribe its prompt buy because of its beginning period of advancement. After his retirement from the military in May 1965, Hancock helped to establish the Australia Defense Association. He kicked the bucket in 1998, matured 91. 

Hancock was conceived on 31 May 1907 in Perth, Western Australia, and instructed at Hale School in Wembley Downs. He was the senior cousin of future mining head honcho Lang Hancock. Val Hancock entered the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in 1925 and graduated as senior cadet in 1928, gaining the Sword of Honor. His favored profession way in the military was designing, and it was just when he discovered that there was no opening in his corps of decision, and that he had rather been reserved for the mounted guns, that he put his name forward for exchange to the Royal Australian Air Force. He enrolled in the RAAF on 1 February 1929, and embraced flying guidance at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria, soon thereafter. 

Hancock's underlying postings subsequent to qualifying as a pilot were to Nos. 1 and 3 Squadrons. It was, in any case, basic practice for Duntroon graduates to be given staff positions in the Air Force on account of their preparation in organization, and Hancock was no special case. He burned through the greater part of the 1930s in a progression of posts at RAAF Headquarters in Melbourne. From 1931 to 1935, he filled in as Deputy Director of Operations and Intelligence. He wedded Joan Butler on 26 May 1932; the couple had two children and a little girl. By 1935, Hancock had been elevated to flight lieutenant and delegated Staff Officer to the Chief of the Air Staff. In 1937 he was presented on Britain to go to the RAF Staff College, Andover. Like other Commonwealth flying corps, the RAAF kept up close innovative and instructive ties with the Royal Air Force, and Hancock was one of 30 Australian officers to go through Andover before the episode of World War II. Coming back to Australia in 1938, he was elevated to squadron pioneer and moved toward becoming Director of Works and Buildings, regularly known as "Works and Bricks", at RAAF Headquarters. 

In March 1940, Hancock's Directorate of Works and Buildings was exchanged from the workplace of the Chief of the Air Staff to the recently shaped Organization and Equipment Branch under Air Marshal Richard Williams. Considered a key piece of the Air Force's extension amid the early piece of World War II, "Works and Bricks" immediately consumed all staff with structural designing and building background in the RAAF dynamic hold. As Director, Hancock was in charge of looking over and building up a military aerodrome at Evans Head, close to the Queensland and New South Wales outskirt, which ended up home to No. 1 Bombing and Gunnery School (No. 1 BAGS). Elevated to wing leader, he held direction of No. 1 BAGS, working Fairey Battle single-engined aircraft, from August 1940 until November 1941. He was elevated to acting gathering commander in April 1941. Delegated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) on 1 January 1942, Hancock ended up Assistant Director of Plans at Allied Air Forces Headquarters, South West Pacific Area, that April. He was made Director of Arrangements at the Air Force's primary operational development, RAAF Command, when it was set up in September. In 1943– 44, he filled in as Staff Officer Administration for Western Area Command, which kept up two plane squadrons for hostile to submarine watches and two warrior squadrons to make preparations for conceivable assault on the territory by Japanese transporter borne air ship. 

Hancock at long last accomplished a battle order in January 1945, when he assumed responsibility for No. 100 Squadron, flying Bristol Beaufort light planes amid the Aitape-Wewak crusade in New Guinea. That month, the unit assaulted Japanese positions at Maprik, underneath the Prince Alexander Ranges, and Cape Moem, close Wewak. On 1 April, Hancock took over No. 71 Wing, which went under generally speaking control of RAAF Northern Command and ostensibly included Nos. 7, 8 and 100 Beaufort Squadrons, just as a trip of CAC Boomerang contender aircraft from No. 4 (Army Cooperation) Squadron. It was before long expanded by two more Beaufort units, Nos. 6 and 15 Squadrons. Giving close air backing to Australian ground troops in the number one spot up to the last attack on Wewak, the wing flew more than 1,400 fights and dropped in excess of 1,200 tons of bombs in May alone. By mid-year, Hancock's powers were intensely shy of fuel and weapons, to the degree that his squadrons took to equipping their Beauforts with caught Japanese bombs. In July, enough supplies landed to empower the wing to keep working at ordinary quality. No. 71 Wing was dynamic to the absolute a day ago of the Pacific War, flying its last battle mission including 30 Beauforts just hours before updates on triumph landed on 15 August 1945. Hancock's "recognized flying on tasks in Northern Command" earned him the Distinguished Flying Cross; the honor was distributed in the "London Gazette" on 22 February 1946. 

Among a little circle of wartime RAAF commandants thought about appropriate for future senior jobs, Hancock held his position of gathering chief after the finish of threats. As Director of Personnel Services amid 1946, he was associated with rebuilding the Air Force into a significantly littler peacetime administration. He reviewed this time as a "dusk period" when "nobody needed to think about us" and numerous great individuals were given up because of the administration's miserly maintenance approaches. In 1947, Hancock was elevated to air commodore and selected debut commandant of the recently framed RAAF College, Point Cook, the Air Force's likeness Duntroon and the Royal Australian Naval College. He additionally drafted the organization's sanction. Withdrawing in late 1949, he spent the next year in Britain, where he went to the Imperial Defense College. On his arrival to Australia in 1951, he was elevated to acting air bad habit marshal and made Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. He was raised to a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1953 New Years Honors. In October that year, Hancock took over from Air Vice Marshal Frank Bladin as Air Member for Personnel (AMP). As AMP, he involved a seat reporting in real time Board, the administration's controlling body that comprised of its most senior officers and which was led by the Chief of the Air Staff. Finishing his term in January 1955, Hancock was presented on Britain as Head of the Australian Joint Services Staff in London. He spent a great part of the last 50% of 1955 and mid 1956 disappeared by a stomach sickness that was at first analyzed as amoebic loose bowels however was later idea to be Malta fever or intestinal sickness. 

In March 1957, Hancock was one of three competitors, alongside Air Vice Marshals Frederick Scherger and Allan Walters, touted as conceivable successors to Air Marshal Sir John McCauley as Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), the RAAF's senior position. Scherger picked up determination, and Hancock was presented in June on Malaya as Air Officer Commanding (AOC) No. 224 Group RAF, in charge of all Commonwealth aviation based armed forces in the district. Despite the fact that critical in appearance and a severe teetotaller, he was known for his excitement in meeting staff and as "a tireless member in chaos capacities and recreations". He additionally tried getting out to units in the field, accepting each open door to fly himself around his order. For his "recognized administration in Malaya", Hancock was designated a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) on 9 December 1958. He came back to Australia in July 1959 to fill in as AOC Operational Command (presently Air Command). At the point when Scherger's term as CAS was because of complete, Hancock and Walters were yet again advanced to the Minister for Air as potential substitutions. His "proficient capacity, operational experience and individual characteristics" being regarded increasingly proper for the job, Hancock was elevated to air marshal and took over as CAS in May 1961. In June, he met with his contrary numbers in the Army and Navy at a Chiefs of Staff Committee gathering to talk about the need of Australia securing atomic weapons; the boss concurred that the likelihood such a capacity would be required was remote however that it ought to remain a choice in specific situations, a position the guard powers kept up amid the resulting decade. He was designated a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in the 1962 Queen's Birthday Honors, gazetted on 2 June. 

As CAS, Hancock attempted to upgrade the RAAF's obstacle capacity in the Pacific locale, especially in light of uplifted pressures with Indonesia amid its time of "Konfrontasi" with Malaysia. In June 1963, Hancock embraced a mission to Britain, France and the United States to consider potential trades for the English Electric Canberra plane as Australia's prime flying strike stage. In the wake of exploring the US "TFX", North American A-5 Vigilante and McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II, the British BAC TSR-2, and the French Dassault Mirage IV, Hancock chose that the swing-wing TFX, precursor of the General Dynamics F-111, would be the flying machine most appropriate for this job. Be that as it may, as the TFX had not yet flown, he prescribed buy of the effectively operational Vigilante to neutralize an apparent impending danger from Indonesia. In the occasion, the Federal Government did not proceed with a prompt substitution for the Canberra, and Hancock's unique decision of the TFX was taken up as a long haul arrangement, prompting Australia's understanding in October to buy the F-111C. That month, as "Konfrontasi" kept on stewing, Hancock endorsed rearrangements to the tenets of commitment for Australian CAC Saber warriors based at RAAF Butterworth to draw in and crush Indonesian airplane disregarding Malay air space. The next month he encouraged utilizing RAAF Canberras from Butterworth to make pre-emptive strikes against Indonesian air bases, in countering for invasions into West Malaysia, however Britain, which had at first mentioned Australia's inclusion, kept down on activity. 

When the F-111 had been requested, Hancock looked for an appropriate forward landing strip from which they could work. In this, he proceeded with a strategy started by his forerunner as CAS, Air Marshal Scherger, of building up a chain of alleged "uncovered bases" in Northern Australia. Hancock prescribed redeveloping RAAF Base Learmonth in the northern piece of Western Australia, because of its nearness to Indonesia. Flying out of this runway, the F-111s could crush "fundamental focuses in Java"; similarly as vitally for prevention purposes, Hancock battled, improving the base's ability would send a reasonable message to Indonesia's pecking order. Despite the fact that the undertaking was deferred, to some degree because of defrosting in relations among Australia and Indonesia, Learmonth's redesign was finished in 1973, that year that the F-111 at long last entered RAAF administration. The last piece of Hancock's visit as CAS corresponded with the start of substantial scale Australian contribution in the Vietnam War. By mid-1964, the Commonwealth had officially sent a little group of military counsels, in addition to a unit of recently procured DHC-4 Caribou load planes, to the area in line with the South Vietnamese government. Under Hancock, the Caribou had itself just been reluctantly requested by the Air Force following extreme weight from the Army and the Federal government for a STOL transport. Worried at the potential channel on the RAAF's assets, Hancock endeavored to oppose calls for duties to Vietnam. His negative perspectives were rather than the hawkish mentalities of his delegate, Air Vice Marshal Colin Hannah, and Air Chief Marshal Scherger, presently Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee and Australia's senior officer. In April 1965, as a major aspect of American activities in Indochina, United States Air Force strike airplane took up home at Ubon Air Force Base, Thailand, which since 1962 had been home to No. 79 Squadron Sabers and kept running by the RAAF under SEATO plans. Hancock recommended that Australia keep on directing the office and give nearby air protection, however this viably made the Sabers a help unit in the war exertion and subsequently potential focuses of North Vietnamese assault; in the occasion, none happened. 

Hancock resigned from the Air Force in May 1965 in the wake of finishing his term as CAS, which the administration had stretched out for a year past its unique three years. Having pursued two individual Royal Military College graduates—McCauley and Scherger—in the job, he was prevailing by another previous Duntroon cadet, Alister Murdoch. Hancock's name was advanced as a successor to Scherger when the last's term as Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee finished in May 1966, however Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies favored General Sir John Wilton for the position. Later that year, Hancock took over as Commissioner-General for Australia at Expo 67 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, following the abrupt demise of the past nominee, Vice Admiral Sir Hastings Harrington. In 1975, incited to some degree by the fall of Saigon in April that year, Hancock helped to establish the Australia Defense Association as a free research organization for guard matters, and led its Western Australian part. He was additionally dynamic in the Royal Commonwealth Society, and distributed a collection of memoirs, "Challenge", in 1990. Hancock kept on flying in retirement, joining his cousin Lang, additionally a pilot, in advancing the Pilbara mining area. Val Hancock kicked the bucket in Perth on 29 September 1998, and was made due by his significant other and three kids. He is remembered by Sir Valston Hancock Drive at Evans Head.