As yet Reigning 

As yet Reigning is a live act DVD by the whip metal band Slayer, discharged in 2004 through American Recordings. Recorded at the Augusta Civic Center on July 11, 2004, the execution features Slayer's 1986 collection, "Reign in Blood", played completely with the four unique band individuals on a set taking after their 1986 "Reign in Pain" visit. "As yet Reigning" was casted a ballot "best live DVD" by the perusers of "Gun" magazine, and got gold affirmation in 2005. 

The DVD is remarkable for the finale, which highlights Slayer canvassed in stage blood while playing out the melody "Drizzling Blood", prompting a requesting blending process tormented by generation and specialized challenges. The DVD's maker Kevin Shirley invested hours supplanting cymbal and drum hits one-by-one. He freely broadcast monetary contradictions he had with the band and censured the nature of the chronicle, and therefore was supposedly exposed to dangers and affront from individuals related with the band. 

"Reign in Blood" was discharged in 1986 and was Slayer's first collection to enter the "Bulletin" 200—at 94—and their first to be granted gold accreditation. Music commentators lauded the collection; "Kerrang!" portrayed it as the "heaviest collection ever", while Steve Huey of Allmusic composed that the collection was an "undeniable great". The positive gathering prompted the band's European operator John Jackson, to recommend that the band play "Reign in Blood" completely on the Jägermeister voyage through 2003 and 2004, under the visit standard "As yet Reigning". Unique drummer Dave Lombardo, who recorded drums on the collection, re-joined the band in 2001, in the wake of leaving in 1991. This impacted the band's choice to play the collection completely, as they had the first individuals and all individuals see the collection as a high-point in their profession. The band would enter the chronicle studio to record their next collection ("Christ Illusion"). Be that as it may, the band's maker Rick Rubin demanded the band not enter the chronicle studio because of issues among himself and the band's record name, American Recordings. The band's supervisor proposed they record an exhibition of one of the Jägermeister shows and discharge it on a DVD — the band concurred. 

The last track of the DVD, "Down-pouring Blood", comes full circle with the band doused by stage blood. Guitarist Jeff Hanneman concocted the possibility of the blood two years after "Reign in Blood's" discharge, yet the band came up short on the financing to do as such. The start of the film "Cutting edge" (discharged in 1998) highlights a "bloodbath" with vampires moving in a club with blood originating from the rooftop by means of a sprinkler framework. The scene restored Jeff Hanneman and guitarist Kerry King's advantage, and since the band discharged a DVD the earlier year — "War at the Warfield" — they chose to include something other than what's expected for the new DVD — sprinkling blood. Lord affirmed that since Lombardo was not on the past DVD, this one would have been vital. Because of the short length of the DVD, chief Dean Karr picked an extra reward six tunes from a similar show as he suspected certain individuals exceeded expectations in the exhibitions. 

"As yet Reigning" was recorded at the Augusta Civic Center in Augusta, Maine on July 11, 2004, preceding the 2004 Ozzfest. A ten-man camera team under the heading of Dean Karr was close by to report the show, behind the stage activity, and selective meetings inside the band's visit transport. The meeting, "Slayer: In their very own words", is a seventeen-minute piece which includes the band discussing their initial years, impacts, composing verses, Lombardo's arrival, and the band's inevitable retirement. At a certain point Lombardo rejected the likelihood of a future "farewell visit" for Slayer, and states if the band acknowledge they have "lost a stage" they will "consider it daily". 

The stage was changed over to take after the band's 1986 "Reign in Pain" visit, which highlighted the Slayer falcon and transformed crosses as a major aspect of the lighting rig. The stage was altered to assimilate the "blood" and have it recycle down upon the band, which took into consideration simpler tidy up and brought down the opportunity of damage by slipping. The DVD was recorded in 1.85:1 video, which caused large scale blocking blunders, for example, associating and a dinky stage when completely lit, and the sound included English Dolby Digital 5.1 and 2.0 sound system, without any captions. 

Kevin Shirley, who has worked with the groups Iron Maiden and Dream Theater, delivered the DVD. He issued an announcement depicting the requesting blending process which occurred at his New York Studio: "It's OK — a few spots it shakes hard, and others are somewhat messy, however I'm certain they won't utilize the entire show. It was difficult to blend." The next day Shirley apologized for his "amateurish remark" towards the band, and modified his post on his own site to peruse: "The remainder of the week I wrapped up a live Slayer set for a DVD, in surround sound and encompass, and it's extraordinary — it shakes hard, however it was hard to blend." 

On September 30, 2006, Shirley issued a further proclamation asserting he had not been paid for his work, and had gotten dangers and affront from individuals related with the band: "I've quite recently blended an extremely great band with one of the most exceedingly terrible sounding chronicles ever. It's kinda offensive that they won't spend anything on a good chronicle! I won't state who, since keep going time I remarked on a messy account (on this page), they would not pay me and I got all way of dangers and abuse from individuals related with the band, so I'd best be peaceful!" 

The stage blood caused specialized challenges as it drenched the amplifier, guitars, and cymbals, which as indicated by Shirley seemed like "espresso cups being tapped with a spoon". An audit of the DVD saw that "If not for guitarist Jeff Hanneman being out of position and missing the majority of the blood, the guitar may have sounded truly terrible." Hanneman missed the underlying storm because of a specialized issue with his guitar, and was deluged by a light shower when returning in front of an audience. 

Shirley supplanted a large number of cymbal and drum hits with those utilized on past chronicles; the procedure took a few days to finish. In the wake of account the DVD, the band utilized a sprinkler framework with weakened water instead of a container with blood that resembled tar when recording the DVD. Ruler later commented, "My guitar didn't care for it, that was the last time I played it," and he gave it to the Hard Rock Cafe after the show. Vocalist Tom Araya felt the equivalent and conceded; "It was untidy. I couldn't play on the grounds that the underlying dump toward the start of the tune got all over me. I couldn't hold my pick. I was slapping my bass attempting to receive sound in return." 

"As yet Reigning" appeared on the "Announcement" DVD diagram at number seven — selling 9,813 duplicates. It turned into the band's second DVD to get gold affirmation on July 20, 2005, after "War at the Warfield", which got gold accreditation a year sooner for deals more than 50,000. The perusers of "Gun" magazine casted a ballot it "best live DVD" in 2005, making it the second back to back year the band beat the classification. 

Slayer got a positive gathering when performing at the Augusta Civic Center. On completing a large portion of the set rundown, the band quickly left the stage and came back to play the 28-minute collection, "Reign in Blood" as a reprise. On the last tune, "Sprinkling Blood" the lights were killed and Slayer individuals were deluged by two cans of stage blood. As per King, the group went calm for a couple of moments until they understood the blood was a piece of the show. Lord thought Araya resembled a crazy mass killer, which added to the group's response. Following the two vast drops, organize blood blended with water was utilized so it appeared as though it was "down-pouring blood". 

Andy Patrizio of IGN granted the DVD six out of ten remarking, "Tom Araya lost his penetrating scream that opens 'Heavenly attendant of Death' and the finish of 'Necrophobic'", lauding Lombardo's arrival by saying the drummer "...hasn't lost a stage by any means. With scarcely any breathing time between tunes, the underground drum legend demonstrates that an approaching 40th birthday celebration (one month from now) won't back him off." Patrizio expressed the generation was not of the most elevated bore, as the fast "MTV-style" cuts were diverting, similar to the change from highly contrasting to shading shots. Patrizio finished the survey with the remark, "This is the thing that you get for letting Uwe Boll direct your music video", Boll being a vigorously censured movie executive.