2005 ACC Championship Game 

The 2005 Dr. Pepper ACC Championship Game was the debut challenge of the diversion. It was a standard season finishing American school football challenge at Jacksonville Municipal Stadium in Jacksonville, Florida between the Virginia Tech Hokies and the Florida State Seminoles. The amusement chose the victor of the Atlantic Coast Conference football title. Florida State University (FSU) vanquished Virginia Tech 27– 22 of every an amusement described by punishments, resistance, and a final quarter rebound endeavor by Virginia Tech. The amusement was the last challenge of the standard season for the two groups, as bowl diversions are not viewed as a component of the customary season. Furthermore, the challenge denoted the debut title diversion for the as of late extended meeting. 

Virginia Tech entered the 2005 season having won the 2004 ACC Championship, the last to be granted without playing a title diversion toward the finish of the period. Tech won its initial eight diversions and seemed, by all accounts, to be on course to have an untroubled hurried to the ACC Championship Game. Be that as it may, against the fifth-positioned Miami Hurricanes, Tech endured its first annihilation of the period, losing 27– 7 on November 5. Since each group had one ACC misfortune (Miami had recently lost to Florida State) and the Hurricanes had the attach breaking no holds barred win, Miami had the lead in the Coastal Division. In any case, Miami later lost a second ACC amusement to the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets, and the Hurricanes were thumped out of dispute for the Coastal Division title for the Hokies, who lost just to Miami. 

Florida State earned its offer to the ACC Championship amusement by battling through an Atlantic Division plan that incorporated a few broadly positioned groups. In the wake of vanquishing ninth-positioned Miami in their opening challenge, the Seminoles won their next four diversions before losing at Virginia in a nearby match. Extra misfortunes to North Carolina State and Clemson toward the finish of the period nearly dispensed with the Seminoles from dispute for a spot in the title amusement, yet misfortunes by Clemson and the other Atlantic Division pioneers gave the Seminoles another opportunity and set up an ACC Championship diversion between Florida State and Virginia Tech. The two groups had recently played in the 2000 National Championship Game, and the rematch filled in as a point of open intrigue. 

The initial two fourth of the diversion were portrayed by safeguard and punishments that smothered the two groups' offenses. In the second half, Florida State exploited a punt return for a touchdown to start a second from last quarter flood. Despite the fact that Virginia Tech made a late-amusement rebound, Florida State ran out the clock and verified a 27– 22 triumph. Florida State's success earned it the 2005 ACC Championship and an offer to the 2006 Orange Bowl against Penn State. Virginia Tech was granted an offer to the 2006 Gator Bowl against Louisville. Following that diversion, Tech quarterback Marcus Vick was discharged from the group because of rehashed infringement of group rules and a few legitimate infractions. 

The ACC Championship Game customarily coordinates the victor of the Coastal and Atlantic Divisions of the Atlantic Coast Conference. Preceding 2005, no title amusement existed. The thought for a title amusement started with the group's 2004 expansion, which included previous Big East individuals Miami, Virginia Tech, and (in 2005) Boston College. A solicitation to the National Collegiate Athletic Association by meeting authorities to hold a title diversion following the 2004 season was rejected in light of the fact that the ACC came up short on the essential 12 teams, thus the class' first title amusement needed to hold up until after Boston College's expansion, which had been postponed by a year. With the expansion of Boston College, the ACC comprised of 12 groups, enabling it to hold a meeting title diversion under NCAA rules. Prior to the beginning of the 2005 season, both Virginia Tech and Florida State were picked as pre-season top picks to play in the title amusement in a yearly survey directed by individuals from the media who spread the ACC. 

The Hokies started the 2005 standard season positioned eighth in the nation, and played their first diversion at ACC adversary North Carolina State. It was a nearby battled amusement, yet quarterback Marcus Vick tossed a diversion winning touchdown from the get-go in the final quarter and the safeguard impeded a late NC State rally as Virginia Tech earned a 20– 16 win. Following the narrow escape against NC State, the Hokies extinguished their next a few rivals. Virginia Tech crushed Duke and Ohio by scores of 45– 0 each. The Virginia Tech protection held Duke's offense to simply 35 total yards, a NCAA record. Following those triumphs, Tech facilitated fifteenth positioned Georgia Tech, beating the Yellow Jackets by a score of 51– 7. Tech's protective achievement in those recreations was common of the period as Virginia Tech won the initial eight rounds of its season. 

In their ninth diversion, nonetheless, third-positioned Virginia Tech endured its first misfortune. On a Thursday night diversion at home, the Hokies lost 27– 7 to the fifth-positioned Miami Hurricanes. Regularly, a misfortune to the division-rival Hurricanes would have thumped the Hokies out of conflict for the ACC Championship Game, as Miami had the attach breaking straight on triumph and was required to win the rest of its amusements. But since Virginia Tech won the remainder of its amusements and the Hurricanes lost two ACC challenges, (Virginia Tech's solitary ACC misfortune was to Miami) the Hokies won the Coastal Division title and met all requirements for the title diversion over Miami. 

The Seminoles, similar to Virginia Tech, were picked as pre-season top choices to win their division. Florida State opened its 2005 season against customary opponent Miami, positioned ninth in the nation. In a cautious battle, Florida State figured out how to annoy the favored Hurricanes, 10– 7. Following the triumph, Florida State went on a four-amusement series of wins, crushing Syracuse, Boston College, Wake Forest, and The Citadel in transit to a 5– 0 record. 

In the Seminoles' 6th round of the period, they ventured out to Charlottesville, Virginia to confront the Virginia Cavaliers. In a hard-battled amusement, the Seminoles lost, 26– 21, procuring their first loss of the period. In the wake of winning their next two recreations, Florida State lost to NC State, Clemson, and nineteenth positioned Florida, the first occasion when they had three continuous misfortunes since 1983. Florida State finished the customary season with a meeting record of 5– 3, but since one of those misfortunes had been against a Coastal Division rival, Florida State completed with the best Atlantic Division record and was named that division's delegate to the ACC Championship Game. 

Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick was anticipated to be the key player for the favored Virginia Tech Hokies in pregame dialog. Vick had driven the Hokies to a fifth spot national positioning and an offense that earned 610 rushing yards in the last two rounds of the normal season. Off the field, the matchup between head mentors additionally was a point of intrigue. At the time, Florida State head mentor Bobby Bowden had the most successes of any dynamic head mentor in school football, while Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer was positioned third. Beamer had never crushed Bowden in an amusement. Prior to the amusement, Beamer was named the ACC's 2005 Coach of the Year for the second sequential year. 

Also, the amusement was a rematch of the 2000 BCS National Championship Game. In that amusement, held in New Orleans, Louisiana, Florida State crushed Virginia Tech 46– 29 in spite of the execution of Hokie quarterback Michael Vick, who might later be chosen as the primary by and large pick in the 2001 NFL Draft. Vick's sibling, Marcus, would be the Hokies' starter at quarterback for the 2005 ACC Championship Game. 

The Virginia Tech offense was driven by quarterback Marcus Vick, sibling of previous Tech elite player Michael Vick. Falling off a season-long suspension in 2004, Vick tossed for 1,855 yards, nine interceptions in the 2005 season paving the way to the ACC Championship. Vick likewise kept running for four touchdowns amid the season and earned first-group All-ACC praises. Accepting Vick's passes were various wide collectors and tight closures. Tight end Jeff King, a second-group All-ACC choice, had 20 receptions for five touchdowns for the season before the ACC Championship. Wide recipients Eddie Royal and David Clowney additionally had measurably critical seasons heading into the gathering title. Illustrious had 21 catches for two touchdowns amid the normal season, while Clowney had 28 catches for three touchdowns. 

Virginia Tech's hurrying offense was driven by a few diverse running backs: Mike Imoh, Branden Ore, and Cedric Humes. In 2005, Hokie running back Cedric Humes had amassed a vocation high two touchdowns against North Carolina in the Hokies' last standard season diversion. Reinforcement running back Branden Ore kept running for 104 yards and a touchdown on 17 attempts, the second time in the same number of diversions that Humes and Ore kept running for 100 yards or more in a similar amusement. The Hokies ran 31 times in the second half and tossed just two passes. A comparative running diversion was anticipated for the ACC Championship Game. Imoh, in the interim, was restricted by a lower leg damage endured over the span of the period. Heading into the gathering title diversion, he had scrambled for three touchdowns. 

The day preceding the diversion, Florida State focus David Castillo was named to the ESPN the Magazine Academic All-America Second Team, which perceives school football players who have made scholastic progress. Journalists and staff members at the magazine vote on a rundown of players, which is isolated into "groups" in view of position and execution. Castillo, who was a key segment of the Seminoles' hostile line, was additionally a finalist for the Draddy Trophy, casually known as the "scholastic Heisman". 

FSU quarterback Drew Weatherford recorded a factually great year and was the top first year recruit quarterback in the country as far as passing yardage and passing touchdowns. Wide recipients Willie Reid, Greg Carr and Chris Davis were the essential recipients of Weatherford's passing offense amid the 2005 season. Carr, a rookie, got 27 passes for 593 yards and a gathering driving nine touchdowns. Davis, a lesser, got more passes and recorded more getting yards amid the 2005 season than he had in the two his past seasons joined. Reid, the solitary senior beginning in the Florida State corps of wide collectors, played in an assortment of positions on offense and held the Seminoles' group record for most punt return yardage. 

The Seminoles' surging offense was driven by beginning running backs Leon Washington and Lorenzo Booker. Booker drove the group in surging yardage, hurrying endeavors, hurrying touchdowns, and normal yards per amusement. Washington was the tenth-positioned rusher in Florida State history as far as surging yardage. 

Heading into the ACC Championship diversion, the Virginia Tech barrier was positioned first in the country for absolute protection and scoring resistance. In pass guard, the Hokies were second in the country, permitting a normal of simply 88.38 yards a diversion. ACC rival Miami was first, permitting simply 84.57 yards per amusement all things considered. 

On the field, the Tech safeguard was captained by wellbeing Justin Hamilton, who recorded three interceptions amid the 2005 season. On edge line, Tech's most huge protective players were cautious closures Chris Ellis and Darryl Tapp. Tapp, an All-ACC determination, recorded 41 tackles (counting nine sacks), three forced bumbles, and a blocked field objective. Ellis recorded guarded MVP respects for the Hokies' first-positioned resistance. At linebacker, the Hokies began Vince Hall and Xavier Adibi. Corridor, a second-group All-ACC entertainer, drove the group in handles and restored a bobble and an interference for a touchdown amid the standard season. Adibi recorded 61 tackles amid the season, having recuperated from a torn muscle endured amid the 2004 season. 

On protection, the Seminoles were driven on edge line by nose monitor Brodrick Bunkley, who positioned among Florida State's chronicled pioneers in handles for misfortune. Additionally on edge line was protective end Kamerion Wimbley, who was among the ACC's heads in recorded sacks. At linebacker, the Seminoles had A.J. Nicholson, who was a semifinalist for the Butkus Award, generally given to the best linebacker in school football. 

Before the finish of the 2005 season, the Seminoles recorded five blocked kicks, 12 captures, and in excess of 1,000 handles. The Seminoles completed the season positioned twelfth in surging protection and fourteenth in all out guard. 

The 2005 ACC Championship Game commenced in Jacksonville, Florida at 8:11 p.m. on December 3, 2005. The diversion was broadcast on ABC in the United States, and earned a Nielsen rating of 5.1, higher than that of either the Big 12 Championship Game or the Southeastern Conference Championship Game. Brent Musburger, Jack Arute, and Gary Danielson were the telecasters for the diversion. At kickoff, the climate was for the most part shady with an air temperature of  degrees. Around 72,429 fans were available at the diversion, however in excess of 75,000 tickets had been sold. Virginia Tech won the pre-amusement coin hurl, yet chose to concede its decision to the second half, constraining Florida State to have the ball on offense to start the diversion. 

Florida State got the ball to start the diversion, and restored the opening kickoff to its 19-yard line. In his opening drive, Seminoles quarterback Drew Weatherford finished a few long passes, including a long 37-yard strike from his own 48-yard line to drive the Seminoles' offense inside the Virginia Tech red zone. Once there, be that as it may, the Florida State offense started to battle with the Virginia Tech guard, which had recouped to some degree from the underlying stun of Weatherford's hostile achievement. On the three plays that pursued Weatherford's 37-yard pass, Florida State oversaw just six positive yards, yet this all out was to a great extent invalidated by a five-yard false begin punishment that pushed FSU's offense in reverse. Confronting a fourth down, Florida State mentor Bobby Bowden sent in kicker Gary Cismesia to endeavor a 31-yard field objective. The kick was effective, and the three gave Florida State a mid 3– 0 lead with 11:06 staying in the quarter. 

Virginia Tech's first ownership of the diversion started at its 15-yard line after the Florida State kickoff. Hokie quarterback Marcus Vick finished his first go of the amusement, a nine-yard hurl to Eddie Royal, and the Hokies grabbed a first down on the following play. From that point, in any case, things started to go downhill for the Virginia Tech offense. Vick was sacked on the following play, running back Cedric Humes was handled for a five-yard misfortune, and the Hokies submitted a five-yard false begin punishment. The miscues kept Virginia Tech from increasing another first down, and the Hokies were compelled to punt the ball away. Florida State recuperated the kick at the 50-yard line and started its second hostile ownership of the amusement. Despite the fact that Weatherford finished his first go of the drive, both ensuing passes fell inadequate. The Seminoles punted the ball back to Virginia Tech, and the kick folded into the end zone for a touchback. 

The Florida State touchback permitted Vick to begin at his 20-yard line for Virginia Tech's second ownership of the amusement. The ownership started no superior to the first, as Virginia Tech submitted a 10-yard holding punishment on the principal play. On resulting plays, nonetheless, the Hokie offense started to move the ball with progress. Vick finished a 12-yard go to wide beneficiary Eddie Royal, and the offense was supported by a 15-yard Florida State punishment, which gave the Hokies a programmed first down. Following the first down, Vick finished the principal enormous Virginia Tech play of the amusement, tossing the ball 35 yards downfield to Justin Harper, who got it in Florida State an area. Two more plays drove Virginia Tech to the edge of the Florida State red zone, however a punishment and another sack kept the Hokies from propelling the ball further. Virginia Tech was compelled to send in kicker Brandon Pace to endeavor a 45-yard field objective. The kick was great, and Virginia Tech had tied the amusement 3– 3 with 1:00 staying in the quarter. 

Subsequent to accepting the post-field objective kickoff, the Florida State offense started another drive. After a fragmented pass and a short surge, Weatherford finished a 12-yard go for a first down as time lapsed in the quarter. After 15 minutes of play, the score was tied 3– 3, however Drew Weatherford had started driving Florida State offense down the field. 

Having earned a first down with the last play of the primary quarter, Drew Weatherford and the Florida State offense kept running into trouble as the second quarter started. A fragmented pass and a scramble for no addition were trailed by a bogus begin punishment and another inadequate pass, and Florida State was compelled to punt. Virginia Tech recouped the ball at its 26-yard line, however neglected to gain by the cautious stop. Marcus Vick tossed two deficient passes and was sacked before Virginia Tech was constrained into a punt. 

Following the punt, the two groups kept on exchanging assets all through the quarter. Barrier commanded, and what couple of huge plays happened were either killed by punishments or ceased by fragmented passes or scrambles for no addition. In the second quarter, Virginia Tech punted the ball twice and turned the ball over on downs once. Florida State punted the ball multiple times and had the ball when time ran out in the quarter. Neither one of the teams figured out how to score, and just twice did either group figure out how to enter into the adversary's region. At halftime, the score stayed tied, 3– 3. 

Since Florida State had gotten the amusement's opening kickoff, Virginia Tech got the ball to start the second half. As in the primary half, be that as it may, the Virginia Tech offense neglected to propel the ball in any important style. Marcus Vick tossed two inadequacies and running back Cedric Humes dealt with a short three-yard dash. Compelled to punt the ball away once more, Virginia Tech set up the amusement's basic play. From his 34-yard line, punter Nic Schmitt kicked the ball 49 yards to the Seminoles' Willie Reid, who got through the Virginia Tech extraordinary groups punt inclusion for a 89-yard punt-return touchdown. Reid's arrival was the primary touchdown of the amusement and the main touchdown in ACC Championship Game history. With 13:46 staying in the second from last quarter, Florida State had taken a 10– 3 lead. 

After the kickoff, the Hokie offense proceeded with the laziness that had portrayed its play in the primary half, as Mike Imoh was ceased for no or little increase on back to back plays before the Hokies were required a five-yard illicit technique punishment. On the following play, Florida State profited by the force it had picked up with Reid's punt-return touchdown as protector Pat Watkins captured Marcus Vick's pass, returning it to the FSU 44-yard line. Drew Weatherford and the Seminole offense, with the diversion's force immovably to support them, squandered no time growing their lead. Weatherford finished a 6-yard pass, at that point a 21-yard one, and was supported by a 15-yard facemask punishment against Virginia Tech. Somewhere inside Virginia Tech domain, the third play of the drive was a 14-yard touchdown surge by Leon Washington. The speed of the drive, after an about scoreless first half, baffled the Virginia Tech safeguard, which submitted a 15-yard individual foul after the touchdown. The scoring drive had taken only three plays and 54 seconds, and gave Florida State a 17– 3 lead with 10:23 staying in the quarter. 

Their dissatisfaction plainly obvious, the Virginia Tech offense fared no better on their next belonging. Two plays were halted for no addition, and the main positive play—a five-yard go to Eddie Royal—was nullified by a bogus begin punishment. The Hokies were again compelled to punt the ball away to Florida State, their fifth of the diversion. The punt permitted FSU to begin at their own 46-yard line, and at first, the Seminoles had the capacity to gain by that chance, appearing of the adequacy that portrayed their earlier drive. Lorenzo Booker kept running for 24 yards on two plays, however thereafter, Drew Weatherford tossed two deficiencies. A bogus begin punishment sponsored up the Seminoles, who were compelled to punt in the wake of neglecting to get the first down. The kick was a brilliant one, and Florida State's extraordinary groups had the capacity to get this show on the road downfield and stop the ball inside the Virginia Tech one-yard line, again harming the Hokie offense. 

In spite of the fact that hampered by the need to work inside his own end zone, Marcus Vick finished a 11-yard go to tight end Jeff King for a first down. The play was the sole positive addition for the VT offense, be that as it may, and Virginia Tech was constrained into its 6th punt of the diversion. The kick was a poor one, and voyaged just 28 yards before flying outside the field of play. Because of the awful kick, Weatherford had the capacity to begin his offense inside Virginia Tech region, and exploited the circumstance. On the principal play after the punt, Weatherford finished a 41-yard toss downfield to Willie Reid, who pulled in the ball at the Virginia Tech three-yard line to give the Seminoles a first and objective. After a fizzled quarterback sneak, in any case, Florida State was punished 10 yards for holding and Weatherford was sacked for lost three yards on the following play. Albeit unfit to cross the objective line for a touchdown, FSU sent in kicker Gary Cismesia for his second field objective endeavor of the day. The kick, a 41-yarder, was great and gave Florida State a 20– 3 lead with 4:23 staying in the second from last quarter. 

Following the kickoff, Virginia Tech's offense took the field severely expecting to chop down Florida State's lead so as to permit enough time for a final quarter rebound. This was not to be, be that as it may, as on the 6th play of the drive, wide recipient David Clowney mishandled the ball in the wake of getting a three-yard go from Marcus Vick. The ball was effectively recuperated by Florida State's Broderick Bunkley, subsequently giving Florida State another brilliant opportunity to score from somewhere inside Virginia Tech domain. On the second play after the bobble, quarterback Drew Weatherford associated on a 22-yard strike to Greg Carr to drive inside the Virginia Tech 10-yard line. A five-yard facemask punishment against Virginia Tech just added to the Hokies' protective issues, and two plays later, Weatherford topped the drive with a six-yard touchdown go to Chris Davis, extending the Florida State lead to 27– 3 with simply 18 seconds staying in the quarter. 

Toward the finish of the second from last quarter, any desire for triumph was apparently distant for Virginia Tech. Three speedy plays after the kickoff brought about a first down before time ran out, yet toward the finish of the second from last quarter, Florida State still had a 27– 3 lead. 

Virginia Tech started the final quarter possessing the ball and with a first down, yet trailing by 24 points and for all intents and purposes out of the diversion. The initial two plays of the final quarter were like what the Tech offense had appeared diversion: a fragmented pass and a scramble for no yards. On the third play, in any case, Florida State was punished 15 yards for having such a large number of players on the field, and Virginia Tech was granted a programmed first down. The punishment enabled the Hokie offense to proceed with its drive, and Marcus Vick mixed for 16 yards on the following play, at that point tossed a 28-yard go to wide collector Josh Morgan, who broke free for a touchdown. The score was Virginia Tech's first touchdown of the diversion, and accompanied 13:03 staying in the amusement. Following the touchdown, the Hokies endeavored a two-point transformation, yet Vick's pass missed the mark and the change endeavor fizzled. The score slice the Florida State lead to 27– 9, however this was as yet an extensive edge for the measure of time staying in the amusement. 

Florida State got the post-score kickoff simply expecting to rundown the clock to verify its lead and the success. Two complete leaves set behind a third-and-two for Drew Weatherford, yet his third-down pass missed the mark, ceasing the clock and driving a Florida State punt. One moment and a half had kept running off the clock, and Virginia Tech recouped the punt at its 22-yard line. On the second play after the punt, Florida State submitted a pass obstruction punishment that gave Virginia Tech 15 automatic yards and a first down. As in the past drive, the extra shot began the Virginia Tech offense. On the following play, Vick associated with Josh Morgan on a 50-yard pass—the longest hostile play of the diversion—that drove the Hokies to the Florida State nine-yard line. From that point onward, a Florida State holding punishment gave Virginia Tech a first-and-objective from inside the FSU five-yard line. Marcus Vick mixed four yards for the touchdown, and what had been a 24-point Seminole lead was currently sliced to 11 points. The drive had taken quite recently 55 seconds off the clock, and it gave the idea that Virginia Tech still got an opportunity to make it a nearby amusement. As previously, Virginia Tech endeavored a two-point change, and as previously, it fizzled. With 10:50 staying in the diversion, the score was currently Florida State 27, Virginia Tech 15. 

Florida State started work at its 30-yard line, again expecting to simply rundown the clock to guarantee triumph. As previously, nonetheless, Drew Weatherford got off the ground, tossing a two-yard pass. Two hurrying plays pursued, however were halted for little addition. Florida State again went three-and-out and needed to punt. More than two minutes had been kept running off the clock, and Virginia Tech took over at its own 30-yard line after a seven-yard kick return. In contrast to the two past drives, nonetheless, Virginia Tech had no accomplishment on offense. A 10-yard holding punishment drove the Hokie offense back to begin the drive, and quarterback Marcus Vick was sacked for a misfortune to complete off the Tech ownership. VT was compelled to punt the ball back to Florida State, which took over at its 43-yard line with 6:21 remaining. 

By this point in the diversion, Florida State was completely dedicated to running down the clock and executed three straight surging plays to keep the time running out. Virginia Tech was compelled to utilize two of its timeouts to stop the clock, yet was inevitably effective in constraining a Seminole punt. The kick moved inside the Virginia Tech 10-yard line before being brought down, sticking the Hokies somewhere down in their region. The primary play of Tech's drive was right around a fiasco for Virginia Tech, as Marcus Vick bobbled the ball while endeavoring to maintain a strategic distance from a sack. Luckily for the Hokies, the ball was jumped on by Tech's Duane Brown and the drive remained alive. Virginia Tech moved the ball downfield through the air with trouble. Because of the restricted time remaining, Virginia Tech was compelled to depend primarily on passing plays, which halted the clock when fragmented or were finished for a first down. A 14-yard go to Josh Morgan and a 10-yard toss to Cedric Humes moved the Hokies to their 47-yard line. Vick then finished a 19-yard go to Jeff King and Florida State submitted a 15-yard roughing the passer punishment on Marcus Vick, which was attached onto the finish of the play. After the punishment, Virginia Tech's offense was somewhere down in Florida State an area, and two plays later, Marcus Vick kept running into the end zone on a one-yard quarterback scramble. As opposed to endeavor another two-point transformation, the Hokies kicked the additional point, and with 1:44 residual, Virginia Tech had shut the hole to 27– 22. 

In a circumstance with additional time, Virginia Tech would have kicked the ball off to Florida State and sought after a cautious stop to give the offense a possibility for a diversion winning drive. With under two minutes remaining, in any case, and with Virginia Tech having utilized all its timeouts, the main shot for the Hokies was to endeavor a troublesome onside kick. An effective recuperation would give the Hokies another shot on offense. Kicker Brandon Pace teed up the ball, and kicked it advances, bobbing the ball high into the air to make a hop ball circumstance. Virginia Tech's Xavier Adibi recouped the ball, but since the kick had just voyage nine yards before the recuperation, the ball was granted to Florida State. NCAA decides express that an onside kick must go in any event 10 yards before the kicking group can legitimately contact the ball, and Pace's kick had not ventured to every part of the essential separation. 

Having recuperated the ball, and with Virginia Tech having no remaining timeouts and no real way to stop the clock, Florida State had the capacity to run out the rest of the time in the diversion and secure a 27– 22 triumph. Towards the finish of the amusement, players in each group acted with antagonistic vibe towards one another, and a few got individual foul punishments. The punishments had no impact on the ultimate result of the amusement, and Florida State won the ACC Championship Game and a programmed offer to the 2006 Orange Bowl. 

Because of his execution in driving Florida State to the success, FSU quarterback Drew Weatherford was named the amusement's Most Valuable Player. Weatherford completed the amusement having finished 21 of his 35 passes for 225 yards and one touchdown. Weatherford would in the end complete the season with 3,180 passing yards, the most at any point recorded by a first year recruit quarterback in the ACC. On the contrary side of the ball, Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick completed the diversion 26 for 52 with 335 yards, one interception, and one touchdown. Despite the fact that Vick was marginally preferred factually over Weatherford and the Hokies were all the more measurably effective on offense because of Vick, the Most Valuable Player grant isn't typically given to a player on the losing group. 

Virginia Tech turned the ball over twice—once on a mishandle and once on a capture. The two turnovers brought about two touchdowns for Florida State, and the subsequent 14 points were more noteworthy than Florida State's edge of triumph. The Seminoles did not turn the ball over amid the diversion. The two groups were very punished amid the amusement. Virginia Tech completed with 17 penalties for 143 yards, while Florida State was punished 12 times for 114 yards. The punishments influenced each group's capacity to change over third downs, as Virginia Tech was just ready to change over 9 of 20 third-down endeavors, while Florida State was fruitful on simply 3 of its 13 attempts. Notwithstanding trailing for a great part of the diversion and running a pass-overwhelming offense, Virginia Tech commanded the amusement's season of ownership, controlling the ball for over 35 of the diversion's 60 minutes. 

Florida State's 27– 22 triumph over Virginia Tech verified it the 2005 ACC Championship and an offer to the Orange Bowl. The triumph additionally had progressively outstretching influences for bowl amusement offers over the Atlantic Coast Conference and enduring repercussions amid the football season that pursued the diversion. 

Florida State (8– 4) earned a BCS billet regardless of a record substandard compared to the next seven BCS groups. Despite that reality, the Seminoles' matchup with Penn State (10– 1) in the 2006 Orange Bowl, where school football's two most dominating mentors, Penn State's 78-year-old Joe Paterno and Florida State's 76-year-old Bobby Bowden, squared off. 

Virginia Tech acknowledged an offer to the 2006 Gator Bowl, which was likewise played in Jacksonville, though a month later than the ACC Championship Game. The Gator Bowl Committee chose the Hokies over Miami because of Virginia Tech's notoriety for having an extensive fan base that voyaged well. Virginia Tech's determination knock Miami to the 2005 Peach Bowl, while the Virginia Cavaliers were chosen for the Music City Bowl and the Clemson Tigers earned an offer to the Champs Sports Bowl. 

In the off-season following the ACC Championship Game and Florida State's choice by the Orange Bowl, the Orange Bowl board reported it would go into a selective contract with the ACC to concede the victor of the ACC Championship Game a programmed offer to the Orange Bowl except if it was positioned sufficiently high in the Bowl Championship Series standings to play in the BCS National Championship Game. 

Following the ACC Championship Game, Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick raged off the field, declining to converse with columnists. Vick, who got a 15-yard unsportsmanlike lead punishment late in the diversion, likewise earned a few unsportsmanlike direct punishments in the 2006 Gator Bowl, where post-amusement replays uncovered that he intentionally stepped on the leg of Louisville Cardinals' guarded end Elvis Dumervil. Vick asserted he was sorry to Dumervil after the diversion, however Dumervil expressed that no statement of regret had been made. In the wake of the occurrence, Virginia Tech authorities reported that they would direct an audit of Vick's lead on and off the field. 

On January 6, 2006, only a couple of days after that diversion, Virginia Tech authorities rejected Vick from the Virginia Tech football crew, refering to a December 17 traffic stop in which Vick was refered to for speeding and driving with a repudiated or suspended permit. Vick had concealed the data from the group and the infraction was not found until January. The traffic stop, a prior suspension from the group, and his unsportsmanlike lead amid the 2005 ACC Championship Game and 2006 Gator Bowl were utilized as reason for his expulsion.