2005 Sugar Bowl 

The 2005 Sugar Bowl was a postseason American school football bowl amusement between the Virginia Tech Hokies and the Auburn Tigers at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana, on January 3, 2005. It was the 71st release of the yearly Sugar Bowl football challenge. Virginia Tech spoke to the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) in the challenge, while Auburn spoke to the Southeastern Conference (SEC). In a guarded battle, Auburn earned a 16– 13 triumph regardless of a late-amusement rally by Virginia Tech. 

Virginia Tech was chosen as a member in the amusement subsequent to winning the ACC football title amid the group's first year in the gathering. Tech, which completed 10– 2 in the customary season preceding the Sugar Bowl, vanquished sixteenth positioned Virginia and ninth-positioned Miami on the way to the amusement. Reddish-brown completed the standard season undefeated at 12– 0. The Tigers crushed fourth-positioned LSU and fifth-positioned Georgia over the span of the period, and were one of five groups to complete the customary season undefeated; the others were Southern California, Oklahoma, Utah, and Boise State, with USC and Oklahoma being chosen to play in the Bowl Championship Series national title diversion. Coppery, by goodness of its lower positioning in the BCS survey, was let well enough alone for the national title and was chosen to play in the Sugar Bowl. 

Pre-diversion media inclusion of the amusement concentrated on Auburn being let alone for the national title diversion, a point of debate for Auburn fans in the weeks paving the way to the amusement. Much was made of that and the accomplishment of Auburn running backs Carnell Williams and Ronnie Brown, every one of whom was considered among the best at his position. On the Virginia Tech side, senior quarterback Bryan Randall had a record-breaking season. The two groups likewise had high-positioned resistances, and Tech's appearance in the 2000 Sugar Bowl additionally was referenced in the run-up to the amusement. 

The 2005 Sugar Bowl commenced on January 3, 2005, at 8:00 p.m. EST. From the get-go in the principal quarter, the Tigers took a 3– 0 lead. Following an interference by the Auburn safeguard, the Tigers were stretched out their lead to 6– 0. In the second quarter, another field objective brought about three for the Tigers. At halftime, Auburn drove, 9– 0. Reddish opened the second half with its solitary touchdown drive of the diversion, giving Auburn a 16– 0 lead, which it held into the final quarter. In that quarter, Tech scored its first touchdown of the diversion however did not change over the two-point have a go at, making the score 16– 6. Late in the quarter, Tech quarterback Bryan Randall slice Auburn's lead to 16– 13 on a 80-yard pass that brought about another touchdown. With no time staying in the amusement, Virginia Tech endeavored an onside kick to get another opportunity on offense. At the point when Auburn recuperated the kick, the Tigers ran out the clock and verified the success. In acknowledgment of his diversion winning execution, Auburn quarterback Jason Campbell was named the amusement's most significant player. 

In spite of Auburn's triumph and undefeated season, they were not named national heroes. That respect went to the University of Southern California, which crushed Oklahoma in the 2005 national title diversion, 55– 19. Three voters in the last Associated Press survey of the period casted a ballot Auburn the main group in the nation, however their votes were insufficient to deny USC a national title, as casted a ballot by individuals from the Associated Press and Coaches' surveys. A few players from each group were chosen in the 2005 NFL Draft and went on to professions in the National Football League. 

Virginia Tech and Auburn each earned programmed spots in a BCS bowl amusement because of their status as meeting champions, and were chosen by the 2005 Sugar Bowl. Virginia Tech completed the season 10– 2 and was named ACC football champion its first year in the meeting. Reddish-brown, in the interim, completed the season undefeated at 12– 0, and was named boss of the SEC. Discussion emitted around Auburn's choice, as the Tigers had been denied a spot in the national title amusement for two other undefeated groups: the University of Southern California (USC) and Oklahoma. 

The Virginia Tech Hokies entered the 2004 school football season having gone 8– 5 of every 2003, coming full circle with a 52– 49 misfortune to California in the 2003 Insight Bowl. The 2003 season had additionally been Virginia Tech's last year in the Big East Conference, and Tech started the new season in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Tech began the season unranked out of the blue since 1998, and was picked to complete 6th (out of 11 ACC groups) in the yearly ACC preseason survey, held in July. 

The Hokies' first diversion in their new gathering was a non-meeting challenge at FedEx Field in Landover, MD. against the top-positioned USC Trojans. Tech lost, 24– 13, however recouped to win its next amusement—against delicately respected Western Michigan—in victory style, 63– 0. In its first meeting amusement in the ACC, the Hokies beat Duke, 47– 17, to improve to a 2– 1 record. Their first win in the ACC was trailed by their first misfortune, be that as it may, as the Hokies lost the following week to North Carolina State, 17– 16, when Tech kicker Brandon Pace missed a very late field objective. 

Following the misfortune, Virginia Tech was 2– 2 on the season, and confronted the capability of being ineligible for a postseason bowl diversion on the off chance that it didn't improve its triumphant rate. The Hokies won their next eight diversions, completing the season with a 10– 2 record. With late-season prevails upon enduring adversary, sixteenth positioned Virginia, and individual ACC newcomer, ninth-positioned Miami, Virginia Tech secured the ACC football title (the most recent year in which it would be chosen without a gathering title amusement) and an offer to a Bowl Championship Series diversion. Since the ACC's typical bowl goal, the Orange Bowl, was facilitating the national title diversion, Virginia Tech was chosen to go to the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, Louisiana. 

Reddish, similar to Virginia Tech, had gone 8– 5 amid the 2003 school football season, and entered the 2004 season with elevated standards. The Tigers were utilizing another hostile plan—the West Coast offense—and flaunted two exceptionally evaluated running backs on offense. In its first round of the 2004 season, the eighteenth positioned Auburn football crew overpowered the University of Louisiana-Monroe, 31– 0. It was Auburn's first shutout since 2002. Multi week later, the Tigers supported up their great begin with an unequivocal 43– 14 triumph over Southeastern Conference enemy Mississippi State University. In the third seven day stretch of the period, Auburn confronted its first test of the youthful season, against the fourth-positioned Louisiana State Tigers. In a hard-battled cautious battle, Auburn won, 10– 9, when a missed additional point was replayed after a punishment. 

After a simple 33– 3 triumph over The Citadel, Auburn confronted eighth-positioned Tennessee. The Tigers' protection constrained six turnovers on the way to a 34– 10 triumph. With the triumph over Tennessee, Auburn reeled off another four triumphs and turned into an unmistakable contender for incorporation in the national title diversion. In the eleventh seven day stretch of the period, Auburn confronted the fifth-positioned Georgia Bulldogs. After a protective exertion that held Georgia scoreless until late in the final quarter, the third-positioned Tigers won a 24– 6 triumph. Subsequent to crushing Alabama in their last ordinary season amusement, Auburn entered the SEC title diversion undefeated and in third spot broadly. Despite the fact that the Tigers vanquished the Volunteers, 38– 28, in the gathering title diversion, Auburn stayed in third spot on the grounds that both USC and Oklahoma likewise stayed undefeated. With USC and Oklahoma chose to play in the national title diversion, Auburn was constrained into the Sugar Bowl. With the champ of the BCS Championship Game ensured in front of the rest of the competition in the Coaches Poll, Auburn fans held expectations that the mix of a mind-boggling Tigers triumph in the Sugar Bowl with Oklahoma vanquishing USC with a powerless act would cause enough voters in the AP Poll to put Auburn in front of Oklahoma in their last survey. The outcome would have been a part national title like what happened the past season. 

In the weeks paving the way to the amusement, media inclusion of the diversion concentrated on Auburn's rejection from the national title amusement, a questionable point for Auburn fans and different spectators in the weeks paving the way to the amusement. Moreover, the two groups flaunted high-positioned protections that had performed well amid the year. Much was made of that reality and the achievement of Auburn running backs Carnell Williams and Ronnie Brown, every one of whom were considered among the best players at their position. On the Virginia Tech side, senior quarterback Bryan Randall performed well for the Hokies amid the ordinary season and was anticipated to proceed with his accomplishment in the Sugar Bowl. 

Not long after the last pre-bowl diversion Bowl Championship Series standings were discharged on December 4, Auburn was among a few groups disappointed with the framework. One of these was California, which just lost to top-positioned USC, yet was denied an offer to the esteemed Rose Bowl after Texas vaulted it in the rankings regardless of having a similar record. The Golden Bears were compelled to go to the less-alluring Holiday Bowl. The Auburn Tigers, in the interim, had finished their initial 12-win ordinary season and won their first gathering title in 15 years, yet in the last BCS rankings, Auburn was third, behind USC and Oklahoma. It was the first run through since the formation of the BCS in 1998 that three noteworthy meeting school football crews were undefeated at the finish of the ordinary season. A few intellectuals and fans considered Auburn's inability to achieve the title amusement to be founded on the way that the Tigers had begun with a lower positioning toward the start of the period. The Tigers had been positioned seventeenth toward the start of the period, while USC had been positioned first and Oklahoma second, similar spots they involved toward the finish of the ordinary season. 

Sportswriters likewise indicated the Tigers' harder gathering plan when contrasted with those of USC and Oklahoma. SEC chief Mike Slive commented, "If Auburn experiences this group undefeated, they have the right to play for the national title." Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer, in the runup to the diversion, apparently concurred with the appraisal, saying, "We began playing Southern Cal and I trust this Auburn group is better." Some journalists likewise demonstrated USC's five-point win—in which the Trojans battled—over adversary UCLA as a marker that the Tigers could be the better group. At last, such contentions were unfit to influence voters, who positioned USC first, Oklahoma second, and Auburn third in the majority of the significant surveys chosen by human voters. The Utes, who were likewise undefeated at the finish of the normal season, got restricted consideration since they were an individual from a non-BCS gathering. 

Because of the contention encompassing Auburn's inability to be allowed to play for the national title and debates including groups campaigning for improved appraisals in the survey, the Associated Press sent a restraining request to BCS authorities, restricting them the utilization of the AP Poll in computing BCS evaluations. 

Reddish head mentor Tommy Tuberville was named the Associated Press Coach of the Year on December 24, due in extensive part to his accomplishment in utilizing Auburn's new West Coast offense to drive the Tigers to an undefeated 12– 0 standard season. In light of his prosperity, Auburn overseers consented to a seven-year, $16 million contract expansion with Tuberville preceding the Sugar Bowl. Tuberville arranged an offense that completed the normal season averaging 430.8 yards of all out offense per amusement. 

Heading Auburn's offense on the field was quarterback Jason Campbell. Campbell completed the customary season with 19 touchdowns, one shy of tying the Auburn record for most touchdowns in a solitary season. Campbell was second in the Southeastern Conference in passing yards per diversion (209.2), and was a first-group All-SEC determination. 

Coppery's surging offense was driven by two exceedingly respected running backs: Carnell Williams and Ronnie Brown. The two men, joined with quarterback Campbell, kept running for 15,739 yards and 129 career touchdowns before the Sugar Bowl. Williams drove the SEC taking all things together reason yardage (137.2 yards per amusement) and normal yards per punt return (11.7). He completed the ordinary season with 1,104 rushing yards and 13 touchdowns. The touchdown mark was the most recorded by a running back in the SEC that year. For his achievements, Williams was named a first-group All-SEC pick. Regardless of missing the greater part of his initial two seasons because of wounds, he positioned second on Auburn's unsurpassed surging rundown with 3,770 yards—behind just NFL and MLB star Bo Jackson. Williams additionally had the most hurrying touchdowns in Auburn history (45) and was Auburn's driving scorer in school history (276 points). Dark colored collected 845 rushing yards and got 34 passes for 314 yards amid the season before the Sugar Bowl. He completed with eight touchdowns and was named a second-group All-SEC pick. His 34 receptions were 10 more than he earned in his initial three seasons consolidated. 

Regardless of the consideration concentrated on Auburn's two star running backs, the group additionally bragged a fit corps wide recipients also. Before the diversion, Auburn collector Ben Obomanu stated, "When you have your running amusement making enormous plays and the guard needs to stack the case (protective line) to make plays and endeavor to stop the running diversion, that opens up things in the passing amusement." Auburn found the middle value of more yards passing (241.4 per amusement) than running (189.4 per diversion). 

Heading into the Sugar Bowl, the Virginia Tech offense was driven by quarterback Bryan Randall, who finished 149 of 268 passes (55.6 percent) for 1,965 yards, 19 touchdowns, and seven interceptions. He likewise scrambled for 466 yards and held Tech vocation records for absolute offense and passing yards. His 37 consecutive begins additionally are a school mark for a quarterback. In the preseason, Randall sought the primary string quarterback spot with Marcus Vick until the last was suspended from Tech for a semester after a criminal conviction. In the weeks paving the way to the Sugar Bowl, Randall was named the Virginia Division I Offensive Player of the Year by the "Roanoke Times" and was named the ACC Player of the Year. 

Tech's hurrying offense included two running backs who shared time on the field: Mike Imoh and Cedric Humes. Amid the standard season, Imoh surged the ball 152 times for 704 yards, a normal of 4.6 yards per convey. He scored four touchdowns and set a school record for surging yards in a diversion when he kept running for 243 yards in Virginia Tech's amusement against North Carolina. Humes was on the field somewhat not exactly Imoh, yet earned 595 yards and five touchdowns on 124 conveys. Tech hostile handle Jimmy Martin was relied upon to play in the amusement in the wake of recouping from a high lower leg sprain. 

On unique groups, Tech's Jim Davis blocked three field objectives amid the standard season, and partner Darryl Tapp hindered a punt. Tech's prosperity on exceptional groups was at any rate mostly because of head mentor Frank Beamer's accentuation on that part of the amusement, a methodology known as "Beamerball." Due to Tech's discernment on uncommon groups, Auburn was compelled to invest additional energy in setting up its unique groups to confront Virginia Tech in the Sugar Bowl. 

The Sugar Bowl was a homecoming for Tech punter Vinnie Burns, who played secondary school football from the Louisiana Superdome, site of the Sugar Bowl. Also, Burns' dad, Ronnie Burns, was a long-lasting Sugar Bowl advisory group part, and Vinnie resolved to go to Virginia Tech while the Hokies were in New Orleans to play in the 2000 Sugar Bowl, that year's national title diversion. 

Before the Sugar Bowl, Auburn had the top-positioned scoring resistance in the nation (permitting 11.2 points per amusement), the fifth-positioned all out protection (permitting 269.5 total yards per diversion), eighth in passing guard (permitting 163 yards passing per diversion), and sixteenth in hurrying safeguard (permitting 106.5 yards surging per amusement). Cornerback Carlos Rogers was one of the key players on edge squad. Rogers, who won the Jim Thorpe Award—offered every year to the best guarded back in the nation—earned accord All-America respects and was a finalist for the Bronco Nagurski Award and a semifinalist for the Chuck Bednarik Award, each given to the best protective school football player in the United States. 

Linebacker Travis Williams had the most handles in the group amid the ordinary season, completing with 76. He likewise tied for third in the group in handles for misfortune (nine), had two block attempts, two sacks, and was named a second-group All-SEC determination. 

Senior wellbeing Junior Rosegreen, green bean end Stanley McClover and junior nose watch Tommy Jackson were first-group every single SEC pick, meaning they were the best players at their situation in the meeting. Rosegreen had five interceptions amid the normal season, incorporating four in Auburn's diversion against Tennessee. That solitary diversion execution tied the SEC record and set the Auburn record for the most block attempts in a single amusement. Jackson completed the customary season with 49 tackles, six handles for misfortune, and one sack. 

Linebacker Antarrious Williams was booked to miss the amusement in the wake of experiencing medical procedure to fix a separated bone endured in the Tigers' diversion against Georgia. Williams had 44 tackles amid the ordinary season, and had been supplanted by Derrick Graves in the SEC title diversion. Graves was relied upon to do as such again in the Sugar Bowl. 

At the finish of the normal season, Virginia Tech's safeguard was positioned third broadly in scoring barrier (12.6 points permitted per diversion), fourth in absolute guard (269.5 total yards permitted per amusement) and fifth in pass protection (149.8 passing yards permitted per diversion). The Tech guard highlighted two very respected cornerbacks, Jimmy Williams and Eric Green, who completed the standard season with 31 tackles, separately. Williams likewise had four interceptions (the most in the group), including one returned for a touchdown, and was named first-group All-ACC. Green, in the interim, had one block attempt. Reddish wide recipient Courtney Taylor commended the two players exceedingly in a meeting before the amusement, saying, "Those cornerbacks are stunning to me each time I take a gander at them. I think, 'God, those folks are athletic.' We will have our hands full." 

Linebacker Mikal Baaqee was first in the group in handles, recording 63 amid the customary season. Individual linebacker Vince Hall positioned second, with 62. 

On edge line, cautious handle Jonathan Lewis was viewed as a key player. In spite of the fact that restricted by a cast securing a broken pinky finger endured amid Virginia Tech's amusement against Virginia, Lewis was relied upon to keep on performing admirably. Heading into the Sugar Bowl, Lewis had 38 tackles, including 10 tackles for misfortune and four sacks. Additionally on edge line was Darryl Tapp, who drove the group in sacks, handles for misfortune, and quarterback hustles. Tapp earned first-group All-ACC respects and had 55 tackles and one capture attempt amid the customary season. 

The 2005 Sugar Bowl commenced at 8:00 p.m. EST on January 3, 2005, in New Orleans, Louisiana. Official participation was recorded as 77,349. Mike Tirico, Tim Brant, Terry Bowden, and Suzy Shuster were the hosts for the transmission, which was broadcast on ABC. About 10 million family units watched the diversion on TV in the United States, giving the amusement a Nielsen rating of 9.5 and making it the 24th most famous Bowl Championship Series amusement as far as TV appraisals. The diversion was additionally communicated on ESPN Radio, and was commentated by Mark Jones, Bob Davie, and Holly Rowe. Spread bettors favored Auburn to win by seven. 

Pregame amusement was given by Bowl Games of America, a gathering made out of in excess of 2,000 performing-expressions groups, move groups, and cheer bunches from over the United States. Together, they played out the tune "God Bless America." The conventional pregame singing of the national song of praise was sung by Brad Arnold from the band 3 Doors Down. Dick Honig was the arbitrator, the umpire was Jim Krogstad, and the linesman was Brent Durbin. 

Following the stately pre-diversion coin hurl, Auburn chosen to commence to Virginia Tech to start the amusement, guaranteeing the Tigers would have ownership to start the second half. Tech started the main drive of the diversion from its 20-yard line following a touchback. The Hokies at first had achievement moving the ball, as quarterback Bryan Randall scrambled for seven yards on the diversion's first play, at that point finished a four-yard go to wide beneficiary Eddie Royal two plays later for a first down. The Auburn protection recouped, be that as it may, and the Hokies did not increase another first down and were compelled to punt. Coppery recuperated the ball and started its first drive of the amusement from its 26-yard line. On the Tigers' first play, quarterback Jason Campbell tossed a long go to Cooper Wallace for 35 yards. This was trailed by another long play as running back Ronnie Brown kept running for 31 yards. After the underlying stun of the Auburn offense, the Virginia Tech safeguard solidified, and Auburn's next three plays were ceased for misfortunes or insignificant increases. Confronting a fourth down at the Virginia Tech six-yard line, Auburn sent in kicker John Vaughn, who kicked a 23-yard field objective for the diversion's first focuses. With 8:35 staying in the primary quarter, Auburn took a mid 3– 0 lead. 

Following the post-field objective kickoff, the Virginia Tech offense endeavored to answer Auburn's fast score. Sadly for the Hokies, their second drive fared surprisingly more terrible than the first. Tech submitted a 10-yard punishment, endured an eight-yard misfortune on a play, at that point had a Bryan Randall pass captured by Auburn security Junior Rosegreen. Rosegreen restored the ball 31 yards, and put Auburn's offense into great field position for its second drive of the amusement. Reddish-brown additionally endured an early punishment in its drive, however moved the ball with another long play—a 23-yard go to Courtney Taylor—to recoup. Once more, notwithstanding, the Virginia Tech resistance recuperated to compel Auburn into a fourth down and a field objective endeavor. Vaughn came back to the field and kicked a 19-yard field objective, giving Auburn a 6– 0 lead with 1:06 staying in the quarter. 

With time in the quarter running out, Virginia Tech handled the post-score kickoff and executed a snappy arrangement of plays, picking up a first down before time ran out. Toward the finish of the main quarter, Auburn held a mid 6– 0 lead. 

Virginia Tech started the second quarter possessing the ball and driving down the field. Bryan Randall finished a 10-yard go for another first down, yet after Tech neglected to increase another, the Hokies were compelled to punt. Coppery responded by going three and out and punting the ball back to Virginia Tech. In its first full drive of the second quarter, the Hokies had their best drive of the primary half. After a holding punishment invalidated a long kickoff return, Tech started at its 24-yard line. Randall finished a nine-yard go to tight end Jeff King, at that point kept running for another nine yards on a quarterback scramble. He pursued the first-down kept running by finishing three sequential long goes of 16 yards, 13 yards, and 31 yards, individually. The last go, to wide collector Josh Hyman, drove Virginia Tech inside the Auburn two-yard line. There, notwithstanding, the Tech offense vacillated. On three plays, Tech neglected to cross the objective line, increasing just a single yard all the while. Confronting fourth down and requiring only one yard for a touchdown, Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer chose to endeavor to pick up the touchdown, as opposed to send in his kicker for a field objective endeavor. The endeavored touchdown go by Randall fell deficient, and Virginia Tech turned the ball over on downs without scoring any focuses. 

Reddish's offense took over at its one-yard line after Tech's inability to score. Jason Campbell arranged a fruitful drive that took Auburn from the shadow of its own end zone, finishing goes of 16 yards, 15 yards, and 37 yards all the while. Inside the Virginia Tech red zone, in any case, the Auburn offense again staggered. As it had in its two past scoring drives, Auburn was compelled to send in kicker John Vaughn in spite of being inside the Virginia Tech 10-yard line. Vaughn's 24-yard kick was effective, and with 1:50 staying in the second quarter, Auburn stretched out its lead to 9– 0. 

With brief period staying before halftime, Virginia Tech utilized a pick up the pace offense. Randall finished a 23-yard go to Eddie Royal and kept running for 22 yards all alone, yet tossed three back to back fragmented goes to end the drive. Tech was compelled to punt the ball away, and the principal half arrived at an end. At halftime, Auburn drove, 9– 0. 

The halftime show was exhibited by Bowl Games of America, an accumulation of move troupes, walking groups, and cheerleading squads from over the United States. Together, the associations introduced a privateer themed show dependent on the character of Jean Lafitte, a prominent scoundrel who lived in New Orleans—site of the diversion—amid the War of 1812. 

Since Virginia Tech got the ball to start the diversion, Auburn got the ball to start the second half. The Tigers began the principal drive of the second half at their 22-yard line. Carnell Williams and Ronnie Brown exchanged conveys as Auburn picked up 17 yards in their initial three plays. Jason Campbell finished a go for a five-yard misfortune, at that point, on the fifth play of the drive, finished a 53-yard go to Anthony Mix. The pass was the longest play of the amusement, and drove the Tigers inside the Virginia Tech red zone. Three plays later, Campbell associated with Devin Aromashodu on a five-yard go for the diversion's first touchdown. With 10:39 staying in the second from last quarter, Auburn had taken a 16– 0 lead. 

After Auburn's kickoff, Virginia Tech began its first drive of the second half at its 20-yard line. Somewhere near 16, Tech expected to score. The Hokies picked up a fast initially down, however a five-yard punishment and a sack of Bryan Randall kept Tech from increasing another. The Hokies were compelled to punt, and Auburn took over at its 44-yard line. Notwithstanding having great field position, the Tigers went three and out. Following the punt, Virginia Tech responded by likewise going three and out. With 3:47 staying in the quarter, Auburn started a hostile drive from its 35-yard line. From the earliest starting point of the drive, be that as it may, the Tigers had issues. The main play of Auburn's drive was a 10-yard punishment against the Tigers. The second brought about a one-yard misfortune by Ronnie Brown, who endeavored to hurry through the center of the guarded line. On the third play, Virginia Tech cornerback Jimmy Williams caught an errant go by Jason Campbell. In spite of the fact that Williams was unfit to propel the ball, the Hokies still took over on offense, and with 2:38 staying in the quarter, had their best field position since the primary half. 

The main play of the Tech drive brought about a 12-yard gain as Josh Hyman scrambled for 12 yards and a first down on an end-around. Running back Cedric Humes was halted for a misfortune on the primary play after Hyman's surge, however earned 10 yards on two resulting surges, setting up a fourth down. Requiring one yard for a first down, behind by 16 points, and with time running down in the quarter, Tech head mentor Frank Beamer chose to endeavor the first down play as opposed to kick a field objective. Humes again hurried the ball, and as time ran out in the second from last quarter, got enough ground for the first down. With one fourth of play staying, Auburn drove Virginia Tech 16– 0, yet the Hokies had grabbed a first down inside the Auburn 10-yard line to start the final quarter. 

Virginia Tech started the final quarter possessing the ball, and confronting a first down at the Auburn 10-yard line. In three back to back plays, in any case, the Hokies just grabbed an aggregate of four yards. Requiring six yards to get a touchdown, Virginia Tech sent in kicker Brandon Pace to endeavor a 23-yard field objective. Notwithstanding the short separation, Pace missed the kick. With 13:56 staying in the amusement, Auburn still held a 16– 0 lead. 

Following the missed field objective, Auburn took over on offense at its six-yard line—the point from which Tech had missed the kick. Ronnie Brown grabbed 13 yards and a first down on three surges. Carnell Williams at that point grabbed three yards, and Jason Campbell tossed a seven-yard pass that gave Auburn another first down. A five-yard punishment against Virginia Tech pushed Auburn's offense close midfield, and Ronnie Brown came back to the field, surging the ball four sequential occasions for 16 yards and driving the Tigers into Virginia Tech domain. Confronting a fourth down and one yard, Auburn chosen to give the ball to Brown once more. On the one-yard run, in any case, Brown bungled the ball, which was recuperated by Virginia Tech's Mikal Baagee with 8:38 remaining. 

Virginia Tech's offense made advances on the field urgently expecting to score rapidly. In spite of the fact that the shortage was just 16 points, and could be made up with two touchdowns and two-point transformations, the constrained time remaining implied the undertaking would be troublesome, regardless of whether Virginia Tech scored rapidly. The Hokies started the drive with a 17-yard go by quarterback Bryan Randall. Justin Hamilton scrambled for five yards, and Randall finished a six-yard go for another first down. The Tigers improved the situation by submitting a 15-yard punishment, which put the Hokies inside Auburn region. Three plays later, Randall benefited from the open door by finishing a 29-yard go to Josh Morgan for a touchdown and the Hokies' first purposes of the diversion. Tech endeavored a two-point change, however the pass endeavor fell deficient. With 6:57 residual, Virginia Tech presently trailed 16– 6. 

Subsequent to getting the post-touchdown kickoff, Auburn started to run out the clock. The Tigers neglected to get a first down, and in the wake of going three and out, punted the ball back to Virginia Tech. The Hokies began their drive at their two-yard line, and Randall started it effectively by finishing a 20-yard pass, scrambling for 10 yards, at that point finishing a five-yard go to bring the Hokies close midfield. On the fourth play of the drive, be that as it may, Randall was caught by Auburn's Derrick Graves. The Tigers, their offense again on the field, started running out the clock once more. Tech endeavored to intrude on Auburn's clock the executives by calling timeouts after each play, ceasing the clock with each timeout. Virginia Tech constrained Auburn into a three and out, and the Tigers again punted the ball away with 2:13 remaining. 

After the ball folded into the end zone for a touchback, Virginia Tech started its last drive at its 20-yard line. On the primary play of the drive, Bryan Randall finished a 80-yard touchdown go to Josh Morgan. The score in addition to the additional point slice Auburn's lead to 16– 13. With time in the diversion nearly depleted, Virginia Tech was compelled to endeavor an onside kick so as to get an opportunity to get another hostile drive. Since the Hokies had utilized their last timeouts to stop the clock on Auburn's past drive, Auburn would be allowed to run out the amusement's last minutes. Regardless of the expectations of Virginia Tech for a very late wonder, the Auburn Tigers recuperated the kick, enabling them to run out the clock and secure a 16– 13 triumph. 

Coppery quarterback Jason Campbell finished 11 of 16 goes for 189 yards, one touchdown, and one block attempt, and was named the amusement's most profitable player. Regardless of his execution, he was neither the main scorer in his group nor the general best entertainer in the diversion. Reddish-brown kicker John Vaughn was fruitful on each of the three of his field objective endeavors and furthermore prevailing on his sole additional point kick in the amusement, bringing about 10 Auburn focuses. On the contrary side of the ball, Virginia Tech quarterback Bryan Randall finished 21 of his 38 passes for 299 yards, two touchdowns, and two block attempts. Virginia Tech kicker Branden Pace missed his sole field objective endeavor of the amusement, a 23-yard kick. 

On the ground, Auburn running back Ronnie Brown drove all rushers with 68 yards on 14 carries. Second was Auburn's Carnell Williams, who increased 61 yards on 19 carries. Bryan Randall was the Hokies' driving rusher, aggregating 45 yards on nine conveys. Tech's two running backs, Mike Imoh and Cedric Humes, were obstructed by the Auburn protection and oversaw only 26 yards on 12 combined conveys. Virginia Tech wide beneficiary Josh Morgan completed the diversion with three gatherings for 126 yards and two touchdowns, making him the amusement's most productive collector. Reddish's Courtney Taylor was second, with five gets for 87 yards, and Tech's Josh Hyman was third with five gets for 71 yards. 

For the safeguard, Virginia Tech cornerback Jimmy Williams was the top entertainer. Williams had 10 tackles, including 3.5 tackles for misfortune, and one capture attempt. Tech's Mikal Baaqee had eight handles and one bumble recuperation, making him the amusement's second-driving tackler. Reddish safeguard Derrick Graves was the most productive tackler for the Tigers, making seven handles and getting one interference of an errant Bryan Randall pass. Three players had one sack—two for Virginia Tech and one for Auburn. 

With the success, Auburn completed the season undefeated, with zero losses. Virginia Tech's misfortune gave it a last record of 10– 3. 

The triumph gave Auburn fans trust that if Oklahoma won the 2005 BCS National Championship Game, a split national title would result. By contract, the victor of the BCS National Championship Game is casted a ballot number one in the USA Today Coaches' Poll. Conversely, the Associated Press survey has no such confinement. Coppery's slight edge of triumph over Tech put the possibility of split national title in uncertainty, however not distant. USC's victory 55– 19 triumph over Oklahoma, notwithstanding, made it likely that USC would be the mind-boggling decision for the lead position. At the point when the last school football surveys of the period were discharged, USC was casted a ballot number one by an expansive edge, however three voters in the Associated Press survey casted a ballot Auburn first. Over three years after the amusement, ESPN sportswriter Ted Miller evaluated the diversion second on his rundown of casualties of the BCS framework, simply behind USC being let well enough alone for the title amusement in 2003. 

The Tigers lost 18 players because of graduation, and a few youngsters chose to enter the 2005 NFL Draft too. Amid the first round of the draft, Auburn had four players chosen: Ronnie Brown, with the second generally speaking pick, Carnell Williams (fifth), Carlos Rogers (ninth), and Jason Campbell (25th). Virginia Tech had three players chosen in the 2005 draft: Eric Green (75th), Vincent Fuller (108th), and Jon Dunn (217th). Virginia Tech's appearance in the Sugar Bowl helped its enrolling endeavors in the province of Virginia, with eight of the state's top volunteers (positioned by the "Roanoke Times" paper), swearing to go to Tech. 

The meeting devotees of Auburn and Virginia Tech infused a huge number of dollars into the New Orleans economy, in spite of high nourishment, travel, and cabin costs that constrained a few fans to cut optional spending amid their treks.