4 Minutes 

"4 Minutes" is a melody by American artist Madonna from her eleventh studio collection "Hard Candy" (2008), including vocals by American artists Justin Timberlake and Timbaland. It was discharged as the lead single from the collection on March 17, 2008, by Warner Bros. Records. As per Madonna, the melody is tied in with sparing nature and "having a decent time while we are doing it". She additionally refered to the tune as the motivation for the narrative "I Am Because We Are" (2008). 

The melody was recorded at Sarm West Studios, in London, while the blending of the track was done at The Hit Factory studio, in New York City. Sound specialist Demo Castellon first dealt with the vocals and afterward on the beats, while the synths were formed by Timbaland and Danja. An uptempo move pop melody with a urban and hip jump style, "4 Minutes" consolidates Timbaland's trademark bhangra beats and the instrumentation utilized in the tune incorporates metal, foghorns and cowbells. The verses convey a message of social mindfulness, motivated by Madonna's visit to Africa and the human enduring she saw in the mainland. 

"4 Minutes" got positive surveys from music commentators, who considered it a bustling move track and complimented its music, which was contrasted with that of a walking band. A few commentators, be that as it may, felt that Madonna seemed like an included craftsman all alone melody. The melody topped at number three on the US "Bulletin" Hot 100, giving Madonna her 37th top-ten single, breaking the record recently held by Elvis Presley, as the craftsman with most top-ten hits. It remains Madonna's top of the line advanced single in the United States, with offers of more than three million duplicates. Globally, "4 Minutes" beat the graphs in 21 nations, including Australia, Canada, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. 

The music video demonstrates Madonna and Timberlake singing and fleeing from a goliath dark screen that eats up everything in its way. "4 Minutes" was performed by Madonna on the limited time visit for "Hard Candy" and amid the rave section of the 2008– 2009 Sticky and Sweet Tour. The tune got two Grammy Award assignments for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals and Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical at the 2009 service. 

Following the arrival of her tenth studio collection, "Admissions on a Dance Floor" (2005), Madonna needed to record more move music. At the point when asked by maker Stuart Price what sort of music engaged her, Madonna answered that she adored the records of artist Justin Timberlake and maker Timbaland, so she worked together with them. "4 Minutes" was composed by each of the three craftsmen, alongside Nate "Danja" Hills, and delivered by Timbaland, Timberlake and Danja. The melody, at first named "4 Minutes to Save the World", was one of the last to be delivered for Madonna's collection "Hard Candy". In a meeting with MTV News, Madonna said that the idea of the tune was created through talks with Timberlake. She further clarified the significance of the melody: 

I don't believe it's vital to take it too truly. I think the melody, more than anything, is tied in with having a feeling of criticalness; about how we are you know, living on re-appropriated time basically and individuals are winding up significantly more mindful of nature and how we're crushing the planet. We can't simply continue diverting ourselves we do need to teach ourselves and wake up and take care of business. You know in the meantime we would prefer not to exhaust and genuine and not have a great time so it's sort of like well in case we're going to spare the planet would we be able to have a decent time while we are doing it? 

Madonna elucidated that her age did not have anything to do with the feeling of criticalness reflected in the track; rather, it was simply something that she had as a main priority for quite a while and with "4 Minutes", the sense saturated her music. Ingrid Sischy from "Meeting" magazine said that the melody felt like an anthem for the world, containing "the hints of an extraordinary huge walking band. It's a mammoth move tune". Madonna concurred with Sischy and reacted that the tune was "an amusing oddity" and was one of the motivations behind her narrative "I Am Because We Are" (2008). The narrative managed the intense torment and sustenance deficiency distressing the African country of Malawi. 

The chronicle sessions for "4 Minutes" occurred at Sarm West Studios in West London, on a 72-channel SSL 9080 scratching device. Paul Tingen from "Sound on Sound" magazine talked with blending and recording engineer Demacio "Demo" Castellon, who reviewed that he didn't go to the main account sessions since he was taking a shot at another venture. Over portion of the melody was at that point done when Castellon arrived, abandoning him to do the programming in the introduction and the end. At Sarm, Timbaland and Danja utilized Akai MPC3000 and Ensoniq ASR-10 testing drum machines, Yamaha Motif workstation and synths to manufacture the support track for "4 Minutes". Castellon clarified that the account session took longer than anticipated. Altogether 46 tracks were utilized for drums and percussion and 16 stereo tracks for the bass. The entire session included 100 tracks, and further blending was done on Pro Tools. 

On account of '4 Minutes', Tim had a dream from the earliest starting point of how things ought to go, particularly sonically... When I opened up the session of '4 Minutes', there was such a great amount of going on that I knew immediately that the crucial step is ensure that the vocals would slice through and were directly in the pocket. Starting with taking a shot at the vocals was the best way to accomplish this. After that I shaped the various parts around the vocals. The other test was to ensure that everything in the track sounded clear and that you could hear each instrument, each syllable, each breath. Additionally, I do quite often work straight in time on a track. It's simpler, on the grounds that when you're set, you're finished. So I continue chipping away at a great many sections, until I get as far as possible of the track and afterward I realize the entire blend is truly close. 

Castellon said that he didn't need the SSL's inward robotization to meddle with his mixing of the music, rather utilized Pro Tools, with programmed levels. As indicated by him, he "then ran everything through the SSL, on which [he] did EQ, pressure and panning." The blending of the track was made at The Hit Factory studio, in Miami on a 96-channel SSL J-arrangement work area. Thinking about the amount of recorded support tracks, Castellon's test was to ensure that the music did not overwhelm the vocals. He achieved this by first blending the vocals, at that point including the music and the drums, which was a surprising strategy for him. Negligible advanced modules were utilized for the blend as Castellon favored the sound of detachable rigging. 

After the blends were done, Castellon started chipping away at Timbaland's presentation, and proceeded with Madonna and Timberlake's vocals. On Timbaland's vocals, he used the SSL's EQ to diminish "some base end", and he set information levels to abstain from section. For Madonna and Timberlake he utilized SSL's dynamic range pressure, and on Madonna's voice he connected "an eighth-note delay from a [Lexicon] PCM42", a reverb from Eventide H3500 for the refrain, and [TC Electronic] TC3000 for the snare." These computerized flag processors were utilized to give Madonna's vocals a feeling of stereophonic space. Castellon connected Waves Audio "Renaissance Compressor" module to control the dimension of kick drum. He reviewed that "there was one specific kick sound there that conflicted with different tracks, so Tim supplanted it with another kick that had an altogether different note and sound." Using a Focusrite D2 equalizer let him "coordinate the sound of that new kick drum to the next kick drum sounds". When the drums and percussion were included, the chronicle and blending of "4 Minutes" was done. 

"4 Minutes" is an uptempo move pop melody, formed in a urban, hip jump style. It consolidates the impact of a walking band, a clanking beat and instrumentation from a metal that is played in a "scale-like riff", as depicted via Caryn Ganz from "Moving Stone". Other melodic instruments utilized are foghorns and cow chimes. In "4 Minutes", Madonna and Timberlake sing and exchange stanzas, the mood moves towards a hard clanking beat as Madonna sings the lines that the "way to damnation is cleared with well meaning plans." Madonna and Timberlake begin singing the ensemble with Timberlake singing the line of "We've just got four minutes to spare the world". The track proceeds in a similar energy in the second section and second theme whence the track closes where each beat stops aside from Timbaland's trademark bhangra beats, the metal riffs and Madonna singing the words "tick-tock" more than once, after which it closes. 

As per the sheet music distributed at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Publishing, the melody is written in the key of G minor and is set in time mark of regular time with a rhythm of 115 beats for every moment. Timbaland's bhangra beats are included toward the begin and the finish of the tune. Madonna and Timberlake's vocal range traverses two octaves, from F to Bb. The melody has a succession of D– G– C– F– B– D in the stanzas and E– D– C– D in the tune, as its harmony movement. The verses of "4 Minutes" convey a message of social mindfulness, roused by Madonna's visit to Africa and the human enduring she saw. Jon Pareles of "The New York Times" expressed that "[h]owever, the tune seems as though four minutes is the time taken for a melody to be an ensured pop hit or the time required for a fast in and out; as a general rule it is the main tune from "Hard Candy" collection which contains a message of social mindfulness in it." The sound of a clock ticking ceaselessly stresses this message further. Madonna clarified in "New York" magazine that the line "The way to hellfire is cleared with well meaning plans" did not identify with her philanthropy work. Rather it was her inquiry to herself: "Do I comprehend this supposition that I've embraced or this Zeitgeist that I've enabled myself to be cleared up in? Since you could have the best expectations yet not have enough data and commit enormous errors." Regarding the line "Once in a while I feel what I need is a you mediation", Madonna clarified, "[y]eah, which means, in some cases I think you have to spare me." 

Caryn Ganz called it "a noisy, occupied, vivacious track", and remarked that Timberlake did "his best Michael Jackson impression". Opportunity du Lac of "The Washington Post" complimented the melody for being occupied and bold. She remarked: "[P]ropelled by a detonative walking band beat [...] it's a standout amongst the most exciting things Madonna has done in this decade." "Board" music commentator and editorial manager Chuck Taylor said that "There's a dreadful part going on in the bustling move track [...] yet the exchange off ensemble among Madge and Justin of 'We've just got four minutes to spare the world' is hooky enough unto itself to sell the melody." He included that the tune "qualifies as an occasion record between superpowers [Madonna and Timberlake] who share level with charging, however stable gangbusters together." Chris Williams of "Amusement Weekly" considered it a "coy two part harmony". Additionally from "Amusement Weekly", Chuck Arnold felt that "['4 Minutes'] attempts excessively hard — sounding more like a Timberlake-Timbaland joint than a Madonna melody", however pointing its "top pick attraction". 

As indicated by Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine, the tune is a "promotion for the remainder of the collection." Joey Guerra of "Houston Chronicle" contrasted the track with crafted by Nelly Furtado and felt that the piece was "an offered for radio play." Andy Gill of "The Independent" called "4 Minutes" one of "Hard Candy"s heros. He noticed that "the Mardi Gras walking band knocking wildly along", is one of the collection's "most eager contributions." Mark Savage of BBC portrayed the sound as "so cutting edge it could practically have been shot in from the apocalypse." Ben Thompson of "The Guardian" stated: "It has a difficult to escape sense that all concerned are making a cursory effort [of life] – easily, once in a while splendidly." 

Joan Anderman of "The Boston Globe" trusted that the tune is "outline topper for its sheer star control just as moment melodic appeal, and on the eve of Madonna's 50th birthday celebration [...] '4 Minutes' feels a ton like a symbol's can't-miss present to herself." However, she saw that the "move in the power structure [is nowhere] more obtrusive than on '4 Minutes', where Madonna sounds like an included visitor attempting to keep pace with Timbaland's goliath beats and Timberlake's deft tune." Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic applauded the melodic and musical snare, yet was disillusioned that Madonna's voice is "muffled by Timbaland's flatulating four-note synth – which probably won't have been so terrible if the tracks were fresher and if the entire venture didn't feel so drearily mechanical." At the 51st Grammy Awards, "4 Minutes" earned Madonna, Timberlake and Timbaland a designation in the Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals class. Dutch artist Junkie XL likewise earned a designation in the Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical classification for his remix of the melody. While positioning Madonna's singles out of appreciation for her 60th birthday celebration, "The Guardian"s Jude Rogers put "4 Minutes" at number 35, composing that "Timbaland's synth-metal introduction here is awesome, and the melody's apocalypse magnificence still sounds well sharpened sharp", yet calling attention to that it would be "better without Timberlake". 

In the United States, "4 Minutes" appeared at number 68 on the "Bulletin" Hot 100 diagram for the issue dated April 5, 2008, in view of on airplay. Inside seven days, the melody had bounced 65 places, achieving number three on the diagram. This jump was impelled by first-week advanced offers of 217,000, empowering the melody to enter "Billboard"s Digital outline at number two, behind Mariah Carey's single "Contact My Body". The melody turned into Madonna's first top-ten single since "Hung Up" (2005), and was her 37th Hot 100 top-ten hit, breaking the record recently held by Elvis Presley. "4 Minutes" was additionally her most astounding outlining single on the Hot 100 since "Music" achieved the highest point of the graph in 2000. For Timberlake, "4 Minutes" turned into his ninth top-ten hit. On the Pop 100 diagram, the melody achieved a pinnacle of two. "4 Minutes" was a triumph on "Billboard"s move outlines, topping both the Hot Dance Club Play and the Hot Dance Airplay diagrams. Very nearly five months after its discharge, "4 Minutes" was ensured twofold platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for offers of two million paid computerized downloads. "4 Minutes" was the tenth most downloaded tune in the United States in 2008 with offers of 2.37 million, as indicated by Nielsen SoundScan, and has sold over 3.1 million duplicates as of December 2016. 

In Canada, Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems (BDS) affirmed that "4 Minutes" appeared at the highest point of the Canadian Contemporary Hit Radio outline. This denoted the first run through any tune entered at the highest point of the CHR diagram in BDS history. The melody appeared at number 27 on the Canadian Hot 100 on March 27, 2008, and topped the diagram the following week. Before the year's over, "4 Minutes" was the fifth top rated computerized tune in Canada with offers of 143,000 copies, and positioned fourth on the year-end organization of the Canadian Hot 100. 

"4 Minutes" was likewise an accomplishment in Australia and New Zealand. The melody appeared at number three on the Australian ARIA Singles Chart, and climbed to the main position two weeks after the fact, where it remained for three sequential weeks. "4 Minutes" was guaranteed platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for the shipment of 70,000 duplicates. In New Zealand, "4 Minutes" made its presentation at number 14 on the New Zealand Singles Chart, and rose to the best ten, at long last topping at number three. The melody has been guaranteed gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ) for shipment of 7,500 copies. 

In the United Kingdom, "4 Minutes" appeared on the UK Singles Chart at number seven. The tune turned into Madonna's 60th UK top-ten single. It appeared on the airplay outlines at number 19, with first week counts of 564 plays and 27.10 million audience members. The tune rose to the highest point of the diagram on April 20, 2008 (for the week finishing date April 26, 2008), with offers of 40,634 copies, in this manner giving Madonna her thirteenth British number-one single. It stayed at the top for about a month. As indicated by the Official Charts Company, it was the ninth top of the line tune of 2008 and has sold 597,000 duplicates there as of August 2018, being ensured Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). "4 Minutes" was likewise number one on "Billboard"s European Hot 100 Singles for about a month. In general, "4 Minutes" achieved number one out of 21 nations around the world. 

The music video was coordinated by French pair Jonas and François in London, England. It included movement by Jamie King, who dealt with Madonna's Confessions, Re-Invention and Drowned World visits just as her video for the single "Sorry" (2006). Japanese hip jump moving pair Hamutsun Serve likewise showed up in the video. Prior to its discharge, "Moving Stone" said that in the video Madonna and Timberlake go about as though they were "superheroes" while they avoid different impediments. In the video, Madonna wore a cream hued undergarment, shimmering dark boots and styled her hair in bleach fair waves while Timberlake wore for the most part denims and a scarf around his neck. Concerning thought behind the music video, Madonna said that "it was conceptualistic". She clarified that the video was given like a walk past; "It's a development, and we need to take everyone with us." About the possibility of a dark screen eating up everything, Madonna stated, 

None of us did [understand the idea of the dark screen]. It was simply, you know, it's exceptionally theoretical. We essentially gave the tune to the two French chiefs [Jonas and François] and they concocted the main idea that I thought was fascinating, with this dark kind of formless realistic line gradually gobbling up the world. I recently preferred that as an idea. 

The video utilized delicate center, delicate lighting and digitally embellishing looks on Madonna. It begins with Timbaland reciting the opening line before a mammoth clock screen that checks down from four minutes. As he sings, a dark geometric designed screen fights against eminent loss and inundates the majority of the melodic gadgets present. Madonna and Timberlake go into a house however pursued far from it finding the screen there, which begins eating the hands and legs of the occupants of the house, in this way demonstrating their internal parts. After various shots appearing and Timberlake bouncing on and over vehicles to escape from the screen, they at long last move into a general store. The screen tails them, devouring the long queues of slows down and the general population present there. As the second chorale begins, they touch base before the screen where Timbaland is singing. After arranged moving, Madonna plays out a back curve as the clock achieves zero time. The last "tick-tock, tick-tock" sound is heard, Madonna and Timberlake move again on a long stage; the dark screen approaches them from the two sides. The video closes with them two kissing, and the dark screen eating up them. Timberlake's bones and ribs, and Madonna's cheeks are found in the last shot. 

As to video, Madonna said it resembled "[g]oody goody gum drops", alluding to the treat situated subject of the collection. Virginia Heffernan from "The New York Times" called the video heart-beating, and contrasted its force and the music video of "Spine chiller, "In the Air Tonight" and "Shadows of the Night". Be that as it may, Eric Wilson from a similar paper remarked that the video did not yield a breakout Madonna look contrasted with her recordings from the 1980s. Vocalist Miley Cyrus made her very own form of the video and posted it on her YouTube channel. Madonna reacted to it in her very own video and stated, "All you individuals out there who are making recordings to my new single, '4 Minutes,' keep doing awesome." "4 Minutes" was named for an honor at the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards in the "Best Dancing in a Video" class, yet lost to the Pussycat Dolls' single "When I Grow Up". In 2009, the video was incorporated on Madonna's assemblage, "". 

The melody was performed amid the Hard Candy Promo Tour and Sticky and Sweet Tour (2008– 2009). At the special visit, "4 Minutes" was executed as the third tune of the setlist. Madonna wore a sparkling dark outfit with dark tails, Adidas track jeans and high-behaved, trim up boots for the execution. Justin Timberlake showed up close by Madonna, at the Roseland Ballroom in New York, to play out the melody. As Timbaland showed up on the video screens, the beat of the tune began. The four side-organize video screens started to skim over the stage, and swiveled around to uncover Timberlake behind one and Madonna behind the other. They played out the tune in a comparative movement from the music video. 

Amid the "4 Minutes" execution on the Sticky and Sweet Tour, Madonna wore a cutting edge mechanical outfit structured by Heatherette. She coupled it with metallic plates on her shoulder and a wig with since a long time ago twisted hair. Madonna and her artists rose up out of behind settings, on which Timbaland and Timberlake showed up, to play out their lines. A clear two part harmony among Madonna and Timberlake results, with Timberlake singing and moving his part from the screens. He joined Madonna face to face, for the show at Los Angeles' Dodger Stadium on November 6, 2008, a similar show in which Britney Spears showed up close by Madonna to perform "Human instinct". They performed "4 Minutes" in comparable design to the limited time visit movement. Timbaland sang his piece of the tune face to face on November 26, 2008 at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida. "4 Minutes" was likewise utilized as mashups amid the execution of tunes like "Vogue" and "Hung Up". On July 27, 2017, Madonna showed up at Leonardo DiCaprio's yearly raising support affair, which occurred on Saint-Tropez, France, and performed "4 Minutes" wearing a green suit with plumes. 

"4 Minutes" was utilized in the film "Get Smart" (2008), in a scene and its film credits. It was one of the melodies secured by the cast of "Joy" amid the April 20, 2010 scene "The Power of Madonna". The anecdotal character Kurt Hummel, depicted by Chris Colfer, sang Madonna's parts while Mercedes Jones (Amber Riley) sang Timberlake's. In the scene, the tune is performed amid an everyday practice by the secondary school cheering squad, joined by the school band. The variant was discharged both as a computerized download single and on the EP, "". The "4 Minutes" spread graphed on the Hot Digital Songs of "Bulletin" at number 55 on May 8, 2010, while achieving number 89 and number 70 on the "Board" Hot 100 and Canadian Hot 100, individually. 

Credits and work force adjusted from "Hard Candy" collection liner notes.