You Only Move Twice 

"You Only Move Twice" is the second scene of "The Simpsons"<nowiki>'</nowiki> eighth season. It initially publicized on the Fox organize in the United States on November 3, 1996. The scene, in light of a story thought by Greg Daniels, has three noteworthy ideas: the family moves to another town; Homer gets an agreeable, thoughtful supervisor; and that manager, unbeknownst to Homer, is a supervillain. Bart, Lisa, and Marge each have singular auxiliary storylines. It was coordinated by Mike B. Anderson and composed by John Swartzwelder. 

The scene title is a reference to the James Bond film "You Only Live Twice", and numerous components of the scene spoof the Bond films, with a character demonstrated after Bond showing up. Setting the second and third acts in another town, Cypress Creek, required the illustrators to make totally new formats and foundation plans. Albert Brooks, in his fourth appearance on "The Simpsons", visitor stars as the voice of Hank Scorpio, who is a standout amongst the most famous one-time characters in the whole arrangement. The scene was very generally welcomed by commentators. IGN named "You Only Move Twice" the best scene of the eighth season and Albert Brooks as a standout amongst the best visitor stars ever of show. 

On his approach to work Waylon Smithers is offered a vocation at the Globex Corporation. When he can't, the offer is passed down to Homer, the following longest-utilized individual at the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant. He acknowledges the activity and educates his family that the new activity pays better and gives free human services to the family, however includes moving to Cypress Creek. Homer discloses to Marge that by tolerating another higher paying activity, he is one bit nearer to his fantasy of one day owning the Dallas Cowboys. The Simpson family at first restricts the move, yet after they watch a special video about the arranged network, they concur that it is greatly improved than Springfield. In the wake of taking a gander at the home loan and choosing that selling the house won't cover it, they desert their home and leave town. 

Soon after the family touch base at their new house in Cypress Creek, they meet Homer's new supervisor, Hank Scorpio, who is entirely pleasant and appears the ideal manager. In the wake of giving Homer a voyage through the organization, Scorpio reveals to him that his main responsibility is to spur the workers in the atomic division. Homer gets a moment getting a kick out of the chance to his new supervisor when Scorpio turns into the main individual who does not disparage Homer when he educates him regarding his fantasy of owning the Dallas Cowboys. Then, Bart begins school, however he finds that his new class is far over the principles of Springfield Elementary. At the point when his educator finds that Bart can't peruse cursive composition, he puts him in a therapeutic class, a lot to Bart's stun. Lisa takes a nature walk and finds that she is adversely affected by the majority of the plants around Cypress Creek. Marge endeavors to approach her day by day errands, however the house does everything naturally. This winds up discouraging her to the point where Marge begins drinking wine to adapt. In any case, Homer works superbly rousing his group in the atomic division, which makes his family glad for him. 

In spite of his prosperity, Homer notification that his colleagues are beginning to get exhausted. He chooses that the arrangement is to get them loungers and visits Scorpio to ask where he can buy a few. Scorpio starts to tell Homer of "the Hammock region", however he is hindered by some dire business. For reasons unknown, Scorpio is a criminal driving force detailing a plot to assume control over the East Coast of the United States with a doomsday gadget, as he swings to a screen and compromises the United Nations Security Council by pronouncing that he has got hold of the doomsday gadget and that they have 72 hours to fulfill his need of gold. To demonstrate his plan, he explodes the 59th Street Bridge. Notwithstanding being in a similar room, Homer seems careless in regards to Scorpio's detestable arrangement as he was looking outside the window. 

Afterward, Scorpio has figured out how to catch a mystery specialist named Mr. Bont. Scorpio means to have Bont slaughtered with a laser, however Bont utilizes a coin to free himself from his restrictions before endeavoring to escape. Nonetheless, Homer, who is unconscious of occasions, effectively thumps him down, enabling Scorpio's warriors to shoot the operator. A pleased Scorpio joyfully expresses gratitude toward Homer for a vocation well done and discloses to him his home will get an additional floor. At supper, Homer gladly recounts his triumphs at work, however finds that his family despises Cypress Creek and need to return to Springfield. At first, Homer is against this, saying he has been working admirably without precedent for his life, yet no one else is glad. Down and out, Homer chooses to visit Scorpio back at Globex Headquarters. His visit corresponds with an attack by the U.S. military, however Homer still stays unaware of what is occurring. He discovers Scorpio, clarifies the circumstance, and requests that what do. Scorpio at first advises Homer to desert his family and keep working for him. After much discussion he at last prompts Homer that he ought to do what is best for his family. 

The following day, the family comes back to Springfield, as Scorpio prevails in his plot and catches control of the East Coast. Homer, who recently trusted to Scorpio his fantasy of owning the Dallas Cowboys, communicates frustration when he rather finds the Denver Broncos rehearsing awkwardly on his front grass as a present from his previous supervisor. He peruses a letter from Scorpio saying thanks to him for his diligent work and longing that owning the Denver Broncos will in the long run lead to Homer owning the Dallas Cowboys. Marge discloses to Homer that the Denver Broncos is a decent football crew while Homer murmurs and reveals to Marge that she doesn't comprehend football by any stretch of the imagination. 

The first idea for the scene originated from a story thought by Greg Daniels, and the composition staff concocted three noteworthy ideas. The first includes the Simpson family moving out of Springfield, which the scholars at first trusted would trick the gathering of people into supposing it was a lasting move. Accordingly, they attempted to work in the same number of characters as they could amid the primary demonstration of the scene to influence it to appear that the family truly was leaving. The second included Homer finding another line of work for a worker well disposed manager as opposed to the overbearing Mr. Consumes. The third was that Homer's new supervisor would be a supervillain taking after Ernst Stavro Blofeld. This component was intended to be out of sight and Homer would be unmindful to it. 

The authors tried to give each relative their very own story. The composition staff invested some energy contending about whether to incorporate into the scene the discouraging thought of Marge turning into a drunkard. There was initially another including Grampa Simpson, wherein he is deserted in Springfield and gets recorded welcome telephone calls. The plot continued for four arrangements, which were all cut from the scene for time limitations yet later incorporated into the DVD discharge. Cypress Creek was designated "Emerald Caverns" amid a large portion of generation, yet the name was changed in light of the fact that the journalists felt that "Cypress Creek" had all the more a "Silicon Valley" feel. 

The show's essayists did not stress a lot over idealizing Scorpio's lines since they realized Brooks would revise or slapped together new ones. Whole pieces of Scorpio's discourse, for example, his lounger discourse, are Brooks' lines and not the essayists'. Dan Castellaneta portrayed how, after he arranged something for Homer to state because of Brooks' new Scorpio lines, Brooks would convey entirely unexpected lines in the following take. Josh Weinstein said Homer's responses are actually similar to somebody conversing with Albert Brooks. Taking all things together, his chronicles added up to more than two hours long. Creeks voiced the character Russ Cargill in "The Simpsons Movie" and for "about seven days", he was to repeat the job of Scorpio, yet the staff felt that making another character was a superior thought. 

The artists expected to structure totally new sets for the scene. Christian Roman, John Reiss, and Mike Anderson storyboarded the scene. In the first animatic, Santa's Little Helper and Snowball II were absent, so the illustrators returned and included them, despite the fact that they are not a piece of the story. It is a typical confusion that Scorpio's structure was designed according to Richard Branson, which it was most certainly not. The last plan, which experienced a redesign, was hailed by the journalists as "the ideal crazy person". The majority of the understudies in Bart's healing class were at first given hair demonstrated on Ralph Wiggum's, however the staff felt that the youngsters looked "kinda grieved", so their plans were changed. 

The man whom Homer handles, Mr. Bont, was at first expected to simply be James Bond, yet Fox, worried about a claim, would not give them a chance to utilize it. The journalists ran with "Bont" in light of the fact that they felt it was the most comparative name that they could lawfully utilize. 

The last scene at Globex contains a few references to activity and "James Bond" films. The scene title and numerous references are from the Bond film "You Only Live Twice", just as a suggestion to "A View to a Kill". A character demonstrated after Sean Connery's Bond is handled by Homer and slaughtered after a farce of the laser scene from "Goldfinger". Miss Goodthighs from the 1967 James Bond spoof "Gambling club Royale" shows up in the scene and can be seen assaulting a character demonstrated after U.S. Armed force general Norman Schwarzkopf. 

The sign at the grade school shows "<nowiki>http://www.studynet.edu</nowiki>". Weinstein called it "one of the show's most clearly dated jokes" in light of the fact that the possibility of a school having its very own site was right around an oddity in 1996. 

The melody toward the finish of the show, composed by Ken Keeler, is a spoof of different Bond topics. Keeler initially composed it to be three seconds longer and sound increasingly like the "Goldfinger" subject, yet the last form was shorter and the verses were accelerated. The scholars needed the tune to be sung by Shirley Bassey, who sang a few Bond subjects, yet they couldn't get her to record the part. 

In its unique communicate, "You Only Move Twice" completed 50th in appraisals for the seven day stretch of October 28 – November 3, 1996, with a Nielsen rating of 8.5, equal to around 8.2 million review families. It was the second most elevated evaluated appear on the Fox arrange that week, following "The X-Files". 

Hank Scorpio is seemingly the most prevalent Albert Brooks-voiced character. In 2006, Albert Brooks was named the best "The Simpsons" visitor star by IGN, who refered to Scorpio as his best job. "The Phoenix.com" ordered their very own rundown, additionally putting Brooks in the principal position. In his book "Planet Simpson", writer Chris Turner says Brooks is second just to Phil Hartman among "The Simpsons" visitor stars and that "Creeks conveys humorous sarcastic consistency to Scorpio's dumbfounding nature". He additionally composes that the conveyance of Scorpio's last line seals Brooks' place in "The Simpsons" history. The Simpson family's new road address, 15201 Maple Systems Road, is essayist Ken Keeler's most loved road name in the show. 

IGN likewise named the scene the best of the eighth season, saying the scene "is a brilliant case of gradually developing the parody it's difficult to comprehend this one not being high up on any rundown of the best "Simpsons" scenes ever." Robert Canning gave the scene a "Mind blowing" score of ten out of ten, saying the scene "likely could be the best "Simpsons" scene ever". Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, the writers of the book "I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide", called it "a huge scene" saying it had "some great minutes, the greater part of them including Bart, Lisa, and Marge's abhorring for Cypress Creek. The medicinal children are fab (particularly Warren) and Lisa's second chipmunk experience is propelled. Scorpio is a decent character, particularly his Christopher Walken-esque killing binge." They likewise expressed that the owl snatching the chipmunk amid Lisa's excursion to the timberland is one of the unequaled most prominent sight chokes in the show's history. Chris Turner additionally said that the medicinal kid Gordy's line might be "the broadest spoof of a Canadian intonation ever of popular culture". Ben Rayner of the "Toronto Star" included "You Only Move Twice" on his rundown of the best scenes of "The Simpsons". In his survey of The Complete Eighth Season DVD set, Raul Burriel portrayed it as a standout amongst the "most shrewd scenes the arrangement has ever given us". 

Book index