2000 Sugar Bowl 

The 2000 Sugar Bowl was the assigned Bowl Championship Series (BCS) National Championship Game for the 1999 NCAA Division I-A football season and was played on January 4, 2000, at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans. The Florida State Seminoles, speaking to the Atlantic Coast Conference, crushed the Virginia Tech Hokies, speaking to the Big East Conference, by a score of 46– 29. With the success, Florida State secured the 1999 BCS national title, the group's second national title in its history. 

An expected aggregate of 79,280 people went to the diversion face to face, while around 18.4 million US watchers watched the amusement on ABC TV. The subsequent 17.5 television rating was the third-biggest at any point recorded for a BCS school football match-up. Tickets were in extreme interest for the diversion, withs a huge number of fans from the two groups visiting, many utilizing scalped tickets to pick up section. 

The diversion commenced at 8 p.m. EST, and Virginia Tech got the ball to start the amusement. In spite of the fact that Tech progressed down the field, Florida State scored first and exploited a blocked punt for a touchdown, giving the Seminoles a 14– 0 lead in the primary quarter. Tech replied with its very own touchdown drive before the finish of the quarter, however Florida State scored two snappy touchdowns to start the second quarter. Virginia Tech scored a touchdown before halftime, yet partially through the diversion, Florida State held a 28– 14 lead. In the second from last quarter, Virginia Tech's offense gave the Hokies a lead with a field objective and two touchdowns. Tech neglected to change over two-point transformations, yet held a 29– 28 lead toward the finish of the second from last quarter. Florida State replied in the final quarter, be that as it may, taking a 36– 29 lead with a touchdown and effective two-point transformation from the get-go in the quarter. Starting here, the Seminoles did not give up the lead, extending it to 46– 29 with another touchdown and a field objective. 

For his execution in the amusement, Florida Statewide collector Peter Warrick was named the diversion's most important player. Despite the fact that Tech lost the diversion, a few of its players won postseason grants—most remarkably Michael Vick, who earned an ESPY for his execution amid the Sugar Bowl and the standard season. A few players from each group entered the National Football League after graduation, being chosen either in the 2000 NFL Draft or later versions of that determination procedure. 

By contract, the best two groups in the BCS Poll at the finish of the customary season were welcome to the BCS national title amusement. In 2000, the BCS Poll was a mix of four distinct frameworks: media and mentors' surveys (Associated Press school football survey and USA Today Coaches' Poll), group records, a gathering of eight diverse PC positioning frameworks, and a quality of-plan part dependent on adversary records. Under the BCS, the site of the national title amusement pivoted each year. In 2000, there were four BCS bowl recreations: the Rose Bowl, the Sugar Bowl, the Orange Bowl, and the Fiesta Bowl. The national title diversion turned to an alternate area every year, and the other three amusements filled in as bowl recreations for lower-positioned groups. Afterward, in 2007, the BCS National Championship was made, including a fifth BCS bowl. In 2000, the Sugar Bowl was planned to have the national title diversion. 

The Florida State Seminoles finished the 1998 school football season with a 23– 16 misfortune to the Tennessee Volunteers in the 1999 Fiesta Bowl, which was the national title amusement that year. The misfortune was just the second of the period for Florida State, which had entered the amusement positioned No. 2 and favored against the No. 1 positioned Volunteers. Florida State players and mentors entered the off-season wanting to enhance their sprinter up completion in the national title diversion the prior year, and were casted a ballot the No. 1 group in the nation in the yearly Associated Press preseason survey. 

Florida State satisfied its No. 1 positioning in its first round of the 1999 school football season, directing unranked Louisiana Tech, 41– 7. The next week, in their ACC opener, the Seminoles had a closer challenge against Georgia Tech, yet at the same time earned a 41– 35 triumph. As the weeks passed by, the successes kept on aggregating. FSU vanquished North Carolina State, 42– 11; North Carolina, 42– 10; and Duke, 51– 23. In the seventh seven day stretch of the school football season, the Seminoles went head to head against a conventional opponent: the Miami Hurricanes. Heading into the diversion, the Seminoles were without star wide recipient and potential Heisman Trophy hopeful Peter Warrick, who was suspended from the group in the wake of being captured for taking an interest in a plan to come up short on for garments at a Tallahassee, Florida attire store. Notwithstanding the loss of Warrick, Florida State squeezed out a 31– 21 triumph over the Hurricanes subsequent to being tied, 21– 21, at halftime. 

The week after the Miami diversion, the Seminoles had a significantly closer call against the Clemson Tigers—their nearest, truth be told, of the whole season. Notwithstanding the arrival of Peter Warrick, who was found not guilty in a Florida court, Florida State fell behind the Tigers in the primary half. Trailing in Clemson, South Carolina, 14– 3 at halftime, Florida State slice the hole to 14– 6 with a field objective halfway through the second from last quarter, at that point tied the amusement toward the finish of the second from last quarter with a touchdown and two-point change. The Seminoles secured the triumph after a field objective late in the final quarter gave them a 17– 14 lead and solidified the triumph when a Clemson endeavor to even the score with a field objective missed the mark. The triumph was FSU head mentor Bobby Bowden's 300th win and came against his child, Tommy Bowden, mentor of the Tigers. 

Florida State earned simple successes with a 35– 10 triumph over Virginia and a 49– 10 prevail upon Maryland before confronting the adversary Florida Gators in the last round of the Seminoles' ordinary season. Florida State drove all through the diversion, however needed to battle off a very late Florida drive so as to secure a 30– 23 win and simply the third ideal ordinary season in Florida State history. This season later was named the "Wire to Wire" season as the Seminoles kept their No. 1 positioning the whole season. 

Like Florida State, the Virginia Tech Hokies started the 1999 college football season with raised desires. In 1998, the Hokies had gone 9– 3 amid the ordinary season and had posted a 5– 2 record against individual Big East Conference groups. The Hokies presumed that 1998 season—which should be a reconstructing year—in the 1998 Music City Bowl, where the Hokies vanquished the Alabama Crimson Tide, 38– 7. With the expansion of redshirt first year recruit quarterback Michael Vick to a group that had permitted a normal of simply 12.9 points per diversion on resistance, there was the likelihood that Tech could enhance its past season's execution. Sports Illustrated, for instance, anticipated that the Hokies may challenge Miami for the Big East football title, and the preseason Coaches' Poll positioned the Hokies No. 14 before the primary round of the period. 

In their first round of the period, the Hokies satisfied desires, closing out James Madison University, 47– 0. The diversion was the first run through Tech had closed out a rival in a season opener since 1953. The amusement was damaged, nonetheless, by leg damage to Michael Vick that made him leave the diversion. The next week, against the University of Alabama Birmingham, Vick did not play. Regardless of his nonappearance, the Hokies still dealt with a 31– 10 win. This was trailed by a 31– 11 Thursday-night triumph over Clemson in Virginia Tech's first diversion against a Division I-A rival amid the season. 

Following the success over Clemson, Tech confronted conventional adversary Virginia in the yearly fight for the Commonwealth Cup. In spite of the contention and the way that Virginia was positioned the No. 24 group in the nation, the Cavaliers set up even to a lesser degree a battle than Clemson. Virginia Tech won, 31– 7. Presently No. 5 in the nation, Tech started to remove itself from other very positioned groups with back to back successes over Rutgers and Syracuse. The 62– 0 shutout of No. 16 Syracuse was the biggest triumph at any point recorded against a group positioned in the AP Poll. At this point, the Hokies were being depicted in media reports as a national title contender. 

Following a 30– 17 triumph at Pittsburgh, Virginia Tech made a trip to Morgantown, West Virginia, to confront the West Virginia Mountaineers in the yearly fight for the Black Diamond Trophy. In West Virginia, Virginia Tech squeezed out a 22– 20 triumph with a very late field objective from placekicker Shayne Graham. It was Tech's nearest triumph of the period and moved the Hokies to the No. 2 positioning in the nation. 

Following the success over West Virginia, Tech crushed Miami, 43– 10, and Temple, 62– 7, to secure the Big East title. In the last round of the customary season, the Hokies beat Boston College, 38– 14, establishing the third unbeaten season in Virginia Tech history and the Hokies' first since 1954. 

In the month before the Sugar Bowl, media consideration concentrated on Virginia Tech's unexpected ascent to national noticeable quality and Florida State's enduring appearance in the national title diversion. The Seminoles had the most top-5 completes and the most national title diversion appearances of any group during the 1990s, including a national title triumph in 1993. Numerous media stories concentrated on the evident David and Goliath confrontation between the two groups, with the Seminoles in the job of the overdog and the Hokies in the job of the dark horse. As a result of this reality, spread bettors favored Florida State to win by 5.5 points. 

A huge number of fans from the two groups ventured out to the amusement, regularly acquiring ticket and travel bundles for a large number of dollars. The restricted quantities of tickets accessible for the diversion were in extreme interest by aficionados of the two groups. 

The Seminoles tossed for no less than 229 passing yards in each amusement amid the standard season and arrived at the midpoint of 12.7 points per diversion more than its rivals. On the ground, the Seminoles found the middle value of 122.8 rushing yards per diversion. 

Driving the Florida State offense was quarterback Chris Weinke, a previous baseball player who, at 27 years old, was by a long shot the most seasoned player on the Seminoles' group. In the wake of enduring neck damage in the 1998 school football season, Weinke recouped to finish 232 of 377 pass endeavors for 3,103 yards, 25 touchdowns, and 14 interceptions. 

Weinke's most loved target was wide collector Peter Warrick, who drove all Seminole recipients with 931 yards in only nine amusements amid the customary season. Multiple times, Warrick earned more than 100 receiving yards in an amusement. Warrick's season was abbreviated by a two-diversion suspension following his capture for coming up short on for garments, yet despite everything he was named an All-America choice at wide collector, connoting his status as a standout amongst the best players in the nation at the position. 

Florida State placekicker Sebastian Janikowski, who was conceived in Poland, likewise was a key part of the Seminoles' scoring offense. In his vocation at Florida State preceding the Sugar Bowl, Janikowski made 65 of 83 field objective endeavors, including 33 of his past 38 kicks of under 50 yards. Janikowski additionally taken care of kickoffs, kicking the ball so hard that 57 of his 83 kickoffs were touchbacks. Janikowski was considered to can possibly be an early choice in the 2000 NFL Draft by a few scouts for expert groups. 

Amid the ordinary season, Virginia Tech's offense outscored rivals by a normal of 31 points per amusement. Tech arrived at the midpoint of 254 yards hurrying per amusement, the eighth-most elevated normal in the country. Critical to that achievement was running back Shyrone Stith, who had 1,119 rushing yards amid the standard season. Much progressively vital to the Hokies' prosperity, be that as it may, was quarterback Michael Vick. 

Vick was perceived by various across the country productions for his execution amid the ordinary season. His passer rating was the most noteworthy of any quarterback in the nation, and he finished 59.2 percent of his 152 passes for 1,840 yards, 12 touchdowns, and five capture attempts. Also, He scrambled for 585 yards and eight touchdowns on 108 carries. Vick was named Big East Offensive Player of the Year and was the sprinter up in voting in favor of the Associated Press Player of the Year. Vick's normal of 242 yards of all out offense per amusement were the most in the nation, and his 184 passing yards per diversion were the second-most. Moreover, Vick completed third in the voting in favor of the Heisman Trophy, customarily given to the best school football player in the nation. He was highlighted in various national distributions, including on the front of Sports Illustrated twice. 

A bunch of days before the Sugar Bowl, Tech wide recipient Ricky Hall broke a bone in his foot amid training and was viewed as improbable to play. Lobby was Tech's second-driving recipient, having gotten 25 passes for 398 yards and three touchdowns. Moreover, Hall was the Hokies' beginning punt returner, and had returned 40 kicks for 510 yards and one touchdown, setting a school record for punt return yardage. 

Tech placekicker Shayne Graham won Big East Special Teams Player of the Year respects in the wake of scoring 107 points amid the ordinary season. That mark set a Big East record, and Graham's 372 career focuses amid his four years with the Hokies were a NCAA record at the time. Graham's honor guaranteed Tech won each of the five of the Big East's player and mentor of the year grants. 

The Florida State protection was viewed as key to getting control over Tech quarterback Vick. The Seminoles permitted under 100 rushing yards per amusement by and large, and captured 22 passes amid the normal season. The Seminoles were positioned fifteenth broadly in pass protection toward the finish of the customary season however had permitted expanding measures of pass yardage in the last rounds of the period. Regardless of that reality, the Florida State safeguard's principle concern was Michael Vick's capacity to run the football. Said Florida State cautious facilitator Mickey Andrews: "A person like that generally gives us issues, considering the sort of (4– 3 hole) guard we run. At the point when a quarterback escapes the pocket, that could hurt us for huge yardage." 

The Seminole protection was driven by nose monitor Corey Simon, who gathered 48 solo handles, four sacks, and one block attempt. For his achievements amid the standard season, Simon earned agreement first-group All-America respects. Notwithstanding his achievements, Simon was not the Seminoles' driving tackler. That respect went to linebacker Tommy Polley, who collected 67 tackles amid the season. Individual linebacker Brian Allen contributed five quarterback sacks, the most in that measurable classification for Florida State. 

In the imperative class of scoring barrier, the Hokies were the top-positioned guard in the nation, permitting just 10.5 focuses per amusement. The group was positioned No. 3 in the nation in both absolute safeguard and hurrying guard. All things considered, Tech permitted simply 247.3 total yards and 75.9 rushing yards per amusement. Tech's pass safeguard was No. 7 in the nation, permitting a normal of 171.4 passing yards per diversion. The Hokies allowed close to 226 passing yards to any group amid the normal season, and no contradicting player earned 100 receiving yards. Tech safeguards likewise amassed 58 sacks amid the season. 

Virginia Tech cautious end Corey Moore was the top entertainer on the Hokie barrier. Moore collected 17 sacks amid the standard season, and was named Big East Defensive Player of the Year and to the Associated Press All-America group. In the primary seven day stretch of December, Moore was granted the Bronko Nagurski Trophy, given to the best cautious school football player in the nation. Tech's other protective end was John Engelberger, who earned seven sacks, six different handles for misfortune and 16 quarterback hustles. Engelberger was anticipated by star scouts to be the main Tech player chosen in the 2000 NFL Draft. 

The 2000 Sugar Bowl commenced at 8 p.m. EST on January 4, 2000, at the Louisiana Superdome, in New Orleans. A horde of 79,280 people went to the diversion face to face, and an expected 18.4 million individuals watched the amusement's transmission on ABC, winning the communicate a TV rating of 17.5, the third-most elevated rating at any point recorded for a BCS amusement. ABC gauges were higher, conjecturing that at any rate 54 million individuals viewed something like a bit of the communicate. Brent Musburger, Gary Danielson, Lynn Swann, and Jack Arute were the correspondents for the occasion, and Ron Franklin, Mike Gottfried, and Adrian Karsten gave analysis to the ESPN Radio communicate of the diversion. In return for their execution at the diversion, Virginia Tech and Florida State each gotten more than $4 million. 

The conventional pregame singing of the national song of devotion was performed by the Zion Harmonizers, a New Orleans gospel group of four. Steve Shaw was the official. Performer John Goodman played out the formal pre-amusement coin hurl to decide first ownership of the ball. Florida State won the coin hurl and chose to commence to Virginia Tech to start the diversion. 

Virginia Tech got the diversion's opening kickoff in their end zone for a touchback, and the Tech offense started at its 20-yard line. On the amusement's first play, Tech submitted a five-yard false begin punishment. Running back Shyrone Stith was ceased for a misfortune on the first non-punishment play of the amusement, yet Tech made up both that misfortune and the punishment when quarterback Michael Vick mixed for 25 yards and a first down. Vick then kept running for another nine yards, pushing the line of scrimmage close midfield. Tech executed an alternative raced to Stith, who kept running inside the Florida State 30-yard line. Tech got a couple of yards with a keep running up the center, at that point Vick finished a go to Davis, giving the Hokies a first down at the Florida State 13-yard line. Stith grabbed seven yards on a race to the six-yard line, yet the Seminole protection solidified, and Tech was unfit to get the staying three yards required for a first down. Confronting a fourth down and requiring not exactly a yard to get another first down inside the Florida State three-yard line, Tech head mentor Frank Beamer kept his offense on the field to endeavor to pick up the first down instead of kick a field objective. On the endeavor, notwithstanding, Vick bobbled the ball forward into the end zone, where Florida State recouped it for a touchback. Virginia Tech was in this way precluded the principal score from securing the diversion, and Florida State's offense entered the amusement out of the blue. 

Beginning at their 20-yard line after the touchback, Florida State's first play was a five-yard surge by running back Travis Minor. Quarterback Chris Weinke then finished a three-yard go to wide collector Peter Warrick, who was held back before the first down. After the following play neglected to increase positive yardage, the Seminoles were compelled to punt. Virginia Tech's offense started their second arrangement after a short punt come back to the 31-yard line. After a fragmented go from Vick, Stith grabbed a Tech initially down with two running plays. From their 43-yard line, Tech executed an end-around for a first down. Florida State likewise dedicated a five-yard facemask punishment that pushed Tech to the Seminoles' 40-yard line. Tech was halted for misfortunes on resulting plays and submitted a five-yard false begin punishment, however Vick finished a 18-yard go to Davis for a first down, making up the misfortunes. Tech was unfit to make great the misfortunes amassed on the following three plays, when Vick was sacked in the wake of tossing two fragmented passes. Tech punted, the ball folded into the end zone, and Florida State's offense started again at its 20-yard line. Weinke tossed two inadequate goes before associating on a first-down toss to wide recipient Ron Dugans. On the following play, Weinke associated on a 64-yard toss to Warrick for a Florida State touchdown and the principal purposes of the diversion. The additional point endeavor was effective, and Florida State took a 7– 0 lead with 3:22 staying in the main quarter. 

Following Florida State's post-touchdown kickoff, Virginia Tech's offense started its third ownership of the diversion at the Tech 24-yard line after a short kick return. Running back Andre Kendrick kept running for a short addition, however on the following play Vick was required a deliberate establishing punishment while endeavoring to dodge a sack. The Hokies were unfit to make up the yardage lost by the punishment and punted in the wake of neglecting to pick up a first down. Attributable to the punishment, Tech punter Jimmy Kibble was compelled to kick from his own end zone. Florida State had the capacity to get through the Tech hostile line amid the punt and obstructed the kick. The ball was gotten by Florida State safeguard Jeff Chaney, who dashed into the end zone for Florida State's second touchdown of the amusement. The score and additional point gave Florida State a 14– 0 lead with 2:14 staying in the principal quarter. 

Florida State's kickoff was brought down for a touchback, and Tech started at its 20-yard line. On the principal play of the ownership, Florida State submitted a 15-yard pass impedance punishment that gave Tech a first down at its 35-yard line. Tech was additionally helped by two five-yard punishments against Florida State that gave the Hokies another first down, and Vick finished a short go crosswise over midfield. On the main play in Florida State an area, Vick finished a 49-yard toss to wide collector André Davis for Tech's first touchdown of the diversion. The additional point endeavor was great, and with 30 seconds staying in the quarter, Tech limited Florida State's lead to 14– 7. 

Following Virginia Tech's kickoff and a touchback, Florida State's offense began work at its 20-yard line. Tech submitted a five-yard punishment, and as the last seconds of the quarter ticked off, Florida State kept running up the center for five yards and a first down. Toward the finish of the principal quarter, the score was 14– 7, Florida State driving. 

The second quarter started with Florida State possessing the ball, confronting a first down at its 30-yard line. Subsequent to getting short yardage on two back to back plays, Weinke finished a 63-yard go to Dugans, who kept running down the field for a touchdown. The additional point was fruitful, and with 13:45 staying in the second quarter, Florida State stretched out its lead to 21– 7. Following the Florida State kickoff, Virginia Tech restored the ball to the 33-yard line, where Tech's offense started tasks. Tech submitted a hostile pass obstruction punishment, and Tech was compelled to punt in the wake of being unfit to pick up a first down after the punishment. The Seminoles' Peter Warrick was allocated to restore the punt, and he handled the ball at the Florida State 41-yard line. Because of a few key squares from other Florida State players, Warrick had the capacity to run 59 unimpeded yards to the end zone for a touchdown. With 11:34 as yet staying before halftime, the Seminoles stretched out their lead to 28– 7. 

Following the Florida State kickoff, Virginia Tech endeavored to answer Florida State's kick-return touchdown with one of its own. Kendrick handled the ball at the Virginia Tech objective line and returned it 63 yards, right to the Florida State 37-yard line, where the Hokie offense started work. In spite of the great field position, Tech was unfit to pick up a first down. Tech kicker Shayne Graham was sent into the diversion, apparently to endeavor a 51-yard field objective. Rather than kicking the ball, Graham endeavored to run the ball for a first down. Graham mishandled shy of the first down, and Florida State took over on offense with 9:43 staying in the principal half. 

On the Seminoles' first hostile play of the drive, they endeavored a bug glimmer pass, which was gotten by Warrick at the Virginia Tech 33-yard line for a 33-yard gain. Following the play, Weinke was sacked out of the blue by the Tech barrier. This was pursued quickly by Tech's second sack, which pushed Weinke once again into the Seminoles' side of the field. On the third play of the Seminole drive, Weinke endeavored to scramble for yardage, yet was held back before the required imprint. Florida State's punt was brought down at the Virginia Tech one-yard line, which was the place the Tech offense started work. Florida State's safeguard kept the Hokies from picking up a first down, and Tech again needed to punt from its end zone. 

Following the kick and a short return, Florida State started a drive at the Tech 34-yard line, apparently in brilliant field position. Be that as it may, on the main play of the State drive, the Seminoles were ceased for a misfortune. State had the capacity to get a short increase on the second play, yet on the third, Weinke was sacked for the third time in the diversion. After the Seminole punt and a touchback, Tech's offense began at its 20-yard line. The Hokies got a first down with a choice raced to Stith, at that point Vick kept running for a long increase and another first down at the Florida State 20-yard line. Stith grabbed seven yards on a surge up the center of the field, at that point Vick finished a first-down go to Derek Carter inside the Seminole 10-yard line. Kendrick propelled the ball to the Seminole three-yard line, at that point Vick ran the rest of the yardage for a touchdown. Following the additional point, Tech slice Florida State's lead to 28– 14 with 37 seconds staying in the principal half. 

After the Virginia Tech kickoff and a Florida State come back to their 17-yard line, Florida State started running out the clock to finish the half. At halftime, Florida State held a 28– 14 lead over Virginia Tech. 

At halftime, a few associations and gatherings performed under the all-encompassing topic of a "Gospel Jubilee." The halftime show was composed by Douglas K. Green and Bowl Games of America, an organization established to give comparable administrations to bowl recreations over the United States. Different secondary school groups and move groups from Kansas to Florida engaged the group. 

Since Virginia Tech got the ball to start the diversion, Florida State got the ball to start the second half. The Seminoles restored the kickoff to their 22-yard line, and on the main play of the second half endeavored a sidelong pass. Virginia Tech safeguard Corey Moore thumped the ball downtrodden of limits, causing lost 16 yards. Regardless of the misfortune, Weinke had the capacity to make great the required yards with a 28-yard go to Minor. Minor got short yardage on a keep running up the center, at that point Weinke go for another first down, propelling the ball to the State 45-yard line. On first down, Weinke mishandled, however figured out how to recoup the ball after a five-yard misfortune. Not at all like previously, State was unfit to recover the lost yardage and was compelled to punt. Virginia Tech restored the kick to their 33-yard line, where the Tech offense started work. 

Vick go for six yards, at that point ran a possibility for 12 yards and a first down. Presently on State's side of the field, in any case, the Tech offense was unfit to increase another first down and punted back to Florida State, which restored the kick to its 21-yard line. State was held back on continuous plays, submitted a five-yard false begin punishment, at that point was ceased for no increase on third down. In the wake of going three and out, State punted back to the Hokies, who restored the ball to the Seminoles' 41-yard line. On the primary play of the drive, Vick finished a 26-yard go to the Tech fullback, Hawkins. After three surges neglected to get the first down at the Florida State five-yard line, Tech mentor Frank Beamer sent in Graham to kick a 23-yard field objective. The kick was fruitful, and with 7:54 staying in the quarter, Tech slice Florida State's lead to 28– 17. 

Virginia Tech's post-touchdown kickoff was brought down for a touchback, and Florida State's offense began a drive at its 20-yard line. Weinke finished one pass, yet two others fell deficient, and Florida State punted after again going three and out. The Hokies restored the State kick to the Seminoles' 36-yard line with a 45-yard return. Vick tossed a deficient pass, kept running for seven yards, at that point gave it off to Kendrick, who got through the Florida State safeguard and kept running ahead 29 yards for a touchdown. As opposed to endeavor an additional point, Beamer requested a two-point transformation trying to slice Florida State's lead to only three points. The play, which was Tech's initial two-point endeavor that season, fizzled. Indeed, even without an additional point, the touchdown still sliced Florida State's lead to 28– 23. 

After the post-score kickoff and return, Florida State started at its 22-yard line. Weinke finished a first-down go to Warrick, however Warrick submitted a 15-yard individual foul punishment all the while. On the following play, Weinke endeavored a long pass downfield, yet Tech protector Anthony Midget caught the ball at the Tech 41-yard line. Trailing by five, Tech's offense started a drive to conceivably additionally cut Florida State's lead or put the Hokies in the number one spot themselves. Subsequent to slipping on the field and assuming a misfortune, Vick finished a 20-yard go to Hawkins, who got a first down and pushed Tech to the Florida State 39-yard line. After a short surge by Kendrick, Vick mixed to the State 21-yard line for another first down. On the following play, Vick was sacked for a seven-yard misfortune, yet recouped the lost ground by running for 22 yards on the following play. With a first down at the Seminoles' seven-yard line, Vick gave the ball to Kendrick, who ran seven yards straight ahead for a Tech touchdown, giving the Hokies the lead without precedent for the diversion. Once more, Beamer requested a two-point change endeavor, yet once more, Florida State halted the Hokies short. Regardless of that inability to get the two-point transformation, Tech took a 29– 28 lead with 2:13 staying in the quarter. 

The Seminoles restored Tech's post-score kick to their 15-yard line, where Florida State's offense started work once more, planning to recover the lead for State. Weinke finished a seven-yard go to Warrick, at that point was sacked by the Virginia Tech barrier. Weinke defeated the misfortune on the following play with a 19-yard first-down pass. State kept on propelling the ball with short goes, as Weinke finished a five-yard toss. Chaney increased three yards on a race to one side as the last seconds of the second from last quarter ticked off the clock, setting up an essential third-down play. With one quarter remaining, Virginia Tech drove Florida State, 29– 28. 

Florida State started the final quarter possessing the ball and confronting a third down, requiring three yards for a first down. Weinke finished a go for barely shy of the required three yards. Rather than punting the ball away, Florida State head mentor Bobby Bowden requested the group to endeavor to change over the first down. He brought reinforcement quarterback Marcus Outzen into the diversion as a confusion move, and as opposed to running a quarterback sneak as foreseen, Outzen hurled the ball to Minor, who kept running for 16 yards and a first down. Amid the play, Virginia Tech submitted a 15-yard individual foul punishment that exceptional the ball further and gave Florida State a first down at the Virginia Tech 23-yard line. Weinke came back to the diversion and tossed a 10-yard go to Chaney for another first down. Weinke tossed an inadequate pass, at that point Tech ceased a surge up the center for no addition. On third down, Weinke associated on a touchdown go to Dugans, restoring the lead to Florida State. The Seminoles, as had Virginia Tech before them, chose to endeavor a two-point transformation. Dissimilar to Virginia Tech's fizzled two-point changes, the Seminoles effectively earned two with a go to Warrick, and the scores gave Florida State a 36– 29 lead with 12:59 remaining. 

Tech got Florida State's kickoff at its objective line and restored the ball to the 11-yard line, where Tech's offense dominated. Kendrick kept running for 12 yards and a first down, however then Vick bungled on a hurry to one side. Florida State recuperated the ball, and the Seminoles' offense was given the ball at the Virginia Tech 35-yard line. On the main play after the bobble, Chaney broke free for a long run that gave State a first down inside the Virginia Tech 10-yard line. The Seminoles were pushed in reverse on two successive plays and submitted a cleave obstruct before Bowden was compelled to send in Janikowski to kick a 32-yard field objective. The kick gave Florida State a 39– 29 lead with 10:26 staying in the diversion. 

Janikowski's post-score kickoff was brought down for a touchback, and Vick and the Tech offense started at their 20-yard line. On the Hokies' first play, Davis kept running for 16 yards and a first down on an end-around like the one he kept running in the primary quarter. Regardless of that achievement, the Hokies were unfit to increase another first down. Seeming to punt the ball away, Tech ran a trap play where the punter endeavored to scramble for a first down. He was held back before the required imprint, nonetheless, and Florida State's offense came back to the field, starting at the Tech 43-yard line. On the principal play subsequent to dominating, Weinke finished a 43-yard go to Warrick for a touchdown. The score and additional point gave Florida State a 46– 29 lead with 7:42 staying in the amusement. 

With not exactly a large portion of a quarter remaining and somewhere around three scores, Virginia Tech had an about outlandish shortfall to survive. The Hokies handled the kickoff for a touchback, and the Tech offense started at its 20-yard line. On the Hokies' first and second plays of the drive, Vick was sacked for misfortunes. The third play was a fragmented pass, and the Hokies were compelled to punt. In the wake of handling the kick at their 38-yard line, Florida State started running out the clock by running the ball. Subsequent to neglecting to pick up a first down on two back to back surges and an inadequate pass, Florida State punted. The ball folded into the end zone, and Tech's offense started again at its 20-yard line. Vick tossed for short yardage, at that point Kendrick kept running for a first down at the Tech 37-yard line. Vick finished a 23-yard initially down go to Emmet Johnson, and the Hokies entered Florida State an area with the clock ticking relentlessly down. On the primary play in Seminoles' region, Vick finished another 23-yard pass, this opportunity to Davis, who got a first down at the Florida State 23-yard line. On account of a holding punishment against the Seminoles, Tech was allowed a first down at the State eight-yard line. Vick tossed a fragmented pass, kept running for three yards, and after that tossed another go to a player who was held back before the objective line. Confronting fourth down and requiring only two yards for a touchdown, Tech endeavored to go for the touchdown, yet Vick was sacked and turned the ball over on downs with 1:12 remaining. With no time remaining, Florida State kept running down the clock and earned the 46– 29 triumph. 

In acknowledgment of his execution amid the amusement, Florida Statewide collector Peter Warrick was named the diversion's most profitable player. Warrick got six goes for 163 yards and two touchdowns, driving all recipients in yardage and scores. Warrick additionally had a 59-yard punt return for a touchdown and a two-point change, representing 20 of the Seminoles' 46 points. The 20 points scored by Warrick were a Sugar Bowl record for most focuses scored by an individual player. 

Regardless of Warrick's individual execution, Virginia Tech was increasingly fruitful in a collaboration, aggregating 503 total yards contrasted with Florida State's 359 yards. Virginia Tech quarterback Michael Vick finished 15 of 29 passes for 225 passing yards and one passing touchdown. Vick likewise ran the ball 23 times for 97 yards in his execution as the amusement's driving rusher. Florida State quarterback Chris Weinke was the amusement's best passer, finishing 20 of his 34 pass endeavors for 329 yards, four touchdowns, and one capture attempt. 

Weinke's most loved target was amusement MVP Peter Warrick, yet a few different Seminoles likewise profited by Weinke's passing effectiveness. Ron Dugans got five goes for 99 yards and two touchdowns, Minnis got two goes for 25 yards, and Minor got two for 23 yards. For Virginia Tech, Davis got seven goes for 108 yards and a touchdown, Hawkins got two goes for 49 yards, and Kendrick got two goes for 27 yards. 

Regarding surging offense, the two groups contrasted fiercely. Virginia Tech, driven by Vick, kept running for 278 rushing yards. Florida State, in the mean time, kept running for simply 30 yards. The Seminoles were driven on the ground by Chaney, who conveyed the ball multiple times for 43 yards, and Minor, who conveyed the ball multiple times for 35 yards. Quite a bit of these two players' surging all out was invalidated by Chris Weinke, who lost 41 yards on seven conveys. Virginia Tech, reinforced by Vick's 97 rushing yards, likewise observed André Kendrick gather 69 yards and two touchdowns with 12 carries and Shyrone Stith get 68 yards on 11 carries. 

Florida State's triumph earned it the 1999 BCS national title and finished the Seminoles' season with an undefeated 12– 0 record. By starting the season at No. 1 and consummation it similarly situated, Florida State turned into the primary school football crew to remain positioned No. 1 for each seven day stretch of the period in the wake of being positioned No. 1 in the preseason survey. Virginia Tech's misfortune conveyed it to a last record of 11– 1, yet the Hokies still finished their initial 11-win season in school history. The 75 total focuses scored in the 2000 Sugar Bowl were a Sugar Bowl record by then in the amusement's history. 

The two groups made changes to their separate training staffs in the weeks that pursued the Sugar Bowl. Hurl Amato left his situation as linebackers mentor for Florida State to take the head training position at North Carolina State. His job as linebackers mentor was filled by Joe Kines, whom Bobby Bowden procured from the University of Georgia. Amato's job as partner head mentor was filled by Jim Gladden, who had been a mentor at Florida State for over 25 years at the time he was named the associate head mentor. At Virginia Tech, head mentor Frank Beamer additionally rolled out certain improvements to his training staff, elevating a few position mentors to higher positions in the Tech football chain of importance. 

In acknowledgment of their accomplishments amid the customary season and amid the 2000 Sugar Bowl, numerous players and mentors from each group earned honors and acknowledgment after the finish of the diversion. Tech quarterback Michael Vick, in spite of driving the losing group in the Sugar Bowl, won an ESPY for school football player of the year on February 14, over a month after the Sugar Bowl. Moreover, Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer won numerous mentor of the year grants, most outstandingly the Bobby Dodd Coach of the Year Award, which was exhibited to Beamer on March 6. One of Beamer's associate mentors, Bud Foster, was named the top cautious organizer in Division I-A football by American Football Coach Magazine in its yearly honor. Florida State quarterback Chris Weinke won the 2000 Heisman Trophy after the finish of the 2000 school football season. 

A few players from each group were picked by expert groups to play in the National Football League amid the 2000 NFL Draft, held April 15 and 16, in New York City. Florida State had three players chosen in the first round of the draft and seven players taken generally speaking. Dwindle Warrick was the main player picked, chose with the fourth generally speaking determination by the Cincinnati Bengals. Guarded handle Corey Simon was chosen two picks later with the 6th generally speaking choice, and placekicker Sebastian Janikowski was taken seventeenth. Later adjusts saw Ron Dugans (66th), Laveranues Coles (78th), Jerry Johnson (101st), and Mario Edwards (180th) taken in the draft from Florida State. 

Virginia Tech had no players chosen in the first round of the draft yet observed five players taken from the second round ahead. Guarded end John Engelberger was the first Hokie taken in the 2000 draft, and was picked with the 35th by and large determination. He was trailed by cornerback Ike Charlton, who was taken with the 52nd pick in the draft. Corey Moore (89th), Anthony Midget (134th), and Shyrone Stith (243rd) additionally were taken. 

A few players who took part in the 2000 Sugar Bowl chose to defer their entrance into the NFL Draft, either in light of the fact that they would have liked to complete their training or on the grounds that they were not three years expelled from their secondary school graduations and accordingly were not qualified to enter the draft. Instances of these players included Florida State quarterback Chris Weinke, who came back to Florida State to finish his senior year, and Virginia Tech quarterback Michael Vick, who was not qualified to enter the draft in 2000, yet who was taken with the primary by and large determination in the 2001 NFL Draft. 

Florida State entered the 2000 school football season keeping in mind the desire of following up its triumph in the 2000 Sugar Bowl with another national title. The Seminoles' customary season execution varied marginally from 1999, as they lost a normal season amusement to Miami, yet still showed up in a third back to back national title diversion: the 2001 Orange Bowl. Not at all like in 2000, the Seminoles rose on the losing side of a 13– 2 score. Virginia Tech, similar to Florida State, had wanted to go to the national title diversion once more, yet damage to star quarterback Michael Vick made the Hokies lose a normal season amusement at third-positioned Miami, dispensing with them from national title conflict. 

The accompanying season, neither Florida State nor Virginia Tech vied for a national title, yet the two groups played in the 2002 Gator Bowl, their first matchup in two years. Following the Gator Bowl, Florida State next met Virginia Tech in the 2005 ACC Championship Game after the Hokies left the Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference. Florida State won that challenge, 27– 22. Not until the 2007 school football season did Virginia Tech at long last vindicate its misfortunes to the Seminoles with a 40– 21 win on the way to an Atlantic Coast Conference title. It was the main diversion in fifteen back to back matchups between the two groups that Virginia Tech had won.