Thousand years Force 

Thousand years Force is a steel crazy ride situated at Cedar Point carnival in Sandusky, Ohio. Made by Intamin, it was the recreation center's fourteenth thrill ride going back to the opening of Blue Streak in 1964. Upon fulfillment in 2000, Millennium Force broke six world records and was the world's first "giga liner", a term begat by Intamin and Cedar Point to speak to thrill rides that surpass in tallness and complete a full circuit. It was quickly the tallest and quickest on the planet until Steel Dragon 2000 opened later that year. The ride is likewise the third-longest thrill ride in North America following The Beast at Kings Island and Fury 325 at Carowinds. 

Thousand years Force includes a link lift slope with a drop, two passages, three overbanked turns, and four slopes. The liner likewise has a top speed of . Since its presentation, Millennium Force has been casted a ballot the main steel crazy ride multiple times in "Delight Today's" yearly Golden Ticket Awards; starting at 2018, it had never been positioned lower than second spot. In spite of the fact that Millennium Force has been outperformed in tallness and speed, it stays one of the tallest and quickest on the planet. 

The arranging, plan and improvement periods of Millennium Force occurred more than five years. The primary bits of gossip that another record-breaking crazy ride would be worked at Cedar Point, which included theory around a ten reversal exciting ride from Bolliger and Mabillard and an Arrow Dynamics MegaLooper, started coursing in mid 1998. A crazy ride from D. H. Morgan Manufacturing was additionally supposed. On July 2, 1999, Cedar Fair Entertainment Company recorded a trademark for the name Millennium Force, which raised more hypothesis about what the ride would resemble. About seven days after the fact, the primary track pieces were seen at the recreation center, which affirmed that the ride would be made by Intamin. Cedar Point authorities likewise affirmed that it would not have reversals. 

Thousand years Force was declared on July 22, 1999, as the tallest thrill ride on the planet, taking the record from Fujiyama at Fuji-Q Highland in Japan. Wear Miears, General Manager of Cedar Point stated, "Thousand years Force acquaints the world with an unheard of dimension of exciting ride riding." The ride cost $25 million to structure and assemble. Thousand years Force was worked in the Frontier Trail segment of the recreation center and the Giant Wheel was migrated to prepare for it. Cedar Point, Intamin, and Werner Stengel structured the format of the ride. After the ride was declared, a few question about whether Millennium Force or was the tallest and quickest crazy ride on the planet emerged between Cedar Point and Six Flags Magic Mountain. Superman: The Escape is high and its speed is ; notwithstanding, it is a bus thrill ride, not a total circuit crazy ride. 

Development began in August 1999 when the site was cleared. The expulsion and migration of the Giant Wheel started in October on shutting day; the first of 226 backings was introduced on October 11, beginning at the brake run. Two hundred twenty-six footers, each about profound were burrowed; the biggest ones were . The solid development was finished by Mosser Construction. The lift slope was finished off toward the beginning of January 2000. 

The ride's development took seven months, and 120 development laborers and venture supervisors partook. Testing took two months. The recreation center led a "pull-through" by pulling a train along the course to guarantee legitimate freedom. The ride was investigated and tried with water-fakers on the trains. The primary media occasion was hung on May 11, 2000, and the ride opened to the open two days after the fact on May 13. When it opened, it broke six world records. It was the first Giga Coaster and was the world's quickest finished circuit exciting ride, however was later surpassed by different rides. About a month after Millennium's introduction, Cedar Point presented another lining framework called "Ticket to Ride" to lessen the holding up times, which enabled guests to purchase a ticket at that point return later and hold up in a shorter line. In August, Cedar Point connected with John Hancock and Associates and Stalker Radar of Indianapolis to quantify the stature and speed of Millennium Force. The stature was estimated at , and the speed was estimated at , marginally quicker than what the recreation center had been publicizing (92 mph). 

Prior to the beginning of the 2004 season, Millennium Force's safety belts were changed due to an episode that happened on Superman the Ride, a comparable thrill ride at Six Flags New England. The new safety belts were shorter and a few riders experienced issues with them. The exciting ride's format was repainted over a three-year time span, before the 2011, 2012 and 2013 seasons. In 2012, the recreation center included another LED lighting framework. 

Thousand years Force's passage is situated behind the Cedar Point and Lake Erie Railroad's Celebration Plaza station. The line is arranged between the ride's last overbanked turn and the station. A DJ stall is given to engage holding up guests; the recreation center's "Sticking DJ's" take demands for family cordial melodies from individuals in the line. It was then supplanted by Cedar Point's FUNtv, which plays music recordings of prevalent melodies, the Gatekeeper/Maverick mix, park incidental data, sports news, park notices, climate figures, and famous news features. About a month after Millennium's presentation, Cedar Point presented another line framework known as "Ticket to Ride" (later FreeWay) to diminish the hold up time. Guests could purchase tickets at that point return later and hold up in a shorter line. This framework was stopped in 2004 after a few people grumbled it was uncalled for that others were venturing out in front of them in line. In 2012, Cedar Point presented its Fast Lane line framework on the ride; guests can purchase a wristband which empowers them to hold up in a shorter line. The framework was tried at Kings Island the earlier year, where it got positive audits. 

Thousand years Force covers ; it runs parallel to the shoreline of Lake Erie at that point goes to an island situated inside the recreation center, where the Shoot the Rapids log flume and the Dinosaurs Alive! fascination were some time ago found. There are two passages, three overbanked turns and four slopes. One cycle of the ride takes around 2 minutes and 20 seconds. 

While the train is being stacked with travelers, the catch vehicle for the link lift dives the lift slope and hooks onto the center vehicle underneath the train. When the train is cleared, the link lift promptly pulls the train up the 45 degree lift slope at to a tallness of . The train drops at a 80 degree edge and achieves a top speed of at the base of the slope. It at that point moves through a privilege overbanked divert at 122 degrees from the flat pivot, at that point goes through a passage as it ignores the Frontier Trail. It at that point goes over an illustrative slope, which gives a snapshot of zero gravity as it ignores a tidal pond and down onto Adventure Island. It finishes a , 360-degree right-gave helix, trailed by a left overbanked turn. It at that point finishes a little right-hand turn before heading out over another slope to leave the island. The train at that point voyages left during a time burrow where the on-ride photograph is taken, trailed by a left turn and a little slope, going by the line. At long last, the train voyages high through another privilege overbanked turn over the line and is ceased by attractive brakes. Travelers land the ride at an emptying station and the train moves to a second station where it is stacked. 

Thousand years Force is a Giga Coaster demonstrate structured by Werner Stengel and worked by Swiss producer Intamin. It was the first of a progression of exciting rides, including Top Thrill Dragsterthe tallest and quickest crazy ride on the planet in 2003that Intamin worked at Cedar Point. , Millennium Force is one of just two Giga Coasters worked by Intamin, the other being Intimidator 305 at Kings Dominion. 

Thousand years Force works with three treated steel, arena style seating trains shaded red, blue, and yellow. Each train has nine vehicles that situate four travelers, permitting a most extreme limit of 36 individuals for every train and 1,300 riders 60 minutes. Each seat has an individual, water powered, T-molded lap bar and safety belt which rests over the rider's lap. Each train gauges 19 tons. 

The station has two stages, one for emptying and one for stacking. Two trains are stacked and emptied while the third train is running the course. There is likewise a different line in the station where riders can sit tight for the primary seat. The stacking stage has red overhead lights, which are situated over the train. Thousand years Force's signature tune is played in the station while riders are boarding. 

The steel rounded track is long and the lift is roughly high. The track is blue and the backings are silver. The track comprises of 229 pieces, each weighing between . Intamin provided the track with empty basic areas (HSS), which is utilized in all the track pieces, supports and towers. Thousand years Force utilizes three distinctive track shapes. The most straightforward segments are two-pipe track, made with two running rails associated by square HSS cross-individuals. The ride likewise utilizes three-pipe track, which has two running rails with a spine of round HSS, which frames a triangle. The third kind of track shapes a square and is considered the most grounded. It has two running rails with two spine tubes. As both a high elevation and high speed ride, Millennium Force is influenced by negative climate conditions, for example, downpour, lightning or solid breezes; under these conditions the ride is shut, however in light downpour it can stay open. 

At the point when the ride opened in 2000, Cedar Point picked High End Systems, headquartered in Austin, Texas, to light the ride. Loot Decker, Cedar Point's Corporate Director of Planning and Design, said that they figured they would need to mount different floodlights on the pinnacle. Be that as it may, they had the capacity to introduce thirty EC-1 floodlights at the base of the lift slope structure which gave lighting all through the ride's structure. Of the six fundamental help towers, three had six EC-1s, and three towers had four EC-1s. The three tallest towers had another unit in the center. 

Throughout the years, the lights were not kept up and became observably dimmer. In 2012, Cedar Point presented another evening appear, Luminosity —Ignite the Night!, to "re-invigorate" the recreation center toward the day's end. New LED lights from Sunrise, Florida-based Chauvet Professional were introduced to enlighten the ride. Twenty COLORado Range and ten COLORado Ridge wash lights were introduced at the base of the lift slope structure. 

When it opened in May 2000, Millennium Force broke six world records and utilized another attractive slowing mechanism rather than grinding brakes found on most exciting rides. This new framework empowered the utilization of a shorter brake run, which backs the train from off to a halt in six seconds. 

Thousand years Force held the records for tallest and quickest total circuit thrill ride until August 2000, when Steel Dragon 2000 opened. Thousand years Force held the record for tallest and quickest exciting ride at Cedar Point until 2003, when Cedar Point appeared Top Thrill Dragster, which at the time was the tallest and quickest crazy ride on the planet. 

Thousand years Force held the accompanying records at the season of its presentation: 

At the season of Millennium Force's presentation, Cedar Point held records for the accompanying (May 2000 measurement on left and May 2013 measurement on right): 

Thousand years Force affected the manner in which crazy rides were fabricated. Following its presentation, the utilization of link lift slopes, which need less support and help more weight than a conventional chain lift, turned into a common element in the business. Thousand years Force likewise prepared for extra liners breaking the hindrance. Top Thrill Dragster, likewise worked by Intamin, opened three years after the fact as the main complete-circuit exciting ride to surpass in stature. Intamin did not assemble another Giga Coaster until 2010, when it constructed Intimidator 305 at Kings Dominion. Intimidator 305 is like Millennium Force; it has a link lift and comparative format however has diverse limitations; it utilizes bear outfits rather than lap bars. Leviathan opened at Canada's Wonderland in May 2012 breaking also. Produced by Bolliger and Mabillard, it utilizes a chain lift rather than a link lift. 

Thousand years Force has one of the longest queues in the recreation center, with travelers holding up more than four hours when the ride appeared. The ride got positive responses from guests, a significant number of whom said it was smooth and truly agreeable. Others stated, "It'll alarm the living crap out of you". In its initial six years of activity, Millennium Force had more than 10 million riders. By August 2012, Millennium had given in excess of 21 million rides. A few TV programs, including the Travel Channel's "Outrageous Terror Rides", "Bert the Conqueror", "Beyond reach", the Discovery Channel's "Extraordinary Rides", and the National Geographic Channel's "Super Coasters" have highlighted Millennium Force. Out of more than 500 crazy rides that Werner Stengel has designed, he expressed that Millennium Force is his top choice. Robb Alvey, a prominent exciting ride fan, considered it an "achievement in thrill ride history". 

Thousand years Force has reliably positioned high in different surveys and has won various honors. Thousand years Force and Superman the Ride (once in the past Bizarro) at Six Flags New England held the main two places in the Golden Ticket Awards from 2001– 2015, frequently swapping positions. Fierceness 325 has involved the top spot since 2016. In the Travel Channel's "Crazy Coaster Wars", Millennium Force was casted a ballot the "fan top choice" in the "Extraordinary Heights" and "The Top 10" classifications. In 2013, "Time" positioned Millennium Force as the top crazy ride in the United States.