Dwindle Drummond (RAF officer) 

Air Marshal Sir Peter Roy Maxwell Drummond, (2 June 1894 – 27 March 1945) was an Australian-brought into the world senior officer in the Royal Air Force (RAF). He ascended from private fighter in World War I to air marshal in World War II. Drummond enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force in 1914 and the next year considered administration to be a medicinal precise amid the Gallipoli Campaign. He joined the Royal Flying Corps in 1916 and turned into a warrior expert in the Middle Eastern theater, where he was granted the Military Cross and the Distinguished Service Order and Bar. Exchanging to the RAF on its development in 1918, he stayed in the British military for a mind-blowing remainder. 

Between the wars, Drummond saw activity in the Sudan—gaining arrangement as an Officer of the Order of the British Empire—and was presented on Australia on secondment to the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) as Director of Operations and Intelligence. In Britain, he told RAF stations Tangmere and Northolt. Positioned air commodore at the episode of World War II, he was Air Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder's Deputy Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief RAF Middle East from 1941 to 1943. Drummond was delegated a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1941 for his administrations in the Middle East, and knighted in a similar request two years after the fact. He was twice offered direction of the RAAF amid the war however the RAF was reluctant to discharge him to take up the position. England's Air Member for Training from 1943, Drummond was murdered in a plane accident adrift in 1945. 

Drummond was conceived on 2 June 1894 in Perth, Western Australia, to shipper John Maxwell Drummond and his better half Caroline ("née" Lockhart). Enrolled as Roy Maxwell Drummond, he obtained the moniker "Diminish" amid his tutoring at Scotch College, and formally received it as his first name in 1943. He served in the cadets and filled in as a bank assistant before enrolling in the Australian Imperial Force on 10 September 1914. 

At 5 ft 7in (171 cm) in tallness, Drummond was passed judgment on excessively slight of work for the infantry and was rather relegated to the second Stationary Hospital of the Australian Army Medical Corps as a methodical. By December 1914, when his unit cruised for Egypt, Drummond was positioned corporal. He was sent to Gallipoli in April 1915 and served on a medical clinic transport, helping specialists in tasks on the injured. Drummond was cleared to England soon thereafter, experiencing loose bowels. In December, he connected for an exchange to the British Royal Flying Corps (RFC) and was released from the Australian Army in April 1916. 

Following pilot preparing in the United Kingdom, Drummond got the position of transitory second lieutenant and was presented on Egypt, where he was allocated to No. 1 Squadron, Australian Flying Corps (numbered 67 Squadron RFC by the British). Amid the Sinai and Palestine Campaign, he partook noticeable all around strikes that went before the Battle of Magdhaba on 23 December 1916. He later stated, "The day preceding the Magdhaba fight, the entire horde of us with every one of the bombs we could convey, went out. You couldn't see the spot for smoke after we had left ... The Turks were withdrawing constantly and we had incredible game coming down to around 50 feet and peppering them with machine guns ..." On 20 March 1917, Drummond, flying a Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2, was one of two pilots who strafed adversary troops undermining Lieutenant Frank McNamara as he protected a brought down Australian aviator, the activity for which McNamara was granted his Victoria Cross. 

Drummond was granted the Military Cross for "prominent heroism and dedication to obligation" on 20 April 1917, when he and Lieutenant Adrian Cole connected with and drove off six foe flying machine that were endeavoring to bomb Allied mounted force; the honor was declared in "The London Gazette" on 16 August. Drummond was elevated to transitory lieutenant on 1 May 1917. Soon thereafter he was named a flight authority in No. 1 Squadron, with the impermanent position of chief. He joined No. 111 Squadron RFC as a flight leader and impermanent skipper in October. On 12 December, he and his onlooker were escorting two Australian air ship in a Bristol Fighter close Tul Karem, Palestine, when they were spotted by three German Albatros scouts. Drummond assaulted and pulverized every one of the three of the adversary flying machine. This accomplishment earned him the Distinguished Service Order for his "incredible ability and brave"; the honor was declared on 26 March 1918. 

On 27 March 1918, again close Tul Karem, Drummond and another pilot mixed to assault a German scout. As his wingman managed the interloper, Drummond, flying a Nieuport, without any help connected with six other German flying machine that had all of a sudden showed up. As per his own record, after he had decimated one and "sent another down in a turn", Drummond created motor inconvenience and needed to arrive behind adversary lines. Discovering his motor terminating once more, he took off before he could be caught by Turkish troops and picked up a begin once again the four as yet revolving around German scouts, "who had additionally inferred that the battle was finished". He was compelled to arrive three additional occasions in foe domain—once in a mounted force camp where he "diverted a line brimming with washing" with his undercarriage in his break—before he shook off everything except one of the seeking after contenders and landed securely behind Allied lines. He was granted a Bar to his DSO on 26 July for his "brave and fruitful" activities. 

The RFC converged with the Royal Naval Air Service to frame the Royal Air Force (RAF) on 1 April 1918. Drummond was given direction of No. 145 Squadron RAF, which worked Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5 contenders, in July 1918, and was made an acting major on 2 September. He completed the war a pro, credited with eight triumphs, and was referenced in despatches on 5 June 1919. 

Drummond stayed in the RAF following World War I, holding direction of No. 111 Squadron in 1919, and getting his changeless bonus as an acting commander on 1 August that year. He was situated in the Sudan from January to July 1920, as a feature of Britain's arrangement of "control without occupation", utilizing airplane rather than armed forces to put down nearby uprisings. As acting squadron pioneer, Drummond instructed "H" Unit, the whole supplement of which comprised of two air ship. Coming back to Britain, he was named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire on 22 July 1921 in acknowledgment of his "fantastic work" even with "antagonistic conditions", directing an effective surveillance and besieging effort against Garjak Nuer tribesmen. He entered RAF Staff College, Andover, in 1922. 

On 1 January 1923, Drummond was elevated to squadron pioneer; he moved on from Andover that year. Additionally in 1923, he proposed an officer trade plot for the RAF and the recently framed Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Following a staff presenting on the Air Ministry, he was favored to the RAAF in 1925, serving four years as Director of Operations and Intelligence at Air Force Headquarters, Melbourne. He wedded Isabel Drake-Brockman, cousin of Brigadier General Edmund Drake-Brockman, at St John's Anglican Church in Toorak, Victoria, on 17 July 1929; the couple had a child and two little girls. Drummond came back to the UK in November that year. He learned at the Imperial Defense College, London, in 1930, and was advanced wing authority on 1 July 1931. From November 1931 to June 1933, he directed RAF Tangmere, a warrior base. After Tangmere, Drummond went through three years at the Air Ministry. In September 1936 he accepted direction of RAF Northolt. While accountable for Northolt he was elevated to bunch commander on 1 January 1937. That November, Drummond was named senior air staff officer (SASO) at RAF Middle East in Cairo. He was raised to air commodore on 1 July 1939. 

At the flare-up of World War II, Drummond was still SASO RAF Middle East. In mid 1940 he ended up associated with arrangements for Operation Pike, an Anglo-French intend to bomb oil fields in the Caucasus; the Soviet Union was as of now observed as partnered to Nazi Germany, in the wake of the intrusion of Poland and the Winter War. Drummond drove an assignment to Aleppo, Syria, to examine Turkey's guard again conceivable German or Russian assault. He wanted to work British flying machine out of French bases in northern Syria if Pike proceeded. Drummond was made an acting air bad habit marshal on 19 June 1940, and brief air bad habit marshal on 10 January the following year. On 1 June 1941, he was raised to acting air marshal and named Deputy Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C) RAF Middle East, after Air Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder's height to AOC-in-C. The "Australian Dictionary of Biography" credits Tedder and Drummond with building up their order as "a versatile strike-constrain equipped for co-working completely with the other two administrations", and Tedder later commented on the significance of his agent's commitment to the Allied triumph in North Africa. Tedder's biographer, Vincent Orange, fought that "Tedder's developing eminence ... owes a lot to Drummond's astute and devoted help". 

Drummond considered the Middle East a "Fight for Airfields", as whichever side held the Mediterranean arrival grounds could secure its transportation to the detriment of the enemy's. Chief of naval operations Sir Andrew Cunningham discovered Drummond "an intensive non-cooperator" however Drummond's aide, Arthur Lee, portrayed him as "an invigorating man to work with ... without posture or ornamentations, genuine, however with a comical inclination about as contemptuous and wry as Tedder's". Drummond was delegated a Companion of the Order of the Bath on 24 September 1941 "in acknowledgment of recognized administrations rendered in operational directions of the Royal Air Force" from 1 October 1940 to 31 March 1941. His impermanent position of air bad habit marshal was made substantive on 14 April 1942. 

In mid 1942 the Australian government looked for Drummond for the situation of Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) of the RAAF, to succeed Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Burnett, RAF, toward the fulfillment of the last's two-year term. Australia's High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, Stanley Bruce, had prescribed Drummond in a link to Prime Minister John Curtin on 5 February. Despite the fact that the British government was at first steady of the arrangement, the Air Ministry in the long run declined to discharge Drummond from his job in the Middle East, halfway to stay away from interruption to the locale's order and furthermore on the grounds that it didn't trust that Drummond's operational capacities would be put to adequate use in the to a great extent managerial job of CAS. Drummond himself was supposedly questionable about the arrangement due to the division of power between RAAF Headquarters and Allied Air Force Headquarters, South West Pacific Area (SWPA). 

Burnett had prescribed his agent, Air Vice-Marshal William Bostock, for CAS however in May 1942 the position went to acting Air Commodore George Jones. Bostock thus moved toward becoming Air Officer Commanding RAAF Command, Australia's principle operational association under SWPA. A progressing struggle between Jones (presently advanced air bad habit marshal) and Bostock prompted moves in April 1943 to get an officer higher ranking than the two men to head the RAAF in a bound together direction structure, and Drummond was yet again drawn closer by the Australian government. Drummond had demonstrated that he was glad to serve in Australia however the Air Ministry again wouldn't discharge him, having chosen him for a seat reporting in real time Council as Air Member for Training. 

Drummond succeeded Air Marshal Sir Guy Garrod as Air Member for Training on 27 April 1943. He was raised to transitory air marshal on 1 June 1943, and designated a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in the King's Birthday Honors the next day. Drummond's situation reporting in real time Council included managing the Empire Air Training Scheme, making him incompletely in charge of the genuine oversupply of aircrew that was evident by 1944; Drummond trusted that the circumstance would possibly be balanced if the forthcoming intrusion of Europe prompted substantial losses. He remained a promoter of close participation between the RAF and Dominion aviation based armed forces; the Adelaide "Sponsor" cited him as saying, "Day by day traveling to my London office ... I try passing the Boomerang Club at Australia House only for the joy and satisfaction of swapping a salute and a 'decent day' with the absolute best air group on the planet—the RAAF." 

On 27 March 1945, Drummond was "on the way" to Canada with different dignitaries to go to a function denoting the conclusion of the Empire Air Training Scheme. His plane, a B-24 Liberator nicknamed "Commando" that was previously the individual transport of Winston Churchill, vanished close to the Azores and all on board were assumed executed. Blunt McNamara, presently a RAAF air bad habit marshal situated in England and a dear companion, broke the news to Drummond's widow. Air Marshal Sir Roderic Hill succeeded Drummond as Air Member for Training. 

Drummond was made due by his better half and three youngsters. A commemoration administration for the casualties of the Azores flight was held at St Martin-in-the-Fields on 8 May 1945. Drummond was twice referenced in despatches for his administration in World War II, on 11 June 1942, and on 19 September 1946 (for his execution as SASO RAF Middle East in 1940– 41). On 3 May 1946, he was after death allowed consent to wear the honor of Commander of the Order of the Phoenix, presented by the Kingdom of Greece. Tedder wrote in 1948 that Drummond as Deputy AOC-in-C Middle East "bore such a large amount of the weight and took such an insignificant slice of the credit"; Vincent Orange saw that the two authorities remained companions and that Drummond "may well have succeeded Tedder as Chief of the Air Staff" however for his initial demise. He is remembered on Panel 264 of the Runnymede Memorial in Surrey.