Over the Edge (1999) 

Over the Edge (1999) was an expert wrestling pay-per-see (PPV) occasion delivered by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) on May 23, 1999, at Kemper Arena in Kansas City, Missouri, United States. It was the main occasion not to be advanced under the "In Your House" arrangement of pay-per-sees, which ordinarily happened in months not involved by the WWF's greatest occasions (Royal Rumble, WrestleMania, King of the Ring, SummerSlam, and Survivor Series). 

Owen Hart was booked to confront The Godfather for the WWF Intercontinental Championship amid the occasion. Wrestling under his Blue Blazer contrivance, Hart was set to make a hero like ring passageway, which would have seen him drop from the field rafters into the ring. He was, be that as it may, discharged rashly when the outfit line broke down, and fell more than into the ring and passed on. Analysis later emerged over the WWF's choice to proceed with the show after Hart's mishap. In court, his widow Martha, youngsters, and guardians sued the association, fighting that lack of common sense of the hazardous trick caused Owen's passing. WWF settled the case out of court, paying US$18 million to his widow, kids, and guardians. Because of the mishap and discussion encompassing the occasion, the Over the Edge name was resigned. The occasion was likewise not discharged for home video seeing until the dispatch of the WWE Network in 2014 where an altered form of the show evacuating any notice of Hart's passing was discharged. 

In the headliner, The Undertaker vanquished Stone Cold Steve Austin in a singles coordinate (with Vince McMahon and Shane McMahon as the visitor refs) to win the WWF Championship. Of the six planned sessions on the undercard, two got more advancement than the others. The first was a singles coordinate, in which The Rock crushed Triple H by exclusion. The other was an eight-man disposal label group coordinate, including The Union's (Mankind, Ken Shamrock, Test, and the Big Show) triumph over the Corporate Ministry (Viscera, the Big Boss Man, and the Acolytes (Bradshaw and Faarooq)). 

The fundamental account for Over the Edge proceeded with the occasions that unfurled at , WWF's past pay-per-see occasion, hung on April 25, 1999. There, The Undertaker snatched Stephanie McMahon, the little girl of director Vince McMahon. The Undertaker's cost for Stephanie's arrival was authority over the wrestling association. His arrangements were impeded, be that as it may, by the WWF Champion, Steve Austin, who protected Stephanie and denied The Undertaker his payoff. This set up a quarrel between the two wrestlers, which was settled in a title coordinate at Over the Edge, in which both Vince and his child Shane, who had adjusted himself to The Undertaker, would fill in as the visitor referee.<ref name="SNH5/2"></ref> Originally Shane had named himself the sole official of the match, however WWF magistrate Shawn Michaels made Vince the co-arbitrator so as to make everything fair. WWF further developed the contention between The Undertaker and Austin by having them assault each other on WWF programming, before their confrontation. On May 3, 1999, The Undertaker lost Austin the stage, and after two weeks, the WWF Champion cuffed his title's challenger to a cross, which was raised over the ring.<ref name="RAW5/17a"></ref> 

Another fight finishing at Over the Edge included Triple H and The Rock, who might meet each other in a match at the occasion. Triple H had meddled in one of The Rock's matches, and later lost him the stage. driving The Rock to wearing his (kayfabe) harmed arm in a mortar cast. Shane, going about as co-proprietor of WWF and partner of Triple H, further wronged The Rock by precluding him to wear the cast for Over the Edge. 

The compensation per-see occasion contained the contention among two stables, the Corporate Ministry and the Union. The Corporate Ministry was framed when the Corporation converged with the Ministry of Darkness; the Corporate Ministry comprised of Viscera, the Big Boss Man, and the Acolytes (Bradshaw and Faarooq).<ref name="SD4/29a"></ref> Throughout the long stretch of May, the Ministry was associated with matches with Mankind, Ken Shamrock, the Big Show, and Test, and in countering, the four wrestlers shaped the Union stable. The WWF kept on improving the fight more than half a month, which incorporated a fight among each of the eight wrestlers on May 10, 1999. The fight prompted an eight-man disposal label group coordinate between the two gatherings at Over the Edge. 

Different fights included Billy Gunn against his previous accomplice Road Dogg, the Blue Blazer against WWF Intercontinental Champion The Godfather, Mark Henry and D'Lo Brown against WWF Tag Team Champions Kane and X-Pac, Hardcore Holly against Al Snow in a Hardcore singles coordinate for the Hardcore Title, and a blended label group coordinate setting Val Venis and Nicole Bass against Jeff Jarrett and Debra were additionally publicized. 

Before the occasion started and broadcast live on pay-per-see, a scene of "Sunday Night Heat" circulated live on the USA Network. Meat crushed Brian Christopher, while the Hardy Boyz (Matt Hardy and Jeff Hardy) vanquished Goldust and the Blue Meanie. After the match, The Brood gave The Hardy Boyz and Hayes a bloodbath. In the last challenge, Vince McMahon and Mideon battled to a no-challenge, when the Corporate Ministry assaulted Vince and broke his lower leg (kayfabe) so as to keep him from refereeing the headliner coordinate. 

Jim Ross and Jerry "The King" Lawler were the English analysts for the occasion, while Carlos Cabrera and Hugo Savinovich were the Spanish observers. Howard Finkel went about as the ring commentator. The arbitrators included Tim White, Mike Chioda, and Teddy Long. Different authorities incorporate Vince McMahon, Pat Patterson, and Gerald Brisco. 

After "Sunday Night Heat", the compensation per-see started with a label group coordinate, in which the WWF Tag Team Champions Kane and X-Pac shielded against Mark Henry and D'Lo Brown. Amid the match, Henry lifted X-Pac and slammed his back against the steel ring post at ringside. A short time later, Brown and Henry all the while assaulted X-Pac, which drove Kane to dispatch himself from the top turnbuckle onto Brown and Henry. After the contenders reappeared the ring, Kane played out a chokeslam on Henry, lifting him by the throat and pummeling him down. Kane then stuck Henry to hold the WWF Tag Team Title. Next was the bad-to-the-bone match, which permitted no exclusions or countouts. WWF Hardcore Champion Al Snow protected against Hardcore Holly. Holly and Snow started their match in the ring however moved their fight into the field stands. From that point, they continued to the behind the stage territory, and into the snack bars before coming back to the ring. The battle was chosen when Snow lifted Holly onto his shoulders and tossed him through a wooden table. Effectively covering and sticking Holly, Snow held the WWF Hardcore Title. 

The following booked match was a singles coordinate for the WWF Intercontinental Title between The Godfather (champion) and the Blue Blazer. As Hart plunged into the ring on a security saddle, the gear gave way, and he fell. Crisis restorative professionals (EMTs) surged him to the clinic, yet he was articulated dead on entry. The show was ended for 15 minutes before it proceeded with the following match, a blended label group coordinate setting Val Venis and Nicole Bass against Jeff Jarrett and Debra. At a certain point, Jarrett endeavored to hit Bass with a guitar, however Venis removed the guitar, dropped Jarrett on the tangle and stuck him. In the fourth match of the night, Billy Gunn vanquished his previous label group accomplice Road Dogg, in the wake of hitting him with the time manager's mallet. 

The fifth match was the eight-man end tag-group coordinate between The Union and the Corporate Ministry. Test was killed by pinfall after Bradshaw played out a "Clothesline from Hell" on him. Bradshaw was then wiped out by accommodation because of Ken Shamrock's lower leg lock. A short time later, Shamrock was dispensed with by means of exclusion because of assaulting the ref. At that point, Faarooq was disposed of by pinfall after the Big Show chokeslammed him. Just a single individual from each group stayed after Viscera and the Big Show neglected to come back to the ring inside ten seconds, and were considered out an outcome. The Union won the match after Mankind constrained Boss Man to submit with the Mandible hook. It was now that the watchers at home were told by Jim Ross that Owen Hart had passed on. 

The last match on the undercard set Triple H against The Rock. Triple H focused on The Rock's harmed arm. Towards the finish of the match, Triple H asked Chyna, his valet, to recover a lawn seat. The ref, in any case, removed it from him, which prompted a contention between Triple H and the official; Triple H pushed down the ref, for which he was precluded Triple H, giving The Rock the triumph. After the match, Mankind kept running in to spare The Rock from Triple H and Chyna. 

In the headliner Stone Cold Steve Austin guarded his WWF Championship against the Undertaker. Initially, Shane and Vince McMahon should be the visitor officials, Vince McMahon had his lower leg (kayfabe) broken prior in the occasion and was supplanted by his assistant Pat Patterson, so as to keep Shane from helping The Undertaker. Patterson, in any case, couldn't proceed after the Undertaker chokeslammed him. The Undertaker and Austin wrestled uncertainly until Austin hit The Undertaker on the head with a lawn seat. As Austin went to cover the Undertaker, Gerald Brisco, another associate of Vince, came down to the ring to supplant Patterson and checked the fruitless pinfall endeavor by Austin. Like his accomplice Patterson, Brisco was assaulted by the Undertaker. Vince then came down to the ring to go about as official, however when Austin strongly executed a shocker on the Undertaker, Shane kept Vince from playing out a three tally. As Vince, Shane and Austin, contended, Shane pushed Vince into Austin, who fell into a move up by The Undertaker. Shane played out a quick check to give Undertaker the triumph and the WWF Championship. 

At the point when Owen Hart was to challenge The Godfather for the WWF Intercontinental Champion's title, he was executing as the Blue Blazer. The character, initially utilized by Hart in the late 1980s, had as of late been restored as a superhuman trick that mocked different wrestlers. At Over the Edge, Hart was to copy World Championship Wrestling (WCW) wrestler Sting's (Steve Borden) ring passage by plunging from the field rafters into the ring. The passageway was effectively tried on the November 15, 1998, scene of "Sunday Night Heat" (that year's Survivor Series pre-show, and utilizing an alternate tackle arrangement); in any case, amid his drop at Over the Edge, a link withdrew from the security vest he wore, and he fell more than from the rafters into the ring. As he fell, he landed chest-first on one of the ring's cushioned turnbuckles. The mishap was not seen by audience members. A pre-recorded meeting video was appeared toward the beginning of Hart's plummet, and when the communicate returned live, the cameras immediately gotten some distance from the ring to the group of onlookers. Before long subsequently, Jim Ross, one of the observers of the occasion, educated pay-per-see watchers that Hart had tumbled from the rafters, that the episode was "not a piece of the stimulation" and that it was "a genuine circumstance". EMTs came down to the ring and gave Hart CPR, yet he demonstrated no reaction to the treatment. Bringing Hart out on a gurney, the EMTs boarded the vigorously harmed wrestler into an emergency vehicle and took him to an adjacent medical clinic in Kansas City. 

After the occurrence, the occasion was ended for 15 minutes, until Vince McMahon and other WWF Corporate authorities settled on the choice to proceed with the occasion. Hart's associates, proficient wrestlers, and different incidental laborers, seemed dismal after Hart's fall as they kept on carrying out their responsibilities. An hour after the occasion restarted, Ross educated pay-per-see watchers that Hart had passed on at 34 years old at an adjacent medical clinic. The fans in participation were not enlightened any data regarding what had happened to Hart, and they didn't hear the declaration of his passing. 

After the occasion, because of Owen Hart's demise, the WWF dropped the reprise introduction of Over the Edge by means of pay-per-view, and they likewise dropped four live occasions in Canada and one in Illinois. Data about Over the Edge from the WWF (presently named the WWE) is inadequate in light of the fact that the occasion was never discharged on VHS or DVD because of Hart's passing. In 2014, the occasion was appeared in an altered structure on the WWE Network. On May 24, 1999, the day following this occasion, a tribute to Hart was hung on "Crude is War" in St. Louis, which the WWF called "Crude is Owen". For this show, all storylines and contentions were ceased, and wrestlers were given the choice to wrestle or not. The show likewise included meetings and declarations from his associates and features of his expert wrestling profession. Hart's memorial service was hung on May 31, 1999, in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, and it was gone to by relatives, companions, and more than 300 wrestlers who were familiar with him. Following the memorial service, Hart was covered in Calgary's Queens Park Cemetery soon thereafter. Three weeks after the occasion, his widow, kids, and guardians sued the WWF for causing Owen's demise with an ill-conceived stunt; they guaranteed that the tackle framework was inadequate. After the court case had broadened one-and-a-half years, a settlement was come to on November 2, 2000, when the WWF consented to pay his widow, youngsters, and guardians US$18 million. The producer of the outfit framework had additionally been named as a litigant for the situation however was expelled from the case after the settlement was come to. 

After Over the Edge, The Rock started a fight with the Undertaker over the WWF Championship, coming full circle in a match at King of the Ring, after The Rock vanquished The Undertaker and Triple H in a Triple Threat Match, to acquire a WWF Championship coordinate against the Undertaker. At King of the Ring, the Undertaker crushed The Rock to hold his title. Steve Austin occupied with a contention with Vince and Shane McMahon in countering for their obstruction amid his match at Over the Edge. Austin lost the match at King of the Ring, and his (kayfabe) half control in the WWF, however before that he booked himself in a title coordinate against the Undertaker on June 28. Austin won the match and the title. Inevitably, a quarrel created between Austin, Mankind, and Triple H over the WWF title, which prompted a match at SummerSlam. There, Mankind won the WWF title. Owen Hart (as his "Blue Blazer" adjust self image) had been reserved to win the Intercontinental Title from The Godfather at Over the Edge. Hart's label group accomplice and great companion Jeff Jarrett won the title seven days after the fact on Raw, utilizing Debra's Women's Championship belt to crush The Godfather. Jarrett yelled "Owen Hart!" after being given the Intercontinental Championship belt. 

Vince McMahon and the World Wrestling Federation got solid analysis for structuring the trick and enabling the occasion to proceed after Owen Hart's fall. In his week after week segment for the "Calgary Sun"— a noteworthy paper in Hart's main residence—on May 31, 1999, Bret Hart accused Vince McMahon for his sibling's passing. He "question[ed] if this was extremely vital" and stated, "Disgrace on you, Vince McMahon." He likewise guaranteed that the tribute show "stunk of lack of regard," expressing, "Truly, the supposed tribute where subsequently wrestlers point to their groins and state: 'Suck it!' It makes me queasy." Other individuals from the Hart family additionally accused Vince McMahon for Owen's passing, asserting that the mishap was the unavoidable result of "a fixation for evaluations and incomes." While in Calgary for Owen's burial service, wrestler Hulk Hogan expressed, "Ideally something cooperative attitude occur. Wrestling's gotten ... too absurd". In reference to McMahon, he included, "I trust he takes in an exercise from this appalling mishap". Ralph Klein, Alberta's head at the time, communicated an expectation that Hart's passing would prompt changes in wrestling, expressing, "Possibly the different organizations will reevaluate the gimmickry." 

"Calgary Sun" reporter Eric Francis called McMahon's choice to proceed with the occasion "wiped out, rude and off-base. In any case, what else would you anticipate from the WWF?" He included, "if there's any equity in this world, McMahon will pay the consequences for what his association has done to additionally torment the Harts". A few fans were additionally angry with the choice to continue with the show. Limited, who left the occasion with his youngsters after hearing that Hart had passed on, asserted, "It was sickening. ... For children to see that, for this to be purported family amusement, for them to simply carry on as though nothing had occurred, is simply tragic." Martha Hart, Owen's significant other, wouldn't condemn McMahon freely in the prompt repercussions of her better half's demise. She said that McMahon "totally ought to be there" at the burial service. She additionally expressed, "I'm an exceptionally lenient individual and I'm not unpleasant or furious, yet there will be a moment of retribution". Remarking on the WWF's choice to proceed with the show after her better half's demise, Martha expressed, "After he lost his battle forever they just scooped him up and requested the following match out. Where's the mankind? Would he have needed the show to go on? By no means." 

The WWF got some help from individuals who felt that the organization made the best decision by proceeding with the occasion. Vince Russo, a WWF content essayist at the time, indicated the way that Brian Pillman, a family companion of the Harts and an individual from The Hart Foundation, passed on instantly before the compensation per-see on which he was planned to perform in 1997. Subsequent to learning of Pillman's passing, both Bret and Owen Hart proceeded with their matches on the show. Russo asserted this demonstrated "the night he passed away I'm certain Owen would have needed something very similar." Vince McMahon wouldn't remark on Hart's demise until he felt adequate time had passed. Whenever approached on the off chance that he felt in charge of the mishap, he answered, "I have a great deal to state and I will say it. I guarantee you that. Be that as it may, this isn't an ideal opportunity to do it. ... Give me a couple of days. Offer me as far as possible of the week. At that point we'll talk." The day after Over the Edge, the WWF distributed a message in the "Calgary Sun", expressing, "We don't have much data with respect to how it occurred and won't know until an examination is finished. We are altogether shaken, and to state Owen will be remembered fondly is to miss the mark concerning an approach to completely disclose what he intended to us." Although the WWF had no data, they detailed that "Our musings and petitions go out to the whole Hart family. We must be solid for Owen; he was a phenomenal person and consummate entertainer and realizes that the most noteworthy tribute that we can pay is to continue engaging the fans he adored to such an extent."