Kenora Thistles 

The Kenora Thistles, formally the Thistles Hockey Club, were a Canadian ice hockey group situated in Kenora, Ontario. Established in 1894, they were initially known as the Rat Portage Thistles. The group sought the Stanley Cup, the ice hockey title of Canada, multiple times somewhere in the range of 1903 and 1907. The Thistles won the Cup in January 1907 and protected it once before losing it that March in a test arrangement. Made primarily out of nearby players, the group originates from the least populated city to have won the Stanley Cup. Nine players—four of them homegrown—have been accepted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, and the Stanley Cup champion group was enlisted into the Northwestern Ontario Sports Hall of Fame. 

Despite the fact that Kenora is in Ontario, the Thistles contended in Manitoba-based classes all through their reality, attributable to the city's vicinity to that area. The group joined the Manitoba Hockey Association (MHA) in 1902, winning the alliance title in three of their six seasons. They were admired "as a group of main residence young men who used to play shinny together in the city of Rat Portage". The Thistles were unfit to adapt to the coming of demonstrable skill in ice hockey amid the mid 1900s. This joined with a monetary downturn in 1907, and being unfit to continue their prosperity, the group disbanded in 1908. The name "Thorns" has been utilized since for a few senior, minor, and junior Kenora groups. 

In 1836 the Hudson's Bay Company set up an industrial facility (exchanging post) north of the present city of Kenora. They named it Rat Portage, an interpretation of the Ojibwe language-name for the district: "Waszush Onigum", which actually signifies "the way to the nation of the muskrat". Around 1850 gold was found in the area, and the Canadian Pacific Railway achieved it in 1877. A sawmill was built up in 1880. The town was consolidated in 1882, initially inside the territory of Manitoba. Situated close to the Manitoba– Ontario common outskirt, the area was challenged by the two regions until the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council decided for Ontario in 1884. Its closer nearness to Winnipeg, away, and the remainder of Manitoba, implied Rat Portage had nearer ties with the west than with the remainder of Ontario, where the nearest city was Port Arthur (presently Thunder Bay), away. 

With the railroad interfacing Rat Portage to Central and Eastern Canada, the town developed rapidly, going from just a couple of individuals before the rail route connect, to 5,202 of every 1901 and 6,257 by 1908. The town developed to help a few enterprises, principally wood, mining, and angling yet additionally processing, control advancement and the travel industry. An ice arena called the Princess Rink was worked in 1886. It was supplanted in 1897 by the Victoria Rink which had more seats (1,000) and a bigger ice surface. The town's name was changed on May 11, 1905, to Kenora, which was gotten from the principal letters of the three neighboring districts: Keewatin, Norman, and Rat Portage. The change happened because of the foundation of another flour factory nearby; sports antiquarian John Wong has proposed that neighborhood businesspeople felt the name Rat Portage would not energize offers of flour. 

The principal recorded ice hockey match-up played in Rat Portage was on February 17, 1893, sorted out by the Hardisty siblings, who had as of late moved from Winnipeg to participate in a minor dash for unheard of wealth in the district. A club was shaped in 1894, with a challenge held to name it; the triumphant passage, "Thorns", was picked by Bill Dunsmore, a craftsman with Scottish legacy. George Dewey, one of the wealthiest individuals in the town, gave the underlying assets for the group. In acknowledgment he was named the club's privileged president. A large portion of the players were from well off families or freely rich. They had the way to both get some much needed rest work to play and cover the extensive costs related with ice hockey. 

The club had no proprietor or money related supporter and, aside from Dewey's underlying gift, nearby organizations never upheld it monetarily. It was a network exertion, with officers chose to settle on choices for the club. Accordingly, the club was stressed monetarily and would be all through their reality. In March 1894 they effectively facilitated an advantage show to raise reserves. Despite the fact that a comparative endeavor the next year did not get as a lot of cash, shows were held yearly until 1903. 

At first, the recreations were played inside the club, however the players rapidly became sick of this. In 1894 the group was admitted to the Manitoba and Northwest Hockey Association, and entered the second-level middle of the road level. In spite of the fact that situated in Ontario, the Thistles joined the Manitoba alliance since they were topographically nearer to its groups. In their first season they won twelve recreations, demonstrating they could without much of a stretch contend at that dimension. 

In January 1896 a diversion was held in Kenora between the senior group and a lesser matured group, with players matured 12– 16. The lesser players, a large number of whom were identified with players on the senior group, felt they could contend with the more seasoned group, and thusly won, effectively crushing their rivals. In a 1953 paper article on the match Lowry Johnston, who was on the senior group, clarified, "They were simply unreasonably quick for us." A legend built up that the senior group quit hockey after that coordinate, giving the lesser players a chance to have their spot in the Manitoba association. While this might not have occurred as fast as recommended, huge numbers of the players from the lesser group before long joined the senior group and would hold significant jobs on the Thistles. 

Reinforced by the more youthful players, the Thistles completed second in the Manitoba halfway group in 1899– 00. They won the class title in 1900– 01, incredibly outscoring their adversaries. At the point when the group began the 1901– 02 season with an unbalanced 12– 0 triumph, the club's administrators wound up concerned. They felt if the recreations were not focused individuals would not come to watch them, bringing about less income. Trusting the group was sufficiently able to climb, they connected to join the senior Manitoba Hockey Association, which had two groups that season, both in Winnipeg: the Victorias and the Winnipeg Rowing Club. To demonstrate they could contend, the Thistles played a display coordinate against the Victorias, a standout amongst the best groups in Canada, and a past victor of the Stanley Cup, the title trophy of ice hockey in Canada. The Thistles fared well in the match, however the two Winnipeg groups ruled against enabling them to join the alliance, contending the Thistles connected past the point of no return in the season. Coming back to the middle of the road association, the Thistles, debilitated by wounds to a few players, completed in a tie for second generally speaking. After the season finished Tommy Phillips, a standout amongst the best players on the Thistles, moved to Montreal to go to McGill University. 

Before the 1902– 03 season the Thistles were admitted to the senior group, alongside the Brandon Wheat Cities and the Portage la Prairie Plains. The two Winnipeg groups, still worried about the separation to Rat Portage, restricted their incorporation (and that of Portage la Prairie), expressing they would just play against Brandon, the victor of the middle of the road title in 1902. In this manner, the two Winnipeg clubs left the alliance before the beginning of the period and framed their own two-group class, the Western Canada Hockey League. Playing in the new three-group senior association, the Thistles won the title and were permitted to issue a test for the Stanley Cup, held at the time by the Ottawa Hockey Club (otherwise called the Senators). 

For the 1903– 04 season the Thistles contended again in the three-group Manitoba association. Preceding the season, the group was welcome to join the Western Canada Hockey League, which still had just the two Winnipeg clubs. While they had minimized the Thistles' significance previously, the Winnipeg clubs were awed by their play amid the Stanley Cup challenge and thought of it as monetarily practical to include the group. The Thistles declined the offer and stayed in the Manitoba group. Brandon won the association title, and earned the opportunity to vie for the Cup against Ottawa, who won the arrangement and held it. 

Before the 1904– 05 season the two Manitoba classes converged to turn into the Manitoba Hockey Association. The Thistles were supported by the nearness of Tommy Phillips (who had come back to visit his withering dad) and goaltender Eddie Giroux, the main player not from Rat Portage. Giroux moved from Toronto with the guarantee of an occupation in the timber business and for an opportunity to play ice hockey. The Thistles effectively won the association title, and again tested Ottawa for the Stanley Cup. 

Given in 1892 by Lord Stanley of Preston, the Governor General of Canada, the Stanley Cup was initially granted to the top beginner group in Canada, who might then acknowledge difficulties from the victors of different classes. From its origin until 1912, the Cup was almost constantly won by groups from Montreal, Winnipeg, and Ottawa. In 1903 Ottawa won the Cup, in the wake of completing the season tied for first in the Canadian Amateur Hockey League with the Montreal Victorias. They played a two-diversion, all out objective arrangement for the alliance title. The Montreal Hockey Club, who had held the Cup, completed third in the class and accordingly lost the privilege to keep it. 

The Thistles made a trip to Ottawa for the two-amusement arrangement to be settled on absolute objectives scored. Generally obscure outside Manitoba and Western Ontario, there was little press inclusion of the group before the beginning of the arrangement. Participation at the amusements was fairly low as the arrangement matched with an opening session of the Canadian Parliament, which was a party at the time. While the matches among Ottawa and Montreal, held only days sooner, pulled in around 3,000 observers, the Thistles' recreations saw 1,500 and after that 1,000 watchers. Ottawa won the primary amusement 6– 2, media synopses recommending the Thistles were anxious and caught off guard for Ottawa's gifted play. Ottawa won the second match 4– 2 and held the Cup. In spite of the fact that the press credited the Thistles for being boundlessly improved, they felt that by and large the group did not have "the better purposes of the amusement". 

The Thistles had a blended response to their first Stanley Cup challenge. Little groups made it a money related disappointment; the group lost about C$800, an extensive aggregate at the time. It was still observed as an essential advance for the group, as it indicated they could contend with the best groups in Canada. Group chief Tom Hooper said that while they "were nearly unpracticed, and ... thusly somewhat apprehensive", they were "not at all debilitated" and intended to "be better met all requirements to play them when [they] come after the puck one year from now". 

The Cup challenge was again played in Ottawa, this time in a best-of-three arrangement. Media reports about the Thistles were more positive than those of 1903, the group being viewed as a solid possibility for the Cup. Participation for the arrangement was impressive; the diversions pulled in the middle of 3,500 and 4,000 onlookers, and hundreds all the more hanging tight outside for passage. There were likewise thousands crosswise over Canada who excitedly held up in paper workplaces and different settings for live transmit gives an account of the recreations. Paper reports tried referencing the home-developed nature of the group as some of them had started to utilize experts. 

The Thistles won the principal coordinate 9– 3, utilizing another style of play. With forward passing illegal in ice hockey, traditional technique was for groups to shoot the puck into the contradicting end and skate after it (in this manner losing ownership of the puck). Rather, as the pushed ahead, the Thistles stressed skating and passing the puck forward and backward keeping control of it. This methodology was supported by their point and spread go-to people (early names for defencemen) who arranged on the ice next to each other instead of one before the different as was normal. Ottawa returned to win the rest of the recreations, 4– 2 and 5– 4, and held the Cup. Despite the fact that the Thistles lost the test, they were lauded, papers noticing the players' speed specifically. The "Montreal Star" asserted the Thistles were not just the quickest group from the west to challenge for the Cup, yet the quickest "ever ... seen anyplace on ice". Prior to heading home after the arrangement, the group played display coordinates in Montreal and Toronto drawing in a large number of onlookers. 

The 1905– 06 season considered Kenora (to be the town had been renamed) effectively win the title, setting up another test for the Cup, booked for January 1907. Because of fears that groups were secretly paying their players, the Winnipeg Rowing Club, which had been relied upon to play in the MHA, pulled back. As enthusiastic supporters of unprofessional quality (Canadian donning rules made any individual who played against an expert an expert also) the club couldn't partake and had been supplanted by the Winnipeg Hockey Club. The other association groups denied paying players, the Thistles calling the allegations "absurd". Notwithstanding these disavowals, it is very likely there were paid players in the group. Sports student of history R.S. Lappage has noticed that by this point "it was commonly perceived that most eastern groups were paying their players, and it is sensible to anticipate that groups of the M.H.L. ... needed to pay their star players to hold their administrations". As ahead of schedule as 1903 money related offers had been made to players from the International Hockey League situated in Michigan—the principal straightforwardly proficient ice hockey class on the planet. 

Before the beginning of the 1906– 07 season the issue of demonstrable skill came up again for the Manitoba class. While a large portion of the group's groups felt it should turn proficient, the two Winnipeg groups (the Victorias and Winnipeg Hockey Club) were against this move and left the association. In spite of the fact that the class was presently straightforwardly proficient, the Thistles kept on outstanding a homegrown group, regardless of bits of gossip before the season there would be a noteworthy update of the list. 

To oblige the Thistles' test against the Wanderers in January, which saw the group gone for almost a month, adjustments to the normal season plan must be made. As the Thistles were a well known group and prone to draw huge groups, different groups needed a twofold round-robin design—two home diversions, two away amusements against each group. The Thistles were against this, and just needed to play one home and one away diversion against the others, as they would be away for almost a month for their Cup challenge. Eventually a trade off was come to. The Thistles would play one home and away amusement, while the other three groups would play two home and two away. Since this would prompt an uneven calendar (the Thistles would have played six recreations while different groups had played ten), scores in the amusements excluding the Thistles would be joined for the motivations behind the association standings, so all groups would be credited with six diversions played. 

As the 1906 bosses of the Manitoba alliance Kenora earned the privilege to challenge for the Stanley Cup, which was held by the Montreal Wanderers, yet the season finished past the point of no return for the arrangement to be held that year. It was delayed until January 1907, amid the alliance's standard season play. 

The Thistles left for Montreal and the Cup challenge on January 12, 1907. Exploiting the new polished methodology of their alliance, the club enlisted Art Ross, and Joe Hall from Brandon, considered two of the best players in the Manitoba group. It is misty the amount they were paid for the arrangement, however ice hockey history specialist Eric Zweig has guessed the sum was significant (however Hall did not play any amusements for the Thistles). This denoted the first run through the Thistles had paid players in the group and affirmed their status as an expert club. The Wanderers, on the other hand, had five expert players and four beginners on their list. The Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA), the Wanderers' class, permitted experts starting in the 1906– 07 season as long as every player's status was characterized by the group. 

In spite of the fact that the Thistles employed two expert players, the media again underlined the group comprised for the most part of neighborhood novices, and noticed the Wanderers had procured numerous expert players, most remarkably Hod Stuart, who had played already for the Pittsburgh Professionals. All things being equal, the agreement was that the Thistles were the top picks to win the Cup. The principal round of the two-amusement, all out objective arrangement was hung on January 17 in Montreal. Tommy Phillips scored every one of the four Kenora objectives in a 4– 2 triumph. The second amusement, on January 21, saw him record a further three objectives, as Kenora won 8– 6, giving them a 12– 8 arrangement success and the Stanley Cup. Following convention, the Thistles had their name engraved on the Cup. Not at all like past champs who composed in favor of the bowl, the Thistles had "Thorns of Kenora 12 Wanderers 8/Montreal Jan seventeenth and 21st 1907" engraved inside it. 

On their arrival to Kenora later in January, the Thistles were energetically gotten; a gathering at the Opera House saw every player given a memorial glass by the city, among different blessings. The group's critical monetary circumstance implied that an affirmation was charged for the celebratory feast, strange for comparative occasions at the time. There were indications of improved funds, however. The proprietors of the Victoria Rink where the group played, expressed their expectation to construct a 4,000 to substitution arena. This would have made it the biggest arena west of Ontario and smaller person the Victoria Rink. This was recommended as an answer for the group's monetary issues since they would gain a part of each ticket sold. 

Very quickly after the Thistles won the Stanley Cup the Wanderers, who had won the ECAHA title, issued a test for a re-coordinate; William Foran, one of the Cup's trustees, advised the Thistles they initially needed to win the Manitoba group title. Brandon and the Thistles completed in a tie for first, so a two-diversion all out objective arrangement was played to choose the class title; Kenora won the two recreations, 8– 6 and 4– 1. In spite of the fact that this arrangement figured out who might play the Wanderers for the Cup, it was not at first viewed as a test arrangement and just later affirmed all things considered by Cup trustees. 

The Thistles marked three new players, as the association season and Cup challenge had seen standard players—Hooper, Billy McGimsie, and Phillips—sidelined by wounds. Fred Whitcroft, who had played in Peterborough, Ontario, was marked for the remainder of the period for an announced $700. To additionally reinforce the group for the Cup challenge, the Thistles marked Alf Smith and Harry "Rodent" Westwick, both from the Ottawa Hockey Club; every player made their presentation in the alliance's last season diversion and played in the arrangement against Brandon. Smith and Westwick's signings drew dissents from the Wanderers. They contended that since they went through the whole season with Ottawa in the ECAHA they ought not be qualified to play for Kenora, as players needed to play the full season with their group. The Thistles countered by belligerence that the Wanderers got Hod Stuart and Riley Hern back in January. Foran shielded the decision to permit Stuart, taking note of there had been no challenge in January, and said that since Stuart and Hern went through the season with the Wanderers they were qualified. 

A further issue emerged when Foran advised the Thistles that attributable to the bigger field in Winnipeg, giving more prominent income from ticket deals, the arrangement would be played in Winnipeg, not Kenora. It would start the day after the Thistles completed their arrangement with Brandon and would be a best-of three-diversion arrangement. The Thistles were perturbed. They needed to have the arrangement, have a three-dawn before it, and play a two-diversion, absolute objective arrangement. They examined the issue with the Wanderers, and both concurred rather to a two-amusement arrangement in Winnipeg, and that Kenora could utilize both Smith and Westwick. Foran agreed to this course of action. 

With the subtleties of the arrangement settled, the principal diversion was hung on March 23, which the Wanderers won 7– 2. The Thistles won the second match, on March 25, 6– 5, yet lost the arrangement 12 objectives to 8. Reports on the Thistles in the media noticed how dependent the group was on their three imported players and that they could never again be depicted as a homegrown group. The Thistles' time as Stanley Cup champions finished following two months. 

In the wake of losing the Stanley Cup, there were significant changes to the Thistles' sythesis. Roxy Beaudro, Eddie Geroux, and Billy McGimsie resigned before the 1907– 08 season, while Tommy Phillips joined the Ottawa Hockey Club in the wake of being offered $1,500 for the season. The group raised four junior players, all under twenty years of age, and were not expected to be as focused as before renditions of the group. This was obvious after the principal round of the period, which the Thistles lost 16– 1. The club relinquished the following two recreations before pulling back from the association totally, contending they could never again contend at that dimension. They endeavored to join the New Ontario Hockey League, which had groups in Port Arthur and Fort William, yet were won't. Rather, the Thistles played presentation diversions for the remainder of the period before collapsing. 

The Thistles were unfit to contend with the rising polished methodology that was creating in ice hockey. Situated in a community, they were unfit to manufacture a sufficiently expansive arena, not to mention draw in the groups to fill it and raise income. The guarantee of a bigger field, proposed in the wake of the club's Stanley Cup title, would have been difficult to acknowledge since it would have required the whole town to go to diversions to offer it out. Intensifying the issue was a noteworthy financial downturn in the district beginning as ahead of schedule as 1905, mining specifically observing a noteworthy breakdown. This matched with the foundation of expert ice hockey classes crosswise over Canada. Alongside the Manitoba alliance, the ECAHA turned completely proficient in 1907. The Ontario Professional Hockey League was set up that year and, in 1911, the Pacific Coast Hockey League started in British Columbia. These advancements implied the Thistles needed to contend with a large number of groups for players who were being offered higher compensations. Subsequently, sports antiquarian John Wong has recommended it was far-fetched that the Thistles could vie for top of the line players with clubs in bigger urban communities and stay secure monetarily. 

Kenora remains the littlest town to win the Stanley Cup, and a noteworthy North American expert title. The Thistles' two months as Stanley Cup champions is additionally the most brief timeframe a group has had the Cup. Four homegrown Thistles—Si Griffis, Tom Hooper, Billy McGimsie, and Tommy Phillips—were later drafted into the Hockey Hall of Fame. The five players marked for their 1907 Cup difficulties—Art Ross and Joe Hall from January; Alf Smith, Harry Westwick, and Fred Whitcroft—would likewise be accepted. The January 1907 Stanley Cup champion group were themselves chosen toward the Northwestern Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 1982. 

Lappage has noticed that amid their reality, the Thistles were romanticized in the press "as a group of main residence young men who used to play shinny together in the city of Rat Portage". That players from the town were in charge of a large portion of the group's prosperity was regarded. Further, the players stayed dynamic in the network outside hockey. Most took up neighborhood occupations, while in the mid year a few played different games, especially paddling—Griffis contended at the 1905 Royal Canadian Henley Regatta—and baseball. The group likewise elevated Kenora to a more extensive gathering of people: as a blasting town when the new century rolled over, town authorities were energized by the attention the Thistles' prosperity brought. Sports student of history Stacey L. Lorenz has noticed that "In spite of the fact that Kenora's involvement of expert hockey was brief, the Thistles' mid twentieth-century Stanley Cup difficulties [illustrated] a portion of the key issues encompassing network character, town advancement, and the beginner proficient discussion in [that] period." 

Since the first group's death in late 1907, the epithet "Thorns" has been utilized for some ice hockey clubs in Kenora, including the town's novice, junior, and senior-level men's groups.