Task Camargue 

Task Camargue was one of the biggest activities by the French Far East Expeditionary Corps and Vietnamese National Army in the First Indochina War. It occurred from 28 July until 10 August 1953. French defensively covered companies, airborne units and troops conveyed via landing art to the shore of focal Annam, cutting edge Vietnam, endeavored to clear powers of the socialist Viet Minh from the basic Route One. 

The main arrivals occurred in the early morning on 28 July, and achieved the principal targets, an inland channel, without significant occurrence. An auxiliary period of wiping up tasks started in a "maze of small towns" where French heavily clad powers endured a progression of ambushes. Fortified by paratroopers, the French and their Vietnamese partners fixed a net around the guarding Viet Minh, however delays in the development of French powers left holes through which the greater part of the Viet Minh guerillas, and a significant number of the arms reserves the activity was relied upon to seize, got away. For the French, this approved the case that it was difficult to work tight entrapping tasks in Vietnam's wilderness, because of the moderate development of their troops, and a prescience by the foe, which was hard to forestall. From that point on, the French concentrated on making solid strengthened positions, against which Viet Minh General Giáp could pit his powers, coming full circle in Operation Castor and the Battle of Dien Bien Phu. 

With the French powers pulled back from the task by the pre-fall of 1953, Viet Minh Regiment 95 re-penetrated Route One and continued ambushes of French caravans, recovering weapons stores missed by the French powers. Regiment 95 involved the region for the rest of the First Indochina War were all the while working there as late as 1962 against the South Vietnamese Army amid the Second Indochina, or Vietnam War. 

The First Indochina War had seethed, as guerrilla fighting, since 19 December 1946. From 1949, it developed into regular fighting, due to a great extent to help from the socialists of the People's Republic of China ("PRC") toward the north. In this way, the French technique of involving little, ineffectively protected stations all through Indochina, especially along the Vietnamese-Chinese outskirt, began fizzling. On account of the landscape, prominent help for August Revolution and backing for decolonization from flanking China and the U.S.S.R., the Viet Minh had prevailing with regards to turning a "covert guerrilla development into an incredible customary armed force", following unbalanced fighting hypothesis laid by Mao Tse Tung, something which recently had never been experienced by the western frontier powers. In October 1952, battling around the Red River Delta spread into the Thai Highlands, bringing about the Battle of Nà Sản, at which the Viet Minh were crushed. The French utilized the exercises learned at Nà Sản – solid ground bases, adaptable air support, and a model dependent on the British Burma Campaign – as the reason for their new system. The Viet Minh, be that as it may, stayed amazing in the good country districts of Vietnam, and the French "couldn't balance the major detriments of a roadbound armed force confronting a slope and woodland armed force in a nation which had couple of streets however a large number slopes and timberlands". 

In May 1953, General Henri Navarre touched base to assume responsibility for the French powers, supplanting General Raoul Salan. Navarre discussed another hostile soul in Indochina – in view of solid, quick moving powers – and the media rapidly took Operation Camargue to be the "down to earth acknowledgment" of that. 

Following the Communist triumph in the Chinese Civil War in 1949, the Viet Minh built up close ties with China. It empowered the Chinese to extend their zone of impact into Indochina and the Viet Minh to get truly necessary Chinese hardware and key arranging support. From mid-1950, PRC military consultants were approved to the Viet Minh at brigade, regimental and divisional dimensions. The regular fringe implied that "China turned into a 'haven' where the Viet Minh could be prepared and refitted". At the point when the Korean War broke out, Indochina turned into "an imperative pawn in Cold War technique". In December 1950, the United States, worried about developing Chinese Communist impact, began giving military guide to the French, with a first installment of US$15 million. 

In the spring of 1953, the Viet Minh propelled battles in Laos and prevailing with regards to connecting up Laotian regional additions with their bases in north-western Vietnam. In the interim, the slowing down of the Korean War implied that China was capable "to give considerably more consideration regarding its southern neighbor". Essentially, the US "discharged from its substantial weight in the Korean clash ... significantly expanded its military and money related help" to the French. By June 1953, the US "had sent: 1,224 tanks and battle vehicles; 120,792 rifles and assault rifles; in excess of 200 million rifle and automatic weapon cartridges; in excess of five million mounted guns shots; 302 vessels and 304 air ship" (by end of the war, all out US help added up to almost four billion dollars). 

Highway One, otherwise called Route Coloniale One (or RC1), had been the primary north– south course along the coastline of Vietnam since the episode of brutality in 1949. Correspondences and guards thusly experienced standard assaults by Viet Minh irregulars, regardless of endeavors by the French amid 1952 in Operation Sauterelle. The Viet Minh paramilitary powers around Route One started essentially from a district of invigorated towns scattered along sand rises and salt bogs between Hué toward the south, and Quang Tri toward the north. French powers had experienced Viet Minh ambushes, an assault that the last had turned out to be exceptionally capable at all through the war, most outstandingly in the demolition of Group Mobile 42 out of 1950 and of GM 100 of every 1954. The streets in Vietnam were practically all shut amid the night and "surrendered to the adversary". 

Somewhere in the range of 1952 and 1954, 398 reinforced vehicles were devastated, 84% of them from mines and booby traps. Regularly, the Viet Minh trapped caravans by deterring the street with a fallen tree or heap of rocks, and after that decimating the first and last vehicles of the ended guard with remote mines. Caltrops, mines and the lofty precipice faces normally found at the street side helped in piping the objective escort into a little zone, where assault rifles, mortars and recoilless rifles were prepared. Viet Minh Regiment 95 over and again conveyed these strategies, perpetrating extreme misfortunes on the French powers going along Route One, which prompted its French moniker of "la mourn sans joie" ("the Street Without Joy"). Regiment 95 was, alongside regiments 18 and 101, some portion of the Viet Minh Division 325, directed by General Tran Quy Ha. The division was framed in 1951 from previous units in Thừa Thiên only north of Route One, and wound up operational in the late spring of 1952. 

By late-spring 1953, thanks to some degree to the breeze down of threats in the Korean War, the French direction had "adequate stores" within reach to start clearing the Viet Minh again from Route One. They gathered 30 brigades, two defensively covered regiments and two mounted guns regiments for one of the biggest activities of the contention. Called Operation Camargue, it was named for the sandy marshland toward the west of Marseille, France. The troublesome territory was to demonstrate the unequivocal factor and gave a noteworthy preferred standpoint to the one Viet Minh regiment entrusted with protecting Route One. 

From a profound shoreline of "hard sand" the French arrival powers were to progress through a progression of rises. The hills were up to high and mixed with cliffs, trench and a bunch of little towns. Past this was a belt of pagodas and sanctuaries, which war reporter Bernard Fall depicted as having brilliant cautious potential. Past these sanctuaries was Route One itself with a progression of firmly pressed and sustained towns, including Tân A, Mỹ Thủy, Van Trinh and Lai-Ha. This system of towns and hedgerows made both ground and air reconnaissance troublesome. Opposite Route One the towns proceeded in the midst of a territory of a sand trap, bogs and marshes, which would stop everything except a couple of the vehicles at the transfer of the French. In spite of the fact that there were streets, most were mined or harmed. All through the territory, the regular citizen populace remained and gave a further confusion to the French central leadership. 

The French separated their powers into four "groupement mobiles" ("versatile gatherings"): A through D. Gathering A comprised of Mobile Group 14, which contained third Amphibious Group, second Marine Commando, second Battalion first Colonial Parachute Regiment, and third Vietnamese Parachute Battalion. Activity Camargue was to be one of the last demonstrating justification for the utilization of French defensive layer amid the war. It was to arrive on the shoreline in accordance with the focal point of Route One. In the interim, Group B was to progress over land from the west of the north-east-bound shoreline. This gathering comprised of Mobile Group Central Vietnam's sixth Moroccan Spahis, second Amphibious Group, a tank company from first Foreign Cavalry Regiment, and two infantry organizations from the Quang-Tri army installation. Gathering C was to progress from the south-west into the back of Van Trinh through the bogs, and comprised of the ninth Moroccan Tabor, 27th Vietnamese Infantry Battalion, second Battalion of the fourth Moroccan Rifle Regiment, 1 Commando, a tank company of the Moroccan Colonials, a shielded watch pontoon unit, and a LCM detachment. Gathering D comprised of third Battalion of the third Algerian Rifles, the seventh Amphibious Group, and a commando gathering, and was to arrive at the south-east end of the shoreline, underneath Group A. These powers altogether shaped "two land and/or water capable powers, three land-borne groupments and one airborne power" which was all told by General Leblanc. 

On 27 July 1953, the French arrival make left from their get together focuses, and by 04:00 on the accompanying had started landing 160 land and/or water capable landing create having a place with Group A's third Amphibious inverse the coastline. By 06:00, these vehicles had arrived on the shoreline and continued to possess sand edges ignoring the hills past. Continuing into the hills, the vehicles of third Amphibious ended up stuck in the sand; meanwhile, other customary infantry components of Group A were encountering more challenges in the ocean, taking two additional hours to achieve the shoreline. Along these lines unsupported, components of third Amphibious that either landed flopping vehicles or were pushed, figured out how to get away from the rises and advance between Tân An and Mỹ Thủy. The French land and/or water capable vehicles were the World War II-time 29-C freight transporters, nicknamed the "crab" or ""crabe"" and LVT 4 or 4As, known as "crocodiles". The last were outfitted with two and two Browning automatic weapons and a M20 recoilless rifle. While the crocodiles were adequately defensively covered and appropriate to the water, they battled ashore. Conversely, the crab experienced issues in water and its extensive size exhibited too incredible an objective ashore; be that as it may, it was lighter and increasingly flexibility, aside from in paddy fields where its suspension wound up obstructed with vegetation. 

While Group A's forward components were rupturing the rise hindrance unopposed, two of Group B's brigades crossed the Van Trịnh Cănal. By 07:45, when they reached the crabs and crocodiles of Group A, they had prevailing with regards to fixing off the northern break course of By 08:30, the sixth Moroccan Spahis likewise achieved the waterway, having experienced issues crossing the bogs on the landward side with their M24 Chaffee tanks. No French units, up 'til now, had reached the Viet Minh. A minor flame battle had occurred on the southern edge of development when an Algerian organization traded fire with 20– 30 Viet Minh and endured the primary French fatalities. All the while, had progressed into the focal point of the region of activity, and executed "the most entangled move of the task". This included check Route One and close the land side of the operational territory, and was finished by 08:30. 

Gathering D, at last, was entrusted with propelling south from its arrival point to deter a getaway course that kept running between the ocean and an inland tidal pond towards the city of Hué. Arriving at 04:30, the gathering gained speedy ground through the shoreline and ridges, verified the little city of Thé Chi Dong and hit the north bank of the tidal pond by 05:30, in this way close departure course with no adversary contact. The last demonstration of fixing the noose was to move a portion of the French Navy vessels north to the Vietnamese towns of Ba-Lang and A Hoi where any endeavor by Regiment 95 to escape via ocean would have occurred. 

With the arrivals and the encompassing of Regiment 95 complete and the net considered secure, the French powers started the second period of the task and started to clear through the region for the enclosed Viet Minh. Each French gathering started to travel through the towns around Route One trying to find the Viet Minh powers. Gathering B, which was arranged along the trench – the bounce off point for the second period of the activity – moved to clear the northern towns while Group C did likewise promote south. The technique for looking through every town was to close it altogether with circling troops, and after that assess it with an intensely furnished unit of minesweepers and K-9 groups. Men of military age were captured and screened by knowledge officers. This procedure was tedious, and by 11:00 Group B had gone through the system of towns without any outcomes or obstruction. Right now, the sixth Moroccan Spahis entered the town of Dong-Qué with their M-24 tanks and the help of the first Battalion of the Moroccan Rifles and the mounted guns of Colonel Piroth (later leader of the big guns at the clash of Dien Bien Phu) and his 69th African Artillery Regiment. 

The Moroccan infantry led the pack, and the French authorities fixed themselves in their tank turrets and progressed behind. Viet Minh powers, which were holding up in snare, terminated nearly a similar moment as the lead Moroccan units who saw their quality. The Moroccan powers spread out into the encompassing rice paddies, and the bazookas of the Viet Minh missed the French tanks. The French leader brought in Piroth's cannons and Dong-Qué "crumbled under the effect of their high-point discharge", especially when a French shell found the Viet Minh ammo stop. As the French tanks drew nearer, the Viet Minh drove the regular citizens out to stop up the passage to the town, anyway as the Viet Minh withdrew they were spotted through the regular folks by the Moroccan infantry and slaughtered by 13:00. Amid this fight, in any case, a large portion of the Regiment 95 faculty who had been somewhere else figured out how to escape towards the southern end of the French encompassing. Leblanc had understood the goals of Regiment 95's officer, and had mentioned one of the two hold paratroop units to be sent at the outskirt between the system of sanctuaries and the rise filled territory before where Group D had initially landed. This paratroop unit, second Battalion of the first Colonial Parachute Regiment, started to progress towards the waterway at 10:45, 15 minutes before Group B entered Dong-Qué. 

Gathering C's ninth Tabor had likewise, similar to the M-24s of Group B, battled through the swamps amid the main period of the activity, and were late in landing at the bouncing off point for stage two, the channel. At 08:45, Moroccan units of Group C were researching the town of Phu An on the contrary side of the tidal pond from Group D's arrival zone, when they went under substantial flame. In spite of being closer to Group D, the connected with units radioed their quick commandants back in Group C, who were at this point some separation away, further inland. This postponement, combined with the disappointment of a large number of the units' SCR300 radios, implied that these development components of Group C neglected to overcome until 09:10. At 09:40, the authority of Group C called up different fortifications from Hué including two organizations of Vietnamese student NCOs and five infantry organizations, two of which came by means of landing create and did not achieve the ambushed components of Group C until 18:00, 30 minutes after the Moroccans had at long last counter-assaulted and involved Phu-An. The second Battalion of the Parachute Chasseurs Regiment had been mentioned to drop at 14:00 to help the propelled components of Group C however did not bounce until 16:50 and in this way neglected to collect before the Moroccans themselves involved Phu-An. With the last catch of Phu-A, the extraordinary southern tip of the enclosure, the pincer development was finished. 

By 17:30, with Phu-A caught, every single French save presently dedicated, and one portion of the pocket completely cleared by gatherings B and An at the northern end of the combat zone, the French seemed to have picked up the advantage. At this point, the normal fortune of arms stores and detainees ought to have occurred. In any case, the surprising time taken to catch Phu-An, and the deferred landing of the paratroop fortifications who had been dissipated by the breezes, had left a hole between Phu-An and the southern edge of the tidal pond. This hole was in the long run secured by just four French forces, leaving holes through which the Viet Minh could get away. Crabs and crocs were positioned on, or at times in, the trench system, and French infantry were dissipated over the edge of the pocket during that time so as to identify getting away Viet Minh. Notwithstanding, regardless of the incidental shot, flare and searchlight, no Viet Minh were identified. 

On the morning of 29 July 1953, the French powers kept on progressing into the rest of the pocket, experiencing neither Viet Minh nor non military personnel. Gatherings A, B and D achieved the edge of the trench inverse Group C by 13:00, having recovered few suspected Viet Minh and a "couple of weapons". Right now, in any case, a Morane flying machine recognized the development of components of Regiment 95 towards A Hoi on the outrageous northern corner of the operational region, outside of the pocket. The French completed a strike on A Hoi by commando gatherings and components of Group A, which occurred at 15:00 and came back with suspected Viet Minh by 18:00. The French at that point embraced a precise house-to-house hunt of the whole region, clearing every town, and the encompassing paddy fields and wilderness, gambling experience with Viet Minh caltrops. In the interim, second and third land and/or water capable utilized their crabs and gators to crowd detainees towards Trung-A for cross examination. Before the finish of 29 July, with protection from the French powers having stopped, a general withdrawal of paratroopers, land and/or water capable gatherings and marines started. 

After the takeoff of everything except normal French infantry, endeavors to make the zone reasonable for perpetual occupation by French powers and French-accommodating regular citizens started. This included the modifying of street and rail interfaces (Vietnam's North– South railroad kept running close by Route One), the fixing of framework, demining, the establishment of new Vietnamese government directors, and the arrangement of "everything from rice to against intestinal sickness tablets". More than 24 towns were set under the expert of the Vietnamese government, and Regiment 95 had been driven from the territory. In contrast with Fall, South Vietnamese general Lâm Quang Thi states in his diaries that Operation Camargue was "a standout amongst the best French military tasks amid the Indochina war" in the region of Route One. 

Papers expressed that the task had been a "complete achievement, exhibiting yet again the new forcefulness and portability" of the French powers. Be that as it may, in the days following the finish of the battling, press covers the French inability to catch the foreseen huge quantities of Viet Minh started to show up however the British paper, "The Times", published guaranteed loss figures of 1,550 for the Viet Minh, 200 of which were killed. This gauge was changed by the French the following day to 600 killed or injured and 900 caught, and it was recommended that the activity did "not seem to have been fruitful". Rather than these figures, Bernard Fall records 182 Viet Minh setbacks and 387 detainees. He additionally takes note of that "51 rifles, eight sub-automatic rifles, two mortars, and five BARs" were caught. Of the detainees, be that as it may, it isn't recorded what number of were affirmed to be individuals from Regiment 95. Both Fall and the papers distributed in the days following the official end of the activity on 10 August 1953, give French setbacks as 17 dead and 100 injured. Giáp stated "it was declared we endured substantial misfortunes despite the fact that in actuality our misfortunes were inconsequential ... their troops needed to pull back with overwhelming misfortunes". 

Fall proceeds to record that the "real deformity" of Operation Camargue was that the French had not at all like the numerical prevalence over encompass a power in the landscape around Road One, 15:1 rather than the 20:1 or 25:1 that he accepted required. He expresses that the moderate French advancement (around 1,500 yards 60 minutes) and the substantial separations every unit needed to protect from Viet Minh invasion implied that the Viet Minh could without much of a stretch break the net. He likewise expresses that Viet Minh insight were constantly mindful of French developments, as the span of French units and the intricate innovation associated with the task gave its essence and goals away very quickly, though conversely the less difficult Viet Minh activities were unmistakably increasingly hard to identify. 

Regiment 95 endure Operation Camargue and continued ambushes in 1954, just as striking a Vietnamese army close Hué. The regiment stayed in the region, partaking in General Giáp's 1954 crusade season, until Vietnam was part into North and South Vietnam by the truce, whereupon it penetrated back toward the north along Route One amid open air, leaving little cells of guerillas in the region. The regiment came back to continue ambushes of the South Vietnamese Army in 1962. 

Printed sources: 

Sites: