Reg Pollard (general) 

Lieutenant General Sir Reginald George Pollard, (20 January 1903 – 9 March 1978) was a senior administrator in the Australian Army, filling in as Chief of the General Staff from 1960 to 1963. Conceived in Bathurst, New South Wales, Pollard moved on from the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in 1924. An ordinary officer, he filled in as aide/officer in a few regiments of the Citizens Military Forces (CMF) amid the 1930s. In 1938, he was presented on England to embrace staff preparing, which was stopped by the flare-up of the Second World War. Pollard joined the Second Australian Imperial Force in 1940, and the next year saw activity with the seventh Division in the Middle East, where he was referenced in despatches. Elevated to colonel in 1942, he wound up ranking staff officer of the seventh Division in New Guinea, and was granted the Distinguished Service Order for his activities. He spent a significant part of the rest of the war in staff and preparing positions in Australia. 

Pollard's initial post-war jobs included select preparing, land/air fighting, organization, and arranging. In 1953, he was elevated to brigadier and took order of the Australian Army Component of the British Commonwealth Forces Korea. He joined the Military Board as a noteworthy general in 1954, and was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire the next year. In 1957 he was elevated to lieutenant general and assumed responsibility for Eastern Command in Sydney; after two years he was designated a Companion of the Order of the Bath. Knighted in 1961, as Chief of the General Staff he managed the Army's redesign as a pentropic structure, and moved in the direction of making Duntroon a degree-conceding organization. In 1962, he regulated sending of the main group of Australian military guides to South Vietnam. In the wake of resigning from the military in 1963, Pollard ended up Honorary Colonel of the Royal Australian Regiment; he filled in as Australian Secretary to Queen Elizabeth II amid the Royal Visit in 1970 and was delegated a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order that year. He kicked the bucket at Wyrallah, New South Wales, in 1978. 

Reginald George Pollard was conceived on 20 January 1903 in Bathurst, New South Wales, the third child of Albert Edgar Pollard, an English bookkeeper, and his Australian spouse Thalia Rebecca, née McLean. Educated in Bathurst, Reg entered the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in 1921, and graduated with the Sword of Honor for "praiseworthy direct and execution" in 1924. Pollard and individual alumni Frederick Scherger, champ of the King's Medal and future air boss marshal, connected to exchange to the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) under a plan intended to increase the RAAF's officer corps, however just Scherger was acknowledged. The earlier year, Pollard and Scherger had initiated a Duntroon convention when they found a steed's jawbone amid a field work out. Propelled by the Biblical story in which Samson kills the Philistines with the jawbone of an ass, they announced their locate a four leaf clover and took it back to the school as a mascot; it wound up known as "Enobesra" (allegedly in light of the fact that "jawbone appeared to be so typical, an arsebone sounded considerably more fascinating and spelt in reverse sounded both puzzling and decent"). 

Positioned lieutenant in the Permanent Military Force (PMF), Pollard was delegated assistant/officer of the seventeenth Battalion (Citizens Military Forces), headquartered at North Sydney, in July 1925. He wedded Daisy Ethel Potter, a typist, at St Andrew's Anglican Church, Strathfield, on 31 October; "The Bathurst Times" revealed that Daisy cut the cake with her significant other's Sword of Honor. Pollard left for India on connection to the British Army in September 1927, presenting with the Royal Fusiliers and the York and Lancaster Regiment. He came back to Sydney in November the next year and was posted as assistant/officer to, progressively, the eighteenth Battalion (CMF) and, in September 1932, the 44th Battalion (CMF). In December 1932, while presenting with the 44th in Western Australia, he was elevated to skipper. Pollard was camp commandant of the National Rifle Association of Western Australia from 1934 to 1936. He was exchanged to Army Headquarters, Melbourne, in October 1936. His next posting, in July 1938, was as General Staff Officer Grade 3, Training and General Duties, at the second District Base, Sydney. In November 1938, Pollard headed out to England to go to Staff College, Camberley; he graduated in September 1939, the arranged two-year course having been abridged inferable from the flare-up of the Second World War. 

Following the assertion of war, Pollard filled in as Assistant Military Liaison Officer at the Australian High Commission, London; amid this posting he went through about fourteen days connected to the British Expeditionary Force in France. Advanced real, he joined the Second Australian Imperial Force (AIF) in June 1940. The arrangements of the "Safeguard Act (1903)" denied individuals from the PMF or the CMF battling outside An australian area with the exception of as volunteers in the AIF. Pollard was designated unit major of the 25th Brigade, an Australian infantry arrangement brought up in England for the most part from coordinations work force to help battle a conceivable intrusion by Nazi Germany. The detachment turned out to be a piece of the Australian ninth Division, and in January 1941 cruised for the Middle East; it was exchanged to the seventh Division on landing. 

In March 1941, Pollard was relegated to the seventh Division's base camp staff in Libya under Lieutenant General John Lavarack. On 24 April, amid the crusade in Cyrenaica, Pollard drove a striking gathering on Giarabub, Libya, to expel Senussi regular folks and demolish wells and ammo. He took order of the 2/31st Battalion toward the finish of June 1941, amid the Syrian crusade, after the regiment's leader, Lieutenant Colonel Selwyn Porter, was injured. A truce on 12 July finished the crusade in Syria, and Pollard was referenced in despatches for his administration; the honor was gazetted on 30 December 1941. Pollard was elevated to lieutenant colonel in August 1941, and was in charge of building up the AIF Junior Staff School in Palestine. He was brought to brief colonel up in March 1942 and presented on the AIF Staff in Ceylon, where the sixteenth and seventeenth Brigades had been garrisoned while on their way back to Australia from the Middle East. 

Coming back to Australia in August 1942, Pollard was designated General Staff Officer Grade 1 of the sixth Division; he served on its home office in Papua from September until mid-November, when he wound up Major General George Vasey's ranking staff officer at the seventh Division. Pollard got the Distinguished Service Order for his activities in tasks at Gona and Sanananda, amid which he "showed boundless vitality and determined imperative data for use in future activities"; the honor was declared on 21 December 1943. At the finish of the Papuan battle in January 1943, Pollard was presented on Queensland with the sixth Division, which was experiencing preparing and support. He was Chief Instructor of the Senior Staff School at Duntroon from December 1943 until February 1945, when he moved toward becoming Deputy Director of Military Operations at General Sir Thomas Blamey's Allied Land Forces Headquarters in Melbourne. 

Pollard held order of the Army's Recruit Training Center at Greta, New South Wales, from February to May 1946. He went through the following two months connected to the home office staff of Northern Command. In August he was presented on England to embrace a course at the Royal Air Force's School of Air Support in Old Sarum, and following his arrival in February 1947 was designated to teach at the destined to-be-opened RAAF School of Air Support at Laverton, Victoria. It was redesignated the School of Land/Air Warfare in March 1948 and moved to RAAF Station Williamtown, New South Wales. Pollard was named Director of Personnel Administration at Army Headquarters in January 1949. One of his assignments was to set up the ground for the reintroduction of obligatory national administration; the new plan was authorized in 1951 and stayed in power until 1959. Pollard's lieutenant-colonelcy had been made substantive in September 1946 and his colonelcy in July 1949. He went to the Imperial Defense College, London, all through 1951; he filled in as confidant to King George VI from April that year until August 1952, and in a similar limit with respect to Queen Elizabeth II until April 1954. 

In January 1952, Pollard succeeded Colonel John Wilton as Director of Military Operations and Plans at Army Headquarters, and progressed toward becoming Chairman of the Joint Planning Committee. That August he was one of the Australian representatives joining the Minister for External Affairs, Richard Casey, for the debut meeting of the ANZUS Council in Honolulu; the US and New Zealand appointments were driven, individually, by Secretary of State Dean Acheson and Minister for External Affairs Clifton Webb. Pollard likewise participated in making arrangements for the nuclear test at Montebello, Western Australia, in October 1952. Elevated to transitory brigadier in March 1953, Pollard went about as Australian military guide to Prime Minister Robert Menzies at the Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference in London that June. From July to November he filled in as administrator of the Australian Army Component of the British Commonwealth Forces Korea; the job was in charge of dealing with the turnover of Australian troops in the theater and the upkeep of their own records. Pollard was later selected Deputy Adjutant General at Army Headquarters, and his position of brigadier ended up substantive in December 1953. 

In September 1954, Pollard was elevated to impermanent real broad and selected Quartermaster General and Third Military Member of the Military Board. At fifty-two, he was the most youthful individual from the Board. His advancement to real broad was made substantive in December 1954. Assessing conditions for Australian troops sent to Malaya in December 1955, Pollard was cited as saying that there were "a couple of" genuine grievances yet that he was "astounded what a limited number of there were, taking into account that the normal trooper grumbles extensively constantly". In August 1957, he was advanced lieutenant general and succeeded Eric Woodward as General Officer Commanding Eastern Command, upon Woodward's arrangement as Governor of New South Wales. Headquartered in Sydney, Eastern Command secured the territory of New South Wales and was the prevalent central station for the second Division (CMF). Pollard was designated a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the Queen's Birthday Honors declared on 9 June 1955, and a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the Birthday Honors proclaimed on 13 June 1959. 

On 1 July 1960, Pollard succeeded Lieutenant General Sir Ragnar Garrett as Chief of the General Staff (CGS), and was raised to Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the Queen's Birthday Honors proclaimed on 2 June 1961. Albeit supported by Garrett, Pollard's progression had not been an inevitable end product. The Minister for the Army, John Cramer, endeavored to select Major General Ivan Dougherty, a resigned CMF officer, yet the proposition was vanquished in bureau on the counsel of the Minister for Defense, Athol Townley, who dreaded the enmity it was probably going to induce among the senior positions of the Regular Army. 

As CGS, Pollard regulated a noteworthy rebuild of the Army. Following the lead of the US military, in 1960 the Australian Army supplanted its "triangular" divisional structure of three infantry contingents under detachment home office, with a "pentropic" association comprising of five bigger forces without a unit layer among division and brigade central station. The revamping had been supported by Garrett and consented to by Townley in December 1959. As indicated by antiquarian Chris Clark, Pollard was "by and by conflicted" about the change, which was proposed to excuse assets and fortify the regiments for abroad arrangements yet in addition brought about the disbandment of the residents' detachments and numerous other state army units. The US regardless surrendered the pentropic framework in June 1961, and the Australian Army eventually came back to the triangular development following an audit authorized by Pollard's successor as CGS, Lieutenant General Wilton, in October 1964. Another of Pollard's center territories as CGS was the scholastic capabilities of Army officers. Worried that Duntroon graduates would start to fall behind their tertiary-instructed peers in the network, he attempted to make the school a degree-conceding organization, however this did not work out as intended until 1968. 

In December 1961, Pollard told the Secretary of the Defense Committee that he considered the Army's quality deficient to help the administration's strategy of "forward protection", which included gathering Communist hostility in South East Asia, well far from the Australian terrain. The CMF, he battled, was not legitimately prepared to give help to normal powers sent abroad, and enrollment "would seem, by all accounts, to be politically and monetarily not feasible". All things considered, the administration reintroduced induction in 1964. As the risk of South Vietnam tumbling to a Communist takeover turned out to be increasingly clear, the Army started in 1962 to practice explicitly to battle counter-uprising tasks, a kind of fighting Pollard portrayed as "baffling grabbing at a tricky foe"; he included that "no absolutely military answer for a Communist insurrection circumstance is conceivable". In May that year, the Federal government consented to South Vietnam's solicitation for military educators; Pollard was in charge of setting down rules for the thirty counselors sent in August as a feature of the Australian Army Training Team Vietnam, driven by his companion Colonel Ted Serong. 

After achieving the required retirement age of sixty, Pollard left the military on 20 January 1963, having prescribed Wilton as his successor. He turned into a grazier on a ranch at Wesburn, Victoria. In July 1965, he was made Honorary Colonel (later Colonel Commandant) of the Royal Australian Regiment, in which limit he visited Australian troops in South Vietnam. He filled in as Australian Secretary to Queen Elizabeth II for the Royal Visit in 1970, and was named a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in acknowledgment of his administrations; the respect was proclaimed on 29 May 1970, predated to 3 May. In 1974, he moved to another property, which he initiated "Duntroon", at Wyrallah, New South Wales. Pollard passed on all of a sudden at his Wyrallah home on 9 March 1978. He was made due by his significant other and two children, and incinerated.