Rongorongo 

Rongorongo (; Rapa Nui: ) is an arrangement of glyphs found in the nineteenth century on Easter Island that has all the earmarks of being composing or proto-composing. Various endeavors at decipherment have been made, none effectively. Albeit some calendrical and what may end up being genealogical data has been distinguished, none of these glyphs can really be perused. On the off chance that rongorongo proves to compose and turns out to be an autonomous creation, it would be one of not many free developments of writing in mankind's history. 

Two dozen wooden items bearing rongorongo engravings, some vigorously endured, consumed, or generally harmed, were gathered in the late nineteenth century and are presently dispersed in galleries and private accumulations. None stay on Easter Island. The articles are for the most part tablets molded from unpredictable bits of wood, at times driftwood, however incorporate a chieftain's staff, a winged animal man statuette, and two "reimiro" decorations. There are likewise a couple of petroglyphs which may incorporate short rongorongo engravings. Oral history recommends that just a little world class was ever educated and that the tablets were consecrated. 

True rongorongo writings are sent in substituting bearings, a framework called turn around boustrophedon. In 33% of the tablets, the lines of content are engraved in shallow fluting cut into the wood. The glyphs themselves are frameworks of human, creature, plant, ancient rarity and geometric structures. A large number of the human and creature figures, for example, glyphs and have trademark projections on each side of the head, potentially speaking to eyes. 

Singular writings are traditionally known by a solitary capitalized letter and a name, for example, Tablet C, the "Mamari" Tablet. The to some degree variable names might be unmistakable or demonstrate where the item is kept, as in the Oar, the Snuffbox, the Small Santiago Tablet, and the Santiago Staff. 

"Rongorongo" is the cutting edge name for the engravings. In the Rapa Nui language it signifies "to discuss, to declaim, to recite out". 

The first name—or maybe depiction—of the content is said to have been "kohau motu mo rongorongo", "lines chiseled for reciting out", abbreviated to "kohau rongorongo" or "lines [for] reciting out". There are likewise said to have been increasingly explicit names for the writings dependent on their point. For instance, the "kohau ta'u" ("lines of years") were chronicles, the "kohau îka" ("lines of fishes") were arrangements of people slaughtered in war "(îka" "fish" was homophonous with or utilized allegorically for "war setback"), and the "kohau ranga" "lines of escapees" were arrangements of war exiles. 

A few writers have comprehended the "ta'u" in "kohau ta'u" to allude to a different type of composing unmistakable from "rongorongo." Barthel recorded that, "The Islanders had another composition (the alleged 'ta'u content') which recorded their chronicles and other mainstream matters, yet this has vanished." However, Fischer composes that "the "ta'u" was initially a sort of "rongorongo" engraving. During the 1880s, a gathering of seniors developed a subsidiary 'content' [also] called "ta'u" with which to adorn carvings so as to expand their exchanging esteem. It is a crude impersonation of "rongorongo."" A supposed third content, the "mother" or "va'eva'e" depicted in some mid-twentieth-century distributions, was "a mid twentieth-century geometric [decorative] development". 

The types of the glyphs are institutionalized shapes of living beings and geometric structures around one centimeter high. The wooden tablets are unpredictable fit as a fiddle and, in numerous examples, fluted (tablets B, E, G, H, O, Q, and potentially T), with the glyphs cut in shallow channels running the length of the tablets, as can be found in the picture of tablet G at right. It is felt that unpredictable and regularly imperfect bits of wood were utilized completely as opposed to squared off because of the shortage of wood on the island. 

Aside from a couple of conceivable glyphs cut in stone (see petroglyphs), every enduring content are engraved in wood. As per custom, the tablets were made of toromiro wood. In any case, Orliac (2005) analyzed seven items (tablets B, C, G, H, K, Q, and "reimiro" L) with stereo optical and examining electron magnifying lens and established that all were rather produced using Pacific rosewood "(Thespesia populnea)"; a similar ID had been made for tablet M in 1934. This 15-meter tree, known as "Pacific rosewood" for its shading and called "mako'i" in Rapanui, is utilized for consecrated forests and carvings all through eastern Polynesia and was obviously conveyed to Easter Island by the principal pioneers. Nonetheless, not all the wood was local: Orliac (2007) built up that tablets N, P, and S were made of South African Yellowwood "(Podocarpus latifolius)" and hence that the wood had landed with Western contact. Fischer depicts P as "a harmed and reshapen European or American paddle", similar to A (which is European cinder, "Fraxinus excelsior") and V; noticed that wood from the disaster area of a Western vessel was said to have been utilized for some tablets; and that both P and S had been reused as planking for a Rapanui driftwood kayak, proposing that at that point the tablets had little an incentive to the islanders as writings. A few writings, including O, are cut on contorted driftwood. The way that the islanders were decreased to engraving driftwood, and were notwithstanding very efficient in their utilization of wood, may have had ramifications for the structure of the content, for example, the wealth of ligatures and possibly a transmitted style of composing that would convolute printed examination. 

Oral convention holds that, in view of the incredible estimation of wood, just master recorders utilized it, while students composed on banana leaves. German ethnologist Thomas Barthel trusted that cutting on wood was an optional advancement in the development of the content dependent on a prior phase of etching banana leaves or the sheaths of the banana trunk with a bone stylus, and that the vehicle of leaves was held for exercises as well as to design and make the writings out of the wooden tablets. He found tentatively that the glyphs were very noticeable on banana leaves because of the sap that rose up out of the cuts and dried superficially. Notwithstanding, when the abandons themselves dried they wound up fragile and would not have made due for long. 

Barthel estimated that the banana leaf may even have filled in as a model for the tablets, with the fluted surface of the tablets an imitating of the veined structure of a leaf: 

Rongorongo glyphs were written backward boustrophedon, left to right and base to top. That is, the peruser starts at the base left-hand corner of a tablet, peruses a line from left to right, at that point turns the tablet 180 degrees to proceed on the following line. When understanding one line, the lines above and beneath it would show up topsy turvy, as can be found in the picture at left. 

In any case, the composition proceeds onto the second side of a tablet at the point where it completes off the first, so if the primary side has an odd number of lines, similar to the case with tablets K, N, P, and Q, the second will begin at the "upper" left-hand corner, and the course of composing movements to start to finish. 

Bigger tablets and fights may have been perused without turning, if the peruser had the capacity to peruse topsy turvy. 

As indicated by oral custom, copyists utilized obsidian pieces or little shark teeth, probably the hafted devices still used to cut wood in Polynesia, to woodwind and finish the tablets and after that to etch the glyphs. The glyphs are most regularly made out of profound smooth trims, however shallow hair-line trims are likewise found. In the closeup picture at right, a glyph is made out of two sections associated just barely line cut; this is an average tradition for this shape. A few specialists, including Barthel, trust that these shallow cuts were made by obsidian, and that the writings were cut in a two-organize process, first portrayed with obsidian and after that extended and completed with a ragged shark tooth. The rest of the hair-line trims were then either blunders, structure traditions (as at right), or ornamental embellishments. Vertical series of chevrons or capsules, for instance, are normally associated with hair-line trims, as can be seen over and over in the closeup of one end of tablet B underneath. Nonetheless, Barthel was informed that the last educated Rapanui lord, Nga'ara, outlined out the glyphs in sediment connected with a fish bone and afterward engraved them with a shark tooth. 

Tablet N, then again, hints at no shark teeth. Haberlandt saw that the glyphs of this content seem to have been chiseled with a honed bone, as confirm by the shallowness and width of the scores. N likewise "shows auxiliary working with obsidian pieces to expand subtleties inside the completed shape lines. No other "rongo-rongo" engraving uncovers such realistic luxury". 

Different tablets seem to have been cut with a steel cutting edge, frequently rather roughly. Despite the fact that steel blades were accessible after the landing of the Spanish, this casts doubt on the genuineness of these tablets. 

The glyphs are adapted human, creature, vegetable and geometric shapes, and frequently structure mixes. Almost every one of those with heads are arranged head up and are either observed face on or in profile to one side, toward composing. It isn't recognized what importance turning a glyph head-down or to one side may have had. Heads regularly have trademark projections on the sides which might be eyes (as on the ocean turtle glyph beneath, and all the more unmistakably on ocean turtle petroglyphs) yet which frequently take after ears (as on the human petroglyph in the following segment). Winged animals are normal; many look like the frigatebird (see picture straightforwardly underneath) which was related with the preeminent god Makemake. Different glyphs look like fish or arthropods. A couple are like petroglyphs found all through the island. 

Oral convention holds that either Hotu Matu'a or Tu'u ko Iho, the amazing founder(s) of Rapa Nui, brought 67 tablets from their country. A similar originator is additionally credited with bringing indigenous plants, for example, the toromiro. In any case, there is no country prone to have had a custom of writing in Polynesia or even in South America. Along these lines rongorongo seems to have been an inward advancement. Given that scarcely any of the Rapanui individuals staying on the island during the 1870s could peruse the glyphs, all things considered, just a little minority were ever educated. To be sure, early guests were informed that education was a benefit of the decision families and ministers who were altogether seized in the Peruvian slaving attacks or kicked the bucket soon a while later in the subsequent pandemics. 

Minimal direct dating has been finished. The beginning of timberland clearing for horticulture on Easter Island, and along these lines probably colonization, has been dated to "around" 1200, inferring a date for the development of rongorongo no sooner than the thirteenth century. Tablet Q (Small Saint Petersburg) is the sole thing that has been cell based dated, however the outcomes just oblige the date to at some point after 1680. Glyph 67 () is thought to speak to the wiped out Easter Island palm, which vanished from the island's dust record "around" 1650, proposing that the content itself is in any event that old. 

Writings A, P, and V can be dated to the eighteenth or nineteenth century by temperance of being recorded on European paddles. Orliac (2005) contended that the wood for tablet C "(Mamari)" was cut from the storage compartment of a tree some tall, and Easter Island has for some time been deforested of trees that estimate. Investigation of charcoal demonstrates that the timberland vanished in the principal half of the seventeenth century. Roggeveen, who found Easter Island in 1722, depicted the island as "penniless of expansive trees" and in 1770 González de Ahedo stated, "Not a solitary tree is to be discovered equipped for outfitting a board to such an extent as six inches [15 cm] in width." Forster, with Cook's endeavor of 1774, announced that "there was not a tree upon the island which surpassed the tallness of 10 feet [3 m]." 

These techniques date the wood, not simply the engravings. Pacific rosewood isn't sturdy, and is probably not going to endure long in Easter Island's atmosphere. 

In 1770 the Spanish added Easter Island under Captain González de Ahedo. A marking service was held in which a bargain of extension was marked by an undisclosed number of boss "by checking upon it certain characters in their very own type of content." (Reproduction at right.) 

A few researchers have recommended that rongorongo may have been a creation roused by this visit and the marking of the settlement of extension. As conditional proof, they note that no pioneer detailed the content before Eugène Eyraud in 1864, and are of the conclusion that the imprints with which the boss marked the Spanish arrangement don't take after rongorongo. The speculation of these scientists isn't that rongorongo was itself a duplicate of the Latin letters in order, or of some other type of composing, yet that the "idea" of composing had been passed on in a procedure anthropologists term trans-social dispersion, which at that point roused the islanders to develop their own arrangement of composing. If so, at that point rongorongo rose, prospered, fell into insensibility, and was everything except overlooked inside a range of not exactly a hundred years. 

Be that as it may, known instances of the dissemination of composing, for example, Sequoyah's innovation of the Cherokee syllabary in the wake of seeing the intensity of English-language papers, or Uyaquk's development of the Yugtun content enlivened by readings from Christian sacred text, included more prominent contact than the marking of a solitary bargain. The glyphs could be roughly composed rongorongo, as may be normal for Rapa Nui agents composing with the novel instrument of pen on paper. The way that the content was not generally seen by early pioneers, who invested little energy in the island, may mirror that it was forbidden; such taboos may have lost power alongside the "tangata rongorongo" (recorders) when Rapanui society fallen after European slaving assaults and the subsequent plagues, with the goal that the tablets had turned out to be all the more broadly disseminated by Eyraud's day. Orliac calls attention to that Tablet C would seem to originate before the Spanish visit by somewhere around a century. 

Easter Island has the most extravagant combination of petroglyphs in Polynesia. About each reasonable surface has been cut, including the stone dividers of certain houses and a couple of the well known "mo'ai" statues and their fallen topknots. Around one thousand locales with more than four thousand glyphs have been indexed, some in bas-or depressed help, and some painted red and white. Structures incorporate a grouping of fanciful winged creature man figures at Orongo, a stylized focus of the "tangata manu" ("fledgling man") faction; appearances of the creation god Makemake; marine creatures like turtles, fish, swordfish, sharks, whales, dolphins, crabs, and octopi (some with human faces); chickens; kayaks, and more than five hundred "komari" (vulvas). Petroglyphs are regularly joined via cut divots ("cupules") in the stone. Changing customs are protected in bas-alleviation birdmen, which were cut over easier blueprint shapes and thusly cut over with "komari." Although the petroglyphs can't be straightforwardly dated, some are mostly clouded by pre-frontier stone structures, recommending they are generally old. 

A few of the human and creature structure petroglyphs have parallels in rongorongo, for example a twofold headed frigatebird (glyph 680) on a fallen "mo'ai" topknot, a figure which additionally shows up on twelve tablets. McLaughlin (2004) shows the most conspicuous correspondences with the petroglyph corpus of Lee (1992). In any case, these are for the most part segregated glyphs; couple of content like successions or ligatures have been found among the petroglyphs. This has prompted the recommendation that rongorongo must be an ongoing creation, maybe motivated by petroglyph plans or holding singular petroglyphs as logograms (Macri 1995), however not mature enough to have been consolidated into the petroglyphic custom. The most mind boggling contender for petroglyphic rongorongo is the thing that gives off an impression of being a short arrangement of glyphs, one of which is a ligature, cut on the mass of a cavern. In any case, the succession does not seem to have been cut in a solitary hand (see picture at right), and the cavern is situated close to the house that created the "Poike" tablet, an unrefined impersonation of rongorongo, so the "Ana o Keke" petroglyphs may not be legitimate. 

Eugène Eyraud, a lay monk of the Congrégation de Picpus, arrived on Easter Island on January 2, 1864, on the 24th day of his takeoff from Valparaíso. He was to stay on Easter Island for nine months, evangelizing its occupants. He composed a record of his stay in which he reports his disclosure of the tablets that year: 

There is no other notice of the tablets in his report, and the revelation went unnoticed. Eyraud left Easter Island on October 11, in amazingly weakness. Appointed a minister in 1865, he came back to Easter Island in 1866 where he kicked the bucket of tuberculosis in August 1868, aged 48. 

In 1868 the Bishop of Tahiti, Florentin-Étienne "Tepano" Jaussen, got a blessing from the ongoing Catholic proselytes of Easter Island. It was a long rope of human hair, an angling line maybe, twisted around a little wooden board canvassed in hieroglyphic composition. Shocked at the disclosure, he wrote to Father Hippolyte Roussel on Easter Island to gather every one of the tablets and to discover locals equipped for interpreting them. In any case, Roussel could just recoup a couple, and the islanders couldn't concur on the most proficient method to peruse them. 

However Eyraud had seen several tablets just four years sooner. The end result for the missing tablets involves guess. Eyraud had noticed how little intrigue their proprietors had in them. Stéphen Chauvet reports that, 

Orliac has seen that the profound dark space, about long, on lines 5 and 6 of the recto of tablet H is a depression made by the scouring of a flame stick, demonstrating that tablet H had been utilized for flame making. Tablets S and P had been cut into lashed planking for a kayak, which fits the tale of a man named Niari who made a kayak out of relinquished tablets. 

As European-presented sicknesses and attacks by Peruvian slave owners, including a last crushing strike in 1862 and an ensuing smallpox pestilence, had diminished the Rapa Nui populace to under two hundred by the 1870s, it is conceivable that proficiency had been cleared out when Eyraud found the tablets in 1866. 

Along these lines in 1868 Jaussen could recoup just a couple of tablets, with three increasingly procured by Captain Gana of the Chilean corvette "O'Higgins" in 1870. During the 1950s Barthel found the rotted survives from about six tablets in caverns, with regards to entombments. Be that as it may, no glyphs could be rescued. 

Of the 26 regularly acknowledged writings that endure, just half are in great condition and real certain. 

English prehistorian and anthropologist Katherine Routledge attempted a 1914– 1915 logical undertaking to Rapa Nui with her significant other to index the workmanship, traditions, and composing of the island. She had the capacity to talk with two old sources, Kapiera and an outsider named Tomenika, who supposedly had some information of rongorongo. The sessions were not exceptionally productive, as the two frequently repudiated one another. From them Routledge reasoned that rongorongo was an eccentric memory helper that did not straightforwardly speak to language, at the end of the day, proto-composing, and that the implications of the glyphs were reformulated by each copyist, so that the "kohau rongorongo" couldn't be perused by somebody not prepared in that particular content. The writings themselves she accepted to be reiterations for cleric copyists, kept separated in exceptional houses and carefully "tapu," that recorded the island's history and folklore. When of later ethnographic records, for example, Métraux (1940), quite a bit of what Routledge recorded in her notes had been overlooked, and the oral history demonstrated a solid outer impact from famous distributed records. 

The 26 rongorongo writings with letter codes are engraved on wooden items, each with somewhere in the range of 2 and 2320 basic glyphs and parts of compound glyphs, for more than 15,000 taking all things together. The items are for the most part oval wooden tablets, with the exemptions of I, a potentially hallowed chieftain's staff known as the "Santiago Staff"; J and L, recorded on "reimiro" pectoral adornments worn by the first class; X, engraved on different pieces of a "tangata manu" ("birdman") statuette; and Y, an European snuff box gathered from segments cut from a rongorongo tablet. The tablets, similar to the pectorals, statuettes, and fights, were centerpieces and esteemed belongings, and were clearly given individual legitimate names in a similar way as jade adornments in New Zealand. Two of the tablets, C and S, have a reported pre-minister provenance, however others might be as old or more established. There are what's more a couple of detached glyphs or short successions which may end up being rongorongo. 

Barthel alluded to every one of 24 writings he acknowledged as authentic with a letter of the letters in order; two writings have been added to the corpus from that point forward. The two essences of the tablets are recognized by suffixing r (recto) or v (verso) when the perusing succession can be found out, to which the line being talked about is attached. Along these lines Pr2 is thing P (the Great Saint Petersburg Tablet), recto, second line. At the point when the perusing grouping can't be learned, an and b are utilized for the countenances. Along these lines Ab1 is thing A "(Tahua)," side b, first line. The six sides of the Snuff Box are lettered as sides a to f. About all productions pursue the Barthel tradition, however a famous book by Fischer utilizes a peculiar numbering framework. 

Unrefined glyphs have been found on a couple of stone articles and some extra wooden things, yet the vast majority of these are believed to be fakes made for the early the travel industry advertise. A few of the 26 wooden writings are suspect because of dubious provenance (X, Y, and Z), low quality craftsmanship (F, K, V, W, Y, and Z), or to having been cut with a steel cutting edge (K, V, and Y), and subsequently, in spite of the fact that they may end up being certified, ought not be confided in beginning endeavors at decipherment. Z looks like numerous early imitations in not being boustrophedon, however it might be a palimpsest on a credible however at this point indecipherable content. 

Notwithstanding the petroglyphs referenced above, there are a couple of other short uncatalogued writings that might be rongorongo. Fischer reports that "numerous statuettes uncover "rongorongo" or "rongorongo"- like glyphs on their crown." He gives the case of a compound glyph, , on the crown of a "mo'ai pakapaka" statuette. Numerous human skulls are recorded with the single 'fish' glyph 700 , which may mean "îka" "war setback". There are different plans, including a few tattoos recorded by early guests, which are potentially single rongorongo glyphs, however since they are detached and pictographic, it is hard to know whether they are really composing. 

The main distributed reference to the glyphs which is even near far reaching remains Barthel (1958). Barthel alloted a three-digit numeric code to every glyph or to each gathering of comparative looking glyphs that he accepted to be allographs (variations). On account of allography, the uncovered numeric code was doled out to what Barthel accepted to be the essential structure "(Grundtypus)," while variations were indicated by alphabetic postfixes. By and large he appointed 600 numeric codes. The hundreds spot is a digit from 0 to 7, and classifies the head, or by and large structure if there is no head: 0 and 1 for geometric shapes and lifeless things; 2 for figures with "ears"; 3 and 4 for figures with open mouths (they are separated by their legs/tails); 5 for figures with random heads; 6 for figures with noses; and 7 for fish, arthropods, and so on. The digits in tens and units places were distributed correspondingly, so that, for instance, glyphs 206, 306, 406, 506, and 606 all have a descending pointing wing or arm on the left, and a raised four-fingered hand on the right: 

There is some discretion to which glyphs are gathered together, and there are irregularities in the assignments of numerical codes and the utilization of fastens which make the framework rather unpredictable. In any case, notwithstanding its weaknesses, Barthel's is the main compelling framework proposed to order rongorongo glyphs. 

Barthel (1971) professed to have parsed the corpus of glyphs to 120, of which the other 480 in his stock are allographs or ligatures. The proof was never distributed, however comparative tallies have been acquired by different researchers, for example, Pozdniakov and Pozdniakov (2007). 

For right around a century just a couple of the writings were distributed. In 1875, the executive of the Chilean National Museum of Natural History in Santiago, Rudolf Philippi, distributed the Santiago Staff, and Carroll (1892) distributed piece of the Oar. Most messages stayed past the range of would-be decipherers until 1958, when Thomas Barthel distributed line illustrations of practically all the known corpus in his "Grundlagen zur Entzifferung der Osterinselschrift" ("Bases for the Decipherment of the Easter Island content") which remains the principal reference to rongorongo. He deciphered writings A through X, over 99% of the corpus; the CEIPP gauges that it is 97% precise. Barthel's line illustrations were not created free-hand but rather replicated from rubbings, which guaranteed their reliability to the firsts. 

Fischer (1997) distributed new line illustrations. These incorporate lines scored with obsidian however not completed with a shark tooth, which had not been recorded by Barthel in light of the fact that the rubbings he utilized frequently did not indicate them, for instance on tablet N. (Nonetheless, in line Gv4 appeared in the segment on composing instruments over, the light lines were recorded by both Fischer and Barthel.) There are different exclusions in Barthel which Fischer redresses, for example, a grouping of glyphs at the progress from line Ca6 to Ca7 which is absent from Barthel, probably on the grounds that the cutting went over the side of the tablet and was missed by Barthel's scouring. (This missing arrangement is directly amidst Barthel's timetable.) However, different inconsistencies between the two records are clear logical inconsistencies. For example, the underlying glyph of I12 (line 12 of the Santiago Staff) in Fischer does not relate with that of Barthel or Philippi, which concur with one another, and Barthel's scouring (underneath) is inconsistent with Fischer's illustration. Barthel's comment, "Unique doch 53.76!" ("unique to be sure 53.76!"), proposes that he explicitly checked Philippi's perusing: 

Furthermore, the following (glyph 20, a "shaft with three handles") is feeling the loss of its right-side "grow" (glyph 10) in Philippi's illustration. This might be the consequence of a mistake in the inking, since there is a clear space in its place. The corpus is in this way polluted with very some vulnerability. It has never been appropriately checked for need of top notch photos. 

Likewise with most undeciphered contents, there are numerous whimsical elucidations and asserted interpretations of rongorongo. Be that as it may, aside from a bit of one tablet which has been appeared to have to do with a lunar Rapa Nui logbook, none of the writings are comprehended. There are three genuine snags to decipherment, expecting rongorongo is really composing: the modest number of residual messages, the absence of setting, for example, representations in which to translate them, and the poor authentication of the Old Rapanui language, since present day Rapanui is vigorously blended with Tahitian and is in this way improbable to intently mirror the language of the tablets. 

The overarching supposition is that rongorongo isn't correct composing however proto-composing, or even a progressively constrained memory aide for lineage, movement, route, space science, or horticulture. For instance, the "Chart book of Languages" states, "It was presumably utilized as a memory help or for ornamental purposes, not for account the Rapanui language of the islanders." If this is the situation, at that point there is little any desire for regularly translating it. For the individuals who trust it to compose, there is banter about whether rongorongo is basically logographic or syllabic, however it has all the earmarks of being perfect with neither an unadulterated logography nor an unadulterated syllabary. 

The Unicode Consortium has likely allotted range 1CA80– 1CDBF of the Supplementary Multilingual Plane for encoding the Rongorongo content. An encoding proposition has been composed by Michael Everson.