Wood Siding railroad station 

Wood Siding railroad station was a stop in Bernwood Forest, Buckinghamshire, England. It opened in 1871 as an end of a short pony attracted tramway worked to help the vehicle of merchandise from and around the Duke of Buckingham's broad domains in Buckinghamshire and to interface the Duke's bequests to the Aylesbury and Buckingham Railway at Quainton Road. 

In 1872, a campaigning effort by occupants of the town of Brill prompted the tramway being changed over for traveler use and broadened a short separation past Wood Siding to Brill railroad station, getting to be known as the Brill Tramway. The railroad was economically constructed and ungraded, and utilized low quality trains; administrations were extremely moderate, at first constrained to a speed of . During the 1890s it was intended to stretch out the tramway to Oxford, yet the plan was relinquished. Rather, the task of the line was taken over by the Metropolitan Railway in 1899. Somewhere in the range of 1908 and 1910 the station was totally revamped on an extension over the recently manufactured Chiltern Main Line of the Great Western Railway, which passed legitimately underneath the station. 

In 1933 the Metropolitan Railway was taken into open possession and turned into the Metropolitan line of London Transport. Subsequently, Wood Siding turned into a station on the London Underground system, notwithstanding being over from the City of London. London Transport's new administration planned to move far from products administrations to focus on traveler administrations. As the line served an in all respects gently populated country territory, the new administration trusted it all around impossible that it would ever be made feasible. Wood Siding was shut, alongside the remainder of the line, from 30 November 1935. All foundation related with the station was expelled in 1936; the remaining parts of the extension which upheld the station are still set up. 

On 23 September 1868 the little Aylesbury and Buckingham Railway (A&BR) opened, connecting the Great Western Railway's station at Aylesbury to the London and North Western Railway's Oxford to Bletchley line at Verney Junction. On 1 September 1894 London's Metropolitan Railway (MR) came to Aylesbury, and without further ado thereafter associated with the A&BR line, with neighborhood MR administrations racing to Verney Junction from 1 April 1894. Through trains from the MR's London end at Baker Street initiated on 1 January 1897. 

The Duke of Buckingham had long had an enthusiasm for railroads, and had filled in as Chairman of the London and North Western Railway from 1852 to 1861. In the mid 1870s he chose to construct a light railroad to convey cargo from his bequests in Buckinghamshire to the A&BR's line at Quainton Road. Since the proposed line kept running ashore possessed by the Duke of Buckingham and by the Winwood Charity Trust, who assented to its development, the line did not require Parliamentary endorsement and development could start right away. 

The main phase of the line, known as the Wotton Tramway, was a line from Quainton Road by means of Wotton to a coal siding at Kingswood, and opened on 1 April 1871. Proposed for use by pony cable cars, the line was worked with longitudinal sleepers to maintain a strategic distance from steeds stumbling on the sleepers. In November 1871 the tramway was stretched out to Wood Siding, in an enduring piece of Bernwood Forest from the town of Brill and from the closest settlement at Dorton. 

Campaigning from inhabitants and organizations in Brill for the presentation of traveler benefits on hold prompted a further augmentation from Wood Siding to Brill railroad station, at the foot of Brill Hill of a mile (1.2 km) from the ridge town of Brill itself, in mid-1872. Two blended trains ran every day toward every path, and the line was renamed the Brill Tramway. The Duke purchased two Aveling and Porter footing motors adjusted to fill in as trains for the line, each with a top speed of , in spite of the fact that a speed breaking point of was upheld. 

The Duke kicked the bucket in 1889, and in 1894 the trustees of his bequest set up the Oxford and Aylesbury Tramroad Company (O&ATC) with the goal of stretching out the line from Brill to Oxford. Rail administrations from London to Oxford were exceptionally poor as of now; notwithstanding being an incredibly circuitous course, had the association from Quainton Road to Oxford been manufactured it would have been the briefest course among Oxford and the City of London. The Metropolitan Railway rented the Brill Tramway from 1 December 1899, and from that point on the MR (the Metropolitan line of the London Underground from July 1933) worked all administrations hanging in the balance. All through the task of the Brill Tramway the track and stations stayed in the responsibility for Oxford and Aylesbury Tramroad Company; the MR had an alternative to buy the line by and large, however it was never taken up. 

The station was situated on the southern edge of Rushbeds Wood, an enduring piece of the Bernwood Forest. It was on the western side of the dimension traverse Kingswood Lane. Expected essentially for merchandise use, Wood Siding at first had no offices for travelers, and the stage was basically a raised earth bank. 

In spite of the absence of traveler offices, Wood Siding was the beginning stage for the principal traveler administration to work on hold. On 26 August 1871 a journey administration kept running from Wood Siding to London pulled by the Great Western Railway (GWR). It bore 150 individuals, for a sum of 105 traveler tolls (with every tyke considered a large portion of a grown-up), and was drawn by steeds between Wood Siding and Quainton Road and by train from Quainton Road to Aylesbury where the carriages were appended to the 7.30 am GWR administration through Princes Risborough to London, touching base at 10.00 am. The trial was not a triumph. Sharp overhanging branches along the course represented a risk to travelers and must be reduced in the week prior to the trip. The day itself was incredibly stormy, and ticket deals were lower than anticipated. The arrival train from London to Quainton Road was deferred in Slough, and the trip inevitably touched base back at Wood Siding at 2.00 am. 

In 1894 the unrefined stations on the Brill Tramway were modified fully expecting the augmentation to Oxford. Different stations on hold were furnished with structures containing a booking office, sitting areas and toilets, however Wood Siding station was outfitted with a little creased iron lounge area "with rack and cabinet" for travelers. A low traveler stage was likewise assembled. Just as the traveler stage, a short siding prompted a raised wooden stage, nearby the through line to Brill, which served both as a cushion stop for the siding, and as a stacking stage for milk. The station was staffed by a solitary watchman, in charge of opening the entryways of an adjacent dimension crossing and for stacking and emptying cargo (principally milk); a little, unheated cottage was accommodated his utilization. The first Aveling and Porter trains were moderate and boisterous and could be heard by the watchman some time before their landing, however the further developed trains presented by the Metropolitan Railway were calmer and snappier; a stepping stool was introduced against an expansive oak for the doorman to look for approaching trains. 

After the 1899 exchange of administrations to the Metropolitan Railway, the MR presented a solitary Brown Marshall traveler carriage on hold; in contrast to different stations on hold, the stage stature at Wood Siding was not raised right now to oblige the new carriage. From 1872 to 1894 the station was served by two traveler trains for every day toward every path, and from 1895 to 1899 the number was expanded to three every day. Following the 1899 exchange of administrations to the Metropolitan Railway, the station was served by four trains for every day until conclusion in 1935. 

Restricted by low quality trains and ungraded, efficiently laid track which pursued the forms of the slopes, and halting at four moderate stations between Wood Siding and Quainton Road to get and set down merchandise, travelers and domesticated animals, trains ran in all respects gradually. In 1887 trains took somewhere in the range of 15 and 20 minutes to travel roughly one mile from Wood Siding to Brill, and somewhat over 1 hour 20 minutes from Wood Siding to the intersection station with the primary line at Quainton Road. Upgrades to the line did at the season of the exchange to the Oxford and Aylesbury Tramroad, and the utilization of the MR's better quality moving stock, decreased the voyage time from Wood Siding to Quainton Road to around 30 minutes. 

In 1910 the new Bicester cut-disconnected of the Great Western Railway Chiltern Main Line was steered straightforwardly through Wood Siding, yet no trade station was fabricated. The GWR was to keep running in a cutting underneath the current station; Wood Siding station and its siding were reconstructed at the GWR's cost somewhere in the range of 1908 and 1910 to remain on a wide extension over the GWR's line. 

With trains voyaging just barely faster than strolling pace, and serving a daintily populated region, the stations at Wood Siding and Brill saw moderately little traveler use, and Wood Siding was expelled from the traveler timetable by 1931; trains kept on ceasing on solicitation. In 1932, the most recent year of private activity, Brill and Wood Siding stations saw just 3,272 traveler travels and raised just £191 (about £ in 2019) in traveler receipts. 

On 1 July 1933 the Metropolitan Railway, alongside London's other underground railroads beside the little Waterloo and City Railway, was taken into open possession as a major aspect of the recently shaped London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB). In this manner, notwithstanding it being again and again two hours travel from the City of London, Wood Siding turned into a London Underground station. As a cost-cutting measure Wood Siding moved toward becoming unstaffed and the watchman's hovel was sold as a patio nursery shed; from that point on, the train group would work the intersection entryway. It was presently formally a piece of the London Underground system, yet Wood Siding—in the same manner as all Metropolitan line stations north of Aylesbury—was never appeared on the cylinder map. 

Forthcoming Pick, Managing Director of the Underground Group from 1928 and the Chief Executive of the LPTB, meant to move the system far from cargo administrations and saw the lines past Aylesbury by means of Quainton Road to Brill and Verney Junction as having minimal future as monetarily reasonable traveler courses, presuming that over £2000 (about £ in 2019) would be spared by shutting the Brill Tramway. As a result, the LPTB chose to forsake all traveler benefits past Aylesbury. The Brill Tramway was shut on 1 December 1935, with the keep going trains running on 30 November. Administrations on the Brill Tramway were pulled back totally following the exchange to open proprietorship; the LPTB considered the Verney Junction branch as having an utilization as a cargo line and as a diversionary course, and they kept on keeping up the line and work cargo administrations until 6 September 1947. 

Upon the withdrawal of London Transport benefits, the rent terminated and the railroad and stations returned to the control of the Oxford and Aylesbury Tramroad Company. Without any assets and no moving load of its own, the O&ATC was unfit to work the line. On 2 April 1936 the whole foundation of the line was sold piecemeal at sale; barring track, the structures and structures at Wood Siding brought a sum of £9 2s 6d (about £ in 2019). Beside the station houses at Westcott and Brill, which were sold independently, the bartering raised £112 10s (about £ in 2019) altogether. Wood Siding station was decimated soon after conclusion; the projections of the scaffold which conveyed the station and sidings stay unblemished. 

With the stations at Wood Siding and Brill shut, and the Great Western Railway's Brill and Ludgershall railroad station awkwardly sited, the GWR opened another station on the Chiltern Main Line close-by at Dorton Halt on 21 June 1937. Both Dorton Halt and Brill and Ludgersall stations were shut on 7 January 1963; the line stays being used via prepares between Princes Risborough and Bicester North. There are never again any open railroad stations in the region of Brill and Wood Siding.