Kahaani 

Kahaani (; ) is a 2012 Indian Hindi-language riddle spine chiller movie co-composed, co-delivered and coordinated by Sujoy Ghosh. It stars Vidya Balan as Vidya Bagchi, a pregnant lady scanning for her missing spouse in Kolkata amid the celebration of Durga Puja, helped by Satyoki "Rana" Sinha (Parambrata Chatterjee) and Khan (Nawazuddin Siddiqui). 

Made on a shoestring spending plan of , "Kahaani" was considered and created by Ghosh, who co-composed the film with Advaita Kala. The team frequently utilized guerrilla-filmmaking procedures on Kolkata's city avenues to abstain from drawing in consideration. The film was noted for its deft depiction of the city and for utilizing numerous neighborhood team and cast individuals. "Kahaani" investigates topics of woman's rights and parenthood in male-commanded Indian culture. The film additionally makes a few suggestions to Satyajit Ray's movies, for example, "Charulata" (1964), "Aranyer Dinratri" (1970) and "Joi Baba Felunath" (1979). 

"Kahaani" was discharged worldwide on 9 March 2012. Pundits applauded the screenplay, the cinematography and the exhibitions of the lead performing artists. Following basic approval and informal exposure, the film earned worldwide in 50 days. The film won a few honors, including three National Film Awards and five Filmfare Awards. The last included trophies for Best Director (Ghosh) and Best Actress (Vidya). A spin-off, titled "", was discharged on 2 December 2016. 

A toxic substance gas assault on a Kolkata Metro Rail compartment murders the travelers ready. After two years Vidya Bagchi (Vidya Balan), a pregnant programming engineer, lands in Kolkata from London amid the Durga Puja celebrations looking for her missing spouse, Arnab Bagchi. A cop, Satyoki "Rana" Sinha (Parambrata Chatterjee), offers to help. Despite the fact that Vidya claims that Arnab went to Kolkata on a task for the National Data Center (NDC), starting examinations recommend that no such individual was utilized by the NDC. 

Agnes D'Mello (Colleen Blanche), the NDC's head of HR, recommends to Vidya that her better half looked like previous representative Milan Damji (Indraneil Sengupta), whose record is most likely kept in the old NDC office. Before Agnes can give any further help she is murdered by Bob Biswas (Saswata Chatterjee), a professional killer working covert as a life coverage specialist. Vidya and Rana break into the NDC office and discover Damji's record, scarcely getting away from an experience with Bob, who is hunting down a similar data. In the mean time, the endeavors to get Damji's records have pulled in the consideration of two Intelligence Bureau (IB) authorities in Delhi—the boss Bhaskaran K. (Dhritiman Chatterjee) and his delegate Khan (Nawazuddin Siddiqui). Khan touches base in Kolkata and uncovers that Damji was a maverick IB specialist in charge of the toxic substance gas assault. Disregarding Khan's admonitions, Vidya proceeds with her pursuit, expecting that Arnab's similarity to Damji may have driven him into inconvenience. 

The location on Damji's record drives Vidya and Rana to a broken down level. An errand kid from the area tea slow down recognizes R. Sridhar (Shantilal Mukherjee), a NDC officer, as a regular guest to Damji's level. Bounce endeavors to murder Vidya, however fizzles, and is kept running over by a vehicle amid a pursuit. Examination of Bob's cell phone drives Vidya and Rana to an IP address sending directions to execute her. They break into Sridhar's office to check his IP address, however he is cautioned electronically and comes back to his office. Vidya inadvertently shoots Sridhar dead amid a fight, which upsets Khan, who had needed him alive. 

Sridhar's PC information uncovers a code, which when deciphered uncovers Bhaskaran's telephone number. Vidya calls Bhaskaran to reveal to him that she has recovered touchy reports from Sridhar's office. She asks Bhaskaran to help discover her better half in return for the reports, however Bhaskaran advises her to contact the nearby police. Vidya before long gets a call from an obscure number nonetheless, cautioning her that she should hand over the reports to the guest in the event that she wishes to see her better half alive. Khan thinks the guest is Milan Damji. 

Vidya goes to meet Damji, trailed by Rana and Khan. Damji stops the gathering when Vidya communicates her uncertainty that he will almost certainly return her significant other in return for the delicate document, and he endeavors to leave. Vidya endeavors to stop him, and in the resulting battle Damji draws a firearm on her. Vidya incapacitates him utilizing the prosthetic tummy she has been utilizing to counterfeit her pregnancy and instantly wounding him in the neck with her hair stick, in the wake of shooting him with his own weapon. She escapes into the group before the police arrive, leaving a card to say thanks for Rana and a pen drive containing information from Sridhar's PC, which prompts Bhaskaran's capture. Rana presumes that no Vidya or Arnab Bagchi ever existed, and that Vidya had been utilizing the police and the IB to accomplish her very own closures. 

Vidya is uncovered to be the widow of Arup Basu (Abir Chatterjee), an IB officer and Damji's partner, who was slaughtered in the toxic substance gas assault, which additionally caused Vidya to promptly fall oblivious after observing her better half's body and endure an unnatural birth cycle. In her main goal to vindicate his and their unborn tyke's passing, Vidya was helped by resigned IB officer Pratap Bajpayee (Darshan Jariwala), who associated the contribution with a top IB official. 

Sujoy Ghosh moved toward author and content essayist Advaita Kala with the thought for the film. Kala took motivation from her involvement in Kolkata, where she had moved in 1999, much the same as the hero in the film. She revealed that in spite of confronting a language obstruction and the mayhem and neediness of the city, she was enchanted by the glow of the general population, which was reflected in the film. Kala began writing in 2009 and completed the 185-page content by February 2010. Her exploration included perusing the books "Open Secrets: India's Intelligence Unveiled" by Maloy Krishna Dhar and "India's External Intelligence: Secrets of Research and Analysis Wing (RAW)" by V. K. Singh. 

Ghosh, who co-composed the story and the screenplay, started to design the film while anticipating the arrival of his past film "Aladin" (2009), yet the terrible reaction to "Aladin" was a mishap. He needed to approach a few makers to fund him for "Kahaani", however was cannot and debilitated from making the film attributable to three factors: a pregnant lady as the lead star, a cluster of obscure Bengali performing artists as the supporting give and Kolkata a role as a background. Yashraj Films were happy to create the film, however needed Ghosh to sign a three-film bargain, which he declined in light of the fact that he didn't need that much responsibility. 

Bengali film performer Prosenjit Chatterjee urged Ghosh to shoot in Kolkata. Ghosh at long last chosen Kolkata for a few reasons: the chief's associate with the city, its blend of innovation and old-world appeal, and spending limitations. Kolkata is a less expensive area than Mumbai or Delhi, where most Bollywood films are shot. 

Ghosh conceded in a meeting that after his two going before directorial adventures—"Aladin" and "Home Delivery" (2005)— performed ineffectively in the cinematic world, "Kahaani" was his last opportunity to make a specialty as a chief. He included that the film's plot turn came to some degree inadvertently. Having depicted the skeleton of the story to a companion amid its advancement, the companion got back to him a couple of days after the fact to enquire about his film. The companion had erroneously envisioned groupings which he thought to be portions of the plot, from which the curve finishing was inferred. 

Vidya Balan was the main decision of both essayist Advaita Kala and executive Sujoy Ghosh. Ghosh had gotten ready for quite a while to work with Vidya and moved toward her in 2010. Unmoved with the plot layout, Vidya won't, just altering her opinion in the wake of having perused the finished content. 

Ghosh picked for the most part Bengali performers as he needed to make the characters as true as could be expected under the circumstances. The job of the Inspector Satyoki "Rana" Sinha was first offered to Chandan Roy Sanyal, yet he couldn't take the part because of different responsibilities. Parambrata Chatterjee, a Bengali on-screen character whose acting in the film "The Bong Connection" (2006) had awed Ghosh at the Mumbai Academy of the Moving Image celebration, was later offered the job in "Kahaani". Chatterjee had before worked with Vidya in her début film "Bhalo Theko" (2003). 

The throwing chief Roshmi Banerjee proposed Nawazuddin Siddiqui for the job of Khan. Siddiqui, who had just had minor jobs in Bollywood up to that time, was astounded that out of the blue he would not need to depict a poor person. Saswata Chatterjee, another Bengali performer, was astonished too when he was offered the job of the agreement executioner Bob Biswas. He thought there were reasonable on-screen characters in Hindi film industry for the job. He said that Ghosh had known him since youth and was awed with his acting, so he needed him as Bob Biswas. 

Ghosh conflicted with the desires for throwing a famous on-screen character from Bollywood. He marked Bengali performing artist Abir Chatterjee to play Vidya's significant other. As indicated by Ghosh, prominent Bollywood performing artists were not willing to work with him after his two past failures. He likewise trusted that group of onlookers may expect more screen-time from a superior known performing artist. A few other Bengali film and TV on-screen characters, for example, Indraneil Sengupta and Kharaj Mukherjee, were cast in supporting jobs. 

Before the shooting of the film started, Vidya began to utilize a prosthetic gut to look as near legitimately pregnant as could be allowed. As indicated by news reports, she met specialists and pregnant ladies to find out about the average way of life and subtleties of a pregnant lady, and furthermore made arrangements of tenets and superstitions pursued by pregnant ladies. Vidya said that amid her school days she regularly used to impersonate pregnant women amid stand-up acting among companions, an encounter that helped her amid the shooting. 

While instructions Saswata Chatterjee about his character, the merciless executioner Bob Biswas, Ghosh utilized the expression ""Binito Bob"" (which means neighborly Bob), which solidified the idea of Bob's habits. Further talks prompted the incorporation of paunch and a bare fix. Chatterjee conceived the idiosyncrasy of scouring his nails together as certain Indians think doing that counteracts male pattern baldness. The characteristic was very much noted and applauded by the watchers. Ghosh was astonished at how Bob Biswas was welcomed by fans as a faction figure. He underlined that the purposeful conventionality of Bob Biswas was depicted so convincingly by Chatterjee that the watchers can anticipate that Bob should associate with them whenever and wherever. 

Parambrata Chatterjee said in a meeting that he didn't relate to the Rana character, inferable from the distinction between his own urban childhood and Rana's provincial foundation. Chatterjee visited police headquarters and did some examination "on their work, outlook and other pertinent things" to get ready for the job. The character Khan was conceived as a savage, pompous, swearword regurgitating officer who thinks nothing about the enthusiastic or social outcomes of his conduct. Siddiqui said that he was amazed on being offered the job, and considered how he could depict the self-importance required for the character. Ghosh manufactured Khan as a character with lean physical form yet loaded with mental quality, unwaveringness and energy. Khan smokes a generally shoddy brand of cigarette (Gold Flake) in spite of his high official post; Siddiqui had smoked that brand of cigarette all through his battling days in Bollywood and from there on. 

Recording occurred in the city of Kolkata, where Ghosh frequently utilized the craft of guerrilla filmmaking (shooting in genuine areas with no past information given to spectators) to keep away from undesirable consideration. The cinematographer Setu, who had helped others in the past to shoot documentaries in Kolkata, said that not at all like dominant part of Indian movies, "Kahaani" was shot generally without counterfeit light. The film was shot in 64 days, amid which the Durga Puja celebration of 2010 occurred. Shooting areas in Kolkata included Kalighat Metro station, Nonapukur cable car warehouse, Kumartuli, Howrah Bridge, Victoria Memorial, old places of North Kolkata and others. The peak, which happens the evening of Vijayadashami (the most recent day of Durga Puja), was shot the evening of Vijayadashami in the premises of a "Barowari" (freely sorted out) Durga Puja festivity in the Ballygunge neighborhood of Kolkata. The majority of the group in the peak were not performers. A few on-screen characters blended with the group occupied with "Sindoor khela"— their activity was to value the camera edges and in like manner apply "sindoor" (vermilion) all over so coincidental introduction of her eyes to "sindoor" could be dodged. 

Ghosh picked the visitor house in which the hero remains in the wake of seeing it amid his visit to a neighboring inn in April 2010. He booked it for 10 days for , and mentioned the visitor house representatives to keep the giving timetable a mystery. Picking a live with windows neglecting a bustling street, he continued to give it an out-dated look by supplanting the windows' creator grilles with out-dated wooden ones, and by painting the stay with some unpleasant patches. 

After "Ishqiya" (2010), "Nobody Killed Jessica" (2011) and "The Dirty Picture" (2011), "Kahaani" was Vidya's fourth lady driven film to win across the board acclaim for her offbeat way to deal with depicting solid female jobs. As indicated by Zee News, "Kahaani" is a lady's film about "job inversions, breaking of generalizations, turning adages back to front, a lady's voyage, and the manner in which she cuts a specialty for herself in the male-overwhelmed mentalscape of the general public." Trisha Gupta of "The Indian Express" additionally discovers women's activist topics in the film. For Ghosh, one part of his task "is an investigation of parenthood"; the nature of a mother to ensure her child roused him to build up the story. 

A common subject is the temporary trace of sentiment among Rana and Vidya. Ghosh said that this fragile sentiment was "the most dynamic thing" in the film—a proposal that a man could experience passionate feelings for a pregnant lady. The executive clarified that the kid was at first "captivated by somebody who is truly a saint in his eyes", as Rana was awed by the PC abilities of Vidya. Step by step, the intrigued kid moves into a zone where he endeavors to ensure her. 

A few analysts note that a noteworthy hero is Kolkata itself, which is "overflowing with warm, thoughtful occupants". An audit in Rediff.com takes note of that the executive pays an "affectionate yet downplayed tribute" to the city by joining symbolism, for example, "yellow cabs, comfortable cable cars, clogged traffic, claustrophobic metros, incapacitated block houses, decreasing back roads, rajnigandhas, lal paad saris, sizzling luchis". As per the analyst, "Kahaani" did not rely upon the tropes of Kolkata culture ordinarily utilized in Bollywood movie—"O-accentuating accent, sensational play of conch shells, rasgulla/mishti doi overabundances." The executive recognizes that Kolkata "turns into a focal character" of the film. Gautaman Bhaskaran, composing for "Inlet Times", takes note of that Kolkata symbolism was cleaned up in the movie; noted Bengali executive Srijit Mukherji contends that the depiction of the city in "Kahaani" was much the same as a "Forlorn Planet exotica" on the city. Uddalak Mukherjee of "The Telegraph" clarifies that Kolkata in "Kahaani" was restorative and come up short on a profound threatening nearness. Mukherjee contends the delineation of the city never coordinates the dimension of Satyajit Ray's Calcutta set of three, where "supported by carnage, ravenousness and decadence, ...Calcutta ..., despite the fact that a position of dreams, wants and expectation, slides irreversibly into bedlam, nervousness and an ethical emergency, taking its inhabitants with it". 

Durga Puja, the fall celebration to revere goddess Durga, assumes an unmistakable job in the story. The metaphorical yearly return of goddess Durga to kill the evil presence Mahishasura is implied toward the finish of the film. As indicated by Uddalak Mukherjee of "The Telegraph", "Durga Puja, with its stuff of icons, submersion parades, "pandals", even a whole horde of ladies hung in white "saris" with red fringes, is key to the film's ... visual tasteful." An audit in Rediff.com lauded the portrayal of the merriments in Kolkata, a city surely understood for its festival of Durga Puja. 

Ghosh recognizes the suggestions to Ray's movies. In one scene, Vidya asks the chief of the visitor house for what good reason there is no high temp water despite the fact that the billboard had asserted "running heated water". The director clarifies that the sign alludes for his errand kid, who hurries to convey heated water in a pot at whatever point required. This insinuates a comparable scene in Ray's "Joi Baba Felunath" (1979). In a meeting with "The Telegraph", Ghosh says that the way Vidya watches out and moves from window to window in the visitor house room is reminiscent of Ray's "Charulata" (1964), where the performer Madhabi Mukherjee appreciates looks at the outside world through the blinds of windows. He additionally recognizes the impact of "Mahanagar" (1963), another Ray film noted for its depiction of Kolkata. As indicated by the chief, he was roused by specific scenes of Ray's "Nayak" (1966) to design the depiction of complex intense subject matters among Vidya and the cop Rana, particularly Rana's amazement within the sight of Vidya. Ghosh communicates his motivation from Ray's "Aranyer Dinratri" (1970) in which Ray "needed the group of onlookers to be inside the vehicle with the four folks constantly. So the camera never leaves the vehicle." Ghosh shot a comparable scene, trusting the group of onlookers would progress toward becoming "like Vidya's kindred traveler." 

Other than Ray's movies, Ghosh additionally concedes motivation from what he calls "outwardly striking" movies of the 1980s, for example, "Deewaar" (1975). Pundits have thought about the phony pregnancy spot of "Kahaani" with the 2004 American spine chiller "Taking Lives". The successions towards the end that clarify the missing bits of the riddle were contrasted and "The Usual Suspects" (1995). Ghosh composes that the film was intensely affected by the shading plan of the "Pratima Visarjan", a c.1915 watercolor by the Bengal School craftsman Gaganendranath Tagore. 

The melodic score was made by Vishal– Shekhar, and the verses for the film's six tunes were composed by Vishal Dadlani, Anvita Dutt and Sandeep Srivastava. A few of R. D. Burman's Hindi and Bengali organizations were utilized out of sight. A collection of the music was discharged on 22 February 2012 and in this manner on the advanced music stage Apple iTunes India since its initiation from mid-2012. 

The soundtrack got positive audits, and was adulated for its amalgamation of Bengali and Hindi verses. A survey in CNN-IBN states that the melody "Ami Shotti Bolchi" can halfway pass on the vibe of Kolkata, and that the soundtrack "includes right voices with the general disposition of the collection". "Mumbai Mirror" evaluated the collection with 3 stars out of 5. Exploring the soundtrack for Indiatimes, Anand Vaishnav remarked that ""Kahaani", as a collection, remains genuine to the topic of the film". 

"Kahaani"s first-look notice was propelled on 2 December 2011, and the official trailer on 5 January 2012. The notice, depicting a pregnant Vidya Balan and coming up short on any sentimental component, was generally welcomed. Commentators' desires were low, inferable from the executive's past film industry disappointments. Vidya showed up openly with a prosthetic stomach to advance the film, and blended with the general population in railroad stations, transport stands and markets. She frequently conveyed a sketch of her on-screen missing spouse, and requested that individuals help in discovering him. Long range interpersonal communication site Ibibo.com built up a web based amusement, "The Great Indian Parking Wars", which expected players to stop Vidya's taxi on a road; it was generally welcomed, achieving 50,000 hits in 10 days. 

On 5 March 2012, before discharge, Kolkata Metro specialists questioned a scene in which Vidya is pushed by a man onto the tracks as a train arrives. They mentioned that the scene be expelled, as it would help individuals to remember the past suicides, which had discolored the railroad's picture. The movie producers screened the scene for the experts and clarified that nothing in the film would influence the picture of the Metro or brief individuals to end it all. Persuaded, the authorities pulled back their protests, and the scene was held, in spite of the fact that it was expelled from trailers. 

"Kahaani" was discharged on 9 March 2012, an after quite a while after International Women's Day. It played on 1100 screens around the world. CNN-IBN revealed that in spite of the fact that "Kahaani" was prepared before "The Dirty Picture", wholesalers conceded its discharge, expecting that Vidya's job of an attractive alarm (in "The Dirty Picture") after that of a pregnant lady probably won't be gotten well. STAR TV purchased the restrictive appropriate to communicate the film at a cost of , which was the most astounding ever cost paid for a female-driven film in India. The Indian TV debut of the film was on Star India's station Movies OK on 3 June 2012. The DVD of the film was discharged on 17 May 2012 over all districts in a one-circle pack in NTSC position. Disseminated by Shemaroo Entertainment, it contained extra substance, for example, behind-the-scene film, video of festivity parties after its showy discharge, and music recordings of the tunes of the film. The VCD and Blu-beam renditions were discharged in the meantime. 

"Kahaani" earned commonly positive surveys from commentators. As indicated by audit aggregator "Survey Gang" the film got a rating of 7.5 out of 10, in view of the surveys by expert faultfinders. Great verbal exposure had an influence in its prevalence other than the positive audits. "The Telegraph" called the film "a mind-juggling mixture of control taking on the appearance of a 'mother of a story'". Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama gave the film 4 out of 5 stars, and applauded Vidya's acting. "The Times of India" remarked "By and by, a 'pregnant' Vidya, unexpectedly shows increasingly 'male ornaments' ... than generally saints." The surveys in Rediff, Indo Asian News Service, CNN-IBN, Zee News, "Hindustan Times", and "The Hindu" were consistently positive, and noted content, heading, cinematography, and going about as solid purposes of the film. Noted film on-screen character and various National Award champ Shabana Azmi commended Vidya for her performance,"As an on-screen character, I could see she [Vidya] was making all the correct moves all through the film. There was not a solitary counterfeit note in her execution." Russell Edwards, the analyst for "Assortment", adulated the cast, cinematography, and bearing, and remarked that in spite of intermittent glitches, the "dexterous thriller ... keeps up energy and believability." 

Numerous analysts scrutinized the film's peak and certain highlights, feeling that they strayed from its general style. Rituparna Chatterjee of CNN-IBN noticed that the peak of the film was an "enormous dampener" and clarified, "The merciless curve at that point got underplayed ... What pursues is a sobfest ... the remorseful clarification of why she does what she does. Supporting her activity goes over additional as a push to pacify the Indian profound quality". The "Standpoint" audit noted, "now and again, "Kahaani" is excessively shrewd, at others amazingly person on foot like in the delineation of PC hacking and IB activities, not to talk about the over the top psychological oppressor point and the very unsurprising Durga Puja setting for that folklore tie-in." It includes that the "spoon-bolstering" of reasons toward the end hoses the interest factor. The survey in Yahoo! India remarks that the Durga allegory toward the end was implemented, and that the film over-enjoyed Bengali generalizations. Gautaman Bhaskaran, in his audit in "Inlet Times", noticed that the occasionally handheld photography was "as irritating as the plot with a sleuth such a large number of and cops in abundance." 

However "Kahaani" got basic approval, it was a moderate starter in the cinematic world, opening to a poor reaction on the main day, yet steadily picking a short time later. As indicated by "The Telegraph", the film earned nearly from the territory of West Bengal inside the initial three days of its discharge. At multiplexes in Kolkata, inhabitance expanded from 47% on Friday 9 March, the day of discharge, to 77% on 10 March and to around 97% on 11 March. Film industry India, a site on Indian film exchange, announced that the film gathered about in its first week, well past its creation cost of . It earned in second week to make a fourteen day aggregate of around in India; this drove Box Office India to announce the film a "Super Hit". The film was effective in the global film industry too, gathering inside 10 days of its discharge in seven markets—UK, US, UAE, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia and Pakistan, as per Bollywood Hungama, a film-related site. By the third week, as per CNN-IBN, it had earned , including India and abroad market. "Hindustan Times" revealed that "Kahaani" made an overall gross of inside 50 days of its discharge. 

"Kahaani" was selected for, and won, numerous honors. The 58th Filmfare Awards assigned the movie for six of their classes, where it won five, including Best Actress for Vidya and Best Director for Ghosh. "Kahaani" got thirteen selections at the 19th Colors Screen Awards, and won five, including Best Actress and Best Story. At the fourteenth Zee Cine Awards, "Kahaani" won five honors, including Best Film (Critics) and Best Actress (Critics), out of fifteen selections. At the 2013 Stardust Awards function, "Kahaani" was declared Hottest Film of the Year while Vidya got for the Best Actress in a Thriller or Action. "Kahaani" was granted the Most Entertaining Film of the Year at the third function of the BIG Star Entertainment Awards. At the 60th National Film Awards, Ghosh won Best Screenplay (Original), Namrata Rao won Best Editing, and Nawazuddin Siddiqui won a Special Jury grant. 

Following "Kahaani"s achievement, Kolkata turned into a favored goal for Bollywood movie producers. They felt the scenes of Mumbai and Delhi were abused for quite a few years, while Kolkata held its extraordinary visuals, for example, metro trains, unsteady cable cars, hand-pulled rickshaws, shabby bylanes, palatial chateaus, decrepit places of North Kolkata, roadside diners, ghats of stream Ganga, British-time structures, eateries and notorious structures and territories including Howrah Bridge, Kalighat Temple, Nakhoda Mosque, Kumortuli symbol making region and Victoria Memorial. 

Monalisa Guest House, the cabin which facilitated Vidya Bagchi in the film, turned into a neighborhood fascination. A few hundreds have visited it since the film's discharge, to the degree that the proprietors wanted to build taxes and remodel the rooms around a "Kahaani" subject. 

The potbellied contract executioner Bob Biswas turned into an Internet marvel, the subject of a few jokes and bits of pop craftsmanship, which circled through Facebook and Twitter. "Nomoshkar, Aami Bob Biswas... Ek minute?" ("Hello, I am Bob Biswas... do you have a minute?")— the monolog he more than once utilizes just before killing his exploited people—was utilized in various images. A realistic novel and a network show dependent on Bob Biswas were being arranged, . 

Two changes of "Kahaani" were discharged in 2014: a Telugu revamp titled "Anaamika", and its Tamil form "Nee Enge En Anbe", both coordinated by Sekhar Kammula and including Nayantara as the lead character. An English-language revamp, entitled "God", will be coordinated by the Danish chief Niels Arden Oplev and created by Yashraj Films, with generation booked to start in 2015. 

In March 2012, Sujoy Ghosh declared that he planned to create "Kahaani" into an arrangement. He was propelled by Satyajit Ray's "Feluda" analyst arrangement and needed to proceed with the narratives of Vidya Bagchi on comparable lines, with Vidya Balan repeating the job. The shooting of "Kahaani 2" was planned to start in 2013, however in July 2013 contrasts emerged between Sujoy Ghosh and other co-makers. In February 2014, Vidya reported that the continuation was not occurring because of these distinctions, yet after two years, Ghosh affirmed that the film was in pre-creation with Vidya set to repeat her job. The spin-off, entitled "Kahaani 2", started shooting in March 2016 with Vidya and Arjun Rampal in lead jobs, and was discharged on 2 December 2016.