The Ecstatic 

The Ecstatic is the fourth studio collection by American rapper Mos Def. It was discharged on June 9, 2009, by Downtown Records. 

Subsequent to wandering further far from hip bounce with an acting vocation and two inadequately gotten collections, Mos Def marked a chronicle contract with Downtown and recorded "The Ecstatic" essentially at the Record Plant in Los Angeles. He worked with makers, for example, Preservation, Mr. Streak, Oh No, and Madlib, the last two of whom reused instrumentals they had delivered on Stones Throw Records. Artist Georgia Anne Muldrow, in the past of the record mark, was one of the collection's not many visitor vocalists, alongside rappers Slick Rick and Talib Kweli. For its intro page, a still from Charles Burnett's 1978 film "Enemy of Sheep" was duplicated in red tint. 

The collection has been depicted by music columnists as a cognizant and elective hip bounce record with an erratic, internationalist quality. Mos Def's raps about worldwide governmental issues, love, otherworldliness, and social conditions are educated by the zeitgeist of the late 2000s, Black internalionalism, and Pan-Islamic thoughts, fusing various Islamic references all through the collection. Its approximately organized, gently reverbed tunes utilize capricious time marks and tests taken from an assortment of global melodic styles, including Afrobeat, soul, Eurodance, jazz, reggae, Latin, and Middle Eastern music. Mos Def titled "The Ecstatic" after one of his most loved books, the 2002 Victor LaValle book, trusting its main expression evoked his particular inventive vision for the collection. 

"The Ecstatic" graphed at number nine on the "Bulletin" 200 in its first seven day stretch of discharge and in the long run sold 168,000 duplicates. Its deals profited by its essence on Internet web journals and the arrival of a T-shirt representing the record's bundling nearby a mark printed with a code redeemable for a free download of the collection. A broad basic achievement, "The Ecstatic" was seen as an arrival to shape for Mos Def and one of the year's best collections. He set out on a global visit to help the record, performing shows in North America, Japan, Australia, and the United Kingdom among September and April 2010. As his DJ on the visit, Preservation started to create remixes of the collection's tunes, which he later discharged on the remix collection "The REcstatic" in 2013. 

In 2006, Mos Def's third collection "Genuine Magic" was discharged erratically by Geffen Records to satisfy a legally binding commitment while he was dedicating more opportunity to his acting profession. The nature of the collection, alongside his rehashed endeavors from hip jump in his music, left "a few fans thinking about whether Mos Def's acting achievements were at long last influencing his music", "PopMatters" faultfinder Quentin B. Episode later composed. Talking with Spank Rock for "Meeting" magazine, Mos Def illustrated his imaginative undertakings at the time: "You need to encounter life, mention objective facts, make inquiries. It's machine-like how things are kept running in hip-jump now, and my aspirations are distinctive ... To me the activity of a craftsman is to give a valuable and savvy vocabulary for the world to have the capacity to explain emotions they experience each day." After consummation his residency on Geffen, he marked a record manage Downtown Records before account "The Ecstatic" as his first collection for the name. 

"The Ecstatic" was generally recorded in sessions at the Record Plant in Los Angeles; the tunes "Sundown Speedball", "No Hay Nada Mas", and "Roses" were mostly recorded at Hovercraft Studios in Virginia Beach, Someothaship Connect in Los Angeles, and New York City's Downtown Music Studios. 

Mos Def worked with makers Mr. Streak, Oh No, Madlib, and Preservation, who recently delivered some of "Genuine Magic"s tunes. For "The Ecstatic", Oh No reused a portion of his creations from his 2007 collection "Dr. No's Oxperiment", while Madlib fused examples from his "Beat Konducta in India" (2007) record. For "Life in Marvelous Times", Mr. Streak reused the beat from "Champions"— his 2006 coordinated effort with the French hip jump assemble TTC—while "History" utilized a beat created by J Dilla before his passing. With Preservation, Mos Def delivered "Casa Bey" after a 2006 outing to Rio de Janeiro, where neighborhood rapper MV Bill acquainted him with the music of Banda Black Rio. Mos Def and Preservation modified one of the band's melodies—"Casa Forte", an instrumental including their trademark mix of funk, jazz, soul, and Brazilian rhythms—and utilized it as the beat. The first tune title—signifying "solid house" in Portuguese—was changed to "Casa Bey"; Bey was Mos Def's family surname. As indicated by him, he attempted to enroll rappers Jay Electronica, Black Thought, and Trugoy for the tune, yet they all discovered it too hard to even think about rapping over the instrumental. 

Mos Def teamed up with vocalist Georgia Anne Muldrow and rappers Slick Rick and Talib Kweli—his accomplice in the rap pair Black Star. Muldrow sang and played piano on "Roses", which she initially composed and recorded in 2008 for her collection "Umsindo" (2009). She said Mos Def "obtained" the melody for "The Ecstatic" after they met through a common companion. "They came more than one day and began playing 'Roses.' He was singing the melody and knew it. He said 'I wanna get that.' I stated, 'Man, I previously got this as a solitary'. He simply needed that tune. He grabbed it up genuine speedy", she reviewed in giggling. Alongside Madlib, Oh No, and J Dilla, Muldrow had been a member of Stones Throw Records; as indicated by columnist Nathan Rabin, they all things considered created half of the collection, giving its sound a "thoughtful" quality. With "The Ecstatic", Mos Def said he needed to offer audience members true, uninhibited perceptions about existence and love, "some reality and positive heart lift", without the requirement for club tunes. "No disregard to [the club]". 

"The Ecstatic" covers a worldwide scope of styles in a free and spontaneous way, held together by what Rabin depicted as "an expressive and sonic interest with life past the Western World". As indicated by Robert Christgau, the collection's tunes commonly normal over two minutes and segue into each other without goals, giving it the vibe of a comprehensively impacted hip jump mixtape, "with posts in Brooklyn and Beirut". The record reflected Mos Def's changed advantages in jazz, verse, Eastern rhythms, psychedelia, Spanish music, and the blues. The tracks on the primary half were portrayed by "The Observer"s Ben Thompson as "prevalently eastbound looking" while the second half reveled more in Latin and reggae impacts. Different sounds inspected or investigated included Afrobeat ("Quiet Dog Bite Hard"), Eurodance ("Life in Marvelous Times"), Bollywood ("Supermagic"), and Philadelphia soul. "Supermagic" additionally drew on components from Turkish corrosive shake and "Mary Poppins", while on "No Hay Nada Mas", Mos Def sang and rapped in Spanish over a flamenco-affected generation. He sang somewhere else on the collection, regularly breaking into sing-tune vamps amid his raps. Alongside Mos Def's singing, the transcendently test based music was whimsical in its utilization of what Preservation said were uncommon time marks and "ungainly" breakdowns. 

As indicated by "The Independent"s Simmy Richman, "The Ecstatic"s Eastern-impacted melodic setting was intelligent of Mos Def's "post-War on Terror" topics; Richman considered it a cognizant rap record, and "No Ripcord"s Ryan Faughnder viewed the music as "socially cognizant elective hip-bounce". Mos Def joined various Islamic references onto the collection, including tests of American Muslim extremist Malcolm X, Turkish challenge vocalist Selda Bağcan, and an Arab-language scene from the 1966 film "The Battle of Algiers"; moreover, the track "Wahid" was titled after the Arabic word for "unity". African-American investigations and media researcher Sohail Daulatzai trusted "The Ecstatic" was educated by Black internationalist governmental issues and Pan-Islamic thoughts, while "Express" magazine's Niall Byrne said it investigated the subject of worldwide relations on tunes, for example, the Middle Eastern-impacted "The Embassy" and "Hall", which included an Iraq-themed visitor rap by Slick Rick. On the previous track, Mos Def rapped from the point of view of a pariah about the way of life of a minister at a lavish lodging, while the opening melody "Supermagic" evaluated government treatment of minority gatherings. 

As on Mos Def's different collections, he talked a commitment to God in Arabic ("Bismillah ar-Rahman ar-Raheem") toward the beginning of "The Ecstatic", before "Supermagic" started with an example of Malcolm X's 1964 discourse at Oxford Union. The example introduced the collection's "little globe explanation", "Pitchfork" writer Nate Patrin clarified, demonstrating that Mos Def had "a stake in an option that is more prominent than only one corner of the rap world". Alex Young from "Outcome of Sound" trusted the discourse presented "a political collection including worldwide beats and perspectives". As indicated by "Washington Post" faultfinder Allison Stewart, Mos Def appeared to be similarly intrigued by the Obama-period zeitgeist as in records of the past, for example, the mid 1980s Bedford– Stuyvesant setting of "Life in Marvelous Times". Youthful esteemed the melody anthemic for "an apparently confusing age that routinely observes occasions, for example, a Black man being chosen leader of a country floundering in racial imbalance". From Christgau's point of view, Mos Def offered a philosophy in the verses: "A greater amount of not exactly ever before/It's simply a lot of additional for your brain to assimilate/It's unnerving like heck, yet there's no uncertainty/We can't be alive in a matter of moments however at this point". 

All through "The Ecstatic", Mos Def shifted back and forth between what AllMusic's Andy Kellman called unreasonable yet learned raps and "apparently apathetic, without any preparation gloats", set against unconventional, delicately reverbed creations. As per "The Guardian"s Paul MacInnes, "The Ecstatic" included his naturally "divided melodious style, which circled words inside expressions and played on sound as much as significance". "Hall" exhibited his "unpredictable and tangled" lyricism conveyed intently in musicality with the beat, Patrin stated, refering to the lines "soul is the lion's thunder, voice is the alarm/I swing 'round, wring out and cut down the dictator/cleave a little hatchet and thump a goliath disproportionate". He investigated Afrocentric subjects on "Disclosures" and contrasted love with a gunfight on "Pistola". On "Roses", Muldrow sang nature-accommodating verses about attracting blossoms times of misery as opposed to culling them starting from the earliest stage. "Roses is about innovativeness and human limit", she clarified. "A great deal of times Western culture comprehends worth on 'precious stones are perpetually' or 'twelve roses' and that is the way you demonstrate your affection to somebody ... in any case, you get such a significant number of blessings and still feel vacant. So draw them and let the roses originate from inside." 

"The Ecstatic" was titled after Victor LaValle's 2002 dim funniness novel. One of Mos Def's most loved books, it was expounded on an overweight school dropout who fell into psychological instability while living with his offbeat family in Queens, New York. As per Mos Def, the expression "the happy" was "utilized in the seventeenth and eighteenth hundreds of years to portray individuals who were either frantic or supernaturally roused and therefore expelled as wackos". The expression impacted him, as he trusted nobody else in hip bounce had ever recorded a collection like "The Ecstatic". "I have an inclination that I was the main individual who was equipped for making this sort of music in this kind of way", he asserted. "I don't rap like no one, I don't endeavor to seem like no one." He said "the euphoric" likewise alluded to "a sort of reverential vitality, a unimaginable dream that moves toward becoming reality yet is undermined before it's figured it out. The plane, a nutty thought. The phone, the Internet. Individuals who imagined those were viewed as radical or outrageous." 

"The Ecstatic" was bundled with couple of liner notes and a two-sheet booklet including a photograph of Mos Def taken utilizing the Photo Booth programming application. The title page photograph repeated a still in red tint from "Enemy of Sheep", a low-spending plan 1978 film by Charles Burnett about African-American life in 1970s Watts, Los Angeles. As per Dale Eisinger from "Complex", the "inconspicuous and as yet moving" intro page photograph mirrored the thoughts of social equity and worldwide imbalance present all through Mos Def's vocation while catching the "sonic development" of "The Ecstatic"s music. "The spread has foggy, dream-like development", Eisinger stated, "showing up as a non-account, free accumulation of vignettes that are extraneously entrancing and inconceivably amazing." For the back spread, a 1928 photograph of the Moorish Science Temple assembling in Chicago was utilized, which Daulatzai deciphered as another component of Mos Def's "Dish Islamic mashup" on the collection. 

"The Ecstatic" was discharged by Downtown on June 9, 2009. In its first week, the collection sold 39,000 duplicates and appeared at number nine on the "Board" 200, turning into the second record of Mos Def's vocation to achieve the best 10 on the outline. The next week, he turned into the main account craftsman to embrace the Original Music Tee, a T-shirt highlighting the collection spread on the front, the track posting on the back, and a tag with a code to download a MP3 duplicate of the record. The showcasing technique prompted enough deals that "Board" considered the T-shirts as collection units on the magazine's music outlines. "The Ecstatic" additionally profited by the quantity of notices it got on Internet blog entries, which crested amid the seven day stretch of June 29. The collection achieved 168,000 duplicates sold in March 2014. 

Three singles were discharged to advance the collection: "Life in Marvelous Times" on November 4, 2008; "Calm Dog Bite Hard" on January 13, 2009; and "Casa Bey" on May 26. As indicated by Charles Aaron, "Life in Marvelous Times" was the "most dominant and available melody" Mos Def had ever recorded, yet it couldn't figure out how to get airplay on radio stations in his local New York. "On the off chance that [it] can't jump on the radio, at that point I don't should be on the radio", the rapper said in August, communicating a faltering enthusiasm for achieving standard gatherings of people. 

At the month's begin, Mos Def left on the North American leg of The Ecstatic Tour, performing settings in various US and Canadian urban areas including Chicago, Miami, Washington D.C., Miami, Portland, Calgary, and Vancouver. It highlighted Jay Electronica as his opening demonstration, and certain shows were co-featured with Kweli and vocalist Erykah Badu. The leg finished up on October 3 with a night exhibition opening at the Austin City Limits Music Festival. Mos Def kept visiting into the next year, playing a progression of shows in Japan amid late 2009, which were recorded in a scene of the Current TV arrangement "Inserted". This was trailed by his initially featuring voyage through Australia in January 2010 and a short arrangement of April shows in the United Kingdom. 

"The Ecstatic" was met with far reaching basic recognition. At Metacritic, which allots a standardized rating out of 100 to audits from standard distributions, the collection got a normal score of 81, in view of 28 surveys. After two inadequately gotten records, it was seen by faultfinders as an arrival to the type of his 1999 introduction collection "Dark on Both Sides", procuring the absolute best surveys of his vocation. 

In "The New Yorker", "The Ecstatic" was hailed as Mos Def's "most adroitly knotty and aspiring work", while Aaron wrote in "Turn" that the "internationalist come back to shape" was additionally "maybe his liveliest work". For "The Irish Times", Jim Carroll said the rapper had not played out this engagingly or skillfully since his vocation beginnings, featuring particularly "Supermagic" and "Life in Marvelous Times". Mick Middles from "The Quietus" assessed it as "the euphoric sound of a wild craftsman, over the top by desire or corporate greed", with free-streaming music that got away from the limits his past collections had only pushed. Thompson trusted the differing scope of tests made it "a box digger's wet dream" and "a thrillingly available exhibit of hip-jump's boundless inventive potential outcomes" to a layman. Writing in "MSN Music", Christgau felt the tunes were "without snares however brimming with sounds you need to hear once more", alongside "attentively slurred" yet comprehensible verses by Mos Def, whose imaginative vision justified the starting Malcolm X test. In the sentiment of "Time"s Josh Tyrangiel, his political contemplations may not engage preservationists but rather are wealthy in "the musicality, abundance and mind Mos Def appeared on his initial records". Steve Jones of "USA Today" said his appearance on governmental issues, love, religion, and societal conditions were brimming with knowledge and earnestness while calling the collection his most grounded exertion. 

A few analysts were less awed. "Moving Stone" pundit Christian Hoard found the nature of the tunes conflicting, while "Inclination Magazine"s Eric Henderon guaranteed a significant part of the music needed melody structure and "lurched uncontrollably, free from the limitations of tune and stanza". Margaret Wappler assessed the record with qualified acclaim in the "Los Angeles Times", saying it "for the most part satisfies its jazzed name" however winds down every so often while the shrewd examples may challenge audience members at first. 

Toward the finish of 2009, "The Ecstatic" was named one of the year's 10 best collections; as per Acclaimed Music, it was the 24th most conspicuously positioned record on pundits' year-end records. The collection was positioned 30th by "The Guardian", 24th by "Q", 23rd by "Inclination Magazine", seventeenth by "Moving Stone", sixteenth by Sputnikmusic, fifteenth by "PopMatters", twelfth by "Spex", tenth by "Applicable", seventh by "Turn", and third by eMusic; About.com and BBC Music both named it the year's best rap record. In "The Village Voice"s Pazz and Jop—a yearly survey of American faultfinders across the nation—"The Ecstatic" was casted a ballot the eleventh best collection of 2009. Christgau, the survey's maker, positioned it twelfth all alone year-end list for "The Barnes and Noble Review". "The Times" set it at number 30 on the paper's decade-end rundown of the 100 biggest records from the 2000s. It completed at numbers 27 and 155 on comparative records distributed by Rhapsody and Rock's Backpages, individually. It was additionally selected for a 2010 Grammy Award in the class of Best Rap Album, while "Casa Bey" was assigned for Best Rap Solo Performance. In 2013, "Beats Per Minute" named "The Ecstatic" the 112th best collection of the previous five years. 

Between January 30 and February 6, 2010, the HVW8 Art and Design Gallery in Los Angeles held a selective one-week display titled "Mos Def: Ecstatic Moments – Photographs". It displayed a gathering of photographs taken by Cognito—a long-lasting hip jump documentarian and partner of Mos Def—catching the rapper amid the two years spent making and advancing "The Ecstatic". Incorporated into the presentation were genuine photos of him in the studio with the collection's makers, and photographs of his encounters visiting and visiting areas around the globe, including the Cape of Good Hope and São Paulo. A progression of "force shots" taken toward the finish of shows from the American visit were additionally shown, demonstrating the rapper with Jay Electronica, Kweli, Badu, and artist Shuggie Otis, who showed up amid the visit. 

The planning of the presentation was intended to benefit from Mos Def's two selections for the Grammy Awards, which were being held that week, Cognito clarified: "I thought it was an ideal time to respect his essence while he's here. We've had a ton of our greats pass away in the recent years, be it Dilla or Bataan ["sic"], or whoever, and now everyone needs to talk 'Dilla' or whatever, however you weren't stating that while he was alive. We should laud our saints while they're alive." 

While on visit as Mos Def's in-show DJ, Preservation started to remix a portion of "The Ecstatic"s tunes for their live daily schedule. He provoked himself to remix the remainder of the record, taking over a year, as a venture called "The REcstatic", working with Jan Fairchild, the first collection's blending engineer. Protection returned to hotspots for the first beats to discover comparable chronicles that would relate to every tune's specific tasteful while safeguarding Mos Def's vocals for the remixes. He needed them to be test based and predictable in key, pitch, and tone to the primary collection, which he discovered hard to accomplish as a result of the first music's strange instrumentals and singing. "It's the consequence of innumerable long stretches of burrowing through records to test", he reviewed. "Developing the beat, folding it over the vocal, modifying the rhythm, etc". "Dark Fantastic", an outtake delivered by Minnesota amid "The Ecstatic"s recording, supplanted "Casa Bey" in the last track posting, as Preservation had discovered the rhythm and structure of the first tune too hard to even consider making an attractive remix. 

"The REcstatic" was discharged as a free download on June 12, 2013, by Preservation's engraving name, Mon Dieu Music. Looking into the remix collection in "Little Mix Tapes", Samuel Diamond said the upbeat vitality of the first record was given a "marginally rougher surface" on what he esteemed "a conscious commitment to the ordinance of remix-based workmanship, something that can be said for not very many present day rap 'remixes'". 

Credits are adjusted from Downtown Music. 

Credits are adjusted from Downtown Music.