2008 ACC Championship Game 

The 2008 ACC Championship Game was a school football match-up between the Virginia Tech Hokies and the Boston College Eagles. The diversion, supported by Dr Pepper, was the last normal season challenge of the 2008 school football season for the Atlantic Coast Conference. Virginia Tech vanquished Boston College, winning the Atlantic Coast Conference football title, 30– 12. 

The Virginia Tech Hokies were chosen to speak to the Coastal Division by uprightness of an attach breaking straight on triumph against division rival Georgia Tech and came into the amusement with a 8– 4 record (5– 3 in ACC play). Speaking to the Atlantic Division was Boston College, which had a 9– 3 record (5– 3 ACC). The two groups were the victors of a firmly challenged season in the ACC. Neither one of the teams secured a spot in the amusement until the last week before the title, and both needed to depend on gathering attach disrupting norms to win a spot. The amusement was a rematch of the earlier year's challenge, which Virginia Tech won, 30– 16. 

The diversion was held at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida on December 6, 2008. Tampa had been picked after poor participation at the diversion's past spot (Jacksonville, Florida) drove gathering authorities to move the amusement. The 2008 title was the first to be played in Tampa. The amusement started gradually, as the two groups punted after their opening belongings neglected to pick up a first down. Later in the quarter, Virginia Tech took a 7– 0 lead with a five-yard touchdown kept running by Tech quarterback Tyrod Taylor. The Hokies never surrendered the lead after that point. Tech stretched out its lead to 14– 0 in the second quarter, yet Boston College figured out how to tight Tech's lead to 14– 7 by halftime. In the second half, Virginia Tech scored 17 points to the Eagles' five, and the Hokies won. In acknowledgment of his diversion winning execution, Taylor was named the amusement's most significant player. 

The ACC Championship Game matches the victors of the Coastal and Atlantic divisions of the Atlantic Coast Conference. In the principal decade of the 21st century, the group experienced a development to include three previous Big East individuals: Miami and Virginia Tech in 2004, and Boston College in 2005. With the expansion of a twelfth group, the ACC was permitted to hold a meeting title diversion under National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) rules. 

The debut 2005 game highlighted a Florida State prevail upon Virginia Tech, 27– 22. In 2006, two unique groups showed up in the amusement, which was held in Jacksonville, Florida. Wake Forest crushed Georgia Tech, 9– 6. In 2007, one group new to the title amusement and title diversion veteran included in the challenge as Virginia Tech went head to head against Boston College. The amusement brought about a 30– 16 Virginia Tech triumph. 

Prior to the 2007 diversion, urban communities other than Jacksonville (site of the 2007 ACC Championship Game) introduced their arrangements to be the site of the 2008 ACC Championship Game. After poor participation in the ACC Championship Game at Jacksonville for the second in a row year, ACC authorities and delegates of the gathering's part schools chose not to broaden the Gator Bowl Association's agreement to have the amusement for one more year. On December 12, under about fourteen days after Jacksonville had facilitated the 2007 ACC Championship Game, the ACC declared that Tampa, Florida would have the amusement in 2008 and 2009 and Charlotte, North Carolina would have the diversion in 2010 and 2011. 

The urban areas were picked dependent on offers displayed to the ACC and its part schools. Every city mentioned and was conceded a two-year contract, bolting the ACC into the areas well ahead of time. Tampa was picked as the site of the 2008 game on the grounds that Charlotte was booked to hold the yearly tradition of the Association for Career and Technical Education in the meantime as the amusement, and satisfactory lodging space would not be prepared in time for the two occasions. Along these lines, Charlotte's two-year length of facilitating the amusement was pushed back to 2010. 

Before the start of the 2008 school football season, the yearly survey by media individuals who spread ACC football anticipated Clemson to win the Atlantic Division and Virginia Tech to win the Coastal Division. Clemson got 59 of a conceivable 65 in front of the rest of the competition cast a ballot in its division, while Virginia Tech got 58. 

From the principal round of the period, in any case, those preseason expectations were thrown into uncertainty. Virginia Tech lost its season opener to daintily respected East Carolina, while Clemson lost to Alabama. In spite of the fact that neither one of the losses considered into either group's gathering standings, it mirrored the beginning times of a meeting plan that was viewed as insane, wacky, "a wreck", and "confounding" by individuals from the media and school football fans. So firmly coordinated were the 12 groups of the meeting that as late as the second-to-a week ago of the normal season, nine groups were still in the running for a spot in the title diversion. Heading into the last seven day stretch of the ordinary season, four groups were still in position to conceivably partake in the diversion: Georgia Tech and Virginia Tech from the Coastal Division, and Boston College and Florida State from the Atlantic Division. In that last week, Virginia Tech secured the Coastal Division co-title with a 17– 14 prevail upon Virginia, while Boston College moved toward becoming co-victors of the Atlantic Division with a 28– 21 win against Maryland. 

The Boston College Eagles entered the 2008 school football season having gone 11– 3 amid the 2007 season, finishing that season with a misfortune to Virginia Tech in the 2007 ACC Championship Game and a 24– 21 triumph over Michigan State in the 2007 Champs Sports Bowl. In the yearly preseason survey of media covering the ACC, Boston College was picked to complete fourth in the Atlantic Division. 

The Eagles opened the season by making a trip to Kent State, whom the Eagles vanquished, 21– 0. The Eagles' home opener was their second round of the period and was likewise their first meeting round of the year. Against Georgia Tech, the Eagles squeezed out a 9– 7 halftime lead, however fell behind in the second half, inevitably losing, 19– 16, on a Georgia Tech touchdown that accompanied 8:26 staying in the diversion. In spite of the misfortune, the Eagles recuperated rapidly, beating Central Florida, 34– 7, two weeks after the Georgia Tech diversion. The triumph was the first in an inevitable four-amusement win mark that finished with a 28– 23 thrashing of then-No. 17 Virginia Tech.<ref name="BC/VT">The Associated Press. "QB Crane battles, however Boston College beats Va. Tech behind miserly protection.", ESPN.com. October 18, 2008. Gotten to December 1, 2008.</ref> 

The success over Virginia Tech gave the Eagles a 2– 1 gathering record, and they had all the earmarks of being bound for an offer to the ACC Championship Game. Yet, Boston College lost its next two recreations, both against gathering rivals, dropping its record to 2– 3. In spite of the misfortunes, Boston College still got an opportunity to win the Atlantic Division—however just if different groups lost also. This occurred on November 6, when individual Atlantic Division group Maryland lost to Virginia Tech, and the Eagles recouped from their losing streak with an out-of-gathering win against Notre Dame. 

Notre Dame was the last out-of-meeting rival on Boston College's timetable, as the Eagles completed the season with three back to back ACC amusements. The first of these was against Florida State which driven the Atlantic Division at the time, yet had five players suspended the day preceding the amusement. The Eagles verified a triumph, 27– 17. The second of Boston College's last adversaries was Wake Forest, which had played in the 2006 ACC Championship Game. While Boston College won, 24– 21, beginning quarterback Chris Crane endured a season-finishing damage, leaving reinforcement Dominique Davis accountable for the Eagles' offense. Boston College's last round of the normal season was against Maryland and a triumph against the Terrapins would push the Eagles to a tie with Florida State on the Atlantic Division. Since Boston College had won the no holds barred amusement against Florida State, as per the ACC's tie-disrupting norms, the Eagles would win the division. A 28– 21 triumph over Maryland conveyed Boston College to a 5– 3 ACC record, giving it a co-division title with Florida State and an excursion to the ACC Championship Game. 

The Virginia Tech Hokies entered the 2008 season having won the 2007 ACC Championship Game, completing with a 11– 3 in general record that incorporated a postseason misfortune to the Kansas Jayhawks in the 2008 Orange Bowl. In spite of winning the ACC for the second time in under four years, Virginia Tech was foreseen to burn through 2008 modifying a group that saw 12 starters alumni or enter the NFL Draft. In spite of the fact that picked in a preseason survey to win the Coastal Division, the Hokies were crushed in their season opener by longshot East Carolina. 

Following that misfortune, Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer declared that reinforcement quarterback Tyrod Taylor, who had recently been relied upon to sit out the season on redshirt status, would play in the Hokies' second amusement, against Furman. Both Taylor and beginning quarterback Sean Glennon performed well against the Paladins, and Tech won, 24– 7. Tech's third diversion came against the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets, who were utilizing another hostile framework, the choice offense, under first-year head mentor Paul Johnson. Dissimilar to the amusement against Furman, Taylor began the diversion and stayed at quarterback all through, managing the Hokies to their first ACC triumph of the period, a 20– 17 win that later gave Tech a pivotal no holds barred sudden death round against the Yellow Jackets, individual individuals from the Coastal Division. The Hokies' fourth round of the period came against the North Carolina Tar Heels, who were crushed by a similar edge of triumph as Tech's success against Georgia Tech, 20– 17. 

The twin gathering triumphs were trailed by two out-of-meeting wins: at Big 12 adversary Nebraska and against free Western Kentucky. Toward the finish of the four-diversion series of wins, the Hokies had a 4– 1 record, 2– 0 in meeting, and were positioned No. 17 in the nation. On October 18, in any case, the Hokies lost to unranked Boston College in Boston, 28– 23. The amusement was a rematch of the earlier year's ACC Championship Game and was a review of the 2008 Championship Game matchup. The misfortune was the beginning of a four-amusement slip for the Hokies that saw Tech lose three of four diversions, just dealing with a triumph against Maryland, 23– 13. The last round of that four-diversion drop was a 16– 13 misfortune to Coastal Division rival Miami, which at that point held an essential tiebreaking prevail upon the Hokies in case of any straight on tie. 

Amid the last two rounds of the ordinary season, the Hokies oversaw two triumphs: a 14– 3 win against last-place ACC group Duke, and a 17– 14 triumph over conventional opponent Virginia. Miami, in the interim, lost its last two rounds of the period: against Georgia Tech and North Carolina State. These misfortunes dropped Miami to a 4– 4 record in the ACC, one diversion behind the Hokies, who were tied with Georgia Tech at 5– 3 following the finish of the standard season. By temperance of the Hokies' no holds barred win against the Yellow Jackets, Virginia Tech earned a spot in the ACC Championship Game. 

Following the most recent seven day stretch of the customary season, the two groups climbed in the national school football surveys. Boston College, which had been positioned No. 21 in the BCS Poll, No. 20 in the AP Poll, and No. 22 in the Coaches' Poll, rose to No. 17 in the BCS, No. 18 in the AP Poll, and No. 20 in the Coaches' Poll. Virginia Tech, which had been unranked amid the last seven day stretch of the standard season, stayed in the "Additionally Receiving Votes" class outside the best 25, aside from in the BCS Poll, where the Hokies rose to No. 25. Spread bettors anticipated an even diversion. Different wagering associations favored Boston College either by a solitary point or none. This nearby spread was expected in little part to the groups' nature with one another. The title amusement denoted the fourth time in 14 months that the two groups played one another, and this reality was noticeably referenced in media inclusion before the diversion's kickoff. 

Very quickly after the determination of Virginia Tech and Boston College, worries about potential participation at the 2008 ACC Championship Game emerged. Since a similar matchup brought about such low participation at the 2007 title diversion in Jacksonville, it was questioned that Tampa, which is a few hundred miles further south and progressively far off from the two schools, could pull in the same number of observers as the past season's amusement. Adding to the issue of selling tickets was the 2008 monetary emergency, which numerous fans refered to as a purpose behind not buying tickets. By the Wednesday before the amusement, Virginia Tech had sold only 3,000 of the 10,000 tickets it was required by contract to sell. There additionally were inquiries concerning what number of neighborhood fans would visit. To alleviate the issues found in Jacksonville the prior year, ticket costs were brought from $65 down to $25, and it was trusted that the lower limit of Tampa's Raymond James Stadium contrasted and Jacksonville Municipal Stadium would take into account a snappier sellout. The battle to pull in more fans was respectably fruitful, as 30,000 of the 43,000 tickets not doled out to either school were sold by December 1, five days before the amusement. Group ticket deals were wretched, be that as it may, as Virginia Tech and Boston College consolidated to sell only 5,000 tickets of the 20,000 designated to the two groups. 

The Boston College offense, which increased 319 yards for every amusement by and large, was positioned 94th (of 120 Football Bowl Subdivision groups) in all out offense. A key segment of the offense was watch Cliff Ramsey, who was named a first-group All-ACC determination, meaning his status as the best player at his situation in the meeting. Tight end Ryan Purvis was named a second-group All-ACC choice. Quarterback Dominique Davis drove the Eagles' offense on the field heading into the ACC Championship. Davis had been the second-string quarterback until a season-finishing damage to starter Chris Crane. Amid his restricted time in the customary season, Davis had three passing and two surging touchdowns. 

Virginia Tech's offense was censured for an absence of creation amid the ordinary season and was positioned 103rd in absolute offense. The Hokies increased only 301 yards of offense by and large amid the customary season. In spite of the pitiful factual execution, Tech had some champion players. Quarterback Tyrod Taylor, who had been required to sit out the season available for later, completed the year as the group's starter. Running back Darren Evans was named a second-group All-ACC choice, as was watch Sergio Render. Taylor's most loved passing targets were wide recipients Danny Coale and Jarrett Boykin. Coale entered the ACC Championship Game having gotten 32 gets for 352 yards, while Boykin got 27 goes for 407 yards. 

The Eagles' barrier was positioned eighth in the country as far as absolute safeguard, permitting a normal of 277 yards for each diversion. The Eagles drove the nation in block attempts, recording 25 over the span of the standard season. The Eagles additionally were positioned among the best 10 in run safeguard, pass-effectiveness guard, and No. 14 in scoring resistance. That solid guarded exertion was driven by linebacker Mark Herzlich, who was chosen as the ACC's protective player of the year for the 2008 season. Herzlich drove the Eagles in handles with 98—fifth among all Division I players—and block attempts, with 6. He was gauge to be a key player amid the ACC Championship Game. Cautious handle B. J. Raji recorded 33 handles (11 for misfortune) and a group high 7 sacks, some portion of a resistance that permitted a normal of simply 87.3 surging yards per amusement. 

The Hokies' guard was positioned 6th in Division I-An amid the ordinary season, allowing 275 yards for every amusement all things considered. That cautious execution was driven by cornerback Victor "Macho" Harris, who was named a first-group All-ACC choice on resistance. Heading into the ACC Championship, Harris had 6 block attempts—2 returned for touchdowns—and 42 handles. Harris additionally played on offense, getting 8 goes for 63 yards. Another cautious star for the Hokies was Orion Martin, a previous stroll on who was third in the ACC in sacks with 7.5 and earned second-group ACC respects. 

The 2008 ACC Championship Game commenced on December 6, 2008, at 1 p.m. EST at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida. At kickoff, the climate was somewhat shady with 59 percent mugginess and a temperature of . The breeze was from the south-southwest at . The authority revealed participation was 53,927, yet this number originated from the quantity of tickets sold. The real participation in the arena—estimated by permission entryways—was 27,360, the most minimal at any point recorded for an ACC football title diversion. Ticket request was low to the point that tickets were being given away for nothing outside the arena before kickoff. The amusement was broadcast in the United States by the American Broadcasting Company, and Brad Nessler, Bob Griese, Paul Maguire, and Todd Harris were the hosts. Around 3.3 million individuals watched the diversion, acquiring the communicate a Nielsen rating of 2.9. The rating was the most reduced at any point recorded for an ACC Championship football match-up and spoke to a 41% decrease from the earlier year's appraising of 4.2. 

Boston College won the formal pre-diversion coin hurl to decide first belonging and chose to commence to start the amusement, guaranteeing that the Eagles would get the ball to start the second half. Virginia Tech kick returner Dyrell Roberts handled the ball at the Tech six-yard line and returned it to the Tech 33-yard line before the main play of the amusement, a four-yard go from quarterback Tyrod Taylor to wide beneficiary Danny Coale. Notwithstanding that underlying increase, the Hokies were unfit to propel the ball further and punted subsequent to going three and out. Boston College's Rich Gunnell reasonable got the kick at the Eagles' 16-yard line, where the Boston College offense ran its first play of the diversion. Running back Montel Harris kept running for a one-yard gain, yet Boston College was unfit to pick up the required ten yards for a first down, similarly as Virginia Tech had neglected to do in the earlier arrangement. Subsequent to going three and out, the Eagles punted back to Virginia Tech and the Hokies' offense came back to the field at the Tech 39-yard line with 11:30 staying in the main quarter. 

The main play of the drive was a fragmented go by Taylor, yet the Hokies earned the underlying first down of the diversion two plays later when Taylor finished a 14-yard toss to Roberts, propelling the ball to the 41-yard line of Boston College all the while. After a five-yard punishment against the Hokies, Taylor finished two back to back passes: one to Evans for a 12-yard gain and the other to Roberts for a 10-yard gain. Presently at the 24-yard line of Boston College, Virginia Tech's offense started running the ball as opposed to passing it. Evans scrambled for five yards, at that point second-string running back Josh Oglesby kept running for seven more on the following two plays. The first of Oglesby's surges brought about a first down inside the Eagles' red zone, and Tech kept on propelling the ball on the ground as Evans ran another five yards. Confronting third down at the Boston College five-yard line, Virginia Tech called a timeout to define its next hostile play. That play was a five-yard surge by Taylor, who crossed the objective line for the amusement's first score, a Virginia Tech touchdown. The consequent additional point kick was fruitful, and the Hokies took a 7– 0 lead with 6:27 staying in the primary quarter. 

Virginia Tech's post-touchdown kickoff was handled at the Boston College 13-yard line by the Eagles' Harris, who returned it to the Boston College 28-yard line, and the Eagles' offense started its second drive of the amusement. Falcons quarterback Dominique Davis finished his first go of the diversion, a 19-yard get by Brandon Robinson, who cutting-edge the ball to the Boston College 47-yard line for a first down. Davis at that point mixed for a four-yard addition, and Harris kept running for nine yards on the following two plays, picking up the Eagles' second initially down of the amusement. Once inside the Virginia Tech 40-yard line, in any case, the Hokies' barrier hardened. Davis had the capacity to increase six yards on two running plays, yet after a fragmented pass, the Eagles were compelled to punt for the second time in the principal quarter. The kick cruised into the end zone for a touchback, and Virginia Tech's offense started work at its 20-yard line. The Hokies' third drive of the quarter reflected its first, in any case, as Virginia Tech went three and out and punted subsequent to neglecting to pick up a first down. The Eagles recouped the ball with 1:32 staying in the quarter and submitted a five-yard false begin punishment to start their ownership. On the primary play after the punishment, Davis was sacked for lost two yards. Harris recovered the lost yardage and more with a six-yard run, however after Davis tossed a fragmented pass on third down, the Eagles were compelled to punt once more. Before they could kick the ball, be that as it may, the quarter reached an end. With seventy five percent staying in the diversion, Virginia Tech held a 7– 0 lead. 

The second quarter started with Boston College possessing the ball at its 28-yard line and getting ready to punt. Virginia Tech's Harris handled the kick at the Tech 35-yard line and returned it to the Tech 49-yard line, where the Hokies' offense took to the field for their first play of the second quarter. Evans increased six yards on a surge, at that point Coale was halted for no addition on an end-around. Confronting third down and requiring four yards, Taylor go for a first down to Boykin, who best in class the ball to the Boston College 39-yard line. On the following play, Evans broke free for a 30-yard increase, giving the Hokies a first down at the Eagles' nine-yard line. Three plays later, Taylor ran four yards for the Hokies' second touchdown of the diversion. The additional point was great, and Tech extended its lead to 14– 0 with 11:08 staying in the main half. 

Virginia Tech's post-touchdown kickoff was come back to the Boston College 20-yard line, and the Eagles started their first full ownership of the second quarter. Davis lost a yard on a running play, at that point was sacked for an eight-yard misfortune. Confronting third down and requiring 19 yards for a first down, Harris increased five yards and the Eagles punted in the wake of going three and out. The kick was come back to the Eagles' 36-yard line, and Tech started an ownership somewhere down in Boston College region. The primary Tech play lost two yards, however the Hokies recovered the lost yardage on the following play, grabbing four yards with a go from Taylor to Evans. Taylor mixed on third down, increasing eight yards and a first down. The Hokies endeavored a short run, at that point Taylor increased another first down with a go to the BC 14-yard line. Once there, be that as it may, Tech submitted a 10-yard holding punishment, pushing the Hokies in reverse. After the punishment, Taylor was handled for lost seven additional yards. Confronting a second down and 27 yards, Taylor endeavored to go for the first down, yet the ball was batted into the air and blocked by a Boston College protector. 

Following the turnover, the Eagles' offense started work at their 46-yard line. Davis finished a five-yard go to Robinson, progressing into Tech domain. A fragmented pass pursued, however Davis had the capacity to pick up the first down with a go to Rich Gunnell at the 39-yard line. On the principal go after the first down, Davis and Gunnell associated on a profound pass, however Gunnell bungled and the ball was recouped at last zone by a Virginia Tech safeguard. The play brought about a touchback, and Virginia Tech took over on offense at its 20-yard line. Following the turnover, Tech went three and out, punting back to Boston College with 2:11 staying before halftime. 

The kick was reasonable gotten at the 34-yard line of Boston College. On the main play after the kick, Davis associated with Harris on a pass play that brought about a 51-yard gain for the Eagles. At the Tech 15-yard line following the huge increase, the Eagles lost one yard on a surging play before Davis go to Gunnell for a 16-yard gain and a touchdown. The additional point was great, and with 1:29 staying in the principal half, Virginia Tech's lead was sliced to 14– 7. 

The Eagles' post-touchdown kickoff was come back to the Tech 33-yard line, and on the principal play after the kick, Boston College submitted an individual foul punishment when Tyrod Taylor was hit too far out. Following the punishment, the ball was progressed to the Tech 42-yard line and the Hokies were given a first down. Tech finished two short passes, progressing to the 50-yard line, however the Hokies punted after not increasing another first down. The show cruised outside the field of play, and the Eagles came back to offense with 19 seconds staying in the principal half. Instead of attempt to score rapidly, Boston College chose to run out the clock with Virginia Tech driving, 14– 7. 

Since Virginia Tech got the ball to start the amusement, Boston College got the ball to start the second half. Virginia Tech's kickoff was come back to the Eagles' 35-yard line, and Boston College's offense started the principal ownership of the second half. An inadequate go by Davis was trailed by a short surge and another fragmented pass, and the Eagles were compelled to punt subsequent to going three and out. The show left limits at Virginia Tech's 32-yard line, and the Hokies' offense had their first ownership of the second half. Tech similarly went three and out, at that point restored the ball to the Eagles with a punt. The show left limits, and following the trade, Boston College's offense began from its 31-yard line. 

The primary Eagles' play after the Tech punt was a 22-yard go from Davis to Gunnell for a first down at the Tech 47-yard line. Following the long addition, the Eagles were unfit to increase another first down, and punted back to the Hokies. The kick was reasonable gotten at the Tech 16-yard line with 11:08 staying in the second from last quarter, and the Virginia Tech offense came back to the field. Tech propelled the ball on three continuous plays: a six-yard go to Evans, a short surge by Evans, at that point a first down go to Roberts. Following the first down, Evans kept running for another first down, propelling the Hokies to their 44-yard line. Two Tech plays were halted for next to zero increase, however on third and nine, Taylor mixed for a 18-yard gain and a first down at the Boston College 37-yard line. Evans increased six yards on first down, however the Hokies were unfit to pick up the following four yards. Rather than punting, Tech head mentor Frank Beamer sent kicker Jared Keys into the diversion to endeavor a field objective. Keys' 50-yard kick cruised through the uprights, and Tech stretched out its lead to 17– 7 with 6:07 staying in the quarter. 

Tech's post-score kickoff was come back to the Eagles' 30-yard line. Davis began the drive with a deficient pass, at that point Harris increased seven yards with a surge up the center. A third-down pass fell fragmented, and Boston College punted. The kick was reasonable gotten at the Tech 30-yard line, and with 5:01 left in the quarter, the Hokies came back to offense. On the primary play, Taylor ran 11 yards for a first down. Taylor tossed a fragmented pass, and the Hokies were punished 10 yards for holding, driving them back to the 31-yard line. Tech was unfit to recapture the lost yardage, and punted. The kick was 57 yards, and Boston College was additionally upheld up by a punishment amid the arrival. Following the kick, Boston College's offense was constrained back to its seven-yard line to begin. An inadequate pass was trailed by a scramble by Davis. Amid the run, Davis bumbled the ball, which was recouped by a Boston College player. Confronting third down, Davis mixed once more, this time for a first down to the 21-yard line. On the main play after the first down scramble, a profound pass downfield by Davis was blocked by Virginia Tech's Stephan Virgil. The capture attempt was come back to the Boston College 10-yard line, and on the main play by Tech's offense, Evans ran the ten yards for a touchdown. The additional point was great, and with 1:17 outstanding, the Hokies stretched out their lead to 24– 7. 

Tech's post-touchdown kickoff was brought down at last zone for a touchback, and the Eagles started on offense at their 20-yard line. Three successive deficient passes later, Boston College punted, finishing their 6th three and out of the amusement. Following the kick, Tech began at its 27-yard line. On first down, the Hokies ran an end-around for five yards, at that point the quarter reached an end. With one quarter remaining, Virginia Tech drove, 24– 7. 

Virginia Tech started the final quarter possessing the ball and confronting a second down and five from their 33-yard line. The primary play of the quarter was a seven-yard kept running by Evans, who earned a first down at the Tech 40-yard line. On the following play after the first down run, Evans bumbled the ball and Boston College recuperated. The Eagles' offense began inside field objective range at the Tech 30-yard line. Boston College's first play was ceased for no increase, however the second was a 22-yard go by Davis to Gunnell, giving the Eagles a first down inside the Tech 10-yard line. Davis tossed three deficient goes before Boston College mentor Jeff Jagodzinski sent kicker Steve Aponavicius into the amusement to endeavor a 24-yard field objective. The kick was great, and the Eagles slice Tech's lead to 24– 10. 

The post-touchdown kickoff was come back to the Tech 20-yard line, and the Hokies started a hostile drive planning to rundown the clock and safeguard their two-touchdown lead. Since the diversion clock keeps on running on hurrying plays, the Hokies executed five back to back surging plays, getting a first down all the while. The Hokies were unfit to pick up a second initially down, in any case, and Tech punted from its 40-yard line. The show took off of limits at the Eagles' 28-yard line with 9:28 staying in the diversion, and Boston College took over on offense. On the primary play after the punt, be that as it may, Tech safeguard Jason Worilds handled Davis, compelling a bungle, which ricocheted under the control of individual protector Orion Martin, who ran it 17 yards for a cautious touchdown. The additional point ricocheted off an upstanding, in any case, and was a whole lot of nothing. All things considered, with simply 9:05 staying in the amusement, Tech took an ordering 30– 10 lead. 

The Hokies' kickoff after the guarded score was gotten at the objective line and came back to the 28-yard line by Boston College's Chris Fox. Following the arrival, Davis finished a seven-yard go to the 35-yard line, at that point grabbed a first down to the 42-yard line with another pass. Davis at that point mixed three yards and tossed for another first down, this opportunity to tight end Lars Anderson. Presently at the Tech 46-yard line, Davis tossed three deficient goes before tossing another on fourth down. With 6:39 staying in the diversion, Boston College turned the ball over on downs to the Virginia Tech offense. The Hokies again started to run out the clock. Evans ran the ball three successive occasions, however on the third surge, Evans bumbled for the second time in the diversion. The bobble was recuperated by Boston College linebacker Mark Herzlich and Boston College's offense came back to the field. 

From the Tech 32-yard line, Davis tossed an inadequate pass at that point associated on a 21-yard go to Jarvis for a first down. After an inadequate pass, Davis tossed another go to Jarvis, who got it at the four-yard line. Confronting third down, Davis endeavored another pass. The ball was tipped into the air and gotten by Virginia Tech safeguard Brent Warren. The Hokies continued running down the clock with short surges by Evans, who best in class the ball to the 13-yard line with 3:05 staying in the diversion. Boston College utilized its allocated second-half timeouts to stop the clock and save time for a late scoring drive. In a vital move, Tech mentor Frank Beamer requested a deliberate wellbeing instead of endeavor a punt from the Tech end zone. Any such kick can possibly be hindered for a protective touchdown. In this way, a purposeful wellbeing gives the resistance two points while denying them the slight opportunity to score seven. The score slice Virginia Tech's lead to 30– 12 with 3:05 remaining, however the restricted time remaining implied Tech's lead would be adequate to win without a progression of far-fetched occasions. 

The free kick following the purposeful wellbeing was come back to close midfield, and Davis go for a first down. Following the second down, Davis was sacked for a misfortune, however then mixed for a first down to the Tech 25-yard line. From that point, nonetheless, Boston College's offense started to battle. Amid the four plays that pursued, the Eagles had the capacity to increase only one yard and turned the ball over on downs once more. The last Boston College play was a sack of Davis, and Virginia Tech continued to run out the clock by bowing on the ball in the wake of taking the field on offense. 

In acknowledgment of his triumphant execution amid the ACC Championship, Virginia Tech quarterback Tyrod Taylor was named the diversion's most important player. Taylor completed the diversion having finished 11 of his 19 pass endeavors for 84 yards and one interference. He additionally ran the ball multiple times for 30 yards and two touchdowns. On the contrary side of the ball, Boston College quarterback Dominique Davis was the amusement's driving passer, having finished 17 of his 43 pass endeavors for 263 yards, one touchdown, and two capture attempts. Davis additionally conveyed the ball multiple times for 12 yards on the ground. Davis' 51-yard go to Harris in the second quarter set an ACC Championship Game record for the longest play recorded to that point. 

Boston College wide recipient Rich Gunnell was the amusement's driving collector, having been the essential recipient of Davis' productive passing. Gunnell completed the amusement having gotten seven goes for 114 yards and one touchdown. Virginia Tech wide beneficiary Dyrell Roberts was the amusement's second-driving collector. He got four goes for 44 yards. Tech's second-most capable beneficiary was running back Darren Evans, who got three goes for 22 yards. Evans was the diversion's driving rusher, having conveyed the ball multiple times for 114 yards and a touchdown. On the contrary side, Boston College running back Montel Harris drove the Eagles on the ground with nine conveys for 34 yards. 

Protectively, Boston College linebacker Mark Herzlich drove all players with nine handles. Of the nine stops, one and a half were for negative yardage. The main Virginia Tech protector was Cody Grimm, who had eight handles, more than two of which were for misfortunes. One and a half of the handles for misfortune were quarterback sacks, and Grimm likewise constrained a bumble and separated one Boston College pass. Altogether, the Hokies' protection captured two passes and recuperated two bungles. The Eagles' resistance similarly caused three turnovers, recouping two bobbles and catching one pass. Boston College sacked Taylor twice, while Virginia Tech's resistance achieved Davis multiple times. 

Virginia Tech's success in the ACC Championship Game conveyed it to a 9– 4 record, while Boston College's misfortune conveyed it likewise to a 9– 4 record. The two groups' standings in the national surveys were influenced by the amusement. In the BCS survey, the Eagles tumbled from seventeenth to 24th, while Virginia Tech ascended from 25th to nineteenth. In the AP Poll, Tech rose to 21st, while Boston College dropped out of the survey totally, showing up in the "additionally getting votes" class at 27th. With the success, Virginia Tech was granted the ACC's programmed Bowl Championship Series offer to the 2009 Orange Bowl. Boston College, in the interim, was chosen to play in the 2008 Music City Bowl. The pick by the Music City Bowl spoke to a drop in renown for Boston College. Had the Eagles won the title amusement, they would have earned a programmed offered to the Orange Bowl and a payout of $17.5 million. Rather, the Music City Bowl, which offered a payout of $1.7 million, was legally obliged to choose the Eagles after Boston College was not chosen by any of the three progressively esteemed bowl amusements with ACC ties. 

The Music City Bowl occurred on December 31, and in a challenge against Southeastern Conference adversary Vanderbilt, Boston College lost, 16– 13. The misfortune finished a dash of eight successive bowl diversion wins for Boston College. In the Orange Bowl, Virginia Tech rose triumphant against Big East Conference champion Cincinnati, 20– 7. The success was Tech's first BCS bowl diversion win since 1995, and was the main ACC BCS amusement win since 2000. 

Following the misfortune to Vanderbilt in the 2008 Music City Bowl, Boston College head mentor Jeff Jagodzinski reported his expectation to meet for the empty head instructing position with the National Football League's New York Jets. In a strange move, Boston College athletic executive Gene DeFillippo reported that if Jagodzinski proceeded with a meeting, he would be terminated as head mentor of the Boston College football crew. DeFillippo recently expressed that a five-year contract with Jagodzinski, marked in 2007, was dependent upon the mentor staying "as long as possible". Jagodzinski continued with the meeting and was terminated by DeFillippo on January 7. 

To supplant Jagodzinski, DeFillippo advanced Boston College cautious facilitator Frank Spaziani, who recently filled in as the Boston College head mentor on a between time premise in 2006. Boston College hostile organizer Steve Logan, who was discontent with the staff changes on the football crew, surrendered not long after Spaziani's advancement. To supplant Logan, Spaziani contracted previous Navy head mentor Gary Tranquill as Boston College's new hostile facilitator. Multi week after Logan's declaration, the Eagles' hostile line mentor, Jack Bicknell, Jr., likewise reported that he was leaving the group. On January 27, unique groups and tight closures mentor Don Yanowsky reported his abdication from the Eagles, making him the fourth mentor to be terminated or leave from the Boston College football crew after the season. 

Other Conference Championship Games