Theobald of Bec 

Theobald of Bec (c. 1090 – 18 April 1161) was a Norman diocese supervisor of Canterbury from 1139 to 1161. His careful birth date is obscure. Some time in the late eleventh or mid twelfth century Theobald turned into a priest at the Abbey of Bec, ascending to the situation of abbot in 1137. Lord Stephen of England picked him to be Archbishop of Canterbury in 1138. Canterbury's case to power over the Welsh ministers was settled amid Theobald's term of office when Pope Eugene III chose in 1148 to support Canterbury. Theobald confronted difficulties to his power from a subordinate religious administrator, Henry of Blois, Bishop of Winchester and King Stephen's more youthful sibling, and his association with King Stephen was violent. On one event Stephen denied him from going to an ecclesiastical committee, however Theobald resisted the lord, which brought about the seizure of his property and brief outcast. Theobald's relations with his basilica ministry and the religious houses in his archdiocese were additionally troublesome. 

Serving amid the scatters of Stephen's rule, Theobald prevailing with regards to compelling tranquility on the lord by declining to sanctify Stephen's child and beneficiary, Eustace. After Eustace's passing in 1153, Stephen perceived his opponent Henry of Anjou as his beneficiary, and later Theobald was named official of the kingdom after Stephen's demise. After a long disease, Theobald kicked the bucket in 1161, after which fruitless endeavors were made to have him consecrated as a holy person. 

Theobald was the benefactor of his successor Thomas Becket, and various other future religious administrators and ecclesiastical overseers filled in as his agents. Amid his time as ecclesiastical overseer Theobald increased the privileges of his see, or precinct. Students of history of his time and later were isolated on his character and he is regularly ignored in the chronicled record, essentially in light of the popularity of his successor. 

Theobald's family was from the territory around Thierville close Le Bec-Hellouin, in the Risle River valley. The advanced antiquarian Frank Barlow estimates that Theobald may have been a far off relative of his successor as ecclesiastical overseer, Thomas Becket, as Becket's family originated from a similar piece of Normandy. The precise date of Theobald's introduction to the world is obscure; the main sign to his age is that when he passed on in 1161 counterparts thought of him as an elderly person, recommending a birth date of maybe around 1090 to one present day student of history. His dad was as far as anyone knows a knight, however no contemporary reference gives his name. His sibling Walter likewise turned into a minister, and later a cleric. 

Theobald entered the Abbey of Bec in Normandy as a Benedictine priest in the late eleventh or mid twelfth century, while William was the third abbot. Yet, as William was abbot from 1096 to 1124, that leaves a wide scope of conceivable passage dates. Theobald was the 266th priest conceded under William, out of 346. The student of history Avrom Saltman recommends that, if affirmations were divided consistently all through William's abbacy, Theobald would have turned into a priest in around 1117, however qualifies his gauge with the explanation that 1117 "is by all accounts rather late". 

In 1127 Theobald was made earlier of Bec, after Boso succeeded William as abbot. Theobald moved toward becoming abbot in 1137, after Boso's passing in June 1136. The priests of Bec consistently chosen him to be their new abbot without first counseling the Archbishop of Rouen, Hugh de Boves, who subsequently took steps to void the outcome. Audoen, the Bishop of Evreux, and sibling of Thurstan, the Archbishop of York, mediated with Hugh and induced him to approve the decision. Another issue at that point emerged when Hugh requested a composed calling of submission from Theobald, which Theobald would not give; no past abbot had made such a calling. Theobald opposed for 14 months before a trade off was come to through the mediation of Peter the Venerable, Abbot of Cluny, permitting Theobald to give a verbal calling to Hugh. 

No records make due from Theobald's residency as abbot, nor is there any data on the organization of the cloister amid his time of office, then again, actually 47 priests were admitted to Bec while he was abbot. Theobald ventured out to England on business for his convent in any event once amid his abbacy, to oversee the religious community's properties in England, a trek that occurred instantly before his determination as the new Archbishop of Canterbury in 1138. 

In 1138 King Stephen picked Theobald to fill the empty archbishopric of Canterbury over Stephen's very own sibling Henry, the Bishop of Winchester, who had helped Stephen gain the position of authority of England. Stephen expected that Henry would be excessively incredible as ecclesiastical overseer, and would endeavor to control the lord. The race occurred on 24 December; Stephen was available with the ecclesiastical legate, Alberic of Ostia, and a little gathering of noblemen and religious administrators, however Henry was missing administering the appointment of elders. Most students of history think about that Stephen organized the decision's planning to guarantee Henry's nonappearance. Henry trusted that Theobald had been chosen due to Stephen's worries as well as in light of the fact that Waleran of Meulan, the lay supporter of Bec, was endeavoring to put his own man in a standout amongst the most dominant positions in England. Waleran and his twin sibling Robert, Earl of Leicester, were Henry's central opponents for Stephen's support, and Henry loathed them two seriously. In spite of the fact that Theobald was devout and knowledgeable, he had just progressed toward becoming abbot the prior year, and his decision was presumably impacted by the notoriety of his religious community, which had just created two ecclesiastical overseers of Canterbury, Lanfranc and Anselm. Theobald had no imperative family associations with development his profession, and couple of administrative partners. 

Theobald was sanctified on 8 January 1139 by the legate, Alberic of Ostia. He went to Rome for his pallium and participated in the Second Lateran Council. As diocese supervisor his conduct was less political in contrast with that of his principle rival, Henry of Blois. Henry was named an ecclesiastical legate on 1 March 1139, which implied that Henry could now call church committees in England and had control equivalent to or surpassing that of Theobald. Theobald swore fealty to Stephen upon his decision to Canterbury, perceiving Stephen as the ruler of England. 

Not long after his decision Theobald chose his sibling Walter to be archdeacon of Canterbury, and in 1148 elevated him to be Bishop of Rochester. Theobald went to the chamber held by Stephen in June 1139 that denied Roger of Salisbury, Bishop of Salisbury, and his nephews Nigel, Bishop of Ely, and Alexander, Bishop of Lincoln, of their mansions. As indicated by most history specialists, Theobald took little part in the contention that pursued the gathering, which in the long run finished with Roger's demise in 1139 and Nigel and Alexander's reclamation to support. As of late nonetheless, that see has been tested by two history specialists who contend that Theobald played an increasingly dynamic job in the committee. They base their view on a "Vita", or "Life" of the twelfth century spiritualist Christina of Markyate, which portrays the occasions and gives an increasingly focal job to Theobald, rather than Henry of Blois, in testing Stephen's capture of the three ministers. 

Theobald's activities in the following couple of years are interwoven with the historical backdrop of Stephen's rising to the position of authority. Following King Henry I's passing in 1135 the progression was debated between the lord's nephews—Stephen and his senior sibling, Theobald II, Count of Champagne—and Henry's enduring real youngster Matilda, generally known as the Empress Matilda on account of her first marriage to the German Emperor, Henry V. Lord Henry's solitary real child, William, had kicked the bucket in 1120. After Matilda was bereaved in 1125, she came back to her dad, who wedded her to Geoffrey, Count of Anjou. Every one of the magnates of England and Normandy were required to announce fealty to Matilda as Henry's beneficiary, however when Henry I passed on, Stephen hurried to England and had himself delegated before either Theobald II or Matilda could respond. The Norman noblemen acknowledged Stephen as Duke of Normandy, and Theobald II placated himself with his assets in France. However, Matilda was not surrendered to the misfortune, and verified the help of the Scottish ruler, David, her maternal uncle, and in 1138 the help of her relative, Robert, Earl of Gloucester, an ill-conceived child of Henry I. 

After the Battle of Lincoln in 1141, with Stephen in imprisonment in Bristol, Theobald did not quickly join the Empress. He asserted that he expected to converse with Stephen before exchanging his pledge of fealty. In the wake of counseling face to face with Stephen, he verified consent to acknowledge the present conditions, and after that joined Henry of Blois, who had exchanged sides, at Winchester in April for a legatine gathering held to oust Stephen and crown Matilda as ruler. Participation at the committee was inadequate be that as it may, and the Empress couldn't be delegated on the grounds that she didn't hold London. After the ineffective endeavor to crown Matilda, those accumulated at Winchester needed to escape before Stephen's powers; one of Matilda's main supporters, her relative Robert of Gloucester, was caught. Amid their flight Theobald and his kindred diocesans were ransacked of their ponies and clerical vestments. Theobald then took a main part in the dealings that prompted the trading of Robert for Stephen, which occurred in November 1141. Henry of Blois, having exchanged sides once more, at that point held another legatine committee in Westminster, which reaffirmed Stephen as lord. Theobald ritualistically delegated Stephen at Canterbury amid the Christmas court held there. 

Matilda stayed in England until 1148. The disarranges were at their crest somewhere in the range of 1142 and 1148, however her motivation would never verify enough help to empower her to be delegated. Nor could Stephen unequivocally overcome Matilda's powers, which implied that England stayed isolated in devotion between the two opponents. Be that as it may, while Matilda was in England, her better half Geoffrey was vanquishing Normandy, which he at last overran in 1144. 

Theobald's dealings with Henry of Blois, the Bishop of Winchester, his suffragan priest, were stressed as a result of Henry's situation as ecclesiastical legate. Henry bolstered the arrangement of William FitzHerbert as Archbishop of York in 1141, which Theobald contradicted. In spite of the fact that Theobald stood in opposition to the way of race, he took minimal dynamic part in the ensuing discretionary debate, which came about in the long run in the statement of FitzHerbert and his substitution at York by Henry Murdac. Be that as it may, in September 1143, Henry's legatine powers passed when Pope Innocent II, who had made the legatine arrangement, kicked the bucket. Celestine II was chosen on 26 September 1143, yet he was a rival of Stephen, and hence was not positively slanted towards Stephen's sibling Henry either. To verify arrangement as legate, Theobald went to Rome in December 1143, arriving right away before Celestine's demise on 8 March 1144. Theobald was presumably joined by Nigel, Bishop of Ely, and Roger de Clinton, Bishop of Coventry. Prior to his demise, Celestine denied Theobald "to enable any change to be made in the situation of the English crown, since its exchange had been fairly impugned, and the issue was still under question". This turned into the ecclesiastical arrangement, and was a critical change from the acknowledgment of Stephen as lord by Pope Innocent II not long after Stephen's crowning celebration in 1135. It basically prohibited Theobald from delegated any successor to Stephen, particularly while Stephen was as yet alive. 

After Celestine's passing Theobald came back to England, ceasing at St Denis Abbey in Paris to help Suger, the abbot, bless the recently reconstructed monastery church and its special stepped areas. Theobald was the main cleric present at the service whose bishopric was not in France. In the interim, Henry of Blois had touched base in Rome and started arrangements with the new pope, Lucius II, over the height of the ministerial office of Winchester to an archbishopric. It gives the idea that Lucius selected a legate, Cardinal Icmar, the Bishop of Tusculum, to venture out to England and direct the task, yet Lucius passed on before anything was practiced. 

Theobald was back in Paris in May 1147 to meet with the new pope, Eugene III; among the issues most likely talked about was Theobald's question with Bernard of St David's. Relations right now among Theobald and Stephen appear to have been great, yet when Eugene called the English religious administrators to the Council of Rheims in April 1148 the ruler prohibited every one of them from going to aside from three he assigned: Chichester, Hereford and Norwich. In spite of having been explicitly declined authorization Theobald sneaked away in an angling pontoon, apparently joined by Gilbert Foliot, who went to the gathering with him. Theobald had various purposes behind opposing the ruler: essentially his dutifulness to the pope's organization instructing his participation, yet in addition to shield the papacy from favoring the recently chosen Archbishop of York, Henry Murdac, in the debate among York and Canterbury. Murdac was known to be near his kindred Cistercian Eugene. 

Bethune, the Bishop of Hereford, kicked the bucket amid the chamber, and Eugene selected Foliot as his successor at Theobald's asking. One of the chamber's last demonstrations was to suspend the non-going to ministers from their workplaces. The main English cleric explicitly named was Henry of Blois, yet the other people who did not go to were apparently additionally suspended in spite of the fact that not named. Henry of Blois was singled out for unique dealing with, as the papacy requested that he couldn't be reestablished by Theobald; Eugene held to himself the ability to reestablish Henry. Theobald seems to have restored a large portion of the clerics rapidly, as Foliot composed later in 1148 that just the ministers of Winchester, Durham, Worcester, Bath and Exeter were as yet suspended. Theobald excused the religious administrators of Exeter, Worcester and Bath on 11 November 1148, as indicated by the later writer Gervase of Canterbury. Gervase likewise records Hilary of Chichester as one of those excused by Theobald on that date, yet as Hilary went to the gathering all things considered, this is a blunder. Durham may have been excluded on the grounds that he was a suffragan diocesan of the Archbishop of York, and his reestablishment was in his ecclesiastical overseer's hands. 

The ruler was furious with Theobald for going to the committee, despite the fact that the ecclesiastical overseer mediated with Eugene, who was disappointed with the lord for restricting the religious administrators' participation. Theobald induced Eugene against suspending Stephen, requesting that the pope enable the lord to offer some kind of reparation for his conduct. Yet, Stephen was disinterested with Theobald's mediation; he seized Theobald's property and expelled the diocese supervisor. In September 1148, the pope put England under forbid, which was overlooked with the exception of in Canterbury. At first Theobald was estranged abroad at St Omer, where he blessed Gilbert Foliot as Bishop of Hereford. He at that point came back to England and set himself up in Framlingham, which was held by Hugh Bigod, a follower of the Empress. From that point he directed the religious business of England, however Theobald's quality in the nation represented a risk to Stephen's position, and Stephen immediately settled the contrasts between the two. 

Henry of Blois had lost his legateship before Celestine moved toward becoming pope, however it was not until around 1150 that Theobald was selected legate by Eugene III, maybe inferable from the appeals of Bernard of Clairvaux. Theobald held the legatine controls in England until his demise in 1161. In 1151 Theobald held a legatine gathering in London. The committee was gone to by the ruler and Eustace, the lord's oldest child, just as different individuals from the respectability. The chamber proclaimed eight groups, or religious rules, including ones denouncing the plundering of chapel properties and the burden of money related requires on the church. Another group of the board expressed that ministers should never again seek after violators of chapel property in the imperial courts, yet should utilize clerical courts. Different standards managed procedural issues emerging from expulsions for manhandling church property. 

The following year, the ecclesiastical overseer wouldn't crown Eustace and was again ousted by Stephen, who was endeavoring to verify the progression for his child by emulating the Capetian line of France, which as a rule saw the ruler's beneficiary delegated amid his dad's lifetime. In spite of the fact that Theobald asserted ecclesiastical specialist for refusal, in light of the disallowance by Celestine, it was progressively likely that he and the priests wanted to draw out the common war. Stephen requested in April 1152 that Theobald crown Eustace, yet the ecclesiastical overseer by and by can't, and went into outcast in Flanders. Theobald asserted that Stephen had picked up the position of royalty through prevarication, inferring that if the ecclesiastical overseer delegated Eustace, Theobald would sustain this wrongdoing. The lord and the diocese supervisor achieved a ceasefire in August. 

In January 1153 Henry of Anjou, Matilda's child, attacked England in quest for his case to the royal position, and with the demise of Eustace in August 1153, Stephen surrendered. Theobald was instrumental in the arrangements among Henry and Stephen that brought about the Treaty of Wallingford, verifying Henry's progression to the royal position. Theobald was likewise present when Henry of Anjou met with Stephen's second child William, most likely after Eustace's demise, to settle William's territories and status after Henry succeeded Stephen. Pope Eugene III constrained Stephen to turn around the sentence of expulsion, and Theobald came back to his see. Later it was primarily Theobald and Henry of Blois who arranged the settlement finishing the common war, as neither Stephen nor Henry of Anjou was keen on a trade off. Henry of Blois and Theobald, who had recently discovered cooperating troublesome, figured out how to verify a conclusion to the clutters in England. 

Theobald was available at Stephen's deathbed in October 1154, and Stephen named him as official until Henry could take up the crown. Amid the a month and a half before Henry arrived, the diocese supervisor had little trouble in keeping the harmony. After Henry's landing, Theobald delegated Henry and his better half Eleanor of Aquitaine on 19 December 1154 at Westminster Abbey. 

For the greater part of a mind-blowing rest he was busy with ministerial undertakings in his ward, just as going to the illustrious court when Henry was in England. In January 1155 Theobald verified the Chancellorship for his protégé, Thomas Becket, an activity that Barlow hypothesizes happened in light of the fact that Theobald wanted to verify more impact with the ruler through Becket. In the event that this was his expectation, Barlow takes note of that it didn't appear. Despite the fact that the lord and the diocese supervisor once in a while conflicted when their interests tangled, both seem to have wished to limit the debate and were eager to bargain to verify great relations. For instance, when Pope Adrian IV passed on in September 1159, two opponent inquirers for the ecclesiastical royal position developed. Ruler Henry, following the custom of his granddad Henry I, prohibited the religious administrators from perceiving either inquirer. In the long run, after Henry gauged the political variables, he perceived Pope Alexander III, and it was at exactly that point that Theobald additionally perceived Alexander as pope. 

In any case, not all things be constantly amicable between the lord and the diocese supervisor. In 1156, Theobald upheld the endeavors of Osbert de Bayeux, who was blamed for harming William the Archbishop of York, to verify a preliminary for his supposed violations in a clerical court as opposed to in the imperial court. The wrongdoing had occurred amid Stephen's rule, however Stephen's demise had kept Osbert from being attempted in 1154. The deferral enabled the moving of the preliminary to the congregation courts, which Henry restricted. In spite of the fact that Theobald's position disappointed the lord no open crack followed. Theobald himself admitted to the papacy in 1154 that English custom was to attempt pastorate for violations in the mainstream courts. 

Theobald called a congregation gathering at London in June 1160, which managed the issues of the ecclesiastical split; his wellbeing was poor and he must be taken to the chamber in a litter. A further reason for pain to Theobald was what he saw as the lack of appreciation of Becket, who did not visit the debilitated ecclesiastical overseer. 

Theobald's basilica section was made out of priests, and he was viewed as the abbot of the religious community of Christ Church Cathedral. In view of his episcopal obligations, the normal running of the basilica was the duty of the earlier. At the season of Theobald's decision there were around 140 priests in the part, and they appear to have anticipated that Theobald, being a priest himself, would agree with their position in question and keep on supporting their requirements. Theobald started well, sending a gathering of priests from the house of God to St Martin's Priory at Dover, which had been settled with standards rather than priests. Theobald supplanted the standards with the priests. Theobald likewise refounded a university church at South Malling close Lewes to give benefices to his house of prayer part. 

Theobald worked with his first earlier, Jeremiah, to kill administrative marriage in the ward. Yet, Jeremiah had been chosen amid the opening before Theobald's decision, and the priests had not verified ecclesiastical authorization for the race of another earlier, so in the end Theobald chose to evacuate Jeremiah and introduce his own decision as earlier. Jeremiah spoke to the papacy, yet Theobald ousted him while the intrigue was progressing, and selected Walter Durdent as earlier. Blameless II, in any case, selected Henry of Blois to hear the case, and Henry favored Jeremiah and requested Jeremiah's reestablishment. Theobald then wouldn't play out any administrations in the church building until Jeremiah was expelled by the part. The absence of administrations would have denied the priests of salary, and Theobald's risk had the ideal impact, as Jeremiah surrendered his office and left Christ Church for St Augustine's Abbey, Canterbury. Durdent was reinstalled as earlier and stayed in that situation until he progressed toward becoming Bishop of Coventry in October 1149. 

At Easter, 1151, Theobald assumed control over the administration of the part's homes, as the new earlier, Walter Parvus, was not capable. At first, there were no debate, yet soon the priests felt that Theobald was duping them and forcing too thorough a meaning of destitution, and solicited that the stewardship from the bequests be reestablished to Parvus. Theobald cannot and the priests endeavored to speak to the papacy. Their emissaries, in any case, were gotten by operators of the ecclesiastical overseer and the intrigue went no place. Theobald then dismissed Parvus and named another earlier. Theobald's relations with the priests after this point appear to have been without occurrence. 

Theobald additionally had a debate with St Augustine's Abbey over the privilege of the ecclesiastical overseer to get yearly installments, and whether those installments were for holy observances performed by the diocese supervisor, which would have been uncanonical, or were for different reasons. The debate was inevitably settled by a trade off in which St Augustine's kept on making the installments however they were explicitly expressed not to be for holy observances. Another debate with St Augustine's concerned the privilege of the ecclesiastical overseers to have a state in the decision of new abbots and whether the abbots would make a calling of dutifulness to the diocese supervisors. This was in the long run settled by an ecclesiastical order of 1144 educating the abbots to declare acquiescence. 

The contention re-surfaced in 1149, when a portion of the priests of St Augustine's, drove by their earlier and sacrist, would not comply with the forbid put on England by Theobald and Pope Eugene III. Theobald had the two authorities banished and openly whipped. At the point when the past abbot of St Augustine's kicked the bucket in 1151, the earlier, Silvester, paid the lord for the privilege to regulate the nunnery and to hold a free decision for another abbot. The priests at that point continued to choose Silvester as the new abbot, however Theobald would not affirm the race, blaming Silvester for purchasing the workplace. In the end, be that as it may, Pope Eugene III arranged Theobald to permit Silvester to take up the workplace, which Theobald did in August 1152. Theobald and St Augustine's additionally clashed over the nunnery's cases of exception from the ecclesiastical overseers' oversight, since it owed dutifulness legitimately to the pope. Ecclesiastical reports held at Rome supported the convent, yet there were no English illustrious sanctions that gave the monastery its freedom from the diocese supervisors. Theobald endeavored to end the perplexity by lawful activities both at Rome and in England, yet the record was blended. The records at Rome obviously supported the convent, however at an illustrious gathering held at Northampton in 1157, Henry II decided for Theobald. As a feature of the settlement Silvester, as abbot, was required to make a formal calling of acquiescence to Theobald, something he had been endeavoring to keep away from since his race. The battle with Silvester was only one occasion in the long history of the debate among Canterbury and St Augustine's. 

Just as St Augustine's, the abbots of various different religious communities in the bishopric of Canterbury are known to have maintained dutifulness to Theobald, as the reports recording the occasions endure. Abbots and priors from inside Canterbury, yet some from different bishoprics promised to obey Theobald, albeit ordinarily such vows would have gone to their diocesan cleric. The greater part of these special cases happened in light of the fact that the ascetic house guaranteed exclusion from the oversight of their diocesan cleric, and had a custom of making those vows to Canterbury. Other than these occasions, Theobald likewise interceded in the races of certain abbots, despite the fact that not in every case effectively. He endeavored to verify the privilege of Gilbert Foliot to remain Abbot of Gloucester after Foliot's decision as Bishop of Hereford, yet another abbot was chosen by the priests of Gloucester. Theobald was progressively fruitful in verifying the race of William, who had recently been a priest at Christ Church, to be Abbot of Evesham over the protests of a portion of the priests of Evesham. 

Theobald likewise ended up entangled in the debate between Hilary, the Bishop of Chichester, and Walter de Lucy, the abbot of Battle Abbey, over Hilary's cases to locale over the monastery and the nunnery's counter-guarantees that it was excluded from episcopal supervision. The nunnery had never gotten an ecclesiastical exception, however depended rather on its imperial establishment by King William I of England and its status as an eigenkirche, or exclusive church of the lord. Under King Stephen, the nunnery's cases won, yet after Stephen's demise Hilary banished the abbot, who spoke to the papacy. Theobald upheld the diocesan, who in the long run verified a preliminary before King Henry II. It was a minor mishap for Theobald when the case was in the long run chosen to support Battle, for the most part based on contracts that were thought at an opportunity to be veritable, however present day antiquarians have come to accept were fashioned. 

Theobald was instrumental in verifying the subjection of the Welsh priestly districts to Canterbury. His first demonstration around there was the sanctification of Meurig as Bishop of Bangor in 1140, amid which Meurig made a calling of compliance like those made by different clerics subject to Canterbury. Bernard, Bishop of St David's, challenged Theobald's entitlement to bless Meurig and rather attested that St David's ought to be viewed as an archbishopric, and that Bernard ought to get a pallium. This conflicted with the last 50 years of point of reference that Canterbury had purview over the four Welsh sees, a point of reference that dated back to Anselm's days when Anselm had blessed Urban as Bishop of Llandaff in 1107. 

Additionally in 1140, Theobald sanctified Uhtred as Bishop of Llandaff, with Uhtred likewise pledges to obey Theobald. In like manner, when Theobald blessed Gilbert as Bishop of St Asaph in 1142, a comparable calling of dutifulness was made. Alongside these sanctifications, Theobald's lawful endeavors empowered him to withstand the endeavors of Bernard to transform St David's into an archbishopric, and when Bernard was prevailing by David fitzGerald in 1148, Theobald verified the new priest's calling of acquiescence to Canterbury, consequently finishing the endeavors to expel Wales from Canterbury's purview. Additionally in 1148, Pope Eugene ruled for Canterbury and against the cases of St David's, verifying Canterbury's ward over Wales. 

Theobald even kept up the hypothetical case of Canterbury to locale over Irish sees by blessing Patrick as Bishop of Limerick in 1140. That, in any case, was the last affirmation of the case, as in 1152 the ecclesiastical legate Giovanni Paparo revamped the Irish wards and settled the issue by selecting the Archbishop of Armagh the primate of Ireland. 

Relations with clerics in England stayed great, with little movement in the long-running Canterbury– York disagreement regarding the supremacy of Britain. Theobald got an unclear affirmation of his see's power from Celestine II in 1143– 1144, yet at the Council of Reims in 1148 Eugene cleared up that this supremacy did not influence the cases of York to be autonomous of Canterbury. Due to the disrupted race debate amid the 1140s over the see of York, when it was challenged between William of York and Henry Murdac, Theobald confronted little test from either William or Murdac with regards to the conventional question among Canterbury and York. At the point when William of York passed on in 1154, Theobald verified York for his protégé, Roger de Pont L'Evêque. Further harmony between the two sees was guaranteed when Theobald sanctified Roger without requiring a calling of submission, which had recently been a noteworthy bone of conflict between the two. 

Theobald's family unit included numerous young fellows of capacity, including his successor Thomas Becket. Theobald was instrumental in the early spread of Roman law to England, welcoming the Bologna-educated legal scholar Vacarius to join his organization and prompt on legitimate issues. Regardless of whether Vacarius really began a school in Theobald's family unit is hazy, however during the 1140s he instructed quickly at Oxford. Theobald was instrumental in cultivating the instructing of group law in England; the contention that later emerged between Henry II and Thomas Becket had its underlying foundations in question that were uncovered amid Theobald's time in office. While still in Normandy, Theobald had made an extraordinary investigation of clerical or ordinance law, which he proceeded in the wake of being chosen ecclesiastical overseer. 

Despite the fact that Theobald was a priest, his episcopal family was not ascetic in character. As he subsided into the job of ecclesiastical overseer, he appears to have left the majority of his devout propensities behind, despite the fact that he kept on having a priest as a sidekick. His nephews and sibling profited by his nepotism, with his nephews ending up some portion of his family right off the bat in his archepiscopate. The four nephews—Guillaume, Gilbert, Roger and Lechard—were observers to a contract of Theobald's dated to around 1150 or 1153. After Theobald's demise, Guillaume was an assistant in Bartholomew, the Bishop of Exeter's family in around 1172. 

Another sanction of Theobald's from around 1152 demonstrates the standard family unit staff that encompassed him. It was seen by the diocese supervisor's crossbearer, three of Theobald's nephews and the representative who apparently was responsible for them, a chancellor, two clerics who were priests, a head servant, distributor, chamberlain, steward, cook, usher, doorman and marshal. Theobald likewise at about a similar time conceded a plant to his pastry specialist named William and a few terrains to his cook William and the cook's beneficiaries. 

Theobald was the benefactor of three famous men: Becket, Vacarius, and John of Salisbury. John of Salisbury was secretary to Theobald for a long time, and after Theobald's passing moved toward becoming Bishop of Chartres. It was amid John's time as secretary that he composed his two most well known works, the "Policraticus" and the "Metalogicon". Other people who considered for a period in Theobald's family unit were Roger de Pont L'Evêque, later Archbishop of York, John Belemis, later Archbishop of Lyons, John de Pageham, later Bishop of Worcester, Bartholomew Iscanus, later Bishop of Exeter, William of Northall, later Bishop of Worcester, and William de Vere, later Bishop of Hereford. Taking all things together, his family unit created three diocese supervisors and six ministers. The family unit itself, in spite of the fact that not formally a school, went about as one, with many going on to vocations in the congregation. 

Theobald kicked the bucket on 18 April 1161, after a long ailment, at his royal residence in Canterbury. He was covered in Canterbury Cathedral, in the Holy Trinity Chapel, close to the tomb of Archbishop Lanfranc. His casket was opened in 1190 amid fixes to the church and his body was observed to be uncorrupted, yet endeavors to verify his canonisation as a holy person based on that proof were fruitless. He was reburied in the nave close to the special raised area to St Mary, with his old marble tomb supplanted over his new resting spot. In 1787 his lead casket was found in Canterbury. 

Despite the fact that Theobald was pained by the restriction of his suffragan Henry of Blois, he recaptured control of the English Church, verified the privileges of his see, and kept up the solidarity of the domain. Peers were to some degree isolated on his adequacy and identity. Gervase of Canterbury felt that he was excessively careless, most likely in light of Theobald's treatment of his priors at Christ Church. Henry of Huntingdon, who knew him, felt that he was a commendable ecclesiastical overseer. Theobald's heritage maybe endured in light of the fact that he was dominated by his successor, Becket. Present day students of history have been kinder than his peers; Frank Barlow says of Theobald that he was "an upstanding man, however hotheaded, and once in a while talked very thoughtlessly".