Robert of Jumièges 

Robert of Jumièges (kicked the bucket somewhere in the range of 1052 and 1055) was the main Norman Archbishop of Canterbury. He had recently filled in as earlier of the Abbey of St Ouen at Rouen in Normandy, before getting to be abbot of Jumièges Abbey, close Rouen, in 1037. He was a decent companion and counselor to the ruler of England, Edward the Confessor, who designated him Bishop of London in 1044, and afterward diocese supervisor in 1051. Robert's time as ecclesiastical overseer kept going just around eighteen months. He had just collided with the ground-breaking Godwin, Earl of Wessex, and keeping in mind that diocese supervisor made endeavors to recoup lands lost to Godwin and his family. He likewise would not bless Spearhafoc, Edward's decision to succeed Robert as Bishop of London. The fracture among Robert and Godwin finished in Robert's testimony and outcast in 1052. 

A Norman medieval writer asserted that Robert made a trip to Normandy in 1051 or 1052 and told Duke William of Normandy, the future William the Conqueror, that Edward wanted for him to turn into his beneficiary. The accurate planning of Robert's outing, and whether he really influenced it, to have been the subject of discussion among students of history. The diocese supervisor passed on in a state of banishment at Jumièges at some point somewhere in the range of 1052 and 1055. Robert authorized noteworthy structure work at Jumièges and was most likely associated with the main Romanesque structure in England, the congregation worked in Westminster for Edward the Confessor, presently known as Westminster Abbey. Robert's treatment by the English was utilized by William the Conqueror as one of the legitimizations for his intrusion of England. 

Robert was earlier of the religious community of St Ouen at Rouen before he progressed toward becoming abbot of the essential Jumièges Abbey in 1037. Jumièges had been refounded under William Longsword, Duke of Normandy. around 940, Its ties with the ducal family were close and it assumed a job in ducal government and church change. Robert's substitute surname "Champart" or "Chambert" most likely got from champart, a term for the piece of a yield paid as lease to a proprietor. Other than proof that the former abbot at Jumièges was a relative, Robert's inception and family foundation are generally obscure. While abbot, Robert started development of the monastery church, in the new Romanesque style. 

Robert turned out to be inviting with Edward the Confessor, a petitioner to the English royal position, while Edward was living in a state of banishment in Normandy, most likely during the 1030s. Edward was the child of Æthelred the Unready, ruler of England, who had been supplanted by Cnut the Great in 1016. Cnut consequently wedded Æthelred's widow Emma of Normandy, Edward's mom, and had a child with her, Harthacanute. For their own wellbeing, Edward and his sibling Alfred were sent to Emma's relatives in Normandy. After Cnut's passing in 1035, Harold Harefoot, his senior child by his first spouse, agreed to the English honored position. Following Harald's demise in 1040, Harthacanute succeeded him for a brief timeframe, however as neither Harald nor Harthacanute left posterity, the royal position was offered to Edward on Harthacanute's passing in 1042. There is some proof that Edward invested a portion of his energy in a state of banishment around Jumièges, as subsequent to getting to be the best he offered blessings to the convent. 

Robert went with Edward the Confessor on Edward's review to England in 1042 to move toward becoming lord following Harthacanute's passing. It was because of Edward that in August 1044 Robert was designated Bishop of London, one of the primary episcopal opportunities which happened in Edward's rule. Robert stayed near the ruler and was the pioneer of the gathering contradicted to Earl Godwin, Earl of Wessex. Godwin, as far as concerns him, was endeavoring to grow the impact of his family, which had effectively procured much land. His little girl was Edward's ruler, and two of his children were raised to earldoms. The "Life of Saint Edward", a hagiographical deal with King Edward's life, asserted that Robert "was dependably the most dominant private counsel of the ruler". Robert appears to have supported nearer relations with Normandy, and its duke. Edward himself had experienced childhood in the duchy, and burned through 25 years in a state of banishment there before his arrival to England. He conveyed numerous Normans with him to England, and appears to have invested much energy in their organization. 

At the point when Archbishop Eadsige of Canterbury passed on in October 1050, the post stayed empty for five months. The church building section chose Æthelric, a brother of Godwin and a priest at Canterbury, yet were over-ruled when Edward designated Robert Archbishop of Canterbury the next year. Godwin was endeavoring to practice his capacity of support over the archbishopric, yet the ruler's arrangement flagged that the lord was eager to challenge with the baron over the conventional illustrious rights at Canterbury. Despite the fact that the priests of Canterbury contradicted it, the ruler's arrangement stood. Robert went to Rome to get his pallium and came back to England where he was formally enthroned at Canterbury on 29 June 1051. Some Norman writers express that he visited Normandy on this trek and educated Duke William, the future William the Conqueror, that he was the childless King Edward's beneficiary. As indicated by these recorders, the choice to make William the beneficiary had been chosen at the equivalent lenten regal gathering in 1051 that had proclaimed Robert ecclesiastical overseer. 

In the wake of coming back from Rome, Robert would not sanctify Spearhafoc, the Abbot of Abingdon and the lord's goldsmith, as his successor to the parish of London, asserting that Pope Leo IX had illegal the sanctification. More likely than not the grounds were simony, the buy of religious office, as Leo had as of late issued announcements against the training. In declining to sanctify Spearhafoc, Robert may have been following his own advantages against the desires of both the ruler and Godwin, as he had his very own competitor, a Norman, as a top priority. At last Robert's favored applicant, William the Norman, was blessed rather than Spearhafoc. Robert additionally found that a few terrains having a place with Canterbury had fallen into Godwin's hands, however his endeavors to recuperate them through the shire courts were fruitless. Canterbury had lost control of certain incomes from the shire of Kent to Godwin amid Eadsige's residency as diocese supervisor, which Robert fruitlessly endeavored to recover. These disagreements about the bequests and incomes of the archbishopric added to the rubbing among Robert and Godwin, which had started with Robert's race. Robert's race had disturbed Godwin's support controls in Canterbury, and now Robert's endeavors to recuperate lands Godwin had seized from Canterbury tested the lord's monetary rights. Occasions reached a crucial stage at a chamber held at Gloucester in September 1051, when Robert blamed Earl Godwin for plotting to slaughter King Edward. Godwin and his family were ousted; a short time later Robert guaranteed the workplace of sheriff of Kent, presumably on the quality of Eadsige, his forerunner as ecclesiastical overseer, having held the workplace. 

Despite the fact that Robert would not sanctify Spearhafoc, there is little proof that he was keen on the developing development towards Church change being declared by the papacy. Pope Leo IX was starting a change development later known as the Gregorian Reform, at first centered around improving the pastorate and precluding simony. In 1049 Leo IX proclaimed that he would look into English church matters and would research episcopal hopefuls all the more carefully before affirming them. It might have been halfway to pacify Leo that Edward selected Robert rather than Æthelric, wanting to motion to the papacy that the English crown was not completely restricted to the developing change development. It was against this background Robert wouldn't sanctify Spearhafoc, despite the fact that there is no other proof that Robert grasped the change position, and his case that the pope denied the sanctification may have had more to do with finding a simple reason than any evident want for change. There are additionally a few signs that Spearhafoc was partnered to Godwin, and his arrangement was implied as a "compensation" for the non-arrangement of Æthelric. Assuming genuine, Robert's refusal to bless Spearhafoc would have added to the developing crack between the diocese supervisor and the baron. 

The "Life of Saint Edward" guarantees that while Godwin was estranged abroad Robert attempted to convince King Edward to separate Edith, Godwin's girl, however Edward can't and rather she was sent to an abbey. In any case, the "Life" is a hagiography, composed not long after Edward's demise to indicate Edward as a holy person. Accordingly it focuses on that Edward intentionally stayed chaste, something improbable to have been valid and not substantiated by some other source. Current history specialists have felt it almost certain that Edward, at Robert's encouraging, wished to separate Edith and remarry so as to have kids to succeed him on the English position of royalty, in spite of the fact that it is conceivable that he just wished to be freed of her, without fundamentally needing a separation. 

Amid Godwin's outcast, Robert is said to have been sent by the lord on an errand to William, Duke of Normandy. The explanation behind the international safe haven is dubious. William of Jumièges says that Robert went to tell Duke William that Edward wished William to be his beneficiary. The medieval essayist William of Poitiers gives a similar reason, yet in addition includes that Robert took with him as prisoners Godwin's child Wulfnoth and grandson Hakon (child of Sweyn). The "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" is quiet on the visit be that as it may, so it is questionable whether Robert visited Normandy or not, or why he did as such. The whole history of the different missions which Robert is asserted to have made is befuddled, and convoluted by promulgation claims made by Norman writers after the Norman Conquest in 1066, abandoning it misty if Robert visited Normandy on his approach to get his pallium or after Godwin was in a state of banishment, or on the off chance that he went twice or not in any manner. 

After Godwin left England, he went to Flanders, and accumulated an armada and hired soldiers to constrain the ruler to permit his arrival. In the late spring of 1052, Godwin came back to England and was met by his children, who had attacked from Ireland. By September, they were progressing on London, where arrangements between the ruler and the lord were directed with the assistance of Stigand, the Bishop of Winchester. When it wound up clear that Godwin would return, Robert rapidly left England with Bishop Ulf of Dorchester and Bishop William of London, most likely by and by taking Wulfnoth and Hakon with him as prisoners, regardless of whether with the authorization of King Edward or not. Robert was pronounced a bandit and removed from his archbishopric on 14 September 1052 at an illustrious gathering, chiefly in light of the fact that the returning Godwin felt that Robert, alongside various different Normans, had been the main impetus behind his outcast. Robert traveled to Rome to grumble to the pope about his own outcast, where Leo IX and progressive popes denounced Stigand, whom Edward had named to Canterbury. Robert's own property was isolated between Earl Godwin, Harold Godwinson, and the ruler, who had come back to court. 

Robert kicked the bucket at Jumièges, yet the date of his passing is hazy. Different dates are given, with Ian Walker, the biographer of Harold contending for somewhere in the range of 1053 and 1055, however H. E. J. Cowdrey, who composed Robert's "Oxford Dictionary of National Biography" passage, says on 26 May in either 1052 or 1055. H. R. Loyn, another cutting edge student of history, contends that all things considered, he passed on in 1053. 

Robert's treatment was utilized by William the Conqueror as one of the defenses for his attack of England, the other being that Edward had named William his beneficiary. Ian Walker, creator of the latest academic history of Harold Godwinson, proposes that it was Robert, while estranged abroad after the arrival of Godwin, who affirmed that King Edward had designated Duke William to be Edward's beneficiary. Nonetheless, this view is repudiated by David Douglas, a history specialist and biographer of William the Conqueror, who trusts that Robert just transferred Edward's choice, likely while Robert was en route to Rome to get his pallium. A few medieval recorders, including the creator of the "Life of Saint Edward", felt that the fault for Edward and Godwin's contention in 1051– 1052 lay soundly with Robert; present day students of history will in general consider Robert to be a goal-oriented man, with minimal political expertise. 

In remarkable differentiation to his successor Stigand, Robert does not figure among the vital sponsors to English holy places, however we are aware of certain exchanges to Jumièges of imperative English church loves, the primary stream of what was to turn into a surge of fortune taken to Normandy after the Conquest. These incorporated the relic of the head of Saint Valentine as of late given to the priests of Winchester Cathedral by Emma of Normandy. In spite of the fact that the Winchester head stayed set up, another showed up at Jumièges; he "must have furtively evacuated the head, or if nothing else most of it, and left his priests to worship the void or almost void "capsa"". Two of the four most critical enduring late Anglo-Saxon enlightened original copies went a similar way, along these lines presumably keeping their obliteration in a progression of flames that crushed the real English libraries. One is the alleged "Missal of Robert of Jumièges", really a sacramentary with thirteen enduring full-page miniatures, which bears an engraving obviously in Robert's own hand recording its gift to Jumièges when he was Bishop of London, and the other the purported "Benedictional of Archbishop Robert", really an ecclesiastical with three staying full-page miniatures and other embellishment (individually Rouen, Bibliothèque Municipale, Manuscripts Y.6 and Y.7). The last may well have been dispatched by Æthelgar, Robert's antecedent as ecclesiastical overseer in 988– 90, despite the fact that it is conceivable the "Diocese supervisor Robert" of the customary name is Emma's sibling Robert, Archbishop of Rouen from 990 to 1037. These showstoppers of the Winchester style were the most intricately adorned Anglo-Saxon original copies known to have achieved Normandy, either previously or after the Conquest, and affected the significantly less-created neighborhood style, however this stayed in all respects to a great extent confined to initials. 

Before he came to England, Robert had started the development of another convent church at Jumièges, in the new Romanesque style which was then getting to be prominent, and acquainted with Normandy the two-transcend western veneer from the Rhineland. On his arrival to Normandy he kept on structure there, and the convent church was not completed until 1067. Despite the fact that the choir has been torn down, the towers, nave and transepts have endure. Robert most likely affected Edward the Confessor's revamping of the congregation at Westminster Abbey, the principal known structure in the Romanesque style in England, which is so portrayed by William of Malmesbury. Edward's work started in around 1050 and was finished just before his demise in 1065. The recorded name of one of the senior artisans, "Teinfrith the churchwright" demonstrates remote starting points, and Robert may have orchestrated Norman bricklayers to be brought over, however different names are English. It is conceivable that Westminster affected the structure at Jumièges, as the arcade there intently takes after Westminster's arcade, them two of every a style that never wound up basic in Normandy. The Early Romanesque style of the two was to be supplanted after the Conquest by the Anglo-Norman High Romanesque style spearheaded in Canterbury Cathedral and St Étienne, Caen by Lanfranc.