New Zealand national rugby association group 

The New Zealand national rugby association group, called the All Blacks, speaks to New Zealand in men's rugby association, which is known as the nation's national game. The group has won the last two Rugby World Cups, in 2011 and 2015 just as the debut competition in 1987. 

They have a 77% winning record in test coordinate rugby, and are the main worldwide men's side with a triumphant record against each adversary. Since their worldwide introduction in 1903, they have lost to just six of the 19 countries they have played in test matches. Since the presentation of the World Rugby Rankings in 2003, New Zealand has held the main positioning longer than every single other group joined. The All Blacks mutually hold the record for the most sequential test coordinate successes for a level one positioned country, alongside England. 

New Zealand rivals Argentina, Australia and South Africa in The Rugby Championship. The All Blacks have won the trophy multiple times in the challenge's twenty-three-year history. New Zealand have finished a Grand Slam visit four times1978, 2005, 2008 and 2010. The All Blacks have been named the World Rugby Team of the Year multiple times since the honor was made in 2001, and an All Black has won the World Rugby Player of the Year grant multiple times over a similar period. Fifteen previous All Blacks have been drafted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame. 

The group's first match was in 1884, and their first worldwide test coordinate was in 1903 against Australia in Sydney. The next year, they facilitated their first since forever home test, a match against a British Isles side in Wellington. This was trailed by a 34-diversion (counting 5 tests) voyage through Europe and North America in 1905, where the group endured just a single thrashing their first since forever test misfortune, against Wales. 

New Zealand's initial regalia comprised of a dark pullover with a silver greenery and white knickerbockers. By the 1905 visit, they were wearing all dark, with the exception of the silver plant, and the name All Blacks dates from this time. The group play out a haka, a Māori challenge or stance move, before each match. The haka has generally been Te Rauparaha's "Ka Mate", despite the fact that since 2005 "Kapa o Pango" has additionally been performed. 

Rugby unionalmost all around alluded to just as "rugby" in New Zealandwas acquainted with New Zealand by Charles Monro in 1870; Monro found the game while finishing his examinations at Christ's College, Finchley, England. The primary recorded amusement in New Zealand occurred in May 1870 in Nelson between the Nelson club and Nelson College. The principal commonplace association, the Canterbury Rugby Football Union, was framed in 1879, and in 1882 New Zealand's first internationals were played when New South Wales (NSW) visited the nation. NSW did not confront a New Zealand agent group but rather played seven common sidesthe visitors won four diversions and lost three. After two years the primary New Zealand group to travel abroad visited New South Wales; where New Zealand won each of the eight of their recreations. 

A secretly composed British group, which later turned into the British and Irish Lions, visited New Zealand in 1888. No test matches were played, and the side just played commonplace sides. The British players were drawn basically from Northern England, however there were agents from Wales and Scotland. 

In 1892, after the peddling of common heads by Ernest Hoben, the New Zealand Rugby Football Union (NZRFU) was shaped by most of New Zealand's commonplace associations, however did exclude Canterbury, Otago or Southland. The first authoritatively endorsed New Zealand side visited New South Wales in 1893, where the Thomas Ellison captained group won nine of their ten matches. The next year New Zealand played its first home "global" amusement, losing 8– 6 to New South Wales. The group's first evident test coordinate happened against Australia on 15 August 1903 at the Sydney Cricket Ground before more than 30,000 observers, and brought about a 22– 3 triumph. 

An agent New Zealand group originally visited the British Isles in 1905. The side is currently known as the "Firsts", as the "All Blacks" name developed amid this visit when, as per colleague Billy Wallace, a London paper detailed that the New Zealanders played as though they were "all backs". Wallace guaranteed that on account of a typographical blunder, consequent references were to "All Blacks". This record is undoubtedly a mythbecause of their dark playing strip, the side was most likely alluded to as the "Blacks" before they left New Zealand. Despite the fact that the name All Blacks no doubt existed before the excursion, the visit popularized it. 

The Originals played 35 coordinates on visit, and their solitary misfortune was a 3– 0 annihilation to Wales in Cardiff. The match has gone into the fables of the two nations in light of a discussion about whether All Black Bob Deans scored an attempt which would have earned his group a 3– 3 draw. As opposed to the accomplishment of the Originals on the field, the group antagonized some in the Home Nations' rugby foundation; the two executives and the press griped that the All Blacks did not play the diversion inside the beginner and noble soul advanced by the International Rugby Football Board. This protest kept on hounding New Zealand groups until the 1930s. 

The accomplishment of the Originals had awkward ramifications for the beginner NZRFU. In 1907, a gathering of expert players was amassed to visit the British Isles and play rugby leaguea proficient branch of rugby association that was played by clubs that split from England's Rugby Football Union (RFU) because of contradictions over budgetary pay for players. At the point when the "All Golds", as the group came to be known, returned they set up rugby class in New Zealand, and an expansive number of players changed to the expert code. English and Welsh experts were frightened by the danger of demonstrable skill to rugby in New Zealand, and in 1908 an Anglo-Welsh side embraced a visit to New Zealand to help advance the beginner esteems under which they trusted game ought to be played. The travelers were crushed 2– 0 in the three-test arrangement by New Zealand, yet the Anglo-Welsh managed to draw the second test 3– 3. 

Global rugby was suspended amid the First World War, yet a New Zealand Services group competed in between administrations rivalry known as the King's Cup. After their takeoff from Europe the side visited South Africa before their arrival to New Zealand, and that visit made ready for a South African group to visit New Zealand in 1921. The Springboksas the South African group is knownplayed New Zealand in a test arrangement that finished all square. New Zealand directed an arrival visit to South Africa in 1928, and the test arrangement was again drawn; the two groups winning two tests each. 

The 1924 All Black vacationers to the British Isles and France were named "the Invincibles" on the grounds that they won each diversion. Notwithstanding, the group was denied of a potential thousand hammer when Scotland would not play them since they were vexed the visit was sorted out through the RFU as opposed to the IRFB. The primary British Isles side since 1908 visited New Zealand in 1930. Despite the fact that the Lions won the main test, the home side regrouped and proceeded to win the arrangement 3– 1. New Zealand visited the British Isles again in 1935– 36, losing just three gamesincluding two testsduring a 30-coordinate visit. In one of these misfortunes, Prince Obolensky broadly scored two endeavors to push England to a 13– 0 win; their first over New Zealand. 

In 1937, South Africa visited New Zealand and definitively won the test arrangement regardless of losing the primary test; this 1937 South African group was portrayed as the best group ever to leave New Zealand. It was not until 1949 that New Zealand next played the Springboks when they visited South Africa with Fred Allen as commander. Albeit each test against South Africa was close, New Zealand lost the arrangement 4– 0. 

In the meantime as an All Black group was visiting South Africa, Australia were visiting New Zealand. The two visits matched on the grounds that Māori players were not ready to go to South Africa at the time, which means the Australians, played against a New Zealand group made up of the best Māori and the save non-Māori players, while the South Africans experienced the best pākehā (non-Māori) players. On the evening of 3 September New Zealand, captained by Johnny Smith, were beaten 11– 6 by Australia in Wellington. New Zealand at that point lost their second test 16– 9, which gave Australia a Bledisloe Cup arrangement win in New Zealand out of the blue. 1949 was an "annus horribilis" for the All Blacks as they lost each of the six of their test matches, and the experience of playing two test arrangement at the same time has not been rehashed. 

The two back to back arrangement misfortunes to South Africa made their 1956 voyage through New Zealand exceedingly foreseen. New Zealand were captained by Bob Duff and instructed by Bob Stuart, and their 3– 1 arrangement win was their first over the Springboks and the Springboks' first arrangement misfortune that century. Amid the arrangement, New Zealand presented Don Clarke, and brought prop Kevin Skinner out of retirement to help secure the success. Skinner, a previous New Zealand boxing champion, had resigned from worldwide rugby, yet was persuaded to return for the third and fourth tests. One purpose behind Skinner's determination was to "sort out" the South African props, while Clarke become known as "The Boot" for his objective kicking. 

New Zealand's 3– 1 arrangement win over the Lions in 1959 turned out to be the beginning of a prevailing period in All Black rugby. This was trailed by the 1963– 64 visit to Britain and Ireland, driven by Wilson Whineray, in which New Zealand were denied of a Grand Slam by a scoreless draw with Scotland. The main misfortune on this visit was to Newport RFC, who won 3– 0 at Rodney Parade, Newport on 30 October 1963. The 1967 side won three tests against the home countries, yet was unfit to play Ireland due to a foot-and-mouth alarm. This visit shaped piece of New Zealand's longest series of wins, somewhere in the range of 1965 and 1970, of 17 test triumphs. This was likewise the longest test series of wins by any country at the time; it would be equalled by the Springboks in 1998, and outperformed by Lithuania in 2010. Despite the fact that the 1966 Lions were vanquished 0– 4 in their New Zealand visit, there was an inversion of fortune five years after the fact when the 1971 Lions, under the captaincy of Welshman John Dawes, beat New Zealand in a test arrangement, which remains the Lions' solitary arrangement triumph in New Zealand. 

The 1972– 3 vacationers barely missed a Grand Slam with a draw against Ireland. The visit was eminent for the sending home of prop Keith Murdoch, who was asserted to have been engaged with a fight in a Cardiff inn while praising the thrashing of Wales. It was on this visit New Zealand lost 9-3 out of an epic fight against Llanelli RFC covered with Welsh and British Lions tops 

In 1978, Graham Mourie captained New Zealand to their first Grand Slam, including a 13– 12 triumph over Wales. That diversion created discussion after New Zealand won as the consequence of a late punishment. Lock Andy Haden had plunged out of a line-out trying to gain a punishment, yet ref Roger Quittenden demanded the punishment was against Welsh lock Geoff Wheel for hopping off the shoulder of Frank Oliver. New Zealand's solitary misfortune on the visit was the renowned 12– 0 rout by Irish region Munster at Thomond Park. Later a play which concentrated on the misfortune was composed by John Breen, called "Alone it Stands". 

For the 1960 All Blacks voyage through South Africa, the South African experts demanded that Maori players be rejected from the group. The ensuing discussion prompted the New Zealand Rugby Union declining some other visit for the accompanying 10 years until the 1970 visit, when Maori players were acknowledged as "privileged whites". (See Halt All Racist Tours.) 

The 1976 All Blacks voyage through politically-sanctioned racial segregation South Africa created much debate and prompted the blacklist of the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal by 33 African countries after the IOC would not boycott the group. New Zealand again neglected to win the test arrangement in South Africa: they didn't do as such until 1996, after the fall of politically-sanctioned racial segregation and the presentation of unbiased officials. The 1976 visit added to the Gleneagles Agreement being received by the Commonwealth Heads of State in 1977. 

The 1981 South African visit to New Zealand started challenges South Africa's politically-sanctioned racial segregation strategy, any semblance of which had not been seen in New Zealand since the 1951 waterfront question. The NZRU had welcomed the Springboks to visit as the Muldoon government wouldn't include legislative issues in game. Albeit New Zealand won the test arrangement, two of the visit's commonplace amusements were dropped and the entire visit was defaced by viciousness and challenge. The third and last test match of the visit is here and there known as the Flour Bomb test, as an enemy of politically-sanctioned racial segregation lobbyist in a Cessna light air ship dropped handouts, flares, a parachute-bolstered flag perusing "Biko" and flour bombs into Auckland's Eden Park all through the match, felling a New Zealand player. Amid the visit the nation experienced distress, and the visit significantly affected New Zealand society. 

The 1985 All Blacks visit to South Africa was dropped after lawful activity in light of the fact that it would break the NZRU's constitution. In 1986, a revolutionary visit to South Africa occurred that had not been approved by the NZRU and the group, named the Cavaliers, included numerous All Blacks. Those that took an interest in the visit got a restriction for two tests from the NZRU when they came back to New Zealand. Charges that players got installment for the visit were never demonstrated. 

New Zealand facilitated and won the debut World Cup in 1987 beating France 29– 9 in the last. New Zealand surrendered just 52 and scored 43 attempts in six amusements on the way to the title, beating Italy, Fiji, Argentina, Scotland, Wales and France. 

By the 1991 World Cup New Zealand were a maturing side, co-trained by Alex Wyllie and John Hart. In the wake of beating has England in the competition opener, they battled amid pool matches against the United States and Italy, and won their quarter-last against Canada. They were then thumped out by possible champs Australia 16– 6 in their semi-last at Lansdowne Road. In the wake of the competition, there were numerous retirements, including mentor Wyllie, who had appreciated a 86% success rate amid 29 tests in control. 

Laurie Mains supplanted Wyllie in 1992, and was given the activity of setting up the side for the 1995 occasion in South Africa. New Zealand were again one of the top picks to take the title. Their status as top picks was upgraded when a youthful Jonah Lomu scored four attempts against England in the 45– 29 semi-last win. They figured out how to take has South Africa to additional time in the last, before losing 15-12 to Joel Stransky's drop objective. 

The expert period in rugby association started in 1995, impelled by production of the SANZAR gathering (a blend of South Africa, New Zealand and Australia) which was shaped with the reason for selling communicate rights for two new rivalries, the household Super 12 rivalry and the Tri-Nations. The first Tri-Nations was challenged in 1996, with New Zealand winning every one of the four of their tests to take the trophy. After a 1996 Tri-Nations coordinate facilitated by South Africa, won 29– 18 by New Zealand, went before a different three-coordinate test arrangement between the opposite sides. Under new mentor John Hart and the captaincy of Sean Fitzpatrick, New Zealand won a test arrangement in South Africa out of the blue. Fitzpatrick appraised the arrangement win higher than the 1987 World Cup triumph in which he had taken an interest. 

The following three seasons saw blended outcomes for New Zealand, who won all their Tri-Nations tests in 1997 preceding losing the title without precedent for 1998. In 1998 New Zealand lost every one of the five tests in the Tri-Nations and Bledisloe Cup arrangement (two to South Africa and three to Australia), the first occasion when they had lost four tests in progression since 1949. The next year they endured their most noticeably bad test misfortune, 28– 7 to Australia in Sydney. At the 1999 World Cup soon thereafter, the All Blacks commanded their pool, giving England a 30– 16 rout at Twickenham. They progressed past Scotland 30– 18 in the quarter-finals to play France at Twickenham. After New Zealand completed the principal half 17– 10 ahead, France at that point created an acclaimed half of rugby to which New Zealand had no answer, winning 43– 31. Hart along these lines surrendered as mentor and was supplanted by co-mentors Wayne Smith and Tony Gilbert. 

Under Smith and Gilbert, New Zealand came next in the 2000 and 2001 Tri-Nations, and in neither one of the seasons did the side recover the Bledisloe Cupwhich had been lost in 1998. The two mentors were supplanted by John Mitchell on 3 October 2001, and he proceeded to mentor New Zealand to triumph in both the 2002 and 2003 Tri-Nations, just as recapturing the Bledisloe Cup in 2003. The All Blacks entered the 2003 World Cup as one of the top picks and overwhelmed their pool, running up wins against Italy, Canada and Tonga, before winning a standout amongst the most aggressive matches of the competition against Wales. They vanquished South Africa in their quarter-last, a group they had never beaten at the World Cup, 29– 9, however lost to Australia 22– 10 in the semi-last in Sydney. 

Graham Henry's residency as mentor started with a twofold triumph more than 2003 Rugby World Cup champs England in 2004. The two diversions had a total score of 72– 15, and England were kept attempt less. In spite of the triumphant begin to Henry's residency, the Tri-Nations was a blended accomplishment with two successes and two misfortunes. The challenge was the nearest ever, extra focuses chose the result, and New Zealand completing last. The 2004 season completed with three successes in Europe, including a record 45– 6 triumph over France under new skipper and outside focus Tana Umaga. 

In 2005 New Zealand whitewashed the visiting British and Irish Lions after Brian O' Driscoll (Irish), Lions' star, got a lance handle from two New Zealanders in the main test amid their three-coordinate test arrangement, won the Tri-Nations, and accomplished a second Grand Slam over the Home Nations out of the blue since 1978. They proceeded to clear the major IRB (presently World Rugby) grants in which they were named: Team of the Year, Henry was named Coach of the Year, and initial five-eighth Dan Carter was Player of the Year. New Zealand were assigned for the Laureus World Sports Award for Team of the Year in 2006 for their 2005 execution. The next year they again took the Tri-Nations Series in the wake of winning their initial five matches, three against Australia and two against South Africa. They lost their last match of the arrangement against South Africa. They finished their finish of year visit unbeaten, with record away successes over France, England and Wales. New Zealand were named 2006 IRB Team of the Year and were selected for the Laureus World Sports Award for the second time, while flanker and recently named skipper Richie McCaw was named IRB Player of the Year out of the blue. 

The 2007 season began off with two mid-year tests against France. New Zealand won the tests 42– 11 at Eden Park and 61– 10 at Westpac Stadium. A third diversion, against Canada, brought about a 64– 13 win, despite the fact that the amusement was more aggressive than the scoreline showed. New Zealand's first Tri-Nations round of 2007 was against the Springboks in Durban, South Africa. New Zealand scored two attempts in the last ten minutes of the amusement to win 26– 21. The next week against the Wallabies at the Melbourne Cricket Ground the Wallabies upset New Zealand to win 20– 15, New Zealand's first misfortune to Australia since 2004. The All Blacks won their following home amusements to effectively safeguard the Tri-Nations Series for 2007. New Zealand entered the 2007 Rugby World Cup as top picks, and bested their pool, beating Scotland, Italy, Romania and Portugal by no less than 40 points. In any case, they at that point endured an annihilation by hosts France in the quarter-finals in Cardiff. Following the misfortune to France mentor Graham Henry's activity was reappointed in the midst of vocal discussion and remark, in spite of then Crusaders mentor Robbie Deans being a solid contender. 

The 2008 season began with three mid-year tests, the first against Ireland at Westpac Stadium, Wellington. The last two amusements were against England, the first at Eden Park and the second at AMI Stadium in Christchurch. New Zealand played their first Tri-Nations diversion against South Africa at Westpac Stadium in Wellington winning 19– 8 however after seven days at Carisbrook in Dunedin they lost to South Africa 28– 30, finishing a 30-coordinate series of wins at home, their past misfortune in New Zealand being against England in 2003. New Zealand played their next Tri-Nations coordinate on 26 July against Australia at Stadium Australia in Sydney, losing 34– 19 however after seven days against Australia at Eden Park in New Zealand won 39– 10. The best triumph for New Zealand in the 2008 season was beating South Africa 19– 0 in Cape Town at Newlands Stadium. New Zealand played their last match on 13 September against Australia at Suncorp Stadium in Brisbane winning 28– 24 and holding the Bledisloe Cup and the Tri-Nations. 

The All Blacks opened the 2009 season with a 22– 27 misfortune to France at Carisbrook, however vanquished them 14– 10 in Wellington seven days after the fact. On focuses distinction, France won the Dave Gallaher Cup out of the blue. After seven days the All Blacks vanquished Italy 27– 6 in Christchurch. They completed second in the Tri-Nations Series, behind South Africa who lost just a single amusement, and finished the arrangement with a 33– 6 prevail upon Australia in Wellington. 

In 2010 the All Blacks won the Tri-Nations arrangement for the tenth time after three progressive triumphs against South Africa, additionally holding the Bledisloe Cup after sequential triumphs against Australia. Amid 2010 New Zealand were undefeated for 15 test matches. Regardless of losing the 2011 Tri-Nations after a misfortune to Australia in Brisbane, yet entered the 2011 Rugby World Cup as one of the top choices. The All Blacks experienced their pool matches undefeated, and in the wake of vanquishing Argentina, and afterward Australia, confronted France in the last. New Zealand scored one attempt and a punishment to barely win 8– 7. Henry ventured down as mentor following the World Cup, and was supplanted as head mentor by his partner Steve Hansen. 

The Tri-Nations was extended to incorporate Argentina in 2012, and in this way renamed The Rugby Championship. The All Blacks went undefeated in the debut competition, and experienced the year unbeaten until their last match of the year, where they lost to England at Twickenham. In 2013 New Zealand facilitated France in a three-coordinate seriestheir first gathering since the 2011 World Cup last. They won each of the three tests, before going unbeaten in the 2013 Rugby Championship. In November 2013, New Zealand turned into the principal rugby country in the expert period to accomplish a 100% record in a logbook year. 

At the 2014 Rugby Championship, the All Blacks attracted Australia and lost to South Africa in the away matches, however won the other four matches and the competition. At the abbreviated 2015 Rugby Championship, the All Blacks lost to Australia and was sprinter up. The group entered the 2015 Rugby World Cup and again went undefeated in their pool matches. They vanquished France 62-13 in the Quarter-Final, South Africa 20-18 in the Semi-Final and Australia 34-17 in the Final to turn into the main country to hold their World Champion title and the first to win the Rugby World Cup multiple times. 

The All Blacks went undefeated at the 2016 Rugby Championship, asserting extra focuses at each match, under new commander and Number 8, Kieran Read and bad habit chief and fullback Ben Smith. Smith and wing Israel Dagg were likewise the joint most noteworthy attempt scorers in the challenge with 5 each, while initial five-eighth Beauden Barrett was the most astounding focuses scorer of the challenge with 81 altogether. 

2016 held a notable misfortune with the All Blacks losing their first since forever amusement to Ireland out of the blue following 111 years of achievement, losing 40 - 29. Be that as it may, in the test following New Zealand made up for themselves by crushing Ireland for the 28th time, out of 30 tests, 21-9. 

In 2017 British and Irish Lions visited New Zealand drawing with the All Blacks 1-1, the All Blacks had won the principal test 30 - 15, while the British and Irish Lions won the second test 24 - 21, the last test was drawn 15-15. Anyway they proceeded to go undefeated in the Rugby Championship 2017 season and furthermore verifying the Bledisloe Cup against adversaries Australia in the wake of crushing the Aussies twice in the Rugby Championship. 

In October, New Zealand endured a gigantic miracle losing to Australia 23-18 at Suncorp Stadium in Brisbane. The All Blacks later played France, Scotland and Wales overcoming every one of them to end the 2017 season. 

The current New Zealand pullover is perfectly sized and completely dark (as of now alluded to as the 'blackest' shirt at any point made) aside from the Adidas logo, the NZRU silver plant on the front and the AIG logo in the lower focus (which are all obscured from already). The 1884 New Zealand visit to Australia was the principal abroad New Zealand rugby visit, and highlighted garments altogether different from the present pullover. In those days, the group wore a dull blue shirt, with gold plant on the left of the jumper. In 1893 the NZRU stipulated at its yearly broad gathering that the uniform would be dark pullover with a silver greenery and white knickerbockers. Anyway noteworthy photos propose white shorts may have been utilized rather amid these early years. At some point somewhere in the range of 1897 and 1901 there was a change; by 1901 the group met NSW in a dark shirt, a canvas top with no neckline, and a silver greenery. 

In 2006, New Zealand wore a weaved recognition poppy on their shirt sleeve when playing France amid the finish of-year visit. The poppy praises the ANZAC officers who kicked the bucket on the shorelines of Gallipoli. Chief Richie McCaw said "We need to respect the abroad administration of New Zealanders. It is an essential piece of our history as a nation and a group." 

Amid the 2011 Rugby World Cup the All Blacks had a weaved William Webb Ellis container on the sleeve of their shirts with the year '1987' underneath. This was to imply which year the group had won the competition. Every one of the four groups who had won the challenge had a similar itemizing on their pullovers. 

Adidas is paying the NZRFU $200 million more than nine years, anticipating that New Zealand should win around 75% of their matches. Nike likewise took a gander at supporting New Zealand in 1996, however ran with Tiger Woods. 

The change pack has customarily been white with dark shorts. Following a couple of years playing with a change pack of dark shirt and dark shorts, the NZRU declared an arrival to the customary white pullover and dark shorts in May 2009. For the 30 July 2011 Springboks coordinate in Wellington, the All Black pullover presented a salaried in tribute to that brandished by the 1987 World Cup-winning group. 

In 2012, the NZRU made the disputable stride of permitting American protection and money related administrations organization, AIG, to advance themselves on the middle front of the All Black pullover. Consequently, the NZRU would get immediate monetary sponsorship that was not uncovered; the arrangement was evaluated to be worth roughly $80 million more than five years. 

Adidas have been the All Blacks' pack providers since 1999, taking over from Canterbury, who provided the units since 1924. In June 2017, subsequent to discharging an exceptional release pullover for the approaching three tests against the British and Irish Lions, it was declared that the association between the All Blacks and Adidas had been reached out to no less than 2023. 

The All Blacks play out a haka (Māori challenge) before every global match. The haka has been intently connected with New Zealand rugby as far back as a voyage through Australia and the United Kingdom by the 1888– 89 New Zealand Native football crew, however the New Zealand group that visited New South Wales in 1884 may likewise have played out a haka. The New Zealand local group that visited Britain in 1888 and 1889 utilized "Ake Kia Kaha", and the 1903 group in Australia utilized a deriding haka, "Tupoto koe, Kangaru!". The 1905 All Blacks started the custom of utilizing "Ka Mate"a haka formed in the nineteenth century by Ngāti Toa pioneer Te Rauparaha. The 1924 All Blacks utilized an uncommonly made haka "Ko Niu Tireni", however later All Blacks returned to "Ka Mate". 

In August 2005, preceding the Tri-Nations test coordinate between New Zealand and South Africa at Carisbrook arena in Dunedin, New Zealand played out another haka, "Kapa o Pango", uncommonly created by Derek Lardelli and expected to mirror the Polynesian-affected multicultural make-up of contemporary New Zealand. "Kapa o Pango" was to be performed on exceptional events and was not expected to supplant "Ka Mate". "Kapa o Pango" finishes up with what has been deciphered as a "throat cutting" motion that prompted allegations that "Kapa o Pango" supports savagery, and sends the wrong message to All Blacks fans. Be that as it may, as per Lardelli, the signal speaks to "drawing indispensable vitality into the heart and lungs". 

In November 2006, at the Millennium Stadium, Cardiff, New Zealand played out the haka in the changing area preceding the matchinstead of on the field preceding kick-offafter a conflict with the Welsh Rugby Union, which had needed Wales to sing their national song of devotion after the haka. In 2008, New Zealand played Munster at Thomond Park. Prior to the match, Munster's four New Zealanders tested their rivals by playing out a haka before the All Blacks began theirs. On a similar visit, Wales reacted by quietly declining to move after New Zealand's haka, and the two groups just gazed at one another until the ref constrained them to begin the amusement. 

New Zealand have just at any point been beaten by six test countries, and they are the main worldwide group to have a triumphant record against each country they have played. They have won 448 of their 578 test matches – 77.51% (see table), and have lost at home just multiple times. Since World Rankings were presented by World Rugby in October 2003, New Zealand have involved the main positioning most of the time. In the decade from 2000 to 2009, New Zealand won 100 tests (82% winning rate). 

New Zealand's longest series of wins is 18 test triumphs (a Tier 1 joint world record), accomplished somewhere in the range of 2015 and 2016. In 2013 they won each test they played amid a schedule year. The All Blacks hold the record for most sequential test succeeds at home – a 47-coordinate series of wins, accomplished somewhere in the range of 2009 and 2017. Their longest unbeaten streak is 23 tests (from 1987 to 1990) with one amusement being drawn. 

Their unsurpassed focuses record for tests remains at 15,899 for and 7,690 against (refreshed 10 November 2018). Numerous national groups' heaviest thrashings have happened against New Zealandthe national groups of Argentina, Fiji, France, Ireland, Japan, Portugal, Samoa, South Africa and Tonga have all endured their most prominent annihilations on account of New Zealand. The All Blacks' biggest test win was 145– 17 against Japan in 1995, while their heaviest misfortune was a 28– 7 misfortune to Australia in 1999. 

The following is rundown of New Zealand test results, refreshed 10 November 2018: 

New Zealand have won the World Cup multiple times, the main group to have done as such. They beat France in the last of the 1987 debut rivalry held in New Zealand and Australia, crushed France again in the last of the 2011 competition, additionally facilitated in New Zealand, and most as of late vanquished Australia in England in 2015, making them the sole group to win the World Cup in back to back competitions. In 1991, they lost their semi-last to Australia before winning the playoff for third. In 1995, they achieved the last, before losing in additional opportunity to has South Africa. They completed in fourth spot in 1999, in the wake of losing their semi-last and after that the third-place playoff diversion. In 2003, New Zealand were thumped out by hosts Australia in their semi-last, before completing third. The 2007 World Cup saw their most exceedingly terrible competition, being thumped out in the quarterfinals by the host country France; until this they were the main group to have achieved the elimination rounds of each competition. Because of the poor execution in the 2007 World Cup the NZRU authorized a 47-page report to detail the reasons for the disappointment. The All Blacks have never lost a World Cup pool coordinate, and have completed top of their pool in every one of the seven competitions. 

New Zealand holds a few World Cup records: most World Cup Matches (48), most focuses in one match (145 versus Japan in 1995), most aggregate focuses over every single World Cup (2,301), most attempts generally speaking (306), most changes (222) and furthermore the record for the most focuses scored in the primary portion of a knockout diversion at the Rugby World Cup (29, against France 2015) alongside the biggest knockout edge (49) in a similar match. A few individual players likewise hold World Cup records; Jonah Lomu for most World Cup attempts (15 more than two World Cups)(Currently tied with South Africa's Bryan Habana), Marc Ellis with most attempts in a match (6 versus Japan in 1995), Grant Fox with most focuses in one competition (126 out of 1987), and Simon Culhane with most focuses in a solitary diversion (45 versus Japan in 1995). 

New Zealand's solitary yearly competition is a challenge including the Southern Hemisphere's top national groups. From 1996 through 2011, they contended in the Tri Nations against Australia and South Africa. In 2012, Argentina joined the challenge, which was renamed The Rugby Championship. New Zealand's record of 15 competition successes (the latest in 2018) and 80 coordinate successes is well in front of the other groups' records. The Bledisloe Cup is challenged between New Zealand and Australia, and the Freedom Cup between New Zealand and South Africa, as a major aspect of the Tri Nations and The Rugby Championship. 

On 15 October 2018, Hansen named a 32-man squad in front of the 2018 All Blacks Northern Tour. 

Notwithstanding the 32 man squad, Asafo Aumua, George Bridge, Brett Cameron, Liam Coltman, Mitchell Drummond, Gareth Evans, Bryn Hall, David Havili, Jackson Hemopo, Dillon Hunt, Ngani Laumape, Tyrel Lomax, Nehe Milner-Skudder, Reuben O'Neill, Tim Perry, Matt Proctor, Luke Romano, Angus Ta'avao and Luke Whitelock were named in a more extensive squad for the test against Japan. Laumape came back to New Zealand following the test against Japan however was called to rejoin the principle squad after the test against England following damage to Sonny Bill Williams. 

On 18 November, Matt Todd, Sam Whitelock, Joe Moody, Liam Squire and Sonny Bill Williams came back to New Zealand ahead of schedule, because of damage or different duties. 

All squad individuals separated from Matt Todd play rugby in New Zealand. 

Fifteen previous All Blacks have been drafted into the World Rugby Hall of Fame: Sir Fred Allen, Don Clarke, Sean Fitzpatrick, Grant Fox, Dave Gallaher, Sir Michael Jones, Ian Kirkpatrick, Sir John Kirwan, Sir Brian Lochore, Jonah Lomu, Sir Colin Meads, Graham Mourie, George Nepia, Joe Warbrick and Sir Wilson Whineray. 

Joe Warbrick spoke to New Zealand on their noteworthy 1884 visit to Australia, however is better known for choosing and captaining the 1888– 89 New Zealand Native football crew that set out on a 107-coordinate voyage through New Zealand, Australia and the British Isles. The New Zealand Natives were the principal New Zealand group to wear dark regalia, and the first to play out a haka. 

Dave Gallaher played in New Zealand's first since forever test coordinate in 1903 and furthermore captained the 1905 Originals. Alongside Billy Stead, Gallaher wrote the celebrated rugby book "The Complete Rugby Footballer". At the period of just 19, George Nepia played in every one of the 30 coordinates on the Invincibles voyage through 1924– 25. Nepia played 37 All Blacks recreations; his last was against the British Isles in 1930. 

Sir Fred Allen captained the majority of his 21 matches for New Zealand, including six tests, somewhere in the range of 1946 and 1949. He in the long run proceeded onward to instructing New Zealand somewhere in the range of 1966 and 1968. New Zealand won each of the 14 of their test matches with Allen as mentor. 

Five corridor of Fame inductees, including the principal New Zealander named to the World Rugby Hall of Fame, played amid the 1960s. Wear Clarke was an All Black somewhere in the range of 1956 and 1964 and amid this period he broke the record at the ideal opportunity for All Black test focuses. Clarke broadly scored six punishments in one match – a record at the time – to give New Zealand a 18– 17 triumph over the British Isles at Dunedin in 1959. Sir Wilson Whineray played 32 tests, captaining New Zealand in 30 of them. He played prop and furthermore number 8 somewhere in the range of 1957 and 1965. New Zealand lost just four of their 30 tests with Whineray as commander. On 21 October 2007, Whineray turned into the main New Zealander to gain acceptance to the World Rugby Hall of Fame. In Sir Colin Meads' New Zealand Rugby Museum profile, he is portrayed as "New Zealand's likeness Australia's Sir Donald Bradman or the United States of America's Babe Ruth." Meads, nicknamed "Pinetree", played 133 diversions for New Zealand, including 55 tests. In 1999 the New Zealand Rugby Monthly magazine named Meads the New Zealand player of the century. Ian Kirkpatrick played 39 tests, including 9 as commander, somewhere in the range of 1967 and 1977. He scored 16 attempts in his test vocation, a record at the time. 

The main All Blacks Hall of Famer to make a big appearance during the 1970s was flanker Graham Mourie. He captained 19 of his 21 tests and 57 of his 61 by and large All Blacks coordinates somewhere in the range of 1976 and 1982. Most quite, in 1978 he was skipper of the principal All Blacks side to finish a Grand Slam over the four Home Nations sides. 

The 1987 World Cup champions were instructed by Sir Brian Lochore who had spoken to New Zealand in 25 tests somewhere in the range of 1964 and 1971, including 17 as commander. He was knighted in 1999 for his lifetime administrations to rugby. Four of the 1987 World Cup squad that he had trained are additionally inductees in the Hall of Fame. Sir John Kirwan played a sum of 63 tests somewhere in the range of 1984 and 1994, scoring 35 attempts, an All Blacks record at the time. In the 1987 World Cup opener against Italy, Kirwan dashed 90 meters to score one of the attempts of the competition. An All Black from 1984 to 1993, Grant Fox was one of New Zealand's most noteworthy point-scorers with 1067 points, including 645 test focuses. Fox played 46 tests, including the 1987 World Cup last against France. Known as The Iceman, Michael Jones was one of the best open side flankers ever. Conceived in Auckland, New Zealand, Jones previously played worldwide rugby for Samoa, at that point for New Zealand, playing 55 tests somewhere in the range of 1987 and 1998. Because of his Christian confidence, Jones never played rugby on Sundays, bringing about him not playing in the 1991 World Cup semi-last against Australia, and furthermore in him not being picked for the 1995 World Cup squad. The group's chief, David Kirk, was enlisted into the World Rugby Hall close by Lochore; all other World Cup-winning commanders through 2007 (less the as of now accepted Australian John Eales) were likewise revered at this function. 

For a long time the most topped test All Black was Sean Fitzpatrick, with 92 appearances. He played in the 1987 World Cup after officeholder Andy Dalton was harmed, and was designated All Blacks commander in 1992, proceeding in the job until his retirement in 1997. He played 346 five star rugby matches. 

Jonah Lomu is by and large viewed as the main genuine worldwide hotshot of rugby association. He was the most youthful player ever to show up in a test as an All Black, making his introduction at age 19 years, 45 days in 1994. Lomu, a wing, had remarkable physical endowments; despite the fact that he stood 1.96 m (6 ft 5 in) and weighed 119 kg (262 lb), making him both the tallest and heaviest back ever to play for New Zealand, he could run 100 meters in less than 11 seconds. He burst on the global scene in the 1995 Rugby World Cup, scoring seven attempts in the challenge. Four of those attempts came in New Zealand' elimination round win over England, incorporating a famous attempt in which he bulldozed England's Mike Catt on his way to the attempt line. He included eight additional attempts in the 1999 Rugby World Cup. Maybe most astoundingly, Lomu played for all intents and purposes his whole top-level profession in the shadow of a genuine kidney issue which finished his test vocation in 2002 and eventually prompted a transplant in 2004. Indeed, even with his profession hampered and in the end abbreviated by his medical problems, he scored 37 attempts in 63 tests. Lomu was drafted into the World Rugby Hall in October 2011, and was explicitly perceived as one of four new inductees "who had left a permanent imprint on Rugby World Cup for their snapshots of enchantment, motivation or accomplishments". 

The record for most test focuses for New Zealand, however any country, is held by Dan Carter with 1,598 from 112 tests. He outperformed Andrew Mehrtens' All Black record aggregate of 967 from 70 tests in the All Blacks' success over England on 21 November 2009. On 27 November 2010 Dan Carter scored a punishment against Wales to pass Jonny Wilkinson's past world record of 1,178. Carter additionally holds the record for focuses against Australia with 366. 

The All Blacks' record test attempt scorer is Doug Howlett with 49 attempts, who overwhelmed Christian Cullen's 46 amid the 2007 World Cup. The world record for attempts in a schedule year is held by Joe Rokocoko, with 17 attempts in 2003; he likewise turned into the main All Black to score ten attempts in his initial five tests, just as the primary All Black to score no less than two attempts in every one of four back to back tests. In test coordinates, the most topped All Black is Richie McCaw with 148 tops. The record for most tests as commander is held by Richie McCaw with 110. The most youthful All Black in a test coordinate was Jonah Lomu, topped at age 19 years, 45 days, while the most seasoned test player was Ned Hughes at 40 years, 123 days. 

The present head mentor of the All Blacks is Steve Hansen, who has held the situation since 2012. He is helped by Ian Foster and was up to this point likewise helped by Wayne Smith. 

Because of the definition and job of All Blacks mentor shifting such a great amount before the 1949 All Blacks voyage through South Africa, the accompanying table just incorporates mentors named since. 

Like other real rugby countries Argentina, Australia, France and South Africa, New Zealand does not have an official arena for its national group. Rather, the All Blacks play their test matches at an assortment of scenes all through New Zealand. 

Preceding the development of Westpac Stadium in 1999, Wellington's test setting was Athletic Park. Athletic Park was the setting for the primary All Blacks test coordinate in New Zealand against Great Britain in 1904. The principal home test coordinate played outside the primary focuses of Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin or Wellington was in 1996 at McLean Park in Napier. 

Eden Park and AMI Stadium were redesigned in anticipation of the 2011 Rugby World Cup. At that point, the NZRU never again thought about Carisbrook a reasonable test setting, and a secured games arena was proposed as a substitution. Dunedin City Council affirmed the new arena in March 2008, land procurement continued from August to October of that year, and the new scene opened in August 2011, in time for the World Cup. 

AMI Stadium was fundamentally harmed amid the February 2011 Christchurch seismic tremor, with breaks in certain stands and the playing surface gravely harmed by liquefaction just as harm to foundation and boulevards encompassing the scene. Because of the harm all planned 2011 World Cup amusements to be held in Christchurch were moved to different areas. test rugby came back to Christchurch in 2012 at Rugby League Park. Despite the fact that the stands at that scene were harmed seriously enough that they must be torn down, framework harm was considerably less extreme than at AMI Stadium, and the playing surface endure generally unblemished. The arena was revamped with a changeless limit of 17,000, with impermanent seating taking into consideration 9,000 additional observers.