On the off chance that (magazine) 

Whenever was an American sci-fi magazine propelled in March 1952 by Quinn Publications, claimed by James L. Quinn. 

The magazine was respectably effective, however for a large portion of its run it was not viewed as in the main level of sci-fi magazines. It made its most noteworthy progress under proofreader Frederik Pohl, winning the Hugo Award for best proficient magazine three years running from 1966 to 1968. "On the off chance that" distributed many honor prevailing upon stories its 22 years, including Robert A. Heinlein's epic "The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress" and Harlan Ellison's short story "I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream". The most conspicuous author to make his first deal to "If" was Larry Niven, whose story "The Coldest Place" showed up in the December 1964 issue. 

"On the off chance that" was converged into "Cosmic system Science Fiction" after the December 1974 issue, its 175th issue by and large. 

In spite of the fact that sci-fi had been distributed in the United States before the 1920s, it didn't start to combine into an independently advertised sort until the appearance in 1926 of "Astounding Stories", a mash magazine distributed by Hugo Gernsback. Before the finish of the 1930s, the field was experiencing its first blast, however World War II and its orderly paper deficiencies prompted the downfall of a few titles. By the late 1940s, the market started to recoup. From a low of eight dynamic magazines in 1946, the field extended to 20 out of 1950, and a further 22 had started distribution by 1954. "On the off chance that" was propelled amidst this second distributing blast. 

"In the event that's" starting points can be followed to 1948 and 1949, when Raymond Palmer established two magazines while working at Ziff-Davis in Chicago: "Destiny" and "Different Worlds". "Destiny" distributed articles about mysterious and extraordinary occasions, while "Different Worlds" was a sci-fi magazine. The two were adequately fruitful to pull in the notice of James L. Quinn, a New York distributer. At the point when Ziff-Davis moved to New York City in late 1950, Paul W. Fairman, a productive author, ran with them, and was soon in contact with Quinn, who chose to establish a couple of magazines demonstrated after Palmer's. One was a true to life magazine entitled "Peculiar"; the other was "If". 

The primary issue of "If" was dated March 1952, with Fairman as editorial manager; it included stories by Richard Shaver, Raymond Palmer, and Howard Browne, all journalists who were regulars of the Ziff-Davis magazines. When the third issue achieved the news stands, the frustrating deals figures for the principal issue were in, and Quinn chose to let Fairman go. Quinn persisted with himself as proofreader. His first issue was dated July 1952, and he proceeded as manager on the masthead for certain years. Quinn acquired Ed Valigursky as the workmanship editorial manager; he planned striking spreads, including some wraparound fine art—an abnormal component—which improved course. Quinn started hunting down a substitution supervisor: essayist Lester del Rey turned down the activity (a choice he is accounted for to have later lamented), yet Quinn had the capacity to draw in Larry T. Shaw, a functioning sci-fi fan who had sold a couple of stories. Shaw joined in May 1953 as partner manager and before long started composition publications (starting with the September 1953 issue) and helping with story determination. The magazine's quality immediately improved and soon Quinn felt ready to change to a month to month plan, rather than every other month. Shaw left after just a year, and Quinn continued full article duties. 

In late 1953, Quinn chose to run a challenge for short fiction from new journalists. The challenge was just open to understudies who had not sold a story previously. The primary prize was $1,000, the second prize $500, with five sprinter up prizes of $100 each. Passages rolled in from authors who were later to turn out to be outstanding, including Harlan Ellison, Roger Zelazny, and Andrew J. Offutt, whose story "And Gone Tomorrow", about a man out of the blue sent a hundred years into the future, won first prize and showed up in the December 1954 issue of "If". The main other one of the seven reported victors who had a profession as a sci-fi essayist was Leo P. Kelley. Quinn chose to move "If" to a month to month plan with the March 1954 issue, maybe in light of the fact that the challenge had expanded readership. It returned to an every other month plan with the June 1956 issue, as dissemination dropped once more. 

In 1957, American News Company, by a wide margin the biggest magazine merchant, was exchanged. Practically all the sci-fi magazines needed to locate another merchant, and the littler autonomous organizations staying in the market regularly requested month to month production and a bigger configuration from the magazines they took on. A considerable lot of the magazines did not have the promoting income required to help these changes, and inside a few years, a large number of them had vanished: the quantity of sci-fi magazines being distributed dropped from a high of 46 out of 1953 to not exactly twelve before the decade's over. For some time "If" was elusive on the news stands, yet it endure. Quinn tried the smooth configuration (utilizing gleaming paper, dissimilar to the less expensive paper utilized for pulps and processes) for a sidekick magazine, "Space Age", which he propelled in November 1958; the trial was fruitless, in any case. While trying to improve "If's" dissemination, Quinn enlisted author Damon Knight, whose first issue was October 1958. Dissemination neglected to increment, however this was at any rate somewhat because of the issues with appropriation, and by mid 1959, Quinn chose to sell the magazine. Knight's last issue was his third, dated February 1959. 

"On the off chance that's" new proprietor was Robert Guinn, of Galaxy Publishing. The difference in proprietorship was unexpected and prompted a deferral in production, with the principal issue under new editorship holding off on showing up until July 1959. The proofreader was Horace Gold, who was additionally the manager of "World Science Fiction"; "Cosmic system" had gone from a month to month to an every other month plan toward the beginning of 1959, and "If" and "Universe" showed up in interchange a very long time for the following couple of years. In a 1975 review article, Gold remarked that his arrangement with "If" was to analyze, utilizing new authors who had not yet settled themselves. In the judgment of sci-fi student of history Mike Ashley, the impact was that "If" turned into the more fragile of the two magazines, printing stories that were of lower quality than those Gold chose for "System". 

Frederik Pohl assumed control over the editorship of both "If" and "Cosmic system" in 1961. Gold had an auto collision with adequately serious wellbeing results to keep him from having the capacity to proceed as supervisor. Pohl, who had been irregularly helping Gold with publication obligations for quite a while before the auto crash, is first recorded as supervisor of "If" on the masthead of the November 1961 issue, and as proofreader of "World" for the December 1961 issue, yet he had been going about as manager of the two magazines since in any event midyear. Pohl paid one penny for each word for the narratives he purchased for "If", though "System" paid three pennies for every word, and like Gold, he respected "Universe" as the main magazine of the two, while "If" was some place he could work with new scholars, and attempt examinations and impulses. This formed into a selling moment that a letter from a peruser, Clayton Hamlin, incited Pohl to announce that he would distribute another essayist in each and every issue of the magazine, however he was likewise ready to pull in understood authors. At the point when Pohl started his stretch as editorial manager, the two magazines were working at a misfortune; in spite of "If's" lower spending plan, Pohl thought that it was progressively enjoyable to alter, and remarked that evidently the perusers thought in this way, as well; he had the capacity to make "If" demonstrate a benefit before "Cosmic system", including, "What was a good time for me appeared to be a good time for them." 

In April 1963, Galaxy Publishing drew out the principal issue of "Universes of Tomorrow", another sci-fi magazine, additionally altered by Pohl. The magazine distributed some generally welcomed material and was productive, yet Guinn, the distributer and proprietor, chose in 1967 that it is smarter to have "Cosmic system" continue a month to month plan; both "Universes of Tomorrow" and "World" were every other month around then, while "If" was month to month. With the August 1967 issue "Universes of Tomorrow" was converged with "If", however it was one more year before "Cosmic system" really changed to a month to month plan. At this point, "If" had turned out to be month to month once more, beginning with the July 1964 issue (however the calendar had an underlying hiccup, overlooking September 1964). 

The dissemination ascended from 64,000 out of 1965 to 67,000 of every 1967; the unassuming 5% expansion was surpassed just by "Simple" among the other sci-fi magazines, and "If" won the Hugo Award for best proficient SF magazine three years running amid this period. In any case, in March 1969, Robert Guinn sold each of the four of his magazines, including "Cosmic system" and "If", to Arnold Abramson at Universal Publishing and Distribution Corporation (UPD). Pohl was in Rio de Janeiro when he heard the news, and chose to leave his situation as editorial manager instead of proceed under the new administration. He had been thinking about an arrival to a composition vocation for quite a while and the adjustment in proprietorship encouraged his choice to leave. 

The new supervisor was Ejler Jakobsson, however Pohl kept on being recorded as editorial manager emeritus on the masthead until the July– August 1970 issue. A great part of the article work was really done by Judy-Lynn Benjamin, who was enlisted by Pohl in 1969 as a publication associate. The new routine neglected to awe perusers, and course dropped from more than 67,000 for the year finishing October 1968 to under 45,000 the next year, a drop of over 30%. "In the event that" went every other month in May 1970, as Abramson endeavored to juggle the recurrence of distribution of a few of his titles to augment benefits; the page check and cost were additionally balanced more than once throughout the following year, again expanding productivity. Abramson additionally started a British conveyance of "If", reproduced with a different spread, estimated in British money. Flow figures of the time demonstrate an expansion of around 6,000 duplicates, yet in the event that this incorporates deals in the UK isn't clear. 

In May 1973, Judy-Lynn Benjamin (Judy-Lynn del Rey since her 1971 marriage to Lester del Rey) surrendered. She was quickly supplanted by Albert Dytch, yet inside four months, Dytch thusly left, and in August 1973, James Baen joined UPD. He was made overseeing editorial manager of "If" with impact from the January 1974 issue, and full proofreader one issue later; Jakobsson was recorded as supervisor emeritus until the August 1974 issue. Baen had little chance to work with "Assuming", nonetheless, as money related issues at UPD joined with the expanding cost of paper (a result of the rising cost of oil) prompted a choice to consolidate "If" with "World". In spite of the way that in 1974, "If"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s course had surpassed "Galaxy"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s out of the blue, "Cosmic system" was held and "If" was converged with it starting with the January 1975 issue. 

In 1986, an endeavor was made to resuscitate "If" as an amateur magazine. The main issue, dated September– October 1986, was altered by Clifford Hong. 

The principal issue of "If", dated March 1952, went marked down on 7 January of that year. The lead story was Howard Browne's "Twelve Times Zero", a homicide riddle with a science-anecdotal goals; different stories were from Ray Palmer, Richard Shaver, and Rog Phillips, all authors related with the Ziff-Davis magazines. Browne was the proofreader of Ziff-Davis' "Stunning Science Fiction", a main magazine of the time, and had given Fairman his begin in the field in the late 1940s. Fairman knew about Ziff-Davis' steady of scholars, and his inclination for them was an impression of his experience, however this did not really work well for the magazine—he alluded to the procurement of Browne's story as "the scoop of the century" and talked in gleaming terms of him in a basic note in spite of the way that Browne was rumored to hate sci-fi. Notwithstanding the fiction and the article by Fairman, it had a letter segment, a profile of Wilson Tucker, a determination of science news, a visitor publication by Ken Slater, an outstanding British fan, and a supporting audit of the TV show "Stories of Tomorrow". 

After Quinn rejected Fairman and drew in Larry Shaw, the magazine improved altogether, and distributed a few generally welcomed stories, including James Blish's "A Case of Conscience" in the September 1953 issue, later to turn into the initial segment of Blish's Hugo Award-winning novel of a similar name, about a Jesuit cleric on a planet of outsiders who have no religion however seem free of wrongdoing. The predominant sci-fi magazines of the 1950s were "Shocking", "System", and "Dream and Science Fiction", yet "In the event that" was in the following position regarding quality: SF student of history Frank M. Robinson, for instance, portrays "If" as the "most major of the minors". Surely understood journalists who showed up in "If" during the 1950s incorporate Harlan Ellison and Arthur C. Clarke: the first short story adaptation of Clarke's tale "The Songs of Distant Earth" showed up in the June 1958 issue. Isaac Asimov's broadly republished story "The Feeling of Power" showed up in February 1958. 

The period under Pohl is viewed as the magazine's prime; the three back to back Hugo Awards won from 1966 to 1968 broke a significant lot in which the honor had been cornered by "Simple" (the name to which "Dumbfounding" changed in 1960) and "Dream and Science Fiction". Straight to the point Robinson remarked that "Pohl was the special case who was shocked when he won three Hugos in succession for altering "IF". It had a great time, and the fun had appeared." Niven's "Neutron Star" showed up in October 1966, and Harlan Ellison's "I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream" showed up in March 1967; both won Hugo Awards. Pohl likewise figured out how to verify another Skylark tale, "Skylark DuQuesne", from E.E. Smith; the arrangement had been begun during the 1920s was as yet mainstream with perusers. Pohl likewise purchased A.E. van Vogt's "The Expendables"; the story was van Vogt's first deal in 14 years and pulled in long-term perusers to the magazine. Another overthrow was the serialization of three books by Robert A. Heinlein, including the honor winning "The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress", which kept running in five sections from December 1965 to April 1966. 

Pohl's strategy of distributing a story by another essayist in each issue prompted an arrangement called ""If"- firsts"; the first, Joseph L. Green's "Once Around Arcturus", about the romance between a man and lady of various planets, showed up in the September 1962 issue. A few of the essayists highlighted in the "If"- first arrangement, which were distributed from 1962 through 1965, turned out to be notable, including Alexei Panshin; the most noticeable was Larry Niven, whose first story, "The Coldest Place", showed up in December 1964. Niven later commented that the story was promptly obsolete; the plot depended on the revelation that the clouded side of Mercury was the coldest spot known to mankind, yet space tests had as of late found that Mercury did in truth turn nonconcurrently. Gardner Dozois additionally made his first deal to "If", with "The Empty Man", about a man controlled by an outsider, in the September 1966 issue, and Gene Wolfe's "Mountains Like Mice", around a surrendered gathering of pilgrims on Mars, showed up in the May 1966 issue. In fact this was not Wolfe's first deal, as he had just had "The Dead Man" distributed in the October 1965 issue of "Sir!", yet "Mountains Like Mice" had been composed prior. 

"In the event that's" covers amid the 1960s were normally activity arranged, appearing and outsiders; and a few of the accounts Pohl distributed were aimed at a more youthful gathering of people. For instance, Blish's "Welcome to Mars", serialized under the title "The Hour Before Earthrise" in July to September 1966, was about a young virtuoso whose repulsive force gadget stranded him and his better half on Mars. Ashley has recommended that "If" was endeavoring to obtain readership from the numerous new enthusiasts of sci-fi who had been acquainted with the class through TV, specifically by means of the prevalent 1960s shows "Specialist Who" and "". "On the off chance that" additionally ran an inviting letter section, with more fan-situated discourses than different magazines, and somewhere in the range of 1966 and 1968 a segment by Lin Carter acquainted perusers with different parts of sci-fi being a fan. These highlights are likewise liable to have spoke to a more youthful gathering of people. 

"On the off chance that" was a summary measured magazine for a mind-blowing duration. It started at 164 pages and with just the fifth issue, November 1952, dropped to 124 pages. The page tally expanded again to 134 pages with the July 1959 issue, and to 164 pages with the September 1965 issue; it remained at this length until the September– October 1970 issue. The page check was then expanded to 180 with the June 1971 issue, and to 164 for the absolute last issue, December 1974. It was estimated at 35 pennies in any case, and expanded to 40 pennies with the March 1963 issue, to 50 pennies with the December 1964 issue, to 60 pennies with the August 1967 issue, lastly to 75 pennies with the September– October 1970 issue. With the April 1972 issue, UPD started utilizing card stock for the spreads, as opposed to paper, and kept on doing as such until the magazine stopped production. 

The magazine was every other month until the March 1954 issue, which was trailed by April 1954, initiating a month to month time span that kept running until June 1955. This was trailed by August 1955, continuing an every other month plan that kept running until July 1964, with just a single abnormality, when the February 1959 issue was trailed by July 1959. After July 1964, "If" ran a month to month plan until April 1970, with three exclusions: there were no issues dated September 1964, June 1969, or August 1969. From May– June 1970, the issues were every other month and bore the names of two months. This every other month grouping went through the last issue toward the finish of 1974. The date the magazine imprinted on the spread returned to a solitary month with the June 1971 issue, however the substance page still utilized two months to recognize the issue. The volume numbering started with six issues to a volume: there were three mistakes on the magazine substance page, with volume 8 number 1 inaccurately printed as volume 7 number 6; volume 9 number 3 printed as volume 8 number 6; and volume 10 number 1 printed as volume 10 number 6. Volume 14, which started in March 1964, went through the year's end, with seven numbers; the rest of the volumes had 12 numbers each aside from volume 19 which had 10 and volume 22 which had 8. 

A few British versions of "If" were created. In 1953 and 1954, Strato Publications reproduced 15 issues, numbering them from 1 to 15; another 18 were republished somewhere in the range of 1959 and 1962, with the issue numbers began at 1 once more. Among January and November 1967 a UK version showed up from Gold Star Publications; these were indistinguishable to the US release dated ten months already. Somewhere in the range of 1972 and 1974, 15 of the UPD versions of "If" were imported, renumbered and repriced for UK conveyance. The numbering, mysteriously, kept running from 1 to 9, and after that 11, 1, 13, 3, 4 and 5. 

The publication progression at "If" was as per the following: 

Eight choices of stories from "If" have been distributed. Two were altered by Quinn: "The First World of If" (1957) and "The Second World of If" (1958); four by Pohl: "The Best Science Fiction from If" (1964), "The If Reader of Science Fiction" (1966), "The Second If Reader of Science Fiction" (1968), and "Universes of If" (1986); and two by Jakobsson, both distributed as by "The Editors of If": "The Best from If" (1973) and "The Best from If Vol II" (1974). Moreover, two collections drew every one of their substance from "If" without referencing the magazine: "The 6 Fingers of Time and 5 Other Science Fiction Novelets" (1965) and "The Frozen Planet and Other Stories" (1966). Both were altered by Samuel H Post, who was not credited.