Scholarly Hall 

Scholarly Hall is a mid-nineteenth century block library, building and exhibition hall situated in Romney, a city in the U.S. territory of West Virginia. It is situated at the crossing point of North High Street (West Virginia Route 28) and West Main Street (U.S. Highway 50). Artistic Hall was built somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1870 by the Romney Literary Society. 

Established in 1819, the Romney Literary Society was the primary abstract association of its sort in the present-day territory of West Virginia, and one of the first in the United States. In 1846, the general public built a structure which housed the Romney Classical Institute and its library. The Romney Literary Society and the Romney Classical Institute both thrived and kept on developing in significance and impact until the beginning of the American Civil War in 1861. 

Amid the war, the substance of the general public's library were pillaged by Union Army powers, and huge numbers of its 3,000 volumes were either dispersed or devastated. After a revamping in 1869, the general public initiated development of the present Literary Hall in downtown Romney. It exchanged responsibility for Romney Classical Institute grounds toward the West Virginia Schools for the Deaf and Blind in 1870 and in that year finished Literary Hall, where the general public reconstituted its library gathering and resuscitated its abstract exercises. 

The Romney Literary Society's last gathering was held at Literary Hall in 1886. Starting there to 1973 the structure was utilized as a gathering space by the Clinton Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons and the Order of the Eastern Star. In 1973, the structure was bought by unmistakable Romney legal counselor Ralph Haines, who utilized it as a law office and gallery. From 1937 to the mid 1940s the structure likewise housed a network library. Artistic Hall was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on May 29, 1979. 

Abstract Hall is situated in the focal point of downtown Romney, West Virginia, at the convergence of North High Street (West Virginia Route 28) and West Main Street (U.S. Highway 50) on a city parcel not exactly in size. The Hampshire County Courthouse is promptly to its east crosswise over North High Street, and the Romney First United Methodist Church is arranged quickly to the structure's north. The Old National Building is situated to the prompt south of Literary Hall crosswise over West Main Street. Artistic Hall remains at a height of above ocean level. 

The land whereupon Literary Hall was built up was initially part of the Northern Neck Proprietary, a land concede that the banished Charles II granted to seven of his supporters in 1649 amid the English Interregnum. Following the Restoration in 1660, Charles II at long last rose to the English position of royalty. Charles II restored the Northern Neck Proprietary give in 1662, overhauled it in 1669, and again reestablished the first concede favoring unique grantee Thomas Colepeper, second Baron Colepeper and Henry Bennet, first Earl of Arlington in 1672. In 1681, Bennet sold his offer to Lord Colepeper, and Lord Colepeper got another contract for the whole land allow from James II in 1688. Following the passings of Lord Colepeper, his significant other Margaret, and his little girl Katherine, the Northern Neck Proprietary go to Katherine's child Thomas Fairfax, sixth Lord Fairfax of Cameron in 1719. 

Abstract Hall was based upon a land part assigned "Parcel 56" to the quick west of the open square of Romney. In 1790, the trustees of the Town of Romney charged John Mitchel to draft a cadastral review guide of Romney. Preceding this study, Lord Fairfax had appointed a comparable cadastral overview of Romney at some point before the town's fuse on December 23, 1762. On June 30, 1790, Mitchel submitted to the trustees a "Plan of the Town of Romney", which isolated the town into 100 land loads of equivalent size, with four parts adjoining the town hall containing the open square. 

The Romney Literary Society, which assembled Literary Hall somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1870, was sorted out by nine conspicuous men in Romney on January 30, 1819. With its foundation in 1819, the Romney Literary Society turned into the primary scholarly association of its sort in the present-day province of West Virginia, and one of the first in the United States. On February 4, 1819, the constitution of the general public was embraced, which gave that the association ought to be known as the "Questioning Society of Romney". The general public established its library in 1819 with the procurement of two books, and by 1861 the general public's modest library had developed to contain around 3,000 volumes, comprising of books on writing, science, history and workmanship. 

The Romney Literary Society initiated a development to build up a foundation for "the advanced education of the adolescent of the network". Because of this activity, the instructing of the works of art was brought into the educational modules of Romney Academy in 1820, hence making the organization the principal school of advanced education in the Eastern Panhandle. In 1846, the general public developed another structure to house the Romney Classical Institute and its library, the two of which fell under the general public's supervision. 

The Romney Literary Society and the Romney Classical Institute both prospered and kept on developing in significance and impact until the beginning of the Civil War in 1861. Amid the war, numerous individuals battled for the Confederate States Army powers and were executed amid the contention. The substance of the general public's library were ravaged by Union Army powers, and a significant number of its 3,000 volumes were either dissipated or demolished. Following the war's end, just 400 of those volumes could be recouped, with only 200 staying on the library's racks. 

The Romney Literary Society rearranged on May 15, 1869. Following the redesign, the general public fabricated Literary Hall somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1870 while additionally attempted an activity to bring the West Virginia Schools for the Deaf and Blind to its old Romney Classical Institute grounds. The development of Literary Hall was a piece of the general public's push to restore the association and reassemble its unique library. The general public begin recuperating unique volumes and acquiring new ones, and the library revived with 700 volumes. For a time of ten years somewhere in the range of 1870 and 1880, quite a bit of Romney's scholarly life focused on Literary Hall. As more seasoned individuals kicked the bucket, enthusiasm for the general public started to lessen. The general public's gatherings were held less as often as possible, and its last recorded gathering was hung on February 15, 1886. 

The Clinton Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons was the second association to use Literary Hall as a gathering place. The Clinton Lodge was the primary Masonic hotel to be sanctioned in Hampshire County and is among the most punctual Masonic cabins to be built up in present-day West Virginia. It was sanctioned by the Grand Lodge of Virginia on December 13, 1825. The cabin experienced four times of rest: first, among 1838 and December 15, 1846; a second time among 1855 and its rechartering on July 3, 1857; a third time among 1861 and December 11, 1867, amid the Civil War and Reconstruction; and a fourth time between November 29, 1881 and November 12, 1890, when it was again reactivated. 

Following the culmination of Literary Hall in 1870, the Clinton Lodge Masons normally used the principal floor of the structure as a gathering space, while the Romney Literary Society kept up its utilization of the second floor as a library. Between its different times of lethargy, the Clinton Lodge and the related Order of the Eastern Star, which was sorted out in July 1919, used Literary Hall as a gathering space, and following the Romney Literary Society's disestablishment, the Masons and Eastern Star proceeded with their utilization of the structure. In 1973, unmistakable Romney legal advisor Ralph Haines obtained Literary Hall from the Clinton Lodge Masons to protect the old structure from obliteration and gave the hotel a land part for the development of another Masonic Temple at the side of Washington and Center Streets in Romney. Following his buy of Literary Hall, Haines reestablished the structure to its unique state and utilized it as a law place of business and private historical center. Haines later moved his law workplaces to a neighboring business building. Under Haines' possession, Literary Hall was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on May 29, 1979. 

The structure again filled in as a library in March 1937, when Romney's people group library was moved to the primary floor of Literary Hall from its past office in the cellar of the Hampshire County Courthouse. The library had been built up on April 11, 1935 as a venture by the American Legion Auxiliary, and was housed in a room of the town hall storm cellar where it was staffed by volunteers and open from 2pm to 4pm on Saturday evenings. At the point when the library's accumulation of both bought and gave books exceeded its space in the town hall storm cellar, the Clinton Lodge Masons allowed authorization to the library to house its gathering at Literary Hall in 1937. Following its turn to Literary Hall, the library extended its hours, and extended them once more, to five evenings every week, through the help of the National Youth Administration and the Works Progress Administration. 

In January 1942, a gathering was held to establish a progressively broad library administration. Soon thereafter, on January 29, a contract was issued by West Virginia Secretary of State William Smith O'Brien for the formation of the non-benefit Hampshire County Library Association. Following its joining, the library was migrated from Literary Hall to two back abutting rooms on the second story of the Hampshire County Courthouse. The affiliation kept on lodging its library gathering in the town hall until 1967, when the new Hampshire County Public Library working at 153 West Main Street was formally devoted on September 28, 1967. The library had been based ashore given by sisters Kate and Mary Davis, who had been occupied with the reclamation of Literary Hall and whose father, Charles Maurice Davis, had been an individual from both the Romney Literary Society and the Clinton Lodge Masons, which had both held gatherings in the structure. 

The inside and outside of Literary Hall remain to a great extent flawless. At two stories, the structure is tall in its extent and joins components from both early American and Victorian styles, which were normal in scholastic structures worked amid this period. 

Compositional antiquarian S. Allen Chambers depicted Literary Hall as an inconsistency in light of the fact that the essential plan and fenestration designs, which conjure early Federal and Greek Revival structure components, are enhanced with subtleties increasingly normal for the Victorian time. 

As per building student of history Michael J. Pauley of the West Virginia Department of Culture and History's Historic Preservation Unit, Literary Hall's extraordinary basic highlights make the structure "one of Romney's and Hampshire County's most eminent milestones, and one in which this network is legitimately glad". Pauley further asserted that the structure is "exceptionally illustrative of the advancement of instruction and writing in the early United States". In portraying its effect on Romney's streetscape, Chambers depicted Literary Hall as "adding qualification to Romney's significant road crossing point". Chambers additionally noticed the structure's likeness and "solid building family relationship" to the Romney Presbyterian Church. 

Artistic Hall is a two-story red block structure, rectangular in plan, and finished with a peak rooftop. The principal floor of Literary Hall comprises of four rooms, and the second story is a solitary extensive dance hall. Melded with symmetrical components inspiring Federal and Greek Revival engineering styles are outside enhancing moldings and block corbeling in the Victorian style. 

The primary façade (south rise) of Literary Hall is separated into three narrows, and its west and east heights are isolated into five straights. Every one of the structure's straights comprises of a twofold hung band wooden window, with nine sheets of glass inside every scarf. The windows are symmetrically set inside recessed block boards that are characterized at the first and second accounts of the structure with basic block ribs, or pseudo-pilasters, that structure the external surface of the structure's outside dividers and give partition of the three sounds of the principle façade and the five narrows of the west and east rises. The windows are confined by white wooden louvered window screens. The structure's block is laid in an American bond design, with five courses of stretchers between each course of headers. 

The principle façade is beaten by a straightforward wooden raking cornice that surmounts an elaborate corbel block pendant. A crescent fanlight, or lunette, is situated in the focal point of the peak of the structure's principle façade, giving lighting to the structure's storage room. Chambers portrayed this window as the most outdated of the structure's design components and may have been founded on the fanlight of the region's prior town hall worked in 1833, which was situated to the structure's east. 

Every one of the primary façade's first-and second-story windows and the passageway are decorated with white wooden name moldings. The fundamental passage is made out of a tall twofold wooden passageway entryway, with its unique handle and bolts. Every entryway comprises of four vertical wooden boards. A rectangular transom light of four vertical glass boards best the fundamental gateway's twofold wooden entryways. Outside the passage is a roomy block stoop that is gotten to by a concrete walkway from West Main Street. Its block steps paving the way to the stoop were last reestablished in the late 1970s. 

Abstract Hall is flanked by two inside side fireplaces, between the second and third coves of the west and east rises of the structure. The structure lays on a sandstone, ashlar square establishment. Its peak rooftop is sheathed with standing crease tin sheeting.