Dark Francis 

Charles Thompson IV (conceived April 6, 1965) is an American vocalist, lyricist, and guitarist. He is best known as the frontman of the persuasive elective musical gang Pixies, with whom he performs under the stage name Black Francis. Following the band's separation in 1993, he set out on a performance vocation under the name Frank Black. Subsequent to discharging two collections with record name 4AD and one with American Recordings, he left the name and shaped another band, Frank Black and the Catholics. He re-received the name Black Francis in 2007. 

His vocal style has fluctuated from a shouting, yowling conveyance as lead vocalist of the Pixies to an increasingly estimated and melodic style in his performance vocation. His secretive verses for the most part investigate unpredictable subjects, for example, surrealism, inbreeding, and scriptural savagery, alongside sci-fi and surf culture. His utilization of atypical meter marks, loud– calm elements, and particular inclination for live-to-two-track recording amid his time with the Catholics, give him an unmistakable style inside elective shake. 

As frontman of the Pixies, his tunes, (for example, "Where Is My Mind?" and "Debaser") got recognition and references from peers, including Radiohead's Thom Yorke and Nirvana's Kurt Cobain. Thompson regrouped the Pixies in mid 2004 and keeps on discharging solo records and visit as a performance craftsman. 

Charles Thompson was conceived in Boston, Massachusetts. His dad was a bar proprietor, and Thompson lived in Los Angeles, California, as an infant since his dad needed to "get familiar with the eatery and bar business." Thompson was acquainted with music at a youthful age, as his folks tuned in to 1960s society shake. His first guitar was his mother's, a Yamaha traditional guitar purchased with cash from his dad's bar tips, which he began to play at age "11 or 12." 

Thompson's family moved around, first with his dad, and afterward his stepfather, a religious man who "sought after land on the two drifts"; his folks had isolated twice when he was in first grade. At the point when Thompson was 12, his mom and stepfather joined a fervent church that was fixing to the Pentecostal division Assemblies of God, a move that impacted a large number of his tunes composed with the Pixies, which frequently allude to the Bible. 

He found the music of Christian shake artist lyricist Larry Norman at 13 when Norman played at a religious summer camp that Thompson visited. Norman's music impacted Thompson to the degree that he named the Pixies' first EP and a verse in the band's tune "Suspend Me" after one of Norman's catchphrases, "Please, pioneer!" Thompson later portrayed the music he tuned in to amid his childhood: 

Thompson lived in a condo in Marblehead, Massachusetts. Just before his senior year, his family moved to Westport, Massachusetts, where he got a "Youngster of the Year" grant—the title of a later solo collection. Amid this time, Thompson created a few melodies that showed up in his later profession, including "Here Comes Your Man" from "Doolittle," and "Smooth Instrumental Version." 

Subsequent to moving on from secondary school in 1983, Thompson learned at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, studying human studies. Thompson imparted a space to another flat mate for a semester before moving in with future Pixies guitarist Joey Santiago. The two shared an enthusiasm for shake music, and Santiago acquainted Thompson with 1970s punk and the music of David Bowie; they started to stick together. It was as of now that Thompson found The Cars, a band he depicted as "powerful on me and the Pixies." 

In his second year of school, Thompson left on an excursion to San Juan, Puerto Rico, as a major aspect of a trade program. He went through a half year in a loft with an "odd, psycho flat mate," who later filled in as an immediate motivation for the Pixies melody "Crackity Jones;" huge numbers of the band's initial tunes allude to Thompson's encounters in Puerto Rico. Thompson neglected to figure out how to communicate in Spanish formally, and left his examinations in the wake of discussing whether he would go to New Zealand to see Halley's Comet (he later said it "appeared the cool sentimental activity at the time"), or begin a musical crew. He composed a letter asking Santiago, with the words "we gotta do it, right now is an ideal opportunity Joe," to go along with him in a band upon his arrival to Boston. 

Not long after in the wake of coming back to Massachusetts, Thompson dropped out of school, and moved to Boston with Santiago. He burned through 1985 working in a distribution center, "overseeing catches on teddy bears," forming tunes on his acoustic guitar, and composing verses on the metro. In January 1986, Thompson shaped the Pixies with Santiago. Bassist Kim Deal was selected seven days after the fact by means of an arranged notice set in a Boston paper, which mentioned a bassist "into Hüsker Dü and Peter, Paul and Mary." Drummer David Lovering was later contracted on suggestion from Deal's significant other. 

In 1987, the Pixies discharged a 18-track demo tape, generally alluded to as "The Purple Tape". Thompson's dad helped the band monetarily, advancing $1,000 so as to record the demo tape; Thompson later said that his dad "wasn't around for a ton of my more youthful years, so I think he was doing his best to compensate for wasting time." "The Purple Tape" prompted a chronicle contract with the English free record mark 4AD. For the arrival of the smaller than usual collection "Please Pilgrim", Thompson embraced the pseudonym "Dark Francis", a name roused by his dad: "he had been sparing that name on the off chance that he had another child." 

In 1988, the Pixies recorded their introduction collection "Surfer Rosa". Thompson composed and sang on every one of the tracks, except for the single "Colossal," which was co-composed and sung by Deal. To help the collection, the band attempted an European visit, amid which Thompson met Eric Drew Feldman, a later teammate on Pixies and solo collections. "Doolittle", with Thompson-wrote tunes, for example, "Debaser" and "Monkey Gone To Heaven," was discharged the next year to across the board basic praise. Notwithstanding, at this point, strains among Thompson and Deal, joined with weariness, drove the band to report a break. Thompson has an abhorrence for flying, and invested this energy driving crosswise over America with his sweetheart, Jean Walsh (whom he had met in the band's initial days), performing solo shows so as to raise assets to purchase furniture for his new Los Angeles loft. 

The band reconvened in 1990, and recorded two further collections: 1990's "Bossanova" and 1991's "Trompe le Monde"; the last was Thompson's first coordinated effort with Feldman. The later Pixies collections were described by Thompson's expanding effect on the band's yield, just as an attention on sci-fi subjects, including outsiders and UFOs. These topics would keep on being investigated all through his initial solo work. "Trompe le Monde" incorporates the tune "U-Mass," which was expounded on the college he went to as a young, and because of the console part played by Feldman, connoted a move far from the band's elective shake sound. In spite of the fact that Deal had contributed on the tunes "Enormous" (from "Surfer Rosa") and "Silver" (from "Doolittle"), from "Bossanova" on, Thompson composed all the band's unique material. This added to the expanding pressure among him and Deal, and the Pixies separated in 1992; this was not openly declared until mid 1993. 

While the Pixies' 1991 collection "Trompe le Monde" was being recorded, Thompson had dialogs with the collection's maker, Gil Norton, about a conceivable solo record. He disclosed to Norton he was quick to record once more, despite the fact that he had no new material; subsequently, the two settled on a spread collection. Notwithstanding, when Thompson visited an account studio again in 1992, he had "a lot of tunes and melodic pieces." 

He worked together with Feldman to record new material; they started by cutting down the quantity of spreads to one, The Beach Boys' "Hold tight to Your Ego". Feldman turned into the collection's maker, and played console and low pitch guitar on a few tunes, with Santiago including on lead guitar and Nick Vincent on drums. Francis recorded the collection amid the rest and separation of the Pixies in late 1992 and mid 1993. He at that point embraced the stage name "Honest Black" (altering his old persona "Dark Francis") and discharged the outcomes as "Straight to the point Black" in March 1993. "Candid Black" was described by an attention on UFOs and sci-fi, despite the fact that he investigated different subjects, for example, in "I Heard Ramona Sing", a tune about the Ramones. The collection was comparable in style, both musically and expressively, to the Pixies' collections "Bossanova" and "Trompe le Monde". Feldman later said that the principal record associated his performance vocation with "Trompe le Monde", "and yet it is an island, such as nothing else he [Black] did." 

The next year, Black discharged his second solo record, a 22-melody twofold collection entitled "Youngster of the Year". "Adolescent" incorporated the melody "Cerebral pain" (), a moderate accomplishment on elective shake playlists; faultfinders depicted the tune as "overpowering pop". The generation of "Youngster of the Year" was extraordinarily not quite the same as "Plain Black"; in the past collection, MIDI formats were utilized when composing melodies, yet in "Adolescent", Black demonstrated individual parts to band individuals, the center of which included drummer Vincent and Lyle Workman on lead guitar. Feldman noticed that Thompson's songwriting turned into "much progressively unconstrained" while recording the collection. Thompson had started to stray from his style with the Pixies, composing tunes that secured an assortment of classifications and subjects, and his freshly discovered technique for account was nearer to later collections than that of "Straight to the point Black" and "Trompe le Monde". 

Both "Straight to the point Black" and "Young person of the Year" were fundamentally generally welcomed, despite the fact that they appreciated restricted business achievement. In 1995, Thompson left his long-term names 4AD and Elektra. In 1996, he discharged "The Cult of Ray" on Rick Rubin's American Recordings; the collection denoted a get some distance from the intricate creation of his first solo works and was recorded basically live with few overdubs. His band for this collection highlighted sole "Young person" leftover Lyle Workman on lead guitar, alongside bassist David McCaffrey and Scott Boutier on drums. Despite the fact that the collection was neither fundamentally nor monetarily fruitful, its stripped-down methodology would progressively characterize Thompson's working techniques for the following quite a long while. 

Thompson named his new band "Straight to the point Black and the Catholics," and recorded their eponymous first collection in 1997. Recorded live-to-two-track at first as just a demo, he was so satisfied with the outcomes that he chose to discharge the sessions with no further creation. The collection was postponed for over a year by clashes at American, both inside and over its creation, and was eventually discharged in late 1998 by SpinArt Records in the US. Since leaving American, Black has kept away from long haul contracts with names, and has kept up responsibility for collection aces, authorizing every collection exclusively for discharge. 

"Candid Black and the Catholics" turned into the principal collection to be presented on the eMusic administration; they guarantee it is "the primary collection at any point made legitimately accessible for business download." Critical gathering to the collection was blended, with certain journalists noticing Thompson's apparently purposeful get some distance from the "peculiarity" of the Pixies and his initial solo work for a hesitantly clear methodology, and the "disappointingly direct punk-pop" melodic style present on the collection. 

He would keep on shunning multi-track recording for the live-to-two-track system for every single ensuing discharge under the gathering name. Live-to-two-track recording blocks the utilization of overdubs to address mistakes or include surface; all takes are recorded constantly, and blending is done "on the fly." On later collections, he joined more performers into the sessions to take into account increasingly shifted instrumental surfaces. Clarifying his reason behind the technique, he remarked: 

Laborer left the Catholics in 1998 to seek after session and sideman work; Rich Gilbert was added to the band to supplant him. Straight to the point Black and the Catholics discharged "Pistolero" in 1999 and "Puppy in the Sand" in 2001. "Canine in the Sand" included Dave Philips pedal steel guitar and lead guitar, and Santiago and Feldman started showing up with the gathering live and on record. Both "Pistolero" and "Canine in the Sand" were created by Nick Vincent. 

At this point, while rejecting the likelihood of a Pixies gathering, Thompson had started to join an expanding number of the band's tunes into Catholics shows, just as incorporating Santiago in his performance work once more. Dark and the Catholics kept on discharging records; two separate collections, "Dark Letter Days" and "Demon's Workshop", were discharged all the while in 2002. "Fallen angel's Workshop" incorporated the tune "Smooth" (), a rendition of the Pixies tune "Smooth Instrumental Version" (composed by Black as a young person) with verses. The tune was one of the primary signs that he had recognized his past work with the Pixies in his performance yield. A 6th collection with the Catholics, "Demonstrate to Me Your Tears", was discharged in 2003. "Demonstrate to Me Your Tears<nowiki>'</nowiki>" title and a large number of the melodies in it were motivated by Thompson's ongoing separation and passage into treatment. 

In late 2003, after long-standing bits of gossip, an official declaration was made that the Pixies were practicing for a get-together visit. The band played freely without precedent for a long time in April 2004, and proceeded to visit broadly all through the U.S., Canada and Europe around the same time. They likewise recorded one of Deal's organizations, "Bam Thwok," which was discharged on the iTunes Music Store. "Straightforward Black Francis", a twofold collection overcoming any issues between his two personas, was discharged to match with the Pixies get-together visit. The principal circle comprised of solo demos of Pixies tunes recorded the day preceding "The Purple Tape" was recorded, and the second contained studio coordinated efforts, again of Pixies tunes, with Two Pale Boys. 

Additionally in 2004, Thompson started to work together with a gathering of Nashville session performers, including Steve Cropper, Spooner Oldham, Reggie Young, and Anton Fig, just as maker Jon Tiven. In July 2005, the aggregate discharged "Honeycomb" under the Frank Black name, to for the most part positive audits. "Diversion Weekly" portrayed the collection as "extra, smooth, [and] in the pocket," while "Board" noted it as "One of [Thompson's] best hours." A second volume of Nashville sessions, a twofold collection entitled "Quick Man Raider Man", was discharged in June 2006. Thompson showed up at a show by Christian shake pioneer Larry Norman in June 2005 in Salem, Oregon. Norman and Thompson played out a two part harmony on "Watch What You're Doing," which later showed up on Norman's collection, "Live at The Elsinore". 

Thompson kept on visiting with the Pixies through 2005 and 2006. Despite the fact that the Catholics were successfully old, they discharged two separate collections of B-sides and rarities, "A scam" and "One More Road for the Hit", on iTunes, with an eye towards a future CD discharge. Thompson was additionally taking a shot at all the more new solo material with Feldman in the initial segment of 2006, some of which they performed live. In the fall of 2006, Thompson started his first solo visit since 2003, taking Feldman, Billy Block, and Duane Jarvis along as his sponsorship band. In October 2006, Thompson reported designs for the Pixies to begin practicing and recording another collection in January 2007, however it is trusted that no chronicle occurred on account of the hesitance of another individual from the Pixies to focus on the task. In December 2006, he discharged the gathering "Christmass" collection; an accumulation of new studio tracks, lodging sessions, and live acoustic accounts from a performance visit the past summer. 

A Frank Black "best of" aggregation, "Straight to the point Black 93-03", was discharged in June 2007. Simultaneously with that discharge, Thompson embraced an European visit with another band, including Salem's Guards of Metropolis individuals Jason Carter and Charles Normal, just as bassist Ding Archer. For this visit, Thompson shunned his standard cadence guitar job and performed exclusively as a frontman and vocalist. In September 2007, another collection entitled "Bluefinger" was discharged under his previous stage name of Black Francis. For this collection, he was motivated by the life and works of Herman Brood, a Dutch performer and craftsman. He likewise discharged another "small scale collection" entitled "Svn Fngrs" as Black Francis in March 2008. 

In February 2008, Thompson was removed by the Irish police in Dublin, Ireland, in the wake of arranging an offhand "precore" acoustic solo gig at St. Stephen's Green. He was later discharged and played out that night in Vicar Street as arranged. Be that as it may, a comparative occasion got ready for London was forestalled by police and must be re-orchestrated a little indoor setting. 

Thompson as of now lives in Amherst, Massachusetts, and is hitched to Violet Clark, his second spouse, with whom he has three kids, alongside her two kids from past connections. The couple once lived in Eugene, Oregon, where they met. Thompson and Clark right now make the band Grand Duchy. Their presentation collection, "Petit Fours", was discharged in February 2009. 

In 2008, Black created Art Brut's third collection, "Workmanship Brut versus Satan", which was discharged the next year. Dark gave a few joint meetings with frontman Eddie Argos about the collection, and Art Brut upheld the Pixies at their 2009 Brixton Academy appear. In 2010, Black worked with the gathering a second time on their collection "Splendid! Deplorable!". 

Dark Francis discharged "NonStopErotik" in March 2010 and contributed the melody "I Heard Ramona Sing" to the soundtrack for the film "Scott Pilgrim versus the World" discharged in August 2010. 

In the fall of 2010 in Nashville, Thompson recorded a collection of new melodies composed and performed with colleague Reid Paley, as Paley and Francis (Reid Paley and Black Francis). The presentation Paley and Francis collection (likewise titled "Paley and Francis") was created by Jon Tiven, and highlights Reid Paley and Black Francis on guitars and vocals, joined by Muscle Shoals legends Spooner Oldham on piano and David Hood on bass. The collection was discharged in October 2011 on Sonic Unyon in North America, and on Cooking Vinyl in the UK and Europe. 

Paley and Francis appeared live toward the beginning of September 2011 with club exhibitions in Albany NY, Buffalo NY, and Hamilton, Ontario, and as one of the main events of the Supercrawl Festival. The band for these exhibitions comprised of Reid Paley and Black Francis on guitars and vocals, Eric Eble on bass, and Dave Varriale on drums. The pair visited again from February 8 to 22, 2013, with the shows including solo exhibitions by every craftsman. 

Dark Francis contributed, in 2011, to the Ray Davies collection of joint efforts, "See My Friends," with his front of the Kinks tune "This Is Where I Belong." 

Dark Francis performed at The Coach House Concert Hall in San Juan Capistrano, California, on March 22, 2013. The Pixies, short unique bassist Kim Deal, rejoined for a United States and world visit in 2014. 

Through the span of his vocation, Thompson's melodic style has developed to envelop countless; be that as it may, he is considered to deliver shake or elective shake arrangements. While melodies, for example, "Here Comes Your Man" ("Doolittle"), "Smooth" ("Devil's Workshop") and "Cerebral pain" ("Teenager of the Year") uncover an all the more light shake side, others, for example, "Something Against You" ("Surfer Rosa") and "Thalassocracy" ("Teenager of the Year") insight to an all the more substantial shake impact in his material. A solid blue grass music impact is likewise progressively apparent in his style, most remarkably in his Nashville collections, "Honeycomb" and "Quick Man Raider Man". 

Thompson has said that he gained his vocal style as an adolescent, when a Thai neighbor requested that he sing "Goodness! Sweetheart" by The Beatles (from their collection "Nunnery Road") and to "Shout it like you detest that bitch!" Thompson's ground-breaking shouts were a mark of Pixies collections, alongside the band's average melody structure of discreetly paced refrains pursued by roaring tune lines and dull guitar staccato. 

Thompson has drawn impact from various melodic classifications. As a young person, he generally tuned in to 1960s people and religious music, including the Christian artist musician Larry Norman. For playing on his middle school baseball crew, he was given Leon Russell's 1970 presentation collection, which he says affected a portion of his vocalizing. Later in secondary school and in school, he found punk music (Black Flag), alongside groups from different types, for example, the new wave band The Cars and the dark Angst. While in Boston in 1984, preceding beginning the Pixies, he tuned in to Hüsker Dü's "Zen Arcade", "The Spotlight Kid" by Captain Beefheart, and "I'm Sick of You", an Iggy Pop contraband. Thompson was additionally enormously affected by the Beatles self-titled 1968 discharge with respect to the exploratory idea of his sytheses (particularly those included in Doolittle). 

Thompson's verses have likewise included references to the Bible, particularly in his vocation with the Pixies; most strikingly in the depraved story of "Nimrod's Son", the narratives of Uriah and Bathsheba in "Dead", Samson in "Gouge Away" and references to the Tower of Babel in tunes, for example, "Construct High" and "Old Black Dawning". He refered to surrealist films "Eraserhead" and "Un Chien Andalou" (as referenced in "Debaser") as significant impacts on his work with the Pixies; notwithstanding, surrealism was less of an impact in his performance profession. He remarked on these impacts (which he paid tribute to most in the Pixies' "Doolittle"), saying he "didn't have the tolerance to lounge around perusing Surrealist books", however thought that it was simpler to watch 20-minute movies. 

Amid his stay in Puerto Rico, Thompson obtained a genuinely familiar, albeit casual and now and again wrong, utilization of Spanish, which he has proceeded all through his vocation. A few early Pixies melodies, including "Isla de Encanta" and "Vamos", reference his encounters in San Juan, and the verses are regularly vigorously prepared with the island's slang. The island's impact in his work is most remarkable in the melody "Isla De Encanta", named after the island's adage, "Isla Del Encanto". Different Pixies tunes drawn from his encounters there incorporate "Vamos" ("Come On Pilgrim"), "Gracious My Golly!", "Where Is My Mind?" ("Surfer Rosa"), "Crackity Jones" ("Doolittle") and the B-side "Bailey's Walk". A few of his melodies contain Spanish verses, most quite in the Pixies' first collection, "Please Pilgrim", and a Spanish interpretation of "Insidious Hearted You" by The Yardbirds. From his later works with the Pixies onwards, his utilization of Spanish floated westbound, reflecting spots and parts of the province of California and its way of life. 

Thompson's verses are noted for their dark references to unique points, for example, space, UFOs, and The Three Stooges—the remainder of these being the subject of "Two Reelers", a melody from "Young person of the Year". Verses with an emphasis on sci-fi were especially unmistakable on the later Pixies records, just as his initial solo collections. With the Catholics, his verses have tended towards verifiable themes; for instance, the melody "St. Francis Dam Disaster" (from "Canine in the Sand") subtleties the disastrous breakdown of the St. Francis Dam close Los Angeles in March 1928, and the "Every one of My Ghosts" EP highlighted a record of the Humboldt County Massacre of Wiyot Indians in 1860 close Eureka, California. 

Thompson has showed up on a scope of TV programs solo and as a feature of the Pixies, running from "120 Minutes" and "The Late Show" in the United States, to "The Word" in the UK. 

As a major aspect of the Pixies, he was hesitant to film music recordings for singles. Elektra Records' Peter Lubin remarked that "to get recordings out of them was a major ... undertaking and it just deteriorated after some time", refering to the way that Thompson declined to lip-match up; the video for "Here Comes Your Man" highlights Thompson and Deal opening their mouths as the vocals are being heard, taunting the training. 

In his initial solo vocation as Frank Black, his recordings were progressively proficient; he turned out to be all the more ready to participate in them. "Los Angeles" is a precedent; the video highlights Thompson riding over a desert on an air cushion vehicle. They Might Be Giants' John Flansburgh, who coordinated the "Los Angeles" video, later remarked on the adjustment in Black's frame of mind to music recordings: 

Thompson has discharged couple of music recordings since leaving 4AD, one being a low-spending video in Germany for "Pooch in the Sand"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s "Robert Onion". The last broadly discharged video delivered for his performance material was for "Men dressed in Black", from "Clique of Ray". 

In 2013, Thompson showed up in a video advancing McSweeney's kids' book "Lost Sloth".