Colin Hannah 

Air Marshal Sir Colin Thomas Hannah, (22 December 1914 – 22 May 1978) was a senior leader in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) and a Governor of Queensland. Conceived in Western Australia, he was an individual from the Militia before joining the RAAF in 1935. Subsequent to graduating as a pilot, Hannah served in Nos. 22 and 23 Squadrons from 1936 to 1939. Amid the early long stretches of World War II, he was the RAAF's Deputy Director of Armament. He at that point saw activity in the South West Pacific as leader of No. 6 Squadron and, later, No. 71 Wing, working Bristol Beaufort aircraft. By 1944, he had ascended to the position of gathering chief, and toward the finish of the war was responsible for Western Area Command in Perth. 

Hannah directed RAAF Station Amberley, Queensland, in 1949– 50, and saw administration amid the Malayan Emergency as senior air staff officer at , Singapore, from 1956 to 1959. His other post-war arrangements included Deputy Chief of the Air Staff from 1961 to 1965, Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Operational Command from 1965 to 1967, and AOC Support Command from 1968 to 1969. In January 1970, he was elevated to air marshal and wound up Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), the RAAF's senior position. Knighted in 1971, Hannah finished up his three-year arrangement as CAS a year right on time, in March 1972, to move toward becoming Governor of Queensland. He pulled in contention in this job subsequent to making remarks condemning of the Federal administration of the day, and the British government would not consent to his term being expanded. Hannah resigned in March 1977, and passed on the next year. 

Conceived on 22 December 1914 in Menzies, Western Australia, Hannah was the child of Thomas Howard Hannah, the neighborhood mining recorder and Clerk of Courts, and his significant other Johanna Frame. In 1936 Thomas Hannah was selected Acting Magistrate of the Eastern Goldfields, and in 1939, Magistrate of the Local Court in Perth. 

Hannah went to Hale School, leaving with a Junior Certificate in 1930. He presented with an Australian Militia unit, the eighth Field Artillery Brigade, from February 1933, and turned into an agent in the Crown Law Department of the State Public Service soon thereafter. 

Hannah joined the Royal Australian Air Force on 15 January 1935 as an air cadet at RAAF Station Point Cook, Victoria. In the wake of moving on from No. 1 Flying Training School (No. 1 FTS), he acquired his bonus as a pilot officer in July 1936. His first presenting was on No. 22 Squadron at RAAF Station Richmond, New South Wales. Elevated to flying officer, he was designated assistant with the recently shaped No. 23 Squadron at RAAF Station Laverton, Victoria, in May 1937. Hannah went with the squadron, which worked Hawker Demons and Avro Ansons, to its new area at the as of late opened RAAF Station Pearce, Western Australia, in March 1938. On 5 January 1939, he wedded Patricia Gordon at Claremont; the couple had a girl. Having particular as a teacher, he at that point served on the staff of No. 1 FTS, Point Cook. 

Elevated to flight lieutenant, Hannah was presented on Britain in July 1939 to attempt a Royal Air Force deadly implements instructional class, which he had scarcely started when war was proclaimed on 3 September. He finished the course, and came back to Australia in March 1940. After brief postings to No. 1 Armament School, Point Cook, and Station Headquarters Laverton, he was doled out to Air Force Headquarters, Melbourne, in May. He was made an acting squadron pioneer in September 1940 and progressed toward becoming Deputy Director of Armament the following year. In April 1942, Hannah was elevated to brief wing authority. He embraced a general observation course the next May. 

In November 1943, Hannah was selected leader of No. 6 Squadron at Milne Bay, Papua, flying Bristol Beaufort light planes. Amid an acclimation flight he went under inviting discharge from hostile to flying machine firearms on Kiriwina Island, yet maintained a strategic distance from genuine damage. He was raised to transitory gathering skipper in December, and expected direction of No. 71 Wing the next month. The Beauforts of No. 6 Squadron and No. 71 Wing partook in a progression of real assaults on Rabaul, besieging and strafing landing strips, foundation and delivery; this proceeded until February 1944, when the Japanese pulled back their air ship from Rabaul. That month, Hannah became sick and must be repatriated to Australia. Following a month and a half recovery at Laverton, he came back to No. 6 Squadron, in light of Goodenough Island. From March to August, the squadron was fundamentally associated with guard escort and hostile to submarine obligations. In September 1944, Hannah was delegated senior air staff officer (SASO) at Headquarters Western Area Command, Perth. He took over control of the development from Air Commodore Raymond Brownell in July 1945, after Brownell's takeoff to order No. 11 Group in the Dutch East Indies. 

Hannah gave over direction of Western Area in October 1946, and was presented on Britain. Throughout the following two years, he embraced learn at RAF Staff College, Andover, and filled in as SASO at RAAF Overseas Headquarters in London. Coming back to Australia, in May 1949 he accepted direction of RAAF Station Amberley, Queensland. From August 1950, he likewise held impermanent order of the base's Avro Lincoln overwhelming plane arrangement, No. 82 Wing. Elevated to substantive gathering skipper in October 1950, Hannah was designated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1951 New Year Honors, specifically for his "remarkable capacity" as SASO at RAAF Overseas Headquarters. In September that year, he was made Director of Personnel Services; his position moved toward becoming Director-General of Personnel in July 1952. As confidant to Queen Elizabeth II, Hannah was intensely associated with arranging the RAAF's part in the 1954 Royal Tour of Australia. He was raised to Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the Queen's Birthday Honors that June. 

In 1955, Hannah went to the Imperial Defense College in London, and was elevated to air commodore. He was presented on Singapore as SASO, RAF Far East Air Force Headquarters, in January 1956, taking care of counter-revolt activities amid the Malayan Emergency. Hannah's "recognized administration" amid the contention was perceived with his arrangement as a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in June 1959. As Director-General of Plans and Policy from March 1959, he was in charge of starting the Department of Air's migration from Melbourne to Canberra. In December 1961, Hannah was selected Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, accepting advancement to acting air bad habit marshal in May 1962; the rank was made substantive in January 1963. He was later depicted by his staff officer in this job as "curt" and "unoriginal" however not unsympathetic, his "uncommunicative" way originating from an inclination to "do his very own exploration, thoroughly consider the substance of his task entries, direct to his stenographer, at that point revise to his very own fulfillment", as opposed to designate. Hannah filled in as Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Operational Command (presently Air Command) from February 1965 to December 1967, amid which time the RAAF's warrior squadrons finished their change from the CAC Saber to the supersonic Dassault Mirage III. His residency additionally observed the arrangement of the main Australian helicopters to Vietnam, eight UH-1 Iroquois of No. 9 Squadron that left Sydney in May 1966. Hannah's next arrangement was as AOC Support Command, in charge of preparing and upkeep in the Air Force. All through his profession to this point he was noted for his vitality and drive. 

Hannah was elevated to air marshal on 1 January 1970, and succeeded Air Marshal Sir Alister Murdoch as Chief of the Air Staff. Murdoch had before prescribed Hannah, known to be a solid backer for Australian support in the Vietnam War, for the situation of Commander Australian Forces Vietnam when it came up for pivot toward the finish of 1969; the post went to an Army officer, and the Federal government requested the withdrawal of the RAAF nearness in Vietnam amid Hannah's visit as CAS. In March 1970, the Minister for Defense, Malcolm Fraser, authorized a survey of maritime air control. Hannah on a very basic level couldn't help contradicting any proposal that the Royal Australian Navy ought to work land-based flying machine, guaranteeing that he was contending not from a factional point of view but rather to guarantee that Australia's constrained resistance assets were not spread crosswise over three administrations. Classified RAAF papers from the time pronounced that its objective was dependably to "abstain from allowing the Navy the chance to set up a land-based aviation based armed forces". After two years, Hannah reacted positively to a proposal from the Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, Admiral Sir Victor Smith, to utilize the destined to-be-conveyed F-111 plane for sea support, among different jobs. 

In the 1971 New Year Honors, Hannah was raised to Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE). His visit as CAS corresponded with the RAAF's Golden Jubilee, celebrated in March and April that year. He by and by sorted out a fly-past of two US Air Force F-111s at aviation expos denoting the event, producing good inclusion to check the poor exposure encompassing the sort's for some time deferred passage into Australian administration. He was additionally associated with two disputable choices that year. Right off the bat, he was an individual from the council to pick an Air Force commemoration to be situated on Anzac Parade, Canberra. The chose plan was a dynamic figure that, as indicated by authority RAAF history specialist Alan Stephens, mirrored "the choice board's extensive inability to comprehend the idea of aviation based armed forces administration". Besides, Hannah charged a swap for the Air Force's winter uniform, customarily a shade "somewhere close to regal and naval force blue" that had been actually picked by the RAAF's first CAS, Wing Commander (later Air Marshal Sir) Richard Williams, to recognize it from the lighter Royal Air Force shading. Hannah openly appeared the uniform that he affirmed, a universally handy center blue suit, at a Point Cook graduation march on 8 December 1971. It was the object of much antagonistic remark in the following years; faculty griped of being confused with transport, train and postal representatives. One of Hannah's successors as CAS, Air Marshal Errol McCormack, requested that the uniform return to Williams' unique shading and style beginning in 2000. 

Hannah's arranged three-year term as Chief of the Air Staff was stopped by somewhere in the range of ten months when he acknowledged an idea to fill in as Governor of Queensland, turning into the principal officer in the RAAF to get a bad habit great arrangement. The declaration was made in January 1972, and he got down to business on 21 March. He succeeded Sir Alan Mansfield. Hannah did not have a solid association with Queensland at the season of his arrangement, and had just lived in the state amid his period as administrator of RAAF Station Amberley somewhere in the range of 1949 and 1951. He asserted not to have effectively looked for the governorship, and was scrutinized for neglecting to counsel with senior partners before settling on his choice to resign ahead of schedule from his situation as leader of the Air Force. He was supplanted as CAS by his representative, Air Vice Marshal (later Air Marshal Sir) Charles Read. 

Portrayed when he got to work as "a man with the adaptability of psyche and capacity to blend with individuals, so fundamental for a Governor", Hannah was designated a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG) and a Knight and Deputy Prior of the Venerable Order of Saint John in September 1972. His term as Governor was moderately uneventful until 1975. In October that year, he made debate at a Brisbane Chamber of Commerce lunch get-together by reprimanding the "bungling clumsiness" of Prime Minister Gough Whitlam's Federal Labor government for putting Australia in "its present monetary state". Bad habit great representatives in Australia were required to stay above legislative issues, yet Hannah announced that he would be "liable of protecting behind tradition, of denying my legacy and bombing in my respect for the general population of Queensland" on the off chance that he didn't talk his psyche. The episode happened amidst an established emergency and, as per military history specialist Chris Coulthard-Clark, was "generally observed as an outright intercession in the national political field". The Federal government reacted by encouraging the Queen to disavow Hannah's lethargic bonus to serve instead of the Governor-General whenever required; at the time Hannah was the second in line to fill in as Governor-General, after the Governor of New South Wales. Following his progression in November 1975, Liberal Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser endeavored to have the torpid commission reestablished, however the Queen – clearly following guidance from the British government that refered to Hannah's absence of unprejudiced nature – declined her consent. At the point when Queensland Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen looked to expand the Governor's expression, the British government again declined. At the point when Bjelke-Petersen tried to seek after the issue further, Hannah declined to give his name a chance to be advanced once more. 

On 9 October 1976, Hannah devoted a remembrance at Cairns to recognize the groups of RAAF Catalina flying water crafts who lost their lives in the South West Pacific amid World War II. His bad habit majestic arrangement passed on 20 March 1977, and he was succeeded the following month by Commodore Sir James Ramsay. 

Hannah resigned following finish of his term as Governor of Queensland. He was designated a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO) in August 1977 (predated to March) as a component of Queen Elizabeth II's Silver Jubilee visit to Australia. Hannah kicked the bucket of a heart assault on 22 May 1978 at his home in Surfers Paradise, Queensland. He was given a state memorial service and incinerated; his significant other and little girl endure him. Hannah Community Park, straddling suburbia of Fadden and Gowrie in Canberra, was built up in his respect in 2002.