Flocke 

Flocke () is a female polar bear who was conceived in imprisonment at the Nuremberg Zoo in Nuremberg, Germany on 11 December 2007. Half a month after her introduction to the world, she was expelled from her mom's consideration after concerns were raised for her security. Despite the fact that the zoo had set up an exacting non-impedance strategy with its creatures, authorities raised the offspring by hand. This choice came when the zoo was accepting negative consideration from the media after another female polar bear apparently ate her recently conceived fledglings. 

Like Knut, a hostage conceived and handraised polar bear at the Berlin Zoo, Flocke ("drop" in German) rapidly turned into a media sensation. After she made her presentation to people in general on 8 April 2008, her name was trademarked by the zoo and her picture showed up on toys and in commercials all through the city. The zoo declared in May 2008 that United Nations Environment Program boss Achim Steiner would be Flocke's authentic benefactor with the desire for utilizing the bear as a diplomat to empower familiarity with environmental change. In late 2008, a Russian-brought into the world male polar bear named Rasputin was acquainted with Flocke's walled in area in the expectations that she would increase important mingling aptitudes with an individual from her very own species. In April 2010, the two bears were moved to Marineland in southern France. 

Flocke was conceived at the Nuremberg Zoo on 11 December 2007 to Vera (brought into the world 2002 in Moscow) and Felix (brought into the world 2001 in Vienna). Felix additionally mated with Vera's sister Vilma, who conceived an offspring a little while prior in November to what authorities thought were two whelps. Zookeepers, upholding a severe non-obstruction approach, were not ready to decide precisely what number of whelps were conceived. The zoo allegedly did not wish to make a media bazaar like the one that encompassed Knut, a stranded polar bear at the Berlin Zoo who turned into a global VIP the earlier year. Days after the zoo reaffirmed its non-impedance approach, mass dissemination every day "Bild" ran a story with a feature perusing "Is there any good reason why anyone won't Save the Cute Baby Knuts in Nuremberg Zoo?" 

Toward the start of January, zoo guardians saw that Vilma seemed anxious; she was seen agitatedly scratching at her feedbox, and there was no further indication of her offspring. It is trusted that she ate up them. At the point when requested a reason, Nuremberg zoo chief Dag Encke expressed that they could have been sick, a condition under which polar bears in the wild regularly eat their young. The zoo immediately confronted unforgiving analysis all through Germany and from the overall media for seeming to permit the fledglings' demise. The chief of the German Animal Protection Society said the zoo had acted untrustworthily and that "it was the moral duty of the administration to give the polar bear whelps an opportunity of life. Utilizing the contention 'That is Nature' as a reason for mediating very late is pessimistic and unseemly." Angry guests accumulated before the polar bear fenced in area and yelled "Rabenmutter" (actually, "raven mother", signifying "underhanded mother") each time Vilma showed up. 

In the mean time, Vera was seen rising up out of her nook out of the blue; her single offspring, vulnerable at just a month old, seemed, by all accounts, to be healthy. Two or three days after the media kickback that pursued Vilma's missing whelps, Vera started showing abnormal conduct, for example, conveying her then-anonymous fledgling around the fenced in area and more than once dropping it on the hard shake floor. Worried for the fledgling's security, the Nuremberg Zoo settled on a questionable choice to expel her from her mom's consideration and raise her by hand. 

Not exactly seven days after Vera's offspring was expelled from the polar bear walled in area, the zoo devoted a site to the fledgling. It gave visit reports on her wellbeing and improvement, just as selective photos and recordings. The site additionally displayed a challenge in which fans could vote in favor of the whelp's name. The official name was reported on 18 January 2008 by Ulrich Maly, city hall leader of Nuremberg, and communicate live on TV. In spite of the staggering number of messaged recommendations from over the world (counting "Stella", "Knutschi", "Sissi" and "Yuki Chan"), the zoo authoritatively named her Flocke, German for "chip", as in "snowflake". "Flocke", utilized generally by the media past to her official naming, was the moniker initially given to her by zookeepers due to her white hide. 

Flocke's development was deliberately revealed by the media amid her initial couple of months. Four zookeepers alternated bottle-bolstering the fledgling with 140 milliliters of counterfeit milk like clockwork and updates on her eyes opening out of the blue stood out as truly newsworthy a couple of days before she was formally named. At five weeks old, she was alluded to by the distribution "Bild" as "Mrs. Knut", proposing that the two German-brought into the world polar bears may progress toward becoming mates when they develop. As she developed, Flocke's eating routine was improved with puppy nourishment, and bubbled bones were provided for her to bite on when she was three months old. She was before long taken to the zoo's fledglings' pool to rehearse her swimming aptitudes. The zoo had recently expressed that they were looking for another stranded polar or darker bear fledgling to bring close by Flocke up in request to improve her advancement. 

On 8 April 2008, Flocke showed up in the polar bear walled in area that had once been home to Vilma; the grown-up polar bear had been moved to another zoo. The four-month-old fledgling was welcomed by in excess of 160 columnists and about six global camera groups on the main day. Amid the main week, Flocke was shown for short interims with breaks at early afternoon. Anticipating a pinnacle of 20,000 guests, the zoo manufactured a review stage, equipped for holding 500 individuals at any given moment, before the fenced in area, yet participation by zoo benefactors was at first lower than anticipated. The zoo utilizes a video transmission and recording framework from Bosch Security Systems to transmit TV-quality live pictures of the offspring to a couple of huge organization screens. This framework, which incorporates one screen outside the walled in area, was executed to enable the zoo to fulfill the needs of guests needing to get a look at Flocke. 

Soon after her introduction, in any case, Flocke turned into the focal point of discussion when noticeable creature moderate Jürgen Ortmüller, administrator of the Whale and Dolphin Protection Forum, contracted a legal counselor to stop Nuremberg Zoo's misuse of the polar bear offspring. Guaranteeing that Flocke's open presentation would have harming impacts and that the zoo was just worried about winning cash, Ortmüller selected prominent legal advisor Rolf Bossi to challenge them in court. 

Not long after Flocke was protected in January, the city verified marking rights to her name. An official logo was thusly discharged by the zoo. Flocke turned out to be a piece of a noteworthy attention crusade in Nuremberg when she was portrayed alongside the expression "Knut war gestern" (Knut is yesterday's bear) on notices for the city's metropolitan locale. These notices were shown at various transport and train stops everywhere throughout the city. 

Named "Flocke fever" by the press (like the "Knutmania" from the earlier year), the fledgling's prominence took off in mid 2008. Her picture has been utilized for recreations, journals, delicate toys, DVDs, postcards and different things. The main item discharged, a Flocke-based prepackaged game that was discharged in February, was made by the Fuerth-based firm Noris-Spiele, a unit of Georg Reulein GmbH and Co. KG. The outstanding toy organization Steiff started selling an assortment of Flocke soft toys the next May. The pay from the stock is presently going towards the zoo and to species survival programs. 

In April 2008, the zoo diminished human communication with the fledgling, trusting that one day she could exist together with individuals from her species and not be subject to people. Winding up increasingly autonomous from her attendants, Flocke was accounted for frequently playing cheerfully individually. She was given a plastic "sham", like a kid's therapeutic ring, attached to the bars within her steady way to suckle on while resting. This suckling made the fledgling's nose seem twisted; her gag stayed in this shape for quite a while before coming back to typical. 

At six years old months, it was accounted for that Flocke, whose diet at the time comprised for the most part of a kilogram of hamburger, arranged vegetables and a liter of pup milk multi day, was at the right weight for her advancement at . The zoo's vet, Bernhard Neurohr, additionally commented upon the bear's sweet tooth, expressing that "Flocke is extremely eager about grapes, melon, kiwi foods grown from the ground", with a specific affection for bananas. 

Joined Nations Environment Program boss Achim Steiner turned into Flocke's legitimate benefactor in May 2008. By accepting this job, Steiner recognized Nuremberg Zoo's endeavors towards neighborhood atmosphere assurance, expressing "I am glad to have been approached to progress toward becoming 'back up parent' to Nuremberg's polar bear whelp Flocke. I genuinely trust that amid her lifetime we will almost certainly execute a worldwide green economy." 

In June 2008, another publication crusade highlighting Flocke was declared; its objective was reinforcing open familiarity with people's capacity to ensure Earth's atmosphere. Supported by the Nuremberg Zoo related to the Nuremberg Metropolitan Region, the blurb demonstrated Flocke and the expression "Klimaschutz beginnt vor Ort" ("Climate Protection Begins At Home"). The zoo additionally distributed a pocket-sized handout highlighting Flocke. Entitled "Little Guide to Climate Protection", it showed guests how to diminish their carbon dioxide emanations. The Nuremberg Zoo declared in September that it had achieved its one millionth guest for 2008—two months sooner than a year ago. In spite of the fact that ticket deals for the year expanded because of Flocke's fame, the numbers did not coordinate exclusive standards. That month it was reported that the offspring, presently gauging , would never again have noon breaks in her stable, and would stay in the walled in area for the duration of the day. 

In late November 2008, Flocke's mom Vera brought forth two whelps, who were fathered by Flocke's dad, Felix. In spite of the fact that Vera had the capacity to think about the new fledglings without help from zoo attendants, Director Dag Encke at first expressed that the whelps had a 50 percent possibility of survival. Three weeks after their introduction to the world was accounted for, the two whelps passed on of regular causes inside multi week of one another. Encke communicated lament after the second fledgling's demise, expressing that "Vera breast fed consistently and the youthful creature dependably rested soundly a short time later, so it appeared to be sure that it gotten enough milk. The reason that the youthful creature squandered away so rapidly isn't known." 

A male polar bear whelp named Rasputin was moved from Moscow to the Nuremberg Zoo in December 2008 for what was believed to be a long visit before his lasting move to the Zoo Aquarium de Madrid. Initially intended to stay in Germany for just a year, the male bear—called "Raspi" by fans—shared Flocke's fenced in area. The zoo trusted that Rasputin, who not at all like Flocke was raised by his mom, would instruct their VIP bear how to collaborate with those of her own species. As per an announcement given by the city, the bears "get along broadly". 

On 21 October 2009, the city of Nuremberg declared that Flocke and Rasputin would move together to a recently developed nook at Marineland, situated in Antibes, France, toward the start of 2010. Because of the cozy connection between the two immature bears, authorities from the European Conservation Breeding Program (Europäischen Erhaltungszucht-Programms, or "EEP") chose that the two bears ought to stay together regardless of prior designs for Rasputin to migrate to Madrid alone. The fenced in area they are clearing in Nuremberg will be used by Flocke's folks, Vera and Felix, in the expectations that they will deliver more whelps. In spite of a minute ago endeavors by the creature right's gathering PETA to end the move dependent on worries for Flocke and Rasputin's prosperity, the two bears arrived securely in France on 22 April 2010. On 26 November 2014, Flocke brought forth her very own fledgling named Hope, fathered by Rasputin.