Planescape: Torment 

Planescape: Torment is a pretending computer game created by Black Isle Studios and distributed by Interplay Entertainment. Discharged for Microsoft Windows on December 12, 1999, the amusement happens in areas from the multiverse of Planescape, a "Prisons and Dragons" ("D&D") dream battle setting. The amusement's motor is an adjusted adaptation of the Infinity Engine, which was utilized for BioWare's "Baldur's Gate", a past "D&D" diversion set in the Forgotten Realms. 

"Planescape: Torment" is essentially story-driven, with battle not being unmistakably included. The hero, known as The Nameless One, is a man who is undying, however with the expense of him overlooking everything whenever slaughtered. The amusement centers around his voyage through the city of Sigil and different planes to recover his recollections of these past lives, and to find why he was made undying in any case. A few characters in the diversion may join The Nameless One on his voyage; the majority of these characters have experienced him before or have been impacted by his activities here and there. 

The diversion was not a business achievement, however gotten basic approval and has since turned into a clique exemplary. Asserted by computer game columnists to be the best pretending round of 1999, it was commended for its vivid exchange, for the dull and moderately cloud Planescape setting, and for the hero's novel persona, which evaded numerous attributes of customary pretending amusements. It is viewed as one of the best computer games ever, and keeps on getting consideration long after its discharge. An improved form, highlighting personal satisfaction refreshes made for current stages among different upgrades, was made by Beamdog and discharged for Windows, Linux, macOS, Android, and iOS in April 2017. 

"Planescape: Torment" is based on BioWare's Infinity Engine, which gives the player a pre-rendered world in an isometric point of view in which player characters are controlled. The diversion's pretending ruleset depend on those of "Cutting edge Dungeons and Dragons" second Edition. In "Planescape: Torment", the player plays the job of "The Nameless One", an interminable man with amnesia on a mission to realize why. Investigation around the painted landscape is cultivated by tapping on the ground to move, or on articles and characters to interface with them. Things and spells might be utilized through hotkeys, "speedy spaces", or a spiral menu. A choice to protection is the utilization of supernatural tattoos, which can be connected to The Nameless One and certain different characters to improve their capacities. 

The diversion starts with character creation, where the player appoints property focuses, for example, quality, knowledge, and appeal, to The Nameless One. The Nameless One begins the amusement as a warrior class, however the player may later openly transform it to a criminal or wizard. The player may select sidekicks through the span of the amusement to join the gathering. There are seven potential associates, yet just a limit of four may go with The Nameless One at some random time. Discussion is visit among gathering individuals, happening both arbitrarily and amid discussions with other non-player characters. The ongoing interaction regularly centers around the goals of missions through discourse as opposed to battle, and a considerable lot of the diversion's battle experiences can be settled or maintained a strategic distance from through exchange or stealth. The Nameless One conveys a diary, which enables the player to monitor the diversion's various journeys and subplots. As The Nameless One is eternal, coming up short on wellbeing focuses for the most part forces no punishment past respawning in an alternate area. 

"Planescape: Torment" utilizes the "D&D" character arrangement framework, in which a character's moral and good point of view and logic is resolved dependent on hub of "good versus malevolence" and "law versus bedlam", with nonpartisanship spanning the two contradicting sides. In "Planescape: Torment", The Nameless One starts as "genuine unbiased", however can be steadily changed dependent on the character's activities all through the amusement, with responses from the diversion's non-player characters contrasting dependent on his arrangement. 

"Planescape: Torment" is set in the Planescape "multiverse", a Dungeons and Dragons battle setting which comprises of different planes of presence, the animals which live in them, (for example, fallen angels, modrons, and divinities), and the properties of the enchantment that mixes each plane. A vast bit of "Planescape: Torment" happens in Sigil, an expansive city situated on an interminably tall tower at the focal point of the multiverse, that interfaces the planes with one another by means of a progression of entryways. The city is directed by the amazing Lady of Pain, while various groups control diverse elements of the city identified with each gathering's reality see, with The Nameless One having the capacity to join a few of these groups amid the amusement. The story in the long run proceeds onward to different planes, for example, Baator and Carceri, where The Nameless One keeps on finding increasingly about his past. Throughout the diversion, The Nameless One gradually finds out about his past manifestations and the impact they have had on the world. 

"Planescape: Torment"s hero is "The Nameless One," an undying man who, whenever killed, will get up later, once in a while with complete amnesia. Each time The Nameless One kicks the bucket, someone else in the multiverse bites the dust to fuel his revival. These dead transform into phantoms that look for retribution on him. At the point when the amusement begins, The Nameless One wakes in a funeral home because of his most recent passing without any recollections of how he arrived. He at that point sets out on a journey to find why he is interminable, additionally trusting the experience will help recover his lost recollections. 

Amid his mission, The Nameless One meets a few characters who can go along with him as associates: Morte, Annah-of-the-Shadows, Dak'kon, Ignus, Nordom, Fall-From-Grace, and Vhailor. These playable characters can likewise connect with the Nameless One to facilitate the diversion's plot. Morte is a negative drifting skull initially from the Pillar of Skulls in Baator. He is presented at the diversion's start in the funeral home. Morte faithfully pursues The Nameless One, mostly out of blame for having caused the passings of a portion of his past manifestations. 

The Nameless One meets Annah-of-the-Shadows, a youthful and reckless tiefling maverick, outside the funeral home, however she doesn't join the gathering until a later point in the diversion. Dak'kon is a githzerai, who once promised to help The Nameless One until his demise, however moved toward becoming oppressed to him for endlessness because of not knowing about his interminability. Ignus is a pyromaniacal being who was at one time a student mage of one of The Nameless One's past manifestations. In the Rubikon Dungeon Construct, the Nameless One can discover Nordom, a modron disengaged from its species' hive mind. Go wrong is a succubus who goes about as proprietress of the "House of ill-repute of Slaking Intellectual Lusts" in Sigil; in contrast to other succubi, she isn't keen on tempting humans. Vhailor, found beneath the city of Curst on the plane of the Outlands, is basically a vivified suit of protection committed to serving hardhearted equity. 

The amusement starts when The Nameless One awakens in a funeral home. He is quickly drawn closer by a skimming skull, called Morte, who offers counsel on the most proficient method to get away. Morte additionally peruses the tattoos composed on The Nameless One's back, which were inked there as updates by a past manifestation of himself, that contain directions to discover a man named Pharod. After a discussion with the apparition of his previous darling, Deionarra, and going by subjugated undead who work at the morgue, The Nameless One leaves to investigate the ghettos of Sigil. He discovers Pharod, who is the head of an underground town of scroungers, and is asked to recovered a mystical bronze circle for him before he will give answers. In the wake of returning, Pharod does as such, giving him further clues to help sort out his overlooked past. Later on, The Nameless One gains from a ground-breaking alchemist named Lothar that the night witch Ravel Puzzlewell caused his everlasting status, yet that she is detained in an otherworldly labyrinth for perpetrating violations against the Lady of Pain. The Nameless One inevitably finds an entryway to enter the labyrinth, however understands that it requires a bit of Ravel to enact it; for this, he finds a little girl of hers and takes drops of her blood. 

Once in the labyrinth, The Nameless One talks with Ravel, who asks him "what can change the idea of a man?" — an inquiry that assumes an unmistakable job all through the diversion. Ravel is satisfied with The Nameless One's answer since he offers his very own considerations; she guarantees she has murdered numerous men in the past who, rather than giving their own answers, endeavored to think about what her answer, which they expected was the main answer, may be. As the discussion advances, Ravel clarifies that a past manifestation of The Nameless One had requested that her make him unfading. Nonetheless, the custom she performed was imperfect, which makes The Nameless One hazard losing his memory each time he kicks the bucket. She additionally uncovers that the mortality she isolated from him was not annihilated, and that as long as he was alive, his mortality should at present be unblemished some place. Not knowing where it is, she proposes that the fallen deva Trias may know. 

Ravel at that point endeavors to keep The Nameless One and his gathering there by power, with them vanquishing her in battle. After they do as such and leave the labyrinth, Ravel is uncovered to have faked her passing. A being known as The Transcendent One at that point shows up, and furthermore battles Ravel after a short discussion, which really slaughters her. The entry that The Nameless One and his gathering found in the labyrinth takes them to the city of Curst, a door town on the fringe of the Outlands and Carceri, to discover Trias. Discovering him mysteriously detained underneath Curst, The Nameless One ideas to help free him in return for answers. Doing as such, Trias then cases not to realize where The Nameless One's mortality lies, however focuses him toward another path. The Nameless One at that point visits the Outlands and Baator, where he discovers that his mortality lies in a spot known as the Fortress of Regrets, and that just Trias realizes how to get to it. Then, notwithstanding, Curst has "slid" from the outskirt of the Outlands to the neighboring disorganized plane of Carceri because of the confusion released by Trias after The Nameless One liberated him. After battles through the city against extensive gatherings of devils, The Nameless One and his gathering reach Trias, who they likewise battle. After Trias is sufficiently debilitated through battle, he reveals to The Nameless One that the gateway to the Fortress of Regrets is situated inside Sigil's morgue, directly alongside where The Nameless One stirred. 

In the Fortress of Regrets, The Nameless One experiences three of his past manifestations: one down to earth, one great, and one neurotic. The Nameless One discovers that the "great" manifestation was the first man who was made undying by Ravel, and discovers that he had submitted endlessly horrendous sins in his lifetime. Understanding that he would need to serve in the Blood War, an endless war among evil spirits and fiends, when he bites the dust, he looked to delay demise for whatever length of time that conceivable so as to offer reparations for his deeds. In the wake of converging with his past manifestations through either persuading them or battle and increasing the majority of their consolidated involvement and information, The Nameless One defies his mortality, which is encapsulated as The Transcendent One. The Transcendent One uncovers that since being isolated from The Nameless One, he has made the most of his opportunity and has been endeavoring to eradicate pieces of information that may lead The Nameless One to find reality. Contingent upon the player's decision, The Nameless One at that point either kills The Transcendent One through battle or persuades it to rejoin with him, with either alternative at long last finishing his everlasting status. In the amusement's last scene, The Nameless One stirs almost a battleground of Blood War, getting a mace and strolls toward the contention as was initially proposed. 

In 1997, the amusement's creators delivered a 47-page archive that plot the diversion's reason and vision articulation, and was utilized to pitch the plan to the executives at Interplay. At first, the amusement was to be designated "Last Rites", and they portrayed the diversion as "cutting edge" dream to recognize it from high dream. The record additionally contained idea work of art for characters and territories of the diversion. It was one of three "Planescape" diversions being created by Black Isle at the time, alongside a PlayStation amusement by Colin McComb dependent on FromSoftware's "Above all else's Field", and a PC diversion by Zeb Cook; the other two were dropped, and just "Last Rites" was discharged as "Torment". McComb, one of the originators of the in general "Planescape" setting, joined the "Torment" venture after his amusement failed to work out. 

From the start, "Planescape: Torment"s planners expected to challenge customary pretending diversion traditions: the amusement includes no mythical beasts, mythical people, trolls, or other basic dream races; there are just three swords; the rodents looked in the amusement can be very testing to vanquish; and the undead now and then demonstrate more thoughtful than people. The originators clarified that most RPGs will in general have a "right" way to deal with taking care of issues, which is quite often the ethically great methodology. They called this "anticipated and idiotic" and wished to make an amusement with more prominent good adaptability, where a specific issue may have "two wrongs or two rights". The principle journey isn't tied in with sparing the world, however about understanding The Nameless One and his eternality. Passing (of the hero or his sidekicks) is frequently only a minor obstruction, and even important now and again. 

As indicated by lead creator and essayist Chris Avellone, "Planescape: Torment" was propelled by books, funnies, and amusements, including "Archie Comics", "The Chronicles of Amber", "The Elementals" and "Shadowrun". The amusement's 1997 layout additionally makes references to "The Lord of the Rings" to portray a few characters. While dealing with "Planescape: Torment", Avellone was at the same time chipping away at "Aftermath 2". In a meeting from 2007, he says that "Aftermath 2" helped him reconsider the conceivable outcomes of exchange in "Planescape: Torment" (and in later recreations he was included with, including "Neverwinter Nights 2"). Maker Guido Henkel remarked on mistreating the "AD&D" administers by disentangling them: "I think despite everything we take the "AD&D" leads in all respects genuinely and we pursue those guidelines. We simply venture to evacuate a portion of the 'overhead'." The diversion's credits additionally refer to "Conclusive Fantasy VII" as a motivation. 

Avellone commented that huge numbers of the thoughts in the amusement "could just have been conveyed through content, basically on the grounds that nobody would have the financial plan or assets to completely acknowledge a large number of these dream works through TV or motion pictures". At last, Avellone has communicated some lament about the amusement's substantial spotlight on exchange, as he feels this meddled with the general diversion mechanics, especially the battle framework. The amusement's content contains around 800,000 words, after early sees had shown that the diversion would be just around 20 hours in length. 

In a few meetings, maker Guido Henkel expressed that he was progressively baffled by the weight the administration of Interplay put on the improvement group after Interplay's first sale of stock. Albeit just a couple of extra subplots and characters must be disposed of to meet the arranged discharge date, he blamed the Interplay the board for ignoring the advancement group with respect to things like bundle plan and advertising. Henkel said that it was his principle objective to keep the amusement from being "disabled" before leaving Interplay when the diversion achieved beta status. He additionally made the case that his general effect on the diversion was more noteworthy than that of Avellone, Eric Campanella, or Dave Maldonaldo, yet since a maker frequently needs to settle on disagreeable choices his job was later made light of. In 2011 Henkel likewise uncovered that The Nameless One's face on diversion box workmanship depends on his genuine face, because of the way that the day preceding the spread photograph shoot was planned to happen, the model contracted to show up on the case pulled out over a booking strife, so Guido Henkel was proposed to utilize his face. Make up went on for around two hours, and photography took 45 minutes, Henkel stated: "My face was red as a beet and consumed for the remainder of the day, as a result of the dissolvable that was utilized to expel the machines. In any case, it was all well justified, despite all the trouble". 

The amusement utilized the Infinity Engine, a diversion motor at first created by BioWare for "Baldur's Gate". Be that as it may, "Planescape: Torment" was being created utilizing the Infinity Engine before "Baldur's Gate" had been discharged, leaving the motor's acknowledgment in the market still obscure. Dark Isle made changes to the motor to suit the amusement. For instance, playable characters had the capacity to run, and both the character sprites and foundations were bigger and progressively point by point. The more prominent size and detail was accomplished by conveying the point of view nearer to the ground. Enchantment was additionally a critical piece of the amusement's structure, and a group of four planners worked exclusively on the visuals and mechanics of spells. 

Notwithstanding official confinements, for instance the one by CD Projekt for the Polish market, fan networks created Spanish, Hungarian, and Italian fan interpretations of the diversion. At the point when Interplay dropped support for "Planescape: Torment" after the authority 1.1 fix, a few not yet fixed bugs were rectified by fan made informal patches. Different mods include back things and journeys excluded from the last form of the diversion or new highlights, for example, widescreen support. 

At first, Interplay enlisted dim encompassing performer Lustmord to make the melodic score for the amusement. He took a shot at the undertaking for four months, composing more than 40 unique pieces. Be that as it may, only a month and a half before the amusement discharged, one of the makers had a difference in heart on the diversion's melodic heading, who needed it to sound less surrounding and "more along the lines of John Williams". His first time taking a shot at a computer game undertaking, Lustmord considered the experience "horrendous", in the long run reusing a portion of the components from the score in his 2001 collection, "Metavoid". Requiring a substitution soundtrack done rapidly, Interplay at that point connected and asked Mark Morgan, who had chipped away at other Black Isle Studios amusements, to do it. Two extra topics were written by Richard Band. The amusement's cast of voice on-screen characters included Michael T. Weiss, Sheena Easton, Rob Paulsen, Mitch Pileggi, Dan Castellaneta, and Tony Jay. 

After the diversion's discharge, an analyst for Game Revolution commended its sound, saying that "When you're in a packed city, it "sounds" like a jam-packed city. Stroll past a bar, and you'll hear the commotion of the tipsy benefactors inside. Meander almost a slave sale, and you'll hear the barker calling. Go to a gathering in the celebration lobby, and it sounds simply like a gathering". A similar analyst additionally expressed ""Planescape" has pretty much the best stable I've at any point heard in a diversion." IGN gave the sound 8.5 out of 10 and noticed that "The amusement has awesome discourse and audio effects, however what's increasingly great is the manner in which they blur in and out contingent upon how close you're remaining to them." 

A book by a similar name was composed by Ray and Valerie Vallese and discharged by Wizards of the Coast in 1999. The book's plot pursues the amusement's freely; for instance, in the diversion, the primary character's absence of a name is an indication of his inadequate state and a wellspring of security in being mysterious. In the book, the hero picks a legitimate name. For the amusement's 2010 re-discharge on GOG.com, a second, increasingly precise, novelization created by Rhyss Hess was packaged with it, in view of the diversion content by Chris Avellone and Colin McComb. 

"Planescape: Torment" got across the board basic approval upon its discharge. GameSpot's analyst expressed "It's obviously the best conventional PC pretending round of the year", a remark which the site would later extend to "one of the best ever". Allen Rausch, composing for GameSpy's 2004 review "A History of D&D Video Games", remarked that Black Isle Studios "went "way" over the top for this one, making an absolutely special encounter that presently can't seem to be broken even with by any RPG since". The ongoing interaction was frequently contrasted with "Baldur's Gate", another Interplay diversion that utilized a similar motor as "Planescape: Torment." Robert Mayer of Computer Games Magazine remarked that it was "one dim and intriguing amusement. There's bunches of ghastly humor, some somewhat degenerate sexual references, and enough oddness to send the enthusiasts of Tolkienesque dream running for their duplicates of "The Hobbit"." Kieron Gillen of PC Gamer UK remarked that ""Planescape: Torment" is endeavoring to be rebellious in the most stereotyped of classifications. We're giving a shout out to it." 

The amusement's reason and composing were heartily gotten; an audit in the "New York Times" noticed "The diversion's dimension of detail and its passionate effect have provoked a few players to cast about for artistic friends." Reviewers were satisfied with the capacity to shape their character's voyage as they wished. In 2005, GameSpot expressed ""Planescape: Torment" has conceivably the best usage of pretending an insidious character ever to show up in a PC or computer game to date". The intensely inked, egocentric and conceivably egotistical Nameless One was invited as a difference in pace from the regular RPG legend, who was viewed as an anticipated do-gooder. Analysts additionally affirmed of the hero's capacity to increase new powers by "recalling" previous existences. The dull and broadened portrayal of the "D&D" setting of Planescape was commended as a new takeoff from the conventional high dream of PC pretending amusements. A survey in "NextGen" commended the diversion, saying that ""Torment" offers the best RPG interactivity anybody can discover on store racks, without a doubt." Uros Jojic of "Actiontrip" remarked that ""Planescape: Torment" demonstrates that it is conceivable to make an imaginative, fun and invigorating amusement in this "ocean of clones". Making a PC release of Planescape framework is another triumph for Black Isle Studios." In a March 2000 article for "Amusement Studies", Diane Carr called the diversion's setting "an oddity appear, a long story, a zoo, and a bureau of chatty interests" and depicted the animals and beasts in the amusement as "bizarre instead of frightening". Cindy Yans of Computer Games Magazine portrays the setting as "a reality where learning and musings employ more power than the sword. Conviction can reshape universes, murder and revive powers and change the laws of material science." Cindy Vanous of Computer Games Magazine takes note of that ""Planescape's" bestiary highlights armies of the obscure, and its scene is a regularly changing embroidered artwork of the unusual." "Planescape: Torment" is the main computer game to be set in the Planescape universe. 

The specialized parts of the amusement were likewise applauded. Despite the fact that when of its discharge in late 1999, "Planescape: Torment's" default 640x480 goals was not considered especially propelled, analysts were satisfied with the craftsmanship structure and shade of the conditions. The amusement's sound and music were depicted as "well over the standard" and "heavenly", and one analyst expressed that his solitary protest about the music was that "there wasn't sufficient of it". Another analyst expressed that "Planescape: Torment" had "pretty much the best stable" they had heard in a computer game. GamePro expressed, "... the characters chat with the ability of genuine expert voice on-screen characters amid significant bits of discourse". The amusement's illustrations were respectably generally welcomed, with "affect PC Gaming" saying that "[the graphics] can be somewhat dull, albeit a portion of the spell impacts surely look great", an announcement reverberated in "NextGen" which expressed that "awesome spell impacts ... will help you to remember a two-dimensional "Last Fantasy" amusement." 

The diversion's interface got positive comments. The US version of "PC Gamer" remarked on the automap, which consequently stamped vital areas and enabled the client to include custom notes, and on the diary, which isolated finished missions from incomplete journeys. "PC Gamer" additionally adulated the tweaking of the Infinity Engine, for example, the utilization of a spiral menu, which enabled the player to remain concentrated on the amusement as opposed to dealing with various screens and "upsetting windows and catches". 

Analysis of the diversion was negligible and issues were commonly portrayed as minor, yet included grievances about long burden times on PCs of the day, or the amusement backing off amid battle. Bugs were in charge of backing off the diversion when an abnormal state of graphical resources were on-screen in the meantime, however it was accounted for that a fix was discharged that tackled the issue. Allgame's Derek Williams considered the amusement's battle shortsighted (with a correlation with "Diablo)", which made the diversion excessively simple. The most negative significant survey originated from "Eurogamer", who gave the amusement seven out of ten (and later expanded it to eight when the diversion was fixed). Their analyst communicated aversion at the eternality of the player character, saying that it made the lives of characters "shoddy and futile", albeit different surveys respected this viewpoint, saying it was "executed flawlessly" and did not make the diversion simpler. "Eurogamer" likewise disliked the measure of experience that was granted for specific discoursed later in the amusement. Nonetheless, different surveys refered to this as one of the primary things that raised "Planescape: Torment" over the standard RPG position. A few analysts additionally condemned the amusement's pathfinding AI as being "not exactly noteworthy". 

"Planescape: Torment" was given a few Editor's Choice honors, was named RPG of the Year for 1999 by both GameSpot and "PC Gaming World", and won the Vault Network's Game of the Year for 1999. "PC Gamer US" named "Planescape: Torment" "Round of the Month" in their March 2000 issue (the issue in which the diversion's survey showed up). The magazine additionally named "Torment" for its 1999 "Best Roleplaying Game" grant, which eventually went to "Framework Shock 2". 

"Planescape: Torment" is broadly viewed as one of the best computer games ever and has pulled in a faction following. 

In 2006, "The A.V. Club" included "Planescape: Torment" in their rundown of "11 of Video Gaming's Strangest Moments", because of the amusement's utilization of death as a way to propel the plot. In 2006, Gamasutra surveyed computer game industry experts with the inquiry: "Which pretending amusement over the whole history of the class do you think has made the greatest 'quantum jump', and why?". "Planescape: Torment" was positioned second by and large after "Aftermath", gaining it a "Quantum Leap Award". The amusement likewise got a noteworthy notice for similar honors in the "Narrating" class. In December 2008, IGN recorded it as eighth out of 10 of every a rundown of "Establishments We Want Resurrected" and lauded the amusement as having "probably the best composition and portrayal found in gaming". 

In 2009, Bit-tech notwithstanding "Planescape: Torment" on their rundown of "30 PC Games to Play Before You Die". Chris Avellone was granted Eurogamer's "Gaming Globe" grant for Best Designer in 2000 for his work on "Planescape: Torment", and The Nameless One was viewed as the Best Male Lead Character. In 2009, "Amusement Informer" put the diversion 188th on their rundown of "The Top 200 Games of All Time", saying that it "enabled players to ... impact the plot to an incredible degree for 1999". In 2010, UGO positioned it as #5 on the rundown of amusements requiring a spin-off. A 2011 update of "PC Gamer" magazine's best 100 PC rounds ever positioned "Planescape: Torment" as the nineteenth most prominent PC diversion. 

IGN positioned "Planescape: Torment" second on their rundown of "The Top 11 Dungeons and Dragons Games of All Time" in 2014. Ian Williams of "Glue" appraised the diversion #1 on his rundown of "The 10 Greatest Dungeons and Dragons Videogames" in 2015. "PC Gamer" included "Torment" on their best RPGs on PC list. It was put at No. 13 on "Diversion Informer" "Top 100 RPGs Of All Time" list, and was incorporated among PCGamesN's "best RPGs on PC" too. 

In the United States, "Planescape: Torment" sold 73,000 duplicates by March 2000, an assume that Desslock of "PC Gaming World" viewed as inadequate. Contrasting the amusement's business execution with that of "", Desslock commented that "the majority of "Torment"s deals have been in the year 2000, while "Ascension"s deals were predominently in 1999, despite the fact that "Rising" was discharged later in 1999 than "Torment"." He credited "Torment"s relative deals development in its second year to positive audits and informal. 

In the United Kingdom, "Torment" showed up at #3 on Chart-Track's week after week PC diversion deals list for the January 9– 15, 2000 period. The amusement stayed in the Chart-Track week after week top 5 for an additional two weeks, and verified a third-place debut on the company's month to month top 10. Richie Shoemaker of "PC Zone" noted at the time, "January saw just a single new discharge have an effect: the unusual job player from Black Isle Studios, "Planescape: Torment"." In the German market, the diversion sold 50,000 units by mid-2000, in the wake of appearing at #6 on the diagrams in January. It continued to guarantee positions 12, 30 and 53 from February through April. As indicated by "PC Player", Virgin Interactive was "just marginally baffled" by its business execution in the area; essayist Udo Hoffman noticed that the diversion ordinarily was custom fitted to "a progressively develop and consequently littler target gathering." 

Ernest Adams of Gamasutra later portrayed "Torment"s in general execution as a "business frustration". As per Chris Avellone, the amusement was not a noteworthy money related achievement, however was at last productive. In 2017, Brian Fargo assessed the amusement's lifetime retail deals as about 400,000 units. 

The amusement was re-discharged on DVD in 2009, and for buy on GOG.com on September 28, 2010 . Following the declaration of "", Beamdog's Overhaul Games reported their expectation to make updates of more amusements set in the "Cells and Dragons" universes, at first naming just "Planescape: Torment". They said that such a discharge would rely upon the accomplishment of "Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition". In November 2012, "Penny Arcade Report" composed that Brian Fargo, the head of inXile Entertainment, had procured the rights to "Torment". In January 2013, Brian Fargo declared that the otherworldly successor, titled "", was underway and would be set in the Numenera universe made by Monte Cook. The amusement's structure was driven by Colin McComb, who helped structure both the "Planescape" setting and "Torment", and was discharged in February 2017. 

"Planescape: Torment: Enhanced Edition", an overhauled variant of the diversion, was made by Beamdog and discharged on April 11, 2017 . It was reported in March 2017 for Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux PCs, just as for iOS and Android gadgets. It highlights comparative upgrades that Beamdog has accomplished for the other improved versions. Avellone gave help by serving to clergyman the upgrades to the diversion. Beamdog approached the first source code and configuration records for the diversion, and through that had the capacity to recoup and incorporate some substance that was dropped from the first discharge, utilizing Avellone's help to tissue out parts that were inadequate or missing, they generally did not altogether change the amusement, with the studio's CEO Trent Oster saying that their work was equivalent to "fundamentally going in and repainting the grin on the Mona Lisa here". It was additionally designated in the "Diversion, Classic Revival" classification at the 2017 NAVGTR Awards. 

Skybound Games, a division of Skybound Entertainment, plans to discharge Beamdog's remastered rendition to supports at some point in 2019.