Beauchamp– Sharp Tragedy 

The Beauchamp– Sharp Tragedy (here and there called the Kentucky Tragedy) was the homicide of Kentucky official Solomon P. Sharp by Jereboam O. Beauchamp (honey bee pal). As a youthful legal advisor, Beauchamp had been an admirer of Sharp until Sharp supposedly fathered an ill-conceived tyke with Anna Cooke, a grower's little girl. Sharp precluded paternity from claiming the stillborn tyke. Afterward, Beauchamp started an association with Cooke, who consented to wed him relying on the prerequisite that he murder Sharp to retaliate for her respect. Beauchamp and Cooke wedded in June 1824, and in the early morning of November 7, 1825, Beauchamp killed Sharp at Sharp's home in Frankfort. 

An examination before long uncovered Beauchamp as the executioner, and he was caught at his home in Glasgow, four days after the homicide. He was attempted, indicted, and condemned to death by hanging. He was conceded a stay of execution to enable him to compose an avocation of his activities. Anna Cooke-Beauchamp was striven for complicity in the homicide, yet was cleared for absence of proof. Her commitment to Beauchamp incited her to remain in his cell with him, where the two endeavored a twofold suicide by drinking laudanum presently before the execution. This endeavor fizzled. On the morning of the execution, the couple again endeavored suicide, this time by cutting themselves with a blade Anna had carried into the cell. At the point when the gatekeepers found them, Beauchamp was hurried to the hangman's tree, where he was hanged before he could bite the dust of his cut injury. He was the primary individual lawfully executed in the territory of Kentucky. Anna Cooke-Beauchamp kicked the bucket from her injuries in the blink of an eye before her better half was hanged. As per their desires, the couple's bodies were situated in a grasp when covered in a similar casket. 

While Beauchamp's essential rationale in slaughtering Sharp was to shield the respect of his better half, hypothesis roared that Sharp's political adversaries had incited the wrongdoing. Sharp was a pioneer of the New Court party amid the Old Court – New Court debate in Kentucky. No less than one Old Court factional asserted that Sharp precluded paternity from claiming Cooke's child by guaranteeing the kid was a mulatto, the child of a family slave. Regardless of whether Sharp made such a case has never been confirmed. New Court partisans demanded that the charge was devised to mix Beauchamp's outrage and incite him to kill. The Beauchamp– Sharp Tragedy filled in as the motivation for various artistic works, most outstandingly Edgar Allan Poe's incomplete "Politian" and Robert Penn Warren's "Reality Enough and Time" (1950). 

Jereboam Beauchamp was conceived in Barren County, Kentucky, in 1802. Taught in the school of Dr. Benjamin Thurston, he set out to think about law at age eighteen. While watching the legal counselors rehearsing in Glasgow and Bowling Green, Beauchamp was especially inspired with the capacities of Solomon P. Sharp. Sharp had twice been chosen to the state lawmaking body and had served two terms in the U.S. Place of Representatives. Beauchamp ended up disillusioned with Sharp when, in 1820, a grower's girl named Anna Cooke asserted Sharp was the dad of her youngster, who was stillborn. Sharp denied paternity, and general feeling favored him. The disfavored Cooke turned into a hermit at her mom's estate outside Bowling Green. 

Beauchamp's dad carried on a mile (1.6 km) from Cooke's home, and the young fellow needed to meet her. Beauchamp slowly picked up Cooke's trust by visiting under the appearance of obtaining books from her library. By summer 1821, the two moved toward becoming companions and started a romance. Beauchamp was eighteen; Cooke was no less than thirty-four. As the romance advanced, Cooke revealed to Beauchamp that, before they could be hitched, he would need to execute Solomon Sharp. Beauchamp consented to her solicitation, communicating his own craving to dispatch Sharp. 

The favored technique for respect killing in that day was a duel. In spite of Cooke's caution that Sharp would not acknowledge a test to duel, Beauchamp went to Frankfort to pick up a crowd of people with him. He had as of late been named the state's lawyer general by Governor John Adair. Beauchamp's record of the meeting states that he tormented and mortified Sharp, that Sharp asked for his life, and that Beauchamp guaranteed to horsewhip Sharp consistently until he assented to the duel. For two days, Beauchamp stayed in Frankfort, anticipating the duel. He found that Sharp had left town, purportedly bound for Bowling Green. Beauchamp rode to Bowling Green, just to locate that Sharp was not there and was not anticipated. Sharp was spared from Beauchamp's first endeavor on his life. 

Cooke made plans to slaughter Sharp herself. Whenever Sharp was in Bowling Green on business, she sent a letter to him that decried Beauchamp's activities and guaranteed she had severed all contact with him. She requested that Sharp visit her at her ranch before he left town. Sharp scrutinized the delivery person who conveyed the letter, as he speculated a device. He answered to her, saying he would visit at the time named. Beauchamp and Cooke anticipated the visit, yet Sharp never arrived. At the point when Beauchamp rode to Bowling Green to explore, he discovered that Sharp had left for Frankfort two days sooner, leaving significant incomplete business. Beauchamp presumed that Sharp would in the long run need to come back to Bowling Green to complete his business there. Resolved to anticipate Sharp's arrival, Beauchamp opened a lawful practice in the city. All through 1822 and 1823, Beauchamp provided legal counsel and trusted that Sharp will return. He never did. 

In spite of the fact that Beauchamp had not finished the assignment she set him, Cooke wedded the more youthful man in mid-June 1824. Beauchamp promptly brought forth another plot to murder Sharp. He started sending letters – each from an alternate mail station and marked with a pen name mentioning Sharp's help with settling a land guarantee and asking when he would again be in Green River nation. Sharp at long last addressed Beauchamp's last letter – sent in June 1825 – however gave no date for his entry. 

Filling in as lawyer general in Governor Adair's organization, Sharp had turned out to be associated with the Old Court – New Court discussion. The contention was principally between account holders who looked for alleviation from their monetary weights after the Panic of 1819 (the New Court, or Relief, group) and the leasers to whom these commitments were owed (the Old Court, or Anti-Relief, group). Sharp, who originated from humble beginnings, agreed with the New Court. By 1825, the New Court group's capacity was on the decay. While trying to support the gathering's impact, Sharp surrendered as lawyer general in 1825 to keep running for a seat in the Kentucky House of Representatives. His rival was Old Court stalwart John J. Crittenden. 

Amid the battle, Old Court supporters again raised the issue of Sharp's temptation and relinquishment of Anna Cooke. Old Court supporter John Upshaw Waring printed handbills that blamed Sharp for fathering Cooke's tyke, yet said that Sharp had precluded paternity from securing the kid in light of the fact that it was a mulatto and the child of a Cooke family slave. Regardless of whether Sharp made such a case has never been resolved. In spite of the claims, Sharp won the decision. 

Expression of Sharp's supposed cases before long came to Jereboam Beauchamp, resuscitating his purpose to murder him. Beauchamp deserted murdering Sharp respectably in a duel. Rather, he chose to kill him and cast doubt on his political foes. To add to the interest, Beauchamp plotted to submit the homicide on the eve of the General Assembly's opening session. 

Beauchamp rode to Frankfort on business, achieving it on November 6. Unfit to discover lodging at the neighborhood hotels, he leased a room in the private habitation of Joel Scott, superintendent of the state prison. At some point after 12 pm, Scott heard a disturbance from Beauchamp's room. When he explored, he found the entryway hook open and the room vacant. Beauchamp, clad in a mask, covered a lot of his garments close to the Kentucky River, at that point continued to Sharp's home. Sharp was not at home, yet Beauchamp before long discovered him at a neighborhood inn. He came back to Sharp's home, covered himself close-by, and hung tight for Sharp's arrival. He watched Sharp return the house about midnight. 

Beauchamp moved toward the house at around two o'clock in the first part of the day on November 7, 1825. In his "Admission", he depicted the experience: 

The injury disjoined Sharp's aorta, slaughtering him in a split second. Sharp's better half Eliza saw the whole scene from the highest point of the stairs in the house, however Beauchamp fled before he could be recognized or caught. Coming back to the site where he had covered a difference in garments, he peeled off his camouflage, tied it up with a stone, and sank them in the Kentucky River. In his ordinary garments, he came back to his room at Scott's home, where he stayed until the next morning. 

Subsequent to learning of the homicide, the Kentucky General Assembly approved the representative to offer a reward of $3,000 for the capture and conviction of Sharp's executioner. The trustees of the city of Frankfort included a reward of $1,000, and companions of Sharp raised an extra $2,000 remunerate. Doubt for the slaughtering laid on three men: Beauchamp, Waring, and Patrick H. Darby. Amid Sharp's 1824 battle for a seat in the Kentucky House of Representatives, Darby had commented that, should Sharp be chosen, "he could never sit down and would be in the same class as a dead man". Waring had made comparable dangers, flaunting that he had just cut six men. 

A warrant was sworn out for Waring's capture, yet authorities before long discovered that he was debilitated, subsequent to being shot through the two hips the day preceding Sharp's demise. At the point when Darby found that he was under doubt, he started his very own examination concerning the homicide. He made a trip to Simpson County where he met Captain John F. Lowe, who revealed to Darby that Beauchamp had identified with him nitty gritty designs for the death. He additionally outfitted Darby with a letter that contained harming affirmations against Beauchamp. 

The primary night following the homicide, Beauchamp remained at the home of a relative in Bloomfield. The following day, he ventured out to Bardstown, where he went through the night. He held up with his brother by marriage in Bowling Green the evening of November 9 preceding coming back to his home in Glasgow on November 10. He and Anna had wanted to escape to Missouri, yet before sunset, a gang had touched base from Frankfort to capture him. 

He was taken to Frankfort and attempted under the watchful eye of an analyzing court, yet Commonwealth's Attorney Charles S. Bibb said that he had not yet sufficiently gathered proof to confine him. Beauchamp was discharged, yet consented to remain in Frankfort for ten days to enable the court to complete its examination. Amid this time, Beauchamp composed letters to John J. Crittenden and George M. Bibb mentioning their legitimate guide in the issue. Neither one of the letters was replied. In the mean time, Beauchamp's uncle, a state congressperson, accumulated a guard group that included previous U.S. Representative John Pope. 

Amid the examination, ineffective endeavors were made to coordinate a blade taken from Beauchamp upon his capture to the sort of twisted saw on Sharp's body. Endeavors to coordinate an impression found close to Sharp's home to Beauchamp were likewise fruitless. The group that captured Beauchamp had taken a ridiculous tissue from the wrongdoing scene, yet had lost it on the excursion back to Frankfort after the capture. The best proof introduced by the arraignment was the declaration of Sharp's better half Eliza that she heard the executioner's voice and that it was particularly shrill. At the point when allowed the chance to hear Beauchamp's voice, she distinguished it as that of the executioner. 

Whenever addressed, Patrick Darby affirmed that in 1824, Beauchamp had requested his administrations so as to bring suit against Sharp for unspecified charges. Amid their following discussions, Beauchamp had related the narrative of Sharp's deserting of Anna Cooke and her kid, swearing that he would kill him one day, regardless of whether he needed to come to Frankfort and shoot him down in the road. The joined declarations of Eliza Sharp and Patrick Darby were adequate to influence the city justices to hold Beauchamp for preliminary amid the circuit court's next term, which started in March 1826. 

Beauchamp was arraigned, and his preliminary started May 8, 1826. Beauchamp argued not liable, yet never affirmed amid the preliminary. Chief Lowe was called to rehash the story he had initially identified with Patrick Darby in regards to Beauchamp's dangers to murder Sharp. He further affirmed that Beauchamp returned home after the homicide waving a warning and pronouncing that he had "picked up the triumph." He additionally swung over to the court a letter from the Beauchamps with respect to the homicide. In the letter, Beauchamp kept up his guiltlessness, yet revealed to Lowe that his foes were plotting against him and requested that he affirm for his sake. The letter gave Lowe a few ideas to make reference to whenever called to affirm, some evident and some generally. 

Eliza Sharp rehashed her affirmation that the killer's voice was that of Beauchamp. Joel Scott, the superintendent who gave Beauchamp lodging the evening of the homicide, affirmed that he heard Beauchamp leave amid the night and return soon thereafter. He additionally referenced that Beauchamp was incredibly curious about the wrongdoing after being recounted it the following morning. The most broad declaration originated from Darby, who related his 1824 gathering with Beauchamp. As per Darby, Beauchamp guaranteed that Sharp offered him and Anna $1,000, a slave young lady, and of land in the event that they would disregard him. Sharp later reneged on the offer. 

A few observers kept up that the executioner's case to be John A. Covington was telling. They said that both Sharp and Beauchamp had been familiar with John W. Covington, and that Beauchamp frequently erroneously considered him John A. Covington. Different observers recounted dangers they had heard Beauchamp make against Sharp. 

Beauchamp's resistance group endeavored to dishonor Patrick Darby by focusing on his relationship with the Old Court and proposing the homicide was politically propelled. They additionally exhibited observers who affirmed that they was aware of no threatening vibe among Beauchamp and Sharp, and addressed whether Darby and Beauchamp's 1824 gathering at any point happened. 

Amid shutting contentions, protection counsel John Pope endeavored to dishonor Darby; the last responded by striking one of Pope's co-instructors with a stick. The preliminary kept going thirteen days, and notwithstanding the nonappearance of any physical proof, including a homicide weapon, the jury restored a blameworthy decision after just an hour of consultation on May 19. Beauchamp was condemned to be executed by holding tight June 16, 1826. 

Amid the preliminary, Anna Beauchamp spoke to John Waring for help for her significant other's sake. She likewise endeavored to tempt John Lowe to submit prevarication and affirm for her better half's benefit. The two interests were denied. On May 20, Anna was inspected by two judges of the tranquility on doubt of being an accomplice to the homicide, however was cleared because of absence of proof. At her solicitation, Anna was allowed to remain in the cell with Beauchamp . 

Pope's solicitation to have the decision toppled was denied, yet the judge conceded Beauchamp a stay of execution until July 7 to enable him to create a composed avocation of his activities. In it, Beauchamp said he had executed Sharp to safeguard Anna's respect. Beauchamp had would have liked to distribute his work before his execution, however the derogatory charges it contained – that arraignment observes submitted prevarication and pay off to see him indicted – postponed its production. 

The Beauchamps were blamed for endeavoring to reward a gatekeeper to give them a chance to get away, yet this exertion fizzled. They additionally endeavored to get a letter to Senator Beauchamp, requesting his assistance in getting away. A last request to Governor Desha for another stay of execution was denied on July 5. Soon thereafter, the couple endeavored a twofold suicide by taking extensive dosages of laudanum, however both endure. 

On July 7, the morning of Beauchamp's booked execution, Anna mentioned that the gatekeeper permit her protection while she dressed. Anna attempted another overdose on laudanum, yet was unfit to hold it down. She had carried a blade into the cell, and the couple endeavored another twofold suicide by cutting themselves with it. When they were found, Anna was taken to the prison guard's home and tended to by specialists. 

Debilitated by his very own injuries, Beauchamp was stacked on a truck to be taken to the hangman's tree and hanged before he seeped to death. He demanded seeing his better half before being executed, however specialists disclosed to him she was not seriously harmed and would recoup. Beauchamp challenged that not being permitted to see his better half was remorseless, and the gatekeepers agreed to take him to her. After arriving, he was enraged to see that the specialists had misled him; Anna was excessively feeble even to address him. He stayed with her until he could never again feel her heartbeat. He kissed her dead lips and pronounced "For you I lived — for you I bite the dust." 

On his way to the hangman's tree, Beauchamp requested to see Patrick Darby, who was among the amassed onlookers. Beauchamp grinned and offered his hand, yet Darby declined the motion. Beauchamp openly denied that Darby had any association with the homicide, yet blamed Darby for having lied about the 1824 gathering. Darby prevented this allegation from securing prevarication and attempted to draw in Beauchamp in an exchange about it, trusting he would withdraw the charge, however the detainee requested the truck driver to proceed to the hangman's tree. 

At the hangman's tree, Beauchamp guaranteed the amassed ministry that he had a salvation experience on July 6. Too frail to even consider standing, he was held upstanding by two men while the noose was tied around his neck. At Beauchamp's solicitation, the Twenty-Second Regiment performers played "Bonaparte's Retreat from Moscow" while 5,000 onlookers watched his execution. It was the principal lawful hanging in Kentucky's history. Beauchamp's dad mentioned the groups of his child and girl in-law for internment. The two bodies were set in a grasp in a solitary casket, as they had mentioned. They were covered in Maple Grove Cemetery in Bloomfield, Kentucky. The couple's gravestone was engraved with a lyric composed by Anna Beauchamp. 

Beauchamp's admission was distributed in 1826, a similar year as "The Letters of Ann Cook" – the origin of which is questioned. J. G. Dana and R. S. Thomas likewise distributed an altered transcript of Beauchamp's preliminary. The next year, Sharp's sibling, Dr. Leander Sharp, expressed "Vindication of the character of the late Col. Solomon P. Sharp" to shield Sharp from the charges made in Beauchamp's admission. Patrick Darby took steps to sue Dr. Sharp if the work were distributed. John Waring undermined Dr. Sharp's life on the off chance that he distributed "Vindication". All duplicates of the work were left in the Sharps' home in Frankfort, where they were found numerous years after the fact amid a redesign. 

Despite the fact that many viewed Sharp's homicide as a respect executing, some New Court partisans charged that Beauchamp had been instigated to savagery by individuals from the Old Court party, explicitly Patrick Darby. Sharp was believed to be the minority gathering's decision for Speaker of the House for the 1826 session. By tempting Beauchamp to kill Sharp, the Old Court could evacuate a political adversary. Sharp's widow Eliza seemed to trust this thought. In a 1826 letter in the "New Court Argus of Western America", she alluded to Darby as "the main instigator of the foul homicide which has denied me of my entire being held most dear on earth". 

Some Old Court partisans guaranteed that Governor Desha had offered Beauchamp an exoneration on the off chance that he would embroil Darby and Achilles Sneed, agent of the Old Court, in his admission. In the blink of an eye before his execution, Beauchamp was heard to state he had "been New Court sufficiently long, and would pass on an Old Court man." Beauchamp had undauntedly related to the Old Court, and his case appears to infer that he had in any event considered plotting with the New Court forces to verify his exculpation. Such an arrangement is unequivocally referenced in one variant of Beauchamp's "Admission". Beauchamp at last rejected the arrangement for dread that he would be betrayed by the New Court, abandoning him detained and denied of the gallant intention in his activities. 

Darby denied association with the homicide, asserting that New Court partisans, for example, Francis P. Blair and Amos Kendall were trying to slander him. He additionally countered that Eliza Sharp's letter to the "New Court Argus" was composed by New Court supporters, including Kendall, the paper's supervisor. The cases and counterclaims between the opposite sides achieved such an extraordinary, that a 1826 letter in the "New Court Argus" recommended that New Court supporters had incited Sharp's homicide so as to accuse Old Court partisans and fasten a disgrace to them. 

Darby in the end brought suit for criticism against Kendall and Eliza Sharp, just as Senator Beauchamp and Sharp's sibling Leander. Various postponements and changes of scene kept any of the suits from regularly going to preliminary. Darby kicked the bucket in December 1829. 

The Beauchamp– Sharp Tragedy roused anecdotal works, strikingly Edgar Allan Poe's incomplete play "Politian" and Robert Penn Warren's "Reality Enough and Time". William Gilmore Simms composed three works dependent on the Sharp's homicide and outcome: "Beauchampe: or The Kentucky Tragedy, A Tale of Passion", "Charlemont", and "Beauchampe: A Sequel to Charlemonte". "Greyslaer: A Romance of the Mohawk" by Charles Fenno Hoffman, "Octavia Bragaldi" by Charlotte Barnes, "Sybil" by John Savage, and "Conrad and Eudora; or, The Death of Alonzo: A Tragedy" and "Leoni, The Orphan of Venice" both by Thomas Holley Chivers, all attract somewhat on the occasions that encompass Sharp's homicide. 

Sources differently give the name as Anna Cooke, Anna Cook, Ann Cooke, and Ann Cook.