Marble Madness 

Marble Madness is an arcade computer game structured by Mark Cerny and distributed by Atari Games in 1984. The player utilizes a trackball to control an onscreen marble through six deterrent occupied courses inside a period limit. "Marble Madness" was Atari's first amusement to utilize the Atari System 1 equipment and to be modified in the C programming language. It was additionally one of the principal amusements to utilize genuine stereo sound; past recreations utilized either monaural sound or mimicked stereo. 

Cerny drew motivation from little golf, hustling amusements, and fine art by M. C. Escher. He connected a moderate methodology in structuring the presence of the diversion's courses and adversaries. 

"Marble Madness" was economically fruitful. The amusement was ported to various stages and enlivened the advancement of different diversions. A spin-off was created and made arrangements for discharge in 1991 yet dropped when area testing demonstrated the amusement couldn't rival different titles. 

"Marble Madness" is an isometric stage diversion in which the player controls an onscreen marble from a third-individual point of view. The player controls the marble's developments with a trackball, however most home adaptations utilize amusement controllers with directional cushions. The point of the diversion is for the player to finish six labyrinth like, isometric race courses before a set measure of time terminates. Except for the primary race, whenever left on the clock toward the finish of a race is persisted to the following one, and the player is conceded a set measure of extra time also. The diversion enables two players to contend with one another, granting extra indicates and additional time the champ of each race; the two players have separate timekeepers. 

As the amusement advances, the courses become progressively troublesome and present more adversaries and impediments. Each course has an unmistakable visual topic. For instance, the principal race (titled "Practice") is a basic course that is a lot shorter than the others, while the fifth race (named "Senseless") highlights spotted examples and is arranged toward a path inverse that of different courses. 

"Marble Madness" was created by Atari Games, with Mark Cerny as the lead creator and Bob Flanagan as the product engineer. Both Cerny and Flanagan took care of programming the amusement. It utilizes the Atari System 1 equipment, a compatible arrangement of circuit sheets, control boards, and fine art. The diversion highlights pixel designs on a 19-inch Electrohome G07 show CRT screen, and uses a Motorola 68010 focal preparing unit (CPU) with a MOS Technology 6502 subsystem to control the sound and coin tasks. "Marble Madness" was Atari's first amusement to utilize a FM sound chip delivered by Yamaha, which is like a Yamaha DX7 synthesizer and makes the music continuously so it is in synchronization with the diversion's on-screen activity. The amusement's music was formed by Brad Fuller and Hal Canon who put in a couple of months getting comfortable with the abilities of the sound chip. 

Cerny and Flanagan first worked together on a computer game dependent on Michael Jackson's "Spine chiller". The undertaking was dropped and the two started taking a shot at a thought of Cerny's that in the long run progressed toward becoming "Marble Madness". Improvement endured 10 months. Following the North American computer game accident of 1983, computer game improvement inside Atari concentrated on giving a particular encounter using a novel control framework and by underscoring a synchronous two-player mode. Cerny planned "Marble Madness" as per these organization objectives. He was first roused by smaller than usual golf and enraptured by the possibility that a play field's forms impacted the ball's way. Cerny started testing different thoughts utilizing Atari's computerized workmanship framework. In the wake of choosing to utilize an isometric framework, Cerny started building up the amusement's idea. His underlying thought included hitting a ball in a route like small scale golf, yet Atari was apathetic. Cerny next idea of hustling diversions and made arrangements for races on long tracks against an adversary. Innovation confinements at the time were unfit to deal with the in-diversion material science vital for the thought, and Cerny exchanged the amusement's target to a race against time. 

The improvement toolbox for the Motorola CPU incorporated a compiler for the C programming language, which the two developers knew about. After Atari had led execution assessments, it endorsed utilization of the language. Cerny and Flanagan's choice to program "Marble Madness" in the C language had positive and negative results. Atari diversions had recently been modified in low level computing construct. The C language was simpler to program, however was less proficient, so the amusement works at the slower speed of 30 Hz rather than the typical 60 Hz recurrence of arcade diversions at the time. Cerny chose to utilize a trackball framework (showcased by Atari as Trak-Ball) to give the amusement a one of a kind control framework, and he picked a mechanized trackball for quicker turning and braking when the in-diversion ball voyaged downhill and tough, separately. As it was building the models, Atari's plan office educated Cerny that the mechanized trackball's structure had a characteristic imperfection—one of the four backings had poor contact with the ball—and the utilization of a normal trackball was progressively doable. Moreover, Cerny had foreseen the utilization of amazing custom chips that would permit RAM-based sprites to be enlivened by the CPU, yet the accessible equipment was a less-propelled framework utilizing ROM-based, static sprites. 

These specialized confinements constrained Cerny to improve the general plans. Propelled by M. C. Escher, he planned dynamic scenes for the courses. By and large, Cerny halfway ascribed the plans to his restricted aesthetic aptitudes. He was an enthusiast of the 3D designs utilized in "Battlezone" and "I, Robot", yet felt that the visuals needed definition and needed to make a diversion with "strong and clean" 3D illustrations. Dissimilar to most other arcade rounds of the time, the course pictures were not drawn on the pixel level. Rather, Cerny characterized the rise of each point in the course and put away this data in a heightmap cluster. The course illustrations were then made by a beam following project that followed the way of light beams, utilizing the heightmap to decide the presence of the seminar on screen. This configuration likewise permitted Cerny to make shadows and utilize spatial enemy of associating, a strategy that gave the illustrations a smoother appearance. Cerny's course generator enabled him more opportunity to try different things with the dimension structures. When choosing what components to incorporate into a course, common sense was a major factor; components that would not work or would not show up as expected were discarded, for example, a flexible blockade or a seesaw scale. Different thoughts dropped from the plans were delicate glass bolsters, dark gap traps, and knocks and impediments incorporated with the course that pursued the marble. 

Cerny's own advantages changed all through the undertaking, prompting the incorporation of new thoughts missing from the first plan records. The diversion's adversary characters were planned by Cerny and Sam Comstock, who likewise enlivened them. Foes must be little in size because of specialized constraints. Cerny and Comstock deliberately overlooked countenances to give them novel plans and make a moderate appearance like the courses. Atari's administration, in any case, proposed that the marble ought to have a smiley face to make a recognized character, like Pac-Man. As a trade off, the bureau's fine art delineates hints of a smiley face on the marbles. Flanagan modified a three-dimensional material science model to manage the marble's movements and a deciphered content for adversary conduct. As "Marble Madness" neared fruition, the input from Atari's in-house center testing was certain. By and large, Cerny wished he had included more courses to give the amusement more noteworthy life span, however additional courses would have required additional time and expanded equipment costs. Atari was encountering extreme money related inconveniences at the time and couldn't expand the amusement's advancement time frame as it would have left their generation production line inert. 

"Marble Madness" was financially fruitful after its December 1984 discharge and was emphatically gotten by pundits. Around 4,000 cabinets were sold, and it before long turned into the most elevated winning diversion in arcades. In any case, the amusement reliably tumbled from this positioning amid its seventh week in arcades that Atari followed the diversion's prosperity. Cerny credited the six-week arcade life to "Marble Madness"s short ongoing interaction length. He trusted that players lost enthusiasm subsequent to acing it and proceeded onward to different amusements. The arcade cupboards have since turned out to be genuinely uncommon. Stan Szczepanski holds the official world record of 187,880. 

Numerous analysts felt that the abnormal state of ability required to have the diversion was influence of its allure. In 1996, "People to come" positioned the arcade variant of "Marble Madness" as number 15 on their "Best 100 Games of All Time", clarifying that "The Genesis transformation was cool, in any case the "Marble Madness" experience simply doesn't occur with a joypad. This ... is an amusement that must be played in the arcade to be valued." In 2008, Levi Buchanan of IGN recorded "Marble Madness" as one of a few titles in his "fantasy arcade", refering to the diversion's trouble and the affectionate recollections he had playing it. Creator John Sellers composed that trouble was a noteworthy reason that players were pulled in. Other connecting with components incorporated the illustrations, visual plan, and the soundtrack. "Retro Gamer"s Craig Grannell, in alluding to the amusement as a standout amongst the most unmistakable arcade recreations at any point made, adulated its visuals as "unadulterated and immortal". In 2008, "Guinness World Records" recorded it as the number seventy-nine arcade amusement in specialized, imaginative, and social effect. "Marble Madness" was one of the main recreations to utilize genuine stereo sound and have an unmistakable melodic score. English writer Paul Weir remarked that the music had character and helped give the amusement an interesting personality. A typical grumbling about the arcade bureau was that the track ball controls as often as possible parted from rehashed use. 

"Marble Madness" propelled different diversions that highlight comparable ongoing interaction dependent on exploring a ball through continuously progressively troublesome courses; such amusements are frequently depicted in wording that relate them to "Marble Madness". Melbourne House's "Spinner" and Electric Dreams Software's "Spindizzy" were the main such recreations; both met with a decent gathering. In 1990, Rare discharged "Snake Rattle 'n' Roll", which fused components like "Marble Madness". The "Super Monkey Ball" arrangement utilizes comparative ongoing interaction dependent on rolling a ball, however includes different highlights, for example, minigames and monkey characters. Toxophilite Maclean's Mercury likewise contains numerous components like Marble Madness, however with minor varieties, including the capacity to change shading, included risks, and that the player controls a mass of fluid mercury as opposed to a marble. 

Starting in 1986, the diversion was ported to various stages with various organizations dealing with the transformations; a few home forms were distributed by Electronic Arts, Tiger Electronics discharged handheld and tabletop LCD renditions of the amusement, and it was ported to the Nintendo Entertainment System by Rare. The Commodore 64 form had a mystery additional dimension not present in different renditions. 

Early forms highlighted rearranged designs, and the diverse ports were met with blended gathering. John Harris of Gamasutra thought the arcade's notoriety energized the offers of the home forms, while Thomas Hanley of ScrewAttack remarked that most forms were not as charming without a track ball. Grannell resounded comparative explanations about the controls and included that many had poor visuals and impact recognition. He recorded the Amiga, Game Boy, and Sega Mega Drive ports as the better changes, and the Sinclair ZX Spectrum, PC, and Game Boy Advance adaptations among the most exceedingly bad. "Figure!" authors called the Amiga variant's designs and ongoing interaction "arcade-quality". "PC Gaming World" expressed that the Amiga form was better than the arcade unique. Bruce Webster of "BYTE" composed that the illustrations of the Amiga variant of "Marble Madness" in December 1986 "are truly astonishing". While scrutinizing the absence of a respite work or a top scores list, he expressed that it "is certainly worth having on the off chance that you possess an Amiga". Bil Herd reviewed that the Amiga adaptation was so famous at Commodore International that workers stole the required memory extension from partners' PCs to run the amusement. He stated "Not an Amiga" on his Commodore 128D so others would not open it searching for Amiga memory. "Data" gave the Amiga rendition four or more stars out of five, portraying it as "an absolutely reliable adjustment". It gave the Commodore 64 form three or more stars out of five, portraying it as "only a sad remnant of the arcade unique and the incredible Amiga variant" and sub-par compared to "Spindizzy". The magazine loved the designs however scrutinized "marbles that handle like inebriated turtles". "Dragon"s three analysts—Hartley, Patricia, and Kirk Lesser—adulated the Apple II port, considering it an "absolute necessity have" title for arcade fans. 

"MegaTech" analysts evaluated the Sega Mega Drive discharge a positive 73%. In 2003, "Marble Madness" was incorporated into the multi-stage title "Halfway Arcade Treasures", an accumulation of great diversions created by Williams Electronics, Midway Games, and Atari Games. Electronic Arts discharged a cell phone port in 2010 that incorporates extra dimensions with various subjects and new things that increase the interactivity. "Marble Madness" was likewise incorporated into the 2012 multi-stage gathering "Halfway Arcade Origins". A port of the diversion is additionally playable in Lego Dimensions through an Arcade Dock in the dimension "Prime Time" and in the Midway Arcade World in the wake of opening it. 

The "Information" audit closed, "Our solitary expectation is that somebody, some place, might work (right now) on ... MARBLE MADNESS II !!!" An arcade continuation titled "Marble Man: Marble Madness II" was gotten ready for discharge in 1991, however Cerny was uninvolved in the improvement. Advancement was driven by Bob Flanagan who structured the amusement dependent on what he felt made "Marble Madness" an achievement in the home support advertise. Since the market's statistic was a more youthful gathering of people, Flanagan needed to make the spin-off progressively open and presented "Marble Man", which developed the ongoing interaction of the first amusement. The plan likewise included pinball scaled down recreations between sets of levels and permitted up to three players to cross isometric courses. Its last wave is classified "Ruler of the Mountain". Flanagan expected to address the short length of the primary diversion and, with the assistance of Mike Hally, created seventeen courses. 

Atari made models for area testing, yet the diversion did not toll well against progressively mainstream titles at the time, for example, "Road Fighter II". Atari expected the track balls represented the poor gathering and charged a second model with joystick controls. Since the new models were met with a similar poor gathering, generation was stopped and the center moved to "Watchmen of the 'Hood", a beat them up diversion. A urban legend expresses that when WMS Industries acquired Time Warner Interactive (the organization which Atari Games had since converged into) in 1996, they ran a steamroller over the "Marble Madness II" loads up so as to clear stock for assessment purposes. In fact, no "Marble Madness II" sheets were made separated from the models, and as per Cerny at most 12 of these exist. These models have since progressed toward becoming gatherer things.