2006 Gator Bowl 

The 2006 Gator Bowl was a school football bowl amusement between the Virginia Tech Hokies and the Louisville Cardinals at Alltel Stadium in Jacksonville, Florida, United States, on January 2, 2006. The amusement was the last challenge of the 2005 football season for each group and brought about a 35– 24 Virginia Tech triumph. Virginia Tech spoke to the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC), and Louisville spoke to the Big East Conference (Big East) in the challenge. 

Louisville was chosen as a member in the 2006 Gator Bowl following a 9– 2 customary period of their first year in the Big East Conference. Louisville won its last five recreations before the Gator Bowl and partook in the Liberty Bowl toward the finish of the past season. Confronting the fifteenth positioned Cardinals, were the twelfth positioned Hokies. Virginia Tech completed 10– 2 customary season, and included successes over fifteenth positioned Georgia Tech and conventional adversaries Virginia and West Virginia. A misfortune to Florida State in the debut ACC Championship Game gave Tech a situation in the Gator Bowl rather than the more lofty Bowl Championship Series-run Orange Bowl amusement. Pre-diversion media inclusion of the amusement concentrated on Louisville's loss of star quarterback Brian Brohm to damage, Virginia Tech's tumble from being a contender for the national title, the way that the two groups were playing under new meeting affiliations, and the ascent of Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick, more youthful sibling of NFL star Michael Vick. 

The 2006 Gator Bowl started on January 2, 2006, at 12:30 p.m. EST in Jacksonville. Louisville drove for a great part of the diversion, starting with a 11-yard touchdown go in the main quarter by reinforcement quarterback Hunter Cantwell, who filled in for the harmed Brohm. Tech's offense answered with a field objective, however Louisville had the capacity to include another touchdown before the finish of the quarter, stretching out its lead to 14– 3. In the second quarter, Virginia Tech battled back and limited Louisville's lead to a solitary touchdown. At halftime, the score was 17– 10 to support Louisville. In the second half, Virginia Tech's offense started to have achievement. Tech earned the main purposes of the second from last quarter—a 28-yard field objective from kicker Brandon Pace—to tight Louisville's lead to 17– 13. In the final quarter, the amusement completely turned in the Hokies' support. In spite of the fact that Louisville scored a touchdown from the get-go in the quarter, Virginia Tech scored 22 unanswered focuses in the last 13 minutes of the amusement to take a 35– 24 lead and win the success. 

Half back Cedric Humes was named the most profitable player of the diversion for Virginia Tech, and quarterback Hunter Cantwell was named the Cardinals' most significant player. Tech punter Nic Schmitt set Gator Bowl records for punt yardage and normal punt remove, kicking the ball multiple times for 300 yards, a normal of 50 yards per kick. Virginia Tech's success was defaced by intemperate punishments and unsportsmanlike direct that brought about the launch of one player. Following the diversion, Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick was discharged from the group because of a few episodes of offense, including a step on Louisville safeguard Elvis Dumervil's leg amid the amusement. A few players who took an interest in the diversion, including Dumervil, later went on to professions in the National Football League. 

In the 2005 school football season, the Atlantic Coast Conference had a programmed offered to the Gator Bowl. By contract, the Gator Bowl Association—which delivers the amusement—had the primary pick of bowl-qualified ACC groups after the victor of the ACC Championship Game was given a spot in a Bowl Championship Series (BCS) diversion. This was the last year that the Gator Bowl had first pick of qualified ACC groups, as contract renegotiations later brought about the Gator Bowl slipping to the third choice, start with the 2006 school football season. Virginia Tech, washouts of the 2005 ACC Championship Game, were picked by the Gator Bowl Association to partake as the ACC's agent to the 2006 Gator Bowl. 

The other portion of the matchup would comprise of either Notre Dame or the principal determination from the Big East Conference after that meeting's programmed BCS offer. Since Notre Dame was chosen to play in the 2006 Fiesta Bowl, a BCS amusement, the Gator Bowl Association was required to choose the Big East's Louisville Cardinals, which, similar to Virginia Tech, completed second in their meeting. 

The Louisville Cardinals football crew came into the 2005 season having gone 11– 1 the past season, including a season-finishing 44– 40 triumph over Boise State in the 2004 Liberty Bowl. Likewise, Louisville was additionally entering another gathering—the Big East—in the wake of leaving Conference USA following the finish of the 2004 season. In a survey of media individuals covering the Big East preceding the 2005 season, Louisville was anticipated to win the Big East title its first year in the gathering. 

In their first and second rounds of the period, the Cardinals satisfied that desire. At in-state rival Kentucky, Louisville earned a 31– 24 triumph to win the Governor's Cup. This was pursued the following week by a 63– 27 triumph over non-gathering adversary Oregon State. Tragically for the Cardinals, their first Big East meeting round of the period—and of school history—did not go too. At South Florida, the ninth-positioned Cardinals were outscored 45– 14, the first run through in 13 diversions Louisville's offense was held to under 30 points. 

Following the misfortune, Louisville recouped, scoring 69 points, separately, in non-meeting prevails upon Florida Atlantic University and North Carolina, coming back to their past hostile achievement. Once more, be that as it may, Louisville wavered against a Big East adversary. The Cardinals' second Big East diversion, at West Virginia University, was another Louisville misfortune, 46– 44. West Virginia later proceeded to complete 11– 1 for the season, winning the Big East title and crushing the Georgia Bulldogs in the 2006 Sugar Bowl. 

Louisville, in the interim, came back to its triumphant ways. The Cardinals, following their misfortune to the Mountaineers, won their first Big East amusement in school history the following week, over the Cincinnati Bearcats, 46– 22. The defeat of Cincinnati started a five-amusement series of wins, which finished up on December 3 with a 30– 20 triumph over the University of Connecticut Huskies. Shockingly for the Cardinals, beginning quarterback Brian Brohm, who had the 6th best season (regarding passing yards) in Louisville history, endured a season-finishing knee damage. With West Virginia having won the Big East title and a programmed Bowl Championship Series diversion offer, Big East second-place Louisville was chosen by the Gator Bowl even before the triumph over Connecticut. 

The Virginia Tech Hokies football crew started the 2005 school football season as prevailing Atlantic Coast Conference football champions. The Hokies likewise played in the 2005 Sugar Bowl against the third-positioned Auburn Tigers, losing 16– 13 of every a nearby challenge. Desires were high for the Hokies to rehash their ACC title execution the following year, and a preseason survey of media covering ACC football brought about Virginia Tech being picked to confront Florida State in the debut ACC Championship Game. 

In its first round of the period, in any case, eighth-positioned Virginia Tech nearly let those desires miss the mark. At North Carolina State, the Hokies trailed at halftime and were tied toward the start of the final quarter before squeezing out a 20– 16 win in the last minutes. The Hokies bobbed once again from the nearby challenge in their second round of the period—against the Duke Blue Devils—as Tech dashed to a 45– 0 triumph. The Hokies held Duke to only 35 yards of complete offense, Tech's best guarded execution in the cutting edge time. 

The success over Duke was trailed by a few others in progression. Heading into their ninth round of the period, the Hokies were 8– 0 record and the third-positioned school football crew in the nation. Against the fifth-positioned Miami Hurricanes, be that as it may, Virginia Tech endured its first thrashing of the period, falling 27– 7. Tech recouped by winning its next two diversions, procuring a spot in the debut Atlantic Coast Conference Championship Game, held in Jacksonville, Florida. There, the Hokies lost, 27– 22, to the Florida State Seminoles. The Seminoles earned a programmed offer to a Bowl Championship Series diversion by uprightness of the triumph—had Virginia Tech won, it would have been granted the offered. The day after Tech lost the ACC Championship Game, the Gator Bowl stretched out a formal welcome to Virginia Tech, which the Hokies acknowledged. Ninth-positioned Miami, a similar group that beat the Hokies 27– 7 prior in the season, was considered for determination, however the Gator Bowl Association thought about Virginia Tech's history of having an extensive fan base travel to its bowl amusements, and chose the Hokies on those grounds. 

Pregame media and fan enthusiasm encompassing the diversion concentrated generally on Louisville's top-positioned offense and Virginia Tech's first-positioned scoring safeguard. Other real purposes of media inclusion incorporated the two groups' quarterbacks: Louisville's Hunter Cantwell, who supplanted starter Brian Brohm after Brohm endured a season-finishing knee damage; and Virginia Tech's Marcus Vick, sibling of National Football League star Michael Vick. Additionally a worry for Louisville was the wellbeing of star running back Michael Bush, who missed two recreations in November because of damage. On a more extensive note, there was likewise enthusiasm for the gathering level standoff between another Big East group (Louisville) and a group that left the Big East for the ACC after the 2003 season (Virginia Tech). For Virginia Tech, there was additionally the expectation of beating the mistake of a season that saw the Hokies positioned third in the nation and in the chase for the national title before neglecting to try and win the Atlantic Coast Conference and missing an offer to a Bowl Championship Series amusement. 

While wagering on the amusement opened, spread bettors favored Virginia Tech by 10 points. Five days in the wake of wagering opened, the point spread limited to 7.5, still for Virginia Tech. After two weeks, the point spread stayed at 7.5 for Virginia Tech. 

Heading into the Gator Bowl, Louisville's scoring offense was positioned third in the nation—averaging 45.2 points per diversion—and was held under 30 points only once in their previous 21 games. The powerful Cardinals' offense was anticipated to represent a test for the Virginia Tech guard. 

With star quarterback Brian Brohm having experienced medical procedure to fix a torn front cruciate tendon, there were a few inquiries about how reinforcement Hunter Cantwell would perform under strain. Cantwell played well in the Cardinals' season-finishing challenge against Connecticut, however a few observers anticipated that Virginia Tech's faster resistance would present issues for him. In that challenge, Cantwell finished 16 of 25 passes for 271 yards and a touchdown. In secondary school, Cantwell go for 70 touchdowns. His .606 career culmination rate positioned eleventh in Kentucky state history. 

Running back Michael Bush was anticipated to come back to frame in the wake of enduring foot damage that kept him out of two amusements in November. Shrub kept running for 121 yards and three touchdowns against Connecticut, his first diversion once more from the damage. Heading into the Gator Bowl, Bush earned a school-record 24 touchdowns and drove the nation in scoring. He kept running for 1,049 yards in nine recreations. He was additionally an able recipient, getting 20 passes for 245 yards and a touchdown. Be that as it may, with Brohm on the sidelines, it was normal the Cardinals would depend on Bush's legs more than expected, with an end goal to limit the requirement for the unpracticed Cantwell to pass the ball. 

Louisville wide collector Mario Urrutia, who got 31 passes for 702 yards and six touchdowns amid the customary season, mixed a touch of debate in the last days paving the way to the Gator Bowl after he pronounced that Virginia Tech's first-positioned protection was "generally publicity". 

Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick was viewed as the key player for the Virginia Tech offense heading into the Gator Bowl. The more youthful sibling of first-by and large NFL Draft pick Michael Vick—who likewise played for Tech—Marcus drove the class in passing productivity (141.6 rating), finished 166 of 268 passes (60.3 percent) for 15 touchdowns, with ten block attempts. On the ground, he kept running for 370 yards and six touchdowns. Preceding the Gator Bowl, he vowed that he would return for another season at Virginia Tech before entering the NFL draft. "The NFL is extreme. It's the genuine article. You must be prepared for it. You simply would prefer not to hurry into simply tossing yourself out there in light of the cash or anything like that. You must truly be set up for it", he said. 

On the ground, two diverse Tech players were anticipated to share time running the ball. Senior running back Cedric Humes was anticipated to get the heft of the conveys in the diversion, yet redshirt rookie Branden Ore was additionally anticipated to see some plays now and again. Humes hurried the ball 140 times for 639 yards and ten touchdowns amid the normal season. Mineral, then, ran the ball for 591 yards and six touchdowns. 

Wide collector Josh Morgan was likewise viewed as a key segment of the Hokie offense. Morgan completed the season with 28 receptions for 471 yards and four touchdowns. Before the amusement, Morgan anticipated that if the Hokies executed their plays well, they would rise the victors. 

Reinforcement watch Brandon Gore broke his lower leg amid the Hokies' misfortune to Florida State and would not have the capacity to take part. Senior Tech running back Mike Imoh, who shared time running the ball amid the standard season with Ore and Humes, was likewise out in the wake of experiencing medical procedure to fix a harmed lower leg. Adding to the damage circumstance for Virginia Tech was hostile handle Jimmy Martin, who endured a sprained knee tendon by and by paving the way to the diversion. Martin began 45 consecutive recreations preceding the Gator Bowl, a streak that was broken when he was supplanted by Brandon Frye upon the arrival of the diversion. 

Not long after Louisville was chosen to the 2006 Gator Bowl, Cardinals protective end Elvis Dumervil was granted the Bronko Nagurski Trophy, offered yearly to the top guarded school football player in the United States. Dumervil additionally earned a few different distinctions in the weeks paving the way to the diversion, including being named Big East Defensive Player of the Year, an Associated Press All-American and acquiring the Ted Hendricks Award, offered every year to the best guarded end in the nation. Dumervil drove the country in sacks (20) and constrained bobbles (10) amid the ordinary season. Before the diversion, he declared that he was anticipating the challenge, saying, "To me, I needed to play the most ideal group in the Gator Bowl, and I imagine that is the thing that we have". 

A week and a half after Dumervil won the Nagurski Trophy, senior cautious handle Montavious Stanley, who was a pioneer on resistance for Louisville, experienced medical procedure to fix a torn pectoral muscle. Stanley was the Cardinals' best run-plug on barrier, storing up 5.5 sacks amid the season. 

Coming into the Gator Bowl, the Virginia Tech guard was positioned first in all out resistance, second in pass safeguard, fourth in surging protection, and third in scoring barrier, permitting a normal of simply over 12 points per amusement. The Virginia Tech safeguard was driven by cautious end Darryl Tapp, a first-group All-ACC pick, an American Football Coaches Association (AFCA) All-American, a finalist for the Lott Trophy, and a finalist for the Ted Hendricks Award. Tapp was viewed as a characteristic head both on and off the field and drove the Hokies' cautious exercises amid training. Tapp completed the normal season with 45 tackles (counting 12.5 for a misfortune) and ten sacks. He was likewise named a second-group Associated Press All-American, and he won the Dudley Award, offered every year to the best school football player in the territory of Virginia. 

Tech cornerback Jimmy F. Williams, thought about a foundation of the Hokie protection, was a finalist for the Nagurski Trophy that season, yet lost to Louisville's Elvis Dumervil. Williams was Tech's underside first-group Associated Press All-American and furthermore was named to the American Football Coaches Association, Football Writers Association of American and Walter Camp All-America groups. He recorded 44 tackles and an interference for the Hokies in the customary season. Williams had inescapable entering the NFL draft after the 2004 school football season so as to come back to Virginia Tech for his senior season, and he was required to be a high draft pick upon graduation. 

The 2006 Gator Bowl commenced at 12:30 p.m. EST on January 2, 2006 in Jacksonville, Florida. Official participation for the diversion was recorded as 63,780, putting it at 34th (out of 62) on the rundown of Gator Bowls as far as participation. At kickoff, the climate was for the most part overcast with a temperature of roughly 76 degrees. The breeze was from the south-southwest at . Roughly 4.14 million American family units watched the amusement on TV, acquiring the diversion a Nielsen rating of 3.93. The pre-diversion show included the Marching Virginians, the Cardinal Marching Band, and the Wachovia Dance Team, an accumulation of Jacksonville-zone performers. Additionally before kickoff, the arena was overflown by a trip of U.S. Naval force F/A-18 Super Hornets from VFA-103, situated in Virginia. The national song of devotion was sung by Monty Lane Allen, individual from a Gospel singing group.<ref name="pregame/halftime">The Gator Bowl Association. "2006 Toyota Gator Bowl Gameday Program". Host Communications. December 2006. Page 12.</ref> 

Virginia Tech won the stately pre-diversion coin hurl to choose first belonging and conceded its alternative to the second half; Louisville chose to get the opening kick. The Cardinals started the amusement's opening drive at their own 18-yard line after the opening kickoff. Running back Michael Bush scrambled for 12 yards on the amusement's opening play, netting the diversion's first initially down. Ensuing plays, notwithstanding, saw Louisville battle to increase another. Confronting fourth down and six yards at their own 34-yard line, the Cardinals apparently arranged to punt. Rather, the Cardinals executed a trap play by running back Kolby Smith, who kept running with the ball. Smith astounded the Tech barrier and broke free for a 30-yard run, changing over the first down and proceeding with the Louisville drive. Eight plays later, Louisville quarterback Hunter Cantwell associated on a 11-yard go to Mario Urrutia for a touchdown and the amusement's first focuses. The additional point kick was great, and with 10:42 staying in the primary quarter, Louisville took a 7– 0 lead. 

Virginia Tech's first ownership of the amusement started at its very own 32-yard line after Louisville's post-touchdown kickoff. Tech running back Cedric Humes increased 12 yards and a first down on the Hokies' first play of the diversion, and quarterback Marcus Vick finished a 24-yard go to wide recipient Josh Hyman three plays later to get another first down and drive the Hokies into Louisville domain. After Vick was ceased for misfortunes on two back to back surging plays, he finished another long go to Hyman for a first down. Resulting plays saw Tech advance into the Louisville red zone however neglect to increase another first down. Kicker Brandon Pace entered the diversion to endeavor a 36-yard field objective kick, which was effective. With six minutes staying in the main quarter, Tech slice Louisville's lead to 7– 3. 

Louisville's second drive of the diversion was a lot faster than the Cardinals' first. Subsequent to starting at their own 20-yard line, it took the Cardinals only seven plays to travel 80 yards and acquire a touchdown. Louisville was helped all through the drive by rehashed Virginia Tech individual foul punishments. Tech players submitted three separate 15-yard individual fouls amid the drive, one of which came after Louisville's fruitful additional point kick when cornerback Jimmy Williams knock an amusement official. Williams was catapulted from the diversion for the contact and was expelled from the field subsequent to viewing the following arrangement from the sidelines. The touchdown and additional point stretched out Louisville's first-quarter lead to 14– 3. 

Tech got the ball at its 20-yard line with 2:44 staying in the primary quarter. Three speedy surges grabbed 22 yards and two first downs, pushing the ball to the Tech 42-yard line. On the following play, in any case, wide collector Justin Harper submitted a 15-yard pass impedance punishment, which invalidated a significant part of the past plays' additions. Marcus Vick scrambled for five yards, tossed two deficient passes, and was unfit to get another first down after the punishment. With time slowing down in the quarter, Tech was compelled to punt the ball away. The diversion's first punt voyaged 53 yards, and Louisville took over on offense at its 40-yard line following a 25-yard punt return as time terminated in the quarter. Toward the finish of the principal quarter, Louisville drove Virginia Tech, 14– 3. 

Louisville started the second quarter possessing the ball at its 40-yard line. In spite of having great field position, the Cardinals were unfit to acquire than four yards on three plays and were constrained into their first punt of the amusement. All through a significant part of the second quarter, the two groups exchanged punts as each went three and out on a few events. By the quarter's midpoint, Virginia Tech punted the ball twice in the period. Louisville punted the ball multiple times subsequent to kicking no punts at all in the main quarter. 

After the third Louisville punt, Virginia Tech took over at its 46-yard line. In contrast to the earlier second-quarter assets, which saw the Tech offense battle to move the ball adequately, Tech started its drive with a five-yard surge. Subsequent to losing seven yards on the following play, Marcus Vick finished a 19-yard go to tight end Jeff King, driving the Hokies into Louisville region without precedent for the quarter. Two plays later, Vick associated with wide recipient Justin Harper on a 33-yard pass that brought about the Hokies' first touchdown of the amusement. With 4:56 staying in the main portion of the amusement, Tech cut Louisville's lead to 14– 10. 

Following the Tech touchdown, Louisville endeavored to reply with purposes of its own before halftime. In the wake of beginning his own 20-yard line, Hunter Cantwell finished two brisk passes that brought about 26 yards. Two plays later, Michael Bush broke free for a 34-yard run, driving Louisville profound into the Virginia Tech side of the field. Regardless of having a first down at the Virginia Tech 18-yard line, Louisville was unfit to increase any yards on three back to back plays. Bramble was ceased for no addition on a hurrying endeavor, and two Cantwell passes fell deficient. Kicker Arthur Carmody came in to finish a 35-yard field objective, and with 2:16 staying in the principal half, Louisville driven by a score of 17– 10. 

Subsequent to getting Louisville's kickoff, Virginia Tech chose to run out the clock and finish the main half. Amid the procedure, Marcus Vick ran the ball on a structured play and was handled via Cardinals guarded end Elvis Dumervil after Vick increased nine yards. Following the play, Vick stopped, at that point stepped on Dumervil's leg. In spite of the fact that officials neglected to watch the step, correspondents replayed the activity, and Tech mentors considered pulling Vick from the amusement as discipline. Toward the finish of the principal half of play, Louisville held a 17– 10 lead. 

The second 50% of play started with Virginia Tech getting the ball, going three and out, and punting the ball back to Louisville. The Cardinals responded by additionally going three and out and punting the ball back to Virginia Tech. The Hokies started their second drive of the quarter at their one-yard line. In spite of starting somewhere down in their own finish of the field, Virginia Tech mounted an effective drive. Running back Branden Ore and quarterback Marcus Vick exchanged surges, grabbing 18 yards and a first down. After Vick was sacked by the Louisville protection, he recouped by tossing a 29-yard go for another first down. Following the pass, Vick and Ore scrambled for six sequential plays, substituting conveys at different interims. Inside the Louisville red zone, nonetheless, the Cardinals' barrier solidified and the Tech offense started to waver. After Tech effectively picked up a first down on fourth and one, the Hokies were unfit to increase another. Tech kicker Brandon Pace was compelled to make his second field objective of the diversion, this one a 28-yarder, to make the amusement 17– 13 with 2:52 staying in the quarter. The Tech drive started with 11:17 staying in the quarter and took eight minutes and 25 seconds off the clock. 

Louisville got the post-field objective kickoff, yet again went three and out, punting the ball back to Virginia Tech. Louisville did not get a first down in the second from last quarter, and Tech started one more drive as time ran out in the quarter. With one quarter staying in the diversion, Tech limited the Louisville lead to 17– 13. 

Not long after the final quarter started, the Virginia Tech drive that started in the fading snapshots of the second from last quarter reached an end. The Hokies were compelled to punt, and Louisville started its first drive of the final quarter. The Cardinals' Harry Douglas kept running for 29 yards on their first play of the drive. On the second, Hunter Cantwell finished a 29-yard touchdown go to Gary Barnidge. It took Louisville simply 33 seconds and two plays to travel 58 yards and acquire a touchdown. The score gave Louisville a 24– 13 lead with 13:32 staying to play. Yet, similarly as it took Louisville only two plays to score, so too did it take Virginia Tech two plays to answer the Louisville touchdown. Subsequent to taking over at his group's 22-yard line, Marcus Vick finished a 54-yard go to wide beneficiary David Clowney. Virginia Tech and Louisville submitted counterbalancing 15-yard individual foul punishments before the play, with no impact on the Hokie offense. On the following play after the long pass, Cedric Humes scrambled for 24 yards and the noting Hokie touchdown. It took only 28 seconds for Virginia Tech to answer the Louisville touchdown. Having done that, Tech went Louisville one better, effectively scoring a two-point change on a go from Vick to Morgan. The touchdown and two-point change slice the Louisville lead to 24– 21. 

The Cardinals started their second drive of the quarter at their very own 25-yard line. In fits and begins, the Louisville offense progressed down the field. Kolby Smith kept running for a yard, Michael Bush for two, at that point six yards, and Cantwell finished two goes of seven yards each. The Cardinals were likewise helped by a protective pass impedance punishment against Virginia Tech, which gave Louisville a first somewhere around punishment. As Louisville entered Tech domain vigorously, in any case, the Cardinals endured their first turnover of the amusement. Confronting third down and three yards from the Virginia Tech 40-yard line, Cantwell was sacked and mishandled the ball. Tech protector Xavier Adibi gathered up the free ball, and Tech picked up the activity. Following the bungle, the Hokies started a drive at their 47-yard line. On the primary play, Tech was supported by a pass impedance punishment on Louisville. The punishment was trailed by a three-yard Cedric Humes surge but then another pass obstruction punishment against Louisville. Humes surged twice more for five yards, and Vick finished a 16-yard go to David Clowney before Vick finished a five-yard touchdown go to Jeff King. The score and resulting additional point gave Virginia Tech a 28– 24 lead—its first of the diversion—with 6:03 remaining. 

Louisville took over on offense expecting to get a touchdown to recover a lead before the winding down check at long last came up short on schedule. After the Tech kickoff and a touchback, the Cardinals took over at their 20-yard line. Michael Bush kept running for 10 yards and a first down, and Hunter Cantwell mixed for six more on a surging play. Confronting third down and requiring four yards, Cantwell dropped back to go for the first down. As the pass took off through the air, Tech protector James Anderson bounced and got the ball, blocking it. Still on his feet, Anderson immediately hurried the other way and, unobstructed, ran 39 yards into the end zone for a Virginia Tech touchdown. The score and additional point empowered Virginia Tech's offense and resistance and gave the Hokies a noteworthy lead—35– 24—with 4:45 staying in the diversion. 

Louisville returned on offense, expecting to score rapidly, make a stop on barrier, at that point score a second time to lead the pack. The stimulated Tech barrier was unwilling to permit any such thing. In spite of the fact that Cantwell finished two short goes for 16 yards and a first down, he was sacked on first down and the Tech resistance kept him from finishing another pass. Two passes were thumped somewhere around Hokie protectors, while another missed the mark. After Louisville neglected to change over a fourth down, Virginia Tech took over on offense. The Hokies continued to run out the clock, executing two short surges and a fragmented pass. Louisville had one last shot on offense after a Tech punt, however three back to back edginess Hail Mary passes were ineffective. Two fell deficient, and the third was caught by Tech cornerback Brandon Flowers. With time nearly gone, Tech completed the process of running out the clock and verified the triumph. As time lapsed, Virginia Tech held a 35– 24 lead and won the 2006 Gator Bowl. 

Running back Cedric Humes was named the diversion's most important player for Virginia Tech, and quarterback Hunter Cantwell was named the Cardinals' most profitable player. Tech punter Nic Schmitt set Gator Bowl record for punt yardage and normal punt separate, kicking the ball multiple times for 300 yards, a normal of 50 yards per kick. 

Regardless of being all the more profoundly advanced in pregame media inclusion, Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick was beated measurably by Louisville's Hunter Cantwell. Vick finished 11 of 21 passes for 203 yards and two touchdowns. He additionally kept running for 10 yards on 13 carries. Cantwell, in the mean time, finished 15 of his 37 passes for 216 yards, three touchdowns, and three capture attempts. 

On the ground, Tech running back Cedric Humes drove all rushers with 22 carries for 113 yards and one touchdown. Louisville's driving rusher, Michael Bush, had 16 carries for 94 yards and one mishandle. The third-driving rusher in the amusement was Tech's Branden Ore, who conveyed the ball 11 times for 56 yards. Louisville's Kolby Smith conveyed the ball multiple times for 32 yards, including a 30-yard run that was the amusement's second-longest surging play. 

Protectively, Virginia Tech ruled, capturing the ball multiple times, constraining a bobble once, and gaining one cautious touchdown. Two Louisville safeguards had the best individual exhibitions amid the amusement, be that as it may. Brandon Johnson and Abe Brown had six handles each, and Brown sacked Marcus Vick once for lost ten yards. The sack was one of three earned by the Louisville offense amid the amusement. Virginia Tech's safeguard earned two sacks amid the amusement, and the Hokies' driving tackler was Vince Hall, who recorded four and two helps on sacks of Louisville's Hunter Cantwell. 

Virginia Tech's triumph in the 2006 Gator Bowl had extensive impacts for both the Hokies and the Louisville Cardinals. The success drove Tech to 11– 2 on the season, while the Cardinals' misfortune guaranteed they finished the 2005 season with a 9– 3 generally speaking record. The amusement itself gave more than $14 million in financial advantage to the Jacksonville region as Louisville and Virginia Tech fans ran to the district, burning through cash on nourishment, lodgings, transportation, and diversion. 

Virginia Tech quarterbacks mentor Kevin Rogers declared after the amusement that he would leave the group so as to turn into an associate mentor with the NFL's Minnesota Vikings. Rogers was supplanted by new contract Mike O'Cain. Tech hostile facilitator Bryan Stinespring's second employment as hostile line mentor was filled by James Madison University associate mentor Curt Newsome. 

Following the 2005 ACC Championship Game, Virginia Tech quarterback Marcus Vick raged off the field, declining to converse with journalists following the misfortune. Vick, who got a 15-yard unsportsmanlike lead punishment late in that amusement, additionally earned a few unsportsmanlike direct punishments in the 2006 Gator Bowl, where post-diversion replays uncovered he intentionally stepped on the leg of Louisville Cardinals' guarded end Elvis Dumervil. Vick guaranteed he was sorry to Dumervil after the diversion, however Dumervil expressed that no conciliatory sentiment was made. In the wake of the episode, Virginia Tech authorities declared that they would lead a survey of Vick's direct on and off the field. 

On January 6, 2006, only a couple of days after the Gator Bowl, Virginia Tech authorities rejected Vick from the Virginia Tech football crew, refering to a December 17 traffic stop in which Vick was refered to for speeding and driving with a repudiated or suspended permit. Vick concealed the data from the group and the infraction was not found until January. The traffic stop, a prior suspension from the group, and his unsportsmanlike direct amid the 2005 ACC Championship Game and 2006 Gator Bowl were utilized as justification for his rejection. In light of being rejected from the group, Vick was cited as saying, "It is anything but a major ordeal. I'll simply proceed onward to the following dimension, infant". Vick showed up in one standard season NFL amusement for the Miami Dolphins in 2006. The Dolphins did not recharge his agreement, and he has been out of football from that point forward. 

On April 29 and 30, the National Football League held its yearly player draft. Over twelve players who took part in the 2006 Gator Bowl were chosen in the draft. Virginia Tech had a record nine players chosen in the draft, with Darryl Tapp (31st in general) chose first from the Hokies. Jimmy Williams (37th in general), James Anderson (88th), Jeff King (155th), Jonathan Lewis (177th), Justin Hamilton (222nd), Jimmy Martin (227th), Will Montgomery (234th), and Cedric Humes (240th) were the other Tech players chosen. Louisville had four players chosen in the draft. Hostile watchman Jason Spitz was chosen 75th generally speaking and was the principal Cardinals' hostile lineman to be drafted since 1996. Elvis Dumervil was chosen with the 126th determination, linebacker Brandon Johnson was chosen 142nd, and cautious handle Montavious Stanley was chosen 182nd.