Britain national football crew director 

The job of an England national football crew director was first settled in 1946 with the arrangement of Walter Winterbottom. Prior to this, the England group was chosen by the "Universal Selection Committee", a procedure in which the Football Association (FA) would choose mentors and coaches from the alliance to set up the side for single amusements, however where all choices at last stayed under the control of the advisory group. A 1– 0 thrashing by Switzerland incited FA secretary Stanley Rous to raise Winterbottom from "National Director of instructing" to "Chief". 

Eighteen men have involved the post since its beginning; four of those were in momentary overseer supervisor jobs: Joe Mercer (seven diversions in control), Howard Wilkinson (two amusements, a year separated from each other), Peter Taylor (one diversion) and Stuart Pearce (one amusement). In correlation, Winterbottom held the situation for the longest to date; a residency of 16 years, including four World Cups and an aggregate of 139 matches. Alf Ramsey is the main director to have won a noteworthy competition, winning the 1966 World Cup with his "Wingless Wonders". No other director has advanced past the semi-finals of a noteworthy challenge previously or since, with just three chiefs accomplishing a semi-last appearance: Bobby Robson at the 1990 World Cup, Terry Venables at Euro 1996, and Gareth Southgate at the 2018 World Cup. 

Swedish mentor Sven-Göran Eriksson turned into the main outside chief of the group in January 2001 in the midst of much rancor; he helped the group to three progressive quarter-finals in significant titles. Italian chief Fabio Capello supplanted Steve McClaren in December 2007, after England neglected to fit the bill for Euro 2008. Capello's side persevered through a dreary act amid the 2010 World Cup, however the FA affirmed that he would stay in the job. Be that as it may, Capello surrendered in February 2012, after a conflict with the FA over their expulsion of John Terry's captaincy. He was supplanted, on a guardian premise, by Stuart Pearce, before Roy Hodgson was named as Capello's changeless substitution in May 2012. Hodgson's agreement completed on 27 June 2016 as England were thumped out of UEFA Euro 2016 by Iceland in the round of 16. Sam Allardyce was reported as his successor a month later, yet consequently left the job after only one focused match. He was supplanted on an overseer premise by England under-21 mentor and previous England global protector Gareth Southgate, whose position was made changeless after four matches. 

The England administrator's activity is liable to serious press investigation, regularly including disclosures about the officeholder's private life. Because of the abnormal state of desire for both the general population and media the job has been depicted as "the unimaginable activity" or contrasted in significance in national culture with that of the British Prime Minister. 

The England supervisor's job implies he has sole duty regarding all on-the-field components of the England group. Among different exercises, this incorporates choosing the national group squad, the beginning group, skipper, strategies, substitutes and punishment takers. Prior to 1946, the "Select Committee" (as delegated by the FA) would deal with all issues excepting the genuine match day group determination, arrangement and strategies which was left to the head mentor for the occasion. Anyway obstruction was normal, and not just from the FA. After the Second World War, with the relaunch of aggressive global date-book, the director's job extended to take in all components: from the choice of lodging and preparing camp settings, through to sustenance and travel plans. 

The chief is given a free submit choosing his training ("back room") staff. For instance, in 2008 Fabio Capello delegated four Italians (Franco Baldini as general administrator, Italo Galbiati as collaborator mentor, Franco Tancredi as goalkeeping mentor and Massimo Neri as wellness mentor); he at that point named Englishman Stuart Pearce, the England under-21s mentor, as an England mentor, with Capello expressing "From the begin I clarified that I needed an English mentor as a major aspect of my training group." 

The England chief may likewise include himself in more extensive issues past the on-the-field group issues. The England chief is relied upon to exhort the FA on the best way to approach the intricate offering framework that encompasses the game plan of apparatuses for a passing effort. On a progressively strategic dimension, a large group of different subtleties can be impacted; Capello is even accepted to have taught the Wembley Stadium ball young men to return balls at speed when they leave play. 

The way toward selecting another England administrator is embraced by a FA advisory group, including board individuals and other high-positioning FA authorities. For instance, the individuals from the determination board which designated Sven-Göran Eriksson in 2001 were: CEO Adam Crozier, administrator Geoff Thompson, bad habit executive Dave Richards, club directors and FA board individuals David Dein and Peter Ridsdale, and specialized chief Howard Wilkinson. 

The England director's activity has been contrasted in significance with that of the Prime Minister. Enthusiasm for football as England's national game is combined with energy and Wembley Stadium as the "home" of football. The expulsion or arrangement of an England chief is headline news and the subject of serious intrigue. Extensive wholes are bet on England winning, and amid competitions the nation is trimmed in Saint George's banners; amid the 2006 World Cup, 27% of English grown-ups purchased a banner in one month alone. Shops and workplaces will be betrayed as huge quantities of individuals watch the amusement. 

The England administrator's activity is made increasingly complex by his reliance on the co-task of clubs and their directors in discharging players for friendlies, and "club versus nation" struggle is said to have happened when authorization is cannot, given reluctantly, or arranged. There are likewise rehashed remarks that the length of the English season (the top flight plays 38 association matches) is unhelpful for getting ready tired players for real competitions, yet the personal circumstance of the Premier League makes a decrease in the quantity of amusements impossible, especially in light of the 2008 proposition for Game 39, a match played between Premier League clubs outside the nation. This blend of elements, combined with England's fair record in significant titles has prompted the England director's activity being portrayed as the "inconceivable occupation". 

Prior to 1946, the England national football crew had been under the administration of a Football Association (FA) official and a mentor, typically from a London club. Designated in 1946, at first as boss mentor, Walter Winterbottom had been an individual from the FA "Universal Selection Committee". The England squad was chosen by a FA board amid his residency, with Winterbottom's job limited to choosing the beginning group together with the instructing and strategies. In his first amusement as supervisor, he drove England to a 7– 2 triumph over Ireland at Windsor Park, Belfast in the 1946– 47 British Home Championship. Achievement in the Home Championship in 1950 brought about England's capability to the 1950 World Cup in Brazil. Amid the competition, England endured a stun rout against the United States, and left the competition with another 1– 0 annihilation, this opportunity to Spain. 

Britain encountered another unexpected bombshell under Winterbottom's direction in 1953 when Hungary vanquished England 6– 3 at Wembley Stadium. Winterbottom said a short time later, "... The press would in general figure we would win effectively, however I attempted to call attention to that the Hungarians were really an extraordinary side." He guided England to initially put in the 1953– 54 British Home Championship, which qualified the group for the 1954 World Cup in Switzerland, yet observed his side thumped out in the quarter-finals, going down 4– 2 against Uruguay. Three successes and a draw from four matches empowered England's capability for the 1958 World Cup, just for Winterbottom's side to bomb in the gathering play-off stage, losing 1– 0 to the Soviet Union. Britain lost to Brazil in the quarter-last of the 1962 World Cup in Chile and, enduring an onslaught from the British press, Winterbottom surrendered five months after the fact. He remains the longest serving supervisor of England. 

Alf Ramsey assumed responsibility for the group in 1962, however not at all like Winterbottom, Ramsey had been a club supervisor, winning the League title with Ipswich Town. Upon his arrangement, he announced England would win the 1966 World Cup. His first match in control brought about a 5– 2 misfortune at Parc des Princes against France. Britain naturally fit the bill for the 1966 World Cup as hosts and, after a goalless attract the primary match against Uruguay, four back to back triumphs oversaw England to the last against West Germany. A 4– 2 triumph, after additional time, won England the World Cup for the main time. Because of his and England's accomplishments, Ramsey was granted a knighthood in 1967. The next year England completed third at Euro 1968 in Rome, yet Ramsey reflected "We are title holders. Third spot isn't our genuine position." 

Programmed capability for the 1970 World Cup was verified as title holders so Ramsey drove England on a pre-competition voyage through South America. The impacts of elevation in the group drove Ramsey to name the primary full-time group specialist, Neil Phillips, who arranged the squad for the expected competition in Mexico. Britain were vanquished in the quarter-last by West Germany; with a 2– 0 lead with 25 minutes of the match remaining, Ramsey substituted Bobby Charlton and goalscorer Martin Peters, yet West Germany proceeded to win 3– 2 after additional time. Ramsey was vigorously reprimanded in the British press for the substitutions. Missing out to West Germany once more, this time in a two-legged quarter-last for Euro 1972, Ramsey arranged England for capability for the 1974 World Cup. Requiring a success against Poland, Ramsey's strategic utilization of substitutions was again raised doubt about as the match finished in a 1– 1 draw. Britain had neglected to meet all requirements for the World Cup, and Ramsey was expelled the next May. 

Joe Mercer assumed responsibility for the group on a guardian reason for seven matches, before the FA selected Don Revie on a five-year contract. It was a year prior to Revie's England endured an annihilation yet in spite of this, he switched his beginning line-up for each amusement. His association with the FA had separated and his group building works out, including floor covering bowls and indoor golf, prompted melancholy in the squad. A 2– 0 thrashing to the Netherlands at Wembley Stadium turned the press against him; a few analysts contrasted the misfortune with the 6– 3 annihilation by Hungary in 1953. Persuaded he was to be supplanted by Bobby Robson, he declared he was to move toward becoming chief of the United Arab Emirates group. Pitching his story to the "Day by day Mail", he along these lines surrendered on 11 July 1977. Revie was accused of bringing the diversion into unsavoriness and was prohibited by the FA in a "kangaroo court" for a long time. On claim to the High Court, the boycott was toppled however the judge requested Revie to pay 66% of the expenses. Brian Clough connected for the situation in 1977, yet the FA rejected him and Ron Greenwood was designated, at first as a transitory swap for Revie, yet later in 1977 consistently. Bobby Moore portrayed him as "the reference book of football", and he guided England to Euro 1980 without an annihilation amid capability. 

The group left the competition at the gathering stage and Greenwood directed his concentration toward capability for the 1982 World Cup in Spain. Thrashings in Switzerland and Romania drove Greenwood to think about renunciation, however a triumph over Hungary persuaded him to remain. A 2– 1 annihilation in Oslo, which prompted pundit Bjørge Lillelien's acclaimed upheaval finishing up with ""Your young men took one serious beating!"", implied England required somewhere around a point in their last passing amusement against Hungary. A Paul Mariner objective verified triumph and capability for the group. Prevails upon France, Czechoslovakia and Kuwait permitted England into the second round gathering however two 0– 0 attracts finished England leaving the competition, without having lost an amusement. Greenwood resigned following the World Cup and on 7 July 1982, two days after England were thumped out of the 1982 World Cup, Bobby Robson was designated England administrator, choosing previous West Bromwich Albion partner Don Howe as his main mentor. 

Robson's residency included 28 qualifying matches, of which just one, against Denmark in 1983, brought about an annihilation. This added to England's inability to fit the bill for Euro 1984, and Robson offered his abdication. It was dismissed by the FA director, Bert Millichip, and Robson proceeded to lead the England group to fit the bill for the 1986 World Cup in Mexico. Britain were crushed in the quarter-last by Argentina with a support of objectives from Diego Maradona; the scandalous "Hand of God" objective, and the "Objective of the Century" he scored five minutes after the fact. 

Robson's England dropped just a single point in fitting the bill for Euro 1988, which incorporated a 8– 0 success over Turkey. In any case, this was trailed by disappointment at the competition itself, held in West Germany, where England were thumped out in the gathering stage. They completed base of their gathering, surrendering to routs against the Republic of Ireland, the Netherlands and the Soviet Union. Robson was attacked by the British press, and after an attract an agreeable with Saudi Arabia, one paper requested: "for the sake of Allah, go". Robson drove England without yielding an objective through capability for the 1990 World Cup. 

As in the 1986 World Cup, Robson was precluded the administration from securing his skipper, Bryan Robson, who endured an achilles ligament damage which forestalled him playing in the last phases of the competition. Britain bested their gathering, amassing four from their three amusements. Anyway their advancement was not without discussion. Britain changed development from their customary 4– 2 to consolidate a sweeper, with certain sources proposing this was because of player revolt after the 1– 1 attract the primary match with the Republic of Ireland. Robson denies this case in his personal history. This was trailed by triumphs over Belgium and Cameroon in the thump out stages, to set up a semi-last with West Germany. 

Britain lost the match on a punishment shoot-out, after the score had been level at 1– 1 following additional time. Robson's last open appearance before his passing from malignancy was at the Sir Bobby Robson Trophy coordinate in July 2009, played between veterans from that 1990 semi-last as a tribute to his life and in help of his disease philanthropy. 

Robson had reported before the competition that he would venture down from the post after the finals and Graham Taylor was selected, having been drawn closer in April 1990 by the FA. Inability to continue past the gathering phase of Euro 1992 with a 2– 1 annihilation against Sweden prompted paper features, for example, "Swedes 2 Turnips 1" and Taylor's epithet of "Turnip Head". Following thrashing to the Netherlands in the penultimate passing counterpart for the 1994 World Cup, for just the third time in its history, England had neglected to fit the bill for the World Cup. The passing effort was recorded in a TV narrative, and Taylor's comment "Do dislike that" not long after entered mainstream culture. 

Disappointment in the capability brought about Taylor leaving, and Terry Venables assumed control over the steerage in 1994. As England were has for Euro 1996, he didn't deal with the group in an aggressive counterpart for more than two years. In January 1996, he reported that he would leave after the competition because of a few court cases, yet driven England to the semi-finals, where they were vanquished by Germany on punishments. He was supplanted by Glenn Hoddle, whose irregular off-the-field approach in getting confidence healer Eileen Drewery to help the group drew noteworthy analysis. Hoddle recommended she was "a greater amount of a distress auntie" however amid the 1998 World Cup, the press proposed Drewery had impacted Hoddle in squad choice. Britain were thumped out of the competition in the second round, indeed on punishments, this time against Argentina. Hoddle's journal depicting his adaptation of occasions at the World Cup was hence distributed, drawing further analysis. 

A meeting with Matt Dickinson, a correspondent from "The Times", recommended that Hoddle had a "disputable conviction that the handicapped, and others, are being rebuffed for sins in a previous life." Hoddle's remarks were condemned by a few striking lawmakers, including Sports Minister Tony Banks and Prime Minister Tony Blair. Hoddle expressed that he was not set up to leave and asserted his words were misjudged and called attention to his commitments and responsibility to associations helping the crippled. The FA ended Hoddle's agreement soon a short time later, which was invited by agents of crippled gatherings. 

Howard Wilkinson was guardian supervisor for two recreations, before the arrangement of Kevin Keegan in February 1999. At first joining the activity with a job at Fulham, Keegan was made full-time mentor in May. He drove England to capability for Euro 2000 after accomplishment in a two-legged play-off against Scotland. Two 3– 2 misfortunes brought about England leaving the competition at the gathering stage. A misfortune to Germany in the last universal match at the old Wembley Stadium in the initial 2002 World Cup qualifying match prompted Keegan's renunciation. Keegan surrendered an hour after the group was booed off by England fans; he told the FA authorities that he felt "somewhat short at this dimension". Wilkinson again returned as guardian for one more match, trailed by Peter Taylor who directed a well disposed misfortune to Italy. 

The FA at that point took the uncommon, and broadly reprimanded venture of delegating the first non-Englishman as mentor, as Swede Sven-Göran Eriksson. Eriksson had a decent record in European residential football, with achievement in Portugal and Italy, and had driven clubs to win the UEFA Cup on two events. He drove England to fit the bill for the 2002 World Cup with David Beckham scoring the crucial equalizer against Greece, profound into damage time. Britain were thumped out by Brazil in the quarter-finals and Eriksson experienced harsh criticism for his "ice-cool" appearance on the touchline neglecting to rouse his group, senior player Gareth Southgate commenting after the competition that "we required Winston Churchill however we got Iain Duncan Smith". 

Eriksson drove England to capability for Euro 2004 however afresh the group fell at the quarter-last stage, again losing on punishments, this opportunity to Portugal. Losing 1– 0 to Northern Ireland in Belfast amid the capability for the 2006 World Cup prompted fans reciting "Sack the Swede", disappointed again at the absence of clear feeling in Eriksson while his mentor, Steve McClaren, was substantially more enlivened. 

In January 2006, the FA reported that Eriksson would remain down after the World Cup. With the group losing in the quarter-last again to Portugal and again on punishments, Eriksson appropriately left the post in July. The scan for Eriksson's substitution was dubious. It turned out to be evident that the FA needed to name Luiz Felipe Scolari, yet the methodology was bungled, and Scolari turned down the offer. At last, Eriksson was supplanted by the man who had instructed the side under him, Steve McClaren. 

Capability for Euro 2008 demonstrated excessively, England losing the last qualifier against Croatia 3– 2 in November 2007, when a draw would have been sufficient to take England to the finals. The British press turned on McClaren, previous Scottish worldwide Alan Hansen expressing that "... what McClaren ought to be considered responsible for is that with a squad of this quality he neglected to qualify from what appeared a sensibly clear group ...". McClaren was rejected the day following the annihilation to Croatia, and was supplanted in December 2007 by Italian Fabio Capello. The thrashing to Croatia is recalled in the games press for the scandalous moniker "Wally with the Brolly", a reference to McLaren's pitchside nearness under an umbrella in a match played in substantial downpour. 

Capello drove England to capability for the 2010 World Cup, winning nine of the group's ten passing matches. In any case, the group's execution in the competition legitimate was less noteworthy. Two dull attracts the gathering stage against the United States and Algeria were trailed by a dishonorable 4– 1 annihilation by customary adversaries Germany in the Round of 16. The group's execution was in any event mostly ascribed to choice and strategic blunders by Capello and prompted requires his expulsion. In any case, on 2 July, the FA affirmed that he would stay in the job until 2012, with Capello himself affirming his aim to venture down and resign after Euro 2012. 

Clashing reports left the FA with respect to whether the following chief would be English. On 15 August 2010, the FA's Adrian Bevington expressed to the BBC that "we ought to have an English chief after (Euro 2012)", yet on 22 September, the FA's Director of Football Development, Trevor Brooking, expressed that "We might want to go English (yet) we must perceive what English individuals are accessible". After two weeks, Capello's England fit the bill for Euro 2012 with a 2– 2 draw away against Montenegro. In February 2012, Capello surrendered following the FA's choice to evacuate the captaincy of the national side from John Terry, with Englishman Stuart Pearce assuming control over the job on a guardian premise. 

Following a 3– 2 annihilation at Wembley Stadium by the Netherlands in February, Pearce was supplanted on 1 May 2012 by West Bromwich Albion supervisor Roy Hodgson on a four-year contract. In spite of being situated in Kraków in Poland, England's first installation in Euro 2012 was in Donetsk against France, which finished in a 1– 1 draw. Consequent triumphs over Sweden and competition co-has Ukraine brought about a quarter-last match against Italy. The amusement finished goalless after additional time, sending the diversion to a punishment shoot-out which Italy won 4– 2. Hodgson asserted that England's exit from real competitions had turned into a "national fixation". With a 2– 0 triumph over Poland in October 2013, Hodgson drove England to capability for the 2014 World Cup. 

Be that as it may, in the 2014 World Cup, England lost two back to back gathering matches, against Italy and Uruguay, by 2– 1 on each event. This was the first run through England had lost two gathering matches since the 1950 World Cup (when they lost against the United States and Spain) and the first run through England had been killed at the gathering stage since the 1958 World Cup. This was likewise the first occasion when that England had not won a match at the competition since 1958, and England's focuses aggregate of one from three matches was its most exceedingly terrible ever in the World Cup. 

Britain fit the bill for UEFA Euro 2016 in September 2015, after a 6– 0 success over San Marino. On 27 June 2016, very quickly after England were thumped out 2– 1 by Iceland in the round of 16, Hodgson surrendered as director. 

On 22 July, Sam Allardyce was designated England director on a two-year contract. After just 67 days in the activity, a video distributed by "The Daily Telegraph" demonstrated Allardyce owning offending expressions against previous chief Roy Hodgson, and disclosing how to dodge guidelines of The FA on outsider responsibility for. He in this manner left the job as supervisor of England soon thereafter. Previous England global protector and England under-21 mentor Gareth Southgate was given the senior job on a guardian reason for four matches while the FA thought about their choices. Two successes, including a 3– 0 triumph over Scotland, and an attract qualifying matches for the 2018 World Cup and a 2– 2 attract with Spain a well disposed pursued under Southgate's impermanent administration, before he was formally delegated to the position full-time on 30 November 2016 on a four-year bargain. 

The response of the British media to the England national group administrator mirrors the changing idea of the British media for the most part. Lately, supervisors have been assaulted by and by, for their own convictions, or private lives. 

The press had since quite a while ago crusaded for changes in the board style and/or substitution of the director himself, however a watershed was come to under the residency of Graham Taylor, whose fruitless reign prompted the supervisor being pilloried in the sensationalist newspapers. Most strikingly, "The Sun" paper responded to a harming rout by Sweden at Euro 1992, by the backup of the feature "Swedes 2 Turnips 1" with a photographic montage of a turnip superimposed on Taylor's head. Taylor was from that point regularly alluded to in the media as "Graham Turnip" or "Turnip Taylor". 

Resulting footballing shames were then trailed by different portrayals of Taylor as a vegetable; England's first diversion after Euro 92 finished in a 1– 0 annihilation to Spain, and "The Sun" envisioned Taylor as a "Spanish onion". When he surrendered, following the loss of the 1994 World Cup spot to Norway, they returned to the turnip picture, going with the first page feature, "That is yer distribution". 

Following Roy Hodgson's arrangement, "The Sun" ridiculed his rhotacism way of discourse with a "Bwing on the Euwos!" first page feature. The FA called the feature "inadmissible" and in excess of 100 individuals grumbled to the Press Complaints Commission. 

Glenn Hoddle pulled in the media spotlight for two key issues disconnected to on-the-pitch issues. In the primary, his dependence upon indicated confidence healer Eileen Drewery was addressed. Drewery turned out to be a piece of the official England staff, and players were forced to see her, despite the fact that a significant number of them were wary. In any case, unmistakably more slander was brought about by Hoddle's remarks about handicapped individuals: 

Popular sentiment, in light of the quick media furore brought about (as indicated by one BBC survey) 90% of respondents trusting Hoddle ought not proceed as English mentor. Notwithstanding, the BBC study demonstrated that while many considered his remarks heartless to the crippled, others protected his entitlement to express his religious convictions by guaranteeing that to reject him would comprise religious segregation. 

Eriksson's private life went under investigation, with various very much plugged allegations of trysts with ladies including Ulrika Jonsson, and FA secretary Faria Alam, in spite of his on-running association with Nancy Dell'Olio. Despite the fact that Eriksson kept up in question and answer sessions that his own life was a private issue, his associations with Jonsson in 2002 and Alam in 2004 were liable to newspaper features for a little while. 

The media, both broadsheet and newspaper, have now and then crusaded for a chief to be rejected, selected or held. Crusades for directors to be rejected have been headline news, with eye-discovering features including "The last ron-devouz", "In the Name of Allah Go", "Norse Manure", "Blair Gives Hoddle The Red Card" for (separately) Greenwood, Robson, Taylor and Hoddle. 

Eriksson endure a few embarrassments while in office, yet his residency was inevitably finished when he was one of a progression of big names focused by a newspaper 'sting', organized by "The Fake Sheik", Mazher Mahmood. Eriksson's thoughtless activities uncovered by the paper "... proved the issue that crosses over into intolerability for the FA", in spite of the fact that Eriksson was allowed to remain on in the job until the finish of the 2006 World Cup. 

These crusades have additionally at times reverse discharges. Previous FA CEO, Graham Kelly reviewed a battle, organized by "The Sun" against Bobby Robson, that started in 1984 (six years before his abdication): 

Segments of the media have regularly crusaded for a specific individual to be selected England supervisor. At different occasions, however especially amid the residency of Bobby Robson, the media crusaded for the arrangement of Brian Clough. Robson once disclosed to FA executive Bert Millichip "I'm having an unpleasant time and everyone needs Brian – give the activity to him. In the event that he's effective, everyone's cheerful. In the event that he comes up short, that is the finish of the fuss for Brian Clough to be England supervisor." Robson included, "He would have unsettled a couple of quills and irritated the passages of intensity however I figure he would have been a decent England director. He had practical insight, realized how to structure a group and was an extraordinary spark." Terry Venables was additionally the subject of a media battle for rejection amid his time as administrator yet was then bolstered by the press to come back to the job in 2000. 

Steve McClaren got media analysis, and, as inability to meet all requirements for Euro 2008 looked progressively likely, the features turned out to be increasingly instinctive. In January 2008, football magazine "When Saturday Comes" depicted the paper inclusion of his last month as "constant and callous". The two sensationalist newspapers and broadsheets distributed basic pieces, with "The Times" featuring a publication "Come up short and McClaren needs to go". 

The media have additionally spoofed this sort of crusades for enlistment, rejection or maintenance of directors. In October 2000, "The Sun" propelled a battle advancing a jackass as the new England administrator. 

The accompanying table gives an outline of the total record of every England supervisor incorporating their advancement in both the World Cup and the European Championship. 

"Key: P– amusements played, W– diversions won, D– recreations drawn; L– diversions lost, %– win rate" 

The accompanying table gives an outline of results to every England director in the British Home Championship, held yearly until the 1983– 84 season. 

"Key: P– Number of complete competitions played, W– Number of competitions won, S– Number of competitions shared, %– through and through win rate" 

General 

Explicit