2008 UAW-Dodge 400 

The 2008 UAW-Dodge 400 was the third stock vehicle race of the 2008 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. It was hung on March 2, 2008, preceding a horde of 153,000 in Las Vegas, Nevada, at Las Vegas Motor Speedway, one of ten middle of the road tracks to hold NASCAR races. The 267-lap race was won via Carl Edwards of the Roush Fenway Racing group who began from second position. Dale Earnhardt Jr. completed second and Edwards' partner Greg Biffle came in third. 

Kyle Busch won the post position, which he held for 20 laps until he was passed by Edwards. He held the lead until the main green-banner pit stops and recaptured the situation after the stops finished. Busch retook the lead on lap 81 and held it until he was passed by Matt Kenseth. Jeff Gordon assumed control over the lead on lap 163, preceding Earnhardt turned into the pioneer on the 181st lap and kept up this situation until Edwards recaptured it 14 laps later. The race was halted for 17 minutes when Gordon smashed on lap 262, and vehicle parts were strewn into the way of different drivers, expecting authorities to clean the track. Edwards kept up the lead at the restart and held it to win the race. There were eleven alerts and 19 lead changes by nine unique drivers amid the race. 

The race was Edwards' second back to back win of the period, and the ninth of his vocation. Edwards was later issued with a 100-point punishment after his vehicle was found to disregard NASCAR guidelines, dropping him from first to seventh in the Drivers' Championship. Kyle Busch expanded his lead over Ryan Newman to 20 points as an outcome. Passage assumed control over the lead of the Manufacturers' Championship, five in front of Dodge. Chevrolet moved clear of Toyota in third spot, with 33 races left in the season. The race pulled in 12.1 million audience members. 

The UAW-Dodge 400 was the third out of 36 booked stock vehicle races of the 2008 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. It was hung on March 2, 2008, in Las Vegas, Nevada, at Las Vegas Motor Speedway, one of ten moderate tracks to hold NASCAR races; the others are Atlanta Motor Speedway, Charlotte Motor Speedway, Chicagoland Speedway, Darlington Raceway, Homestead-Miami Speedway, Kansas Speedway, Kentucky Speedway, New Hampshire Motor Speedway, and Texas Motor Speedway. The standard track at Las Vegas Motor Speedway is a four-turn oval. Its turns are banked at twenty degrees and both the front stretch (the area of the end goal) and the back stretch are banked at nine degrees. 

Prior to the race, Kyle Busch drove the Drivers' Championship with 335, in front of Ryan Newman in second and Tony Stewart third. Kurt Busch and Carl Edwards were fourth and fifth, and Kasey Kahne, Kevin Harvick, Jimmie Johnson, Greg Biffle, Jeff Burton, Brian Vickers and Martin Truex Jr. balanced the best twelve. In the Manufacturers' Championship, Dodge and Ford were tied for the lead with twelve each; their opponents Chevrolet and Toyota were tied for third spot with ten each. Johnson was the race's guarding champion. 

In anticipation of the race, NASCAR held the second of its two pre-season tests for Sprint Cup contestants on January 28– 29 at Las Vegas Motor Speedway. Sessions started at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST), stopped from 12:00 to 1:00 p.m., and closed at 5:00 p.m. Sixty-seven vehicles took an interest in the January 28 morning session; Denny Hamlin was fastest with a top speed of , while Kyle Busch was snappiest toward the evening session, with a top speed of . A few occurrences happened amid the second session; Regan Smith spun leaving turn-two and harmed his vehicle's nose subsequent to hitting within divider; Sam Hornish Jr. vigorously harmed his vehicle in the wake of scratching the divider hard; and Dario Franchitti intensely harmed his Dodge's back subsequent to turning. Jacques Villeneuve spun however did not harm his vehicle; David Ragan destroyed in the wake of turning off turn-two; and Mark Martin harmed the front of his vehicle when he hit a concrete heaping subsequent to swerving to maintain a strategic distance from a tow truck. Amid the third session with seventy-four autos, Edwards had the quickest speed of , and Burton harmed the right-hand side of his vehicle subsequent to reaching the stopping point. Juan Pablo Montoya recorded the quickest speed of the two days, at in the fourth and last session. 

Edwards was anticipating the race end of the week and felt that his outcome would be great. Biffle was certain he could verify a best five completing position, and expressed if his vehicle's taking care of was great, he trusted he could be in dispute for winning the race. Having won twice at the track in the mid 2000s, Kenseth expressed that he delighted in dashing at Las Vegas Motor Speedway and trusted the Roush Fenway Racing autos would almost certainly battle for race triumphs. Johnson was considered by certain bookmakers as the most loved to win the race, and in the occasion he succeeded, he would have turned into the primary individual to verify four back to back triumphs in a NASCAR Cup Series hustling occasion since Gordon won the Southern 500 four times somewhere in the range of 1995 and 1998. He said that it would be "incredible" in the event that he took the triumph however would not approach the occasion uniquely in contrast to at a track where he had not won a race. 

There was one difference in driver before the race. Jon Wood, the grandson of resigned driver Glen Wood, was initially booked to supplant 1988 NASCAR Winston Cup Series champion Bill Elliott in the No. 21 Wood Brothers Racing vehicle, yet pulled back as a result of an absence of involvement with the Car of Tomorrow, and previous Haas CNC Racing driver Johnny Sauter assumed control over his seat. Wood said he felt Sauter was a superior qualifier and Elliott was not accessible to drive. Kahne built up a sinus disease two days before the occasion, and his group had Nationwide Series driver Jason Keller prepared to supplant him on the off chance that he couldn't contend. 

Three practice sessions were held before the Sunday race, one on Friday and two on Saturday. The principal session kept going an hour and a half, the second 45 minutes and the third an hour. In the primary practice session, Kyle Busch was quickest with a period of 30.009 seconds; Jeff Gordon was second and Johnson third. Stewart took fourth, and David Reutimann was put fifth. Dale Earnhardt Jr., Edwards, Elliott Sadler, Kurt Busch, and Jeremy Mayfield adjusted the session's main ten quickest drivers. Hornish reached the turn-two boundary, while Reed Sorenson and Patrick Carpentier spun thus four yet abstained from harming their vehicles. Montoya changed to a back-up vehicle after vigorously crashing into the turn-two divider, and Bobby Labonte did likewise after he lost control thusly four and harmed his left-back quarter. Kahne reached the turn-four divider, fixed by his group. 

In spite of the fact that 47 drivers were entered in the qualifier, as per NASCAR's passing strategy no one but 43 could race. Every driver ran two laps, with the beginning request dictated by the contender's quickest occasions. Drivers who recorded their lap times right off the bat in the session were at leeway in light of the fact that the track was cooler and in this manner gave more hold. Edwards felt his vehicle had oversteer amid his run. Kyle Busch won the third post position of his vocation with a period of 29.613 seconds. He was joined on the lattice's first line by Edwards, who was 0.125 seconds slower and had the shaft position until Kyle Busch's lap. Martin qualified third, Gordon fourth, and Mike Skinner fifth. Biffle, Scott Riggs, Earnhardt, Kurt Busch, and Sadler finished the main ten qualifiers. The four drivers that neglected to qualify were A. J. Allmendinger, Joe Nemechek, John Andretti, and Sauter (who slammed at turn-two on his first passing lap). Burney Lamar pulled back from the race before qualifying. After the qualifier Busch said his group knew about the vehicle's potential which was shown in Friday's sole practice session and the January test session; he was stressed over his vehicle being exceptionally tight going into the first and second turns having been on the quickening agent pedal all through his quickest lap. 

On Saturday evening, Matt Kenseth was quickest in the second practice session with a period of 30.321 seconds, in front of Clint Bowyer and Earnhardt. Travis Kvapil was fourth-quickest; David Gilliland was fifth and Biffle 6th. Johnson, Newman, Hornish and Edwards followed in the main ten. Kyle Busch scratched the outside divider while driving up the track; he supported minor harm and did not change to a back-up vehicle. Soon thereafter, Kahne paced the last practice session with a period of 30.580 seconds; Edwards was second and Paul Menard third. Gordon was fourth-quickest, in front of Hendrick Motorsports partners Johnson and Earnhardt. Reutimann was seventh-quickest, Biffle eighth, Bowyer ninth, and Dave Blaney tenth. Bowyer moved to the outside of the track however was unfit to control left and hit the outside divider leaving transform two and into the backstretch; he descended the track and Kyle Petty hit Bowyer and harmed his front-left bumper before Bowyer's vehicle halted after he reached within divider. Bowyer was required to utilize a back-up vehicle yet Petty had the capacity to fix his body. 

Live TV inclusion of the race started at 3:30 p.m. EST in the United States on Fox. Around the beginning of the race, climate conditions were bright, among , and no downpour was normal. Breezy breezes from the north made solid headwinds on the back straight. Kenny Farmer, clergyman of Las Vegas Motor Speedway, started pre-race functions with a conjuring. Performing artist Carol Linnae Johnson of the stage generation Mamma Mia! played out the national song of devotion, and John Byers, co-chief of UAW-Chrysler National Training Center, instructed the drivers to begin their motors. Amid the pace laps, two drivers moved to the back of the field due to unapproved changes: Bowyer had changed to a back-up vehicle, and Kahne had changed his motor. 

The race began at 4:48 p.m.; Kyle Busch kept up his shaft position advantage heading into the principal corner and drove the field on the primary lap. Carpentier went up the track on a similar lap however abstained from hitting the hindrances, while Reutimann did likewise and scratched the outside divider, causing right-back harm to his vehicle. He was dark hailed by NASCAR on the grounds that flotsam and jetsam was dangling from his vehicle. Reutimann's correct back tire detonated while entering the pit street on lap five however no flotsam and jetsam was left on the track. On lap eight, Bowyer hit the stopping point, causing Kahne to drive down the track. He likewise reached Jamie McMurray, who slid through the infield frontstretch grass, causing the main alert banner and the presence of the pace vehicle. Amid the alert, most drivers chose to make pit stops for tires, and eighteen drivers stayed on the track. 

Kyle Busch remained out and guided the field back up to speed on the lap twelve restart. Four laps later, Edwards began to challenge Kyle Busch for the lead. Jeff Gordon climbed to third on lap 18, and Martin moved from third to eighth by a similar lap. Kyle Busch and Edwards kept running close by one another in the fight for the primary position on lap 20; the fight finished up after Edwards passed Kyle Busch on the accompanying lap. Gordon was passed by Biffle for third spot on lap 22, while Kurt Busch climbed to fifth on a similar lap. By lap 28, Biffle had shut the hole to Kyle Busch and passed him for second position two laps later. Edwards had a 1.3-second lead over partner Biffle on a similar lap. Kyle Busch tumbled to fourth place after Gordon passed him on the 33rd lap. Kyle Busch recovered the third position from Gordon two laps later; Kurt Busch had moved into third in the wake of pushing forward of Gordon on a similar lap. By the 42nd lap, Edwards and colleague Biffle had opened a three-second lead over Kyle Busch. Riggs and Kurt Busch both moved before Kyle Busch for third and fourth positions on lap 45. 

Green-banner pit stops started on lap 48. Edwards and Biffle made pit stops on lap 49, giving the lead to Riggs. Hornish hit the turn-two outside divider on the accompanying lap after his right-front tire went down in the tri-oval, and supported harm on his right side front quarter board, yet no flotsam and jetsam fell off his vehicle. After the pit stops, Edwards recaptured the lead and held a five-second lead over Kyle Busch; Martin moved into third spot, Riggs recovered fourth spot, and Harvick climbed to fifth spot by lap 65. Three laps later, a second alert was required when flotsam and jetsam was spotted at turn-two. A large portion of the pioneers, including Edwards, made pit stops. Jeff Burton stayed on the track and drove on the lap-75 restart, in front of Earnhardt and Kyle Busch. On lap 78, Kyle Busch advanced of Earnhardt to come in just short of the leader and started to close the hole to Burton. Kyle Busch passed Burton to recover the lead three laps later, and opened up a 1.3-second preferred standpoint over Burton by the 92nd lap. Earnhardt was passed by Edwards for fifth spot on lap 94 and Biffle advanced beyond Gordon for seventh on a similar lap. Edwards increased fourth spot when he passed Stewart on the 96th lap, and Burton lost second to Kenseth two laps later. On lap 102, Burton tumbled to fourth place after Edwards passed him. 

By lap 105, Kyle Busch held a 3.1-second lead over Kenseth. Three laps later, the third alert was activated when Stewart's vehicle reached the turn-two divider after his right-front tire burst. Stewart nibbled his foot and moved out of his vehicle; crisis specialists helped take him to a holding up vehicle that took him to the infield therapeutic community for further examination. The majority of the race chiefs, including Edwards, made pit stops for tires and vehicle modifications under alert. NASCAR expected Edwards to fall back to the finish of the longest queue since one of his team individuals had enabled one of his tires to roll far from his pit box amid his stop. Kyle Busch kept up the lead at the restart on lap 114; he was trailed by Kenseth and Gordon. Kenseth passed Kyle Busch to lead the pack on lap 117. On a similar lap, Gordon passed Busch. By lap 135, Kenseth had opened up a 2.2-second lead over Gordon. Biffle moved before Burton for fourth spot on the 139th lap. On lap 144, Robby Gordon's correct front tire blew, making him hit the turn-two divider, and the fourth alert was activated. The majority of the race heads made pit quits amid the alert. 

Kenseth remained the pioneer at the lap-149 restart; he was trailed by Gordon. The fifth alert was sent twelve laps later when Carpentier was pressed towards the backstretch outside divider by Newman, causing Carpentier to slide down the track and hit within divider. Ken Schrader was near to the episode yet swerved to abstain from harming his vehicle. Amid the alert, the main drivers, including Kenseth, chose to make pit stops for tires. Gordon led the pack and kept up it at the lap-165 restart. Biffle and his partner Kenseth drove nearby each other in a fight for second spot on lap 166, until Biffle got away and ran onto the cover on the following lap. Mayfield burst his right-front tire on lap 171, yet no flotsam and jetsam fell off his vehicle, staying away from the requirement for an alert. Six laps later, Biffle passed Kyle Busch to take fifth spot. Riggs experienced oversteer in the fourth turn while running down within Labonte; Franchitti kept running into Riggs, causing the 6th alert on lap 179. The majority of the pioneers, including Kenseth, chose to make pit stops for tires. Earnhardt drove the field on the lap-183 restart; he was trailed by Harvick and Edwards. Gordon moved into fifth spot by lap 188. Harvick tumbled to fourth place when Edwards and Kenseth passed him. 

Edwards passed Earnhardt to recover the lead on lap 195, while Earnhardt lost a further position after Kenseth advanced beyond him on a similar lap. Ten laps later, Biffle pushed forward of Harvick to take fifth spot, while his colleague Kenseth had a 1.5-second lead throughout the second-place Edwards by the 211th lap. Three laps later, the seventh alert was issued when authorities found flotsam and jetsam in the turn-two notch. The pioneers, including Edwards, made pit stops for tires and vehicle changes. One tire from Edwards' vehicle went outside his pit box however he was not punished in light of the fact that a cameraman obstructed Edwards' group from recovering the tire. Kenseth guided the field back up to speed on the lap-219 restart; Earnhardt was in second spot and Edwards third. Casey Mears hit Vickers, who spun and set off the eighth alert on lap 224; the two drivers abstained from reaching the divider. Kenseth kept up the lead on the lap-227 restart. Edwards drove up the track trying to lead the pack on lap 229, however Kenseth kept the position. Four laps later, the ninth alert was required when Dale Jarrett spun and hit the turn-two outside divider. Kenseth remained the pioneer at the restart on lap 236. Edwards passed partner Kenseth for the lead two laps later, and started to pull away. Earnhardt got up to speed to Kenseth by lap 243 and ten laps later he passed Kenseth for second. 

Kurt Busch's correct front tire detonated, making him hit the stopping point between turns three and four, and the tenth alert was appeared on lap 256. Kurt Busch resigned from the race due to his accident. He was transported to the infield restorative community for an obligatory registration. Edwards stayed ahead of the pack for the lap-262 restart. Earnhardt spun his tires, constraining Kenseth onto the outside path and Gordon to within where he passed Earnhardt. Kenseth moved before Earnhardt and after that reached Gordon, who was sent into within backstretch holding divider, which had no SAFER hindrance introduced. Gordon's vehicle's radiator flew out from its frame and into the way of approaching traffic. Kenseth slid however had the capacity to rectify his vehicle and proceed. The last alert was at first waved before a warning was appeared, halting the race to enable authorities to expel flotsam and jetsam from the track. The race continued 17 minutes after the fact, with Edwards driving Earnhardt and Biffle. Edwards kept up the lead for the staying two laps to verify his second back to back win and the ninth of his vocation. Earnhardt completed second, in front of Biffle in third, Harvick fourth, and Burton fifth. Ragan, Kahne, Kvapil, Hamlin, and Martin adjusted the best ten finishers. The race had eleven alerts and nineteen lead changes among nine drivers. Edwards drove multiple times for a sum of 86 laps, more than some other contender. 

Edwards showed up in Victory Lane before the horde of 153,000 individuals to commend his second triumph of the period, acquiring him $425,675. He was satisfied with the outcome, saying it was "an extremely exceptional success" and that he believed he was near the structure he had accomplished in 2005: "I made a decent attempt to remain quiet. What's more, I'm not the best at it once in a while. We as a whole realize that." He included, "We do this to win. Winning these races is the best. Winning a title would be a definitive. What we're attempting to do is win the title this year. That is our main objective." Second-place finisher Earnhardt was disillusioned, saying he had his vehicle in his picked position yet the warning time frame kept him from winning the race: "Carl wasn't going to get beat today. He had it taken care of. He was so strong ... I was horrible on virus tires. I wish every one of you realized what that felt like. I loathe it." Biffle was philosophical as he contended that he had the quickest vehicle however did not pick up the track position he expected to challenge Edwards since he slid on pit street. 

Regardless of his damage, Stewart said he would have liked to take an interest in an arranged two-day test session at Phoenix International Raceway. He additionally said he was stressed over his accident since his legs and hips were shivering and his lower back was in torment. Stewart said the accident terrified him and the shivering in his legs had improved subsequent to leaving the infield care focus. Kurt Busch's group boss Pat Tryson expressed that he and the Penske Racing South group were alleviated that the driver developed unharmed after his accident on lap 256, and that they would improve at the following end of the week's race. Gordon said his accident on lap 264 was "most likely the hardest hit I've at any point taken" and conceded blame for causing the accident. As per Kenseth, "I realized he would get a keep running on me, so I laid back a little bit ... We fell off [turn] 2 and I was up as high as I suspected I could, and Jeff just ran over. Regardless of whether it was intentionally or not, it only sort of cleared us out." Gordon said he trusted Speedway Motorsports administrator and CEO Bruton Smith (the proprietor of Las Vegas Motor Speedway) would introduce SAFER boundaries along within holding dividers around the track. Biffle said there ought to have been no open holes in the circuit obstructions and that all NASCAR tracks ought to have SAFER hindrances introduced. In the wake of counseling NASCAR authorities, development teams introduced a long SAFER hindrance along within backstretch divider in August 2008. 

After the race, NASCAR declared it had discovered an issue with the cover on the oil repository encasement amid a post-race review on Edwards' vehicle, which was later taken to the NASCAR Research and Development Center in Concord, North Carolina, for further examination. Three days after the race, Roush Fenway Racing was given punishments for "activities inconvenient to stock vehicle dashing", "vehicle, vehicle parts, segments as well as hardware utilized don't comply with NASCAR rules", and a gadget or ventilation work that allowed air to go through the vehicle from one region of the inside of the vehicle to another, or to the outside of the vehicle. The punishments incorporated a $100,000 fine and a six-race suspension for Edwards' group boss Bob Osborne, who was suspended from NASCAR until April 30, 2008, and set on post trial supervision until December 31, 2008. Roush Fenway Racing boss designer Chris Andrews assumed control over Osborne's job at the following race end of the week. Edwards and vehicle proprietor Jack Roush brought about the loss of 100 driver and proprietor focuses. If Edwards met all requirements for the Chase for the Sprint Cup, he would not get ten extra guides granted toward him for winning the race which was utilized to decide the seeding request. Edwards was permitted to keep the triumph; he moved from first to seventh in the Drivers' Championship. On March 12, Roush Fenway Racing reported it would not advance the punishments. 

Roush Fenway Racing president Geoff Smith said a jolt that held the oil cover together did not work in light of vibration music created by Edwards' vehicle and the Las Vegas race track. Edwards said the infraction was "a flat out misstep" and that his group had no aim of duping. Edwards' colleague Biffle and Newman concurred the punishments were legitimized. As indicated by Sadler, the punishments were not sufficiently serious; he contended that the driver ought to be punished or required to miss one occasion. Toyota Racing Development General Manager Lee White said Roush Fenway Racing had changed Edwards' vehicle to upgrade downforce by , which expanded the vehicle's drive leaving the corners. Roush felt White's remarks were spurred by results. White later issued an announcement in which he was sorry for his remarks. An inward examination found no proof that someone else had deliberately made the screw come free, and that the group ordered defensive measures to guarantee the oil cover would remain secured in future occasions. 

The outcome implied Kyle Busch kept up his lead in the Drivers' Championship, twenty in front of Newman in second spot. Kahne's seventh-place complete enabled him to progress into third spot, sixteen before Harvick, who additionally climbed three positions. Biffle was in fifth on 427. Burton, Edwards, Truex, Sadler, Earnhardt, Stewart and Kurt Busch balanced the best twelve. Passage moved into the lead of the Manufacturers' Championship, five in front of Dodge. Chevrolet moved three clear of Toyota. The occasion had a TV gathering of people of 12.1 million watchers; it took three hours, eight minutes, and eight seconds to finish the race, and the edge of triumph was 0.504 seconds.