Verdeja 

Verdeja was the name of a progression of light tanks created in Spain somewhere in the range of 1938 and 1954 trying to supplant German Panzer I and Soviet T-26 tanks in Spanish administration. 

The program was going by major Félix Verdeja Bardales and prompted the advancement of four model vehicles, including a self-impelled howitzer outfitted with a 75 millimeter (3 in) firearm. It was structured as a propelled light tank and was one of the principal advancement programs which considered survivability of the group instead of the insurance of the tank itself. The tank was impacted by a few of the light tanks which it was proposed to supplant, including the Panzer I and T-26, the two of which were initially utilized amid the Spanish Civil War. The Verdeja was viewed as a better tank than the T-26 after a protracted testing period, yet was never put into large scale manufacturing. 

Three light tank models were made somewhere in the range of 1938 and 1942, including the Verdeja 1 and the Verdeja 2. Enthusiasm for the vehicle's advancement wound down after the second's end World War. In spite of endeavors to fit another motor in the Verdeja 2 and convert the Verdeja 1 into a self-impelled mounted guns piece, at last the program was informally dropped for receiving the U.S. M47 Patton Tank in 1954. A model of the 75 millimetre self-impelled howitzer and of the Verdeja 2 were put in plain view in the mid 1990s. 

Spain got its first tank in mid-1919, a French Renault FT, for testing purposes, and later gotten ten additional tanks on 18 December 1921. The utilization of these tanks amid the Rif War, including the main land and/or water capable arriving with tanks, offered profitable experience for Spain's first indigenous reinforcement program, the Trubia A4. The Trubia tank program, in light of the FT, prompted the advancement of four models, in any case the program bombed because of absence of enthusiasm from the national government. These models impacted an ensuing indigenous endeavor to deliver a tank, named the Trubia-Naval. This structure likewise neglected to move beyond the model sort organize. Because of the disappointment of Spanish endeavors to create a tank, and the incapable endeavors to obtain remote plans, for example, the Italian Fiat 3000, by the beginning of the Spanish Civil War there were just ten working FT light tanks accessible in the nation. 

The absence of shield incited the Soviet Union to supply the Popular Front and Nazi Germany and Italy to supply the Nationalist Front with light tanks. Somewhere in the range of 1936 and 1939, the Germans gave the Nationalists 122 Panzer Is and the Italians given 155 L-3-35s. Then, the Soviets issued Republican Spain 281 T-26s and 50 BT-5s. The Nationalists rapidly discovered the light automatic rifles on their tanks couldn't enter the T-26's defensive layer at over , and Republican tankers could routinely thump out Panzer Is and L-3-35s at scopes of up to . So as to re-furnish Nationalist protected powers with the T-26, German Major Ritter von Thoma offered Spanish troops 500 "peseta"s for each tank caught. There were likewise endeavors to up-weapon the Panzer I with an Italian Breda 20 millimetre Model 1935 enemy of air ship firearm, because of its high Muzzle speed and low force. Regardless of four effectively changed over vehicles, assigned Panzer I "Breda", there was no across the board program to retrofit the weapon into the Panzer I. Rather, the Nationalists started to press caught T-26s into administration against their past proprietors, with the principal Nationalist T-26 unit framed in June 1937. 

On 6 September 1937, Captain Félix Verdeja, telling the support organization of the Nationalist "Batallón de Carros de Combate" ("Tank Battalion"), started to secretly build up another light tank. His situation, with direct access to Panzer Is and T-26s, gave Verdeja direct proof of the inadequacies of current tank models as far as battle capacity and upkeep issues. Verdeja set up a future tank requiring the 45 millimetre (1.77 in) firearm fitted in the T-26; two coaxial light automatic weapons; a position of safety, all-around shield more prominent than 15 millimetres (0.6 in), with a turret mantlet plate of in any event 30 millimetres (1.2 in); street speed of , battle scope of , and a skilled suspension and new track framework. This last prerequisite depended on encounters with existing light tanks, which much of the time lost their tracks in battle. These necessities and arrangements were displayed in October 1938 to Colonel Díaz de la Lastra, boss of the "Agrupación de Carros de Combate". Despite the fact that the undertaking was affirmed, the program needed to utilize scrap to manufacture the principal model because of an absence of assets and cash. Regardless of early obstructions, including analysis from von Thoma, the program proceeded and Verdeja was granted a stockroom in Zaragoza to proceed with the development of the model. 

The model was made from extra parts and gear searched from other light tanks, and included a rectangular turret with 16 millimetre (0.6 in) essential shield. The skeleton was partitioned into four quarters, with the forward right half involved by the motor, gear box, grip and last drive, close to the driver. The back portion of the vehicle was taken up for the most part by the turret container and forty-six 45 millimetre rounds, just as two 60 liter (13 Imp lady) fuel tanks. Turret space was utilized by the tank officer heavy armament specialist and the loader, just as the 45 millimetre model 1932 enemy of tank weapon and two MG-13 automatic rifles. The primary firearm was initially authorized as the Soviet 45 millimetre 19K enemy of tank weapon in March 1932, and highlighted heavier ammo and a quicker rate of discharge than more established enemy of tank weapons. Beginning in 1934, a more up to date display started to be fitted into recently collected T-26s. Aside from the weapon, the tank administrator's model 1932 all encompassing periscope was likewise searched from a T-26. The vehicle was fueled by a Ford Model 48 motor taken from a regular citizen car, uprooting 3,622 cc (221 in) and creating 85 hp (63 kW) at 2,000 rpm. The motor was matched with a shiny new radiator and fumes framework. The Verdeja model utilized the Panzer I's Aphon PG-31 gearbox, in spite of the fact that this worked at over the top unrests for the motor, offering less torque which made slants more noteworthy than 40° troublesome. Perhaps the most surprising highlights of the Verdeja were the suspension and tracks. To keep the tank's tracks slipping off the roadwheels, two track pieces were fitted together to make a focal score for the roadwheel to go in. With a weight of under the Verdeja had a greatest speed of and a battle sweep of . Following the model's achievement in testing between 10 January and 20 January 1939, Captain Verdeja was requested to start development of the conclusive model of the light tank. 

The presence of the subsequent Verdeja 1 model was near that initially imagined in Captain Verdeja's first structures. The vehicle's structure was prolonged and the back plate inclined, while the fuel limit—and in this way battle run—was expanded, similar to the ammo limit and the thickness of the protection. The vehicle was manufactured in Bilbao, the main city in Spain with a substantial vehicle sequential construction system. Because of the finish of the Spanish Civil War and a lack of assets, development was deferred until May 1940. The model was finished three months after the fact and conveyed to the demonstrating grounds in Carabanchel, Madrid, controlled with essentially a similar Ford flathead V8 motor additionally utilized as the rationale intensity of the three-ton weight British Universal Carrier. A noteworthy outer contrast between the past model and this model was the, extraordinary failure profile turret which enabled the 45 millimeter weapon to discourage and hoist from 8° to 70°. The first 45 millimetre model 1932 firearm was traded with another 45 millimetre Mark I tank weapon created by S.A. Placencia de las Armas, in Spain. Be that as it may, the new model received the suspension and tracks from the first model. Generally, the primary points of interest of the new model were its position of safety, high height of the fundamental weapon and the expanded inclining of the defensive layer from 12° to 45°. It ought to be noticed that the Verdeja 1 held the first design by putting the motor in the front, to build team survivability. 

On landing in Carabanchel, the vehicle was tried against the T-26 in portability over various landscape types and in capability. The vehicles were reviewed dependent on a five-point scale for each test, which would be duplicated by a coefficient of significance for each test. Amid the testing the Verdeja went for some 500 kilometres (300 mi) with no upkeep issues, the main issue being the substantial utilization of water by the gas motor, because of the absence of a proficient radiator, and the departure of an elastic liner of one of the roadwheels. It was discovered that the most extreme speed of the Verdeja was either keeping pace with comparable vehicles in outside administration or prevalent, while the Verdeja substantiated itself fit for going over channels practically 2 m wide and climbing inclines of 40°. As far as weapon, it was demonstrated that the vehicle could withstand the backlash of the 45 millimetre high-speed tank firearm. One of the vehicle's inconveniences was that the tank authority's pointing gadget was intended for a 37 millimetre enemy of tank gun, adjusted into the Verdeja because of the absence of time to make one for the 45 millimetre Mark I. Testing finished up with the Verdeja getting an aggregate of 243 points, contrasted with the 205 points granted to the T-26B. Testing finished, the model was returned and a few issues were fixed, including motor inadequacies, the height of the sprocket and an expansion to 10 millimetre of protective layer on all regions that had less. These progressions made, the Verdeja came back to testing, this time scoring 261.98 focuses. 

Plans to create one thousand Verdeja tanks were endorsed on 2 December 1940, partitioned into ten clumps of one hundred tanks each. The Verdeja generation model was to embrace the 120 horsepower (89 kW) Lincoln-Zephyr gas V12 motor, requiring an agreement between the Spanish government and Ford Motor Ibérica, Ford's Spanish backup. At the same time, in the event of disappointment of talks among Ford and Spain, the administration additionally started to contact various German organizations, including Maybach. So as to start generation, the Tank Workshop in Zaragoza was to be extended to permit last get together of no less than five tanks for every month. Regardless of subsidizing and two years of development distributed, the processing plant development and extension was never finished. Different issues emerged, including the inability to achieve a concurrence with Ford or Maybach. These components, the poor financial circumstance in Spain, the absence of customers other than the Spanish Army and the absence of motivating forces for Spanish organizations to share in the development program, prompted the relinquishment of the endeavor to create the Verdeja 1. Another endeavor was embraced at getting the ADESA ("Armamento de Aviación, S.A.") organization, to fabricate two Verdeja light tanks for test purposes. In spite of the inability to acquire a motor, ADESA offered to develop 300 units, yet these endeavors fizzled and the program was deserted by 1941. 

As the Verdeja 1 program broke down, Captain Verdeja started to plan a successor thinking about exercises got the hang of amid the opening efforts of the Second World War. The new plan included an overhauled motor narrows at the back of the undercarriage, which implied moving the drive sprocket to the back also. The development of the motor's area took into consideration better cooling of the vehicle's engine and the battling compartment, just as enabling the turret to be pushed ahead. The vehicle's covering was likewise expanded significantly by somewhere in the range of five and ten millimeters. This new tank was not endorsed for generation or further advancement because of proceeded with delay of the creation of the Verdeja 1 for reasons which included ideas by the German government to supply the Panzer IV's motor for the Verdeja 1. Despite the fact that generation of the new vehicle at long last started in 1942, it was not until August 1944 that the Verdeja 2 model was conveyed. The program was postponed by the fuse of twenty Panzer IV Ausf. H's and ten Sturmgeschütz IIIs into the Spanish Army in late 1943, just as fizzled endeavors to get one hundred more Panzer IVs and even Panthers and Tigers amid 1944. With these new vehicles coordinated into the military and the monetary issues which tormented the Verdeja 1, the Verdeja 2 stayed unchanged until 1950, when there was an endeavor to fit a Pegaso Z-202 motor. Regardless of this, the Verdeja stayed on industrial facility grounds until 1973, when it was exchanged to the Infantry Academy of Toledo. 

Between the late 1940s and mid 1950s there were various projects in Spain to build up a self-impelled howitzer dependent on a current body. For instance, amid the mid 1950s, Spanish architects endeavored to retrofit a R-43 105-millimeter (4.1 in) L/26 howitzer into a StuG III. This required remaking of the turret's casemate, in a design like the Verdeja 75-millimeter self-pushed howitzer. Albeit one vehicle started change, the program was never concluded. There were comparative projects to fit a 88-millimeter L/56 and a 122-millimeter L/46 howitzer from there on, however these did not progress past the arranging stage, either. A standout amongst the best projects was simply the endeavor to deliver a 75-millimeter self-pushed howitzer dependent on the frame of the Verdeja 1 model. Starting in 1945,  currently Major Verdeja was requested to start structuring this piece utilizing a quick terminating 75-millimeter L/40 howitzer planned by "Sociedad Española de Construcción Naval". The accessibility of the required parts and the absence of convoluted changes implied that the vehicle was immediately arranged and tried widely. The destiny of oneself pushed piece was much equivalent to that of the Verdeja 2, and the vehicle was left immaculate at the demonstrating grounds in Carabanchel until 1973, when it was moved to the Spanish base "Alfonso XIII", lodging the then Mechanized Infantry Regiment "Wad Rass nº 55". It was before long moved to another base, lastly conveyed to the base of "El Goloso", outside of Madrid, as a piece of a heavily clad vehicles gallery. 

Real changes to the first Verdeja 1 included expelling the turret and supplanting it with a firearm shield with 10 millimetre thick steel protective layer. This implied a great part of the case's rooftop and back divider was killed. The howitzer was structured as a monoblock steel tube, utilizing a twofold confound gag brake, with twelve turns finishing a full turn each forty gauges. As mounted, the howitzer could fire somewhere in the range of 0.5° and 25°, and move 4.5° either left or right. The group could stow eight rounds of ammo in a prepared round stowage zone close to the dividers of the weapon shield on each side of the breech, enabling simple access to shots. Something else, the vehicle could store another 24 adjusts in a helper carriage. The carriage depended on the axles and wheels of a PaK 36 hostile to tank firearm. A novel component of this model was a mechanical brake incorporated with the idler-wheel to the back of the undercarriage, ensuring the vehicle's solidness when terminating and evading harm to the transmission. 

At last the Verdeja program's end accompanied the entry of military hardware from the United States, starting in 1953. From 1954, the Spanish Army got 389 M47 Patton Tanks, supplanting the T-26s, Panzer Is and Panzer IVs at that point in administration. The Verdeja had turned out to be totally outdated when contrasted with bigger, increasingly intense tanks, for example, the German Panther, the Soviet T-54 and the US M47. The T-54 had 200 millimetre of steel protection on the turret mantlet, far more noteworthy than the Verdeja 2's most extreme covering thickness of 40 millimetres. The Soviet 45 millimetre model 1932 firearm was supplanted by the T-34's 76.2 millimetre weapon, while the Germans embraced the 75 millimetre L/70 tank weapon on the Panther. By 1950, Soviet tanks, for example, the T-54 were furnished with the D-10T 100 millimetre tank firearm, and American tanks embraced the 90 millimetre primary weapon. Despite the fact that the Verdeja was Spain's best indigenous plan, it was clobbered as outside nations delivered prevalent items. Besides, the requirement for self-pushed cannons was before long wiped out as the United States offered Spain M37 and M44 self-moved howitzers. Therefore, enthusiasm for the Verdeja evaporated after 1954. Spain would not endeavor another indigenous tank until the appearance of the Lince principle fight tank in the late 1980s.