Meet Kevin Johnson 

"Meet Kevin Johnson" is the 80th TV scene of the American Broadcasting Company's (ABC's) "Lost" and the eighth scene of the fourth season. It was written in October and November 2007 by managing maker Elizabeth Sarnoff and co-maker Brian K. Vaughan, and coordinated in November by co-official maker Stephen Williams. "Meet Kevin Johnson" first broadcast March 20, 2008, on ABC in the United States and on CTV in Canada. 

In the second-season finale, following 67 days of being stranded on a secretive and magical tropical island, Oceanic Airlines 815 accident survivor Michael Dawson (played by Harold Perrineau) effectively arranges his departure by means of speedboat with the island's perilous unique occupants, whom the survivors allude to as the "Others". After one month in the scene before "Meet Kevin Johnson", Michael returns on a tanker seaward of the island, covert with the nom de plume "Kevin Johnson". The majority of the account of "Meet Kevin Johnson" comprises of a consistent flashback—the third longest in the show's history after "Over the Sea" and "The Other 48 Days"— demonstrating the end result for Michael in the month that he spent away in New York and on the tanker, essentially his enrollment on board the vessel "Kahana" as a government operative for the Others. 

The essayists finished "Meet Kevin Johnson", the eighth of 16 requested contents, around the same time that the 2007– 2008 Writers Guild of America strike activity started. After generation completed weeks after the fact without contribution from the show's journalists. ABC promised to air the finished eight scenes paying little respect to the strike's goals, however the authors felt that the scene's cliffhanger was inadmissible as a potential season finale. ABC at last overruled their resistance. 

"Meet Kevin Johnson" was viewed by 13 million Americans and was met with blended responses. A noteworthy talk point was the scene's peak, which was condemned for its situation in the story and its emphasis on auxiliary characters. Despite the fact that pundits reacted well to Michael's enthusiastic adventure, they whined that his physical voyage appeared to struggle with "Lost"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s course of events that had been spread out in past scenes. The scene was regarded with the fourth season's sole Primetime Emmy Award for its accomplishment in sound blending. 

The scene's opening is determined to December 26, 2004, more than three months after the accident of Oceanic 815. The majority of the scene happens on the vessel "Kahana," moored seaward of the island where the plane smashed. The tanker is possessed by Charles Widmore (Alan Dale), who is resolved to extricating the Others' head Ben Linus (Michael Emerson). Chief Gault (Grant Bowler) prevents two crewmembers from abandoning the vessel in a pontoon. He openly beats them and yells this is to spare their lives, helping the group to remember the end result for George Minkowski (Fisher Stevens) when he left the vessel. The following morning, Sayid Jarrah (Naveen Andrews) defies Michael about his inspirations, and the account shifts into a continuous flashback of Michael's life in the wake of getting away from the island. 

Michael and his child Walt Lloyd (Malcolm David Kelley) come back to New York. Defeat with blame, Michael admits that he killed Ana Lucia Cortez (Michelle Rodriguez) and Libby (Cynthia Watros) as a feature of his salvage of Walt from the Others' imprisonment. Michael ends up offended from Walt, who goes to live with Michael's mom (Starletta DuPois). Michael is spooky by phantoms and bad dreams of the late Libby. Michael endeavors to execute himself in a fender bender, however fizzles. He sells the watch that Jin Kwon (Daniel Dae Kim) gave him in the primary season finale and purchases a weapon for another suicide endeavor, however this, as well, is fruitless, in light of the fact that the firearm jams. That night, Michael is gone up against by Tom (M.C. Gainey), the Other who kidnapped Walt. Tom clarifies that the island won't enable Michael to murder himself, and gives Michael a task: Michael must invade the vessel "Kahana" utilizing the pen name "Johnson" and slaughter everybody ready, who may endeavor to execute his individual accident survivors. Michael consents to do it and sheets the vessel from Fiji. Michael ends up familiar with the team and delays to undermine their main goal until he discovers Martin Keamy (Kevin Durand) and his partners target-rehearsing with automatic weapons. After Michael endeavors to explode a gave bomb just to find that it is a phony, Ben contacts Michael by radio and clarifies that the trap represented his position against executing blameless individuals in his war against Widmore. The flashback finishes and Sayid, shocked by Michael's relationship with Ben, opens his deception to Gault. 

On the island in the Others' surrendered Barracks where a portion of the survivors have taken home, 815 survivor John Locke (Terry O'Quinn) meets with his group to talk about the vessel and Ben uncovers that Michael is spying for him there. Ben later urges his embraced girl Alex (Tania Raymonde) to escape to the Others' haven at the "Sanctuary" for security; she is joined by her organic mother Danielle Rousseau (Mira Furlan) and beau Karl (Blake Bashoff). On their way, Karl and Rousseau are shot dead by concealed aggressors and Alex surrenders. 

"Meet Kevin Johnson" includes the main appearance of Cynthia Watros as Libby in "Lost" since the character was killed in the second season. In spite of a guarantee by essayist's associate Matt Ragghianti that there would be a scene in the second season in which flashbacks would concentrate on Libby, Watros turned into the principal primary cast part to never assume the focal job in a "Lost" scene. Following Libby's demise, Co-maker/official maker/author Damon Lindelof uncovered designs to reveal to her story in the third season. Libby's story was later delayed once more—Lindelof expressed that her back story would be told through flashbacks of another character presented in the fourth season. Official maker/author Carlton Cuse further clarified that these flashbacks would unfurl over various scenes. This neglected to emerge; nonetheless, Watros showed up by means of fantasies in Michael's flashbacks in "Meet Kevin Johnson". The authors affirmed that while they still couldn't seem to reveal insight into the character's past, they would at long last in their fifth year. The authors later made further corrections, with Cuse reasoning that Libby's part in the show is "practically wrapped up." When Watros came back to "Lost" for "Meet Kevin Johnson", she didn't get the "exceptional visitor star" credit, as was standard for previous principle cast individuals from "Lost". She was rather charged just as a visitor star, in spite of the fact that her name showed up with that of incessant visitor star M.C. Gainey in front of the rest of the scene's visitor cast, who were recorded in order on-screen. Gainey clarified that "since they execute you on this show, don't mean they needn't bother with you any longer 'cause everyone has a past." Damon Lindelof said that "it was similar to a stroll through a world of fond memories for the dead", as it included Tom and Libby, yet in addition Naomi Dorrit (Marsha Thomason) and George Minkowski (Fisher Stevens), two characters from the vessel who had met their destructions before in the season. 

First season customary cast part Malcolm David Kelley returned in an uncredited appearance for a solitary scene as Michael's ten-year-old child Walt without discourse and from a separation. Fifteen-year-old Kelley asserted that make-up was connected to him in an exertion for him to look more youthful; in any case, Damon Lindelof and Carlton Cuse illuminated that enhanced visualizations director Mitch Suskin had really composited into the shot some recording of Kelley from generation on the main season. Since Kelley was so clouded and his name did not show up in the cast rundown, TV commentators were persuaded that Walt had been recast. Steve Heisler of "Time Out" expressed that "You gotta hand it to the "Lost" essayists: For weeks, individuals have hypothesized about how they were going to treat Walt's unavoidable pubescence. It's just plain obvious, the show's set in 2004, and just a couple of months have gone since the plane accident. However … it's been years, and … Kelley has turned into a man. So what did they do? … They simply didn't indicate him. Shrewd." TMZ's Daniel imagined that "Not indicating Walt is a smart method to conceal the way that he [is] a foot taller than he ought to be … I comprehend that they basically can't demonstrate Walt until kingdom come". "Wizard"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Nikki Stafford ventured to such an extreme as to comment that "That kid remaining in the window was unquestionably not Malcolm David Kelley … I don't think Kelley will have returned to repeat the job." 

Having showed up in six scenes of the third season and the initial two of the fourth season, Blake Bashoff tried out for and won the piece of Moritz Stiefel in the Broadway melodic "Spring Awakening". He cautioned Damon Lindelof and Carlton Cuse that he would be unfit to shoot "Lost" for no less than a half year starting in December 2007, as he practiced for and performed in the creation. Being "enormous fans" of the melodic and saluting Bashoff on what they thought was a "stunning chance," they conceptualized thoughts with different authors to work him out of the story while despite everything they had him available to them. Having chosen some time back that Karl would in the long amazing, pinpointed the scene. The cliffhanger of "Meet Kevin Johnson" sees Karl shot dead by inconspicuous executioners in the wilderness. Two scenes later, the character Miles Straume (Ken Leung) discovers Karl in part covered in the wilderness soil, however this carcass is depicted by a body twofold and not Bashoff. As indicated by Bashoff, the scholars trust that he can come back to "Lost" sooner or later to "fill a cool need like [Tom does in 'Meet Kevin Johnson']." as to his involvement with "Lost", Bashoff related that "I adore the show. [The cast]'s an incredible gathering … and … you get the chance to shoot in heaven"; in any case, he wanted that he had gotten familiar with Karl's backstory. 

The Writers Guild of America took to the streets on November 4, 2007—the day that the authors wrapped up the last draft of the content of "Meet Kevin Johnson". The scholars needed to hold the eight scenes until they had the capacity to deliver a greater amount of the period in light of the fact that the eighth scene has a "cool" yet uncertain cliffhanger that was not composed to end the season; they contrasted it with "the finish of an energizing book section [but] not the finish of the novel." ABC chose that the eight scenes would be disclosed from January to March, paying little heed to whether any more scenes were created in the 2007– 2008 season. After the strike's end on February 12, 2008, the journalists begged ABC to air "Meet Kevin Johnson" on April 17 with the second case of scenes, because of "the eighth scene [being] non-conventional and the beginning of something new". Jorge Garcia, who plays Hurley Reyes, concurred that "it's a quite stunning end however it doesn't finish off the way our past [finales] have finished [because] it doesn't have that conclusion to it [and] finishes it could be said of cacophony." ABC in any case organized booking "Dark's Anatomy", "Terrible Betty" and "Lost"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s restores just for April 24. 

Regardless of the battles with the strike, co-official maker/staff essayist Adam Horowitz described this as "a fantastic scene to take a shot at—it resembled we'd been holding up so long to recount to the tale of what occurred with Michael." Carlton Cuse expressed that "we [the writers] felt that the group of onlookers had the right to know, you know, when he and Walt cruised off in the vessel, what was their voyage." Supervising maker/author Elizabeth Sarnoff expressed that "Michael's objective—the entire season—is to bite the dust and he gets a chance to make up for himself when [Tom] discovers him." Co-official maker/staff author Edward Kitsis included that "It's unfortunate when Walt wouldn't see [Michael] … I constantly regarded the way that he enlightened his child concerning the homicides … Even however he realized it would most likely explode their relationship, he needed to be straightforward with his child. As it were, you must regard that." Harold Perrineau, who plays Michael, presumed that "He's done some terrible things and he's you know, got himself into an untidy circumstance, yet by the day's end, Michael's a hero." Instead of being intercut with scenes from the primary progressing plot, the flashbacks of "Meet Kevin Johnson" are exhibited persistently and are just bookended by present-day scenes. This is the second scene to do this after "Flashes Before Your Eyes" from the third season. The flashback segment of "Meet Kevin Johnson" is the longest in "Lost" history; Horowitz expressed that "As we were breaking the story, it simply occurred, and it transformed into the longest flashback to date." When inquired as to why Michael's false name was not a mention to an abstract or authentic figure, similarly as with other "Lost" characters, Damon Lindelof clarified that "on the off chance that the Others … had picked … Darwin or … Dickens, at that point … Widmore would have gotten suspicious: he'd go like, 'gracious, presently there's someone on my pontoon with an artistic inference in their name, which sounds particularly like that is a Benjamin Linus assumed name', so they picked the most harmless name they could, which was Kevin Johnson." Lindelof likewise said that it was a fortuitous event that "Kevin Johnson" was additionally the name of an American ball player. 

In "Meet Kevin Johnson", Michael visits Tom's penthouse suite, where Tom and his sweetheart Arturo (Francesco Simone) are uncovered to be gay—"Lost"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s just gay characters. Online hypothesis about Tom's sexual introduction started after the communicate of the third-season debut, in which Tom reveals to Kate Austen (Evangeline Lilly) that she is "not [his] type". Half a month later, the authors indicated that a character would in the end be uncovered as gay. In light of the web network's doubts, on-screen character M.C. Gainey started to play the character thusly, inconspicuously attempting to play with Jack Shephard (Matthew Fox) and later asserting that this fascination "got [him] through the main portion of the period." Following the communicate of "Meet Kevin Johnson", Lindelof and Cuse affirmed that the line from the third-season debut is an implication to Tom's sexuality, however felt that it should have been expressly affirmed in the show. Lindelof noticed that "it was not inconspicuous, no doubt". Edward "Vortex" Kitsis expressed that "It was extraordinary to see [Tom] and understand that … he is a genuine man of his word." M.C. Gainey expressed that "whenever you have a gathering of individuals, someone must walk an alternate drummer—that would be Tom" and Harold Perrineau celebrated "Directly on, I suspected that was cool". 

Tom sets up that the island has some power about whether characters can bite the dust, as showed when Michael fruitlessly endeavors to end it all multiple times. Kitsis felt that "It was fascinating what [Tom] said to Michael … that truly brings through Michael's circular segment." Later in the season, Martin Keamy (Kevin Durand) attempts to shoot Michael in the head, however the firearm jams and the following day, an indication of the island as Christian Shephard (John Terry) shows up before Michael. Damon Lindelof affirmed that the island's "astronomical intervention[s] of destiny" additionally had an impact in the auto collision that thwarted Jack's suicide endeavor in the third-season finale. Following the communicate of the fourth middle of the season debut, Lindelof further affirmed that this island drive keeps Ben and Widmore from kicking the bucket. Cuse has said that "There is a seething discussion on the show about what establishes choice and what comprises predetermination and Michael's story was kind of a[n] contention on the fate side of that condition. He had more predetermination to satisfy with that island than he foreseen and perhaps the crowd foreseen." Elizabeth Sarnoff expressed that "the island doesn't release you until it's finished with you and I believe that the remainder of our characters are going to feel the resonations of that, too." 

The second scene of the scene has Captain Gault beating two of his men, who had endeavored to leave the tanker. Gault's performing artist Grant Bowler clarified that "it was a scene about how far and quick things were spiraling wild [on] the tanker … It was additionally about his capacity to run the ship and that he was happy to go to such extraordinary lengths to maintain control. It was about status, and keeping reasonable, and being in charge." 

Shooting started toward the beginning of November and finished up on November 27, 2007. The strike suspended the content for the following scene and liberated the cast and team from a prompt due date, with the outcome that additional time was spent on taping "Meet Kevin Johnson" than the normal "Lost" scene. Shooting did not generally cover with the encompassing scenes, despite the fact that it was created at the same time with the "" mobisodes coordinated by official maker Jack Bender and one scene from the season debut managed by co-official maker Jean Higgins. Perrineau trusted the group of onlookers would make the most of Michael's arrival since the cast and team "busted [their] butts doing this one. It felt like we were making a motion picture on the grounds that there's so much stuff that occurs in this scene". Lilly called it "a standout amongst the best scenes of the initial eight." 

The outside vessel scenes were taped on a genuine tanker, while inside scenes were shot both on sets and in the tanker. The creation group had proposed for the motor room scene where Michael goes to explode the bomb and sees Libby to be shot in the vessel's motor room; rather, they constructed another motor room set dependent on that inside the tanker. It was "so smothering hot" at around and the group found that "to get cooling down [t]here … was a unimaginable errand", as per the "Kahana"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s genuine boss architect Bob Bower. Stone carver Jim Van Houten made twin twenty four foot (seven meter) marine motors for the set, basically from urethane froth. 

One New York flashback was taped on a similar Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii road that had been utilized by set decorator Carol Bayne Kelley as Berlin, Germany in the fourth season's "The Economist" and London, England in the third season's "Flashes Before Your Eyes". The cliffhanger, in which Alex, Karl and Rousseau are in the wilderness, was shot at Dillingham Ranch on the northwest tip of Oahu close to the shoreline where the pilot and other early scenes were principally recorded. The scene initially finished with "expert sharpshooters rising through the wilderness in these amazing, expound, wilderness cover outfits"; notwithstanding, this was cut in after generation. Components of this would be re-shot and utilized in the following scene when the sharpshooters are distinguished. 

Notwithstanding picketing on most days with his individual "Lost" journalists, Carlton Cuse, an individual from the WGA arranging board of trustees, kept on administering after creation in late November. At the point when dealings between the Guild and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers separated toward the beginning of December, he boycotted his delivering obligations on the show until the strike was settled. 

Notwithstanding Michael Giacchino's unique score, "Meet Kevin Johnson" contained famous music diegetically. The tune playing on Michael's vehicle radio amid his first suicide endeavor is "It's Getting Better," performed by "Mother" Cass Elliot. The melody is heard once more, transiently, amid Michael's vision of Libby in the ship's motor room. Elliot's version of the tune was discharged as a solitary in 1969 and was incorporated on her collection "Bubblegum, Lemonade, and... Something for Mama" later that year. "Lost" recently played Elliot's "Make Your Own Kind of Music" during the time season. 

Named "the most foreseen "Lost" [episode] of the period" by Verne Gay of "Newsday" because of Michael's flashbacks, "Meet Kevin Johnson" was observed live or recorded and viewed inside five hours of communicated by 11.461 million watchers in the United States. Regardless of positioning ninth for the week in TV programs with the most watchers, "Meet Kevin Johnson" set another record as the least evaluated scene in "Lost"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s history, despite the fact that this title was taken two scenes later with the communicate of "Something Nice Back Home". "Meet Kevin Johnson" accomplished a fifth-place 4.6/12 in the desired grown-ups matured eighteen to forty-nine statistic for the week. Counting the individuals who viewed inside seven days of communicate, the scene was viewed by an aggregate of 13.386 million American watchers. 1.421 million Canadians watched "Meet Kevin Johnson", making "Lost" the eighth most-saw show of the week. The scene acquired 618,000 watchers in Australia, putting it as the twenty-fourth most watched show of the night. 

Faultfinders and fans alike scrutinized the authors' appearing dismissal for the "Lost" timetable. In light of the activities and whereabouts of characters in the third season, fans could derive when parts of Michael's flashbacks happened in connection to occasions on the island. John Kubicek of BuddyTV composed that "This course of events results in some difficult issues fans ought to have with time … This has neither rhyme nor reason … Michael left in the vessel, he needed to discover help, come shorewards, by one way or another account for himself, jump on a plane back to New York City, drop off Walt to live with his grandmother, discover a loft, get into an auto crash, recoup, and at exactly that point did he meet Tom. Either the journalists are playing reckless with the idea of time, or Michael had the busiest week ever of world." Using Lostpedia as a source of perspective, Nikki Stafford of "Wizard" called attention to that the order was practically conflicting with the third season, yet in addition with a prior scene of a similar season. Damon Lindelof reacted that "we [the authors and producers] find that the [fan message] sheets can be extremely lethal" and guided explicitly toward the "nitpick[ing]" of the conceivable congruity issues of "Meet Kevin Johnson", saying with regards to the content that "it's TV." 

The cliffhanger, in which Rousseau and Karl are murdered and Alex calls out in edginess that she is Ben's little girl, picked up a blended reaction. In a 8.8 out of 10 survey, IGN's Chris Carabott called the scene "totally strange … attached and vexing" as it "came at the most unusual minute". Jay Glatfelter of "The Huffington Post" considered the cliffhanger "a stunner"; he asked "do we truly mind [about Karl's death]? That is to say, he had a pleasant new hair style and all, yet he truly wasn't excessively intriguing of a character." Despite his evaluation that "this noteworthy scene was a fitting middle of the season finale", Digital Spy's Ben Rawson-Jones composed that the "peak wasn't as powerful as one could have sought after, as the aggregate destinies of Alex, Danielle and the ultra-nonessential Karl don't awaken a lot of enthusiasm." Grading the scene as a "B", "Stimulation Weekly"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Jeff Jensen was likewise unmoved with the cliffhanger and the characters conveying it; he felt that arrange administrators were halfway to fault for conflicting with the desire of the show's imaginative group to communicate "Meet Kevin Johnson" as a middle of the season debut instead of a middle of the season finale. Jensen censured the scene's one of a kind flashback group, remarking that it came up short on the standard thing "more profound, increasingly vivid experience [that] adorns the advancement of the narrating" of "Lost". 

"Meet Kevin Johnson" had an offer of good surveys, with commentators acclaiming the character advancement and enthusiastic battles of Michael. Alan Sepinwall of "The Star-Ledger" discovered this "center part" to be "very great" with "a fine execution from Mr. Perrineau". Sepinwall composed that Michael's "battle to manage the blame from his Faustian deal to spare Walt was another moving case of how the authors this season are truly endeavoring to expand on the enthusiastic effect of everything that is occurred previously." The "San Francisco Chronicle"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Tim Goodman reverberated this commendation and alluded to "Gay Tom" as "an interesting and amusing turn". Cynthia Littleton of "Assortment" composed that "Perrineau plays it without flaw more often than not—no hysterics or landscape biting, only a man attempting to make the best decision, more often than not." In a four-out-of-five-star survey, Digital Spy's Ben Rawson-Jones commended the absence of intrusion to the flashback and remarked that "[Michael's] self-destructive situation was very much passed on and there were a lot of stuns and excites en route". Dan Compora of SyFy Portal delighted in observing dead characters in flashbacks and lauded Perrineau's execution and character's story, while reprimanding the underutilization of the remainder of the principle cast. In a general positive survey for the scene, "The Huffington Post's" Jay Glatfelter had blended affections for the disclosure of Tom's sexual introduction, composing that "It appeared somewhat strangely put, sort of like 'How about we make one of our characters gay only for its hell' yet at the same time it's cool that the show has a superbly typical … not super gay character." 

The scene was additionally subject to less positive surveys from commentators who were disillusioned with the holes in Michael and Walt's story. Steve Heisler of "Time Out" "wasn't very satisfied", refering to the story's consistency. TMZ's Daniel called "Meet Kevin Johnson" "strong, yet not terrific" and gave it an evaluation of a "C+", composing that "this scene fell somewhat short … I feel like we were somewhat victimized of half of 'The end result for Michael?' story. It was fascinating to perceive how far into misery he sunk … And they gave him a truly valid justification for working for Ben … But I can't shake the inclination that we botched a decent chance". He further remarked that "Tom would make an incredible football mentor—his persuasive addresses are magnificent." TV Squad's Erin Martell was unsatisfied with Michael's flashback and the absence of Walt, asking "What was their main story when they returned to the terrain? … they couldn't complete a veritable flashback scene in light of … Kelley's development spurt, however they could have worked around that." Oscar Dahl of BuddyTV positioned it as the second most exceedingly terrible scene of the period; his associate John Kubicek was additionally basic, and remarked that the flashback "basically reveals to us things we definitely know without disclosing to us significantly more." 

The Academy of Television Arts and Sciences allowed sound creation blender Robert "Bobby" Anderson and re-recording blenders Frank Morrone and Scott Weber an assignment for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Comedy or Drama Series (One-Hour) for their work on this scene. On September 13, 2008, the selection won and moved toward becoming "Lost"s just Primetime Emmy Award win in 2008. Anderson talked about his activity for an Easter egg featurette on the DVD and Blu-beam arrivals of "Lost: The Complete Fourth Season – The Expanded Experience". "Lost" is here and there recorded just from the Kamehameha Highway and the traffic clamor overwhelms shot exchange, as do the sea waves, so Anderson has the performing artists circle their generally calm lines on a mechanized discourse substitution (ADR) sound stage.