Droxford railroad station 

Droxford railroad station was a little station on the Meon Valley Railway, worked to a plan by T. P. Figgis and opened in 1903. It served the towns of Droxford, Soberton and Hambledon in Hampshire, England. The railroad served a generally gently populated territory, yet was worked to primary line details fully expecting it turning into a noteworthy course to Gosport. Subsequently, in spite of the fact that the station was worked in a region with just five houses, it was structured with the ability to deal with 10-carriage trains. It at first demonstrated effective both for the vehicle of merchandise and travelers, however benefits were diminished amid the First World War and the ensuing retreat, and the course experienced inferable from rivalry street transport. 

In 1944 Droxford station was utilized by Winston Churchill as his base amid arrangements for the Normandy arrivals. Situated in a protected train stopped in the sidings at Droxford, Churchill met with various priests, military authorities and pioneers of united countries. On 4 June 1944, in the blink of an eye before the arrivals were because of happen, Free French pioneer Charles de Gaulle visited Churchill at Droxford, and was educated of the intrusion plans. While examining the future administration of freed France at this gathering, Churchill communicated his view that whenever compelled to favor France or the United States he would dependably pick the United States, a comment which imparted in de Gaulle a doubt of British goals and caused long haul harm to the after war connection among France and Britain. 

After the war, with Britain's railroad arrange in decrease, benefits on the Meon Valley Railway were cut definitely. An area of the line north of Droxford was shut, lessening Droxford to being the end of a short branch line. In mid 1955 the station shut to travelers, and in 1962 it shut to products traffic. Following its conclusion, Droxford station and an area of its railroad track was utilized for showing an exploratory railbus until the mid-1970s. It at that point quickly filled in as a driving school for HGV drivers, before turning into a private living arrangement and being reestablished to its unique appearance. 

The River Meon ascends in East Meon, and moves through rustic Hampshire before entering the Solent at Hill Head. With prolific farmland and access to the coast, the valley of the Meon has been occupied since in any event the Mesolithic time. The town of Droxford (from the Old English , "dry portage") is arranged on inclining ground on the west bank of the Meon, ignoring an expansive flood plain. The town has existed since in any event the mid ninth century; the vill of Drokeireford was conceded by Ecgberht, King of Wessex to Herefrith, diocesan of Winchester in 826 "for the sustenance of the priests of Winchester". Around then, the town effectively contained three factories. Droxford turned into the most essential of the towns in the prompt zone; by the late nineteenth century it housed the nearby mail station and transmit office, police headquarters, workhouse and town hall, and had its own distillery, lodge and flour plant. In the 1901 registration, taken quickly before the opening of the railroad, Droxford and neighboring Soberton on the east bank of the Meon had a joined populace of 1687. 

Since 1851 there had been proposition to fabricate a railroad line through the Meon Valley, however all recommendations were surrendered inferable from high development expenses or complaints from neighborhood landowners. Subsequently, before the finish of the nineteenth century the zone still had no simple access to a railroad line, in contrast to most different networks in the nation. 

To address this absence of administration, in 1896 a gathering of well off local people proposed a railroad running north– south from Basingstoke to Portsmouth. In spite of the fact that it would serve a delicately populated territory and thusly be of minimal monetary advantage, the proposition's supporters contended that it would be of vital significance, interfacing military offices in Aldershot and Portsmouth with military preparing grounds in north Hampshire. The line was to have been worked by the Great Western Railway and the South Eastern Railway. 

The London and South Western Railway (LSWR) and London, Brighton and South Coast Railway, who between them controlled rail access to the significant ports of Portsmouth and Southampton, were startled at the possibility of the GWR controlling a course toward the south coast, and campaigned against the proposition. The LSWR guaranteed the House of Lords Committee considering the suggestion that if the plan were rejected, the LSWR would assemble a line from Basingstoke to Alton and from Alton south along the Meon Valley to Fareham among Southampton and Portsmouth. Albeit initially aiming to fabricate a light railroad, when the LSWR made a formal proposition to Parliament in 1897 the proposition was for a rail route worked to fundamental line particulars. The Long Depression had at this point been in progress for more than 20 years, seriously bringing down agrarian salaries and enabling the LSWR to purchase land along the Meon Valley inexpensively. 

Droxford lies on the west of the River Meon, and at the time was an expansive town encompassed by farmland; the station was based on the contrary side of the stream, in neighboring Soberton. Soberton was intently connected with Droxford yet had its own character, and comprised of agrarian land scattered with little settlements. Brockbridge, the piece of Soberton picked for the station, contained just five houses; it was picked for its area at the gathering purpose of five streets near a scaffold over the Meon. It was open to Droxford, Soberton, and the vital adjacent town of Hambledon. In spite of the fact that sited in Soberton, the station was to be named for the more critical Droxford. 

The picked site was glebe land, truly claimed by the Diocese of Winchester to serve the area of Meonstoke, of which Soberton was a section. After hundreds of years as a house of prayer of simplicity of the neighboring ward of Meonstoke, in May 1897 Soberton turned into an autonomous area in its own right. In that capacity, the LSWR expected to convince William Hammond Morley, the recently selected minister of Soberton, of the advantages of the railroad. On 22 November 1898 Morley temporarily consented to sell the land for the station site for £425 (about £ in 2019 terms). On 9 February 1899, after endeavors from the LSWR in regards to fencing around the site and game plans for access to residual glebe land, the land was exchanged to the LSWR. Over the next weeks pay was paid to those individuals whose homes or land would be influenced by the structure of the station or the rerouting of streets, and the LSWR was prepared to continue with development. 

Development of the line started in 1900, start at Alton and working south. The station site at Droxford was close high ground, and groups burrowed a profound slicing through the chalk to enable dimension access to the station. In mid-1900, the work group burrowing this cutting discovered human stays on the site. Development work stopped while police examined; it was in the long run verified that the remaining parts were Anglo-Saxon. Further bodies, alongside metal gems and weapons, were found, and a significant number of the human bodies had been secured with extensive bits of rock. It wound up evident that the site was an Anglo-Saxon graveyard. (Later unearthings in 1974 recognized the site as an agnostic graveyard from the fifth and mid sixth hundreds of years. An aggregate of 41 graves were recognized.) Although the burrowing of the slicing was additionally deferred inferable from work deficiencies, work was generally finished by January 1902. At this point a lodging had opened close to the site of things to come station, named the Railway Hotel. 

The definite date of development is unrecorded, yet all things considered, Droxford station was worked in 1902. Similarly as with different stations on hold, the station building was structured by T. P. Figgis, an Irish designer who had structured huge numbers of the stations of the City and South London Railway (later to turn out to be a piece of London Underground's Northern line). All the new stations for the line were of a fundamentally the same as Tudor Revival configuration, fabricated to a great extent of red block with Portland stone stonework, recolored glass windows and restrooms in the state of pagodas. 

Fully expecting the course conceivably turning into a noteworthy primary line the station had two extremely long stages, fit for taking care of 10-carriage trains, associated by a wooden footbridge. Furthermore, the station had a folded iron merchandise shed with its own siding, and a flag box on the west (northbound) stage. The two lines combined to a solitary track quickly north of the station, yet proceeded with southwards as a twofold track. With designs for in the long run multiplying the track of the whole course, all cuttings, passages and extensions on the single-track segment were assembled sufficiently wide to oblige a second track in future. The station assembling additionally joined a house for the stationmaster and his family, arranged promptly to one side of the primary access to the stages. Notwithstanding the stationmaster's settlement in the fundamental structure, four cabins for railroad staff were worked to the prompt west of the station, and a coal yard was worked close to the station. 

In spite of the fact that the station building was finished, work was continuing more gradually than foreseen on the development of the railroad line, and the proposed opening date of 25 March 1903 was missed. While the course among Alton and Droxford was based on stable chalk, south of Droxford it entered the Reading Formation of stony mud, a surface on which it was hard to work; moreover, there were not many water hotspots for the steam-fueled development apparatus and for blending concrete, requiring the boring of numerous profound wells. Just as this, development work was consistently hindered by terrible climate. The Meon Valley Railway was in the long run finished and investigated for wellness by the Board of Trade on 6 April 1903, and the line opened to travelers on 1 June 1903. At the season of opening, the station was staffed by a stationmaster and three signalmen, just as different watchmen and administrative staff. 

The opening was moderately calm, and no formal function occurred. The opening day was Whit Monday, a bank occasion; nearby occupants were each permitted to take one adventure for nothing out of pocket to the following station in either bearing. (The free passages were legitimate for a solitary voyage; those exploiting the offer were obliged either to pay for an arrival ticket, or to stroll back.) Although express administrations among London and Gosport were pulled by incredible LSWR A12 class trains, the main administrations to stop at Droxford were neighborhood prepares among Fareham and Alton, pulled by less ground-breaking LSWR 415 class tank motors worked in the mid 1880s. At first, Droxford was served by six administrations every day toward every path, with two trains toward every path on Sundays. 

The railroad demonstrated fruitful, and the accessibility of helpful travel to London provoked the development of huge extravagance homes on the undeveloped land toward the south of the station. By 1915 there were 19 new homes on the site; 12 of the 19 homes had a lady as the householder, and the improvement moved toward becoming nicknamed the "Widow's Villas". Albeit essential as a traveler office, the primary criticalness of Droxford station was its effect on the neighborhood horticultural economy. Out of the blue milk, domesticated animals, vegetables and specifically strawberries from the various nearby strawberry homesteads could be sent efficiently and rapidly to showcase towns. (Strawberry cultivating turned out to be such a critical piece of the nearby economy following the development of the Meon Valley Railway that the railroad progressed toward becoming nicknamed the "Strawberry Line". Amid the picking season uncommon trains known as "strawberry specials" were laid on, conveying whole trainloads of strawberries to showcase.) Likewise, mass merchandise, for example, coal and lager could out of the blue be sent economically to Droxford and the encompassing towns. The station additionally demonstrated famous with onlookers visiting the Hambledon Hunt's racecourse, around from the station, and with individuals venturing out to the market in Alton, an administration which demonstrated so prevalent that the railroad offered unique ticket costs on market days. 

On the flare-up of the First World War in 1914, Britain's railroad arrange was taken into government control. While at first there was little effect on administrations through Droxford, the need to organize military needs and the exchange of railroad gear to France caused a decrease in administrations hanging in the balance. As the war went on, wartime deficiencies implied there were not many products accessible in the shops while work deficiencies prompted an ascent in family salaries. Subsequently, occasions expanded in fame as there was little else on which individuals could spend their cash, causing an expansion in traveler numbers on the Meon Valley railroad which associated London to beautiful nation towns and occupied beach front hotels. The expanded ubiquity of occasions and a national deficiency of moving stock and gifted railroad staff drove the administration to take exceptional measures. Charges were expanded by 50 percent, extraordinary occasion trains were nullified, alongside practically all concessionary tickets, and another purposefully moderate timetable was presented. The measures were not as fruitful in checking request as the legislature had trusted, and traveler numbers fell by just 7 percent. 

In the long subsidence following the First World War, benefits on hold were additionally diminished. A proposed multiplying of the track was surrendered, and prepares in the two bearings utilized just a solitary line, the second track south of Droxford being used just as an all-inclusive siding. Trains were decreased from four to six carriages to little arrangements of two carriages pulled by LSWR M7 class trains. The 1923 retention of the LSWR into the Southern Railway (SR) prompted further economies, and around 1926 the footbridge associating the stages of Droxford station was evacuated, travelers henceforward going too far by walking from the northern finishes of the stages. At this point, vehicles and lorries were starting to come into far reaching use, giving direct challenge the railroad for the two merchandise and traveler traffic. In spite of the fact that the railroad kept on working six trains per day toward every path, they remained slower than they had been in 1914. With the development of Southampton—which previously had a quick and direct administration from London—as a noteworthy port, there was little requirement for a course from London to Gosport. In 1937 the line from London to Alton was energized, making through trains to London no longer achievable and leaving the steam-fueled Meon Valley Railway as a rustic branch line. 

On 3 September 1939 Britain pronounced war on Germany, and the Second World War started. Following the flare-up of war the Meon Valley railroad stayed in traveler and merchandise use amid the day, and around evening time was utilized by troop trains conveying warriors to Southampton to be sent to France. Portsmouth and Gosport, both real military offices inside simple reach of German airplane, were required to go under serious assault, and numerous youngsters from these towns were cleared along the line to the towns of the Meon Valley. As a potential key course the Meon Valley Line went under incidental shelling from German flying machine endeavoring to disturb traffic to and from the Channel ports. In 1940 the station building was softly harmed and two of the four railroad houses were obliterated by a Junkers Ju 88 airplane, the main huge harm to Droxford station amid the war. 

As the line was moderately delicately utilized, it was once in a while utilized for test purposes; in 1941 a unique train visited Droxford pulled by a LSWR 700 class train, conveying 35 Bren Gun Carriers and their related troops, as a trial into the achievability of conveying troops and their gear together. Having created vacuum issues, the train stayed in the siding at Droxford for two days, before in the end advancing to the coast. 

Since railroad supervisors had demonstrated aptitudes in organization and of overseeing coordinations they were sought after from the administration for key administration, and a significant number of the administrators of Britain's four rail route organizations were backed to government. Also, in spite of the fact that railroad work was a held occupation, vast quantities of railroad staff in any case volunteered for military administration. Staff deficiencies and the absence of provisions caused benefits on the Meon Valley line to fall apart; the most extreme paces were decreased to for merchandise traffic and for traveler trains. Regardless of the decrease in the standard of administrations, Droxford station stayed occupied. Fuel proportioning had made street transport among homesteads and the towns to a great extent unviable; thusly, merchandise and travelers going to and from the encompassing towns to a great extent stopped to be conveyed by street, and rather would be taken to Droxford station for ahead shipment via train. 

On the morning of 2 June 1944 requests were called along the length of the Meon Valley Railway that it was to be kept free of trains to guarantee an exceptional train could utilize the course without intrusion. The imperial train of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway, a T9 class train pulling reinforced carriages, maneuvered into the sidings at Droxford station. Troops encompassed the station and its sidings, and the nearby mail station was requested to let no mail other than authority business leave the town. Droxford's signalman Reg Gould, whose little girl had been brought into the world the earlier month, was blessed to receive a full breakfast off the apportion book. 

Albeit authoritatively stayed discreet from nearby occupants, it before long unfolded that Winston Churchill had picked the station as a protected base, to be close to the coast and to the Allied war room at Southwick House amid the imminent Normandy arrivals. His purpose behind picking Droxford isn't recorded, other than its closeness to the Channel ports; there was neighborhood theory that the site was picked attributable to its profound cutting into which the train could be repositioned should it go under assault. Droxford likewise had the benefit of being dominated by beech trees, which darkened the perspective on the train. 

In the organization of his secretary Marion Holmes, General "Pug" Ismay and South African PM Jan Smuts, Churchill was to stay in the carriage at Droxford for the following four days other than a couple of brief outings. On those events in which the gathering expected to leave the train, it would be driven the short separation from the siding to the stage, and those on board would exit through the booking lobby to staff vehicles holding up at the exit. For no good reason, Churchill would not pursue this strategy, and demanded leaving through the merchandise yard. 

On 3 June Anthony Eden (around then the Foreign Secretary) and Pierson Dixon visited Churchill on the train. Eden was disinterested, and was later to portray the train as a spot where "it was practically difficult to direct any business" inferable from their just being one shower and one phone, every one of which was continually being used by Churchill or Ismay. A series of visits from other close friends of Churchill pursued, including Ernest Bevin, Geoffrey William Geoffrey-Lloyd, Duncan Sandys and Arthur Tedder, just as individual Commonwealth head administrators Peter Fraser, Sir Godfrey Huggins and Mackenzie King. Notwithstanding the gatherings hung ready, the train took Churchill, Bevin and Smuts to Southampton to watch attack powers set out. Churchill facilitated a supper on board the train, at which Eden and Bevin—both thought about potential successors to Churchill—talked about the likelihood of cooperating to proceed with Britain's wartime alliance government in peacetime should Churchill resign. Soon thereafter Dwight Eisenhower, from his adjacent base at Southwick House, chose to delay the intrusion from 5 to 6 June attributable to anticipated terrible climate. 

In spite of the fact that the Allied intrusion of France was just days away, Free French pioneer Charles de Gaulle presently couldn't seem to be educated of the attack plans. Not wishing to hazard speaking with the French government in a state of banishment in Algeria about the pending attack plans, however careful about a conceivably appalling strategic episode should the intrusion start without French learning, the British bureau had consented to welcome de Gaulle to visit England, at which time the intrusion plans would be revealed to him face to face. In the first part of the day of 4 June, de Gaulle arrived at RAF Northolt, to be met with a wire from Churchill: 

De Gaulle was worried with respect to why he had been welcome to this abnormal area. He touched base at Droxford at about 1.00 pm and was met by Anthony Eden and they strolled up the track towards Churchill's siding, to be welcomed with great enthusiasm by Churchill on the track. They entered the train to meet Jan Smuts and Ernest Bevin, where Churchill educated de Gaulle of the fast approaching intrusion. De Gaulle asked Churchill how a freed France was to be regulated; Churchill advised de Gaulle he would need to take it up with Franklin D. Roosevelt and that if at any time he needed to settle on a decision among France and the United States he would constantly agree with the United States, an announcement at which de Gaulle disapproved. 

Anthony Eden was shocked at how Churchill had dealt with such a touchy gathering. He addressed de Gaulle secretly to offer some kind of reparation, yet the connection between de Gaulle and Churchill had been seriously harmed. Starting here onwards de Gaulle was wary of the connection among Britain and the United States, eventually prompting a breakdown of relations between post-war Britain and France and to de Gaulle's vetoing of British participation of the European Economic Community. 

At 6.58 pm on 5 June, Churchill's train hauled out of Droxford and came back to London. The season of his landing in Downing Street isn't recorded, yet at 10.30 pm his obligation typist was gathered. At 16 minutes past midnight the next morning, Allied troops assaulted Pegasus Bridge and the American airborne arrivals in Normandy started soon after. 

On 26 July 1945 the Labor Party won an avalanche triumph on a proclamation that included bringing key ventures into open control, and on 1 January 1948 the Southern Railway turned into the Southern Region of the freely possessed British Railways. Albeit still precious for the vehicle of mass products, the utilization of railroads in the region fell pointedly after the war. The nullification of petroleum proportioning in 1950 made the vehicle definitely more down to earth than it had been, and the area of Droxford station between the two towns implied that it was badly designed for both. Railroad stations and moving stock had experienced poor support since the episode of war; trains were moderate and messy, and there was an expanding number of prominent railroad mishaps. To address the decay, benefits on the Meon Valley Railway were definitely cut. Products charges were expanded, Sunday administrations were rejected, and weekday traveler administration was diminished to four trains for every day toward every path with the last train leaving Alton at 4.30 pm, making day return travel to London outlandish. At this point Droxford never again had its very own stationmaster, and the stationmaster of close-by Wickham was in ostensible accuse of the station of Reg Daniels, Droxford's senior watchman, in charge of its organization. 

With the railroad organize battling, the British Transport Commission (BTC) proposed exceptional measures. On 3 May 1954 the BTC proposed the conclusion of the Meon Valley Railway to travelers and the absolute conclusion of the line among Droxford and Farringdon Halt, leaving a short stub among Alton and Farringdon and a more drawn out course among Fareham and Droxford to convey any outstanding merchandise traffic, at this point fundamentally coal for J. E. Smith's coal yard close Droxford station, and horticultural produce from the territory's ranches. For those travelers without access to vehicles, the BTC proposed improving transport benefits among Portsmouth and Meonstoke; they determined that supplanting four traveler trains for every day with six transports would accomplish yearly funds of £38,000 (about £ in 2019 terms). On 17 November 1954 the BTC reported the withdrawal of traveler administrations, and cargo benefits among Droxford and Farringdon Halt, powerful from 7 February 1955. The BTC ensured that one cargo train for every day would keep running on every one of the two residual areas of the line. 

As 6 February 1955, authoritatively the most recent day of administration, was a Sunday on which no traveler trains were because of run, the last booked traveler administrations to Droxford were those of 5 February 1955. At 7.14 pm the last booked traveler train to stop at Droxford hauled out, touching base in Alton at 7.43 pm. On 6 February 1955 an exceptional train named "The Hampshireman", comprising of two trains pulling ten carriages, went on a round adventure leaving London Waterloo station at 9.45 am, going through Pulborough and along the line from Pulborough to Petersfield by means of Midhurst which was likewise because of close the following day, north from Fareham to Alton along the Meon Valley Railway, and back to Waterloo, going through Droxford at about 3.20 pm ceaselessly. With the station now an end with no requirement for flagging, the flag box was annihilated soon thereafter. 

While the products administration from Droxford was kept caught up with amid the sugar beet reap, there was little interest for the remainder of the year, and in 1956 it was decreased to three trains every week. Regardless of these economies, the line stayed unrewarding. On 30 April 1961 the "Solent Express", a trip train contracted by the Locomotive Club of Great Britain, paid a short visit to Droxford, the last traveler train to visit the station. The Hampshire Narrow Gauge Railway Trust drew closer Droxford board in May 1961 with a proposition to assemble a limited check line along part of the neglected railroad among Droxford and West Meon, contending this would convey visitors to the territory, however the proposition was deserted in 1962. 

On 1 June 1961 Dr Richard Beeching progressed toward becoming director of the recently framed British Railways Board, with a brief of restoring the system to monetary security. The branch line to Droxford, beneficial just amid the sugar beet collect, was a conspicuous contender for conclusion. On 30 April 1962 products administration was finished on the branch, and Droxford station was formally shut. Reg Gould, who at this point had been signalman for more than 20 years and was the "accepted" supervisor of the station, was exchanged to close-by Swanwick railroad station. The tracks stayed set up, and were utilized for the capacity of repetitive merchandise wagons anticipating rejecting. The short stub among Alton and Farringdon Halt stayed operational by merchandise trains until 13 August 1968, the last piece of the Meon Valley Railway to close. 

Following its conclusion, Droxford station and the track south to Wickham were rented by the Sadler Rail Coach Company. The organization's owner Charles Sadler Ashby had assembled the "Pacerailer", a vehicle comprising of a transport style body on rails, and utilized the line to exhibit it to potential purchasers; an area was revamped with a 1:10 slope to show its capacities on soak inclinations. In line with the Southern Locomotive Preservation Society, Ashby enabled the utilization of the sidings to store motors and carriages. A significant issue with vandalism emerged at the site when the tracks were deliberately blocked and indicates stuck in an exertion wreck vehicles, and on 4 May 1970 the "Pacerailer" model was wore out and seriously harmed. In the long run British Rail shut the Knowle intersection, finishing the last association among Droxford and the railroad arrange, and the Southern Locomotive Preservation Society surrendered the site. Hampshire County Council considered structure a street along the previous railroad line, and in September 1972 obtained the land and rented the station building and a segment of track at Droxford to Ashby. This adequately liberated British Rail from keeping up utilities it had not utilized for a long time. 

Ashby passed on in February 1976, by which time the tracks to Droxford had been expelled. The dates are not recorded, however Ashby's test track among Droxford and Wickham was presumably evacuated in 1975, as had been the track south of Wickham in 1974. The Sadler Rail Coach Company was broken down in December 1976, having neglected to pitch the Pacerailer to any railroad organization. A comparative idea, the Pacer, was effectively created by British Rail during the 1980s. Droxford station and its related land were taken over by a driving school; the encompassing area was tarmacked and utilized for the preparation of HGV drivers. In 1984 the structure was sold to Colin and Elizabeth Olford, who evacuated the encompassing landing area and reestablished the structure to near its unique appearance. it remained a private living arrangement.