Lockdown (2008) 

Lockdown (2008) was an expert wrestling pay-per-see (PPV) occasion delivered by the Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) advancement, which occurred on April 13, 2008, at the Tsongas Arena in Lowell, Massachusetts. It was the fourth under the Lockdown order and fourth occasion in the 2008 TNA PPV plan. Eight expert wrestling matches, two of which for titles, were highlighted on the card. In the custom of Lockdown occasions, each match occurred inside a six-sided steel structure known as the Six Sides of Steel. 

The headliner was for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship between then-champion Kurt Angle and Samoa Joe, with the additional stipulation if Joe lost he would resign from expert wrestling. Joe won the experience, accordingly winning the TNA World Heavyweight Championship out of the blue. Additionally hung on the card was the 2008 Lethal Lockdown coordinate between Team Cage and Team Tomko. Group Cage of Christian Cage, Matt Morgan, Kevin Nash, Rhino, and Sting crushed Tomko, A.J. Styles, James Storm, and Team 3D (Brother Devon and Brother Ray) of Team Tomko in the challenge. Two included sessions were booked on the undercard. The first was an Intergender Tag Team coordinate setting the group of Robert Roode and Payton Banks against the group of Booker T and Sharmell. Booker T and Sharmell were the victors in the match. The TNA X Division Championship was shielded in the 2008 TNA Xscape coordinate by Jay Lethal against Consequences Creed, Curry Man, Johnny Devine, Shark Boy, and Sonjay Dutt. Deadly won the challenge to hold the title. 

Lockdown denoted the fourth time the Lethal Lockdown and Xscape coordinate configurations were utilized by TNA. 55,000 was the announced figure of buyers for the occasion by the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter". Lockdown had a participation of 5,500 individuals. Chris Sokol of SLAM! Wrestling evaluated the occasion a 6.5 out of 10, one point higher than he scored the 2007 occasion. 

In October 2017, with the dispatch of the Global Wrestling Network, the occasion wound up accessible to stream on interest. 

The fourth portion in the Lockdown sequence was reported in January 2008 as occurring on April 13. It was later announced that Lockdown was associated to be held outside with the TNA Impact! Zone. The New England region was accounted for as the trusted area, making it TNA's first PPV in the Northeastern region. TNA issued an official statement in mid-February 2008 reporting that Lockdown would be hung on April 13, 2008 at the Tsongas Arena in Lowell, Massachusetts. Tickets for the occasion went on special on February 29, 2008. TNA held a "TNA Fan Interaction" on April 12, 2008 as a feature of the merriments of the show. TNA made an area covering the occasion on their site. TNA discharged a blurb to advance the occasion now and then earlier highlighting Kurt Angle and Samoa Joe. The official topic for the exhibition was Nothing to Lose by Operator. 

Lockdown included eight expert wrestling matches that included distinctive wrestlers from prior scripted fights and storylines. Wrestlers depicted scalawags, saints, or less discernable characters in the scripted occasions that fabricated pressure and that finished into a wrestling match or arrangement of matches. Each match was challenged inside the Six Sides of Steel. 

The headliner was a Six Sides of Steel Cage coordinate for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship between then-champion Kurt Angle and the challenger Samoa Joe. This session was declared on the March 13 scene of TNA's TV program "TNA Impact!" by Management Director Jim Cornette. Joe announced on a similar scene that on the off chance that he didn't win the title at Lockdown, he would stop TNA in the storyline. A short time later, Joe was not seen until the April 10 scene of "Effect!", with preparing for the match being the purpose behind his nonappearance. On the April 10 scene of "Effect!", an agreement marking occurred among Joe and Angle in regards to the match. Joe marked the agreement, making it official in the event that he lost the match at Lockdown he would rather stop proficient wrestling until the end of time. This match was the movement of a long-standing arrangement of matches among Angle and Joe. Edge having won three of four of their past challenges at TNA's Genesis PPV occasion on November 19, 2006, TNA's Turning Point PPV occasion on December 19, 2006, TNA's Final Resolution on January 14, 2007, and at TNA's Hard Justice on August 12, 2007. 

The 2008 Lethal Lockdown coordinate was declared on the March 13 scene of "Effect!" by Cornette. Cornette declared that the 2008 portion would have two four-man groups captained by either Christian Cage or Tomko. Amid a similar scene, A.J. Styles and Team 3D (Brother Devon and Brother Ray) were picked by Tomko to be a piece of Team Tomko at Lockdown. In the mean time, Kevin Nash joined Cage as the second individual from Team Cage. Rhino joined Team Cage on the March 20 scene of "Effect!". On the March 27 scene of "Effect!", Sting joined Team Cage, to round out the group. It was declared on the April 3 scene of "Effect!" that each group chief would be permitted to include another part, making it a five-on-five match at Lockdown. James Storm was added to Team Tomko amid the show, while Matt Morgan lined up with Team Cage. This challenge was the consequence of a current quarrel setting Cage against Tomko and Styles. Enclosure, Tomko, and Styles were once joined under the Christian's Coalition flag, until Styles and Tomko lined up with Angle and shaped The Angle Alliance in late 2007. At TNA's Final Resolution PPV occasion on January 6, 2008, Cage battled Angle for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. Styles meddled in the challenge supporting Angle, costing Cage the title. Confine battled for the title against Angle again at TNA's Against All Odds PPV occasion on February 10, 2008, be that as it may, Tomko meddled supporting Angle to hold the title. 

Booker T and Sharmell versus the group of Robert Roode and Payton Banks in a Six Sides of Steel Intergender Tag Team Cage coordinate was another very advanced match heading into the occasion. This experience was reported on the March 20 scene of "Effect!" by Cornette. The fight in regards to this experience started at Final Resolution, where Roode inadvertently punched Booker T's genuine spouse Sharmell, breaking her jaw in the storyline and abandoning her sidelined inconclusively. Booker T and Roode then battled at Against All Odds to a twofold check out. At TNA's Destination X PPV occasion on March 9, 2008, Roode and Booker T battled in a Stand By Your Man Strap coordinate, which Roode won. After the session, Sharmell came back from damage assaulting Roode and his administrator Banks with a cowhide tie. 

The TNA X Division Championship was shielded in the 2008 TNA Xscape coordinate by Jay Lethal against five different contenders. TNA held capability coordinates on "Effect!" paving the way to Lockdown to decide the five different members other than Lethal. The first to qualify was Curry Man by crushing Petey Williams on the March 13 scene. Sonjay Dutt crushed Homicide on the March 20 scene to qualify. The third capability was Johnny Devine by vanquishing Alex Shelley on the March 27 scene. On the April 3 scene, Shark Boy crushed Elix Skipper to qualify. Outcomes Creed was the last to qualify by crushing Jimmy Rave on the April 10 scene. 

Lockdown included representatives other than the wrestlers associated with the matches. Mike Tenay and Don West were the observers for the broadcast, with Frank Trigg giving visitor discourse to the headliner as it were. Jeremy Borash and David Penzer were ring hosts for the occasion. Andrew Thomas, Earl Hebner, Rudy Charles, and Mark "Smooth" Johnson took an interest as officials for the experiences. Lauren Thompson and Borash were utilized as questioners amid the occasion. Other than representatives showing up in a wrestling job, SoCal Val, Trigg, Karen Angle, Marcus Davis, and individuals from Samoa Joe's family all showed up on camera, either in behind the stage or ringside portions. Joe's family were in participation to play out a conventional Samoan flame move amid his ring passage. 

Jay Lethal shielded the TNA X Division Championship against Consequences Creed, Curry Man, Johnny Devine, Shark Boy, and Sonjay Dutt in the 2008 TNA Xscape match to open the occasion. In this match, the six contenders battled until four were wiped out by pinfall or accommodation; the two outstanding wrestlers at that point battled to escape from the enclosure, with the first to do as such the champ. The span of the challenge was 10 minutes and 45 seconds. Dutt was the first killed in the session by Devine with a move up stick at 2 minutes and 50 seconds. The second was Shark Boy at 4 minutes and 30 seconds, after Creed played out his mark Creed-DT move. At 7 minutes and 15 seconds, Creed was wiped out by Curry Man after his mark Spice Rack move. Curry Man was the last wiped out at 8 minutes and 40 seconds by Devine following his mark Devine Intervention move. With the match down to two contenders, Devine and Lethal battled to get away from the confine. Deadly got away from the pen first, in this way winning the match and holding the TNA X Division Championship. 

The first-since forever Queen of the Cage coordinate for number one contendership to the TNA Women's Knockout Championship was straightaway. The members in the experience were Angelina Love, Christy Hemme, Jackie Moore, Rhaka Khan, Roxxi Laveaux, Salinas, Traci Brooks, and Velvet Sky. In this match, the members battled outwardly of the ring to move into the enclosure. The initial two to do as such had a standard wrestling match, with the champ controlled by pinfall or accommodation. It endured 5 minutes and 30 seconds. Laveaux and Love were the first to enter the enclosure, with Laveaux picking up the pinfall after her mark Voodoo Drop move to turn into the first-since forever Queen of the Cage and become number one contender to the TNA Women's Knockout Championship. 

The third experience set B.G. James against Kip James in a Six Sides of Steel Cage coordinate. Kip hopped B.G. as he entered the enclosure to start the match. B.G. won the match with a move up stick at 8 minutes even. Kip assaulted B.G. after the match. 

TNA held a Six Team Cuffed in the Cage coordinate in the accompanying session. The groups taking an interest were Black Reign and Rellik, Kaz and Eric Young/Super Eric, The Latin American Xchange (Hernandez and Homicide), The Motor City Machine Guns (Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin), Petey Williams and Scott Steiner, and The Rock 'n Rave Infection (Jimmy Rave and Lance Hoyt). Its span was 10 minutes and 45 seconds. The target of this match was for a wrestler to cuff another wrestler to the confine, until there was just a single left. Preceding the match, Young was assaulted by Reign and Rellik, compelling Kaz to begin the match without him. Afterward, Young entered the match wearing his "Super Eric" trick and handcuffed Rave and Hoyt to the pen. He at that point deceived Reign into handcuffing Rellik, before he hammered Reign straight into the tangle with a Death Valley Driver and pursued by binding him to win the counterpart for Kaz and himself. 

Gail Kim and ODB battled Awesome Kong and Raisha Saeed in a Six Sides of Steel Tag Team Cage coordinate, which kept going 8 minutes and 30 seconds. Close to the end, Kong missed a turning back-clench hand on ODB and rather hit Saeed. ODB pursued by playing out a sprinkle from the highest point of a cushioned turnbuckle to win the counterpart for her group. 

The Six Sides of Steel Intergender Tag Team Cage coordinate pursued, setting the group of Booker T and Sharmell against the group of Robert Roode and Payton Banks. The match started with Booker T and Roode, until Sharmell labeled in. Afterward, Banks labeled in to confront Sharmell. Thereafter, Banks coincidentally slapped Roode, permitting Sharmell to stick Banks with a move up at 7 minutes and 45 seconds. 

The 2008 Lethal Lockdown coordinate was the seventh session on the card, between Team Cage (Christian Cage, Matt Morgan, Kevin Nash, Rhino, and Sting) and Team (Tomko, A.J. Styles, James Storm, and Team 3D). The term of the challenge was 26 minutes and 45 seconds. A Lethal Lockdown coordinate is battled under no preclusion rules, in which weapons are lawful and one wrestler from each group begins the match in the pen. A while later, individuals from each group enter at time interims until all wrestlers are engaged with the session so a pinfall or accommodation can happen. Enclosure and Styles began the match. Sibling Ray, Rhino, Storm, Nash, Brother Devon, Morgan, Tomko, and Sting were the request of doors for the challenge. Soon after Sting's passageway, a rooftop shrouded in weapons was brought down onto the confine. With Sting's interest all men were engaged with the match, in that capacity a pinfall or accommodation could now happen. Amid the experience, Cage set up a table over the top of the enclosure. Afterward, he and Styles were battling over a stepping stool over the confine, when Storm pushed over the stepping stool causing them both to crash through the table. Tempest at that point moved down from the rooftop into the enclosure, where Rhino handled and stuck him to verify the triumph for Team Cage. 

The headliner was a Six Sides of Steel Cage coordinate for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship between then-champion Kurt Angle and the challenger Samoa Joe. The additional stipulation to this session was if Joe lost, he would be compelled to resign from expert wrestling for eternity. Honest Trigg gave analysis to this match. The match was principally specialized, with every soldier exchanging through different holds and accommodation moves. One such accommodation was the Figure-Four Leglock, which Angle connected to Joe. Point was compelled to discharge the hold when Joe got the base rope. Joe then connected a Boston Crab, before changing to a STF, which Angle countered into an Ankle Lock. Following the hold being broken, Angle played out his mark Olympic Slam move on Joe for a close fall. Afterward, Joe connected his mark Coquina Clutch accommodation on Angle, which was compelled to be discharged when Angle snatched the base rope. The match at long last arrived at a resolution when Joe lifted up Angle and pummeled him to the tangle back-first with his mark Muscle Buster move. Joe then secured for the pinfall at 17 minutes and 45 seconds to win the TNA World Heavyweight Championship out of the blue. 

Kurt Angle was honestly harmed amid the show and it was trusted he may have been thumped oblivious too. 

TNA held a rematch among Angle and Samoa Joe for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship on the April 24 scene of "Effect!", which Joe won after impedance from Scott Steiner. On the April 17 scene of "Effect!", Steiner tested Joe to a TNA World Heavyweight Championship barrier at Sacrifice with his Feast or Fired TNA World Heavyweight Title shot. Because of Steiner's impedance in the rematch, Management Director Jim Cornette made the title safeguard at Sacrifice a Three Way coordinate between Joe, Steiner, and Angle. At the occasion Angle reported he got authentic neck damage wrestling abroad and would not be contending in the match that night. Kaz had Angle's spot in the match, which Joe won to hold the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. Joe proceeded to hold the TNA World Heavyweight Championship until TNA's Bound for Glory IV PPV occasion on October 12, 2008, where he lost it to Sting. 

Various wrestlers who contended at Lockdown proceeded to contend in the Deuces Wild Tag Team Tournament for the empty TNA World Tag Team Championship at Sacrifice. On the April 17 scene of "Effect!", A.J. Styles and Tomko shielded the TNA World Tag Team Championship threely match against the groups of Kaz and Eric Young and The Latin American Xchange (Hernandez and Homicide; LAX). The match finished in a dubious success for Kaz and Young which prompted Cornette stripping them of the title. He at that point pursued by setting up the Deuces Wild Tag Team Tournament on the April 24 scene of "Effect!". Group 3D, LAX, Styles and Super Eric, Christian Cage and Rhino, Robert Roode and Booker T, Sting and James Storm, B.G. James and Awesome Kong, and Kip James and Matt Morgan contended in the Deuces Wild Tag Team Tournament. At Sacrifice, LAX crushed Team 3D in the Finals to win the empty TNA World Tag Team Championship. 

TNA X Division Champion Jay Lethal later lost the title to Petey Williams on the April 17 scene of "Effect!" after Williams utilized his Feast or Fired TNA X Division Tite shot. TNA appeared another match type at Sacrifice named the TerrorDome. At the occasion it was utilized to decide the new number contender to the TNA X Division Championship. Nonetheless, amid the show Management Director Jim Cornette declared the champ would likewise have Angle's spot in the headliner. Kaz proceeded to win the match, in this way getting to be number one contender and having Angle's spot. 

Roxxi Laveaux got her TNA Women's Knockout Championship coordinate against then-champion Awesome Kong on the April 17 scene of "Effect!", which Kong won. TNA then declared a TNA Knockouts Makeover Battle Royal to decide the main contender to the TNA Women's Knockout Championship at Sacrifice on the April 24 scene of "Effect!". The match included two phases, with the second being a stepping stool coordinate between the last two contenders. The champ of that stage would end up number one contender while the failure would have their head shaved bare. Gail Kim won resistance from having her head shaven on the May 8 scene of "Effect!". Kim proceeded to win the challenge, while Laveaux had her head shaven. 

The Tsongas Arena has a most extreme limit of 6,500 for games. An aggregate of 5,500 individuals went to the occasion. In late 2008, the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter" detailed that the quantity of pay-per-see buyers for the occasion was accepted to be 55,000. Hammer! Wrestling author Chris Sokol appraised the whole occasion a 6.5 out of 10, which was higher than the 5.5 out of 10 given to the 2007 Lockdown occasion additionally by Sokol. Lockdown got a similar rating as TNA's past occasion Destination X. While it was lower than TNA's next occasion Sacrifice on May 11, which was positioned a 7 out of 10 by Sokol. Contrasted with opponent World Wrestling Entertainment's Backlash PPV occasion hung on April 28, Lockdown was evaluated higher, as Dave Hillhouse gave Backlash a 6 out of 10. Sokol felt that Lockdown was "a risky PPV", however was "not an awful exertion by TNA". Be that as it may, regardless he thought it was "not one of their more grounded PPV trips". The headliner was given a 8 out of 10 by Sokol in his survey. His most astounding rating went to the Lethal Lockdown coordinate with 9 out of 10. The Queen of the Cage was given his most reduced of 4 out of 10. The Xscape coordinate was appraised a 6.5 out of 10, while the Six Sides of Steel Intergender Tag Team Cage coordinate got a 7 out of 10. Sokol expressed he trusted the headliner was a "strong match". With respect to Lethal Lockdown coordinate, Sokol remarked saying it was "magnificent". 

Swim Keller of the "Master Wrestling Torch" looked into Lockdown, giving the headliner 4 and a half stars out of 5, while the Lethal Lockdown coordinate 3 and a half stars out of 5. Keller proceeded to state in his audit he felt Angle versus Joe was a "great headliner". Remarking that "it felt crisp with the MMA-style, and fit simply enough professional wrestling moves in a generally authentic manner with run of the mill (and some not really common) MMA entries all through in emotional design. It's extremely an excellent case of how the two styles could work to make an increasingly present day, trustworthy methodology for the present period". James Caldwell likewise of the "Professional Wrestling Torch" distributed an audit of the occasion. In his audit, he likewise gave the headliner 4 and a half stars out of 5, notwithstanding, gave the Lethal Lockdown just 3 stars out of 5. As to TNA World Heavyweight Championship session, Caldwell said it was "extraordinary match", yet that he felt like "there could have been more". In spite of the fact that, he trusted this "was TNA getting it done with no b.s. to act as a burden, and a presentation of two of the best on the planet". Simon Rothstein, a writer for the United Kingdom paper "The Sun", expressed in his audit of Lockdown that the headliner was the "best match of the night, this was consummately reserved and executed". He said that thus it "should give TNA the force to rapidly crush the records they set at Lockdown". On the January 1, 2009 scene of "Effect!", TNA declared their Year End Awards for 2008, with Kurt Angle versus Samoa Joe in a Six Sides of Steel Cage coordinate for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship named Match of the Year. Lockdown was discharged on DVD on June 17, 2008 by TNA Home Video. 

Commentaries 

List of sources