Menkauhor Kaiu 

Menkauhor Kaiu (otherwise called Ikauhor and in Greek as Mencherês, Μεγχερῆς) was an Ancient Egyptian pharaoh of the Old Kingdom time frame. He was the seventh leader of the Fifth Dynasty toward the finish of the 25th century BC or right off the bat in the 24th century BC. 

Menkauhor ruled for perhaps eight or nine years, following ruler Nyuserre Ini, and was prevailing thus by Djedkare Isesi. Despite the fact that Menkauhor is all around bore witness to by recorded sources, couple of antiques from his rule have endure. Thus, his familial connection to his forerunner and successor is hazy, and no posterity of his have been distinguished. Khentkaus III may have been Menkauhor's mom, as shown by proof found in her tomb in 2015. 

Past the development of landmarks, the main realized movement dated to Menkauhor's rule is an endeavor to the copper and turquoise mines in Sinai. Menkauhor requested the development of a sun sanctuary, called the "Akhet-Ra", signifying "The Horizon of Ra". The last ever to be assembled, this sun sanctuary, known from engravings found in the tombs of its ministers, is yet to be found. Menkauhor was covered in a little pyramid in Saqqara, which the Ancient Egyptians named "Netjer-Isut Menkauhor", "The Divine Places of Menkauhor". Referred to today as the Headless Pyramid, the ruin had been lost under moving sands until its rediscovery in 2008. 

The figure of Menkauhor was at the focal point of an enduring funerary religion until the finish of the Old Kingdom time frame, with somewhere around seven horticultural areas delivering products for the fundamental contributions. The faction of an idolized Menkauhor, at that point known by the titles "Solid Lord of the Two Lands, Menkauhor the Justified" returned amid the New Kingdom time frame (c. 1550 – c. 1077 BC), and kept going until at any rate the Nineteenth Dynasty (c. 1292 – c. 1077 BC), somewhere in the range of 1200 years after his demise. 

Menkauhor is bore witness to by three hieroglyphic sources, all from the a lot later New Kingdom period. His name is given on the 31st section of the Abydos King List, which was engraved on the dividers of a sanctuary amid the rule of Seti I (1290– 1279 BC). He is likewise referenced on the Saqqara Tablet (30th passage) and on the Turin standard (third segment, 23rd line), the two of which were composed amid the rule of Ramesses II (1279– 1213 BC). The Turin standard credits Menkauhor with a rule of eight years. These sources show that Menkauhor succeeded Nyuserre Ini and went before Djedkare Isesi on the honored position, making him the seventh pharaoh of the Fifth Dynasty. 

Menkauhor was likely referenced in the "Aegyptiaca", a background marked by Egypt written in the third century BC amid the rule of Ptolemy II (283– 246 BC) by the Egyptian cleric Manetho, however no duplicates of the content endure, and it is known just through later compositions by Sextus Julius Africanus and Eusebius. Africanus relates that the "Aegyptiaca" referenced a pharaoh "Mencherês" ruling for a long time as the seventh ruler of the Fifth Dynasty. "Mencherês" is accepted to be a Hellenized type of "Menkauhor", and Africanus' nine-year figure fits well with the eight years of rule given to Menkauhor on the Turin ordinance, the last figure being considered by certain Egyptologists, including Hartwig Altenmüller, as more probable than the previous. 

Generally couple of confirmations dating to Menkauhor's rule have endure contrasted with different lords of the Fifth Dynasty. In any case, Menkauhor's name is very much authenticated in the names and titles of ministers and authorities of the Fifth Dynasty just as in the names of the horticultural domains related with his funerary religion. Enduring ancient rarities contemporaneous with Menkauhor's rule incorporate two stone vessels engraved with his name from the morgue sanctuary of Neferefre – conceivably blessings from Menkauhor for the funerary faction of Neferefre– just as a couple of sealings from a similar sanctuary and from a territory known as "Djedkare's Family Cemetery" in Abusir. Chamber seal impressions demonstrating Menkauhor's Horus name or the name of his pyramid have likewise been uncovered in the morgue complex of Nyuserre Ini, and in the necropolises of Giza and Gebelein. 

A gold chamber seal bearing Menkauhor's cartouche as a component of the name of his pyramid together with the serekh of Djedkare Isesi is currently in plain view at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The seal, purportedly found close to the Pactolus stream valley in western Anatolia, could bear witness to wide extending exchange contacts amid the Fifth Dynasty, however its provenance stays strange. 

The main secure portrayal of the ruler dating to the Old Kingdom that has made due right up 'til the present time is an unpleasant, potentially incomplete, alabaster statuette indicating Menkauhor enthroned and wearing the tight-fitting stylized robe of the "Heb-sed". The statue was found in a cachette worked amid the late New Kingdom underneath the floor of a space toward the west of the consecrated lake at the sanctuary of Ptah in Memphis. The Egyptologist Jocelyn Berlandini recommended that another statuette, ordinarily ascribed to Teti, has a place rather with Menkauhor Kaiu. Berlandini puts together her speculation with respect to expressive grounds, taking note of the likeness with Menkauhor's situated statue, just as the area of the second statue, which was revealed east of Teti's pyramid, in nearness to Menkauhor's pyramid. 

Stupendous confirmations of Menkauhor are constrained to a stone engraving at the Wadi Maghareh in Sinai, appearing titulary and an unpleasant stele recorded with his cartouche from Mastaba 904 at Saqqara. 

The name of Menkauhor is a takeoff from those of different rulers of the Fifth Dynasty. Menkauhor, whose name signifies "Everlasting are the Kas of Horus", is the main pharaoh in 80 years whose name does not allude to the sun god Ra. The name of Menkauhor rather discovers its companions among the rulers of the Fifth Dynasty with, for instance, sovereign Khentykauhor "The powers of Horus are at the fore", a child of Nyuserre Ini, and sovereign Neserkauhor, a child of Djedkare Isesi. 

Inferable from the scarcity of contemporaneous hotspots for Menkauhor, his connection to his antecedent, Nyuserre Ini, and to his successor, Djedkare Isesi, can't be found out certain. Menkauhor may have been a child of Nyuserre Ini; in reality Nyuserre Ini is known to have fathered a sovereign Khentykauhor as appeared by an alleviation referencing the ruler from the morgue complex of ruler Khentkaus II, the mother of Nyuserre Ini. The comparability of Khentykauhor's name to that of Menkauhor drove the Egyptologists Miroslav Verner and Vivienne Callender to suggest that the two are a similar individual, with Khentykauhor taking the name "Menkauhor" after rising the royal position. This speculation is perhaps repudiated by an engraving found in 2008 in the mastaba of Werkaure, the oldest child of an anonymous ruler. The engraving makes reference to a "Menkauhor", however does not credit any imperial ascribes to him. The Egyptologists Hana Vymazalová and Filip Coppens propose this may allude to the future pharaoh Menkauhor Kaiu when he was as yet a sovereign. They note that Menkauhor may have offered brilliant stone squares for the development of the tomb of his (conceivable) relative, which would clarify the engraving. This repudiates the distinguishing proof of Menkauhor with Khentykauhor; Vymazalová and Coppens guess that Khentykauhor and Menkauhor were siblings and children of Nyuserre Ini. 

The character of Menkauhor's mom is similarly dubious. In January 2015 the tomb of the "Ruler's significant other" and "Lord's mom", Khentkaus III, was found by a group of Czech archeologists in the necropolis encompassing the pyramid of Neferefre in Abusir. Mud seals in the tomb show that Khentkaus III was covered amid Nyuserre Ini's rule. Since Nyuserre Ini's own mom is known to have been Khentkaus II, the revelation proposes that she was Menkauhor Kaiu's mom. The situation of her tomb near the pyramid of Neferefre could demonstrate that she was this current lord's partner and therefore that Neferefre was Menkauhor's dad. 

No ruler associate of Menkauhor has been distinguished beyond a shadow of a doubt. The Egyptologist Wilfried Seipel has recommended that Khuit I was a ruler of Menkauhor. In view of the dating of the tombs encompassing Khuit's entombment, Seipel contends that she lived amid the mid-Fifth Dynasty. By the procedure of disposal, he credits realized rulers to every lord of the period, which leaves just Menkauhor as a contender for her lord. These contentions are reprimanded by the Egyptologist Michel Baud, who sees that pharaohs could have had more than one ruler. 

Ruler Meresankh IV has additionally been recommended as an associate for Menkauhor dependent on the dating and area of her tomb in Saqqara. It is conceivable anyway that she was a spouse of Djedkare Isesi. 

There is no proof either in support of the speculation that Menkauhor's successor Djedkare Isesi was his child. Two children have been recommended for Menkauhor dependent on the dating and general area of their tombs in Saqqara: rulers Raemka and Kaemtjenent, both accepted to be offspring of Meresankh IV. By a similar thinking, they could rather be children of Djedkare Isesi. 

Given the shortage of contemporaneous authentications for Menkauhor, present day Egyptologists consider his rule to have been maybe eight or nine years in length, as demonstrated by the a lot later verifiable sources. 

The little situated statue of Menkauhor wearing the robe of the Sed celebration may recommend a more extended rule, since this celebration was ordinarily celebrated simply after a ruler had gone through 30 years on the royal position. Be that as it may, Egyptologist Hartwig Altenmüller esteems this speculation far-fetched. 

Minor portrayals of the celebration don't really infer a long rule; for instance, a help demonstrating pharaoh Sahure in the tunic of the Sed celebration was found in his funeral home sanctuary, albeit both recorded sources and archeological proof propose Sahure ruled Egypt for under 14 entire years. 

Inferable from the shortage of antiquities and engravings identifying with Menkauhor's rule, few of his exercises are known. Menkauhor sent an endeavor to Sinai to abuse the mines of turquoise and copper in the Wadi Maghareh. The undertaking is confirm by a harmed shake engraving appearing's titulary which is one of only a handful couple of verifications dating to his lifetime. The mines of Sinai had been abused since the Third Dynasty (2686 BC– 2613 BC), and both Menkauhor's ancestor Nyuserre Ini and successor Djedkare Isesi sent undertakings to the Wadi Maghareh. 

Menkauhor Kaiu is known to have requested the development of two noteworthy landmarks amid his rule: a sun sanctuary for the reverence of Ra and a pyramid for his internment, referred to today as the "Headless Pyramid". 

Following a custom which began with Userkaf, the organizer of the Fifth Dynasty, Menkauhor fabricated a sanctuary to the sun god Ra. He was the last pharaoh to do as such. His successors, Djedkare Isesi and Unas, relinquished this training as the religion of Ra declined to the detriment of that of Osiris. Given the lack of records identifying with Menkauhor's sun sanctuary, it likely worked for just a brief span or was never finished. 

Menkauhor's sun sanctuary was classified "Akhet-Ra", which is differently deciphered as "The Horizon of Ra" or "The Place where Ra Issues Forth". The sanctuary still can't seem to be found and could be lying under the sands of Saqqara or Abusir. Its reality is known gratitude to engravings found in the tombs of Fifth and Sixth Dynasties authorities who filled in as ministers of Ra in the sanctuary. These incorporate Hemu, covered in Giza, and Neferiretptah and Raemankh, who were both covered in Saqqara-north. Notwithstanding his administration in the "Akhet-Ra", Neferiretptah was a cleric in Menkauhor's pyramid and held the workplace of "illustrious trimming", making him in charge of the valuable things in the castle of the ruler. 

Other than these engravings, a solitary seal bearing the name of the "Akhet-Ra" is known from the tomb of princess Khamerernebti, situated close to the morgue sanctuary of Niuserre in Abusir. The seal was set on a vast vessel showing that arrangements for the tombs of individuals from the imperial family were dispatched from Menkauhor's sanctuary to Niuserre's pyramid complex. 

Menkauhor Kaiu fabricated a pyramid in North-Saqqara, in this way relinquishing the imperial necropolis of Abusir, where rulers of the Fifth Dynasty had been covered since the rule of Sahure, somewhere in the range of 80 years sooner. The explanation behind this decision might be that the Abusir level had moved toward becoming packed by the start of Menkauhor's rule. 

Initially named "Netjer-isut-Menkauhor" by the Ancient Egyptians, signifying "The perfect spots of Menkauhor", the pyramid is referred to today as Lepsius XXIX after the number given to it by the prehistorian Karl Richard Lepsius who found the pyramid in 1843. Inferable from the destroyed condition of the structure, it is referred to in Arabic as the "Headless Pyramid", a name that has been held. The pyramid was lost under moving sands in the mid twentieth century and its attribution to Menkauhor was thusly discussed. Rather, it was recommended that the Headless Pyramid was that of Merikare, a structure dating to the First Intermediate Period and which still can't seem to be found. In 2008, the structure recognized by Lepsius was rediscovered by a group of archeologists under the bearing of Zahi Hawass, and unearthings at the site immediately settled a Fifth Dynasty date as demonstrated by the development systems utilized in its creation. In spite of the fact that the unearthings neglected to yield the name of the lord who constructed the pyramid, Menkauhor was the last pharaoh of the tradition whose pyramid stayed unfamiliar. In this way, continuing by disposal, archeologists and egyptologists have formally perceived the Headless Pyramid as that of Menkauhor. 

The pyramid is evaluated to have been around at the base, so the structure would have stood high at the season of its development, making it one of the littlest illustrious pyramids of the Old Kingdom. 

There is proof that Menkauhor had room schedule-wise to finish his pyramid, whose little measurements are in this manner predictable with his short eight to nine years of rule. 

On the north side lies the passageway to the underground load framework, which was fixed by two rock portcullises demonstrating that an entombment occurred. A broken stone casket cover of blue-dim basalt was found in the entombment chamber by Cecil Mallaby Firth amid his concise unearthings of the pyramid in 1930. 

After his demise Menkauhor delighted in a funerary religion fixated on his pyramid complex. The religion endured in any event until the second 50% of the Sixth Dynasty, almost 150 years after the fact. Arrangements for this faction were delivered in committed rural areas that were built up amid Menkauhor's lifetime. Results of these spaces were conveyed to Menkauhor's sun and morgue sanctuaries and disseminated to the ministers of the religion, who could utilize them for their sustenance or their own funerary factions. Exemplified portrayals of Menkauhor's rural spaces are delineated expediting contributions the dividers of the mastabas of these clerics. The majority of the delineations are situated in Saqqara North, close to the pyramid complex of Djoser. This zone involves the tombs of Neferiretptah, Raemankh, Duare, Iti, Sekhemnefer, Snofrunefer, Akhethotep, Ptahhotep and Qednes, all clerics of the funerary religion of Menkauhor. Further tombs of ministers of this religion are found toward the north, in Abusir South, with the mastaba of Isesiseneb and Rahotep and in Giza. 

The total names of no less than seven spaces of Menkauhor are known: "Ikauhor is immaculate in support" and "the support of Ikauhor", both referenced in the tombs of Ptahhotep and Akhethotep; "Ikauhor is flawless of life", from the tomb of Ptahhotep II; "Horus Qemaa causes Ikauhor to live"; "Ikauhor is solid"; "Seshat adores Ikauhor" and "Matyt cherishes Ikauhor" from the tombs of viziers Senedjemib Inti, Senedjemib Mehi and Hemu in Giza. Likewise the "Ḥwt" area of the lord, which includes the land possessions of the morgue sanctuary of Menkauhor, was named "Menkauhor is immaculate of appearances". 

The religion of Menkauhor appreciated a restoration amid the New Kingdom time frame (1550– 1077 BC). Now Menkauhor had been idolized as a neighborhood divine force of the Saqqara necropolis going about as a perfect arbiter, and qualified of "Solid Lord of the Two Lands, Menkauhor the Justified". This faction is prove by reliefs appearing in the tombs of the "Head of the craftsmans and gem specialists" Ameneminet and of the doctor Thuthu in Saqqara-North, both of whom inhabited the season of the late Eighteenth Dynasty (1550– 1292 BC), amid the rules of Tutankhamun, Ay and Horemheb. 

An engraved square dating to the later Ramesside period (1292– 1077 BC) and now in the Egyptian Museum of Berlin, was revealed by Lepsius in a house in Abusir and shows Menkauhor enthroned next to four other exalted lords of the Old Kingdom: the name of the primary, incompletely lost, however most likely Sneferu is then trailed by Djedefre, Menkaure, Menkauhor lastly Neferkare. The proprietor of the tomb remains before the rulers, in love. Another help dating to a similar period demonstrates a comparable scene. It was engraved on the lintel of the tomb sanctuary of Mahy covered in Saqqara North. Four exalted rulers of the Old Kingdom are appeared, of whom constructed their pyramids at Saqqara: Djoser, Teti, Userkaf and Menkauhor. 

The industriousness of the clique of Menkauhor amid the late Eighteenth to Nineteenth Dynasty perhaps results from the area of his pyramid, which remained while in transit to the necropolis of the Apis bulls, which later turned into the Serapeum.