Shadow the Hedgehog (computer game) 

The improvement group needed to make a diversion including Shadow to exploit the character's fame and resolve plot riddles that started with his presentation in "Sonic Adventure 2". Executive Takashi Iizuka, who focused a more youthful gathering of people with past "Sonic" diversions, endeavored to draw in a more seasoned group of onlookers with "Shadow the Hedgehog"; Shadow's darker character additionally enabled the group to utilize components generally improper for the arrangement. The diversion was uncovered at the March 2005 Walk of Game occasion, and was discharged for the GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox computer game consoles in November 2005. 

"Shadow the Hedgehog" got commonly ominous surveys from commentators, who loathed its controls, plot, and dull topics, and disagreed with the expansion of firearms and different weapons to conventional "Sonic" ongoing interaction. Be that as it may, some applauded its replay esteem and it proceeded to turn into a business achievement, selling 2.06 million duplicates by March 2007. 

"Shadow the Hedgehog" is a stage amusement that consolidates components of activity experience ongoing interaction. Like past recreations in the "Sonic" arrangement, essential ongoing interaction includes running rapidly, gathering rings, and obliterating foes. Shadow gathers rings as a type of wellbeing; when he is assaulted by an adversary, ten of his rings ricochet far from him every which way. On the off chance that he is hit by an adversary while not having any rings, he loses a real existence. Each dimension is finished by attempted a mission, and every mission is named "Saint," "Dull," or "Ordinary." The "Legend" missions include finishing assignments for the "Sonic" arrangement's courageous characters, or Doctor Eggman on one event, and the "Dim" missions include finishing errands for the Black Arms or Doctor Eggman. The "Ordinary" missions include achieving the Chaos Emerald or objective toward the finish of the dimension. Instances of non-impartial mission goals incorporate murdering all foes in the dimensions, annihilating an air ship traveling as far as possible of the dimension, or enacting or devastating items in the dimension. All adversaries assault Shadow paying little heed to the mission picked. The mission types chosen influence the plot, the dimensions played, and the closure got out of ten conceivable outcomes. Each dimension highlights cutscenes that advance the story, and a few dimensions additionally include manager fights. There are 326 conceivable ways to take in "Shadow the Hedgehog", and every pathway is exclusively named. 

New interactivity highlights recognize "Shadow the Hedgehog" from past "Sonic" diversions. For instance, Shadow can utilize weapons to battle adversaries, including a component of third-individual shooter interactivity. Portions of the landscape, for example, traffic signs, can likewise be utilized as weapons. Another new element is the capacity to drive vehicles, for example, cruisers and outsider air ship. Despite the fact that Shadow can surpass the amusement's vehicles, the last have novel capacities, for example, squashing foes and navigating generally impassible corrosive secured zones. 

As in most "Sonic" arrangement diversions, the Chaos Emeralds assume a noteworthy job; they help Shadow recollect his past and enable him to perform Chaos Control and Chaos Blast. Disorder Control enables Shadow to move all the more rapidly in levels and moderates time in manager fights, and Chaos Blast makes a blast that annihilates or seriously harms every single adjacent foe. Shadow can perform Chaos Control after the player fills the Hero Gauge by crushing Black Arms warriors, and he can perform Chaos Blast subsequent to filling the Dark Gauge by vanquishing G.U.N. warriors. 

The amusement incorporates a two-player mode that holds the single-player mechanics however is set in one of three extraordinarily structured stages and uses a vertically part screen to isolate every player's view. Every player picks one of the accessible characters—Shadow, two metallic adaptations of him, and palette-swapped variations of each. The warriors assault one another and take each other's rings until everything except one are wiped out. Also, in single-player mode, a second player may assume responsibility for Shadow's sidekick character in certain stages. 

Shadow the Hedgehog, the diversion's main hero, was made 50 years before the amusement's occasions by Professor Gerald Robotnik in an orbital military research space province known as the ARK. Robotnik was endeavoring to open the privileged insights of endless life on the administration's requests and make "A definitive Life Form." To that end, Robotnik planned Shadow to bridle the forces of the Chaos Emeralds. Toward the finish of "Sonic Adventure 2", his first in-diversion appearance, Shadow was assumed dead, however he returned in "Sonic Heroes" with amnesia that perseveres into the occasions of "Shadow the Hedgehog". 

The Guardian Units of Nations (G.U.N.) is the military of Earth's administration, the United Federation, and it is coordinated by the G.U.N. Administrator. While finishing "Legend" missions, Shadow normally helps G.U.N. also, chivalrous characters from the "Sonic" arrangement, including Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Rouge, Omega, Vector, Charmy, and Espio. Their point is to shield Earth from both Doctor Eggman and the Black Arms, a multitude of different related outsider species that attack Earth from the Black Comet. Dark Doom, the pioneer of the Black Arms, sends an augmentation of himself called "Fate's Eye" to watch Shadow and help him complete missions. While finishing "Dull" missions, Shadow helps either Black Doom or Doctor Eggman, every one of whom needs the Chaos Emeralds for himself. In one "Legend" mission of Sky Troops, Shadow helps Doctor Eggman in engaging the Black Arms. 

Toward the start of the diversion, Shadow experiences amnesia. Other than the occasions of "Sonic Heroes" that occurred three months earlier, Shadow recollects just two things: his name and his endeavor to get away from the space state ARK with his maker's granddaughter Maria, who was killed by G.U.N. fighters. Having strolled through a room loaded up with androids that appeared as though him amid the occasions of "Sonic Heroes", Shadow thinks about whether he also is an android. The diversion begins with Shadow thinking back outside the city of Westopolis when the outsider race Black Arms drops out of the sky and attacks the city. One Black Arms outsider, Doom's Eye, approaches Shadow, and the Black Arms' pioneer Black Doom tells Shadow of an old understanding Shadow made: to bring Black Doom the Chaos Emeralds. Dazed that Black Doom knew his name, Shadow scans for the Chaos Emeralds to find out about his past. 

The diversion advances through the Westopolis level and five additional dimensions from the distinctive ways Shadow may take. As missions are finished, Shadow studies his past and recaptures recollections. He can help Doctor Eggman or the Black Arms, to help G.U.N. furthermore, the arrangement's chivalrous characters, or to support neither and keep the Chaos Emeralds for himself. The missions finished figure out which one of ten conceivable endings will be seen after Shadow gathers all the Chaos Emeralds and annihilations one of the diversion's last supervisors. The conceivable consummation occasions extend from intending to overcome the Black Arms to wanting to devastate the planet. 

Finishing each of the ten endings opens the amusement's actual consummation in which Black Doom utilizes Chaos Control, improved by the intensity of every one of the seven Chaos Emeralds, to convey the Black Comet to the Earth's surface. Dark Doom clarifies that the Black Arms expect to utilize people as a vitality source, and the Black Comet starts to discharge a nerve gas into the Earth's air that causes all out loss of motion in the individuals who breathe in it. Shadow stands up to Black Doom after the "Last Way" level, where he finds that Professor Gerald Robotnik made the ARK's Eclipse Cannon weapon to devastate the Black Comet. Amid their showdown, Black Doom uncovers that Shadow was made utilizing Black Doom's blood, and he endeavors to utilize mind control on Shadow, however comes up short. Dark Doom at that point changes into a monster called Devil Doom; accordingly, Shadow utilizes the Chaos Emeralds to change into Super Shadow and stands up to Devil Doom. Amid the fight, Doctor Eggman affirms to Shadow that he is the first and not an android. Shadow routs Devil Doom and uses Chaos Control to transport the Black Comet over into Earth's circle, where he wrecks it utilizing the Eclipse Cannon. His companions are elated, as are individuals at G.U.N. central command. Shadow is then appeared in the ARK's control room holding up a photo of Maria and Gerald. He disposes of the photo and leaves the room, choosing to put the past behind him and proceed onward. 

"Shadow the Hedgehog" was created by Sega Studios USA, the now-ancient United States division of Sega's Sonic Team, and distributed by Sega. Sega first uncovered the amusement and its slogan ("Hero or scalawag? You choose.") at the March 8, 2005 initiation of Sonic the Hedgehog into the Walk of Game. Sega formally reported improvement of the amusement for the Nintendo GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox computer game consoles on March 23, 2005. That year, Sega discharged the amusement in North America on November 15, in Europe on November 18, and in Japan on December 15. 

Sonic Team's Takashi Iizuka, who had taken a shot at the "Sonic the Hedgehog" arrangement since 1993, directed a more youthful gathering of people with past "Sonic" recreations and needed to draw in a more established group of onlookers with "Shadow the Hedgehog". The amusement's advancement group needed to make a diversion including Shadow to determine plot puzzles that started with the character's presentation in "Sonic Adventure 2". The group felt that Shadow's structure—propelled by movies, for example, "Black market", "Constantine", and the "Eliminator" arrangement—would make the story darker and take into consideration components, for example, vehicles and weapons, generally thought to be unseemly for a "Sonic" amusement. Sonic Team's Yuji Naka expressed in a meeting with GameSpy that he needed to utilize Shadow as the amusement's primary character because of his ubiquity among fans and being the best fit for a "weapon activity" diversion. The amusement includes a few CG-enlivened cutscenes created by Blur Studio. The amusement likewise contains obscenities, including examples of "damn" and "damnation" spoken by Shadow and different characters, for example, Espio, the G.U.N. Leader, Knuckles, and Sonic. Foulness and the utilization of weapons, the two firsts for the "Sonic" arrangement, created pre-discharge discussion. The ESRB doled out the diversion a rating of E10+ for "dream savagery" and "gentle language". 

The music of "Shadow the Hedgehog" was formed by Jun Senoue, Yutaka Minobe, Tomoya Ohtani, and Mariko Nanba. "Lost and Found: Shadow the Hedgehog Vocal Trax" is a computer game soundtrack collection discharged on CD on February 22, 2006. The collection contains seven vocal tunes from the diversion, one of which is a remix as opposed to the first. Another soundtrack, "Shadow the Hedgehog: Original Soundtrax", was additionally discharged on February 22, 2006. It contains both vocal and instrumental tracks from the amusement. The amusement was the first in the "Sonic" arrangement to utilize the 4Kids cast from "Sonic X" following the demise of Doctor Eggman's past voice on-screen character, Deem Bristow. This cast kept on being utilized until late 2010 when all cast individuals with the exception of Mike Pollock were supplanted before the arrival of "Sonic Free Riders". 

"Shadow the Hedgehog" got commonly horrible audits from commentators, a significant number of which were exceedingly condemning of its ongoing interaction mechanics and contrasts from other "Sonic" diversions. Be that as it may, it was casted a ballot the best round of 2005 in the "Official Jetix Magazine" Reader Awards and named the "Best Platformer" of 2005 by "Nintendo Power" perusers (accepting a bigger number of votes than the staff's decision, "Sonic Rush"). "Shadow the Hedgehog" was likewise a business achievement: Sega announced 1.59 million units sold from its discharge to March 2006 and 470,000 units sold in the U.S. from March 2006 to March 2007, for absolute offers of in any event 2.06 million. The amusement was later discharged as a piece of three spending lines: Greatest Hits and Platinum Range for the PlayStation 2 (speaking to offers of somewhere around 400,000 in North America and Europe, individually) and Player's Choice for the GameCube (250,000 in North America). 

Numerous pundits ridiculed the diversion's feeling of development for a "Sonic" amusement, particularly the expansion of firearms and different weapons. "Amusement Informer" staff essayist Matt Helgeson stated, "in addition to the fact that this is new 'grown-up' elucidation of Sonic agonizingly stupid, it's likewise less than ideal and nearly feels like a disloyalty to long-term fans." Eurogamer staff author Tom Bramwell felt that "the diversion's other selling point – its darker edge – [is] not by any means implied for us." G4's "X-Play" and GameSpy staff author Patrick Klepek thought also. Interestingly, "Nintendo Power" staff author Steve Thomason appraised the amusement 8.0 out of 10, expressing, "this darker interpretation of the Sonic universe prevails generally, giving the arrangement a touch of an edge without going over the edge on savagery." likewise, "Official Xbox Magazine" consoled perusers, "Don't stress, "Shadow the Hedgehog" isn't half as 'urban' or very as 'gangsta' as it initially appears." Hegelson panned the diversion's "absurd" plot, saying it "has neither rhyme nor reason," and that different "Sonic" traditions undermined its endeavors to be "develop" or "tense". 

Commentators likewise scrutinized the diversion's controls, particularly Shadow's homing assault causing surprising character passings. "Amusement Informer"s Matt Helgeson griped that the assault "as often as possible sends you tilting off into nothingness, bringing about shabby passing after modest demise." "Nintendo Power", "X-Play", Eurogamer, "Official Xbox Magazine", and GameSpy concurred. Different objections concentrated on the mechanics of weapons and vehicles. Greg Mueller of GameSpot felt that the weapons were almost futile due to an absence of an objective lock or manual point, joined with an ineffectual auto-point. IGN staff essayist Matt Casamassina, 1UP.com staff author Greg Sewart, "Amusement Informer", "X-Play", GameSpy, and London's "The Times" additionally reprimanded the mechanics of Shadow's weapons, vehicles, and different parts of the diversion's controls. In any case, Thomason said that "shooting Shadow's enemies with the wide assortment of weapons available to him is out and out fun." 

The dimension configuration got blended remarks. Mueller called a few dimensions "amazingly disappointing". Helgeson expressed that the quick paced "levels are ineffectively planned", and Andrew Reiner, who composed a second-feeling audit for "Amusement Informer", called the dimension structure "deplorable". "Official Xbox Magazine" was progressively blended, adjusting the likelihood of losing all sense of direction in the substantial dimensions with the feasible intrigue of these phases to 3D "Sonic" gamers, especially the individuals who had appreciated "Sonic Heroes". GameTrailers found that "the dimensions are either dull and urban, or brilliant and hallucinogenic. In any case, they fit in well to the "Sonic" universe. They are stacked with speed slopes, circles and a combination of different lifts that rocket Shadow like a pinball." Bettenhausen included "the great run-like-damnation exciting ride plan reasoning" of certain phases in his restricted applause. Casamassina hated the "inept dimension configuration", saying that "[j]ust on the grounds that they amazed players six years back does not imply that Sonic Team can reorder the very same circles and twists into each new establishment emphasis and anticipate that everybody should be content with the result." GameSpy saw that "the territories are considerably less open than in past "Sonic" amusements, yet the dimension architects haven't exploited the imperatives." "Nintendo Power" singled out the trouble of the missions that require the player to find objects. 

Faultfinders adulated the diversion's replay esteem, hailing the numerous conceivable ways that a player may take through the amusement. GameTrailers expressed, "this pick your-own-experience style gives the amusement replay esteem that numerous platformers come up short on." The Melbourne, Australia, distribution "Envoy Sun", "Nintendo Power", and "Authority Xbox Magazine" thought likewise. GameSpot lauded the assortment of interchange endings, yet inferred that "the ongoing interaction isn't fun enough to warrant playing the amusement through various occasions." Bettenhausen suspected that the ethical quality framework felt counterfeit, yet said that it expanded the diversion's replay esteem.