Hattie Jacques 

Hattie Jacques (; conceived Josephine Edwina Jaques; 7 February 1922 – 6 October 1980) was an English parody performing artist of stage, radio and screen. She is best known as a customary of the "Continue" films, where she ordinarily played severe, straightforward characters, but on the other hand was a productive TV and radio entertainer. 

Jacques began her vocation in 1944 with an appearance at the Players' Theater in London, yet came to national noticeable quality through her appearances on three exceptionally famous radio arrangement on the BBC: with Tommy Handley on "It's That Man Again"; with ventriloquist Peter Brough on "Teaching Archie"; and after that with Tony Hancock on "Hancock's Half Hour". After the Second World War Jacques made her true to life debut in "Green for Danger", in which she had a brief, uncredited job. From 1958 to 1974 she showed up in 14 "Continue" films, assuming different jobs including the imposing medical clinic lady. On TV she had a long proficient association with Eric Sykes, with whom she co-featured in his long-running arrangement "Sykes" and "Sykes and a...". The job charmed her to the general population and the two moved toward becoming staples of British TV. 

In private, Jacques had a tempestuous existence. She was hitched to the performing artist John Le Mesurier from 1949 until their separation in 1965, a partition brought about by her five-year undertaking with another man. Jacques, who had been overweight since her high school years, endured sick wellbeing not long after the detachment from Le Mesurier and her weight rose to about 20 stone (130 kg). She kicked the bucket of a heart assault on 6 October 1980, at 58 years old. Her biographer, Francis Gray, considers Jacques had an "ability for overwhelming satire which never lost its hold on humankind", while she could likewise show "a more extensive comic mode" because of her "exceptional flexibility". 

Jacques was conceived Josephine Edwina Jaques on 7 February 1922 at 125 Sandgate High Street, Sandgate, Kent. She was the most youthful offspring of Robin Rochester Jaques (1897– 1923), a serviceman in the British Army and later the Royal Air Force, and Mary Jaques ( Thorne), a medical attendant who served in the Voluntary Aid Detachment (VAD). 

The Jaques family were overwhelmingly non-showy, except for Mary who showed up in the little job of Harry Hathaway in the Christmas emulate "Robinson Crusoe" at the Palace Theater, Cologne, in 1920. Mary delighted in the theater, and took Jacques to live exhibitions since the beginning. The outcome had a "significant impact" on the young lady, especially an adoration for move. Robin Rochester Jaques, who achieved the position of flight lieutenant with the RAF, was a sharp sportsman and turned into a semi-proficient footballer. He marked to Clapton Orient and Fulham F.C., yet his profession was stopped when he kicked the bucket in a flying mishap on 8 August 1923. Upon his demise, Mary, Jacques and her senior sibling Robin moved from Newton in Lincolnshire to London, where Jacques was sent to the Lady Margaret grade school in Chelsea. In July 1930 Jacques began her optional tutoring at the Godolphin and Latymer School in Hammersmith, and furthermore went to a neighborhood move school, the Dean Sisters Academy, where she was a central artist in the Academy's shows. She left Godolphin and Latymer in the late spring of 1939 with unremarkable evaluations. She proceeded irregularly with beginner theatricals, and in May 1939 showed up with the Curtain Club in Barnes in creations of "Smoldered Oak" and "Borgia". 

At the episode of the Second World War Jacques turned into a medical caretaker in the VAD; she served in a portable unit in London, going to bombarded locales amid the Blitz. After a redesign in the VAD, Jacques looked for new work and, in the late spring of 1943, she turned into a welder in a production line in north London, an occupation that endured until the year's end. Around this time she turned out to be impractically required with an American warrior, Major Charles Kearney. Jacques later asserted that the pair had been locked in and that Kearney had been executed in real life, in spite of the fact that her biographer, Andy Merriman, found that Kearney had a spouse and kids in the United States when he had proposed to Jacques, and had come back to them after the war. 

In 1944, in the wake of being tried out by Leonard Sachs, Jacques made her expert showy introduction as Josephine Jacques—including a "c" to her original name as she did as such—at the Players' Theater, London in a revue called "Late Joys". Very quickly she turned into a customary entertainer with the organization, showing up in music corridor revues and playing the Fairy Queen in their Victorian-style emulates. Her biographer, Frances Gray, depicted the Players' similar to Jacques' dramatization school, as she acted, coordinated, composed verses and "built up the persona she was to use in emulate for a considerable length of time, the huge, bossy, however helpless pixie ruler". It was while showing up in a "Late Joys" revue in June 1946 that she made her presentation on TV, when the show was communicated on the BBC. While showing up at the Players' in 1946 she procured the moniker "Hattie" in the wake of performing in the minstrel show "Coal Black Mammies for Dixie". An individual from the behind the stage staff looked at her "blacked up" appearance with the American performing artist Hattie McDaniel, known for her work in "Run with the Wind", and Jacques embraced the name for an incredible remainder. 

Jacques made her extra large screen debut, quickly and uncredited, in the 1946 movie "Green for Danger", coordinated by Sidney Gilliat. In December that year, she joined the Young Vic Theater Company and played Smeraldina in "The King Stag". The play kept running at the Lyric Theater for a month prior going on a five-month voyage through the UK. It got great audits; the "Gloucestershire Echo" depicted the piece as "an honorable play", and suspected that Jacques was "in all respects positively in step". In March 1947 Alberto Cavalcanti's film "Nicholas Nickleby" was discharged, in which Jacques had her originally acknowledged extra large screen job as Mrs Kenwick. While drew in at the Players' in June 1947, Jacques was acquainted with the on-screen character John Le Mesurier and the two started a relationship. Le Mesurier was hitched yet irritated from his significant other. 

In August 1947 Ted Kavanagh, the scriptwriter of the BBC Home Service show "It's That Man Again" ("ITMA"), visited the Players' and welcomed Jacques to try out for the arrangement, which she did on 18 September, for a charge of five guineas. She turned out to be so anxious amid the tryout that Tommy Handley, the show's star, held her hand, which she found made her progressively apprehensive. Jacques joined the cast of "ITMA" as the voracious student Sophie Tuckshop, where she "would entertain audience members with frightening records of epic gorges", before completing her accounts with the catchphrase "Yet I'm OK now". Jacques began her keep running in "ITMA" in September 1947, toward the start of arrangement eleven, which kept running for 38 scenes, and was paid ten guineas for each scene. 

For quite a bit of 1948 Jacques kept on account scenes of "ITMA" for a large portion of the week, while spending nights in the Players' Theater; she additionally discovered time amid the spring to record the job of Flora in "No, No, Nanette" for the BBC and show up at the Whitehall Theater in "Bates Wharf" with the Under Thirty Theater Group. Soon thereafter she showed up as an artist at the Three Cripples bar in the David Lean film "Oliver Twist". In September she began recording her second arrangement of "ITMA"— the show's twelfth—before coming back to the Players' for the Christmas emulate, "The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood". In the last execution, "The Times" remarked that Jacques "should definitely be among the most entertaining pixies" in her job as the Fairy Queen Antedota—which was one of her most loved parts. 

Tommy Handley kicked the bucket all of a sudden on 9 January 1949; the BBC concluded that he was "so much the cornerstone and encapsulation of the real execution" of "ITMA", that they dropped the show right away. Jacques later commented that Handley was "one of the best radio entertainers we have ever known. I learned ... such a great amount from him". Soon thereafter Le Mesurier separated from his better half; not long after the separation came through, Jacques proposed to him, asking, "wouldn't you say it's about time we got hitched?" The couple marry on 10 November that year, at Kensington Registrar's Office. Following seven days' special first night in Southsea, she came back to the Players' the place she was locked in to show up as Marrygolda in the Christmas emulate "Excellence and the Beast". 

In the early long periods of 1950 "Possibility of a Lifetime" was discharged into British films; it was a film in which Jacques "truly made her imprint", as indicated by her biographer, Andy Merriman. "Shot of a Lifetime" is a social and modern relations show situated in a furrow manufacturing plant whose director surrenders control to the workforce. Jacques played Alice, a welder: when she was offered her expense for 17 days recording, she answered "I've carried out this responsibility welding Bailey and Pontoon Bridges and I realize how hard it is. That is insufficient cash!" and the offer was raised likewise. The film commentator Geoff Mayer thought about that Jacques had "the best scene in the film with her fake enchanting move before an irate [Niall] MacGinnis". 

On 6 June 1950 Jacques was thrown in the primary scene of the week after week radio show "Instructing Archie" as Agatha Dinglebody. The "Archie" of the title was the ventriloquist's sham Archie Andrews, worked by Peter Brough. The principal arrangement kept running for 29 weeks until 19 December. In the show Jacques showed up close by Max Bygraves, Julie Andrews, Beryl Reid and—in the second arrangement—Tony Hancock. It was on this program she originally worked with Eric Sykes, who was giving contents to the arrangement. Sykes had been awed with Jacques since he visited the Players' in 1948. He later composed that she "moved about the phase with a style and beauty as though she possessed it. Toward the finish of her demonstration, to incredible praise, she jumped noticeable all around, completing in the parts, arrival as delicately as a snowflake in July". After the show Sykes was acquainted with Jacques behind the stage and imagined that the gathering was "the start of another flight" in his expert life. Toward the finish of the arrangement Jacques came back to the Players' to show up in the Christmas emulate, "Ali Baba and the Thirty-nine Thieves", which she and Joan Sterndale-Bennett had adjusted after they had replicated it out long-hand at the British Museum. The analyst in "The Times" suspected that Jacques was "as engaging as a year ago", in her execution as Ali Baba's better half, Cogia. 

All through 1951 Jacques kept on blending work in various media, including showing up as Mrs Fezziwig in the film "Penny pincher" featuring Alastair Sim; from 3 August until 25 January 1952 she showed up in a second radio arrangement of "Teaching Archie", just as showing up in the related stage appear, "The Archie Andrews Christmas Show" at the Prince of Wales Theater from December 1952 to January 1953. She again showed up in—and co-adjusted—a Christmas emulate at the Players' Theater, "Riquet with the Tuft", a French fantasy by Charles Perrault. In 1952 Jacques likewise depicted Mrs Jenks in John Gilling's parody blood and guts movie "Mother Riley Meets the Vampire", co-featuring Arthur Lucan and Bela Lugosi. 

Jacques ended up pregnant in 1952, yet worked however a large portion of her pregnancy, showing up in the Players' revue "The Bells of St Martins" among August and November 1952: she slid down the table and did the parts toward the end—something "The Times" thought was "particularly great", in spite of the fact that "The Manchester Guardian" thought about that she was "fantastic of individual yet shockingly meager of voice". Le Mesurier revealed that he was "faintly calmed" when the revue arrived at an end as a result of her efforts, added to which she showed up in the 27 scenes of the third arrangement of "Instructing Archie" between September 1952 and June 1953. She at that point coordinated—yet did not show up in—the Players' Christmas emulate of 1952, "Angels in the Wood". In March 1953 Jacques brought forth her first child, Robin, and came back to work following a couple of days to film "Up to His Neck". Soon thereafter she gave the lead nearby Le Mesurier in the 38-minute "motion picture masque" "The Pleasure Garden"; taped in 1952, it won the at the 1954 Cannes Film Festival. From October until April 1954 she was in arrangement four of "Teaching Archie", while in December 1953 she likewise showed up in and coordinated "Cinderella" at the Players'; "The Times" remarked that "Miss Jacques as performing artist, playing a flavorfully curve and preoccupied Fairy Queen, goes far to recover the disappointment of Miss Jacques as writer". 

In 1954 Jacques kept on taking a shot at radio. Among April and July she was in "Heaven Street", a turn off arrangement from "Instructing Archie", while in June she was in "Archie in Goonland", a coincidental exceptional program that was a joint effort between "Teaching Archie" and "The Goon Show". Just as account in arrangement five of "Instructing Archie", she was likewise given a role as Mrs Leathers for 18 scenes of "Mrs Dale's Diary" among February and April 1955. She both created and coordinated "Twenty Minutes South", first at the Players' Theater, and afterward for 105 exhibitions at the St Martin's Theater and completed the year by showing up in seven scenes of "The Granville Melodramas" on ITV among October and December. 

A second pregnancy prompted the introduction of a child, Kim, "who came romping and chuckling into the world in October 1956, a fool before his assigned time", as indicated by Le Mesurier. In June 1956 Jacques showed up in a scene of "The Tony Hancock Show" on ITV; this prompted the job of Hancock's secretary, Griselda Pugh, in the BBC radio arrangement "Hancock's Half Hour". She showed up in 16 scenes from November 1956 to February 1957, close by Hancock and regulars Sidney James, Bill Kerr and Kenneth Williams. Jacques' entry on "Hancock" "gave an extra lift to the arrangement", as per TV student of history Richard Webber. She showed up again in five further scenes of "Hancock's Half Hour" among April and June 1957, and again for a further 20 scenes among January and June 1958, preceding an exceptional release on Christmas Day 1958. She spent quite a bit of 1958 at the London Palladium, undertaking 380 exhibitions of the revue "Plain as the nose on anyone's face", close by Terry-Thomas, Eric Sykes and Harry Secombe. She showed up in the portrayals "Concerto for Three Buffoons" with Secombe and Sykes, "The Good Old Days", and the two full organization numbers that shut every one of the two parts of the show. 

At the point when the primary "Continue" film was made in 1958, Jacques shaped piece of the cast. This arrangement would proceed to utilize a similar gathering of on-screen characters who might altogether end up known as the "Continue group". Jacques showed up in 14 of these movies over a 15-year time span and like a considerable lot of her "Continue" co-stars, she rapidly progressed toward becoming pigeonholed. A repetitive job for Jacques was a simple lady which she played in five of the movies – "Continue Nurse", "Continue Doctor", "Continue Again Doctor", "Continue Camping" and "Carry On Matron". She ended up referred to by the group as a "Mother Hen" figure, and was a dear companion to a considerable lot of her co-stars, including Kenneth Williams and Joan Sims, whom Jacques gave a lot of guidance and down to earth help. Consequently, Sims viewed Jacques as her "most noteworthy companion", and as "both a sister and a mother to me". Jacques would as often as possible welcome Sims, Williams and Hawtrey to her home for Christmas supper. 

Jacques started her relationship with the "Continue" arrangement in March 1958 with the main film in the arrangement, "Carry On Sergeant". She assumed the little job of Captain Clark, a "battleax medicinal officer" who neglects to trust the created afflictions of the anxious person Private Horace Strong, played by Kenneth Connor. The next year she played "Lady" without precedent for "Continue Nurse", a film which broke that year's film industry records, selling in excess of 10 million tickets in British films. Despite the fact that Jacques' job was still moderately little, she showed up in maybe the best known scene of the film, in which she recovers a daffodil from Wilfrid Hyde-White's rump, put there by an insidious medical caretaker as retribution for his consistent badgering of the staff. So well known was Jacques' scene, that the makers imported two million plastic daffodils from Japan which were then used to advance the satire. Different characterisations pursued, including the impressive maths special lady Grace Short in "Carry On Teacher" (1959) and the neighborly Police Sergeant Laura Moon in "Carry On Constable" (1960). Of the previous film, Derek Prouse of "The Sunday Times" believed that Jacques "triumph[ed] over material so callously adolescent that one is battered into a sort of entranced reverence". 

On 29 January 1960 Jacques showed up in the principal scene of the BBC parody arrangement "Sykes and a...", co-featuring with Eric Sykes as a couple of twins; Richard Wattis and Deryck Guyler were likewise regulars in the cast. Jacques' character—Hattie (Hat) Sykes—was "a white collar class, somewhat vainglorious woman attempting to keep her respect as the men tricked themselves". "Sykes and a..." proceeded to keep running for sixty scenes more than nine arrangement amid the following five years. As indicated by the media student of history Graham McCann, the show was "a standout amongst the best-natured, least self-absorbed and best British sitcoms of the 1960s". Due to the achievement, Jacques and Sykes "wound up installed in the open personality as an invaluable comic association"; to underwrite, they discharged a parody collection entitled "Eric and Hattie and Things<nowiki>!!!</nowiki>", however it neglected to graph. In September 1960 she featured in her second TV arrangement, "Our House", close by Charles Hawtrey, Bernard Bresslaw and Joan Sims; Jacques played the curator Georgina Ruddy, who was compelled to stay silent at work thus compensated for it by being very uproarious at home. Soon thereafter she assumed minor jobs in two movies: "Watch Your Stern", with a large number of the "Continue" regulars, and "School for Scoundrels", inverse Ian Carmichael. After these her screen time expanded with the piece of Nanette Parry in "Make Mine Mink" in which she co-featured with Terry-Thomas and Athene Seyler. She later portrayed this as her most loved film. 

In October 1961 Jacques showed up on "Desert Island Disks", and said that she would be excessively desolate on such a peaceful island for somebody of her disposition. At this point "Continue" had turned into a main film establishment, with the creator Robert Ross portraying it as a "marvel". That year's film, "Continue Regardless", was the fifth in the arrangement; Jacques got a charge of £100 for the little job of a disappointed medical clinic nurture, who showed up quickly on screen nearby the English character performing artist Kynaston Reeves who played her cranky manager. Jacques was at first expected for a noteworthy part in the film, however she was unfit to focus on a more drawn out job on account of sick wellbeing. She showed up in her 6th "Continue", "Carry On Cabby", in 1963, as "Peggy Hawkins", the sincerely dismissed spouse of taxi-firm manager "Charlie", played by Sid James. Jacques later named the film as her most loved of the arrangement, as she was permitted to drop her "battleax" persona and play the sentimental lead inverse James. 

Jacques' private life wound up entangled in 1963. The earlier year she had met John Schofield, a cockney trade-in vehicle seller, who chauffeured her to a Leukemia Research Fund occasion. The couple turned out to be impractically required after the driver gave her the consideration and bolster that Le Mesurier did not. At the point when Jacques chose to move Schofield into the family home, Le Mesurier moved into a different room. He later remarked about this period: "I could have exited, however, whatever my sentiments, I cherished Hattie and the kids and I was sure—I must be sure—that we could fix the harm". Amid these changes in her own life, Jacques was shocked to be the subject of "This Is Your Life" in February 1963, when she was drawn closer by Eamonn Andrews amid practice for the 6th arrangement of "Sykes and a...". Despite the fact that Le Mesurier did not specify the conjugal circumstance while being addressed by Andrews, he made the remark that for Jacques "the home starts things out", which Merriman considered had been said "rather distinctly". In spite of the marital miracles, Jacques and Le Mesurier both showed up in the 1963 Tony Hancock film, "The Punch and Judy Man". In 1964 Le Mesurier moved out of the conjugal home, settled on a choice to shield Jacques from any negative exposure, and enabled her to bring a separation suit on grounds of his own disloyalty. This guaranteed the press reprimanded him for the separation, giving Jacques a role as the unfortunate casualty in the issue. 

In 1964, just as chronicle four scenes of the radio show "Housewives' Choice", Jacques featured in her own TV arrangement, "Miss Adventure", as the private specialist Stacey Smith. In spite of the fact that Jacques needed the arrangement to be loaded with tension, the projects were more comedic and she was frustrated with the outcomes. In August that year she showed up as Madame Arcati in an ITV creation of "Merry Spirit". The play's author, Noël Coward, felt that "at long last somebody had conveyed an exhibition that wasn't eclipsed by Margaret Rutherford", who had started the stage job in 1940 and played it in the 1945 film rendition. 

Jacques went to Rome in 1966 to film "The Bobo" with Peter Sellers; before this she went on a severe eating routine and lost five stone (31 kg), despite the fact that she was baffled that so few individuals took note. She appreciated the shooting background, calling it "one of the loveliest things I've taken a shot at". While she was in Italy, Schofield turned out to remain, began an issue with an Italian beneficiary and severed his association with Jacques; profoundly steamed, Jacques, who had a weight issue since her teenagers, started eating solace sustenance and her weight expanded to about . 

In the mid year of 1967 the "Continue" maker Peter Rogers collected the cast for the fifteenth film of the arrangement, "Continue Doctor". Rogers at first picked Joan Sims to assume the job of the emergency clinic lady however she declined the part, expressing that Jacques' execution of the job in "Continue Nurse" couldn't be bettered. In that capacity, Rogers give Jacques a role as Matron, with Sims tolerating a littler job as the tentative associate of the film's lead character Francis Bigger, played by Frankie Howerd. Jacques' screen time was expanded from "Continue Nurse", as the makers believed her part to be an expansion of the prior job. "Continue Doctor" was discharged in December of that year, to much achievement. 

Jacques began 1968 by showing up with Spike Milligan and Frank Thornton in thirteen scenes of the sketch show "The World of Beachcomber", in light of the Beachcomber segment in the "Day by day Express" paper and communicate on the BBC from January to April. Soon after the arrangement completed, she showed up close by Frankie Howerd in his sketch appear, "Howerd's Hour", on ITV. She proceeded with her bustling timetable with appearances in six movies for 1969, incorporating another with Sellers, "The Magic Christian". Here she depicted a character named Ginger, who was portrayed as an "unusual figure", with an "unquenchable desire for successes on the monstrosities of World War Two". She likewise showed up on TV close by Harry Secombe and Roy Castle in "Pickwick", which depended on the melodic of a similar name, and in "Carry On Christmas", communicate on Christmas Eve. Albeit 1969 had been occupied, 1970 was generally tranquil as far as her expert yield: aside from a scene of "Catweazle", she showed up close by Willoughby Goddard in a six-scene arrangement of "Charley's Grants". She spent May and June taping "Continue Loving", in which she played Sophie Bliss, discharged in September that year. Another "Continue" film followed in 1971, "Carry On at Your Convenience", where she played Beattie Plummer, the housebound spouse of Sid Plummer, played by Sid James. Around the same time she finished another arrangement with Sykes, "Sykes and a Big, Big Show", a music and sketch program which had six scenes, communicate among February and April. 

Two further "Continue" films pursued for Jacques in 1972: "Carry On Matron", for which she was occupied with the title job, and "Continue Abroad", as Floella, the red hot Spanish cook at a half-completed lodging. Just as the film being Charles Hawtrey's last, it additionally denoted a decrease in Jacques' screen time; she went through just a single week taping her scenes. Amid after creation, the film's back up plans progressed toward becoming worried about Jacques' crumbling wellbeing. In a letter to the arrangement maker Peter Rogers, they communicated their hesitance to safeguard her on set in any future film. 

Over the span of 1972 Jacques co-featured in the main arrangement of "Sykes", in which she played Hattie Sykes, "the wide-peered toward, less-knowing however astoundingly persistent sister-cum-mother-figure"; at its tallness, "Sykes" had 17 million watchers. In February 1972 Jacques was at home with her child Robin to watch Le Mesurier win the British Academy of Film and Television Arts "Best Television Actor" grant for his depiction of a "boozy British aristocrat ... who turned into a government operative for the Soviets" in Dennis Potter's TV play "Backstabber". Jacques cried when her ex won the honor, and revealed to her child that she "wasn't shouting out of expert hatred or even jealousy about Joan Le Mesurier ... yet, from a misery that, through her own behavior, she lost John or there was currently nobody with whom to consume her time on earth". 

In 1974 Jacques' children were captured for ownership of cannabis, and her home was looked by police. Around the same time that the two young men showed up in court, she got official notice of the aim to choose her as an OBE. So as to shield her children from further press interruption she declined the respect. Soon thereafter, while recording the third arrangement of "Sykes", she endured a malignant growth alarm and lost a lot of weight. In spite of this she would not interfere with the bustling generation plan; when shooting was finished on 5 December she experienced medical procedure at Charing Cross Hospital for what ended up being favorable tumors on her kidneys. 

In 1976 Jacques showed up in a limited time promoting film for British Rail, which set her against dashing driver Jackie Stewart in a race to London. From 1976 onwards Sykes and Jacques seemed together in the stage play "A Hatful of Sykes", both in the UK and universally. Throughout the diverse visits relations between the two stars turned out to be progressively stressed and Sykes changed the demonstration a few times to guarantee he got more approval than Jacques. While showing up in Blackpool in 1977 Jacques' wellbeing ended up tricky as she experienced joint pain and ulcerated legs, which required every day dressing. Since a changing area was organized that stayed away from her expecting to utilize stairs, Sykes blamed her for getting uncommon treatment. At the point when the show moved to Rhodesia (presently Zimbabwe), Sykes "started to act rather strangely ... what's more, he even denounced Hattie ... of not having the capacity to convey a legitimate feed line". When the show showed up in Brighton in 1979 the connection between the two "was quickly disintegrating", and, despite the fact that the pair applauded each other openly, Jacques felt harmed by Sykes' treatment of her. In spite of the distinctions, the pair recorded the seventh arrangement of "Sykes" in 1979, and—in April 1980—the TV film "Rhubarb"; despite the fact that her part was a little one, she looked "somewhat shaky on her feet", as per Merriman. 

In May 1980 Jacques' specialist prompted her against making a trip to Greece on vacation as arranged, so she visited Ireland. Amid the arrival ship crossing she disclosed to her companion Bruce Copp that "You know I'm not going to live long". Her wellbeing stayed poor, and insurance agencies wouldn't protect her for film work. By October her weight had risen once more; she had issues breathing and was again confessed to Charing Cross Hospital. She took an end of the week break from medical clinic and returned home to Eardley Crescent, where on 6 October she passed on from a heart assault at 58 years old; she was additionally experiencing kidney disappointment. 

Jacques' memorial service occurred at Putney Vale Crematorium, where her fiery debris were dissipated. Her children would not permit Sykes section to the burial service since they loathed the manner in which he had treated her amid the stage appear; Sykes was irritated with the rejection and neglected to comprehend why he had been restricted. The other outstanding non-attendant from the memorial service was Joan Sims, who "remained in her home and went through the day drinking, perusing old letters from Hattie and floundering in self indulgence", as per Merriman. 

Kenneth Williams was profoundly disheartened by the loss of his companion, and composed that "every one of the mates have died ... one is left marooned on the shore ... the tide is subsiding and abandoning some confused wrecks exposed ... I dread I am one of them". John Le Mesurier depicted Jacques as "an exceptional lady ... [who] had an atmosphere of adoration and graciousness about her", while her eulogy in "The Times" saw that "she will be recalled with love by all who saw her". A month after the burial service, a commemoration administration was held at St Paul's, Covent Garden, also called the Actors' Church, which was portrayed by Le Mesurier as a "happy event". 

A commemoration plaque to Jacques is arranged in St Paul's, Covent Garden. In November 1995 a blue plaque was revealed by Eric Sykes and Clive Dunn—a partner from her Players' Theater days—at her previous house: 67 Eardley Crescent, Earls Court, London. In 2002 plaques were uncovered for Jacques, Sid James and Tony Hancock at BBC Broadcasting House in London. 

In 2011 Jacques and Le Mesurier's marriage was the subject of a BBC Four true to life film called "Hattie", which concentrated on Jacques' undertaking with John Schofield. She was played by Ruth Jones, who Robin Le Mesurier thought "had caught my mom splendidly". Jones was excited at playing Jacques whom she viewed as her parody courageous woman, portraying her as a "fantastically capable and interesting lady both on and off screen". 

The essayist Susan Leckey depicted Jacques as "a standout amongst the best-cherished British parody stars", while Jacques' obituarist in "The Times" saw that "she was perpetually fruitful" at making individuals "snicker with, instead of at you". Diminish Chapman of "The Independent" expressed that Jacques was "honored with surprising beauty, delicacy and warmth, giving her a practically special comic intrigue". "Sunday Life" said that for quite a long time she was "England's most loved senseless, explicitly disappointed, husky lady". Nina Wadia of "Oh dear Me" considers Jacques alongside Joan Sims and Barbara Windsor to have "made ready for more youthful comediennes in Britain today", commenting that "on the off chance that it had not been for ladies like Hattie and Barbara, it is highly unlikely that more youthful performers would have any good example, or presumably the desire to do what they do". 

Jacques' biographer, Francis Gray, featured two parts of the on-screen character's capacities; in her appearances in the grouping of post-war Dickens adjustments ("Nicholas Nickleby", "Oliver Twist", "Penny pincher" and "Pickwick") Jacques "mirrored her ability for overwhelming parody which never lost its hold on humankind", while in different movies, for example, "Mother Riley Meets the Vampire", she showed "a more extensive comic mode". In her later profession Jacques indicated "a comic ability of phenomenal flexibility. In "Sykes" her execution must be a foil for the fundamental character; in the "Portable items" she bloomed". As a vocalist she was likewise adulated; Jonathan Cecil of "The Spectator" said that her "chime tone voice with its cut-gem phrasing—ideal for radio—had an edge of torment which recommended a more noteworthy profundity to her gifts than she was for the most part permitted to express". The performing artist Neville Phillips, who visited with Jacques, depicted her as having a "pretty voice" and ready to "take a harmless old Victorian or Edwardian ditty and with only a couple of pitches and articulations give it another significance completely". 

Dim sees that "Jacques is enduringly connected with the job of clinic lady" and her depiction of the character in five movies lastingly affected both her heritage and on the job and perspective on Matrons in the National Health Service. An article in "The Guardian" by Mark Lawson blended fiction with reality when he composed that "models of cleanliness have slipped since Hattie Jacques ran NHS wards". As per "The Scotsman", the 2003 Labor Party Conference "praised ridiculously on the grounds that the administration has restored Hattie Jacques", in connection to an adjustment in government strategy. After grumblings about the NHS in 2008, the "Western Morning News" recommended the administration should "clone a Hattie Jacques-type lady to run a tight ship all over". NHS attendants have grumbled about the generalization: in August 2013 the "Nursing Times" cited one lady, who dissented that they "dislike Hattie Jacques any longer". 

Alan Simpson, the co-essayist of "Hancock", delighted recorded as a hard copy for Jacques, and imagined that she was "practically like a fella regarding playing satire; you didn't compose for her reasoning she's a lady so we must compose the ladylike perspective. That made it simpler for us". Neville Phillips thought she was a "finished disclosure", including "in spite of the fact that she was a huge woman (substantial, indeed), her developments were dainty, light and smooth, and she had a method for playing satire that place me as a primary concern of the incomparable Beatrice Lillie ... an unobtrusive, advanced on-screen character". Her companion Bob Monkhouse felt that her vocation was dominated by her size: "She was such an incredible comedienne ... everybody needed her yet the movers and shakers of excitement didn't see her as something besides a fat woman". Fellow Pearce, writing in the "Every day Express", noticed that "she generally played ladies in interesting circumstances, instead of allude legitimately to her weight. She focused on the content and its understanding as opposed to winning simple chuckles by playing 'the fattie'." The methodology of journalists varied by they way they managed the characters they requested that Jacques depict. Morwenna Banks and Amanda Swift consider Jacques to have been "blandly given a role as the 'chunky individual'" in "ITMA", while in "Sykes", her weight was once in a while alluded to—and Jacques said that Sykes "barely ever constructed jokes about my size which was an invigorating change". Dim thinks about that "albeit frequently cast in expansive satire, she never played it extensively, yet with a tastefulness of voice and body that gave a false representation of all the platitudes about ladies and weight". 

Notes 

References