Vijayanagara writing in Kannada 

Vijayanagara writing in Kannada is the assemblage of writing made in the Kannada language of South India amid the domination of the Vijayanagara Empire which kept going from the fourteenth through the sixteenth century. The Vijayanagara domain was built up in 1336 by Harihara I and his sibling Bukka Raya I. In spite of the fact that it kept going until 1664, its capacity declined after a noteworthy military annihilation by the Shahi Sultanates in the skirmish of Talikota in 1565. The realm is named after its capital city Vijayanagara, whose ruins encompass present day Hampi, presently a World Heritage Site in Karnataka. 

Kannada writing amid this period comprised of works identifying with the socio-religious advancements of the Veerashaiva and Vaishnava beliefs, and to a lesser degree to that of Jainism. Composing on mainstream points was prevalent all through this period. Initiation of these works was not constrained to writers and researchers alone. Huge artistic commitments were made by individuals from the regal family, their clergymen, armed force authorities of rank, respectability and the different subordinate rulers. Furthermore, a tremendous assortment of reverential people writing was composed by melodic versifiers, spiritualists and holy person artists, affecting society in the realm. Journalists of this period advanced utilization of the local meters: "shatpadi" (six-line refrain), "sangatya" (organizations intended to be sung to the backup of a melodic instrument), and "tripadi" (three-line stanza). 

The improvement of Veerashaiva writing was at its crest amid the rule of King Deva Raya II, the best-known about the Sangama administration rulers. The standard of King Krishnadeva Raya of the Tuluva administration and his successors was a high point in Vaishnava writing. The impact of Jain writing, which had ruled Kannada language in the earlier hundreds of years, was on the fade with expanding rivalry from the resurgent Veerashaiva confidence and Vaishnava bhakti development (reverential development of the haridasas). Association among Kannada and Telugu writings left enduring impacts that proceeded after the Vijayanagara period. 

Prior to the twelfth century, Jain essayists had overwhelmed Kannada writing with their "champu" (stanzas blended with composition) style of works well known in court writing. In the later medieval period, they needed to fight with the Veerashaivas who tested the very idea of regal writing with their "vachana" verse, a stylised type of spoken language, increasingly mainstream in society classes. The prevalent development of Veerashaiva (aficionados of the Hindu god Shiva) writing started in the twelfth century, while Vaishnava (lovers of the Hindu god Vishnu) essayists started to apply their impact from the fifteenth century. Jain scholars needed to reexamine their craft, moving far from the customary subjects of renunciation and precepts to concentrate on contemporary themes. Andayya's thirteenth century exemplary "Kabbigara Kava" ("Poets safeguard") was an early case of the change in artistic style, and furthermore mirrored the antagonistic vibe toward the Veerashaivas; the Jain creator thought that it was perfect to portray the narrative of Manmatha, the God of Love, who transformed Shiva into a half lady. The Veerashaivas had started a vital change, throwing away the idea of formal writing and clearing path for shorter neighborhood classes. The Vaishnava haridasas later promoted melodic structures that were increasingly worthy to the basic man. Composed works of art lauding lords and leaders were a relic of past times. Kannada writing had drawn nearer to the spoken and sung society customs, with singability being its trademark, and dedication to God its objective. 

This noteworthy move in the scholarly scene was combined with major political changes that were occurring in southern India in the mid fourteenth century. With the decay of the provincial Hindu kingdoms, the Vijayanagara Empire had ascended as a rampart against Muslim attacks from the north while making an environment helpful for improvement of the expressive arts. In an essential period of Kannada writing, rivalry among Vaishnava and Veerashaiva authors went to the fore. Scholarly debates between the two factions were normal, particularly in the court of King Deva Raya II. Intense contention prompted "composed parades" to pay tribute to the works of art composed by artists of the particular organizations. Except for the best-known essayists from these beliefs, numerous writers created lesser quality compositions with a partisan and proselytizer bowed. 

The Vaishnava essayists comprised of two gatherings who appeared to have no cooperation with one another: the Brahmin observers who commonly composed under the support of sovereignty; and the Bhakti (commitment) writers who assumed no job in dignified issues, rather taking the message of God to the general population as musical tunes formed utilizing society classes. Kumara Vyasa and Timmanna Kavi were outstanding among the Brahmin observers, while Purandara Dasa and Kanaka Dasa were the most popular of the Bhakti essayists. The logic of Madhvacharya, which started in the Kannada– talking district in the thirteenth century, spread past its outskirts throughout the following two centuries. The nomad haridasas, best portrayed as spiritualist holy person artists, spread the theory of Madhvacharya in basic Kannada, winning mass intrigue by lecturing dedication to God and lauding the ethics of "jnana" (illumination), "bhakti" (commitment) and "vairagya" (separation). 

This was the age of the "shatpadi" meter, albeit just the most gifted of writers, for example, Chamarasa, Kumara Vyasa, Kanaka Dasa and Bhaskara utilized it to the best impact. Referenced without precedent for Kannada writing by Nagavarma I in his "Chhandombudhi" (c. 990) and effectively utilized by the twelfth century Hoysala writer Raghavanka, this hexa-meter style appropriate for account verse found colossal notoriety all through the Vijayanagara time frame. The "shataka" meter (string of 100 sections) was put to best use by the Veerashaivas who delivered the vast majority of the pedantic compositions in this meter, in spite of the fact that the Jain writer Ratnakaravarni is its most acclaimed type. The compositions of Ratnakaravarni and Kanaka Dasa in "sangatya" meter are viewed as artful culminations from this period. 

In the imperial courts, there was expanded connection among Kannada and Telugu written works, proceeding with a pattern which had started in the Hoysala time frame. Interpretations of works of art from Kannada to Telugu and the other way around wound up prevalent. Understood bilingual artists of this period were Bhima Kavi, Piduparti Somanatha and Nilakanthacharya. Some Telugu artists, including Dhurjati, were so knowledgeable in Kannada that they openly utilized numerous Kannada expressions in their Telugu compositions. It was a result of this "recognition" with Kannada language that the remarkable author Srinatha called his Telugu works "Kannada". Interpretations by bilingual journalists proceeded in the hundreds of years to pursue. 

With the crumbling of the Vijayanagara Empire in the late sixteenth and mid seventeenth hundreds of years, the focuses of Kannada writing moved to the courts of the rising autonomous kingdoms, the Kingdom of Mysore and the Keladi Nayakas. Scholars in these courts, huge numbers of whom were Veerashaiva by confidence, were adroit in Kannada as well as in Sanskrit or potentially Telugu. Two such journalists were Kalale Nanjaraja and Kempe Gowda, the organizer of Bangalore. This multi-linguality was maybe a waiting heritage of the cosmopolitan Vijayanagara abstract culture and the developing social duties of the Veerashaiva religious request which never again bound itself to a Kannada just gathering of people, but instead tried to spread its impact crosswise over southern India. 

In the Kingdom of Mysore, the Veerashaiva abstract school was tested by the developing impact of the Srivaishnava intellectual elite in the Wodeyar court. The Srivaishnava journalists (adherents of a group of Vaishnavism) of Kannada writing were additionally in rivalry with Telugu and Sanskrit authors, their prevalence proceeding into the English provincial guideline over the august territory of Mysore. In the interim, the extreme works of sixteenth century writer Ratnakaravarni had cleared path for another sort of verse proclaimed by the individuals who were not artists in the conventional cultured sense, rather vagrant artists who traversed the Kannada-talking district, cutting crosswise over court and cloister, composing lyrics (in the "tripadi" meter) and impacting the lives of individuals with their humanistic qualities which defeated the social obstructions of position and religion. Sarvajna (regularly contrasted with Telugu artist Vemana), Sisunala Sherif, Mupina Sadakshari, Navalingayogi and Kadakolada Madivalappa are the best-known among them. These nonconformist writers proclaimed one more age of capricious writing in Kannada language, free of elegant conservatism and set up artistic tastes. 

Vaishnava creators composed medications of the Hindu sagas, the "Ramayana", the "Mahabharata" and the "Bhagavata", just as the Vedanta and different subjects from the Hindu puranic conventions. This was the time of Kumara Vyasa, a compelling Vaishnava artist and a doyen of medieval Kannada epic verse. History specialists have drawn parallels between Adikavi Pampa (c. 941) and Kumaraya Vyasa, while distinguishing central contrasts in their style. Both are viewed as bosses of their separate periods; while Pampa is distinguished as a beautician of the established age, Kumara Vyasa is viewed as a generalist of the medieval age. Dissimilar to Pampa, a result of the "marga" (Sanskritic-standard) time of Kannada writing, Kumara Vyasa effectively employed the adaptability of the "desi" (local) "shatpadi" meter, which utilized a scope of language that included illustrations, analogies, humor and even profanity. 

Kumara Vyasa expressed "Gadugina Bharata" in 1430 in the Vyasa convention. The title of the work is a reference to "Gadagu" (present day Gadag), where the creator lived. The composing depends on the initial ten parts of the Hindu epic Mahabharata and is likewise on the other hand titled "Karnata Bharata Kathamanjari" or "Kumaravyasa Bharata". It is a devotion to the god of Gadag and underlines the heavenliness and elegance of the Hindu god Krishna. Not at all like Pampa, who clung to a carefully Jain translation of the epic in his "Vikramarjuna Vijaya" (941), lauding Pandava Arjuna as the legend, making Draupadi exclusively Arjuna's better half and throwing the Kaurava ruler Duryodhana and his dependable friend Karna as grandiose people, Kumara Vyasa depicts all characters except for Krishna as profoundly human with flaws. His delineation of the auxiliary characters, for example, the finesse Keechaka and the weakling Uttara Kumara, is additionally significant. An intriguing part of the work is the comical inclination shown by the writer and his saint, Krishna. This work denotes the progress in Kannada writing from old to present day. Especially known for his utilization of modern illustrations, Kumara Vyasa earned the title "Rupaka Samrajya Chakravarti" ("Emperor of the place where there is Metaphors"). The rest of the parts of the epic were interpreted by Timmanna Kavi (1510) of the court of King Krishnadevaraya. The artist named his work "Krishnaraya Bharata" after his benefactor lord. "Airavata" (1430) by Kumara Vyasa describes a scene from the Mahabharata and is an account of the elephant ridden by god Indra. 

Motivated by Kumara Vyasa, the primary complete brahminical adjustment of the epic Ramayana was composed by Kumara Valmiki (a nom de plume Narahari, 1500) and is classified "Torave Ramayana" after the town Torave, where it was made. Likewise with the Mahabharata, this adjustment veers far from the Jain form by Nagachandra (1105). Nagachandra had utilized the "champu" meter famous in Sanskrit works and looked to depict Ravana as an unfortunate legend. In a takeoff from the first form (by Valmiki), the Jain epic closures with Rama's austerity and "nirvana". Kumara Valmiki's record, written in the Valmiki convention, is in the "shatpadi" meter and is saturated with the writer's commitment for the god Rama, a manifestation of the god Vishnu. As per the creator, the epic he composed was really a describing of Shiva's discussion with his partner Parvati. In this form of the epic, King Ravana, the lowlife, is one of the suitors at Sita's Swayamvara ("lit" a function of "decision of a spouse"). His disappointment in winning the lady's hand results in envy towards Rama, the inevitable groom. As the story advances, Hanuman, for every one of his administrations, is piled with encomium and is magnified to the status of "the following maker". Toward the finish of the story, amid the war with Rama, Ravana understands that Rama is none other than the god Vishnu and rushes to pass on at his hands to accomplish salvation. The section portraying the war ("Yuddhakanda") is given noticeable quality over every single other part. The composing has stayed well known for quite a long time and propelled people theater, for example, the Yakshagana, which draws from scenes of "Torave Ramayana" for sanctioning. The impact of the Puranic convention and that of Madhvacharya are unmistakable in this energetic yet religious portrayal that utilizes each chance to extol its saint, Rama. Be that as it may, the creator has been censured for staying in deliberations and for not achieving the agile beautiful dimension of his ancestor Kumara Vyasa. 

The early Bhagavata compositions in Sanskrit by surely understood "acharyas" (masters) were exclusively intended to have a converting impact on the majority, urging them to a mystical lifestyle and confidence in the god Krishna. Chatu Vitthalanatha, who prospered as a court writer of King Krishnadeva Raya and his successor King Achyuta Raya, was the first to interpret the "Bhagavata" into Kannada in a voluminous composing involving 12,247 stanzas partitioned into 280 segments. The work secured the whole unique form in "shatpadi" meter. Two different names show up in the colophons, Sadananda Yati and Nityatma Sukayogi, provoking a few researchers to credit the work to the gathering while others think of them as exchange names of a similar essayist. The work covers every one of the ten symbols of the god Vishnu, however it is basically fixated on the portrayal of Krishna as the incomparable Lord. The purana covers accounts of Vishnu's popular aficionados, for example, Prahlad and Dhruva in detail, just as accounts of devils Vritasura, Hiranyakashipu and other people who looked to accomplish salvation by kicking the bucket on account of Vishnu. Most essential is the epic's impact on the sytheses of the Haridasas. Despite the fact that the composing isn't considered as essential as the other two sagas of the period, its importance to religiously disapproved of individuals is all around acknowledged. Chatu Vitthalanatha composed a more full form of parts of the epic Mahabharata too. Other striking essayists of the sixteenth century were Tirumala Bhatta ("Siva Gite") and Ramendra ("Saundarya Katharatna", utilizing "tripadi" meter). 

The Veerashaiva essayists were enthusiasts of the Hindu god Shiva, his 25 shapes, and the compositions of Shaivism. An imperative advancement in their writing amid this period was the recasting the holy people of the twelfth century Veerashaiva development (Basavanna, Allama Prabhu and others) as the heroes of their compositions. 

Bhima Kavi prepared for the "shatpadi" meter custom in his work "Basavapurana" (c.1369), a structure originally tried different things with by the twelfth century Hoysala writer Raghavanka. Bhima Kavi's work, a history of Basavanna, is a critical Veerashaiva "purana". It was motivated by before life stories of Basavanna by the Hoysala artist Harihara (the writer of the main true to life account ballad of the hero's life called "Basavaraja Ragale") and the Telugu works of Palkuriki Somanatha of the thirteenth century. Bhima Kavi modestly recognizes and lauds his forerunners in a composition loaded with understood identities. 

The creator begins with Basavanna's introduction to the world and weaves scenes of different acclaimed "sharanas" (lovers of Hindu god Shiva, for example, Allama Prabhu—into his life history. Basavanna is portrayed as a pious individual, an extraordinary enthusiast of Shiva, a manifestation of Nandi, a man of supernatural occurrences and one with a mission, sent to restore the Veerashaiva confidence on earth. The work is orchestrated into eight "aswasas" (divisions) containing sixty-one "sandhis" (parts) and 3,621 refrains. The portrayal incorporates accounts of aficionados of Shiva who conquered their inner selves. Aside from a couple of varieties, the works of Bhima Kavi and his ancestors are corresponding. Two lost works of Bhima Kavi are the "Bhimakaviswara Ragale" and the "Bhringidandaka". 

Chamarasa, Lakkanna Dandesa and Jakkanarya thrived under the support of King Deva Raya II. Chamarasa, victor of the Veerashaiva confidence, was an adversary of Kumara Vyasa in the court of King Deva Raya II. His "perfect work of art", the "Prabhulinga Lile" (1430) was a tribute of twelfth century holy person Allama Prabhu; it was converted into Telugu and Tamil language at the command of his benefactor lord, and later into the Sanskrit and Marathi dialects. In the story, the holy person is viewed as a manifestation of Hindu god Ganapathi while Parvati appeared as a princess of Banavasi. As a conspicuous difference to Kumara Vyasa's war-torn epic, Chamarasa conveyed a composition loaded with otherworldliness. A comment made by the writer in the composition, that his story is "not about conventional humans", suggested that the Vaishnava legends the Ramayana and the Mahabharata were about humans; this was proof of competition between the two religions. 

Lakkanna Dandesa, the ruler's head administrator and common senator, composed a reference book on the convictions and ceremonies of the Veerashaiva confidence titled "Sivatattva Chintamani". This work is a record of the life of Basavanna, the ancestor of the confidence, and many his supporters, making it important material for understudies of the Lingayat development. Various references are made in this work to the capital city of Vijayanagara and its rural areas. Jakkanarya, a clergyman in the court, not just expressed "Nurondusthala" (one hundred and one stories) yet additionally was supporter to Kumarabanka Natha and Mahalinga Deva, artist holy people who stated "vachana" sonnets and books on the Shaiva reasoning (called "shatsthala"). Different essayists of the fifteenth century deserving of notice are Kavi Linga (1490), court artist of King Saluva Narasimha I, Adrisappa ("Praudaraya Charitra"), Bommarasa ("Soundara Purana"), Kallarasa ("Janavasya"), Chaturmukha Bommarasa ("Revanasiddhesvara Purana"), Suranga Kavi ("Trisashti Puratanara Charitre"), and Nilakanthacharya ("Aradhya Charitra"), court writer of the Ummattur chieftain Virananjendra. 

In 1500, motivated by Palkuriki Somanatha (a bilingual writer in Kannada and Telugu), Singiraja integrated a record on the life of Basavanna titled "Maha Basavaraja Charitra" (or "Singiraja Purana"), utilizing the hero's "vachana" sonnets and giving subtleties of his 88 famous deeds, just as data about his rivals in the court of Southern Kalachuri King Bijjala II. A prominent writer of this time was Guru Basava, known for his creation of seven renowned lyrics ("Sapta Kavya"), everything except one being written in the "shatpadi" meter. He clarified religious lessons as formal exchanges between the master and supporter. His "kavyas" (traditional epic ballads) manage mysticism and extrasensory observation. 

Mallanarya of Gubbi, a writer bilingual in Kannada and Sanskrit, delighted in the support of King Krishnadeva Raya. His essential compositions in Kannada in the "shatpadi" meter are the "Bhava Chintaratna" (likewise called "Satyendra Chole Kathe", 1513) and the "Virasaivamrita Purana" (1530). The previous depended on a seventh century Tamil work and about a Chola King with regards to the Shaiva confidence; the last is a composition of all encompassing extents that goes past philosophical substance, depicting the different structures (or sports, called "lila") of god Shiva and the lives of popular Shaiva holy people. 

In 1584, Virupaksha Pandita, the head minister at the Virupaksha Temple in Vijayanagara, composed a record on the life and deeds of the twelfth century holy person and "vachana" writer Chennabasava. The composition, titled "Chenna Basava Purana", views the hero as a manifestation of god Shiva and depicts the wonder of Shiva and his well known enthusiasts. The book gives significant data, including dates, about early Veerashaiva holy people and "vachanakaras" ("vachana" writers). Notwithstanding religious substance, the composition gives valuable bits of knowledge about the previous capital Vijayanagara, its imperial royal residence, its commercial centers and vendors, its military places to stay, specializations and divisions and the societies of laborers who served the military in different limits. Different creators from the sixteenth century were ("Chermanka Kavya"), Virabhadraraja ("Virabhadra Vijaya"), Chennabasavanka ("Mahadevi Akkanna Purana"), Nanjunda of Ikkeri ("Bhairavaesvara Kavya") and Sadasiva Yogi ("Ramanatha Vilasa"). 

The social matchless quality of the Jains consistently reduced from the twelfth century; the decrease started in the tenth century after the victory of the overwhelmingly Jain Rashtrakutas by the Western Chalukya Empire, and the annihilation of the Ganga kingdom by the Cholas of Tanjore. While Veerashaivism prospered in northern Karnataka from the season of Basavanna, Sri Vaishnavism (a part of Vaishnavism) flourished in the South because of the impact of Ramanujacharya. The Hoysala ruler Vishnuvardhana and his relatives took to Vaishnavism. In spite of the fact that tolerant everything being equal, the organizers of the Vijayanagara Empire and the succeeding lords of the Sangama administration were Shaivas by confidence (fans of Shiva) while the later Tuluva tradition rulers were Sri Vaishnavas (adherents of Sri Vaishnavism). The Jain populace seems to have started its decrease from this period; in any case, accessible records incorporate a pronouncement by King Bukka Raya I giving Jains opportunity of love, following their grumbling of oppression. In spite of the fact that the impact of Jainism and its writing was on the melt away, the beach front regions of present day Karnataka, where critical Jain landmarks and stone monuments were built, remained a fortification. As in prior hundreds of years, Jain creators expounded on tirthankars, sovereigns and different personages imperative to the Jain religion. Most celebrated among Jain artists from the beach front Karnataka district were Ratnakaravarni, Abhinava Vadi Vidyananda, Salva and Nemanna. 

Ratnakaravarni of Mudabidri (1557), court writer at Karkala under the support of Bhairasa Wodeyar, is popular for effectively incorporating a component of common joy into plainness and for treating the point of eros with carefulness in a religious epic, his "perfect work of art" the "Bharatadesa Vaibhava". A standout amongst the most prominent artists of Kannada writing, Ratnakaravarni's compositions were famous crosswise over religions and factions. He seems to have had tense associations with both court and religious community, be that as it may, attributable to works on erotics and the art of delight, instead of simply otherworldly verse. A radical and touchy artist, he once guaranteed that otherworldly contemplation "was exhausting". Custom has it that Ratnakaravarni changed over to Veerashaivism when his "Bharatadesa Vaibhava" (additionally called "Bharatesvara Charite") was at first despised, later to come back to the Jain overlay and pen other critical works. The "Bharatadesa Vaibhava" is written in eighty cantos and incorporates 10,000 refrains. His other essential compositions incorporate the 2,000 otherworldly melodies called "Annagalapada" ("Songs of the Brothers") and the three "shatakas": the "Ratnakara sataka", the "Aparajitesvara shataka" (a talk on Jain ethics, renunciation and rationality) and the "Trilokya shataka", a record of the universe as observed by Jains, comprising of paradise, hellfire and the middle of the road universes. 

"Bharatadesa Vaibhava" is an adaptation of the prior "Poorvapurana" by Jinasenacharya and mirrors an alternate point of view than the "Adipurana" composed by Adikavi Pampa c. 941. Fixated on the glorification of the illuminated Bharata, the child of the principal Jain "tirthankar" Adinatha, Ratnakaravarni astutely centers around those angles that the first by Pampa overlooked. Ratnakaravarni really expounds on ruler Bharata who, as indicated by the creator, fills in as the perfect harmony between separation ("yoga") and connection ("bhoga"). In spite of the fact that wedded to "96,000 ladies", Bharata is portrayed as one who on the double could isolate himself from common joys. Dissimilar to Pampa, who concentrated on the contention between the siblings Bahubali and Bharata, finishing with Bahubali's parsimony and Bharata's mortification, Ratnakaravarni's tribute of Bharata leaves room just for Bahubali's advancement towards sainthood. In the end, Bharata achieves "moksha" (freedom from the cycle of death and resurrection) by consuming himself in austere flame. The writer showers encomium on Bharata in his different jobs as ruler, spouse, child, companion and lover, an uncommon depiction of a "flawless individual" among Jain compositions. Since subtleties of the early existence of Bharata as a youthful ruler did not exist in past works or in convention, a lot of Ratnakaravarni's striking portrayal of that period was a result of his creative energy. This work discovers its pride of spot in Kannada's epic verse as the longest ballad in the people "sangatya" meter. 

Salva (1550), who was the court artist of a Konkan ruler named Salvamalla, composed a disseminator work called the "Salva Bharata". This was a Jain form of the epic Mahabharata in sixteen "parvas" (divisions), expected to rival the Vaishnava variant of the epic composed by Kumar Vyasa in the mid-fifteenth century. Abhinava Vadi Vidyananda of Gerosoppa (1553) expressed "Kavya Sara", a 1,143 refrain treasury of concentrates of subjects expounded on by before artists somewhere in the range of 900 and 1430. The content intently looks like a treasury composed by Hoysala writer Mallikarjuna (1245), with certain increases to represent compositions in the post Mallikarjuna period. A staunch Jain and a disputant, Vidyananda contended for the reason for his confidence in the Vijayanagara court and other commonplace courts. Nemanna (1559) expressed "Jnana Bhaskara Charite" on the significance of internal thought instead of customs as the right way towards liberation. 

In Vijayanagara, Madhura was the court artist of King Harihara II and King Deva Raya I under the support of their individual executives. He is popular for his record of the fifteenth tirthankar titled "Dharmanatha Purana" (1385), written in a style like that of Jain artists of prior hundreds of years. Madhura is likewise credited with a lyric about Gomateshwara of Shravanabelagola. Ayata Varma, who is likely dated to 1400, interpreted from Sanskrit a "champu" (blended exposition stanza) titled "Ratna Karandaka" portraying Jain belief systems. Manjarasa, a feudatory lord of Kallahalli and a Vijayanagara general of rank, composed two books. "Nemijinesa Sangata", finished in 1508, was a record of the life of the 22nd Jain tirthankar; "Samyukta Koumudi", written in 1509, included 18 short stories on religious qualities and ethics. 

A vital "shatpadi" composing from this period is the "Jivandhara Charite" (1424) by Bhaskara, an account of Prince Jivanadhara, who recaptured the position of authority usurped by his dad. Other surely understood Jain scholars were Kalyanakirti ("Jnanachandrabhyudaya", 1439), Santikirtimuni ("Santinathacharite", 1440), Vijayanna ("Dvadasanuprekshe", 1448), Bommarasa of Terakanambi ("Sanatkumara Charite", 1485), Kotesvara (1500), Mangarasa III ("Jayanripa Kavya"), Santarasa ("Yogaratnakara"), Santikirti ("Santinatha Purana", 1519), Doddayya ("Chandraprabha Purana", 1550), Doddananka ("Chandraprabha Purana", 1578) and Bahubali Pandita of Sringeri ("Dharmanathapuranam", 1352). 

Albeit a large portion of the works that have made due from this period are religious in nature, there is adequate scholarly proof that common composing was likewise well known in the royal court. A portion of these works convey helpful data on urban life, glory of the magnificent and commonplace courts, imperial weddings and services. Different works allude the general town arranging, fortresses and weapons subtleties at Vijayanagara and other critical urban areas, water system supplies, vendors and shops managing in an assortment of products. Now and again, creators harp on legendary urban communities that mirror their admired perspectives on contemporary life. Regularly found in these works are portrayal of craftsmen and experts and their association with the court. These included writers, minstrels, arrangers, painters, stone carvers, artists, dramatic entertainers and even wrestlers. Other people who discover notice are political pioneers, envoys, courtesans, bookkeepers, goldsmiths, moneylenders and even workers and entryway attendants. 

Works in different scholarly kinds, for example, sentiment, fiction, erotica, people melodies and melodic organizations were well known. An abundance of writing managing in subjects, for example, stargazing, meteorology, veterinary science and drug, soothsaying, punctuation, reasoning, verse, prosody, account, history and vocabulary, just as lexicons and reference books, were written in this time. 

In 1360, Manjaraja I composed a book on medication called "Khagendra Mani Darpana", putting together it with respect to the fifth century compositions of Pujyapada. Padmananka (1385) composed a history of his progenitor Kereya Padmarasa, a Hoysala pastor and writer, in a work titled "Padmaraja Purana". The composing gives insights regarding the Hoysala Empire and prominent identities, for example, the writers Harihara and Raghavanka. Chandrashekara (or Chrakavi), a court writer of Deva Raya II, composed a record on the Virupaksha sanctuary, its regions and settlements at Pampapura (present day Hampi) in the "Pampasthana Varnanam" in 1430. Mangaraja II composed a dictionary called "Mangaraja Nighantu" in 1398, while Abhinava Chandra gave a record on veterinary science in his book called "Asva Vaidya" in the fourteenth century. Kavi Malla composed on erotics in the "Manmathavijaya" in the fourteenth century. In the fifteenth century, Madhava deciphered a prior Sanskrit lyric by Dandi and called it "Madhavalankara", and Isvara Kavi (additionally called Bana Kavi) composed a prosody called "Kavijihva Bandhana". 

Deparaja, an individual from the regal family, wrote "Amaruka" and an accumulation of sentimental stories called the "Sobagina Sone" (1410), written as a portrayal by the writer to his significant other. In any case, as indicated by Kotraiah, "Sobagina Sone" was really composed by King Deva Raya II. The composing contains fascinating subtleties on the ruler's chasing campaigns and on the expert seekers who went with him. In 1525, Nanjunda Kavi, a feudatory ruler composed on nearby history, distributed a tribute of sovereign Ramanatha (additionally called Kumara Rama) titled "Ramanatha Charite" (or "Kumara Rama Sangatya") in the "sangatya" meter. The ballad is about the sovereign of Kampili and his heroics at the beginning of the Muslim attack into southern India. This work joins society and epic writing. The hero rejects the advances of his stepmother, just to be sentenced to death. He is saved by a pastor, however inevitably accomplishes affliction battling Muslim intruders at the capital. 

In 1567, Jain parsimonious Srutakirti of Mysore interpreted from Sanskrit a biographic lyric of a Hoysala woman Vijayakumari in "Vijayakumari Charite". The composing broadly expounds on a city (accepted to be Vijayanagara, the regal capital), examining its shops, societies and organizations. The content portrays the inflexible standing based human settlements and notes that individuals engaged with unremarkable obligations, for example, washing, barbering, pot-production and carpentry lived outside the stronghold dividers in avenues developed explicitly for them. Salva (1550) created two lyrics called "Rasa Ratnakar" and "Sharada Vilas". The previous is about "rasa" (poetical notion or enhance) and the last mentioned, just bits of which have been recouped, is about the "dhvani" (recommended importance) in lyrics. Thimma's "Navarasalankara" of the sixteenth century additionally talks about poetical flavor. In the sixteenth century, dictionaries were composed by Lingamantri ("Kabbigarakaipidi") and Devottama ("Nanaratha Ratnakara"). At the turn of the seventeenth century, Bhattakalanka Deva composed extensively on old Kannada language structure. His "Karnataka Sabdanusasanam" is demonstrated on the lines of Sanskrit language structure and is viewed as a thorough work. 

Not at all like the Veerashaiva development which lectured commitment to the god Shiva with an emphasis on a ridiculous society and had its motivation from the lower classes of society, the haridasa development began from the higher echelons and lectured dedication to the god Vishnu in an increasingly adaptable position based society, in the end getting to be well known among the average citizens. The beginnings of the haridasa custom can be followed to the Vaishnava school of Dvaita theory spearheaded by Madhvacharya. Its effect on Kannada writing in the mid fourteenth century is found in the soonest realized sytheses composed by Naraharitirtha, a conspicuous devotee of Madhvacharya. 

The Vaishnava Bhakti (reverential) development including surely understood haridasas (enthusiast holy people) of the fourteenth through sixteenth hundreds of years made a permanent engraving on Kannada writing, with the advancement of an assemblage of writing called "Haridasa Sahitya" ("Haridasa writing"). This reasoning introduced another solid current of commitment, infesting the lives of millions, like the impacts of the Veerashaiva development of the twelfth century. The haridasas passed on the message of Madhvacharya through obscure Sanskrit works (composed by "Vyasa kuta" or Vyasa school) and basic Kannada language pieces, engaging the normal man, as reverential tunes (composed by the "Dasa Kuta" or Dasa school). The theory of Madhvacharya was spread by prominent teaches, for example, Naraharitirtha, Jayatirtha, Vyasatirtha, Sripadaraya, Vadirajatirtha, Purandara Dasa, Kanaka Dasa and others. 

Arrangements in the haridasa writing are sub-partitioned into four kinds: "kirthane", "suladi", "ugabhoga" and "mundige". "Kirthanes" are reverential melodic organizations with abstains dependent on raga and "tala" and praise the brilliance of god. The "suladi" are tala based, the "ugabhoga" are tune based while the "mundige" are as conundrums. Pieces were likewise displayed on "jogula" (cradlesong melodies) and "sobane" (marriage tunes). A typical component of haridasa structures are impacts from the Hindu sagas, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and Bhagavata. 

Haridasa verse, which blurred for a century after the demise of Naraharitirtha, reemerged with Sripadaraya, who was for quite a while the leader of the Madhva matha (religious community of Madhvacharya) at Mulubagilu (in current Kolar locale). Around a hundred of his "kirthanes" have endure, composed under the pen name "Vithala". Sripadaraya is viewed as a pioneer of this kind of reverential melodies. Sripadaraya's devotee, Vyasatirtha (or Vyasaraya), is most popular among the contemporary Madhva holy people. It was he who made the "Vyasa kuta" and "Dasa kuta" schools inside the Madhva request. He directed regard from King Krishnadeva Raya, who respected him with the title "kuladevata" (family god). A writer of legitimacy in Kannada and the writer of original works in Sanskrit, Vyasatirtha was the master in charge of molding the vocations of two of Kannada's most noteworthy holy person artists, Purandara Dasa and Kanaka Dasa. Another unmistakable name in the period of "Dasa" (enthusiast) writing is Vadirajatirtha, a contemporary of Purandara Dasa and the writer of numerous works in Kannada and Sanskrit. 

Purandara Dasa (1484– 1564), a meandering poet who visited Vijayanagara amid the rule of King Achyuta Raya, is accepted to have formed 475,000 melodies in the Kannada and Sanskrit dialects, albeit just around 1,000 tunes are known today. Formed in different ragas, and regularly finishing with a welcome to the Hindu god Vittala, his sytheses exhibited the pith of the Upanishads and the Puranas in basic yet expressive language. He additionally concocted a framework by which the regular man could learn Carnatic music, and arranged the melodic sythesis shapes "svaravalis", "alankaras" and "geethams". Attributable to his commitments in music, Purandara Dasa earned the honorific "Karnataka Sangeeta Pitamaha" ("Father of Carnatic Music"). 

Kanaka Dasa (whose original name was Thimmappa Nayaka, 1509– 1609) of Kaginele (in present day Haveri area) was a plain and otherworldly searcher, who as indicated by recorded records originated from a group of Kuruba (shepherds) or "beda" (seekers). Under the support of the Vijayanagara ruler, he composed such vital compositions as "Mohanatarangini" ("River of Delight", 1550), written in commitment to King Krishnadevaraya, which portrays the account of Krishna in "sangatya" meter. His different celebrated compositions are "Narasimhastava", a work managing brilliance of God Narasimha, "Nalacharita", the account of Nala, which is noted for its portrayal, and "Hari Bhaktisara", an unconstrained composition on dedication in "shatpadi" meter. The last composition, which is on "niti" (ethics), "bhakti" (dedication) and "vairagya" (renunciation), keeps on being a prominent standard book of learning for kids. A special metaphorical lyric titled "Ramadhanya Charitre" ("Story of Rama's Chosen Grain") which commends ragi over rice was wrote by Kanaka Dasa. In this sonnet, a squabble emerges between ragi, the sustenance grain of poor people, and rice, that of the rich, with respect to which is prevalent. Rama chooses that ragi is unrivaled in light of the fact that it doesn't decay when safeguarded. This is one of the most punctual lovely articulations of class battle in the Kannada language. Notwithstanding these works of art, around 240 melodies composed by Kanaka Dasa are accessible. 

For a concise period following the decrease of the Vijayanagara Empire, the reverential development appeared to lose energy, just to end up dynamic again in the seventeenth century, creating an expected 300 writers in this class; renowned among them are Vijaya Dasa (1682– 1755), Gopala Dasa (1721– 1769), Jagannatha Dasa (1728– 1809), Mahipathi Dasa (1750), Helavanakatte Giriamma and others. After some time, their reverential tunes enlivened a type of religious and educational performing specialty of the Vaishnava individuals called the "Harikatha" ("Stories of Hari"). Comparable improvements were seen among the supporters of the Veerashaiva confidence, who promoted the "Shivakatha" ("Stories of Shiva"). 

"Vachana" verse, created in response to the unbending position based Hindu society, achieved its crest in fame among the under-advantaged amid the twelfth century. The Veerashaivas, who composed this verse, had ascended to persuasive positions by the Vijayanagara time frame. Following the Muslim attacks in the mid fourteenth century, Brahmin researchers systematically merged compositions of Hindu legend. This enlivened a few Veerashaiva anthologists of the fifteenth and sixteenth hundreds of years to gather Shaiva works and "vachana" ballads, initially composed on palm leaf original copies. In light of the obscure idea of the sonnets, the anthologists added critiques to them, in this way giving their concealed importance and elusive essentialness. A fascinating part of this anthological work was the interpretation of the Shaiva ordinance into Sanskrit, carrying it into the circle of the Sanskritic social request. 

Surely understood among these compilations are "Ganabhasita Ratnamale" by Kallumathada Prabhudeva (1430), "Visesanubhava Satsthala" by Channaviracharya (sixteenth century) and "Bedagina Vachanagalu" by Siddha Basavaraja (1600). The remarkable "Shunyasampadane" (the 'magical zero') was ordered in four adaptations. The first among them was anthologised by Shivaganaprasadi Mahadevaiah (1400), who set the example for the other three to pursue. The lyrics in this collection are basically as exchanges between benefactor holy person Allama Prabhu and renowned "Sharanas" (aficionados), and was intended to revive the progressive soul of the twelfth century. Halage Arya (1500– 1530), Gummalapura Siddhalinga Yati (1560) and Gulur Siddaveeranodaya (1570) created the later forms. 

In spite of the fact that the composition of "vachana" sonnets went into decay after the death of the Basavanna period in the late twelfth century, contemporary "vachanakaras, for example, Tontada Siddhesavara (or Siddhalinga Yati), a prominent Shaiva holy person and master of King Virupaksha Raya II, began a recovery. He stated "Shatsthala Jnanamrita" (1540), a gathering of 700 sonnets. In 1560, Virakta Tontadarya made the life of Tontada Siddhesavara the focal topic in his expressing "Siddhesvara Purana". Virakta Tontadarya, Gummalapura Siddhalinga, Swatantra Siddhalingeshwara (1560) and Ghanalingideva (1560) are some notable "vachana" artists who endeavored to reproduce the greatness days of the early writers, however the socio-political practicality did not exist. 

Spiritualist writing had a resurgence towards the start of the fifteenth century, trying to orchestrate the Veerashaiva and advaitha (monistic) methods of insight; this pattern proceeded into the nineteenth century. Conspicuous among these spiritualists was Nijaguna Shivayogi, by custom a negligible chieftain close to the Kollegal locale (current Mysore region) turned Shaiva holy person, who made reverential melodies all in all known as "Kaivalya sahitya" (or "Tattva Padagalu", truly "tunes of the pathway to liberation"). Shivayogi's tunes were intelligent, philosophical and worried about yoga. They were written in practically all the local meters of Kannada language except for "shatpadi" meter. 

Shivayogi's different works incorporate a logical reference book called "Vivekachintamani", so all around respected that it was converted into Marathi language in 1604 and Sanskrit language in 1652 and again in the eighteenth century. The composing arranges 1,500 points dependent on subject and covers a wide cluster, for example, poetics, move and dramatization, musicology and erotics. His interpretation of the "Shiva Yoga Pradipika" from Sanskrit was done to illustrate the Shaiva theory and advantage those uninformed of the first language. 

In the post-Vijayanagara time, the "Kaivalya" custom fanned three different ways. The first comprised of supporters of the Nijaguna Shivayogi school, the second was more elitist and brahminical in nature and pursued the works of Mahalingaranga (1675), while the third was the branch that kept the "vachana" custom alive. Surely understood artist holy people from this "vachana" convention were Shivayogi's contemporary Muppina Sadakshari, whose gathering of melodies are known as the "Subodhasara"; Chidananda Avadhuta of the seventeenth century; and Sarpabhushana Shivayogi of the eighteenth century. So huge is this group of writing that a lot of despite everything it should be contemplated.