John McCauley 

Air Marshal Sir John Patrick Joseph McCauley, KBE, CB (18 March 1899 – 3 February 1989) was a senior administrator in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). He filled in as Chief of the Air Staff from 1954 to 1957. A Duntroon graduate, McCauley went through four years in the Australian Military Forces before exchanging to the RAAF in 1924. He was Director of Training from 1936 to 1938, and told designing and flying preparing schools for the initial eighteen months of World War II. Having been elevated to gather skipper in 1940, he was presented on Singapore in June 1941 to assume responsibility for all RAAF units protecting the territory. He earned recognition for his endeavors in assaulting attacking Japanese powers before the fall of Singapore, and for his devotion in clearing his men. Subsequent to filling in as Deputy Chief of the Air Staff in 1942– 44, he was named to a senior operational job with the Royal Air Force's second Tactical Air Force in Europe, where he saw out the remainder of the war. 

Following the finish of threats, McCauley again progressed toward becoming Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. In 1947 he was elevated to air bad habit marshal and selected Chief of Staff at British Commonwealth Occupation Force Headquarters in Japan. Coming back to Australia in June 1949, he filled in as the last Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Eastern Area and the debut AOC Home Command (presently Air Command). Raised to air marshal, he took up the situation of Chief of the Air Staff in January 1954, and was knighted a year later. Amid his residency in the RAAF's senior job, McCauley concentrated on potential arrangements to Southeast Asia—especially Vietnam—and dangers from the north, starting redevelopment of RAAF Base Darwin and suggesting buy of a light supersonic plane to supplant the Air Force's English Electric Canberra. Subsequent to resigning from military life in March 1957, he led different network and welfare associations, filling in as Federal President of the Air Force Association for a long time. He passed on in Sydney in 1989, matured 89. 

Conceived in Sydney on 18 March 1899, McCauley went to class at St Joseph's College, Hunters Hill, before entering the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in 1916. He graduated as a lieutenant in 1919, and went through the following four years in staff positions with the Permanent Military Forces, including a presenting on Britain. In January 1924, he exchanged to the Royal Australian Air Force as a flying officer, undertaking the pilots' course at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria. He was nicknamed "Dark Jack" in tribute to his dim looks, however an "insecure notoriety" as a pilot likewise earned him the sobriquet "Crasher". On 10 November 1925, he wedded Murielle Burke; the couple had a child and two little girls. By 1926, McCauley was back in Britain, learning at the Royal Naval College, Greenwich, and the RAF Armament and Gunnery School. He came back to Australia in 1928, and was doled out to the staff of RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne. 

Elevated to squadron pioneer, McCauley was presented a third time on Britain in 1933, moving on from RAF Staff College, Andover, and qualifying as a flight teacher at Central Flying School, Wittering. The next year he was appended to the Air Ministry in London. Coming back to Australia in 1935, McCauley joined the RAAF's Directorate of Training. That September, he started a prerequisite for all air bases to draw up designs for nearby guard. He likewise introduced operational-level arrangement for the Air Force, requesting units to draft teaching important to their battle jobs, for example, "Striking" for No. 1 Squadron and "Armed force Co-task" for No. 3 Squadron. Depicted as "an extraordinary pioneer, with a lot of power", McCauley took over as Director of Training in 1936. He picked up his Bachelor of Commerce degree at Melbourne University that year, having considered low maintenance since 1929. His tertiary capability was uncommon for a general obligations officer in the pre-war Air Force, whose pilots for the most part "esteemed little past flying capacity". By 1939 he had been raised to wing administrator and was boss and head flying teacher of the cadet wing at Point Cook. 

McCauley's status and instructional experience kept him in Australia on preparing assignments for the initial eighteen months of World War II. From March to October 1940, he filled in as the debut administrator of No. 1 Engineering School at Ascot Vale, Victoria. Elevated to gather skipper, he at that point took over No. 1 Service Flying Training School at Point Cook until July 1941, when he gave over to Wing Commander Elwyn King. Amid McCauley's residency, the quantity of air ship worked by the school multiplied from its underlying supplement of 52, and month to month flying hours expanded from less than 1,000 to more than 1,800. 

Amid the Malayan Campaign in 1941– 42, McCauley was accountable for RAAF units under Britain's Far East Air Force (FEAF). As station officer at RAF Sembawang in north-east Singapore from August 1941, he by and by administered the preparation and activities of Nos. 1 and 8 Squadrons, flying Lockheed Hudson light planes. He additionally cautioned Air Chief Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham, the FEAF's Commander-in-Chief, of the shortcomings of the Allied air barriers. Sent to advance bases on the Malay Peninsula, McCauley's Hudsons were the main Allied airplane to spot Japanese troop transports meeting off Indochina on 6 December, and they assaulted the armada notwithstanding overwhelming protective flame. By Christmas, as the Allies withdrew from Malaya, Sembawang was "the busiest landing strip on Singapore island", with two Dutch Glenn Martin aircraft squadrons notwithstanding the remainders of the Hudson units, alongside Nos. 21 and 453 Squadrons (converged because of misfortunes as No. 21/453 Squadron), working outdated Brewster Buffalos. On 29 January 1942, McCauley took over landing strip P.2 close Palembang in Sumatra, telling all Commonwealth air activities radiating from the base. With his accessible air ship enlarged by Hawker Hurricanes and Bristol Blenheims, he directed assaults on foe guards before emptying the zone on 15 February 1942, the day that Singapore surrendered. After correspondences among himself and nearby RAF aggregate central command were cut, McCauley was left to his very own gadgets to make last game plans for the obliteration of hardware and flight of staff. He had before mediated to keep RAF home office from dissolving No. 21 Squadron and utilizing its faculty as a work drive on Sumatra, rather organizing their vehicle as a unit to Batavia, where they accordingly set out for Australia. McCauley drove the last party to withdraw Palembang, and was applauded for sorting out the sheltered entry back to Australia of numerous Commonwealth aviation based armed forces staff. 

After his arrival to Australia late in February 1942, McCauley quickly filled in as Senior Air Staff Officer at North-Western Area Headquarters in Darwin, Northern Territory. He took up the situation of Deputy Chief of the Air Staff (DCAS) in May, and was selected a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1943 King's Birthday Honors, proclaimed on 2 June. The respect perceived the "strength, capacity, and characteristics of authority" he showed under "attempting and troublesome conditions amid a time of administration in the Far East". The next month, he was elevated to brief air commodore. Amid an examination of No. 10 Group at Nadzab in March 1944, McCauley discovered that except if the Australian development had the capacity to expand its operational rate of exertion, its units would be pulled back from their forward landing strips. Accordingly, RAAF Headquarters expanded the supply of pilots and hardware to the gathering, which was then ready to meet, and later surpass, the rate of exertion accomplished by tantamount US Fifth Air Force units. At around this time, he likewise incited an examination program to decide a reasonable equation for pivoting and alleviating ground staff, just as aircrew, in the tropics. 

Finishing his term as DCAS, McCauley was presented on the European auditorium in November 1944, serving for the rest of the war as Air Commodore (Operations), second Tactical Air Force RAF (second TAF). The British had effectively looked for him for this specific arrangement, which he initiated in December at the development's Brussels home office. The job included him toward more than 70 Commonwealth and European squadrons in activities against Germany, and was "one of a kind" for a RAAF officer amid the war. He left second TAF in July 1945 and came back to Australia soon thereafter. 

Among a little clique of wartime RAAF officers reserved for further senior jobs, McCauley held his position of air commodore following the end of threats. He served again as Deputy Chief of the Air Staff in 1946– 47. Elevated to air bad habit marshal, he was Chief of Staff to Lieutenant General Horace Robertson at British Commonwealth Occupation Force Headquarters in Japan from June 1947 to June 1949. In this post he was gone before and prevailing by two other Duntroon graduates, Air Vice Marshals Frank Bladin and Alan Charlesworth individually. Upon his arrival to Australia, McCauley was made Air Officer Commanding Eastern Area. Amid the Malayan Emergency, he framed RAAF air ship doled out for organization into No. 90 (Composite) Wing, as coordinated by Chief of the Air Staff Air Marshal George Jones, to guarantee that they would work with a level of self-rule instead of be scattered all through other Allied gatherings. He was delegated a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in the 1951 Birthday Honors. 

In January 1952, Air Marshal Jones was prevailing via Air Marshal Sir Donald Hardman of the Royal Air Force. The choice by Prime Minister Robert Menzies to name a British officer as CAS caused contention in Australia, intensified by his expressed reason that there was "no RAAF officer of adequate age, or operational experience, to take the post of Chief of the Air Staff", which disregarded the wartime records of figures like McCauley. Hardman changed the structure of the Air Force from one dependent on geological region to one dependent on capacity, subsequently McCauley's Eastern Area Command advanced into Home Command (presently Air Command) in 1953. Elevated to air marshal, McCauley took over from Hardman as Chief of the Air Staff when the last's two-year arrangement finished in January 1954. As per official RAAF history specialist Alan Stephens, McCauley was "similarly as prepared to move toward becoming CAS in 1952 as he was in 1954", while a contemporary spectator pronounced that "only from time to time has a superior prepared officer driven a part of the Australian administrations". He was the first of four previous Duntroon cadets to progressively head up the Air Force somewhere in the range of 1954 and 1969, trailed via Air Marshals Frederick Scherger, Valston Hancock, and Alister Murdoch. 

McCauley was raised to Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in the 1955 New Year Honors. In October 1956, he gave an introduction on air control ideas that was gone to by Prime Minister Menzies, just as the other Australian administration boss. McCauley distinguished Malaya and Indochina, especially Vietnam, as likely territories for future RAAF organizations, supporting a proceeded with nearness in Singapore in perspective on its key significance to the protection of Australia, as he had seen direct amid World War II. He additionally prescribed that a supersonic light aircraft supplant the straight-winged and old English Electric Canberra, essentially for prohibition in Southeast Asia. McCauley's residency as CAS saw the start of a pattern for the RAAF to outfit with US flying machine types in inclination to British kinds, with suggestions being advanced for the F-104 Starfighter (however in the occasion the French Dassault Mirage III was bought) and C-130 Hercules. This stemmed halfway from his investigation of Allied aviation based armed forces units amid the Korean War, when he saw that those utilizing American equipment were far superior presented with extra parts and supplanting flying machine than those with British hardware. A portion of his senior officers had encouraged supplanting the Canberra with Avro Vulcan substantial aircraft, however McCauley did not seek after this alternative, wanting to focus in the present moment on new warrior innovation. He likewise tried supporting the Australian flying machine industry wherever attainable. 

McCauley incited the redevelopment of RAAF Base Darwin in the Northern Territory as the principal phase of a forward barrier procedure. He planned to make Darwin the "primary Australian base for war" and a starting point for organizations to Southeast Asia, as opposed to just a travel station. Throughout the following ten years, No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron changed the base's runways, structures and other foundation into a cutting edge office equipped for dealing with significant tasks. This idea was made another stride by McCauley's successor as CAS, Air Marshal Scherger, who considered a progression of forefront "exposed bases" crosswise over Northern Australia, starting with designs for RAAF Base Tindal in 1959. Alan Stephens later portrayed McCauley and Scherger as "among the RAAF's better boss". 

After his retirement from the RAAF on 18 March 1957, McCauley ended up dynamic in network welfare associations, leading efforts for the National Heart Foundation, Freedom From Hunger, the Royal Humane Society, and the Cancer Council in the late 1950s and mid 1960s. From 1964 until 1974, he filled in as Federal President of the Air Force Association. In this job he embraced the underlying proposition, including great statues of aviators and ground group, for the Royal Australian Air Force Memorial to be situated on Anzac Parade, Canberra. The plan eventually affirmed by the last determination board, notwithstanding, was a unique figure that was thusly portrayed as mirroring an "extensive inability to comprehend the idea of flying corps administration". McCauley visited RAAF units in Vietnam in October 1966. In 1970, he assumed a main job in sorting out the Australian Services Council (later the Australian Veterans and Defense Services Council) to co-ordinate campaigning endeavors for different veterans' gatherings, and turned into its first executive. He was likewise President of the Good Neighbor Council of New South Wales from 1966 to 1975. 

McCauley passed on in Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital on 3 February 1989, after a stroke. Matured 89, he was made due by his three youngsters; his better half had kicked the bucket two years sooner. He was covered in Northern Suburbs Cemetery.