Walter de Coventre 

Walter de Coventre (kicked the bucket 1371 or 1372) was a fourteenth century Scottish minister. There is no immediate proof of his birthdate, his family, or his family's starting point, in spite of the fact that he may have originated from the district around Abernethy (in current Perth and Kinross), where a family with the name de Coventre is known to have lived. Walter showed up in the records without precedent for the 1330s, as an understudy at the University of Paris. From that point he went on to the University of Orléans, at first as an understudy before turning into a speaker there. He contemplated human expressions, common law and ordinance law, and was granted numerous college degrees, including two doctorates. His investigations were paid for, in any event mostly, by his benefices in Scotland. Notwithstanding holding maybe in excess of five benefices at one phase, he didn't come back to Scotland until the late 1350s. 

Following his arrival to Scotland, Walter before long moved toward becoming Dean of Aberdeen Cathedral. From that point he ended up occupied with abnormal state ministerial undertakings with the Scottish church and political issues with the Earl of Mar. At some point before June 1361, the house of prayer section of Dunblane chose him Bishop of Dunblane. He went to France to verify affirmation from the Pope at Avignon, who approved his sanctification. Walter was religious administrator for 10 years subsequent to returning home to Scotland. Records of his episcopate are dainty, however there are sufficient to permit an unassuming recreation of his exercises: he directed legitimate question, issued an agreement for an essential sporadic marriage, went to parliaments, and went about as an emissary of the Scottish crown in England. He kicked the bucket in either 1371 or 1372. 

Walter de Coventre was ordinary of another class of men in fourteenth century Scotland, the college instructed profession priest from the lower respectability. Such men regularly procured college instruction through their family assets, through the support of progressively generous nobles, or through chapel impact, especially support from the pope and his court. Support offered access to the assets expected to fund the extensive cost of a fourteenth century college training, especially through the introduction of benefices, endowments of land or pay made by the congregation. 

Scotland had no colleges in de Coventre's time, requiring make a trip either to England or Continental Europe to secure a college training. Mainland Europe, especially France, was the favored goal, mostly in view of awful relations among Scotland and England. After their college instruction, some Scottish alumni stayed abroad and educate at a remote college or to serve the papacy; most came back to Scotland and offered their administrations to the ruler, a head honcho, or a ministerial establishment. A definitive reward for such administrations was a precinct, which brought riches, renown, and "an occupation forever". 

Walter de Coventre's life isn't all around recorded. There are no memoirs, and no narratives or annals dedicate any space to him. His exercises can be followed just through few coincidental references in lawful deeds, church reports and ecclesiastical records. No cutting edge antiquarian has composed a monograph about him, and the most broad endeavor to reproduce his life in current writing is a two-page passage in "Personal Dictionary of Scottish Graduates to A.D. 1410" (1977). James Hutchison Cockburn, in his "Medieval Bishop of Dunblane and their Church" (1959) committed seven less broadly sourced pages, yet they underscored the examination of a couple of occasions amid de Coventre's episcopate, and the occasions of his time. 

Amid a large portion of de Coventre's recorded lifetime Scotland was controlled by King David II. Going to the position of authority at age five, King David was crashed into outcast in France at ten years old. During the 1330s, common war seethed in Scotland as those faithful to David battled Edward Balliol and his English benefactors. In some sense, the contention turned into a side-show of the Hundred Years' War, and David lived at Château Gaillard in northern France for quite a bit of his outcast, until he could come back to Scotland in 1341. In 1346, because of a supplication from France to go to its guide, David drove a military into England just to be taken prisoner at Neville's Cross; he stayed in imprisonment until he was recovered in 1357. David's outcast in France compared with Walter's own period in that nation, provoking one student of history to recommend that Walter was a piece of David's court while both were in northern France, and that Walter in this way profited by the relationship. 

James Hutchison Cockburn, a student of history of Dunblane's medieval ministers, expected that Walter's surname got from the town of Coventry in England. D. E. R. Watt has proposed that the medieval settlement of "Coventre" or "Covintrie" close Abernethy in the see of Dunblane was the root of the name. 

There is no immediate proof of de Coventre's family, yet two other men bearing the name "de Coventre" are known to have been dynamic amid Walter's lifetime. A "John de Coventre" is discovered enlisted as an understudy at the University of Paris on 21 January 1331. Before December 1341, when he surrendered, John de Coventre held the area church of Inverarity, Angus, in the ward of St Andrews. On 7 December 1345, a William de Coventre, likewise from the bishopric of Dunblane, held a canonry and prebends (a house of prayer brotherhood with stipends) in the see of Ross and the Collegiate Church of Abernethy, when he was conceded the congregation of Inverarity that had recently been held by John de Coventre. William therefore seems to have succeeded John (and later Walter succeeded William) to these benefices. 

Watt recommended that every one of the three were siblings, John the main conceived, William the second-conceived, and Walter the most youthful of the three. He further proposed that the family was likely firmly associated with Margaret de Abernethy, beneficiary of the old lay abbots and masters of Abernethy. Margaret had support over both the congregation of Abernethy and, as likely proprietor of the barony of Inverarity, the congregation there. 

De Coventre got a B. A. under John de Waltirstone from the University of Paris by Lent, 1333. Despite the fact that he had presumably finished a Licentiate in the Arts and a Master of Arts by 1335, due to holes in the Paris records it isn't sure that he was a Master until April 1345. 

He proceeded onward to ponder common law at the University of Orléans, and by 24 March 1337, he was filling in as the delegate of the Scottish Nation in Orléans. By 7 December 1345, he had gotten a Licentiate in Civil Law. On 20 December 1348 he was at Avignon as an agent of his college, and keeping in mind that there he acquired an effortlessness in regards to his own benefice holding from Pope Clement VI. On 7 October 1349, Pope Clement conceded an indult to Walter enabling him to be missing from his fix while he proceeded with his examinations at Orléans. 

He may as of now have been a Doctor of Civil Law by that point, in light of the fact that in the next year, on 22 November 1350, he is found all things considered going about as the Regent of Orléans exhibiting a contender for permit. Having considered common law for the most noteworthy capability accessible, de Coventre proceeded onward to group law. By 28 March 1351, he had a Bachelorate in Decrees (ordinance law). This was maybe why on 16 April 1353, he got from Pope Innocent VI another elegance for himself. Unequivocally when he acquired his doctorate is vague, yet he was D. U. J. ("specialist utriusque juris"), Doctor of Both Laws, by 4 September 1359. 

Walter's initially realized benefices were a canonry (with prebend) in the Collegiate Church of Abernethy and a prebend in the ward of Ross, northern Scotland, which he was holding by 12 April 1345. None of these benefices, neither area nor office, are known by name. While Walter would hold his Ross benefice until getting to be Bishop of Dunblane, he lost his Abernethy benefice sooner or later between 20 December 1348 and 28 March 1351. Amid that period he got another anonymous prebend in return for the Abernethy prebend. Walter is just the second known ordinance of Abernethy Collegiate Church. 

On 12 April 1345, he was allowed a canonry in the see of Dunkeld with desire for a prebend, yet does not seem to have acquired this practically speaking, in spite of the fact that he obtained an alternate Dunkeld canonry with prebend on 12 May 1352. This he held until his sanctification as Bishop of Dunblane in 1361. Walter likewise got a fourth prebend in this period. He had been seeking after a benefice in the bishopric of St Andrews, and keeping in mind that he was allowed this on 28 March 1351, the give was as yet not successful by 16 April 1353, when he was conceded a prebend in the see of Moray. This was not compelling either, however Walter did in the long run get a St Andrews ward benefice, to be specific the congregation of Inverarity in Angus, which had turned out to be empty on the passing of its officeholder, William de Coventre, presumably Walter's more established sibling. On 7 December 1345, Walter was selected (given) as Archdeacon of Dunblane, his most significant benefice to date, yet the arrangement does not seem to have been brought through. 

Walter acquired one more benefice amid this period. On 20 December 1348, he was made Dean of Aberdeen Cathedral, a high-positioning office which Walter was not in fact qualified to hold without an ecclesiastical beauty, being just a sub-minister in requests. The deanery had been made empty by the demise of the long-serving Gilbert Fleming. In spite of the fact that in July the Pope had given it as an additional prebend for Annibald de Ceccano, Cardinal Bishop of Tusculum, this had been dropped by 20 December, when it was given to Walter. 

These benefices gave a pay without the commitment to play out any peaceful administrations. Their incomes were relegated to pay for his investigations, leaving inadequately paid vicars to complete the peaceful work. Walter stayed as an instructor and authority at Orléans, maybe without coming back to Scotland by any means, until the late 1350s, by when he would have been missing from his local nation for more than 25 years. In an Aberdeen record dated 12 July 1356, it was noticed that he was as yet missing from his post. 

Walter can't be followed back in Scotland with assurance before his appearance as an observer to a sanction of Thomas, Earl of Mar, on 9 July 1358. He may have restored a year sooner, as a report dated at some point between November 1357 and April 1359 records him in the sheriffdom of Forfar (regal demesne in Angus) helping an equity ayre. He shows up again on 4 September 1359, seeing another sanction of Earl Thomas at the last's habitation of Kildrummy Castle. 

Following the demise in 1361 of William de Cambuslang, Bishop of Dunblane, Walter was chosen by the Dunblane house of God part to be the new minister. On his race, Walter had no benefices in the ward, and had none since surrendering his Abernethy prebend 10 years prior. In any case, it was most likely the see of his introduction to the world, and he had nearly progressed toward becoming archdeacon of the ward in 1345. 

Walter, minister choose, went to the ecclesiastical court at Avignon, and was given (selected) as religious administrator by Pope Innocent on 18 June 1361. The ecclesiastical letter of arrangement communicated disappointment that the section (by choosing) and Walter (by tolerating the decision) were disregarding a past ecclesiastical reservation of the ministerial office. Pope Innocent suppressed the race, however in any case consented to delegate (give) Walter to the church district. 

Walter may have been sanctified before long, likely by 23 August. It was on that date that he exhibited a move of petitions to the Pope in the interest of a few Scotsmen, including Michael de Monymusk, future Bishop of Dunkeld. On 20 September, Bishop Walter made a "guarantee of administrations" to the papacy, the principal installment of which was conveyed to Avignon in 1363 by Walter's delegate. 

Walter had come back to Scotland by 30 June 1362, when his quality is bore witness to at Partick close Glasgow. The archive in which Walter is referenced recorded that William Rae, Bishop of Glasgow, alongside his church building section, consented to put a question to mediation. 

The rest of his episcopate isn't very much recorded. His solitary enduring episcopal deed was issued at Abernethy on 8 February 1365. The deed approved the decrease of standards at Abernethy Collegiate Church from ten to five, including the assent of the patroness Margaret, Countess of Angus. These subtleties are additionally recorded in an ecclesiastical letter to the Bishop of St Andrews in 1373:Recently a request of the mainstream Prior and Chapter [of Abernethy] for affirmation portrayed how the [Collegiate] Church was established by lay benefactors for an earlier and five standards. Sometime in the future a portion of the supporters were anxious to enlarge its rents, and the quantity of groups was ideally raised to ten. No such enlargement occurred, and on account of wars, flames and ruin the Prior and Chapter were conveyed to straits. Religious administrator Walter, thusly, with the consent of the supporters and King David, diminished the ordinances to five. The progressions were affirmed by the Pope on 31 October 1375, quite a long while after Bishop Walter's passing. 

An archive of Inchaffray Abbey, protected in the first (instead of a later duplicate), recorded that Bishop Walter had been engaged with settling a debate including Inchaffray, a convent which lay in his ward. Inchaffray's question was with Naomhán Mac Eóghainn (Nevin MacEwen) and his better half Mairead (Mariota). Under Abbot Symon de Scone, past Abbot of Inchaffray, the convent had given a few terrains in return for 40 marks to Mairead's dad Maol Mhuire (Malmoran) of Glencarnie. 

Under the new abbot, Abbot John, the convent looked for the arrival of those grounds. The case seems to have gone to Bishop Walter's consistorial court, which he held at the sanctuary of Innerpeffry. Here Naomhán and Mairead consented to acknowledge an installment of 40 marks in return for restoring the records of possession given to them by the abbot and for recognizing the convent's proprietorship. The couple vowed to respect the understanding by swearing a promise on the house of prayer's Gospels. The case at that point continued to a meeting held under Robert Stewart, Earl of Strathearn and High Steward of Scotland (later King Robert II), at Perth, where the couple were constrained under the risk of extreme punishments to swear again never to restore their case. The choice was fixed by the observers, including Bishop Walter, at a Perth church on 30 November 1365. 

On 13 March 1366, Walter was charged by the papacy to approve regulation for the unpredictable marriage between John Stewart, Earl of Carrick (a lot later King Robert III) and Annabella Drummond. 

Cleric Walter went to something like five gatherings of the Scottish national parliament amid his episcopate. He was available at the Scone parliament of 27 September 1367, which talked about illustrious incomes and relations with the English crown. He was likewise present at the Scone parliament of June 1368, and the Perth parliament of 6 March 1369; the last talked about regal business, relations with the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Norway, and peace in the Scottish Highlands. Robert Stewart, Thomas, Earl of Mar, Uilleam III, Earl of Ross, and other Highland masters, were requested to force more prominent control in their locales. Priest Walter partook in two parliamentary advisory groups, the initial an administrative council gave to general business, and the second a legal board of trustees approved to survey before lawful decisions in the kingdom. 

The parliament's dialogs on Anglo-Scottish relations went before harmony dealings later in the year, at which Bishop Walter was one of the Scottish agents. There was some criticalness behind the issue, in perspective on the approaching end to the five-year Anglo-Scottish ceasefire concurred by King Edward III of England on 20 May 1365. Lord David went to London, where he lived in May and June, so as to partake in the arrangements. Walter and the remainder of the government office, which included four different clerics, were in London by June 1369, the month in which Edward consented to another ceasefire. When it was confirmed by the Scots at Edinburgh on 20 July, Bishop Walter was again present, as an observer. 

Walter went to the Perth parliament of 18 February 1370, and was named as one of the individuals from an extraordinary council "for the pondering concerning the thought of basic equity". He is referenced for the last time swearing fealty to the new ruler, Robert II, at his increase parliament at Scone on 27 March 1371. Walter de Coventre must have kicked the bucket later in 1371 or in all around mid 1372, on the grounds that on 27 April 1372, the Pope designated Andrew Magnus to the empty ward of Dunblane.