Lightning Bar 

Lightning Bar (1951– 1960) was an American Quarter Horse who dashed and consequently turned into a reproducing stallion. He was reproduced by his deep rooted proprietor Art Pollard of Sonoita, Arizona, and was the posterity of Three Bars, a Thoroughbred, and Della P, a Quarter Horse female horse from Louisiana, at that point noted for the rearing of run steeds. Lightning Bar hustled multiple times, accomplishing four triumphs and four other top three completions. His dashing profession was stopped by ailment after just a single year, following which he went through two years as a show horse. As a rearing stallion he sired seven yields, or years, of foals, among whom Doc Bar was the best known. In 1960 Lightning Bar kicked the bucket of an intestinal contamination at nine years old. He was accepted into the American Quarter Horse Association's (AQHA) Hall of Fame in 2008. 

Foaled, or conceived, in 1951, Lightning Bar was reared to be a race horse, yet wounds and episodes of diseases shielded him from dashing past the age of two. His raiser, Art Pollard, possessed him for the pony's whole life. Lightning Bar was sired by Three Bars, a Thoroughbred stallion later drafted into the AQHA Hall of Fame. His dam was Della P, a girl of the Thoroughbred stallion Doc Horn. His second dam, or maternal grandma, was a female horse who was never given a name, sired by Old D. J. Workmanship Pollard acquired Della P from "Dink" Parker for $1,750 (roughly $ starting at 2019) in the late 1940s. Della P was reproduced in Louisiana, a pioneer in rearing short separation racehorses somewhere in the range of 1900 and 1940, and was taken to Arizona by Parker. 

When Lightning Bar was around five days old Pollard was worried about the possibility that that he had leg issues and was buck-kneed, and thought about putting the yearling to rest. He looked for Parker's recommendation, and as Pollard later related the story, "Dink just took a gander at me and shook his head. 'Ain't you ever going to get the hang of nothing? That foal's exactly what no doubt about it" When develop, the roan shaded Lightning Bar stood tall and weighed about . 

Lightning Bar began the circuit multiple times, winning four races, coming in second multiple times, and third once. Among those completions, he ran second and third in two stakes races, a sort of race for higher quality ponies with a higher payout. His all out income on the track were $1,491 (roughly $ starting at 2019), and his most noteworthy speed list, or relative rating of his speed, was AAA, the most noteworthy feasible at the time. Lightning Bar dashed for just a single year, as he experienced episodes of pneumonia, chokes, and leg wounds. He equalled one reputation for two-year-olds at the Los Angeles County Fair race meeting in Pomona, California, running in 17.2 seconds. 

After his dashing profession Lightning Bar proceeded to turn into a show horse, acquiring 18 open strap focuses with the AQHA, and an AQHA Champion honor in 1955. He won one thousand title and one hold title in strap classes at perceived AQHA appears. 

The primary year Lightning Bar remained as a reproducing stallion his stud expense, the sum charged to breed a horse to him, was $250 (around $ starting at 2019) however just nine female horses were reared to him. The following year, he reproduced 11 mares, yet in 1956, he reared 102 female horses at $500 (roughly $ starting at 2019) each. One of Pollard's endeavors to promote his stallion included letting one of his farm hands take the pony to a nearby big stake reserving. Pollard accepted that the hand would simply ride Lightning Bar around and show him off, however he later found that more was included. Pollard said later that "I ought to have been suspicious when he (the farm hand) came back with Lightning Bar that evening, with a timid smile all over. I asked him how the steed was gotten and he said 'The stud did great and I won the big stake!' After praising him, I asked which rope horse he had utilized. He answered, 'The stud.' " 

Pollard said of Lightning Bar that "I generally must be watchful about the sort of lock I utilized on a door with that horse. He could make sense of them quicker than I could. He would open a door, and take a walk." Lightning Bar sired 148 foals in his eight reproducing seasons, and 118 of those foals went on to either race or show vocations. Of his foals, 108 started races, and 77 won, acquiring a sum of $476,949. The best of his foals, Lightning Belle, earned $60,134 (roughly $ starting at 2019). 

Five of Lightning Bar's foals earned AQHA Championships: Cactus Comet, Crash Bang, Lightning Rey, Pana Bar and Relampago Bar; Lightning Rey earned a Supreme Championship. Furthermore, Lightning Bar's posterity earned $1,163.32 in National Cutting Horse Association authorized cows cutting rivalries, and four earned a Superior Halter Horse title from the AQHA. 

Lightning Bar kicked the bucket in June 1960 from colitis-X, a sickness of obscure cause that can murder quickly and abruptly. It tainted a significant number of Pollard's steeds; of those influenced just three endure. Crushed, Pollard sold his staying stock and did not come back to the Quarter Horse business for 15 years. He said later that "it was a bad dream when they were cleared out. Indeed, even now, we can in any case feel the misery of losing those steeds." Another time, Pollard commented that "Somebody once said that a man merits one great lady and one great puppy in his lifetime. To that joke I would include one great pony. I positively had one in Lightning Bar." 

Lightning Bar was accepted into the AQHA's American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2008. His most renowned child was Doc Bar, who was likewise accepted into the Hall of Fame. Lightning Bar's girl Glamor Bars was the dam of Impressive, who turned out to be outstanding as one of the main sires of bridle ponies. Two stakes races were kept running in Lightning Bar's memory, the first at Los Alamitos Race track in California for one year in 1961. The second kept running from 1962 to 1966 at Ruidoso Downs in New Mexico.