2003 Insight Bowl 

The 2003 Insight Bowl was a post-season American school football bowl amusement between the Virginia Tech Hokies and the California Golden Bears at Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona, on December 26, 2003. The amusement was the last challenge of the 2003 NCAA Division I-A football season for the two groups, and finished in a 52– 49 triumph for California. Cal and Virginia Tech joined for 101 points; just the 2001 GMAC Bowl saw more focuses scored by two groups in a bowl amusement without additional time. 

Amid the 2003 school football season, Virginia Tech gathered a 8– 4 normal season record that included four misfortunes in the Hokies' last six regular-season recreations. As the third-place group in the Big East Conference, Tech acknowledged an offer to the 2003 Insight Bowl. Confronting the Hokies were the California Golden Bears, who went 7– 6 amid the ordinary season, tying for third spot in the Pacific-10 (Pac-10). 

The 2003 Insight Bowl commenced at 8:30 p.m. EST on December 26, 2003. From the earliest starting point of the diversion, it was a fast paced, high-scoring challenge. In the main quarter, Virginia Tech bounced out to a 21– 7 lead kindness of the Tech passing amusement, which was facilitated by quarterback Bryan Randall, who tossed four touchdowns amid the diversion. In the second quarter, California recuperated from its 14-point first-quarter shortage by scoring two touchdowns. Tech, in the interim, scored another, and took a 28– 21 lead into halftime. 

The hostile assault proceeded in the second half, however it was California who exploited at first. Supported by an improved protective exertion that held the Hokies scoreless all through the second from last quarter, California and quarterback Aaron Rodgers scored 21 unanswered focuses to take a 42– 28 lead into the final quarter. In that quarter, the Hokies ripped at over into rivalry. Tech scored a touchdown to start the quarter, however Cal replied with one of its own, making the score 49– 35. The Hokies leveled the score at 49– 49 after a 80-yard touchdown drive that took under two minutes and a punt return by DeAngelo Hall for a touchdown. The post-score Tech kickoff left limits, giving the Bears ownership at their 35-yard line. With time running out, Cal started to drive for an amusement winning score. Cal required only seven plays to progress 47 yards and set up a field objective endeavor. As time lapsed, kicker Tyler Fredrickson kicked a 35-yard field objective to give California the 52– 49 win. 

In 2003, the Insight Bowl contracted with the Big East gathering and Pacific-10 meeting to choose groups for investment in its yearly diversion. Huge East hero Miami was granted a programmed Bowl Championship Series billet, and second-place Pittsburgh acknowledged an offer to the Continental Tire Bowl in Charlotte, North Carolina. Mainland Tire Bowl authorities considered welcoming Virginia Tech to take part in the amusement, however were required to welcome Virginia because of the Continental Tire Bowl's agreement with the Atlantic Coast Conference. As opposed to choosing two groups that confronted each other in the last round of the normal season, Continental Bowl authorities picked another group. The other plausibility for the Hokies was the San Francisco Bowl, whose supervisors additionally held an agreement with the Big East, but since Tech played in the earlier year's San Francisco Bowl, the bowl's arranging board of trustees ruled against a second welcome. 

California's course to the Insight Bowl was less indirect. In the Pac-10, in front of the pack Southern California was granted the gathering's Bowl Championship Series offer. Second-place Washington State was chosen by the Holiday Bowl, and Oregon, tied for third spot with California, got an offer to the Sun Bowl. Oregon had a superior by and large record than California and furthermore won the groups' no holds barred matchup. 

Virginia Tech entered the 2003 school football season having gone 10– 4 the past season, including a season-finishing triumph over Air Force in the debut San Francisco Bowl. Amid the offseason, the Hokies were stretched out an encouragement to join the Atlantic Coast Conference and acknowledged, making the 2003 season their last year in the Big East. In the yearly preseason survey of correspondents covering Big East football, Virginia Tech was picked to complete third in the gathering, behind the earlier year's victor, Miami, and Pittsburgh. 

Virginia Tech's first round of the period was at home against Central Florida on August 31. In an amusement that saw the introduction of quarterback Marcus Vick, sibling of previous star Hokie Michael Vick, tenth positioned Virginia Tech destroyed out to an early lead before Central Florida battled back in the second half. Tech recuperated, be that as it may, and won, 48– 29. Virginia Tech pursued the triumph with five others. On October 11, a fourth-positioned Hokie squad effectively won against Syracuse University, 51– 7, giving Virginia Tech a 6– 0 record. 

In its seventh amusement, Tech endured its first misfortune. Making a trip to Morgantown, West Virginia, home of West Virginia University, the third-positioned Hokies lost 28– 7 to the No. 23 Mountaineers. The misfortune was Tech's most noticeably bad since November 2001, and thumped the already undefeated Hokies out of conflict for the national title. The Hokies returned home to confront another high-positioning adversary, No. 2 Miami. Recuperating from the misfortune against West Virginia, the Hokies conveyed one of the most elevated profile wins in school history, overcoming the second-positioned Hurricanes 31– 7. The diversion finished a 39-amusement normal season series of wins by Miami and was Tech's first triumph over a best eight group in 34 games. 

Tech's fortunes declined drastically following the triumph over Miami. The week after that success, Tech lost 31– 28 to Pittsburgh, at that point got away with a one-point win in extra time against Temple University, which had only one win that season. Tech's success against Temple was its rearward in the normal season. The Hokies lost their last two ordinary season diversions, dropping their general record to 8– 4. To some Virginia Tech fans, the Insight Bowl welcome acknowledged on December 1 was a failure after a season that started keeping in mind the desire of support in the national title amusement. 

The California Golden Bears earned a 7– 5 record in 2002, a year that finished with a 30– 7 triumph over customary opponent Stanford in the Big Game. It was California's first winning season since 1993, and went ahead the impact points of a 1– 10 season in 2001. New head mentor Jeff Tedford was adulated for turning the program around so rapidly, and desires were high heading into the 2003 season. Tedford was granted another five-year contract in the offseason, and in the yearly preseason survey of media covering the Pac-10 gathering, Cal was picked to complete eighth in the 10-group association. 

In the Bears' first round of the period, California made a trip to Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri, to confront No. 10 Kansas State for the 2003 BCA Classic. There, California lost 42– 28 in the season opener for the two groups. California recouped from the misfortune in its next diversion, outscoring the meeting Southern Miss Golden Eagles 34– 2. In spite of the Bears' prosperity against Southern Miss, they battled in their next two diversions, losing to both Colorado State and Utah. Making a trip to the Midwest to confront Big 10 adversary Illinois, California appeared another quarterback: Aaron Rodgers. Rodgers had achievement late in California's amusement against Utah, yet did not gain the success. Against Illinois, in any case, he arranged a California offense that rose successful, 31– 24. 

The week after the Illinois amusement, California confronted its hardest adversary of the period: third-positioned Southern California. The USC Trojans were undefeated heading into their diversion against the Bears and on a 11-amusement series of wins, however California kept up a lead all through the amusement. Amid the final quarter, in any case, USC mobilized to tie California and power additional time, at that point second and third extra amounts of time when the score stayed tied. Toward the finish of the third additional time, California kicker Tyler Fredrickson's 38-yard field objective kick was effective, and the Bears earned a 34– 31 triumph. It was California's first home triumph over a main five group since 1975, and ended up being USC's solitary loss of the period. California lost its next two amusements, yet then won four of its last five, finishing the ordinary season with a record of 7– 6 and winning a spot in the Insight Bowl. 

California head mentor Jeff Tedford stated, "Playing in a bowl diversion was one of our essential objectives this year, so the present declaration speaks to an achievement for this group and the Cal football program." The Insight Bowl would be California's first bowl amusement appearance since 1996. 

In the weeks paving the way to the amusement, media inclusion concentrated on Virginia Tech's absence of inspiration heading into the diversion. The Hokies were positioned among the best five groups in the nation prior in the season, and had higher desires than the Insight Bowl, a factor a few analysts hypothesized could cause a diversion. The diversion was Virginia Tech's first in the territory of Arizona, and its first against a Pac-10 group. California played in the 1990 Copper Bowl, the name of the Insight Bowl before a name change in the mid-1990s. 

Virginia Tech running back Kevin Jones drew media consideration one day after Virginia Tech's choice for the Insight Bowl by declaring that he would forego his last year of school for entering the NFL Draft. Jones was an All-America choice and broke a Virginia Tech single-season record by scrambling for 1,494 yards amid the ordinary season. Hypothesis promptly swung to the way that Jones could be the top running back taken in that year's draft. 

Helping Jones' prosperity was a solid hostile line, driven by Associated Press first-group All-America focus Jake Grove. Forest was the main first-group All-America player for the Hokies that season and earned the Dave Rimington Trophy, offered every year to the best school focus in the United States. Likewise with Jones, Grove declared his expectation to enter the NFL Draft following the Insight Bowl. 

Virginia Tech quarterback Bryan Randall likewise profited by the Hokies' solid hostile line. Randall completed the ordinary season having gone for 11 touchdowns. He likewise scrambled for 412 yards on the ground, and was the Hokies' second-driving rusher. Wide beneficiary Ernest Wilford was the Hokies' driving collector, completing the normal season with 776 receiving yards and three touchdowns. 

Running back Adimchinobe Echemandu was named California's standard season most profitable player by ESPN.com author Ted Miller, who indicated Echemandu's 12 touchdowns on the ground regardless of missing one amusement and a large portion of another because of damage. He was picked in front of Bears quarterback Aaron Rodgers, who completed the season with 2,509 passing yards and 17 touchdowns in spite of beginning the season as the group's reinforcement player in that position. He outflanked unique beginning quarterback Reggie Robertson and supplanted him amid the greater part of the second 50% of the period. 

Rodgers' most loved passing target was wide beneficiary Geoff McArthur, who was the Bears' driving recipient amid the ordinary season, getting 85 passes for a school-record 1,504 receiving yards and 10 touchdowns. In one of the Bears' last practices before the Insight Bowl, be that as it may, McArthur broke his correct lower arm and was unfit to play. McArthur recorded the third-most noteworthy accepting aggregate for a Pac-10 player and had the second-most astounding normal getting yards per diversion in the nation amid the customary season. He set California single-amusement records for getting yards and gatherings. Junior recipient Chase Lyman was picked to begin the Insight Bowl in McArthur's place. Lyman got only seven passes for 107 yards amid the season. 

Amid training before the diversion, California kicker Tyler Fredrickson working on kicking the ball high to evade what was relied upon to be a troublesome Virginia Tech kick-blocking assault. Amid the customary season, Fredrickson had five kicks blocked and effectively changed over only 14 of 29 field objective endeavors. Virginia Tech, in the mean time, blocked 102 kicks in the 200 games past to the Insight Bowl. 

Virginia Tech's safeguard, which performed well in the start of the period and against No. 3 Miami, vacillated in the last rounds of the normal season, permitting 123 points and over 1,800 yards to adversaries' offenses. In spite of a poor act when contrasted and past seasons' achievements, Virginia Tech still positioned second in the Big East meeting in absolute safeguard, scoring resistance, and quarterback sacks. 

Driving that barrier was cornerback DeAngelo Hall, a second-group All-America determination and first-group All-Big East choice who was likewise a semifinalist for the Jim Thorpe Award, offered yearly to the best guarded back in school football. Lobby completed the customary season with 54 tackles and 1 interception. Corridor was additionally a risk returning kicks. Amid the standard season, he returned 30 punts for 2 touchdowns. 

The California barrier was driven by cautious back Donnie McCleskey, an All-Pac-10 determination who aggregated 99 tackles—the most in the group—and 2 interceptions amid the normal season. The 99 tackles were sufficient to tie him for fourteenth spot on California's untouched single-season handle pioneers list. 

Lineman Ryan Riddle drew consideration by gathering 6.5 tackles for misfortune in spite of playing just three diversions for the Bears. Conundrum had not played football for a long time while he concentrated on scholastics. He in the long run joined with a lesser school group, at that point exchanged to California when the Bears communicated enthusiasm for having him play in their group. 

Linebacker Brendan Tremblay, who completed the season with 31 tackles, was planned to miss the amusement because of knee damage that required medical procedure. 

The 2003 Insight Bowl commenced at 8:30 p.m. EST on December 26, 2003 at Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona. Despite the fact that regularly a baseball arena, Bank One Ballpark facilitated the Insight Bowl from 2000 to 2005 with seating reconfigured from the standard utilized amid ball games. 42,364 people went to the amusement, which was only 511 shy of a sellout and was the biggest group to go to an Insight Bowl diversion since the amusement moved to Bank One Ballpark in 2000. In return for taking an interest in the diversion, each group got $750,000. On December 24, two days before the diversion, spread bettors favored Virginia Tech to win by three points. 

An expected 2.7 million individuals watched the diversion on ESPN's transmission, which was commentated by Mark Malone, Mike Golic and Rob Stone. The group of onlookers was sufficiently vast to win the amusement a Nielsen rating of 3.08, making it the thirteenth most-saw bowl diversion that season and the fourth-most noteworthy TV rating of the 20 bowl recreations communicate on ESPN that season. At kickoff, the climate was clear with an air temperature of . Attributable to the cool temperatures, the top of Bank One Ballpark (which is retractable) was shut after firecrackers were shot off amid the opening service. 

After the stately pre-amusement coin hurl, California got the ball to start the diversion. James Bethea restored the opening kickoff to the California 21-yard line. On the diversion's first play from scrimmage, California quarterback Aaron Rodgers finished a 19-yard go to wide beneficiary Burl Toler, forecasting the amusement's hostile nature. Rodgers finished another pass, and the Bears were supported by a punishment against Virginia Tech. Running back Adimchinobe Echemandu ran the ball twice for short increases each time, and Rodgers kept on making long goes for first downs to prop the Golden Bears' hostile drive up. Somewhere inside Virginia Tech region, Rodgers ran the ball twice, getting short gains and the diversion's first touchdown. The additional point kick by kicker Tyler Fredrickson was great, and with 9:43 staying in the quarter, California took a 7– 0 lead. 

Virginia Tech's Mike Imoh handled the post-touchdown kickoff, returning it 52 yards and setting up the Virginia Tech offense inside California region to start Tech's first hostile ownership of the amusement. In spite of the fact that Tech quarterback Bryan Randall was sacked for lost nine yards on his first play, he recouped to finish every one of the four passes he endeavored amid the Tech drive, and in the wake of driving the Hokies profound into California region, scoring on a two-yard touchdown run. The drive took only over two minutes off the clock, and the touchdown and ensuing additional point leveled the score at 7– 7 with 7:13 staying in the quarter. 

Subsequent to getting Virginia Tech's kickoff, the California offense came back to the field. The Bears were unfit to rehash the achievement of their first drive and went three and out, punting the ball back to Virginia Tech. The Hokies recouped the ball at their 43-yard line and moved rapidly. Bryan Randall finished a 53-yard go to collector Chris Shreve. Two plays later, Randall finished a three-yard touchdown pass that gave the Hokies a 14– 7 lead with 2:40 staying in the quarter. California got the ball after the touchdown, however again went three and out. As previously, the Hokies struck rapidly. In the wake of beginning from the California 49-yard line, it took one play for Virginia Tech to score. Randall finished a long go to quarterback Marcus Vick, who came into the amusement as a wide beneficiary. The score and additional point made the amusement 21– 7 with 50 seconds left in the quarter. California got the kickoff and ran three snappy plays before the finish of the quarter. As time lapsed, California confronted a fourth down and nine yards from their 36-yard line and was getting ready to punt. With one quarter slipped by, Virginia Tech drove, 21– 7. 

The second quarter started with a California punt. Virginia Tech recuperated at its 15-yard line and started the main hostile arrangement of the second quarter. On the principal full play of the quarter, Virginia Tech running back Kevin Jones broke free of the California barrier for a 42-yard gain. On the following play, Bryan Randall finished a 11-yard go to collector Ernest Wilford. Jones came back to activity with a nine-yard run, driving the Hokies to the California 22-yard line, yet there the Hokie offense slowed down. Tech confronted a second down and required only two yards for a first down, however couldn't pick up the required yardage in two endeavors. Tech kicker Carter Warley was sent in to endeavor a 40-yard field objective, however his kick missed and California took over on offense at its 23-yard line. 

In their first drive of the second quarter, the Golden Bears discovered achievement that was absent since their first drive of the diversion. Quarterback Aaron Rodgers finished a short pass, at that point mixed for 24 yards and a first down. California ran the ball multiple times for another first down, at that point Rodgers associated with Chase Lyman on a 33-yard touchdown hurl. The score was California's first since the opening drive of the amusement and slice Virginia Tech's lead to 21– 14 with 9:10 staying before halftime. The Hokies recouped the post-touchdown kickoff at their 20-yard line and started their very own scoring drive. At first, the Hokies moved gradually, burning through six plays to move simply 14 yards, picking up a first down all the while. At that point, confronting a third down and seven, Randall finished a 25-yard go to Richard Johnson. This was trailed by another long pass—this one a 31-yarder—to Marcus Vick. On the play quickly following, Kevin Jones kept running for seven yards and a Virginia Tech touchdown. The Tech score made the diversion 28– 14 with 5:09 staying in the quarter. 

California started its next drive at its 29-yard line after a short kickoff return. At first, the Bears attempted to move the ball, yet were helped by a 15-yard individual foul punishment against Virginia Tech. This propelled the ball close midfield and gave California a first down. Aaron Rodgers at that point finished a progression of goes to drive California into the Virginia Tech side of the field and into the end zone. On a 13-yard go to J. J. Arrington, Rodgers slice Virginia Tech's lead to 28– 21 with 30 seconds remaining. Virginia Tech took over after the kickoff at its 31-yard line. Kevin Jones kept running for 15 yards and Bryan Randall finished a 30-yard go to drive Tech into California domain. Tech was unfit to propel the ball further, however kicker Carter Warley was sent in to endeavor a 45-yard field objective. As time lapsed in the principal a large portion of, Warley's kick missed, denying the Hokies an opportunity to expand their lead. Toward the finish of the principal half, Virginia Tech still held a 28– 21 lead. 

Since California got the ball to start the amusement, Virginia Tech got the ball to start the second half. Virginia Tech's Mike Imoh handled the ball at the objective line and returned it 40 yards. Bryan Randall got off to a decent begin, finishing two goes for 26 yards, and Kevin Jones ran the ball another 16 yards. In the wake of pushing inside the California red zone, be that as it may, the California protection hardened and Tech was kept from increasing another first down. Kicker Carter Warley endeavored his third field objective of the amusement—this one a 28-yard kick—however as previously, the kick was a whole lot of nothing. 

After the missed kick, California took over at its 12-yard line. Aaron Rodgers finished three goes for 58 yards and Arrington included 15 yards an end-around run. It required California 2:44 in diversion investment to progress 88 yards for a touchdown. The score tied the diversion at 28– 28 with 10:12 to go in the quarter. Tech got the post-touchdown kickoff and increased two snappy first downs, however in the wake of propelling the ball past its very own 40-yard line, was compelled to punt it back to California. 

With the force moving in the Golden Bears' support and an opportunity to lead the pack, it took California three plays to acquire a touchdown from its 34-yard line. Rodgers finished a 42-yard pass, at that point a 14-yard pass, and Adimchinobe Echemandu ran the ball in to the end zone from the Virginia Tech 10-yard line. The score gave California its first lead since the main drive of the diversion, and with 5:52 remaining in the quarter, the scoreboard read 35– 28, California. Following the touchdown, Virginia Tech got the ball and had its initial three and out of the diversion. Tech was compelled to punt in the wake of running three plays for four yards. 

California got the ball at its 41-yard line and utilized the great field position further bolstering its good fortune. After two short-gain plays, Rodgers finished a 16-yard pass and a 24-yard hurl to drive the Bears inside the Virginia Tech 20-yard line. Echemandu surged the ball twice for seven all out yards, at that point Rodgers ran it himself the staying nine yards for another California touchdown. The touchdown and additional point gave California a 42– 28 lead, its biggest in the amusement. Virginia Tech got the ball with 41 seconds staying in the quarter, and ran four brisk plays. After Bryan Randall tossed two deficiencies, he associated with Ernest Wilford on a long 23-yard pass, and Kevin Jones surged up the center of the field for another 12 yards. As time lapsed in the quarter, Tech was inside California region out of the blue since the start of the quarter and had a first down. Toward the finish of the second from last quarter, California held a 42– 28 lead. 

Virginia Tech opened the final quarter possessing the ball, confronting a first down at the California 45-yard line. Two short plays brought about seven yards, at that point Kevin Jones scrambled for a 15-yard gain. On the following play, Bryan Randall finished a 22-yard hurl to collector Keith Willis for a touchdown. The score and additional point slice California's lead to 42– 35, and there were 35 seconds staying in the diversion. 

California got the ball at its 35-yard line following the post-touchdown kickoff and a short return. The Bears started to run out the clock, hurrying the ball more than passing it, as had been the pattern all through the amusement. In spite of the fact that Aaron Rodgers finished four goes amid the drive for 38 yards, J. J. Arrington and Vincent Strang hurried the ball an aggregate of multiple times amid the ownership. California ran 7:09 off the clock before Vincent Strang broke free for a 13-yard surge that brought about a touchdown. The score reestablished California's important lead, making the diversion 49– 35 with 6:26 remaining. 

Expecting to score rapidly, Virginia Tech's consequent drive comprised fundamentally of pass plays. Marcus Vick quarterbacked the primary play of the drive, however his pass fell inadequate and he was supplanted by Bryan Randall on ensuing plays. Randall finished his initial three goes of the drive for 46 yards, pushing the Hokies into California domain. Kevin Jones grabbed another first down on two surges, at that point Randall finished a 28-yard go to Chris Shreve for a touchdown that slice California's lead to 49– 42. The drive took only two minutes off the clock, leaving 4:26 remaining in the amusement. California got the post-touchdown kickoff and went three and out, leaving a lot of time for a potential amusement tying Virginia Tech drive. 

This ended up being superfluous, nonetheless, as Tyler Fredrickson's punt was returned 52 yards by Virginia Tech's DeAngelo Hall for a touchdown. Lobby's arrival tied the amusement at 49– 49, and with 3:11 staying in the diversion, California took over on offense. On his first play in the wake of getting Virginia Tech's post-touchdown kickoff, Aaron Rodgers was sacked by the Virginia Tech safeguard and mishandled the ball. The Bears' Chris Murphy bounced on the ball, averting what generally may have been an amusement losing turnover. Rodgers recouped from the bumble by finishing three straight passes: first to J. J. Arrington for 11 yards, at that point to Brandon Hall for 18 yards and a first down, at that point to Burl Toler for 22 yards and another first down. The last play brought California profound into Virginia Tech domain. At the Tech 20-yard line, Rodgers scrambled for a five-yard increase, at that point arranged the offense for a potential diversion winning field objective kick. With two seconds staying on the clock, California called timeout and sent in kicker Tyler Fredrickson. Notwithstanding an endeavor by Virginia Tech to ice the kicker by calling its last timeout, Fredrickson was resolute by the weight and his 35-yard field objective cruised through the goalposts as time terminated. The kick gave California three points and the 52– 49 triumph. 

For his execution in the 2003 Insight Bowl, California quarterback Aaron Rodgers was named the hostile player of the amusement. Rodgers finished 27 of his 35 goes for 394 yards and two touchdowns in the triumphant exertion. Rodgers' execution tied Cal's bowl records for most consummations, most touchdowns, and most hurrying touchdowns, and was the third-most astounding hostile yield by a solitary player in California history. The triumph was California's first bowl win since a triumph over Iowa in the 1993 Alamo Bowl. California kicker Tyler Fredrickson's diversion winning score was his solitary field objective kick amid the amusement, yet he additionally had seven additional point kicks for seven points. Moreover, he filled in as California's punter, kicking the ball multiple times for 159 total punting yards. He set school records for most additional focuses in a season and most additional focuses endeavored. Virginia Tech kicker Carter Warley missed three field objectives: a 40-yarder, 45-yarder, and a 28-yarder. He effectively kicked four additional focuses for four points. Virginia Tech quarterback Bryan Randall completed the amusement having finished 24 of his 34 pass endeavors for 398 yards and four touchdowns. 

On the ground, Virginia Tech running back Kevin Jones drove all rushers with 16 carries for 153 yards and a touchdown. He completed the diversion having set school records for most hurrying yards in a season, most 100-yard surging amusements in a season, and most yards arrived at the midpoint of per convey in a vocation. Driving the Golden Bears on the ground was J. J. Arrington, who completed the diversion with 11 carries for 34 yards. Two other California players—Adimchinobe Echemandu and quarterback Aaron Rodgers—additionally had more than 30 yards hurrying. Echemandu made them surge touchdown, and Rodgers earned two. 

Virginia Tech collector Ernest Wilford got 8 passes for 110 yards, setting school records for vocation pass gatherings with 126, most gatherings in a bowl diversion, and most gatherings in a season (56). Tech's Marcus Vick, ordinarily a quarterback, was put into the amusement a few times as a wide beneficiary. He got four goes for 82 yards and a touchdown. California wide recipient Chase Lyman drove all beneficiaries factually, completing with five gatherings for 149 yards and a touchdown. Burl Toler had the most California gatherings, getting six passes for 84 yards. Lyman's absolute was a profession high for him and a California bowl amusement record. 

Virginia Tech's offense down and out or tied 14 school bowl records, either separately or as a group. Notwithstanding the ones effectively noticed, the Hokies' 18 first downs by passing, 398 yards passing, 551 yards of all out offense, 24 passes finished, 49 points scored and four passing touchdowns were additionally new school bowl records. Tech's 26 rushing plays were the least in a Virginia Tech bowl diversion. California's offense set school bowl records for most focuses (52), all out yards (530), passing yards (394), fruition rate (77.1%, 27-of-35), touchdowns (seven), and hurrying touchdowns (five). 

On safeguard, California's Ryan Gutierrez was named the protective player of the amusement. He drove every cautious player with 12 tackles in the amusement. 

California's success raised it to a last record of 8– 6, while Virginia Tech's misfortune dropped it to a last record of 8– 5. The Hokies' five misfortunes spoke to their most noticeably awful season since 1997, when they went 7– 5. Virginia Tech and California's consolidated score—101 points—spoke to the second-most noteworthy scoring bowl diversion without an additional time period in NCAA history, behind just the 2001 GMAC Bowl. 

A few players from each group were chosen in the 2004 NFL Draft. California's Mark Wilson and Adimchinobe Echemandu were chosen in the fifth and seventh rounds, individually. Virginia Tech had five players chosen: DeAngelo Hall and Kevin Jones were both taken in the first round, Jake Grove was chosen in the second, Ernest Wilford in the fourth, and Nathaniel Adibi in the fifth. 

One day before the Insight Bowl, Virginia Tech was chosen as a member in the 2004 Black Coaches Association Classic, which customarily was the primary school football match-up of the period. Virginia Tech's adversary in that diversion was Southern California, whom the Hokies' Insight Bowl rivals, California, crushed amid the 2003 customary season.