Last Fantasy XIII 

Last Fantasy XIII is a sci-fi pretending computer game created and distributed by Square Enix for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles and later for the Microsoft Windows working framework. Discharged in Japan in December 2009 and worldwide in March 2010, it is the thirteenth title in the mainline "Last Fantasy" arrangement. The amusement incorporates quick paced battle, another framework for the arrangement for figuring out which capacities are produced for the characters called "Crystarium", and an adaptable "Worldview" framework to control which capacities are utilized by the characters. "Last Fantasy XIII" incorporates components from the past recreations in the arrangement, for example, gathered beasts, chocobos, and aircrafts. 

The diversion happens in the anecdotal coasting universe of Cocoon, whose legislature, the Sanctum, is requesting a cleanse of regular people who have as far as anyone knows come into contact with Pulse, the much-dreaded world underneath. The previous officer Lightning starts her battle against the legislature so as to spare her sister who has been marked as a reluctant worker to a divine resembling being from Pulse, making her an adversary of Cocoon. Lightning is before long joined by a band of partners, and together the gathering likewise turned out to be set apart by a similar Pulse animal. They rally against the Sanctum while attempting to find their allocated errand and whether they can abstain from being transformed into beasts or precious stones toward the finishing. 

Advancement started in 2004, and the diversion was first reported at Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) 2006. "Last Fantasy XIII" is the lead title of the "Fabula Nova Crystallis" accumulation of "Conclusive Fantasy" diversions and is the primary amusement to utilize Square Enix's Crystal Tools motor. "Last Fantasy XIII" got for the most part positive audits from computer game productions, which applauded the amusement's illustrations, introduction, and fight framework. The amusement's story got a blended reaction from commentators, and its linearity contrasted with past diversions in the arrangement was generally condemned. Selling 1.7 million duplicates in Japan in 2009, "Last Fantasy XIII" turned into the quickest selling title ever of arrangement. Starting at 2017, the amusement has sold more than 7 million duplicates worldwide on consoles. The Microsoft Windows variant has sold more than 746,000 duplicates as indicated by SteamSpy. A spin-off, titled "Last Fantasy XIII-2", was discharged in December 2011 in Japan and in February 2012 in North America and PAL districts. A second spin-off, titled "", which finishes up Lightning's story and the "Last Fantasy XIII" arrangement, was discharged in November 2013 in Japan and in February 2014 in North America and PAL areas. In September 2014, Square Enix declared the "Last Fantasy XIII" arrangement has been broadly effective and has sent more than 11 million duplicates around the world. In November, 2018, the arrangement was added to Xbox One in reverse similarity. 

The player straightforwardly controls the on-screen character through a third-individual point of view to connect with individuals, items, and adversaries all through the diversion. The player can likewise turn the camera around the characters, which takes into account a 360° perspective on the environment. The universe of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" is rendered to scale with respect to the characters in it; rather than an exaggeration of the character wandering around smaller than expected landscape, as found in the before "Definite Fantasy" diversions, each territory is spoken to relatively. The player explores the world by foot or by chocobo. Players may spare their diversion to a hard plate drive utilizing spare stations, where the player can likewise buy things from retail systems or overhaul their weapons. An in-diversion datalog gives a bestiary and accidental data about the universe of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII". The "Last Fantasy XIII Ultimate Hits International" form of the amusement, discharged in Japan, likewise contains a "Simple" mode choice. 

As in "Definite Fantasy XII", foes are coordinated beyond all detectable inhibitions field and can be drawn closer or kept away from by the player. At the point when the player's character contacts a foe, the screen advances from the normal guide to a different fight screen like those utilized in past "Conclusive Fantasy" titles. A limit of three characters might be utilized in fights, which utilize a variation on the arrangement's customary Active Time Battle (ATB) framework originally included in "Conclusive Fantasy IV". Under this framework, the player chooses an activity from the menus, for example, Attack, Magic, and Item. In contrast to past amusements in the arrangement, the player just controls the lead character while the staying two characters are constrained by the diversion's man-made brainpower (AI). Each activity requires a particular number of spaces on the ATB bar, which consistently refills to a set most extreme number of openings. The ATB bar progressively increments in size all through the amusement from two openings to six. The player may choose not exactly the most extreme number of conceivable activities, or may stop the filling of the ATB bar and execute the greatest number of activities as should be possible with the current ATB sum. The player may choose an autobattle order, which fills the ATB spaces with activities picked naturally. Activities can't be performed outside of fight, and the characters' wellbeing is completely reestablished after each fight. 

Every adversary has a meter, called a chain counter, comprising of a rate beginning at 100 which increments when the foe is struck by assaults or spells. Assaults by various jobs have diverse impacts; some raise the chain by a bigger sum while others give the player longer before the chain counter resets. The measure of harm performed by an assault is increased by the chain rate before it is connected to the adversary. At the point when the chain counter achieves a preset sum, diverse for every foe, the adversary is set into Stagger State. In this mode, the adversary has brought down safeguard and might be propelled into the air. The Paradigm framework enables the player to program six unique jobs which the characters would then be able to expect to play out specific developments fighting in light of the particular conditions. The jobs comprise of Commando, a warrior-type job; Ravager, a dark mage-type job which utilizes harm managing enchantment; Medic, a White Mage-type job which can recuperate and expel negative status infirmities; Saboteur, which utilizes enchantment to debilitate foes by exacting negative statuses; Synergist, which utilizes enchantment to fortify partners by giving positive statuses; and Sentinel, which has defensive and cautious capacities like a paladin. Every one of the characters can at first interpretation of just three jobs, however the player approaches every one of them later in the diversion (despite the fact that the other three jobs are constrained in their capacities for those players which pick them). The player can choose which jobs the controlled character and the AI characters are utilizing both outside and amid fight, which is the main way that the player can control the AI characters amid fight. The player can just look over explicit arrangements of ideal models that the player has set up in advance outside of fight. 

Every pioneer or controlled character can gather a particular Eidolon into fight. These brought animals incorporate arrangement staples Odin, Shiva, Alexander, and Bahamut, and newcomers Hecatoncheir and Brynhildr. Whenever brought, the Eidolon remains in battle while the characters going with the summoner leave the gathering. While an Eidolon is gathered, the player can trigger an element called Gestalt Mode, in which the Eidolon changes into an alternate structure and performs distinctive assaults while the bringing character rides them. 

The Crystarium is a leveling framework comprising of six precious stones and looks like the Sphere Grid from "Definite Fantasy X". Every gem in the Crystarium speaks to one of the six Paradigms, and is separated into ten dimensions. Each dimension contains different hubs that supply rewards to wellbeing, quality, or enchantment, or give new capacities and frill spaces. These hubs are associated by a semi-straight way. The player may progress down the way by gaining Crystarium Points, which are granted in the wake of crushing foes. The full Crystarium isn't accessible to the player toward the start of the diversion; at explicit focuses in the amusement's plot, the player accesses new gems or levels. 

"Last Fantasy XIII" is determined to the universe of Gran Pulse (regularly just called Pulse). Key to the story is Cocoon, a huge fake circle that glides over Pulse's surface and is managed by the Sanctum, a religious government. The two universes are constrained by fal'Cie , mechanical creatures with supernatural power. The Cocoon fal'Cie are in charge of keeping Cocoon skimming, just as giving light and water to the general population that live inside. Each fal'Cie handles a particular assignment. The fal'Cie have the ability of denoting the people that live in Pulse and Cocoon as their hirelings. These workers, called l'Cie , are marked with an image speaking to either Pulse or Cocoon and are given a "Center"— an undertaking to finish. In the event that the l'Cie complete their errand in time, they are changed to precious stone and as indicated by legend increase interminable life; else they become thoughtless beasts called Cie'th . The l'Cie are not unequivocally told their Focus, however are rather given dreams that they should translate. 

A few hundred years before the occasions of the amusement, a fight known as the War of Transgression occurred among Pulse and Cocoon. Amid the fight, l'Cie from Pulse assaulted and tore an extensive gap in Cocoon. In the end, the l'Cie finished their concentration and were swung to gem. The gap was fixed with material lifted from Pulse, and Cocoon's natives have since lived in dread of another attack; this dread is utilized by the Sanctum to stay in power. The Sanctum directs two military branches: the Guardian Corps, in charge of maintaining control on Cocoon, and the Public Security and Intelligence COMmand (PSICOM), the exceptional powers accountable for managing any danger identified with Pulse. The fal'Cie have given the people cutting edge innovation, including flying carriers and mechanical animals, and a type of enchantment likewise exists. This enchantment is typically just open to l'Cie, fal'Cie, and different beasts in Cocoon and Pulse, however refined substance structures can be utilized by ordinary people using Manadrives. 

The six primary playable characters of "Definite Fantasy XIII" are Lightning, the principle hero of the diversion, a previous trooper and more established sister to Serah; Snow Villiers, Serah's life partner and pioneer of NORA, a paramilitary gathering; Oerba Dia Vanille, the amusement's storyteller and an outcast who is later uncovered to be a l'Cie from Pulse; Sazh Katzroy, a non military personnel pilot and father to a young man, Dajh; Hope Estheim, a young man who is battling inside the connections he imparts to his folks; and Oerba Yun Fang, a l'Cie from Pulse who is working with the Sanctum's Cavalry branch. Different characters incorporate Galenth Dysley, the leader of the Sanctum and primary adversary; Cid Raines, a Sanctum Brigadier General in the Cavalry who does not confide in the legislature; and Serah Farron, Lightning's more youthful sister and Snow's life partner. 

In Cocoon, the residents of the town of Bodhum are being expelled, or Purged, subsequent to interacting with something from Pulse. Through the span of the amusement, the player is appeared of the occasions of the past thirteen days, which started when a fal'Cie from Pulse was found close Bodhum. Lightning's sister Serah had discovered the fal'Cie from Pulse and been changed into a l'Cie by it. Lightning and Sazh crash a Purge train destined for Pulse trying to spare Serah. As Snow drives his obstruction bunch NORA to safeguard the Purge ousts, a few of them are executed. Making a beeline for the fal'Cie Anima to spare Serah, Snow is joined by two of the outcasts: Hope and Vanille. The two gatherings meet at the fal'Cie, and discover Serah similarly as she swings to gem. Anima at that point brands them as l'Cie and they are thrown out into an alternate piece of Cocoon. Amid this change, the recently peaked l'Cie all have a similar vision: a beast called Ragnarok. Contending over the vague idea of the envisioned Focus, the gathering discovers Serah in her solidified structure; Snow stays with her as the others leave. 

Snow meets Cid and Fang, two individuals from the Cavalry, after he is caught and confined on board the aircraft "Lindblum". In the interim, the others escape from PSICOM before getting isolated by an airstrike; Hope and Lightning travel to Palumpolum, while Sazh and Vanille travel to Nautilus. In Lightning's situation, she accidentally bolsters Hope's objective of executing Snow to retaliate for his mom's passing. In Vanille's situation, Sazh talks about how his child Dajh was transformed into a l'Cie by a Cocoon fal'Cie and was taken by PSICOM to find his Focus. In Palumpolum, Lightning endeavors to prevent Hope from proceeding with his vengeance and meets Snow and Fang. Tooth uncovers that she and Vanille were l'Cie from Pulse who were transformed into precious stones; they were transformed once more into people 13 days sooner, starting the Purge. Expectation endeavors to kill Snow, yet in the wake of being saved amid an airstrike, he chooses not to proceed with it. The four at that point escape the city with Cid's guide. In Nautilus, Vanille uncovers herself to Sazh as a l'Cie from Pulse, and by implication the reason that Dajh was transformed into a l'Cie. Sazh and Vanille are then caught and confined on board the aircraft "Palamecia". 

On the "Palamecia", different individuals from the gathering rejoin with Vanille and Sazh before they go up against Galenth Dysley, the Sanctum's Primarch, who is the Cocoon fal'Cie ruler Barthandelus in camouflage. Barthandelus tells the gathering that their Focus is to change into the brute Ragnarok and kill the resting fal'Cie Orphan, who keeps Cocoon above water above Pulse. Killing Orphan will result in the devastation of Cocoon. The gathering escapes and gains from Cid that the fal'Cie trust that Cocoon's demolition will bring the Maker, the maker of the universes. The fal'Cie can't hurt Orphan themselves. Vanille and Fang uncover to the gathering that they were engaged with the War of Transgression hundreds of years sooner, and that their Focus at that point had been the equivalent: to change into Ragnarok and endeavor to demolish Orphan. The gathering takes off to Pulse and voyages to Oerba, Vanille and Fang's main residence, where they would like to figure out how to expel their l'Cie marks. The town is left, and they locate no living individuals superficially. The gathering is fruitless in evacuating their imprints, and Barthandelus goes up against them once more. The gathering discovers that Barthandelus has made Cid the new Primarch to make disorder in Cocoon to constrain the Cavalry to assault Cid and Orphan in a rebellion. 

The gathering penetrates Cocoon and heads towards Orphan however before long find that the Cavalry have been transformed into Cie'th. The gathering massacres Barthandelus, yet Orphan stirs and converges with Barthandelus, at that point forces Fang to complete her Focus as Ragnarok while the others are apparently changed into Cie'th. The gathering returns in human structure, keeping Fang from changing. The gathering massacres Orphan and escapes Cocoon, which is presently falling towards Pulse. As the remainder of the gathering swings to precious stone for finishing their Focus, Vanille and Fang stay on Cocoon and change into Ragnarok together to keep a crash among Cocoon and Pulse. The remainder of the gathering stir from their crystallization on Pulse and discover their l'Cie brands gone; Lightning, Hope, Snow and Sazh rejoin with Serah and Dajh. 

Improvement of "Definite Fantasy XIII" started in February 2004, soon after the arrival of "Conclusive Fantasy X-2 International + Last Mission" in Japan. At the time, the undertaking was inside alluded to by the codename "Hues World". Over the main year, chief Motomu Toriyama and situation conceptor Kazushige Nojima considered thoughts for the plot. Nojima concocted the precious stone folklore that turned into the reason for the "Fabula Nova Crystallis" arrangement, including ideas, for example, the fal'Cie and l'Cie. Toriyama then made a story started on this folklore. He needed to depict "characters helpless before a foreordained, crooked destiny" who "have a place together however impact vigorously". So as to accomplish this, every one of the story's thirteen parts was made to concentrate on various heroes. Sections seven and eight were to check a defining moment in the relational connections of the gathering. 

In March 2006, when the auxiliary piece of the story began to meet up, lead situation author Daisuke Watanabe joined the group. Toriyama gave him a harsh blueprint of the initial eight sections, which incorporated a few foundation scenes that should have been kept, similar to when party individuals were isolated or rejoined. He disclosed to Watanabe what he needed to express with the situation, and requested that he tissue out the story and to reinforce how the focuses in his blueprint associated. For instance, Toriyama's simple guidelines in the archive would state "Snow and Hope accommodate". Watanabe needed to choose about how the scenes with this compromise would play out, at that point compose the situation that way. To underline what the story attempted to express, Watanabe balanced the identities Toriyama had given to each character. For instance, he felt that the gathering ought not have a "solid and quiet pioneer type" toward the start of the story, so as to all the more precisely demonstrate the perplexity and unease after the heroes change into l'Cie. Toriyama has said that one of the narrating difficulties was the give up all hope of the characters and the numerous focuses at which they are apparently cornered. He referenced the scene where Sazh endeavors to end it all as one such precedent: Although Toriyama felt it was "just about excessively dim", he needed to incorporate something like it in the amusement. Interestingly, he said that cheerful components, for example, Sazh's Chocobo chick kept up a decent parity. 

Toward the start of the improvement, the amusement was proposed to be discharged on the PlayStation 2. In May 2005, be that as it may, after the positive gathering of the tech demo of "Definite Fantasy VII", the group chose to move the amusement to the PlayStation 3 and created it with the new Crystal Tools motor, a seventh era multiplatform diversion motor made by Square Enix for its cutting edge recreations. Square Enix trusted that building up another motor would accelerate improvement time later in the venture, however it would at first reason a deferral in the amusement's advancement. Be that as it may, the deferral was longer than initially foreseen as the motor needed to oblige the prerequisites of a few different amusements notwithstanding "XIII". Another factor in the stage move was the postponed arrival of "Definite Fantasy XII", which turned out an extremely brief time before the arrival of the PlayStation 3. A PC port was considered amid improvement, yet was ruled against because of how Square Enix saw the computer game market circumstance at the time just as extra complexities that Square Enix did not have involvement with identified with the PC stage, for example, security issues. "Last Fantasy XIII" was first appeared at the 2006 E3 tradition. The trailer indicated was an aesthetic idea that did not speak to the last idea for the diversion, since at the time there was no playable type of the amusement. Reported nearby the diversion was "Last Fantasy Versus XIII", later retitled as "Definite Fantasy XV", and the PlayStation Portable amusement "Last Fantasy Type-0", initially titled "Last Fantasy Agito XIII", the three of which structure the "Fabula Nova Crystallis Final Fantasy" arrangement. Square Enix clarified that albeit each of the three recreations are specifically connected, they are not straightforwardly related as far as story. 

The designers for "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" were isolated into numerous regions, with every engineer or group concentrating just on a particular undertaking, for example, building up a particular in-diversion territory or demonstrating characters. Each physical region of the amusement was grown independently; after an underlying plan was affirmed, groups were doled out to a particular area and filled in subtleties without reusing resources from different territories. A few of the diversion's designers had taken a shot at past portions of the arrangement. Executive Motomu Toriyama had taken a shot at "Definite Fantasy X" and "X-2"; maker Yoshinori Kitase had chipped away at "V" through "VIII" and as the maker for "X" and "X-2"; primary character fashioner Tetsuya Nomura had played out a similar job for "VII", "VIII", "X", and "X-2", and fight framework chief Toshiro Tsuchida repeated that job from "Conclusive Fantasy X". As "XIII" was the main "Last Fantasy" diversion for the PlayStation 3, the improvement group's inward objective was for the amusement to have the equivalent "ongoing interaction and craftmanship" sway that "Last Fantasy VII" and "X" had as the principal rounds of the arrangement on their individual consoles. They meant to sell five million duplicates of the diversion. Toriyama needed the diversion to be "a definitive single player RPG". 

Tsuchida's idea for the fight framework was to keep up the key idea of direction based fights. The framework originated from a craving to make fights like those found in the film "". Enchantment focuses (MP), which had been a piece of the fight framework in past "Definite Fantasy" titles, were evacuated in the diversion's fight framework as Tsuchida and different creators felt that it gave players a motivating force to not utilize their most dominant enchantment assaults because of the MP cost, thusly making fights less fascinating. The Paradigm framework was structured from the get-go in the fight framework's advancement, with the aim of influencing fights to depend on rapidly changing methodologies and feel quick moving. Initially there were just five jobs, yet the Saboteur was later included as the architects felt that its capacities were absent from the diversion and did not fit with different jobs. Together with the limit of three characters in a battle circumstance, the groupings of adversaries were intended to drive the player to change Paradigms to keep them occupied with the fights. 

Toriyama needed Lightning to be another sort of female character with a competitor's body and a less ladylike nature than a portion of the past female characters of the arrangement. His rule to Nomura was to make her "solid and lovely", and she was proposed to be reminiscent of "Conclusive Fantasy VII"s Cloud Strife. Tooth was at first intended to be a male character, yet the sexual orientation was changed to harmonize with the refreshed character structures amid the last piece of improvement. The illustrations capacities of the PS3 and Xbox 360 contrasted with past consoles permitted Nomura to utilize more perplexing components in the character structures than previously, for example, Lightning's cape and nitty gritty facial highlights. This thusly implied the craftsmanship group needed to do substantially more work for each character or territory than in past diversions. Nomura did not play an included job in the formation of the non-playable characters. 

Not at all like past diversions in the arrangement which were progressively roused by Asian areas and culture, "Last Fantasy XIII" was proposed by the workmanship group to be reminiscent of the United States. Heartbeat depended on scene photos the group took from the nation over, and Cocoon was expected to be a "blend" of various ethnicities. The setting was additionally given a sci-fi stylish to make it emerge more in examination with different passages in the arrangement. Craftsmanship chief Isamu Kamikokuryo uncovered that numerous extra situations, for example, Lightning's home, which were working in an unreleased form amid advancement, were let alone for the last form because of worries about the amusement's length and volume. Kamikokuryo said the substance they cut was, in itself, enough to make another amusement. As indicated by Toriyama, the cuts were made in "different phases of [the game's] advancement", and that a portion of the substance was evacuated just before the amusement's finishing. The diversion, in contrast to past titles in the arrangement, incorporates no explorable town territories; Toriyama said in a meeting that the group was unfit to make them as graphically engaging as the remainder of the amusement and dispensed with them. Toriyama proposed to have a bit of downloadable substance accessible for the amusement that would incorporate another territory, weapons and journeys, yet was compelled to slice it also because of value concerns so late in the undertaking and troubles with the diverse frameworks for additional substance on the two gaming reassures. 

A playable demo of "Definite Fantasy XIII" was incorporated into the Japanese rendition of "", discharged on April 16, 2009. Toriyama expressed that the arrival of the demo, which was not in the first advancement plan, helped the group perceive a common vision for what the diversion should closely resemble, an issue which had been tormenting the improvement collaborate up to that point. It helped the group organize the work that still should have been done, which expanded the advancement speed for the rest of the venture. The amusement was planned to interest both Western and Japanese gatherings of people, and center gatherings from the two locales were utilized. The English restriction started while advancement was still in advancement to decrease the deferral between the Japanese and overall discharges. The diversion was at first going to be discharged exclusively for the PlayStation 3, yet a Xbox 360 rendition was reported late in the amusement's improvement cycle. The Xbox variant, because of specialized restrictions, keeps running at a lower goals (720p most extreme) than the PlayStation form and is spread crosswise over 3 circles. 

Masashi Hamauzu formed the amusement's soundtrack; his past work on the arrangement was as a co-author for "Conclusive Fantasy X" and as the fundamental arranger for "". The diversion was the primary principle arrangement "Last Fantasy" amusement to exclude any creations by unique arrangement arranger Nobuo Uematsu. In spite of the fact that Uematsu was initially reported to make the fundamental topic out of the diversion, this job was taken over by Hamauzu after Uematsu marked on to make the soundtrack to "Definite Fantasy XIV". The score includes a few pieces organized by Yoshihisa Hirano, Toshiyuki Oomori, and Kunihito Shiina, with the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra. The melody "My Hands", from British vocalist Leona Lewis' second collection "Reverberation", was picked to supplant "Last Fantasy XIII's" unique signature tune, "Kimi ga Iru Kara" by Sayuri Sugawara, for the diversion's worldwide discharge. Square Enix president Yoichi Wada later said that it would have been exceptional if the American part of the organization had delivered a signature melody without any preparation, yet an absence of staff prompted the choice of permitting a current tune. 

Music from the amusement has been discharged in a few collections. Square Enix discharged the primary soundtrack collection, "Last Fantasy XIII Original Soundtrack", on four Compact Disks in 2010. The collection sold 16,000 duplicates the day of its discharge. Square Enix discharged determinations from the soundtrack on two gramophone record collections in 2010: "W/F: Music from Final Fantasy XIII" and "W/F: Music from Final Fantasy XIII Gentle Reveries". A collection of masterminded pieces from the soundtrack, "Last Fantasy XIII Original Soundtrack - PLUS-", was likewise discharged by Square Enix in 2010, similar to a collection of piano courses of action. For Life Music distributed a solitary of the signature tune for the Japanese variant of the amusement, "Kimi ga Iru Kara" (君がいるから, "In light of the fact that You're Here"), in 2009. 

The amusement was discharged in Japan on December 17, 2009, and in North America, Europe and Australia on March 9, 2010. Nearby the arrival of the amusement in Japan, Japanese mixed drink merchant Suntory discharged the "Last Fantasy XIII Elixir" to advance the diversion. Around the same time, a "Last Fantasy XIII" PlayStation Home individual space was made accessible for nothing in Japan until January 13, 2010, alongside an outfit and individual space decorations; they were discharged to the Asian, European, and North American forms of PlayStation Home on March 11, 2010. On December 18, 2012, the diversion was re-discharged as a component of the "Last Fantasy 25th Anniversary Ultimate Box" Japanese bundle. It was re-discharged again on November 21, 2013, as a component of the Lightning Ultimate box, a Japan selective version which incorporates "Last Fantasy XIII" and its two continuations. 

The diversion was discharged packaged with consoles in various locales. The diversion was packaged in Japan with a restricted version white PlayStation 3 with a pink shading print of Lightning on the outside of the reassure, and with a Xbox 360 with the silver strip on the hard drive embellished with the "Last Fantasy XIII" logo in the western discharge. A restricted amount of themed Xbox faceplates made by Nomura were made accessible through a chosen few retailers in Europe, North America, and Australia. Buddy regions got a constrained gatherer's release of the amusement for both Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, with the "Last Fantasy XIII Original Sound Selection" "best of" soundtrack CD, three Eidolon workmanship prints, a "Brand of the l'Cie" decal and "The World of Final Fantasy XIII", a hardback book highlighting character fine art, CG-rendered fine art, and situations from over the diversion creation. Square Enix distributed three Ultimania books: the "Last Fantasy XIII Scenario Ultimania" and the "Last Fantasy XIII Battle Ultimania" on January 28, 2010, and the "Last Fantasy XIII Ultimania Ω" on September 30, 2010. The "Fight Ultimania" gives a depiction and examination of the new fight framework and its segments, and engineer interviews. The "Situation Ultimania" portrays the principle situations in the amusement, profiles on the characters and territories in Cocoon and Gran Pulse, engineer meetings, and subtleties on every area. The last guide, the "Ultimania Ω", incorporates voice performing artist and extra staff meets, the total story of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" including extra character profiles, an accumulation of works of art and outlines, and extra dismemberments of the story and foundation. 

While the diversion was discharged on both PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in western locales, the amusement was a PlayStation 3 selective in Asian domains. This was changed in late 2010 when Square Enix reported that the Xbox 360 form would in truth discharge in Japan, in spite of numerous announcements to the inverse. It was later discharged for Microsoft Windows through Steam, alongside its two spin-offs. "Last Fantasy XIII" was the principal diversion in the arrangement to get an official discharge in Chinese and Korean. This was the main release of a "Last Fantasy" diversion in which Japanese voice-overs could be empowered. A global adaptation of the diversion for the Xbox 360 called "Last Fantasy XIII Ultimate Hits International" was discharged in Asia on December 16, 2010. The diversion incorporates a "Simple" mode alternative, and highlights the English voices. It accompanies a reward booklet titled "Last Fantasy XIII Corridor of Memory" that contains content that was recently let well enough alone for the first form of the amusement and a short story epilog titled "Last Fantasy XIII Episode I". 

"Last Fantasy XIII" was discharged for iOS and Android gadgets by means of cloud spilling in Japan on April 10, 2015. 

"Last Fantasy XIII" sold over one million units on its first day of offer in Japan, and had sold 1.7 million duplicates for the PlayStation 3 in Japan before the finish of 2009, and 1.9 million before the finish of 2010. Square Enix had foreseen high introductory deals for the diversion and sent near two million units for its dispatch. The diversion sold more than one million duplicates in North America in its discharge month. In March 2010, Square Enix expressed that "Last Fantasy XIII" was the quickest selling title in the establishment's history. By April of that year, American diversion deals for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 came to an expected 800,000 and 500,000 units separately. As per Media Create, female gamers represented almost 33% of the diversion's Japanese fanbase. Starting at July 2012, a joined aggregate of 9.7 million units has been sold on consoles for both "Last Fantasy XIII" and its spin-off "Definite Fantasy XIII-2". As of January 2013, the amusement had sold 6.6 million duplicates around the world. In September 2014, Square Enix declared the "Last Fantasy XIII" arrangement has been broadly fruitful and has delivered more than 11 million duplicates around the world. Starting at 2017, the diversion has sold more than 7 million duplicates worldwide on consoles. By April 2018, the Windows variant has sold more than 746,000 duplicates as per SteamSpy. 

"Last Fantasy XIII" got commonly positive audits. Survey aggregator site Metacritic gave the PlayStation 3 adaptation 83/100 dependent on 83 audits, the Xbox 360 rendition 82/100 dependent on 54 surveys, and the Microsoft Windows variant 65/100 dependent on 6 surveys. It was evaluated 39 out of 40 by the Japanese gaming magazine "Famitsu". "Dengeki" adulated the diversion for the fight framework, expressing that the fights are by a long shot the most energizing in the arrangement, and finished up "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" merited a score of 120, as 100 would not be sufficient. The diversion was casted a ballot as the second best round of 2009 in Dengeki Online's peruser survey, and in January 2010, it was casted a ballot the best amusement ever in "Famitsu" peruser survey. The diversion got a Best RPG of the year grant selection at the Spike Video Game Awards, yet lost to "Mass Effect 2". It won the "Future Division" grant at the Japan Game Awards 2009 and later won a Game Designers Award at the Japan Game Awards 2010. 

General recognition was given to the specialized achievements accomplished by the diversion's illustrations and introduction. "Edge" felt that Cocoon specifically was a "motivated setting [...] favored with a dynamic quality and striking shading that frequently abandons you surprised". GameSpot called the craftsmanship plan "great". Further recognition was given to the pre-rendered activity groupings and the practically consistent progress of visual quality among these and the realtime ongoing interaction. Numerous likewise valued the diversion's soundtrack, with Masashi Hamauzu giving "a score with infectious snares and blood-siphoning fight tunes", as per "Wired". 

The fight arrangement of "Definite Fantasy XIII" got far reaching acclaim. The expanded pace of fights was valued, with a few surveys depicting it as "exciting"; "Edge"s portrayal of the fight framework abridged it as "among the class' best". 1UP.com said that "In spite of the way that 66% of your gathering is AI-controlled, FFXIII's fights might be the most including the arrangement has ever observed." The story got a blended gathering, with "Wired" commenting that the plot was "somewhat more human and less obscure than in past amusements". 1UP.com felt that the story was "not really world-class composing", yet that the authors plainly knew the medium well and had endeavored to stay away from banalities. Analysts felt that the characters functioned admirably together, and that the communications among them as the diversion advanced compensated for deficiencies in the story. 

While pundits by and large commended Square Enix's endeavor to revive the "Last Fantasy" arrangement equation, many responded contrarily to the straight idea of the amusement, particularly in the initial ten sections on Cocoon, an issue which many felt was exacerbated by the substantial decrease of towns, free-wandering capacities, and cooperation with non-player characters. "GamePro" depicted the interactivity as "a long foyer toward an orange target image on your scaled down guide that triggers a cutscene, a supervisor battle, or both," and 1UP.com reprimanded the straight perspective as the diversion's "greatest inadequacy", and felt the primary area was "shallow." "Edge" and others granted the amusement particularly lower scores because of these viewpoints, with "Edge" specifically bringing down the score they granted the diversion to a five out of ten essentially because of the diversion's direct nature. 

Conversely, analysts from GamesRadar and "PC and Video Games" valued the straight nature; the previous expressed that "the streamlined, centered structure wipes out potential monotony without dumbing anything down", while the last felt it was "a smart move", and shielded the player from being "[bogged] down with ordinary calculating, [and] finicky and tedious step up." Many adversely noticed the slow spreading out of the player's capacities over this initial segment of the diversion, from fight interactivity to choosing the gathering head. Joined with the diversion's straight nature, a few surveys ventured to depict these parts as "exhausting" until the universe of Gran Pulse was uncovered. "Edge" noticed that while it didn't do what's necessary to compensate for the opening parts, at Gran Pulse the diversion "hits a sweet spot" as the account offers "chasing side-journeys and the straightforward delight of investigating to perceive what visual wonder is around the following corner." 

After discharge, chief Motomu Toriyama felt that the lower-than-anticipated audit scores for a primary "Last Fantasy" arrangement amusement originated from commentators who moved toward the diversion from a Western perspective. These analysts were utilized to amusements in which the player was given an open world to investigate, he stated, taking note of that this desire appeared differently in relation to the vision the group set out to make. He noticed that it "turns out to be hard to recount to a convincing story when you're given that much opportunity". Yoshinori Kitase expressed that they "didn't generally expect to work inside the RPG layout," however "needed to make another diversion, even another classification." He expressed that "in a great deal of faculties FFXIII is more similar to a FPS than a RPG." 

Toriyama and Kitase later stated, in July 2011, that the greatest grievances about the amusement were that it was excessively straight and that there was insufficient association between the player and the world, which they portrayed as an absence of towns and minigames contrasted with the past "Conclusive Fantasy" diversions. They additionally named the measure of time it took to get to the majority of the ongoing interaction components as a typical analysis, saying that individuals deciphered it as an "extensive instructional exercise". 

Yoichi Wada, at that point leader of Square Enix, made his musings about the gathering of the amusement known to Gamasutra. He said "some esteem it profoundly and some are not content with it". He included, "Should "Last Fantasy" become another kind of diversion or should "Last Fantasy" not become another sort of amusement? The clients have distinctive conclusions. It's extremely hard to figure out which way it ought to go." 

Square Enix discharged a Microsoft Windows port of the diversion in October 2014, where it was met with a more basic gathering than the first forms. "PC Gamer"s Samuel Roberts, while surveying the port, scrutinized the first ongoing interaction, however vigorously condemned the nature of the port itself, denouncing the low goals, constrained graphical choices and low framerate. He was particularly reproachful of the time taken for the port given that an informal fix was created by modder Peter Thoman inside multi day of discharge that fixed a large number of the issues. Michael McWhertor of Polygon additionally noticed a comparable basic reaction by customers. A fix was discharged by Square Enix in December 2014, which was noted by Thoman as including just the graphical highlights that his outer fix had, with no different increments or execution enhancements. 

At the Square Enix First Production Department Conference hung on January 18, 2011, Square Enix declared that they were building up an immediate continuation of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII", entitled "Last Fantasy XIII-2", which they planned to expand on the diversion's story and characters while accepting the analysis and other criticism about the first. It was discharged on December 15, 2011, in Japan, January 31, 2012, in North America and February 3, 2012, in Europe, for both the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360. Motomu Toriyama and Yoshinori Kitase came back to their separate jobs as chief and maker. The amusement starts three years after the occasions of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII", and highlights Serah and newcomer Noel as the primary heroes. "XIII-2" is the fifth continuation amusement in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement, after "Definite Fantasy X-2", "", and "". The majority of the group returned again to make a second spin-off qualified "", implied for wrap up the tale of Lightning and the "Last Fantasy XIII" universe. The amusement was discharged in November 2013 in Japan and in February 2014 in North America and Europe. Toriyama expressed in the "Ultimania Omega" sidekick book before "XIII-2"s declaration that he would have liked to compose a story "where Lightning winds up upbeat", however at the time Square Enix had no designs to make a spin-off.