Eduard Streltsov 

Eduard Anatolyevich Streltsov (, 21 July 1937 – 22 July 1990) was a footballer from the Soviet Union who played as a forward for Torpedo Moscow and the Soviet national group amid the 1960s. An amazing and skilful assaulting player, he scored the fourth-most noteworthy number of objectives for the Soviet Union and has been designated "the best outfield player Russia has ever created". He is in some cases named "the Russian Pelé". 

Brought up in east Moscow, Streltsov joined Torpedo at 16 years old in 1953 and made his global introduction two years after the fact. He was a piece of the squad that won the gold decoration at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, and came seventh in the 1957 Ballon d'Or. Early the following year his promising profession was hindered by an assault embarrassment. The 20-year-old Streltsov was blamed for assaulting a lady instantly before the 1958 World Cup; told he could in any case play in the event that he conceded his blame, he admitted, regardless of uncertain proof against him. He was rather indicted and condemned to twelve years in the Gulag arrangement of constrained work camps. 

Streltsov was discharged following five years in the camps and in 1965 he continued his profession with Torpedo Moscow. In the principal period of his rebound, the club won the Soviet title; in 1968 Torpedo won the Soviet Cup. Streltsov was reestablished to the Soviet national group in 1966, and in 1967 and 1968 named Soviet Footballer of the Year. When of his retirement in 1970 he had spearheaded developments, for example, the back-obeyed pass, which wound up referred to in Russia as "Streltsov's pass". He kicked the bucket in Moscow in 1990. After six years, Torpedo renamed their home ground "Eduard Streltsov Stadium" in his respect. In the 21st century, statues of Streltsov remain outside the arena bearing his name and the Luzhniki Olympic Complex in Moscow. 

Eduard Anatolyevich Streltsov was conceived in Perovo, an eastern region of Moscow, on 21 July 1937, the child of Anatoly Streltsov, a forefront trooper and insight officer, and Sofia Frolovna. Anatoly did not come back to the family following the Second World War, rather settling alone in Kiev; Sofia in this way brought up her child all alone, working at the Fraser Cutting Instruments Factory to help Eduard and herself. Thus, Streltsov had an unobtrusive childhood, the features of which were playing football and following his favored group, Spartak Moscow. 

The industrial facility perceived his ability since early on: Streltsov turned into the Fraser Factory football crew's most youthful ever player when he was 13 years of age. After three years in 1953, an inviting match was composed among Fraser and an adolescent group from Torpedo Moscow. Streltsov awed the Torpedo mentor, Vasily Provornov, and in the wake of become a close acquaintence with him, left Fraser to play for Torpedo. 

Matured 16, Streltsov made his presentation for Torpedo amid the 1954 season, showed up in each group amusement and scored four objectives. The group completed ninth in the association, a drop from third the earlier year. In his second season Streltsov was the association's most productive goalscorer, scoring 15 objectives in 22 amusements as his side rose to fourth place. Streltsov was chosen for the Soviet national group without precedent for 1955, part of the way through the season; his introduction arrived in a well disposed match against Sweden in Stockholm on 26 June, when he scored a cap trap inside the initial 45 minutes as the Swedish group was vanquished 6– 0. On his second appearance, a well disposed home diversion against India, he scored three objectives once more. A further diversion in Hungary and an objective against France implied that by the beginning of 1956, Streltsov had scored seven objectives for the Soviet Union in four matches. In the wake of scoring in a match against Denmark in April 1956, he missed three worldwide matches before returning in September with an objective following three minutes in a 2– 1 away triumph over West Germany. Streltsov kept on scoring consistently for Torpedo, overseeing 12 group objectives amid the 1956 season, yet showed up in two progressive thrashings for the Soviets before they ventured out in November 1956 to the Olympic Games in Melbourne. Streltsov scored three objectives in a 16– 2 triumph over Australia in an informal match on 15 November before scoring a late winning objective in the primary competition coordinate against the United Team of Germany nine days after the fact. The Soviets required a replay to beat Indonesia in the quarter-finals and met Bulgaria in the semi-last. 

The match completed 0– 0 following an hour and a half, and with safeguard Nikolai Tishchenko and Streltsov's individual Torpedo forward Valentin Ivanov both harmed, the Soviet group had just nine fit players when Bulgaria scored right off the bat in additional time. Streltsov's execution was later depicted by writer Jonathan Wilson as "wonderful"; he scored an equalizer following 112 minutes and after that set up Boris Tatushin of Spartak Moscow four minutes after the fact to score the triumphant objective. Streltsov missed the last against Yugoslavia as the group chief, Gavriil Kachalin, trusted the two forward players ought to be club colleagues; as Ivanov was unfit, Streltsov was dropped too. Nikita Simonyan, who had his spot, offered Streltsov his gold decoration following a 1– 0 triumph over the Yugoslavs, an offer which the Torpedo player won't, saying "Nikita, I will win numerous different trophies". Streltsov got two votes in the 1956 Ballon d'Or. 

Streltsov scored the main objective in a 2– 0 success in a World Cup qualifying play-off match in Poland which implied the Soviet Union fit the bill for the 1958 World Cup. At club level, he scored 12 objectives in 15 group matches amid the 1957 season. Torpedo, never class champions and customarily eclipsed by neighborhood adversaries, for example, CSKA, Dynamo and Spartak, completed as sprinters up of the Soviet Top League. Toward the finish of that season, Streltsov came seventh in the 1957 Ballon d'Or, picking up 12 cast a ballot; by the beginning of the World Cup year, 1958, his global record remained at 18 objectives in 20 amusements. Streltsov scored five objectives in the initial eight group matches of the 1958 Top League season, and showed up in a 1– 1 inviting attract with England Moscow on 18 May 1958. 

Streltsov was known for womanizing, drinking vigorously and driving an indulgent life outside of football, just as for wearing his hair in the British "Teddy Boy" style. As a key player for his club and for the Soviet national side, these attributes joined to make an impression in government hovers that, in Wilson's words, "Streltsov was winding up rather a lot of a VIP". The issue was conveyed to a head by a supposed connection between the footballer and Svetlana Furtseva, the 16-year-old girl of the primary female Politburo part Ekaterina Furtseva. With the youthful Svetlana besotted by the 19-year-old Torpedo forward, her mom initially met him at a Kremlin ball held right off the bat in 1957 to praise the Olympic triumph of 1956. Furtseva recommended he may wed her little girl, to which Streltsov answered "I as of now have a life partner and I won't wed her [Svetlana]." While alcoholic, he was later heard to comment possibly "I could never wed that monkey" or "I would prefer to be hanged than wed such a young lady" (the two statements were accounted for), embarrassing Furtseva, a pastor near Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev. 

Streltsov turned out to be covertly drawn in to Alla Demenko before leaving for the Olympics, and the couple wedded on 25 February 1957, part of the way through arrangements for the Soviet season. The Department of Soviet Football censured both the player and his club over the planning of the service. The Communist Party additionally appeared to doubt him, thinking of him as a conceivable deserter after he pulled in light of a legitimate concern for French and Swedish clubs amid visits abroad with Torpedo. His record in the gathering documents incorporated the remark: "[a]ccording to a checked source, Streltsov said to his companions in 1957 that he was constantly sorry to learn to the USSR after outings abroad." After he was sent off amid an amusement in Odessa in April 1957, the official government sports paper "Sovetsky Sport" distributed an article about him titled "This isn't a saint" just as letters purportedly composed by individuals from the low class, which depicted Streltsov as a "case of the disasters of western dominion". 

Seven days subsequent to showing up against England in a warm-up match in Moscow for the 1958 World Cup, Streltsov was welcome to a gathering by a Soviet military officer, Eduard Karakhanov, to be hung on 25 May. Streltsov and the remainder of the Soviet squad were on a pre-World Cup preparing camp at Tarasovka, simply outside Moscow, yet the group had been given the day as occasion. Toward the finish of such days, the players needed to answer to the specialists at Dynamo Stadium at 4:30 pm, however Streltsov and two partners, Spartak players Mikhail Ogonkov and Boris Tatushin, overlooked this standard and went to the gathering in any case. Held at Karakhanov's dacha, it was additionally gone to by a 20-year-elderly person named Marina Lebedeva, whom Streltsov had never met. The next morning, Streltsov, Ogonkov and Tatushin were altogether captured and accused of assaulting her. 

Writer Kevin O'Flynn composes that since overwhelming drinking hosted occurred at the get-together, the proof against Streltsov was "confounded and opposing", even from Lebedeva herself. Yet, the Soviet group mentor, Gavriil Kachalin, asserted in no time before Streltsov's passing that impact from high up in the Communist Party directed that the player would not have benefited from outside intervention; Kachalin said that police let him know of Khrushchev's own inclusion, fuelled by resentment held by Furtseva. As per Soviet Union colleague Nikita Simonyan, talking in 2006, Streltsov kept in touch with home to his mom "saying he was assuming the fault for another person". Streltsov and Lebedeva slept together, Simonyan stated, and he didn't trust their getting had been set together, however he was uncertain about whether Streltsov had assaulted her. Simonyan recommended that consensual sex could have been curved into an assault allegation by "the framework", which he said bore hostility towards the Torpedo forward. Notwithstanding, in a similar meeting Simonyan uncovered implicating photos of both Lebedeva and Streltsov from the season of the preliminary, incorporating one in which the Torpedo player's face "was streaked from nose to cheekbone with three parallel scratches". "[T]here is the likelihood that the photos were doctored or the wounds dispensed sometime in the not too distant future", Wilson remarks, "yet Soviet equity once in a while required such condemning proof." Streltsov's better half of a little more than a year, Alla, sought legal separation not long after the allegations were made. Aside from Streltsov himself, the main individuals from the group present at his preliminary were Ogonkov and Tatushin, who showed up as observers. 

Streltsov admitted to the wrongdoing in the wake of being advised this would enable him to keep his place in the Soviet group for the 1958 World Cup. This did not occur, in any case; a long way from staying in the national side, Streltsov was condemned to twelve years in the constrained work camps of the Gulag, and banished from regularly coming back to proficient football of any sort. Plans for a walk by 100,000 laborers at Moscow's ZiL vehicle processing plant, the base of the Torpedo club, to indicate support amid the preliminary, were relinquished when Streltsov was condemned before the walk could be masterminded. Ogonkov and Tatushin, in the interim, were prohibited from playing any sort of composed football for a long time, and banned from speaking to the USSR forever. In the camp where he was detained, Streltsov was at first deceived by a youthful criminal who dispensed so much physical damage on him that he went through four months in the jail medical clinic, experiencing wounds brought about by blows from either an "iron bar or a shoe heel". Camp experts later began to incorporate Streltsov in football matches to quiet down the detainees stuck in an unfortunate situation; one detainee, Ivan Lukyanov, later stated: "[w]e cherished Streltsov, we trusted he would come back to football. Furthermore, not just us." 

In the interim, the Soviet group headed out to Sweden for the World Cup without Streltsov, Ogonkov or Tatushin. The world's press guaranteed that two of the contending groups were seriously debilitated: England by the Munich air debacle, and the Soviets by the loss of Streltsov. The Soviets achieved the quarter-finals, losing 2– 0 to hosts Sweden, a group vanquished 6– 0 by the Soviet Union amid Streltsov's 1955 introduction. Without Streltsov, Torpedo dropped from their second-place complete in 1957 to seventh in 1958, however the group additionally achieved the Soviet Cup last before losing to Spartak. Streltsov's place as the club's driving scorer was taken by the 21-year-old forward Gennadi Gusarov, who had turned proficient with Torpedo amid 1957. The group rose to fifth in 1959 preceding winning the Double of Top League and Cup amid the next year, with Gusarov driving the association in objectives with 20. Torpedo at that point completed as sprinters up in the two rivalries in 1961, with Gusarov scoring 22. Two mid-table completions pursued as Gusarov was sold to city rivals Dynamo between the 1962 and 1963 seasons, however Torpedo by and by came next in 1964, losing a title play-off against Dinamo Tbilisi after the two clubs completed equivalent on focuses. 

Streltsov was discharged on 4 February 1963, five years into his twelve-year sentence, and inferable from the restriction from expert play started to part his time between work at the ZiL industrial facility and the investigation of car building at the appended specialized school. Subsequent to neglecting to fix up his disparities with Alla, he wedded Raisa Mikhailovna in September 1963. He began to play for the beginner processing plant group, which made it draw in substantial groups, both at home and away. At the point when the ZiL side went to Gorky for an away match late in the 1964 season, the group's mentor got orders from above not to play Streltsov, something which observers saw promptly when the match began; amid the main half, they started to uproar and took steps to torch the arena, reciting Streltsov's name. Stressed that the furious group may proceed with this, the Gorky manufacturing plant boss arranged the ZiL mentor to send Streltsov out for the second half. On venturing onto the field, the previous Gulag detainee got an overwhelming applause. 

With Streltsov in the group, ZiL topped the manufacturing plant association in the wake of winning each of the 11 matches. In spite of the fact that he was not permitted to play for Torpedo, Streltsov went to matches at his old club all through the season. In October 1964, Khrushchev was supplanted as the Communist Party's First Secretary by Leonid Brezhnev, who soon after taking office got a letter marked by a huge number of individuals, including legends of Socialist Labor and national and local Supreme Soviet individuals, mentioning the inversion of Streltsov's expert boycott. Some gathering individuals were careful about a potential rebound, expecting that Streltsov's consideration in a Torpedo squad that consistently went to Western Europe could prompt a worldwide episode, yet Brezhnev canceled the boycott, contending that as a liberated person Streltsov ought to have the capacity to utilize his prepared calling. He was cleared to come back to Torpedo before the 1965 season. 

Streltsov was energetically invited back by supporters. In spite of the fact that he had lost a portion of his quality and spryness, his footballing knowledge was as yet flawless; his essence assisted Torpedo to win the 1965 Soviet title, with Streltsov scoring 12 objectives from 26 group matches. Toward the finish of the period, he came next in the voting in favor of the Soviet Footballer of the Year behind Torpedo colleague Valery Voronin. It was the second time that Torpedo had won the association; the club had won its first title five years sooner, amid Streltsov's detainment. Streltsov made his presentation in mainland club rivalry on 28 September 1966, playing in a 1– 0 annihilation away to Inter Milan in the European Cup. He was reviewed to the Soviet national group on 16 October 1966 out of a 2– 0 home annihilation against Turkey, and scored the main worldwide objective of his rebound seven days after the fact in a 2– 2 draw with East Germany. An appearance in a 1– 0 away annihilation against Italy pursued two weeks after the fact. Torpedo achieved the last of the Soviet Cup in 1966, yet lost 2– 0 to Dynamo. Streltsov coordinated his past occasional count of 12 class objectives amid the 1966 Top League season. 

Streltsov effectively restored himself in the Soviet group over the next year, as he showed up in eight back to back USSR matches, beginning with a 2– 0 agreeable triumph over Scotland in Glasgow in May 1967. He scored two objectives amid this keep running in the national side: one each in a 4– 2 success against France in Paris on 3 June 1967 and a 4– 3 European Championship qualifying home triumph over Austria eight days after the fact. Subsequent to losing his place for the 1968 European Championship qualifying match against Finland on 30 August 1967, Streltsov missed three Soviet Union matches. He recaptured his place for an away inviting match against Bulgaria on 8 October, scoring an objective as the Soviets battled over from 1– 0 to record a 2– 1 success. He held his place for the remainder of the timetable year, and scored a cap trap away against Chile on 17 December. He was casted a ballot Soviet Footballer of the Year toward the finish of the period, in spite of the fact that he scored a moderately low six alliance objectives amid 1967, his most reduced for a full season since his introduction year of 1954. 

Streltsov was dropped from the Soviet group for the initial three national group matches of 1968. In the wake of including in a home cordial success over Belgium in April, he showed up for the USSR in the 2– 0 1968 European Championship quarter-last first leg misfortune to Hungary on 4 May 1968. The Soviets beat Hungary 3– 0 in Moscow seven days after the fact, without Streltsov, to meet all requirements for the last competition on total. Streltsov was let alone for the competition squad, and never played for the USSR again; after his last appearance, his global count remained at 25 objectives in 38 matches. Torpedo won the Soviet Cup amid the 1968 season, conquering Uzbek side Pakhtakor Tashkent 1– 0 in the last. Streltsov held his title of Soviet Footballer of the Year subsequent to scoring the most elevated regular aggregate of his profession, 21 (in the class), however was moved back to midfield before the 1969 season and did not score in 23 group matches amid his last two years. He resigned from football in 1970, at 33 years old, leaving his last group record for Torpedo over the two spells remaining at 99 objectives from 222 amusements. 

Following a footballing profession went through only with Torpedo, Streltsov, a supporter of Spartak Moscow, over and over grumbled about his inability to play for his most loved group. After his retirement, Torpedo kept on paying his compensation to subsidize his investigation of football training at the Institute of Physical Culture. Streltsov came back to Torpedo in the limit of youth group chief after his capability; he likewise spent a concise spell as administrator of the principal group before coming back to the adolescent group in 1982. He likewise participated in matches challenged by previous players before kicking the bucket in 1990 from throat disease, which his first spouse Alla later asserted had been achieved by lighted nourishment served to him in the camps. After seven years, Marina Lebedeva, the lady Streltsov had admitted to assaulting, was seen laying blooms at his grave in Moscow on the day after the commemoration of his demise. 

Olympic approach in 1956 was to grant gold awards just to individuals from the triumphant football squad who had played in the last match. Since Streltsov did not play in the last, he didn't get an award. He was after death given a gold decoration in 2006, after this approach was changed retroactively to permit all individuals from winning Olympic squads to get awards. 

Numerous faultfinders consider Streltsov to be one of the best footballers ever from Russia or the Soviet Union: British writer and writer Jonathan Wilson depicts him as "the best outfield player Russia has ever produced ... a tall, ground-breaking forward, had of a fine first touch and uncommon footballing insight", while Russian writer Aleksandr Nilin composes that "the kid came to us from the place where there is wonder". Streltsov's skilful, imaginative style of play helped him to emerge in Soviet football, and his spearheading of the back-obeyed pass brought about it getting to be referred to in Russia as "Streltsov's pass". Amid his initial vocation, this specialized capacity joined with impressive speed and physical nearness to make a considerable all-round forward player. In his later years, with his physical qualities diminished, he underlined his aptitude and on-field knowledge to turn out to be to a greater extent a playmaker, playing further back and setting up assaulting moves for partners instead of driving them himself. In reality, for his last two seasons, Streltsov played in an assaulting midfield job as opposed to in advance. In spite of the eight-year hole between his two spells as an individual from the Soviet national group, Streltsov, nicknamed "The Russian Pelé", was the fourth most noteworthy universal goalscorer in the nation's history. 

Torpedo Moscow's ground, Torpedo Stadium, was redubbed the "Eduard Streltsov Stadium" in 1996. After a year, the Russian Football Union presented the Strelyets prizes as the most esteemed individual distinctions in Russian football, granted every year to the best supervisor in the Russian alliance and the best players in each situation until ended in 2003. A statue of Streltsov was developed inside Moscow's Luzhniki Olympic Complex in 1998, and another was raised by Torpedo outside the arena bearing his name amid the next year. 

The Streltsov Committee, shaped in 2001, was established to endeavor to have Streltsov's conviction of assault after death toppled. The crusade's head, chess champion Anatoly Karpov, asserted in 2001 that the conviction had kept Streltsov from turning into the world's best player. The Central Bank of the Russian Federation paid tribute to Streltsov in 2010, when it stamped a dedicatory two-ruble coin bearing his resemblance. The coin was one of three printed as a major aspect of the "Extraordinary Sportsmen of Russia" arrangement; the other two pieces bore the essences of footballers Lev Yashin and Konstantin Beskov, separately.