Interstate 70 in West Virginia 

Interstate 70 (I-70) is a part of the Interstate Highway System that keeps running from close Cove Fort, Utah, at an intersection with Interstate 15 to Baltimore, Maryland. It crosses the Northern Panhandle of West Virginia through Ohio County and the city of Wheeling. This portion is the most limited of all states' through which I-70 passes, crossing West Virginia in just . The longest portion is Colorado's, which measures . The Fort Henry Bridge conveys I-70 from Wheeling Island over the Ohio River and into downtown Wheeling before the expressway enters the Wheeling Tunnel. I-470, a southerly detour of Wheeling and the solitary helper Interstate Highway in West Virginia, is met close Elm Grove. Prior to intersection into Pennsylvania, I-70 passes The Highlands, a noteworthy mall in the beg, and the Bear Rock Lakes Wildlife Management Area. By and large, somewhere in the range of 27,000 and 53,000 vehicles utilize the turnpike consistently. 

The principal street that entered Wheeling was a post street finished in 1794 that associated Wheeling to Morgantown. The National Road was the primary interstate street, finished in 1818, that associated Wheeling to Cumberland, Maryland. At the point when the United States Numbered Highway System was made in 1926, the National Road was assigned U.S. Route 40. The I-70 assignment was conveyed toward the Northern Panhandle with the section of the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, and it was worked as a controlled-get to thruway, bypassing parts of the old National Road. The main segments of I-70 in West Virginia were opened in 1963, and development was finished in 1971. 

Entering West Virginia from Ohio, I-70 crosses the western channel of the Ohio River onto Wheeling Island, the most populated island along the Ohio River. The turnpike goes over a light business zone, and has an exchange with Zane Street. US 40 and become simultaneous with I-70 at this exchange, before voyaging east toward the Fort Henry Bridge. The extension crosses the principle channel of the stream and the Greater Wheeling Trail, a rail trail that parallels the eastern banks of the waterway. Raised over the city of Wheeling, a perplexing trade gives access to the downtown zone and Benwood. Voyaging eastward, US 40 leaves the interstate at this trade and ends up simultaneous with West Virginia Route 2 (WV 2) northbound. US 40 and WV 2 travel through downtown Wheeling on a single direction pair, the southbound paths going under I-70 and the northbound paths ignoring I-70. After the trade, I-70 enters the roughly Wheeling Tunnel which goes through Wheeling Hill. Quickly east of the passage, a directional T exchange gives access to WV 2 southbound close homes north of the interstate. US 250 leaves I-70 at this trade. A stub incline present at this exchange would have conveyed WV 2 north of I-70 had it been expanded. 

As I-70 bends toward the south, it meets US 40 and with the inclines from the eastward paths of US 40 and WV 88 crossing underneath I-70, parallel to Wheeling Creek. The exchange only west of the Wheeling Tunnel and this trade are convoluted by the way that both are adjoined by slopes. Wheeling Jesuit University's southeastern fringe is shaped by the expressway as I-70 approaches the area of Elm Grove. Washington Avenue gives access to the school as the thruway proceeds with south before meeting the eastern end of I-470, which is a detour of Wheeling and the main helper interstate expressway in West Virginia. Between the directional T exchange and I-470, I-70 is paralleled by the eastern part of the Greater Wheeling Trail. A last exchange inside Wheeling city limits gives access to US 40 and WV 88. Leaving the city, the thruway turns further east and enters a profound valley. The expressway moves more than Two-Mile Hill, and converges Cabela Drive (County Route 65), which gives access to The Highlands, a substantial shopping goal. Past The Highlands, I-70 proceeds with upper east however forests to a trade with the Dallas Pike (County Route 41). I-70 passes north of the Bear Rock Lakes Wildlife Management Area before intersection the Pennsylvania state line into Washington County southwest of West Alexander. 

Out of the ten states I-70 goes through, the fragment in West Virginia is the most limited. By examination, the longest stretch of I-70 through a solitary state is the fragment in Colorado. Consistently, the West Virginia Department of Transportation (WVDOT) conducts a progression of overviews on its expressways in the state to gauge traffic volume. This is communicated as far as yearly normal every day traffic (AADT), a proportion of traffic volume for any normal day of the year. In 2012, WVDOT determined that as few as 27,000 vehicles went over the Fort Henry Bridge over the Ohio River, and the same number of as 53,000 vehicles utilized the expressway close to its intersection with US 40 in Elm Grove. These checks are of the part of the expressway in West Virginia and are not intelligent of the whole Interstate. As a component of the Interstate Highway System, the whole course is recorded on the National Highway System, an arrangement of streets that are essential to the country's economy, protection, and versatility. 

The main recorded street to achieve what was then Wheeling, Virginia, was a post street connecting it with Morgantown, toward the southeast. The post street was finished in 1794. The National Road was the primary interstate street that served Wheeling, connecting the town to Cumberland, Maryland, in the east. The National Road began development under request of then President Thomas Jefferson in 1806 and was finished in 1818. In 1926 the United States Numbered Highway System was built up, and the National Road through the Northern Panhandle was assigned US 40. US 40 connected Vallejo, California, in the west to Atlantic City, New Jersey, in the east. Section of the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956 shaped the Interstate Highway System, assigning as I-70 a then unconstructed controlled-get to expressway over the beg by 1957. Since it was built as a different controlled-get to parkway, quite a bit of I-70 is isolated from the old National Road and US 40. 

The principal part of what is presently known as I-70 to be finished crosswise over West Virginia was the Fort Henry Bridge over the primary channel of the Ohio River, worked in 1955. WVDOT started getting option to proceed for I-70 out of 1961. The Wheeling Tunnel, connecting downtown Wheeling and the Fort Henry Bridge toward the eastern suburb of Elm Grove, was finished in 1967 at an expense of $7 million (proportionate to $ in ). The scaffold that conveys I-70 from the Ohio state line onto Wheeling Island was finished in 1968. Development of I-70 over the beg was nearly finished in September 1971, with just a single of the two carriageways finished in the last section of expressway close Elm Grove. At that point Governor Arch A. Moore, Jr. what's more, Senator Jennings Randolph were available for the opening of this $17 million (comparable to $ in ) part of road. The second carriageway was finished before the finish of 1971. 

The Fort Henry Bridge, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Bridge (which conveys I-470), and the Wheeling Suspension Bridge were altogether shut in January 2005, preventing any traffic from Ohio or Wheeling Island from entering territory West Virginia for a couple of days since canal boats loosened up amid overwhelming flooding along the Ohio River. The Wheeling Tunnel was shut for reproduction work in 2007, 2008, and 2010, causing drivers who wished to go through on I-70 to reroute. The two reroute courses were city lanes in downtown Wheeling and the I-470 circle. 

After traffic issues amid the 2008 recreation chip away at the Wheeling Tunnel, neighborhood government officials proposed shutting the twin passages through and through and building the expressway over Wheeling Hill. After resistance from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which spoke to the influenced Wheeling Hill inhabitants, the recommendations were dropped. The expense of finishing the passage substitution venture was evaluated at somewhere in the range of $60 and $80 million. The complete $13.7 million cost of the passage reproduction venture was over twofold the first offered of $5.7 million, due to some extent to the work delays.