CM Punk 

Phillip Jack Brooks (conceived October 26, 1978), better known by the ring name CM Punk, is an American blended military craftsman, comic book author and resigned proficient wrestler. He is presently marked to both the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he contends in the welterweight division, and to Cage Fury Fighting Championships (CFFC), where he functions as a reporter. He is maybe best known for his time in WWE, where he is perceived as the 6th longest ruling WWE Champion ever. 

Streams started his expert wrestling profession on the American autonomous circuit, principally with Ring of Honor (ROH) until 2005, when he marked with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Amid his 15-year profession, Brooks won the WWE Championship twice, WWE's World Heavyweight Championship multiple times, and the ECW and ROH World Championships once each. By winning WWE's World Tag Team Championship (with Kofi Kingston) and Intercontinental Championship, he turned into WWE's nineteenth Triple Crown Champion and the quickest to accomplish this accomplishment, in 203 days. He was casted a ballot WWE Superstar of the Year at the 2011 Slammy Awards, and Wrestler of the Year in 2011 and 2012 by perusers of "Genius Wrestling Illustrated". 

Streams utilized the CM Punk moniker his whole profession, and reliably depicted the character of a frank, sharp-tongued, insurgent, straight edge renegade. The majority of the straight edge standards he depicted, for example, not drinking liquor or not taking recreational medications, are his genuine perspectives. Contingent upon his arrangement as a saint or reprobate, he underscored diverse parts of the straight edge culture to accumulate the ideal group of onlookers response. 

In the wake of getting to be displeased in WWE, Punk resigned from expert wrestling in 2014. He sought after a profession in blended hand to hand fighting and was marked by the UFC in December of that year. His first expert battle occurred on September 10, 2016, at UFC 203 against Mickey Gall, where he was vanquished by means of accommodation in the first round. He lost his second session to Mike Jackson by means of consistent choice on June 9, 2018, at UFC 225. 

Creeks was conceived in Chicago, Illinois, and brought up in adjacent Lockport, Illinois. He is one of five youngsters—his dad was a designer, while his mom was a homemaker. Creeks' dad battled with liquor abuse which propelled him to turn out to be straight edge since the beginning. He went to Lockport Township High School. 

Streams' first endeavor into wrestling was a spell in a lawn wrestling league called the Lunatic Wrestling Federation with his companions and sibling Mike Brooks in the mid-late 1990s. Creeks previously begun utilizing the ring name CM Punk when he was put into a label group named The Chick Magnets with CM Venom after another entertainer avoided the card. In contrast to his companions, Punk really needed to be a wrestler and considered it to be more than basic fun. At the point when the advancement began taking off, doing appears out of a stockroom in Mokena, Illinois, Punk discovered that his sibling Mike had stolen a great many dollars from the little organization, making them become alienated and not have spoken since. 

Creeks before long left the alliance and enlisted as an understudy at the Steel Dominion wrestling school in Chicago, where he was prepared by Ace Steel, Danny Dominion and Kevin Quinn to turn into an expert wrestler. As a component of the preparation, he wrestled at Steel Domain Wrestling in St. Paul, Minnesota. It was in the Steel Domain that he met Scott Colton, who before long embraced the stage name Colt Cabana. Punk and Cabana turned out to be closest companions and burned through the vast majority of their initial vocation together working in a similar autonomous advancements, as the two rivals and label group accomplices. In the independents, alongside individual Steel Domain graduates Colt Cabana, Chucke E. Smooth, Adam Pearce and chief Dave Prazak, Punk framed a partnership named the Gold Bond Mafia. 

Punk's home advancement for his initial profession was viewed as the Independent Wrestling Association Mid-South (IWA Mid-South). Amid Punk's time in IWA Mid-South, he had prominent fights with Colt Cabana and Chris Hero while likewise ascending to the highest point of the list winning the IWA Mid-South Light Heavyweight Championship twice and the IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship on five separate events, beating wrestlers like A.J. Styles, Cabana and Eddie Guerrero in matches for the heavyweight title. Punk's quarrel with Hero incorporated a 55-minute Tables, Ladders and Chairs (TLC) coordinate, a 93-minute two out of three falls coordinate and a few hour long time limit draws. From July 2003 until May 2004, Punk would not wrestle for IWA Mid-South, clarifying this as a challenge to Ian Rotten's abuse of Chris Hero in the organization. In any case, Hero has expressed he accepts there were different reasons and Rotten's treatment of him was only a reason by Punk to quit working for the organization. Punk in the end came back to IWA Mid-South and kept on executing as a wrestler and analyst for them until July 2005. 

Punk's matches with Colt Cabana drove him to being employed by the Ring of Honor (ROH) advancement. At first, Punk joined ROH as a face, yet immediately turned heel in a fight with Raven that included various variations of no preclusion matches. Their competition was established in Punk's straight-edge way of life, with him comparing Raven to his alcoholic dad; it kept going the greater part of 2003 and was viewed as one of ROH's top quarrels of the year. Their competition was settled at The Conclusion in November 2003, where Punk vanquished Raven in a steel confine coordinate. 

Punk began climbing the positions of ROH, incorporating coming in second at the Second Anniversary Show amid the competition to crown the first ROH Pure Champion, losing to A.J. Styles in the finals and winning the ROH Tag Team Championship twice with Colt Cabana as The Second City Saints (Punk and Cabana vanquished the Briscoe Brothers to win the title the multiple times). Around October 2003, Punk was enlisted as the main head mentor of the Ring of Honor wrestling school, having recently been a coach for the Steel Domain and Primetime Wrestling. 

In 2004, Punk went head to head against ROH World Champion Samoa Joe for the title in a three-coordinate arrangement. On June 12 at World Title Classic, the main match brought about an hour long time limit draw when neither Punk nor Joe could stick or cause the other to submit in the hour. On October 16 at Joe versus Punk II, they wrestled to a second hour long draw. Notwithstanding "Joe versus Punk II" getting to be Ring of Honor's smash hit DVD at the time, the match got a five-star rating by Dave Meltzer's "Wrestling Observer Newsletter". It was the principal coordinate in North America to get a five-star rating in seven years, the last one being the Hell in a Cell coordinate between Shawn Michaels and The Undertaker at in 1997. Joe finished the arrangement by crushing Punk in the third and last match on December 4 at All-Star Extravaganza 2 in which there was a no-time-limit stipulation. 

After an experiment with match on May 9, 2005 which broadcast May 15, where he lost to Val Venis on the "Sunday Night Heat" appear, Punk acknowledged an arrangement offered by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in June. In spite of the fact that he had acknowledged the arrangement, Punk crushed Austin Aries to win the ROH World Championship on June 18 at Death Before Dishonor III. Following the match, Punk continued to turn into a scalawag and began a storyline where he took steps to convey the ROH World Championship to WWE with him. For quite a long time, Punk prodded the ROH storage space and the ROH fans just as taunting the title he had, venturing to such an extreme as to sign his WWE contract on it. Amid the storyline, alluded to by ROH as the "Mid year of Punk", Mick Foley showed up, endeavoring to persuade Punk to make the best choice and shield the title on out. On August 12, Punk lost the ROH World Championship to James Gibson in a four corner disposal coordinate which likewise included Samoa Joe and Christopher Daniels. Punk's last planned match in ROH occurred at Punk: The Final Chapter on August 13, against long-lasting companion Colt Cabana in a two out of three falls coordinate, which he lost. 

Punk showed up at the ROH show Unscripted II on February 11, 2006, when the first card must be rejected because of Low Ki leaving ROH the week earlier. Furthermore, a large portion of the ROH program contracted to TNA were pulled from the show on account of a snowstorm that TNA authorities thought may keep entertainers from achieving the TNA's Against All Odds occasion booked the following day. In the headliner, Punk collaborated with Bryan Danielson to crush Adam Pearce and Jimmy Rave in a label group coordinate. 

While wrestling for Ring of Honor, Punk joined the wrestling advancement NWA:Total Nonstop Action, later known as Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), in which he was combined with Julio Dinero as individuals from Raven's TNA union The Gathering. 

In no time before a TNA appear on February 25, 2004, Punk had a physical fight with Teddy Hart outside of an eatery that was separated by Sabu. The fight supposedly originated from a ROH appear in which Hart performed three impromptu spots putting a few different wrestlers in risk of damage. Around the season of the fight, Punk and Dinero quit showing up on TNA appears, prompting hypothesis he was terminated for the episode. In any case, Punk said the fight made little difference to his TNA profession. Creeks said the reason he and Dinero quit showing up on TNA's compensation per-see occasions was that TNA authorities trusted that he and Dinero had not associated with the fans as reprobates, having betrayed the well known Raven and rather shaped a disgusting label group overseen by James Mitchell. The authorities chose that since the group was not filling in as reprobates, the storyline would be put on hold inconclusively, and in this way had no work for Punk or Dinero. Punk authoritatively quit TNA in March 2004 amid the Rob Feinstein discussion in the wake of having a debate with the TNA workplaces over his capacity to contend in ROH following a TNA request that their contracted wrestlers were to never again wrestle in ROH. 

In September 2005, Punk was alloted to Ohio Valley Wrestling, a WWE formative domain. He made his presentation as a heel on September 8 of every a dim match, where he, Nigel McGuinness and Paul Burchill were vanquished by Deuce Shade, Elijah Burke and Seth Skyfire. On September 26 in his OVW TV debut, Punk endured a burst eardrum and broken nose after Danny Inferno hit him with an excessively hardened right hand. In spite of the damage, Punk completed the match and immediately recuperated. 

On November 9, Punk turned into the OVW Television Champion subsequent to crushing Ken Doane, which promptly prompted a quarrel among Punk and Brent Albright, who had recently been fighting with Doane for the Television Championship and had lost his opportunity to wrestle Doane after Punk hit him with a seat so he himself could wrestle Doane. They wrestled in arrangement of matches, incorporating one that finished in additional time with Albright having Punk submit to Albright's finisher, the Crowbar, however Punk had the capacity to keep the title as he had not consented to the additional time. On January 4, 2006, Punk lost the OVW Television Championship amid a three-path move among himself, Albright and Doane. Doane was harmed part of the way through the match and was supplanted by Aaron "The Idol" Stevens. Punk submitted to Albright's Crowbar and was dispensed with, yet he returned later in the match to occupy Albright, enabling Stevens to stick Albright and become the new OVW Television Champion. Albright and Punk at that point quickly joined, however they moved toward becoming rivals again after Punk denied Albright the regard he requested and continued to persistently "punk him out". This quarrel proceeded for a considerable length of time with Punk continually beating the competition until a twofold turn happened on February 1, when Albright turned heel amid a label group coordinate, enabling the Spirit Squad to assault Punk, turning him face. After Matt Cappotelli emptied the OVW Heavyweight Championship as a result of a cerebrum tumor in February, a competition was held to crown another boss and Punk lost to Albright in the finals. Punk and Albright proceeded with their quarrel, with Albright ending up progressively flimsy and neurotic about keeping up his title after a few near fiasco matches against Punk, bringing about acts, for example, compromising Maria. On May 3, Punk vanquished Albright in a lash match to win the OVW Heavyweight Championship. As boss, Punk held the title in matches against adversaries, for example, Shad Gaspard, Ken Kennedy, Johnny Jeter and Mike "The Miz" Mizanin. 

On July 28, Punk and Seth Skyfire vanquished Shad Gaspard and the Neighborhoodie to win the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship at a house appear. They lost the label group title on August 2 to Deuce Shade and "Domino" Cliff Compton after a harmed Skyfire labeled in an officially harmed Punk. This squabble prompted a quarrel among Punk and Skyfire after a rematch for the label group title on August 7 in which a sound Punk intentionally labeled in a harmed Skyfire to be beaten by Shade and Compton. On August 30, a match was planned to happen among Punk and Skyfire for the OVW Heavyweight Championship. Nonetheless, preceding the match Skyfire was assaulted by Charles "The Hammer" Evans, with whom Skyfire had likewise been fighting and was supplanted in the match by Chet Jablonski who stuck Punk to win the OVW Heavyweight Championship. As Punk never again had the title, OVW never again required him and he was expelled from the program and raised to the WWE list full-time. Punk kept on showing up for OVW, for example, on their 400th TV scene until WWE and OVW finished their formative association on February 7, 2008. 

On June 24, 2006, Punk made his ECW debut amid a house appear at the previous ECW Arena, crushing Stevie Richards. He made his TV debut on the July 4 "ECW on Sci Fi", cutting a brief pre-taped promotion about his straight edge way of life underlining the disciplinary parts of being medication and liquor free. In spite of the fact that he had held the straight edge trick, he presently had a Muay Thai preparing foundation. Punk made his TV wrestling debut on August 1 at the Hammerstein Ballroom, vanquishing Justin Credible. Punk set up himself in ECW by going undefeated, overcoming adversaries, for example, Christopher W. Anderson, Stevie Richards and Shannon Moore. 

Before long, Punk started quarreling with Mike Knox after Knox's better half Kelly apparently had affections for Punk. Punk vanquished Knox in their first singles coordinate just as the rematch, after which Kelly observed Punk's triumph over her beau. Punk at that point cooperated with D-Generation X and the Hardy Boyz in their Survivor Series coordinate against Rated-RKO, Knox, Johnny Nitro and Gregory Helms, a match in which every one of the members on DX's side endure disposal. On December 3 at December to Dismember, Punk took an interest in the Elimination Chamber coordinate for the ECW World Championship, however he was the principal individual wiped out by Rob Van Dam. 

Following the occasion, Punk went into a fight with Hardcore Holly, who finished Punk's half year unbeaten streak in singles rivalry on January 9, 2007. Punk proceeded to quarrel with Matt Striker, who allowed him his second singles misfortune since being in ECW on January 30. Punk at that point met all requirements for the Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate at WrestleMania 23 by vanquishing Johnny Nitro, however lost the match in his WrestleMania debut on April 1. On April 10, Punk turned heel by joining the New Breed collusion following half a month in which both the New Breed and the ECW Originals had endeavored to enlist him. Be that as it may, after two weeks he sold out the New Breed amid a four-on-four disposal coordinate between the New Breed and ECW Originals by kicking New Breed pioneer Elijah Burke in the back of the head and costing them the match, after which Punk continued to convey his finisher, the "Rest", on Burke and mockingly apologized before disregarding the ring, turning face once more. On May 20 at Judgment Day, Punk crushed Burke in his first singles coordinate on a WWE pay-per-see occasion. Punk at that point went on to One Night Stand on June 3 and collaborated with Tommy Dreamer and The Sandman in a tables match to crush the New Breed and end the storyline. 

At the point when ECW World Champion Bobby Lashley was drafted to Raw and deprived of the title, a competition to pronounce another hero was held. On June 24, Punk was booked to confront Chris Benoit in the finals at , however Benoit was hurriedly supplanted by Johnny Nitro when Benoit no appeared subsequent to slaughtering his family and self. Nitro thusly vanquished Punk for the empty ECW Championship. Punk won another shot at the title at The Great American Bash against Nitro, who had changed his moniker to John Morrison by this point, however he was crushed again by Morrison at the occasion on July 22. The next week on "ECW," Punk tested Elijah Burke and Tommy Dreamer in a triple risk match to decide the following rival in Morrison's 15 Minutes of Fame Challenge in which Punk turned out triumphant. After seven days on "ECW", Punk vanquished Morrison to win an ECW Championship title coordinate on August 26 at SummerSlam, where he lost when Morrison utilized the ropes for influence. 

At the September 1 "ECW" taping, Punk crushed Morrison in a last shot title match to win the ECW Championship. In the next months, Punk proceeded to have fruitful title resistances against any semblance of Elijah Burke, Big Daddy V by means of preclusion and The Miz. On November 6, Punk held the ECW Championship in a match against Morrison following The Miz's obstruction. On November 18 at Survivor Series, Punk held the title in a triple danger coordinate against The Miz and John Morrison. On January 22, 2008, Punk lost the ECW Championship to Chavo Guerrero in a no exclusion coordinate after Edge played out a lance on him, finishing his rule at 143 days. 

On March 30, 2008 at WrestleMania XXIV, Punk won the Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate in the wake of vanquishing Carlito, Chris Jericho, John Morrison, Montel Vontavious Porter, Mr. Kennedy and Shelton Benjamin. 

On June 23, Punk was drafted to the Raw brand amid the 2008 WWE draft. In his first night on "Crude" the next week, Punk traded out his Money in the Bank contract after Batista beat down World Heavyweight Champion Edge and won the title, making his first barrier later that equivalent night against John Bradshaw Layfield, who had tested him soon after his success. Punk kept on holding and guard the title until Unforgiven, when he was assaulted by The Legacy and Orton completed the strike by punting Punk in the head before the Championship Scramble coordinate on September 7, finishing his rule at 69 days. Punk couldn't take part in the match because of the assault thus relinquished the title, being supplanted by Chris Jericho, who won the match and the title. On the September 15 scene of "Crude", Punk got his title rematch, however he neglected to recapture the title in a steel confine coordinate against Jericho. 

On the October 27 scene of "Crude", Punk and Kofi Kingston crushed Cody Rhodes and Ted DiBiase to win the World Tag Team Championship. The pair were individuals from Team Batista at Survivor Series, where their group lost to Team Orton on November 23. Punk at that point entered in a main contender Intercontinental Championship competition, vanquishing Snitsky and John Morrison in the initial two rounds. Punk and Kingston lost the World Tag Team Championship to John Morrison and The Miz on December 13 at a live occasion. The following day at Armageddon, Punk vanquished Rey Mysterio to win the competition. On the January 5, 2009, scene of "Crude", Punk got his title coordinate against William Regal, which finished in a preclusion when Regal snatched the ref's pullover. Because of this, Stephanie McMahon granted Punk a rematch the next week on "Crude", yet this time it was himself that was precluded. McMahon granted him another rematch, a no exclusion coordinate on the January 19 scene of "Crude", where Punk won the match and the title. With this success, Punk turned into the nineteenth WWE Triple Crown Champion and the quickest to achieve the accomplishment, breaking Kevin Nash's old record at 203 days. Punk lost the title on the March 9 "Crude" to John Bradshaw Layfield. On April 5 at WrestleMania XXV, Punk won the Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate and turned into the primary individual to win the match twice. On April 13 amid the 2009 WWE draft, Punk was drafted from Raw to SmackDown. In the period after the draft, Punk fought with Umaga over Umaga's rehashed shock assaults while Punk was endeavoring to trade out his Money in the Bank contract, at last bringing about a Samoan tie coordinate at Extreme Rules, which was won by Punk. 

Toward the finish of the occasion on June 7, Punk traded out his Money in the Bank contract to crush Jeff Hardy for the World Heavyweight Championship directly after Hardy won the title from Edge in a stepping stool coordinate. Punk made his first effective title protection in a triple risk coordinate against both Edge and Hardy on the June 15 scene of "Crude". On June 28 at The Bash, Punk held the title despite the fact that he lost to Hardy by exclusion subsequent to kicking the ref. As a major aspect of the storyline, Punk harmed his eye and said that he couldn't see the official, yet Hardy raised doubt about his eye damage, trusting it to be faked, with Punk turning heel and professing to be the ethical unrivaled of the individuals who bolster Hardy because of his medication free way of life. On July 26 at Night of Champions, Punk lost the title to Hardy. Their fight proceeded through SummerSlam on August 23, when Punk recaptured the title in a TLC coordinate just to be assaulted by The Undertaker. 

On the August 28 scene of "SmackDown", Punk finished up his program with Hardy and accomplished his booked objective of extracting him from WWE, vanquishing Hardy in a steel confine coordinate wherein the washout consented to leave the organization. On September 13 at Breaking Point, Punk vanquished The Undertaker in an accommodation match to hold the World Heavyweight Championship. Funeral director initially won the match with his "Damnation's Gate" accommodation hold, yet SmackDown General Manager Theodore Long restarted the match in the wake of expressing that the boycott that previous SmackDown General Manager Vickie Guerrero had put moving was still essentially and Punk won the match with his "Boa constrictor Vise" when ref Scott Armstrong required the chime notwithstanding Undertaker never submitting. The quarrel between the two proceeded and on October 4 at Hell in a Cell he lost the World Heavyweight Championship to The Undertaker in a Hell in a Cell coordinate. Punk lost two ensuing rematches for the World Heavyweight Championship against The Undertaker on "SmackDown" and on October 25 at Bragging Rights in a deadly four-manner coordinate likewise including Batista and Rey Mysterio. 

His character took on an increasingly evil course on the November 27 scene of "SmackDown" when Punk uncovered that he had changed over Luke Gallows, who had recently been depicted as the rationally bumbling wrestler Festus, to the straight-edge way of life which had freed him of his psychological inconveniences. Proceeding to embrace his straight-edge reasoning, Punk started to introduce himself as a religion like hero to the group, developing the hair on his head, face and chest in an implication to Jesus. Through January 2010, Punk started to change over planted individuals from the gathering of people to a straight-edge way of life, making them guarantee of loyalty to him and shaving their head as an indication of restoration and dedication. Subsequent to changing over numerous individuals who were not seen once more, convert Serena started going with Punk and Gallows to shape The Straight Edge Society. Just as driving this partnership, Punk was additionally the guide of "NXT" new kid on the block Darren Young who played with ending up straight edge before rejecting just before his head was to be shaved. On the December 14 scene of "Crude", Punk contended in a competition to crown the 2009 Superstar of the Year, however he lost to John Cena by accommodation in the first round. 

Punk kept on indicating messianic attributes, every now and again giving lessons including amid the yearly Royal Rumble coordinate in January 2010 just as amid an Elimination Chamber coordinate in February 2010 at both of the eponymous pay-per-see occasions. In the Elimination Chamber coordinate, Punk was disposed of by Rey Mysterio, whom he had quarreling with driving into the occasion. Pressures raised as Mysterio kept him from winning a Money in the Bank qualifying match, making Punk intrude on Mysterio's festival of his little girl's ninth birthday celebration. Mysterio provoked Punk to a road battle at WrestleMania XXVI, however he lost to Gallows and Punk included the stipulation that if Rey lost against him at WrestleMania XXVI, he would join the Straight Edge Society. At the occasion on March 28, Punk lost to Mysterio, starting a rematch on April 25 at Extreme Rules where Punk would need to shave his head like his supporters in the event that he lost, yet he won this match after obstruction from a fourth individual from the Straight Edge Society who kept his face secured. On May 23 at Over The Limit, a third and last match among Punk and Mysterio was reserved with the two stipulations reactivated, yet he lost and was therefore shaved uncovered. 

Humiliated by being shaved uncovered as he viewed himself as constantly unadulterated dissimilar to his adherents, Punk started wearing a cover to conceal his hair loss. On June 20 at Fatal 4-Way, Punk tested for the World Heavyweight Championship against Mysterio, Big Show and the victor Jack Swagger, yet he was ineffective when he was assaulted by Kane, who was blaming different individuals for assaulting The Undertaker. On the July 16 scene of "SmackDown", Punk was at last exposed by Big Show while mending from arm damage. The next week on "SmackDown", Show likewise exposed the unknown individual from The Straight Edge Society, who was uncovered to be Joey Mercury. This prompted a four-on-one impairment on August 15 at SummerSlam, where Big Show vanquished the whole Straight Edge Society after Punk surrendered his partners. On September 19 at Night of Champions, Punk lost to Big Show in a singles coordinate. Following this, Serena was discharged from WWE while Mercury wound up harmed, seriously diminishing The Straight Edge Society as Gallows started appearing of dispute as well, however Punk crushed him on the "SmackDown" scene which circulated on September 24, finishing the gathering. 

On October 11, Punk was exchanged back to the Raw brand subsequent to being swapped with Edge and participated in the interbrand label group coordinate on October 24 at Bragging Rights in the wake of harming Evan Bourne to win a spot, however his group lost. It was accounted for later that he was enduring with hip damage that would prevent him from contending. To keep a nearness on TV, he started commentating on "Crude" from November 22. 

Toward the finish of December, Punk left the analysis group subsequent to attacking John Cena on "Crude" and "SmackDown" with a seat. Punk later uncovered that his thought processes in the assaults were that he had joined and expected control of The Nexus. Punk at that point made every individual from the gathering substantiate themselves deserving of a spot, with some rather joining The Corre, which had been begun by previous Nexus pioneer Wade Barrett on SmackDown. 

In January 2011, Punk and The Nexus cost Orton his match with The Miz for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble as a retribution for Orton rashly finishing Punk's first World Heavyweight Championship reign in 2008. Thusly, Orton reacted by taking out the majority of the New Nexus individuals by punting them in the head, disregarding Punk as the sole enduring individual from the gathering. This prompted a WrestleMania XXVII match on April 3 and a Last Man Standing match on May 1 at Extreme Rules, the two of which Punk lost. 

In June 2011, subsequent to sticking WWE Champion John Cena on "Crude", Rey Mysterio at Capitol Punishment, lastly Alberto Del Rio again in a No. 1 contendership match all inside multi week, Punk uncovered that his agreement was to terminate on July 17 at Money in the Bank and pledged to leave the organization with the WWE Championship. Subsequent to making a blistering yet exceedingly acclaimed on-air discourse concerning the manner by which WWE is run and its proprietor Vince McMahon, Punk was given a storyline suspension from broadcast WWE occasions. Punk would be reestablished on Cena's request. Upon his arrival, Punk stopped to show up with the rest of the individuals from The Nexus and the gathering discreetly broken up that month, turning Punk face. At Money in the Bank, Punk vanquished Cena to turn into the WWE Champion on his last night under contract with WWE. The match got a five-star rating from Dave Meltzer, denoting Punk's second execution to accomplish a five-star rating. 

On July 21, Punk showed up at a joint WWE– Mattel board at San Diego Comic-Con, where he derided new Chief Operating Officer Triple H and offered WWE Championship competition finalist Rey Mysterio a counterpart for the WWE Championship as long as it was in Punk's main residence in Chicago. Punk showed up at July 23's All American Wrestling appear, appearing at Gregory Iron, a wrestler with cerebral paralysis. Mysterio won the WWE Championship competition on the July 25 scene of "Crude" just to lose it to Cena soon thereafter, however after Cena's triumph Punk returned and upstaged the new WWE Champion's festival while likewise going into a title question. Triple H later maintained both Punk and Cena's cases to the WWE Championship as real and booked the two to a match at SummerSlam to choose the undisputed WWE Champion. At the occasion on August 14, Punk won, however he lost the title minutes after the fact to Alberto Del Rio, who had traded out his Money in the Bank contract after Kevin Nash assaulted Punk. 

The night after SummerSlam, Punk blamed Nash for plotting with Triple H to ward off Punk from the WWE Championship. After rehashed showdowns, Nash and Punk requested to confront each other at Night of Champions, to which Triple H assented, however after Punk's rehashed verbal assaults towards him and his better half Stephanie McMahon, Triple H booked himself to supplant Nash. At the occasion on September 18, Punk lost a no exclusion coordinate after Nash, The Miz and R-Truth assaulted the two men. Miz and Truth likewise assaulted Punk on October 2 at Hell in a Cell after he lost a WWE Championship triple danger Hell in a Cell coordinate. Punk endeavored to retaliate for this by collaborating with Triple H against Miz and Truth on October 23 at Vengeance, however he lost again because of Nash assaulting Triple H. This helped progress Punk's insurgent voice from Triple H to John Laurinaitis, who turned into the interval Raw General Manager. Punk shrugged off Laurinaitis' advancement and verbally assaulted him as a dull teacher's pet. 

On the October 31 scene of "Crude", Punk solid furnished his way into a match with Del Rio at Survivor Series, recovering the WWE Championship at the occasion on November 20. Punk proceeded to protect the title through the year's end, holding in a rematch with Del Rio on the November 28 scene of "Crude" and against both Del Rio and The Miz in a triple risk TLC coordinate on December 18 at . On the December 26 scene of "Crude", Punk was crushed by Dolph Ziggler in a gauntlet coordinate and thus Ziggler turned into the main contender to the WWE Championship. The next week on "Crude", Punk was vanquished by Ziggler by countout after Laurinaitis meddled, holding the title thus. Intermeddling from Laurinaitis made Punk lose to Ziggler all through January, which at last prompted Punk assaulting Laurinaitis in striking back. At the Royal Rumble on January 29, 2012, Punk effectively protected his title against Ziggler in spite of Laurinaitis going about as the outside master. 

On the January 30 scene of "Crude", the returning Chris Jericho assaulted Punk and Daniel Bryan amid their boss versus champion match, giving Bryan the success. The next week on "Crude", Jericho clarified his activities by expelling the WWE program as impersonations of himself and singling out Punk for calling himself "the best on the planet", a moniker Jericho utilized the last time he was in WWE. Their contention proceeded through Elimination Chamber on February 19, when Punk held the WWE Championship in the namesake structure, however while four contenders were dispensed with Jericho was unfit to proceed with the match in the wake of being kicked out of the chamber by Punk, causing transitory damage. The following night on "Crude", Jericho earned a match against Punk on April 1 at WrestleMania XXVIII<ref name="Raw SuperShow 2/20/12 Results"></ref> and in an offer to mentally agitate him uncovered Punk's dad was a heavy drinker and affirmed that his sister was a medication fanatic, stating that Punk's straight edge rationality was distrustfulness to dodge similar indecencies and vowing to make Punk swing to liquor by winning the title from him. John Laurinaitis included the stipulation that the WWE Championship could change hands through preclusion, which prompted Jericho instigating Punk into utilizing a weapon, yet Punk opposed and held the title. On the April 2 and 9 scenes of "Crude", Punk held the WWE Championship against Mark Henry subsequent to losing to him through countout and preclusion, being appended by Jericho following the two matches and splashed with liquor. On the April 16 scene of "Crude", Punk stuck Henry in a no preclusion, no countout match to hold the title. After rehashed squabbles, the quarrel among Jericho and Punk finished in a Chicago road battle on April 29 at Extreme Rules, where Punk crushed Jericho to hold the WWE Championship. 

On May 20 at Over the Limit, Punk holding the title against Daniel Bryan subsequent to turning around Bryan's accommodation hold the ""Yes!" Lock" into a sticking blend as the pinfall spared Punk from his very own accommodation just minutes after the fact. In the blink of an eye before Over the Limit, Bryan meddled in a non-title coordinate among Punk and Kane to outline Punk for assaulting Kane with a steel seat, beginning a three-way contention. On the June 1 scene of "SmackDown", a WWE Championship coordinate among Punk and Kane finished in a twofold exclusion after Bryan assaulted the two men. In the interim, Bryan's abandoned ex AJ Lee turned her affections to both Punk and Kane. This fight finished in a triple danger coordinate on June 17 at No Way Out, where Punk figured out how to hold the title after AJ occupied Kane. On July 15 at Money in the Bank, Punk defetead Bryan in a no exclusion coordinate with AJ as uncommon visitor arbitrator to hold the title. 

On July 23 at "Crude 1000", Punk safeguarded the title against Money in the Bank champ John Cena and lost by exclusion after obstruction from Big Show. At the point when the night's extraordinary visitor The Rock—who had interfered with Punk before to declare he would wrestle for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble in January 2013—interceded to spare Cena from Big Show's ambush, Punk assaulted him, turning heel all the while. Punk supported his activities the next week on "Crude", clarifying he was worn out on individuals like Cena and Rock eclipsing him when the WWE Champion ought to be simply the focal point of the organization, declaring further not long after by disturbing a main contender's match among Cena and Big Show. Subsequently, the two men were gone into the title coordinate against Punk on August 19 at SummerSlam, where he effectively held the title by sticking Big Show after both Punk and Cena submitted Big Show in the meantime and Raw General Manager AJ Lee restarted the match. In the next weeks on "Crude", Punk requested regard from individuals like AJ Lee, Jerry Lawler and Bret Hart and in the end lined up with Paul Heyman in his fight with Cena. On September 16 at Night of Champions, Punk held the WWE Championship after he battled Cena to a draw. Punk kept on quarreling with Cena notwithstanding the last's arm damage, dismissing the solicitations of Mick Foley and Jim Ross to pick him as his Hell in a Cell rival and prompting a fight with WWE Chairman Vince McMahon. Cena was in the long run pulled from the title coordinate and supplanted by Ryback, whom Punk would vanquish at the occasion on October 28 out of a Hell in a Cell coordinate with assistance from ref Brad Maddox to hold the title and furthermore finishing Ryback's thirty-eight match undefeated streak. 

The following night on "Crude", an irate Mick Foley stood up to Punk for declining to pick John Cena as his Hell in a Cell rival, driving the two to consent to meet at Survivor Series in a customary five-on-five end label group coordinate with Punk picking Alberto Del Rio, Cody Rhodes, Damien Sandow and The Miz for his very own group. Nonetheless, Punk was supplanted as skipper by Dolph Ziggler the next week on "Crude" and was rather reserved in a triple risk WWE Championship coordinate against John Cena and Ryback rather by Vince McMahon. At the occasion on November 18, Punk won the match by sticking Cena following obstruction from the appearing group called The Shield, enabling him to hold the WWE Championship and hold the title for an entire year. On December 4, Punk experienced medical procedure to fix an incompletely torn meniscus, expelling him from his title coordinate against Ryback on December 16 at . Regardless of his damage, Punk turned into the longest supreme WWE Champion in the previous 25 years on December 5, when he hit 381 days, outperforming John Cena's 380-day rule. Punk came back to in-ring activity on the January 7, 2013, scene of "Crude", holding the WWE Championship against Ryback in a TLC coordinate after impedance from The Shield. 

On January 27 at the Royal Rumble, Punk safeguarded the WWE Championship against The Rock in a match stipulated that if The Shield meddled, Punk would be deprived of the title. Punk initially stuck The Rock to hold after The Shield put Rock through a table while the field lights were out, driving Vince McMahon to turn out and declare that Punk would be deprived of the title, yet he rather restarted the match at The Rock's solicitation which Punk lost, finishing his rule at 434 days. WWE perceived this reign as the longest big showdown reign in WWE of the "advanced period" until Universal Champion Brock Lesnar broke that record in June 2018. Punk got a title rematch with Rock on February 17 at Elimination Chamber, stipulated that The Rock would lose the title in the event that he was excluded or tallied out, however Punk was stuck by Rock after miscommunication with Heyman. On the February 25 scene of "Crude", Punk confronted Royal Rumble victor John Cena for his main contendership to the WWE Championship, however he lost. 

In March 2013, Punk set his focus on closure The Undertaker's undefeated WrestleMania streak with an end goal to "remove something from the fans" as he trusted they had removed the WWE title from him, vanquishing Big Show, Randy Orton and Sheamus in a deadly four-manner match to formally gain the privilege to confront The Undertaker. After the demise of Paul Bearer, a storyline including Punk normally spiting The Undertaker through presentations of cockiness and irreverence towards Bearer's passing started, including Punk taking Bearer's trademark urn. On April 7 at WrestleMania 29, Punk was vanquished by The Undertaker, who reclaimed the urn. On the April 15 scene of "Crude", Punk tended to the group and after quickly reviewing his memorable title rule, left the field. After Chris Jericho compelled Heyman about Punk. moving him to coordinate at Payback on who among them was the "best on the planet", Punk made his arrival by crushing Jericho at the occasion on June 16. The following night on "Crude", Punk advised Heyman to never again go with him to his matches and was later assaulted by Heyman's customer Brock Lesnar, along these lines turning Punk face again. A while later, Heyman guaranteed Punk that he didn't send Lesnar to assault him and that despite everything he considered Punk his closest companion, expressing that any issue Punk and Lesnar had with one another was between them. On July 14 at Money in the Bank, Punk lost the WWE Championship Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate after Heyman turned on him and assaulted him. The following night on "Crude", Heyman asserted that without him, Punk was never again the "Best in the World" before releasing Lesnar on Punk. Punk and Lesnar fought for a little while until SummerSlam on August 18, when Punk lost to Lesnar in a No Disqualification coordinate after Heyman meddled. 

Punk at that point turned his sights to Heyman's other customer, Intercontinental Champion Curtis Axel. On September 15 at Night of Champions, Punk confronted Axel and Heyman in a no exclusion two-on-one debilitation end coordinate in which he made Axel submit, leaving just Heyman left, yet he lost the match after Ryback meddled and put him through a table. On October 6 at Battleground, Punk vanquished Ryback subsequent to executing a low pass up Heyman endeavoring to meddle in the match. On the October 14 scene of "Crude", Punk crushed Axel in a Beat the Clock challenge match to decide the stipulation for his rematch with Ryback at Hell in a Cell, which Punk was a two-on-one impairment coordinate in the Hell in a Cell likewise including Heyman. At the occasion on October 27, Punk vanquished Heyman and Ryback by sticking the last mentioned and after the match playing out a "Rest" on Heyman at the highest point of the cell to get his payback, finishing their storyline. 

Punk proceeded onward to a fight with The Wyatt Family and shaped a coalition with Daniel Bryan, with the couple crushing Harper and Rowan in a label group coordinate on November 24 at Survivor Series. The following night on "Crude", Punk was assaulted by The Shield while endeavoring to spare Bryan from being "abducted" by The Wyatt Family. Punk at that point hinted that The Authority requested the assault, which brought about the Director of Operations Kane booking Punk in a three-on-one impairment coordinate against The Shield at . At the occasion on December 15, Punk won the match after Reigns unintentionally played out a lance on Ambrose. After further quarrels among Punk and Kane, Kane made Punk the principal contestant in the yearly Royal Rumble coordinate on January 26, 2014. Close to the finish of match, Kane, who was at that point killed before in the match by Punk, dispensed with Punk all things considered and continued to perform on him a chokeslam through the report table. 

Punk did not show up on the January 27 scene of "Crude", nor did he show up at the "SmackDown" taping on Tuesday notwithstanding being promoted for the occasion. By Wednesday, WWE.com quit publicizing Punk for future occasions. "The Wrestling Observer" revealed that on Monday and preceding "Crude" he had really exited in the wake of telling Vince McMahon and Triple H that he was "returning home". On February 20 amid a telephone call to financial specialists, McMahon said Punk was "taking a vacation". On the March 3 scene of "Crude", WWE recognized Punk's nonappearance on TV when the show began with Punk's passage music playing, just for previous supervisor Paul Heyman to exit. WWE continued to expel Punk from film of their limited time recordings. This kept going until the main portion of July, where WWE utilized film of Punk to advance the WWE Network. In a meeting distributed in late May, Punk was asked how it felt "to be resigned at 35" and answered that "it feels better". On July 15, WWE.com moved Punk from the dynamic list to the graduated class page without discharging an announcement. Around the same time, Punk expressed gratitude toward his fans without referencing WWE. In late July, Punk said that he was "never under any circumstance" going to come back to wrestling. 

On a scene of Colt Cabana's "Craft of Wrestling" web recording discharged in November 2014, Punk ended his quiet with respect to his exit from WWE. In a point by point talk with, Punk said that he was suspended for two months subsequent to leaving the organization in January and that after the suspension finished, no one from WWE reached him. Punk additionally informed that when he connected with them for unpaid sovereignties, he was given a go around by organization administrators until he was given his end papers and was terminated by WWE on his big day in June 2014. The way of terminating was the issue that is finally too much to bear for Punk, expressing that he could stay away for the indefinite future to WWE and that following a legitimate settlement with WWE there would be no further working connection between them. The settlement included Punk giving WWE consent to sell his residual stock. 

Punk refered to his wellbeing as the fundamental reason he left WWE, portraying that in his last a very long time in the organization he had been working through an untreated and possibly deadly MRSA contamination, broken ribs, harmed knees and various blackouts, including one at the 2014 Royal Rumble, just as having lost his craving and capacity to rest soundly. Punk felt that WWE was influencing and hurrying him to wrestle before he had completely recouped. As per Punk, he found a knot on his back in November 2013 and it was analyzed as a greasy store by Dr. Chris Amann, who would not evacuate it in spite of Punk's solicitations. The week after Punk left WWE, his significant other April Mendez persuaded him to get the knot checked by her specialist. The specialist analyzed it as a MRSA disease and revealed to Punk that he could have kicked the bucket due to overlooking it for so long. Punk had the specialist clear the disease, portraying it as the most noticeably bad torment in his life, yet said that once it was dealt with and he was on more grounded medicine, he had the capacity to rest superior to anything he had in months. 

Different wellsprings of despondency Punk had with WWE were his inability to headliner a WrestleMania, being paid not exactly different wrestlers in the three greatest matches of WrestleMania 29, doing favors for Vince McMahon and not being owed back, being "innovatively smothered" and feeling that there were no long haul plans for wrestlers other than John Cena just as accepting less pay and not finding solutions concerning how the coming of the WWE Network would influence wrestlers' pay rates. Ultimately, Punk depicted having left with "zero enthusiasm" for wrestling and portrayed himself at the season of the meeting to be the most joyful in numerous years. 

Not exactly seven days after the fact when Vince McMahon was met on "The Steve Austin Show" through the WWE Network, McMahon apologized to Punk for the way of his end, which he viewed as a fortuitous event because of an absence of correspondence inside the association. McMahon said that he was available to working with Punk once more. In a second "Craft of Wrestling" web recording, Punk rejected McMahon's statement of regret as contemptible and an "exposure stunt" as McMahon did not get in touch with him legitimately to apologize and could have apologized before. 

Punk received his genuine after of the straight edge development as a noteworthy trait of his expert wrestling character. The character uses diverse components of Punk's identity and convictions of the straight edge development reliant on his arrangement. While depicting a group top pick, Punk's character will in general be that of Punk's typical identity, to a great extent not interested in other people who drink liquor, smoke tobacco, share in recreational medication use or have unbridled sexual conduct, yet underscoring the social control required with specifically going without these practices. Then again, his disgusting identity will in general be that of one who is hardline or aggressor straight edge, embodying the elitist frames of mind and predominance edifices—characterized by Punk's normal mantra amid terrible themed promotions that, since he is straight edge, he is "superior to you". Punk plays out the straight edge image of folding his arms in a X arrangement while having the letter X composed on the back of his hands, normally drawn on his wrist tape. Amid his WWE vocation, Punk likewise fused an antagonistically anarchistic and against corporate demeanor into his persona. 

Initially, the initials CM in his ring name spoke to the expression "Chick Magnet", the name of the label group he was in as a patio wrestler. Nonetheless, Punk later changed CM into a pseudo-abbreviation, announcing that it has no significance, however when asked since he has taken to making up implications that fit the initials, venturing to such an extreme as to make up long stories to clarify the causes that don't coordinate the genuine starting point story by any stretch of the imagination. Since starting this training, Punk has expressed CM remains among others for "Treat Monster", "Treat Master", "Abnormal Moonsault", "Hurl Mosley", "Charles Montgomery", "Charles Manson" and "Chicago Made". 

Amid his passage, Punk shouts "It's clobberin' time!", a reference to New York City in-your-face punk band Sick, all things considered, who composed a tune with a similar name and Marvel's anecdotal character The Thing. 

An indispensable piece of Punk are the various tattoos that decorate his body, some of which have progressed toward becoming images related with Punk just as mantras and statements that have been incorporated into his trick. The tattoos all in all, because of their extensive amount and assortment, have likewise turned into a credit recognizable to Punk. The most imperative of the individual tattoos in Punk's character—regardless of whether through affiliation, image, or mantra—are the accompanying: 

At UFC 181, on December 6, 2014, Punk reported that he had marked a multi-battle contract with Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). Whenever inquired as to whether he would contend under his ring name or original name, he told the "Las Vegas Sun": "I've come this far with CM Punk. That is the thing that individuals know. I'm endeavoring to stay with that. I'm not shying far from it. I'm not embarrassed about it". His UFC profile records him as CM Punk. 

In January 2015, Punk started preparing under Duke Roufus at Roufusport MMA Academy. In June 2015, Punk moved to Milwaukee to be nearer to the Roufusport rec center while as yet holding his home in Chicago. Afterward, it was reported that Punk would contend in the welterweight division. In October 2015, Roufus reported that Punk had endured shoulder damage, deferring his UFC debut until the following date-book year. On February 6, 2016, it was reported that Punk would confront Mickey Gall in his first expert blended combative techniques (MMA) challenge, yet he was determined to have a herniated plate and experienced medical procedure days after the fact. 

Punk's UFC and MMA debut against Gall occurred on September 10 at UFC 203. The occasion was held at the Quicken Loans Arena, a similar scene where Punk left WWE and resigned from expert wrestling. He lost by means of back exposed gag at 2:14 of the first round. He was paid an uncovered $500,000. 

Punk's second proficient session occurred at UFC 225 on June 9, 2018, in the place where he grew up of Chicago, where he lost to Mike Jackson by means of consistent choice. After the session, UFC president Dana White said that Punk would presumably not battle for the UFC once more. 

On November 8, 2018, it was declared that Punk had marked with the Cage Fury Fighting Championships (CFFC) advancement (a UFC member) as an observer. His first occasion was CFFC 71 on December 14 and it was gushed live on UFC Fight Pass. 

Streams composed the presentation for the hardcover release of Marvel Comics' 2012 hybrid occasion "Justice fighters versus X-Men" and portrayed the open door as a "nerd dream work out". 

In 2013, Brooks composed a foreword for his companion and ex Natalie Slater's cookbook "Prepare and Destroy: Good Food for Bad Vegans". 

In February 2015, Marvel Comics' "Thor Annual" #1, incompletely composed by Brooks, was discharged. He co-stated "The Most Cursed", which showed up in Vertigo Comics' "Peculiar Sports Stories" #3 in May 2015. Rivulets additionally co-composed Marvel Comics' "Drax" continuous arrangement, which had 11 issues distributed from November 4, 2015, to September 28, 2016. Rivulets composed a one-shot of Marvel's "Lord of Kung Fu", which was distributed in November 2017. 

In 2008, Brooks showed up as the Sports Grand Marshal of the broadly broadcast McDonald's Thanksgiving Parade in downtown Chicago. He repeated this job in 2012. 

Rivulets has showed up close by his companion and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu mentor Rener Gracie in a few scenes of "Gracie Breakdown", a YouTube arrangement that clarifies blended hand to hand fighting matches and explicitly the BJJ systems utilized in them. Creeks has additionally done different work with Nerdist Industries, including facilitating an arrangement titled "Syntax Slam", clarifying syntactic missteps in messages from expert wrestling fans and scolding them. 

Creeks was the spread competitor for the computer game "WWE '13". In 2015, he was highlighted in Frank Turner's "The Next Storm" music video. 

Creeks is a nonbeliever. He recognizes as a liberal politically and has expressed his help for LGBT rights and same-sex marriage. Streams has additionally recently scrutinized the Republican National Convention. 

Streams is an ardent devotee of the Chicago Blackhawks and Chicago Cubs. In his extra time, he peruses and gathers funnies. Rivulets once worked for a shop named All American Comics and refers to "Minister" as his most loved comic. 

On June 13, 2014, Brooks wedded April Mendez, also called AJ Lee. They split their time between homes in Chicago, Illinois and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

In February 2015, WWE specialist Christopher Amann recorded a slander claim against Brooks and Scott Colton over Brooks' charges of medicinal negligence on a scene of Colton's web recording (see above). Amann was looking for generally $4 million in remuneration and an undisclosed sum in corrective harms perhaps paving the way to $30 million to $40 million altogether. WWE issued an announcement and video in help of Amann. In 2018, the case went to preliminary, where a jury decided for Brooks and Colton. In spite of the legitimate triumph, Brooks has no goal to record a counter-suit to recuperate the lawful charges. 

In August 2018, Colton recorded a claim against Brooks, charging rupture of agreement and extortion because of Brooks' supposed understanding and later refusal to pay Colton's legitimate expenses for the Amann suit. Colton is looking for $200,000 in harms and an extra $1 million in correctional harms.