These Are the Voyages... 

"These Are the Voyages..." is the arrangement finale of the American sci-fi TV arrangement "". The 22nd scene of the and the 98th of the arrangement generally speaking, it originally disclosed on the UPN organize in the United States on May 13, 2005. "These Are the Voyages..." is a casing story, where the 22nd-century occasions of "Star Trek: Enterprise" are appeared through a 24th-century holodeck re-creation amid the "" scene "". The scene highlights visitor stars Jonathan Frakes, Marina Sirtis, and Jeffrey Combs, just as a voice appearance from Brent Spiner. Arrangement makers Rick Berman and Brannon Braga, who co-composed the scene, imagined "These Are the Voyages..." as a valentine to "Star Trek" fans. 

Set in the 22nd century, the arrangement pursues the experiences of the first Starfleet starship "Endeavor", enlistment NX-01. In this scene, the story moves to the year 2370, when Commander William Riker ponders influencing a troublesome admission to his leader about a spread to up. Riker, in the wake of counseling Counselor Troi, swings to the reenacted occasions of the year 2161 for direction, when the group of "Big business" makes a trip home to Earth for both decommissioning and the development of the United Federation of Planets. 

Response to "These Are the Voyages..." was negative. Pundits and cast alike trusted the "People to come" outline ransacked the characters and their fanatics of conclusion, and that the demise of Commander Tucker felt constrained and superfluous. The last scene pulled in 3.8 million watchers, the most astounding number since the past season. After a solid debut, "Undertaking" had pondered declining appraisals all through its run. By the fourth season, less than three million watchers tuned in every week in spite of what a few fans and faultfinders thought about an expansion in scene quality. Subsequent to selling the syndication rights, UPN and Paramount declared in February 2005 that the fourth season would be the show's last. With no new "Star Trek" scenes in the fall of 2005, the 2005– 2006 season was the primary year without a first-run "Star Trek" in 18 years. Regardless of the wiping out, Paramount planned to restore the arrangement, and Berman started take a shot at a conceivable new "Star Trek" film, which was at last rejected for the J. J. Abrams-coordinated "Star Trek". 

In 2370, Commander William Riker, on board "Venture"- D, is grieved by the occasions of "" and looks for direction. At Lieutenant Commander Deanna Troi's proposal, Riker sets a holo-program to the date 2161, about six years after the occasions of "Land Prime", to when the first "Venture" (NX-01) is expected to be decommissioned following ten years of dynamic administration. The starship and its team are likewise coming back to Earth for the marking of the Federation Charter, and Captain Archer worries over the discourse he will provide for the gathered agents. 

On the way, Riker and Troi see as "Big business" is reached by Shran, a previous Andorian Imperial Guard who Archer accepted was dead. Evidently his young girl has been abducted, and he requests Archer's assistance in protecting her from Rigel X. Bowman chooses to help, regardless of Commander T'Pol's notice that they might be late returning for the function. Riker joins the "Venture" group as it attacks Shran's foes and brings his little girl securely back. Troi likewise educates that Riker expect the job with respect to ship's culinary specialist, wanting to procure the certainty of the mimicked group. As he plans nourishment with the team, he studies their recollections and impressions of Tucker. 

He additionally looks as the hijackers board "Endeavor", and how, so as to spare Archer's life, Commander Tucker over-burdens two conductors and kicks the bucket in the wake of being mortally injured. Riker sees that Archer is harried that he should compose a discourse about how beneficial their investigations have been, in spite of his companion's passing, yet T'Pol guarantees him that Tucker would have thought of it as advantageous. On Earth, Troi looks as Archer enters a packed fabulous corridor to give his discourse and Riker joins her, presently certain about what course he should take. The last shot of the scene is a montage of the boats named "Venture" as Captains Picard, Kirk, and Archer recount the "Where no man has gone previously" Prologue. 

"These Are the Voyages..." was composed by Braga and Berman, the pair's solitary content of the fourth season. "Undertaking" essayist Mike Sussman told TrekNation in May 2005 that Braga had considered the possibility of a scene hybrid highlighting characters from other "Star Trek" arrangement before the finale. Sussman's unique thought for the scene was to have of "" treating an evil patient who could possibly have been Archer caught later on. Because of the topic, Sussman said his variant would not have been appropriate for the last scene. In meetings, Berman said that the scene had dependably been expected as the season finale paying little heed to scratch-off, and gave clashing answers with respect to whether Trip would in any case have been slaughtered if the show was to proceed. 

Allan Kroeker coordinated the scene, his third arrangement finale following ""s "What You Leave Behind" and ""s "". "These Are the Voyages..." included visitor appearances by Jonathan Frakes and Marina Sirtis as their "People to come" characters William Riker and Deanna Troi. Brent Spiner, another "People to come" veteran who had visitor featured before in the fourth period of "Big business", had an off-screen talking job as the android Data. Jeffrey Combs showed up as the Andorian Shran, whom Coto had needed to be a changeless expansion to the cast in case of another season. 

Shooting of the last scene started on Friday, February 25, after the main portion of the day was spent finishing "Land Prime". Central photography took eight days to finish, one day longer than expected. The cold complex arrangement of Rigel X, first found in the pilot scene, was utilized, just like the once in a while observed "Enterprise"s cookroom. "Venture"- D areas, for example, passages and the perception relax were re-made. Frakes and Sirtis touched base at the parcel while a "Spare Enterprise" rally was being held outside the entryways. Like "What You Leave Behind", a large number of the creation staff cameoed for a vast group scene toward the finish of the scene, as Archer gets ready to give his discourse. Fifteen "VIPs" including journalists Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens, André Bormanis, and Manny Coto joined two dozen additional items in framing some portion of the group of onlookers. The remainder of the advanced set was filled by a PC created swarm. After their parts were done, the last expulsion of each cast part was met with commendation. Jolene Blalock and Scott Bakula were the last on-screen characters to be discharged, and Bakula gave a discourse expressing gratitude toward the generation team for making the cast feel welcome. Recording finished on Tuesday, March 8, and the sets were struck. Frakes and Sirtis returned on March 9 to finish green screen shots, which would be utilized when their characters entered or left the holodeck. Prior to the scene's discharge, Berman would not expand on the last scene's substance, saying "It will make them shock wanders aimlessly. It's fairly a valentine." 

"These Are the Voyages..." was contrarily gotten by the two faultfinders and the show's cast. Before the scene broadcast, Blalock called the scene "horrifying." She followed up her comments by saying she was furious about the finale being a "The Next Generation" scene instead of an end for "Big business". 

Connor Trinneer (who played Commander Trip Tucker), felt that the finale ought to have had a significant goodbye that he portrayed as a ""M*A*S*H" minute", yet that the makers did not have any desire to concentrate on such a component. Anthony Montgomery (who played Ensign Travis Mayweather) was also disappointed with the finale and stated, "I feel there could have been an increasingly viable approach to wrap things up for our show just as the establishment all in all. It just appeared to remove a smidgen from what the "Endeavor" cast and group worked so tenaciously to accomplish in the course of recent years." While Frakes delighted in working with Sirtis once more, he said that "actually it was somewhat of a stretch to have us closed down [the "Undertaking" cast's] appear," and that looking back it was a damage to them. The early analysis constrained the show's makers to hold a meeting and address the issue. Braga conceded there was cast distress, however shielded the scene as an approach to close "Endeavor" yet "Star Trek" in general. 

Commentators were additionally incredulous of the "People to come" tie-in. "Science fiction Weekly's" Patrick Lee said the surrounding story "lessens [the "Venture" cast] to the status of guinea pigs." Lee further noticed that even without the visitor appearances, the scene did not satisfy the best contributions of the period, including "In a Mirror, Darkly". "National Post"s Alex Strachan called the "People to come" appearances notices of better "Star Trek", contrasted with the "awful make-up impacts, terrible acting, awful music" of the most recent show. Deny Salem of the "Toronto Star" said the appearances filled no account need, and that the scene "loots [the] characters (and their fans) of any noteworthy long haul advancement or fulfilling feeling of conclusion." Reviewers likewise censured the scene's closure, where watchers never got the chance to see Archer's energizing discourse. IGN said that the scene was "Berman and Braga's separating shot, ensuring that everybody realized who was in control," and that the sharp difference between "These Are the Voyages..." and "Land Prime" brought into help the motivation behind why both ought not be permitted to create "Star Trek" until the end of time. 

The passing of Tucker was another object of debate. Salem depicted the improvement as "a noteworthy character is senselessly slaughtered off in administration of an inconsequential plot gadget," a grievance resounded by IGN. On-screen character Connor Trinneer, who played Trip, said amid a tradition appearance that the character had "escaped much more terrible scratches than that," and the demise appeared to be constrained. The journalists, Trinneer battled, needed to execute off a character to "get the fans talking," thus Trip was murdered off just to control watchers. A few commentators finished their surveys by saying that whether fans would be disillusioned or satisfied by the scene, most of easygoing watchers would not mind somehow. 

Because of a portion of these reactions, Coto expressed that he by and by considered the two-section story "" and "Land Prime" that went before "These Are the Voyages..." the real finale of the "Endeavor" storyline. Berman said "I've perused a great deal of the reactions and I see how a few people feel, yet [Braga] and I invested a ton of energy thinking of the thought and a to some degree, I would state, remarkable completion of an arrangement, particularly when you're finishing it rashly. [...] You never prefer to baffle individuals, however I believe it's jabber to state that it was more a "People to come" scene than a "Venture" scene. The main components of ["The Next Generation"] that were available were there as a sounding board to enable us to take a gander at a mission that occurred six years after "Land Prime"." 

In 2009, Den of Geek, while recognizing cast studies of the finale, expressed that "These Are the Voyages...'" was the tenth best scene of the arrangement, applauding the consideration of Riker and Troi and commenting the "irrefutable bliss in observing the commonplace and darling characters back on screen." 

The scene was discharged on DVD home media as a major aspect of the period four box set on November 1, 2005 in the United States. The Blu beam arrival of the last period of "Big business" was made accessible on April 29, 2014. 

"", "Enterprise"s 2001 debut scene, pulled in 12.5 million watchers in its first communicate, yet evaluations immediately dropped to a low of 5.9 million watchers. "Undertaking" was undermined with abrogation by the third season. The show made due by cutting its financial plan in the midst of supporter UPN's calendar patch up. The show was moved to Fridays in 2004, while the remainder of UPN's customizing turned out to be progressively female-accommodating, to some degree because of the accomplishment of "America's Next Top Model". The third season presented a season-long story circular segment, to probably the best audits of the whole arrangement. In the fourth season, Manny Coto wound up official maker in the wake of composing and co-delivering the show since 2003. While Coto's scenes were hailed by faultfinders and fans as rising to the nature of past "Star Trek" TV arrangement, the normal viewership dropped to 2.9 million, with an arrangement low appearing 2.5 million in January 2005. As indicated by TrekNation, "Enterprise"s last scene pulled in 3.8 million watchers, an expansion of 69% over the past season's finale. 

On February 3, 2005, UPN and Paramount reported that the fourth period of the show would be its last. The system held up until the arrangement had been sold to syndication before making the declaration. The wiping out denoted the first run through new "Star Trek" scenes would not show up on TV in 18 years, since "" debuted. The fourth season proceeded with generation so Paramount could pitch an alluring 98 scenes to syndicates. 

An arrangement finishing wrap party was held for the cast and team at the Roosevelt Hotel in April. Cast individuals talked about their sentiments about the finish of the arrangement. John Billingsley said the show "was an extraordinary ride, and it transformed me. It's something that will keep going forever for me." He was glad to bid a fond farewell to the two-hour cosmetics sessions to make his character, Phlox. A considerable lot of the cast were taking a break and traveling before looking for new acting occupations. Among the striking visitors were "" screenwriter John Logan, who was not subsidiary with "Big business", and Peter Weller, who showed up as a scalawag in "Land Prime". 

Performing artist Jolene Blalock (T'Pol) condemned the early stories as exhausting and lacking captivating substance. She felt that early "Endeavor" contents disregarded essential principles of "Star Trek" order, and offered "uncovering outfits rather than character improvement". UPN officials expressed that the male-situated scenes of "Big business" did not work with the viewership of its other top shows, for example, "Top Model" and "Veronica Mars". Brannon Braga proposed that the explanation behind the wiping out was watcher weariness, taking note of that "following 18 years and 624 hours of "Star Trek", the group of onlookers started to have a tad of needless excess." Fans, in the mean time, scrutinized Berman and Braga for overlooking "Star Trek" ordinance and declining to fix their shows. Michael Hinman, news facilitator for SyFy Portal, expressed that notwithstanding the oversaturation of "Star Trek", there "additionally is an oversaturation of Braga and Berman. [...] They couldn't kick back and state, 'You know, we can't keep this new.' No, it was increasingly about their inept consciences, and their irrational 'Regardless of whether it's penniless, don't fix it' frame of mind." Braga guarded the arrangement, taking note of that "The Next Generation" confronted little challenge from other sci-fi appears, while "Undertaking" needed to fight with a plenty of shows, for example, "Battlestar Galactica". 

Papers covering "Enterprise"s retraction and its last scene regularly said that the disappointment of "Big business" was proof that the establishment had moved excessively a long way from its underlying foundations and become excessively dim. Andy Dehnhart of MSNBC said that "while the scholars and creation planners merit credit for offering universes that were maybe somewhat increasingly acceptable, they lost the awesome, wondrous way to deal with space travel that "The Next Generation" obtained from the first "Star Trek" and after that idealized." "USA Today"s Michael Peck said that without the "fantasies" of prior arrangement, ""Star Trek" turns out to be simply one more TV dramatization." Melanie McFarland of the "Seattle Post-Intelligencer", in the interim, said the show "never found the feeling of uniqueness inside the "Trek" universe that each variant that preceded it had." Despite the crossing out, Paramount stayed hopeful. Studio head David Stapf looked "forward to another part of this suffering establishment later on." Berman and screenwriter Erik Jendrensen built up an idea for another film occurring after "Big business" however before the 1960s TV program. Then, Paramount approached Roberto Orci for thoughts to resuscitate the establishment, bringing about the generation of a reboot movie set in a substitute course of events from the 1966– 2005 establishment basically titled "Star Trek", discharged in May 2009 and coordinated by J. J. Abrams.