Noël Coward 

Sir Noël Peirce Coward (16 December 189926 March 1973) was an English dramatist, writer, executive, on-screen character and artist, known for his mind, colorfulness, and what "Time" magazine called "a feeling of individual style, a mix of cheek and chic, posture and balance". 

Quitter went to a move institute in London as a kid, making his expert stage début at eleven years old. As a youngster he was brought into the high society in which the vast majority of his plays would be set. Weakling made suffering progress as a writer, distributing more than 50 plays from his adolescents onwards. A significant number of his works, for example, "Feed Fever", "Private Lives", "Plan for Living", "Present Laughter" and "Happy Spirit", have stayed in the normal theater collection. He made hundreds out of tunes, notwithstanding admirably over twelve melodic performance center works (counting the operetta "Ambivalent" and comic revues), screenplays, verse, a few volumes of short stories, the novel "Ceremony and Circumstance", and a three-volume collection of memoirs. Defeatist's stage and movie acting and coordinating vocation traversed six decades, amid which he featured in his very own significant number works. 

At the episode of the Second World War Coward volunteered for war work, running the British publicity office in Paris. He additionally worked with the Secret Service, trying to utilize his impact to induce the American open and government to support Britain. Quitter won an Academy Honorary Award in 1943 for his maritime film show, "In Which We Serve", and was knighted in 1969. During the 1950s he made crisp progress as a supper club entertainer, playing out his very own tunes, for example, "Distraught Dogs and Englishmen", "London Pride" and "I Went to a Marvelous Party". 

Quitter's plays and melodies accomplished new prominence during the 1970s, and his work and style keep on impacting pop culture. He didn't openly recognize his homosexuality, yet it was talked about truly after his demise by biographers including Graham Payn, his long-term accomplice, and in Coward's journals and letters, distributed post mortem. The previous Albery Theater (initially the New Theater) in London was renamed the Noël Coward Theater in his respect in 2006. 

Quitter was conceived in 1899 in Teddington, Middlesex, a south-western suburb of London. His folks were Arthur Sabin Coward (18561937), a piano sales rep, and Violet Agnes Coward (18631954), little girl of , a commander and surveyor in the Royal Navy. Violet's cousin, Rachel Veitch, was mother of Field-Marshal Douglas Haig. Noël Coward was the second of their three children, the oldest of whom had kicked the bucket in 1898 at six years old. Weakling's dad needed desire and industry, and family funds were regularly poor. Quitter was nibbled by the performing bug early and showed up in novice shows by the age of seven. He went to the Chapel Royal Choir School as a youthful youngster. He had minimal formal tutoring yet was an insatiable peruser. 

Empowered by his eager mother, who sent him to a move foundation in London, Coward's first expert commitment was in January 1911 as Prince Mussel in the kids' play "The Goldfish". In "Present Indicative", his first volume of journals, Coward composed: 

The main on-screen character director Charles Hawtrey, whom the youthful Coward worshiped and from whom he took in a lot about the theater, cast him in the youngsters' play "Where the Rainbow Ends". Weakling played in the piece in 1911 and 1912 at the Garrick Theater in London's West End. In 1912 Coward additionally showed up at the Savoy Theater in "An Autumn Idyll" (as an artist in the artful dance) and at the London Coliseum in "A Little Fowl Play", by Harold Owen, in which Hawtrey featured. Italia Conti connected with Coward to show up at the Liverpool Repertory Theater in 1913, and around the same time he was given a role as the Lost Boy Slightly in "Subside Pan". He returned in "Dwindle Pan" the next year, and in 1915 he was again in "Where the Rainbow Ends". He worked with other tyke performing artists in this period, including Hermione Gingold (whose mother took steps to turn "that shrewd kid" out); Fabia Drake; Esmé Wynne, with whom he teamed up on his most punctual plays; Alfred Willmore, later known as Micheál Mac Liammóir; and Gertrude Lawrence who, Coward wrote in his journals, "gave me an orange and disclosed to me a couple of somewhat filthy stories, and I cherished her from that point onwards." 

In 1914, when Coward was fourteen, he turned into the protégé and likely the admirer of Philip Streatfeild, a general public painter. Streatfeild acquainted him with Mrs Astley Cooper and her high society companions. Streatfeild passed on from tuberculosis in 1915, however Mrs Astley Cooper kept on empowering her late companion's protégé, who remained a continuous visitor at her home, Hambleton Hall. 

Weakling kept on performing amid the vast majority of the First World War, showing up at the Prince of Wales' Theater in 1916 in "The Happy Family" and on visit with Amy Brandon Thomas' organization in "Charley's Aunt". In 1917, he showed up in "The Saving Grace", a parody delivered by Hawtrey. Quitter reviewed in his journals, "My part was sensibly substantial and I was actually very great in it, attributable to the benevolence and care of Hawtrey's heading. He took interminable issue with me... furthermore, showed me amid those two brief weeks numerous specialized purposes of parody acting which I use right up 'til today." 

In 1918, Coward was recruited into the Artists Rifles yet was evaluated as unfit for dynamic administration in light of a tubercular inclination, and he was released on wellbeing grounds following nine months. That year he showed up in the D W Griffith film "Hearts of the World" in an uncredited job. He sold short stories to a few magazines to help his family monetarily. He additionally started composing plays, teaming up on the initial two ("Ida Collaborates" (1917) and "Ladies and Whisky" (1918)) with his companion Esmé Wynne. His first solo exertion as a writer might have been "The Rat Trap" (1918) which was in the end created at the Everyman Theater, Hampstead, in October 1926. Amid these years, he met Lorn McNaughtan, who turned into his private secretary and served in that limit with regards to over forty years, until her passing. 

In 1920, at 20 years old, Coward featured in his very own play, the light satire "I'll Leave It to You". After a tryout in Manchester, it opened in London at the New Theater (renamed the Noël Coward Theater in 2006), his first full-length play in the West End. Neville Cardus' applause in "The Manchester Guardian" was hesitant. Notification for the London creation were blended, however reassuring. "The Observer" remarked, "Mr Coward... has a feeling of satire, and in the event that he can beat a propensity to astuteness, he will likely deliver a decent play one of nowadays." "The Times", then again, was excited: "It is a surprising bit of work from so youthful a head – unconstrained, light, and constantly 'brainy'." 

The play kept running for a month (and was Coward's first play found in America), after which Coward came back to acting in works by different scholars, featuring as Ralph in "The Knight of the Burning Pestle" in Birmingham and afterward London. He didn't appreciate the job, discovering Francis Beaumont and his at some point colleague John Fletcher "two of the bluntest Elizabethan scholars ever known ... I had an extremely, exceptionally long part, however I was extremely, terrible at it". By the by, "The Manchester Guardian" imagined that Coward got the best out of the job, and "The Times" called the play "the jolliest thing in London". 

Quitter finished a one-demonstration parody, "The Better Half", about a man's association with two ladies. It had a short kept running at The Little Theater, London, in 1922. The pundit St John Ervine composed of the piece, "When Mr Coward has discovered that coffee table chitter-gab would be advised to remain the privilege of ladies he will compose more intriguing plays than he currently appears to probably compose." The play was believed to be lost until a typescript was found in 2007 in the document of the Lord Chamberlain's Office, the official blue pencil of stage plays in the UK until 1968. 

In 1921, Coward made his first outing to America, planning to intrigue makers there in his plays. Despite the fact that he had little karma, he found the Broadway theater animating. He assimilated its intelligence and pace into his very own work, which presented to him his first genuine accomplishment as a dramatist with "The Young Idea". The play opened in London in 1923, after a common visit, with Coward in one of the main jobs. The surveys were great: "Mr Noël Coward considers his splendid little sham a 'satire of youth', thus it is. Also, youth swarmed the Savoy the previous evening, cheering everything so rambunctiously that you felt, not without elation, that you were amidst a 'cloth'." One commentator, who noticed the impact of Bernard Shaw on Coward's composition, respected the play than of Coward's recently discovered fans: "I was tragically wedged in the focal point of a gathering of his progressively extravagant companions who welcomed every one of his sallies with 'That is a Noëlism!'" The play kept running in London from 1 February to 24 March 1923, after which Coward swung to revue, co-composing and performing in André Charlot's "London Calling!" 

In 1924, Coward accomplished his first incredible basic and monetary accomplishment as a writer with "The Vortex." The story is about a nymphomaniac socialite and her cocaine-dependent child (played by Coward). Some observed the medications as a veil for homosexuality; Kenneth Tynan later portrayed it as "a jeremiad against opiates with discourse that sounds today less stilted but rather more high-behaved". "The Vortex" was viewed as stunning in its day for its delineation of sexual vanity and medication maltreatment among the privileged societies. Its reputation and blazing exhibitions pulled in vast groups of onlookers, supporting a move from a little rural venue to a bigger one in the West End. Quitter, as yet experiencing difficulty discovering makers, collected the cash to deliver the play himself. Amid the keep running of "The Vortex", Coward met Jack Wilson, an American stockbroker (later a chief and maker), who turned into his business director and darling. Wilson utilized his situation to take from Coward, however the dramatist was infatuated and acknowledged both the robbery and Wilson's substantial drinking. 

The accomplishment of "The Vortex" in both London and America caused an extraordinary interest for new Coward plays. In 1925 he debuted "Fallen Angels", a three-demonstration satire that interested and stunned groups of onlookers with the scene of two moderately aged ladies gradually getting alcoholic while anticipating the entry of their common sweetheart. "Feed Fever", the first of Coward's plays to pick up a suffering spot in the standard dramatic collection, likewise showed up in 1925. It is a parody around four egocentric individuals from an aesthetic family who calmly welcome colleagues to their nation house for the end of the week and bewilder and irritate each other's visitors. A few journalists have seen components of Coward's old guide, Mrs Astley Cooper, and her set in the characters of the family. By the 1970s the play was perceived as a work of art, depicted in "The Times" as an "amazing accomplishment; like "The Importance of Being Earnest", it is unadulterated satire with no mission however to joy, and it depends simply on the interaction of characters, not on expand comic hardware." By June 1925 Coward had four shows running in the West End: "The Vortex", "Fallen Angels", "Feed Fever" and "On with the Dance". Quitter was turning out various plays and acting in his own works and others'. Before long, his unhinged pace made up for lost time with him, and he crumbled in front of an audience in 1926 while featuring in a phase adjustment of "The Constant Nymph" and needed to take an all-encompassing rest, recovering in Hawaii. 

Other Coward works created in the mid-to-late 1920s incorporated the plays "Simple Virtue" (1926), a dramatization about a divorced person's conflict with her gaudy in-laws; "The Queen Was in the Parlor", a Ruritanian sentiment; "This Was a Man" (1926), a satire about double-crossing blue-bloods; "The Marquise" (1927), an eighteenth-century outfit show; "Home Chat" (1927), a parody about a wedded lady's loyalty; and the revues "On with the Dance" (1925) and "This Year of Grace" (1928). None of these shows has entered the ordinary collection, yet the last presented a standout amongst Coward's best-known melodies, "A Room with a View". His greatest disappointment in this period was the play "Sirocco" (1927), which concerns free love among the affluent. It featured Ivor Novello, of whom Coward stated, "the two most excellent things on the planet are Ivor's profile and my brain". Theatergoers despised the play, indicating savage dissatisfaction at the blind calls and spitting at Coward as he left the theater. Weakling later said of this lemon, "My first intuition was to leave England promptly, yet this appeared to be too fainthearted a move, and furthermore excessively satisfying to my adversaries, whose numbers had by then swollen in our brains to for all intents and purposes the whole populace of the British Isles." 

By 1929 Coward was one of the world's most astounding winning essayists, with a yearly pay of £50,000, more than £2,000,000 as far as 2007 qualities. Quitter flourished amid the Great Depression, composing a progression of famous hits. They ran from expansive scale spectaculars to insinuate comedies. Instances of the previous were the operetta "Mixed" (1929), about a lady who runs off with her music educator, and the verifiable event "Parade" (1931) at Drury Lane, around thirty years in the lives of two families, which required an immense cast, tremendous sets and a complex water driven stage. Its 1933 film adjustment won the Academy Award for best picture. Quitter's personal scale hits of the period included "Private Lives" (1930) and "Plan for Living" (1932). In "Private Lives", Coward featured nearby his most well known stage accomplice, Gertrude Lawrence, together with the youthful Laurence Olivier. It was a feature of both Coward's and Lawrence's profession, selling out in both London and New York. Weakling disdained long runs, and after this he made a standard of featuring in a play for close to three months at any scene. "Structure for Living", composed for Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne, was so suggestive, with its subject of indiscriminateness and a "ménage à trois", that Coward debuted it in New York, realizing that it would not endure the blue pencil in London. 

In 1933 Coward composed, coordinated and co-featured with the French artist Yvonne Printemps in both London and New York creations of an operetta, "Discussion Piece" (1933). He next composed, coordinated and co-featured with Lawrence in "This evening at 8.30" (1936), a cycle of ten short plays, displayed in different stages crosswise over three nights. One of these plays, "Still Life", was ventured into the 1945 David Lean film "Brief Encounter". "This evening at 8.30" was trailed by a melodic, "Operette" (1938), from which the most acclaimed number is "The Stately Homes of England", and a revue entitled "Set to Music" (1938, a Broadway variant of his 1932 London revue, "Words and Music"). Weakling's last pre-war plays were "This Happy Breed", a dramatization about a regular workers family, and "Present Laughter", a comic self-cartoon with an egomaniac on-screen character as the focal character. These were first performed in 1942, in spite of the fact that they were both written in 1939. 

Somewhere in the range of 1929 and 1936 Coward recorded a large number of his best-known tunes for His Master's Voice (HMV), presently reissued on CD, including the sentimental "I'll See You Again" from "Clashing", the comic "Frantic Dogs and Englishmen" from "Words and Music", and "Mrs Worthington". 

With the flare-up of the Second World War Coward deserted the theater and looked for authority war work. In the wake of running the British publicity office in Paris, where he reasoned that "if the arrangement of His Majesty's Government is to exhaust the Germans to death I don't think we have time", he dealt with benefit of British insight. His assignment was to utilize his big name to impact American open and political supposition for helping Britain. He was disappointed by British press analysis of his outside movement while his compatriots endured at home, yet he was unfit to uncover that he was following up for the Secret Service. In 1942 George VI wished to grant Coward a knighthood for his endeavors, however was deterred by Winston Churchill. Aware of the general visibility of Coward's showy way of life, Churchill utilized, as his explanation behind retention the respect, Coward's £200 fine to contradict money guidelines in 1941. 

Had the Germans attacked Britain, Coward was planned to be captured and murdered, as he was operating at a profit Book alongside different figures, for example, Virginia Woolf, Paul Robeson, Bertrand Russell, C. P. Snow and H. G. Wells. At the point when this became visible after the war, Coward expressed: "In the event that anybody had let me know around then I was high up on the Nazi boycott, I ought to have laughed ... I recollect Rebecca West, who was one of the numerous who imparted the respect to me, sent me a message which read: 'My dear – the general population we ought to have been seen dead with'." 

Churchill's view was that Coward would help out the war exertion by engaging the troops and the home front than by knowledge work: "Proceed to sing to them when the firearms are terminating – that is your activity!" Coward, however frustrated, pursued this counsel. He visited, acted and sang relentlessly in Europe, Africa, Asia and America. He composed and recorded war-themed prevalent tunes, including "London Pride" and "Don't Let's Be Beastly to the Germans". His London home was destroyed by German bombs in 1941, and he took up impermanent habitation at the Savoy Hotel. Amid one air assault on the territory around the Savoy he joined Carroll Gibbons and Judy Campbell in extemporaneous supper club to divert the hostage visitors from their apprehensions. Another of Coward's wartime ventures, as essayist, star, arranger and co-executive (nearby David Lean), was the maritime film show "In Which We Serve". The film was prevalent on the two sides of the Atlantic, and he was granted a privileged endorsement of legitimacy at the 1943 Academy Awards function. Quitter played a maritime chief, putting together the character with respect to his companion Lord Louis Mountbatten. Lean proceeded to coordinate and adjust film adaptations of a few Coward plays. 

Defeatist's most suffering work from the war years was the massively fruitful dark parody "Gay Spirit" (1941), about an author who examines the mysterious and contracts a medium. A séance brings back the apparition of his first spouse, causing destruction for the writer and his second wife. With 1,997 successive exhibitions, it broke film industry records for the keep running of a West End parody, and was additionally created on Broadway, where its unique run was 650 exhibitions. The play was adjusted into a 1945 movie, coordinated by Lean. Defeatist visited amid 1942 in "Gay Spirit", exchanging the piece with his parody "Present Laughter" and his regular workers show "This Happy Breed". 

In his "Center East Diary" Coward owned a few expressions that annoyed numerous Americans. Specifically, he remarked that he was "less awed by a portion of the forlorn little Brooklyn young men lying there in tears in the midst of the outsider corn with nothing more regrettable than a shot injury in the leg or a broke arm". After challenges from both "The New York Times" and "The Washington Post", the Foreign Office encouraged Coward not to visit the United States in January 1945. He didn't come back to America again amid the war. In the result of the war, Coward composed an elective reality play, "Harmony In Our Time", delineating an England involved by Nazi Germany. 

Defeatist's new plays after the war were tolerably fruitful yet neglected to coordinate the prominence of his pre-war hits. "Relative Values" (1951) addresses the way of life conflict between a blue-blooded English family and a Hollywood on-screen character with marital aspirations; "South Sea Bubble" (1951) is a political parody set in a British settlement; "Quadrille" (1952) is a show about Victorian love and elopement; and "Bare with Violin" (1956, featuring John Gielgud in London and Coward in New York) is a parody on present day workmanship and basic claim. A revue, "Moan No More" (1945), was a moderate achievement, however two musicals, "Pacific 1860" (1946), a luxurious South Seas sentiment, and "Trick card" (1949), set in a dance club, were monetary disappointments. Further blows in this period were the passings of Coward's companions Charles Cochran and Gertrude Lawrence, in 1951 and 1952 separately. In spite of his failure, Coward kept up a high open profile; his execution as King Magnus in Shaw's "The Apple Cart" for the Coronation period of 1953, co-featuring Margaret Leighton, got much inclusion in the press, and his supper club act, sharpened amid his wartime visits engaging the troops, was an incomparable achievement, first in London at the Café de Paris, and later in Las Vegas. The theater faultfinder Kenneth Tynan composed: 

In 1955 Coward's men's club demonstration at Las Vegas, recorded live for the gramophone, and discharged as "Noël Coward at Las Vegas" was successful to the point that CBS connected with him to compose and coordinate a progression of three hour and a half TV specials for the 1955– 56 season. The first of these, "Together With Music", matched Coward with Mary Martin, including him in a considerable lot of the numbers from his Las Vegas act. It was trailed by creations of "Cheerful Spirit" in which he featured with Claudette Colbert, Lauren Bacall and Mildred Natwick and "This Happy Breed" with Edna Best and Roger Moore. In spite of magnificent audits, the gathering of people seeing figures were moderate. 

Amid the 1960s Coward kept on composing musicals and plays. "After the Ball", his 1953 adjustment of "Woman Windermere's Fan", was the last melodic he debuted in the West End; his last two musicals were first created on Broadway. "Sail Away" (1961), set on an extravagance luxury ship, was Coward's best post-war melodic, with creations in America, Britain and Australia. "The Girl Who Came to Supper", a melodic adjustment of "The Sleeping Prince" (1963), kept running for just three months. He coordinated the effective 1964 Broadway melodic adjustment of "Merry Spirit", called "High Spirits". Weakling's late plays incorporate a joke, "Take care of Lulu!" (1959), and a tragi-comic investigation of maturity, "Standing ready" (1960), the two of which were fruitful in spite of "basic abhor". Defeatist contended that the basic role of a play was to engage, and he made no endeavor at innovation, which he felt was exhausting to the group of onlookers albeit captivating to the faultfinders. His comic novel, "Ceremony and Circumstance" (1960), about existence in a tropical British state, met with progressively basic achievement. 

Quitter's last stage achievement accompanied "Suite in Three Keys" (1966), a set of three set in a lodging penthouse suite. He composed it as his swan tune as a phase on-screen character: "I might want to act again before I crease my messed up wings." The set of three increased gleaming surveys and did great film industry business in the UK. In one of the three plays, "A Song at Twilight", Coward surrendered his standard hesitance regarding the matter and played an expressly gay character. The challenging piece earned Coward new basic recognition. He expected to star in the set of three on Broadway however was too sick to even think about traveling. Just two of the "Suite in Three Keys" plays were performed in New York, with the title changed to "Noël Coward in Two Keys", featuring Hume Cronyn. 

Quitter won new prominence in a few striking movies later in his profession, for example, "Around the globe in 80 Days" (1956), "Our Man in Havana" (1959), "Bunny Lake Is Missing" (1965), "Blast!" (1968) and "The Italian Job" (1969). Stage and film openings he turned down during the 1950s incorporated an encouragement to make a melodic form out of "Pygmalion" (two years before "My Fair Lady" was composed), and offers of the jobs of the ruler in the first stage generation of "The King and I", and Colonel Nicholson in the film "The Bridge on the River Kwai". Welcome to assume the title job in the 1962 film "Dr. No", he answered, "No, no, no, a thousand times, no." around the same time, he turned down the job of Humbert in "Lolita", saying, "At my season of life the film story would be consistent if the 12-year-old champion was a sweet minimal old woman." 

In the mid-1960s and mid 1970s effective creations of his 1930s plays, and new revues commending his music, including "Gracious, Coward!" on Broadway and "Cowardy Custard" in London, resuscitated Coward's ubiquity and basic notoriety. He named this rebound "Father's Renaissance". It started with a hit 1963 recovery of "Private Lives" in London and afterward New York. Welcome to coordinate "Feed Fever" with Edith Evans at the National Theater, he wrote in 1964, "I am excited and complimented and honestly a little surprised that the National Theater ought to have had the inquisitive perceptiveness to pick an all around early play of mine and to give it a cast that could play the Albanian phone catalog." 

Different instances of "Father's Renaissance" incorporated a 1968 Off-Broadway generation of "Private Lives" at the Theater de Lys featuring Elaine Stritch, Lee Bowman and Betsy von Furstenberg, and coordinated by Charles Nelson Reilly. Regardless of this amazing cast, Coward's fame had ascended so high that the theater notice for the generation utilized an Al Hirschfeld exaggeration of Coward ("imagined") rather than a picture of the creation or its stars. The delineation catches how Coward's picture had changed by the 1960s: he was never again observed as the smooth 1930s sophisticate, yet as the doyen of the theater. As "The New Statesman" wrote in 1964, "Who might have figured the tourist spots of the Sixties would incorporate the development of Noël Coward as the great elderly person of British show? There he was one morning, flipping verbal tiddlywinks with correspondents about "Father's Renaissance"; the following he was... close to Forster, T. S. Eliot and the OMs, certifiably the best living English dramatist." "Time" composed that "during the 60s... his best work, with its motivated irrelevance, appeared to apply a period engage as well as appeal, period." 

Before the finish of the 1960s, Coward experienced arteriosclerosis and, amid the keep running of "Suite in Three Keys", he battled with episodes of memory misfortune. This likewise influenced his work in "The Italian Job", and he resigned from acting promptly a short time later. Quitter was knighted in 1969 and was chosen an individual of the Royal Society of Literature. He got a Tony Award for lifetime accomplishment. In 1972, he was granted a privileged Doctor of Letters degree by the University of Sussex. 

Defeatist passed on at his home, Firefly Estate, in Jamaica on 26 March 1973 of heart disappointment and was covered three days after the fact on the forehead of Firefly Hill, ignoring the north bank of the island. A commemoration administration was held in St Martin-in-the-Fields in London on 29 May 1973, for which the Poet Laureate, John Betjeman, composed and conveyed a ballad in Coward's respect, John Gielgud and Laurence Olivier read refrain and Yehudi Menuhin played Bach. On 28 March 1984 a remembrance stone was disclosed by the Queen Mother in Poets' Corner, Westminster Abbey. Expressed gratitude toward by Coward's accomplice, Graham Payn, for visiting, the Queen Mother answered, "I came in light of the fact that he was my companion." 

The Noël Coward Theater in St Martin's Lane, initially opened in 1903 as the New Theater and later called the Albery, was renamed in his respect after broad repair, re-opening on 1 June 2006. A statue of Coward by Angela Conner was uncovered by the Queen Mother in the hall of the Theater Royal, Drury Lane in 1998. There are likewise models of Coward shown in New York and Jamaica, and a bust of him in the library in Teddington, close where he was conceived. In 2008 a presentation committed to Coward was mounted at the National Theater in London. The show was later facilitated by the Museum of Performance and Design in San Francisco and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in Beverly Hills, California. 

Weakling was gay in any case, following the tradition of his occasions, this was never openly referenced. The commentator Kenneth Tynan's portrayal in 1953 was near an affirmation of Coward's sexuality: "Forty years prior he was Slightly in "Dwindle Pan", and you may state that he has been entirely in "Subside Pan" from that point onward. No private contemplations have been permitted to redirect the drive of his vocation; like Gielgud and Rattigan, similar to the late Ivor Novello, he is an innate single guy." Coward immovably trusted his private business was not for open dialog, considering ""any" sexual exercises when over-publicized" to be bland. Indeed, even during the 1960s, Coward would not recognize his sexual introduction openly, wryly watching, "There are as yet a couple of old women in Worthing who don't have a clue." Despite this hesitance, he empowered his secretary Cole Lesley to compose a forthright account once Coward was securely dead. 

Quitter's most essential relationship, which started in the mid-1940s and kept going until his demise, was with the South African stage and film performing artist Graham Payn. Weakling included Payn in a few of his London creations. Payn later co-altered with Sheridan Morley a gathering of Coward's journals, distributed in 1982. Defeatist's different connections incorporated the writer Keith Winter, on-screen characters Louis Hayward and Alan Webb, his director Jack Wilson and the arranger Ned Rorem, who distributed subtleties of their relationship in his journals. Weakling had a 19-year companionship with Prince George, Duke of Kent, however biographers contrast on whether it was dispassionate. Payn trusted that it was, despite the fact that Coward supposedly admitted to the history specialist Michael Thornton that there had been "a little dalliance". Quitter stated, on the duke's demise, "I all of a sudden find that I adored him more than I knew." 

Quitter kept up dear fellowships with numerous ladies, including the on-screen character and creator Esmé Wynne-Tyson, his first colleague and steady journalist; Gladys Calthrop, who planned sets and ensembles for a large number of his works; his secretary and close comrade Lorn Loraine; the on-screen characters Gertrude Lawrence, Joyce Carey and Judy Campbell; and "his dedicated and long lasting "amitié amoureuse"", Marlene Dietrich. 

In his calling, Coward was broadly appreciated and cherished for his liberality and thoughtfulness to the individuals who fell on difficult occasions. Stories are recounted the inconspicuous manner by which he calmed the necessities or paid the obligations of old showy associates who had no case on him. From 1934 until 1956, Coward was the leader of the Actors Orphanage, which was bolstered by the dramatic business. In that limit, he become a close acquaintence with the youthful Peter Collinson, who was being taken care of by the halfway house. He turned into Collinson's back up parent and helped him to begin in the entertainment biz. At the point when Collinson was an effective chief, he welcomed Coward to assume a job in "The Italian Job". Graham Payn likewise assumed a little job in the film. 

In 1926, Coward procured Goldenhurst Farm, in Aldington, Kent, making it his home for a large portion of the following thirty years, aside from when the military utilized it amid the Second World War. It is a Grade II recorded structure. During the 1950s, Coward left the UK for duty reasons, getting unforgiving analysis in the press. He previously settled in Bermuda however later purchased houses in Jamaica and Switzerland (in the town of Les Avants, close Montreux), which remained his homes for an amazing remainder. His ostracize neighbors and companions included Joan Sutherland, David Niven, Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, and Julie Andrews and Blake Edwards in Switzerland and Ian Fleming and his significant other Ann in Jamaica. Quitter was an observer at the Flemings' wedding, however his journals record his irritation with their consistent quarreling. 

Weakling's political perspectives were moderate, however not unswervingly so: he detested the administration of Neville Chamberlain for its strategy of pacifying Nazi Germany, and he contrasted forcefully with Winston Churchill over the resignation emergency of 1936. While Churchill upheld Edward VIII's desire to wed "his cutie", Wallis Simpson, Coward thought the lord untrustworthy, telling Churchill, "Britain doesn't want for a Queen Cutie." Coward detested publicity in plays; "The performance center is a magnificent spot, a place of peculiar charm, a sanctuary of dream. What it most insistently isn't and never will be is a scruffy, sick lit, smoldered oak drill lobby filling in as a transitory cleanser box for political purposeful publicity." Nevertheless, his own perspectives once in a while surfaced in his plays: both "Parade" and "This Happy Breed" are, in the expressions of the dramatist David Edgar, "plainly Conservative political plays written in the Brechtian epic way." In religion, Coward was freethinker. He composed of his perspectives, "Do I have confidence in God? I can't state No and I can't state Yes, To me it's impossible to say." 

Weakling spelled his first name with the diæresis (""I" didn't put the specks over the 'e' in Noël. The language did. Generally it's not Noël but rather Nool!"). The press and many book distributers neglected to go with the same pattern, and his name was printed as 'Noel' in "The Times", "The Observer" and other contemporary papers and books. The papers of Noël Coward are held in the University of Birmingham. 

"Why", asked Coward, "am I constantly expected to wear a robe, smoke cigarettes in a long holder and state 'Dear, how magnificent'?" The appropriate response lay in Coward's steady development of a deliberately created picture. As a rural kid who had been taken up by the privileged societies he quickly gained the preference for high life: "I am resolved to go through life five star." He originally wore a robe in front of an audience in "The Vortex" and utilized the design in a few of his different popular plays, including "Private Lives" and "Present Laughter". George Walden distinguishes him as a cutting edge dandy. Regarding the National Theater's 2008 display, "The Independent" remarked, "His well known silk, spotted robe and exquisite cigarette holder both appear to have a place with another period. However, 2008 is turned out to be the year that Britain goes gaga for Noël Coward once more." 

When he made progress he started cleaning the Coward picture: an early press photo demonstrated him sitting up in bed holding a cigarette holder: "I resembled a propelled Chinese debauched in the last periods of dope." Soon from that point onward, Coward stated, "I took to wearing hued turtle-necked pullovers, in reality more for solace than for impact, and soon I was educated by my night paper that I had begun a style. I trust that to a limited degree this was valid; at any rate, amid the following months I saw increasingly more of our seedier West-End chorale young men strutting about London in them." He before long turned out to be progressively mindful about overcompensating the ostentatiousness, encouraging Cecil Beaton to tone down his outfits: "It is critical not to give the open a chance to have an escape clause to parody you." However, Coward was upbeat to create exposure from his way of life. In 1969 he told "Time" magazine, "I misbehaved like there's no tomorrow. I did everything that was anticipated from me. Some portion of the activity." "Time" finished up, "Weakling's most prominent single blessing has not been composition or making, not acting or coordinating, yet anticipating a feeling of individual style, a mix of cheek and chic, posture and balance." 

Quitter's particular cut word usage emerged from his youth: his mom was hard of hearing and Coward built up his staccato style of addressing make it simpler for her to hear what he was stating; it likewise helped him destroy a slight stutter. His moniker, "The Master", "began as a joke and turned out to be valid", as indicated by Coward. It was utilized of him from the 1920s onwards. Defeatist himself downplayed it: when asked by a writer for what valid reason he was known as "The Master", he answered, "Gracious, you know – Jack everything being equal, ace of none." He could, in any case, joke about his own shamelessness: "My feeling of my significance to the world is generally little. Then again, my feeling of my own significance to myself is enormous." When a "Period" questioner apologized, "I trust you haven't been drilled experiencing every one of these meetings for your [70th] birthday, responding to a similar old inquiries concerning yourself", Coward rejoined, "Not under any condition. I'm intrigued by the subject." 

The writer John Osborne stated, "Mr Coward is his own development and commitment to this century. Any individual who can't see that should ward off well from the theater." Tynan wrote in 1964, "Even the most youthful of us will know, in fifty years' time, precisely what we mean by 'a very Noel Coward kind of individual'." In applause for Coward's adaptability, Lord Mountbatten stated, in a tribute on Coward's seventieth birthday celebration, "There are likely more noteworthy painters than Noël, more prominent authors than Noël, more prominent librettists, more prominent writers of music, more prominent artists, more noteworthy artists, more prominent entertainers, more noteworthy tragedians, more prominent stage makers, more noteworthy movie chiefs, more prominent men's club craftsmen, more prominent TV stars. In the event that there are, they are fourteen distinct individuals. Just a single man joined every one of the fourteen unique names – The Master." 

Tynan's was the original of faultfinders to understand that Coward's plays may appreciate more than vaporous achievement. During the 1930s, Cyril Connolly composed that they were "written in the most topical and transitory way possible, the cream in them goes bad medium-term". What appeared to be brave during the 1930s came to appear to be out-dated during the 1950s, and Coward never rehashed the achievement of his pre-war plays. By the 1960s, commentators started to take note of that underneath the clever exchange and the Art Deco allure of the between war years, Coward's best plays likewise managed unmistakable individuals and well-known connections, with a passionate profundity and poignancy that had been regularly neglected. When of his demise, "The Times" was composing of him, "None of the extraordinary figures of the English performance center has been more flexible than he", and the paper positioned his plays in "the established convention of Congreve, Sheridan, Wilde and Shaw". 

A symposium distributed in 1999 to stamp the century of Coward's introduction to the world recorded a portion of his significant creations booked for the year in Britain and North America, including "Trick card, After the Ball, Blithe Spirit, Cavalcade, Easy Virtue, Hay Fever, Present Laughter, Private Lives, Sail Away, A Song at Twilight, The Young Idea" and "Standing ready", with stars including Lauren Bacall, Rosemary Harris, Ian McKellen, Corin Redgrave, Vanessa Redgrave and Elaine Stritch. In another tribute, Tim Rice said of Coward's tunes: "The mind and astuteness of Noël Coward's verses will be as exuberant and contemporary in 100 years' time as they are today", and many have been recorded by Damon Albarn, Ian Bostridge, The Divine Comedy, Elton John, Valerie Masterson, Paul McCartney, Michael Nyman, Pet Shop Boys, Vic Reeves, Sting, Joan Sutherland, Robbie Williams and others. 

Weakling's music, works, trademark voice and style have been broadly mocked and imitated, for example in "Monty Python", "Round the Horne" and "Privates on Parade". Defeatist has much of the time been delineated as a character in plays, movies, TV and radio shows, for instance, in the 1968 Julie Andrews film "Star!" (in which Coward was depicted by his godson, Daniel Massey), the BBC sitcom "Goodnight Sweetheart" and a BBC Radio 4 arrangement composed by Marcy Kahan in which Coward was sensationalized as an investigator in "Structure For Murder" (2000), "A Bullet at Balmain's" (2003) and "Passing at the Desert Inn" (2005), and as a covert operative in "Merry Spy" (2002) and "Our Man In Jamaica" (2007), with Malcolm Sinclair playing Coward in each. In front of an audience, characters dependent on Coward have included Beverly Carlton in the 1939 Broadway play "The Man Who Came to Dinner". A play about the fellowship among Coward and Dietrich, called "Lunch with Marlene", by Chris Burgess, kept running at the New End Theater in 2008. The second demonstration shows a melodic revue, including Coward tunes, for example, "Don't Let's Be Beastly to the Germans". 

Weakling was an early admirer of the plays of Harold Pinter and sponsored Pinter's film variant of "The Caretaker" with a £1,000 speculation. A few faultfinders have recognized Coward's impact in Pinter's plays. Tynan analyzed Pinter's "circular patter" to Coward's "stylised discourse". Pinter restored the compliment by coordinating the National Theater's restoration of "Merry Spirit" in 1976. 

Weakling composed in excess of three hundred melodies. The Noël Coward Society's site, drawing on performing measurements from the distributers and the Performing Rights Society, names "Distraught About the Boy" (from "Words and Music") as Coward's most prominent tune, pursued, all together, by: 

In the general public's second level of top picks are: 

Quitter was no enthusiast of crafted by Gilbert and Sullivan, however as a lyricist was by the by unequivocally affected by them. He reviewed: "I was naturally introduced to an age that still paid attention to light music. The verses and tunes of Gilbert and Sullivan were murmured and strummed into my awareness at an early age. My dad sang them, my mom played them... my aunties and uncles, who were army, sang them independently and as one at the scarcest incitement." His associate Terence Rattigan composed that as a lyricist Coward seemed to be "the best of his sort since W. S. Gilbert." 

Notes 

References 

Works 

Entryways