Antiochus XII Dionysus 

Antiochus XII Dionysus Epiphanes Philopator Callinicus (; somewhere in the range of 125 and 109 BC – 82 BC) was a Hellenistic Seleucid ruler who ruled as King of Syria somewhere in the range of 87 and 82BC. The most youthful child of Antiochus VIII and, no doubt, his Egyptian spouse Tryphaena. Antiochus XII lived amid a time of common war between his dad and his uncle Antiochus IX, which finished with the death of Antiochus VIII in 96BC. Antiochus XII's four siblings made a case for the position of authority, disposed of Antiochus IX as a petitioner, and battled against his beneficiary Antiochus X. 

By 87 BC, just two inquirers stayed, the two siblings of Antiochus XII: Demetrius III and Philip I. The domain of Demetrius III was at first focused in Damascus however later stretched out over the greater part of Syria. Demetrius III was crushed by Philip I and went into outcast in Parthia, permitting Antiochus XII to oversee Damascus while Philip I stayed in the Syrian capital Antioch. Antiochus XII combined his domain inside internal Syria and did not look to venture into the regions of Philip I, who endeavored to add Damascus yet was spurned. Antiochus XII concentrated on Syria's southern ventures into which the Judaeans and Nabataeans looked to grow. 

Antiochus XII strengthened his southern wilderness and warred with his neighbors, directing two battles against Nabataea that included commitment with Judea. After a few triumphs in his first crusade, Antiochus XII was killed towards the finish of his second crusade against the Nabateans at the Battle of Cana in 82 BC. Damascus was caught by the powers of the Nabatean King Aretas III, and the Syrian position of authority was guaranteed by Antiochus X's widow Cleopatra Selene and her child Antiochus XIII. 

Antiochus, Greek for "unfaltering in conflict", was a dynastic name borne by numerous Seleucid rulers. The Seleucid administration's organizer Seleucus I named the capital of Syria, Antioch, out of appreciation for his dad Antiochus. Antiochus XII was the fifth and most youthful child of Antiochus VIII and his Ptolemaic Egyptian spouse Tryphaena; his siblings were Seleucus VI, Antiochus XI, Philip I and Demetrius III. They were conceived between 125 BC, the wedding year of their folks, and 109 BC, when Tryphaena was executed by Antiochus VIII's stepbrother Antiochus IX, who battled with Antiochus VIII from 113 BC for the position of royalty of Syria. 

Following Antiochus VIII's death in 96 BC, his second spouse, Tryphaena's sister Cleopatra Selene, wedded Antiochus IX and afterward his child Antiochus X, who battled with Antiochus XII's four siblings for the royal position. By 88 BC, just Demetrius III and Philip I remained; Demetrius III was initially situated in Damascus before stretching out his power to the vast majority of Syria. He was vanquished by Philip I and his Parthian partners in 87 BC and ousted to Parthia, where he kicked the bucket of an obscure sickness. Philip I assumed responsibility for the capital, while Cleopatra Selene, presently a widow, took cover in Ptolemais with her children by Antiochus X. 

The flight of Demetrius III left a power vacuum in Damascus that was filled by Antiochus XII. Coins stamped amid the rule of Demetrius III are dated to the Seleucid year (SE) 225 (88/87 BC), while the soonest coins printed amid the rule of Antiochus XII have the date 226 SE (87/86 BC), proposing that there was a quick supposition of intensity by Antiochus XII. Rulers of the Hellenistic time frame did not utilize regnal numbers, which is a progressively present day practice, however rather utilized appellations to separate themselves from comparatively named rulers; Three of Antiochus XII's four designations, "Epiphanes" (illustrious)– recently utilized by his dad, "Philopator" (father-cherishing) and "Callinicus" (respectably successful), served to underline the heritage of his granddad Demetrius II as opposed to the line of the last's sibling Antiochus VII, which was spoken to by Antiochus IX and his relatives; "Callinicus" may have been a reverberation of Demetrius II's sobriquet "Nikator" (triumphant). He likely utilized his other designation "Dionysus" to connect himself with the Greek divine force of wine in his job as champion of the East. Antiochus XII was portrayed on coinage with a misrepresented peddled nose in the resemblance of his dad, as a methods for fortifying the authenticity of his progression. 

As indicated by student of history Alfred Bellinger, Antiochus XII may have gotten help from Ptolemaic Egypt to pick up his royal position. This view is reflected in Antiochus XII's strategies, which were focused at the south in Nabataea and Judaea, yet not towards development inside the kingdom of Syria. His domain was restricted to inward Syria, focused on Damascus, which filled in as his capital and essential mint. Antiochus XII likewise controlled over the town of Gadara, administered by an authority named Philotas. In 100 BC, Gadara had been vanquished by the Hasmonean ruler of Judea Alexander Jannaeus, who somewhat crushed its dividers, however it was recovered by the Seleucids in 93 BC. Gadara held extraordinary key significance for Syria as it filled in as a noteworthy military center point for tasks in the south. Controlling it was fundamental to the war exertion against the Judaeans, which drove Antiochus to modify the city's guards in 228 SE (85/84 BC). Antiquarian Aryeh Kasher recommended that Antiochus XII burrowed what the main century history specialist Josephus called the "channel of Antiochus" (or valley of Antiochus) to shield Damascus from the Nabataeans; the channel was most likely situated in the Hula Valley. 

Seleucid coins regularly had delineations of their Greek divinities, however the silver coinage of Antiochus XII portrayed the preeminent Semitic god Hadad on the turn around, potentially in acknowledgment of the contracting fringes of the kingdom, which persuaded the ruler of the significance of the nearby factions. By advancing indigenous gods, Seleucid lords would have liked to pick up the help of their non-Greek subjects. As per Bellinger, the utilization of Hadad demonstrated that Antiochus XII set spotlight on his "aim of being as a matter of first importance lord of Damascus". Amid his rule, Demetrius III had additionally delineated a Semitic divinity, Atargatis, on his cash. In the perspective on antiquarian , The difference in coin symbolism from Atargatis to Hadad most likely served two objectives: to infer that Antiochus XII had an alternate strategy center than his ancestor, and to show his expectation of keeping up a decent association with the Semitic populace of Damascus, who contained most of the occupants, to stay away from strain with Greek pilgrims. Seleucid lords introduced themselves as defenders of Hellenism and disparaged learned people and rationalists, yet Antiochus XII may have embraced an alternate disposition; he requested the ejection of such researchers. 

Right off the bat in his rule, Antiochus XII assaulted the Nabataeans and the Judaeans, whose domains both lay toward the south of his own. This contention was recorded by Josephus, in spite of the fact that he made no notice of the name of the Nabataean ruler. Josephus referenced two crusades against the Nabataeans, yet did not clarify the thought processes driving the Syrian King to assault them. Current researchers introduced a few speculations. In the perspective on Israel Shatzman, Antiochus XII may have dreaded the developing intensity of the Nabataeans, who were venturing into southern Syria. Zayn Bilkadi recommended that Antiochus XII needed to assume responsibility for the Nabataeans' unrefined petroleum industry, while Alexander Fantalkin and Oren Tal proposed that the Nabataeans effectively upheld Philip I in his endeavors to assume responsibility for Antiochus XII's domain. 

Antiochus XII's first Nabataean crusade was propelled in 87 BC, and might have incorporated a fight close Motho, current Imtan in the district of Hauran, as proposed by student of history Hans Peter Roschinski, who drew on the compositions of Stephanus of Byzantium. The Byzantine student of history saved in his book, "Ethica", parts from a lost work by antiquarian Uranius of Apamea, who composed a book titled "Arabica", which has been dated to 300 AD. In the record of Uranius, King Antigonus I ( BC) is murdered at Motho by a ruler of the Arabs named Rabbel. The name Motho could allude to a northern city in Hauran or a southern city in Moab. The name of Antigonus was consistently "rectified" to Antiochus by various researchers who trusted that Uranius was alluding to Antiochus XII. History specialist Józef Milik rejected the act of amending Uranius' work. Antigonus I was really slaughtered in 301 BC at the Battle of Ipsus; Milik trusted that rather than Antigonus I or Antiochus XII, the entry alludes to Athenaeus, an authority of Antigonus who battled the Nabataeans. Roschinski thought of it as possible that Stephanus was conflating two occasions occurring amid the rule of the Nabataean King Rabbel I: a clash of the first Nabataean crusade at Motho in the north, and the fight from the second Nabataean battle in which Antiochus XII was killed. Shatzman, then again, noticed that no place in his work did Stephanus demonstrate that the skirmish of Motho occurred in the north. 

Exploiting his sibling's nonattendance, Philip I caught Damascus, helped by the legislative leader of the city's fortress, Milesius, who cleared a path for him. As indicated by Josephus, Milesius got no reward from Philip I, who ascribed the double-crossing to the general's dread, driving Milesius to double-cross Philip I, who had left the city to go to an occasion in the close-by hippodrome. The general shut the entryways, locking Philip I out, and anticipated the arrival of Antiochus XII, who had quickly finished his crusade when he knew about his sibling's control of the city. Present day researchers noticed that Seleucid cash, struck amid crusades against an opponent (or usurper), depicted the King wearing a facial hair. Amid his initial two years, Antiochus XII's look seemed clean shaven, however this changed in 228 SE (85/84 BC). This is perhaps identified with Philip I's assault on Damascus, yet this supposition has little help, as Antiochus XII neglected to make any move against his sibling. No coins were printed amid the period that Philip I held Damascus, demonstrating just a concise control of the city. 

Despite the fact that his region legitimately adjoined Nabataean region, for his second Nabataean crusade Antiochus XII rather walked his powers through Judaea along the coast, presumably to assault the Nabataean-commanded Negev, which would have removed the port city of Gaza, compromised Nabataean Mediterranean exchange, and controlled Nabataean desire in the Transjordan. This course would have permitted Antiochus XII to keep Alexander Jannaeus under control. As indicated by Josephus, the Judaean King dreaded Antiochus XII's aims and requested the "Yannai Line" to be manufactured, which comprised of a channel that fronted a protective divider specked with wooden towers. The channel extended from Caphersaba to the ocean close Joppa. Antiochus XII leveled the channel, consumed the fortresses, and proceeded with his walk into Nabataean region. 

The record of the crusade, composed by Josephus, is liable to some discussion; the history specialist composed that Antiochus XII's powers crushed those of Alexander Jannaeus, yet the eighth-century student of history George Syncellus referenced an annihilation endured by Antiochus XII on account of the Judaean ruler. The presence of the Yannai Line has been addressed by a few history specialists, and Josephus' clarification of Alexander Jannaeus' endeavor to stop the walk of Antiochus XII, due to his feelings of dread of the last's goals, is inadmissible. Both the Nabataeans and Syrians were adversaries of Judea and it would have been to Alexander Jannaeus' advantage if those two forces were in strife. Syncellus may have been alluding to a before encounter between the Syrian ruler and Alexander Jannaeus. Hence the announcement of Syncellus underpins the idea that Antiochus XII's second Nabataean battle was likewise gone for Judea; maybe Antiochus XII looked to add the beach front urban areas of Alexander Jannaeus as a revenge for the annihilation referenced by Syncellus. Another target would be stifling the Judaeans to shield them from assaulting Syria while Antiochus XII was occupied in Nabataea. 

The last commitment between the powers of Antiochus XII and the Nabataeans happened close to the town of Cana, the area of which is obscure, however is commonly expected by current researchers to be southwest of the Dead Sea. Student of history Siegfried Mittmann believed it to be synonymous with "Qina", present day Horvat Uza, as referenced by Josephus in Book 15 of his "Artifacts". Subtleties of the fight, as composed by Josephus, discussed the Nabataeans utilizing a pretended retreat, at that point counterattacking the Syrian powers before their positions could be requested. Antiochus XII figured out how to rally his troops and endured the assault, however he battled in the bleeding edges, endangering his life, and he in the long run fell. The time of Antiochus XII's demise is discussed, however his last coins struck in Damascus are dated to 230 SE (83/82 BC). 

As per Josephus, the passing of the King brought about a defeat of the Syrian powers, with many being murdered in the field or amid the retreat. Overcomers of the defeat protected in Cana, where most kicked the bucket of starvation. Antiochus XII was the last vigorous Seleucid lord. Little is recorded of Philip I after his endeavor at attaching Damascus, which was left without a defender after the demise of Antiochus XII. Dreading the Ituraean ruler, Ptolemy of Chalcis, the general population of Damascus welcomed Aretas III of Nabataea to take the city. The numismatist Oliver D. Hoover recommended that Aretas III did not hold Damascus for some time before the city came back to Seleucid ownership. 

The character of Antiochus XII's better half stays obscure, yet as per the 6th century student of history John Malalas, whose work is considered commonly inconsistent by researchers, the King had two girls, Cleopatra and Antiochis. Cleopatra Selene, who sought total isolation after the passing of Antiochus X in 224 SE (89/88 BC), exploited Antiochus XII's demise and pronounced her child Antiochus XIII lord with herself as ruler official and regnant. Coins struck amid her regime demonstrate the characteristics of the Damascus mint. Paleontologist Nicholas L. Wright proposed that Cleopatra Selene's takeover of Damascus occurred after 80 BC. Josephus called Antiochus XII the last Seleucid ruler, and Malalas, as indicated by the interpretation of the student of history Glanville Downey, took action accordingly; the last Seleucid lord was in certainty Antiochus XIII, who was deposed in 64 BC after Antioch was attached by the Romans.