Gloucestershire Regiment 

The Gloucestershire Regiment, normally alluded to as the Glosters, was a line infantry regiment of the British Army from 1881 until 1994. It followed its sources to Colonel Gibson's Regiment of Foot brought up in 1694, which later turned into the 28th (North Gloucestershire) Regiment of Foot. The regiment was framed by the merger of the 28th Regiment with the 61st (South Gloucestershire) Regiment of Foot. It acquired the one of a kind benefit in the British Army of wearing an identification on the back of its hood just as the front, a respect won by the 28th Regiment when it battled in two positions consecutive at the Battle of Alexandria in 1801. At its development the regiment included two customary, two civilian army and two volunteer contingents, and saw its first activity amid the Second Boer War. 

Prior to the First World War, the regiment's four assistant units were changed over to three Territorial Force contingents and a save brigade, and a further 18 legions were added to the regiment's foundation amid the war. Sixteen brigades of the regiment saw dynamic administration in France and Flanders, Italy, Gallipoli, Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia and Salonika, losing an aggregate of 8,100 men executed and winning 72 distinctive fight respects. Four honors of the Victoria Cross (VC) were made to warriors presenting with the regiment. The wartime units were disbanded as the war finished, and just before the Second World War, two of the regional contingents were re-purposed and stopped to have any association with the regiment. On the eve of the war, the staying regional unit was copied, and another five forces were raised on the flare-up of war, however the vast majority of these were disbanded or re-purposed as the war advanced. Four brigades saw dynamic administration under the regiment's hues amid the war. The second and fifth Battalions both battled in the Battle of France and, in the wake of being lost nearly completely amid the Battle of Dunkirk, the re-framed second Battalion arrived at Gold Beach on D-Day and battled in the Allied crusade in North-West Europe. The first Battalion was associated with the retreat from Rangoon amid the Japanese success of Burma, and the tenth Battalion saw dynamic administration in the thrashing of Japanese powers amid the Burma Campaign 1944– 45. 

After the Second World War, the threats just forces were disbanded and the first and second Battalions were amalgamated, leaving the regiment with one standard and one Territorial Army brigade. It accomplished notoriety amid the Korean War when the first Battalion waited for three evenings against overpowering chances amid the Battle of the Imjin River. The stand, depicted by the authority of the United Nations powers in Korea at the time as "the most exceptional case of unit dauntlessness in present day war", kept the encompassing of other United Nations powers, for which the regiment was granted the Presidential Unit Citation and earned the moniker "The Glorious Glosters". Two men presenting with the regiment were granted the VC for their activities in the fight. In the last 50% of the twentieth century, the regiment was decreased to a solitary customary contingent and finished voyages through obligation around the globe, including Germany, Africa, the Caribbean, Central America and the Middle East, just as in Northern Ireland amid The Troubles. Soon after commending its tercentenary in 1994, the regiment, which conveyed more fight respects on its hues than some other regiment of the line, was converged with the Duke of Edinburgh's Royal Regiment to shape the Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment. The new regiment acquired the back identification, and when it also was converged in 2007, it passed the convention on to its successor, The Rifles. 

The Gloucestershire Regiment followed its underlying foundations to Colonel Gibson's Regiment of Foot, brought up in 1694 in Portsmouth, which originally observed activity in 1705 amid the War of the Spanish Succession. Having been told by, and in this manner named after, a progression of colonels, the regiment was renamed in 1742 as the 28th Regiment of Foot and battled under this name amid the War of the Austrian Succession. Another forerunner, the 61st Regiment of Foot, was shaped in 1758 when the British Army was extended amid the Seven Years' War. The 61st Regiment picked up its first fight respect a year later amid the attack of Guadeloupe, that year that General Wolfe set himself at the leader of the 28th Regiment on the Plains of Abraham in the catch of Quebec. 

In 1782, the British Army started connecting foot regiments with regions for the motivations behind enlistment. Out of the blue the area of Gloucestershire was related with both the 28th and 61st Regiments, which were renamed as the 28th (North Gloucestershire) Regiment of Foot and the 61st (South Gloucestershire) Regiment of Foot. The two regiments started to enroll from the province, and it was in Gloucester in December 1782 that the 61st Regiment was given new hues to supplant those lost amid the Franco-Spanish intrusion of Minorca prior that year. 

In March 1801, the 28th Regiment framed piece of the British expeditionary power that arrived at Aboukir Bay in Egypt to contradict Napoleon's Army of the East. On 21 March, amid the Battle of Alexandria, French mounted force got through the British lines, framed up behind the regiment, and started to charge. With the men still vigorously drew in to their front, the request was given for the back position to turn about, and standing in this way in two positions consecutive, the regiment effectively held the line. For this activity the 28th Regiment was agreed the novel benefit of wearing the regimental number both on the front and the back of its crown. The 61st Regiment additionally sent to Egypt and, in spite of the fact that arriving past the point where it is possible to have a functioning influence, was, similar to the 28th Regiment, granted the fight respect "Egypt" and the privilege to show the Sphinx on its hues. 

Amid the nineteenth century, moderately uneventful postings at home and abroad were punctuated with times of dynamic administration. The 28th and 61st Regiments both battled in Spain and Portugal amid the Peninsular War. The 28th Regiment additionally partook in the last annihilation of Napoleon; it was lauded by the Duke of Wellington for courage in the Battle of Quatre Bras and saw activity again in the Battle of Waterloo. In the mid-nineteenth century, the two regiments were sent to India, and the 61st Regiment saw dynamic administration amid the Second Anglo-Sikh War and the Indian Mutiny, including "Chillianwallah", "Goojerat", "Punjaub" and "Delhi 1857" to the rundown of fight respects that the Gloucestershire Regiment would before long acquire. The 28th Regiment, whose time in India was shorter and less exciting, was in the mean time sent to the Crimea and included "Alma", "Inkerman" and "Sevastopol" to its inheritance. 

Another string that would be woven into the account of the Gloucestershire Regiment is that of the regular citizen regulated helper powers which upheld the military in the midst of need. In the mid-eighteenth century, region state armies were raised for home protection and as a pool of stores for the ordinary armed force. By 1760, Gloucestershire had raised two regiments of civilian army, and these were sorted out in 1763 as the South Gloucestershire Militia based at Gloucester and the North Gloucestershire Militia at Cirencester. In 1859, region based volunteer rifle corps were raised, prompting the development of the first (City of Bristol) Gloucestershire Rifle Volunteers and the second Gloucestershire Rifle Volunteers. 

In 1872, the Cardwell Reforms started the way toward sorting out the British Army along region lines dependent on two-unit line infantry regiments, a procedure that was finished by the Childers Reforms nine years after the fact. Subsequently, the 28th and 61st Regiments were amalgamated in 1881 to shape the Gloucestershire Regiment, headquartered at Horfield Barracks in Bristol. The changes additionally added the province's helper powers to the regiment's foundation, and at its development it in this way contained two ordinary, two state army and two volunteer brigades: 

The Gloucestershire Regiment acquired from the 28th Regiment the benefit of wearing the back identification. It was a benefit that the second Battalion did not need, yet it was made agreeable to the previous 61st Regiment by supplanting the number 28 with the Sphinx, a fight respect granted to both ancestor regiments. Albeit the two contingents were compelled to surrender their individual confronting hues on their uniforms – yellow for the 28th Regiment and buff for the 61st Regiment – when the administration forced a standard white over all English and Welsh regiments, the Gloucestershire Regiment never acknowledged this change for their regimental hues. The two units held their previous hues until 1929, when a trade off primrose yellow was at last picked and another regimental shading consequently displayed. 

The two forces kept on alluding to themselves by their previous regimental numbers until they were converged in 1948, when the Gloucestershire Regiment turned into a solitary brigade regiment. The first Battalion commended the bicentenary of the regiment at Malta in 1894 and the commemoration of the Battle of Alexandria every year. The second Battalion, then again, held amusements pursued by a supper and a ball on the commemoration of the 61st Regiment's triumph at Chillianwallah on 13 January 1849 when abroad, or on the commemoration of that regiment's triumph at Salamanca on 22 July 1812 when at home. 

The new regiment procured its walk, "The Kinnegad Slashers", and its official epithet, "Slashers", from the 28th Regiment. The name emerged from an occurrence in 1764, when individuals from the regiment supposedly cut off piece of the ear of a Montreal judge who had been badgering fighters positioned in the city after the Seven Years' War. The regiment was likewise here and there alluded to as "The Old Braggs", from Colonel Philip Bragg, who instructed the 28th Regiment when it was still named after its colonels. Two different epithets related with the new regiment were acquired from the 61st Regiment; "The Flowers of Toulouse", from the red garbs of that regiment's numerous dead in the Battle of Toulouse, and "The Silver-Tailed Dandies", from the silver designs on the more extended than-typical coat tails of the 61st Regiment's uniform. 

The Gloucestershire Regiment started life discreetly. The two legions shifted back and forth between postings at home and abroad, for the most part in India, yet their first activity came in 1899 amid the Second Boer War. Conveyed to Ladysmith, the first Battalion was a piece of a section conveyed on 24 October to cover the withdrawal of a detachment after the Battle of Talana Hill. At the point when the segment experienced harsh criticism close Rietfontein, the contingent was confined and requested forward, yet the request was uncertain and the legion progressed excessively far. The troops were gotten in the open for a few hours before they had the capacity to remove themselves at the expense of five men killed, including the contingent authority, and 58 injured. 

After five days, about 450 men of the first Battalion were a piece of a little power entrusted with catching Nicholson's Nek, a pass some north of Ladysmith, amid the Battle of Ladysmith. The troops moved out the evening of 29 October with the goal to be in position before the principle fight began, however they left past the point where it is possible to achieve their target before dawn. As they took up an elective position on the close-by Tchrengula Hill the pack-donkeys catapulted, taking the majority of the overwhelming weaponry and ammo with them. The Boers found the invasion at sunrise and encompassed the position, and despite the fact that the British waited for a few hours they were compelled to surrender at 12:30. The regiment lost 38 executed and 115 injured, and the survivors were held as detainees of war (POWs) in Pretoria. 

While the rest of the first Battalion helped in the barrier of Ladysmith (the city was in the end mitigated on 1 March), the second Battalion sent to South Africa, landing in January 1900. The brigade battled in the Battle of Paardeberg, a nine-day fight which finished on 27 February with the catch of the Boer general Piet Cronjé and his power of somewhere in the range of 4,000 men. On 15 March, the force entered the Boer city of Bloemfontein, where it stayed on army obligations until 1904. The first Battalion, re-joined when its POWs were freed after the catch of Pretoria on 5 July, was presented in August 1900 on Ceylon, where it stayed until 1903 guarding Boer detainees of war. 

A portion of the regiment's assistant contingents, which in 1900 were expanded in number by the arrangement of the third Volunteer Battalion, additionally assumed a job in the war. On 16 March 1900, an organization of 124 officers and men from the first and second Volunteer Battalions arrived at Cape Town. They served for a year close by the second Battalion and were supplanted by a second volunteer organization in April 1901. The fourth (Militia) Battalion, in the interim, watched Boer detainees hung on St. Helena. By the war's end the regiment had lost 2 officers and 94 different positions slaughtered, 13 officers and 201 men injured, and experienced 250 passings ailment. The regiment added 4 new fight praises to its hues: "Resistance of Ladysmith"; "Alleviation of Kimberley"; "Paardeberg"; and "South Africa, 1899– 1902"; the remainder of which was additionally granted to the first and second Volunteer Battalions. 

Following the finish of the war in South Africa, the first contingent moved in late 1902 from Ceylon to British India, where it was presented on Lucknow. 

Following the Territorial and Reserve Forces Act 1907 – piece of the Haldane Reforms which rebuilt the British Army and changed over the civilian army and volunteer legions into the Special Reserve and the Territorial Force – the fourth (Militia) Battalion was disbanded, and at the episode of the First World War in 1914 the Gloucestershire Regiment involved: 

Amid the war the regiment raised an extra 18 forces, and in complete 16 contingents of the Gloucestershire Regiment saw dynamic administration in France and Flanders, Italy, Gallipoli, Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia and Salonika. 

The first Battalion was sent to France in August 1914 and saw activity on the Western Front. It endured its first setbacks at Landrecies on 26 August 1914 amid the retreat from Mons, and supported further misfortunes in September amid the First Battle of the Aisne. The unit entered the First Battle of Ypres on 19 October 1914 with 26 officers and 970 different positions, assumed a critical job in the safeguard of Langemarck, was called upon a few times to counter-assault against foe achievements and, when of its alleviation a month later, had been diminished to 2 officers and 100 different positions. In December 1914, it battled in the Defense of Festubert, and the following month in the Defense of Givenchy. Later in 1915, the contingent saw activity in the Battle of Aubers Ridge and the Battle of Loos, and it was dynamic amid the Somme hostile in 1916 amid the Battles of Bazentin and Pozières, and in an assault on High Wood. 

From the get-go in 1917, the first Division moved south of the Somme, and the first Battalion took an interest in the development to the Hindenburg Line. In July, the division was designated to Operation Hush, an arranged seaborne attack that was later dropped, and the main critical activity the first Battalion saw in 1917 was in November, on the most recent day of the Second Battle of Passchendaele. On 18 April 1918, amid the Battle of Béthune, a commitment in the Battle of the Lys, the brigade earned high applause and 33 grants for heroism when it spurned an assault by four foe regiments that had turned the Glosters' flank and, in echoes of the Battle of Alexandria, constrained them to battle consecutive. The brigade saw activity again in September and October on the Hindenburg Line in the Battles of Épehy and St Quentin Canal. The first Battalion saw its last activity of the war on 4 November 1918 in the Battle of the Sambre, where it helped catch Catillon and the traverse the Sambre waterway, some from the scene of its first losses more than four years beforehand. 

The second Battalion came back from Tianjin in November 1914 and arrived in France the following month as a major aspect of the 81st Brigade in the 27th Division. Its first huge activity came in May 1915 amid the Second Battle of Ypres – the main German hostile on the Western Front that year – in which the unit held its ground, however at the expense of 505 setbacks. Toward the finish of 1915, the 27th Division was exchanged to XVI Corps of the British Salonika Army on the Macedonian Front, and the second Battalion involved positions west of Lake Beshik (current Lake Volvi, Greece). In July 1916, XVI Corps assumed control over the line of the River Struma, and for the following two years the force was engaged with activities along the Struma valley, from November 1916 as a feature of the 82nd Brigade. It was a generally peaceful segment, and despite the fact that the brigade was engaged with assaults over the Struma in September, October and December 1916 – the last costing the force 114 casualties – and directed various strikes in 1917, infection was to a greater degree a risk than foe activity. In July 1918, the 27th Division was exchanged to XII Corps south-west of Dojran, and the catch of the Roche Noire remarkable on 1 September, at an expense of 89 losses, was the last activity of the second Battalion in the war. 

Every one of the Territorial Force contingents volunteered for administration abroad and raised a second unit, the six regiments being numbered 1/fourth, 2/fourth, 1/fifth, 2/fifth, 1/sixth, and 2/sixth. The first regional legions likewise raised a third legion each in 1915 as locally established stores, however in 1916 these were converged to frame the fourth Reserve Battalion. Another locally established regional unit, the seventeenth, was brought up in 1917. 

The principal line territorials continued to France in March 1915 as a component of the 48th (South Midland) Division; the 1/fourth and 1/sixth Battalions in the 144th Brigade, and the 1/fifth Battalion in the 145th Brigade. Their first noteworthy experience of fight came amid the Somme hostile; on 16 July, amid the Battle of Bazentin, the 1/fourth Battalion battled north of Ovillers, and the 1/fifth and 1/sixth Battalions went enthusiastically in a similar zone on 20 and 21 July separately. They came back to the territory amid the Battle of Pozières and battled various activities somewhere in the range of 13 and 27 August. In February 1917, the 48th Division moved to positions inverse Péronne, and the territorials saw activity in March and April amid the general development that pursued the German withdrawal to the Hindenburg Line. The division moved again in July, to Ypres, where the territorials battled in commitment of the Battle of Passchendaele; the 1/fifth Battalion in the Battle of Langemarck and the Battle of Broodseinde, and the 1/fourth and 1/sixth Battalions in the Action of 22 August 1917 and the Battle of Poelcappelle. Absolute misfortunes to the three regiments at Passchendaele numbered 1,186 men. 

In December 1917, the 48th Division exchanged to Italy, where the forces were debilitated by a flare-up of flu. In June 1918, the 1/fifth and 1/sixth Battalions were in real life amid the Second Battle of the Piave River, and the 1/fourth and 1/sixth Battalions battled their last activities of the war in the Battle of Vittorio Veneto toward the start of November. Then, the 1/fifth Battalion was moved in September 1918 to the 75th Brigade of the 25th Division and came back to France. In October, it battled in the catch of the Beaurevoir Line amid the Battle of St Quentin Canal, and in the Battle of the Selle. Amid the last mentioned, the regiment was held up for almost four hours until Private Francis George Miles went ahead alone and thumped out two foe automatic weapon positions, for which activity he was granted the Victoria Cross (VC). The last activity of the 1/fifth Battalion came in November, amid the Battle of the Sambre. 

The second-line territorials were brought up in September 1914 and stayed in the UK until they moved to France in May 1916 as a feature of 61st (second South Midland) Division; the 2/fourth and 2/sixth Battalions in 183rd Brigade, and the 2/fifth Battalion in the 184th Brigade. The three contingents finished visits in the bleeding edge around Neuve Chapelle, yet for the 2/fourth and 2/sixth Battalions the main noteworthy activity was on 19 July 1916 out of an expensive and fruitless assault in the Battle of Fromelles which cost the two regiments a sum of 332 losses. In March and April 1917, the three regiments saw activity in the development to the Hindenburg Line south of the Somme. The 61st Division moved to Ypres in July, and every one of the three legions battled close Gheluvelt in the Battle of Passchendaele the next month, when the 2/fourth Battalion endured especially seriously with more than 200 losses. Toward the beginning of December, amid the Battle of Cambrai, an overwhelming German counter-assault constrained both the 2/fourth and 2/sixth Battalions out of their situations in the bleeding edge at La Vacquerie, south-west of Cambrai, decreasing the 2/fourth Battalion to two organizations and perpetrating setbacks of 16 officers and 308 different positions on the 2/sixth Battalion. 

In February 1918, the 2/fourth and 2/sixth Battalions were disbanded and their men dispersed to the 2/fifth Battalion and the 24th Entrenching Battalion. Toward the finish of March, 10 days of battling, withdrawing and delving in close St. Quentin decreased the 2/fifth Battalion to 150 men amid Operation Michael, the opening period of the German Spring Offensive. The 61st Division was exchanged north to help fortify First Army in April, and the 2/fifth Battalion battled various activities south-west of Merville amid the Battle of the Lys. In August, the regiment endeavored to constrain a bridgehead over a stream in Nieppe Forest, west of Merville, and battled on 1 September amid the development to the River Lys. The regiment was in fight again on 30 September at Fleurbaix, south-west of Armentières, and saw its last activity of the war on 1 and 2 November amid the Battle of Valenciennes. 

As volunteers addressed Lord Kitchener's invitation to battle, ten New Army legions, the seventh to the sixteenth, were added to the regiment's foundation somewhere in the range of 1914 and 1916. Three of them, the eleventh, fifteenth and sixteenth, were locally situated save legions which later exchanged to the Training Reserve. 

The seventh Battalion was framed in Bristol in August 1914. It cruised to the island of Lemnos in June 1915 as a major aspect of the 39th Brigade in the thirteenth (Western) Division and went into the line at Gallipoli the following month. The force battled its first activity on 8 August in the Battle of Chunuk Bair, amid which it endured more than 820 setbacks, including the majority of its officers, warrant officers and senior non-dispatched officers. It was conveyed back up to quality and moved to Egypt in January 1916. In March, the thirteenth Division was exchanged to Mesopotamia, yet on arriving at Basra the legion was put out of activity by an episode of backsliding fever. It rejoined the division amidst April and battled in the fruitless endeavor to lift the attack of Kut. The brigade saw activity in December 1916 and February 1917 amid the resulting advance on and catch of Kut, and battled its keep going fight on 29 March 1917 amid the Samarrah hostile. It went through the following 15 months generally on guarded and army obligations and was disbanded in September 1919. 

The eighth Battalion was brought up in Bristol in September 1914. It landed in France in July 1915 as a feature of the 57th Brigade in the nineteenth (Western) Division and saw its first activity the following year amid the Battle of Albert, in which it helped catch La Boisselle. The division's 58th Brigade had caught the western portion of the town on 2 July, and the eighth Battalion North Staffordshire Regiment and tenth Battalion Worcestershire Regiment, both of the 57th Brigade, aided the catch of the remainder of the town the following day. A German counter-assault recaptured the eastern portion of the town, and the eighth Glosters endured 302 losses when it battled close by the tenth Battalion Royal Warwickshire Regiment to help retake it. Amid the fight, the Glosters' boss, Lieutenant-Colonel Adrian Carton de Wiart, expected direction of every one of the four 57th Brigade units when the other three leaders moved toward becoming setbacks, and for his activities in deflecting a genuine turn around he was granted the VC. Later that month, amid the Battle of Pozières, the contingent made two ineffective assaults against the German line east of the town which together cost it 374 setbacks, among whom were Carton de Wiart and his successor, Major Lord A.G. Thynne, both injured. On 18 November, the most recent day of the Somme hostile, the force endured 295 losses when it caught Grandcourt amid the Battle of the Ancre. 

In 1917, the eighth Battalion saw activity in June amid the Battle of Messines, battled two minor activities in July close Oosttaverne, south of Ypres, and was associated with the Battle of the Menin Road Ridge in August. The legion was next in real life on the night of 21 March 1918, the primary day of the German Spring Offensive, when the Germans caught Doignies. Unfit to recover the town, the legion obstructed any further foe advance until the morning of 23 March, when German powers got through on the left and took steps to outmaneuver it. Organization A battled to the last man covering the contingent's withdrawal, for which activity the organization leader, Captain Manley Angell James, was granted the VC. When the nineteenth Division pulled back to Doullens on 28 March the brigade had endured 323 setbacks. In April, the brigade battled in three commitment of the Battle of the Lys: the Battles of Messines, Bailleul and First Kemmel. The next month, the nineteenth Division's parent unit, IX Corps, was exchanged to the French Sixth Army. The division should rest and re-arrange in a calm part, however on 27 May the Germans propelled a noteworthy assault, capturing the eighth Battalion in the Third Battle of the Aisne. The force saw its last activity in October, amid the Battle of the Selle, and was disbanded in May 1919. 

The ninth Battalion was shaped in Bristol in September 1914 and achieved France in September 1915 as a major aspect of the 78th Brigade in the 26th Division. The division was exchanged to XII Corps of the British Salonika Army in November 1915, and the legion held the line around Tumba, north of Salonika, until July 1916, when the division diminished the French south of Lake Dojran. The legion took part in two assaults against the Bulgarian lines, on 25 April and 8 May 1917, amid the Battle of Dojran. In July 1918, the regiment was exchanged to the 198th Brigade of the 66th Division in France, turning into the divisional pioneers, and was disbanded in November 1919. 

The tenth Battalion was brought up in September 1914 in Bristol, yet was enlisted predominantly by volunteers from Cheltenham. It crossed to France in August 1915 and supplanted one of the Guards regiments in the first Brigade of the first Division. It saw its first activity on 25 September amid the Battle of Loos when, as one of the unit's attack legions, it prevailing with regards to conveying the German bleeding edge at the expense of everything except 60 of its men. On 23 July 1916, amid the Battle of Pozières, the brigade assaulted the German line east of the town, and was engaged with two further assaults in a similar territory in August, all without progress. The regiment's last activity of the war went ahead 9 September, in a fizzled assault on High Wood which cost it 122 losses. In 1917, the first Division was allotted to Operation Hush, and when that was dropped the tenth legion moved to the Ypres zone. It was disbanded in February 1918 and its men dispersed among the regiment's first and eighth Battalions and the thirteenth Entrenching Battalion. 

The twelfth Battalion was brought up in Bristol in August 1914 by the Citizen's Recruiting Committee. It was taken over by the War Office in June 1915 and left for France in November as a component of the 95th Brigade in the fifth Division. The force went energetically in 1916 amid the Somme hostile: on 29 July at Longueval amid the Battle of Delville Wood; somewhere in the range of 3 and 5 September amid the Battle of Guillemont, in which it endured around 300 setbacks; and on 25 September amid the Battle of Morval. On 8 May 1917, amid the Battle of Arras, the legion was for all intents and purposes destroyed with the loss of 296 men at Fresnoy, and it didn't see activity again until 4 October in the Battle of Broodseinde. In December, the fifth Division was exchanged to Italy, where it went into the line along the River Piave, yet the brigade saw little activity past watching. The division came back to France in April 1918, possessing positions in the line close Nieppe Forest, and the regiment saw activity on 25 April and 28 June, the multiple times effectively propelling the cutting edge. Its last activity came amid the Second Battle of Bapaume, where it endured somewhere in the range of 100 setbacks on 21 August yet prevailing with regards to catching Irles on 23 August. On 6 October, the regiment was disbanded and its men appropriated among different units of the fifth Division. 

The thirteenth Battalion was brought up in December 1914 at Malvern by Sir Henry Webb and enlisted from the diggers of the Forest of Dean, South Wales and the Durham coalfields. In July 1915, it was taken over by the War Office and went to France in March 1916 as divisional pioneers to the 39th Division. The regiment saw its first huge activity on 30 June 1916, amid the Battle of the Boar's Head, when it burrowed correspondence channels behind the attacking troops. On a few events amid the fight the pioneers needed to quit burrowing to safeguard themselves, and the legion endured 71 losses. It saw activity again towards the finish of 1916 amid tasks on the Ancre, including the Battle of the Ancre Heights and the Battle of the Ancre. In March 1917, the force endured especially severely in the opening seven day stretch of the German Spring Offensive, amid which it was required to accept positions in the line as infantry, and when the division was pulled back on 31 March the unit had continued 326 setbacks. In April, the survivors were apportioned to composite infantry forces and saw their keep going activity on 26 April amid the Second Battle of Kemmel, some portion of the Battle of the Lys, after which the brigade was diminished to a preparation unit. 

The fourteenth Battalion was an undersized unit of volunteers from Bristol and Birmingham who had recently been rejected for administration as a result of their short stature. It was brought up in April 1915 by the Citizen's Recruiting Committee, received by the War Office in June 1915, and left for France in January 1916 as a component of the 105th Brigade in the 35th Division. The legion went into the line in March, where the men's first assignment was to raise the tallness of the terminating step, and its first huge activity went ahead 8 June, when it directed an extensive assault south-east of Neuve Chapelle. In July, following the catch of Trônes Wood by the eighteenth Division amid the Battle of Bazentin, the legion moved into the line at the northern end of the wood where, on 19 July, it endured 107 losses to foe big guns. On 21 August 1917, while in the line close Épehy, the Germans assaulted one of the regiment's shelling posts. Despite the fact that his besieging party were driven back, Second-Lieutenant Hardy Falconer Parsons remained and kept the adversary from entering the channels, for which act he was after death granted the VC. The regiment battled in the Action of 22 October 1917 amid the Battle of Passchendaele, and saw its keep going activity on 4 February 1918, when it effectively assaulted a braced homestead in the Ypres part. After seven days the force was disbanded and its men exchanged to the thirteenth Battalion. 

The eighteenth force was brought up in 1918 from a unit of the fifth Battalion Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire Light Infantry, and evacuated to France in August 1918 as a major aspect of the 49th Brigade in the sixteenth Division. It went energetically on 11 September, when it effectively struck the Railway Triangle west of Auchy, and saw its keep going activity on 18 September, when a German assault drove A Company from its forward posts. The contingent was disbanded in June 1919. 

The "Fifth Gloucester Gazette" was a channel diary distributed from the cutting edges by the men of the 1/fifth Battalion. The primary issue showed up on 12 April 1915 and foreshadowed progressively well known channel diaries, for example, "The Wipers Times". It kept running for 25 issues, the remainder of which showed up in January 1919. After the war it was republished as an assemblage titled "The Fifth Gloucester Gazette an account, genuine and funny, of the Battalion while presenting with the British Expeditionary Force". The paper highlighted jokes, verse, short stories, news and mocking adverts. In October 1916 "The Times Literary Supplement" hailed it as "the most established and most scholarly of the British channel diaries". 

The paper was respected so profoundly due to a limited extent to the endeavors of renowned war writer and establishing supporter F. W. Harvey, who distributed 77 sonnets in it while presenting with the 1/fifth. Five of Harvey's sonnets were incorporated into the 1917 compilation of war verse, "The Muse in Arms", close by lyrics by Siegfried Sassoon, Robert Graves and Rupert Brooke. The collection additionally highlighted the verse of Lieutenant Cyril Winterbotham – who served in the 1/fifth Battalion and altered the journal until he was slaughtered in real life on 27 August 1916 – and Harvey's pre-war companion Ivor Gurney, who served in the 2/fifth Battalion. 

All second-line regional and New Army legions had been disbanded and the regiment came back to its pre-war foundation before the finish of 1919. Near 40,000 men are accepted to have battled with the regiment in the war, of which 8,100 lost their lives, and the regiment was granted 72 diverse fight praises. The standard regiments lost 1,400 men executed, 1,044 of them from the first Battalion, and were granted 39 fight distinctions. The regional contingents lost 2,542 men slaughtered and got 60 fight distinctions, and the New Army units endured 3,954 passings and won 84 fight distinctions. Locally situated save units and the regimental station represented 204 passings. Four honors of the VC were made to men presenting with the regiment amid the war, alongside 47 Distinguished Service Orders (DSO), 188 Distinguished Conduct Medals (DCM), 265 Military Crosses (MC) and 747 Military Medals (MM). A fifth VC was granted to an officer of the regiment appended to another unit. 

After the finish of the First World War, the regiment continued interchange postings home and abroad. The first Battalion finished voyages through obligation in Ireland, where it caught the Irish republican Seán Moylan, and Germany, which considered a home posting, and came back to the UK in 1923. Then, the second Battalion was presented on India, with a five-month break in Shanghai at short notice from February 1927 while warring Chinese groups compromised the Shanghai International Settlement. In 1928, the second Battalion came back to the UK and the first Battalion was posted abroad, serving three years in Egypt, a year in Singapore and six years in India before winding up in Burma in 1938. Incited by worries of an Italian attack following the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, the second Battalion was sent at short notice to Egypt in January 1936, coming back to the UK in January 1937. The next year, the fifth Battalion turned into the regiment's sole regional unit when the fourth Battalion was changed over to the 66th Searchlight Regiment, Royal Artillery (RA), and the sixth Battalion changed over to the 44th Battalion, Royal Tank Regiment. On the eve of the Second World War, the Territorial Army (TA), as the Territorial Force had been renamed, was multiplied in size, and the seventh Battalion was made in August 1939 as the second-line copy of the fifth Battalion. 

On the flare-up of the Second World War in 1939, the Gloucestershire Regiment involved: 

The second Battalion sent to France on 2 October 1939 and was exchanged to the 145th Brigade in the 48th Division in March 1940. This acquired it close by the fifth Battalion the division's 144th Brigade, which had touched base in France on 15 January 1940. In May 1940, amid the Battle of France, the German leap forward at Sedan hastened a retreat to Dunkirk. The fifth Battalion walked in 83 hours with little nourishment or rest before in the long run getting transport at Tournai where, on 19 May, the second Battalion lost 194 men killed or missing in only minutes to an airstrike. The regiment increased some rest on 20 May, when the two legions held positions along the River Escaut (Scheldt) for two days before the British Expeditionary Force continued its retreat. On 25 May, the second Battalion, having at this point endured 219 losses, turned out to be a piece of Somer Force. This blended gathering of units under the direction of Brigadier Nigel Somerset, as of not long ago the second Battalion boss, invigorated Cassel on the external border around Dunkirk. The Germans tested the town the following day and started striking it on 27 May. Somer Force waited for two days, in the end endeavoring to pull back compelled on the night of 29 May, however few made it to Dunkirk. The second Battalion endured 678 setbacks at Cassel, 484 of them POWs. In the interim, the fifth Battalion was given a comparative assignment at the towns of Arneke and Ledringhem, some north-west of Cassel. The force took up positions on 26 May, and the principal assaults came the following day. By 28 May, the force had assembled at Ledringhem, where it was encompassed, and it pulled back compelled in the early long stretches of 29 May. The survivors achieved Bray Dunes before day break the following day and were in this manner removed the shoreline by little ships. The remain at Ledringham had cost the contingent 87 murdered, and when it reassembled in the UK it was 400 in number. 

In March 1942, the first Battalion gave the rearguard to the British retreat from Rangoon amid the Japanese victory of Burma. It saw its first noteworthy activity of the war on 7 and 8 March at the Taukkyan Roadblock, and for the remainder of the month worked freely to cover the retreat, battling fights at Letpadan on 17 March and Paungde on 27 March. In an ensuing fight close Padigong, from Paungde, D Company wound up secluded for 17 hours and needed to battle its way back to the unit at Shwedaung. Meanwhile, the regiment turned out to be a piece of the 63rd Indian Infantry Brigade in the (seventeenth Infantry Division), which needed to battle its approach to and through Shwedaung when Japanese powers penetrated between the rearguard and the principle section. Before the finish of March, the first Battalion had been decreased to 140 all positions, its leader, Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Bagot, among the injured. 

In mid-April, the under-quality regiment turned out to be so scattered while securing devastation parties at oil establishments around Yenangyaung and Chauk that when Bagot came back from emergency clinic he was educated the force had stopped to exist. He was all things considered ready to accumulate the remainders, presently numbering 7 officers and 170 different positions, at Shwebo on 27 April, and the force was in this manner strengthened by a draft of 3 officers and 120 different positions. At the point when the Japanese compromised Monywa, Bagot took order of the considerable number of troops in the territory, which incorporated the first Battalion, to shape Bagot Force. This blended gathering of units battled a deferring activity at Budalin, north of Monywa, on 4 May before pulling back to Ye-u. The regiment kept on going about as rearguard, crossing the River Chindwin at Kalewa on 9 May and into India at Tamu toward the month's end. In the meantime, the Japanese stopped activities in Burma. Since the beginning of the retreat from Rangoon on 7 March the legion had lost 8 officers and 156 different positions slaughtered in real life or passed on of disorder, and a lot progressively injured. The force was refreshed and conveyed back up to quality in India, where it spent the rest of the war, and saw no further activity. 

On its arrival to the UK, the fifth Battalion was conveyed back up to quality and kept an eye on beach front protections in Cornwall. It changed over to an observation job in June 1941, in the long run turning into the 43rd (Wessex) Reconnaissance Regiment, and from October it stopped to have any connection with the Gloucestershire Regiment. Its copy, the seventh Battalion, was presented on Northern Ireland, however observed no activity and turned into a preparation unit in 1944. With such a large number of its men mulling in POW camps, the second Battalion was remade and served in home protection at different areas around the UK, at long last winding up in 1943 on the Isle of Wight before being allocated to a progressively dynamic job. 

As the UK prepared itself for Operation Sea Lion, the German intend to attack, various home safeguard legions were raised under the regiment's hues. The eighth Battalion was framed from the National Defense Companies and comprised of men excessively old, excessively youthful or unfit for dynamic administration, and the more youthful unexpected from this legion later shaped the 70th Battalion. The ninth and tenth Battalions were likewise raised, the previous serving in Northern Ireland, the last in south Wales and after that Lincolnshire. The eleventh Battalion was made in October 1940 from a re-assignment of the 50th (Holding) Battalion, and 32,000 men in 19 forces of the Home Guard wore the identifications of the regiment. As the risk of attack subsided, a large portion of these home safeguard contingents were disbanded, the eighth and 70th in 1942, the ninth in 1943, and the Home Guard in 1945. In February 1942, the eleventh Battalion stopped to have any association with the regiment when it was changed over to the 118th Light Anti-Aircraft Regiment of the Royal Artillery. The tenth Battalion was changed over to defensive layer in 1942 and turned into the 159th Regiment in the Royal Armored Corps, however it held the Glosters' top identifications. It was sent to India in October where, in March 1943, it changed over back to infantry and returned to the regiment's tenth Battalion. 

In 1944, the second Battalion was exchanged to the 56th Independent Infantry Brigade, and at 11:00 on 6 June, amid the Normandy arrivals, the detachment arrived without occurrence in the second wave at Gold Beach. The brigade saw activity in the Battle of Normandy: at Tilly-sur-Seulles on 11 June amid Operation Perch; along the Saint-Germain d'Ectot edge on 30 July amid Operation Bluecoat; and at Thury-Harcourt on 12 August in the prelude to Operation Tractable. In mid-August, having differently served under the directions of the 50th (Northumbrian) Infantry Division, the seventh Armored Division and the 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division, the 56th Brigade went under order of the 49th (West Riding) Infantry Division, with which it stayed for the remainder of the war. Amid the development to the River Seine, the second Battalion endured 53 losses catching Épaignes on 25 August, and crossed the waterway at Rouen on 2 September. It led the attack on Le Havre eight days after the fact, and it was the principal British unit to enter the city's fortress, on 12 September, catching 1,500 detainees and much brew for the misfortune amid the clash of 40 men killed and injured. 

From Le Havre, the second Battalion progressed into Belgium, seeing activity in the bridgehead over the Turnhout-Antwerp Canal, and the Netherlands, where it battled at Stampersgat. The legion achieved Nijmegen in late November, where it spent more than four moderately calm months hindered just by a four-day fight at Zetten in January 1945. The contingent's last huge activity of the war went ahead 12 April, when it struck over the River Ijssel at Arnhem, after which the remainder of the 56th Brigade went through to catch the town itself. Following the German surrender on 8 May, the second Battalion entered Germany close Osnabrück. It gave a separation to the British watchman at the Nuremberg preliminaries, and in August it was exchanged to the fifth Guards Brigade positioned in Berlin. Between the Normandy arrivals on 6 June 1944 and VE Day on 8 May 1945 the force endured 718 setbacks. Among them was the brigade authority, Lieutenant-Colonel Francis Butterworth, kicked the bucket of wounds got amid the assault at Stampersgat and prevailing by Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Bray. 

On returning to the infantry job, the tenth Battalion was doled out to the 72nd Brigade in the 36th Infantry Division. The division was bound for Burma, and therefore the regiment "having been prepared as infantry, tank troops, and joined activities troops, went straight into wilderness fighting, for which we had no preparation". The Glosters landed on the Arakan Peninsula (present day Rakhine) in February 1944, were a piece of the aid project in the Battle of the Admin Box, and battled in scattered, organization scale activities in the catch of the Mayu passages and Hambone Hill. The division went into save in May and was carried to Myitkyina in July, exchanging toward the Northern Combat Area Command (NCAC) under the American General Joseph Stilwell. It pushed south along the Mandalay railroad and caught Taungni on 9 August, amid which period the tenth Battalion lost a bigger number of men to disorder than foe activity. Conveyed back up to quality in September, the force was occupied with four days of savage battling at Pinwe in November, losing every one of the officers in both An and C Companies, and everything except one in B Company, before being alleviated on 26 November. 

The 36th Division proceeded with its development south in January 1945, and the tenth Battalion saw activity in a progression of short fights around Mabein that month. The legion saw its last activity of the war supporting the 26th Indian Brigade assault at Myitson on the River Shweli, amid which D Company was cut off for five days before the remainder of the force had the capacity to connect up with it on 16 February. Of the 250 or so men in the regiment before the fight, 119 were killed or injured when the Japanese pulled back on 17 February. Despite the fact that the men had battled well, there were unpleasant recriminations over the direct of the fight between the administrator of the 26th Brigade, Brigadier M. B. Jennings, and the tenth Battalion's leader, Lieutenant-Colonel Richard Butler, which brought about Butler being sacked. Subsequent to achieving Mandalay, the contingent came back to India in May, and was disbanded at Poona in December 1945. 

The regiment accumulated 20 distinctive fight praises and lost 870 men killed in the nine forces that had served under its hues amid the Second World War. Just the two standard contingents stayed with the regiment at the war's end, however the regional fifth Battalion was come back to the hues on 1 March 1947 and doled out to the 129th Infantry Brigade of the 43rd (Wessex) Infantry Division. That equivalent year, the first Battalion was diminished to a framework and came back from India to the UK, and the second Battalion was presented on Jamaica and separated organizations to Bermuda and British Honduras (cutting edge Belize). It was in Jamaica that, as per the rebuilding of the British Army, the regiment's two units swapped hues and amalgamated to shape the single-legion Gloucestershire Regiment (28th/61st) on 21 September 1948. 

After its arrival to the UK in 1949, the first Battalion, instructed by Lieutenant-Colonel James Power Carne, was relegated to the 29th Independent Infantry Brigade Group, and on 3 November 1950, after the flare-up of the Korean War, the contingent landed with the unit in Korea. Toward the start of December, the 29th Brigade gave the rearguard amid the general retreat that pursued the United Nations (UN) rout at the Battle of the Ch'ongch'on River. On 16 February, after UN powers propelled a counter-hostile, the Glosters – with help from the 25-pounders of the 45th Field Regiment RA, the mortars of the 170th Heavy Mortar Battery and direct flame from 17 Centurion tanks of the eighth King's Royal Irish Hussars – effectively attacked Hill 327, south of the River Han, for the loss of 10 executed and 29 injured. 

Right off the bat in April, the 29th Brigade, upheld by the 45th Field Regiment RA and under order of the United States (US) third Infantry Division, took up dissipated positions on a front in Line Kansas along the Imjin waterway. The 657 men of the first Battalion's battling part, upheld by C Troop 170th Heavy Mortar Battery RA, were daintily spread on the detachment's left flank in positions set back some from the waterway, guarding a passage close to the town of Choksong. Organization A held Castle (Hill 148) disregarding the passage, D Company was at Hill 182, toward the south-east, and B Company was at Hill 144, toward the east of D Company. Organization C was for possible later use close Hill 314, ignoring regiment home office (HQ) and Support Company at Solma-Ri. The unit's second-in-direction, Major Digby Grist, was with back home office ("F echelon") some behind, on highway Five Yankee (5Y) to Seoul. There was a hole between the Glosters and the first Battalion Royal Northumberland Fusiliers to their right side, and to their left side the twelfth Regiment of the South Korean (ROK) first Infantry Division was away. 

After dusk on 22 April, the Chinese propelled the Spring Offensive, the primary period of which was intended to wipe out the US third Division, the 29th Brigade and the ROK first Division. Achievement would enable them to assault the US 24th and 25th Divisions in the flank and leave the route open to Seoul. Against the four legions of the 29th Brigade the Chinese had amassed the 63rd Army, containing the 187th, 188th and 189th Divisions; somewhere in the range of 27,000 men in 27 infantry legions. 

At 22:00, a 17-man watch from C Company in position on the stream bank, bolstered by the weapons of the 45th Field Regiment, connected with the main Chinese troops multiple times as they endeavored to cross the passage. The watch pulled back without misfortune when they started to come up short on ammo and the striking troops at long last picked up the contrary bank. Amid the night, the Glosters' forward organizations were assaulted, and by 07:30, A Company, dwarfed six to one, had been constrained from Castle Hill. An endeavor to retake it fizzled, and the organization, presently at not exactly half quality and with all officers executed or injured, fell back to Hill 235. The withdrawal left D Company's position uncovered and, with one of its companies seriously battered in the medium-term battling, it excessively resigned to the slope. Organization B had not been squeezed amid the night, however the withdrawal of D Company to its left side and the Fusiliers on its correct left the organization uncovered, and it fell back to Hill 314, east of C Company. Toward the evening, Major Grist was with the legion HQ amid a break in the battling, having thought of provisions, when news came through of an assault on the F echelon position. He drove back along course 5Y, through a snare and past a gathering of F echelon troops coating the street under Chinese gatekeeper, inevitably achieving the unit HQ. The loss of the F echelon position implied that the legion was presently cut off. 

At 23:00 on 23 April, the Chinese continued their assault, tossing the crisp 189th Division against the Glosters' B and C Companies around Hill 314. During that time the men of B Company, driven by Major Edgar Harding and dwarfed 18:1, persevered through six attacks, bringing in big guns individually position to separate the remainder of them. Low on ammo and having taken numerous setbacks, the seventh ambush at 08:10 constrained them from their position, and only 20 survivors made it to Hill 235, to which the legion HQ, Support and C Companies had officially pulled back. With the Glosters' position still essential to the honesty of Line Kansas, Carne got orders at 07:00 on 24 April from the third Division leader, General Soule, to persevere. He was prompted that fortifications, including tanks of the eighth Hussars and Philippine tenth Battalion Combat Team and the troops of the Glosters' own back echelon, were being sent up course 5Y. The protective layer got to inside of the Glosters' situation before being stopped in a trap around 15:00, sentencing the Glosters to one more night alone on Hill 235. 

By the evening of 24 April, the Glosters, with C Troop 170th Mortar Battery presently battling nearby as infantry, had been decreased to a successful battling power of 400– 450 men. They were low on ammo, however to support them the 45th Field Regiment gave astounding help. Appraisals of the contradicting power go from a regiment (three forces) to a division (three regiments). The Glosters battled during that time of 24– 25 April, amid which the pinnacle was quickly involved by the Chinese, along these lines undermining the Glosters' entire position on the slope. It was recovered in a counter-assault driven by the aide, Captain Anthony Farrar-Hockley, and the Chinese propelled seven assaults in a single hour trying to take it once more, all without progress. Their strike on the slope was at long last separated after dawn via airstrikes. That morning, with Chinese powers penetrating miles behind the lines, UN powers started to pull back to Line Delta. On Hill 235, the Glosters had next to no ammo, no expectation of help and, with the 45th Field Regiment progressing, no big guns support. Carne got consent to endeavor a breakout at 06:05. He had no real option except to leave the injured, evaluated at somewhere in the range of 100. The survivors split into little gatherings and endeavored to sidestep the Chinese encompassing them to achieve agreeable lines. Only 63 men made it. 

The Glosters' stand had connected an expansive hole the 29th Brigade's front on Line Kansas which would some way or another have left the flanks of the ROK first and US third Divisions helpless. Their quality likewise compromised the back of the Chinese powers as they progressed and prevented them the utilization from claiming courses south for their cannons and donkey trains. General James Van Fleet, administrator of the US Eighth Army, depicted the remain as "the most extraordinary case of unit courage in current war", and in a letter to General Ridgeway, president of UN powers in Korea, he composed that "the loss of 622 officers and men spared ordinarily that number". The 29th Brigade officer, Brigadier Thomas Brodie, initiated the regiment "The Glorious Glosters", a sobriquet that was rehashed in the features of the day, and Hill 235 wound up known as "Gloster Hill", at the foot of which the Gloucester Valley Battle Monument was worked in 1957. 

Different regiments of the 29th Brigade had likewise been occupied with edgy battling, however without a similar size of misfortunes, and altogether the unit endured 1,091 losses. Of the Glosters' 622 setbacks, 56 were executed and 522 were taken prisoner, some of whom had just persevered through the POW camps of Germany and Japan. Carne, himself taken POW and right now a beneficiary of the DSO for his initiative amid the prior fight at Hill 327, was granted the VC and the American Distinguished Service Cross. Lieutenant Philip Curtis, connected from the Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry, was after death granted the VC for his activities amid the endeavor to retake Castle Hill. Two honors of the DSO were made, to Harding and Farrar-Hockley, and six MCs, two DCMs and ten MMs were likewise granted. Lieutenant Terence Waters, appended from the West Yorkshire Regiment, was after death granted the George Cross for his lead amid imprisonment. The regiment itself, alongside C Troop 170th Heavy Mortar Battery, was granted the Presidential Unit Citation. 

The unit's quality on 26 April was 119 men, for the most part back echelon troops who had been a piece of the aid venture however not generally engaged with the fight. This figure rose to 217 later in the day as men came back from leave and those rare sorts of people who had figured out how to escape from Hill 235 rejoined. The 29th Brigade was conveyed back up to quality in May, and the regiment came back to the line along the Imjin in September. It was eased in November and came back to a turbulent welcome at Southampton on 20 December. The POWs were likewise invited back to incredible pomp following their discharge in 1953. The Korean War represented 113 fatalities among the Glosters, 36 of them in bondage. 

While the Korean War proceeded, the regiment was occupied with increasingly stately issues at home. It lined the course of King George VI's memorial service parade on 15 February 1952, and it was given its first hues at a function in Gloucester on 26 April, the two standard contingents having held those of their ancestor regiments up to that point. On 2 June 1953, 400 men from both the first and fifth Battalions participated in the parade at the crowning ordinance of Queen Elizabeth II. Somewhere in the range of 1955 and 1994, the regiment came back to increasingly military obligations, generally watching the contracting British Empire with voyages through obligation in Kenya, Aden, Bahrain, Cyprus, Belize, Gibraltar and the African states of Swaziland, Mauritius, Bechuanaland and Basutoland. The regiment likewise took an interest in the British commitment to NATO in Germany, serving three visits with the British Army of the Rhine and two with the British battalion in Berlin, and somewhere in the range of 1968 and 1991 it finished seven visits in Northern Ireland amid The Troubles, in which it lost five men murdered. 

In March 1967, the first Battalion turned into the sole unit of the Gloucestershire Regiment when, because of a rearrangement of the TA, the fifth Battalion turned into A Company of the Wessex Volunteers in the Territorial Army Volunteer Reserve. The regiment barely maintained a strategic distance from amalgamation with the Royal Hampshire Regiment in 1970, and it praised its tercentenary toward the beginning of March 1994; 300 years since the raising of Gibson's Regiment of Foot. However, at that point, the disintegration of the Soviet Union had incited the administration to rebuild the military. Subsequently, the Gloucestershire Regiment was amalgamated with the Duke of Edinburgh's Royal Regiment to shape the Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment. The new regiment kept up the back identification custom, and when it was thus amalgamated in 2007, it passed the convention on to its successor regiment, The Rifles, who wear the back identification with their stately uniform. The Glosters marched once and for all on 26 March 1994 in Gloucester. The hues, conveying more fight respects than some other regiment of the line, were then walked to the Soldiers of Gloucestershire Museum, and the regiment pursued the 28th and 61st Regiments of Foot into history. 

Coming up next were granted the Victoria Cross, Britain's most astounding honor for dauntlessness, while presenting with the Gloucestershire Regiment: 

Daniel Burges, an impermanent Lieutenant-Colonel in the Gloucestershire Regiment, was granted the VC amid the First World War while instructing the seventh Battalion South Wales Borderers. 

The accompanying served in the formal position of Colonel of the Regiment: