Antiochus X Eusebes 

Antiochus X Eusebes Philopator (; – 92 or 88 BC) was a Hellenistic Seleucid ruler who ruled as the King of Syria somewhere in the range of 95 and 92 or 89/88 BC (224 Seleucid year (SE)). He was the child of Antiochus IX and maybe his Egyptian spouse Cleopatra IV. He inhabited a period that saw a general breaking down of Seleucid Syria described by common wars, remote obstruction by Ptolemaic Egypt and attacks by the Parthians. Antiochus IX was slaughtered in 95BC because of Seleucus VI, the child of his relative and opponent Antiochus VIII. Antiochus X at that point went to the city of Aradus where he announced himself ruler. He retaliated for his dad by overcoming Seleucus VI, who was in the long run murdered. 

Antiochus X did not appreciate a steady rule as he needed to confront three of Seleucus VI's siblings, Antiochus XI, Philip I and Demetrius III. Antiochus XI vanquished Antiochus X and ousted him from the capital Antioch in 93 BC. Barely any months after the fact, Antiochus X recaptured his position and killed Antiochus XI. This prompted the obstruction of Philip I and Demetrius III. The common war proceeded however its ultimate result is dubious because of the inconsistencies of antiquated students of history's records. Antiochus X wedded his stepmother, Antiochus IX's widow Cleopatra Selene, and had a few kids with her, including later ruler Antiochus XIII. 

The demise of Antiochus X is covered in puzzle. The time of his destruction is customarily given by current researchers as 92 BC, however different dates are additionally conceivable including the year 224 SE (89/88BC). The most solid record of his end is that of the principal century student of history Josephus, who composed that Antiochus X walked east to ward off the Parthians when they assaulted a ruler called Laodice; the personality of this ruler and who her kin were are discussed. Different records exist: the antiquated Greek student of history Appian has Antiochus X vanquished by the Armenian lord Tigranes II and losing his kingdom; the third century antiquarian Eusebius composed that Antiochus X was crushed by his cousins and got away to the Parthians before requesting that the Romans be restored on the royal position. Current researchers lean toward the record of Josephus and question for all intents and purposes each part of the variants introduced by other antiquated history specialists. Numismatic proof demonstrates that Antiochus X was prevailing in Antioch by Demetrius III, who controlled the capital SE (88/87 BC). 

The second century BC saw the crumbling of the Syria-based Seleucid Empire due to endless dynastic fights and remote Egyptian and Roman obstruction. In the midst of consistent common wars, Syria tumbled to pieces. Seleucid fakers battled for the position of royalty, destroying the nation. In 113 BC, Antiochus IX pronounced himself lord contrary to his relative Antiochus VIII. The kin battled tirelessly for 10 years and a half until Antiochus VIII was slaughtered in 96 BC. The next year, Antiochus VIII's child Seleucus VI walked against Antiochus IX and murdered him close to the Syrian capital Antioch. 

Egypt and Syria endeavored dynastic relational unions to keep up a level of harmony. Antiochus IX wedded a few times; realized spouses are his cousin Cleopatra IV of Egypt, whom he wedded in 114 BC, and her sister Cleopatra Selene, the widow of Antiochus VIII. A few students of history, for example, John D. Grainger, keep up the presence of a first spouse obscure by name who was the mother of Antiochus X. Others, for example, Auguste Bouché-Leclercq, trust that the primary spouse of Antiochus IX and the mother of his child was Cleopatra IV, in which case Antiochus X would have been conceived in . None of those statements depend on proof, and the mother of Antiochus X isn't named in antiquated sources. Antiochus is a Greek name signifying "steadfast in conflict". The capital Antioch got its name in concession to Antiochus, the dad of the Seleucid line's organizer Seleucus I; the name ended up dynastic and numerous Seleucid lords bore it. 

As indicated by Josephus, following the demise of his dad, Antiochus X went to the city of Aradus where he announced himself ruler; it is conceivable that Antiochus IX, before confronting Seleucus VI, sent his child to that city for security. Aradus was a free city since 137 BC, implying that Antiochus X made a collusion with it, since he would not have had the capacity to stifle it by power at that phase of his rule. As the lines of Antiochus VIII and Antiochus IX battled about Syria, the relatives of every ruler depicted themselves in the similarity of their particular dads to demonstrate their authenticity; Antiochus X's busts on his coins indicated him with a short nose that closes with an up-turn, similar to his dad. Antiquated Hellenistic rulers did not utilize regnal numbers. Rather, they generally utilized designations to separate themselves from different rulers with comparable names; the numbering of lords is for the most part a cutting edge practice. On his coins, Antiochus X showed up with the appellations "Eusebes" (the devout) and "Philopator" (father-cherishing). As indicated by Appian, the lord got the designation Eusebes from the Syrians since he got away from a plot on his life by Seleucus VI, and, authoritatively, the Syrians felt that he endure on account of his devotion, in any case, as a general rule, it was a whore in adoration with Antiochus X who spared him. 

Starting his reign in 218 SE (95/94 BC), Antiochus X was denied of assets and came up short on a ruler. He hence wedded a lady who could give what he required, his stepmother Cleopatra Selene. Antiochus X was most likely close to twenty years of age while his significant other was in her forties. This association was not extraordinary in the Seleucid administration, as Antiochus I had hitched his stepmother Stratonice, yet by and by, the marriage was outrageous. Appian remarked that he thought the genuine explanation for the sobriquet "Eusebes" to be a joke by the Syrians, deriding Antiochus X's devotion, as he indicated unwaveringness to his dad by bedding his widow. Appian reasoned that it was "divine retaliation" for his marriage that in the end prompted Antiochus X's fall. 

One of Antiochus X's first activities was to vindicate his dad; in 94 BC, he progressed on the capital Antioch and drove Seleucus VI out of northern Syria into Cilicia. As indicated by Eusebius, the last fight between Antiochus X and Seleucus VI occurred close to the Cilician city of Mopsuestia, finishing off with Antiochus X's triumph while Seleucus VI took asylum in the city where he died because of a prominent revolt. 

Amid the Seleucid time frame, cash struck in the midst of crusades against an adversary or a usurper demonstrated the lord unshaven, and what is by all accounts the most punctual bronze coinage of Antiochus X indicates him with a wavy whiskers, while later money, evidently intended to demonstrate the ruler in firm control of his domain, portrayed Antiochus X clean shaven. Ahead of schedule in 93 BC, the siblings of Seleucus VI, Antiochus XI and Philip I, retaliated for Seleucus VI by sacking Mopsuestia. Antiochus XI at that point progressed on Antioch, vanquished Antiochus X, and removed him from the city, reigning alone in the capital for couple of months. 

Antiochus X selected new warriors and assaulted Antioch that year. He rose triumphant, while Antiochus XI suffocated in the Orontes River as he attempted to escape. Presently Antiochus X ruled northern Syria and Cilicia; around this time, Mopsuestia printed coins with "self-governing" engraved. This new political status appears to have been a benefit gave to the city by Antiochus X, who, as an indication of appreciation for Mopsuestia's job in wiping out Seleucus VI, clearly revamped it, yet in addition remunerated it for the harm it endured on account of Seleucus VI's siblings. In the perspective on the numismatist , a few coins printed in Mopsuestia may convey a representation of Antiochus X. Different urban communities stamped their very own metro coinage under the lord's standard, including Tripolis, Berytus, and maybe the self-ruling city of Ascalon. 

In the capital, Antiochus X may have been in charge of structure a library and a connected exhibition hall on the model of the Library of Alexandria. Philip I was most likely focused at Beroea; his sibling, Demetrius III, who ruled Damascus, upheld him and walked north presumably in the spring of 93 BC. Antiochus X confronted savage obstruction from his cousins. In the year 220 SE (93/92BC), the city of Damascus quit issuing coins for the sake of Demetrius III, at that point continued the next year; this could have been the aftereffect of invasions by Antiochus X, which debilitated his cousin and made Damascus helpless against assaults by the Judaean lord Alexander Jannaeus. 

The Roman statesman Cicero expounded on two children of Antiochus X and Cleopatra Selene who visited Rome amid his time (somewhere in the range of 75 and 73 BC); one of them was named Antiochus. The ruler may have likewise fathered a little girl with his better half; as indicated by the primary century history specialist Plutarch, the Armenian lord Tigranes II, who slaughtered Cleopatra Selene in 69 BC, "put to death the successors of Seleucus, and [carried] off their spouses and girls into bondage". This announcement makes it conceivable to accept that Antiochus X had something like one little girl with his significant other. 

Data about Antiochus X after the impedance of Demetrius III is meager. Antiquated sources and current researchers present distinctive records and dates for the destruction of the ruler. Antiochus X's end as told by Josephus, which has the lord slaughtered amid a battle against the Parthians, is considered the most dependable and likely by current students of history. Most of researchers acknowledge the year 92 BC for Antiochus X's end: 

No known coins issued by the lord in Antioch contain a date. Josephus composed that the ruler fell not long after Demetrius III's impedance, yet this announcement is obscure. Most researchers, for example, Edward Theodore Newell, comprehended Josephus' announcement to show 92BC. As per Hoover, the dating of Newell is clearly founded on joining the announcement of Josephus with that of Eusebius, who composed that Antiochus X was shot out from the capital in 220 SE (93/92 BC) by Philip I. Hoover considered Newell's dating hard to acknowledge; a market weight from Antioch bearing Antiochus X's name, from 92 BC, might negate the dating of 220 SE (93/92 BC). Then again, in the year 221 SE (92/91BC), the city of Antioch issued urban coinage referencing no ruler; Hoover noticed that the community coinage specifies Antioch as the "city" however not as independent, and this may be clarified as a reward from Antiochus X offered to the city for supporting him in his battle against his cousins. 

In 2007, utilizing a philosophy dependent on evaluating the yearly kick the bucket utilization normal rate (the Esty equation), Hoover proposed the year 224 SE (89/88 BC) for the finish of Antiochus X's rule. Later in 2011, Hoover noticed that this date is difficult to acknowledge thinking about that amid Antiochus X's second reign in the capital, just a couple of bites the dust were utilized every year, very few for the Seleucid normal rate to legitimize a long rule. Hoover at that point noticed that there appear to be a few signs that the coinage of Antiochus X's second reign in the capital, alongside the coinages of Antiochus XI and Demetrius III, were re-begat by Philip I who inevitably took Antioch , therefore clarifying the uncommonness of those lords' coins. Hoover conceded that his decision is "disturbing". The student of history considered Hoover's dating and contentions excessively theoretical, as they repudiate antiquated writing. 

The way of the ruler's demise fluctuates relying upon which old record is utilized. The principle old history specialists giving data on Antiochus X's end are Josephus, Appian, Eusebius and Saint Jerome: 

The record of Josephus: "For when he was come as an assistant to Laodice, ruler of the Gileadites, when she was making war against the Parthians, and he was battling gallantly, he fell." The Parthians may have been aligned with Philip I. The general population of Laodice, their area, and her identity are difficult to decide, as enduring original copies of Josephus' work transmit distinctive names for the general population. Gileadites is a more seasoned assignment dependent on the Codex Leidensis (Lugdunensis) composition of Josephus' work, however the scholarly accord utilizes the assignment Sameans, in view of the "Codex Palatinus (Vaticanus) Graecus" original copy. 

The record of Appian: Antiochus X was ousted from Syria by Tigranes II of Armenia. Appian gave Tigranes II a reign of fourteen years in Syria finishing in 69 BC. That year saw the retreat of the Armenian lord because of a war with the Romans. Consequently, the attack of Syria by Tigranes, in light of the record of Appian, likely occurred in 83 BC. Bellinger rejected this record, and thought about that Appian mistook Antiochus X for his child Antiochus XIII. Kuhn thought about a disarray among dad and child to be not feasible in light of the fact that Appian referenced the sobriquet Eusebes when discussing the destiny of Antiochus X. In the perspective on Kuhn, Antiochus X withdrew to Cilicia subsequent to being crushed by Tigranes II, and his children decided that district after him and were accounted for visiting Rome in 73 BC. In any case, numismatic proof demonstrates that Demetrius III controlled Cilicia following the downfall of Antiochus X, and that Tarsus printed coins in his name SE (88/87 BC). The Egyptologist Christopher J. Bennett, thought of it as conceivable that Antiochus X withdrew to Ptolemais in the wake of being vanquished by Tigranes since it turned into his widow's base. In his history, Appian neglected to make reference to the reigns of Demetrius III and Philip I in the capital which went before the rule of Tigranes II. As indicated by Hoover, Appian's obliviousness of the mediating lords between Antiochus X and Tigranes II may clarify how he befuddled Antiochus XIII, who is known to have fled from the Armenian ruler, with his dad. 

Eusebius and others: According to Eusebius, who utilized the record of the third century history specialist Porphyry, Antiochus X was launched out from the capital by Philip I in 220 SE (93/92 BC) and fled to the Parthians. Eusebius included that following the Roman victory of Syria, Antiochus X surrendered to Pompey, wanting to be reestablished on the honored position, yet the general population of Antioch paid cash to the Roman general to keep away from a Seleucid rebuilding. Antiochus X was then welcomed by the general population of Alexandria to administer mutually with the girls of Ptolemy XII, yet he passed on of sickness before long. This record has been addressed by numerous researchers, for example, Hoover and Bellinger. The story told by Eusebius contains true mistakes, as he composed that around the same time Antiochus X was crushed by Philip I, he surrendered to Pompey, while in the meantime Philip I was caught by the legislative leader of Syria Aulus Gabinius. Be that as it may, Pompey touched base in Syria just in 64 BC, and left it in 62 BC. Aulus Gabinius was selected legislative head of Syria in 57 BC. Additionally, the piece of Eusebius' record in regards to the surrender to Pompey echoes the destiny of Antiochus XIII; the author is by all accounts confounding the destiny of Antiochus X with that of his child. The second century student of history Justin, composing dependent on crafted by the primary century BC antiquarian Trogus, additionally befuddled the dad and child, as he composed that Antiochus X was delegated ruler of Syria by the Roman general Lucullus following the annihilation of Tigranes II in 69 BC. 

It is known from numismatic proof that Demetrius III inevitably succeeded Antiochus X in Antioch. Eusebius' explanation that Antiochus X was shot out from the capital by Philip I in 220 SE (93/92 BC) is negated by the coins of Demetrius III, who was not referenced at all by Eusebius. Any proposals that Philip I controlled Antioch before the end of Demetrius III can be expelled; notwithstanding the numismatic proof, no old source guaranteed that Demetrius III needed to drive Philip I out of the city. 

In 1949, a jugate currency of Cleopatra Selene and Antiochus XIII, from the gathering of the French paleontologist Henri Arnold Seyrig, was dated by the antiquarian Alfred Bellinger to 92BC and attributed to Antioch. In light of Bellinger's dating, some cutting edge students of history, for example, Ehling, recommended that Cleopatra Selene appreciated a vaporous reign in Antioch between the passing of her significant other and the entry of his successor. Bellinger questioned his own dating and the coin's place of issue in 1952, recommending Cilicia rather than Antioch. This coin is dated by numerous twenty-first century researchers to 82BC.