Philip I Philadelphus 

Philip I Epiphanes Philadelphus (; somewhere in the range of 125 and 109 BC – 83 or 75 BC) was a Hellenistic Seleucid ruler who ruled as the King of Syria from 94 to either 83 or 75 BC. The child of Antiochus VIII and his significant other Tryphaena, he went through his initial time on earth in a time of common war between his dad and his uncle Antiochus IX. The contention finished with the death of Antiochus VIII and a snappy progression in the Syrian capital Antioch of Antiochus IX then Antiochus VIII's oldest child Seleucus VI. 

After the homicide of Seleucus VI in 94 BC, Philip I moved toward becoming lord with his twin sibling Antiochus XI, and wanted to vindicate Seleucus VI. In 93 BC Antiochus XI took Antioch from Antiochus IX's child Antiochus X. Antiochus XI turned into the senior lord, and Philip I stayed in a base in Cilicia. Antiochus X returned and slaughtered Antiochus XI that year. Philip I at that point aligned with his more youthful sibling Demetrius III, who was situated in Damascus. Antiochus X was likely slaughtered in 88 BC. Demetrius III took the capital and blockaded Philip I in Beroea (Aleppo), however the last won and took Antioch; their most youthful sibling Antiochus XII took Damascus. 

Philip I attempted ineffectively to take Damascus for himself, after which he vanishes from the authentic record; there is no data about when or how he passed on. The Antiochenes, obviously declining to acknowledge Philip I's minor child Philip II as his successor, welcomed Tigranes II of Armenia to take the city. While the attack of Tigranes II is customarily dated to 83 BC, the year most researchers concur on for Philip I's passing, the contention may have occurred in 74 BC. Numismatic proof and intimations in antiquated contemporary writing show that Philip I may have passed on in 75 BC, giving Antiochus X's widow Cleopatra Selene and her child Antiochus XIII, who most likely assumed responsibility for the south after the demise of Antiochus XII in 82 BC, a time of guaranteeing the entire kingdom. Philip I started money related changes, and his coins stayed available for use until the Romans vanquished Syria in 64 BC; Roman experts in Syria kept on issueing coins demonstrated on Philip I's coins, including his representation, until 13 BC. 

The Seleucid administration which ruled Syria following the demise of Alexander the Great was tormented by dynastic quarrels amid the second century BC, exacerbated by Ptolemaic and Roman impedance. Dynastic marriage was utilized to keep up a level of harmony between Ptolemaic Egypt and Syria; Ptolemaic princess Cleopatra Thea turned into the associate of three progressive Syrian lords in 150, 145 and 138 BC. Syria bit by bit deteriorated because of steady thoughtful wars, as the Seleucid lords and their beneficiaries battled for power, destroying the nation. This endured until around 123 BC, when Antiochus VIII gave a level of strength which went on for 10 years until his sibling Antiochus IX pronounced himself lord. 

With his Ptolemaic spouse Tryphaena, whom he wedded in 125 BC, Antiochus VIII fathered five children: Seleucus VI, the oldest; Antiochus XI and Philip I, who were evidently twins; their more youthful sibling, Demetrius III; and the most youthful, Antiochus XII. The name Philip (Greek "Phílippos") signifies "admirer of steeds". Seleucid rulers were for the most part named Seleucus and Antiochus; "Philip" was utilized by the Antigonid line as an illustrious name, and its utilization by the Seleucids, who were slipped from the Antigonids through ruler Stratonice, was presumably intended to mean that they were beneficiaries of the last mentioned. The war with Antiochus IX guaranteed Tryphaena's life in 109 BC. Following Antiochus VIII's death in 96 BC, his second spouse, Tryphaena's sister Cleopatra Selene, wedded Antiochus IX, who took Antioch. Antiochus VIII's children did not submit to their uncle; Seleucus VI took Antioch in 95 BC subsequent to executing Antiochus IX, while Demetrius III seized and administered Damascus. Antiochus IX's child Antiochus X wedded Cleopatra Selene and crushed Seleucus VI, who got away to Mopsuestia, where he was slaughtered by radicals in 94 BC. 

Philip I and Antiochus XI most likely dwelled in Cilicia amid Seleucus VI's rule. In 94 BC, not long after their sibling's demise, Philip I and Antiochus XI stamped jugate coins with their pictures on the front-side. The antiquarian Alfred Bellinger proposed that their base of activities was a seaside city north of Antioch, however as indicated by the numismatist Arthur Houghton, Beroea is a more grounded competitor in light of the fact that the city's rulers were Philip I's partners. All the jugate coins were stamped in Cilicia; the arrangement with the most various enduring examples was presumably issued in Tarsus, making it the conceivable base of tasks. Antiochus XI was depicted before his sibling, showing that he was the senior ruler. Getting their authenticity from Antiochus VIII, the siblings were portrayed on the coins with misrepresented barbed noses like their dad. Greek lords did not utilize regnal numbers, which is an advanced practice; rather, they utilized designations to separate themselves from comparably named rulers. On his coins, Philip I utilized the designations Philadelphus (kin adoring) and Epiphanes (the superb, or celebrated). The siblings planned to retaliate for Seleucus VI; as indicated by the fourth century essayist Eusebius, they sacked Mopsuestia and annihilated it. 

While Philip I stayed in Cilicia, Antiochus XI progressed on Antioch and drove Antiochus X from the city in the start of 93 BC. Philip I didn't live in the Syrian city and left Antiochus XI as ace of the capital. By harvest time 93 BC, Antiochus X regrouped and vanquished Antiochus XI, who suffocated in the Orontes. The principal century student of history Josephus referenced just Antiochus XI in the fight, yet Eusebius composed that Philip I was likewise present. Bellinger trusted that Philip I's troops took an interest, however that he stayed behind at his base, since just Antiochus XI was murdered. Following the thrashing, Philip I is thought to have withdrawn to his capital, which was likely a similar base from which he and his sibling worked when they initially arranged to retaliate for Seleucus VI. 

Demetrius III may have walked north to help Antiochus XI in the skirmish of 93 BC, and he absolutely bolstered Philip I in the battle against Antiochus X. Eusebius composed that Philip I crushed Antiochus X and supplanted him in the capital in 93/92 BC (220 Seleucid year (SE)). In any case, Eusebius does not take note of the rule of Antiochus XI or notice Demetrius III. The record repudiates archeological proof, spoke to in a market weight having a place with Antiochus X from 92 BC, and contains accurate slip-ups. The English priest and numismatist Edgar Rogers trusted that Philip I administered Antioch following Antiochus XI, yet proposals that Philip I controlled Antioch before the downfall of Antiochus X and Demetrius III can be expelled; they repudiate the numismatic proof, and no antiquated source asserted that Demetrius III, who really succeeded Antiochus X in Antioch, needed to drive Philip I out of the city. 

Regardless, Antiochus X vanished from the record after 92 BC, however could have stayed in power until 224 SE (89/88 BC); he presumably kicked the bucket battling against Parthia. Exploiting Antiochus X's passing, Demetrius III raced to the capital and involved it; this drove Philip I to break his coalition with his sibling. With the greater part of Syria in the hands of Demetrius III, Philip I withdrew to his base. In 88 BC, Demetrius III walked on Beroea for the last fight with Philip I. To raise the attack, Philip I's partner Straton, the leader of Beroea, approached the Arab phylarch Aziz and the Parthian representative Mithridates Sinaces for help. The partners vanquished Demetrius III, who was sent into imprisonment in Parthia. Any hostage who was a native of Antioch was discharged without a payment, a signal which more likely than not facilitated Philip I's control of Antioch. 

Not long after the fight, in late 88 BC or mid 87 BC, Philip I entered the Syrian capital, and had Cilicia under his power. He was looked with the need to renew the unfilled treasury to reconstruct a nation pulverized following quite a while of common war, and in the event that another faker to the position of authority emerged. Those components, joined with the low gauges of yearly coin kicks the bucket utilized by Philip I's quick forerunners in Antioch—Antiochus X (his second rule) and Demetrius III—contrasted and the general pass on appraisals recently Seleucid rulers, drove numismatist Oliver D. Hoover to suggest that Philip I basically re-begat his antecedents' coins and skewed their kicks the bucket. This brought about cash bearing Philip I's picture, decreased in weight from the standard to . This returned a benefit of a large portion of an obol on each more seasoned coin which was re-struck. Benefit was, be that as it may, not the primary point of Philip I; it is increasingly likely that he needed to pay his troops with coins bearing his very own picture rather than that of his adversaries. The recoinage was likewise vital since Philip I's coins were decreased in weight and the ruler expected to implement the utilization of his money by expelling his adversaries' heavier coins unavailable for general use. Philip I may have embraced the New Seleucid time dating, which have the arrival of Antiochus VIII from his outcast in Aspendos in 200 SE (113/112 BC) as a beginning stage; the customary Seleucid period began in 1 SE (312/311 BC). 

Philip I's situation on the position of royalty was uncertain: Cleopatra Selene stowed away in Syria with Antiochus XIII, her child by Antiochus X, trusting that an open door will recapture the royal position, while Antiochus XII supplanted Demetrius III in Damascus, however there is no proof that he tried to rival his sibling for Antioch. As indicated by Josephus, Philip I exploited Antiochus XII's nonappearance in a crusade against Nabataea to catch Damascus. The legislative leader of the city—Milesius, who paved the way for the Philip I—was not given a reasonable reward by his new ace, driving him to hold up until Philip I left the city; he at that point shut the doors, bolting the lord out until Antiochus XII returned. In the Seleucid administration, money struck amid crusades against an adversary (or usurper) demonstrated the ruler with a facial hair. Antiochus XII was appeared for the initial two years of his rule; in 228 SE (85/84 BC), he showed up with a whiskers, perhaps identified with Philip I's assault on Damascus. Yet, since Antiochus XII did not walk north against his sibling, the speculation about an association between Antiochus XII' facial hair and Philip I's endeavor to take Damascus debilitates; no coins of Philip I were struck in Damascus, showing that his control of the city was brief. 

After the assault on Damascus, Philip I vanished from antiquated writing. Without verification, 83 BC is ordinarily acknowledged as Philip I's time of death by most researchers; he could have been covered in the Nikatoreion Mausoleum, Seleucia Pieria. Generally, Philip I is considered by most researchers to have been prevailing by Tigranes II of Armenia, who was welcomed by the general population of Antioch regardless of the presence of Philip I's likely minor child Philip II. The second century student of history Appian alloted a fourteen-year reign to Tigranes II which finished in 69 BC, and most researchers acknowledged the antiquated antiquarian's rendition, subsequently the date 83 BC. The destiny of Philip I is a wellspring of discussion in scholarly circles, as no pieces of information with respect to how, where, and when his life finished exist. Numerous hypotheses were displayed by various antiquarians: 

Philip I's coins were still available for use when the Romans attached Syria in 64 BC. The principal Roman coins struck in Syria were duplicates of Philip I's coins, and bore his picture with the monogram of the Roman senator. The main issue was in 57 BC under senator Aulus Gabinius, and the last arrangement of Philip I's after death coins was stamped in 13 BC. The Romans may have considered Philip I the last authentic Seleucid ruler, a hypothesis held by Kevin Butcher and different researchers. Hoover selected a more straightforward answer; Philip I's coins were the most various and prior Seleucid coin models were demolished, making it financially reasonable for the Romans to proceed with Philip I's model. Abnormal coins of Philip, varying from his standard lifetime models however like the later Roman Philip coins, demonstrate that they may have been printed by the self-governing city of Antioch somewhere in the range of 64 and 58 BC before representative Aulus Gabinius issued his Philipean coins, making it reasonable for the Romans to keep stamping coins previously being struck.