Seleucus VI Epiphanes 

Seleucus VI Epiphanes Nicator (; somewhere in the range of 125 and 109 BC – 94BC) was a Hellenistic Seleucid ruler who ruled Syria somewhere in the range of 96 and 94 BC. He was the child of Antiochus VIII and his Egyptian spouse Tryphaena. Seleucus VI lived in a time of common war between his dad and his uncle Antiochus IX, which finished in 96 BC when Antiochus VIII was killed. Antiochus IX at that point involved the capital Antioch while Seleucus VI set up his capacity base in western Cilicia and himself arranged for war. In 95 BC, Antiochus IX walked against his nephew, yet lost the fight and was murdered. Seleucus VI turned into the ace of the capital yet needed to impart Syria to his sibling Demetrius III, situated in Damascus, and his cousin, Antiochus IX's child Antiochus X. 

As indicated by the old student of history Appian, Seleucus VI was a savage ruler. He burdened his territories widely to help his wars, and opposed permitting the urban areas a proportion of independence, as had been the act of previous lords. His rule did not keep going long; in 94 BC, he was ousted from Antioch by Antiochus X, who tailed him to the Cilician city of Mopsuestia. Seleucus took cover in the city where his endeavors to fund-raise prompted riots that in the end asserted his life in 94 BC. Old conventions have diverse renditions of his demise, however he was most presumably consumed alive by the agitators. Following his death, his siblings Antiochus XI and Philip I crushed Mopsuestia as a demonstration of vengeance and their armed forces battled those of Antiochus X. 

"Seleucus" was a dynastic name in the Seleucid line, and it is the Macedonian variation of the Greek Ζάλευκος (zaleucus), which means the sparkling white. Antiochus VIII wedded the Ptolemaic Egyptian princess Tryphaena in 125BC, not long after his rising to the position of authority; Seleucus VI was the couple's oldest child. From 113BC, Antiochus VIII needed to battle with his stepbrother Antiochus IX for the honored position. The common war proceeded for over 10 years; it killed Tryphaena in 109 BC, and finished when Antiochus VIII was killed in 96BC. In the consequence of his sibling's homicide, Antiochus IX progressed on the capital Antioch and took it; he likewise wedded the second spouse and widow of Antiochus VIII, Cleopatra Selene. As per an engraving, the city of Priene sent distinctions to "Seleucus child of King Antiochus child of King Demetrius"; the international safe haven most likely occurred before Seleucus VI climbed the royal position as the engraving does not specify him as a ruler. The international safe haven of Priene likely met Seleucus VI in Cilicia; Antiochus VIII may have sent his child to that locale as a strategos. 

Following his dad's demise, Seleucus VI proclaimed himself lord and took the city of Seleucia on the Calycadnus in western Cilicia as his base, while his sibling Demetrius III took Damascus. The volume of coins printed by the new lord in Seleucia on the Calycadnus outperformed some other mint known from the late Seleucid period, and the vast majority of the coins were delivered amid his arrangements for war against Antiochus IX, a contention that would finish in the year 96/95 BC (217 Seleucid year (SE)). This drove the numismatist Arthur Houghton to recommend a prior death for Antiochus VIII and a more drawn out reign for Seleucus VI starting in 98 or 97BC rather than 96BC. The numismatist Oliver D. Hoover challenged Houghton's speculation as it was not uncommon for a lord to twofold his creation in a solitary year now and again of need, and the scholarly agreement lean towards the year 96BC for the demise of Antiochus VIII. 

Old Hellenistic rulers did not utilize regnal numbers. Rather, they utilized sobriquets to separate themselves from different rulers with comparative names; the numbering of lords is a cutting edge practice. Seleucus VI showed up on his coins with the designations "Epiphanes" (God Manifest) and "Nicator" (Victorious). Similar to the child of Antiochus VIII was the wellspring of his authenticity as ruler, Seleucus VI tried to accentuate his drop by delineating himself on the coinage with an overstated bird of prey nose in the resemblance of his dad. 

Another iconographic component of Seleucus VI's coinage is the short vertical squat horns over the sanctuary region; the significance of this theme has been bantered among researchers. It is likely an inference to Seleucus VI's drop from his granddad Demetrius II, who used a similar theme. The particular importance of the horns isn't clear, however it could have been a sign that the lord was an appearance of a divine being; the thickset horns worn by Seleucus VI likely conveyed a similar significance as those of his granddad. In the Seleucid tradition, money struck amid battles against an adversary (or usurper) demonstrated the ruler with a facial hair. Seleucus VI was delineated with a facial hair, which was later expelled from coins, showing the satisfaction of a retaliation promise to vindicate his dad. 

In Seleucia on the Calycadnus, Seleucus VI arranged for war against his uncle, whose powers most likely involved focal Cilicia and restricted his nephew toward the western pieces of the district. The lord required a harbor for Seleucia on the Calycadnus and most likely established the city of Elaiussa to fill that need. Seleucus VI accumulated assets for his coming war from the urban communities of Cilicia, including Mopsuestia, which appears to have been burdened on a few events. Amid his rule, it is evaluated that Seleucus VI created 1,200 gifts of coins to help his war exertion, enough to pay ten thousand troopers for a long time. On the invert of bronze coins delivered in a mint whose area isn't known, coded dubious mint 125, a theme delineating a chelys framed in the state of a Macedonian shield showed up on the turn around. This theme was most likely intended to rally the help of military Macedonian pilgrims in the district. Those coins were likely created in Syria, in a city a large portion of the route between Tarsus in Cilicia and Antioch; thusly, they were presumably stamped over the span of Seleucus VI's battle against Antiochus IX. 

Antiochus IX observed Seleucus VI's arrangements; after the last begun his walk on Antioch in 95BC, Antiochus IX left the capital and moved against his nephew. Seleucus VI rose successful while his uncle lost his life, either by ending it all as indicated by the third century history specialist Eusebius, or by being executed by the main century antiquarian Josephus. Before long thereafter, Seleucus VI entered the capital; Cleopatra Selene likely fled before his entry. 

In 144 SE (169/168 BC), King Antiochus IV enabled nineteen urban communities to mint civil bronze coinage in their own names, showing his consciousness of the common reliance of urban areas and the government on one another. This development towards more prominent independence proceeded as the urban communities looked to free themselves from the focal power, including the expression "holy and self-sufficient" to their coinage. Seleucus VI did not pursue the arrangement of his ancestors. In Cilicia, as long as he ruled, independence was not allowed; an adjustment in the political status of Cilician urban areas was obviously not satisfactory for Seleucus VI. 

Seleucus IV controlled Cilicia and Syria Seleucis (Northern Syria). Antiochus IX had a child, Antiochus X; as indicated by Josephus, he fled to the city of Aradus where he announced himself lord. Seleucus VI endeavored to slaughter his cousin and adversary however the plot fizzled, and Antiochus X wedded Cleopatra Selene to improve his position. The excavator Alfred Bellinger trusted that Seleucus VI arranged for his coming war against Antiochus X in Elaiussa. In 94BC, Antiochus X progressed on the capital Antioch and drove Seleucus VI out of northern Syria into Cilicia. As indicated by Eusebius, the last fight occurred close Mopsuestia, and finished with the thrashing of Seleucus VI. 

Depicted continuously century student of history Appian as "savage and incredibly domineering", Seleucus VI took cover in Mopsuestia, and endeavored to charge the inhabitants once more, which prompted his passing amid mobs. The time of his end isn't clear; Eusebius set it in 216 SE (97/96 BC) which is outlandish thinking about that a market weight of Seleucus VI from Antioch dated to 218 SE (95/94 BC) has been found. The fourth century antiquarian Jerome has 219 SE (94/93 BC) as the time of Seleucus VI's end, which is increasingly conceivable. The year 94BC is the scholastically acknowledged date for the demise of Seleucus VI. No companion or kids were recorded for Seleucus VI. As indicated by the primary century biographer Plutarch, the main century BC Roman general Lucullus said that the Armenian ruler, Tigranes II, who vanquished Syria in 83BC, "put to death the successors of Seleucus, and [carried] off their spouses and girls into bondage". Given the fragmentary idea of antiquated sources in regards to the late-Seleucid period, the announcement of Lucullus leaves open the presence of a spouse or little girl of Seleucus VI. 

Antiquated customs protect three records with respect to Seleucus VI's demise: the most seasoned, by Josephus, has a horde consuming the lord and his retainers in the imperial royal residence. Appian shares the consuming record yet has the city's exercise center as the scene. As per Eusebius, Seleucus VI found the aim of the occupants to consume him, and ended his very own life. Bellinger believed the record of Josephus to be the most likely; he noticed that Eusebius exhibited suicide represents other Seleucid rulers who were recorded as having been executed by different students of history, for example, Alexander I and Antiochus IX. Bellinger trusted that the third century student of history Porphyry, the wellspring of Eusebius' tales about the Seleucids, was endeavoring to "tone down fairly the abhorrences of the Seleucid house". 

The city of Athens imparted a nearby connection to the Seleucid rulers, and statues of Syrian rulers set up by Athenian natives on the island of Delos vouch for that; a resident named Dionysius devoted a statue for Seleucus VI somewhere in the range of 96 and 94BC. In yielding to his late sibling, King Antiochus XI received the sobriquet "Philadelphus" (sibling cherishing). Alongside his twin Philip I, Antiochus XI continued to vindicate Seleucus VI; the siblings sacked and decimated Mopsuestia. Antiochus XI at that point made a beeline for Antioch in 93BC and ousted Antiochus X.