Khalid al-Mihdhar 

Khalid Muhammad Abdallah al-Mihdhar (, ; likewise transliterated as Almihdhar) (May 16, 1975 – September 11, 2001) was a Saudi Arabian fear based oppressor. He was one of the five ruffians of American Airlines Flight 77, which was flown into the Pentagon as a major aspect of the September 11 assaults. 

Mihdhar was conceived in Saudi Arabia and battled with the Bosnian mujahideen amid the Bosnian War of the 1990s. In mid 1999, he ventured out to Afghanistan where, as an accomplished and regarded jihadist, he was chosen by Osama container Laden to take part in the assaults. Mihdhar landed in California with individual criminal Nawaf al-Hazmi in January 2000, subsequent to venturing out to Malaysia for the Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit. Now, the CIA knew about Mihdhar, and he was captured in Malaysia with another al-Qaeda part who was associated with the USS "Cole" besieging. The CIA did not advise the FBI when it discovered that Mihdhar and Hazmi had entered the United States, and Mihdhar was not put on any watchlists until late August 2001. 

After landing in San Diego County, California, Mihdhar and Hazmi were to prepare as pilots, yet communicated in English ineffectively and did not do well with flight exercises. In June 2000, Mihdhar left the United States for Yemen, abandoning Hazmi in San Diego. Mihdhar invested some energy in Afghanistan in mid 2001 and came back to the United States toward the beginning of July 2001. He remained in New Jersey in July and August, before touching base in the Washington, D.C. territory toward the start of September. 

On the morning of September 11, 2001, Mihdhar loaded up American Airlines Flight 77, which was captured around 30 minutes after take off. The plane was intentionally collided with the Pentagon, slaughtering each of the 64 individuals on board the flight, alongside 125 on the ground. 

Al-Mihdhar was conceived on May 16, 1975, in Mecca, Saudi Arabia to a noticeable family, identified with the Quraysh clan of Mecca. Little is thought about his life before the age of 20, when he and beloved companion Nawaf al-Hazmi went to Bosnia and Herzegovina to battle with the mujahideen in the Bosnian War. After the war, Mihdhar and Hazmi went to Afghanistan where they battled nearby the Taliban against the Northern Alliance, and al-Qaeda would later name Hazmi his "second in direction". In 1997, Mihdhar told his family that he was leaving to battle in Chechnya, however it isn't sure that he really went to Chechnya. That year, the two men pulled in the consideration of Saudi Intelligence, who trusted they were engaged with arms sneaking, and the next year they were looked at as conceivable colleagues in the 1998 United States government office bombings in East Africa after it rose that Mohamed Rashed Daoud Al-Owhali had given the FBI the telephone number of Mihdhar's dad in-law; 967-1-200578, which ended up being a key interchanges center point for al-Qaeda aggressors, and in the end tipped off the Americans about the forthcoming Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit. 

In the late 1990s, Mihdhar wedded Hoda al-Hada, who was the sister of a friend from Yemen, and they had two girls. Through marriage, Mihdhar was identified with various people required with al-Qaeda somehow or another. Mihdhar's dad in-law, Ahmad Mohammad Ali al-Hada, encouraged al-Qaeda interchanges in Yemen, and in late 2001, Mihdhar's brother by marriage, Ahmed al-Darbi, was caught in Azerbaijan and sent to Guantanamo Bay on charges of supporting a plot to bomb delivers in the Strait of Hormuz. 

In Spring 1999, al-Qaeda organizer Osama receptacle Laden resolved to help the 9/11 assaults plot, which was generally sorted out by noticeable al-Qaeda part Khalid Sheik Mohammed. Mihdhar and Hazmi were among the principal gathering of members chose for the task, alongside Tawfiq container Attash and Abu Bara al Yemeni, al-Qaeda individuals from Yemen. Mihdhar, who had invested energy in al-Qaeda camps during the 1990s, was known and exceptionally respected by Bin Laden. Mihdhar was so anxious to take an interest in jihad tasks in the United States that he had just gotten a one-year B-1/B-2 (traveler/business) different passage visa from the department in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on April 7, 1999, one day in the wake of acquiring another identification. Mihdhar recorded the Los Angeles Sheraton as his proposed goal. 

When chosen, Mihdhar and Hazmi were sent to the Mes Aynak preparing camp in Afghanistan. In late 1999, Hazmi, Attash and Yemeni went to Karachi, Pakistan to see Mohammed, who taught them on Western culture and travel; in any case, Mihdhar did not go to Karachi, rather coming back to Yemen. He was known as "Sinaan" amid the arrangements. 

The CIA knew about Mihdhar and Hazmi's association with al-Qaeda, having been educated by Saudi insight amid a 1999 gathering in Riyadh. In light of data revealed by the FBI in the 1998 United States international safe haven bombings case, the National Security Agency (NSA) started following the correspondences of Hada, Mihdhar's dad in-law. In late 1999, the NSA educated the CIA of a forthcoming gathering in Malaysia, which Hada referenced would include "Khalid", "Nawaf", and "Salem", who was Hazmi's more youthful sibling, Salem al-Hazmi. 

On January 4, 2000, Mihdhar left Yemen and traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where he went through the night. The CIA broke into his lodging and photocopied his international ID, which gave them his full name, birth data and identification number out of the blue, and cautioned them that he held a section visa to the United States. The photocopy was sent to the CIA's Alec Station, which was following al-Qaeda. 

On January 5, 2000, Mihdhar made a trip to Kuala Lumpur, where he joined Hazmi, Attash and Yemeni, who were all landing from Pakistan. Hamburg cell part Ramzi container al-Shibh was additionally at the summit, and Mohammed potentially visited. The gathering was in Malaysia to meet with Hambali, the pioneer of Jemaah Islamiyah, an Asian al-Qaeda subsidiary. Amid the Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit, many key subtleties of the 9/11 assaults may have been orchestrated. At the time, the assaults plot had an extra part including seizing airplane in Asia, just as in the United States. Attash and Yemeni were slated for this piece of the plot. Be that as it may, it was later dropped by Bin Laden for being too hard to even consider coordinating with United States activities. 

In Malaysia, the gathering remained with Yazid Sufaat, a nearby Jemaah Islamiyah part, who gave convenience at Hambali's solicitation. Both Mihdhar and Hazmi were subtly captured at the gathering by Malaysian specialists, whom the CIA had requested to give observation. The Malaysians announced that Mihdhar talked finally with Attash, and he met with Fahd al-Quso and other people who were later associated with the USS "Cole" besieging. After the gathering, Mihdhar and Hazmi made a trip to Bangkok, Thailand, on January 8 and left seven days after the fact on January 15 for the United States. 

On January 15, 2000, Mihdhar and Hazmi landed at Los Angeles International Airport from Bangkok and were conceded as sightseers for a time of a half year. Following entering the nation, Mihdhar and Hazmi met Omar al-Bayoumi in an air terminal eatery. Bayoumi guaranteed he was only being beneficent in helping the two apparently strange Muslims with moving to San Diego, where he helped them discover a condo close to his own, co-marked their rent, and gave them $1,500 to help pay their lease. Mohammed later guaranteed that he proposed San Diego as their goal, in view of data gathered from a San Diego telephone directory that recorded language and flight schools. Mohammed likewise prescribed that the two look for help from the neighborhood Muslim people group, since neither communicated in English nor had involvement with Western culture. 

While in San Diego, witnesses told the FBI he and Hazmi had a cozy association with Anwar Al Awlaki, an imam who filled in as their profound counselor. Specialists state the two consistently went to the Masjid Ar-Ribat al-Islami mosque Awlaki drove in San Diego, and Awlaki had many shut entryway gatherings with them, which persuaded Awlaki thought about the 9/11 assaults ahead of time. 

Toward the beginning of February 2000, Mihdhar and Hazmi leased a loft at the Parkwood Apartments complex in the Clairemont Mesa zone of San Diego, and Mihdhar acquired an utilized 1988 Toyota Corolla. Neighbors believed that Mihdhar and Hazmi were odd in light of the fact that months go without the men getting any furnishings, and they dozed on sleeping pads on the floor, yet they conveyed folder cases, were every now and again on their cell phones, and were at times grabbed by a limousine. The individuals who met Mihdhar in San Diego depicted him as "dull and agonizing, with an abhor for American culture". Neighbors additionally said that the pair continually played pilot training program recreations. 

Mihdhar and Hazmi took flight exercises on May 5, 2000, at the Sorbi Flying Club in San Diego, with Mihdhar flying an airplane for 42 minutes. They took extra exercises on May 10; in any case, with poor English abilities, they didn't do well with flight exercises. Mihdhar and Hazmi raised some doubt when they offered additional cash to their flight teacher, Richard Garza, on the off chance that he would prepare them to fly planes. Garza denied the offer however did not report them to experts. After the 9/11 assaults, Garza depicted the two men as "anxious understudies" who "needed to figure out how to fly planes, explicitly Boeings". 

Mihdhar and Hazmi moved out of the Parkwood Apartments toward the finish of May 2000, and Mihdhar exchanged enrollment for the Toyota Corolla to Hazmi. On June 10, 2000, Mihdhar left the United States and came back to Yemen to visit his better half, against the desires of Mohammed who needed him to stay in the United States to help Hazmi adjust. Mohammed was so infuriated by this that he chose to expel Mihdhar from the 9/11 plot, yet he was overruled by receptacle Laden. Mihdhar remained some portion of the plot as a muscle ruffian, who might help assume control over the airplane. On October 12, 2000, the USS "Cole" was shelled by a little vessel loaded down with explosives. After the besieging, Yemeni Prime Minister Abdul Karim al-Iryani detailed that Mihdhar had been one of the key organizers of the assault and had been in the nation at the season of the assaults. In late 2000, Mihdhar was back in Saudi Arabia, remaining with a cousin in Mecca. 

In February 2001, Mihdhar came back to Afghanistan for a while, conceivably entering over the Iranian fringe after a departure from Syria. FBI executive Robert Mueller later expressed his conviction that Mihdhar filled in as the facilitator and coordinator for the muscle thieves. He was the remainder of the muscle robbers to come back to the United States. On June 10, he came back to Saudi Arabia for a month, where he connected to reappear the United States through the Visa Express program, showing that he proposed to remain at a Marriott inn in New York City. On his visa application, Mihdhar erroneously expressed that he had never recently ventured out to the United States. 

On July 4, Mihdhar came back to the United States, touching base at New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport, utilizing another visa acquired the earlier month. A computerized duplicate of one of Mihdhar's international IDs was later recuperated amid an inquiry of an al-Qaeda safe house in Afghanistan, which held markers, for example, phony or changed visa stamps, that Mihdhar was an individual from a realized psychological oppressor gathering. When Mihdhar was admitted to the United States, migration overseers had not been prepared to search for such pointers. After arriving, Mihdhar did not register with the Marriott but rather went through a night at another inn in the city. 

Mihdhar purchased a phony ID on July 10 from All Services Plus in Passaic County, New Jersey, which was in the matter of selling fake archives, including another ID to Flight 11 criminal Abdulaziz al-Omari. On August 1, Mihdhar and individual Flight 77 ruffian Hani Hanjour headed to Virginia so as to get driver's licenses. When they arrived, they investigates a 7-Eleven accommodation store and a dollar store in Falls Church, and discovered two Salvadoran settlers who, for $50 each, were eager to vouch for Mihdhar and Hanjour as being Virginian occupants. With authorized residency structures, Mihdhar and Hanjour had the capacity to acquire driver's licenses at a Virginian engine vehicle office. Flight 77 criminals Salem al-Hazmi and Majed Moqed, and United Airlines Flight 93 robber Ziad Jarrah utilized similar locations acquired from the Salvadorans to get Virginian driver's licenses. 

In August 2001, Mihdhar and Hazmi made a few visits to the library at William Paterson University in Wayne, New Jersey, where they utilized PCs to look into movement data and book flights. On August 22, Mihdhar and Hazmi attempted to buy flight tickets from the American Airlines online ticket-vendor, yet had specialized challenges and surrendered. Mihdhar and Moqed had the capacity to reserve flight spot for Flight 77 on August 25, utilizing Moqed's charge card; in any case, the exchange did not completely experience in light of the fact that the charging address and the shipment address for the tickets did not coordinate. 

On August 31, Mihdhar shut a record at Hudson United Bank in New Jersey, having opened the record when he landed in July, and was with Hanjour when he made a withdrawal from an ATM in Paterson on September 1. The following day, Mihdhar, Moqed and Hanjour made a trip to Maryland, where they remained at spending motels in Laurel. Mihdhar was among the muscle thieves who worked out at a Gold's Gym in Greenbelt toward the beginning of September. On September 5, Mihdhar and Moqed went to the American Airlines ticket counter at Baltimore-Washington International Airport to get their tickets for Flight 77, paying $2,300 in real money. 

Mihdhar was put on a CIA watchlist on August 21, 2001, and a note was sent on August 23 to the Department of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) recommending that Mihdhar and Hazmi be added to their watchlists. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) was not told about the two men. On August 23, the CIA educated the FBI that Mihdhar had gotten a U.S. visa in Jeddah. The FBI base camp got a duplicate of the Visa Express application from the Jeddah consulate on August 24, appearing New York Marriott as Mihdhar's goal. 

On August 28, the FBI New York field office mentioned that a criminal case be opened to decide if Mihdhar was still in the United States, however the solicitation was cannot. The FBI wound up treating Mihdhar as an insight case, which implied that the FBI's criminal agents couldn't deal with the case, because of the boundary isolating knowledge and criminal case tasks. An operator in the New York office sent an email to FBI base camp saying, "Whatever has happened to this, some time or another somebody will kick the bucket, and the open won't comprehend why we were not increasingly powerful and tossing each asset we had at specific 'issues.'" The answer from central station was, "we [at headquarters] are altogether baffled with this issue ... [t]hese are the guidelines. NSLU does not influence them to up." 

The FBI reached Marriott on August 30, mentioning that they check visitor records, and on September 5, they detailed that no Marriott inns had any record of Mihdhar checking in. The day preceding the assaults, Robert Fuller of the New York office mentioned that the Los Angeles FBI office check all neighborhood Sheraton Hotels, just as Lufthansa and United Airlines appointments, in light of the fact that those were the two carriers Mihdhar had used to enter the nation. Neither the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network nor the FBI's Financial Review Group, which approach charge card and other private budgetary records, were advised about Mihdhar preceding September 11. 

As to CIA's refusal to advise the FBI about Mihdhar and Hazmi, creator Lawrence Wright proposes the CIA needed to secure its turf and was worried about giving touchy insight to FBI Agent John P. O'Neill, who Alec Station boss Michael Scheuer portrayed as misleading. Wright additionally conjectures that the CIA may have been securing knowledge tasks abroad, and might have been looking at Mihdhar and Hazmi as enlistment focuses to acquire insight on al-Qaeda, in spite of the fact that the CIA was not approved to work in the United States and may have been abandoning them for Saudi insight to enlist. 

On September 10, 2001, Mihdhar and different criminals registered with the Marriott Residence Inn in Herndon, Virginia, close Washington Dulles International Airport. Saleh Ibn Abdul Rahman Hussayen, a conspicuous Saudi Arabian government official, was remaining at a similar lodging that night, despite the fact that there is no proof that they met or knew about one another's quality. 

At 6:22 a.m. on September 11, 2001, the gathering settled up with the lodging and went to Dulles airplane terminal. At 7:15 a.m., Mihdhar and Moqed checked in at the American Airlines ticket counter and landed at the traveler security checkpoint at 7:20 a.m. The two men set off the metal indicator and were put through optional screening. Security video film later discharged demonstrates that Moqed was wanded, yet the screener did not recognize what set off the caution, and both Moqed and Mihdhar had the capacity to continue moving along without any more obstacle. Mihdhar was likewise chosen by the Computer Assisted Passenger Prescreening System (CAPPS), which included additional screening of his gear; be that as it may, in light of the fact that Mihdhar did not handle any baggage, this had no impact. By 7:50 a.m., Mihdhar and different criminals, conveying blades and box cutters, had endured the airplane terminal security checkpoint and loaded up Flight 77 to Los Angeles. Mihdhar was situated in seat 12B, alongside Moqed. 

The flight was planned to withdraw from Gate D26 at 8:10 a.m. be that as it may, was deferred by 10 minutes. The last normal radio correspondence from the plane to airport regulation happened at 8:50:51 a.m. At 8:54 a.m., Flight 77 strayed from its alloted flight way and started to turn south, so, all in all the ruffians set the flight's autopilot setting for Washington, D.C. Traveler Barbara Olson called her significant other, United States Solicitor General Ted Olson (whose 61st birthday was on that day), and announced that the plane had been seized. At 9:37:45 a.m, Flight 77 collided with the west exterior of the Pentagon, slaughtering every one of the 64 individuals on board, alongside 125 in the Pentagon. In the recuperation procedure, stays of the five thieves were recognized through a procedure of end, since their DNA did not coordinate any from the people in question, and put into the authority of the FBI. 

After the assaults, the recognizable proof of Mihdhar was one of the main connections proposing that receptacle Laden had assumed a job in their association, since Mihdhar had been seen at the Malaysian gathering addressing container Laden's partners. The FBI investigated Quso, who was captured following the USS "Cole" shelling and in guardianship in Yemen. Quso had the capacity to recognize Mihdhar, Hazmi and Attash in photographs given by the FBI, and he additionally knew Marwan al-Shehhi, a ruffian on board United Airlines Flight 175. From Quso, the FBI had the capacity to build up an al-Qaeda connect to the assaults. 

On September 12, 2001, the Toyota Corolla obtained by Mihdhar was found in Dulles International Airport's hourly parking garage. Inside the vehicle, specialists found a letter composed by Mohamed Atta, a robber on board American Airlines Flight 11; maps of Washington, D.C. what's more, New York City; a clerk's look at made to a Phoenix, Arizona flight school; four illustrations of a Boeing 757 cockpit; a case shaper; and a page with notes and telephone numbers, which contained proof that drove examiners to San Diego. 

On September 19, 2001, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) dispersed an extraordinary ready that recorded Mihdhar as still alive, and different reports started recommending that some of the supposed ruffians were in like manner still alive. For example, on September 23, 2001, the BBC distributed an article that proposed Mihdhar and others named as robbers were still on the loose. The German magazine "Der Spiegel" later researched the BBC's cases of "living" robbers and announced they were instances of mixed up personalities. In 2002, Saudi Arabian authorities expressed that the names of the thieves were right and that 15 of the 19 criminals were Saudi Arabian. In 2006, in light of 9/11 fear inspired notions encompassing its unique news story, the BBC said that perplexity had emerged with the normal Arabic names, and that its later reports on the thieves supplanted its unique story. 

In 2005, U.S. Armed force Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer and Congressman Curt Weldon asserted that the Defense Department information mining venture Able Danger recognized Mihdhar, Hazmi, Shehhi, and Atta as individuals from a Brooklyn-based al-Qaeda cell in mid 2000. Shaffer to a great extent put together his charges with respect to the memories of Navy Captain Scott Phillpott, who later abnegated his memory, telling specialists that he was "persuaded that Atta was not on the outline that we had". Phillpott said that Shaffer was "depending on my memory 100 percent", and the Defense Department Inspector General's report showed that Philpott firmly upheld the informal community investigation systems utilized in Able Danger, and might have overstated cases of recognizing the thieves.