Decipherment of rongorongo 

There have been various endeavors to translate the "rongorongo" content of Easter Island since its disclosure in the late nineteenth century. Likewise with most undeciphered contents, huge numbers of the proposition have been whimsical. Aside from a segment of one tablet which has been appeared to manage a lunar schedule, none of the writings are comprehended, and even the date-book can't really be perused. It isn't known whether "rongorongo" straightforwardly speaks to the Rapa Nui language – that is, on the off chance that it is a genuine composition framework – and oral records report that specialists in a single classification of tablet were unfit to peruse different tablets, proposing either that "rongorongo" is certainly not a brought together framework, or that it is proto-composing that requires the peruser to definitely know the content. There are three genuine impediments to decipherment, accepting that "rongorongo" is composing: the modest number of residual writings, containing just 15,000 neat glyphs; the absence of setting in which to translate the writings, for example, representations or parallels to writings which can be perused; and the way that the advanced Rapa Nui language is vigorously blended with Tahitian and is probably not going to intently mirror the language of the tablets—particularly on the off chance that they record a specific register, for example, mantras—while the few outstanding instances of the old language are intensely confined in kind and may not relate well to the tablets either. 

Since a proposition by Butinov and Knorozov during the 1950s, most of philologists, language specialists and social students of history have taken the line that "rongorongo" was false composition but rather proto-composing, that is, an ideographic-and rebus-based memory aide, for example, the Dongba content of the Nakhi individuals, which would more then likely make it difficult to decode. This wariness is advocated not just by the disappointment of the various endeavors at decipherment, however by the extraordinary uncommonness of free composition frameworks around the globe. Of the individuals who have endeavored to translate "rongorongo" as a genuine composition framework, most by far have expected it was logographic, a not many that it was syllabic or blended. Measurably it seems to have been good with neither an unadulterated logography nor an unadulterated syllabary. The point of the writings is obscure; different agents have guessed they spread family history, route, cosmology, or farming. Oral history recommends that just a little world class were ever educated, and that the tablets were viewed as holy. 

In the late nineteenth century, inside a couple of years to many years of the pulverization of Easter Island society by slave assaulting and presented plagues, two beginner agents recorded readings and recitations of "rongorongo" tablets by Easter Islanders. The two records were undermined, best case scenario, and are frequently taken to be useless, however they are the main records from individuals who may have been acquainted with the content direct. 

In 1868 the Bishop of Tahiti, Florentin-Étienne Jaussen, got a blessing from late believers on Easter Island: a long line of human hair twisted around a disposed of rongorongo tablet. He promptly perceived the significance of the tablet, and asked Father Hippolyte Roussel on Easter Island to gather more tablets and to discover islanders fit for understanding them. Roussel had the capacity to gain just a couple of extra tablets, and he could locate nobody to peruse them, however the following year in Tahiti Jaussen found a worker from Easter Island, Metoro Tau'a Ure, who was said to know the engravings "by heart". 

At some point somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1874, Jaussen worked with Metoro to disentangle four of the tablets in his ownership: A "Tahua," B "Aruku kurenga," C "Mamari," and E "Keiti." A rundown of the glyphs they recognized was distributed after death, alongside a total record of the serenades for An and B. This is the renowned "Jaussen list". In spite of the fact that at first taken for a Rosetta Stone of rongorongo, it has not prompted a comprehension of the content. It has been censured for, among different deficiencies, sparkling five glyphs as "porcelain", a material not found on Easter Island. In any case, this is a mistranslation: Jaussen shined the five glyphs as "porcelaine," French for both "cowrie" and the cowrie-like Chinese fired which is classified "porcelain" in English. Jaussen's Rapanui shine, "unadulterated," implies explicitly "cowrie". 

Very nearly a century later, Thomas Barthel distributed a portion of Jaussen's notes. He contrasted Metoro's serenades and parallel sections in different tablets and found that Metoro had perused the lines of "Keiti" advances on the switch yet in reverse on the front. Jacques Guy found that Metoro had additionally perused the lunar schedule in "Mamari" in reverse, and neglected to perceive the "self-evident" pictogram of the full moon inside it, showing an absence of any comprehension of the substance of the tablets. 

William J. Thomson, paymaster on the USS "Mohican", went through twelve days on Easter Island from 19 December to 30 December 1886, amid which time he mentioned an amazing number of objective facts, including some which are of enthusiasm for the decipherment of the rongorongo. 

Among the ethnographic information Thomson gathered were the names of the evenings of the lunar month and of the months of the year. This is critical to deciphering the single recognizable arrangement of rongorongo, and is striking in that it contains thirteen months; different sources notice just twelve. Métraux scrutinizes Thomson for interpreting "Anakena" as August when in 1869 Roussel distinguished it as July, and Barthel confines his work to Métraux and Englert, on the grounds that they are in understanding while "Thomson's rundown is off by one month". Nonetheless, Guy determined the dates of the new moon for a considerable length of time 1885 to 1887 and demonstrated that Thomson's rundown fit the periods of the moon for 1886. He inferred that the old Rapanui utilized a lunisolar schedule with "kotuti" as its embolismic month (its "jump month"), and that Thomson risked to arrive on Easter Island in a year with a jump month. 

Thomson was recounted an elderly person called Ure Va'e Iko who "affirms to have been under directions in the specialty of hieroglyphic perusing at the season of the Peruvian strikes, and claims to see the majority of the characters". He had been the steward of King Nga'ara, the last lord said to have known about composition, and in spite of the fact that he was not ready to keep in touch with himself, he knew a considerable lot of the rongorongo drones and had the capacity to peruse somewhere around one remembered content. At the point when Thomson employed him with blessings and cash to peruse the two tablets he had bought, Ure "declined most emphatically to demolish his odds for salvation by doing what his Christian educators had taboo" lastly fled. In any case, Thomson had taken photos of Jaussen's tablets when the USS "Mohican" was in Tahiti, and he in the end wheedled Ure into perusing from those photos. The English-Tahitian landowner Alexander Salmon brought down Ure's correspondence, which he later converted into English, for the accompanying tablets: 

Salmon's Rapanui was not familiar, and separated from "Atua Matariri," which is for the most part made out of legitimate names, his English interpretations don't coordinate what he translated of Ure's readings. The readings themselves, apparently dependable albeit hard to decipher at first, become unmistakably silly towards the end. The last recitation, for example, which has been acknowledged as an adoration melody on the quality of Salmon's English interpretation, is blended with Tahitian expressions, including expressions of European birthplace, for example, "the French banner" "(te riva forani)" and "give cash for uncovering [this]" "(horoa moni e fahiti)," which would not be normal on a pre-contact content. 

The very title is a blend of Rapanui and Tahitian: "pohera'a" is Tahitian for "death"; the Rapanui word is "matenga". Ure was a reluctant witness: even with pressure, Thomson was just ready to pick up his collaboration with "the container that cheers" (that is, rum): 

Regardless, while nobody has prevailing with regards to connecting Ure's readings with the rongorongo writings, they may yet have an incentive for decipherment. The initial two recitations, "Apai" and "Atua Matariri," are not adulterated with Tahitian. The refrains of "Atua Matariri" are of the structure "X ki 'ai ki roto Y, ka pû te Z" "X, by mounting into Y, let Z approach", 

what's more, when taken actually, they seem, by all accounts, to be jabber: 

These sections have by and large been translated as creation drones, with different creatures siring extra creatures. Be that as it may, they don't comply with Rapanui or other Polynesian creation folklore. Fellow noticed that the expressing is like the manner in which compound Chinese characters are portrayed. For instance, the piece of the Chinese character 銅 "tóng" "copper" might be portrayed as "include 同 "tóng" to 金 "jīn" to make 銅 "tóng"" (signifying "include to Metal to make Copper"), which is likewise jabber when taken actually. He guesses that the "Atua Matariri" serenade which Ure had heard in his childhood, albeit detached to the specific tablet for which he discussed it, was a real rongorongo serenade: A mental aide which showed understudies how the glyphs were formed. 

Since the late nineteenth century, there has been all way of hypothesis about rongorongo. Most stayed cloud, however a couple pulled in extensive consideration. 

In 1892 the Australian pediatrician Alan Carroll distributed a whimsical interpretation, in view of the possibility that the writings were composed by a wiped out "Long-Ear" populace of Easter Island in an assorted blend of Quechua and different dialects of Peru and Mesoamerica. Maybe because of the expense of throwing exceptional sort for rongorongo, no technique, investigation, or sound estimations of the individual glyphs were ever distributed. Carroll kept on distributing short correspondences in "Investigation of Man," the diary of the (Royal) Anthropological Society of Australasia until 1908. Carroll had himself established the general public, which is "these days seen as framing some portion of the 'maniac periphery'." 

In 1932 the Hungarian Vilmos Hevesy (Guillaume de Hevesy) distributed an article asserting a connection among rongorongo and the Indus Valley content, in light of shallow similitudes of structure. This was not another thought, yet was currently exhibited to the French Academy of Inscriptions and Literature by the French Sinologist Paul Pelliot and grabbed by the press. Because of the absence of an available rongorongo corpus for examination, it was not obvious that few of the rongorongo glyphs outlined in Hevesy's distributions were deceptive. In spite of the way that the two contents were undeciphered (as they are right up 'til the present time), isolated significantly the world and half of history ( and 4000 years), and had no known middle stages, Hevesy's thoughts were paid attention to enough in scholastic circles to provoke a 1934 Franco– Belgian campaign to Easter Island driven by Lavachery and Métraux to expose them (Métraux 1939). The Indus Valley association was distributed as late as 1938 in such regarded anthropological diaries as "Man." 

No less than a score of decipherments have been guaranteed from that point forward, none of which have been acknowledged by other rongorongo epigraphers. 

For example, ethnographer Irina Fedorova distributed indicated interpretations of the two St Petersburg tablets and segments of four others. More thorough than most endeavors, she confines every glyph to a solitary logographic perusing. Nonetheless, the outcomes look bad as writings. For instance, tablet P starts (with each rongorongo ligature set off with a comma in the interpretation): 

what's more, proceeds in this vein as far as possible: 

Different writings are comparative. For instance, the "Mamari" timetable makes no notice of time or the moon in Fedorova's record: 

which even Fedorova described as "deserving of a lunatic". 

Besides, the allographs recognized by Pozdniakov are given distinctive readings by Fedorova, so that, for instance, generally parallel messages over and again substitute the implied action word "take" for the indicated thing "a sort of yam". (Pozdniakov has exhibited that these are realistic variations of a similar glyph.) As it was, Fedorova's inventory comprised of just 130 glyphs; Pozdniakov's extra allography would have diminished that number and made her elucidation considerably progressively dull. Such outrageous redundancy is an issue with all endeavors to peruse rongorongo as a logographic content. 

Numerous ongoing researchers are of the conclusion that, while numerous scientists have made unobtrusive steady commitments to the comprehension of rongorongo, remarkably Kudrjavtsev "et al.", Butinov and Knorozov, and Thomas Barthel, the endeavors at real decipherment, for example, those of Fedorova here or of Fischer underneath, "are not joined by the least legitimization". All fizzle the key trial of decipherment: an important application to novel messages and examples. 

James Park Harrison, a board individual from the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, saw that lines Gr3– 7 of the Small Santiago tablet highlighted a compound glyph, (a sitting figure holding a pole with a line of chevrons (a laurel?) rehashed multiple times, each time pursued by one to about six glyphs before its next event. He trusted this broke the content into areas containing the names of boss. Barthel later discovered this example on tablet K, which is an interpretation of Gr (in a large number of the K groupings the compound is diminished to just as on A, where it now and then shows up as 380.1.3 and once in a while as 380.1; on C, E, and S as 380.1; and, with the variation on N. In spots it seems truncated as or without the human figure, yet parallels in the writings propose these have the equivalent isolating capacity. Barthel saw the succession as a "tangata rongorongo" (rongorongo master) holding a recorded staff like the Santiago Staff. 

Amid World War II, a little gathering of understudies in Saint Petersburg (at that point Leningrad), Boris Kudrjavtsev, Valeri Chernushkov, and Oleg Klitin, ended up inspired by tablets P, and Q, which they saw in plain view at the Museum of Ethnology and Anthropology. They found that they bore, with minor variety, a similar content, which they later found on tablet H also: 

Barthel would later consider this the "Fabulous Tradition", however its substance stay obscure. 

The gathering later seen that tablet K was a nearby rework of the recto of G. Kudrjavtsev reviewed their discoveries, which were distributed after death. Various other parallel, however shorter, groupings have since been distinguished through factual examination, with writings N and R observed to be made as a rule out of expressions imparted to different tablets, however not in a similar request. 

Distinguishing such shared stating was one of the initial phases in unwinding the structure of the content, as it is the most ideal approach to identify ligatures and allographs, and in this manner to set up the stock of rongorongo glyphs. 

In 1957 the Russian epigraphers Nikolai Butinov and Yuri Knorozov (who in 1952 had given the key experiences which would later prompt the decipherment of the Maya composing framework) proposed that the dreary structure of a grouping of exactly fifteen glyphs on Gv5– 6 (lines 5 and 6 of the verso of the Small Santiago Tablet) was good with a family history. It peruses to some degree, 

Presently, if the rehashed autonomous glyph is a title, for example, "ruler", and in the event that the rehashed appended glyph is a patronymic marker, at that point this implies something like: 

also, the grouping is an ancestry. 

Albeit nobody has had the capacity to affirm Butinov and Knorozov's theory, it is generally viewed as conceivable. On the off chance that it is right, at that point, first, we can distinguish other glyph successions which establish individual names. Second, the Santiago Staff would comprise generally of people's names as it bears 564 events of glyph 76, the putative patronymic marker, one fourth of the aggregate of 2320 glyphs. Third, the arrangement 606.76 700, deciphered by Fischer (underneath) as "every one of the flying creatures had sexual relations with the fish", would in all actuality mean "(So-thus) child of 606 was slaughtered." The Santiago Staff, with 63 events of glyph a rebus for "îka" "unfortunate casualty", would then be to a limited extent a "kohau îka" (rundown of war setbacks). 

German ethnologist Thomas Barthel, who previously distributed the rongorongo corpus, recognized three lines on the recto (side an) of tablet C, otherwise called "Mamari," as a lunar date-book. Fellow recommended that it was all the more accurately a cosmic standard for whether a couple of intercalary evenings ought to be embedded into the 28-night Rapanui month to keep it in a state of harmony with the periods of the moon, and in the event that one night, regardless of whether this should precede or after the full moon. Berthin and Berthin suggest that it is the content which pursues the recognized schedule which demonstrates where the intercalary evenings ought to show up. The "Mamari" logbook is the main case of rongorongo whose work is presently acknowledged as being seen, however it can't really be perused. 

In Guy's elucidation, the center of the timetable is a progression of 29 remaining side sickles ("☾", shaded red on the photograph of the table at appropriate) on either side of the full moon, a pictogram of "te nuahine kā 'umu 'a rangi kotekote" 'the elderly person lighting an earth broiler in the "kotekote" sky'— the Man in the Moon of Oceanic folklore. These compare to the 28 fundamental and two intercalary evenings of the old Rapa Nui lunar date-book. 

These thirty evenings, beginning with the new moon, are partitioned into eight gatherings by a "proclaiming grouping" of four glyphs (above, and shaded purple on the tablet at right) which finishes in the pictogram of a fish on a line (yellow). The proclaiming groupings each contain two right-side lunar sickles ("☽"). In each of the four proclaiming successions going before the full moon the fish is head up; in every one of the four tailing it the fish is head down, proposing the coming and going of the moon. The manner in which the bows are assembled together mirrors the examples of names in the old schedule. The two ☾ bows toward the finish of the schedule, presented with an extended proclaiming grouping, speak to the two intercalary evenings held available for later. The eleventh sickle, with the lump, is the place one of those evenings is found in Thomson's and Métraux's records. 

Fellow noticed that the further the Moon is from the Earth in its whimsical circle, the slower it moves, and the more probable the need to fall back on an intercalary night to keep the timetable in a state of harmony with its stages. He estimates that the "proclaiming successions" are guidelines to watch the obvious breadth of the Moon, and that the half-measure superscripted sickles (orange) going before the 6th night prior and 6th night after the full moon speak to the little evident distance across at apogee which triggers intercalation. (The primary little sickle relates to the situation of "hotu" in Thomson and Métraux.) 

Seven of the calendrical bows (red) are joined by different glyphs (green). Fellow recommends syllabic readings for a portion of these, in light of conceivable rebuses and correspondences with the names of the evenings in the old date-book. The two successions of six and five evenings without such going with glyphs (start of line 7, and progress of lines 7– 8) relate to the two gatherings of six and five numbered "kokore" evenings, which don't have singular names. 

In 1995 autonomous language specialist Steven Fischer, who additionally claims to have deciphered the baffling Phaistos Disk, declared that he had split the rongorongo "code", making him the main individual in history to have deciphered two such contents. In the decade since, this has not been acknowledged by different scientists, who feel that Fischer exaggerated the single example which shaped the premise of his decipherment, and note that it has not prompted a comprehension of different examples. 

Fischer takes note of that the long content of the 125-cm Santiago Staff is not normal for different messages in that it seems to have accentuation: The 2,320-glyph content is isolated by "103 vertical lines at odd interims" which don't happen on any of the tablets. Fischer commented that glyph distinguished as a conceivable patronymic marker by Butinov and Knorozov, is connected to the primary glyph in each area of content, and that "practically all" segments contain a various of three glyphs, with the main bearing a 76 "addition". 

Fischer recognized glyph 76 as a phallus and the content of the Santiago Staff as a creation serenade comprising of many reiterations of "X– phallus Y Z," which he translated as "X had sex with Y, there issued forward Z." His essential model was this one: 

partially through line 12 of the Santiago Staff. Fischer deciphered glyph 606 as "bird"+"hand", with the phallus joined as normal at its lower right; glyph 700 as "fish"; and glyph 8 as "sun". 

On the premise that the Rapanui word "ma'u" "to take" is about homophonous with a plural marker "mau," he placed that the hand of 606 was that plural marker, by means of a semantic move of "hand" → "take", and in this manner interpreted 606 as "every one of the flying creatures". Taking "penis" to signify "have sexual relations", he read the arrangement 606.76 700 8 as "every one of the flying creatures made love, fish, sun". 

Fischer bolstered his translation by asserting similitudes to the recitation "Atua Matariri," supposed from its first words, which was gathered by William Thomson. This recitation is where each section has the structure "X, ki 'ai ki roto ki Y, ka pû te Z," actually "X having been inside Y the Z approaches". Here is the principal section, as per Salmon and afterward as indicated by Métraux (neither of whom composed glottal stops or long vowels): 

Fischer suggested that the glyph grouping 606.76 700 8, actually "bird:hand.penis fish sun", had the undifferentiated from phonetic perusing of: 

He asserted comparable phallic triplets for a few different writings. In any case, in most of writings glyph 76 isn't normal, and Fischer recommended that these were a later, progressively created phase of the content, where the creation drones had been curtailed to "X Y Z" and overlook the phallus. He inferred that 85% of the rongorongo corpus comprised of such creation drones, and that it wouldn't have been long until rongorongo would be completely deciphered. 

There are various complaints to Fischer's methodology: 

During the 1950s, Butinov and Knorozov had played out a measurable investigation of a few rongorongo messages and had presumed that either the language of the writings was not Polynesian, or that it was written in a consolidated transmitted style, since it contained no glyphs tantamount in recurrence to Polynesian syntactic particles, for example, the Rapanui articles "te" and "he" or the relational word "ki." These discoveries have since been utilized to contend that rongorongo isn't a composition framework by any stretch of the imagination, however memory helper proto-composing. Notwithstanding, Butinov and Knorozov had utilized Barthel's fundamental encoding, which Konstantin Pozdniakov, senior specialist at the Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Saint Petersburg (until 1996), noted was improper for measurable investigation. The issue, as Butinov and Knorozov, and Barthel himself, had conceded, was that much of the time particular numerical codes had been relegated to ligatures and allographs, as though these were autonomous glyphs. The outcome was that while Barthel's numerical interpretation of a content empowered an essential exchange of its substance out of the blue, it neglected to catch its semantic structure and really meddled with between content correlation. 

In 2011, Pozdniakov discharged a pre-press distribution breaking down Text E "Keiti", including a glyph-by-glyph correlation of the translation in Barthel (1958), with misidentified glyphs amended per Horley (2010). 

To determine this lack, Pozdniakov (1996) reanalyzed thirteen of the better safeguarded writings, endeavoring to recognize all ligatures and allographs so as to all the more likely methodology a coordinated correspondence among graphemes and their numeric portrayal. He saw that every one of these writings however I and G "verso" comprise overwhelmingly of shared expressions (successions of glyphs), which happen in various requests and settings on various tablets. By 2007 he had distinguished somebody hundred shared expressions, each somewhere in the range of ten and one hundred glyphs in length. Notwithstanding putting aside the totally parallel writings Gr– K and the 'Fantastic Tradition' of H– P– Q, he found that half of the rest of such expressions: 

These mutual successions start and end with a quite limited arrangement of glyphs. For instance, many start or end, or both, with glyph 62 (an arm finishing around: or with a ligature where glyph 62 replaces the arm or wing of a figure (see the ligature picture under Kudrjavtsev "et al."). 

Differentiating these expressions permitted Pozdniakov to confirm that a few glyphs happen in obvious free variety both in disconnection and as parts of ligatures. Along these lines he recommended that the two hand shapes, (three fingers and a thumb) and (a four-fingered forked hand), are realistic variations of a solitary glyph, which additionally connects to or replaces the arms of different glyphs: 

The reality the two hands seem to substitute for one another in every one of these sets of glyphs when the rehashed expressions are contrasted loans assurance with their character. Likewise, Pozdniakov recommended that the heads with "expanding mouths", as in glyph are variations of the feathered creature heads, so the sum of Barthel's 300 and 400 arrangement of glyphs are viewed as either ligatures or variations of the 600 arrangement. 

Regardless of finding that a portion of the structures Barthel had accepted were allographs showed up rather to be free glyphs, for example, the two introductions of his glyph 27, the general conflation of allographs and ligatures significantly decreased the extent of Barthel's distributed 600-glyph stock. By recoding the writings with these discoveries and after that recomparing them, Pozdniakov had the capacity to identify twice the same number of shared expressions, which empowered him to additionally combine the stock of glyphs. By 2007, he and his dad, a pioneer in Russian software engineering, had presumed that 52 glyphs represented 99.7% of the corpus. From this he concluded that rongorongo is basically a syllabary, however blended with non-syllabic components, conceivably determinatives or logographs for normal words (see beneath). The information examination, be that as it may, has not been distributed. 

The common redundant nature of the expressing of the writings, aside from Gv and I, proposes to Pozdniakov that they are not necessary messages, and can't contain the fluctuated substance which would be normal for history or folklore. In the accompanying table of characters in the Pozdniakov and Pozdniakov stock, requested by sliding recurrence, the initial two lines of 26 characters record for 86% of the whole corpus. 

With a thoroughly inferred stock, Pozdniakov had the capacity to test his thoughts regarding the idea of the content. He classified the recurrence conveyances of glyphs in ten writings (barring the unique Santiago Staff) and found that they harmonized with the appropriation of syllables in ten obsolete Rapanui messages, for example, the "Apai" recitation, with almost indistinguishable deviations from a perfect Zipfian dispersion. He accepting this as proof both for rongorongo being basically syllabic and for its being reliable with the Rapanui language. For instance, the most widely recognized glyph, 6, and the most well-known syllable, , both make up 10% of their corpora; the syllables "te" and "he," which Butinov and Knorozov found so dangerous, could at 5.7% and 3.5% be related with any number of normal rongorongo glyphs. What's more, the quantities of glyphs connected or melded intently coordinate the quantities of syllables in Rapanui words, both in the writings generally and in their separate vocabularies, proposing that every mix of glyphs speaks to a word: 

In the two corpora there were a lot more monosyllables/single glyphs in running content than in the dictionary. That is, in both a moderately modest number of such structures are visit, recommending that rongorongo is good with Rapanui, which has few extremely visit monosyllabic syntactic particles. Rongorongo and Rapanui are likewise practically indistinguishable in the extent of syllables/glyphs found in disengagement and in beginning, average, and last position inside a word/ligature. 

In any case, while such measurable tests show that rongorongo is "reliable" with a syllabic Rapanui content, syllables are by all account not the only thing which can deliver this outcome. In the Rapanui writings, approximately two dozen regular polysyllabic words, for example, "ariki" 'pioneer', "ingoa" 'name', and "rua" 'two', have a similar recurrence as a score of syllables, while different syllables, for example, are less successive than these words. 

This doubt rongorongo may not be completely syllabic is upheld by positional examples inside the writings. The conveyances of Rapanui syllables inside polysyllabic words and of rongorongo glyphs inside ligatures are fundamentally the same as, reinforcing the syllabic association. Be that as it may, monosyllabic words and separated glyphs act in all respects in an unexpected way; here rongorongo does not take a gander at all syllabic. For instance, all glyphs yet are authenticated in detachment, while just 50% of the 55 Rapanui syllables happen as monosyllabic words. Moreover, among those syllables which do happen in disengagement, their rate of doing as such is much lower than that of the glyphs: Only three syllables, , and , happen the greater part the time in disconnection (as linguistic particles), though a score of glyphs are more ordinarily found in detachment than not. Relevant investigation may help clarify this: Whereas Rapanui monosyllables are linguistic particles and by and large go before polysyllabic things and action words, with the goal that monosyllables once in a while happen together, separated rongorongo glyphs are "typically" discovered together, recommending an altogether different capacity. Pozdniakov conjectures that the distinction might be because of the nearness of determinatives, or that glyphs have double capacities, as phonograms in blend yet as logograms in segregation, parallel to the Maya content. Then again, no glyph approaches the recurrence, when in disconnection, of the articles "te" and "he" or the relational word "ki" in running content. It might be that these particles were basically not composed, yet Pozdniakov suspects that they were composed together with the accompanying word, just like the case with relational words and articles in Classical Latin and composed Arabic. 

Further entangling this image are reiteration designs. There are two kinds of reiteration in Rapanui words: twofold syllables inside roots, as in "mamari," and linguistic reduplication of disyllables, as observed in "rongorongo." In the Rapanui dictionary, twofold syllables as in "mamari" are half more probable than chance can clarify. Be that as it may, in the rongorongo writings, practically equivalent to twofold AA glyphs are just 8% almost certain than possibility. So also, in the Rapanui dictionary reduplicated disyllables, for example, "rongorongo" are multiple times as normal as possibility, establishing a fourth of the vocabulary, though, in rongorongo writings, ABAB successions are just twice as likely as shot, and 10% of the vocabulary. On the off chance that rongorongo is a phonetic content, subsequently, this inconsistency should be clarified. Pozdniakov proposes that maybe there was a 'reduplicator' glyph, or that alterations of glyphs, for example, confronting heads to one side instead of to one side, may have shown reiteration. 

The aftereffects of factual investigation will be firmly influenced by any blunders in distinguishing the stock of glyphs, just as by uniqueness from a simply syllabic portrayal, for example, a glyph for reduplication. There are additionally expansive contrasts in the frequencies of individual syllables among the Rapanui writings, which makes any immediate distinguishing proof risky. While Pozdniakov has not had the capacity to appoint any phonetic qualities with any assurance, measurable outcomes do put limitations on which esteems are conceivable. 

One probability for a logogram of the most well-known word in Rapanui, the article "te," is the most widely recognized glyph, which does not design like a phonogram. Glyph 200 happens for the most part in beginning position and is more incessant in running content than any syllable in the Rapanui dictionary, the two attributes of the article. A probability for a reduplicator glyph is which is additionally normal and does not design like a phonogram, however happens overwhelmingly in definite position. 

Since a rehashed word or expression, for example, the pervasive "ki 'ai ki roto" in the "Atua Matariri" recitation, will skew the insights of that content, phonetic frequencies are best looked at utilizing word records (considering each word independently) instead of the full messages. Pozdniakov utilized a couple of fundamental relationships among's Rapanui and rongorongo to help slender down the conceivable phonetic estimations of the glyphs. For example, the general frequencies of rongorongo glyphs in introductory, average, and last position in a ligature probably compel their conceivable sound qualities to syllables with comparable conveyances inside the vocabulary. Syllables starting with "ng," for instance, are more typical at the closures of words than in introductory position. The general frequencies, and the examples of multiplying and reduplication, then again, appear to relate arm glyphs explicitly with vocalic syllables: 

The outstandingly high frequencies of glyph and of the syllable , wherever with the exception of when multiplied, propose that glyph 6 may have the sound esteem . Pozdniakov proposes with less certainty that the second most outrageous glyph, may have the sound esteem . 

As Pozdniakov promptly concedes, his investigation is exceedingly touchy to the exactness of the glyph stock. Since he has not distributed the subtleties of how he set up this stock, it isn't feasible for others to confirm his work. 

Starting at 2008, there has been little reaction to Pozdniakov's methodology. Be that as it may, Sproat (2007) trusts that the outcomes from the recurrence dispersions are simply an impact of Zipf's Law, and besides that neither rongorongo nor the old writings were illustrative of the Rapanui language, with the goal that an examination between them is probably not going to illuminate.