Lisa del Giocondo 

Lisa del Giocondo (; née Gherardini ; June 15, 1479 – July 15, 1542) was an Italian aristocrat and individual from the Gherardini group of Florence and Tuscany. Her name was given to the "Mona Lisa", which was her picture that was charged by her better half and painted by Italian polymath Leonardo da Vinci around 1503– 06 amid the Renaissance. 

Little is thought about Lisa's life. Conceived in Florence and wedded in her youngsters to a material and silk dealer who later turned into a neighborhood official, she was a mother to five kids and drove what is thought to have been an agreeable and conventional white collar class life. Lisa outlasted her significant other, who was extensively her senior. 

Hundreds of years after Lisa's demise, the "Mona Lisa" turned into the world's most acclaimed painting and took on an actual existence separate from Lisa, the lady. Theory by researchers and specialists made crafted by craftsmanship an internationally perceived symbol and an object of commercialization. In 2005, Lisa was conclusively recognized as the model for the "Mona Lisa". 

Lisa's Florentine family was old and privileged however after some time had lost their impact. They were wealthy yet not well off, and lived on homestead pay in a city that was among the biggest in Europe. While monetarily fruitful, there were extraordinary incongruities in riches among Florence's occupants. 

Antonmaria di Noldo Gherardini, Lisa's dad, lost two spouses, Lisa di Giovanni Filippo de' Carducci, whom he wedded in 1465, and Caterina di Mariotto Rucellai, whom he wedded in 1473. Both passed on in labor. Lisa's mom was Lucrezia del Caccia, little girl of Piera Spinelli, and Gherardini's significant other by his third marriage in 1476. Gherardini at one time claimed or leased six homesteads in Chianti that created wheat, wine and olive oil and where animals was raised. 

Lisa was conceived in Florence on June 15, 1479, on Via Maggio, despite the fact that for a long time it was thought she was conceived on Villa Vignamaggio simply outside Greve, one of the family's country properties. She is named for Lisa, a spouse of her fatherly granddad. The oldest of seven kids, Lisa had three sisters, one of whom was named Ginevra, and three siblings, Giovangualberto, Francesco, and Noldo. 

The family lived in Florence, initially close Santa Trinita and later in leased space close Santo Spirito, no doubt since they were not ready to bear the cost of fixes when their first house was harmed. Lisa's family moved to what today is called Via dei Pepi, and after that close Santa Croce, where they lived close Ser Piero da Vinci, Leonardo's dad. They additionally claimed a little nation home in St. Donato in the town of Poggio about south of the city. Noldo, Gherardini's dad and Lisa's granddad, had handed down a homestead in Chianti to the Santa Maria Nuova medical clinic. Gherardini verified a rent for one more of the clinic's ranches and, with the goal that he could direct the wheat reap, the family spent summers there at the house named Ca' di Pesa. 

On March 5, 1495, 15-year-old Lisa wedded Francesco di Bartolomeo di Zanobi del Giocondo, an unassumingly effective material and silk trader, turning into his third spouse. Lisa's endowment was 170 florins and the San Silvestro ranch close to her family's nation home, which lies among Castellina and San Donato in Poggio, almost two homesteads later claimed by Michelangelo. The humble endowment might be an indication that the Gherardini family was not well off at the time and loans motivation to think she and her significant other adored one another. Neither poor nor among the most wealthy in Florence, the couple carried on with a white collar class life. Lisa's marriage may have expanded her economic wellbeing since her significant other's family may have been more extravagant than her own. Francesco is thought to have profited on the grounds that Gherardini is an "old name". They lived in shared settlement until March 5, 1503, when Francesco had the capacity to purchase a house nearby to his family's old home in the Via della Stufa. Leonardo is thought to have started painting Lisa's picture that year. 

Lisa and Francesco had five kids: Piero, Camilla, Andrea, Giocondo, and Marietta, four of them somewhere in the range of 1496 and 1507. Lisa lost a child girl in 1499. Lisa additionally brought up Bartolomeo, the child of Francesco and his first spouse Camilla di Mariotto Rucellai, who was about a year old when his mom passed on. The second spouse of Lisa's dad, Caterina di Mariotto Rucellai, and Francesco's first wife were sisters, individuals from the unmistakable Rucellai family. 

Camilla and Marietta ended up Catholic nuns. Camilla took the name Suor Beatrice and entered the community of San Domenico di Cafaggio, where she was endowed to the consideration of Antonmaria's sister Suor Albiera and Lisa's sisters Suor Camilla (who was vindicated in an outrageous appearance by four men at the religious community) and Suor Alessandra. Beatrice kicked the bucket at age 18 and was covered in the Basilica di Santa Maria Novella. Lisa built up an association with Sant'Orsola, a religious circle held in high respect in Florence, where she had the capacity to put Marietta in 1521. Marietta took the name Suor Ludovica and turned into a regarded individual from the cloister in a place of some duty. 

Francesco turned into an authority in Florence. He was chosen to the "Dodici Buonomini" in 1499 and to the Signoria in 1512, where he was affirmed as a "Priori" in 1524. He may have had connections to Medici family political or business interests. In 1512 when the administration of Florence dreaded the arrival of the Medici from outcast, Francesco was detained and fined 1,000 florins. He was discharged in September when the Medici returned. 

In June 1537 in his will among numerous arrangements, Francesco restored Lisa's share to her, gave her own apparel and gems and accommodated her future. After entrusting her consideration to their little girl Ludovica and, should she be unfit, his child Bartolomeo, Francesco stated, "Given the love and love of the departed benefactor towards Mona Lisa, his adored spouse; in light of the way that Lisa has dependably acted with a respectable soul and as a devoted wife; longing that she will have all she needs… ". 

In one record, Francesco kicked the bucket in the plague of 1538. Lisa became sick and was taken by her girl Ludovica to the religious community of Sant'Orsola, where she kicked the bucket on July 15, 1542, at 63 years old. In an academic record of their lives, Francesco was about 80 years of age when he passed on, and Lisa may have lived until something like 1551, when she would have been 71 or 72. 

Like different Florentines of their money related methods, Francesco's relatives were workmanship darlings and benefactors. His child Bartolomeo asked Antonio di Donnino Mazzieri to paint a fresco at the family's entombment site in the Basilica della Santissima Annunziata di Firenze. Andrea del Sarto painted a Madonna for another individual from his family. Francesco offered commissions to Leonardo for a picture of his significant other and to Domenico Puligo for a depiction of Saint Francis of Assisi. He is thought to have appointed Lisa's picture to celebrate both Andrea's introduction to the world and the buy of the family's home. 

The "Mona Lisa" satisfied fifteenth and mid sixteenth century prerequisites for depicting a lady of ideals. Lisa is depicted as a dedicated spouse through signal—her correct hand rests over her left. Leonardo additionally introduced Lisa as elegant and effective, maybe more wealthy than she was. Her dim articles of clothing and dark cloak were Spanish-affected high design; they are not a portrayal of grieving for her first girl, as certain researchers have proposed. The representation is strikingly expansive; its size is equivalent to that of commissions obtained by wealthier craftsmanship benefactors of the time. This excess has been clarified as an indication of Francesco and Lisa's social yearning. 

Amid the spring of 1503, Leonardo had no pay source, which may to a limited extent clarify his enthusiasm for a private representation. In any case, soon thereafter, he in all likelihood needed to postpone his work on "Mona Lisa" when he got installment for beginning "The Battle of Anghiari", which was an increasingly important commission and one he was contracted to finish by February 1505. In 1506 Leonardo considered the representation incomplete. He was not paid for the work and did not convey it to his customer. The craftsman's compositions went with him for an amazing duration, and he may have finished the "Mona Lisa" numerous years after the fact in France, in one estimation by 1516. 

The sketch's title dates to 1550. An associate of probably a portion of Francesco's family, Giorgio Vasari, stated, "Leonardo attempted to paint, for Francesco del Giocondo, the picture of Mona Lisa, his better half" (). The representation's Italian name "La Gioconda" is the ladylike type of her wedded name. In French it is known by the variation "La Joconde". Despite the fact that got from Lisa's hitched name there is the additional noteworthiness that the name gets from the word for "upbeat" (in English, "jocund") or "the cheerful one". 

Hypothesis doled out Lisa's name to somewhere around four unique artistic creations and her character to something like ten distinct individuals. Before the finish of the twentieth century, the artistic creation was a worldwide symbol that had been utilized in excess of 300 different artworks and in 2,000 advertisements, showing up at a normal of one new promotion every week. In 2005, a specialist at the University Library of Heidelberg found an edge note in the library's gathering that set up with conviction the conventional view that the sitter was Lisa. The note, composed by Agostino Vespucci in 1503, states that Leonardo was chipping away at a picture of Lisa del Giocondo. The "Mona Lisa" has been in care of France since the sixteenth century, when it was procured by King Francis I; after the French Revolution, nonetheless, it came into the ownership of the general population. Today around six million individuals visit the artwork every year at the Louver in Paris, where it is a piece of a French national gathering.