World Science Festival, 2008 

The 2008 World Science Festival was a science celebration held in New York City. The celebration (May 28 – June 1, 2008) comprised chiefly of board discourses and in front of an audience discussions, joined by sight and sound introductions. An adolescent and family program displayed subjects, for example, sports from a logical viewpoint and incorporated a broad road reasonable. A social program driven by performing artist and author Alan Alda concentrated on workmanship propelled by science. The celebration additionally incorporated a "World Science Summit", a gathering of abnormal state members from the universes of science, legislative issues, organization, and business. 

The celebration was the brainchild of Columbia University physicist Brian Greene and his better half, Emmy Award-winning TV writer Tracy Day. It was held in association with major New York City social and scholastic organizations, including Columbia University, New York University and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 

The World Science Festival was established by Brian Greene, a Columbia University material science teacher and writer of a few well known science books, (for example, "The Elegant Universe"), and his significant other, Emmy Award-winning TV columnist Tracy Day. Enlivened by a visit to the 2005 Festival della Scienza in Genoa, where Greene had been welcome to talk, the two chose that establishing a comparative celebration in New York City would be an interesting chance to convey science to the more extensive open. As they imagined it, such a celebration would enable them to consolidate Greene's abilities as a researcher and science communicator with Day's as a writer and maker: the occasions were intended to be established in science, yet in addition to adjust to the generation gauges of expert TV or theater preparations. 

Day and Greene sounded out researchers and science communicators about their thought, enrolling a significant number of their contacts as the celebration's logical consultants. They met with the leaders of the city's real colleges and its social and logical establishments, manufacturing associations for the celebration's association. As indicated by Greene, their thought fell on open ears wherever they went, and the most incessant response to their proposition was the declaration of incredulity that a celebration like this did not as of now exist in New York City. Mid 2006 saw the establishing of the Science Festival Foundation (SFF), a non-benefit association situated in New York City, committed to arranging the celebration and related occasions. Greene fills in as the establishment's administrator, and is likewise on its governing body. Different individuals from the board are Alan Alda, Columbia University president Lee Bollinger, the establishment's leader Judith Cox, New York University president John Sexton, and Tracy Day, who likewise fills in as the celebration's official executive. 

Next came the get together of a group of makers who were to sort out the celebration's occasions. Prominently Kyle Gibson, an Emmy Award-winning previous maker of Nightline with Ted Koppel, joined the celebration as senior program maker, while generation of the Youth and Family Program was put under the control of Robin Reardon, a previous show maker for Walt Disney Imagineering and previous VP of Universal Studios Creative, who likewise turned into the celebration's overseeing executive. 

The establishment sorts out the World Science Festival (WSF) in organization with Columbia University, New York University, the City University of New York, Rockefeller University and the Cooper Union, just as social foundations, for example, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim Museum, and the Museum of Modern Art. Budgetary help originates from people, from various establishments, and from corporate backers which, for the 2008 celebration, incorporated the Sloan Foundation, the Simons Foundation, the Templeton Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Cullman Foundation, and Credit Suisse. 

The debut World Science Festival occurred from May 28 to June 1, 2008, at 22 venues all through New York City. It included 46 events, a road reasonable and, on its first day, the one-day World Science Summit at Columbia University. The Festival was gone to by 120,000 people. It highlighted a few various types of introductions: science occasions for a general gathering of people, a social program concentrating on workmanship propelled by science, and an adolescent and family program.Although debut, no other celebration is arranged. 

Going before the open occasions was the welcome just World Science Summit on May 28, 2008; New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg opened the Festival. At the summit, a welcomed crowd connected with prominent researchers in a few board dialogs. Members included Nina Federoff (Science and Technology Advisor to U. S. Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice), scholar David Baltimore and disease specialist Harold Varmus. 

As a major aspect of the summit, the champs of the first Kavli Prizes were declared in a simulcast connecting New York City and Oslo. The first Kavli Prize for astronomy was granted to Maarten Schmidt and Donald Lynden-Bell for their spearheading deal with quasars. Louis E. Brus and Sumio Iijima shared the nanoscience prize for their commitments to the exploration of quantum spots and carbon nanotubes, separately. Pasko Rakic, Thomas Jessell and Sten Grillner were granted the neuroscience prize for their investigation into how neuronal systems create and impart. 

Occasions secured a wide assortment of logical subjects, and joined talks, shows, video introductions and board exchanges. Various occasions tended to "unavoidable issues". For instance, a program of researchers including physicist William Phillips, savant Patricia Churchland, neuroscientist Antonio Damasio, savant Daniel Dennett, subjective researcher Marvin Minsky, and malignancy specialist Harold Varmus, discussed "Being Human" in a board dialog directed by Charlie Rose. A common topic was the more extensive ramifications of logical outcomes, as exemplified by a dialog on the guarantees and results of individual genomics including natural chemist Paul Nurse, social scientist Nikolas Rose, and human genome venture pioneer Francis Collins. Various occasions investigated the interface among science and expressions of the human experience; for example, a board including clinician Nancy C. Andreasen, choreographer and artist Bill T. Jones, and performing artist and author Michael York concentrated on the logical investigation of innovativeness. Different crowds saw physicists Lawrence Krauss and radio host Ira Flatow showing current cosmology, scientist Richard Leakey investigating the 6th eradication, and scientific expert F. Sherwood Rowland and Rensselaer Polytechnic president Shirley Ann Jackson talking about better approaches for fulfilling mankind's vitality needs. Various occasions were co-creations with the celebration's accomplices, for example, an exchange between Robert Krulwich and nervous system specialist and creator Oliver Sacks on discernment, held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and performer Mark Oliver Everett's investigation of the logical heritage of his dad, Hugh Everett, at the Museum of Modern Art. 

The celebration's social program went from a string hypothesis themed move execution arranged by Karole Armitage to a narrating occasion in participation with The Moth, which included columnist and author Lucy Hawking, physicist Jim Gates and essayist Sam Shepard, among others. Alan Alda returned to his job as Richard Feynman in Peter Parnell's play "QED" in an organized perusing at Columbia University's Miller Theater, and the choir of the Abyssinian Baptist Church joined Oliver Sacks in an investigation of music and science. The celebration additionally observed the première of "Dear Albert", a perusing for the stage composed by Alda dependent on the letters of Albert Einstein, and featuring Anthony LaPaglia as Einstein. 

Occasions for a more youthful group of onlookers incorporated an examination of the investigation of games (with games researcher Tom Crawford, neuroscientist David Eagleman, and competitors, for example, Brevin Knight, Lisa Willis and Leilani Mitchell). For the celebration's first occasion, New York City secondary school understudies talked with apply autonomy master Cynthia Breazeal and physicist Leon Lederman in front of an audience, directed by MTV's SuChin Pak. Another occasion was introduced by the Disney Imagineers, who investigated the study of enhancements and entertainment mecca innovation, from thrill rides and firecrackers to movement catch and counterfeit haze. 

The WSF Street Fair occurred in and around Washington Square Park, on the New York University grounds, on Saturday, May 30, 2008. In spite of the fact that it was hindered by a tempest, the road reasonable was gone to by 100,000 individuals, as per gauges from the New York Police Department. 

Stage occasions at the road reasonable included live exhibitions by the "Mathemagician" Arthur T. Benjamin, "science rapper" Zach Powers of PCR RAP notoriety, and a band called "The Mathematicians", science exhibitions by groups from organizations, for example, the Liberty Science Center and the Franklin Institute, and introductions by columnist and creator Lucy Hawking and visual craftsman Scott Draves, among others. The road reasonable highlighted appearances by Disney's animatronic dinosaur Lucky, by characters from science-and training related TV shows, for example, "Cyberchase", "It's a Big World", "Clifford the Big Red Dog" and "Zula Patrol", just as exhibits by groups taking part in the New York– New Jersey FIRST Robotics Competition, and hands-on exercises, for example, owl pellet analyzations and smaller than normal rocket dispatches. Likewise present were a versatile exhibition hall from the American Museum of Natural History and the Magic School Bus. 

Celebration inclusion paving the way to the 2008 celebration, which included articles in real papers and appearances by Alda and Greene on national shows, for example, "Regis and Kelly" and "The Colbert Report", generally centered around presenting the celebration's idea, coordinators and occasions, and on the guarantee of bringing an occasion of this sort to New York. Beside notice of little authoritative glitches, inclusion of celebration occasions was commonly positive. Both "Great Morning America" and "Science News" concentrated on the capability of the celebration to rouse the up and coming age of researchers and "make nerd chic". The "New York Post" depicted the celebration's job in New York's social scene as the nerd partner of Fashion Week and the Tony Awards, while the Science Channel's inclusion described the celebration as "brilliantly moving and enlightening". 

The "New York Times" noticed that Greene and Day seemed to have prevailing with regards to making "another social foundation"; further "Times" articles proclaimed the celebration a basic and a film industry achievement. 

Online inclusion regularly centered around explicit celebration occasions. Eminently, "Science", "Wired", The Science Channel and "USA Today" gave same-day or following day records of occasions including "Being Human", "Ramachandran/Kurzweil: Humanity Now/Humanity Next", "Future Cities", just as the two occasions highlighting Oliver Sacks.