The Stolen Earth 

"The Stolen Earth" is the twelfth scene of the fourth arrangement and the 750th generally speaking scene of the British sci-fi TV arrangement "Specialist Who". It was first communicated on BBC One on . The scene was composed by show sprinter and head author Russell T Davies and is the first of a two-section hybrid story with turn offs "The Sarah Jane Adventures" and "Torchwood"; the finishing up scene is "Voyage's End", the finale of the fourth arrangement, communicate on 5 July. 

The finale's account conveys conclusion to a few noticeable story bends made amid Davies' residency as show sprinter. In the scene, contemporary Earth and twenty-six different planets are stolen by the Daleks, supported by their megalomaniacal maker Davros and a broke however precognitive Dalek Caan. As the Doctor (David Tennant) and his buddy Donna Noble (Catherine Tate) endeavor to discover Earth, his past buddies Jack Harkness (John Barrowman), Martha Jones (Freema Agyeman), Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen), and Rose Tyler (Billie Piper) assemble to get in touch with him and mount a guard against the Daleks. In the scene's peak, the Doctor is shot by a Dalek and starts to recover. 

The scene denotes the primary appearance of Davros since the 1988 sequential "Recognition of the Daleks"; he is depicted by Julian Bleach. It is additionally the principal "Specialist Who" appearance of Gwen Cooper (Eve Myles); Ianto Jones (Gareth David-Lloyd); Luke Smith (Thomas Knight); and Mr Smith (voiced by Alexander Armstrong), however Myles and Armstrong showed up in different scenes assuming diverse jobs. Adjoa Andoh and Penelope Wilton repeat supporting jobs as Martha's mom Francine Jones and previous Prime Minister Harriet Jones separately. Paul O'Grady and Richard Dawkins show up as themselves as TV characters who endeavor to mitigate open dread. 

The two-section finale's epic scale and fundamental plot was first imagined in mid 2007 as the last ordinary arrangement story for withdrawing makers Russell T Davies, Julie Gardner, and Phil Collinson: the fourth arrangement finale is the last story delivered by Collinson; and Steven Moffat and Piers Wenger supplanted Davies and Gardner as show sprinter and official maker separately in 2010. Significant ideas were at that point determined by July 2007 and the content was written in December 2007; Davies started on the seventh and completed on the 31st. Taping for the finale occurred in February and March 2008, and after generation completed in mid-June 2008, just two weeks before the scene publicized. To disguise whatever number plot components as could be allowed, "The Stolen Earth's" title was not unveiled until sixteen days before communicate, see DVDs excluded the scene where the Doctor recovers—the last scene is the Doctor being shot by a Dalek—and the scene disclosed without a see trailer for "Adventure's End". 

The scene was investigated emphatically by both the group of onlookers and expert commentators. The Audience Appreciation Index score was 91: an uncommon figure for "Specialist Who" and one of the most noteworthy evaluations at any point given to a TV program. On its unique communicate, it was seen by 8.78 million watchers and was the second most-watched program of the week; at the season of communicate, it was the most astounding position "Specialist Who" had ever come to. Basic response was overwhelmingly positive. Nicholas Briggs and Julian Bleach were complimented for their depiction of Dalek Caan and Davros individually; and most parts of Davies' composing were praised. Most remarkably, the curve closure of the scene was all around refreshing. The stun recovery made a phenomenal dimension of open enthusiasm for the show, which proceeded until the transmission of "Voyage's End". 

Toward the beginning of the scene, the Earth is transported out of its spatial area not long after the Doctor and Donna land to examine Rose Tyler's notice toward the finish of "Turn Left". The Doctor contacts the Shadow Proclamation, an all inclusive police compel, to discover Earth. They decide twenty-seven missing planets—including Earth, Adipose III, Pyrovillia, and the Lost Moon of Poosh—naturally redesign into a particular example when set close to one another. Donna specifies the vanishing of honey bees on contemporary Earth; this enables the Doctor to follow the planets to the Medusa Cascade, a between all inclusive crack. 

A Dalek drive, driven by their maker Davros and the red Supreme Dalek, rapidly enslave Earth regardless of humankind's furious opposition. Army installations, incorporating UNIT's home office in New York City and their plane carrying warship "Valiant", are obliterated. Davros, who was thought to have died amid the Time War, was spared by Dalek Caan, who entered the contention in the wake of playing out a crisis worldly move. The power expected to enter the Time War—which is "time-bolted", keeping time-travelers from entering the contention—caused Caan to end up precognitive at the expense of his mental soundness. 

The Doctor's previous colleagues Captain Jack Harkness, Martha Jones, Sarah Jane Smith, and Rose Tyler—who have all experienced the Daleks previously—stow away in different spots: Jack takes asylum in the Torchwood Hub with his group; Martha utilizes Project Indigo—a trial transport gadget rummaged from the Sontarans—to escape UNIT New York with the "Osterhagen Key", a gadget that explodes a cautious final retreat atomic weapons framework; Sarah Jane remains in her home with her child Luke Smith and supercomputer Mr Smith; and Rose tracks down Donna's mom and granddad. They are reached by previous Prime Minister Harriet Jones through a mystery "Subwave Network" structured by Mr Copper—a humanoid outsider who met the Doctor in "Voyage of the Damned"— to contact the Doctor's associates in a crisis (albeit Rose is unfit to contact the others). They endeavor to achieve the Doctor by enhancing the sub-wave flag; Sarah utilizes Mr Smith's registering force and Torchwood controls the spatial-fleeting crack in Cardiff. The Doctor, and thusly the Daleks, get the transmission and follow the flag: the Daleks murder Harriet Jones; and the Doctor can find Earth in a transiently desynchronised pocket universe. 

Toward the finish of the scene, the Doctor goes into the pocket universe and gets transmitted pictures of his associates in the subwave flag. After Davros commandeers the flag and insults the Doctor about his restoration and approaching triumph, the Doctor breaks correspondence and endeavors to assemble with his friends. The Doctor arrives on a similar road Rose is looking for him on and races to grasp her, yet is shot by a Dalek. Jack immediately pulverizes the Dalek and enables Rose and Donna to convey the Doctor into the TARDIS, where the Doctor starts to recover. 

"The Stolen Earth" and "Voyage's End" are the zenith of every one of the four arrangement of "Specialist Who" since its recovery in 2005 and show sprinter Russell T Davies' work in restoring the show. Davies expressed the story bend for the fourth arrangement contained "a component from each scene—regardless of whether it's an individual, an expression, an inquiry, a planet, or a secret [that] develops to the stupendous finale", and the finale "[had] been seeded for quite a while, with little however essential references going right back to Series One". A few of these topical themes are utilized as real plot focuses: the noteworthiness of vanishing of honey bees, the Medusa Cascade, and the Shadow Proclamation are clarified in the scene. It is the principal real hybrid between "Specialist Who" and its turn off arrangement "Torchwood" and "The Sarah Jane Adventures". Davies contrasted the hybrid's origination with a normal tyke's creative ability of a hybrid between the "Specialist Who" and "Star Wars" universes: 

The fourth arrangement finale was first arranged in mid 2006. Its epic scale—including the risk of the annihilation of the real world and vast number of visitor stars—was required to adjust for "Specialist Who's" decreased broadcast appointment in 2009 and the up and coming flight of makers Davies, Julie Gardner, and Phil Collinson between mid-2008 and mid 2010. The scene's story was characterized in mid 2007, when Davies dispersed his rundown of the fourth arrangement to the generation group. In his concise, he depicted the finale—officially titled "The Stolen Earth"— as: 

Donna and Midshipman Alonzo Frame (Russell Tovey)— from "The Runaway Bride" and "Voyage of the Damned" individually—were likewise intended to make appearances in "The Stolen Earth": Donna was wanted to show up before Catherine Tate consented to repeat the lead job for the whole fourth arrangement; and Frame was available as a component of the Shadow Proclamation in a few drafts of the scene. Flute player's appearance was practically dropped when shooting was initially planned amid her vacation in January 2008. Freema Agyeman was likewise contracted to show up in the finale when she acknowledged the job of Martha Jones in 2006. 

Significant ideas of the finale were at that point created in March 2007. Davies clarified the Medusa Cascade—first referenced in discourse between the Master and the Doctor in "Last of the Time Lords"— to "Radio Times" and "Specialist Who Magazine" writer Benjamin Cook as "only a zone of room" almost a between all inclusive break which enabled Rose to return for the fourth arrangement. He sent Cook another email a few hours after the fact that clarified Dalek Caan's job in the finale and Davros' revival from the Time War. The Doctor's recovery was imagined in two separate parts in mid-2007: Davies sketched out the idea of two Doctors in "Voyage's End" in late April 2007; and utilizing a recovery to end the scene was initially considered on . 

Davies began stating "The Stolen Earth" on . He had spent the earlier day composing Martha's appearance in New York City. He considered crushing the city yet ruled against it: 

A few days before he began composing the scene, he got a call from Bernard Cribbins, who proposed a scene in which his character, Wilfred Mott, would fire a paintball pellet at a Dalek's eyestalk. He proposed it as a source of perspective to the Peter Cushing "Dr. Who" films that he featured in amid the mid-1960s, and figured it would give lighthearted element in the middle of overwhelming work. The Dalek's reaction—vanishing the paintball and answering "My vision is "not" disabled!"— was included after Cook reminded Davies it was "mandatory" to transform the common expression spoken when a Dalek was blinded ("Vision impaired!"), and expel a shortcoming the Daleks had displayed since their first appearance in the 1963– 1964 sequential "The Daleks". Wilfred's response to Rose after she exploded the equivalent Dalek—inquiring as to whether she needed to swap weapons—was in like manner included by Cribbins by method for a slapped together amid taping. 

Davies' first drafts of the Dalek intrusion and the Shadow Proclamation were generally not quite the same as their communicate partners. Rather than hearing the Daleks' rehashed cry of "Eradicate", Captain Jack and Sarah Jane responded to seeing Dalek saucers. One saucer would slip towards Whitehall, pulverize Big Ben in travel, and kill the Prime Minister, Aubrey Fairchild. The Shadow Proclamation—characterized in the content as an intergalactic police compel that involved a "tremendous establishment, metal science fiction towers went over a progression of connected space rocks, hanging in space, similar to a Roger Dean painting"— initially included "each animal [the recovery of the show] ever had" and an appearance by Blon Fel-Fotch Pasameer-Day "Margaret Blaine" Slitheen (Annette Badland) as a Jingatheen (a Raxicoricofallapatorian family) little child: 

The quantity of beasts and the Proclamation's bureaucratic nature would outrage the Doctor and cause Alonzo Frame—presently utilized as a "Shadow Soldier"— to help him in rounding out desk work. Casing would be murdered by the Daleks later in the story. 

Seven days after he had composed the Shadow Proclamation scenes, Davies chose to rework the scenes vigorously in light of money related and content imperatives. Tovey's appearance was supplanted with a scene focused on the "Boss Constable" since he was inaccessible for taping, a lot to Davies' failure. The Dalek attack was additionally changed to the form communicate after he chose an individual death of the Prime Minister was strangely "conciliatory", and reused the Prime Minister's name for "The Next Doctor" He likewise communicated questions about the Shadow Proclamation to Cook; he thought the Chief Constable was "appallingly stripped down", however conceded the Shadow Proclamation was an essential component of the plot. He chose to address the issues in the Chief Constable by renaming her the "Shadow Architect" (Kelly Hunter): 

Davies kept the Shadow Proclamation scenes set before the presentation of the Shadow Architect until early February 2008. The scenes were connected by a contention between the Doctor and the Judoon: the Doctor would gripe that Earth's vanishing should take need, however the Judoon continued demanding the Doctor hold up in a line to report the vanishing. The Doctor would win the contention by over-burdening the Judoon's interpreter machines (since he could talk six million dialects at the same time) and request them to enable him to see the Shadow Architect right away. Davies' submitted content was over the financial backing managed for enhancements, so he was required to cut the scene, despite the fact that Annette Badland had officially recorded exchange for her appearance. The reworked—and in the end communicate—scene had the TARDIS "land legitimately in the Shadow Architect's office" with four Judoon protects. 

Davies composed previous Prime Minister Harriet Jones (Penelope Wilton) into the content on — before Wilton was drawn closer about repeating the job—since Gardner and Collinson wanted for the character to have a delightful and redemptive end; in the dénouement of her past appearance in "The Christmas Invasion", the character confronted a demonstration of majority disapproval in Parliament after she requested Torchwood to shoot down an escaping Sycorax send. Harriet Jones' story circular segment in this way framed a tripartite storyline which comprised of a presentation, hostility towards the Doctor, and recovery (though at an incredible expense). Davies knew that Wilton was "difficult to book" and confined her appearance to one day's taping in one area (Harriet's home) to make dealings simpler; had Wilton declined, Davies intended to supplant her with either Donna, Mr Copper (Clive Swift) from "Voyage of the Damned", or Elton from "Affection and Monsters". Wilton acknowledged genuinely on the grounds that she "would do anything for ... Davies" and she wished to act in Phil Collinson's last shooting square as maker; her first appearance in "Outsiders of London" was shot in the primary creation square of the principal arrangement. Collinson and Davies deplored the character's passing: Collinson "[couldn't] bear the musing she's dead" and contended that she got away demise; and Davies for the most part expressed in "Specialist Who Magazine" issue 397 that "when [significant characters an essayist creates] need to kick the bucket, it's a really passionate time". 

Davies' scriptwriting was influenced by the improvement of a head cold and invading content imperatives; he was irritated that he had stated "discourse [he had] been biting the dust to express" with a "swoon heart" since he would need to cut it. Since he was behind timetable, he was compelled to drop intends to go to Piper's wedding and practically dropped designs to praise the New Year with his beau. These issues influenced his first draft of the Doctor's discussion with his sidekicks and experience with Davros; he rejected it as "weak poo" which would squander permit payers' cash, and supplanted it with an alternate rendition hours after the fact. The discussion includes the majority of the Doctor's colleagues all the while conversing with the Doctor; Tate, Tennant, and executive Graeme Harper settled on the imaginative choice to have the Doctor overlook any notice of the Daleks in light of the fact that they figured the Doctor's jauntiness in the scene would be generally unseemly. He in the long run completed the content at 1am on New Year's Eve. Cook checked on the last pages of the content and proposed that the scene should air without a trailer; Davies concurred by taking note of that "[the BBC] never convey review circles of the last scene" and that any notices for "Adventure's End" could "simply show loads of Daleks and a rehash of "I'm recovering" [the Doctor's last line in the scene before the recovery procedure starts]. The scene was authoritatively submitted on : the readiness date for "The Stolen Earth" and "Adventure's End". 

Davies examined the scene's peak in detail in the show's sidekick arrangement "Specialist Who Confidential". The peak—a Dalek beam shooting the Doctor and his ensuing recovery—was composed by Davies as a pastiche of sentiment fiction. He looked at the get-together among Rose and the Doctor to "the greatest sentiment [the viewer] has ever observed" and kidded that original movies, for example, "Run with the Wind" ought to have finished with a Dalek shooting the male lead, and strengthened the scene's enthusiastic effect through Piper's appearances all through the fourth arrangement. Tennant portrayed the Doctor's injuring as a "snapshot of high feeling" and bemoaned that "[the Doctor] can't have a cheerful minute, particularly with a cliffhanger waiting be composed". The scene finished amid the recovery since Davies needed to make the "greatest, most energizing cliffhanger in "Specialist Who"", and to separate the scene from past recoveries, which were constantly finished toward the finish of serials. He thought about its goals—the recovery procedure being stopped by the Doctor, who siphoned the overabundance vitality into his disjoined hand after his wounds were mended—real on the grounds that the hand was a vital plot gadget in "Adventure's End's" peak. The generation group understood the stopped recovery and production of another Doctor would make a discussion among fans about whether one of the Doctor's twelve recoveries were spent. The generation group initially declined to remark to stay away from the discussion; Davies later said that he trusted that in light of the fact that the procedure wasn't finished, the Doctor did not utilize one of his recoveries. Be that as it may, the 2013 Christmas unique The Time of the Doctor, which was the last standard story for the Eleventh Doctor, affirmed that this recovery did to be sure check, as the Tenth Doctor was depicted as having "vanity issues at the time". 

The finale contains nineteen important cast individuals, sixteen of whom show up in "The Stolen Earth". As an outcome of the scene's hybrid nature, the scene is the primary appearance of Gareth David-Lloyd as Ianto Jones and Tommy Knight as Luke Smith in "Specialist Who". Eve Myles, who recently played Gwyneth in "The Unquiet Dead", shows up as the "Torchwood" female lead Gwen Cooper. The scene highlights many returning characters: Billie Piper, Freema Agyeman, Adjoa Andoh, John Barrowman, Nicholas Briggs, Elisabeth Sladen, and Penelope Wilton repeat jobs for "The Stolen Earth". Developmental researcher Richard Dawkins and entertainer Paul O'Grady show up on Torchwood's TV screen; appearances by big names, for example, Davina McCall, Derek Acorah, and Ann Widdecombe had been a piece of every penultimate scene since the show's restoration. O'Grady was given an appearance after Davies heard that he was an enthusiast of the show; and Dawkins was added to the content by Davies when Cook proposed him to depict the "older teacher" on a "Newsnight"- style TV program examining the new planets in the sky. Dawkins acknowledged due to his prior relationship with "Specialist Who"; his better half Lalla Ward depicted the second manifestation of the Time Lady Romana somewhere in the range of 1979 and 1981. Gary Milner was given a role as the additional "Frightened Man" subsequent to misreading the callsheet as "Holy Man" and making a "minister like" depiction of the character. Andrew Bullivant—who depicted the Milkman in the scene's virus open—was given a job in "The Sarah Jane Adventures" sequential "The Temptation of Sarah Jane Smith" as a policeman due to his execution in "The Stolen Earth". Michael Brandon later showed up in the sound play "Prowlers at Sunlight's Edge". Kelly Hunter showed up as the Shadow Architect in the opening scene of Series 9, "The Magician's Apprentice". 

"The Stolen Earth" is the main appearance of Davros since the 1988 sequential "Recognition of the Daleks". Davies deferred Davros' arrival as he imagined that "Davros would command the Daleks... like plain robots, rather than the conspiring prodigies that they are", and utilized the past arrangement to build up the Daleks' individual knowledge. Davros was kept as an emergency course of action for a few events: the character would have showed up in "The Parting of the Ways" if the Emperor Dalek prop was excessively costly; and was "even a plausibility" to dwell in the main jail in "The Satan Pit". Davies composed a cause story for Davros to clear up the character's tangled backstory which was in the long run cut in view of time imperatives. 

Davies cast Julian Bleach to depict Davros after his exhibitions in his Olivier Award-winning play "Shockheaded Peter" and as the Ghostmaker in the "Torchwood" scene "From Out of the Rain". To keep the arrival of Davros mystery, the character was alluded to as "The Enemy" or "Dave [Ross]" among the team and was kept unknown on the shooting contents however much as could reasonably be expected; nonetheless, the "Radio Times" called the mystery "one of the most noticeably awful kept ... in TV history". David Tennant loved Davros' "Hitlerian egotist" frame of mind and the nostalgic inclination he made—Tennant's first memory of "Specialist Who" was Davros' presentation in "Beginning of the Daleks"— and depicted himself as being "totally enamored by [the] phenomenal animal". To get ready for his job, Bleach inspected "Beginning of the Daleks", one of his most loved serials, to help himself to remember Davros' voice. Fade depicted his translation of Davros as that of "[a] contorted egotist, [a] insane lab rat, [and a] confused virtuoso" in the meantime and portrayed the character in general as "a combination of Hitler and Stephen Hawking" whose "agnostic wants" made the character "exceptional". Fade would later utilize the German head's stylistic aptitudes and his "closed minded addresses" as a kind of perspective point. 

Davies, prosthetics planner Neill Gorton, outfit creator Louise Page, and idea craftsman Peter McKinstry then met to talk about the structure of Davros for the scene. They consented to keep the visual structure of Davros reliable to that appeared in his introduction "Beginning of the Daleks"; The main significant change was to supplant the hand obliterated in "Disclosure of the Daleks" with a weaponised automated rendition. McKinstry meant to make Davros "greater and scarier" by refreshing the "wobbly" plan of the exemplary arrangement: 

The group rolled out two minor improvements to the structure: they evacuated Davros' receiver and totally upgraded Davros' headpiece. The group felt that the receiver was excess in light of the fact that Davros did not "talk faintly and need something to make him increasingly capable of being heard", and initially expected to leave Bleach's voice unaltered in after creation: the choice to treat the voice was not made until late May 2008; and Gorton thought the first headpiece "dependably appeared to be especially feeble" for "such an amazing character". After he was educated that the generation originator for "Beginning of the Daleks" needed the headpiece to take after a medicinal support, Gorton upgraded it to have all the earmarks of being "screwed straightforwardly into [Davros'] head". 

Page and Gorton contemporaneously teamed up on Davros' chest area. Page planned the cowhide tunic—which Gorton thought was "a wonderful bit of ensemble ... which echoes the great structure"— and Gorton planned the ribcage. Davies clarified the utilization of the cowhide tunic and the uncovered ribcage in "Specialist Who Magazine" issue 401: 

"The Stolen Earth" is the primary appearance of the Daleks since the past arrangement's "Advancement of the Daleks"; therefore, the prop controllers experienced trouble re-adjusting to their jobs. Davies' incorporation of the Daleks as a major aspect of the hybrid was proposed to make a "charged environment" for the heroes: Jack was slaughtered by the Daleks; Rose and Martha were available at two of their evident eliminations; and Sarah was available at their creation. The animatronic of the Dalek freak must be reproduced for the scene, on the grounds that the past prop that was utilized in "Dalek" and "The Parting of the Ways" was irreversibly harmed by water when the last was taped. "The Stolen Earth" highlights two new variations of Daleks: the Supreme Dalek, hued red as an implication to the Peter Cushing film "Dr. Who and the Daleks"; and the halfway devastated Dalek Caan. Caan was portrayed in the shooting content as: Voice performing artist Nicholas Briggs received an alternate voice for each model: he embraced a gaudy voice for the Supreme Dalek to accommodate his view of the character as pretentious; and he embraced a sing-melody voice for Caan to mirror the character's madness because of entering the Time War. Briggs defended his elucidation of Caan by clarifying that "[Caan] can't tell when he's upbeat or tragic, his accentuation is extremely abnormal and he discovers things interesting when things aren't clever", making a diviner identity with a "practically unadulterated" personality. An extended hypothesis was distributed in Briggs' meeting with "Specialist Who Magazine" in July 2008: 

Briggs' depiction was generally welcomed by the generation group: Graeme Harper "adored Caan's laughing" and mentioned "more ... on each take"; and Davies depicted Caan as "the creepiest Dalek yet". The finale additionally acquainted minor changes with the Daleks: the trademark Dalek "plunger" was supplanted with an apparatus system for scenes that included Davros' gatekeeper: the component is utilized to control Dalek hardware on board the Dalek lead "Cauldron" all the more productively; and the Dalek eyestalk displays a tiny jerk in scenes, a trademark added by Graeme Harper to influence them to seem wary and "nervous". 

"The Stolen Earth" includes the principal outer area shots of the Daleks since the recovery of "Specialist Who" in 2005, and the best extent of taping embraced during the evening since the show's restoration: aside from the pre-credits grouping set in rural London, the majority of the scenes set on Earth were recorded around evening time. 

The two-parter took roughly a month and a half in 2008 to film; standard taping started on and finished on . The main scene shot for "The Stolen Earth"— a news report that featured Lachele Carl as Trinity Wells—was recorded on in a news studio at BBC Wales' Broadcasting House. The main seven day stretch of taping occurred totally at the show's studios in Upper Boat, Rhondda Cynon Taf; the greater part of the scenes set in the Torchwood Hub and the TARDIS—including the recovery scene—were shot in the period. 

The taping calendar of the second and third week shifted back and forth between "The Stolen Earth" and "Voyage's End". Three days were distributed to recording for "The Stolen Earth": scenes in Donna's home were shot on Nant Fawr Road, Cyncoed, Cardiff; the "Pot" Vault set in the Upper Boat Studios was utilized on ; and scenes at the Shadow Proclamation were taped at the School of Optometry at Cardiff University on 8 March 2008. 

Shooting for the scene's open air scenes started toward the evening of . The main outside scene recorded was the virus open, on West Mound Crescent in Tonteg. Two scenes were recorded in Pontypridd on : outside scenes of the Noble family unit occurred on Hawthorn Road—instead of the typical area in Cyncoed—before migrating to Market Street in the town focus to film the scenes where Rose experiences individuals from the general population amidst a mob. Tennant and Tate in the interim recorded the trailer for the fourth arrangement since they were not required on area. 

The Doctor and Rose's gathering was taped on in Penarth town focus, before two hundred individuals; thusly, the scene was spilled onto the Internet and revealed in the following day's version of "The Sun". Graeme Harper demanded that the scene seem "enchanted" in light of the fact that the characters' gathering was "the most supernatural minute" in the whole scene and Ernie Vincze, the Director of Photography for the show, contrasted the scene's inclination with the 1980s sci-fi movie "Edge Runner". Outside shooting for the week completed in Brook Street and the abutting Plantagenet Street in Riverside, Cardiff, for scenes where Daleks grab people for experimentation and Wilf's assault on a Dalek individually. Scenes in the UNIT home office in Manhattan were shot on the nighttimes of and : the primary night, portraying the Dalek intrusion, was taped in a rush hour gridlock control focus on Junction 32 of the M4 motorway, with the genuine Dalek attack of the structure taped in six minutes at 5:30am the next morning; and the second night, delineating Martha's departure from UNIT, was recorded in a distribution center in Nantgarw possessed by the National Museum Wales. In light of an auto collision on the main night, the generation group were set up to defer the shoot if necessary. 

Penelope Wilton repeated her job as Harriet Jones to film a scene on , in a bungalow in Dinas Powys. Shooting was slowed down in light of trouble transporting the Dalek props into the bungalow: explicitly, the raised porch entryways made it hard to adjust and move the props. The rest of the fifth week was utilized to film Dalek-just scenes at Upper Boat Studios, when the Vault set was reviewed as the "Pot" order deck. Scenes that included Martha and Sarah in their homes were recorded on the other hand amid the 6th week—the previous in the beforehand standard area of Lower Cwrt-Y-Vil Road in Penarth and the last principally at Upper Boat—finishing on with scenes of Sarah and Luke in their storage room. The last outside scene taped for the scene was recorded on in the standard "The Sarah Jane Adventures" shooting area of Clinton Road in Penarth, and comprised of outer shots of Sarah's home and two Daleks greeting Sarah on the way to meeting the Doctor. General taping for the scene—and the two-parter—shut with Dawkins' and O'Grady's appearances: Dawkins was recorded at Upper Boat in the wake of shooting completed in the storage room set; and O'Grady was taped on close by a scene of "The Paul O'Grady Show" at The London Studios on the South Bank of the River Thames. 

The scene was given to after creation group The Mill in the wake of taping finished up. The quantity of impacts in the main draft was right around multiple times bigger than communicate; thusly, a few scenes—most strikingly, everything except one shot of the assault on the "Valiant"— were cut from the scene. The Mill made two eminent impacts for "The Stolen Earth": the intrusion of New York City, utilizing observation photographs and setting up shots from the taping of "Daleks in Manhattan" to make a 2.5D shot of the city; and the planetary exhibit at the Medusa Cascade, utilizing a completely three-dimensional model. 

Murray Gold simultaneously created the score for the scene. Related to new signals formed for the fourth arrangement, Gold utilized a portion of his prior work, for example, Rose's and Harriet Jones' leitmotifs, the Ood's "Melody of Freedom" from "Planet of the Ood", and the appearance exhibition for Mr Smith, the last being played "in diegesis". Gold talked about the new signs in the arrival of : 

The scene was dispensed a fifty-minute opening on BBC One and the main slices to the scene were minor bits of discourse. Post-synchronization of group discourse occurred on and the scene's last blend occurred on : that day the scene was formally reported by the BBC. 

The title of the scene was the remainder of the fourth arrangement to be uncovered; in April 2008, when the other twelve scene titles were uncovered, "The Stolen Earth's" was retained on the grounds that "it [gave] away to an extreme"; its title was just uncovered two weeks before communicate. Like the second arrangement finale involving "Armed force of Ghosts" and "Doomsday", the last scene of "The Stolen Earth" was expelled from see DVDs sent to analysts and a media power outage was forced on any plot subtleties from "Adventure's End". 

Medium-term appraisals evaluated that "The Stolen Earth" was viewed by watchers, around 38.3% of the all out TV group of onlookers. The last survey figure was watchers, the second most noteworthy figure of the week starting ; the most elevated was the UEFA Euro 2008 Final, viewed by 8.84 million watchers. Preceding the scene's communicated, just "Voyage of the Damned" had positioned as high; the record was in this manner broken by "Adventure's End" after seven days. Therefore, rival channel ITV1 endured its second most exceedingly awful normal group of onlookers share in the channel's history: the every day normal was 10.2% contrasted with BBC One's 26.9% normal offer. The scene got an Appreciation Index score of 91 (thought about great), the most elevated rating at any point gotten by the arrangement and one of the most noteworthy evaluations ever for an earthly TV program. Counting its viewership on the BBC iPlayer and the accompanying rehashes on BBC Three and BBC One, "The Stolen Earth" was in the end seen by 12.86 million watchers: more than two million higher than the arrangement normal of 10.59 million. 

The scene portrayed "" as the Doctor's telephone number; the number is held by Ofcom for sensational purposes. After transmission, roughly 2,500 watchers endeavored to consider the number and got a system message that clarified the number was not in administration. Ofcom thus discharged an announcement saying that the calls were free on the grounds that the number did not exist. 

The scene's airing—specifically, its stun recovery—added to an open flood of intrigue, portrayed by "Day by day Mail" columnist Paul Revoir as ""Doctor Who" fever". The recovery incited a lot of hypothesis to Tennant's substitution: performing artist Robert Carlyle was the bookmaker's most loved to supplant Tennant; and on-screen characters James McAvoy, Jason Statham, Alan Davies, and James Nesbitt were less well known forecasts. In his article about the open response to the cliffhanger, Revoir offered five prevalent speculations: a messed up recovery that brought about two Doctors; a disclosure that the entire arrangement was dream grouping like the ninth period of "Dallas"; Tennant's successor being female; an ordinary recovery; and a concealment by the BBC to mask the way that "Voyage's End" would be Tennant's last appearance; the principal hypothesis turned out to be right. The expansion of open intrigue crested in the two days preceding the transmission of "Voyage's End": the day preceding transmission saw the Seventh Doctor's performing artist Sylvester McCoy, Collinson, Davies, and Agyeman show up on isolated daytime network shows; and inclusion of the arrangement finale was the top story in BBC News Online's stimulation area a few hours before transmission. Davies ascribed the measure of intrigue the scene made—which was more noteworthy than he expected—and the accomplishment of the new arrangement to the measures made in keeping plot subtleties mystery and making a "live encounter": 

The scene was generally welcomed by watchers, specifically, the show's fanbase. In "Specialist Who Magazine"s 2008 watcher survey, the scene won the honors for as "Best Story", "Best Guest Actor" for Julian Bleach, "Best Monster" for the Daleks, "Best Music", and "Best Villain" for Davros; the last was won with a supermajority of the votes cast. The scene was the best-got scene of the fourth arrangement among individuals from the Doctor Who Forum, with an endorsement rating of 92.4%. In "Specialist Who Magazine's" 2009 watcher survey "The Mighty 200", rating the majority of the "Specialist Who" stories transmitted at the time, the story was evaluated thirteenth of two hundred, with an endorsement rating of 84.62%—one hundredth of a rate point not exactly the quickly going before scene, "Turn Left"— and appraised as the best story by under-18s and fans since the show's restoration in 2005. 

"The Guardian" distributed three audits of the scene. Sam Wollaston gave the scene a positive audit; he thought it was a "brilliant scene" that "would be difficult to top". Wollaston clowned in his survey about Richard Dawkins' appearance, and contrasted his enemy of religious characteristics with the Daleks. Gareth McLean portrayed the finish of the scene as a "veritable, stunning, outta-no place cliffhanger". He praised the generation group for effectively smothering data about the recovery in an industry regularly smothered by breaks. Stephen Brook of "The Guardian"s media blog "Organgrinder", thought the scene was "amazingly great" and "really unnerving and energizing". He speculated about the faulty recovery: regardless of whether it was certified and, assuming this is the case, who might depict the following manifestation of the Doctor; and which sidekick will kick the bucket in "Adventure's End". 

"The Independent's" Thomas Sutcliffe gave the scene a negative survey and communicated that the scene was "annihilation without motivation". Prior to the scene's transmission, he was amped up for how Dawkins and O'Grady would show up, and was disillusioned when they possibly showed up when Ianto was channel surfing. Sutcliffe communicated skepticism at the possibility that O'Grady would keep on taping his syndicated program, and with a studio gathering of people, amidst planetary calamity, yet in any case adulated the appearances. After the appearances, he "started to lose intrigue" since he didn't care for the coherence and hybrid components of the scene. He scrutinized the re-event of worn out lines "However... that is unthinkable!", "It can't be!", and "Eradicate!". He shut his survey by mentioning the makers to "change the record". 

Imprint Wright of "The Stage" suggested the conversation starter: "How on Earth do you audit that?". Wright put the scene as "the most bonkers, scrumptious, venturesome, splendid, senseless, energizing and terrifying bit of Doctor Who found in the 45-year history of [the] TV arrangement", and portrayed it as "Specialist Who at its most show halting, engaging and splendid best." In his audit, Wright clarified his affection for hybrid fiction and praised Davies for the bearing he took "Specialist Who" into getting to be what Wright viewed as a "little broadcast business". Wright complimented the manner in which the scene was keeping with convention, explicitly viewpoints, for example, "Daleks trundling around spaceships having shouty discussions with one another"; "UNIT [being] as futile as ever at repulsing outsider raiders", and the visual appearance of Davros. He depicted Bleach's depiction as a "shelter between the first form as played by Michael Wisher and the more exuberant...turn by Terry Molloy". He additionally thought decidedly about the last scenes; he remarked that "the most rock hearted more likely than not had a hazy eye as Rose discovered her Time Lord again and they kept running towards one another in sweet box moderate mo" and he cheered when the "overflowing of sentiment was finished, as it ought to be in Doctor Who, by a major Dalek firearm". 

Ben Rawson-Jones of Digital Spy gave the scene five stars out of five. In his survey, he expresses that "'The Stolen Earth' completes a fine employment in weaving parts from the present arrangement, previous colleagues, and Davros together." He composed that he respects Graeme Harper's course of the scene where Sarah and Jack get the consistent "Eradicate!" transmission from the Daleks and expressed that "Harper's work ... is deserving of the extra large screen as far as its stunning visual components." He complimented the giving of Michael Brandon a role as General Sanchez, and communicated trust that Sanchez had endure the Dalek assault since he could be "the new Brigadier assume that UNIT so frantically needs". Rawson-Jones thought Briggs, as the voice of the Daleks, completed a "radiant occupation with Dalek Caan's insane lingo, originating from an extremely creative and striking move by author Russell T Davies to influence this Dalek to go doolally". He commended Bleach's execution as Davros, for his "controlled, evil vocals" that "magnificently inspire the splendid however disturbed mentality of the Dalek maker". After shutting, he lauded Davies for being "a specialist at conveying stunning finales that give each season a feeling of union and up the stakes to practically unendurable dimensions", and imagined that coordinating the scene's quality would be an "intense assignment". 

Alan Stanley Blair of Airlock Alpha was sure in his survey. As he would see it, the scene never neglected to convey and "goes about as a tribute to everything Russell T Davies set up when he restored the arrangement in 2005." He portrayed the storyline as "quick moving, blasting [with] energy" and said that it contained "all that you would hope to see from an undertaking all friends and another Dalek realm" and "goes about as a definitive peak to four years of narrating and will abandon you with the creeps for the full 42 minutes." Blair was awed about how "Torchwood" and "Specialist Who" traversed when their unique target socioeconomics managed it "ought to never have occurred", and praised scenes that delineated Gwen's anxiety for her better half Rhys, Ianto viewing "The Paul O'Grady Show", and Sarah's and Jack's passionate reaction to the Dalek transmission. Despite the fact that his audit was sure, he criticized two pieces of the scene: the idea of "time-lock[ing]" the Time War was addressed on the grounds that the Time Lords were destroyed in the contention; and he grumbled that the Doctor's telephone number was out of administration. 

Dan Wainwright of "The Express and Star" in Wolverhampton, communicated sentiments of disavowal in light of the scene's completion. He asked: "Most likely not even Russell T Davies, who appears to be fixated on filling scenes with VIP appearances and John Barrowman, wouldn't be so dissident as to change his lead on-screen character partially through a season finale?" In his audit, Wainwright communicated sentiments of agreeableness and disdain towards Davies for his job in restoring Doctor Who, especially detesting Davies for romanticizing the character, and then again appreciating Davies for making the arrangement well known among youngsters. Catherine Tuckewell, composing for Blogcritics, gave a positive survey. She opened by saying "Russell T Davies has again expanded the limits of most chafing cliffhangers." She praised the cast for "choice acting" that brought "an unheard of dimension of feeling to the arrangement", explicitly Jack and Sarah's response to the Dalek warcry transmission, which "conveyed tears to her eyes". Tuckewell applauded the creation group for "the most wonderful [outer space shots] outside the Hubble telescope" and the course which demonstrated the Daleks "taking care of business". 

Simon Brew of sci-fi blog "Cave of Geek" remarked that "If the point of an actually well done Doctor Who cliffhanger is to abandoning you shouting ["no"] at the screen and quickly checking the timetable for the following scene, at that point most would agree that Russell T Davies has recently figured out how to tick that container." His survey both condemned and lauded the scene: he condensed the scene as "overflowing with a short of breath aspiration that papered over its periodic splits"; yet bemoaned that the plot detail felt "tangled" in view of what number of plot gadgets were compacted into the scene. Mix thought the gathering of mates "isolated the incredible on-screen characters from the great": he complimented Sladen's and Cribbins' depiction of dread; and he reprimanded UNIT, Torchwood, and the Doctor for uniquely conceding thrashing. Mix's conclusion of Davros and Caan was sure: he felt that "Julian Bleach nailed [Davros]" and the presence of Davros was "respectful" to the great arrangement and that Caan "[added] a fascinating dynamic to the Dalek battle". He shut his survey by communicating trust that "Voyage's End" didn't end like "Last of the Time Lords" and stated: 

Charlie Jane Anders of the sci-fi blog io9 called Davies "the gay Michael Bay" and "wanted out of the blue that Davies would remain on to create a fifth season" of "Specialist Who". She "adored all the senseless plot gadgets and loopy plot turns, for example, Project Indigo, the Osterhagen Key, the idea of utilizing "each phone in England" to call the Doctor, and the way that Davros was unfit to develop a Dalek armed force "without cutting his very own middle up". Anders applauded Bleach's depiction of Davros for catching "the character's blend of interest, manipulativeness and insanity superior to anybody since [...] Michael Wisher". She likewise lauded the "super-heroics" in the scene, for example, Wilf's assault on a Dalek with a paintball firearm, Gwen and Ianto's last scene, and the "gleaming respectability" of Harriet Jones' penance to support the Doctor: Closing her audit, she communicated fervor for "Adventure's End", saying the last scene left her with a "feeling like [she had] no intimation how it could be settled, notwithstanding utilizing insane RTD rationale". 

Dave Golder of sci-fi magazine "SFX" gave the scene four stars out of five. He noticed that after two test and "tense" contents, "The Stolen Earth" utilized Davies' standard style of "swarm satisfying content fireworks". He decidedly surveyed the embellishments in the scene, Bleach's acting, the pace of the scene, and the cliffhanger, yet scrutinized the Shadow Proclamation for being "a serious frustration after all the portending", and some character minutes for being "dropped into the activity like little 'feeling bombs, for example, Jack and Sarah's "sensational reaction" to the Dalek transmission. He shut his survey by saying "there's no denying [the scene is] all colossal fun, similar to a drunk frolic on a fun stronghold with every one of the general population you've at any point adored." 

Travis Flickett of IGN gave the scene 7.6/10 ("Enjoyable"). He opened his survey by talking about the idea of "fan administration": 

His survey concentrated principally upon the Daleks. He at first scrutinized their appearance in light of abuse; he talked about their past appearances in "Specialist Who" since 2005: a solitary adversary in "Dalek"; a Dalek realm against Rose in "The Parting of the Ways"; the Dalek Cult of Skaro against the Cybermen in "Doomsday"; and their appearance in 1930s Manhattan in "Daleks in Manhattan" and "Development of the Daleks". He refered to Davros and the "eighteen months" break as the reason their appearance "kind of worked"; Davros' appearance "[upped] the stakes", however he condemned the character for "[doing] little to improve the folklore" and Bleach for a "path over the top" execution. Flickett censured Rose's disconnection from different buddies, yet noticed that she could shield against the Daleks all alone. He shut his audit decidedly; he said "Whatever the finish of this season, Davies keep running on this arrangement is a tremendous accomplishment." 

All recording areas are removed from "Specialist Who Magazine's" Special Edition Volume 20: The "Specialist Who" Companion, Series Four.