Lisa the Skeptic 

"Lisa the Skeptic" is the eighth scene of "The Simpsons"<nowiki>'</nowiki> ninth season. It originally publicized on the Fox arrange in the United States on November 23, 1997. On an archeological burrow with her class, Lisa finds a skeleton that takes after a heavenly attendant. The majority of the townspeople trust that the skeleton really originated from a blessed messenger, however suspicious Lisa endeavors to convince them that there must be a sane logical clarification. The scene's author, David X. Cohen, built up the thought in the wake of visiting the American Museum of Natural History, and chose to freely parallel topics from the Scopes Monkey Trial. The scene likewise makes suggestions to genuine tricks, for example, the Cardiff Giant. The scene got commonly positive surveys. 

It has been examined with regards to augmented reality, metaphysics, existentialism, and incredulity; it has likewise been utilized in Christian religious training classes to start dialog about blessed messengers, distrust, science, and confidence. 

Homer endeavors to guarantee a speedboat from a "police pool" that ends up being a sting task. While returning home, the family passes another shopping center being based on a zone where countless were found. Lisa challenges and the executives permits Springfield Elementary to lead an archeological burrow. Amid the unearthings, Lisa finds a human skeleton with wings. Springfield's inhabitants are persuaded it is a holy messenger, and Homer trades out by moving the skeleton into the family's carport, charging guests to see it. 

Lisa stays incredulous and asks Stephen Jay Gould to test an example. Whenever Dr. Gould shows up at the Simpson house the following day to disclose to Lisa that the tests were uncertain, Lisa goes on TV to contrast the confidence in heavenly attendants with the faith in unicorns and leprechauns. Accordingly, Springfield's religious radicals go out of control to demolish every logical foundation. Dismayed with the viciousness, Lisa goes into the carport to crush the skeleton, however finds that it has vanished. The crowd before long merges on the Simpson family and Lisa is captured and put on preliminary for crushing the skeleton. 

Before the preliminary starts, the skeleton is seen outside the court. Everybody races to it to see a premonition message that "The End" will come at twilight. Twilight methodologies and the natives accumulate around the skeleton, however nothing happens. As Lisa censures them, the skeleton hushes her and is raised over to the passage of the new Heavenly Hills Mall. Lisa understands the entire adventure was an attention stunt for the shopping center and scrutinizes the board. The deal cherishing open goes out to shop and Dr. Gould admits that he very tried Lisa's example. Marge says that while it was rising, Lisa trusted the holy messenger was genuine. Lisa denies this, however concedes she was panicked and says thanks to her mom for her help. 

"Lisa the Skeptic" was composed by David X. Cohen, and coordinated by Neil Affleck. Cohen was motivated to compose the scene after a trek to Manhattan's American Museum of Natural History, where he chose to transform the visit into a "work excursion", and think about a conceivable scene association with the exhibition hall. He at first needed Lisa to locate a "missing connection" skeleton, and complete a scene reminiscent of the Scopes Monkey Trial. Essayist George Meyer persuaded him rather to have the attention be on a holy messenger skeleton, while keeping an accentuation on the contention among religion and science. Both Cohen and Meyer recognized how senseless the "blessed messenger skeleton" thought was inferable from basic inquiries raised, for example, why a holy messenger kicked the bucket and why bones were abandoned, however they went ahead with the thought in any case. 

In an early draft of the content, the skeleton was made of baked good mixture heated by the shopping center's window dresser. Cohen had at first composed the Stephen Jay Gould job as a conventional researcher or scientist, not realizing that they would in the end get Gould. He had taken Gould's Introduction to Paleontology class at Harvard University. The main expression Gould had protested in the content was a line that presented him as the "world's most splendid scientist". His unique last line was "I didn't do the test. I had increasingly essential work to do", however it was cut on the grounds that the journalists felt it is more amusing to give him a short last line. In a prior adaptation of the scene, Marge would have wound up saying 'sorry' to Lisa for not supporting her, giving the closure a chance to be all the more a gesture to Lisa's right suppositions from the beginning. 

Creator Joley Wood looked at "Lisa the Skeptic" to an other reality amusement, in examining the impacts of viewing the TV program "Lost" on contemporary culture and our very own impression of the real world. Dan O'Brien refered to the scene in an exchange of cosmology, wariness, and religious confidence, in his book "An Introduction to the Theory of Knowledge". O'Brien surrenders it over to the peruser to choose whether or not Lisa was legitimized in her suspicion. In "", "Lisa the Skeptic" is refered to as a prime case of why Lisa is viewed as the exemplification of a geek. The book likewise refered to the scene in taking note of that Lisa isn't reliable, for when the Angel seemed to talk toward the finish of the scene she progressed toward becoming as unnerved as every other person. Lisa's disappointment with the promoting contrivance utilized by the shopping center designers is seen by Turner's "Planet Simpson: How a Cartoon Masterpiece Documented Defined a Generation" so far another case of her contention with organizations all through the arrangement. Like O'Brien, Turner likewise investigated the scene with regards to Lisa's inquiries concerning existentialism, self-assimilation, and utilization. In "The Psychology of the Simpsons: D'oh!", the creators examine Lisa's dimension of annoyance showed in the scene, noticing that in this specific case her resentment gave her the fortitude both to stand up to social bad form, and keep her mind clear for basic reasoning. Imprint Demming of "Allmovie" noticed that Lisa emblematically represented the side of reason, while her mom Marge symbolized conviction and otherworldliness in the scene. 

In their 2010 book "The Simpsons in the Classroom", Karma Waltonen and Denise Du Vernay note that the scene is a standout amongst the best for instructors and educators to use in religion or social examinations courses, noticing the incongruity that however Lisa is the main doubter through the majority of the scene, she is the special case who is annoyed at the exposure stunt. Parvin's "The Gospel According to the Simpsons: Leader's Guide for Group Study" is a gathering study direct friend to Pinsky's "The Gospel According to the Simpsons". In the segment relating to "Lisa the Skeptic", a doubter is characterized as: "an individual who questions, questions, or suspends judgment on thoughts by and large acknowledged by others". The investigation amass is approached to discuss the scene with regards to incredulity as identified with other unexplained wonders, including UFOs, the Loch Ness Monster, the Abominable Snowman, the Bermuda Triangle, Atlantis, close demise encounters, rebirth, mediumship, mystics, and fortune-telling. In Pinsky's book itself, he noticed that Lisa confronted the troublesome assignment of standing up to religious delirium and visually impaired confidence, and furthermore endeavored to accommodate science inside her own conviction framework. He likewise composed that when Lisa asks Stephen Jay Gould to gauge the age of the skeleton, the issue is never raised of why heavenly attendants or other otherworldly elements would even desert skeletons in any case. 

The scene in the court where Lisa is put on preliminary for taking the skeleton is viewed as a source of perspective to the 1920s Scopes Monkey Trial in Dayton, Tennessee, which managed issues of partition of chapel and state and the discussion among creationism and advancement. The exposure stunt made by the shopping center designers in the scene has been contrasted with logical tricks, for example, the Cardiff Giant and the Piltdown Man. At the point when Lisa inquires as to whether the townspeople are insulted toward the finish of the scene for being tricked by an attention stunt, Chief Wiggum is going to answer her however is diverted when he notices a Pottery Barn in the new Heavenly Hills shopping center. A fix of the diggers in outline against the nightfall is designed according to "Bandits of the Lost Ark" (1981). 

In its unique communicate, "Lisa the Skeptic" completed 37th in evaluations for the seven day stretch of November 17– 23, 1997, with a Nielsen rating of 9.5, proportional to around 9.3 million survey family units. It was the third most astounding appraised appear on the Fox arrange that week, following "The X-Files" and "Ruler of the Hill". 

Donald Liebenson composed for the "Amazon.com" film audit that "Bart Sells His Soul" and "Lisa the Skeptic" were among the best scenes of "The Simpsons". He additionally noted, "Without being sermonizing (or especially clever), this scene is really intense stuff", refering to the topic of Apocalypticism towards the finish of the scene. In the July 26, 2007 issue of "Nature", the logical diary's publication staff recorded the scene among "The Top Ten science minutes in "The Simpsons"". "Lisa the Skeptic" was used in a Salt Lake City Episcopal Church Sunday School class in 2003, to animate a discourse among fourteen-year-olds about confidence in holy messengers, and the juxtaposition of science and confidence. The scene was looked into with . 

The scene is utilized by the Farmington Trust (UK) for Christian religious training, to show youngsters wariness. The scene is utilized as an instrument, to include the understudies in a discussion about religion and science, just as to examine Lisa's very own incredulity, and her regard towards others. A gathering of "The Simpsons" lovers at Calvin College have additionally investigated the religious and philosophical parts of the scene, including the issue of confidence versus science. The scene has been contrasted and Gabriel García Márquez's short story "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings" and used as a showing device in a Saugerties, New York grade school class. In a test regarding the matter, understudies were approached to utilize subtleties from both "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings" and "Lisa the Skeptic", so as to break down the citation "Appearances can be beguiling".