Fijación Oral, Vol. 1 

Fijación Oral, Vol. 1 (English: "Oral Fixation, Vol. 1") is the 6th studio collection by Colombian vocalist and lyricist Shakira. It was discharged on 3 June 2005 by Epic Records. Subsequent to achieving universal achievement in 2001 with her first English record, "Clothing Service", Shakira needed to discharge a fifth Spanish-language venture as its followup. In the vein of her prior work, "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" is a Latin pop collection. Shakira enrolled Rick Rubin as official maker, additionally working with Gustavo Cerati, Lester Mendez, Luis Fernando Ochoa and Jose "Gocho" Torres. 

At its discharge "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" got commonly great audits from music pundits, who complimented Shakira's development from her prior work. The collection appeared at number four on the US "Bulletin" 200, with first-week offers of 157,000 duplicates. It set the record for the most noteworthy introduction for a full-length Spanish-language collection in the nation, which still stands. Universally, the collection beat the diagrams in Argentina, Germany, Mexico and Spain. "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" was the Best Latin Rock/Alternative Album at the 2006 Grammy Awards, and the Album of the Year and the Best Female Pop Vocal Album at the Latin Grammy Awards. "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" turned into the most elevated selling Latin pop collection of the decade in the United States and the second most noteworthy selling Latin collection by and large. As of May 2013, more than four million duplicates of the collection were sold worldwide and it is the eighth smash hit Latin collections in the United States. 

Four singles were discharged to advance the collection. In spite of the fact that its lead single ("La Tortura") was the main track to achieve the US "Announcement" Hot 100, the subsequent singles "No", "Día de Enero" and "Las de la Intuición" delighted in moderate accomplishment on the Hot Latin Songs, Tropical Songs and Latin Pop Airplay outlines. In November 2005 Shakira enhanced the collection with her second English-language record, "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2". The two were bundled together as a case set and discharged as "Oral Fixation, Vol. 1 and 2" in January 2007. The ventures were advanced with the Oral Fixation Tour in 2006 and 2007, which visited the Americas, Africa, Asia and Europe. An exhibition in Miami, Florida was taped and discharged as a live collection in November 2007. 

Subsequent to making worldwide progress in 2001 with her first English collection, "Clothing Service", Shakira discharged a Spanish-language record as its followup (her first since 1998's "Dónde Están los Ladrones?"). Having co-composed almost sixty tunes for the venture, she chose to isolate the discharge into two volumes and put herself "on the mission of choosing [her] most loved ones" to record. "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" contains all Spanish-language melodies and "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2" includes all English-language tracks. Shakira at first said that the second volume would have a "totally new repertory of tunes", despite the fact that the finished collection included two English interpretations of tunes from the principal record. It was reissued in 2006 as an extended rendition with an extra interpreted account and her future worldwide hit single, "Hips Don't Lie". When recording the collections, she worked with past colleagues Lester Mendez and Luis Fernando Ochoa and new accomplices Gustavo Cerati and Jose "Gocho" Torres. 

For the collection, Shakira composed every one of the verses, and most of the music. "To begin seeing individuals' first responses, and how individuals begin identifying with these tunes and valuing each and every bit of work I have done in the course of recent years, is the best reward a craftsman can have after so much diligent work," says Shakira. "I won't deceive you; it was anything but a way of roses. It was excruciating on occasion to think of two collections, to compose in excess of 60 melodies and to battle my very own frailties and questions." While talking about the distinction about conveying everything that needs to be conveyed in Spanish and English, Shakira told, "When I communicate in Spanish, I discover components that assistance me express a thought in maybe an unexpected path in comparison to when I do it in English. There are distinctive style, however there is a sure style to the manner in which I compose my very own melodies, a specific method for portraying sentiments and feelings that I have created over every one of these years making tunes. I have connected with my own blessing - I am certain, 10 years prior, I was not half in the same class as I can say I am today, and I am as yet not adequate. There is far to go." 

The fine art for both "Oral Fixation" collections was enlivened by Eve, the primary lady; Shakira said she needed "to ascribe to Eve one more motivation to chomp the prohibited organic product, and that would be her oral obsession" and that "[she dependably felt] that [she has] been an extremely oral individual. [It is her] greatest wellspring of joy". The main volume's spread sees Shakira holding a child young lady in her arms; the craftsmanship for the second collection demonstrates a naked Shakira (secured by tree limbs), with the newborn child sitting in the tree. She expressed that the two spreads suggested psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud's hypothesis that newborn children start finding the world through their mouths amid the oral phase of psychosexual improvement. 

For Jon Pareles of "The New York Times", "For evident reasons, [the work of art for the second collection is] eye-getting, just like the front of the Spanish-language buddy collection, "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1". 

On 23 January 2007, "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" and "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2" were discharged as a three-plate box set, titled "Oral Fixation, Vol. 1 and 2". Each record was on a different plate, and was bundled with a DVD highlighting music recordings and live chronicles of collection tracks. The accumulation crested at numbers 13 and 27 on the "Announcement" Latin Pop Albums and Top Latin Albums outlines. 

"Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" is a Latin pop collection. The starting track, "En Tus Pupilas" ("In Your Pupils"), fuses society music styles and its opening section incorporates French-language verses. "La Pared" ("The Wall") has been contrasted elaborately with the 1980s pair Eurythmics. "La Tortura" ("The Torture") highlights Spanish artist musician Alejandro Sanz, with components of Colombian cumbia music, dancehall and electronica. "Obtener un Sí" ("Obtain a Yes") is a bossa nova melody with cha-cha components against an instrumental foundation. "Día Especial" ("Special Day") highlights Argentinean vocalist musician Gustavo Cerati on guitar. 

The 6th track, "Escondite Inglés", has another wave feel. "No" likewise includes Cerati on guitar, utilizing a basic song to stress Shakira's vocals. "Las de la Intuición" ("The Ones with the Intuition") has synthpop components, while "Día de Enero" ("January Day") has been contrasted with Mexican artist musician Natalia Lafourcade. "Lo Imprescindible" ("Bare Essentials") has German-language sections in which Shakira melodiously communicates "Come child come. Never abandon me". The circle closes with an acoustic rendition of "La Pared" and the Shaketon remix of "La Tortura". 

"La Tortura" was discharged as the lead single from "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" on 12 April 2005. It highlights Spanish vocalist lyricist Alejandro Sanz, and was lauded for its generation and reggaeton impact. "La Tortura" was the main single from the collection to diagram on the US "Board" Hot 100 (cresting at number twenty-three), and achieved number one on the "Bulletin" Hot Latin Songs, Tropical Songs, and Latin Pop Airplay graphs. The tune set a record for the most weeks at number one, and also turned into the best-performing Latin single of the year. The track was in the long run guaranteed Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for selling more than 500,000 duplicates and affirmed platinum for selling more than 1 million mastertones . Universally, "La Tortura" topped the Hungarian Rádiós Top 40 and the Spanish and Venezuelan singles graphs. Its music video was coordinated by Michael Haussman, portraying an anecdotally sentimental Shakira and Sanz. 

The subsequent singles were likewise fruitful. The second single, "No", highlights Argentinian vocalist lyricist Gustavo Cerati and achieved numbers two and eleven, individually, on the "Board" Latin Pop Songs and Latin Songs outlines. The video was recorded in a high contrast impact, and was coordinated by Jaume de Laiguana. After the arrival of "Don't Bother" as the lead single from "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2" in late 2005, "Día de Enero" was the third single from "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1". It topped at numbers seven and twenty-nine on the "Bulletin" Latin Pop Songs and Latin Songs outlines, individually. Like "No", its going with video was coordinated by de Laiguana. The clasp alludes to Shakira's then-sweetheart Antonio de la Rúa as she composes the letters "S y An" in a heart attracted the sand. 

Following the arrival of "Hips Don't Lie" and "Illicit" as the second and third singles from "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2", the fourth and last single from "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1", "Las De La Intuición", achieved numbers eleven and thirty-one, individually, on the "Bulletin" Latin Pop Songs and Latin Songs graphs and number 1 in Spain. Its video demonstrates Shakira in a purple wig. Shakira later recorded an English-language form of the tune, titled "Unadulterated Intuition". 

To advance "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" and "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2", Shakira started her Oral Fixation Tour on 14 June 2006 at the Feria De Muestras in Zaragoza, Spain. With help from the Creative Artists Agency, she visited twenty-seven urban communities and performed forty-one shows crosswise over five mainlands. The visit was moreover supported by Spanish car maker SEAT, with whom Shakira additionally teamed up to help her Pies Descalzos Foundation. The visit finished up on 9 July 2007 at the Turkcell Kuruçeşme Arena in Istanbul, Turkey. It earned over $42 million in North and Latin America, and $100 million around the world. The set rundown comprised principally of Spanish-language tunes, and included singles from her before profession. 

In November 2007 Epic Records discharged the "Oral Fixation Tour" live collection on Blu-beam Disk, which was taped amid a December 2006 show in Miami, Florida. William Ruhlmann of AllMusic gave it a positive audit, complimenting Shakira's vocals and moving ability. 

At Metacritic (which appoints a standardized rating out of 100 to audits from standard pundits) "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" got a normal score of 79 dependent on 13 audits, designating "by and large positive surveys". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic said that "it's difficult to sit tight for "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2" to arrive", given the quality of the "business clever and brilliant composition" showed in the primary volume. Matt Cibula of PopMatters shared a comparative assessment, including that his energy about "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2" is an "enormous modest representation of the truth". "Stimulation Weekly"s Ernesto Lechner felt that Shakira "has gotten herself once more" by "setting her operatic vocalizing at the administration of Spanish verse", including this was her most grounded collection to date. 

"The Guardian"s Dave Simpson noticed that "the tunes are snappy, with tunes sufficient to entice non-Spanish speakers to chime in". Jon Pareles of "The New York Times" portrayed the collection as "euphorically skillet American", expounding that "for Shakira it's everything pop, rigid structures for unpredictable enthusiasm". Barry Walters of "Moving Stone" said that official maker Rick Rubin reestablished "Shakira's aesthetic respectability by keeping the business under control". Hurray! Music's Tom Townsend applauded Shakira for being "wide wakeful and, as they used to state in "Raving successes", back, back, BACK!" "Paste"s Mark Kemp gave it a blended audit, saying that the record was "more grounded generally speaking than "Clothing Service" however not as warm as "Dónde Están los Ladrones?"" 

In North America, even the biggest latin retail chain in the United States would not sell the album,"Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" appeared at number four on the US "Bulletin" 200, with first-week offers of 157,000 duplicates. It set a record for the most elevated presentation of a full-length Spanish-language collection in the nation (which regardless it holds, beating Ricky Martin's 65,000-begin with "Almas de Silencio" in 2003. ), and topped the "Announcement" Top Latin Albums graph. It sold 77,000 duplicates in the second week, which is as yet higher than some other Spanish-language collection. As per Nielsen SoundScan, the collection sold more than 1,019,000 duplicates (as of October 2017) in the US, making it the eight smash hit Latin collection in the nation. It was later ensured platinum times eleven by Latin guidelines, with shipments of more than 1,100,000 duplicates. In 2009, "Board" named "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" as the smash hit Latin pop collection of the 2000s. In Mexico, the collection appeared at number one, and was later affirmed triple platinum for shipments of 300,000 duplicates. It was affirmed gold in Central America. 

In South America, "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" crested at number one in Argentina, and was in the end perceived with triple-platinum affirmation. The collection delighted in comparable accomplishment in Venezuela, selling more than 34,613 duplicates. Therefore, it was affirmed platinum in the nation. Besides, the record sold more than 100,000 duplicates in Shakira's local Colombia, and was later perceived with triple-platinum confirmation. In Chile, it was ensured platinum for delivery 15,000 duplicates. 

In Europe, "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" made comparable progress. It appeared at number two on the Austrian collections diagram, where it was affirmed platinum for shipments of 30,000 duplicates. The record crested at numbers seven and fifteen, individually, on the Belgian Walloon and Flanders collection diagrams; it was affirmed gold for shipments of 25,000 duplicates. On the French collections outline the collection achieved number six, and was affirmed gold for shipments of 100,000 duplicates. It bested the German Media Control Charts, accepting a platinum accreditation for shipments of 200,000 duplicates. The record was affirmed gold in Greece for shipments of 10,000 duplicates. On the Hungarian collections outline it achieved number six, accepting a platinum accreditation for shipments of 20,000 duplicates. The collection crested at number seven on the Dutch Top 40. The record beat the Spanish collections diagram, getting triple-platinum confirmation for shipments of 240,000 duplicates. In the wake of cresting at number two on the Swiss Hitparade, the collection was affirmed platinum for shipments of 40,000 duplicates. As of May 2013, the record has sold more than four million duplicates around the world. 

Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic said that discharging the Spanish-language "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" after the accomplishment of the English-language "Clothing Service" was a "sharp move", complimenting the collection for showing that Shakira "can come back to her foundations, yet develop them". He depicted "La Tortura" as a "characteristic for American radio", and felt that the parent collection produced expectation for the up and coming "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2". Composing for "PopMatters", Matt Cibula lauded the collection for its melodic takeoff from "Clothing Service", cheering the mix of unobtrusive examples over a few tunes as "extraordinary gestures to the hints of the 1980s". Dave Simpson of "The Guardian" contrasted Shakira with a "Latin American Madonna", portraying her vocals as reminiscent of "Cher and Hazel O'Connor, delivered by Julio Iglesias". 

Jon Pareles of "The New York Times" discovered Shakira's "keen or yearning" picture to be unique of a sex image. He applauded the flexibility of her multilingual verses and her experimentation in various types, refering to the "variety" in "the courses of action, in the blended feelings of the verses, [and] in Shakira's irregular voice". Composing for "Glue", Mark Kemp complimented Shakira for dissipating ideas she is "the Latin Britney, the female Ricky Martin [and] the entirely pop tart who sings in Spanish and sounds like Alanis"; he thought about the blend of melodic components in "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" to a Pop-Tart with a "rich and nutritious filling". Tom Townsend of Yahoo! Music called her "the best pop star we have", looking at her "devouring imaginativeness" to that of Madonna and Prince. He credited the collection for rousing a restoration of popular music, saying that the discharge demonstrated that the class "wasn't dead, simply dozing". 

Shakira's worldwide achievement was hardened with "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1"s solid business execution. After it appeared at number 4 on the US "Bulletin" 200 and turned into the most astounding appearing full-length Spanish collection in the nation, her name Epic Records called her "the greatest female hybrid craftsman on the planet". The collection is her third-most noteworthy graphing discharge in the country, behind "Clothing Service"s top position at number 3 and Shakira's number 2 top. As indicated by "Board", it was the second top of the line Latin collection of the decade in the US after "Barrio Fino" by Daddy Yankee. 

At the 2005 "Announcement" Music Awards, "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" was the Latin Pop Album of the Year. At the 2005 Mexican Oye! Grants, the collection was the Pop Album of the Year by a Female Artist. At the 2005 Premios Shock grants service, it got an honor for "Collection of the Year". Around the same time, it was designated in the class of "Me Muero Sin Ese CD" ("CD to Die For") at the 2005 Premios Juventud. The collection was the Best Latin Rock or Alternative Album at the 2006 Grammy Awards, and was Album of the Year, Best Engineered Album and the Best Female Pop Vocal Album at the Latin Grammy Awards of 2006. That year, at the thirteenth "Bulletin" Latin Music Awards, the collection was the best Latin Pop Album by a Female. It was the Pop Album of the Year at the eighteenth Lo Nuestro Awards. "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1" got an ALMA Award as Spanish Album of the Year. At the 2006 Groovevolt Music Awards, it was named Best Latin Album. At the Colombian Nuestra Tierra grant function, it was named Best Album of the Year which went to Fonseca for "Corazón". 

Credits are adjusted from the liner notes of "Fijación Oral, Vol. 1". 

Credits are adjusted from AllMusic.