Talyllyn Railway 

The Talyllyn Railway () is a restricted check saved railroad in Wales running for from Tywyn on the Mid-Wales coast to Nant Gwernol close to the town of Abergynolwyn. The line was opened in 1865 to convey slate from the quarries at Bryn Eglwys to Tywyn, and was the primary limited check railroad in Britain approved by Act of Parliament to convey travelers utilizing steam haulage. Notwithstanding extreme under-speculation, the line stayed open, and in 1951 it turned into the principal railroad on the planet to be safeguarded as a legacy rail line by volunteers. 

Since safeguarding, the railroad has worked as a vacation destination, extending its moving stock through obtaining and a designing system to assemble new trains and carriages. In 1976, an expansion was opened along the previous mineral line from Abergynolwyn to the new station at Nant Gwernol. In 2001, the conservation society commended its 50th commemoration, and in 2005 a noteworthy remaking and expansion of Tywyn Wharf station occurred, including a much-extended office for the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum. 

The anecdotal Skarloey Railway, which framed piece of "The Railway Series" of kids' books by The Rev. W. Awdry, depended on the Talyllyn Railway. The protection of the line motivated the Ealing Comedy film "The Titfield Thunderbolt". 

The starting point of the railroad's name is questionable: it might allude to the area of Tal-y-llyn, which contains its eastern end, or it might originate from Tal-y-llyn, a huge frosty strip lake at the foot of Cadair Idris further east. The check of the track is unordinary, and was shared by just three other open railroads in the United Kingdom: the Corris Railway and the Plynlimon and Hafan Tramway both a couple of miles from the Talyllyn, and the Campbeltown and Machrihanish Light Railway in Scotland. 

Slate quarrying started in the slopes above Tywyn during the 1830s, however albeit numerous little quarries and test levels were set up, just a single significant quarry was created in the area, at Bryn Eglwys, north east of the town. Underground working started in the mid 1840s, and by 1847 the quarry was being worked by neighborhood landowner John Pughe. The completed slates were sent by packhorse to the wharf at Pennal, exchanged to water crafts for a waterway outing to Aberdyfi (or the Anglicized Aberdovey still normally utilized), and after that at last stacked into seagoing vessels, a perplexing and costly transportation game plan which constrained the quarry's yield. In 1861 the flare-up of the American Civil War slice off provisions of cotton to the factories of the north west of England and subsequently various prosperous plant proprietors searched for new business chances to broaden their interests. One such proprietor was William McConnel of Lancashire who, in 1859, had bought Hengwrt Hall close Dolgellau, north of Tywyn. In January 1864, McConnel framed the Aberdovey Slate Company, which rented the land including Bryn Eglwys from the landowner, Lewis Morris of Machynlleth. 

McConnel begin improving Bryn Eglwys to expand its yield. He concentrated on giving rail transport to the disconnected quarry, and in April 1864 he achieved concurrence with neighborhood landowners to buy the land important to manufacture a railroad towards Tywyn and onwards to the port of Aberdyfi. Development was well in progress by July 1864. The standard measure Aberystwyth and Welsh Coast Railway was extending quickly from its base at Machynlleth, be that as it may, and in 1863 had come to Tywyn, so McConnel chose to assemble his line from the quarry to Tywyn, as the closest point where slate could be exchanged to the standard check railroad. This was in spite of the line's underlying seclusion from the remainder of the framework as a result of challenges in crossing over the estuary of the Afon Dyfi toward the south. An Act of Parliament (28 and 29 Vict, top cccxv) enabling the organization to work traveler prepares as an open railroad was given Royal Assent on 5 July 1865, and the organization named James Swinton Spooner as architect for the development. He spread out designs for a generally straight line climbing consistently from Tywyn to the quarry and work rapidly got in progress. By September 1866 development had progressed to the point where the Board of Trade auditor Captain Henry Tyler could make an underlying review and report. 

Tyler's report prompted a bizarre change, as it was found that the inside width of the overbridges was just , yet the railroad's traveler carriages were wide, leaving just leeway on either side, which was not exactly the base required freedom of . To reduce this issue, McConnel recommended that the entryways on one side of every carriage be for all time blocked and the track slewed askew underneath the scaffolds to permit satisfactory leeway at any rate as an afterthought with entryways, which would enable travelers to escape the carriages if the train halted underneath an extension. Tyler consented to this game plan, and right up 'til today all carriages on the Talyllyn have entryways on one side just, an abnormal element for an open railroad which is shared (though for various reasons) with the neighboring Corris Railway. Tyler likewise necessitated that enhancements be made to the railroad's initial two steam trains, as train No. 1 experienced extreme "vertical movement" and No. 2 was said to experience the ill effects of "flat swaying". No. 1 was come back to its producer where a lot of trailing wheels was added to diminish the back shade, and the springs on No. 2 were balanced and the wrench pins abbreviated to lessen its wavering. 

Tyler did not favor the opening until his recorded upgrades were finished, despite the fact that slate trains and informal traveler trains were running in 1865. Amid November of that 1866, Tyler came back to Tywyn and re-assessed the railroad following which, subject to some further minor enhancements, he affirmed its formal opening for traveler administration. The main open traveler timetable was issued in December 1866, and the primary reason manufactured, steam-worked, restricted measure open railroad in Britain opened for administration. 

The railroad opened with two trains, one carriage and a few merchandise vehicles being used and was worked under a "one motor in steam" approach to guarantee that two trains couldn't impact. At first the working train was housed in a wooden shed at Ty Dwr on the mineral line above Abergynolwyn station, while the principle building works at were built. The Pendre works opened on 17 February 1867 and from that point on trains started working from Pendre rather than Abergynolwyn. 

At the season of the line's opening, stations were given at Pendre and Abergynolwyn. In 1867, the stop at opened, trailed by and in 1873. Some time not long after the opening of the railroad a branch to Abergynolwyn town was given. A lofty grade dropped from the mineral line east of Abergynolwyn station to the town beneath, where a progression of cable car lines transmitted. Coal, building materials and general products were conveyed down the grade and the substance of the town cesspits were pulled back up for transfer along the lineside. 

The railroad utilized steam trains from the begin, dissimilar to its neighbor the steed drawn Corris Railway. The first two trains, despite the fact that of completely unique plan, were both acquired from Fletcher, Jennings and Co. of Whitehaven in Cumbria, and both are still in administration, 150 years on, albeit such a significant number of their parts have been supplanted during the time that quite a bit of their present-day segment metal isn't unique. The Talyllyn's uncommon check is thought to have been embraced to coordinate that of the Corris Railway, and the line's two unique steam trains were among the soonest trains worked for such a restricted measure. No. 1 "Talyllyn" is a 0-4-2ST (saddle tank) and No. 2 "Dolgoch" is a 0-4-0WT (well tank). The line conveyed slate from the quarry to the wharf at Tywyn and general products along its length. Open traveler prepares at first kept running between Abergynolwyn, Dolgoch and Pendre stations just; quarrymen were carried on informal trains that proceeded from Abergynolwyn to the foot of the Alltwyllt slant in Nant Gwernol gorge. 

The line worked effectively amid its initial years, serving the quarry and the nearby region. By 1880, Bryn Eglwys utilized 300 workers and was creating of completed slate every year, all delivered through the railroad. Traveler traffic was significant, ascending from 11,500 passengers conveyed in 1867 to more than 23,000 (generally identical to 40,000 passenger voyages) in 1877. 

From the 1880s onwards the "Excellent Tour" was a prominent alternative with voyagers. This utilized charabancs to connect the Talyllyn and Corris railroads through Tal-y-llyn Lake and Cadair Idris, returning on Cambrian Railways trains. The most recent two many years of the nineteenth century saw a decrease in the interest for slate and numerous littler quarries fell on difficult occasions, including Bryn Eglwys, where by 1890 creation had divided to a year. In 1896, generation at the Penrhyn Quarry in north Wales, one of the biggest makers of slate, was halted because of work debate, bringing about a brief increment sought after at different quarries. McConnel extended creation at Bryn Eglwys to exploit the unexpected interest, yet just with the point of amplifying benefits amid the rest of his rent, which was to terminate in 1910. He manufactured new preliminary dimensions without legitimate arrangement for the evacuation of overburden and pushed the cutoff points of safe working in the current chambers. As McConnel's rent attracted to its nearby, there was no prospect of a further renter approaching and work started on destroying the quarry's gear. 

The Bryn Eglwys quarry was the essential business in the Abergynolwyn locale, so its conclusion caused critical pain. In 1910, neighborhood landowner Henry Haydn Jones was chosen the Liberal MP for Merioneth. He comprehended the significance of Bryn Eglwys, and toward the year's end he obtained the quarry organization for simply over £5000. The quarry re-opened in January 1911, however Haydn Jones did not have cash-flow to put resources into the quarry. The principal activities revived were on the "Expansive Vein", which yielded moderately hard slate that was less well known and thusly hard to sell. The absence of an accessible market for this yield constrained the quarry to change to separating milder slate from the "Thin Vein" be that as it may, in light of the fact that Haydn Jones couldn't stand to open new activities into the Narrow Vein, he depended on the perilous routine with regards to narrowing the segments that bolstered the tops of the underground loads. This training had started under McConnel's possession and Haydn Jones proceeded with it all through his responsibility for quarry. A concise development blast after the First World War saw creation come back to around every year. 

The 1920s additionally observed an upsurge in occasion traffic, as Britain recouped from the war and the travel industry picked up in notoriety. The Talyllyn saw summer traveler numbers develop altogether and consistently needed to enhance its formal traveler stock with slate wagons fitted with boards as seats. A strange vacationer administration offered by the railroad was to employ a slate wagon, which would be left at Abergynolwyn. Toward the day's end the visitors would come back to Tywyn in the wagon, controlled by gravity. This administration was suspended in the mid 1930s. The extra pay from the vacationer exchange settled a portion of the expenses of working the railroad, however never enough for it to make a benefit amid Haydn Jones' proprietorship. 

The rent on Bryn Eglwys terminated in 1942, yet was stretched out on a yearly premise. The October 1942 Bradshaw's Guide indicates two return traveler trains working just on Monday, Wednesday and Fridays, taking 45 minutes toward every path. No traveler administration was given on different days. Medium-term on 26 December 1946, a few debilitated help segments in the quarry gave way, bringing about a huge breakdown; the quarry was esteemed risky and shut right away. Haydn Jones had guaranteed to keep working the railroad as long as he was alive thus, regardless of the conclusion of the quarry, the railroad kept on running trains on a shoestring spending plan. In 1947 the British railroad framework was nationalized and the Talyllyn was one of only a handful few working rail lines excluded. The purposes behind this are vague, however it is critical that all official notice of the railroad had stopped quite a few years prior and all things considered, the line was essentially overlooked by officialdom. Somewhere in the range of 1947 and 1949 the railroad ran a traveler administration two days seven days. In 1949 Haydn Jones, who claimed the Aberllefenni Slate Quarry bought 10 tons of rail from the as of late lifted Corris Railway. On 2 July 1950 Haydn Jones kicked the bucket and conclusion of the railroad appeared to be unavoidable, however the line kept on working for the rest of the late spring season, finishing on 6 October. 

The creator and biographer Tom Rolt, visited the line in 1949, alongside the train engineer David Curwen. In the late spring of 1950, Rolt composed a letter to the "Birmingham Post" paper proposing that a salvage of the Talyllyn be attempted. He got adequate positive reaction for a gathering of intrigued devotees to be hung on 11 October 1950 at the Imperial Hotel in Birmingham. Around 70 people, including Patrick Whitehouse, went to the gathering, with Rolt proposing the development of a board of trustees to investigate the securing of the railroad. With the help of the gathering, the board of trustees – with Rolt as director and Whitehouse as Secretary – met out of the blue on 23 October and quickly went into arrangement with Haydn Jones' agents. 

The exchange of possession to the advisory group was legitimately intricate, yet the two gatherings concurred that all offers in the railroad organization would be exchanged from Haydn Jones' domain to another organization called Talyllyn Holdings Ltd., whose board comprised of two executives from the agents and two from the panel. The exchange occurred on 8 February 1951, so, all in all the recently framed Talyllyn Railway Preservation Society adequately assumed responsibility for the railroad. The Society quickly started to advertise its endeavors, planning to raise assets and find further volunteers to help revive the railroad, and by May almost 650 members had joined the general public. The railroad re-opened under the control of the Society out of the blue on the Whit Monday bank occasion, 14 May 1951, with trains running among Wharf and Rhydyronen stations. Standard trains started to keep running on 4 June and proceeded through the mid year, with David Curwen going about as the main Chief Mechanical Engineer. 

Another early expansion to the train armada was No. 6 "Douglas", gave to the general public by the Birmingham designing firm Abelsons Ltd. This train was worked for the warehouse railroad serving RAF Calshot where it worked until 1945, and, in the wake of revamping from its unique check, it entered administration in 1954. Through the 1950s the volunteers and staff individuals from the TRPS remade the line and safeguarded it from its condition of rot, amid a period described by a ""Boy's Own" funny soul of experience, including energy, inventiveness and a reasonable level of flightiness". 

On 22 May 1957 the BBC delivered a live outside communicate from the railroad, amid which Wynford Vaughan Thomas and Huw Weldon commentated on a trek from Dolgoch to Abergynolwyn. The attention from this communicate drew generous quantities of guests to the railroad that late spring, with more than 57,500 passengers conveyed, and this expansion in income thusly empowered the railroad to keep on improving its framework and furnish voyagers with a superior encounter. The next year train No. 1 "Talyllyn" came back to steam after a broad redesign. 

An essential improvement amid this period was the foundation of the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum at Tywyn Wharf station. The main show for what was to turn into the exhibition hall was a train given in 1952 by Guinness from their as of late shut St. James' Gate Brewery railroad. In 1954 the Preservation Society consented to begin take a shot at a formal historical center and displays from around the United Kingdom were procured to frame the core of the gathering. In 1955 work began on changing over the old black powder store at Wharf station into a brief historical center structure, and in 1956 the primary display landed at Tywyn. 

The 1960s turned out to be a time of combination for the Talyllyn. Pendre works experienced a few much-required developments, including extra secured stockpiling for carriages and more workshop room. Present day machine devices, alongside appropriate lighting and another power supply were included. Significant enhancements to Tywyn Wharf station were likewise made, alongside kept transferring and updating of the track to Abergynolwyn. Traveler numbers kept on moving after the 1957 BBC communicate; in 1960, 67,000 passenger voyages were made, expanding to 78,500 out of 1964. In light of this developing notoriety the railroad attempted a program of new moving stock development. 

By the mid 1960s Tywyn Wharf station needed significant upgrades. Prior to conservation, the station had contained just a fanatic of sidings, which implied that there was no chance to get for the train of an arriving train to keep running round the carriages. Accordingly, trains were pushed from behind to the extent Pendre, where the train could be moved past the carriages to the front of the train. A circle was introduced at Wharf without precedent for August 1952, to abstain from pushing trains to Pendre, however in the winter of 1964/65 a noteworthy update of the station was done. This improved the track design and stretched out the first place of business to give secured convenience to travelers and a shop. 

As traveler numbers kept on developing amid the late 1960s it turned out to be evident that further intention control was required, particularly as the remade No. 1 was not performing admirably. The Talyllyn's uncommon track check and limited stacking measure implied that it was far-fetched that a train could be discovered that could take a shot at the line unaltered, so in 1969 a check steam train was acquired from the Bord na Mona (Irish Peat Board) with the end goal of revamping it for use on the Talyllyn. This train was informally known as "Irish Pete", a gesture to its unique use. 

The safeguarding society had long held desire to expand the railroad along the previous mineral augmentation from Abergynolwyn to the foot of the Alltwyllt slant, and as ahead of schedule as 1959 work had followed the proprietors of the land that the expansion crossed. Arranging started in the mid-1960s, however development did not begin until 1968 when the twisting house for the Abergynolwyn town slant was decimated. To convey the line up to traveler gauges a portion of the bends should have been facilitated, and this required shooting work, as the line keeps running on a thin edge on the slope now. The augmentation and new station at Nant Gwernol were opened on 22 May 1976 by Wynford Vaughan Thomas who drove in the stately "brilliant spike" to finish the expansion. In spite of this official opening function, minor work still stayed to convey the augmentation to the standard required to run normal traveler trains, however customary train administrations started on 29 May 1976. 

Despite the fact that the augmentation of the railroad was finished in 1976, work in the region proceeded with the making of pathways associating with the new station. Another footbridge was fabricated intersection the Nant Gwernol gorge and associating the station with the current way on the east side of the stream. The extension and ways were opened on 3 May 1980 by Lord Parry, the director of the Wales Tourist Board. By the mid-1970s, it had turned out to be evident that traveler numbers were never again expanding. Following 1973, the pinnacle year for travelers on the Talyllyn with 186,000 passenger voyages made, numbers were to decrease reliably until the 1990s. Starter take a shot at the change of "Irish Pete" for use on the Talyllyn, which had started in the mid 1970s, was put on hold in 1975 and the suspension and heater were put into capacity at Pendre. 

With traveler numbers falling and the line reached out to Nant Gwernol, the railroad entered a time of combination. By 1987, the kettle on train No. 6 "Douglas" was life terminated and needing substitution. Thought was given to restoring the undertaking to assemble another train from the parts of "Irish Pete" rather than obtaining another kettle for "Douglas" and in mid 1988 work recommenced on the modifying of the ex-Bord na Mona train. Another plan for a 0-4-2 side tank train was set up by the railroad's Chief Engineer John Bate, which reused the skeleton and evaporator from the train with another superstructure and the expansion of trailing wheels, and the new train, formally named "Tom Rolt" after the Preservation Society's first administrator, was put into administration on 6 May 1991. Amid this period further developments of both Tywyn Wharf and Pendre stations were attempted and Abergynolwyn station, which had been reconstructed as a component of the Nant Gwernol augmentation during the 1970s, was extended further to give an extra fascination at the eastern stopping point. 

One noteworthy abnormality stayed in the railroad's tasks: the 1889 Regulation of Railways Act had required, among different measures, that all British traveler trains be fitted with constant brakes. McConnel had verified an exception for the Talyllyn Railway, on the premise that the low speed of activity implied they were superfluous and that the expense of consistence would bankrupt the venture, however before the finish of the 1990s the Railway Inspectorate was demanding that the Talyllyn be carried into consistence with the demonstration, somewhat over 100 years after it had passed. By 2001, the railroad had fitted its whole traveler armada with the vital hardware, worked via compressed air brake siphons mounted on the trains. 

The Preservation Society commended its 50th commemoration in 2001, and as a feature of the time of festivities a noteworthy new undertaking was propelled to afresh broaden and improve offices at Tywyn Wharf station. For a long time the station had been home to semi-perpetual structures lodging the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum, yet the new designs for the station incorporated the development of another two-story working to house the exhibition hall and the augmentation of the current station working to house another bistro and booking office. Work started on the main period of the task in January 2002. In 2003 the railroad got a £682,500 Heritage Lottery concede towards the £1,170,000 cost of redeveloping Wharf station, and the new station and historical center were formally opened by Prince Charles and The Duchess of Cornwall on 13 July 2005. The railroad has seen a relentless increment in travelers conveyed since the turn of the thousand years, with about 51,000 traveler appointments and 95,500 traveler ventures recorded in 2006, in spite of the fact that this figure is still just around a large portion of the pinnacle figure conveyed in 1973. In 2011, the railroad commended 60 years of safeguarding, and got an Engineering Heritage Award from the Institute of Mechanical Engineers in acknowledgment of its significance in Welsh modern legacy. 

The railroad battled monetarily for quite a long while after the financial breakdown of 2007, however gradually started to recoup. In 2008 a lot of gear was bought from the check military railroad at RNAD Trecwn, including a huge amount of track segments and three diesel trains. In 2011, the railroad commended the 60th commemoration of its salvage by the volunteers of 1951. 

In April 2012, train No.2 "Dolgoch" showed up at the Steel Steam and Stars Gala at the Llangollen Railway, running on a transitory area of restricted check track. This was the first occasion when that "Dolgoch" had worked far from its home railroad in 146 years. In June 2013 the railroad was granted the Queen's Award for Voluntary Service. 2015 was the 150th commemoration of the official opening of the railroad, and this was praised with a progression of occasions consistently. 

The Talyllyn Railway remains a fruitful and mainstream vacation spot. The first 1860s trains and traveler stock still run routinely close by the list of increasingly present day moving stock. The railroad is advanced as one of "The Great Little Trains of Wales", a joint showcasing plan propelled in 1970 that envelops ten tight measure rail routes in the nation, for the most part found in north and mid Wales. 

In 2003 the railroad utilized 13 full-time staff, in addition to what could be compared to an additional six low maintenance staff in the late spring and some 350 volunteers. 

The railroad works a program of uncommon occasions consistently. These have incorporate into the past the Have-A-Go Gala, Tom Rolt Steam and Vintage Rally and have a Victorian Week. Recent developments incorporate youngsters' Duncan Days. Since 1984 there has been a yearly running occasion considered Race the Train, which pursues the railroad track from Tywyn to Abergynolwyn and back once more. The test is for sprinters to finish the crosscountry course quicker than the train, which takes around 1 hour 45 minutes. 

The Young Members Group (YMG) are individuals and volunteers of the Talyllyn Railway Preservation Society who are between the ages of 14 and 25. On events amid the pinnacle season, the Railway has held Young Members Days in which the most youthful qualified individuals accessible that day run the railroad. 

The primary end of the line is at (initially known as King's Station, after a nearby landowner), where the railroad's authoritative home office and the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum are found. At the point when the line conveyed traffic from the quarry, slates were exchanged to the Cambrian Railways on the transhipment sidings. Leaving Wharf station, which remains at a rise of above ocean level, the line passes promptly under the A493 Machynlleth to Dolgellau street and enters a long cutting that moves towards , at a most extreme inclination of 1 out of 60. On the left (north) side of the cutting there was previously a long siding utilized for gravity shunting of wagons into the sidings at Wharf station. The railroad goes through the cutting for about , before going under another street extension and passing the train and carriage sheds and works at Pendre. 

From Pendre, the railroad ignores a gated dimension intersection and keeps running alongside a mechanical home before moving up to Ty Mawr connect and on to Hendy, the first of five minor ends, which serves the nearby ranch. The railroad keeps running in an around north-easterly heading along the Fathew valley, predominantly through fields of neighborhood cultivates on the valley floor, in spite of the fact that this is the place probably the steepest angles on hold are to be found. The decision slope of the line is 1 of every 60. 

Increasingly nearby ends pursue at Fach Goch, and Cynfal, the last having a little stage. The segment from Cynfal to was relaid in 1951 utilizing rail obtained from the Corris Railway after the last line's conclusion in 1948. Rhydyronen, a solicitation stop, was the main middle of the road station based hanging in the balance, opening in 1867. A siding at the station was abbreviated in 1957 and evacuated totally around 1975. A short steep move under a street connect pursues the station, trailed by a slight downhill slope. In contrast to the Ffestiniog Railway, the Talyllyn was not intended to be filled in as a gravity line, anyway this is the main downhill segment among Pendre and Nant Gwernol. Another minor end pursues at Tynllwynhen, before the passing circle and solicitation stop at . 

Above Brynglas, the line crosses the Cwm Pandy stream and enters a shallow cutting, moving as it goes. The cutting closures at a street overbridge after which the line goes through open wide open as it climbs the valley side on an edge. After roughly it enters forests west of , climbing consistently, at that point bends toward the south east and crosses the Dolgoch gorge on the Dolgoch viaduct, which conveys the line over the Dolgoch gorge. Dolgoch station is promptly east of the viaduct, arranged on a left-hand bend at above ocean level, and is the fundamental halfway station on hold, being mainstream with voyagers visiting the close-by falls. The railroad proceeds a north easterly way, bending through the forested areas and climbing the valley side. It right away passes Quarry Siding, where an end and passing circle are found; this is the site of a little old shale quarry, the stone from which was utilized for ballasting on the railroad. A huge lasting way and capacity shed opened on the site in 2013. The line proceeds with its climb towards Abergynolwyn station, arranged on an edge cut into the slope. 

The first end of the statutory railroad was Abergynolwyn, past which the railroad proceeded as a long mineral augmentation, presently changed over for traveler use. The augmentation was initially forcefully bended, as the line transforms south east into the steeply sided Nant Gwernol gorge however these bends were facilitated when transformation for traveler use occurred in 1976. The entire area is inside woods, presently claimed by the Forestry Commission. Soon after traverse the ranger service street the line comes to Ty Dwr, where the first train shed remained from 1865 until it was decimated after Pendre works opened in 1867, in spite of the fact that the slate water tower proceeded being used into the 1950s. 

Subsequent to passing the site of Ty Dwr the railroad twists around 'So be it' corner and not long after the Village Incline is come to. From here the line keeps running into the chasm, high over the stream on a limited edge, finishing at the foot of the main grade prompting the Bryn Eglwys quarry. The first line fanned out into a lot of three sidings, used to marshal trains of stacked slate wagons descending from the quarry and void wagons hanging tight to rise. Nant Gwernol station, the eastern end of the line, was based on the site of the sidings. 

The town of Abergynolwyn was worked to house the quarrymen of Bryn Eglwys and their families, and to serve the town a slope with winding house was laid seventy five percent of the route along the mineral augmentation. The twisting house for the grade remained on the tight edge, with the mineral line going through it. The two-track slant dropped over a separation of . At its foot, the line crossed the Nant Gwernol on a support connect. Following the extension, short lines expand toward the east from a wagon turntable to the coal yard and smithy of Pandy Farm and west to a composition slate plant (later a woodworker's yard). The principle branch at that point split to shape a capacity circle, with a further wagon turntable and a more drawn out branch serving the houses and school toward the north east. The fundamental branch proceeded with north, crossing the primary street at that point going between the two principle porches in the town before closure in a turntable and a last short line associating with the Capel Jerusalem church. The town slant was lifted amid the early long periods of safeguarding, to give truly necessary rail to supplant the current track. The winding house was wrecked in 1968 to enable realignment of the railroad to frame the augmentation to Nant Gwernol. 

Until the conclusion of the quarries in 1946, the line east from Abergynolwyn was functioned as a mineral tramway – just slate and products trains serving Bryn Eglwys kept running on this segment. The quarry lay about south-east of Nant Gwernol station or more it, with a further mineral tramway associating the quarry with the railroad. What is currently Nant Gwernol station was the end of the Talyllyn Railway appropriate. Here the line fanned out into a lot of sidings where inbound trains were left and outbound slate trains amassed. The sidings were situated on a thin edge in the side of the Nant Gwernol gorge. 

Rising south-east from the finish of the sidings was the long, twofold track gravity worked, Alltwyllt Incline, from the highest point of which the Galltymoelfre Tramway ran south-east towards the quarry for about . The tramway was laid in light scaffold rail and worked for its whole presence utilizing steeds. The tramway finished at the foot of the Cantrybedd Incline, a long twofold track, gravity worked slant. This last grade rose toward the north edge of Bryn Eglwys quarry, achieving a tallness of above ocean level. 

The line has six steam trains for traveler trains and four diesel trains, which are fundamentally utilized for shunting and to pull works trains. It is bizarre for all steam trains to be operable in the meantime, as somewhere around one is ordinarily planned for upgrade. The railroad additionally possesses 23 carriages and vans, including the majority of the first carriages and the brake van worked for the rail line. 

The railroad is single track, so unique measures must be taken to anticipate crashes. Prior to safeguarding, the railroad worked a "one motor in steam" arrangement, yet with developing traveler numbers it wound up important to introduce passing circles and an increasingly stringent technique for single line control was presented. The line is worked by Electric Key tokens, which approve the driver to enter a segment of single line, and these are interlocked to counteract more than one token being pulled back for an area at any one time. There is a circle at Pendre, which was utilized from the opening of the railroad for shunting purposes, and further circles were introduced at Brynglas in 1953 and Quarry Siding in 1963. At the point when the Nant Gwernol augmentation opened in 1976, Abergynolwyn likewise turned into a passing circle. Among Abergynolwyn and Nant Gwernol the line is constrained by staff and ticket task, which is constrained by the Abergynolwyn Blockman when on Duty. 

Each passing circle is constrained by a little flag box, known as a square post. These house the switch outlines that control the focuses, the token gear and phones. The railroad has few signs; rather it has stop sheets at Pendre, Brynglas, Quarry Siding and Nant Gwernol, and the blockman enables trains to continue by utilization of banners. There are shading light flags situated at Tywyn Wharf, worked from the Control Office and circle signals controlled starting from the earliest stage. Abergynolwyn has shading light flags, which are worked from the blockpost. At the point when the square post is unmanned, it is the duty of the train team to change the token before continuing. 

The Talyllyn Railway is spoken to in "The Railway Series" books by the Reverend W. Awdry and the turn off TV arrangement "Thomas and Friends" as the Skarloey Railway; the majority of the anecdotal trains depend on genuine reciprocals. Awdry visited the line on a family occasion in the beginning of safeguarding and ended up included as a volunteer soon a short time later. A few of the tales in "The Railway Series" originate from his genuine encounters at the Talyllyn, and a portion of the books contain full-page outlines of Talyllyn trains. 

The safeguarding of the Talyllyn Railway by volunteers was the motivation for the 1953 film "The Titfield Thunderbolt", an Ealing Studios parody about a gathering of townspeople endeavoring to run an administration on a neglected branch line after conclusion. T. E. B. Clarke, the content essayist for the film, had found out about the safeguarding of the Talyllyn and went through multi day on the railroad in 1951, and a portion of the early occurrences in conservation were joined into the film. In the book "Railroad Adventure" Tom Rolt reviewed that he had trusted the film may be created on the Talyllyn, however it was in the end recorded on the as of late shut Camerton part of the Bristol and North Somerset Railway branch line along the Cam Brook valley in Somerset.