Weight Gain 4000 

"Weight Gain 4000" is the second scene of the main period of the American energized TV arrangement "South Park". It previously disclosed on Comedy Central in the United States on August 20, 1997. In the scene, the occupants of South Park enthusiastically get ready for a visit by VIP Kathie Lee Gifford, whom the young men's third-grade instructor Mr. Army intends to kill as a result of a youth resentment. Meanwhile, Cartman turns out to be very corpulent after always eating a working out enhancement called Weight Gain 4000. 

The scene was composed and coordinated by arrangement prime supporters Trey Parker and Matt Stone. After the "South Park" pilot scene, "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", drew poor test crowd results, Comedy Central mentioned a content for one progressively new scene before choosing whether or not to focus on a full arrangement. The subsequent content for "Weight Gain 4000" helped the system choose to get the show. In spite of the fact that the second scene to be created, it was initially communicated as the third scene. It was additionally the principal "South Park" scene made totally utilizing PCs as opposed to development paper. 

Albeit a few analysts reprimanded the scene for its obscenity and other material considered hostile at the season of its unique communicate, a few others felt "Weight Gain 4000" was a noteworthy improvement over the pilot, especially for its humorous component with respect to American commercialization. The scene presented such repeating characters as Jimbo Kern, Mayor McDaniels, Bebe Stevens and Clyde Donovan. The show's depiction of Kathie Lee Gifford was the first run through a big name was caricature in "South Park". 

South Park Elementary educator Mr. Battalion declares that Cartman has won the school's "Spare Our Fragile Planet" exposition challenge, a lot to the indignation of his colleague Wendy Testaburger, who promptly associates him with bamboozling. The remainder of the town turns into a whirlwind of energy after learning big name TV have Kathie Lee Gifford will come to South Park to give Cartman an honor on national TV. Civic chairman McDaniels plans a major occasion to feature the town, keeping in mind the desire of encouraging her very own profession. Mr. Army coordinates practices for a play with the schoolchildren delineating the historical backdrop of South Park, which is to be appeared at the occasion. City hall leader McDaniels is frightened, be that as it may, to become familiar with the truly precise play incorporates kids playing pioneers who assault and severely beat the understudies depicting Native Americans. Battalion later gets terminated for sassing Gifford. 

Unbeknownst to the remainder of town, Mr. Battalion remembers a horrible cherished memory in which a youthful Gifford crushed him in a national ability appear. Mr. Battalion is controlled by his hand manikin, Mr. Cap, to kill Gifford out of retribution. He buys a vast rifle from Jimbo's firearm shop and plots to shoot Gifford. In the interim, Cartman is eager to show up on live TV, and Mayor McDaniels trains him to get into shape for Gifford's visit. Seeing a TV plug for a working out enhancement called "Weight Gain 4000", Cartman approaches his mom to get it for him. Cartman turns out to be incredibly fat from the item, despite the fact that he trusts he is fit as a fiddle and the abundance weight is carefully muscle. Back at the school, Wendy glances through Mr. Army's papers and affirms Cartman for sure undermined the challenge by composing his name on a duplicate of "Walden" by Henry David Thoreau. Wendy likewise finds out about Mr. Battalion's death plan, and enrolls the assistance of her companion Stan to stop him. 

Gifford arrives, and the vast majority of the town goes to the celebratory occasion, where Chef sings a tune to tempt her. Mr. Army takes his situation in a tall book vault, however he is disappointed to see that Gifford is holed up behind an impenetrable glass bubble. Wendy and Stan arrive and attempt ineffectively to stop Mr. Army, saying that they comprehend his agony, yet when Stan coincidentally reignites Garrison's resentment, he chooses to proceed with the death. Similarly as he is going to shoot, Cartman's new tremendous weight makes the stage breakdown, catapulting Gifford off it, and making the projectile hit Kenny in the head. Kenny is moved through the air and skewered on a flagpole. Gifford's guardians whisk Gifford away, costing a baffled Cartman his opportunity to be on TV. Wendy makes that big appearance and uncovers that Cartman undermined his exposition, yet the townspeople are too disturbed about Gifford's takeoff to mind. Mr. Army is taken to a psychological clinic, where Mr. Cap is set into a straitjacket. Mr. Battalion apologizes to the children for costing the town an opportunity to be on TV, despite the fact that Kyle discloses to him that Cartman is presently showing up on television show "Geraldo" due to his colossal heftiness. Then, Chef is lying in bed with Gifford post-coital while viewing "Geraldo". 

"Weight Gain 4000" was composed and coordinated by arrangement fellow benefactors Trey Parker and Matt Stone. It was first circulated on Comedy Central in the United States on August 27, 1997. The "South Park" pilot, "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", did not do well with test gatherings of people, and Comedy Central officials were uncertain whether they needed to arrange any extra scenes. Notwithstanding, they paid Parker and Stone to compose another content when Internet buzz started to create about the couple and their work on "The Spirit of Christmas", the 1995 vivified short film that filled in as a forerunner to "South Park". The system selected not to focus on a full Comedy Central arrangement until they could peruse the recently authorized content. The outcome was "Weight Gain 4000", which the two "South Park" makers composed while they were chipping away at their 1997 satire activity film, "Orgazmo". 

Recorded as a hard copy the content, the team looked to give Comedy Central administrators a thought of what the arrangement would resemble and how each show could vary from the others. Parker and Stone likewise said they would not compose another content until the system approved the full show with a period of no less than six scenes. Fun times TV preferred the content and consented to focus on an arrangement. While "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe" was made on the whole with development paper, "Weight Gain 4000" was the main "South Park" scene made totally utilizing PCs. It was made in minimal over a month in a studio in Westwood, California, by around 15 illustrators utilizing PowerAnimator, the Alias Systems Corporation liveliness program most normally known as "Nom de plume", which would be utilized in ensuing scenes. Later on, "South Park" shows would be made inside seven days of their communicate dates and require around 40 artists. "Weight Gain 4000" was enlivened in sequential request from start to finish. In spite of the fact that Parker and Stone looked to improve the subtleties and surfaces of the characters and by and large liveliness, they likewise explicitly picked Alias since it would enable the movement to keep up the show's intentionally unrefined visual style they initially made with development paper in "The Spirit of Christmas" and "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe". 

The "South Park" makers and artists said they were all the while building up the characters and endeavoring to make sense of things to come course of the show with "Weight Gain 4000", which was more moderate paced than the arrangement would in the long run become. The 30-page content was shorter than in later scenes, which would average between 45 to 50 pages. The kid heroes likewise talked slower. While recording their voice exhibitions, the on-screen characters read the lines gradually and the exchange was then accelerated to make the characters' particular voices. Around then, Parker and Stone had not aced the pace at which they expected to talk. The group shots in "Weight Gain 4000" set aside an especially long effort to energize because of the substantial number of individuals highlighted, and the artists were particularly glad for the utilization of profundity and movement in the point of view of the line of sight in Mr. Army's rifle scope as he attempted to kill Kathie Lee Gifford. Mr. Army's disdain for Gifford was foreshadowed in "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", where the sentence "I'm not positive, yet I think Cathy <nowiki>[</nowiki>sic<nowiki>]</nowiki> Lee Gifford is a lot more seasoned than she professes to be", can be seen on his study hall's writing slate. Amid a flashback scene in "Weight Gain 4000", an eight-year-old Mr. Battalion is appeared to as of now be bare on top with silver hair in favor of his ears. This prompted an irregularity in the main season scene "Cartman's Mom is a Dirty Slut", in which he has a full head of hair amid a flashback. 

Portraying the general tone of the show, Teri Fitsell of "The New Zealand Herald" clarifies that "South Park is an awful social parody that works by spotlighting not the shamelessness of these children but rather their irreverence, and standing out it from the scheming bad faith of the grown-ups who encompass them." The silliness of the show originates from the uniqueness between the adorable appearance of the characters and their unrefined conduct. Nonetheless, Parker and Stone said in an early meeting that the show's language is sensible. "There are such huge numbers of shows where little children are great and sweet, and it's simply not real ... Try not to individuals recollect what they resembled in third grade? We were little rats." 

Despite the fact that these components were built up in "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe" and the "Soul of Christmas" antecedent kid's shows, "Weight Gain 4000" further pushed the traditions of TV, and particularly of enlivened TV stimulation. Notwithstanding a proceeded with stream of obscenities and the wanton exercises of Chef, a grade school representative, the scene introduces the character of Mr. Battalion as increasingly unhinged. Despite the fact that depended with the consideration of a grade school class, Mr. Battalion exhibits a flawed sex character, poor instructing and unordinary association with his Mr. Cap hand manikin. 

"Weight Gain 4000" filled in as an analysis on American industrialism, the condition of individual bliss with utilization and the buy of material belongings. This parody is especially exhibited via Cartman's visually impaired confidence in the Weight Gain 4000 working out enhancement item regardless of solid proof that the item comes up short at its essential capacity. In particular, the item guarantees to assemble muscle, and Cartman trusts it has satisfied this capacity even after he just turns out to be amazingly overweight. This visually impaired confidence is additionally outlined by the total negligence Cartman exhibits for admonitions that Weight Gain 4000 conveys a danger of lasting harm to the liver and kidneys. The enormous measure of item Cartman purchases is further demonstrative of American buying propensities. 

Cartman's drive to purchase a weight training supplement dependent on a solitary business has been depicted as a parody of the idea of "personality shopping". The idea includes the getting of a personality through what one possesses, wears or purchases, similarly as Cartman looks to redo himself as a muscle head by purchasing Weight Gain 4000. "Weight Gain 4000" likewise parodies the fixation on superstar predominant among most Americans, especially through the town's excessively excited response to Kathie Lee Gifford's appearance. Moreover, Anglican scholar Paul F. M. Zahl has recommended Cartman's dependence on nourishment in the scene, joined with his visually impaired confidence in the Weight Gain 4000 enhancement and his request to "pursue your fantasies", mirrors that numerous individuals dishonestly stick to the thought of through and through freedom when they in actuality come up short on any discretion at all. Zahl expressed, "The two scholars of "South Park" see through the legend of 'unrestrained choice.'" 

"Weight Gain 4000" presented a few characters who might keep up vital repeating jobs all through the remainder of the arrangement. Among them were Jimbo Kern, Mayor McDaniels, and Wendy's closest companion Bebe Stevens. It additionally presents Clyde Donovan, an understudy from Mr. Battalion's class who might in the end assume huge jobs in future seasons, in spite of the fact that he was not recognized by name. The characters exhibit the wide scope of frequently extraordinary identities among the grown-up occupants of "South Park", just as filling in as individual parodies. McDaniels, who envisions herself a moment star after being seen on TV with Gifford, is depicted as more thinking about her own distinction than the requirements of her constituents, and the disregard with which Jimbo pitches a weapon to a clearly temperamental Mr. Battalion fills in as a parody of weapon control. Jimbo and his companion Ned (who was not presented until "Fountain of liquid magma") were enlivened via cartoons Parker used to draw amid secondary school. In making McDaniels, Parker and Stone imagined a refined city hall leader who was persuaded she was superior to different inhabitants of South Park. The scene additionally denoted the principal reference to "Jesus and Pals", the community TV syndicated program facilitated by Jesus Christ. The anecdotal show is referenced twice out of sight amid ads on TVs, despite the fact that recording from the show itself isn't appeared "Huge Gay Al's Big Gay Boat Ride" later in the season. "Jesus and Pals", and the possibility of Jesus as a South Park inhabitant, are references to the first "The Spirit of Christmas" animation. Debbie Liebling, who filled in as a "South Park" maker at the season of the scene's communicated, said the consideration of a TV program facilitated by Jesus passed on for gatherings of people the possibility of South Park as a spot where "anything can occur". 

Kathie Lee Gifford, at that point a TV entertainer on the morning television show "Live with Regis and Kathie Lee", was the first of numerous famous people to be parodied in a "South Park" scene. The "South Park" makers said they picked Gifford totally at irregular, not founded on a specific reason or dislike for her. Soon after "Weight Gain 4000" broadcast, the newspaper "The Globe" procured Suzen Johnson to film herself enticing Frank Gifford, Kathie Lee's better half, for a news story. The episode was the first of what Parker and Stone called the "South Park Curse", in which something terrible or humiliating evidently happens to a superstar in the blink of an eye previously or after they were included in "South Park". Performing artist Karri Turner gave the voice of Gifford in "Weight Gain 4000", denoting her solitary visitor appearance on "South Park". Gifford shows up at a motorcade covered up inside an impenetrable glass bubble. The air pocket was roused by an appearance Pope John Paul II made in the Popemobile amid an excursion to Denver, which was gone to by Parker and Stone. They thought the structure of the Popemobile, which has an impenetrable corner incorporated with the back of a changed truck, was "comical". The plan of the trophy that Gifford was to provide for Cartman is a reference to Parker and Stone's 1997 film "Orgazmo". 

The line "Beefcake", which Eric Cartman excitedly shouts in the wake of hearing it on a Weight Gain 4000 business, turned into an outstanding catchphrase following the scene's communicated, and dressing things with Cartman yelling the line turned out to be well known. One of the most punctual and biggest "South Park" fan destinations was called www.beef-cake.com. Matt Stone and site designer Taison Tan chose to close the site down in April 2001 when the official site "South Park Studios" propelled. "", a 1999 computer game from engineer Acclaim, incorporated a smaller than usual diversion called "Beefcake", in which players control a Cartman character who moves forward and backward between the screen eating jars of Weight Gain 4000 that are tossed down at him. The sales reps from "Weight Gain 4000" are highlighted as rivals in the smaller than expected diversion. The "beefcake" business included in the scene is additionally quickly found in the third season scene "Two Guys Naked in a Hot Tub", when Stan is rapidly flipping through stations on his TV. 

At the point when "Weight Gain 4000" was discharged, numerous journalists in the predominant press were all the while discussing the life span and generally speaking nature of "South Park". With the arrangement still in its most punctual stages, the scene kept on stunning numerous with its successive utilization of obscenities by youngsters and the clear precariousness of teacher Mr. Battalion. Gatherings of people were particularly stunned by the savagery delineated among youngsters amid a South Park history play, which incorporated the utilization of weapons and depicted the wicked butcher of Native Americans on account of white pioneers. Gatherings of people were likewise stunned and insulted by Chef's explicitly suggestive tune about Gifford. All things considered, a few commentators proclaimed "Weight Gain 4000" a noteworthy improvement over the pilot, "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", and felt it went a considerably more humorous way. 

Jeff Simon of "The Buffalo News", who disliked "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", felt "Weight Gain 4000" demonstrated the arrangement could be amusing. He explicitly complimented the scene's editorial on American industrialism. Simon expressed, "It's everything harsh social parody, and on the off chance that it weren't on Comedy Central, trust me, nobody in networkland would think it prepared for prime time. What's more, you know what else? It's interesting." Likewise, "The Washington Post" commentator Tom Shales unequivocally censured "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", however said the second scene was entertaining and included "shrewdly entwined" plot-lines. Shales stated, "[It] recommends the show might be an endeavor at parody and not simply poopy humor ... Indeed, it's as yet wiped out and still bent, yet by one way or another this scene in any event seems to have some comic inventiveness behind it, while the first was only a smutfest." In 2006, "Weight Gain 4000" was recognized by "Winnipeg Free Press" as one of the ten most critical "South Park" scenes, and positioned twelfth in a rundown of the best 25 biggest Cartman minutes, as dictated by voters on the Comedy Central site. The "Day by day Record" in Scotland recorded the scene's completion, and the "Beefcake!" line, as one of the six most important minutes in the arrangement. 

"Weight Gain 4000" was discharged, close by five different scenes, in a three-VHS set on May 5, 1998, denoting the first run through "South Park" was made accessible on record. It was discharged on the "Volume II" video, alongside "Enormous Gay Al's Big Gay Boat Ride"; other highlighted scenes included "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", "Fountain of liquid magma", "An Elephant Makes Love to a Pig" and "Passing". "Weight Gain 4000", alongside the other 12 scenes from the principal season, was additionally incorporated into the DVD discharge "South Park: The Complete First Season", which was discharged on November 12, 2002. Parker and Stone recorded discourse tracks for every scene, except they were excluded with the DVDs because of "principles" issues with a portion of the announcements. They would not enable the tracks to be altered and controlled, so they were discharged in a CD independently from the DVDs. In 2008, the team made "Weight Gain 4000" and all other "South Park" scenes accessible to look for nothing on the show's authentic site, "South Park Studios".