Damien (South Park) 

"Damien" is the tenth scene of the main period of the American vivified TV arrangement "South Park". It initially broadcast on Comedy Central in the United States on February 4, 1998. In the scene, the young men's class is joined by another understudy named Damien, who has been sent by his dad Satan to discover Jesus and mastermind a fight between the two. Most of South Park's occupants wager on Satan to win the match because of his gigantic size and strong physical make-up, yet Satan at last tosses the battle and uncovers he wager on Jesus, subsequently winning everyone's cash. 

The scene was composed by arrangement co-makers Trey Parker and Matt Stone, with extra discourse by Dave Polsky, and coordinated by Parker. The scene fills in as a parody on religion, confidence and the idea of good and insidiousness, just as an editorial on corporate greed, the clique of big name in America and the idea of youngsters. It was initially conceptualized as a Christmas unique, however the first communicate was pushed forward when Parker and Stone chose rather to make "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" the season's vacation scene. 

"Damien" got commonly positive surveys and was seen by 3.2 million family units when it was first communicated, making it the most noteworthy appraised link program the week it circulated. The scene denoted the principal appearance of Satan, who might turn into a common "South Park" character, just as the character of Damien himself, who was roused by the opponent of the 1976 blood and guts movie "The Omen". Parker and Stone additionally said the scene presented a few key qualities of the Cartman character that have suffered all through the remainder of the arrangement. Michael Buffer, the boxing ring commentator best known for the catchphrase "We should prepare to thunder!", shows up as himself. 

Cartman is amped up for his up and coming birthday gathering and lets everybody welcomed recognize what present he hopes to get from each. When they challenge, he takes steps to prohibit them from eating the nourishment his mom makes, something that quickly persuades them. They experience another understudy named Damien, child of Satan. The different young men mock the "new child" and, accordingly, Damien transforms Kenny into a duck-charged platypus. Damien advises Jesus that Satan will ascend for a last fight with him of good versus malicious. South Park inhabitants promptly start making wagers on the battle. Cartman is rankled to become familiar with the occasion is booked for a similar time as his gathering, and the kids battle to pick between the two occasions. 

The whole town wagers on Jesus to win the battle, however start to lose confidence when Satan shows up for the say something. He is tremendous and gauges somewhat over , while Jesus gauges an insignificant , and the residents of South Park start changing their wagers. Jesus stands up to the South Park occupants about their changed wagering slips in the wake of adapting just a single individual is as yet wagering on Jesus to win. Troubled, Jesus asks Stan, Kyle and Chef to enable him to prepare. Damien gets guiding from Mr. Mackey, who suggests he simply take a stab at being pleasant regardless of what different children do, much the same as with disagreeable British tyke Pip. Damien endeavors to apologize to the young men for setting flame to the play area and transforming Kenny into a duck-charged platypus, expressing that he was "doing his dad's offering" and he didn't have a decision. The young men, in any case, still keep on acting adversely towards Damien. Cartman's birthday party starts, as does the battle. Damien and Pip arrive excluded to the gathering, yet the children at long last acknowledge Damien after he heaves Pip noticeable all around and influences him to detonate in a shower of firecrackers. Nonetheless, an irate Cartman closes his gathering ahead of schedule in the wake of opening Kyle's present to find that it's not what he had as a main priority. 

In the interim, Jesus is dispirited by the town's absence of confidence in him, and he doesn't counter to Satan's assaults against him, regardless of Satan's evident provoking of "hit me". Gourmet specialist and the children make it for the finish of the battle and offer Jesus a few inspirational statements. Propelled, Jesus at last throws a solitary frail right hook. In any case, Satan at that point brings a jump and goes out like a light. Subsequently, Satan uncovers that his arrangement had, truth be told, been to wager on Jesus and afterward toss the battle, winning him a great deal of cash and land from the South Park inhabitants. The townspeople are incensed by this, until Stan advises them that Jesus let them know not to wager on Satan. The entire town at that point solicits absolution from Jesus, who acknowledges the statement of regret. Kenny bites the dust when Jimbo recognizes him as an uncommon duck-charged platypus and shoots him. Damien says farewell to Stan and Kyle since his father "is dependably moving" he needs to leave. Then, Cartman hosts proceeded with his get-together even in the wake of showing everybody out and having eaten all the sustenance himself. 

"Damien" was composed by arrangement co-makers Trey Parker and Matt Stone, with extra exchange by Dave Polsky, and was coordinated by Parker. "Damien" first disclosed on Comedy Central in the United States on February 4, 1998. It was exceedingly foreseen to some degree since it was the primary new scene of "South Park" in around two months, since the incredibly famous Christmas uncommon "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" disclosed on December 17, 1997. Before "Damien" even ran, Mike Duffy of "Detroit Free Press" said the scene was "sure to end up one of the show's mark minutes". Actually, Parker and Stone initially proposed for "Damien" to be the season's Christmas scene. In spite of the fact that they had since quite a while ago wanted to include a talking bit of defecation in the show, called Mr. Hankey, they didn't choose to make him a Christmas character until partially through the taping of "Damien", amid which time they chose to make a different occasion scene rather, revolved around the Mr. Hankey character. In any case, they chose to complete creation of "Damien" first, despite the fact that it would not air until after the "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" scene. 

Parker said he and Stone did not mean for "Damien" to be hostile to Christians or some other religion: "In "South Park", Jesus is an extraordinary person, he's on our show, and in this scene he's the saint. We're not in the matter of culpable individuals. We're in the matter of making individuals snicker." The mean way Damien is treated by his kindred understudies when he joins the school, just as Damien's responses to the treatment, were propelled by Parker's involvement of the second grade, when he began at a Cheyenne, Wyoming primary school over the most recent three weeks of the school year. Parker stated, "It was fierce ... Everyone previously had their little gatherings and the year was practically finished, so I wasn't going to fit into any of them, and I simply needed to pulverize and murder, which was the motivation for this show." 

Michael Buffer, the boxing ring broadcaster best known for his catchphrase, "We should prepare to thunder!", showed up as himself in "Damien". Parker and Stone initially intended to utilize the catchphrase without Buffer, yet when they discovered that Buffer had lawfully trademarked the expression, they included him in the scene since getting the rights for the catchphrase cost about as much as procuring Buffer for a visitor appearance. Parker and Stone both said Buffer was well disposed and they appreciated working with him. Voice performing artist Mike Judge, star of "Beavis and Butt-Head" and "Lord of the Hill", had initially been slated to give the voice of the Damien character, and even recorded a few lines for the part. Be that as it may, since Judge lives in Austin, Texas, it demonstrated excessively hard to for him to return and rerecord lines as the content and scene changed, so Stone rather gave the character's voice. Judge later gave Kenny's un-suppressed line when he evacuated his parka in "". 

When "Damien" was vivified, a great part of the illustration and liveliness duties that had recently been taken care of by Parker and Stone were presently being designated to a group of illustrators. The team were especially pleased with the activity amid the fight among Jesus and Satan, which utilized components of point of view and three-measurement only from time to time utilized in the arrangement previously; Parker said it was "certainly the most activity [oriented] stuff we'd done [so far]". While invigorating Jesus, Parker and Stone intentionally left glitches in the movement that influenced it to show up skin was appearing underneath the facial hair on the left-hand side of the character's face. Parker said this was done in light of the fact that it was the manner in which Jesus showed up in the roughly vivified "The Spirit of Christmas", a 1995 energized short film by Parker and Stone that filled in as an antecedent to "South Park", and they needed to keep up that subtlety for the character. 

Parker and Stone said some of Cartman's attributes which have suffered all through the "South Park" arrangement began in "Damien". In particular, his voice took on a higher-pitch that was more nasally and whiney than in past scenes; Stone portrayed it as a "liberal emphasize". A portion of his ordinary vocal characteristics were likewise created in the scene, including his utilization of the sound "Nyah" while saying "Here", and the manner in which he says "Hello you guuuuuuys" while conversing with his companions. Parker, who gives the voice of Cartman, said the attributes came about normally while recording the scene: "This show for reasons unknown, out of the blue, possibly I simply lost intrigue, yet I was attempting all these destroyed things with him and every one of these things kind of stuck." 

"Damien" incorporated the primary appearance of Satan, who might turn into a usually repeating character all through the arrangement. In spite of the fact that Satan shows an insidious and corrupt identity in "Damien", he is depicted in later scenes as a keen, touchy and frequently profoundly tangled character. "Damien" was the principal scene Parker and Stone composed that included school advocate Mr. Mackey and nearby religious pioneer Priest Maxi, yet they were likewise incorporated into "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo", which circulated before "Damien" despite the fact that it was created a while later. In spite of the fact that Jesus had been presented as a "South Park" character in past scenes, "Damien" denoted the first occasion when he interfaced with the primary characters outside of his community syndicated program, "Jesus and Pals". Parker said numerous watchers thought the character was an insane individual who erroneously trusted he was Jesus, and he and Stone needed to appear in this scene that he should be the real Jesus. "Damien" is likewise the principal scene to highlight South Park's bar, which is just called "Bar". 

Preceding the communicate, Parker and Stone said "Damien" would be the main scene in which Kenny would not be murdered; at last, be that as it may, Kenny was shot by Jimbo toward the finish of the compensation per-see battle. Kenny is transformed into a duck-charged platypus in the scene, which Parker said was done on the grounds that, "Duck charged platypuses are something I've generally been charmed by. They're simply so strange." In the first content, Pip, the disagreeable British understudy roused by the character of a similar name in Charles Dickens' "Incredible Expectations", was initially expected to be slaughtered and for all time expelled from the show after "Damien", in which Damien ventures Pip into the air and explodes him in a shower of firecrackers. Be that as it may, Parker and Stone chose they ought not murder any understudy characters with the exception of Kenny, so they chose not to slaughter Pip and to bring him back for future scenes. 

"Damien" was later discharged, alongside eleven different scenes, in a three-DVD set in November 1998. It was incorporated into the second volume, which likewise incorporated the scenes "An Elephant Makes Love to a Pig", "Demise" and "Pinkeye". The scene, alongside the other twelve from the principal season, was additionally incorporated into the DVD discharge "South Park: The Complete First Season", which was discharged on November 12, 2002. Parker and Stone recorded editorial tracks for every scene, except they were excluded with the DVDs because of "gauges" issues with a portion of the announcements; Parker and Stone wouldn't enable the tracks to be altered and controlled, so they were discharged in a CD totally independently from the DVDs. 

"Damien" has been portrayed as a parody on religion, confidence and the idea of good and fiendishness, just as an editorial on corporate greed and the clique of big name in American culture. Parker said the scholars tried to caricaturize the speed and simplicity at which the supporters of Jesus lose confidence in him and wager against him. Religious essayist Michel Clasquin said the relinquishment of Jesus illustrates, "In the same way as other individuals in reality, the confidence of the town's kin can't withstand the harsh occasions." Parker stated, "Everyone puts their trust in Satan and winds up getting screwed. There is a greater message – all things considered, an entirely healthy message. That is the reason South Park works. Now and again we have a message." 

Parker additionally said he and Stone intentionally composed the scene to introduce Jesus as the legend from a "humanist methodology"; Clasquin said this is shown by the way that Jesus winds up made up for lost time in individuals' desires for the battle and ends up outraged when individuals wager against him: "This mocking motion delightfully attracts regard for the sheer humankind of Jesus. He truly is a man, similarly as we are people. He is available to dread and vulnerability." Several journalists said the scene likewise ridiculed the manner in which Americans can turn anything, even a religious circumstance, into an industrially advertised occasion. Matt Zoller Seitz of "The Star-Ledger" stated: "They aren't ridiculing sorted out religion (however they have before). They're ridiculing the individuals who might transform religion into diversion and stimulation into a sort of religion." Seitz said the scene derides "ethical quality cops who get rowdy in private" like Priest Maxi, who covertly wagers the area against Jesus even as he counseled assembly individuals for agreeing with Satan. 

Religious author Michel Clasquin said the scene likewise exhibits the straightforwardness with which individuals mix their religious feelings with exercises from popular culture, especially with Stan's disarray of a "Star Trek" quote with an exercise from Jesus Christ. Moreover, Clasquin said the way that even Priest Maxi perceives Jesus as "that person from the community appear" shows that even the probably most religious individuals are not generally the most open to certified religious encounters. Clasquin likewise said components of the Crucifixion of Jesus are implied in the bout with Satan. 

Notwithstanding the religious topics, the brutal manner by which Damien is treated by different kids is a parody on the propensity of schoolchildren to tirelessly single out new understudies. Stone said of this part of the scene, "The entire premise of "South Park" was that kids are little shitheads and progress and society controls them. Rather than what a ton of radicals and Democrats think, which is we're brought into the world blameless and unadulterated and society undermines us. We trust the primary way, that society controls you and makes you a superior individual, eventually, on the grounds that when you're nearly nothing, you're only a little butt head." 

The voice for Satan, given by Parker, was propelled by the voice of the Pinhead character at the consummation of the 1988 blood and gore movie, "", when Pinhead sincerely reviews his previous lifestyle, when he was a decent individual. The artists experienced a few sketch drafts for Satan in light of the fact that, in Parker's words, "There's such a significant number of approaches with him and we couldn't make sense of the correct one for quite a while". The substantial and strong look of the character originated from the way that the content called for Satan to hugely exceed Jesus, and that look has persevered for the character all through the remainder of the arrangement. 

The character of Damien himself was likewise first highlighted in this scene; in spite of the fact that he showed up as a foundation character in a bunch of future scenes, he only from time to time has a talking job and is never again included as noticeably as he was in "Damien". The character was enlivened by Damien Thorn, the tyke antichrist character in the 1976 blood and gore movie "The Omen". The music which plays in the scene at whatever point Damien performs enchantment is additionally straightforwardly propelled by the music from that film; that equivalent evil tune would later be reused in the twelfth season scene "Britney's New Look". (The verse "Rectus Dominus" more than once sung by the wicked tune in the scene interprets from Latin as "Ass Master".) The scene in which the young men disclose to Damien his mother is "a genuine canine" is likewise a reference to "The Omen". In that film, the real Antichrist's mom was a jackal. 

Notwithstanding Michael Buffer, the American boxing advertiser Don King is included noticeably in "Damien" as Satan's advertiser. Parker said he and Stone chose to parody King simply because "it's simply kind of who irritated us that week. It's so irregular ... there is no good reason for who we're tearing on. It's unquestionably nothing close to home." Nancy Kerrigan, the Olympic figure skater assaulted on requests of individual skater Tonya Harding at the 1994 Winter Olympics, is alluded to in a gusto talk Stan gives Jesus. Stan unfairly guarantees Kerrigan won the gold award until Kyle reminds him she won the silver; Parker said this was done in light of the fact that he felt the impression of Kerrigan was very high among Americans considering she just really accomplished second spot. Amid that equivalent punch talk, Stan tells Jesus, "You know, somebody once stated, 'Don't endeavor to be an extraordinary man, simply take care of business.'" Although Stan says this was a statement from Jesus himself, it was really a line from the 1996 film, "". "Damien" additionally incorporates a reference to artist Nancy Sinatra, the girl of amazing crooner Frank Sinatra. Mr. Battalion, while talking about incredible artists of the florid period, proceeds to state that "Nancy Sinatra was a significant decision bit of ass". 

The Jesus Vs. Satan pay-per-see occasion "Boutin' at the Mountain" is a spoof of correspondingly publicized pay-to-watch boxing occasions included on the excellent link channel HBO. Before Jimbo shoots Kenny in his platypus state, he shouts, "It's coming ideal for us!" This is a reference to the past "South Park" scene "Fountain of liquid magma", in which Jimbo takes the kids chasing and instructs them to yell the expression before shooting anything to get around prohibitive chasing laws. Cartman affronts Damien by inquiring as to whether he got his hair style from Stevie Wonder, a visually impaired soul and R&B vocalist. For his birthday, Cartman needs the total line of a lot of activity figures called Mega Man. In spite of the fact that named Mega Man, the multi-hued figures were really motivated by the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, the 1993 youngsters' activity arrangement which was as yet well known at the season of the scene's unique communicate. The content was initially composed with direct references to the Power Rangers, yet Comedy Central requested that Parker and Stone change the name because of copyright issues. Cartman gets "Ants in the Pants", a real youngsters' tabletop amusement, as a birthday present. Stone portrayed "Ants in the Pants" as "the lamest diversion ever", which is the reason Cartman reacts so adversely to the blessing in the scene. 

"Damien" got a 6.4 Nielsen rating, a record high for the show until it was broken two weeks after the fact by the scene "Mecha-Streisand" (which got a 6.9 rating, meaning 5.4 million watchers in 3.2 million family units). It was the most noteworthy evaluated link program the week it circulated, with viewership among 18-to 49-year-olds being higher than the quantity of family units. The system midpoints watcher appraisals of 276,000 family units amid prime time and, preceding "South Park", the channel's most noteworthy rating was from the second-season debut of "Completely Fabulous", which was seen by 1.24 million families. 

Parker said following the enormous achievement of "Mr Hankey, the Christmas Poo", a great part of the immediate criticism he got for "Damien" was negative. Parker portrayed it as the "main kind of kickback" he had encountered with "South Park", with fans guaranteeing the show was losing its edge and that Parker and Stone had "sold out". Parker stated, "We continued hearing that word to such an extent. We resembled, 'I'm not catching that's meaning, sold out? What did we get and what did we do?' We simply continued doing what we thought was entertaining, we turned out poorly making ads or anything. However, everyone was stating we sold out." Nevertheless, the scene got commonly positive audits, and has been depicted as one of "South Park" "great scenes". 

"Moving Stone" giver Doug Pratt considered it a "high point" of the principal season. Kinney Littlefield of the "Orange County Register" said of the scene, "This demonstrates by and by that enlivened arrangement are extraordinary stages for intriguing issues that live activity indicates don't set out snatch head on. "South Park" purposeful anecdote of good and malice is more adept and knowing than anything seen on <nowiki>'</nowiki>"Christy" or <nowiki>'</nowiki>"Touched by an Angel". More amusing as well." However, Littlefield additionally said a portion of the show's realistic discourse, similar to the expression "crap on a stick", was developing "beautiful darn excess". Gary Budzak of "The Columbus Dispatch" portrayed the "Damien" scene as maybe "the most ridiculous yet". Virginia Rohan of "The Record" commended the scene, saying, "The scene is entertaining, and at last, great conquers detestable, though for all the wrong reasons." "Chicago Sun-Times" author Lon Grahnke gave the scene three stars and called it all the while bizarre and clever. Eric Mink of the "New York Daily News" called the scene "outrageously clever" and commended its ironical component, despite the fact that he cautioned it was possibly hostile to certain watchers: "A scene in which the children offer profane between-rounds consolation to Jesus could make even tough watchers flinch a bit." Likewise, "Star-Ledger" correspondent Matt Zoller Seitz stated, "Today around evening time's scene is insane, obscene and fringe godless; it is additionally, in case you're in the correct outlook, paralyzingly amusing."