Chandralekha (1948 film) 

Chandralekha (likewise spelt Chandraleka) is a 1948 Tamil Indian recorded experience movie coordinated and created by S. S. Vasan. Featuring T. R. Rajakumari, M. K. Radha and Ranjan ahead of the pack jobs, the film pursues two siblings (Veerasimhan and Sasankan) who battle about decision their dad's kingdom and wedding the town artist, Chandralekha. 

Its advancement started amid the mid 1940s when, after two progressive film industry hits, Vasan reported that his next film would be entitled "Chandralekha". Be that as it may, when the maker propelled a promoting effort for the film he just had the name of the courageous woman from a Gemini Studios storyline he had rejected. Veppathur Kittoo (one of Vasan's storyboard craftsmen) built up a story dependent on a section of George W. M. Reynolds' tale, "Robert Macaire: or, The French outlaw in England". Unique chief T. G. Raghavachari left the movie more than part of the way through on account of conflicts with Vasan, who took over in his directorial debut. 

Initially made in Tamil and later in Hindi, "Chandralekha" went through five years underway (1943– 1948). It experienced various scripting and cast changes, and was the most-costly film made in India at the time. Vasan sold all his property and sold his gems to finish the film, whose cinematographers were Kamal Ghosh and K. Ramnoth. The music, to a great extent roused by Indian and Western established music, was made by S. Rajeswara Rao and M. D. Parthasarathy with verses by Papanasam Sivan and Kothamangalam Subbu. 

"Chandralekha" was discharged on 9 April 1948. Despite the fact that the film got for the most part positive audits, it didn't recover its creation costs. Vasan coordinated a Hindi rendition with certain changes, including some re-shot scenes, a somewhat modified cast, and Hindi discoursed from Agha Jani Kashmiri and Pandit Indra. The Hindi adaptation was discharged on 24 December of that year, turning into a film industry achievement. South Indian film ended up conspicuous all through India with the film's discharge, and it roused South Indian makers to advertise their Hindi movies in North India. Named in English, Japanese, Danish and different dialects, it was screened at Indian and worldwide film celebrations. 

Veerasimhan (M. K. Radha) and Sasankan (Ranjan) are the children of a lord. At the point when Veerasimhan rides through a town, he meets a nearby artist named Chandralekha (T. R. Rajakumari) and they begin to look all starry eyed at. At the royal residence, the lord chooses to relinquish his position of authority for Veerasimhan. This rankles Sasankan, Veerasimhan's more youthful sibling, who shapes a posse of cheats; they leave on a wrongdoing binge. Chandralekha's dad is harmed in the following bedlam, and kicks the bucket in the blink of an eye a short time later. The stranded Chandralekha joins a band of voyaging performers, whose procession is attacked by Sasankan's posse. 

Sasankan orders Chandralekha to move for him (which she does simply in the wake of being flagellated), yet she before long escapes. He later ambushes Veerasimhan and takes him prisoner. Chandralekha watches Sasankan's men detain Veerasimhan in a cavern and seal its passageway with a stone. She protects him with the guide of elephants from a passing carnival troupe. Veerasimhan and Chandralekha join the carnival to escape Sasankan's men. At the point when Sasankan comes back to the royal residence he detains his folks, proclaims himself ruler and sends a covert agent to discover Chandralekha. 

The government agent sees Chandralekha performing in the carnival, and attempts to catch her. Veerasimhan spares her; they getaway and join a gathering of vagabonds. At the point when Veerasimhan goes to discover help, Sasankan's men catch Chandralekha and convey her to the royal residence. At the point when Sasankan attempts to charm Chandralekha, she professes to swoon each time he approaches her. One of her bazaar companions comes to Sasankan camouflaged as a vagabond healer and cases that she can fix Chandralekha of her "disease". Behind bolted entryways, the two ladies talk. Sasankan is satisfied to discover Chandralekha inexplicably relieved and obviously prepared to acknowledge him as her better half; consequently, he consents to her solicitation for a drum move at the regal wedding. 

Gigantic drums are masterminded in lines before the castle. Chandralekha joins the artists, who move on the drums. Sasankan is inspired with Chandralekha's execution in any case, obscure to him, Veerasimhan's warriors are covering up inside the drums. As the move closes, they surge out and assault Sasankan's men. Veerasimhan stands up to Sasankan, and their extensive sword battle closes with Sasankan's annihilation and detainment. Veerasimhan discharges his folks and turns into the new lord, with Chandralekha as his ruler. 

Maker S. S. Vasan examined a story for his third film, which pursued "Bala Nagamma" (1942) and "Mangamma Sapatham" (1943), which earned a benefit of 4 million. He needed to film on a stupendous scale, with no budgetary imperatives. Vasan asked Gemini Studios' story office (K. J. Mahadevan, Kothamangalam Subbu, Sangu, Naina and Veppathur Kittoo) to compose a screenplay. They saw "Mangamma Sapatham" and "Bala Nagamma" as "courageous woman situated stories", and proposed a comparable story. The gathering recounted to the account of Chandralekha, an intense lady who "outsmarts an awful desperado, conveys the last affront by cutting off his nose and, as a completing touch, fills the bloodied expanding opening with hot, red stew powder". Vasan disdained the story's frightfulness and obscenity; he dismissed it, yet kept the champion's name. 

Without hanging tight for a full story, Vasan declared that his next task would be entitled "Chandralekha" and announced it vigorously. Regardless of diligent work by Gemini's authors, the story was not prepared three months after the fact. Vasan became anxious, and told the scholars that he would hold "Chandralekha" for "Avvaiyyar" (1953). After he gave them one more week, Kittoo found George W. M. Reynolds' tale, "Robert Macaire, or the French Bandit in England". In the main section, he read: 

Vasan was awed when Kittoo disclosed to him a story dependent on the section. He chose to proceed with the film, and named the courageous woman Chandralekha. In spite of the fact that the story was created by Kittoo, it was credited to the whole Gemini story division. 

The content had two noteworthy jobs: rulers in a kingdom, the senior of whom was the legend and the more youthful the lowlife. M. K. Radha was offered the piece of Sasankan, the more youthful ruler. Since he was then known for brave jobs, Radha was reluctant to play a reprobate and rather consented to play the more seasoned ruler, Veerasimhan. His better half Gnanambal induced Vasan to cast Radha in the job. K. J. Mahadevan (an individual from Gemini's story office) was picked to play Sasankan, and T. G. Raghavachari consented to coordinate the film. Albeit some recording of Mahadevan was taped, his execution was considered "excessively delicate" and he was supplanted; be that as it may, he stayed on the task as a scriptwriter and an associate chief. At the point when Raghavachari proposed Ranjan as Sasankan, Vasan was hesitant; in spite of the fact that the maker at first considered the performing artist too womanly to even think about playing a "steel-hard reprobate", Vasan in the end yielded. Ranjan had focused on B. N. Rao's "Saalivaahanan" (1945), however Kittoo induced him to test for "Chandralekha" and Rao gave the performing artist a couple of days off. The screen test was fruitful, and Ranjan was thrown. 

T. R. Rajakumari was picked to play Chandralekha supplanting Vasan's first decision, K. L. V. Vasantha. As per film student of history Randor Guy, Vasan picked Rajakumari over Vasantha in light of the fact that she was leaving Gemini Studios for Modern Theaters in Salem, Tamil Nadu. In April 1947 N. S. Krishnan, who had been sentenced in the Lakshmikanthan murder case, was discharged from jail on bid; Vasan enlisted Krishnan and T. A. Madhuram to play the bazaar specialists who help Veerasimhan salvage Chandralekha from Sasankan. The content was revised, with scenes added to exhibit the comic pair. Madurai Sriramulu Naidu and S. N. Lakshmi made their acting presentations in the film; Naidu had an uncredited job as a horseman, and Lakshmi was an artist in the climactic drum-move scene. 

Battling stage on-screen character Villupuram Chinniah Pillai Ganeshamurthy (later known as Sivaji Ganesan), who had reached Kittoo a few times for a job in "Chandralekha", was keen on a minor job as Veerasimhan's guardian and developed his hair long for the part. Kittoo in the long run conveyed Ganeshamurthy to Vasan, who had seen him perform in front of an audience. Vasan turned the performing artist down, calling him "absolutely unsuited for movies" and instructing him to pick another calling; the episode made a lasting break among Vasan and Ganeshamurthy. The job of the guardian was in the long run given to N. Seetharaman, who later wound up known as Javar Seetharaman. 

Kothamangalam Subbu's better half, M. S. Sundari Bai, played a carnival entertainer who helps Chandralekha escape from Sasankan. T. A. Jayalakshmi, in one of her most punctual film jobs, showed up quickly in one scene as an artist. L. Narayana Rao played the carnival administrator. T. E. Krishnamachari played the lord, and V. N. Janaki a rover artist who gives Chandralekha and Veerasimhan cover in the backwoods. Kakinada Rajarathnam played the ruler. Veppathur Kittoo played Sasankan's covert operative and was an associate executive. Pottai Krishnamurthy showed up in the melody "Naattiya Kuthirai". Other supporting performing artists included Seshagiri Bhagavathar, Appanna Iyengar, T. V. Kalyani, Surabhi Kamala, Subbiah Pillai, N. Ramamurthi, Ramakrishna Rao, Sundara Rao, V. S. Susheela, Varalakshmi, Velayutham and "100 Gemini young men and 500 Gemini young ladies". Studio staff individuals, their families and passers-by were enlisted as additional items to play observers in the bazaar scenes, and Vasan presented Chandralekha in a voice-over amid her carnival execution. 

"Chandralekha" started recording in 1943. Raghavachari coordinated the greater part the film, however after contrasts of conclusion with Vasan over the shooting of scenes at the Governor's Estate (presently Raj Bhavan, Guindy) he left the venture. Vasan dominated, for his directorial debut. 

The film did not initially incorporate bazaar scenes. Vasan chose to include them partially through generation, and the screenplay was changed. For the scene where Veerasimhan is liberated from a cavern by elephants, "hundreds" of carnival elephants were utilized. Kittoo went all through South India and Ceylon (presently Sri Lanka), seeing more than 50 carnivals before he picked the Kamala Circus Company and Parasuram Lion Circus; Vasan utilized Kamala for a month. The carnival scenes were shot by K. Ramnoth. Kittoo thought back about the cinematographer's work:In those days, we had no long range focal points but then Ramnoth did it. One night, while Chandralekha is performing on the flying trapeze, she sees the reprobate's partner in crime in the first column. She is on her roost high up and he is situated in a ringside seat. Stun hits her and to pass on the stun the camera zooms quick from her to the man. Today, with a quick zoom shot it very well may be done in all respects effectively, however there was no such focal point forty years prior. Ramnoth did it utilizing the crane. He arranged it well and practiced the shot for long. He took the shot multiple times and chose the best "take". 

After Raghavachari's takeoff, the drum-move scene he coordinated stayed in the film. The scene included 400 artists and a half year of every day practices. It was planned by boss workmanship chief A. K. Sekhar, arranged by Jayashankar and shot with four cameras by Kamal Ghosh. Randor Guy assessed that the scene cost (about US$105,000 in 1948); in his 2015 book, "Madras Studios: Narrative, Genre, and Ideology in Tamil Cinema", Swarnavel Eswaran Pillai evaluated that the scene cost — the whole spending plan of a run of the mill Tamil film of the period. The scene incorporated the Kathakali and Bharatanatyam established moves and the Sri Lankan Kandyan move. A. Vincent, who later turned into a set up cinematographer and chief in Malayalam film, helped Ghosh in this film. 

Amid after generation, Vasan solicited Ramnoth his feeling from the scene when several Veerasimhan's warriors storm the royal residence to safeguard Chandralekha from Sasankan. Despite the fact that the scene's photography, shots and activity had been consistently commended by others, Ramnoth was tranquil before saying that the tension may be demolished if the scene was appeared. This started a talk; Vasan prompted the editorial manager Chandru to alter as per Ramnoth's heading, and was inspired with the outcome. C. E. Biggs was the film's sound designer. 

"Chandralekha" was underway for a long time (1943– 1948), with changes to its story, cast and shooting which produced considerable time and cost overwhelms. The film at last cost 3 million (about $600,000 in 1948), and was the most-costly Indian film at the time. Vasan sold all his property, got money related help from "The Hindu" editorial manager K. Srinivasan and sold his adornments to finish the film. Balanced for swelling, "Chandralekha" would have cost $28 million in 2010. As indicated by antiquarian S. Muthiah, with the free-coasting swapping scale as a result at the time it was the principal film with a financial plan of over a million dollars made outside the United States. 

In spite of the fact that a period film, "Chandralekha" did not depend on chronicled actuality; its plot depends on the primary part of "Robert Macaire, or the French Bandit in England". Sasankan depends on Macaire and, as per film student of history B. D. Garga, Chandralekha is "most likely" in view of a female artist in the novel whom Macaire whips when she will not move; the film incorporates the scene from the novel. Garga noticed that "Chandralekha" was additionally affected by other Western scholarly and true to life works, including the novel "Blood and Sand" (1908) and the movies "The Mark of Zorro" (1920), "Robin Hood" (1922), "The Thief of Baghdad" (1924) and "" (1925). In December 1964, film antiquarian Jerzy Toeplitz considered the film an "augmentation and improvement" of the fanciful classification: "The characters are humans however carry on like radiant creatures, and their developments and signals, similar to those of the divine beings and saints of the "Mahabharata" are impregnated with the inexplicable." Toeplitz composed that the story was a "minor appearance to hold together the diverse scenes, every one of which develops like a carnival turn: the strain mounts to a coming full circle point, whereupon the following scene promptly dominates." According to Roy Armes' 1987 book, "Third World Film Making and the West", Uday Shankar's 1948 "Kalpana" (additionally shot at Gemini Studios) roused Vasan to make "Chandralekha". In the 2003 "Reference book of Hindi Cinema", the film is portrayed as a "Ruritanian period spectacle". 

The climactic sword battle among Veerasimhan and Sasankan has been contrasted with the battle in the 1894 novel, "The Prisoner of Zenda". In 1976, American film student of history William K. Everson looked at the humorists in "Chandralekha" to Laurel and Hardy. In spite of the fact that Randor Guy considers the film's drum-move scene the first of its sort in Indian film, the 1947 film "Naam Iruvar" incorporates a scene when the lead on-screen character's more youthful sister moves on drums to the Tamil writer Subramania Bharati's "Kottu Murase"; French film history specialist Yves Thoraval composed that it "prefigured the move that "Chandralekha" made well known the following year." According to American film pundit Jonathan Rosenbaum, the film "has a place with a similar youth continuum" as Fritz Lang's 1959 movies "The Tiger of Eschnapur" and "The Indian Tomb" (which were set in India). In his 2009 book, "50 Indian Film Classics", film pundit M. K. Raghavendra composed that "Chandralekha" was built in a way which "empowers its account to consolidate components drawn from for all intents and purposes any sort of type." According to Guy, the setting of the tune "Naattiya Kuthirai" with Sundari Bai (counting her move and outfit) were propelled by the 1943 melodic film "Coney Island". Film researcher Uma Vangal composed that the film mirrors Vasan's "vision of a genuinely majority rule country, in view of equivalent rights for people" by depicting "a reality where people cooperate to set up a legitimate principle". 

"Chandralekha" soundtrack was created by S. Rajeswara Rao, with verses by Papanasam Sivan and Kothamangalam Subbu. R. Vaidyanathan and B. Das Gupta teamed up with M. D. Parthasarathy on the ambient sounds. Rajeswara Rao reviewed in a 1993 meeting for "The Hindu" that it took him over a year to form the film's music, with quite a bit of his time gave to the drum-move scene: "As the artists performed, we used to practice and make the music. It was finished with amazingly few instruments. We utilized a piano, ten twofold bass violins, and drums from Africa, Egypt, and Persia which we have gained from an African War troupe." Rao's pay was 1,500. The music was impacted via Carnatic and Hindustani music, Latin American and Portuguese people music and Strauss dances. As indicated by M. K. Raghavendra, "Chandralekha" has "grabs from [Richard] Wagner and [Nikolai] Rimsky-Korsakov ("Scherezade") being utilized at emotional minutes." 

"Naattiya Kuthirai", not initially part of the film, was included amid conclusive generation. Sundari Bai went through over a month practicing the melody. M. D. Parthasarathy was the sole vocalist of "Aathoram Kodikkalam" and co-artist of "Naattiya Kuthirai". J. Cooling Rajaiah played accordion and piano in the film's vagabond melody. The carnival ensemble was adjusted from "The Donkey Serenade" in Robert Z. Leonard's 1937 film, "The Firefly". Vasan offered the vast majority of the tunes on the Hindi soundtrack to Uma Devi, who later turned out to be prevalently known as Tun. She at first faltered, feeling that "[they] were past her capacities", yet was bolstered by Rajeswara Rao (who "buckled down on her"). "Sanjh Ki Bela", from the Hindi soundtrack, is inexactly founded on "Sanjh Ki Bela Panchhi Akela" from "Jwar Bhata" (1944). "Chandralekha" music helped make it a standout amongst the best Indian melodic movies of the 1940s, and it "made an air for various music executives affected by Western music" in Tamil film. The film was an achievement for Uma Devi, in spite of rupturing her agreement with maker Abdur Rashid Kardar (who ended her agreement in striking back). Be that as it may, this and the "diminishing fortunes" of the film business after India's autonomy from the British Raj in the long run finished her vocation in playback singing. 

In his 1997 book, "Starlight, Starbright: The Early Tamil Cinema", Randor Guy said that Parthasarathy and Rajeswara Rao "made a fine mix of lilting music of numerous schools." Writing for "Screen" in April 1998, film antiquarian M. Bhaktavatsala depicted "Chandralekha" melodies as "unmistakable and remaining on [their] claim, with scarcely any foundation score endeavoring to interlink anything, only times of quiet." Historian V. Sriram expressed in 2018 that, despite the fact that the film had no vital melodies, "Aayilo Pakiriyama", sung by Krishnan, Madhuram and Sundari Bai, was his most loved one. 

The principal commercial for "Chandralekha" showed up on the back front of the songbook for the film, "Dasi Aparanji" (1944). In the promotion, Vasantha was the courageous woman before she was supplanted by Rajakumari. With "Chandralekha", Gemini was the primary Tamil studio to endeavor to circulate a film all through India. As indicated by film researcher P. K. Nair, it was the primary Indian film with a full-page paper ad. In a 2010 "Mumbai Mirror" article, Vishwas Kulkarni composed that 574,500 was spent on the film's paper attention and 642,300 on notices, standards and bulletins. "Chandralekha" attention crusade was the most costly for an Indian film at the time; the exposure spending plan for a run of the mill Indian film 10 years sooner was around 25,000, and attention for a "top Indian film" cost close to 100,000 amid the 1950s. As indicated by Guy, the film's attention battle "influenced the country to sit up and pay heed". 

A. K. Shekhar structured the attention material, which included blurbs, booklets and full-page paper commercials. Gemini Studios, motivated by American film, likewise created an exposure handout for conveyance to exhibitors and the press. It contained a summary of the film, a pictorial record of key plot focuses, and message for use by nearby theaters. The booklet additionally had formats for ladies' pages, a pictorial record of proposed advertising exercises, (for example, "How to wrap an Indian sari: Theater exhibits have a major draw") and data about the film's outfits. The ensembles were hand-woven silk and gold; one gold-weaved riding coat was considered "the most costly bit of furnishing at any point utilized in a film." 

"Chandralekha" was discharged on 9 April 1948 at the same time in more than 40 theaters all through South India. An average 1940s Tamil film was discharged in around 10 towns, yet "Chandralekha" was discharged all the while in 120 towns. 

The film was discharged in Japan as "Shakunetsu-no ketto" ("Fight Under the Red Heat") in April 1954, where it was dispersed by Nippon Cinema Corporation (NCC). It was the principal Tamil film named in Japanese, and the second Indian film discharged in Japan; the first was the 1952 Hindi film "Aan", which was discharged in Tokyo in January 1954. NCC later crumbled, and no data about "Chandralekha" Japanese discharge endures. Amid the 1950s (when remote cash was rare in India), trade was a typical methods for trade with abroad colleagues; Reitaku University's Tamaki Matsuoka trusts this was the situation with "Chandralekha". A NCC leaflet about the film called Vasan the "Cecil B. DeMille of the Indian film industry". A Danish adaptation of the film, "Indiens hersker" ("India's Ruler"), was discharged on 26 April 1954. A compressed English-language rendition of "Chandralekha", "Chandra", was screened in the United States and Europe amid the 1950s. 

Regardless of the film's certain audits and great film industry execution, it was unfit to recuperate its expansive creation costs; Vasan revamped it in Hindi trying to do as such. The Hindi variant, dispersed by The Screens (an organization in Bombay, presently Mumbai), was discharged on 24 December 1948. With more than 600 prints it was a business achievement, setting film industry records. Vasan called "Chandralekha" "an exhibition for our laborers", planned for "the war-tired open that had been compelled to watch stale war purposeful publicity pictures for a considerable length of time." It was chosen by the Indian government for screening at the fourth International Film Festival in Prague in 1949. The film's prosperity made Madras a creation community for Hindi movies. Five years after "Chandralekha" achievement, Gemini paid its representatives a reward (one of the primary studios on the planet to do as such). 

Albeit accurate figures for the's film industry income are not accessible, film-exchange sites give gauges. Film industry India refered to the Hindi adaptation's nett profit as 7 million, and said that it was the second-most noteworthy earning Bollywood film of 1948 (after "Shaheed"). As of February 2009, the site gave "Chandralekha" balanced nett gross as 37,98,00,000. As per the 1998 book "Indian film: A Visual Voyage", by India's Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, "Chandralekha" netted . Film history specialist B. D. Garga said in his 2005 book, "Craft Of Cinema", "The two versionsTamil and Hindigrossed millions." Sharmishtha Gooptu states in her 2010 book, "Bengali Cinema: An Other Nation", that "Chandralekha" netted 10 million (about $2,100,000 in 1948) in India. A 2011 article by Namrata Joshi in "Viewpoint India" says, ""Chandralekha" netted 1.55 crore (10.55 million) with a crowd of people of three crore (30 million), 60 percent from provincial India." 

"Chandralekha" got by and large positive audits from Indian faultfinders. On 9 April 1948, an article from "The Hindu" stated: "The Indian Screen has, without a doubt, in this Province or some other given us little that can hold up under examination with Gemini's "Chandraleka" for the sheer superbness of its experiences." On 10 April, a pundit from "The Indian Express" article named the film to be "basically for the youthful all things considered". A "Dinamani" article that day expressed, "Individuals who were discouraged with the nature of our Tamil pictures so far would now be able to raise their heads and hail gladly that an incredible picture can be created in our territory moreover." conversely, "Kumudam" gave the film a tepid survey: "However the story is standard, the stunning occasions embedded into the account are something new to the Tamil film." The magazine condemned the film's tunes and length, likewise taking note of the irregularity in its timeframe where the lord's office included a divider clock and the ruler himself was composing with a plume. In its January 1949 issue "Gundoosi" magazine commended "Chandralekha" Hindi form as an enhancement for the Tamil rendition, taking note of that it would do well to exchange and pacing. 

V. A. K. Ranga Rao called it "the most total performer at any point made." In their 1988 book, "One Hundred Indian Feature Films: An Annotated Filmography", Anil Srivastava and Shampa Banerjee commended "Chandralekha" greatness, fight scenes and drum move, which as they would see it was the film's ""raison d'etre"". In 2003, S. Muthiah called it "an epic spectacle deserving of Cecil B. de. Mille" and "overwhelming." In their 2008 book, "Worldwide Bollywood: Travels of Hindi Song and Dance", Sangita Gopal and Sujata Moorti composed that "Chandralekha" interpreted "the stylish of Hollywood Orientalism for an indigenous mass group of onlookers", while additionally opining the film's drum-move scene was "maybe a standout amongst the most awesome groupings in Indian film." In his 2009 book, "50 Indian Film Classics", M. K. Raghavendra expressed: "Indian movies are once in a while built such that makes undistracted seeing fundamental to their pleasure and "Chandralekha" is masterminded as a progression of diversions". 

Raja Sen applauded the movie's set pieces, drum-move succession and the "longest swordfight ever caught on movie" in May 2010 on Rediff, calling "Chandralekha" "simply the sort of movie, truth be told, that would be best refreshing now after advanced reclamation." Randor Guy valued Rajakumari's execution in an October 2010 audit, calling "Chandralekha" "her profession best" and saying that she "conveyed the motion picture on her shoulders." Guy likewise noted Radha was his "standard amazing self", saying that the movie would be "associated with: the superb onscreen portrayal, the heavenly sets and the undying drum move arrangement." Director Dhanapal Padmanabhan told K. Jeshi of "The Hindu" in 2013, ""Chandralekha" had magnificence that was at standard with Hollywood measures." 

Checking on the English form of "Chandralekha", "The New York Times" called Rajakumari an "ample stunner." When the film was screened in New York City in 1976, William K. Everson stated: "It's a beautiful, gullible and spirited film in which the general candor very incapacitates analysis of plot ludicrousness or such generation inadequacies as the too-evident studio "outsides" ... Last yet a long way from least, Busby Berkeley would clearly have been pleased to see his impact reaching out to the climactic drum move." 

Jonathan Rosenbaum said in August 1981, "The possibility of a three-hour Indian film in [Tamil] without any captions is a little off-putting, I would saywouldn't you?" However, Rosenbaum had "shockingly little inconvenience following the plot and activity" of the film: "This made-in-Madras outfit show makes for a pretty activity pressed 186 minutes." In June 2009, K. S. Sivakumaran of "Day by day News Sri Lanka" called "Chandralekha" "the primary monster [Tamil] film I saw." Malaysian creator D. Devika Bai, composing for the "New Straits Times" in October 2013, adulated its specialized perspectives: "At very nearly 68, I have not tired of viewing the film." 

The Hindi form of "Chandralekha" was Vasan's first film in the language. For this form, Vasan re-shot a few scenes and utilized a marginally extraordinary cast. Agha Jani Kashmiri and Pandit Indra composed the discourse for the Hindi form. Indra and Bharat Vyas were the lyricists for the Hindi adaptation, and Kothamangalam Subbu and Papanasam Sivan composed the verses for the Tamil rendition. Rajeswara Rao, who created the soundtrack for the two adaptations, was helped by Bal Krishna Kalla on the Hindi form. Parthasarathy and Vaidyanathan created the Hindi variant's mood melodies. The Tamil form was over long, however the Hindi rendition was altered down to . 

In spite of the fact that Rajakumari, Radha and Ranjan repeated their jobs in the Hindi form, Radha and Ranjan's characters were renamed. Radha's character (Veerasimhan) was Veer Singh in the Hindi variant, and Ranjan's character (Sasankan) was renamed Shashank. Of the other cast individuals, N. S. Krishnan, T. A. Madhuram, T. E. Krishnamachari, Pottai Krishnamoorthy and N. Seetharaman seemed just in the Tamil rendition, and Yashodhara Katju and H. K. Chopra seemed just in the Hindi adaptation. About the whole cast were credited in the Tamil variant, yet just sixRajakumari, Radha, Ranjan, Sundari Bai, Katju and L. Narayana Raowere credited in the Hindi rendition. 

With the movie's prosperity, Vasan ended up known as a standout amongst the best executives in Indian film. Kristin Thompson and David Bordwell, creators of "Film History —An Introduction", called it "the greatest film industry hit of the decade." Guy later called Vasan the "Cecil B. DeMille of Tamil film", and called "Chandralekha" his ""perfect work of art"." According to S. Muthiah, Vasan "spearheaded making South Indian movies in English." He enlivened maker A. V. Meiyappan, who turned into an "ace at exposure." The Hindi rendition's prosperity allowed South Indian makers the chance to showcase their Hindi movies in North India. "Chandralekha" exposure crusade had such an effect, that Bombay makers passed a goals that a point of confinement ought to be forced on notices for any film in periodicals. Vasan's "Apoorva Sagodharargal" (1949), additionally a triumph, is viewed as an informal continuation of the film. 

"Chandralekha" improved Rajakumari and Ranjan's professions; both ended up prevalent all through India after the film's discharge. Its climactic sword-battle scene was generally welcomed, and is viewed as the longest sword battle in Indian artistic history. The drum-move scene is viewed as the film's feature, and later makers attempted ineffectively to copy it. Maker executive T. Rajendar said that he was roused by the scene for a melody scene planned at in his 1999 film, "Monisha En Monalisa". Film history specialist Firoze Rangoonwalla positioned "Chandralekha" Hindi form eighth on his rundown of the main twenty movies of Indian film. It was a noteworthy impact on Kamalakara Kameswara Rao's 1953 Telugu film, "Chandraharam", including N. T. Rama Rao. On 26 August 2004, a postage stamp with Vasan and the drum move was issued to recognize the maker's century and the 35th commemoration of his passing. 

In July 2007, S. R. Ashok Kumar of "The Hindu" asked eight Tamil movie chiefs to list their untouched most loved Tamil movies; twoJ. Mahendran and K. Balachandernamed "Chandralekha". Mahendran stated, "In the event that anyone endeavors to redo this highly contrasting film, they will make a joke of it." According to Balachander, "Much the same as "Sivaji" today, individuals discussed "Chandralekha" previously. Delivered at an expense of 30 lakhs ([3 million], a gigantic entirety around then), it has terrific sets. I have seen it multiple times." In December 2008, Muthiah stated: "Given how fantastic it wasand the thankfulness showered on it from 1948 till well into the 1950s, which is the point at which I made up for lost time with itI'm beyond any doubt that if re-discharged, it would improve in the cinema world than most Tamil movies today." In a 2011 meeting with Indo-Asian News Service (IANS), South Indian Bollywood on-screen character Vyjayanthimala said that despite the fact that individuals think about that she "prepared" for other South Indian female performing artists in Hindi film, "the individual who truly opened the entryways was S. S. Vasan ... Whenever ["Chandralekha" was] discharged, it overwhelmed the North in light of the fact that by then they haven't seen that sort of sumptuous sets, ensembles and magnificence. So Vasan was the individual who opened the entryway for Hindi movies in the South." 

"Chandralekha" was K. Ramnoth's last film for Gemini Studios. In spite of the fact that he is frequently credited with shooting the drum-move grouping, Ramnoth left the studio in August 1947 (preceding the scene was imagined). Chief Singeetham Srinivasa Rao told film pundit Baradwaj Rangan that he disdained "Chandralekha" when he initially observed it and remembered it as a great simply following 25 years, "a reality that the groups of onlookers acknowledged in only two minutes." Film maker and author G. Dhananjayan told "The Times of India", "When you discuss high contrast films, you can't avoid referencing the 1948 epic "Chandralekha" ... That film's loftiness, be it in the sets, outfits, tunes, moves and the battle successions, still remains a benchmark even this day of shading and 3D films." In April 2012, Rediff incorporated the film on its "beginning to end of Tamil Cinema" list and said that "Chandralekha" "flaunted a gathering cast, extraordinary creation esteems and a story that guaranteed it turned into a blockbuster all over India, the first of its sort." 

It has been screened at many film celebrations, and was appeared in December 2012 at the tenth Chennai International Film Festival (a tribute to 100 years of Indian film). "Chandralekha" was screened in April 2013 at the Centenary Film Festival, composed by India's Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the National Film Archive. It was one of eight Indian movies screened at the 28th Italian Il Cinema Ritrovato in 2014 as a feature of "The Golden 50s: India's Endangered Classics", the celebration's first Indian-film review. In his "Seasons of India" audit of "" (2015), M. Suganth composed that executive S. S. Rajamouli had "take[n] his prompts [for its visuals] from changed sources" (counting "Chandralekha"). In a November 2015 meeting with Sangeetha Devi Dundoo of "The Hindu", performer Kamal Haasan stated: "Visual intrigue has constantly run connected at the hip with substance, since the times of "Chandralekha" and ["Mayabazar"], not soon after "Baahubali"."