Kingdom Hearts II 

"Kingdom Hearts II" is the third amusement in the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement. It gets one year after the occasions of "". Sora, the hero of the initial two recreations, comes back to look for his lost companions while engaging the evil Organization XIII, a gathering of opponents recently presented in "Chain of Memories". Like the past amusements, "Kingdom Hearts II" includes an extensive cast of characters from Disney movies and "Last Fantasy" recreations. 

The diversion was widely praised and earned year-end grants from various video gaming sites. In Japan, it transported more than one million duplicates inside seven days of its discharge. One month after its North American discharge, it had sold more than one million duplicates and was the second smash hit round of 2006. By April 2007, the diversion had sent more than four million duplicates around the world. The amusement has been incorporated by gaming productions in arrangements of the best computer games ever. 

The "Last Mix" form of the amusement was re-aced in top notch and discharged all inclusive in 2014 as a piece of the "Kingdom Hearts HD 2.5 Remix" accumulation for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. 

The ongoing interaction of "Kingdom Hearts II" is like the activity RPG and hack and slice interactivity of the principal "Kingdom Hearts" diversion, however designers attempted to address a portion of the protests with the past amusement. The player straightforwardly controls Sora from a third-individual camera point, however first-individual viewpoint is accessible by means of Select catch. A large portion of the interactivity happens on interconnected field maps where fights occur. The diversion is driven by a straight movement starting with one story occasion then onto the next, for the most part told through cutscenes, however there are various side-journeys accessible that give rewards to characters. 

In the same way as other customary pretending computer games, "Kingdom Hearts II" includes an encounter point framework which decides character improvement. As foes are vanquished, the player and partners come full circle involvement to "level up", in which the playable characters become more grounded and access new capacities. 

Battle in "Kingdom Hearts II" is continuously and includes overwhelming hack and slice components with catch squeezes which start assaults by the on-screen character. A pretending diversion menu on the screen's base left, like those found in "Definite Fantasy" amusements, gives other battle choices, for example, utilizing enchantment or things, calling creatures to aid fight, or executing mix assaults with other gathering individuals. Another element is the "Response Command", unique foe explicit assaults that are activated when the player presses the triangle catch at the right time amid fight. Response Commands can be utilized to overcome customary foes or maintain a strategic distance from harm, and are now and then important to finish a manager fight. Notwithstanding the fundamental character, two gathering individuals are generally present who additionally partake in battle. In spite of the fact that these characters are PC controlled, the player is permitted to redo their conduct somewhat through the menu screen, for example, assaulting a similar foe Sora targets. 

Because of analysis, the "Gummi Ship" highlight of the primary amusement was rethought to be "increasingly charming". Despite the fact that holding its essential motivation behind movement, the framework was totally revamped to take after a blend of rail shooter and "Disney amusement park ride". On the planet map, the player should now control the Gummi Ship from a top-down view and fly to the world the player wishes to enter. Universes are never again open from the earliest starting point—the player must open the courses to them by entering another dimension, controlling the ship from a third-individual perspective, and doing combating foe ships. After the course is opened, travel to the world is unobstructed, except if it is blocked again because of a plot-related occasion. The player may likewise increase new Gummi Ships from finishing courses, which is additionally another element from the principal diversion. 

One of the new highlights is a meter known as the "Drive Gauge". The Drive Gauge has double capacities: to change Sora into a "Drive Form" or to bring an extraordinary character. While in a Drive Form, Sora bonds with gathering individuals to turn out to be all the more dominant and procure diverse traits; everything except two Forms additionally permit the utilization of two Keyblades. At the point when a Drive is executed, Sora's battle measurements are elevated. Drive Forms additionally give Sora new capacities that can be utilized in ordinary structure, called "Development Abilities." Sora's initial two Drive Forms just consolidate control with one gathering part; later-acquired Drive Forms expect him to bond with both gathering individuals. At the point when partners are utilized in a Drive, they are incidentally expelled from fight for its span. Dissimilar to the HP and MP measures, the Drive Gauge isn't refilled at spare focuses. 

Like in the primary amusement, Sora can gather a Disney character to help him in fight. Request will supplant the two PC controlled characters and battle close by Sora for whatever length of time that the Drive Gauge permits, or until Sora's HP runs out. Rather than being restricted to just a single activity, Summons currently have their very own menu and are equipped for performing solo or agreeable activities with Sora. These activities are performed by squeezing the triangle catch. The Summon capacity and each Drive Form are stepped up independently and by various criteria; getting more elevated amounts takes into account broadened use and on account of Drive Forms, access to new capacities. 

"Kingdom Hearts II" starts one year after the occasions of "Kingdom Hearts" and "Chain of Memories". The diversion's setting is a gathering of different dimensions (alluded to in-amusement as "universes") that the player advances through. As in the primary diversion, the player can head out to different Disney-based regions, alongside unique universes explicitly made for the arrangement. While Disney-based universes were principally gotten from the Disney vivified highlights group in the primary diversion, "Kingdom Hearts II" presents universes that depend on Disney live-activity films too. Every world fluctuates in appearance and setting, contingent upon the Disney film on which it is based. The illustrations of the world and characters are intended to take after the fine art style of the situations and characters from their particular Disney films. Every world is disengaged from the others and exists independently; with couple of special cases, players venture out starting with one world then onto the next through a Gummi Ship. 

A few universes included in the past recreations return, yet with new and extended territories. There are likewise new universes that are presented, including the Land of Dragons (in light of "Mulan"), Beast's Castle ("Beauty and the Beast"), Timeless River ("Steamboat Willie"), Port Royal (""), Pride Lands ("The Lion King"), and Space Paranoids ("Tron"). Nightfall Town, a unique world originally found in "Chain of Memories", has a more noteworthy job as the early on world. The World That Never Was is another world that fills in as the central station of Organization XIII. 

The three heroes of the diversion are Sora, a 15-year-old kid picked as a wielder of the Keyblade, an enchanted key-molded weapon that can battle dimness; Donald Duck, the court conjurer of Disney Castle; and Goofy, the skipper of the Disney Castle monitors. Both Donald and Goofy are compelled from their missing ruler, Mickey Mouse, to discover and remain with the "key", which alludes to Sora and his Keyblade. Other unique characters incorporate Riku and Kairi, Sora's companions from his home universe of Destiny Islands; Roxas, a kid who can likewise employ the Keyblade and is playable in the diversion's starting grouping; and DiZ, a man in red robes with a grudge against Organization XIII, who is later uncovered to be Ansem the Wise, the tutor of Xehanort. 

As in the past amusements, there are various appearances of characters from both Disney and Square Enix works. While some make an arrival from "Kingdom Hearts", new characters from Disney fiction are additionally presented, for example, Scar from "The Lion King" and Scrooge McDuck. Pete shows up as a tenacious foe who works with the revived Maleficent. About twenty characters from "Definite Fantasy" recreations show up, strikingly Auron of "Conclusive Fantasy X", Tifa from "Conclusive Fantasy VII", and the arrival of Squall Leonhart, Cloud, and Sephiroth. It was expressed that in spite of the fact that the principal amusement carefully adhered to characters Tetsuya Nomura structured, this time around they were going to "go out on a limb", suggesting that characters not legitimately planned by Nomura may show up. Other new characters to arrangement are Vivi of "Definite Fantasy IX" and Setzer of "Conclusive Fantasy VI". 

The different universes that Sora investigates regularly host a discretionary get-together character from the film on which the world is based. Such gathering individuals incorporate Fa Mulan, the lady who goes as a man so as to assume her sickly dad's position in the military; Jack Sparrow, a privateer who tries to recover his ship, the Black Pearl; Simba, oneself ousted lion who is the legitimate lord of the Pride Land; and "Tron", a security program in Hollow Bastion's PC organize who looks to end the autocracy of the Master Control Program. 

Association XIII, a gathering of incredible Nobodies—the "vacant shells" left over when a solid hearted individual turns into a Heartless—presented in "", is set up as the essential gathering of foes at an opportune time. Xemnas, the pioneer of Organization XIII, fills in as the principle foe and last manager of the amusement. Scalawags one of a kind to the universes are as yet predominant, and are frequently exhibited as difficulties that Sora's gathering must survive. 

Sora, Donald, and Goofy have been in suspended liveliness for as long as year to recover their lost recollections. Roxas, Sora's Nobody, is caught in a virtual reproduction of Twilight Town made by DiZ to combine him with his unique self to reestablish Sora's capacity. DiZ's arrangements are compromised when Nobodies driven by Axel, Roxas' previous companion in Organization XIII, penetrate the virtual town to separate Roxas. Be that as it may, Roxas can repulse the Nobodies lastly converge with Sora. Sora, Donald, and Goofy stir in the genuine Twilight Town and meet King Mickey and Yen Sid, who send them on another voyage; they will probably discover Riku and reveal the Organization's arrangements. A while later, Maleficent is revived and unites with Pete to proceed with her mission for power. 

Sora goes to commonplace and new universes, where he settle a few issues brought about by Organization XIII, the Heartless, and different nearby scalawags. Amid a visit to Hollow Bastion, they rejoin with Mickey, who clarifies that the Heartless "Ansem" they vanquished is a faker named Xehanort, whose Nobody Xemnas is the Organization's chief. The Organization additionally uncover that they look for the intensity of Kingdom Hearts, making one from the hearts Sora has discharged from the Heartless with his Keyblade, to recover their lost hearts; likewise, Sora finds that the Organization is holding Kairi prisoner to drive him to consent. Sora returns to the universes to take care of waiting issues and new complexities while looking for a way to the World That Never Was, Organization XIII's base of activities. All through his undertakings, Sora is covertly helped by a hooded figure whom Sora accepts to be Riku. 

Following a lead, Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter a way to the World That Never Was through Twilight Town, where Axel penances himself to give them safe section. Sora discovers Kairi and Riku, the last of whose appearance has been changed to that of Xehanort's Heartless because of catching Roxas. Mickey experiences DiZ, who uncovers himself to be the genuine Ansem, Xehanort's tutor. Ansem utilizes a gadget that disseminates some of Kingdom Hearts' capacity, however a framework over-burden makes the gadget self-destruct, both overwhelming Ansem and inexplicably returning Riku to his unique structure. On of the Castle That Never Was, Sora and organization fight Xemnas, who utilizes what survives from Kingdom Hearts to battle them. After Sora and Riku annihilate Xemnas, the two become caught in the domain of dimness, where they find an entry to the domain of light in a packaged letter sent by Kairi, enabling them to come back to the Destiny Islands and rejoin with their companions. In a post-credits scene, Sora, Kairi, and Riku get and perusing a letter from Mickey, the substance of which are avoided the player. 

Improvement plans for "Kingdom Hearts II" started around the consummation of "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix", yet explicit subtleties were uncertain until July 2003. Nomura noticed a few snags to clear before improvement could start on a spin-off. One such obstruction was the advancement group's longing to feature Mickey Mouse more, which required Disney's endorsement. The amusement was created by Square Enix's Product Development Division-1, with the greater part of the first staff from the main diversion. The amusement was initially expected to have been discharged after "Kingdom Hearts". Nomura had gotten ready for the spin-off of happen a year after the first and initially expected for the occasions of that year to be left unexplained. To conquer any hindrance between the two amusements, "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" was created. To clarify the loss of the considerable number of capacities from the principal amusement toward the start of "Kingdom Hearts II", Nomura had Sora's recollections mixed in "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories". 

Numerous parts of the ongoing interaction were revamped for this continuation. A few changes were made because of client criticism and others were intended to be incorporated into past recreations yet were overlooked either as a result of time or mechanical limitations. The camera was changed to the correct simple stick of the DualShock controller rather than the shoulder catches and the Gummi Ship travel was improved. The battle framework was totally revamped and did not utilize any activitys from the main amusement. Since Sora had developed, Nomura needed his battling style to mirror that. Different changes included more coordination among investigation and fights. The varieties in battle styles related with each Drive Form and the presentation of the Reaction Command were added to give players more decisions in fights. The incorporation of universes dependent on cutting edge Disney films was supported by innovation that produced the character models from real life pictures. 

Like the principal diversion, "Kingdom Hearts II" highlights music by Yoko Shimomura and Hikaru Utada. The Original Soundtrack for "Kingdom Hearts II" was made by Shimomura and discharged on January 25, 2006. The opening organization and closure credits topic were masterminded and arranged by Kaoru Wada and performed by the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra. The fundamental vocal topic for the first Japanese discharge was "Energy", composed and performed by Utada. The English variant of "Enthusiasm", "Asylum", was utilized in the Western discharges. Utada's inclusion was reported on July 29, 2005. As indicated by Nomura, the vocal subject ties in significantly more intimately with the diversion's story than "Hikari" ("Simple and Clean") did with "Kingdom Hearts" and "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories". The CD single for "Enthusiasm" was discharged on December 14, 2005 and "Haven" was first saw on MTV's authentic site in mid 2006. 

"Kingdom Hearts II" includes surely understood voice on-screen characters for both the Japanese and English variants. A considerable lot of the first voice on-screen characters from the main "Kingdom Hearts" repeated their jobs; Miyu Irino and Haley Joel Osment as Sora, Mamoru Miyano and David Gallagher as Riku, and Risa Uchida and Hayden Panettiere as Kairi. New voice performing artists included Kōki Uchiyama and Jesse McCartney as Roxas, Iku Nakahara and Brittany Snow as Naminé, and Genzō Wakayama and Christopher Lee as DiZ. An uncommon exertion was made to protect the official voice on-screen characters from the Disney motion pictures utilized in "Kingdom Hearts II". Numerous on-screen characters repeated their Disney jobs for the diversion, including Ming-Na as Mulan, James Woods as Hades, Bruce Boxleitner as Tron, and Zach Braff as Chicken Little. Some voice performing artists from the related TV arrangement or direct-to-video spin-offs were picked over unique voice on-screen characters where material, for example, Robert Costanzo as Philoctetes as opposed to Danny DeVito or Cam Clarke as Simba rather than Matthew Broderick. A few characters were given new voice performing artists in the English rendition; Ansem, Aerith, Leon, Sephiroth and Hercules, who were initially voiced by Billy Zane, Mandy Moore, David Boreanaz, Lance Bass, and Sean Astin separately in the principal amusement, were voiced by Richard Epcar, Mena Suvari, Doug Erholtz, George Newbern, and Tate Donovan (Hercules' unique voice on-screen character), and newcomer Tifa was voiced by Rachael Leigh Cook. 

Other than English interpretation and confinement, the worldwide adaptation of "Kingdom Hearts II" varies from the first Japanese form in the substance of interactivity and a few scenes. The Hydra manager in the "Hercules"- themed world Olympus Coliseum had its green blood from the first Japanese rendition (which was taken from the film) changed into dark and purple smoke in the English variant. In one cutscene, Hercules battles the Hydra and utilizations his sword on its head, which in the end discharges green blood from its mouth in the Japanese form; this was later changed into slobber in the English adaptation. There is likewise a scene in Disney Castle where, in the wake of pursuing Donald around for missing a date, Daisy Duck pounds him on the rear in the Japanese adaptation, while she only reprimands him indistinctly in the English form. 

Xigbar's scope was transformed from a crosshair and dark shading around the sides to three gleaming circles. An assault activity was additionally modified; in the Japanese form, Xigbar joins his two hand-held weapons to make a rifleman rifle, which is utilized to shoot the player's gathering amid the extending sight grouping. In the English variant, Xigbar does not join his weapons, however spins them around and shoots at Sora with a solitary firearm. The passing of Organization XIII part Axel was somewhat altered; in the first, he blasts into blazes amid his suicide assault, while in the English variant he just blurs away in the wake of spending the majority of his capacity. 

Port Royal, in light of "", contains the most substance alters. Cutscenes were altered to evacuate a portion of the brutality, for example, William Turner taking steps to end it all while pointing a firearm at his neck, as in the film. In contrast to the Japanese form, the undead privateers don't burst into flames when influenced by Fire enchantment, and their black powder rifles were changed to take after crossbows, however the crossbows still shoot with a capable of being heard flintlock shot audio cue. 

An unlockable trailer in "Kingdom Hearts" and "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix" alluded to the likelihood of a spin-off. Gossipy tidbits for a spin-off on the PlayStation 2 were prodded in Japan when the computer game site Quiter expressed that "an inward (and mysterious source) at Square Japan" affirmed that advancement of "Kingdom Hearts II" had started. It was not until "Kingdom Hearts II" was reported, alongside "Chain of Memories", at the Tokyo Game Show in September 2003 that bits of gossip were affirmed. Starting subtleties were that it would happen some time after "Chain of Memories", which happens legitimately after the main diversion. Different subtleties incorporated the arrival of Sora, Donald, and Goofy, just as new ensembles. Data about Mickey Mouse's contribution was kept to a base. 

At the 2004 Square Enix E3 Press meeting, maker Shinji Hashimoto said that numerous puzzles of the primary amusement would be replied. Square Enix propelled the official Japanese site in May 2005, trailed by the English site in December 2005. The sites included recordings and data with respect to characters and universes. Plugs were broadcast in Japan which featured the various Disney characters in the diversion. In spite of the fact that the amusement was reported in September 2003, a discharge date for the diversion was not set until two years after the fact. Nomura conceded that the amusement was reported too soon and data in regards to the diversion was not discharged until an introduction period was in sight. 

Inside seven days of its Japanese discharge, "Kingdom Hearts II" sent one million duplicates, selling just about 730,000 duplicates. The NPD Group revealed that "Kingdom Hearts II" was the most astounding selling console diversion in North America amid March 2006 with 614,000 duplicates. In the month after its discharge in North America, "Kingdom Hearts II" sold an expected one million duplicates. GameStop recorded the amusement as their smash hit title for the primary quarter of 2006. The amusement was additionally on IGN's "Best 10 Sellers in 2006". By December 2006, over 3.5 million duplicates of "Kingdom Hearts II" had been delivered worldwide with 700,000 in PAL locales, 1.1 million in Japan, and 1.7 million in North America. By March 31, 2007, Square Enix had delivered over 4 million units around the world. 

"Kingdom Hearts II" got basic praise upon discharge, gathering positive surveys. The amusement got various honors and high appraisals among audits incorporating a Satellite Award in 2006 for "Exceptional Game Based on Existing Medium". It tied with "Inhabitant Evil 4" as "Famitsu"s "Round of the Year" 2005. "Famitsu"s perusers positioned the diversion 29th on their "Record-breaking Top 100" include, ten places beneath "Kingdom Hearts". It was positioned number one on IGN's 2006 "Peruser's Choice" for PlayStation 2 diversions. Eurogamer positioned it 34th on their "Best 50 Games of 2006" list. Computer game magazine "Electronic Gaming Monthly" granted it "Best Sequel" of 2006, and "Diversion Informer" recorded it among the "Best 50 rounds of 2006". "VideoGamer.com" included it tenth in their article "Top 10: Role playing diversions". "GamePro" named it the 25th best RPG title ever. "Kingdom Hearts II" likewise got a close flawless score, 39/40, from the Japanese gaming magazine "Famitsu". 

Commentators lauded numerous parts of the amusement. GameSpy applauded the nature of the voice acting and refered to the designs as "keeping pace with the best of Square's preparations to date." They likewise remarked on the practical and precise character models for the characters from "Privateers of the Caribbean". IGN appraised the designs a 9/10 and expressed that the "universes look particularly like their taped partners." Japanese gaming site Gpara.com likewise adulated the appearance of the universes. G4 granted "Kingdom Hearts II" "Best Voice Over" and "Best Soundtrack" in their 2006 "G-Phoria" entertainment expo. 

Like its forerunners, the interactivity got blended surveys. Numerous compliments were aimed at the new camera controls and battle collaborations between gathering individuals. "GamePro" expressed that the start was "lazily moderate", yet lauded the activity situated battle. GameSpot said that the fixed camera framework and new ongoing interaction elements improved the experience, yet they felt the diversion was excessively simple and that there was an excessive amount of catch pounding. IGN additionally remarked on the catch pounding part of the ongoing interaction and condemned the gathering part's man-made reasoning, refering to it as "completely horrendous", however applauded the story, introduction, and new fight highlights. Gpara.com had positive remarks about the simplicity of combo assaults and complimented the enduring pacing of the story and interactivity. 

"Kingdom Hearts II" has been discharged in four distinct variants. The initial three are the typical territorial discharges in Japan, North America, and PAL districts, which just contrast ostensibly in substance altering and restriction. The European and Australian PAL discharges were reformatted to keep running at 50 Hz to fit the definition size of PAL encoding frameworks. The fourth form has extra substance and was discharged under the title "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix". Like the past titles, both Square and Disney discharged various kinds of stock when the amusement turned out. Stock extended from toys and puppets to garments things and books. The amusement has additionally been adjusted into both manga and novel arrangement. Before the amusement's discharge, a "Ultimania" book titled "Kingdom Hearts Series Ultimania α ~Introduction of Kingdom Hearts II~" turned out. It gives expanded data on the initial two "Kingdom Hearts" recreations, just as data on the unreleased "Kingdom Hearts II". After the arrival of the diversion, "Kingdom Hearts II Ultimania", which centers around the amusement itself, turned out. Another book, titled "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix+ Ultimania", was discharged after the "Last Mix" variant turned out. Discharged alongside "Conclusive Mix", "Kingdom Hearts - Another Report-" was a hardback book which incorporates amusement data, visuals by Shiro Amano, and a chief meeting. In North America, BradyGames distributed two methodology manages—a standard guide and a restricted release rendition. The last form was accessible in four unique covers and incorporated a duplicate of Jiminy's Journal alongside 400 stickers. 

Since the primary amusement was re-discharged, there was hypothesis whether Tetsuya Nomura would do likewise with "Kingdom Hearts II". In a "Week after week Shōnen Jump" meet with Nomura, he communicated enthusiasm for a conceivable universal variant of "Kingdom Hearts II," despite the fact that there were no distinct plans. He said that ought to a "Last Mix" adaptation emerge, he had a "trump card" as a top priority, with so much highlights as the Mushroom Heartless found in the primary "Kingdom Hearts" amusement. In September 2006, Square Enix reported "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix", including new scenes and interactivity components. Like the primary re-discharge, this rendition would consolidate English sound with Japanese content and furthermore utilize the "Asylum" signature melody rather than "Energy". New cutscenes, in any case, utilized Japanese voice acting, as they for the most part highlighted Organization XIII individuals from "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" who did not yet have English voice performing artists; these scenes were later re-named into English for the "HD 2.5 Remix" discharge. 

"Kingdom Hearts II" was re-discharged in Japan on March 29, 2007 as a 2-circle set titled "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix+". The main plate contains "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix" with another mystery film and extra fights and things. The second circle contains "Kingdom Hearts Re:Chain of Memories", a 3D PlayStation 2 revamp of "" with additional scenes and voice acting. The fight framework keeps up the card ongoing interaction, with the expansion of Reaction Commands from "Kingdom Hearts II". Like the principal diversion's Final Mix, the two recreations fill in as an accepted update to the arrangement. The book "Kingdom Hearts - Another Report-" was incorporated alongside the amusement for the individuals who saved a duplicate. In light of Amazon.com figures, "Last Mix+" was the main PlayStation 2 diversion in deals amid the seven day stretch of its discharge in Japan. Nomura refered to the nearness of "Kingdom Hearts Re:Chain of Memories" to clarify why "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix+" was so mainstream. All things considered, in a "Famitsu" survey in July 2011, "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix" was casted a ballot the most prevalent section up until this point. 

It was discharged out of the blue outside Japan as a major aspect of "Kingdom Hearts HD 2.5 Remix". 

A manga arrangement dependent on the diversion began its serialization in the June 2006 issue of the magazine "Month to month Shōnen Gangan", distributed by Square Enix. The craftsman is Shiro Amano, who likewise did the "Kingdom Hearts" and "Chain of Memories" manga arrangement. The primary volume was discharged in Japan in December 2006. Because of Amano working in the "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days" manga, the arrangement has been on rest and continued production in October 2012. Tokyopop authorized the manga and discharged volume one in North America on July 3, 2007. The second volume was discharged the next year. 

The amusement has additionally been novelized by Tomoco Kanemaki and shown by Shiro Amano. The principal volume, titled "Roxas—Seven Days", was discharged on April 22, 2006 and covers Roxas' story to when Sora awakens and leaves Twilight Town. The epic delineates additional scenes that were included the "Last Mix" form, for example, communication between Organization XIII individuals and between Axel, Naminé and Riku. The second book, "The Destruction of Hollow Bastion", was discharged on July 16, 2006, the third book, "Tears of Nobody," spinning around Roxas' past, was discharged on September 29, 2006, and the fourth book, "Hymn—Meet Again/Axel Last Stand," turned out in February 2007. 

In the credits of "HD 1.5 Remix", clasps of "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix" were appeared, at its consideration in another gathering. On October 14, 2013, Square Enix reported "Kingdom Hearts HD 2.5 Remix", a second assemblage solely for the PlayStation 3 after "HD 1.5 Remix", that incorporates both "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix" and "Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep Final Mix" in HD and trophy support. Moreover, the accumulation incorporates HD true to life scenes from "" and was discharged in Japan on October 2, 2014, North America on December 2, 2014, Australia on December 4, 2014, and Europe on December 5, 2014. 

Notes 

References