Quiriguá 

Quiriguá () is an antiquated Maya archeological site in the bureau of Izabal in south-eastern Guatemala. It is a medium-sized site covering around along the lower Motagua River, with the formal focus about from the north bank. Amid the Maya Classic Period (AD 200– 900), Quiriguá was arranged at the point of a few critical exchange courses. The site was involved by 200, development on the acropolis had started by around 550, and a blast of more stupendous development began in the 8th century. All development had ended by around 850, aside from a concise time of reoccupation in the Early Postclassic ("c". 900 – "c". 1200). Quiriguá shares its engineering and sculptural styles with the close-by Classic Period city of Copán, with whose history it is intently weaved. 

Quiriguá's quick development in the eighth century was fixing to lord K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat's military triumph over Copán in 738. At the point when the best ruler of Copán, Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil or "18-Rabbit", was crushed, he was caught and after that relinquished in the Great Plaza at Quiriguá. Prior to this, Quiriguá had been a vassal territory of Copán, yet it kept up its freedom a short time later. The stylized engineering at Quiriguá is very humble, however the site's significance lies in its abundance of model, including the tallest stone momentous figure at any point raised in the New World. 

The archeological site of Quiriguá is named after the close-by town of a similar name, and is found somewhat over upper east of Guatemala City; it lies in the region of Los Amates in the division of Izabal and has a rise of above mean ocean level. 

Situated on the north bank of the lower spans of the Motagua River, Quiriguá is arranged at the point where the valley widens into a flood plain, which has presented the site to intermittent flooding throughout the hundreds of years. In spite of the fact that the stream passed near the site amid the time of the city's occupation, it has since changed course and now streams south of the formal focus. Quiriguá is north of Copán, and is found north-west of the universal fringe with Honduras. 

The neighborhood bedrock is a hard red sandstone, which the occupants utilized in the development of landmarks and engineering. This nearby sandstone is extremely solid and not inclined to shearing or cracking, permitting the artists at Quiriguá to erect the tallest detached stone landmarks in the Americas. Quiriguá was fabricated straightforwardly over the Motagua Fault and the city endured harm in old occasions because of serious quakes. 

In spite of the fact that the Quiriguá tip top were unmistakably Maya in ethnicity, the site lies on the southern fringe of the Mesoamerican territory and the populace was in any event bi-ethnic, with ethnic Maya in a minority. Most of the populace had a place ethnically with the less unpredictable Intermediate Area lying past the eastern outskirt of Mesoamerica. The populace thickness of the site has been evaluated at 400 to 500 for every square kilometer (1040 to 1300 for every square mile) in the focal point of the city amid the Late Classic with an expected pinnacle populace of 1200– 1600; studies have uncovered a normal of 130 structures for each square kilometer (338 for every square mile) at the site, contrasted and 1449 structures/km (3767 for every square mile) in focal Copán. The low populace thickness demonstrates that Quiriguá filled in as the concentration for a scattered provincial populace. 

The populace dimensions of the Quiriguá valley expanded quickly after the fruitful resistance to Copán in 738, despite the fact that it was never an intensely populated site. In the 9th century there was a serious decrease in populace, coming full circle in the surrender of the city. 

The Motagua River streams down from the western Guatemalan good countries, and Quiriguá was in a perfect world situated to control the exchange of whole jade, most of which was found in the center compasses of the Motagua Valley, just as controlling the stream of other vital items here and there the waterway, for example, cacao, which was created as a neighborhood money crop. In spite of the fact that cacao was created for exchange, maize remained the essential neighborhood crop because of its focal job in the Maya diet. Likewise, maize most likely framed a critical segment in the site's tribute installments to its overlords at Copán, a city that was depleting its very own nearby assets. Albeit minimal jade has been recouped from the site, there is proof for exchange obsidian beginning from the Ixtepeque source arranged close to the upper spans of the Motagua. 

In the Classic Period, the area of the site would have put Quiriguá on an intersection between the exchanging course from the good countries to the Caribbean coast and the course from Copán to the real urban communities of the Petén Basin. 

As recorded on hieroglyphic engravings at Quiriguá, all dates are AD. Maya engravings for rulers in some cases incorporate reference to a number (""hel"- number" or check, named after its fundamental glyph) that are accepted to indicate the situation of that ruler in the arrangement of dynastic progression to the rulership of the site. In this manner a "hel"- number of five shows the ruler was fifth in the line of dynastic progression. 

There is proof that Quiriguá was involved as ahead of schedule as the Late Preclassic (400 BC – AD 200). Albeit no structures have been safely dated to this period, various Late Preclassic relics have been recuperated, including 63 figurines and a chert sharp edge. Early Classic earthenware production from Quiriguá are like finds at both Copán and Chalchuapa in El Salvador, while jade hunchback puppets from a similar period look like those found in focal Honduras and in the Guatemalan good countries. These early finds show the support of Quiriguá in the more extensive southeastern Maya area from the Late Preclassic onwards. 

A mix of hieroglyphic writings from Tikal, Copán and Quiriguá, together with engineering styles and synthetic trial of the bones of the originator of the Copán line all recommend that Quiriguá and Copán were established by world class settlers from the incredible city of Tikal as a piece of its venture into the southeastern outskirt territory of the Maya district. The written history of Quiriguá begins in 426, in the Early Classic ("c". 200 – "c". 600); as indicated by hieroglyphic engravings at different destinations, on 5 September of that year K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' was enthroned as ruler of Copán. Only three days after the fact he introduced "Tok Casper", the primary known ruler of Quiriguá, upon the position of royalty. From this it is apparent that directly from the earliest starting point of its written history Quiriguá was subservient to its southern neighbor, and was established to bring the rewarding exchange course of the Motagua River under the control of Copán and, in a roundabout way, of Tikal. Amid the following couple of hundreds of years, about which little is known, the stylized engineering at Quiriguá was constrained to the peak Group An and a wide earthen stage on the valley floor. It is recorded that a stela, up 'til now unfamiliar, was raised in 455 by Tutuum Yohl K'inich, the second lord of Quiriguá. An early landmark records the supervision of a custom in 480 by the then overlord from Copán, exhibiting Quiriguá's proceeded with status as a vassal of that city. A hieroglyphic content dating to 493 notices two further rulers of Quiriguá, however intrusions in the content make the perusing and decipherment of their names especially troublesome. 

There are close parallels between the fifth century design and landmarks of Quiriguá and Uaxactun in the northern Petén, a site that fell under the control of Tikal in the late fourth century. The similitudes demonstrate that Quiriguá remained unequivocally lined up with the incomparable Tikal coalition arrange. 

Quiriguá experienced a rest the turn of the sixth century that kept going through to the center of the seventh century. This might be connected to the Tikal break of the Middle Classic brought about by Tikal's annihilation by Calakmul. There is proof that Quiriguá endured an assault by obscure adversaries in this period, as shown by the clearly intentional destruction of Stela U and Monument 26, normal for harm dispensed by attacking warriors. No landmarks were raised amid this break, which endured from 495 to 653. 

In the sixth or mid seventh century a catastrophic event caused a staggering surge of the Motagua Valley and covered the outside of the site under a profound layer of sediment, totally changing the scene. Just those structures that remained over the mud proceeded being used, including bunch A, spared by its ridge area. The earthen stage on the valley floor additionally proceeded being used, in any event those pieces of it that remained over the residue, and it was one of the site's littler edifices that developed to turn into the new focal point of Quiriguá, as spoken to by the landmarks noticeable right up 'til today. 

A recovery can be distinguished by the commitment of the main new landmark in a century and a half, raised by the generally obscure ruler, K'awiil Yopaat, in 653. Proceeded with contact with Copán is clear, just as longer separation contacts, conceivably with Caracol in Belize. At about a similar time significant development work was embraced in the acropolis, including the structure of the site's first ballcourt. 

Quiriguá customarily had been subordinate to its southern neighbor, Copán, and in 724 Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, ruler of Copán, introduced K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat upon Quiriguá's position of royalty as his vassal. As right on time as 734, notwithstanding, K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat had demonstrated that he was never again a respectful subordinate of Copán when he began to allude to himself as "k'ul ahaw", heavenly ruler, rather than utilizing the lesser term "ahaw", subordinate master; in the meantime he started to utilize his very own Quiriguá insignia glyph. These early declarations of freedom can possibly have been made whether Quiriguá had figured out how to shape an outside collusion. 

Without a doubt, this neighborhood demonstration of disobedience seems to have been a piece of the bigger political battle between the two Maya "superpowers", the incredible urban areas of Tikal and Calakmul. In 736, just two years after the fact, K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat got a visit from Wamaw K'awiil, the high ruler of removed Calakmul, while Copán was one of Tikal's most seasoned partners. The planning of this visit by the lord of Calakmul is very critical, falling between the increase of K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat to the honored position of Quiriguá as a vassal of Copán and the by and large resistance that was to pursue. This unequivocally proposes Calakmul supported Quiriguá's insubordination so as to debilitate Tikal and to access the rich exchange course of the Motagua Valley. Almost certainly, contact with Calakmul had been started not long after K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat acquiesced to the position of royalty, since Quiriguá experienced fast development before long, recommending that Quiriguá previously was getting outer help. 

In 738 the interlinked fortunes of Quiriguá and Copán took a staggering alter of course when K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat, ruling master of Quiriguá, caught the incredible, however older thirteenth lord of Copán, Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, who had introduced him on his royal position in 725. This overthrow does not appear to have influenced either Copán or Quiriguá physically, there is no proof that either city was assaulted right now and the victor appears not to have gotten any distinguishable tribute. Quiriguá appears to be somewhat to have picked up its autonomy and the control of vital exchange courses. An engraving at Quiriguá, albeit hard to translate, proposes that the catch occurred on 27 April 738, when Quiriguá seized and consumed the wooden pictures of Copán's benefactor gods. The majority of this appears to infer that K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat figured out how to by one way or another snare Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, as opposed to have vanquished him in out and out fight. In the Classic Period the statues of Maya gods regularly were conveyed into fight on palanquins, encouraging their catch in case of annihilation. It has been recommended that the lord of Copán was endeavoring to assault another site so as to verify hostages for penance, and was trapped by K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat and his Quiriguá warriors. 

The caught ruler was reclaimed to Quiriguá and on 3 May 738 he was executed in an open ceremony. The conciliatory offering of the blood of such a ground-breaking overlord extraordinarily upgraded the remaining of Quiriguá and its regal family all through the area and it broadcasted Quiriguá as the new capital of the south-eastern Maya locale. After this, Quiriguá occupied with a noteworthy landmark building program, intently emulating the sculptural style of Copán, potentially utilizing caught Copán artists to do the work. The number of inhabitants in Quiriguá and of different locales in the valley quickly expanded after the occasions of 738, despite the fact that Quiriguá was dependably a little focus and its all out populace likely never surpassed 2,000. 

In the Late Classic ("c". 600 – "c". 900), collusion with Calakmul as often as possible was related with the guarantee of military help. The way that Copán, a significantly more dominant city than Quiriguá, neglected to strike back against its previous vassal suggests that it dreaded the military mediation of Calakmul. Calakmul itself was sufficiently far from Quiriguá that K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat was not scared of falling straightforwardly under its capacity as a full vassal state, despite the fact that all things considered, Calakmul sent warriors to help in the annihilation of Copán. The collusion rather appears to have been one of common favorable position, Calakmul figured out how to debilitate an amazing partner of Tikal while Quiriguá picked up its autonomy. 

In 718, the city of Xkuy – a so far unfamiliar site – was assaulted and consumed by Copán under the initiative of lord Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil. After the lord of Copán was yielded in 738, Xkuy appears to have turned into a devoted vassal of Quiriguá and in 762 K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat regulated the increase of "Sunraiser Jaguar" to the subservient city's position of royalty. 

K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat, who had so significantly changed the fate of his city, kicked the bucket on 27 July 785. Zoomorph G is his remembrance stone and it depicts how he was covered 10 days later in the "13 Kawak House", a structure that has not been recognized. The extraordinary lord was prevailing by "Sky Xul", a ruler whose name has not been legitimately distinguished. "Sky Xul" turned into the dominant master of Quiriguá 78 days after the demise of K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat, who is thought to have been his dad. His rule endured from 10 to 15 years and was a time of proceeded with action. In the greater part of the Maya area urban communities as of now were enduring terminal decrease, overwhelmed by the Classic Maya breakdown, yet in Quiriguá "Sky Xul" devoted three incredible zoomorph models and two special raised areas, considered wonders of Maya stoneworking. "Sky Xul" passed on some time somewhere in the range of 795 and 800. 

Little is known about "Jade Sky", who succeeded "Sky Xul" and was the last recorded leader of Quiriguá. The city's capacity previously was winding down, as confirm by the two hindered stelae raised amid his rule, which show that the kingdom never again approached the sort of assets expected to create landmarks of a comparative quality to those of his ancestors. "Jade Sky" built two of the biggest structures in the acropolis, in any case. 

Quiriguá evidently held its autonomy from Copán and kept on prospering until the start of the ninth century. Relations between the two urban areas had improved to some degree by 810, when ruler Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat of Copán visited Quiriguá so as to complete a "k'atun"- finishing custom. In any case, 810 was likewise the year when the last hieroglyphic writings were raised at Quiriguá, in spite of the fact that a diminished dimension of development proceeded in the downtown area. After this, Quiriguá falls into quietness, immersed by the more prominent marvel of the Classic Maya collapse – it had lost its purpose behind presence when exchange never again streamed along the Motagua; inside a couple of years Quiriguá was everything except left and destinations all through the Motagua Valley endured serious decay or relinquishment. 

In the early Postclassic Period ("c". 900 – "c". 1200), Quiriguá was involved by people groups firmly connected to the Caribbean beach front regions of the Yucatán Peninsula and Belize, maybe due to Chontal Maya control of an exchange arrange that incorporated the Yucatán coast and the Motagua Valley. Amid their concise reoccupation of the site they made significant increases to the acropolis complex. Finds related with their occupation incorporate a leaning back chacmool figure and earthenware production from the east bank of Yucatán, ancient rarities that exhibit a nearby connection with the inaccessible city of Chichen Itza. Some copper ringers and adornments were recuperated from Quiriguá, they are among the soonest finds of metal ancient rarities in the Maya region. They have been dated to either the Terminal Classic ("c". 800 – "c". 950) or the Early Postclassic. 

The primary European guest to distribute a record of Quiriguá was English modeler and craftsman Frederick Catherwood, who achieved the remains in 1840. The past landowner, by the surname of Payés, had related the presence of the remnants to his children and to Carlos Meiney, a Jamaican Englishman inhabitant in Guatemala. The senior Payés had as of late kicked the bucket and passed the land to his children and, since neither Meiney nor Payés' children had visited the land containing the remains, they welcomed John Lloyd Stephens and Catherwood to go along with them on their first outing to the site. Stephens had different obligations to take care of, however Catherwood had the capacity to go with the Payés siblings to Quiriguá. Because of unfriendly conditions he was just ready to remain a brief span at the vestiges, yet made illustrations of two of the stelae, which were distributed with a short record of Catherwood's visit in John Lloyd Stephens' book "Occurrences of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yucatan" in 1841. Quiriguá was the principal site that Stephens and Catherwood could profess to have found themselves. A more extended record of the remnants was made in 1854 by Dr. Karl Scherzer. 

Pilgrim and prehistorian Alfred Maudslay visited Quiriguá for three days in 1881; they were the first pre-Columbian remnants that he saw and they were adequately amazing to move him to take up a lasting enthusiasm for Central American antiquarianism. He had the capacity to return on three further events, the last being in 1894, and he endeavored the primary endeavors to clear the landmarks before account them. He did an intensive examination and made a photographic record of every noticeable landmark, completed some minor unearthings, made paper and mortar molds of the hieroglyphic engravings and overviewed the essential figures; these molds were then sent to the Victoria and Albert Museum, with throws being exchanged to the British Museum. 

In 1910, the United Fruit Company purchased Quiriguá and all the land for an incredible separation around the site for banana creation; they put aside around the formal focus as an archeological park, leaving an island of wilderness among the manors. Increasingly archeological work was done from 1910 to 1914 by Edgar Lee Hewett and Sylvanus Morley for the School of American Archeology in Santa Fe. Copies of the stelae of Quiriguá produced using Hewitt's mortar throws of the firsts were displayed at the Panama-California Exposition in San Diego, California, in 1915. The throws are still in plain view at the San Diego Museum of Man in their "Maya: Heart of Sky, Heart of Earth" presentation. The Carnegie Institution directed a few irregular undertakings at Quiriguá from 1915 through 1934. Aldous Huxley, composing in the wake of visiting the site in the mid 1930s, noticed that Quiriguá's stelae recognized "man's triumph after some time and matter and the triumph of time and matter over man." Quiriguá was among the primary Maya archeological destinations to be examined seriously, albeit little reclamation was done and the remains by and by ended up congested with wilderness. 

Quiriguá was proclaimed a National Monument in 1970 under Ministerial Accord 1210, this was pursued on 19 June 1974 by its announcement as an Archeological Park under Governmental Accord 35-74. 

From 1974 through 1979, a broad archeological undertaking was led at Quiriguá supported by the University of Pennsylvania, the National Geographic Society, and the Guatemalan Instituto de Antropología e Historia. Coordinated by Robert Sharer and William R. Coe, the venture exhumed the acropolis, cleaned the landmarks, and concentrated distant gatherings. It was proclaimed an UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1981, and in 1999 UNESCO endorsed one-off subsidizing of US$27,248 for "crisis help for the restoration of the archeological site of Quiriguá". One of the site's stelae is portrayed on the Guatemalan 10 centavo coin. 

The zone included inside the Archeological Park of Quiriguá has been produced for the travel industry with the development of a vehicle leave, site exhibition hall, and sanitation offices and is available to the general population once a day. 

After Quiriguá's significant triumph over Copán in 738, K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat reconstructed the fundamental gathering in the picture of Copán itself. Hence, the acropolis, royal residence, and ballcourt all lie at the southern end of the Great Plaza. The stylized revolve is spread out around three courts, the northernmost is the Great Plaza. This court measures from north to south and is the biggest square in the entire Maya locale. At the southern end of the Great Plaza is the Ballcourt Plaza, encompassed on three sides by structures related with the acropolis. The Acropolis Plaza is a completely encased court inside the acropolis itself. The zone toward the west of the Ballcourt Plaza was presumably the riverside docking zone and there is proof that the southern piece of the Great Plaza was a commercial center. Various artistic lined wells have been exhumed near the site center, these were altogether worked in the 8th century and albeit some proceeded being used into the ninth century, none are known to have been constructed that late. 

Gatherings A, B and C lie at a separation of one to three miles from the site center. 

The landmarks at Quiriguá incorporate abnormally substantial stelae intricately cut from single squares of red sandstone, brought from quarries away. The qualities of this hard shake enabled the nearby stone carvers to create low-help figures upgraded by three-dimensional countenances, interestingly with the contemporary two-dimensional model of the Petén area. After the thrashing and execution of the lord of Copán in 738, the sculptural style of Quiriguá intently looked like that of its previous overlord. The tremendous stelae at Quirigá initially would have been noticeable from the Motagua River, which once streamed past the west side of the Great Plaza, declaring the freshly discovered intensity of the city to passing brokers. The landmarks incorporate long boards of glyphic content that are considered among the most perplexing and wonderful of all Maya stone engravings. A normal for these writings is the utilization of full-figure glyphs in which the typical bar and dab number glyphs of Maya content are supplanted with perfectly cut portrayals of the gods. In any case, by the last piece of the eighth century Quiriguá had built up a unique style with the creation of stones intricately etched into the types of composite legendary creatures bearing components of frogs, panthers, crocodiles, and flying creatures of prey; these models are alluded to as "zoomorphs" and were finished by two later lords after the demise of K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat in 785. 

There additionally are different raised areas and models utilized as design in the veneers of structures; most Quiriguá landmarks have a fabulous formal monumentality that is somewhat solid contrasted with the naturalistic effortlessness of the craft of some other Maya destinations. Hints of red shade have been found on a portion of the landmarks and the greater part of the landmarks were probably going to have been painted red, the shade of birth, penance, and restoration.