SECR K and SR K1 classes 

The SECR K class was a kind of 2-6-4 tank train planned in 1914 by Richard Maunsell for express traveler obligations on the South Eastern and Chatham Railway (SECR), which worked among London and south-east England. The Southern Railway (SR) K1 class was a three-barrel variation of the K class, planned in 1925 to suit a smaller stacking check. They were among the first non-Great Western Railway (GWR) types to utilize and enhance the fundamental structure standards of intensity and institutionalization set up by GWR Chief Mechanical Engineer (CME) George Jackson Churchward. The trains depended on the GWR 4300 class, improved by the Midland Railway's standards of effortlessness and simplicity of upkeep. 

The K class was intended to be precisely like the SECR N class 2-6-0 blended traffic trains. The class was one of the soonest to utilize the 2-6-4 wheel course of action in Britain. Creation started towards the finish of the First World War, and the model took off of Ashford Works three years after plan work was finished because of wartime generation requirements. The class supplanted out of date 4-4-0 traveler trains in a SECR armada institutionalization program. 

Twenty-one trains were fabricated: twenty K class (two barrels) and one K1 class (three chambers), the first in 1917 and the rest of 1925 and 1926. They worked over the Eastern area of the Southern Railway arrange and were given the names of streams, being alluded as the River class from 1925. Teams alluded to the K and K1 classes as "Moving Rivers" in light of their insecurity when going at speed. They were revamped as 2-chamber SR U class and 3-barrel SR U1 class 2-6-0s (separately) following a railroad mishap at Sevenoaks, Kent in 1927. They proceeded in administration with British Railways (BR) until the latter was pulled back in 1966. One K class revamp (No. 31806) is protected on the Swanage Railway in Dorset and starting at 2016 is operational. 

Three variables directed the kind of train that could work on the South Eastern and Chatham Railway (SECR): the substantial traveler train loadings; the poor track quality; and the feeble, daintily fabricated scaffolds. On the lines of the previous London, Chatham and Dover Railway (LCDR) – acquired by the SECR in 1899 – shoreline rocks had been utilized for weight rather than regular balance, which has unpredictable shapes that lock together to keep the track set up. These economies in development implied that just trains with low hub loadings could work securely over the track. The SECR was in this way unfit to pursue an intelligent methodology to decrease the quantity of train types acquired from the two constituent railroads. Regardless of expanded traveler and cargo traffic between and the Kentish coast amid the principal many years of the twentieth century, the Operating Department needed to utilize crisscrossed classes of underpowered and out of date 4-4-0 and 0-6-0 trains, which could work inside the limitations forced by the foundation. This brought about incessant twofold heading, adding to operational expenses. 

Richard Maunsell was selected CME of the SECR in 1913, after the upheld retirement of Harry Wainwright, who had left a scope of skilled however unspectacular train classes that attempted to adapt to the expanded train lengths and loadings. Maunsell inspected the circumstance and intended to present six standard classes – utilizing just two kettle plans – which would work the whole traffic of the railroad. The first of these was the N class 2-6-0, which gave the SECR a skilled blended traffic train. For the express traveler plan that could adapt to the overwhelming watercraft trains, Maunsell needed to extend the current L class 4-4-0 with Walschaerts valve gear and an augmented superheater, yet this structure would have brought about a too substantial pivot stacking. Maunsell's recently enrolled partners, G.H. Pearson and Harold Holcroft from the Great Western Railway at Swindon and James Clayton from the Midland Railway at Derby, had as of late been associated with the plan of vast traveler tank motors and induced him to utilize the 2-6-4 wheel course of action, which would enable the class to work at high speeds on the low quality track in north Kent. 

The 2-6-4 wheel game plan was not in like manner use in Great Britain as of now, the same number of railroad organizations worked courses that required trains with more noteworthy fuel limit, or short branch lines that required littler trains. The 2-6-4 tank motor structure had just been utilized once before for standard measure trains in Britain, on the Great Central Railway's 1B class cargo trains of 1914. Notwithstanding, the design was perfect for the SECR, on account of its shorter mainlines, and considered a long wheelbase with a main hub to allow more noteworthy soundness at speed on track bends. The snugness of the bends on the previous LCDR mainlines had compelled the extent of trains working on the SECR, as they had been quickly raised amid the nineteenth century to rival those of the South Eastern Railway (SER). The more extended train could likewise oblige a bigger heater than a 4-4-0, giving adequate capacity to dodge twofold heading of trains on heavier trains. 

The K class configuration utilized a "Bissel bogie" driving pivot and a plain trailing bogie. The trailing bogie allowed the utilization of an extensive coal shelter that was equipped for supporting the train over the keep running between London Charing Cross and , and side water tanks of limit were utilized, refuting the requirement for a delicate. The coupled wheelbase between the back and focus driving wheels was diminished from that utilized on the precisely indistinguishable N class to oblige the bogie. The taxi was completely encased, in spite of the fact that the arrangement of four little front scene plates (the windows on the front substance of the taxi for forward perceivability) were equivalent to those utilized on the N class. 

The K class was structured by Maunsell's group in 1914 as a component of his proposed institutionalization program following the N class, yet the plans were not appeared to the railroad chiefs until mid 1915 to empower every one of the six plans to be appeared on the double. The plan joined the standards of intensity and dependability built up by George Churchward, utilizing a Belpaire firebox that slanted downwards towards the taxi rather than a round-topped variant, a controller situated in the smokebox, long-travel valves with the expectation of complimentary running at high speeds, a strongly decreased and domeless heater, and a right-hand driving position. The incorporation of these highlights is ascribed to Holcroft, Maunsell's own colleague, who had taken a shot at the GWR 4300 class and the N class. James Clayton, Maunsell's Chief Locomotive Draftsman, brought less complex and progressively useful Midland Railway impacts to the structure, for example, the state of the taxi and the drumhead-type smokebox, which sat on a seat that was of more extensive distance across than the completely slacked and clad heater. The last was fitted with Ross pop security valves and squeezed to . 

Different advancements by Maunsell's group included more noteworthy superheating surface territory, finding the evaporator water top feed inside an arch like spread with outer clackboxes and water feed channels mounted on either side, outside Walschaerts valve rigging, and parts that could be imparted to comparable train classes to decrease upkeep costs. The firebox was smaller towards the back and highlighted a ceaselessly slanting mesh, while the ashpan was fitted with front and back damper entryways, the last changed in accordance with clear the back driving hub. The lower some portion of the coal fortification fused a water tank of limit. This was associated with two side tanks by two rectangular pipes on either side of the train that likewise shaped backings for the taxi footplate. 

In January 1915 Maunsell got specialist to construct six precedents, however, likewise with the N class, generation was postponed because of the utilization of the Ashford works for wartime combat hardware fabricate. Get together started in 1917 and the first, No. 790, developed in July of that year. It was based at Bricklayers Arms warehouse, going before the prior N class structure into administration by one month. Further development was conceded until after Ashford had made up for lost time with the support excess brought about by the war. 

Ten additional trains were requested by the SECR from Ashford works in June 1920, and to speed conveyance the development of edges, chambers and side tanks was subcontracted to the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich. In any case, further extreme postponements at Ashford brought about by the excess of fix work implied that the boilers must be provided by the North British Locomotive Company. Development of these trains had not started by 1 January 1923, when the Railways Act 1921 blended the SECR with different railroads in southern England to frame the Southern Railway. 

Maunsell was designated CME of the recently framed Southern Railway in 1923, and acquired the 1920 SECR request for ten K class trains. The request was all the while remarkable in 1924, albeit a large portion of the segment parts had been made. On 14 January 1925, Maunsell requested No. 790 to be updated and trialed on the Central area. As the train demonstrated reasonable for the working states of this area, the Southern Railway's Locomotive Committee continued with the gathering of the K class parts utilizing outside contractual workers. Nine arrangements of parts (Nos. A791– A799) were passed on to Armstrong Whitworth for get together and the completed trains conveyed in May and June 1925. These were double fitted with vacuum and Westinghouse (air) brakes for use with the previous London, Brighton and South Coast Railway (LBSCR) moving stock on the Central area. Different contrasts from the model incorporated the movement of the controller to the arch and an expansion in superheater zone. The tenth arrangement of parts was held by Ashford and utilized for the primary individual from the K1 class soon thereafter. 

In May 1925 Maunsell requested a further ten trains from Brighton works (Nos. A800– A809), which just had vacuum brakes for the SECR stock on the Eastern area. They were conveyed among July and December 1926. This gathering had adjusted suspension on the bogie and driving hub, trying to address grumblings from the teams of harsh riding experienced with before individuals from the class. A further 20 individuals from the class were requested in March 1926 (ten each from Ashford and Brighton works), regardless of solid reservations communicated by the Operating Department concerning "the intelligence or attractive quality of setting such huge numbers of expansive traveler tanks in administration". These were allotted the numbers A610– A629, and work had started on structure the edges and barrels when the request was dropped following a mishap at Sevenoaks in 1927 including train No. A800. These numbers were later distributed to the primary creation clump of U class trains. 

In August 1919, a proposition was put to the SECR's Locomotive, Carriage and Wagon Committee for 2 and 3-barrel tank motors of 2-8-0 wheel course of action for overwhelming shunting of cargo wagons. They were to utilize a similar heater as the K and N classes and the general format was like plans utilized by the GWR in South Wales. Nothing happened to this proposition in light of different responsibilities and the retention of the SECR into the Southern Railway. In 1922, Holcroft recommended that 3-chamber 2-6-0 delicate trains with driving wheels ought to be worked rather than tank trains. Regardless of the advantage of a more noteworthy operational range, Holcroft's prompt predominant, Clayton, would not pass this proposal on to Maunsell. The 3-chamber standard was hence connected to the K class. 

At the Southern Railway's January 1925 Locomotive Committee meeting, when it was chosen to use outside temporary workers to manufacture the K class, Maunsell got expert to hold one lot of parts at Ashford attempts to build a model 3-barrel 2-6-4 tank. The alteration depended on that utilized on N class No. 822 to create a 3-barrel train in 1922, in spite of the fact that it held the driving haggles wheelbase of the K class. The alteration was the consideration of an extra (inside) barrel between the edges, and a wrench hub was fitted to the center driving wheels. The pivot was associated with within chamber get together by an interfacing pole slanted at 1 out of 8 to clear the front driving hub. This course of action was enhanced by two littler distance across outside chambers with bore (contrasted with the barrels of the K class), and a more noteworthy stack breadth. The subsequent model 3-barrel "K1" was smaller than the K class and consequently could chip away at courses with confined stacking check. As with No. 822, this train utilized Holcroft's subordinate of the Gresley conjugated valve apparatus to drive within chamber. To oblige this, the kettle must be raised by over within apparatus, raising the focal point of gravity on the train. 

The principle visual contrast between the K and K1 classes was at the front end: the K1 fused a vertical metal spread over the front support bar to secure the third barrel and related Holcroft valve gear get together from the components. It additionally highlighted another taxi structure with upgraded single front exhibition plates, and a couple of considerably built advances were fitted behind both outside barrels to give access to the running plate. The absence of a center chamber on the K class trains had permitted the arrangement of a footplate that bended from the supports to the water tanks. The K1 model rose up out of Ashford fills in as No. A890, and experienced preliminaries from 1 December 1925 preceding entering normal administration. Just a single train of the K1 class was fabricated; plans to assemble a further ten (Nos. A891-A900) close by a cluster of five N1 class 2-6-0s were dropped after the Sevenoaks mishap in August 1927. Following modifying as a 2-6-0 delicate train in 1928, No. A890 was renamed U1 and was the trailblazer of twenty all the more fundamentally comparable trains worked in 1931. 

The K class model worked without a name until 1925, when the Southern Railway's exposure division chose to name all express traveler trains. The trains built from 1925 were named after streams found inside the Southern Railway's working region, and the class wound up referred to on the whole as the River class. The principal finished Southern Railway K class No. A791 was named "Stream Adur" while the previous SECR model was given the name "Waterway Avon"; names were likewise allotted to the dropped 1926 clump of trains. The K1 class train No. A890 was named "Waterway Frome". The names were shown on a rectangular metal nameplate fitted to the water tank sides. 

The K class was planned to pull the SECR's Kent communicates, and was trialed between Charing Cross, , and . A preliminary constant keep running between and by No. 790 pulling a train of had demonstrated the water limit of the side tanks to be deficient for such runs. No. 790 was likewise tried on quick Cannon Street, and Tonbridge trains amid the spring of 1922, albeit harsh riding between the last two stations implied slower speeds over that piece of course on consequent runs. 

The Southern Railway's rationale control re-association following the Grouping of 1923 extended the class for activities over the Central segment. The Westinghouse-fitted Armstrong Whitworth clump was utilized reporting in real time braked and communicates and standard traveler administration trains to Portsmouth. The vacuum-braked Brighton cluster was run-in on the Portsmouth course in anticipation of working the Redhill– Reading line, the class normally pulling the every day Birkenhead– Dover through train. The K1 was for the most part rostered to pull the early night express from Cannon Street to Dover Marine. 

The K class demonstrated effective on all around looked after track. It was able to do high speeds on express traveler obligations, in spite of the fact that their utilization was constrained by the lower stockpiling limit of tank trains, which implied the K and K1 classes were inclined to water deficiencies on the long Kent Coast courses, and blocked them from working a significant number of the previous London and South Western Railway (LSWR) courses west of London. The need to spare weight implied that bargains were made in certain parts of the plan. The evaporator estimate was compelled by the SECR's hub stacking limitations, with the outcome that the plan's full steaming potential was not understood. The inability to underwrite upon a bigger evaporator would likewise influence Maunsell's resulting 2-6-0 classes, as they were given a similar kettle in spite of their lower hub loadings. 

On the Southern Railway's Central and Eastern segments, teams grumbled that the trains rolled intensely and eccentrically on the efficiently laid track of the previous SECR and LBSCR systems, prompting their epithet, "Moving Rivers". The rolling was to some degree brought about by the sort of loop suspension and steadying springs utilized on the Bissel truck and bogie axles, which caused unfriendly springing on poor track. These were altered in later clusters, with constrained achievement. The unpleasant riding was additionally credited to the casings, which were of deficient development to spare weight. The supporting demonstrated unequipped for neutralizing the burdens connected to the edges when going at speed and caused extreme vibration on the footplate at higher yields. 

The K1 model was marginally quicker and more dominant than the K class, and gave a smoother ride at low speeds. It was likewise found to have a more extensive course accessibility because of the littler outside barrels. Be that as it may, the Holcroft valve gear turned out to be hard to keep up in ordinary administration. This train was likewise noted for especially poor riding attributes at fast, wrecking twice in 1927. The primary wrecking happened at , close Maidstone on 31 March, when the ribs of the lead coupled wheel mounted the rails at . The second wrecking was at on 20 August, when the lead driving wheel mounted and totally dropped off the rails at , crashing the train and making genuine harm the track. These crashes were credited to the somewhat higher focal point of gravity of the heater on the K1. In spite of the fact that the official reports of these mishaps accused the low quality of the track, a gathering of executives tried to have the two classes prohibited from use on traveler administrations, yet were overruled by the Southern Railway's Chairman of the Board of Directors, Everard Baring on grounds of expense. 

The K and K1 classes experienced steadiness issues when going at speed over focuses and bends. The train would at first roll (quickly lean intensely) to the other side, trailed by a few further moves of bit by bit lessening sufficiency, joined with a side-slipping development that made the driving wheels mount the rails. A few minor crashes of individuals from the class were trailed by the genuine wrecking of No. A800 "Waterway Cray" at Sevenoaks, Kent, in August 1927, brought about by a blend of a flood in the water tanks and the ribs of the train's lead driving wheels mounting the rail at speed because of low quality track-work. The train was pulling a Cannon Street to express with a Pullman carriage when the main driving wheels crashed at over catch focuses in a cutting. A few carriages were flung against a street connect, harming 40 and executing 13 travelers. 

In the days following the mishap, two K and K1 class motors were trialed on the London and North Eastern Railway's (LNER) Great Northern mainline under the supervision of that organization's CME, Nigel Gresley, to pick up a fair-minded audit of their riding characteristics. Trains No. A803 (K) and No. A890 (K1), and King Arthur class No. E782, were tried on the very much kept up LNER line between and in October 1927, where couple of issues were found with train security. On keeps running between Kings Cross and with the LNER's dynamometer vehicle, No. A890 was recorded at a top speed of and A803 at , without any issues in riding. At the point when these motors came back from the LNER, the Southern Railway's General Manager, Sir Herbert Walker requested further preliminaries to be driven by Sir John Aspinall on the Western area fundamental line close . These were ended by the Southern Railway's Operating Department, as the riding of the trains at rates close rendered the trains dangerous. The insecurity of No. A890 at speed was credited to the helical springs on the Bissel truck and bogie. 

The 1928 mishap request did not connect fault toward the Southern Railway for track support or train execution issues, and noticed that the model had kept running for a long time over a similar stretch of line without grievance. Be that as it may, it recognized the Brighton cluster and No. A890 as being increasingly helpless to moving on sharp bends with powerless rail joints, in spite of the fact that the whole class worked without episode on the previous LBSCR organize. The administration of the Southern Railway understood that to have any accomplishment in working the K class tanks on different pieces of the system, huge stretches of track would require overhauling. With the possibility of putting away 20 trains while the fundamental updating occurred, the administration suggested the class be completely pulled back from administration. To recover the cost of developing the motors, Maunsell was offered consent to revamp them to the new SR U class 2-6-0 delicate motor plan in 1928. This choice likewise decreased the unfavorable exposure produced by the mishap. Nonetheless, huge numbers of the parts disposed of amid the revamping procedure would later be re-utilized on another 2-6-4 tank train intended to pull substantial cargo on short treks: the 3-barrel W class of 1932. 

The remaking of the class as delicate trains was less expensive than handing-off track, especially as in many regards the class had performed well. Modifying occurred at Ashford, Brighton and Eastleigh railroad works among March and December 1928, where the water tanks, back bogie and coal shelter were expelled. The straight-sided variation of Maunsell delicate was joined, permitting a more noteworthy operational range for the trains. The back intruders were later utilized on the SR W class 2-6-4 tank trains (the main resulting utilization of this wheel course of action by the Southern Railway, and their utilization was limited to cargo tasks around London). The lone K1 class train was revamped in June 1928, thus turned into the three-barrel model of the SR U1 class. The Holcroft valve gear was later supplanted with a third arrangement of Walschaerts valve gear in February 1932, accordingly lessening upkeep. None of the modifies held their names. 

As individuals from the U and U1 classes, modifies were utilized essentially on blended traffic just as optional traveler obligations on lines between the primary courses. They were utilized everywhere throughout the Southern Railway organize, however were little-utilized over the precarious track inclinations west of Exeter. The littler wheeled N class was favored among teams for similar obligations, as fast fleeing from the primary lines in the West Country. Heavier traveler work was dispensed to Bulleid's Unrebuilt "Light Pacifics", which were inside weight confinements around there. The 21 revamped trains entered British Railways administration in 1948. From 1955 a couple were given substitution outlines at update: these had a shallower bend between the front cushion pillar and the smokebox. 

Withdrawals occurred somewhere in the range of 1962 and 1966, by which time a large number of the reconstructs were based at Guildford shed. Work was taken over by Oliver Bulleid's "Light Pacifics", and the charge of a great part of the previous Southern Railway arrange was inescapable, making all the 2-6-0s surplus to necessities from 1963. The last revamp was pulled back from administration in June 1966. 

The K class model was painted in an unlined dim attire with white lettering and numbering. This Maunsell dark uniform was presented by the SECR as a wartime economy measure. On Grouping in 1923, the SR supplanted the attires of the constituent organizations with a standard sage green uniform (the shading being that recently utilized by Urie on the LSWR) with highly contrasting coating, primrose yellow numbering and "Southern" on the delicate. From 1925, the K and K1 classes were repainted in a darker olive green attire, presented by Maunsell, with plain white covering and primrose yellow markings. At the point when remade into the U and U1 classes, the trains were repainted in the olive green attire with "Southern" added to the delicate tank. This was conveyed into the Second World War when work deficiencies implied that numerous U class trains were painted in plain dark, with the outcome that by 1945 all the class were running in dark. 

The class model was at first numbered 790, with the rest following continuously with a prefix "A" to signify a train intended for the previous SECR. The arrangement of prefixes had been embraced by the SR to recognize trains with indistinguishable numbers procured from various organizations, and the K1 class progressed toward becoming No. A890 when worked in 1925. This framework was supplanted from 1928 by a renumbering of all trains into one arrangement, in which the K class remakes progressed toward becoming Nos. 1790– 1809, and the K1 class revamp progressed toward becoming No. 1890. 

The K and K1 classes were consumed by British Railways as a component of the U and U1 classes in 1948, which were given the BR control arrangement 4MT (blended traffic) in 1950. This was later modified to 4P3F in the light of operational experience on cargo trains. The trains at first held their Southern Railway attire, with "English Railways" added to the delicate when repaints were expected. From 1949 to 1955, the U and U1 class trains were continuously repainted in the British Railways blended traffic fixed dark attire with red, cream and dim coating and the British Railways peak on the delicate. Numbers were changed to the British Railways standard numbering framework: the arrangement 31790– 31809 was distributed to the K class modifies, and 31890 to the K1 class. 

Sir Nigel Gresley's free report on the K and K1 classes amid the mainline dependability preliminaries expressed that they were very much structured, precisely solid and fit for pulling communicates at high speeds on all around looked after track, which implied that they could have been helpful augmentations toward the Southern Railway's rural suburbanite armada. In any case, they were without a doubt inclined to unpleasant riding and insecurity, and not just on the least fortunate quality tracks. The confined water limit additionally constrained their utilization outside the Southern Railway's Central area. The looming charge of the Brighton Main Line, planned for 1932 additionally implied that less obligations reasonable for overwhelming traveler tank trains would be accessible during the 1930s. The absence of an appropriate job for the two classes was viewed as when the choice was made to revamp them as U/U1 delicate motors following the Sevenoaks debacle. In reconstructed structure they kept on working until the 1960s, and were fit for accomplishing speeds in overabundance of 70 mph (110 km/h) with a more prominent level of dependability. 

One K class modify has endure: No. A806 "Waterway Torridge" – changed over to U class No. 1806 – was safeguarded from Woodham Brothers scrap yard in Barry, Vale of Glamorgan, South Wales in October 1976 for use on the Watercress Line. It was reestablished to ex-British Railways condition as No. 31806. In August 2014, the train entered administration with the Swanage Railway.