Defining moment (2008 wrestling) 

Defining moment (2008) was an expert wrestling pay-per-see (PPV) occasion created by the Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) advancement, which occurred on November 9, 2008 at the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida. It was the fourth in the Turning Point order and the first under its name to happen in November. It was initially planned for December, however TNA moved it to November in late 2008 for an obscure reason. It was the eleventh occasion in the 2008 TNA PPV plan. Eight expert wrestling matches, with three including titles, were highlighted on the occasion's card. 

The headliner was for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship, in which then-champion Sting vanquished the challenger A.J. Styles. Kevin Nash versus Samoa Joe was likewise included on the card. Nash vanquished Joe in the challenge. A falls tally anyplace coordinate setting Kurt Angle against Abyss was advanced for the undercard, which Angle won. The TNA Legends Championship was guarded out of the blue by Booker T against Christian Cage amid the show. Booker T was the victor in the session, in this way holding the title. 

The "Wrestling Observer Newsletter" announced 30,000 watchers. Defining moment had a participation of 1,100 individuals. Bryan and Chris Sokol of the expert wrestling area of the Canadian Online Explorer site evaluated Turning Point a 7 out of 10, which was simply over the 2007 occasion's appraising of 6.5. In his audit, Phil Allely of the United Kingdom's "The Sun" paper felt Turning Point was "a completely charming show". 

In October 2017, with the dispatch of the Global Wrestling Network, the occasion wound up accessible to stream on interest. 

On the main day of 2008, TNA refreshed their official site to announce the official dates for the majority of their PPV occasions to happen that year. The following portion in the Turning Point order was planned for December 14, 2008. The date was later changed to December 21, and the area was reported as the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida. In October 2008, three occasions were rescheduled: Genesis, Final Resolution, and Turning Point. The principal moved was Turning Point to the Genesis occasion date of November 9, while Final Resolution was reported for quite a while in December. Beginning was later reported to happen in Charlotte, North Carolina on January 11, 2009. The tune Indestructible by the musical gang Disturbed was utilized as the official subject of the occasion. The limited time blurb for the social affair, highlighting Mick Foley, was discharged through PPV suppliers. 

Defining moment highlighted eight expert wrestling matches that included diverse wrestlers from previous scripted fights and storylines. Wrestlers were depicted as either scalawags or legends in the scripted occasions which assembled pressure and finished with a wrestling match or arrangement of matches. 

Heading into Turning Point, TNA's principle storyline was an on-screen contention between expert wrestling veterans, who played the scoundrels and considered themselves The Main Event Mafia (Sting, Kurt Angle, Kevin Nash, Booker T, and Scott Steiner), and the more youthful ability of the organization, who played the gallant characters and were driven by A.J. Styles and Samoa Joe. Different littler contentions severed from this storyline, for example, one over the TNA World Heavyweight Championship between the prevailing boss, Sting, and the challenger, Styles. It started on August 10 at TNA's Hard Justice PPV occasion when Sting attacked Styles after his experience with Angle. Sting at that point crushed Joe, a partner of Styles, at TNA's Bound for Glory IV PPV occasion on October 12 after a help from Nash, which later started a contention among Joe and Nash. Sting's and Styles' competition before long raised to a point where storyline co-proprietor of TNA Mick Foley declared on the October 30 scene of TNA's TV program "TNA Impact!" that the two would battle for the title at Turning Point. 

The work to the experience among Joe and Nash started in December 2007. On December 2, 2007 at the past Turning Point occasion, Joe was planned to participate in a six-man label group coordinate, joining forces with Nash and Nash's long-lasting genuine companion Scott Hall to confront The Angle Alliance (Angle, Styles, and Tomko). Lobby, nonetheless, missed the occasion refering to "sustenance harming", leaving Joe genuinely incensed by the reason. Joe proceeded to own an on-camera expression in the ring offending Hall. Following the episode, TNA started a storyline in which Joe was discontent with his situation in the organization for different reasons and had consistent clashes with Nash. After time, Nash turned into Joe's on-screen tutor, which prompted Joe overcoming Angle on April 13 at TNA's Lockdown PPV occasion to turn into the new TNA World Heavyweight Champion. Joe and Nash's organization appeared to find some conclusion after Nash vanished from TNA TV in mid-2008. He returned at Bound for Glory IV where he cost Joe the title in his match against Sting. On the October 30 scene of "Effect!", Foley declared that Joe would confront Nash at Turning Point. 

Another session publicized for the occasion was Angle versus Abyss in a falls tally anyplace coordinate. At Bound for Glory IV, Angle lost to TNA organizer and on-screen co-proprietor Jeff Jarrett with Foley as Special Guest Enforcer. On the "Effect!" after Bound for Glory IV, Angle tested Jarrett to another match at Turning Point, be that as it may, Jarrett won't. Maddened by Jarrett's refusal, Angle started striking a few wrestlers in TNA to convince Jarrett into tolerating the test. On the October 23 scene of "Effect!", Angle tested Jarrett again to a rematch, which Jarrett again cannot. Jarrett, in any case, prescribed Abyss as Angle's rival, who was a setback of Angle's assaults the earlier week. On the October 30 scene of "Effect!", Angle battled Abyss in a challenge which finished in a preclusion after Angle hit Abyss with a steel seat. Following their experience, a match was advanced setting Angle against Abyss in a falls tally anyplace coordinate at Turning Point. 

On the October 23 scene of "Effect!", Booker T presented another title named the TNA Legends Championship and announced himself the debut champion. A short time later, Christian Cage, who had stayed impartial in the storyline, entered the field and provoked Booker T to safeguard the title against him at Turning Point. Booker T acknowledged after he included the stipulation that if Cage lost the experience he would need to join The Main Event Mafia. Later on the October 30 scene of "Effect!", the match was made authority when it was advanced for the occasion. 

The occasion included workers other than the wrestlers engaged with the matches. There were four generally observers for the occasion; Mike Tenay and Don West given English discourse, while Hector Guerrero and Willie Urbina filled in as the Spanish report group. There were three ring commentators for the display as the ordinary ring broadcaster, David Penzer, was utilized for everything except two challenges. Resigned Army veteran Sean M. Autrey filled in as the exceptional visitor ring commentator for the Rhino and Sheik Abdul Bashir experience. Jeremy Borash reported the contenders for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship coordinate, utilizing a style like proficient boxing as made well known by Michael Buffer. Shane Sewell, Earl Hebner, Rudy Charles, Mark "Smooth" Johnson, and Andrew Thomas took an interest as arbitrators for the experiences. Borash and Lauren Thompson were utilized as questioners all through the occasion. Other than wrestlers who were showing up in a wrestling job, Jeff Jarrett, Mick Foley, Scott Steiner, and Matt Morgan were additionally highlighted in behind the stage portions. Other than authoritative representatives being included, the gathering Insane Clown Posse (ICP) and Scott Hall were found in participation. This was later uncovered to have been scripted to happen, as TNA had asked ICP to go to the occasion, yet were unconscious of Hall being their visitor. 

The occasion initiated with a ten-man X Division disposal rankings coordinate, which included Eric Young, Consequences Creed, Doug Williams, Homicide, Jay Lethal, Jimmy Rave, Petey Williams, Sonjay Dutt, Tanahashi, and Volador. The match was reported as following lucha libre label group rules, in which a member could be supplanted whenever tossed from the ring to the floor, however not disposed of from the match except if by pinfall or accommodation. The request of disposal decided the standings in the X Division towards a future TNA X Division Championship coordinate, in storyline. Manslaughter was harmed amid the match, in this way was pronounced wiped out after an awful tumble to the outside territory. Deadly and Young were the last two men in the challenge. Youthful was the victor in the match in the wake of hammering Lethal into the tangle with a crossing over back suplex at 17 minutes. 

A label group coordinate setting the group of Roxxi and Taylor Wilde against the group of Awesome Kong and Raisha Saeed, who were joined by Rhaka Khan, was held. After different moves were performed by every contender, Wilde picked up the pinfall triumph on Saeed subsequent to driving her once more into the tangle with a crossing over German suplex at eight minutes. 

Rhino battled Sheik Abdul Bashir in the accompanying session. Ten-year Army veteran Sean M. Autrey filled in as the unique visitor ring broadcaster for the experience. The match kept going nine minutes, and went to a completion when Rhino stuck Bashir after a handle. 

The TNA World Tag Team Championship was challenged between the authoritative heroes Beer Money, Inc. (James Storm and Robert Roode), who were joined by Jacqueline, and The Motor City Machineguns of Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin. After a few label group moves from the two groups, Storm spat lager in Sabin's face, blinding him. This enabled Beer Money to lift up and hammer Sabin back-first to the tangle with their Drinking While Investing (DWI) label group move to pick up the pinfall and hold the title at 17 minutes. 

The fifth match was Booker T's safeguard of the TNA Legends Championship against Christian Cage, with the additional stipulation that if Cage lost, he would be compelled to join The Main Event Mafia. Booker T was joined by Sharmell for the session. The match went on for 11 minutes, finishing when Booker T stuck Cage with a move up. 

A Falls Count Anywhere coordinate between Kurt Angle and Abyss pursued, enduring 17 minutes. At a certain point amid the experience while Abyss was remaining on the solid floor and Angle was on the stage, Angle played out a running jump off the phase into a somersault senton, associating with Abyss on the floor. Edge was the victor in the session, subsequent to losing Abyss of a platform through the Spanish broadcasters' table, at that point plummeting and covering Abyss for the pinfall. 

Kevin Nash battled Samoa Joe in the seventh challenge of the night. The match kept going 12 minutes. At two points amid the match, Nash played out his mark Jackknife Powerbomb with Joe kicking out before the three check. This prompted Nash hitting Joe in the crotch and putting his feet on the ropes for influence in his triumphant stick endeavor. 

The headliner was for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship between the victor, Sting, and the challenger, A.J. Styles. Amid the 15 minutes the match kept going, Styles executed his elevated system the Spiral Tap, in which he bounces off one of the top cushioned turnbuckles, twists and flips in mid-air before arriving on his adversary. He at that point climbed the turnbuckle to play out the move by and by, however was occupied by Angle and Booker T. Afterward, Styles missed a pele kick on Sting, which enabled Sting to counter with a little bundle stick on Styles to hold the title. 

On the November 13 scene of "Effect!", Cage was to be accepted into The Main Event Mafia (MEM), be that as it may, they rather turned on and struck him. This prompted Cage's intermittent label group accomplice, Rhino, getting to be engaged with the general storyline as the pioneer of the gathering The TNA Front Line after he was assaulted by MEM on the November 20 scene of "Effect!". Amid that equivalent broadcast, Angle versus Rhino was reported as TNA's Final Resolution occasion, with the additional stipulations that if Angle won he would pick up a chance to confront Jeff Jarrett, while on the off chance that Rhino won, at that point Angle was to be discharged from his TNA contract. Point proceeded to crush Rhino at the occasion, which prompted Angle vanquishing Jarrett in a no exclusion coordinate at TNA's Genesis occasion in January 2009. 

Sting and Styles proceeded to have another counterpart for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship at Final Resolution. This time, the group of Sting, Steiner, Nash, and Booker T went head to head against Styles, Joe, and two secret accomplices (The TNA Front Line) in an eight-man label group coordinate. The stipulations were on the off chance that anybody from Styles' group stuck a colleague, Styles won the TNA Title, while on the off chance that anybody from Sting's group stuck a colleague, Sting held the title. The match was reported on the November 20 scene of "Effect!". Styles' secret accomplices were uncovered on the November 27 scene of "Effect!" as Team 3D (Brother Devon and Brother Ray). Sting proceeded to hold the title at Final Resolution after he stuck Joe. 

Eric Young got his TNA X Division Championship coordinate on the November 13 scene of "Effect!" against then-champion Sheik Abdul Bashir. In spite of the fact that he crushed him to turn into the new boss, after seven days the choice was switched and Young was compelled to surrender the title belt to Bashir because of a disputable consummation of their match. Youthful and Bashir battled for the title by and by at Final Resolution, with official Shane Sewell meddling in the session like he had done in the past experience, which enabled Young to pick up the triumph. Thereafter, Management Director Jim Cornette stripped Young of the title. This set up a competition for the title, finishing at Genesis where Alex Shelley crushed Chris Sabin to turn into the new boss. 

An aggregate of 1,100 individuals went to the occasion. In late 2008, "The Wrestling Observer Newsletter" announced that the quantity of pay-per-see buyers for the occasion was accepted to be 30,000. Canadian Online Explorer journalists Bryan and Chris Sokol appraised the whole occasion a 7 out of 10, which was .5 over the 2007 occasion's evaluating of 6.5 by Chris Sokol. The falls tally anyplace coordinate was given the most elevated rating amid their survey, at 8 out of 10. The most reduced rating was given to the ladies' label group coordinate and the Rhino versus Bashir session, at 5 out of 10. The headliner coordinate for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship was appraised 7 out of 10. Swim Keller of the "Expert Wrestling Torch" expressed amid his survey that the falls tally anyplace coordinate "had an epic inclination for a falls check anyplace fight. It had different sections, many persuading close falls, a few imaginative enormous spots, and the group was into it." While in regards to the headliner, Keller expressed he thought it was a "decent match." James Caldwell, likewise of the "Genius Wrestling Torch", referenced amid his audit that Joe versus Nash had "great dramatization" because of the storyline "with a major event veteran versus a major event 'Youthful Lion' in a convincing match-up. Joe losing ought to be treated as a tremendous arrangement with appropriate follow-up to move Joe up to the following dimension. On the off chance that he's losing, it needs to mean something for his general development." Phil Allely, a columnist for "The Sun", expressed he felt the occasion was "an altogether pleasant show". The occasion was discharged by TNA Home Video on DVD on March 24, 2009 as a component of the "TNA Wrestling: Cross The Line Vol. 2" box set, which incorporated the December 2008 Final Resolution occasion and the Genesis 2009 occasion. 

Commentaries 

Book index