Eric Bana 

Eric Banadinović (brought into the world 9 August 1968), referred to expertly as Eric Bana (), is an Australian performing artist and comic. He started his profession in the sketch parody arrangement "Full Frontal" before his first motion picture, satire show "The Castle" (1997), got him seen by worldwide groups of onlookers. Not long after he increased basic acknowledgment in the historical wrongdoing film "Chopper" (2000). Following a time of jobs in Australian TV shows and movies, Bana increased Hollywood's consideration for his execution in the war film "Dark Hawk Down" (2001) and the title character in "Mass" (2003). He has since played Hector in the motion picture "Troy" (2004), the lead in Steven Spielberg's chronicled show and political spine chiller "Munich" (2005), Henry VIII in "The Other Boleyn Girl" (2008), and the scalawag Nero in the sci-fi film "Star Trek" (2009). Bana likewise played Henry De Tamble in "The Time Traveler's Wife" (2009). In 2013, he played Lt. Cmdr. Erik S. Kristensen in the war film "Solitary Survivor" and in the next year he played police sergeant Ralph Sarchie in the thriller "Convey Us from Evil". 

A cultivated emotional on-screen character and comic, he got Australia's most elevated film and TV grants for his exhibitions in "Chopper", "Full Frontal" and "Romulus, My Father". Bana has performed over a wide range of driving jobs in an assortment of low-spending plan and real studio films, running from lighthearted comedies and show to sci-fi and activity spine chillers. 

Bana was conceived in Melbourne, Australia. His dad, Ivan, was Croatian and filled in as a coordinations administrator for Caterpillar Inc., and his German mother, Eleanor, was a beautician, initially from close Mannheim in Germany. He has one more seasoned sibling, Anthony. Bana experienced childhood in Melbourne's Tullamarine, a rural zone on the northern edge of the city, close to Melbourne's universal airplane terminal, and went to Penleigh and Essendon Grammar School. In a main story for "The Mail on Sunday", he told creator Antonella Gambotto-Burke that his family had experienced bigot insults, and that it had upset him. "Wog is such a horrendous word," he said. He has expressed: "I have dependably been pleased with my root, which affected my childhood. I have dependably been in the organization of individuals of European root". 

Demonstrating acting aptitude from the get-go throughout everyday life, Bana started doing impressions of relatives at six years old or seven, first imitating his granddad's walk, voice and characteristics. In school, he mirrored his educators as a way to escape inconvenience. As an adolescent, he viewed the Mel Gibson film "Frantic Max" (1979), and chose he needed to turn into an on-screen character. Notwithstanding, he didn't truly consider a vocation in the performing expressions until 1991 when he was induced to attempt parody while functioning as a barman at Melbourne's Castle Hotel. His exceptional gigs in inward city bars did not furnish him with enough pay to help himself, in any case, so he proceeded with his work as a barman and tending to tables. 

In 1993, Bana made his TV debut on Steve Vizard's late night syndicated program, "Today Live". His execution picked up the consideration of makers from the sketch parody arrangement, "Full Frontal", who welcomed him to join the show as an essayist and entertainer. Amid his four years on the show, Bana composed his very own lot material, and put together a portion of his characters with respect to individuals from his family. His impressions of Columbo, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sylvester Stallone, and Tom Cruise made Bana prevalent with the show's gathering of people. This achievement drove him to record the parody collection "Too far out" in 1994 and to have his very own TV exceptional, titled "Eric", in 1996. The show, a gathering of portrayals including regular characters, incited him to dispatch a sketch satire arrangement "The Eric Bana Show". The arrangement, composed and performed by Bana, included dramas, stand-up and big name visitors, yet neglected to draw in a significant gathering of people and was dropped after just eight scenes because of low evaluations. All things being equal, in 1997, he got a Logie Award for "Most Popular Comedy Personality" for his work on the show. 

That equivalent year, Bana made his film debut in the Australian film "The Castle", which recounts to the account of a Melbourne-based family's battles to keep their home by Melbourne's air terminal as the air terminal specialist constrain them to move. He was highlighted in a supporting job as Con Petropoulous, a kickboxing bookkeeper who is the householder's child in-law. "The Castle" was an unexpected basic and monetary achievement, acquiring A$10,326,428 in the cinematic world in Australia. 

In 1997, regardless of his absence of involvement in sensational jobs, Bana was drawn closer by chief Andrew Dominik to show up in the film "Chopper" (2000), a true to life film dependent on the life of notorious Australian criminal Chopper Read. Dominik had been chipping away at the venture for a long time, yet was unfit to discover a performing artist to depict Read. Simply after Read himself recommended Bana, having seen him play out a drama on TV, did Dominik think about him for the part. 

For the job, Bana shaved his head, increased thirty pounds, and went through two days with Read to consummate his mimicry. Amid taping he touched base on set at four toward the beginning of the day and went through five hours being shrouded in Read's trademark tattoos. Regardless of the film's constrained discharge outside of Australia, Bana's execution got positive audits. American film faultfinder Roger Ebert complimented Bana, expressing that "in an entertainer named Eric Bana the producers have discovered, I think, a future star ... He has a quality no acting school can train you and couple of performing artists can coordinate. You can't turn away from him". "Chopper" was a basic and monetary accomplishment in Australia, and was selected for Best Film at the Australian Film Institute Awards in 2001. Bana's execution won the Australian Film Institute Award for Best Actor. 

In 2001, chief Ridley Scott give Bana a role as an American officer in the film "Dark Hawk Down" (2001). Scott, with a proposal from Russell Crowe and inspired by Bana's execution in "Chopper", did not expect him to try out. In the film, he played Sergeant First Class Norm 'Hoot' Hooten, a tip top Delta Force trooper, who battles out of a fight in Mogadishu, Somalia after a mission to catch two top lieutenants of a maverick warlord goes astray. Bana shed the weight he had picked up for "Chopper" and started an activity routine months before taping started. He additionally prepared with Delta Force administrators at Fort Bragg, figuring out how to discharge weapons and clear rooms. 

Bana's next venture was the low-spending Australian film "The Nugget" (2002). A satire, the film depicts the impact of moment riches on three common laborers men and was discharged with moderate accomplishment in Australia. Bana read the content in the wake of shooting "Chopper" in 2000 and was attracted to it since it helped him to remember his youth and on the grounds that he discovered its characters interesting and amiable. While recording "The Nugget", Bana was offered the lead job of Bruce Banner in the film adjustment of the well known Marvel Comic book arrangement "The Incredible Hulk". Simply subsequent to learning of chief Ang Lee's inclusion in the venture did he think about the job. Bana respected Lee for his work on the film "The Ice Storm" and consented to chip away at the film before the last content was finished. He said he was attracted to the film in light of the fact that "the character of Bruce Banner had sensational potential" and was "a decently non-conventional superhuman". "Mass" (2003) got blended surveys and a moderate accomplishment in the cinema world, yet Bana's execution was applauded: Jack Matthews of the "New York Daily News" felt that Bana assumed the job of Bruce Banner "with incredible conviction". Bana earned an Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films assignment for "Cinescape Genre Face of the Future" for the film. 

In 2004, Bana co-featured with Brad Pitt in the enormous spending film "Troy". In the film, he played Prince Hector, pioneer of the Trojan powers doing combating against the Greek warrior Achilles. The film was a worldwide achievement, earning US$364 million, with US$133 million in the US. 

After the basic frustration of "Mass" and "Troy", pundits scrutinized Bana's bankability in huge spending films. He reacted in "Domain Magazine": "dislike it [Hulk] was a lemon. When you're on a long shoot it is a long close to home speculation. On the off chance that I wasn't content with the final product I'd be ridiculous disturbed, yet for each situation so far I've been glad. "Troy" could take $50 and I wouldn't think twice about it." 

The next year, Bana co-featured with Daniel Craig and Geoffrey Rush in Steven Spielberg's questionable film "Munich". Bana played Avner, a Mossad operator, who is requested to find and slaughter the Black September fear based oppressors thought to be in charge of the slaughter of Israeli competitors at the 1972 Summer Olympics. The film was a basic achievement, and was selected for five Academy Awards in 2006. The "Los Angeles Times" composed that Bana as Avner "ventures a mix of affectability and heartlessness and ... realizes how to show a face for which stress is another experience." 

In 2006, Bana was welcome to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. "Good for You", a lighthearted comedy on which Bana worked before recording "Munich", was discharged in mid 2007. In the film, he played Huck Cheever, an expert poker player who must defeat his own issues to win a high-stakes competition in Las Vegas. His next film was the Australian dramatization "Romulus, My Father" (2007). The film, in light of Raimond Gaita's diary of a similar name, depicts a couple and their battle even with difficulty to bring up their child. The film was a basic achievement, and Bana's execution earned him a second Australian Film Institute Award for Best Actor. In 2007, he additionally came back to his Australian TV establishes by showing up in hit satire "Kath and Kim" as himself. 

Bana's next undertaking was the verifiable show "The Other Boleyn Girl" (2008). In the film he played Henry VIII of England inverse Scarlett Johansson and Natalie Portman. Bana was astounded to be offered the job and conceded that he "presumably would have quite recently passed it on without opening it" on the off chance that it had been exhibited to him under an alternate title. The next year, he co-featured with Chris Pine and Zachary Quinto in the sci-fi film "Star Trek". In the film, Bana played Nero, a Romulan mining ship chief who endeavors to get retribution on Spock, whom he faults for the annihilation of his homeworld and its occupants. The film was a basic achievement and earned over US$380 million around the world. 

In August 2009, he showed up as Henry DeTamble in the film adjustment of "The Time Traveler's Wife". Bana likewise co-featured with Adam Sandler and Seth Rogen in Judd Apatow's third directorial highlight, about stand-up funnies, titled "Interesting People", denoting Bana's first appearance in an American standard satire. 

In 2009, Bana discharged a self-created and coordinated narrative style film called "Love the Beast". It subtleties his own association with his first vehicle and pursues his movement as a vehicle sweetheart. En route he looks for direction and knowledge from the internal sanctum of his three deep rooted companions, just as famous people Jay Leno, Jeremy Clarkson, and Dr. Phil. In 2011, Bana showed up as ex-CIA employable Erik Heller in the activity spine chiller film "Hanna", featuring close by Saoirse Ronan and Cate Blanchett. The film turned into another accomplishment for Bana as it opened at No. 2 at the United States film industry. Having perused Marcus Luttrell's personal record as a United States Navy SEAL, "Solitary Survivor", he was happy to show up in the 2013 film adjustment paying little mind to which job he was advertised. In the film, he depicted Lieutenant Commander Erik S. Kristensen. 

The next year he featured as Ralph Sarchie, a police sergeant who explored paranormal cases, in the powerful blood and gore movie "Convey Us from Evil". The film was discharged on 2 July 2014 and netted US$87.9 million around the world. In April 2016, he featured as Frank Bonneville, a battling radio writer, in Ricky Gervais' "Unique Correspondents" on Netflix. In Guy Ritchie's "" (2017), Bana assumed the job of Uther Pendragon, ruler of Britain and father of future King Arthur. In 2018, Bana featured as John in the Bravo scaled down arrangement "Grimy John" in light of the "Los Angeles Times" story and hit webcast. 

In 1995, while chipping away at the TV arrangement "Full Frontal", Bana started dating Rebecca Gleeson, a marketing specialist with the Seven Network and little girl of then Chief Justice of New South Wales, and later Chief Justice of Australia, Murray Gleeson. They wedded in 1997, after Bana proposed to her on a trek to the United States, which he won from "Cleo Magazine" in the wake of being named their "Single man of the Year" in 1996. Bana and Gleeson have two kids, a child, Klaus (brought into the world August 1998), and a girl, Sophia (conceived April 2002). They are situated in Melbourne. On authority character records despite everything he has his introduction to the world surname, Banadinović. 

Bana is an engine hustling devotee, and partakes in different engine dashing rivalries in Australia. At 14 years old, he needed to leave school to concentrate full-time on turning into an engine specialist, yet his dad persuaded him to finish school, encouraging him to abstain from making his side interest an occupation. Bana obtained his first vehicle, a 1974 XB Ford Falcon roadster, at 15 years old for A$1100 and, driving it, made his engine sport hustling debut in Targa Tasmania 1996, seven days in length race around Tasmania. (Bana has had this vehicle for in excess of 25 years. In 2009 he discharged a narrative named "Love The Beast". The film subtleties the focal job that hustling and fixing this equivalent vehicle has played in his life and the lives of his companions.) In 2004, Bana obtained a Porsche 944 to contend in Australia's Porsche Challenge. Contending all through 2004, he regularly completed in the main ten and in November, completed fourth at the Sandown occasion, an individual best. On 21 April 2007 Bana smashed his 1974 XB Falcon Coupe in the Targa Tasmania rally. Neither he nor his co-driver were harmed. Bana showed up on the British motoring show "Top Gear" on 15 November 2009 as a visitor for its "Star in a Reasonably Priced Car" portion. 

Bana is a conspicuous fanatic of Australian standards football. His affection for the game started at a youthful age when his adoptive parent took him to recreations to see the St Kilda Football Club, his most loved group in the Australian Football League. Bana can regularly be seen at AFL recreations when he is back in Australia. Bana's adoration for St Kilda FC brought about the club being highlighted in the film "Entertaining People" and in Bana's advancement of the film in 2009, quite on NBC's "Late Night with Jimmy Fallon". In 2010, Bana was named the "Holy people Number One Ticket Holder". 

Bana is a represetative for Father Chris Riley's philanthropy for destitute youngsters, Youth Off The Streets, and has showed up with Riley in ads to help the association's yearly intrigue. Bana is likewise a backer for the Mental Illness Fellowship, which attempts to expand the familiarity with psychological maladjustment in Australia. In 2004, he showed up in a few prominent promotions for the association. Bana is likewise dynamic in battles with the Australian Childhood Foundation and the Bone Marrow Donor Institute. Since 1995, he has taken part in the Motorcycle Riders Association Toy Run in Melbourne, which fund-raises and toys for poor kids at Christmas. 

In 2005, Bana portrayed the narrative "Fear of Tasmania" about the jeopardized Tasmanian villain. The film pursued the life of a female Tasmanian fallen angel called Manganinnie and talked about the hopeless facial disease which compromises the survival of the species. He has additionally worked with the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, giving cash to creature shields in Berlin while shooting "Troy" in 2004. 

In 2007, Bana presented the scene "Some Meaning in This Life" of the ABC-TV narrative arrangement "Australian Story". The scene paid tribute to Australian performing artist Belinda Emmett (who co-featured with Bana in the film "The Nugget") and her long battle with disease to which she had capitulated the earlier year.