Lince (tank) 

The Lince (, signifying "Lynx") was a Spanish advancement program for a proposed principle fight tank that unfurled amid the late 1980s and mid 1990s. The goal was to supplant the M47 and M48 Patton tanks that the Spanish Army had gotten under the U.S. Shared Defense Assistance Act somewhere in the range of 1954 and 1975, and to supplement the AMX-30E tanks made for the military amid the 1970s. Organizations from a few countries, for example, German Krauss-Maffei, Spanish Santa Bárbara, and French GIAT, made offers for the advancement contract. The primary needs were versatility and capability, with optional need set on assurance; the Lince tank was to have been lighter and quicker than its rivals. The vehicle's size would likewise have been limited by the Spanish rail and thruway organize. To accomplish an adequate dimension of capability and assurance, given the size prerequisites, the Lince was to utilize Rheinmetall's 120 mm L/44 tank-firearm and German composite covering from the Leopard 2A4. 

The Spanish government chose to update its armada of AMX-30Es in the late 1980s. The emphasis on updating Spain's AMX-30E's occupied consideration from the Lince plan, which was in the end racked in 1990 after Spain procured an extensive number of M60 Patton tanks, which were never again required by the U.S., as per the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. These tanks supplanted the M47s and M48s, and satisfied Spain's have to modernize its tank powers for the time being. No model of the arranged Lince tank was made, and no declarations were made on who might get the agreement. After four years the Spanish government secured and privately fabricated the Leopard 2, satisfying the long haul modernisation objective built up in the Lince program. 

Amid the 1950s the Spanish Army was provided by the United States with 552 M47 and M48 Patton tanks as a common protection agreement against a potential Soviet attack of Western Europe. The main tanks were conveyed in 1954, and the armada was redesigned during the 1970s to measure up to the capacities of M60 Patton tanks. Spain was, nonetheless, keen on supplanting these tanks as ahead of schedule as the 1960s with the French AMX-30 or German . Spain in the end chose to purchase the French tank and by 1975 the Spanish Army had 299 AMX-30s, assigned as AMX-30Es. Of these, 280 tanks were made by the nearby organization Empresa Nacional Santa Bárbara (presently Santa Bárbara Sistemas) who got the AMX-30 patent from the French organization GIAT. As the main bunch of generation of AMX-30s finished, the French Army and Santa Bárbara started an exploration program for an inevitable modernisation of the AMX-30 to address lacks, for example, mechanical unwavering quality, shield insurance and the flame control framework. In handling the AMX-30E, the military discovered its overhauled M47s and M48s to be obsolete; its soonest M47 tank was more than 30 years old. The military required a cutting edge tank that could supplement its AMX-30Es and began searching for a trade for its Patton armada. 

In 1984, the Spanish Ministry of Defense announced its goal to set aside 120 billion pesetas (1.1 billion U.S. dollars) for a future tank program and pulled in enthusiasm from five remote organizations. German organization Krauss-Maffei and Spanish organization Santa Bárbara displayed a joint offer in mid-1984 that would create a tank dependent on 1970s innovation. The French government proposed to coordinate with Spain in structuring a tank total with new innovation—France would later build up this program alone as the AMX-Leclerc. In any case, the French conceded that there would be limitations set on Empresa Nacional Santa Bárbara when it came to sending out the tank. The Italian government proposed a comparable arrangement for an agreeable tank structure. The American organization General Dynamics and British organization Vickers offered the M1 Abrams and Valiant, individually; the Spanish government dismissed their offers the next year in light of the low probability of neighborhood generation and fare of the tank. By late 1985, the main offers still under thought were those from the German-Spanish coordinated effort and the French and Italian governments. 

Krauss-Maffei's Lince offered given the most clear specialized structures. The tank would be 49 tonnes and furnished with a 120-millimeter primary weapon. It could shoot this firearm moving and go for focuses with adequacy in day and night activities. Fitted with a motor, the Lince could go as quick as on the streets. Albeit intensely dependent on the Leopard 2A4, the Lince was littler and lighter, exchanging assurance for versatility. In particular, the Lince organized upgraded versatility over the unpredictable Spanish territory. Besides, estimate limitations were forced due to the current abilities of Spain's railroad and thruway organize. In spite of the fact that the diminished shield clashed with the issues that the Spanish had with AMX-30E's slender defensive layer, the Lince utilized a multilayer covering like that of the German Leopard 2A4, giving more noteworthy insurance than standard protective layer for a comparative weight. The assurance was additionally improved by the position of safety turret, again like that of the Leopard 2A4. 

In mid 1986, the Ministry of Defense proclaimed that it would pick an agreement inside merely months. News sources refered to said that Krauss-Maffei would in all probability gain the agreement, despite the fact that the French may get it in view of past and existing French weapon contracts with Spain. Aside from creating the French-planned AMX-30, the Spanish government likewise had an agreement for Mirage F1 military aircraft and Puma utility helicopters in 1979. In mid 1987, France again offered Spain the agreement to co-create and co-produce the AMX-Leclerc. This time it included the worthwhile term of joint fare. In spite of the offer and progressing joint effort with the Italians, Spanish interest in the German-Spanish Lince program developed to 200 billion pesetas (1.8 billion dollars). Notwithstanding, the Spanish government did not declare a champ for the agreement. This uncertainty drove Krauss-Maffei to solidify its offer for the Lince. Krauss-Maffei likewise refered to the loss of a huge number of dollars as a result of disappointments with respect to Santa Bárbara Sistemas, who might fabricate the Lince. 

The Spanish Ministry of Defense consented to modernize the Army's AMX-30Es in 1987 and distributed 16 billion pesetas (155 million dollars) to the program. From , the Army overhauled its whole AMX-30E armada to EM1 and EM2 norms. This overhauled program represented a danger to the Lince program. Around a similar time, the Spanish government communicated enthusiasm for securing American M60 Patton tanks that were being resigned from Central Europe, as per the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. In October and November, the Spanish government started to consult for 400 to 500 M60A1 and M60A3 tanks, and intended to overhaul its obtained M60A1 tanks to M60A3 guidelines. In December, the United States consented to exchange 532 M60A1 and M60A3 tanks to supplant Spain's M47s and M48s. In the wake of getting 50 of the 272 A1s, Spain dropped acquisition of these tanks and selected to get just the 260 M60A3s. As a result of the modernisation of the AMX-30, the choice to supplant more established Patton tanks with the M60A3 and Krauss-Maffei's analysis of the administration of the indigenous tank program, the Lince was dropped in 1989. The board issues in Santa Bárbara Sistemas likewise had an influence, including yearly contrary adjusts and the decrease of production line work force. Notwithstanding, dissimilar to the arranged Lince, the M60s just fulfilled Spain's prompt need to modernize the Army's tank armada for the time being. They were not a long haul modernisation arrangement as Spain's M47s and M48s had just been moved up to reciprocals of the M60. 

Therefore, Spain consulted with Germany over the acquirement and neighborhood creation of an expansive number of Leopard 2A5s; a Memorandum of Understanding was marked between the two out of 1995, and the Germans loaned 108 Leopard 2A4s to the Spanish Army for a long time beginning in 1998. In 2005, the Spanish Ministry of Defense proclaimed expectation to purchase the tanks as opposed to leasing them. The neighborhood creation terms in the Memorandum permitted Santa Bárbara Sistemas to begin delivering Leopard 2Es in 2003, and the primary company of tanks was conveyed in . In contrast with the littler Lince, the Leopard 2A4 gauges and is controlled by a diesel motor. The more prominent load of the Leopard 2A4 is expected to some degree to its thicker reinforcement, bearing more prominent security and offsetting the misfortune in portability when contrasted with the Lince.