Ontario Highway 61 

Ruler's Highway 61, regularly alluded to as Highway 61 and verifiably known as the Scott Highway, is a commonly kept up expressway in the Canadian area of Ontario. The course associates the Pigeon River Bridge, where it crosses into the United States and progresses toward becoming Minnesota State Highway 61, with an intersection at Highway 11, Highway 17 and the Harbor Expressway in Thunder Bay. The roadway frames some portion of the Lake Superior Circle Tour. 

Highway 61 was included to the expressway framework October 6, 1937, after the amalgamation of the Department of Northern Development into the Department of Highways. Preceding that it was known as the Scott Highway. The scaffold over the Pigeon River was initially known as The Outlaw, as it was developed without formal endorsement of the Canadian or American governments. 

Intersection the American outskirt, the Pigeon River Bridge is west of the Sault Ste. Marie International Bridge and east of the Fort Frances-International Falls International Bridge, and is close to a guest focus. Highway 61 starts at the Ontario-Minnesota outskirt at the Pigeon River; the street proceeds with south to Duluth as State Highway 61 on the American side. Continuing north from the fringe, the course passes the traditions station and bends toward the north. Passing its previous directing along Highway 593, the parkway bends eastbound to maintain a strategic distance from mountains. It crisscrosses around a scope of mountains, in the long run turning northward and going toward the west of Cloud Bay. The thruway proceeds with north for through Neebing, running between mountain runs on either side. It ascends at Moose Hill, meets Highway 608 and enters one of only a handful couple of horticultural zones in northwestern Ontario. Presently, Highway 61 bends toward the east, passing the southern end of Highway 130 en route. It at that point enters the edges of Thunder Bay. 

The roadway passes Chippewa Road, its previous course through Thunder Bay, and comes back to its northward introduction. It formally enters the city as it crosses the Kaministiquia River. The parkway swerves east at Thunder Bay International Airport as it augments to four paths at that point proceeds with north, crossing Arthur Street. North of Arthur Street, the parkway is otherwise called the Thunder Bay Expressway. It proceeds with north for and closes at the Harbor Expressway and Trans-Canada Highway. 

The northernmost segment in Thunder Bay is a four-path, unified turnpike. The rest of Highway 61 is a regular two-path thruway. Traffic volumes along the southern bit of the thruway are commonly low, with a yearly normal every day traffic (AADT) of 1,000 vehicles. This increments advancing north; inside Thunder Bay the AADT crests at 17,200 vehicles. 

Highway 61 additionally shapes a little part of the Lake Superior Circle Tour, a traveler course of thruways following the shoreline of Lake Superior. Toward the south, the visit proceeds with Minnesota State Highway 61; toward the north it proceeds with Highway 17 towards Sault Saint Marie. 

The street that would move toward becoming Highway 61 was first developed in 1916. The Pigeon River Timber Company had cleared terrains encompassing the towns of Port Arthur and Fort William, however no street existed to associate with areas outside. A thin wild trail came to the extent the Pigeon River, and was picked as the course for the new street. The Department of Mines and Resources consented to finance the venture, and natives continued to lay another street to the extent the stream, starting in 1913. This street was at first known as the "Scott Highway" after logger William Scott. On the contrary shore, Cook County and the State of Minnesota built another street north from Grand Marais. The streets were finished by late 1916, yet no extension existed to associate them. 

Accordingly, the Rotary Clubs of Port Arthur and Duluth met to talk about an answer. As a global intersection, any scaffold over the stream would require administrative endorsement from the two governments. The two sides concurred that the endorsement procedure would be excessively moderate, and chose to develop the extension in any case. "The Outlaw" connect was opened by a voyaging motorcade on August 18, 1917, at long last allowing travel among Ontario and Minnesota. 

To the amazement of the Rotary Clubs, J. E. Whitson, Roads Commissioner of Northern Ontario, and Howard Ferguson, Minister of Lands, Forest and Mines, were available at the opening, and consented to pay the $768,000 ($ in ) connect cost. The scaffold and the Canadian street moving toward it fell under the locale of the Department of Highways (presently the Ministry of Transportation) on April 1, 1937, and the Scott Highway progressed toward becoming Highway 61 on October 6. The Outlaw was remade as a steel bracket structure in 1934 after a few mishaps. 

By 1962, development was in progress to sidestep the inland course of the roadway just as the extension. This detour opened on November 1, 1963; 

the American methodology was remade along the shore of Lake Superior, and another extension built over the stream toward the east. This scaffold was opened on May 23, 1964. Highway 61 was realigned thus; the previous course was redesignated as Highway 593 on September 1, 1964. 

In 1963, Charles MacNaughton, clergyman of the Department of Highways, reported designs for the Lakehead Expressway to be based on the western edge of the twin urban communities of Port Arthur and Fort William (which amalgamated in 1970 to frame Thunder Bay). 

Development started in the late 1960s and advanced quickly. 

Following its fruition by late 1970, Highway 61 was rerouted along it as far north as Arthur Street. 

The previous course pursued Chippewa Road, turned north on James Street and after that east on Frederica Street. From that point, it turned north along Ford Street and tailed it and Kingsway to Highway 11 and Highway 17 at Arthur Street. This course was renumbered as Highway 61B; it stayed set up into the 1990s, 

yet, was decommissioned by 1999. 

Starting in 1991, Highway 61 was totally reproduced south of Thunder Bay to the outskirt in anticipation of the 1995 World Nordic Ski Championships. This included supplanting eight extensions, improving sightlines, and including five passing paths and cleared shoulders all through the length of the parkway. 

The parkway was reached out toward the north on August 17, 2007, when the Shabaqua Highway opened, diverting Highway 11 and Highway 17 off Arthur Street.