HMS Alceste (1806) 

HMS "Alceste was worked at Rochefort in 1804 for the French Navy as Minerve", an "Armide"- class frigate. In the spring of 1806, before her catch, she drew in HMS "Pallas", at that point under Lord Cochrane. Amid the duel she steered into the rocks yet Cochrane needed to prematurely end his assault when French fortifications showed up. 

The British caught her in an activity on 25 September 1806, and the Royal Navy took "Minerve" into administration as "Alceste" in March 1807; "Alceste" at that point kept on serving all through the Napoleonic Wars. On 29 November 1811, "Alceste" drove a British squadron that caught a French military escort conveying in excess of 200 gun to Trieste in the Balkans. After this misfortune, Napoleon altered the course of his arranged eastbound development in 1812 from the Balkans to Russia. The British history specialist James Henderson has recommended that the two occasions were connected, and may have changed the course of the war. 

In 1814, "Alceste" was changed over to a troopship and used to transport British fighters to North America amid the War of 1812. Following the Treaty of Paris in 1815, "Alceste" conveyed Lord Amherst on his 1816 conciliatory mission to China. On the arrival venture, she struck a reef in the Java Sea; her disaster area was in this manner pillaged and consumed by Malayan privateers. 

"Alceste" was worked to a plan by Pierre Rolland for the French Navy as "Minerve", an "Armide"- Class frigate. Her development started at Rochefort in May 1804, she was propelled in September 1805 and completed that November. Estimating along her gundeck with a light emission a profundity in the hold of ; she had a limit of 1,097 tons burthen. At the point when first fitted out, "Minerve" conveyed twenty-eight as her primary battery and fourteen carronades on her quarter-deck; her forecastle had two long weapons and two carronades. 

"Minerve" was at first instructed by Capitaine Jaques Collet, entering administration amid the beginning of the War of the Fourth Coalition among Britain and her partners, and Napoleonic France. In April 1806 she was a piece of a squadron—under Contre-amiral Zacharie Allemand and containing five boats of-the-line, five frigates, and four littler vessels—secured under the shore batteries of the Île-d'Aix anticipating the chance to put to ocean. The British knew the area of Allemand's squadron; on 25 April Admiral Edward Thornbrough, sent the British frigate near the Île-d'Aix to check the foe vessels. Allemand requested "Minerve" and three corvettes, "Lynx", "Sylphe", and "Palinure", to meet the British frigate, prompting an engagement in which no ship brought about much harm. Three other British vessels in this way drew nearer — the frigate , the 16-weapon sloop , and a shaper — and Capitaine Collet finished the commitment by cruising "Minerve" to a situation under the asylum of the island's firearms. 

"Pallas" returned on 12 May with and a 16-weapon dispatch sloop, . Allemande despatched two vast frigates and three corvettes; confronting ominous breezes, the British pulled back. After two days, "Pallas" and "Kingfisher" returned and Allemande again requested "Minerve", "Lynx", "Sylphe", and "Palinure" to pursue Cochrane off. As a safeguard, he additionally had two other extensive frigates, and , cleared for activity and prepared to go. Collett requested his boats to set all sail in the desire for getting "Pallas" before she could get away, however Cochrane was in no rush to leave and even endeavored to draw the French on by sponsorship his topsails and backing off. Once in range, "Pallas" opened flame, cutting down the topsail yard of one of the littler vessels and after that withdrawing into close-by reefs with "Minerve" in interest. By 13:00 "Minerve" had come up on the leeward side of "Pallas", whereupon "Pallas" terminated into her and shut with the aim of boarding. Exactly right then and there, "Minerve" hit a sandbank and "Pallas" collided with her. The power of the impact, sufficiently extraordinary to shock "Pallas"s firearms from their positions, did not keep her from releasing an overwhelming broadside. The two boats were harmed yet "Pallas"s shallower draft kept her establishing. Her group had the capacity to withdraw and get back going, having seen the two 40-firearm French frigates, "Armide" and "Infatigable", moving close. The team of "Kingfisher" cruised in to take "Pallas" close behind; the last had lost her fore topmast, jib-blast, spritsail, stunsail, and primary topsail yards. "Minerve" was just softly harmed; she was re-coasted and taken to Rochefort for fix. The commitment cost the lives of seven sailors on board "Minerve", with a further fourteen harmed. There were a further one dead and five injured on board "Pallas". 

By September 1806 "Minerve" had joined a squadron — alongside the expansive frigates "Armide", , "Infatigable", and , and the brig-corvettes "Lynx" and "Sylphe" — under Eléon-Jean-Nicolas Soleil. The squadron left Rochefort on 24 September 1806, destined for the West Indies. At 01:00 on 25 September Soleil's squadron were spotted close to the Chassiron beacon by an incredible British power under Samuel Hood, containing five 74-firearm ships (, , and ), the 98-weapon , and the 16-firearm brig . The French tried to maintain a strategic distance from commitment, swinging toward the south-south-west with the British when all is said in done interest. Following three hours the quickest British ship, "Ruler", was inside scope of "Armide". The following closest British ship was "Centaur", more than eight miles further back; seeing a chance, four of the French frigates fled. "Infatigable", set off north yet was sought after and later gotten by "Mars"; "Thémis" and the two brigs traveled south and inevitably got away. 

The staying French frigates quit for the day shared insurance. At 10:00, "Ruler" drew in "Minerve" and "Armide", as the climate forestalled "Ruler" from opening her lower weapon ports, she was gravely destroyed. After an hour, "Centaur" made up for lost time and started terminating at "Armide" and "Gloire", leaving "Ruler" to proceed with her battle with "Minerve". "Armide" struck to "Centaur" at 11:45 and "Minerve" surrendered to "Ruler" soon after. "Gloire" veered west trying to toss her followers yet "Centaur" and "Mars" pursued her down and constrained her to strike at 15:00. 

The caught "Minerve" touched base at Plymouth on 26 October 1806, and in the wake of grieving there for certain months, was taken into administration as HMS "Alceste". Appointed in March 1807 under Captain Murray Maxwell and refitted among April and August, she was sent to the Mediterranean in December. Following the French intrusion of Portugal in November 1807, a British undertaking to catch the island of Madeira was proposed. Naval commander Samuel Hood's squadron — containing ships-of-the-line, "Centaur", , and , and the frigates "Alceste", "Africaine", , and — escorted troopships into Funchal Bay on 24 December. The island was calmly involved two days after the fact. 

In the Action of 4 April 1808, "Alceste", with and , assaulted a Spanish caravan off Rota. While at stay around three miles toward the north-west of the San Sebastián beacon, the British boats saw the huge caravan, escorted by 20 weapon water crafts and cruising near the land in order to likewise profit by the security of a versatile mounted guns following on the shore. Going under overwhelming flame, the three boats shut with the caravan at around 16:00. "Grasshopper", requiring less water than the frigates, had the capacity to remain in near the town and assault the batteries there, while "Alceste" and "Mercury" focused their shoot on the firearm vessels, devastating two of the escorts and driving a large number of the traders shorewards. Seven were along these lines caught and cruised pull out to ocean by marines and mariners of the British boats. 

In 1808, with Napoleon controlling a lot of Europe, an arrangement was brought about by Sir Robert Adair, minister to Venice, to extricate Pope Pius VII from Rome. It was believed that the Pope in a state of banishment could empower the Catholic nations of Spain and Italy to ascend against Napoleon. Naval commander Collingwood, Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean Fleet, dispatched "Alceste" and a 18-weapon sloop, , to Palermo where they touched base on 12 August. The British representative there, William Drummond, chose four ministers willing to attempt the mission. They boarded "Alceste" and set sail on 26 August. 

On 31 August vessels from "Alceste" put the gathering shorewards at Ostia, close Rome, where they reached an agent of the Vatican who consented to address the Pope yet neglected to return. When it was considered important to make a trip to Rome to restore contact, the clerics would not go. Maxwell sent them back to Palermo in "Oak seed", which restored seven days after the fact with another volunteer of Drummond's. Arrived the evening of 19 September, the agent was caught and shot as a covert operative the next day. Thusly, the whole arrangement was deserted. 

On 22 May 1810, "Alceste" experienced some French feluccas — delicately outfitted trader vessels with lateen apparatuses — that were compelled to look for shelter under the weapons of the inlet of Agay. Under front of dimness, two pontoons from "Alceste", one under Lieutenant Andrew Wilson, the other driven by the ship's lord, Henry Bell, assaulted the shore batteries. This was just in part fruitful; Wilson was unfit to accomplish his target, while Bell's area figured out how to spike the firearms of the second battery yet simply subsequent to taking substantial flame. "Alceste" emerged to ocean for three days, and the evening of 25 May, Maxwell sent two outfitted water crafts to lay in hold up in a rough inlet. The next morning "Alceste" set sail. The French, accepting "Alceste" had gone, endeavored to leave, yet the two British water crafts lying in snare assaulted. In spite of savage opposition and discharge from the weapons on shore, four boats of the French caravan were caught and two driven on to the stones. The rest of it securely back to their port. 

Water crafts of "Alceste" and caught two vessels in the narrows of Martino, Corsica on 21 June 1810. Securing the passage to the inlet was a three-firearm battery, which an arrival party caught and put out of activity. A few of the army were injured or murdered amid the assault. English setbacks added up to one executed and two injured. 

In 1811, "Alceste" entered the Adriatic and on 4– 5 May, she and "Beauty Poule" took an interest in a strike at Parenza, (Istria). Having pursued a brig into the harbor, yet unfit to pursue because of the stones and shallow water, the two frigates remained outside and opened flame on her and the battery securing her. Following 60 minutes, the brig was compelled to draw closer the shore, out of range. At 23:00, the British landed 200 sailors and every one of their marines on an island adjacent, and furthermore landed two 9-pounders and two howitzers that they set in one battery, and a field piece that they put further away. From that point, they had the capacity to connect with the French in Parenza in a five-hour shared siege. The brig was in the end pulverized and the men and guns came back to their boats. "Beauty Poule" had one man slaughtered and three injured, and "Alceste" had two men executed amid the activity. All losses happened shorewards. 

At the Action of 29 November 1811, "Alceste" drove the British frigate squadron that surpassed and crushed a French military caravan conveying a freight of gun. The day preceding, "Alceste" had been positioned at the island of Lissa (presently Vis), with the frigates "Unité" and "Dynamic", when word was gotten of a comparable measured French squadron traveling north. The British frigates couldn't promptly set sail since Maxwell dreaded an assault from a solid French power adjacent. As a safeguard, he set two batteries on an island in the harbor's passageway, kept an eye on by the boats' marines, and three recently caught firearm water crafts kept an eye on by around 30 sailors from "Alceste" and "Dynamic". These safety measures debilitated as well as postponed Maxwell's squadron, which put to ocean at 19:00, after twelve hours. 

The British in the long run got up to speed with the French boats at 10:00 the next morning, recognizing them as the two huge frigates and , and the littler . "Persanne", discharged the principal shots at 12:30, off the shore of Pelagosa (Palagruža); after an hour "Alceste" and "Pomone" traded shots from their bow and stern weapons separately. "Alceste" started to upgrade "Pomone" at 13:40 and terminated a broadside into her while at the same time spreading more sail in the expectation of getting "Pauline", somewhat further ahead. This arrangement was frustrated however when a shot from "Pomone" cut down "Alceste"s primary topmast, abating her all of a sudden. Whenever "Dynamic" touched base at 14:00 and furthermore begun discharging into "Pomone", "Pauline" was obliged to happen to secure her presently out-gunned associate. Soon after 15:00 the British sloop, "Kingfisher" showed up not too far off and "Pauline", presently in threat of catch herself, separated and cruised off. "Pomone" struck soon after. "Unité" which had set off in quest for "Persanne", constrained "Persanne" to surrender at 16:00 after a solitary trade of broadsides. 

The caught frigates contained in excess of 200 gun, which were being transported to Trieste, a city in north-east Italy on the fringe of the Balkan States. It has been recommended by the British student of history James Henderson that this activity was a factor in Napoleon's choice to alter the course of his arranged eastbound extension in 1812 from the Balkans to Russia. 

In late 1812, "Alceste" was decommissioned and set in customary at Deptford. Among February and July 1814 she was changed over at Deptford into a troopship; in this job, she was recommissioned in May 1814 under Commander Faniel Lawrence, and cruised with troops to North America. Following the British choice to assault New Orleans; "Alceste" left Pensacola on 8 December 1814, pair with the 50 different vessels under Vice-Admiral Alexander Cochrane. The guide picked toward land the troops was at the head of Lake Borgne which was in this manner found to be monitored by five American gunboats, a sloop and a clipper. On 14 December, Cochrane dispatched about 1,000 men in 42 freight ships from the different ships under his direction, including "Alceste". In the wake of paddling for right around 24 hours, the British ceased simply out of range to rest and have breakfast before propelling their assault. The contention, known as the Battle of Lake Borgne, brought about the catch of all the American vessels, at an expense of 94 British and 41 American dead and injured. 

After the Treaty of Paris, the British government looked for more grounded ties with China. William Amherst, the negotiator picked to illuminate the head of the harmony in Europe and to offer Britain's companionship, explicitly mentioned Maxwell and "Alceste" to go with him. Maxwell, without a ship since HMS "Daedalus" was destroyed three years prior, authorized "Alceste" toward the start of 1816. The adventure out was uneventful; "Alceste" left Spithead for China on 9 February with Amherst on board, and in the wake of ceasing at Madeira, Rio de Janeiro, the Cape of Good Hope, Anyer, and Batavia, cruised through the Bangka Strait into the South China Sea. In the wake of calling to pay regards at Canton, "Alceste" traveled the Straits of Formosa and hove-to in the Bohai Sea on 28 July. There she met the 10-weapon brig-sloop, "Lyra", despatched prior to proclaim the entry of Britain's envoy. 

Having orchestrated to go back overland from Peking to meet with "Alceste" at Canton, Amherst was carried to the mouth of the Hai River on 9 August. As the mission and return voyage would take half a month, Maxwell had a chance to investigate the zone. "Alceste" traveled north, while "Lyra", under the order of Lieutenant Basil Hall, was sent south. "General Hewitt", an East Indiaman sanctioned to convey presents for the Emperor of China, was to investigate the inside channel. "Alceste" first embraced a review of the Gulf of Liaodong, around then basically obscure to Europeans, and subsequent to investing some energy investigating the Liaodong Peninsula, continued southward to Jiaozhou Bay on the bank of Shandong, where she experienced "General Hewitt", and was later joined by Hall in "Lyra". "Alceste" and "Lyra" left the sound on 29 August for the west shoreline of Korea, a region that had not been overviewed since the Jesuit evangelists visited in the sixteenth and seventeenth hundreds of years. Maxwell observed the Korean coast to be somewhere in the range of 130 miles further east than anticipated, and during the time spent investigation likewise found the archipelago that frames the south-western tip of the Korean landmass. "Alceste" was then turned towards the Loo Choo Islands, presently known as the Ryukyu archipelago, mooring in the Napakiang streets on the south-west side of Okinawa on 16 September 1816. Following a six-week remain, "Alceste" came back to China by means of the southern end of the island of Taiwan, touching base at the mouth of the Pearl River on 2 November. 

"Alceste" required a few fixes after a long voyage in harsh climate so Maxwell requested of the emissary of Canton for consent to head out up the Tigris to a safe harbor, uninformed that Amherst's central goal had been ineffective. The ruler's frame of mind towards the British emissary had been spur of the moment; he demonstrated little enthusiasm for Europe or its issues, and rejected a blessing from King George as he thought of it as inadequate. Having gotten an offending message in light of his solicitation, Maxwell chose to enter the waterway in any case yet was before long hailed by a nearby mandarin who took steps to have the batteries guarding the passageway sink "Alceste" in the event that she went any further. Still needing fixes and expecting route to Whampoa to gather Amherst, Maxwell told the mandarin that he would continue in any occasion. "Alceste" rapidly managed the shore safeguards and 17 war-throws out sent to stop her, and proceeded up the stream to Whampoa. There she moored and got crisp supplies while anticipating the entry of Amherst and his suite. The occurrence would later be freely portrayed as, ""A well disposed trade of salutes"". Having finished however much of his main goal as could be expected, Amherst boarded "Alceste" which left Whampoa on 21 January 1817. 

With the numerous unknown shores and reefs, and successive tempests, the South China Seas stay the absolute most hazardous waters on the planet. Regardless of the persistent utilization of a sounding lead, on 18 February 1817, "Alceste" grounded on one of the many concealed reefs in the Java Sea. Maxwell requested the stay dropped to keep the ship from slipping into more profound water, an unfortunate circumstance if the frame had been ruptured, which ended up being the situation. The siphons were unfit to adapt to the flood of water and the ship's woodworker, Cheffy, revealed that "Alceste" was hopeless. 

Maxwell requested his first lieutenant, Henry Parkyns Hoppner, to take Lord Amherst and his gathering in two of the pontoons to an island, referred to today as Pulo Leat, three miles away. The island's thick vegetation kept an appraisal of whether it was possessed, and constrained the vessel teams to push a further three miles along the shore before finding an appropriate landing spot between the mangroves. The remainder of the ship's organization were emptied in the rest of the water crafts and an extensive pontoon. In light of the absence of arrangements, specifically drinking water, it was chosen that Hoppner would proceed with Amherst and his international safe haven to Java, around 200 miles toward the south. Once there, a salvage could be started. 

Hoppner's arrival voyage to Java couldn't be cultivated in under nine days, so further supplies would be required for the 200 outstanding survivors. An unarmed endeavor advanced back to "Alceste" to perceive what could be rescued, however was constrained back by the landing of Malay Dyak privateers who ravaged the disaster area. Maxwell requested the development of a stockade and the act of spontaneity of extra weapons to counter the risk of an assault. The burrowing of an all around tackled the issue of water. On 22 February, an equipped gathering set out to recover the ship however the privateers set flame to "Alceste" and made off. The flame kept going for the duration of the night and crushed the disaster area; the next morning Maxwell conveyed a vessel that figured out how to recover a few barrels of flour, instances of wine, and a container of lager. The privateers returned at first light on 26 February, entering the bay on board two proas and two kayaks. Second lieutenant Hay drove a foray that boarded one of the proas, killing four privateers and catching two more. The proa couldn't be conveyed to shore and was left. More privateers landed throughout the following two days. They made no endeavor to arrive, however carried on forcefully by shooting their swivel weapons towards the shore. By 1 March there were fourteen privateer proas in the inlet, with all the more touching base on the next night. 

Arrangements were currently running low, and with the salvage mission late, Maxwell started defining an arrangement to catch adequate proas to escape from the island. While the arrangement was being proposed a sail was spotted not too far off, making a beeline for the island. The presence of this vessel, combined with an unexpected assault led by "Alceste's" marines, made the privateers escape. The salvage deliver was "Ternary", a 16-weapon brig having a place with the British East India Company's naval force, the Bombay Marine, despatched by Lord Amherst upon the arrival of his entry in Batavia. 

"Ternary" came back to Batavia with the castaways, where Amherst sanctioned the ship "Caesar" for the voyage to England. Amid a stop at St Helena, Maxwell met Napoleon, who recollected the activity on 29 November 1811 when "Alceste" had caught "La Pomone", and commented, "... your government must not censure you for the loss of "Alceste", for you have taken one of my frigates." The imperative court military absolved Maxwell, his officers, and his team of the loss of "Alceste". Maxwell got much recognition for his activities, and £1500 from the East India Company. He was knighted in 1818.