Clash of Lissa (1811) 

The Battle of Lissa (once in a while called the Battle of Vis; ; ) was a maritime activity battled between a British frigate squadron and a bigger squadron of French and Italian frigates and littler ships on 13 March 1811 amid the Adriatic crusade of the Napoleonic Wars. The commitment was battled in the Adriatic Sea for ownership of the deliberately critical island of Lissa (otherwise called Vis), from which the British squadron had been upsetting French transporting in the Adriatic. The French expected to control the Adriatic to supply a developing armed force in the Illyrian Provinces, and therefore dispatched an intrusion drive in March 1811 comprising of six frigates, various littler specialty and a brigade of Italian warriors. 

The French intrusion constrain under Bernard Dubourdieu was met by Captain William Hoste and his four boats dependent on the island. In the ensuing fight, Hoste sank the French leader, caught two others, and dispersed the rest of the Franco-Venetian squadron. The fight has been hailed as a critical British triumph, because of both the divergence between the powers and the flag raised by Hoste, a previous subordinate of Horatio Nelson. Hoste had raised the message "Recollect Nelson" as the French hunkered down, and had then moved to drive Dubourdieu's leader shorewards and disperse his squadron in what has been depicted as "a standout amongst the most splendid maritime accomplishments of the war". 

The Napoleonic Wars, the name for a progression of associated clashes between the armed forces of the French Emperor Napoleon and his European adversaries, were nine years of age when the War of the Fifth Coalition finished in 1809. The Treaty of Schönbrunn that pursued the war gave Napoleon ownership of the last piece of Adriatic coastline not under his control: the Illyrian Provinces. This formalized the control the French had practiced in Illyria since 1805 and over the entire Adriatic Sea since the Treaty of Tilsit in 1807. In the Treaty of Tilsit, Russia had conceded France command over the Septinsular Republic and pulled back their own powers from the locale, permitting Napoleon opportunity of activity in the Adriatic. At Schönbrunn, Napoleon made the Illyrian Provinces part of metropolitan France and in this manner under direct French standard, not at all like the neighboring Kingdom of Italy which was ostensibly autonomous yet as a general rule went under his own standard. Along these lines, the Treaty of Schönbrunn formalized Napoleon's control of nearly the whole coastline of the Adriatic and, if unopposed, would enable him to transport troops and supplies to the Balkans. The French armed force framing in the Illyrian Provinces was perhaps planned for an attack of the Ottoman Empire related to the Russians; the two nations had consented to an arrangement to help each other against the Ottomans at Tilsit. 

To upset the arrangements of this military, the British Royal Navy, which had controlled the vast majority of the Mediterranean since the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805, caught the Dalmatian Island of Lissa in 1807 and utilized it as a base for attacking the beach front transportation of Italy and Illyria. These tasks caught many ships and made frenzy and disturbance French system in the locale. To counter this, the French government began a noteworthy shipbuilding program in the Italian seaports, especially Venice, and despatched frigates of their own to secure their delivery. Commodore Bernard Dubourdieu's Franco-Venetian powers were unfit to bring the littler British power under William Hoste to a coordinated activity, where Dubourdieu's predominant numbers may demonstrate unequivocal. Rather, the British and French frigate squadrons occupied with a crusade of assaults and counter-attacks amid 1810. 

In October 1810, Dubourdieu landed 700 Italian fighters on Lissa while Hoste hunt futile down the French squadron in the Southern Adriatic. The island had been left in the direction of two sailors, James Lew and Robert Kingston, who pulled back the whole populace of the island into the focal mountains alongside their provisions. The Italian troops were left possessing the abandoned fundamental town, Port St. George. The French and Italians consumed a few vessels in the harbor and caught others, yet stayed on the island for close to seven hours, withdrawing before Hoste returned. The rest of the year was calm, the British squadron picking up prevalence in the wake of being fortified by the sub-par rate ship of the line HMS "Montagu". 

From the get-go in 1811 the assaulting efforts started once more, and British assaults along the Italian coast provoked Dubourdieu to mount a second attack of Lissa. Exploiting the transitory nonappearance of "Montagu", Dubourdieu gathered six frigates and various littler specialty and set out more than 500 Italian troopers under Colonel Alexander Gifflenga. The squadron amassed by Dubourdieu not just dwarfed the British as far as men and boats, it was additionally twice as overwhelming in weight of shot. Dubourdieu wanted to overpower Hoste's frigate squadron and afterward attack and catch the island, which would annihilate the British danger in the Adriatic for quite a long time to come. 

Dubourdieu (as commodore) drove a squadron comprising of six frigates (four of 40 firearms and two of 32 weapons), a 16-firearm brig, two boats, one xebec, and two gunboats. Three of his boats were from the French Navy, and the others from the Navy of the Kingdom of Italy. Likewise the squadron conveyed 500 Italian officers. Without "Montagu", Hoste's squadron comprised of three frigates (one of 38 weapons and two of 32 firearms) and one 22-firearm post dispatch. The island of Lissa itself was protected by few nearby troops under the direction of two sailors. 

Dubourdieu's squadron was spotted moving toward the island of Lissa at 03:00 on 12 March 1811 by Captain Gordon in HMS "Dynamic", which had driven the British squadron from Port St George on a journey off Ancona. Turning west, the British squadron anticipated the French methodology in line ahead, cruising along the north bank of the island inside a large portion of a mile of the shoreline. By 06:00, Dubourdieu was moving toward the British line from the north-east in two divisions, driving in "Top pick" at the leader of the windward or western division. Dubourdieu would have liked to go in front of "Dynamic" at the leader of the British line and cross it further east with "Danaé", which drove the leeward division. Dubourdieu expected to break the British line in two places and devastate the British squadron in the crossfire. 

Throughout the following three hours the squadrons kept on shutting, light breezes confining them to a little more than three bunches. A protege of Nelson, Hoste reviewed the moving impact of Nelson's flag before the Battle of Trafalgar and raised his own: "Recollect Nelson", which was welcomed with wild cheering from the squadron. As he shut with Hoste's power, Dubourdieu understood that he would be unfit to effectively cross "Active's" bow because of the British ship's speed, and would likewise be unfit to get through their line because of the British boats' closeness to each other. He rather looked to assault the second ship in the British line, Hoste's leader HMS "Amphion". Dubourdieu had a huge favorable position in boats as well as in men, the Italian warriors on board allowing him the chance to overpower the British groups on the off chance that he could board their frigates effectively. The principal shots of the fight were discharged at 09:00, as the British utilized their more extensive field of shoot to assault the main French boats, "Top choice" and "Danaé", unopposed for a few minutes. The French squadron held their flame, Dubourdieu gathering his troops and mariners into "Top pick's" bow so as to amplify the impact of his underlying assault once his leader came into contact with "Amphion". 

Hoste knew about Dubourdieu's expectations and the French preferred standpoint in numbers, and subsequently requested a huge howitzer on "Amphion's" deck triple-shotted until the gun contained over 750 musket balls Once "Top pick" was inside a couple of yards of "Amphion's" stern, Hoste gave consent for the weapon to be shot and the gun's release in a flash cleared the bow of "Top choice" clear of the French and Italian boarding party. Among the handfuls murdered and injured were Dubourdieu and all the frigate's officers, leaving Colonel Gifflenga in order of "Top choice". As "Top choice" and "Amphion" shut with each other, terminating proceeded between the British back and the French leeward division, driven by "Danaé". A few of the French boats came at a point at which they could present their weapons as a powerful influence for HMS "Cerberus", the rearmost British ship, and the two sides were shooting standard broadsides at each other. 

Following the demise of Dubourdieu, Captain Péridier on "Flore" requested the French and Venetian boats to assault the British line straightforwardly. The battered "Top pick" drove with an endeavor to round "Amphion" and rake her before getting her in crossfire, as had been Dubourdieu's unique aim. The rest of the Franco-Venetian squadron pursued this lead and endeavored to offer their unrivaled numbers as a powerful influence for the British squadron. Hoste was set up for this consequence and promptly requested his boats to wear, turning south and afterward east to switch course. This development tossed the Franco-Venetian squadron into perplexity and accordingly the squadron's arrangement ended up complicated. "Top pick", which had lost nearly its whole supplement of officers, was unfit to react rapidly enough to the move and drove onto the rough coastline in perplexity, turning into an all out wreck. 

Tossed into further perplexity by the loss of "Top pick", the French and Venetian development started to separate and the British squadron had the capacity to pull in front of their rivals; the main French boats "Flore" and "Bellona" prevailing in just achieving "Amphion", which was currently at the back of the British line. "Amphion" ended up got between the two frigates and this moderated the British line enough that the French eastern division, driven by "Danaé", had the capacity to strike at HMS "Volage", presently the main British ship in the wake of overwhelming "Cerberus" amid the turn. "Volage" was a lot littler than her adversary yet was equipped with 32-pounder carronades, short range weapons that made such harm "Danaé" that the French ship was compelled to drag away and reconnect from a more drawn out range. The strain of battle at this more noteworthy separation burst "Volage's" short-extended carronades and left the ship much debilitated, with just a solitary firearm with which to draw in the foe. 

Behind "Volage" and "Danaé", the Venetian "Crown" had connected with "Cerberus" in a short proximity duel, amid which "Cerberus" took overwhelming harm however incurred comparative wounds on the Italian ship. This trade proceeded until the entry of "Dynamic" caused the "Danaé", "Crown" and "Carolina" to sheer off and withdraw toward the east. To the back, "Amphion" prevailing with regards to shutting with and raking "Flore", and caused such harm that inside five minutes the French ship's officers tossed the French hues over the edge in surrender. Skipper Péridier had been genuinely injured in the move, and took no part in "Flore's" later developments. "Amphion" at that point assaulted "Bellona" and in a commitment that kept going until 12:00, constrained the Italian ship's surrender. Amid this battle, the little ship "Principessa Augusta" discharged on "Amphion" from a separation, until the frigate had the capacity to turn a firearm on them and drive them off. Hoste sent a punt to claim "Bellona" however because of the harm endured was unfit to dispatch a watercraft to seize "Flore". Acknowledging "Amphion's" trouble, the officers of "Flore", who had made hurried fixes amid the contention among "Amphion" and "Bellona", quickly set sail for the French harbor on Lesina (Hvar), regardless of having just surrendered. 

"Dynamic", the main British ship still in battling condition, took up quest for the withdrawing foe and at 12:30 got the "Crown" in the channel among Lissa and the little island of Spalmadon. The frigates moved around each other for the following hour; chiefs Gordon and Pasqualigo each looking for the best position from which to lock in. The frigates occupied with battle at 13.45, "Dynamic" compelling "Crown's" surrender 45 minutes later after a flame broke out on board the Italian ship. "Dynamic" also had endured harshly and as the British squadron was not sufficiently able to proceed with the activity by assaulting the rest of the squadron in its secured harbor on Lesina, the fight reached an end. The overcomers of the Franco-Venetian squadron had all achieved wellbeing; "Carolina" and "Danaé" had utilized the contention among "Dynamic" and "Crown" to cover their break while "Flore" had demonstrated to every British ship she passed that she had surrendered and was in British belonging notwithstanding the nonappearance of a British officer ready. Once "Flore" was clear of the British squadron she set out toward security, achieving the batteries of Lesina soon after her "Carolina" and "Danaé" and in front of the limping British interest. The littler specialty of the Franco-Venetian squadron dispersed amid the fight's last stages and came to Lesina freely. 

Albeit "Top choice" was destroyed, more than 200 of her group and officer travelers had achieved the land and, having set flame to their ship, arranged to walk on Port St. George under the administration of Colonel Gifflenga. Two British sailors left in direction of the town composed the British and indigenous populace into a protective power and walked to meet Gifflenga. The lesser British officers educated Gifflenga that the arrival of the British squadron would bring overpowering quantities of mariners, marines and maritime gunnery to shoulder on his little power and that in the event that he surrendered promptly he could anticipate better terms. Gifflenga perceived that his position was unsound and given in. At Port St. George, the Venetian gunboat "Lodola" sneaked unnoticed into the harbor and nearly caught a Sicilian privateer, "Vincitore". The pillager was driven off by the rest of the army of the town without the prize, while endeavoring to move her out of the cove. 

In the oceans off Lissa, British prize groups were endeavoring strenuous endeavors to secure their catches; "Crown" was intensely ablaze in outcome of her commitment with "Dynamic" and the British prize team battled the blast close by their Italian detainees. The flame was in the end brought leveled out, yet not without the demise of five men and a few all the more genuinely consumed when the bursting mainmast crumbled. Issues were additionally experienced on board "Bellona", where Captain Duodo intended to touch off the powder magazine and obliterate the ship following its surrender. Duodo had been mortally injured in the activity, thus requested his second in direction to light the breaker. The officer guaranteed to do as such, yet rather given control of the magazine to the British prize group when they arrived. Duodo kicked the bucket as yet trusting that the circuit had been lit. 

Hoste additionally stayed adrift, cruising in the battered "Amphion" past the scope of the shore batteries on Lesina. Hoste was angry at the conduct of "Flore's" officers and sent a note into Lesina requesting that they surrender the ship as shown by its before surrender. In surrendering and afterward getting away from, the officers of "Flore" had broken a casual standard of maritime clash under which a ship that willfully struck its banner submitted to a rival so as to avoid proceeded with death toll among its group. "Flore" had the capacity to go left alone through the British squadron simply because she was perceived to have surrendered, and to manhandle this custom along these lines was considered, in the Royal Navy particularly, to be an offensive demonstration. The French at Lesina did not react to Hoste's note, and the British squadron was in the end compelled to come back to Lissa to impact fixes. 

Losses of the activity were substantial on the two sides. The British boats endured 190 executed or injured in the fight and a number lost a while later in the flame on board "Crown". Skippers Hoste and Hornby were both severely injured and the whole British squadron needed earnest fix before continuing the crusade. In the French and Italian squadron the circumstance was surprisingly more dreadful, albeit exact misfortunes are not known. Somewhere around 150 had been executed on board "Top choice" either in the activity or the disaster area, and the 200 overcomers of her team and travelers were altogether made detainee. "Bellona" had endured something like 70 setbacks and "Corona's" misfortunes were additionally serious. Among the boats that got away less is known about their setbacks, yet all required fix and support before the battle could continue. All out French and Italian misfortunes are assessed at no under 700. Misfortunes among the officers of the consolidated squadron were particularly high, with Commodore Dubourdieu and chiefs Meillerie and Duodo murdered and Péridier genuinely injured. 

The quick outcome saw restored endeavors by Hoste to incite the French to hand over "Flore", endeavors that were repelled by the chief of the "Danaé", who had accepted order of the French squadron. The enduring French and Venetian boats were at first laid up in Ragusa (Dubrovnik) anticipating supplies to proceed with the battle, yet a different British squadron found and sank the supply send at Parenzo (Poreč), requiring a full French withdrawal from the territory. In Britain, Hoste's activity was generally applauded; the squadron's first lieutenants were altogether elevated to officer and the commanders all gave a dedicatory decoration. Almost four decades later the fight was additionally perceived in the issue of the catch "Lissa" to the Naval General Service Medal, granted to every single British member as yet living in 1847. On their landing in Britain, "Crown" and "Bellone" were fixed and later bought for administration in the Royal Navy, the recently fabricated "Crown" being named and "Bellone" turning into the troopship . "Daedalus" was authorized in 1812 under Captain Murray Maxwell, however served not exactly a year; destroyed off Ceylon in July 1813. 

English numerical predominance in the area was guaranteed; when French fortifications for the Adriatic withdrew Toulon on 25 March they were chased down and driven back to France by Captain Robert Otway in before they had even passed Corsica. All through the rest of 1811 in any case, British and French frigate squadrons kept on fighting over the Adriatic, the most noteworthy commitment being the activity of 29 November 1811, in which a second French squadron was demolished. The activity had critical long haul impacts; the decimation of a standout amongst the best-prepared and best-drove squadrons in the French Navy and the demise of the forceful Dubourdieu finished the French capacity to strike into the Balkans against the Ottoman Empire. 

Key