L. Ron Hubbard 

Lafayette Ronald Hubbard ( ; March 13, 1911 – January 24, 1986) was an American creator of sci-fi and dream stories, and the author of the Church of Scientology. In 1950, Hubbard composed "" and set up a progression of associations to advance Dianetics. In 1952, Hubbard lost the rights to Dianetics in chapter 11 procedures, and he in this way established Scientology. From that point Hubbard administered the development of the Church of Scientology into an overall association. Hubbard was refered to by "Smithsonian" magazine as one of the 100 most noteworthy Americans ever. 

Conceived in Tilden, Nebraska in 1911, Hubbard spent quite a bit of his adolescence in Helena, Montana. After his dad was presented on the U.S. maritime base on Guam, Hubbard made a trip to Asia and the South Pacific in the late 1920s. In 1930, Hubbard selected at George Washington University to think about structural building, however dropped out in his second year. He started his profession as a productive essayist of mash fiction stories and wedded Margaret "Polly" Grubb, who shared his enthusiasm for flight. 

Hubbard served quickly in the Marine Corps Reserve and was an officer in the Navy amid World War II. He quickly told two boats, however was expelled from order the multiple times. The most recent couple of months of his dynamic administration were spent in a medical clinic, being treated for a duodenal ulcer. 

Amid the late 1960s and mid 1970s, he invested quite a bit of his energy adrift on his own armada of boats as "Commodore" of the Sea Organization, a first class, paramilitary gathering of Scientologists. Some ex-individuals and researchers have portrayed the Sea Org as an authoritarian association set apart by concentrated observation and an absence of opportunity. His endeavor arrived at an end when Britain, Greece, Spain, Portugal, and Venezuela all shut their ports to his armada. 

Hubbard came back to the United States in 1975 and went into isolation in the California desert. In 1978, a preliminary court in France sentenced Hubbard for extortion "in absentia". In 1983 Hubbard was named as a unindicted co-schemer in a universal data invasion and burglary venture called "Task Snow White". He spent the rest of the long periods of his life in an extravagance RV on his California property, took care of by a little gathering of Scientology authorities including his doctor. In 1986, L. Ron Hubbard kicked the bucket at age 74. 

The Church of Scientology depicts Hubbard in hagiographic terms, and he depicted himself as a spearheading pioneer, world explorer, and atomic physicist with ability in a wide scope of orders, including photography, workmanship, verse, and rationality. In spite of the fact that a large number of Hubbard's personal articulations have been observed to be imaginary, the Church rejects any proposal that its record of Hubbard's life isn't authentic actuality. In Scientology productions, he is alluded to as "Organizer" and "Source" of Scientology and Dianetics. 

His faultfinders have portrayed Hubbard as a rationally shaky endless liar. 

Lafayette Ronald Hubbard was conceived in 1911, in Tilden, Nebraska. He was the single offspring of Ledora May ( Waterbury), who had prepared as an instructor, and Harry Ross Hubbard, a previous United States Navy officer. In the wake of moving to Kalispell, Montana, they settled in Helena in 1913. Hubbard's dad rejoined the Navy in April 1917, amid World War I, while his mom functioned as a representative for the state government. 

Amid the 1920s the Hubbards more than once moved around the United States and abroad. After Hubbard's dad Harry rejoined the Navy, his posting on board the USS "Oklahoma" in 1921 required the family to move to the ship's home ports, first San Diego, at that point Seattle. Hubbard was dynamic in the Boy Scouts in Washington, D.C. what's more, earned the position of Eagle Scout in 1924, two weeks after his thirteenth birthday celebration. 

The next year, Harry Ross Hubbard was presented on Puget Sound Naval Shipyard at Bremerton, Washington. His child was selected at Union High School, Bremerton, and later learned at Queen Anne High School in Seattle. In 1927 Hubbard's dad was sent to the U.S. Maritime Station on Guam. Hubbard's mom went with her significant other, while their youngster was set in his grandparents' consideration in Helena, Montana to finish his tutoring. 

In 1927, Hubbard and his mom headed out to Guam. It comprised of a short stop-over in a few Chinese ports before making a trip on to Guam, where he remained for about a month and a half before returning home. He recorded his impressions of the spots he visited and hated the destitution of the occupants of Japan and China, whom he portrayed as "gooks" and "languid [and] oblivious". 

After his arrival to the United States in September 1927, Hubbard selected at Helena High School, where he added to the school paper, yet earned just terrible scores. He relinquished school the next May and returned west to remain with his auntie and uncle in Seattle. He joined his folks in Guam in June 1928. His mom assumed control over his instruction in the expectation of putting him forward for the placement test to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. 

Among October and December 1928 various maritime families, including Hubbard's, made a trip from Guam to China on board the payload transport . The ship halted at Manila in the Philippines before heading out on to Qingdao (Tsingtao) in China. Hubbard and his folks made a side trek to Beijing before cruising on to Shanghai and Hong Kong, from where they came back to Guam. Back on Guam, Hubbard invested a lot of his energy composing many short stories and expositions and fizzled the Naval Academy placement test. 

In September 1929 Hubbard was selected at the Swavely Preparatory School in Manassas, Virginia, to set him up for a second endeavor at the examination. Nonetheless, he was controlled out of thought because of his partial blindness. He was rather sent to Woodward School for Boys in Washington, D.C. to meet all requirements for admission to George Washington University. He effectively moved on from the school in June 1930 and entered the college the next September. 

On September 24, 1930, Hubbard was to the School of Engineering at George Washington University, with an expressed major of structural building at the command of his dad. Scholastically, Hubbard did inadequately: his transcripts show he fizzled numerous courses including nuclear material science, however further down the road he would profess to have been atomic physicist. In September 1931 he was put on post trial supervision because of evaluations, and again on April 23, 1932 he was issued a notice because of his evaluations. 

Amid his first year, Hubbard sorted out the college Glider Club and was chosen its leader. 

Amid what might turn into Hubbard's last semester at GWU, he sorted out a disastrous campaign to the Caribbean on board the yacht "Doris Hamlin" initiating in June 1932. The points of the "Caribbean Motion Picture Expedition" were expressed as being to investigate and film the privateer "fortifications and bivouacs of the Spanish Main" and to "gather whatever one gathers for displays in historical centers". It kept running into inconvenience even before it left Baltimore: Ten members quit and storms passed the ship far over course to Bermuda. Eleven additional individuals from the campaign quit there increasingly still left when the ship touched base at Martinique. With the endeavor running basically shy of cash, the ship's proprietors requested it to come back to Baltimore. A portion of its members made legitimate cases against him for discounts, and Hubbard neglected to come back to University the next year. 

After his dad volunteered him for a Red Cross aid venture following 1932 San Ciprian sea tempest, on October 23, 1932 Hubbard went on board the USS "Kittery" to Puerto Rico. Mill operator expresses: "Somewhere close to Norfolk, Virginia, and Port au Prince it appears that Ron chose to relinquish the Red Cross". Rather, Hubbard seems to have done some work for a firm called West Indies Minerals Incorporated, going with a surveyor in an examination of a little property close to the town of Luquillo, Puerto Rico. 

Hubbard came back from Puerto Rico to D.C. in February 1933. He hit up with an association with a kindred lightweight plane pilot named Margaret "Polly" Grubb. A long time later, Hubbard told his partners that his watchman blessed messenger, portrayed as a "grinning lady," secured him when he was flying lightweight planes. The two were hitched on April 13. She was at that point pregnant when they wedded, yet had a premature delivery presently a short time later; a couple of months after the fact, she wound up pregnant once more. On May 7, 1934, she conceived an offspring rashly to a child who was named Lafayette Ronald Hubbard, Jr., whose epithet was "Nibs". Their second kid, Katherine May, was conceived on January 15, 1936. The Hubbards lived for some time in Laytonsville, Maryland, however were incessantly shy of cash. 

Hubbard turned into a notable and productive essayist for mash fiction magazines amid the 1930s. His scholarly vocation started with commitments to the George Washington University understudy paper, "The University Hatchet", as a columnist for a couple of months in 1931. Six of his pieces were distributed industrially amid 1932 to 1933. The going rate for independent journalists at the time was just a penny a word, so Hubbard's all out profit from these articles would have been under $100 (). The mash magazine "Exciting Adventure" turned into the first to distribute one of his short stories, in February 1934. Throughout the following six years, mash magazines distributed a significant number of his short stories under an assortment of nom de plumes, including Winchester Remington Colt, Kurt von Rachen, René Lafayette, Joe Blitz and Legionnaire 148. 

Despite the fact that he was best known for his dream and sci-fi stories, Hubbard wrote in a wide assortment of classifications, including experience fiction, flight, travel, puzzles, westerns and even sentiment. Hubbard knew and connected with authors, for example, Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Heinlein, L. Sprague de Camp and A. E. van Vogt. 

In the spring of 1936 they moved to Bremerton, Washington. They lived there for a period with Hubbard's aunties and grandma before finding their very own position at close-by South Colby. As indicated by one of his companions at the time, Robert MacDonald Ford, the Hubbards were "in genuinely desperate straits for cash" however continued themselves on the salary from Hubbard's composition. 

His first full-length novel, "Buckskin Brigades", was distributed in 1937. He turned into an "exceedingly eccentric" essayist of sci-fi in the wake of being taken under the wing of editorial manager John W. Campbell, who distributed a considerable lot of Hubbard's short stories and furthermore serialized various generally welcomed novelettes that Hubbard composed for Campbell's magazines "Obscure" and "Shocking Science Fiction". These included "Dread", "Last Blackout" and " in the Sky". Sci-fi bulletin Xignals detailed that Hubbard stated "more than 100,000 words every month" amid his pinnacle. Martin Gardner affirmed that his stating "[wa]s done at lightning speed." 

He composed the content for "The Secret of Treasure Island", a 1938 Columbia Pictures motion picture sequential. 

Hubbard invested an expanding measure of energy in New York City, working out of a lodging where his better half associated him with carrying on undertakings with other ladies. 

Hubbard's initiation in mid-1938 of a still-unpublished original copy called "Excalibur" is featured by the Church of Scientology as a key advance in building up the standards of Scientology and Dianetics. The original copy is said by Scientologists to have sketched out "the fundamental standards of human presence" and to have been the summit of twenty years of investigation into "twenty-one races and societies including Pacific Northwest Indian clans, Philippine Tagalogs and, as he was wont to joke, the general population of the Bronx". 

As per Arthur J. Cox, a supporter of John W. Campbell's "Amazing Science Fiction" magazine, Hubbard told a 1948 tradition of sci-fi fans that "Excalibur" motivation came amid an activity in which he "passed on" for eight minutes. (Gerry Armstrong, Hubbard's documenter, clarifies this as a dental extraction performed under nitrous oxide, a synthetic known for its stimulating impacts): 

Arthur J. Burks, the President of the American Fiction Guild, composed that an energized Hubbard called him and stated: "I need to see you immediately. I have composed THE book." Hubbard trusted that "Excalibur" would "upset everything" and that "it was to some degree progressively vital, and would have a more prominent effect upon individuals, than the Bible." It recommended that all human conduct could be clarified as far as survival and that to comprehend survival was to get life. As Hubbard biographer Jon Atack takes note of, "the thought that everything that exists is endeavoring to endure turned into the premise of Dianetics and Scientology." 

As indicated by Burks, Hubbard "was so certain he had something 'ceaselessly out and past' whatever else that he had sent wires to a few book distributers, revealing to them that he had composed 'THE book' and that they were to meet him at Penn Station, and he would talk about it with them and run with whomever gave him the best offer." However, no one purchased the composition. Forrest J Ackerman, later Hubbard's abstract specialist, reviewed that Hubbard let him know "whoever read it either went crazy or ended it all. Also, he said that the last time he had appeared at a distributer in New York, he strolled into the workplace to discover what the response was, the distributer required the peruser, the peruser came in with the composition, tossed it on the table and tossed himself out of the high rise window." Hubbard's inability to sell "Excalibur" discouraged him; he told his significant other in an October 1938 letter: "Composing activity mash doesn't have much concurrence with what I need to do on the grounds that it impedes my advancement by requesting perpetual consideration and, further, really debilitates my name. So you see I must take care of business and in the meantime reinforce the old monetary position." He went on: 

The original copy later turned out to be a piece of Scientology folklore. A mid 1950s Scientology distribution offered marked "gold-bound and bolted" duplicates for the total of $1,500 each (). It cautioned that "four of the initial fifteen individuals who read it went crazy" and that it would be "[r]eleased just on sworn articulation not to allow different perusers to peruse it. Contains information not to be discharged amid Mr. Hubbard's stay on earth." 

Hubbard joined The Explorers Club in February 1940 on the quality of his asserted investigations in the Caribbean and review flights in the United States. He convinced the club to give him a chance to convey its banner on an "Alaskan Radio-Experimental Expedition" to refresh the U.S. Coast Pilot manual for the coastlines of Alaska and British Columbia and explore new strategies for radio position-finding. The campaign comprised of Hubbard and his significant other—the youngsters were left at South Colby—on board his ketch "Mystical performer". 

Hubbard told "The Seattle Star" in a November 1940 letter that the undertaking was tormented by issues and did not get any more distant than Ketchikan close to the southern end of the Alaska Panhandle, a long way from the Aleutian Islands. "Magician's" motor destitute down just two days in the wake of setting off in July 1940. The Hubbards came to Ketchikan on August 30, 1940, after many defers following rehashed motor breakdowns. The "Ketchikan Chronicle" announced—making no notice of the campaign—that Hubbard's motivation in coming to Alaska "was two-crease, one to win a wager and another to accumulate material for a novel of Alaskan salmon angling". Having thought little of the expense of the excursion, he didn't have enough cash to fix the broken motor. He fund-raised by composing stories and adding to the neighborhood radio station and in the long run sufficiently earned to fix the motor, making it back to Puget Sound on December 27, 1940. 

In the wake of coming back from Alaska, Hubbard connected to join the United States Navy. His companion Robert MacDonald Ford, at this point a State Representative for Washington, sent a letter of suggestion portraying Hubbard as "a standout amongst the most splendid men I have ever known". Portage later said that Hubbard had composed the letter himself: "I don't have a clue why Ron needed a letter. I just gave him a letter-head and stated, 'Heck, you're the author, you compose it!'" 

Hubbard was appointed as a Lieutenant (junior evaluation) in the U.S. Maritime Reserve on July 19, 1941. By November, he was presented on New York for preparing as an Intelligence Officer. 

On December 18, he was presented on the Philippines and set out for the posting by means of Australia. While in Melbourne anticipating transport to Manilla, Hubbard was sent back to the United States. US Naval Attaché revealed: "This officer isn't tasteful for free obligation task. He is chatty and attempts to give impressions of his significance. He likewise assumes he has abnormal capacity in many lines. These qualities show that he will require close supervision for acceptable execution of any insight obligation." 

After a short spell blue penciling links, Hubbard's solicitation for ocean obligation was endorsed and he answered to a Neponset, Massachusetts shipyard which was changing over a trawler into a gunboat to be named USS "YP-422". On September 25, 1942, the Commandant of Boston Navy Yard educated Washington that, in his view, Hubbard was "not inconsistently fitted for free direction." Days after the fact, on October 1, Hubbard was summarily alleviated of his order. 

Hubbard was sent to Submarine Chaser Training, and in 1943 was presented on Portland, Oregon to assume responsibility for a submarine chaser, the USS "PC-815", which was under development. On May 18, USS PC-815 cruised on her squeeze journey, destined for San Diego. Just five hours into the voyage, Hubbard trusted he had distinguished a foe submarine. Hubbard went through the following 68 hours occupied with battle, until at long last accepting requests to come back to Astoria. Chief of naval operations Fletcher, officer of the Northwest Sea Frontier, finished up: "An investigation of all reports persuades me that there was no submarine in the zone." Fletcher recommended Hubbard had mixed up a "known attractive store" for a foe sub. 

The next month, Hubbard accidentally cruised the "PC-815" into Mexican regional waters and directed gunnery practice off the Coronado Islands, in the conviction that they were uninhabited and had a place with the United States. The Mexican government whined and Hubbard was soothed of order. A report composed after the episode evaluated Hubbard as unacceptable for free obligations and "ailing in the basic characteristics of judgment, administration and collaboration". The report suggested he be relegated "obligation on a substantial vessel where he can be appropriately regulated". 

In the wake of being alleviated of direction of the "PC-815", Hubbard was doled out to brief obligation in San Diego. There he started detailing wiped out, refering to an assortment of afflictions, including intestinal sickness, ulcers, and back torments. Hubbard was admitted to the maritime emergency clinic for perception - he would stay there almost three months. A long time later, Hubbard would secretly keep in touch with himself: "Your stomach inconvenience you blamed so as to shield the Navy from rebuffing you. You are free of the Navy." 

In 1944, Hubbard was presented on Portland where the USS "Algol" was under development. The ship was appointed in July and Hubbard filled in as the Navigation and Training Officer. Hubbard mentioned, and was without a doubt, an exchange to the School of Military Government in Princeton. The night prior to his flight, the ship's log reports that "The Navigating Officer [Hubbard] answered to the OOD [Officer On Duty] that an endeavor at sabatage [sic] had been made at some point between 1530-1600. A coke bottle loaded up with fuel with a fabric wick embedded had been hidden among payload which was to be raised on board and put away in No 1 hold. It was found before being accepted. ONI, FBI and NSD specialists covered the scene and examinations were begun." 

Hubbard went to class in Princeton until January 1945, when he was relegated to Monterey, California. In April, he again announced wiped out and was re-admitted to Oak Knoll Naval Hospital, Oakland. His grumblings included "migraines, stiffness, conjunctivitis, torments in his side, stomach throbs, torments in his shoulder, joint pain, hemorrhoids". 

An October 1945 Naval Board found that Hubbard was "considered physically met all requirements to perform obligation shorewards, ideally inside the mainland United States". He was released from emergency clinic on December 4, 1945, and exchanged to inert obligation on February 17, 1946. 

Hubbard would eventually leave his bonus after the distribution of "Dianetics", with impact from October 30, 1950. 

Hubbard's life experienced a tempestuous period following the war. As per his very own record, he "was relinquished by family and companions as an apparently sad handicapped person and a plausible weight upon them for the remainder of my life". His little girl Katherine displayed a fairly unique form: his better half had wouldn't evacuate their kids from their home in Bremerton, Washington, to go along with him in California. Their marriage was at this point in terminal challenges and he remained in California. 

In August 1945 Hubbard moved into the Pasadena manor of John "Jack" Whiteside Parsons. A main rocket impetus scientist at the California Institute of Technology and an originator of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Parsons had a twofold existence as an ardent soothsayer and Thelemite, supporter of the English stylized mystical performer Aleister Crowley and pioneer of a cabin of Crowley's mysterious request, Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO). He let rooms in the house just to inhabitants who he determined ought to be "agnostics and those of a Bohemian attitude". 

Hubbard got to know Parsons and before long turned out to be explicitly required with Parsons' 21-year-former sweetheart, Sara "Betty" Northrup. In spite of this Parsons was awed with Hubbard and answered to Crowley: 

Hubbard, whom Parsons alluded to recorded as a hard copy as "Frater H", turned into an energetic colleague in the Pasadena OTO. The two men teamed up on the "Babalon Working", a sex enchantment ceremony planned to gather a manifestation of Babalon, the incomparable Thelemite Goddess. It was embraced more than a few evenings in February and March 1946 so as to bring a "natural" who might take an interest in further sex enchantment. As Richard Metzger depicts it, 

The "essential" arrived a couple of days after the fact as Marjorie Cameron, who consented to take part in Parsons' ceremonies. Before long a short time later, Parsons, Hubbard and Sara consented to set up a business association, "Unified Enterprises", in which they contributed almost their whole investment funds—by far most contributed by Parsons. The arrangement was for Hubbard and Sara to purchase yachts in Miami and sail them toward the West Coast to sell for a benefit. Hubbard had an alternate thought; he kept in touch with the U.S. Naval force mentioning authorization to leave the nation "to visit Central and South America and China" for the reasons for "gathering composing material"— as such, attempted a world journey. Aleister Crowley firmly condemned Parsons' activities, expressing: "Suspect Ron playing certainty trap—Jack Parsons frail trick—clear injured individual lurking swindlers." Parsons endeavored to recoup his cash by acquiring a directive to counteract Hubbard and Sara leaving the nation or discarding the leftovers of his advantages. They endeavored to cruise in any case however were constrained back to port by a tempest. After seven days, Allied Enterprises was broken down. Parsons got just a $2,900 promissory note from Hubbard and returned home "broke". He needed to pitch his chateau to engineers soon thereafter to recover his misfortunes. 

Hubbard's kindred essayists were very much aware of what had occurred among him and Parsons. L. Sprague de Camp kept in touch with Isaac Asimov on August 27, 1946, to let him know: 

On August 10, 1946, Hubbard bigamously wedded Sara, while still wedded to Polly. It was not until 1947 that his first spouse discovered that he had remarried. Hubbard consented to separate Polly in June that year and the marriage was broken up in a matter of seconds a short time later, with Polly given authority of the youngsters. 

Amid this period, Hubbard created an archive called The "Insistences" (additionally alluded to as the "Affirmations"). They comprise of a progression of proclamations by and routed to Hubbard, identifying with different physical, sexual, mental and social issues that he was experiencing in his life. The Affirmations seem to have been planned to be utilized as a type of self-mesmerizing with the expectation of settling the creator's mental issues and imparting a positive mental frame of mind. In , Reitman called the Affirmations "the most noteworthy mental self-evaluation, complete with urgings to himself, that [Hubbard] had ever constructed." 

Among the Affirmations: 

After Hubbard's wedding to Sara, the couple settled at Laguna Beach, California, where Hubbard took a momentary activity caring for a companion's yacht before continuing his fiction writing to enhance the little incapacity remittance that he was getting as a war veteran. Working from a trailer in a once-over region of North Hollywood, Hubbard sold various sci-fi stories that incorporated his "Ole Doc Methuselah" arrangement and the serialized books "The End Is Not Yet" and "To the Stars". In any case, he stayed shy of cash and his child, L. Ron Hubbard Jr, affirmed later that Hubbard was subject to his very own dad and Margaret's folks for cash and his compositions, which he was paid at a penny for each word, never accumulated him any more than $10,000 before the establishing of Scientology. He over and over kept in touch with the Veterans Administration (VA) requesting an expansion in his war benefits. 

In October 1947 he wrote to demand mental treatment: 

The VA in the long run increased his benefits, yet his cash issues proceeded. On August 31, 1948, he was captured in San Luis Obispo, California, and along these lines confessed to a charge of trivial robbery, for which he was requested to pay a $25 fine (). 

In 1948, Hubbard and his second spouse Sara moved from California to Savannah, Georgia, where he would later profess to have "worked" as a "volunteer" in the mental facility. Hubbard later composed of having watched a "Dr. Focus" in Savannah. In Savannah, Hubbard started to make the principal open notices of what was to progress toward becoming Dianetics. 

He wrote in January 1949 that he was taking a shot at a "book of brain research" about "the reason and fix of anxious pressure", which he was going to call "The Dark Sword", "Excalibur" or "Study of the Mind". On March 8, 1949, Hubbard kept in touch with companion and individual sci-fi creator Robert Heinlein from Savannah, Georgia. Hubbard referenced Heinlein's before work Coventry, in 

in which an idealistic government can mentally "fix" hoodlums of vicious identity attributes. Composed Hubbard: 

His initially distributed articles in Dianetics were "Backcountry: The Mind" in the Explorer Club Journal and another that affected individuals all the more vigorously in Astounding Science Fiction. 

In April 1949, Hubbard kept in touch with a few expert associations to offer his examination. None were intrigued, so he swung to his manager John W. Campbell, who was progressively open because of a long-standing interest with periphery brain research projects and clairvoyant forces ("psionics") that "saturated the two his fiction and genuine". 

Campbell welcomed Hubbard and Sara to move into a bungalow at Bay Head, New Jersey, not a long way from his very own home at Plainfield. In July 1949, Campbell enrolled an associate, Dr. Joseph Winter, to help build up Hubbard's new treatment of "Dianetics". Campbell told Winter: 

Hubbard teamed up with Campbell and Winter to refine his procedures, testing them on sci-fi fans enlisted by Campbell. The essential standard of Dianetics was that the mind recorded each understanding and occasion in an individual's life, notwithstanding when oblivious. Awful or difficult encounters were put away as what he called "engrams" in a "receptive personality". These could be activated further down the road, causing passionate and physical issues. Via completing a procedure he called "reviewing", an individual could be relapsed through his engrams to re-encountering past encounters. This empowered engrams to be "cleared". The subject, who might now be in a territory of "Clear", would have a flawlessly working personality with an improved IQ and photographic memory. The "Unmistakable" would be restored of physical illnesses running from poor visual perception to the basic cold, which Hubbard attested were absolutely psychosomatic. 

Winter presented a paper on Dianetics to the "Diary of the American Medical Association" and the "American Journal of Psychiatry" yet the two diaries rejected it. Hubbard and his associates chose to report Dianetics in Campbell's "Bewildering Science Fiction." In a publication, Campbell stated: "Its capacity is practically extraordinary; it demonstrates the brain not exclusively can yet rules the body totally; following the pointedly characterized fundamental laws put forward, physical ills, for example, ulcers, asthma and joint inflammation can be relieved, as can all other psychosomatic ills." The introduction of Hubbard's second girl Alexis Valerie, conveyed by Winter on March 8, 1950, came amidst the arrangements to dispatch Dianetics. A "Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation" was set up in April 1950 in Elizabeth, New Jersey, with Hubbard, Sara, Winter and Campbell on the governing body. 

Hubbard depicted Dianetics as "the concealed wellspring of every psychosomatic sick and human deviation" when he acquainted Dianetics with the world during the 1950s. He further guaranteed that "aptitudes have been produced for their constant fix." Dianetics was properly propelled in "Astounding's" May 1950 issue and on May 9, Hubbard's sidekick book "" was distributed by Hermitage House. Hubbard deserted independent writing so as to advance Dianetics, composing a few books about it in the following decade, conveying an expected 4,000 addresses while establishing Dianetics inquire about associations. 

Dianetics was a quick business achievement and started what Martin Gardner calls "an across the country faction of inconceivable extents". By August 1950, Hubbard's book had sold 55,000 duplicates, was selling at the rate of 4,000 per week and was being converted into French, German and Japanese. Five hundred Dianetic examining bunches had been set up over the United States. 

Dianetics was inadequately gotten by the press and the logical and restorative callings. The American Psychological Association condemned Hubbard's cases as "not bolstered by observational proof". "Logical American" said that Hubbard's book contained "a greater number of guarantees and less proof per page than any production since the creation of printing", while "The New Republic" considered it an "intense and improper blend of complete gibberish and impeccably sensible good judgment, taken from since a long time ago recognized discoveries and masked and contorted by an insane, recently concocted wording". A portion of Hubbard's kindred sci-fi journalists additionally censured it; Isaac Asimov thought of it as "rubbish" while Jack Williamson called it "an insane person modification of Freudian brain science". 

A few well known people ended up included with Dianetics. Aldous Huxley got inspecting from Hubbard; the artist Jean Toomer and the sci-fi essayists Theodore Sturgeon and A. E. van Vogt ended up prepared Dianetics inspectors. Van Vogt briefly deserted composition and turned into the leader of the recently settled Los Angeles part of the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation. Different branches were built up in New York, Washington, D.C., Chicago, and Honolulu. 

In spite of the fact that Dianetics was not modest, a large number individuals were regardless ready to pay; van Vogt later did "pretty much nothing yet detach open envelopes and force $500 checks from individuals who needed to take an inspector's course". Money related controls were remiss. Hubbard himself extensive totals with no clarification of what he was doing with it. On one event, van Vogt saw Hubbard taking a single amount of $56,000 (comparable to $0.5 million at 2010 costs) out of the Los Angeles Foundation's returns. One of Hubbard's representatives, Helen O'Brien, remarked that at the Elizabeth, N.J. part of the Foundation, the books demonstrated that "a month's salary of $90,000 is recorded, with just $20,000 represented". 

Hubbard assumed a functioning job in the Dianetics blast, composing, addressing and preparing evaluators. A considerable lot of the individuals who realized him discussed being inspired by his own allure. Jack Horner, who turned into a Dianetics inspector in 1950, later stated, "He was amazing, committed and entertaining. The man had colossal charm; you simply needed to hear each word he needed to state and tune in for any pearl of insight." Isaac Asimov reviewed in his life account how, at an evening gathering, he, Robert Heinlein, L. Sprague de Camp and their spouses "all sat as unobtrusively as pussycats and tuned in to Hubbard. He told stories with immaculate assurance and in total passages." As Atack remarks, he was "a charming figure who constrained the dedication of people around him". Christopher Evans portrayed the individual characteristics that Hubbard conveyed to Dianetics and Scientology: 

Hubbard's supporters before long started to have questions about Dianetics. Winter wound up frustrated and composed that he had never observed a solitary persuading Clear: "I have seen a few people who should have been 'clear,' yet their conduct does not fit in with the meaning of the state. In addition, an individual expected to have been 'clear' has experienced a backslide into direct which recommends a beginning psychosis." He likewise hated the Foundation's exclusion of any genuine logical research. 

Dianetics lost open validity in August 1950 when an introduction by Hubbard before a crowd of people of 6,000 at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles bombed shockingly. He presented a Clear named Sonya Bianca and told the gathering of people that because of experiencing Dianetic treatment she currently had immaculate review. In any case, Gardner expresses, "in the show that pursued, she neglected to recollect a solitary recipe in material science (the subject in which she was majoring) or the shade of Hubbard's tie when his back was turned. Now, a vast piece of the gathering of people got up and left." 

Hubbard additionally confronted different specialists moving into initiative positions inside the Dianetics people group. It was organized as an open, open practice in which others were allowed to seek after their very own lines of research and guarantee that their ways to deal with evaluating created preferable outcomes over Hubbard's. The people group quickly chipped and its individuals blended Hubbard's thoughts with a wide assortment of recondite and mysterious practices. 

By late 1950, the Elizabeth, N.J. Establishment was in money related emergency and the Los Angeles Foundation was more than $200,000 owing debtors (). Winter and Art Ceppos, the distributer of Hubbard's book, surrendered under bitter conditions. Campbell additionally surrendered, condemning Hubbard for being difficult to work with, and censured him for the disorder and monetary ruin of the Foundations. By the late spring of 1951, the Elizabeth, N.J. Establishment and the majority of its branches had shut. 

The breakdown of Hubbard's marriage to Sara made yet more issues. He had started an illicit relationship with his 20-year-old advertising collaborator in late 1950, while Sara began an association with Dianetics inspector Miles Hollister. Hubbard covertly condemned the couple to the FBI in March 1951, depicting them in a letter as socialist infiltrators. As indicated by Hubbard, Sara was "as of now private with [communists] yet obviously under intimidation. Chronic drug use set in fall 1950. Nothing of this known to me until half a month prior." Hollister was depicted as having a "sharp jaw, wide temple, rather Slavic". He was said to be the "focal point of most disturbance in our association" and "dynamic and hazardous". The FBI did not pay attention to Hubbard: an operator clarified his correspondence with the remark, "Seems mental." 

After three weeks, Hubbard and two Foundation staff seized Sara and his year-old little girl Alexis and persuasively took them to San Bernardino, California, where he endeavored ineffectively to discover a specialist to look at Sara and proclaim her crazy. He let Sara go yet took Alexis to Havana, Cuba. Sara documented a separation suit on April 23, 1951, that blamed him for wedding her bigamously and exposing her to lack of sleep, beatings, strangulation, capturing and appeals to end it all. The case prompted paper features, for example, "Ron Hubbard Insane, Says His Wife." Sara at long last verified the arrival of her little girl in June 1951 by consenting to a settlement with her significant other in which she marked an announcement, composed by him, pronouncing: 

Dianetics seemed, by all accounts, to be on the edge of complete breakdown. Nonetheless, it was spared by Don Purcell, a mogul agent and Dianeticist who consented to help another Foundation in Wichita, Kansas. Their joint effort finished after not exactly a year when they dropped out over the future course of Dianetics. The Wichita Foundation turned out to be monetarily nonviable after a court decided that it was obligated for the unpaid obligations of its old ancestor in Elizabeth, N.J. The decision incited Purcell and different executives of the Wichita Foundation to petition for deliberate chapter 11 in February 1952. Hubbard surrendered promptly and blamed Purcell for having been renumerated by the American Medical Association to decimate Dianetics. Hubbard set up a "Hubbard College" on the opposite part of town where he kept on advancing Dianetics while battling Purcell in the courts over the Foundation's licensed innovation. 

Just a month and a half in the wake of setting up the Hubbard College and wedding a staff part, 18-year-old Mary Sue Whipp, Hubbard shut it down and moved with his new lady to Phoenix, Arizona. He set up a Hubbard Association of Scientologists International to advance his new "Exploration of Certainty"— Scientology. Scientology and Dianetics have been separated as pursues: Dianetics is tied in with discharging the brain from the "contorting impact of engrams", and Scientology "is the examination and treatment of the soul in connection to itself, universes and other life". 

The Church of Scientology credits its beginning to Hubbard's revelation of "another line of research"— "that man is most on a very basic level an otherworldly being (a thetan)". Non-Scientologist journalists have recommended elective thought processes: that he pointed "to reassert command over his creation", that he trusted "he was going to lose control of Dianetics", or that he needed to guarantee "he would most likely remain in business regardless of whether the courts in the end granted control of Dianetics and its important copyrights to ... the abhorred Don Purcell." Harlan Ellison has recounted to an account of seeing Hubbard at a social occasion of the Hydra Club in 1953 or 1954. Hubbard was grumbling of not having the capacity to bring home the bacon on what he was being paid as a sci-fi essayist. Ellison says that Lester del Rey revealed to Hubbard that what he expected to do to get rich was begin a religion. 

Hubbard developed the rudiments of Dianetics to build a profoundly situated (however at this stage not religious) regulation dependent on the idea that the genuine self of an individual was a thetan — an eternal, omniscient and possibly all-powerful element. Hubbard instructed that thetans, having made the material universe, had overlooked their god-like powers and become caught in physical bodies. Scientology expected to "restore" every individual's self (the thetan) to reestablish its unique limits and become indeed a "Working Thetan". Hubbard demanded humankind was endangered by the powers of "deviation", which were the consequence of engrams conveyed by eternal thetans for billions of years. 

In 2012, Ohio State University educator Hugh Urban affirmed that Hubbard had embraced huge numbers of his hypotheses from the right on time to mid twentieth century astral projection pioneer Sylvan Muldoon expressing that Hubbard's portrayal of exteriorizing the thetan is very comparable if not indistinguishable to the depictions of astral projection in mysterious writing advanced by Muldoon's broadly perused Phenomena of Astral Projection (1951) (co-composed with Hereward Carrington) and that Muldoon's depiction of the astral body as being associated with the physical body by a long slender, flexible string is for all intents and purposes indistinguishable to the one portrayed in Hubbard's "Excalibur" vision. 

Hubbard presented a gadget called an E-meter that he exhibited as having, as Miller puts it, "a practically supernatural capacity to uncover a person's deepest musings". He declared Scientology through a progression of addresses, notices and books, for example, "" ("an inhumane and authentic record of your last sixty trillion years") and "Scientology: 8-8008" ("With this book, the capacity to make one's body old or youthful freely, the capacity to recuperate the evil without physical contact, the capacity to fix the crazy and the crippled, is put forward for the doctor, the layman, the mathematician and the physicist.") 

Scientology was sorted out in an altogether different manner from the decentralized Dianetics development. The Hubbard Association of Scientologists (HAS) was the main authority Scientology association. Preparing methodology and precepts were institutionalized and advanced through HAS distributions, and heads and reviewers were not allowed to go astray from Hubbard's methodology. Branches or "organizations" were sorted out as establishments, rather like a drive-through joint chain. Each establishment holder was required to pay 10% of pay to Hubbard's focal association. They were relied upon to discover newcomers, known as "crude meat", yet were confined to giving just essential administrations. Costlier more elevated amount examining was just given by Hubbard's focal association. 

In spite of the fact that this model would in the long run be incredibly effective, Scientology was an exceptionally little scale development at first. Hubbard began off with just a couple of dozen supporters, by and large devoted Dianeticists; a seventy-hour arrangement of addresses in Philadelphia in December 1952 was gone to by only 38 individuals. Hubbard was participated in Phoenix by his 18-year-old child Nibs, who had been unfit to settle down in secondary school. Nibs had chosen to turn into a Scientologist, moved into his dad's home and proceeded to turn into a Scientology staff part and "educator". Hubbard likewise made a trip to the United Kingdom to build up his authority over a Dianetics aggregate in London. It was especially a shoestring activity; as Helen O'Brien later reviewed, "there was an air of extraordinary destitution and undercurrents of a horrid trick over all. At 163 Holland Park Avenue was an evil lit address room and an exposed boarded and poky office somewhere in the range of eight by ten feet—chiefly swarmed by since quite a while ago haired men and short haired and shabby ladies." On September 24, 1952, just half a month in the wake of landing in London, Hubbard's significant other Mary Sue brought forth her first kid, a little girl whom they named Diana Meredith de Wolfe Hubbard. 

In February 1953, Hubbard gained a doctorate from the unaccredited degree plant called Sequoia University. 

As participation declined and funds developed more tightly, Hubbard had switched the antagonistic vibe toward religion he voiced in "Dianetics". Half a month in the wake of getting to be "Dr." Hubbard, he composed a letter delineating plans for changing Scientology into a religion. In that letter, Hubbard proposed setting up a chain of "Otherworldly Guidance Centers" charging clients $500 for twenty-four hours of reviewing recommending that Scientology ought to be changed into a religion: 

The letter's beneficiary, Helen O'Brien, surrendered the next September. She scrutinized Hubbard for making "a mild zone voodoo, in its inelasticity, unexplainable systems, and thoughtless gathering elation". 

The thought might not have been new; Hubbard has been cited as telling a sci-fi tradition in 1948: "Composing for a penny a word is silly. In the event that a man truly needs to make a million dollars, the most ideal way is begin his own religion." Scholar J. Gordon Melton notes, "There is no record of Hubbard having ever constructed this announcement, however a few of his sci-fi associates have noticed the suggesting of the topic on one of their casual discussions." 

Regardless of protests, on December 18, 1953, Hubbard consolidated the Church of Scientology, Church of American Science and Church of Spiritual Engineering in Camden, New Jersey. Hubbard, his significant other Mary Sue and his secretary John Galusha turned into the trustees of every one of the three enterprises. The purpose behind Scientology's religious change was clarified by authorities of the HAS: 

Scientology establishments progressed toward becoming Churches of Scientology and a few evaluators started dressing as priests, complete with administrative collars. In the event that they were captured over the span of their exercises, Hubbard exhorted, they should sue for gigantic harms for attacking "a Man of God continuing on ahead". A couple of years after the fact he told Scientologists: "Whenever assaulted on some powerless point by anybody or anything or any association, dependably find or production enough danger against them to make them sue for peace ... Absolutely never safeguard, dependably assault." Any individual splitting far from Scientology and setting up his own gathering was to be closed down: 

The 1950s saw Scientology developing consistently. Hubbard at long last accomplished triumph over Don Purcell in 1954 when the last mentioned, exhausted by consistent prosecution, gave the copyrights of Dianetics back to Hubbard. A large portion of the in the past autonomous Scientology and Dianetics bunches were either determined bankrupt or were assimilated into Hubbard's associations. Hubbard promoted Scientology through therapeutic cases, for example, pulling in polio sufferers by exhibiting the Church of Scientology as a logical research establishment examining polio cases. One ad amid this period expressed: 

Scientology turned into an exceedingly beneficial undertaking for Hubbard. He actualized a plan under which he was paid a level of the Church of Scientology's gross salary and by 1957 he was being paid about $250,000 (). His family developed, as well, with Mary Sue bringing forth three additional kids—Geoffrey Quentin McCaully on January 6, 1954; Mary Suzette Rochelle on February 13, 1955; and Arthur Ronald Conway on June 6, 1958. In the spring of 1959, he utilized his recently discovered riches to buy Saint Hill Manor, an eighteenth century nation house in Sussex, previously possessed by Sawai Man Singh II, the Maharaja of Jaipur. The house turned into Hubbard's perpetual habitation and a worldwide instructional hub for Scientologists. 

By the beginning of the 1960s, Hubbard was the pioneer of an overall development with a large number of devotees. After 10 years, be that as it may, he had left Saint Hill Manor and moved on board his own private armada of boats as the Church of Scientology confronted overall debate. 

The Church of Scientology says that the issues of this period were because of "horrible, undercover universal assaults" by the United States government, "which were all refuted and unjustifiable, which were to most recent 27 years lastly finished in the Government being sued for 750 million dollars for trick." Behind the assaults, expressed Hubbard, lay a huge connivance of "mental front gatherings" subtly controlling governments: "Each and every untruth, false charge and assault on Scientology has been followed legitimately to this present gathering's individuals. They have looked for at extraordinary cost for a long time to pulverize and annihilate any new advancement in the field of the brain. They are effectively keeping any viability in this field." 

Hubbard trusted that Scientology was being penetrated by saboteurs and spies and presented "security checking" to distinguish those he named "potential inconvenience sources" and "suppressive people". Individuals from the Church of Scientology were investigated with the guide of E-meters and were posed inquiries, for example, "Have you at any point polished homosexuality?" and "Have you at any point had harsh musings about L. Ron Hubbard?" For a period, Scientologists were even cross examined about violations submitted in previous existences: "Have you at any point decimated a culture?" "Did you come to Earth for insidiousness purposes?" "Have you at any point destroyed anybody?" 

He additionally looked to apply political impact, encouraging Scientologists to cast a ballot against Richard Nixon in the 1960 presidential decision and setting up a Department of Government Affairs "to bring government and unfriendly methods of insight or social orders into a condition of complete consistence with the objectives of Scientology". This, he stated, "is finished by abnormal state capacity to control and in its nonappearance by a low-level capacity to overpower. Thoughtful person such organizations. Control such offices." 

The U.S. Government was at that point very much aware of Hubbard's exercises. The FBI had a protracted document on him, incorporating a 1951 meeting with a specialist who thought of him as a "psychological case". Police powers in various locales started trading data about Scientology through the sponsorship of Interpol, which in the end prompted indictments. In 1958, the U.S. Interior Revenue Service pulled back the Washington, D.C. Church of Scientology's duty exception after it found that Hubbard and his family were benefitting absurdly from Scientology's apparently non-benefit salary. The Food and Drug Administration made a move against Scientology's restorative cases, catching a large number of pills being advertised as "radiation fixes" just as distributions and E-meters. The Church of Scientology was required to mark them as being "insufficient in the finding or treatment of ailment". 

Following the FDA's activities, Scientology pulled in progressively negative exposure over the English-talking world. It confronted especially threatening investigation in Victoria, Australia, where it was blamed for indoctrinating, shakedown, coercion and harming the emotional wellness of its individuals. The Victorian state government set up a Board of Inquiry into Scientology in November 1963. Its report, distributed in October 1965, denounced each part of Scientology and Hubbard himself. He was portrayed as being of far fetched mental soundness, having an abuse complex and showing solid signs of suspicious schizophrenia with dreams of loftiness. His works were described as counter-intuitive, possessing large amounts of "self-glorification and pomposity, packed with theatricality and crazy, incontinent upheavals". Humanist Roy Wallis remarks that the report radically changed open impression of Scientology: 

The report prompted Scientology being prohibited in Victoria, Western Australia and South Australia, and prompted increasingly negative exposure around the globe. Papers and legislators in the UK squeezed the British government for activity against Scientology. In April 1966, wanting to frame a remote "place of refuge" for Scientology, Hubbard went toward the southern African nation Rhodesia (today Zimbabwe) and investigated setting up a base there at an inn on Lake Kariba. Notwithstanding his endeavors to curry support with the neighborhood government—he actually conveyed champagne to Prime Minister Ian Smith's home, yet Smith wouldn't see him—Rhodesia quickly wouldn't restore Hubbard's visa, convincing him to leave the nation. In July 1968, the British Minister of Health, Kenneth Robinson, reported that remote Scientologists would never again be allowed to enter the UK and Hubbard himself was prohibited from the nation as an "unwanted outsider". Further request were propelled in Canada, New Zealand and South Africa. 

Hubbard took three noteworthy new activities even with these difficulties. "Morals Technology" was acquainted with fix inner order inside Scientology. It expected Scientologists to "separate" from any association or individual—including relatives—regarded to be troublesome or "suppressive". As indicated by chapel worked sites, "An individual disconnects' identity essentially practicing his entitlement to convey or not to speak with a specific individual." Hubbard expressed: "Correspondence, be that as it may, is a two-way stream. In the event that one has the privilege to convey, at that point one should likewise reserve the option to not get correspondence from another. It is this last culmination of the privilege to convey that gives us our entitlement to protection." Scientologists were likewise required to state "Learning Reports" on one another, announcing transgressions or misapplications of Scientology techniques. Hubbard declared a not insignificant rundown of culpable "Offenses", "Wrongdoings", and "High Crimes". The "Reasonable Game" strategy was presented, which was appropriate to anybody regarded an "adversary" of Scientology: "May be denied of property or harmed using any and all means by any Scientologist with no control of the Scientologist. May be deceived, sued or misled or obliterated." 

Toward the beginning of March 1966, Hubbard made the Guardian's Office (GO), another organization inside the Church of Scientology that was going by his significant other Mary Sue. It managed Scientology's outer undertakings, including advertising, lawful activities and the social affair of insight on saw dangers. As Scientology confronted progressively negative media consideration, the GO struck back with several writs for criticism and defamation; it issued more than forty on a solitary day. Hubbard requested his staff to discover "startling, blood sex wrongdoing genuine proof on [Scientology's] assailants". 

At long last, toward the finish of 1966, Hubbard procured his own armada of boats. He built up the "Hubbard Explorational Company Ltd" which acquired three ships—the "Sorcerer", a forty-ton clipper, the "Avon River", an old trawler, and the "Regal Scotman" , a previous Irish Sea cows ship that he made his home and leader. The boats were manned by the Sea Organization or Sea Org, a gathering of Scientologist volunteers, with the help of several expert sailors. 

After Hubbard made the Sea Org "armada" in mid 1967 it started an eight-year voyage, cruising from port to port in the Mediterranean Sea and eastern North Atlantic. The armada went similarly as Corfu in the eastern Mediterranean and Dakar and the Azores in the Atlantic, yet once in a while stayed anyplace for longer than about a month and a half. Ken Urquhart, Hubbard's own right hand at the time, later reviewed: 

At the point when Hubbard set up the Sea Org he openly proclaimed that he had surrendered his administration obligations. As indicated by Miller, this was not valid. He got day by day wire messages from Scientology associations around the globe detailing their measurements and pay. The Church of Scientology sent him $15,000 () a week and a large number of dollars were exchanged to his ledgers in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Messengers arrived normally, passing on extravagance nourishment for Hubbard and his family or money that had been carried from England to maintain a strategic distance from cash trade limitations. 

En route, Hubbard tried to set up a place of refuge in "a neighborly little nation where Scientology would be permitted to flourish", as Miller puts it. The armada remained at Corfu for a while in 1968– 1969. Hubbard renamed the boats after Greek divine beings—the "Regal Scotman" was rechristened "Apollo"— and he adulated the as of late settled military fascism. The Sea Org was spoken to as "Educator Hubbard's Philosophy School" in a message to the Greek government. In March 1969, nonetheless, Hubbard and his boats were requested to leave. In mid-1972, Hubbard attempted again in Morocco, setting up contacts with the nation's mystery police and preparing senior policemen and knowledge specialists in procedures for distinguishing subversives. The program finished in disappointment when it wound up got up to speed in inner Moroccan legislative issues, and Hubbard left the nation quickly in December 1972. 

In the meantime, Hubbard was all the while building up Scientology's principles. A Scientology memoir expresses that "free of authoritative obligations and supported by the primary Sea Org individuals, L. Ron Hubbard presently had room schedule-wise and offices to affirm in the physical universe a portion of the occasions and places he had experienced in his adventures down the track of time." In 1965, he assigned a few existing Scientology courses as private, repackaging them as the first of the exclusive "OT levels". After two years he reported the arrival of OT3, the "Mass of Fire", uncovering the mysteries of a huge calamity that had happened "on this planet, and on the other seventy-five planets which structure this Confederacy, seventy-five million years back". Scientologists were required to embrace the initial two OT levels before figuring out how Xenu, the pioneer of the Galactic Confederacy, had transported billions of individuals to Earth and exploded them with nuclear bombs, following which their damaged spirits were stuck together at "embed stations", mentally conditioned with false recollections and inevitably wound up contained inside people. The disclosure of OT3 was said to have taken a noteworthy physical toll on Hubbard, who reported that he had broken a knee, an arm, and his back over the span of his examination. After a year, in 1968, he uncovered OT levels 4 to 6 and started conveying OT instructional classes to Scientologists on board the "Regal Scotman". 

Scientologists around the globe were given a breathtaking picture of life in the Sea Org and many connected to join Hubbard on board the armada. What they found was fairly not the same as the picture. The greater part of those joining had no nautical involvement with all. Mechanical troubles and goofs by the teams prompted a progression of humiliating episodes and close calamities. Tailing one episode in which the rudder of the "Imperial Scotman" was harmed amid a tempest, Hubbard requested the ship's whole group to be diminished to a "state of risk" and wear dim clothes attached to their arms. The ship itself was dealt with a similar way, with grimy coverings attached around its channel to symbolize its lower status. As indicated by those on board, conditions were horrifying; the team was attempted to the point of fatigue, given pitiful apportions and illegal to wash or put on something else for a little while. Hubbard kept up an unforgiving disciplinary routine on board the armada, rebuffing botches by restricting individuals in the "Regal Scotman" bilge tanks without can offices and with sustenance gave in basins. At different occasions blundering team individuals were tossed over the edge with Hubbard looking on and, at times, shooting. David Mayo, a Sea Org part at the time, later reviewed: 

From around 1970, Hubbard was gone to on board transport by the offspring of Sea Org individuals, sorted out as the Commodore's Messenger Organization (CMO). They were principally young ladies wearing hot jeans and strap tops, who were in charge of running errands for Hubbard, for example, lighting his cigarettes, dressing him or transferring his verbal directions to different individuals from the group. Notwithstanding his better half Mary Sue, he was joined by every one of the four of his youngsters by her, however not his first child Nibs, who had abandoned from Scientology in late 1959. The more youthful Hubbards were all individuals from the Sea Org and shared its rigors, however Quentin Hubbard supposedly thought that it was hard to alter and endeavored suicide in mid-1974. 

Amid the 1970s, Hubbard confronted an expanding number of lawful dangers. French examiners charged him and the French Church of Scientology with misrepresentation and traditions infringement in 1972. He was educated that he was in danger with respect to being removed to France. Hubbard left the Sea Org armada incidentally toward the finish of 1972, living in secret in Queens, New York, until he came back to his leader in September 1973 when the risk of removal had subsided. Scientology sources state that he completed "a sociological report in and around New York City". 

Hubbard's wellbeing weakened fundamentally amid this period. A chain-smoker, he likewise experienced bursitis and unreasonable weight, and had a noticeable development on his brow. He endured genuine wounds in a cruiser mishap in 1973 and showed at least a bit of kindness assault in 1975 that expected him to take anticoagulant drugs for the following year. In September 1978, Hubbard had an aspiratory embolism, falling into a state of insensibility, however recuperated. 

He stayed dynamic in overseeing and creating Scientology, setting up the disputable Rehabilitation Project Force in 1974 and issuing approach and doctrinal notices. Be that as it may, the Sea Org's voyages were arriving at an end. The "Apollo" was restricted from a few Spanish ports and was removed from Curaçao in October 1975. The Sea Org came to be associated with being a CIA activity, prompting a mob in Funchal, Madeira, when the "Apollo" docked there. At the time, "The Apollo Stars", a melodic gathering established by Hubbard and made up altogether of shipbound individuals from the Sea Org, was putting forth free on-dock shows trying to advance Scientology, and the uproar happened at one of these occasions. Hubbard chose to migrate back to the United States to build up a "land base" for the Sea Org in Florida. The Church of Scientology credits this choice to the exercises on the "Apollo" having "outgrow[n] the ship's ability". 

In October 1975, Hubbard moved into a lodging suite in Daytona Beach. The Fort Harrison Hotel in Clearwater, Florida, was furtively gained as the area for the "land base". On December 5, 1975, Hubbard and his significant other Mary Sue moved into a townhouse complex in close-by Dunedin. Their quality was intended to be a firmly watched mystery however was inadvertently bargained the next month. Hubbard quickly left Dunedin and moved to Georgetown, Washington, D.C., joined by a bunch of helpers and errand people, however not his significant other. A half year later, after another security alert in July 1976, Hubbard moved to another protected house in Culver City, California. He lived there for just around three months, migrating in October to the more private bounds of the Olive Tree Ranch close La Quinta. His second child Quentin ended it all half a month later in Las Vegas. 

All through this period, Hubbard was vigorously associated with coordinating the exercises of the Guardian's Office (GO), the lawful authority/knowledge office that he had built up in 1966. He trusted that Scientology was being assaulted by a global Nazi connivance, which he named the "Tenyaka Memorial", through a system of medication organizations, banks and therapists in an offer to assume control over the world. In 1973, he actuated the "Snow White Program" and coordinated the GO to expel negative reports about Scientology from government scrapes and track down their sources. The GO was requested to "get all false and mystery documents on Scientology, LRH  ... that can't be acquired legitimately, by every single imaginable line of approach ... i.e., work infiltration, janitor entrance, appropriate appearances using covers." His association in the GO's activities was disguised using codenames. The GO did undercover crusades for his benefit, for example, Operation Bulldozer Leak, planned "to adequately spread the gossip that will lead Government, media, and individual <nowiki>[</nowiki>Suppressive Persons<nowiki>]</nowiki> to infer that LRH has no control of the C of S and no lawful risk for Church action". He was kept educated of GO activities, for example, the burglary of medicinal records from an emergency clinic, provocation of therapists and invasions of associations that had been incredulous of Scientology at different occasions, for example, the Better Business Bureau, the American Medical Association, and American Psychiatric Association. 

Individuals from the GO penetrated and burglarized various government associations, including the U.S. Division of Justice and the Internal Revenue Service. After two GO specialists were gotten in the Washington, D.C. central station of the IRS, the FBI completed synchronous strikes on GO workplaces in Los Angeles and Washington, D.C. on July 7, 1977. They recovered wiretap hardware, robbery apparatuses and somewhere in the range of 90,000 pages of implicating records. Hubbard was not arraigned, however he was marked a "unindicted co-backstabber" by government investigators. His better half Mary Sue was arraigned and along these lines sentenced for intrigue. She was sent to a government jail alongside ten different Scientologists. 

Hubbard's inconveniences expanded in February 1978 when a French court sentenced him in absentia for getting cash under misrepresentations. He was condemned to four years in jail and a 35,000FF ($7,000) fine, . He sought total isolation in April 1979, moving to a condo in Hemet, California, where his solitary contact with the outside world was by means of ten confided in Messengers. He cut contact with every other person, even his better half, whom he saw once and for all in August 1979. Hubbard confronted a conceivable arraignment for his job in Operation Freakout, the GO's battle against New York columnist Paulette Cooper, and in February 1980 he vanished into profound spread in the organization of two confided in Messengers, Pat and Anne Broeker. 

For the initial couple of long periods of the 1980s, Hubbard and the Broekers lived moving, visiting the Pacific Northwest in a recreational vehicle and living for some time in condos in Newport Beach and Los Angeles. Hubbard utilized his time secluded from everything to compose his first new works of sci-fi for about thirty years—"War zone Earth" (1982) and "Mission Earth", a ten-volume arrangement distributed somewhere in the range of 1985 and 1987. They got blended reactions; as essayist Jeff Walker puts it, they were "dealt with disparagingly by most commentators however extraordinarily respected by supporters". Hubbard additionally composed and made music for three out of his collections, which were created by the Church of Scientology. The book soundtrack "Space Jazz" was discharged in 1982. "Mission Earth" and "The Road to Freedom" were discharged after death in 1986. 

In Hubbard's nonattendance, individuals from the Sea Org organized a takeover of the Church of Scientology and cleansed numerous veteran Scientologists. A youthful Messenger, David Miscavige, turned into Scientology's "accepted" pioneer. Mary Sue Hubbard was compelled to leave her position and her little girl Suzette turned into Miscavige's own house keeper. 

Throughout the previous two years of his life, Hubbard lived in an extravagance Blue Bird RV on Whispering Winds, a 160-section of land farm close Creston, California. He stayed in profound stowing away while debate seethed in the outside world about whether he was as yet alive and assuming this is, where. He invested his energy "composing and looking into", as indicated by a representative, and sought after photography and music, supervising development work and keeping an eye on his creatures. He more than once overhauled the property, burning through a huge number of dollars redesigning the farm house—which went basically uninhabited—and building a quarter-mile horse-dashing track with a perception tower, which apparently was never utilized. 

He was still firmly associated with dealing with the Church of Scientology by means of furtively conveyed requests and kept on getting a lot of cash, of which "Forbes" magazine evaluated "at any rate $200 million [was] assembled in Hubbard's name through 1982." In September 1985, the IRS advised the Church that it was thinking about arraigning Hubbard for expense extortion. 

Hubbard endured further sick wellbeing, including perpetual pancreatitis, amid his living arrangement at Whispering Winds. He endured a stroke on January 17, 1986, and kicked the bucket seven days after the fact. His body was incinerated and the fiery remains were dispersed adrift. Scientology pioneers declared that his body had turned into a hindrance to his work and that he had chosen to "drop his body" to proceed with his examination on another planet, having "figured out how to do it without a body". 

Hubbard was made due by his better half Mary Sue and the majority of his kids aside from his second child Quentin. His will gave a trust store to help Mary Sue; her kids Arthur, Diana and Suzette; and Katherine, the little girl of his first spouse Polly. He excluded two of his other youngsters. L. Ron Hubbard, Jr. had turned out to be offended, changed his name to "Ronald DeWolf" and, in 1982, sued ineffectively for control of his dad's domain. Alexis Valerie, Hubbard's girl by his second spouse Sara, had endeavored to get in touch with her dad in 1971. She was rebuked with the suggested case that her genuine dad was Jack Parsons as opposed to Hubbard, and that her mom had been a Nazi covert operative amid the war. Both later acknowledged settlements when suit was compromised. In 2001, Diana and Suzette were accounted for to at present be Church individuals, while Arthur had left and turned into a craftsman. Hubbard's incredible grandson, Jamie DeWolf, is a prominent hammer artist. 

The copyrights of his works and quite a bit of his home and riches were willed to the Church of Scientology. In a notice dated May 5, 1980, Hubbard advised his supporters to protect his lessons until an inevitable resurrection when he would return "not as a religious chief but rather as a political one". The Church of Spiritual Technology (CST), a sister association of the Church of Scientology, has engraved Hubbard's whole corpus of Scientology and Dianetics messages on steel tablets put away in titanium holders. They are covered at the Trementina Base in a vault under a mountain close Trementina, New Mexico, over which the CST's logo has been bulldozed on such a massive scale, that it is noticeable from space. 

Hubbard is the Guinness World Record holder for the most distributed writer, with 1,084 works, most interpreted book (70 dialects for "The Way to Happiness") and most book recordings (185 as of April 2009). As indicated by Galaxy Press, Hubbard's "War zone Earth" has sold more than 6 million duplicates and "Mission Earth" a further 7 million, with every one of its ten volumes ending up "New York Times" smash hits on their discharge; in any case, the "Los Angeles Times" revealed in 1990 that Hubbard's adherents had been purchasing substantial quantities of the books and re-issuing them to stores, in order to support deals figures. Suppositions are isolated about his abstract heritage. Scientologists have composed of their longing to "make Ron the most acclaimed and generally known creator ever". The humanist William Sims Bainbridge composes that even at his top in the late 1930s Hubbard was respected by perusers of "Amazing Science Fiction" as simply "a tolerable, commonplace writer yet not a standout amongst the best", while by the late 1970s "the [science fiction] subculture wishes it could overlook him" and fans gave him a more terrible rating than some other of the "Brilliant Age" authors. 

After death, the Los Angeles City Council named a piece of the road near the home office of Scientology in 1996, as acknowledgment of Hubbard. In 2011, the West Valley City Council pronounced March 13 as L. Ron Hubbard Centennial Day. On April 2016, the New Jersey State Board of Education affirmed Hubbard's birthday as one of its religious occasions. 

In 2004, eighteen years after Hubbard's demise, the Church guaranteed eight million adherents around the world. As indicated by religious researcher J. Gordon Melton, this is an overestimate, considering Scientologists individuals who had just purchased a book. The City University of New York's American Religious Identification Survey found that by 2009 just 25,000 Americans distinguished as Scientologists. Hubbard's essence still invades Scientology. Each Church of Scientology keeps up an office held for Hubbard, with a work area, seat and composing gear, prepared to be utilized. Lonnie D. Kliever noticed that Hubbard was "the main wellspring of the religion, and he has no successor". Hubbard is alluded to just as "Source" inside Scientology and the religious adequacy of any Scientology-related movement is dictated by how intently it sticks to Hubbard's tenets. Hubbard's name and mark are legitimate trademarks of the Religious Technology Center, set up in 1982 to control and manage the utilization of Hubbard's works and Scientology's trademarks and copyrights. The RTC is the focal association inside Scientology's mind boggling corporate chain of importance and has put much exertion into re-checking the precision of all Scientology productions to "ensur[e] the accessibility of the unadulterated compositions of Mr. Hubbard to the coming ages". 

The Danish history specialist of religions Mikael Rothstein portrays Scientology as "a development concentrated on the figure of Hubbard". He remarks: "The way that [Hubbard's] life is mythologized is as clear as in the instances of Jesus, Muhammad or Siddartha Gotama. This is the way religion works. Scientology, be that as it may, rejects this examination out and out, and tries really hard to guard everything about Hubbard's astonishing and incredible life as plain verifiable certainty." Hubbard is displayed as "the ace of a huge number of controls" who performed remarkable accomplishments as a picture taker, writer, researcher, advisor, wayfarer, guide, rationalist, artist, craftsman, helpful, swashbuckler, officer, scout, performer and numerous different fields of undertaking. The Church of Scientology depicts Hubbard's life and work as having continued consistently, "as though they were a persistent arrangement of foreordained occasions and disclosures that unfurled through his long lasting examination" even up to and past his demise. 

As per Rothstein's evaluation of Hubbard's inheritance, Scientology deliberately plans to exchange the magnetic specialist of Hubbard to regulate his position over the association, even after his passing. Hubbard is exhibited as a for all intents and purposes superhuman religious perfect similarly as Scientology itself is displayed as the most imperative advancement in mankind's history. As Rothstein puts it, "respect for Scientology's sacred writing is veneration for Hubbard, the man who in the Scientological point of view without any assistance conveyed salvation to every single individual." David G. Bromley of the University of Virginia remarks that the genuine Hubbard has been changed into a "prophetic persona", "LRH", which goes about as the reason for his prophetic specialist inside Scientology and rises above his true to life history. As indicated by Dorthe Refslund Christensen, Hubbard's hagiography legitimately contrasts him and Buddha. Hubbard is seen as having made Eastern conventions progressively open by moving toward them with a logical frame of mind. "Hubbard is viewed as a definitive culturally diverse guardian angel; he is believed to have the capacity to discharge man from his hopeless condition since he had the fundamental foundation, and particularly the correct frame of mind." 

Hubbard, albeit progressively idolized after his demise, is the model Operating Thetan to Scientologists and their organizer, and not God. Hubbard at that point is the "Source", "welcoming others to pursue his way in manners tantamount to a Bodhisattva figure" as indicated by religious researcher Donald A. Westbrook. Scientologists allude to L. Ron Hubbard as "Ron", alluding to him as a close companion. 

In the late 1970s two men started to gather an image of Hubbard's life. Michael Linn Shannon, an occupant of Portland, Oregon, ended up inspired by Hubbard's biography after an experience with a Scientology selection representative. Throughout the following four years he gathered beforehand undisclosed records and reports. He proposed to compose a report of Hubbard and sent a duplicate of his discoveries and key records to various contacts however was unfit to discover a distributer. 

Shannon's discoveries were procured by Gerry Armstrong, a Scientologist who had been designated Hubbard's authentic historian. He had been given the activity of collecting records identifying with Hubbard's life to help Omar V. Battalion, a non-Scientologist who had composed two books thoughtful to Scientology, to compose an official history. In any case, the reports that he revealed persuaded both Armstrong and Garrison that Hubbard had methodicallly distorted his life. Army wouldn't compose a "tomfoolery" and announced that he would not "rehash every one of the lies they [the Church of Scientology] had propagated throughout the years". He composed an "imperfections and everything" account while Armstrong quit Scientology, taking five boxes of papers with him. The Church of Scientology and Mary Sue Hubbard sued for the arrival of the reports while settling out of court with Garrison, expecting him to turn over the about finished original copy of the history. In October 1984 Judge Paul G. Breckenridge administered to support Armstrong, saying: 

In November 1987, the British columnist and author Russell Miller distributed "Shameless Messiah", the main full-length life story of L. Ron Hubbard. He drew on Armstrong's papers, official records and meetings with the individuals who had realized Hubbard including ex-Scientologists and relatives. The book was generally welcomed by analysts yet the Church of Scientology looked for fruitlessly to deny its distribution on the grounds of copyright encroachment. Other basic true to life accounts are found in Bent Corydon's "L. Ron Hubbard, Messiah or Madman?" (1987) and Jon Atack's "A Piece of Blue Sky" (1990). 

Hagiographical accounts distributed by the Church of Scientology portray Hubbard as "a tyke wonder of sorts" who rode a steed before he could walk and had the capacity to peruse and compose by the age of four. A Scientology profile says that he was raised on his granddad's "expansive cows farm in Montana" where he went through his days "riding, breaking horses, chasing coyote and making his first strides as a voyager". His granddad is portrayed as a "rich Western cattleman" from whom Hubbard "acquired his fortune and family premiums in America, Southern Africa, and so forth." Scientology guarantees that Hubbard turned into a "kindred spirit" of the Native American Blackfeet clan at six years old through his kinship with a Blackfeet prescription man. 

In any case, contemporary records demonstrate that his granddad, Lafayette Waterbury, was a veterinarian, not a farmer, and was not well off. Hubbard was really brought up in a townhouse in the focal point of Helena. As indicated by his auntie, his family did not claim a farm but rather owned one bovine and four or five ponies on a couple of sections of land of land outside the city. Hubbard lived over a hundred miles from the Blackfeet reservation. While a few sources bolster Scientology's case of Hubbard's blood fraternity, different sources state that the clan did not rehearse blood fellowship and no proof has been discovered that he had ever been a Blackfeet kindred spirit. 

As per Scientology life stories, amid an adventure to Washington, D.C. in 1923 Hubbard took in of Freudian brain science from Commander Joseph "Snake" Thompson, a U.S. Naval force psychoanalyst and doctor. Scientology accounts portray this experience as giving Hubbard preparing in a specific logical way to deal with the brain, which he discovered uninspiring. In his journal, Hubbard asserted he was the most youthful Eagle Scout in the U.S. 

Scientology writings present Hubbard's movements in Asia as when he was seriously inquisitive for answers to human affliction and investigated antiquated Eastern methods of insight for answers, however discovered them lacking. He is depicted as venturing out to China "when couple of Westerners could enter" and as per Scientology, invested his energy addressing Buddhist lamas and meeting old Chinese performers. As per church materials, his movements were financed by his "rich granddad". 

Scientology accounts state that Hubbard "advanced profound into Manchuria's Western Hills and beyond —to eat with Mongolian crooks, share pit fires with Siberian shamans and get to know the rearward in the line of entertainers from the court of Kublai Khan". In any case, Hubbard did not record these occasions in his journal. He stayed unmoved with China and the Chinese, expressing: "A Chinaman can not satisfy a thing, he generally hauls it down." He portrayed the sights of Beijing as "rubberneck stations" for travelers and depicted the royal residences of the Forbidden City as "exceptionally trashy-looking" and "not worth referencing". He was awed by the Great Wall of China close Beijing, however finished up of the Chinese: "They smell of the considerable number of showers they didn't take. The issue with China is, there are an excessive number of chinks here." 

Notwithstanding not moving on from George Washington, Hubbard guaranteed "to be an alumni engineer, yet 'an individual from the principal United States course in formal instruction in what is called today atomic material science.'" However, a Church of Scientology history depicts him as "never noted for being in class" and says that he "completely detest[ed] his subjects". He earned less than stellar scores, was put on post trial supervision in September 1931 and dropped out by and large in the fall of 1932. 

Scientology accounts state that he "contemplated atomic material science at George Washington University in Washington, D.C., before he began his examinations about the brain, soul and life" and Hubbard himself expressed that he "set out to discover from atomic physical science an information of the physical universe, something completely ailing in Asian reasoning". His college records demonstrate that his introduction to "atomic material science" comprised of one class in "nuclear and sub-atomic marvels" for which he earned a "F" grade. 

Scientologists guarantee he was increasingly inspired by extracurricular exercises, especially composing and flying. As indicated by chapel materials, "he earned his wings as a spearheading barnstormer at the beginning of American flight" and was "perceived as one of the nation's most extraordinary pilots. With basically no preparation time, he takes up fueled flight and troupes all through the Midwest." His aviator endorsement, be that as it may, records that he fit the bill to fly just lightweight planes as opposed to controlled air ship and surrendered his declaration when he couldn't manage the cost of the recharging expense. 

Subsequent to leaving college Hubbard headed out to Puerto Rico on what the Church of Scientology calls the "Puerto Rican Mineralogical Expedition". Scientologists guarantee he "made the main complete mineralogical review of Puerto Rico" as a methods for "expanding his [father's] pay with a mining adventure", amid which he "sluiced inland waterways and bungled the island looking for slippery gold" just as doing "much ethnological work among the inside towns and local hillsmen". Hubbard's informal biographer Russell Miller composes that neither the United States Geological Survey nor the Puerto Rican Department of Natural Resources have any record of any such undertaking. 

As indicated by the Church of Scientology, Hubbard was "called to Hollywood" to deal with film contents in the mid-1930s, in spite of the fact that Scientology accounts vary as to precisely when this might have been (regardless of whether 1935, 1936 or 1937). The Church of Scientology claims he additionally chipped away at the Columbia serials "The Mysterious Pilot" (1937), "The Great Adventures of Wild Bill Hickok" (1938) and "The Spider Returns" (1941), however his name does not show up on the credits. Hubbard additionally professed to have stated "Jump Bomber" (1941), Cecil B. DeMille's "The Plainsman" (1936) and John Ford's "Stagecoach" (1939). 

Scientology records of the endeavor to Alaska depict "Hubbard's recharting of a particularly tricky Inside Passage, and his ethnological investigation of indigenous Aleuts and Haidas" and recount how "en route, he restricted a Kodiak Bear, however conquered seventy-mile-an-hour winds and comparable oceans off the Aleutian Islands." They are isolated about how far Hubbard's undertaking really voyaged, regardless of whether or . 

The Church debate the official record of Hubbard's maritime profession. It attests that the records are inadequate and maybe distorted "to cover Hubbard's mystery exercises as an insight officer". In 1990 the Church gave the "Los Angeles Times" with a report that was said to be a duplicate of Hubbard's authentic record of administration. The U.S. Naval force told the "Times" that "its substance are not bolstered by Hubbard's staff record." "The New Yorker" detailed in February 2011 that the Scientology report was considered by government annalists to be a fabrication. 

The Church of Scientology presents him as a "much-designed war saint who told a corvette and amid threats was disabled and injured". Scientology distributions state he filled in as a "Commodore of Corvette squadrons" in "every one of the five venues of World War II" and was granted "twenty-one awards and palms" for his administration. He was "seriously injured and was taken disabled and blinded" to a military clinic, where he "worked his way back to wellness, quality and full discernment in under two years, utilizing just what he knew and could decide about Man and his relationship to the universe". He said that he had seen battle more than once, telling A. E. van Vogt that he had once cruised his ship "directly into the harbor of a Japanese involved island in the Dutch East Indies. His disposition was that in the event that you brought your banner down the Japanese would not know one vessel from another, so he tied up at the dock, went aground and meandered around without anyone else for three days." 

Hubbard's war administration has incredible essentialness in the history and folklore of the Church of Scientology, as he is said to have restored himself through procedures that would later support Scientology and Dianetics. As indicated by Moulton, Hubbard disclosed to him that he had been machine-gunned in the back close to the Dutch East Indies. Hubbard declared that his eyes had been harmed too, either "by the blaze of an expansive bore weapon" or when he had "a bomb go off in my face". Scientology writings state that he came back from the war "[b]linded with harmed optic nerves, and weak with physical wounds to hip and back" and was twice articulated dead. Hubbard's authentic Navy administration records show that "his military execution was, now and again, unsatisfactory" and he got just four crusade decorations as opposed to the guaranteed twenty-one. He was never recorded as being harmed or injured in battle and never got a Purple Heart. 

The Church of Scientology says that Hubbard's key achievement in the improvement of Dianetics was made at Oak Knoll Naval Hospital in Oakland, California. As indicated by the Church, 

Scientology accounts don't make reference to Hubbard's inclusion in mystery. He is rather depicted as "continu[ing] to write to help bolster his exploration" amid this period into "the improvement of a way to better the state of man". The Church of Scientology has in any case recognized Hubbard's contribution with the OTO; a 1969 articulation, composed by Hubbard himself, stated: 

The Church of Scientology says Hubbard was "sent in" by his kindred sci-fi writer Robert Heinlein, "who was running off-book insight activities for maritime knowledge at the time". Be that as it may, Heinlein's approved biographer has said that he investigated the issue at the recommendation of Scientologists however discovered nothing to authenticate claims that Heinlein had been included, and his life story of Heinlein makes no notice of the issue. 

The Church of Scientology says Hubbard quit the Navy since it "endeavored to hoard every one of his inquires about and constrain him to take a shot at a venture 'to make man increasingly suggestible' and when he was reluctant, attempted to extort him by requesting him back to dynamic obligation to play out this capacity. Having numerous companions he had the capacity to right away leave from the Navy and break this snare." The Navy said in an announcement in 1980: "There is no proof on record of an endeavor to review him to dynamic obligation." 

Following Hubbard's demise, Bridge Publications has distributed a few independent personal records of his life. Marco Frenschkowski noticed that "non-Scientologist perusers promptly perceive a few pieces of Hubbard's life are here methodicallly forgotten: no data at all is given about his private life (his relational unions, divorces, kids), his legitimate issues, etc." The Church keeps up a broad site showing the official adaptation of Hubbard's life. It likewise possesses various properties committed to Hubbard including the Los Angeles-based L. Ron Hubbard Life Exhibition (an introduction of Hubbard's life), the Author Services Center (an introduction of Hubbard's works), and the L. Ron Hubbard House in Washington, D.C. 

In late 2012, Bridge distributed a complete authority life story of Hubbard, titled "The L. Ron Hubbard Series: A Biographical Encyclopedia", composed essentially by Dan Sherman, the official Hubbard biographer at the time. This latest authority Church of Scientology account of Hubbard is a 17 volume arrangement, with every volume concentrating on an alternate part of Hubbard's life, including his music, photography, geographic investigation, compassionate work, and nautical vocation. It is publicized as a "Biographic Encyclopedia" and is principally created by the official biographer, Dan Sherman. 

To date, there has not been a solitary volume far reaching official life story distributed During his lifetime, various brief anecdotal portrayals were likewise distributed in his Scientology books. The Church of Scientology issued "the main approved LRH Biography" in October 1977 (it has since been trailed by the Sherman "Biographic Encyclopedia"). His life was delineated in print in "What Is Scientology?", a lustrous distribution distributed in 1978 with works of art of Hubbard's life contributed by his child Arthur. 

As indicated by the Church of Scientology, Hubbard delivered exactly 65 million words on Dianetics and Scientology, contained in around 500,000 pages of composed material, 3,000 recorded addresses and 100 movies. His works of fiction incorporated about 500 books and short stories. Hubbard "distributed almost 600 books, stories, and articles amid his lifetime." He sold more than 23 million duplicates of fiction and 27 million duplicates of true to life.