Michael Gomez 

Michael Gomez (conceived Michael Armstrong; 21 June 1977) is a previous expert fighter who contended from 1995 to 2009. He was destined to an Irish Traveler family in Longford, County Longford, Ireland, spending his initial a long time in Dublin before moving to London and later Manchester, England, with his family at nine years old. In boxing he was warmly known as "The Predator", "The Irish Mexican" and "The Mancunian Mexican". 

Regardless of completing his profession battling in the lightweight division, Gomez is increasingly prominent for his battles at featherweight and super-featherweight. Amid his vocation he amassed various territorial titles, most essentially the British super-featherweight title twice, from 1999 to 2004. He additionally held the WBU super featherweight title from 2004 to 2005. 

Gomez, who has been contrasted with Johnny Tapia, has carried on with a tempestuous life and was regularly associated with disputable battles. In Gomez's underlying matches he endured various misfortunes to understudy resistance yet then went on a keep running of triumphs which extended for just about four years. Of his 17 battles between February 2001 and March 2008, 16 finished in knockouts. Concerns emerged about his drinking and inability to cling to his eating regimen and preparing routines after a misfortune to László Bognár in 2001. Gomez had all the earmarks of being "in the groove again" in 2003, with his prominent battle against Edinburgh-based warrior Alex Arthur for the British and WBA Inter-Continental super-featherweight titles, which Gomez won by thumping out Arthur in the fifth round. 

In 2006, Gomez endured a questionable misfortune to Peter McDonagh when, amidst a round, he brought down his defenses and left the ring, later saying he had resigned from boxing. He came back to the ring following a 15-month interim. On 21 June 2008, Gomez lost what was viewed as potentially his last session: a last shot cantina chance to revive his vocation against rising star and Olympic silver medallist Amir Khan. In spite of the fact that scoring an unexpected knockdown against Khan at an opportune time, the battle finished with Gomez being halted in five rounds. 

Gomez took the surname Gomez after his youth legend Wilfredo Gómez. 

Michael Armstrong was naturally introduced to an Irish voyager family in Longford, Ireland. His mom started giving birth with him while driving, so his incompletely located dad assumed control over the wheel yet slammed the vehicle into a light post while in transit to the medical clinic; Michael was conveyed in the rearward sitting arrangement. The Armstrong family moved to Ballymun, Dublin, and, when Michael was age nine, to Manchester, England. 

Following the family's turn to England, Armstrong's dad's visual perception bombed further because of retinitis pigmentosa. At that point, there were ten youngsters in the Armstrong family. After his more youthful sister, Louise, kicked the bucket from unexpected newborn child demise disorder, his mom left the family to live with another lady. Armstrong along these lines spent quite a bit of his childhood in different kids' homes, and was a sequential truant from school. His mom had instructed him to shoplift as a tyke, and he was engaged with frivolous wrongdoing all through his childhood in Manchester. At nine years of age, he started preparing at Brian Hughes' Collyhurst and Moston Boys' Club. He likewise played football for a neighborhood North Manchester group until the club got such huge numbers of fines for Armstrong's battling on the pitch that they were unfit to pay them. Now, he quit playing football to focus on his preparation in the ring. Amid his time in the youngsters' home Armstrong met Alison, who has remained his partner (and later his significant other) all through his expert profession; they were guardians when Armstrong was 17. 

Armstrong boxed as a beginner before turning proficient in June 1995. He picked the expert surname "Gomez" when the British Boxing Board of Control (BBBoC) expected him to choose another name at the season of his enrollment as an expert; there was another fighter in a similar weight division utilizing the name "Michael Armstrong". He picked his ring name out of appreciation for Puerto Rican fighter Wilfredo Gómez, whose recorded battles Armstrong had considered eagerly as a young. The name, joined with Gomez's "fighting style", earned him the epithet of "the Irish Mexican". He built up a ring persona dependent on this epithet, which has stayed prominent with fans all through his vocation. His ring passage music is that of a Mexican Mariachi band, a reference to his Hispanic-sounding picked name, and a significant number of his supporters wear sombreros to his battles and wave Irish banners. Gomez additionally wears long Mexican-style enclosing shorts the shades of the banner of Ireland and regularly has the state of a shamrock shaved into the hair on the back of his head. 

In his introduction battle at the G-Mex Leisure Center, Manchester, England, Gomez beat beforehand undefeated Danny Ruegg on the undercard of a bill that included Robin Reid and Michael Brodie. In spite of this underlying success, Gomez's initial vocation was covered with misfortunes to understudy warriors, for example, Greg Upton and Chris Williams. 

In 1996, Gomez was accused of homicide after a group battle outside a club in Manchester. Gomez had hit one of his aggressors, Sam Parle, who kicked the bucket after his head hit the asphalt because of the blow. The charge was later decreased to homicide and Gomez was cleared after it was decided that he had acted in self-protection. 

After this temperamental start in the expert positions, Gomez had a kept running of triumphs from September 1997 to February 1999. Amid this period Gomez won seven straight battles before trying for his first title belt, the empty British Central Area featherweight title against Chris Jickells on 27 February 1999 in Oldham. Gomez won the title with a fifth-round knockout. He pursued his first title win by including another title, the IBF Inter-Continental featherweight title, with a second-round knockout over Nigel Leake. 

Soon thereafter, Gomez surrendered his title belts in an offer to climb to the super featherweight division. His first battle in the division, in September 1999, was for the empty British super featherweight title, against the accomplished and much proclaimed Liverpudlian contender Gary Thornhill. Gomez vanquished Thornhill with a second-round knockout. In November 1999, Gomez went head to head against Mexican Jose Manjarrez for the WBO Inter-Continental super featherweight title, leaving with the title dependent on the judges' scores after the full twelve rounds. In 1999, Gomez won four title belts, was undefeated amid the year and was likewise named "Youthful Boxer of the Year" by the British Boxing Writers' Club. He proceeded with his triumphant structure into 2000 with another keep running of six successes, and effectively safeguarded his British super featherweight title against Dean Pithie, Carl Greaves and Ian McLeod. 

Gomez's first battle in 2001 was on 10 February against Hungarian fighter Laszlo Bognar for the WBO Inter-Continental super featherweight title, in Widnes, Cheshire. Gomez had Bognar on the canvas in the fifth round, yet Bognar recuperated from this knockdown and utilized his southpaw hit to keep Gomez from shutting in. In the ninth round arbitrator Dave Paris halted the battle following a twofold left from Bognar, which had Gomez stricken against the ropes. Gomez felt the battle had been halted rashly and that he ought to have been permitted to proceed. Gomez later expressed that he was experiencing influenza and ought not have taken the battle. The "Every day Telegraph" detailed after the match that the pre-battle say something and restorative examination were not done as per BBBC guidelines: the volunteer assessor left before Bognar and Gomez had said something, and the therapeutic inspector had not distinguished that Gomez was sick. 

Gomez looked for a rematch against Bognar, and after five months in July 2001 the pair met once more, this time in Manchester, bringing about a triumph for Gomez. The battle began seriously for Gomez when he endured a blaze knockdown in the first round and was down again in the second. Gomez returned to thump Bognar down close to the second's end round. Gomez turned out terminating toward the beginning of the third round and completed the battle with a fourth and last knockdown to vindicate his prior annihilation. He lined up his triumph over Bognar with a second-round knockout of Scottish warrior Craig Docherty for another British super featherweight title win. 

His next rival was unbeaten West Ham-put together contender Kevin Lear with respect to 1 June 2002, again in Manchester, on the undercard of the Ricky Hatton versus Eamonn Magee battle. Lear, a previous Amateur Boxing Association of England (ABA) champion, kept a one-dimensional Gomez under control with his sharp punch from the start of the battle. Gomez took a few punches to the face, and his nose started to drain intensely beginning in the 6th round. By the eighth round Gomez was moderating, enduring the impacts of Lear's proceeding with blast of blends. Toward the finish of the eighth round Gomez's mentor Brian Hughes resigned his warrior, giving Lear an unexpected triumph. 

The thrashing to Lear, and the way in which the battle finished, incited Hughes, Gomez's long-term tutor and coach, to ask Gomez to resign from boxing. This occasion flagged the finish of the connection among Gomez and Hughes; before long, Gomez crossed Manchester to join Ricky Hatton and previous Collyhurst exercise center stablemate Anthony Farnell at the opponent Phoenix Gym kept running by Billy Graham. Gomez pursued the annihilation to Lear with a string of three successes, all by knockout. 

Amid the period between the first Bognar battle and the misfortune to Lear, Gomez's life spun wild. He was "drinking, fighting and womanizing", and was sentenced for four beverage drive offenses. Amid a road battle, Gomez was cut and seriously harmed—his heart quit thumping for 148 seconds while on the surgical table. 

Following his adjustment in coach, Gomez was contracted for the most elevated profile battle of his profession against Edinburgh-based contender "Stunning" Alex Arthur for the British and WBA Inter-Continental super featherweight titles. The battle occurred in a sold-out Meadowbank Stadium in October 2003, in what was the primary expert enclosing card Edinburgh in practically 20 years. 

Preceding the battle, Arthur had opined amid meetings that "looking profound at Gomez at the question and answer session, I don't know even he trusts he can win. He'll be so started up I expect it'll take me eight or nine adjusts at the same time, if his opposition has gone as individuals are stating, it could be a great deal sooner." regarding his way to deal with the battle, Arthur included "I see around 20 different ways to beat him. I'm simply anticipating quiet him down." 

Arthur, who was hoping to hold the BBBofC Lonsdale Belt, was viewed as a rising star in British boxing. He was a solid most loved to win the session against Gomez, who was seen to have experienced such a large number of fights and manhandled his body excessively, and the battle was viewed as a venturing stone on Arthur's way to a future big showdown. Be that as it may, Freddie Roach, Arthur's mentor, was reprimanded when he stayed in the United States to mentor another fighter as opposed to proceeding to work with Arthur to get ready for his title coordinate. 

Gomez refuted his faultfinders when he touched base at the battle in prime condition and with hostility, assurance and want. The initial two rounds began at an angry pace, with Arthur keeping Gomez under control with hardened pokes and Gomez working inside with snares and body punches. The match was transforming into a conflict of restricting styles, Arthur showing control and boxing procedure and Gomez raging forward with wild fierceness. From the third round the battle started to turn Gomez's direction. Gomez cut Arthur in the third and quieted the home group, who were not used to seeing the main residence saint being battered as such. Gomez ruled the fourth round and was in full control of the battle—he uncovered Arthur's powerless safeguard and at one phase landed 28 punches without answer. 

Gomez thumped down his rival twice before conveying a jolting left snare to Arthur, thumping Arthur to the canvas for the third time. Official John Coyle ceased the battle, and Gomez won with the subsequent TKO in the fifth round. The match was hailed as a standout amongst the best battles in Britain for 10 years. Boxing advertiser Frank Warren called the battle "the best challenge seen on these shores since Nigel Benn beat Gerald McClellan in 1995". Resigned Scottish fighter Ken Buchanan said it was a standout amongst the best battles he had ever observed. 

Gomez went to Arthur's next battle against Ugandan Michael Kizza in Meadowbank, Scotland, yet Arthur did not show up when Gomez battled Ben Odamattey for the WBU super featherweight title in Manchester half a month later. Gomez called attention to out while being met in the blink of an eye subsequently, including "Sky Television need an arrival. Blunt Warren, Arthur's administrator, needs a re-coordinate. Furthermore, the vast majority of all do as well I." Arthur reacted by saying "the battle (with Gomez) is unquestionably going to occur. Ideally I'll get another warm-up battle in June and afterward take on Gomez in September." Despite the talk, the two warriors did not meet each other in the ring once more. 

In March 2004, Gomez battled Ghanaian Ben Odamattey for the WBU super featherweight title at the MEN Arena in Manchester, winning the title by halting Odamattey in the third round. He held his WBU title in his next two battles against Justin Juuko and Leva Kirakosyan with knockout successes. Gomez then confronted Argentinian fighter "El Vikingo" Javier Osvaldo Alvarez in February 2005, indeed battling at the MEN Arena in Manchester. WBO super middleweight title holder Joe Calzaghe had been planned to top the bill yet hauled out of his orchestrated battle, and Gomez and Alvarez were opened as the primary fascination. 

The pair conflicted at the say something, and this threat conveyed into the ring; from the start of the battle Gomez attempted to draw Alvarez into a fight. Gomez seemed to win the initial two adjusts behind stinging pokes, yet Alvarez appeared to be unruffled. In the third round, Alvarez began to assume responsibility for the battle and handled a few hits to Gomez's face. Gomez started rapidly in the fourth round, assaulting Alvarez from behind his poke and working his way through his rival's resistance. Alvarez seemed substance to get Gomez as he pushed ahead. Regardless of Gomez's solid begin, Alvarez stunned Gomez with a firm right hand shot in the fourth round, after which the Argentinian propelled into an irate attack. Gomez steadied in the fifth however was unmistakably worn out. Two minutes into the 6th round, Alvarez amazed Gomez with a correct snare. Gomez beat the include and Alvarez then moved in to proceed with his assault. Official Mickey Vann halted the battle after 2 minutes 25 seconds of the round with Gomez stuck to the ropes and taking critical discipline. 

Gomez was out of the ring for right around a year following the Alvarez battle and was next because of battle Willie Limond for the WBU lightweight title, yet turned down the open door for an opportunity to battle for an Irish title. Gomez then joined to battle individual English-based Irishman, Peter McDonagh, for the Irish lightweight title on the undercard of a Bernard Dunne battle on 28 January 2006 at the National Stadium, Dublin. After the battle was marked Gomez expressed "I just can hardly wait to get my hands on that Irish title since I've been urgent to battle in Ireland for a considerable length of time." 

Paving the way to the battle McDonagh was making visits to see paranormalist Uri Geller as "mind mentor" to enable him to get ready rationally for the battle, and Geller likewise ventured out with him to Dublin for the battle. Gomez remarked that "I don't know Uri Geller will be very useful to him however on the grounds that there won't be any spoons in that ring for him to twist. The main thing I plan on twisting is a portion of McDonagh's ribs with my body punches." 

The initial four rounds were moderately close, with Gomez driving as indicated by intellectuals, however the battle finished in the fifth round under peculiar conditions when for no obvious reason Gomez quit battling and neglected to guard himself. He at that point got various unanswered punches from McDonagh before being stunned. Gomez ascended from the canvas quickly yet seemed to overlook the arbitrator and stroll towards his corner while the ref proceeded with his tally. Gomez then left the ring as the arbitrator was waving the fend off. RTÉ pundit Steve Collins said "I smell a rodent, something's not directly here." 

The Boxing Union of Ireland (BUI) at first suspended the two warriors' totes, and researched reports of bizarre wagering designs, with huge wholes of cash being set on McDonagh to win inside the separation and all the more explicitly in the fifth round. Chances on McDonagh to win the battle in the fifth round had been sliced from 125– 1 to 18– 1 by the evening of the session. Following their examination, the BUI discharged the totes to every one of the contenders, expressing "Michael Gomez and Peter McDonagh affirmed that neither they, their families, nor any individual in their camp, the extent that they knew, betted on the battle." The BUI did express dissatisfaction that the bookmaker, Boylesports, who had suspended betting on the session because of the irregular wagering designs, had decided not to answer to the agents' questions. 

Gomez later clarified the misfortune by saying that "it was all basic, I just went to a choice in there that I have to resign from boxing full stop". Gomez further shown that he intended to seek after a profession in lifting weights. McDonagh, in the interim, asserted that he had won as a result of Gellar's help paving the way to the session. 

Gomez looked for a second chance to battle McDonagh; in April 2007, he offered to battle for just his preparation costs. At long last, their rematch for the Irish lightweight title, to be charged as ""Redemption"", was set for 23 May 2008, yet McDonagh hauled out of the booked session. 

Gomez got himself indeed attracted to boxing in the wake of watching a battle between Alex Arthur and Carl Johanneson, and continued preparing. In May 2007, fifteen months after his battle with McDonagh, he came back to the ring to confront Daniel Thorpe at the Altrincham Leisure Center, Manchester. 

Gomez had left the Phoenix Gym and was currently preparing at Bobby Rimmers' Boxing Academy in Stalybridge, Manchester, and had come back to battle in the super featherweight division. The battle was charged as ""The Last Stand"", and the setting was sold out with individual contenders Ricky Hatton and his sibling Matthew Hatton applauding him from ringside. Gomez won the battle with a stoppage in the third round. The next month Gomez additionally beat Youssef Al Hamidi, again with a third round stoppage. Following two rebound battles against understudy resistance Gomez was reputed to be in line for battles against huge numbers of Britain and Ireland's top dimension super featherweights and lightweights including Kevin Mitchell, Amir Khan, and Carl Johanneson; Gomez himself was looking for a rematch against Peter McDonagh. 

He at that point joined to confront Leeds' Johanneson on 19 October 2007 at the Doncaster Dome, Doncaster, England for the British super featherweight title. Johanneson had quite recently fallen off his second thrashing to Armenian Leva Kirakosyan, whom Gomez had thumped out in October 2004. Prior to the battle, Gomez was certain, expressing "You can't outbox me. I'll poke your head off. In the event that he comes to have a battle with me it will be early Christmas for everybody since I don't have the foggiest idea about who will go yet somebody will go and it won't be me." At the pre-battle question and answer session in Doncaster the two contenders squared up to one another and guaranteed to thump each other out; amid the profoundly charged go head to head the two warriors must be kept separated by their advertiser and coaches. 

The same number of expected, the very foreseen household conflict was a savage fight from cycle one. Gomez won the opening rounds and took steps to overwhelm Johanneson from the opening seconds. The Leeds contender at that point picked up the high ground as the battle continued, flooring Gomez in the 6th round just for the "Irish Mexican" to ascend from the canvas. Before long, with Gomez seeming shaky on his feet, arbitrator Mickey Vann halted the battle. Gomez said that Vann had ceased the battle early, including, "When the stoppage came, I wasn't wobbling or amazing, and I just dropped my hands in the battle to indicate Johanneson that he couldn't hurt me. In any case, the arbitrator just misunderstood the message. It was awful refereeing. I disclosed to him straight away I was fine, yet he demanded appearing at my corner." The previous hero was evident that he needed another chance to battle for the British title. 

Gomez battled Amir Khan for the Commonwealth lightweight title at the National Indoor Arena, Birmingham, on 21 June 2008, Gomez's thirty-first birthday celebration. Khan said that "it is extremely unlikely he will be as fit as me, so I anticipate an awesome stoppage". Gomez did not go to the planned pre-battle question and answer session, inciting Khan to criticize him, and advertiser Frank Warren blamed Gomez for neglecting to indicate regard to Khan and the media. 

Amid the battle Khan thumped Gomez to the canvas in the first round with a torrent of snares and uppercuts. In the second round, Gomez got Khan with a left snare, thumping down the more youthful contender and uncovering his cautious shortcoming; be that as it may, Khan steadied himself after the compulsory eight-tally, and cut Gomez over the left eye before the round finished. Gomez got Khan in the ribs with a left snare in the fourth round which left Khan shaky for a minute, however Khan reacted with a whirlwind of snares and punches. Khan handled a "breaking left snare" in the fifth, yet Gomez beat the tally. At 2:32 of the fifth round, arbitrator John Keane ceased the battle when Gomez was thumped into the ropes by a Khan left uppercut. After the battle, Khan said he believed he had climbed a dimension by "battling world class contenders like Gomez." 

Prior to the battle, sports authors considered Gomez an extreme adversary for Khan, with his "knockout punch" and his prosperity against Alex Arthur in comparative conditions, in spite of having lost three of his last six battles. Gomez saw the battle as a chance to reignite his profession; in a meeting instantly before the battle he talked about how "<nowiki>[t]</nowiki>his battle truly is my last opportunity to set myself up forever and become known in each family unit in Britain". In the meantime, he thought about the beneficial outcomes of his vocation in the ring, saying "Boxing kept my feet on the ground and gave me a core interest. It has me through the awful occasions and quieted me down. If not for boxing, I wouldn't have my delightful spouse and family". Gomez lives with his significant other Alison and their three youngsters in Manchester.