Natalie Clifford Barney 

Natalie Clifford Barney (October 31, 1876 – February 2, 1972) was an American writer, artist and author who lived as an ostracize in Paris. 

Barney's salon was held at her home at 20 mourn Jacob in Paris' Left Bank for over 60 years and united scholars and specialists from around the globe, incorporating many driving figures in French writing alongside American and British Modernists of the Lost Generation. She attempted to advance composition by ladies and shaped a "Ladies' Academy" (L'Académie des Femmes) because of the all-male French Academy while additionally giving help and motivation to male scholars from Remy de Gourmont to Truman Capote. 

She was transparently lesbian and started distributing love lyrics to ladies under her very own name as right on time as 1900, considering outrage as "the most ideal method for disposing of aggravations" (which means hetero consideration from young fellows). She wrote in both French and English. In her works she upheld woman's rights and pacifism. She restricted monogamy and had many covering long and momentary connections, including on-and-off sentiments with writer Renée Vivien and artist Armen Ohanian and a 50-year association with painter Romaine Brooks. Her life and relationships filled in as motivation for some, books, running from the vulgar French blockbuster "Idylle Saphique" to "The Well of Loneliness", the most renowned lesbian novel of the twentieth century. 

Barney was conceived in 1876 in Dayton, Ohio, to Albert Clifford Barney and Alice Pike Barney. Her mom was of French, Dutch and German family and her dad was the child of a rich producer of railroad vehicles and of English plunge. Her maternal granddad's dad was Jewish. 

At the point when Barney was five years of age her family spent the mid year at New York's Long Beach Hotel where Oscar Wilde happened to talk on his American address visit. Wilde scooped her up as she kept running past him escaping a gathering of little young men, held her out of their achieve then sat her down on his knee and disclosed to her a story. The following day he joined Barney and her mom on the shoreline, where their discussion changed a mind-blowing course, motivating her to seek after workmanship truly, in spite of, years after the fact, her significant other's objection. She later concentrated under Carolus-Duran and James McNeill Whistler. A considerable lot of Alice Pike Barney's artistic creations are currently in the Smithsonian American Art Museum. 

In the same way as other young ladies of her time, Barney had indiscriminate instruction. 

Her enthusiasm for the French language started with a tutor who read Jules Verne stories so anyone might hear to her so she would need to adapt rapidly to get them. Later she and her more youthful sister Laura Clifford Barney went to Les Ruches, a French all inclusive school in Fontainebleau, France, established by women's activist Marie Souvestre, who additionally established Allenswood Academy, in Wimbledon, outside London, which was gone to by such notables as Eleanor Roosevelt. As a grown-up, she talked and composed French fluidly. 

When she was ten her family moved from Ohio to Washington, D.C., spending summers in Bar Harbor, Maine. As the insubordinate and eccentric little girl of one of the wealthiest families around the local area, she was regularly referenced in Washington papers. In her mid twenties she stood out as truly newsworthy by running through Bar Harbor while driving a second steed on a lead in front of her and by riding with on leg on each side of rather than sidesaddle. 

Barney later said she knew by age 12 she was lesbian and was resolved to "live straightforwardly, without concealing anything." In 1899, in the wake of seeing the mistress Liane de Pougy at a ballroom in Paris, Barney introduced herself at de Pougy's living arrangement in a page outfit and declared she was a "page of adoration" sent by Sappho. 

In spite of the fact that de Pougy was a standout amongst the most well known ladies in France, always looked for after by affluent and titled men, Barney's boldness enchanted her. Their short undertaking turned into the subject of de Pougy's tell-all "roman à clef", "Idylle Saphique" ("Sapphic Idyll"). Distributed in 1901, this book turned into the discussion of Paris, republished somewhere around multiple times in its first year. Barney was before long surely understood as the model for one of the characters. At this point, nonetheless, the two had effectively separated in the wake of quarreling more than once over Barney's longing to "salvage" de Pougy from her life as a prostitute. 

Barney herself contributed a section to "Idylle Saphique" in which she depicted leaning back at de Pougy's feet in a screened box at the theater, watching Sarah Bernhardt's play Hamlet. Amid break, Barney (as "Flossie") contrasts Hamlet's predicament and that of ladies: "What is there for ladies who feel the enthusiasm for activity when cruel Destiny holds them in chains? Predetermination made us ladies when the law of men is the main law that is remembered." She additionally stated "Lettres à une Connue" ("Letters to a Woman I Have Known"), her own epistolary novel about the undertaking. Despite the fact that Barney neglected to discover a distributer for the book and later called it credulous and ungainly, it is outstanding for its discourse of homosexuality, which Barney viewed as characteristic and contrasted with albinism. "My strangeness," she stated, "isn't a bad habit, isn't think, and damages nobody." 

Barney's soonest cozy relationship was with Eva Palmer-Sikelianos. In 1893 they wound up familiar amid summer travels in Bar Harbor, Maine. Barney compared Palmer to a medieval virgin, a tribute to her lower leg length red hair, ocean green eyes and pale appearance. The two stayed close for various years. As youthful grown-ups in Paris they shared a loft at 4, regret Chalgrin. Later they each had their own place in Neuilly. Barney much of the time requested Palmer's assistance in her sentimental quest for other ladies, for example, Pauline Tarn. Palmer at last walked out on Barney for Greece and in the end wedded Angelos Sikelianos. Their relationship did not endure this unforeseen development, Barney took a dreary perspective on Angelos and warmed letters were traded. Later in their lives the companionship was fixed and both took a develop see on the jobs they had played in one another's lives. 

In November 1899 Barney met the writer Pauline Tarn, better known by her nom de plume Renée Vivien. For Vivien it was all consuming, instant adoration, while Barney ended up entranced with Vivien in the wake of hearing her present one of her ballads, which she portrayed as "spooky by the craving for death." Their sentimental relationship was likewise an innovative trade that roused them two to compose. Barney gave a women's activist hypothetical system which Vivien investigated in her verse. They adjusted the symbolism of the Symbolist artists alongside the traditions of elegant love to depict love between ladies, likewise discovering instances of gallant ladies in history and legend. Sappho was a particularly vital impact and they examined Greek in order to peruse the enduring sections of her verse in the first. Both composed plays about her life. 

Vivien considered Barney to be a dream and as Barney put it, "she had discovered new motivation through me, nearly without knowing me." Barney felt Vivien had given her a role as a "femme fatale" and that she needed "to lose herself... altogether in affliction" for her specialty. Vivien additionally trusted in devotion, which Barney was reluctant to consent to. While Barney was visiting her family in Washington, D.C. in 1901, Vivien quit noting her letters. Barney attempted to recover her for a considerable length of time, at one point influencing a companion, operatic mezzo-soprano Emma Calvé, to sing under Vivien's window so she could toss a lyric (folded over a bundle of roses) up to Vivien on her overhang. The two blossoms and sonnet were caught and returned by a tutor. 

In 1904 she expressed "Je Me Souviens" ("I Remember"), a seriously close to home writing ballad about their relationship which was exhibited as a solitary transcribed duplicate to Vivien trying to win her back. They accommodated and headed out together to Lesbos, where they lived cheerfully together for a brief span and discussed beginning a school of verse for ladies like the one which Sappho, as indicated by convention, had established on Lesbos somewhere in the range of 2,500 years prior. In any case, Vivien before long got a letter from her sweetheart Baroness Hélène van Zuylen and went to Constantinople supposing she would say a final farewell to her face to face. Vivien intended to meet Barney in Paris a short time later however rather remained with the Baroness and this time, the separation was changeless. 

Vivien's wellbeing declined quickly after this. As per Vivien's companion and neighbor Colette, she ate nothing and drank vigorously, notwithstanding washing her mouth with perfumed water to shroud the smell. Colette's record has driven some to call Vivien an anorexic yet this determination did not yet exist at the time. Vivien was additionally dependent on the narcotic chloral hydrate. In 1908 she endeavored suicide by overdosing on laudanum and passed on the next year. In a journal composed fifty years after the fact Barney said "She couldn't be spared. Her life was a long suicide. Everything swung to residue and cinders in her grasp." 

In 1949, two years after the passing of Hélène van Zuylen, Barney reestablished the Renée Vivien Prize with a money related allow under the specialist of the "Société des gens de lettres" and assumed the chairmanship of the jury in 1950. 

In 1900, Barney distributed her first book, a gathering of ballads called "Quelques Portraits-Sonnets de Femmes" ("Some Portrait-Sonnets of Women"). The lyrics were written in customary French refrain and a formal, out-dated style since Barney did not enjoy free stanza. These sonnets have been portrayed as "student work" yet by distributing them, Barney turned into the main lady artist to straightforwardly expound on the affection for ladies since Sappho. Her mom contributed pastel outlines of the sonnets' subjects, entirely unconscious three of the four ladies who demonstrated for her were her little girl's sweethearts. 

Audits were commonly positive and disregarded the lesbian subject of the lyrics, some notwithstanding distorting it. The "Washington Mirror" said Barney "composes tributes to men's lips and; dislike an amateur, either." However, a feature in a general public tattle paper shouted out "Sappho Sings in Washington" and this alarmed her dad, who purchased and crushed the distributer's staying stock and printing plates. 

To get away from her dad's influence Barney distributed her next book, "Cinq Petits Dialogs Grecs" ("Five Short Greek Dialogs", 1901), under the pen name. The name originated from crafted by Pierre Louÿs, who editted and update the composition. Barney additionally committed the book to him. The first of the discoursed is set in antiquated Greece and contains a long depiction of Sappho, who is "more loyal in her changeability than others in their constancy." Another contends for agnosticism over Christianity. Barney's dad's passing in 1902 remaining her with a significant fortune, liberating her from any need to cover the initiation of her books; she never utilized a pen name. 

"Je Me Souviens" was distributed in 1910, after Vivien's passing. That equivalent year, Barney distributed "Actes et Entr'actes" ("Acts and Interludes"), an accumulation of short plays and ballads. One of the plays was "Équivoque" ("Ambiguity"), a revisionist form on the legend of Sappho's passing: Instead of losing herself a bluff for the love of Phaon the mariner, she does as such out of sorrow that Phaon is wedding the lady she cherishes. The play joins citations from Sappho's sections, with Barney's very own commentaries in Greek and was performed with "old Greek" music and move. 

Barney did not pay attention to her verse as Vivien did, saying, "in the event that I had one aspiration it was to make my life itself into a lyric." Her plays were just performed through beginner creations in her patio nursery. As indicated by Karla Jay, the greater part of them needed cognizant plots and "would likely perplex even the most thoughtful group of onlookers." After 1910 she for the most part composed the witticisms and diaries for which she is better known. Her last book of verse was designated "Sonnets and Poemes: Autres Alliances" and turned out in 1920, uniting sentimental verse in both French and English. Barney asked Ezra Pound to alter the lyrics however then disregarded the nitty gritty proposals he made. 

For more than 60 years, Barney facilitated an artistic salon, a week by week assembling at which individuals met to mingle and examine writing, craftsmanship, music and some other subject of intrigue. Barney endeavored to include ladies' composition while likewise facilitating the absolute most conspicuous male journalists of her time. She united exile Modernists with individuals from the French Academy. Joan Schenkar depicted Barney's salon as "a spot where lesbian rendezvous "and" meetings with scholastics could exist together in a sort of merry, cross-pollinating, psychological discord." 

During the 1900s Barney held early social events of the salon at her home in Neuilly. The diversion included verse readings and theatricals (in which Colette here and there performed). Mata Hari played out a move once, riding into the greenhouse as Lady Godiva on a white steed outfit with turquoise cloisonné. 

The play "Equivoque" may have driven Barney to leave Neuilly in 1909. As per a contemporary paper article, her proprietor questioned her holding an open air exhibition of a play about Sappho, which he felt "pursued nature too intently". She dropped her rent and leased the structure at 20, Rue Jacob in Paris' Latin Quarter and her salon was held there until the late 1960s. This was a little two-story house, isolated on three sides from the principle expanding in the city. Alongside the pavillon was an extensive, congested greenery enclosure with a Doric "Sanctuary of Friendship" tucked into one corner. In this new area, the salon grew an increasingly demure outward face, with verse readings and discussion, maybe in light of the fact that Barney had been told the pavillon's floors would not hold up to substantial moving gatherings. Visit visitors amid this period included Pierre Louÿs, Paul Claudel, Philippe Berthelot and interpreter J. C. Mardrus. 

Amid World War I the salon turned into an asylum for those restricted to the war. Henri Barbusse once gave a perusing from his enemy of war novel "Enduring an onslaught" and Barney facilitated a Women's Congress for Peace at the Rue Jacob. Different guests to the salon amid the war included Oscar Milosz, Auguste Rodin and writer Alan Seeger, who came while on leave from the French Foreign Legion. 

In the mid 1920s, Ezra Pound was a dear companion of Barney's and regularly visited. The two conspired together to finance Paul Valéry and T. S. Eliot so they could stop their employments and spotlight on composing, however Valéry found different benefactors and Eliot declined the give. Pound acquainted Barney with cutting edge writer George Antheil and keeping in mind that her own preference for music inclined towards the customary, she facilitated debuts of Antheil's "Ensemble for Five Instruments" and "First String Quartet" at the Rue Jacob. It was additionally at Barney's salon that Pound met his long-lasting paramour, the musician Olga Rudge. 

In 1927 Barney began an "Académie des Femmes" (Women's Academy) to respect ladies journalists. This was a reaction to the compelling French Academy which had been established in the seventeenth century by Louis XIII and whose 40 "immortals" incorporated no ladies at the time. In contrast to the French Academy, her Women's Academy was not a formal association, yet rather a progression of readings held as a major aspect of the standard Friday salons. Honorees included Colette, Gertrude Stein, Anna Wickham, Rachilde, Lucie Delarue-Mardrus, Mina Loy, Djuna Barnes and after death, Renée Vivien. 

Different guests to the salon amid the 1920s included French scholars Jeanne Galzy, André Gide, Anatole France, Max Jacob, Louis Aragon and Jean Cocteau alongside English-language journalists Ford Madox Ford, W. Somerset Maugham, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Sinclair Lewis, Sherwood Anderson, Thornton Wilder, T. S. Eliot and William Carlos Williams and besides, German writer Rainer Maria Rilke, Bengali artist Rabindranath Tagore (the principal Nobel laureate from Asia), Romanian aesthetician and negotiator Matila Ghyka, columnist Janet Flanner (who set the "New Yorker" style), columnist, lobbyist and distributer Nancy Cunard, distributers Caresse and Harry Crosby, distributer Blanche Knopf, craftsmanship authority and supporter Peggy Guggenheim, Sylvia Beach (the book shop proprietor who distributed James Joyce's "Ulysses"), painters Tamara de Lempicka and Marie Laurencin and artist Isadora Duncan. 

For her 1929 book "Aventures de l'Esprit" ("Adventures of the Mind") Barney drew a social outline which swarmed the names of over a hundred people who had gone to the salon into an unpleasant guide of the house, patio nursery and Temple of Friendship. The primary portion of the book had memories of 13 male scholars she had known or met throughout the years and the second half had a part for every individual from her "Académie des Femmes". This sex adjusted structure was not helped through on the book's bundling, which recorded eight of the male essayists at that point included "... also, a few ladies." 

In the late 1920s Radclyffe Hall drew a group after her novel "The Well of Loneliness" had been restricted in the UK. A perusing by writer Edna St. Vincent Millay stuffed the salon in 1932. At another Friday salon during the 1930s Virgil Thomson sang from "Four Saints in Three Acts", a musical drama dependent on a lyrics by Gertrude Stein. 

Of the renowned Modernist journalists who invested energy in Paris, Ernest Hemingway never showed up at the salon. James Joyce came on more than one occasion yet couldn't have cared less for it. Marcel Proust never went to a Friday, however he came to 20, Rue Jacob once to converse with Barney about lesbian culture while doing research for "In Search of Lost Time". His visit was deferred more than once attributable to his weakness, and when the gathering at long last happened he was too anxious to even consider bringing up the subject he had come to discuss. 

"Éparpillements" ("Scatterings", 1910) was Barney's first gathering of "pensées"— truly, contemplations. This scholarly structure had been related with salon culture in France since the seventeenth century, when the class was culminated at the salon of Madame de Sablé. Barney's "pensées", like de Sablé's own "Maximes", were short, frequently one-line mottos or "bon witticisms, for example, "There are more insidious ears than reviles" and "To be hitched is to be neither alone nor together." 

Her abstract vocation got a lift after she sent a duplicate of "Éparpillements" to Remy de Gourmont, a French artist, scholarly pundit, and logician who had turned into a hermit subsequent to getting the distorting infection lupus vulgaris in his thirties. He was sufficiently inspired to welcome her to one of the Sunday social events at his home, at which he generally gotten just a little gathering of old companions. She was a restoring impact in his life, urging him out for night vehicle rides, suppers at the Rue Jacob, a conceal ball, even a short journey on the Seine. He transformed a portion of their wide-running discussions into a progression of letters that he distributed in the "Mercure de France", tending to her as "l'Amazone," a French word that can mean either "horsewoman" or "Amazon"; the letters were later gathered in book structure. He passed on in 1915, however the epithet he gave her would remain with her for her entire life—even her gravestone recognizes her as "the Amazon of Remy de Gourmont"— and his "Letters to the Amazon" left perusers needing to find out about the lady who had propelled them. 

Barney obliged in 1920 with "Pensées d'une Amazone" ("Thoughts of an Amazon"), her most plainly political work. In the primary area, "Sexual Adversity, War, and Feminism", she created women's activist and conservative topics, portraying war as an "automatic and aggregate suicide appointed by man". In war, she stated, men "father demise as ladies mother life, with strength and without decision". The epigrammatic structure makes it hard to decide the subtleties of Barney's perspectives; thoughts are displayed just to be dropped, and some "pensées" appear to negate others. A few pundits decipher her as saying that the hostility that prompts war is obvious in every single male relationship. Karla Jay, nonetheless, contends that her logic was not excessively clearing, and is better summed up by the witticism "The individuals who "love" war do not have the adoration for a sufficient game—the craft of living." 

Another area of "Pensées d'une Amazone", "Misconception, or Sappho's Lawsuit", accumulated verifiable works about homosexuality alongside her own critique. She likewise secured subjects, for example, liquor, companionship, maturity, and writing, expressing "Books are longer than life" and "Sentimentalism is a youth sickness; the individuals who had it youthful are the most hearty." A third volume, "Nouvelles Pensées de l'Amazone" ("New Thoughts of the Amazon"), showed up in 1939. 

"The One Who is Legion, or A.D's. After-Life" (1930) was Barney's solitary book composed altogether in English, just as her solitary novel. Delineated by Romaine Brooks, it concerns a suicide, referred to just as A.D., who is breathed life into back as an androgynous being and peruses the book of her own life. This book-inside a-book, entitled "The Love-Lives of A.D.", is a gathering of songs, ballads and mottos, much like Barney's very own different works. 

Barney rehearsed, and pushed, non-monogamy. As ahead of schedule as 1901, in "Cinq Petits Dialogs Grecs," she contended for different connections and against desire; in "Éparpillements" she expressed "One is unfaithful to those one adores all together that their appeal does not end up minor propensity." While she could be desirous herself, she effectively energized probably a portion of her darlings to be non-monogamous also. 

Due to a limited extent to Jean Chalon's initial life story of her, distributed in English as "Representation of a Seductress", she had turned out to be more generally known for her numerous connections than for her composition or her salon. She once worked out a rundown, separated into three classifications: contacts, demi-contacts, and experiences. Colette was a demi-contact, while the craftsman and furniture planner Eyre de Lanux, with whom she had a now and again illicit relationship for quite a long while, was recorded as an experience. Among the contacts—the connections that she considered most critical—were Olive Custance, Renée Vivien, Élisabeth de Gramont, Romaine Brooks, and Dolly Wilde. Of these, the three longest connections were with de Gramont, Brooks, and Wilde; from 1927, she was included with every one of them three at the same time, a circumstance that finished just with Wilde's passing. Her shorter issues, for example, those with Colette and Lucie Delarue-Mardrus, regularly advanced into long lasting companionships. 

Élisabeth de Gramont, the Duchess of Clermont-Tonnerre, was an author best known for her mainstream diaries. A relative of Henry IV of France, she had grown up among the gentry; when she was a youngster, as per Janet Flanner, "laborers on her homestead... implored her not to clean her shoes before going into their homes". She thought back on this lost universe of riches and benefit with little lament, and wound up known as the "red duchess" for her help of communism. She was hitched and had two little girls in 1910, when she met Barney; her better half is said to have been brutal and oppressive. They inevitably isolated, and in 1918 she and Barney reviewed a marriage contract expressing: "Nobody association will be so solid as this association, nor another joining so delicate—nor relationship so enduring." 

De Gramont acknowledged Barney's nonmonogamy—maybe reluctantly at first—and made a special effort to be generous to her different sweethearts, continually including Romaine Brooks when she welcomed Barney to travel in the nation. The relationship proceeded until de Gramont's demise in 1954. 

Barney's longest relationship was with the American painter Romaine Brooks, whom she met around 1914. Streams had some expertise in likeness and was noted for her dismal palette of dark, dark, and white. Amid the 1920s she painted representations of a few individuals from Barney's group of friends, including de Gramont and Barney herself. 

Streams endured Barney's easygoing issues all around ok to prod her about them, and had her very own couple throughout the years, yet could end up envious when another adoration wound up genuine. Normally she essentially left town, yet at one point she gave Barney a final proposal to pick among her and Dolly Wilde—yielding once Barney had given in. In the meantime, while Brooks was dedicated to Barney, she would not like to live with her as a full-time couple; she detested Paris, despised Barney's companions, loathed the steady associating on which Barney flourished, and felt that she was completely herself just when alone. To oblige Brooks' requirement for isolation they constructed a mid year home comprising of two separate wings joined by a lounge area, which they called "Manor Trait d'Union", the hyphenated estate. Streams likewise gone through a great part of the year in Italy or voyaging somewhere else in Europe, far from Barney. They stayed committed to each other for more than fifty years. 

Dolly Wilde was the niece of Oscar Wilde (whom Natalie Barney had met as a young lady) and the remainder of her family to endure the Wilde name. She was eminent for her epigrammatic mind however, in contrast to her popular uncle, never figured out how to apply her endowments to any publishable composition; her letters are her solitary heritage. She did some fill in as an interpreter and was frequently upheld by others, including Barney, whom she met in 1927. 

Like Vivien, Wilde appeared to be twisted on implosion. She drank vigorously, was dependent on heroin, and endeavored suicide a few times. Barney financed tranquilize detoxifications, which were never powerful; she rose up out of one nursing-home remain with another reliance on the resting draft paraldehyde, at that point accessible over-the-counter. 

In 1939 she was determined to have bosom disease and rejected medical procedure, looking for elective medications. The next year, World War II isolated her from Barney; she fled Paris for England while Barney went to Italy with Brooks. She passed on in 1941 from causes that have never been completely clarified, conceivably a paraldehyde overdose. 

Barney's demeanors amid World War II have been questionable. In 1937, Una, Lady Troubridge had whined that Barney "rambled of silly hogwash about the oppression of one party rule". Barney herself was one-quarter Jewish, and since she spent the war in Italy with Romaine Brooks, gambled expulsion to a death camp—a destiny she maintained a strategic distance from just by wiring her sister Laura for a legally approved record validating her affirmation. All things considered, having no other wellspring of data about the war, she trusted Axis promulgation that depicted the Allies as the aggressors, with the goal that expert Fascism appeared to her to be a legitimate result of her pacifism. An unpublished journal she composed amid the war years is star Fascist and hostile to Semitic, citing talks by Hitler, clearly with endorsement. 

It is conceivable that the counter Semitic entries in her diary were proposed to be utilized as proof that she was not Jewish; then again, she may have been affected by Ezra Pound's enemy of Semitic radio communicates. Whatever the case, she helped a Jewish couple escape Italy, giving section on a ship to the United States. Before the finish of the war her feelings had again changed, and she saw the Allies as saviors. 

"Estate Trait d'Union" was demolished by shelling. After the war, Brooks declined to live with Barney in Paris; she stayed in Italy, and they visited each other every now and again. Their relationship stayed monogamous until the mid-1950s, when Barney met her last new love, Janine Lahovary, the spouse of a resigned Romanian represetative. Lahovary tried winning Romaine Brooks' fellowship, Barney consoled Brooks that their relationship still started things out, and the triangle gave off an impression of being steady. 

The salon continued in 1949 and kept on pulling in youthful essayists for whom it was as much a bit of history as a spot where abstract notorieties were made. Truman Capote was an irregular visitor for very nearly ten years; he portrayed the stylistic layout as "thoroughly turn-of-the-century" and recollected that Barney acquainted him with the models for a few characters in Marcel Proust's "In Search of Lost Time". Alice B. Toklas turned into a customary after Gertrude Stein's demise in 1946. Fridays during the 1960s respected Mary McCarthy and Marguerite Yourcenar, who in 1980—eight years after Barney's demise—turned into the primary female individual from the French Academy. 

Barney did not come back to composing witticisms, however published two volumes of diaries about different scholars she had known, "Gifts Indiscrets" ("Indiscreet Memories", 1960) and "Characteristics et Portraits" ("Traits and Portraits", 1963). She likewise attempted to discover a distributer for Brooks' diaries and to put her depictions in exhibitions. 

In the late 1960s Brooks turned out to be progressively hermitic and jumpy; she sank into a dejection and would not see the specialists Barney sent. Harsh at Lahovary's essence amid their last years, which she had trusted they would spend only together, she at long last severed contact with Barney. Barney kept on keeping in touch with her, yet got no answers. Creeks passed on in December 1970, and Barney on February 2, 1972 of heart disappointment. She is covered at Passy Cemetery, Paris, Île-de-France, France. 

Before a mind-blowing finish her work had been generally overlooked. In 1979, Natalie Barney was respected with a spot setting in Judy Chicago's women's activist show-stopper "The Dinner Party". During the 1980s Barney started to be perceived for what Karla Jay calls a "practically uncanny expectation" of the worries of later women's activist journalists. English interpretations of a portion of her diaries, articles, and sayings showed up in 1992, yet the greater part of her plays and verse are still untranslated. 

Her aberrant impact on writing, through her salon and her numerous abstract kinships, can be found in the quantity of scholars who have tended to or depicted her in their works. "Claudine S'en Va" ("Claudine and Annie", 1903) by Colette contains a short appearance by Barney as "Miss Flossie," resounding the moniker she had before been given in de Pougy's epic "Idylle Saphique". Renée Vivien composed numerous lyrics about her, just as a Symbolist tale, "Une Femme M'Apparut" ("A Woman Appeared to Me", 1904), in which she is depicted as having "eyes ... as sharp and blue as a cutting edge... The appeal of danger exuded from her and drew me inflexibly." Remy de Gourmont tended to her in his "Letters to the Amazon", and Truman Capote referenced her in his last, incomplete novel "". She likewise showed up in two later books by journalists who never met her: Francesco Rapazzini's "Un Soir chez l'Amazone" ("An Evening with the Amazon", 2004) is a recorded novel about Barney's salon, while Anna Livia's "Minimax" (1991) depicts both her and Renee Vivien as yet living vampires. 

As per Lillian Faderman, "There was most likely no lesbian in the four decades among 1928 and the late 1960s equipped for perusing English or any of the eleven dialects into which the book was interpreted who was new to "The Well of Loneliness"." Although the novel's writer, Radclyffe Hall, expected it as a contention for more noteworthy resistance for what she called "sexual rearranges", it has frequently been scrutinized by lesbian perusers for its hero's self-loathing and its utilization of terms like "monstrosity" and "oversight of nature". Barney, as the salon entertainer Valérie Seymour, shows up in the novel as the image of an alternate demeanor. "Valérie, peaceful and confident, made a climate of mettle; everybody felt ordinary and fearless when they assembled at Valérie Seymour's." 

Lucie Delarue-Mardrus composed love sonnets to Barney in the early long stretches of the century, and in 1930 delineated her in a novel, "L'Ange et les Pervers" ("The Angel and the Perverts"), in which she said she "examined and portrayed Natalie finally just as the life into which she started me". The hero of the novel is a bisexual named Marion who carries on with a twofold life, frequenting abstract salons in female dress, at that point changing from skirt to pants to go to gay soirées. Barney is Laurette Wells, a salon lady who spends a great part of the novel attempting to win back an ex-darling inexactly dependent on Renée Vivien. The book's depiction of her is, on occasion, brutally basic, however she is the main individual whose organization Marion appreciates. Marion reveals to Wells that she is "unreasonable... wicked, narcissistic, unreasonable, difficult, here and there tightfisted... [but] a veritable dissident, ever prepared to prompt others to disobedience... [Y]ou are equipped for adoring somebody similarly as they seem to be, even a hoodlum—in that lies your solitary constancy. Thus you have my regard." 

In the wake of meeting Barney during the 1930s, the Russian artist Marina Ivanovna Tsvetaeva tended to her in a "Letter to the Amazon" (1934) in which she communicated her tangled emotions about affection between ladies. The outcome, as per Terry Castle, is "a completely secretive, jumpy, overpowering bit of dream". 

Barney and the ladies in her group of friends are the subject of Djuna Barnes' "Women Almanac" (1928), a "roman à clef" written in an ancient, Rabelaisian style, with Barnes' very own outlines in the style of Elizabethan woodcuts. She has the lead job as Dame Evangeline Musset, "who was in her Heart one Grand Red Cross for the Pursuance, the Relief and the Distraction, of such Girls as in their Hinder Parts, and their Fore Parts, and in at all Parts suffered them most, regret Cruelly". "[A] Pioneer and a Menace" in her childhood, Dame Musset has come to "a clever and educated Fifty"; she protects ladies in trouble, apportions shrewdness, and upon her passing is raised to sainthood. Additionally showing up pseudonymously are Élisabeth de Gramont, Romaine Brooks, Dolly Wilde, Radclyffe Hall and her accomplice Una, Lady Troubridge, Janet Flanner and Solita Solano, and Mina Loy. The dark language, inside jokes, and equivocalness of "Women Almanac" have kept pundits contending about whether it is a warm parody or a severe assault, yet Barney herself adored the book and rehash it for an incredible duration. 

On October 26, 2009, Barney was regarded with a recorded marker in the place where she grew up of Dayton, Ohio. The marker is the first in Ohio to take note of the sexual introduction of its honoree. This plaque was vandalized in July 2010. 

Barney's French tale, "Amants féminins ou la troisième", accepted to have been written in 1926, was distributed in 2013.