William Wurtenburg 

William Charles Wurtenburg (December 24, 1863 – March 26, 1957) was an American school football player and mentor. Brought up in Western New York to German guardians, Wurtenburg went to the lofty Phillips Exeter Academy, where he played football. He took a crack at classes at Yale University in 1886 and before long earned a spot on the school's football crew. He played for Yale from 1886 through 1889, and again in 1891; two of those groups were later perceived as national bosses. His 35-yard keep running in a nearby amusement in 1887 against opponent Harvard earned him some notoriety. Wurtenburg got his therapeutic degree from Yale's Sheffield Scientific School in 1893. 

The next year, the United States Naval Academy enlisted him to mentor their football crew. He drove the squad to a 4– 1– 2 record for the season, including a 1– 1 record against adversary schools. He at that point acknowledged an instructing work at Dartmouth College, where for the following four years he drove them to consummate records against both of their Triangular Football League adversaries. They had a triumphant record the main year and a 5– 2– 1 record the second year. In 1899, his fifth season as mentor, his group went 2– 7 and lost both of its gathering amusements. 

In the wake of closure his instructing vocation, Wurtenburg went through quite a long while going about as an arbitrator for Yale's football crew. His last commitment to football was distributing a book about Yale football in the mid twentieth century. Around 1904, Wurtenburg started seeking after a profession as a doctor. He set up a medicinal office close to his home in New Haven, Connecticut, and turned into an ear, nose and throat master. Wurtenburg kept up his restorative office until something like 1920. He kicked the bucket in 1957 at 93 years old, in New Haven. 

William Wurtenburg was conceived on December 24, 1863, in Clarksburg, a village in Erie County, New York. He was the child of George M. Wurtenburg and Elizabeth Hochschild, who moved from Germany in 1848. William went to grade school in the Clarksville state funded educational system. For auxiliary tutoring he went to the Griffith Institute in Springville, New York and after that Forestville Academy before picking up permission to Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, New Hampshire. At Phillips Exeter, Wurtenburg contended in field occasions at the school's spring athletic occasions. In 1884, he was an all around perceived individual from the school's focused football crew. He filled in as quarterback and group commander in 1885, driving the group to a 29– 11 triumph over opponent Phillips Academy. In his senior year, 1886, he set first in standing expansive hop with loads and running wide hop, with bounces of about , individually. Upon graduation from Phillips Exeter, Wurtenburg entered Yale University. 

Wurtenburg started taking medicinal classes on his landing in Yale, and joined the football crew mostly through his first year. By the accompanying season, he was playing reinforcement halfback to first year recruit Harmon S. Graves, in spite of the fact that he incidentally filled in as a fullback. The 1887 squad, later perceived as the national victor, went 9– 0 and outscored their adversaries 515– 12; this incorporated a 106– 0 shutout of Wesleyan. Amid this season Wurtenburg made his most well known play: with Yale driving adversary Harvard by a score of 11– 8 late in the season's last challenge, Wurtenburg made "a splendid run" of 35 yards and scored a touchdown, which verified the amusement for Yale. He was credited as one of the general population who made the amusement "without a doubt the best at any point played in America", as indicated by author Richard Melancthon Hurd. 

The next year Wurtenburg moved into his previous position at quarterback. He took the beginning spot and turned into a pioneer of the group. Wurtenburg built up his own special style at quarterback, routinely endeavoring "long, low, underhand goes" to his colleagues to help set up scoring plays. That year, the Yale group shut out each and every one of its rivals and was later perceived as a national boss. In the meantime, Wurtenburg played on the school's baseball crew, where he would routinely score three or four runs a diversion. In September of his graduating year, 1889, Wurtenburg reported that he would enter the Sheffield Scientific School. At the Exeter Club's first yearly dinner, held that year, Wurtenburg was approached to display a toast to speak to the club's games. In 1890, he filled in as the co-editorial manager of "The Yale Banner", one of the school's yearbooks. Wurtenburg played his last period of football at the college in 1891, after evidently surrendering his spot in the group following the 1889 season. Be that as it may, he was tossed out of the last round of the period, against Princeton, and Frank Barbour was given an ensured beginning quarterback space for the remainder of the time Wurtenburg was at Yale. Wurtenburg graduated in 1893, when he got his Doctorate in Medicine (M.D.). 

In 1894, Wurtenburg was employed to supplant previous Yale colleague John A. Hartwell as the head mentor of the US Naval Academy football crew. Hartwell's 1893 group had amassed a record of 5– 3, including a success over opponent Army and a misfortune to match Penn. Wurtenburg started his instructing profession on October 6, driving his group to a 6– 6 tie with the Elizabeth Athletic Club of New Jersey at Worden Field on the Naval Academy grounds in Annapolis. His first win as a mentor came more than about fourteen days after the fact, on October 21, in a 12– 0 shutout of adversary Georgetown; it was trailed by a thrashing of the Carlisle Indian School. His solitary loss of the period went ahead October 27, on account of opponent Penn in a 12– 0 shutout. At about that time, Wurtenburg left the nation and ventured out to Germany to finish his therapeutic investigations. The group recouped and crushed Lehigh on November 3, at that point tied adversary Penn State. The season finished two weeks after that coordinate with a 30– 6 annihilation of Baltimore City College. The group did not go up against their significant opponent Army that year, after vicious battles between fans the earlier year; President Grover Cleveland restricted the diversion, which would not be played again until it was restored in 1899 by Theodore Roosevelt. At some point amid November, Wurtenburg came back from Germany alongside individual Yale therapeutic alumni A.S. Cheney, and declared his aim to rehearse medication in New Haven. That year, he got affirmation, and he communicated enthusiasm for eye, throat, and ear treatment. 

Wurtenburg did not stay at the Naval Academy the next year and was supplanted as head mentor by Matthew McClung. He rather acknowledged a situation as the head mentor of the Dartmouth group, beginning in the fall of 1895. The season started with a 50– 0 shutout of his previous school, Phillips Exeter. This was trailed by a misfortune and a tie, which were prevailing by consecutive successes. His group dropped two recreations to Yale and one to Army, yet figured out how to crush previous Triangular Football League adversary MIT. From that point onward, Wurtenburg drove his group to three straight triumphs, including prevails upon both Triangular Football League rivals. Despite the fact that the season finished with a misfortune to Brown, Dartmouth was granted the Triangular Football League title. On November 20 of that year, Wurtenburg wedded Anna Phillips, girl of Jason W. Phillips, whom he met while at Chautauqua in 1893. The wedding occurred at Springfield, in Phillips' home territory of Ohio; it was classified "a splendid occasion" by the "Boston Daily Globe" and was gone to by Ohio's senator choose Asa S. Bushnell and his significant other. After the wedding, they moved to a perpetual living arrangement in New Haven. 

He came back to mentor Dartmouth the next year. He started by driving his group to a 30– 0 shutout of the Worcester Athletic Club on October 3. His group dropped the following two recreations, both scoreless misfortunes to Penn and Yale, however completed the month with a success. The second 50% of the period went much better, with Wurtenburg driving his squad to a 3– 1 record, including a 42– 0 all out score against gathering rivals. The group finished the season with a 5– 2– 1 record and a second continuous gathering title. Wurtenburg held his training position the following season, starting the year with a victory of Phillips Exeter, which was trailed by three back to back shutout misfortunes. The group turned the season around in November, crushing Amherst and Williams by a joined score of 106– 0 for a third continuous title. He finished the season with a 4– 3 record and a safe position as the mentor for the following year. 

In 1898, Wurtenburg's Dartmouth squad went 5– 6, however outscored their adversaries 205– 137. Starting the season with a success over Phillips Exeter, the group went 4– 1 in October. Wurtenburg's group started the month with a shutout misfortune to Harvard, yet recuperated to win four straight diversions, overcoming their gathering rivals by a joined score of 74– 12. In November and December, be that as it may, his group lost every one of the five matches, overseeing just 28. In his last year as a mentor, Wurtenburg endured the most exceedingly awful record of his profession. In the wake of winning the initial two rounds of the period, his group dropped the staying seven, just ready to set up 12. He likewise endured his first meeting misfortunes, tumbling to rivals Williams and Wesleyan by a consolidated score of 23– 10. Wurtenburg was supplanted as mentor the next year by one of his previous players, Frederick E. Jennings. After the finish of his instructing vocation, Wurtenburg opened up his first restorative office, working a short separation from his New Haven home. 

Indeed, even after the turn of the century, Wurtenburg stayed included with the Yale football program. In 1900, he took an interest in the yearly football crew's spring scrimmage, playing on the school's "varsity" group. He was over and again chosen by the college to go about as an authority in their home diversions; he was the school's arbitrator in 1900 and 1901, and came back to the position two years after the fact, in 1903. He extended his directing job in 1904, when he served in three amusements. For one of those matches, Wurtenburg moved to the situation of umpire. At some point somewhere in the range of 1915 and 1925, Wurtenburg gathered a progression of paper articles and independently published them in a book titled "Scrapbook of Newspaper Clippings about Yale Football". Sooner or later around 1904, Wurtenburg started to commit himself to a profession as a doctor. He got official participation in the American Medical Association and the New Haven Medical Society as a doctor represent considerable authority in otorhinolaryngology, explicitly in ear and nose treatment. By 1909, he had moved his concentration to the treatment of ear afflictions, and once in a while served surely understood local people. He held his participation with the Connecticut State Medical Society until something like 1920, keeping up his Elm Street office the whole time. Wurtenburg kicked the bucket on March 26, 1957, in New Haven, at 93 years old. A year after his passing, Yale built up the William G. Wurtenberg Scholarship from his estate. The grant "is to be granted to an individual from the senior class who exhibits character, authority characteristics, and guarantee of future value". Albeit once in a while recognized for his effect on Dartmouth football, Wurtenburg is considered by his Dartmouth peers as having conveyed the program to noticeable quality. Fred Crolius, commander of Wurtenburg's 1898 group, would later express that: 

Books 

Diaries 

Papers 

Web sources