2002 Bou'in-Zahra tremor 

The 2002 Bou'in-Zahra tremor (otherwise called the 2002 Avaj quake or the 2002 Changureh seismic tremor) happened on 22 June 2002. The epicenter was close to the city of Bou'in-Zahra in Qazvin Province, a locale of northwestern Iran which is crossed by a few noteworthy flaws that is known for damaging seismic tremors. The stun estimated 6.5 on the scale, had a greatest Mercalli force of VIII ("Severe"), and was trailed by in excess of 20 consequential convulsions. No less than 261 individuals were executed and 1,500 more were harmed. 

As per the International Institute of Earthquake Engineering and Seismology (IIEES), the quake was felt as far away as the capital city of Tehran, roughly east of the epicenter, albeit no harm was accounted for there. Most houses in the area were single-story workmanship structures, and practically these fallen. The open wound up irate because of the moderate authority reaction to unfortunate casualties who required supplies. Occupants of the town of Avaj depended on tossing stones at the vehicle of an administration serve. 

The northeastern piece of Iran lies crosswise over piece of the belt of dynamic mainland crash between the Arabian Plate and the Eurasian Plate. Iran is crossed by a few noteworthy deficiencies, with 90% of them being seismically dynamic and subject to numerous tremors every year; the region around the crack encounters minor shakes practically day by day. The most seismically dynamic pieces of this zone are the Zagros overlap and pushed belt and the Alborz mountain run. Qazvin Province, which is situated between these two zones, endures less seismic tremors, yet these might be all the more dominant since stresses have longer to assemble. 

The Bou'in-Zahra seismic tremor was situated in a zone of dynamic push blaming and collapsing, parallel and south of the southern edge of the Alborz mountain run, and was the eleventh break in the past two months in focal Iran. A seismic reversal of extensive stretch P and SH body-wave seismograms showed a break on a push blame that plunges 49 degrees toward the southwest and had a centroid profundity of generally . The break's component of blaming was turn around. 

Numerous occasion migration of the fundamental stun and delayed repercussion epicenters and intermittent surface breaks recorded after the quake are perfect with northeastward development on a southwest-plunging push, albeit most extreme recorded relocations were not exactly would have been normal from the watched extent. This recommends the greater part of the slip did not really achieve the Earth's surface but rather caused collapsing at the surface. A formerly unmapped push with minimal surface articulation, the Abdareh blame, has been recognized from the disturbance of prior seepage frameworks by the development of the crease in its hanging divider, and is believed to be in charge of the tremor. Such structures are known as visually impaired pushes, and have been in charge of numerous damaging seismic tremors in Iran and somewhere else. The geomorphological impacts of this specific crease have been mostly darkened by the nearness of a prior Neogene geography. The Qazvin locale was hit by a significantly more prominent quake in 1962, which executed 12,200. In 1990 a crack slaughtered more than 40,000 individuals, harmed 60,000, and left in excess of 500,000 destitute. 

The seismic tremor happened at 02:58 UTC (7:28 a.m. Iran Standard Time), while a significant number of the assessed 60 million Iranians influenced were in their homes. Its span was seven seconds, and the epicenter was close to the settlement of Bou'in-Zahra in the Khar waterway valley, a hilly cultivating locale about from the common capital of Qazvin. The best harm was over a territory best known for its seedless grape gathering, an escape for rich inhabitants of Tehran. No less than 261 individuals were slaughtered, 1,500 harmed, and 25,000 remaining destitute. A prior loss of life was accounted for as 500, yet this number was accepted to be swelled once it ended up realized that a portion of the seriously harmed had been confused with dead. The greater part of the dead were ladies, kids and the old, the same number of the men were working in neighborhood vineyards. More than 20 delayed repercussions were recorded, with sizes up to 5.1 on the minute greatness scale. Something like three of these created additional setbacks and harm, a large portion of which were inside a sweep of the primary stun. 

An expected 5,000 structures were harmed hopeless. In the Qazvin territory, 120 structures were decimated and 50 towns endured enormous harm. In the neighboring Hamadan area, 45 towns were pulverized. A vast lion's share of houses in the district were single-story brick work structures, and basically these crumbled. As non-built structures, these couldn't withstand seismic powers, with basic disappointment and breakdown coming about because of one end to the other division and the absence of basic honesty and of an appropriate parallel arrangement of standing up to. More up to date structures worked as per the Iranian code of training for seismic-safe plan fared much better. Harm to the memorable Kharaqan tomb towers, which were in a decent condition of protection before the occasion, recommends that the quake was perhaps a standout amongst the most dominant in the locale for around 900 years. 

At a station from the epicenter, the most extreme even and vertical increasing velocities were recorded to be generally 0.5 g and 0.26 g. A scaffold fallen because of the fiasco. Water and water system frameworks were seriously harmed close to the epicenter, and water offices were destroyed in nine towns. A significant number of the primary water pipelines in the influenced regions were harmed or demolished, causing deficiencies in water accessibility and quality. Surface breaks were seen in Ab Darreh and Changureh, the towns that endured the heaviest harm, being generally from the epicenter. 

The generally low dimensions of harm in the towns of Avaj or Ab-e-Garm in contrast with Changureh and Ab Darreh recommend a focal point of harm toward the northwest of the epicenter because of northwest spread. In Changureh, just two structures were left standing and more than 120 losses happened. Stomach muscle Darreh likewise fared inadequately; the calamity decimated the town's solitary mosque, toppled 40 homes and executed somewhere around 20 individuals. North of Avaj, in the town of Esmailabad, survivors recuperated 38 cadavers, a ninth of the all out populace, while hunting down the missing, dreaded caught in the remains. In another town in the region, Aliabad, two shepherds were the main known survivors. In the little town of Kisse-Jin, approximately 80 carcasses were recouped following the burst. Survivors crying and beating their heads and faces over friends and family were a typical sight on Iranian state TV. 

The expense of the harm was assessed at US$91 million. The shudder was felt over a wide region, including the regions of Qazvin, Gilan, Kurdistan, Zanjan, and Hamedan. Of all these, Qazvin was the most vigorously harmed, with an anonymous Qazvin official detailing that 177 had passed on in the area. It was likewise felt in the capital of Tehran, generally east of the epicenter, albeit no genuine harm was accounted for. Nonetheless, Iranian columnist Borzou Daragahi announced that in Tehran he saw structures influence and glass objects break. 

The Bou'in-Zahra seismic tremor activated 59 avalanches over a territory of about . Avalanches shaped because of the tremor included 47 falls and topples, nine slides, and three sidelong spreads. The biggest of these slides was a rockslide, 150 × 100 m (490 × 330 ft), which happened southeast of Changureh. Avalanches activated by the shudder happened all the more frequently in the geologic territories most vulnerable to harm, where there were numerous avalanches previously. 

The Red Crescent Society sent help specialists, discovery hounds, 100 tons of sustenance, 1,000 tents, 2,500 covers, and versatile kitchens to the seismic tremor stricken territory. What's more, the Iranian armed force provided warriors, apparatus and water trucks. To keep the spread of malady, towns were splashed with disinfectants and their occupants were given lockjaw shots, among different measures. After Iranian authorities propelled an intrigue for help, the United Nations Development Program provided $50,000. The United Nations' Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) activated a United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination (UNDAC) group, sending five individuals. Pope John Paul II petitioned God for the seismic tremor unfortunate casualties and requested a "liberal" reaction. 

US President George W. Shrub offered help to Iran, which he had recently called piece of a "vile forces that be". As per him, "human enduring knows no political limits" and he stood "prepared to help the general population of Iran as required and as wanted". In any case, the Iranian government denied his assistance, however it required the assistance of non-legislative offices. 

As per Hossein Rahnema, leader of the Red Crescent in Changureh, the general public "leveled a territory to set up tents yet a great many people needed to remain by their homes to care for their property". Survivors rather lit little flames among the rubble to ensure against frigid temperatures. The Iranian President at the time, Mohammad Khatami, announced three days of grieving and visited seismic tremor stricken regions on June 25. Clinics attempted to adapt to the overflow of patients, releasing non-basic ones from their wards. The Associated Press expressed that 20 memorial services were hung on June 23, 2002 at a burial ground neglecting the town of Abdareh. A ledger was begun to deal with open gifts for the groups of the dead. 

Frequently outfitted without any than scoops and spades, fighters and regular people delved for bodies in the rubble. Other than this, salvage specialists were looked with various snags, including the temperatures of the towns harmed. They were warm amid the day, despite the fact that the towns became colder around evening time, making salvage work more enthusiastically and compromising the wellbeing of the destitute and anybody alive and caught under the garbage. Numerous regular people were debilitated from causing because of dread of post-quake tremors. As indicated by Gary Oshea of International Rescue, the volunteers did not have enough specialized gear, and the religious heads appeared to be reluctant to contribute much. Official salvage work finished on June 24, 2002, when salvage specialists said there were no more survivors. 

Of the approximately 80 towns that endured overwhelming harm, the Iranian government guaranteed that help work was for the most part total. Occupants of Changureh, be that as it may, whined that tents, nourishment, and drug had not contacted them, in the wake of holding up in close frosty temperatures. A man from Avaj expressed that just local people revealed the body of his kid. In challenge at Iran's moderate reaction to the catastrophe, about 300 individuals obstructed the primary street through Avaj. On June 23, "handfuls" of Avaj inhabitants tossed stones at Interior Minister Abdolvahed Mousavi-Lari's vehicle in outrage at the administration's deferral in giving alleviation. They likewise guaranteed that the loss of life was higher than authority reports said it was. 

Power was reestablished to influenced zones by June 25. 

On November 9, 2002, the World Bank allowed $225 million towards the remaking and financial recovery of the zone crushed by the tremor. Reproduction of lodging and foundation by commonplace specialists was hindered for very nearly four months (November 2002 – February 2003) because of unforgiving climate conditions. In August 2003, the reproduction was finished in all towns influenced by the tremor.