The Fountainhead 

The Fountainhead is a 1943 novel by Russian-American creator Ayn Rand, her first major artistic achievement. The tale's hero, Howard Roark, is an individualistic youthful planner who structures pioneer structures and will not bargain with a building foundation reluctant to acknowledge advancement. Roark epitomizes what Rand accepted to be the perfect man, and his battle mirrors Rand's conviction that independence is better than cooperation. 

Roark is restricted by what he calls "second-handers", who esteem similarity over freedom and uprightness. These incorporate Roark's previous cohort, Peter Keating, who prevails by following well known styles, yet swings to Roark for help with structure issues. Ellsworth Toohey, a communist design commentator who utilizes his impact to advance his political and social plan, endeavors to obliterate Roark's vocation. Newspaper paper distributer Gail Wynand looks to shape famous assessment; he gets to know Roark, at that point sells out him when general supposition turns toward a path he can't control. The epic's most disputable character is Roark's darling, Dominique Francon. She trusts that non-congruity gets no opportunity of winning, so she shifts back and forth between causing Roark and attempting to undermine him. Women's activist pundits have censured Roark and Dominique's first sexual experience, blaming Rand for underwriting assault. 

Twelve distributers dismissed the original copy before a supervisor at the Bobbs-Merrill Company took a chance with his business to get it distributed. Contemporary analysts' sentiments were energized. Some lauded the novel as a ground-breaking paean to independence, while others thought it overlong and lacking thoughtful characters. Starting deals were moderate, however the book picked up a following by listening in on others' conversations and turned into a blockbuster. More than 6.5 million duplicates of "The Fountainhead" have been sold worldwide and it has been converted into in excess of 20 dialects. The tale pulled in another after for Rand and has appreciated an enduring impact, particularly among engineers, American moderates and right-libertarians. 

The tale has been adjusted into other media a few times. A showed rendition was syndicated in papers in 1945. Warner Bros. created a film form in 1949; Rand composed the screenplay, and Gary Cooper played Roark. Pundits panned the movie, which did not recover its financial plan; a few chiefs and authors have thought about building up another film adjustment. In 2014, Belgian theater chief Ivo van Hove made a phase adjustment, which has gotten for the most part positive surveys. 

In mid 1922, Howard Roark is removed from the engineering bureau of the Stanton Institute of Technology since he won't stick to the school's inclination for recorded tradition in structure plan. Roark goes to New York City and finds a new line of work with Henry Cameron. Cameron was at one time a prestigious modeler, however at this point gets few commissions. Meanwhile, Roark's prominent, however vacuous, individual understudy (and housemate, as Roark loads up in the home of Keating and his mom) Peter Keating (whom Roark in some cases assisted with activities) graduates with high distinctions. He also moves to New York, where he has been offered a situation with the renowned design firm, Francon and Heyer. Keating charms himself with Guy Francon and attempts to evacuate rivals among his collaborators. After the Francon's accomplice Heyer endures a lethal stroke expedited by Keating's threat, Francon picks Keating to supplant him. In the interim, Roark and Cameron make propelled work, yet battle monetarily. 

After Cameron resigns, Keating procures Roark, whom Francon before long flames for declining to plan a structure in the established style. Roark works quickly at another firm, at that point opens his own office yet experiences difficulty discovering customers and shuts it down. He finds a new line of work in a stone quarry claimed by Francon. There he meets Francon's little girl Dominique, a writer for "The New York Banner", while she is remaining at her family's domain close-by. They are promptly pulled in to one another, prompting an unpleasant sexual experience that Dominique later calls an assault. Not long after, Roark is advised that a customer is prepared to begin another structure, and he comes back to New York. Dominique additionally comes back to New York and learns Roark is a modeler. She assaults his work out in the open, however visits him for mystery sexual experiences. 

Ellsworth M. Toohey, who composes a famous engineering section in the "Flag", is a blunt communist who shapes general conclusion through his segment and a hover of powerful partners. Toohey embarks to demolish Roark through a smear crusade. He prescribes Roark to Hopton Stoddard, a rich associate who needs to construct a Temple of the Human Spirit. Roark's irregular plan incorporates a naked statue displayed on Dominique; Toohey induces Stoddard to sue Roark for misbehavior. Toohey and a few designers (counting Keating) affirm at the preliminary that Roark is clumsy as an engineer because of his dismissal of authentic styles. Dominique talks with all due respect, however he loses the case. Dominique chooses that since she can't have the world she needs, in which men like Roark are perceived for their enormity, she will live completely on the planet she has, which avoids Roark and gestures of recognition Keating. She weds Keating and turns herself over to him, doing and saying anything he desires, for example, convincing potential customers to procure him rather than Roark. 

To win Keating a renowned commission offered by Gail Wynand, the proprietor and proofreader in-head of the "Flag", Dominique consents to lay down with Wynand. Wynand is so emphatically pulled in to Dominique that he pays Keating to separate from her, after which Wynand and Dominique are hitched. Needing to construct a home for himself and his new spouse, Wynand finds that Roark structured each structure he prefers thus procures him. Roark and Wynand become dear companions; Wynand is ignorant of Roark's past association with Dominique. 

Cleaned up and out of the open eye, Keating begs Toohey to utilize his impact to get the commission for the much-looked for after Cortlandt lodging venture. Keating realizes his best undertakings were supported by Roark, so he requests Roark's assistance in structuring Cortlandt. Roark concurs in return for complete namelessness and Keating's guarantee that it will be manufactured precisely as structured. In the wake of taking a long get-away with Wynand, Roark comes back to find that Keating was not ready to keep significant changes from being made in Cortlandt's development. Roark dynamites the task to keep the disruption of his vision. 

Roark is captured and his activity is broadly denounced, however Wynand chooses to utilize his papers to shield his companion. This disliked position harms the dissemination of his papers, and Wynand's workers take to the streets after Wynand rejects Toohey for resisting him and reprimanding Roark. Looked with the possibility of shutting the paper, Wynand gives in and distributes a revilement of Roark. At his preliminary, Roark delivers a discourse about the estimation of sense of self and trustworthiness, and he is found not liable. Dominique leaves Wynand for Roark. Wynand, who has deceived his very own qualities by assaulting Roark, at long last handles the idea of the power he thought he held. He closes down the "Standard" and commissions a last structure from Roark, a high rise that will fill in as a landmark to human accomplishment. After eighteen months, the Wynand Building is under development. Dominique, presently Roark's better half, enters the site to meet him on its steel system. 

Rand's expressed objective recorded as a hard copy fiction was to depict her vision of a perfect man. The character of Howard Roark, the hero of "The Fountainhead", was the principal example where she trusted she had accomplished this. Roark epitomizes Rand's prideful good beliefs, particularly the ideals of freedom and trustworthiness. 

The character of Roark was in any event mostly propelled by American designer Frank Lloyd Wright. Rand portrayed the motivation as restricted to explicit thoughts he had about design and "the example of his profession". She denied that Wright had anything to do with the theory communicated by Roark or the occasions of the plot. Rand's refusals have not prevented observers from asserting more grounded associations among Wright and Roark. Wright hedged about whether he thought Roark depended on him, now and then inferring that he did, at different occasions denying it. Wright biographer Ada Louise Huxtable depicted noteworthy contrasts between Wright's theory and Rand's, and cited him pronouncing, "I deny the paternity and will not wed the mother." Architecture faultfinder Martin Filler said that Roark takes after the Swiss-French pioneer designer Le Corbusier more intently than Wright. 

As opposed to the individualistic Roark, Peter Keating is a traditionalist who puts together his decisions with respect to what others need. Acquainted with the peruser as Roark's schoolmate in engineering school, Keating does not by any stretch of the imagination need to be a designer. He cherishes painting, yet his mom steers him toward design. In this as in the entirety of his choices, Keating does what others expect as opposed to pursue his own advantages. He turns into a social climber, concentrated on improving his profession and social standing utilizing a blend of individual control and adjustment to well known styles. He pursues a comparable way in his private life: he picks a cold marriage to Dominique as opposed to wedding the lady he loveswho does not have Dominique's excellence and social associations. By middle age, Keating's profession is in decrease and he is discontent with his way, however it is past the point of no return for him to change. 

Rand did not utilize a particular designer as a model for Keating. Her motivation for the character originated from a neighbor she knew while working in Hollywood in the mid 1930s. Rand requested that this young lady clarify her objectives throughout everyday life. The lady's reaction was centered around social correlations: the neighbor needed her material belongings and social remaining to measure up to or surpass those of other individuals. Rand made Keating as a paradigm of this inspiration, which she saw as the inverse of personal circumstance. 

Dominique Francon is the champion of "The Fountainhead", depicted by Rand as "the lady for a man like Howard Roark". Rand depicted Dominique as like herself "in an awful state of mind". For a large portion of the novel, the character works from what Rand saw as wrong thoughts. Trusting that the qualities she appreciates can't make due in reality, she gets some distance from them with the goal that the world can't hurt her. Just toward the finish of the novel does she acknowledge that she can be cheerful and endure. 

The character has incited changed responses from reporters. Thinker Chris Matthew Sciabarra called her "one of the more odd characters in the novel". Writing researcher Mimi Reisel Gladstein called her "an intriguing contextual investigation in backwards nature". Author Tore Boeckmann depicted her as a character with clashing convictions and saw her activities as a sensible portrayal of how those contentions may play out. 

Gail Wynand is a rich paper head honcho who ascended from a down and out youth in the ghettoes of New York to control a great part of the city's print media. While Wynand shares a significant number of the character characteristics of Roark, his prosperity is reliant upon his capacity to pander to popular sentiment. Rand shows this as a shocking blemish that in the end prompts his defeat. In her diaries Rand depicted Wynand as "the man who could have been" a brave independent, differentiating him to Roark, "the man who can be and is". A few components of Wynand's character were motivated by genuine paper investor William Randolph Hearst, including Hearst's sensationalist reporting and blended achievement in endeavors to increase political impact. Wynand at last bombs in his endeavors to use control, losing his paper, his significant other, and his kinship with Roark. The character has been translated as a portrayal of the ace ethical quality depicted by logician Friedrich Nietzsche; his unfortunate nature shows Rand's dismissal of Nietzsche's reasoning. In Rand's view, an individual like Wynand, who looks for control over others, is as much a "second-hander" as a conventionalist, for example, Keating. 

Ellsworth Monkton Toohey is Roark's enemy. He is Rand's embodiment of evilthe most dynamic and mindful miscreant in any of her books. Toohey is a communist, and speaks to the soul of cooperation all the more by and large. He styles himself as illustrative of the desire of the majority, however his real want is for control over others. He controls singular unfortunate casualties by decimating their feeling of self-esteem, and looks for more extensive power (over "the world", as he proclaims to Keating in a snapshot of genuineness) by advancing the standards of moral philanthropy and a thorough populism that regards all individuals and accomplishments as similarly profitable. Rand utilized her memory of the British popularity based communist Harold Laski to enable her to envision what Toohey would do in a given circumstance. She went to a New York address by Laski as a feature of social affair material for the novel, after which she changed the physical appearance of the character to be like that of Laski. New York educated people Lewis Mumford and Clifton Fadiman likewise motivated the character. 

At the point when Rand initially landed in New York as a settler from the Soviet Union in 1926, she was incredibly inspired by the Manhattan horizon's transcending high rises, which she saw as images of opportunity, and settled that she would expound on them. In 1927, Rand was filling in as a lesser screenwriter for film maker Cecil B. DeMille when he approached her to compose a content for what might turn into the 1928 film "High rise". The first story by Dudley Murphy was around two development laborers chipping away at a high rise who are adversaries for a lady's affection. Rand modified it, changing the opponents into modelers. One of them, Howard Kane, was a romantic committed to raising the high rise notwithstanding huge deterrents. The film would have finished with Kane remaining on the finished high rise. DeMille dismissed Rand's content, and the finished film pursued Murphy's unique thought. Rand's adaptation contained components she would use in "The Fountainhead". 

In 1928, Rand made notes for a proposed, however never composed, novel titled "The Little Street". Rand's notes for it contain components that persisted into her work on "The Fountainhead". David Harriman, who altered the notes for the after death distributed "Diaries of Ayn Rand" (1997), depicted the story's scoundrel as a primer form of the character Ellsworth Toohey, and this present reprobate's death by the hero as prefiguring the endeavored death of Toohey. 

Rand started "The Fountainhead" (initially titled "Second-Hand Lives") following the fulfillment of her first novel, "We the Living", in 1934. That prior novel was situated partially on individuals and occasions recognizable to Rand; the new novel, then again, centered around the less-commonplace universe of design. She along these lines directed broad research that included perusing numerous life stories and different books about engineering. She additionally functioned as an unpaid typist in the workplace of designer Ely Jacques Kahn. Rand started her notes for the new novel in December 1935. 

Rand needed to compose a novel that was less unmistakably political than "We the Living", to abstain from being seen as "a 'one-subject' creator". As she built up the story, she started to see increasingly political significance in the clever's thoughts regarding independence. Rand additionally intended to present the novel's four areas with statements from Friedrich Nietzsche, whose thoughts had affected her own scholarly advancement, however she in the end concluded that Nietzsche's thoughts were excessively not the same as hers. She altered the last original copy to expel the statements and different implications to him. 

Rand's work on "The Fountainhead" was over and again intruded. In 1937, she enjoyed a reprieve from it to compose a novella called "Song of devotion". She likewise finished a phase adjustment of "We the Living" that ran quickly in 1940. That equivalent year, she wound up dynamic in governmental issues. She initially filled in as a volunteer in Wendell Willkie's presidential battle, and afterward endeavored to shape a gathering for traditionalist learned people. As her sovereignties from prior tasks ran out, she started doing independent work as a content peruser for film studios. At the point when Rand at long last found a distributer, the novel was just a single third total. 

In spite of the fact that she was a recently distributed writer and had a fruitful Broadway play, Rand experienced issues finding a distributer for "The Fountainhead". Macmillan Publishing, which had distributed "We the Living", dismissed the book after Rand demanded they give more attention to her new novel than they had accomplished for the first. Rand's specialist started presenting the book to different distributers; in 1938, Knopf marked an agreement to distribute the book. At the point when Rand was just a quarter finished with the original copy by October 1940, Knopf dropped her agreement. A few different distributers dismissed the book. At the point when Rand's operator started to censure the novel, Rand terminated the specialist and chose to deal with entries herself. Twelve distributers (counting Macmillan and Knopf) rejected the book. 

While Rand was filling in as a content peruser for Paramount Pictures, her supervisor place her in contact with the Bobbs-Merrill Company. An as of late employed proofreader, Archibald Ogden, preferred the book, yet two inside analysts gave clashing assessments. One said it was an extraordinary book that could never sell; the other said it was garbage yet would sell well. Ogden's manager, Bobbs-Merrill president D.L. Chambers, chose to dismiss the book. Ogden reacted by wiring to the head office, "On the off chance that this isn't the book for you, at that point I am not the manager for you." His solid stand won Rand the agreement on December 10, 1941. She likewise got a $1,000 advance so she could work all day to finish the novel by January 1, 1943. 

Rand worked extended periods of time through 1942 to finish the last 66% of her original copy, which she conveyed on December 31, 1942. Rand's working title for the book was "Second-Hand Lives", however Ogden brought up this accentuated the story's scoundrels. Rand offered "The Mainspring" as an option, yet this title had been as of late utilized for another book. She at that point utilized a thesaurus and discovered 'source' as an equivalent word. "The Fountainhead" was distributed on May 7, 1943, with 7,500 duplicates in the main printing. Introductory deals were moderate, yet they started to ascend in late 1943, driven fundamentally by listening in on others' conversations. The epic started showing up on success records in 1944. It achieved number six on "The New York Times" hit list in August 1945, more than two years after its underlying production. By 1956, the hardcover version sold more than 700,000 duplicates. The principal soft cover release was distributed by the New American Library in 1952. 

A 25th commemoration release was issued by the New American Library in 1971, including another presentation by Rand. In 1993, a 50th commemoration release from Bobbs-Merrill included an afterword by Rand's beneficiary, Leonard Peikoff. The epic has been converted into in excess of 25 dialects. 

Rand showed that the essential subject of "The Fountainhead" was "independence versus community, not in governmental issues but rather inside a man's spirit". Rationalist Douglas Den Uyl recognized the independence displayed in the novel as being explicitly of an American kind, depicted with regards to that nation's general public and establishments. Aside from scenes, for example, Roark's court guard of the American idea of individual rights, she maintained a strategic distance from direct dialog of political issues. As history specialist James Baker portrayed it, ""The Fountainhead" barely makes reference to governmental issues or financial aspects, notwithstanding the way that it was conceived during the 1930s. Nor does it manage world undertakings, despite the fact that it was composed amid World War II. It is around one man against the framework, and it doesn't allow different issues to meddle." Early drafts of the novel included increasingly express political references, yet Rand expelled them from the completed content. 

Rand picked the calling of engineering as the foundation for her novel, despite the fact that she knew nothing about the field in advance. As a field that consolidates workmanship, innovation, and business, it enabled her to delineate her essential topics in various regions. Rand later composed that modelers give "both workmanship and a fundamental need of men's survival". In a discourse to a section of the American Institute of Architects, Rand drew an association among design and independence, saying timeframes that had enhancements in engineering were likewise those that had more opportunity for the person. 

Roark's pioneer way to deal with engineering is appeared differently in relation to that of a large portion of different draftsmen in the novel. In the opening part, the senior member of his engineering school discloses to Roark that the best design must duplicate the past as opposed to develop or improve. Roark over and again loses positions with building firms and commissions from customers since he is reluctant to duplicate traditional design styles. Conversely, Keating's mimicry of tradition brings him top distinctions in school and a prompt occupation offer. A similar clash among development and custom is reflected in the vocation of Roark's tutor, Henry Cameron. 

Lair Uyl calls "The Fountainhead" a "philosophical novel", implying that it tends to philosophical thoughts and offers a particular philosophical perspective about those thoughts. In the years following the production of "The Fountainhead", Rand built up a philosophical framework that she called Objectivism. "The Fountainhead" does not contain this express reasoning, and Rand did not compose the novel fundamentally to pass on philosophical thoughts. In any case, Rand included three selections from the novel in "For the New Intellectual", a 1961 gathering of her works that she portrayed as a layout of Objectivism. Peikoff utilized numerous statements and precedents from "The Fountainhead" in his 1991 book on Rand's rationality, "". 

"The Fountainhead" enraptured pundits and got blended audits upon its discharge. The commentator for "The New York Times" adulated Rand as expressing "splendidly, perfectly and harshly", expressing that she had "composed a song in applause for the person" that would compel perusers to reevaluate fundamental thoughts. Benjamin DeCasseres, a writer for the "New York Journal-American", depicted Roark as "a standout amongst the most rousing characters in present day American writing". Rand sent DeCasseres a letter expressing gratitude toward him for clarifying the book's topics about independence when numerous different commentators did not. There were other positive audits, despite the fact that Rand expelled a considerable lot of them as either not understanding her message or as being from irrelevant productions. Various negative audits concentrated on the length of the novel, for example, one that called it "a whale of a book" and another that said "any individual who is taken in by it merits a stern address on paper-apportioning". Other negative audits called the characters unsympathetic and Rand's style "upsettingly person on foot". 

In the years following its underlying distribution, "The Fountainhead" has gotten moderately little consideration from artistic commentators. Evaluating the novel's inheritance, logician Douglas Den Uyl portrayed "The Fountainhead" as moderately dismissed contrasted with her later novel, "Map book Shrugged", and stated, "our concern is to discover those subjects that emerge unmistakably with "The Fountainhead" but then don't compel us to peruse it basically through the eyes of "Map book Shrugged"." Among pundits who have tended to it, some consider "The Fountainhead" to be Rand's best novel, despite the fact that sometimes this appraisal is tempered by a general negative judgment of Rand's compositions. Absolutely negative assessments have likewise proceeded; a 2011 outline of American writing said "standard abstract culture rejected [] during the 1940s and keeps on expelling it". 

A standout amongst the most questionable components of the book is the main sexual experience among Roark and Dominique. Women's activist pundits have assaulted the scene as illustrative of an antifeminist perspective in Rand's works that makes ladies subservient to men. Susan Brownmiller, in her 1975 work "", upbraided what she called "Rand's theory of assault", for depicting ladies as needing "mortification because of a prevalent man". She called Rand "a deceiver to her own sex". Susan Love Brown said the scene displays Rand's perspective on sex as sadomasochism including "ladylike subjection and lack of involvement". Barbara Grizzuti Harrison proposed ladies who appreciate such "masochistic dreams" are "harmed" and have low confidence. While Mimi Reisel Gladstein discovered components to appreciate in Rand's female heroes, she said that perusers who have "a raised awareness about the idea of assault" would object to Rand's "romanticized assaults". 

Rand's after death distributed working notes for the novel demonstrate that when she began the book in 1936, she imagined Roark's character that "were it essential, he could assault her and feel legitimized". She denied that what occurred in the completed novel was really assault, alluding to it as "assault by engraved welcome". She said Dominique needed and "everything except welcomed" the demonstration, refering to, in addition to other things, an entry where Dominique scratches a marble section in her room to welcome Roark to fix it. A genuine assault, Rand stated, would be "a repulsive wrongdoing". Safeguards of the novel have concurred with this understanding. In a paper explicitly clarifying this scene, Andrew Bernstein composed that albeit much "perplexity" exists about it, the portrayals in the novel give "decisive" proof of Dominique's solid fascination in Roark and her longing to engage in sexual relations with him. Nonconformist women's activist Wendy McElroy said that while Dominique is "completely taken," there is in any case "clear sign" that Dominique both gave assent for and delighted in the experience. Both Bernstein and McElroy saw the elucidations of women's activists, for example, Brownmiller as situated in a bogus comprehension of sexuality. 

Despite the fact that Rand had some standard achievement beforehand with her play "Night of January sixteenth" and had two recently distributed books, "The Fountainhead" was a noteworthy leap forward in her vocation. It brought her enduring notoriety and monetary achievement. She sold the film rights to "The Fountainhead" and came back to Hollywood to compose the screenplay for the adjustment. In April 1944, she marked a multiyear contract with motion picture maker Hal Wallis to compose unique screenplays and adjustments of other scholars' works. 

The achievement of the novel brought Rand new distributing chances. Bobbs-Merrill offered to distribute a verifiable book developing the moral thoughts exhibited in "The Fountainhead". Despite the fact that this book was never finished, a part of the material was utilized for an article in the January 1944 issue of "Peruser's Digest". Rand was additionally ready to get an American distributer for "Song of devotion", which recently had been distributed in England, however not in the United States. When she was prepared to submit "Chart book Shrugged" to distributers, over twelve contended to procure the new book. 

"The Fountainhead" likewise pulled in another gathering of fans who were pulled in to its philosophical thoughts. When she moved back to New York in 1951, she accumulated a gathering of these admirers to whom she alluded openly as "the Class of '43" in reference to the year "The Fountainhead" was distributed. The gathering advanced into the center of the Objectivist development that advanced the philosophical thoughts from Rand's composition. 

"The Fountainhead" has kept on having solid deals all through the only remaining century into the present one. By 2008, it had sold over 6.5 million duplicates in English. It has additionally been alluded to in an assortment of prevalent amusements, including films, TV arrangement, and different books. 

The year 1943 additionally observed the distribution of "The God of the Machine" by Isabel Paterson and "The Discovery of Freedom" by Rose Wilder Lane. Rand, Lane, and Paterson have been alluded to as the establishing moms of the American libertarian development with the production of these works. Writer John Chamberlain, for instance, acknowledged these works for changing over him from communism to what he called "a more established American rationality" of libertarian and preservationist thoughts. Writing teacher Philip R. Yannella said the novel is "a focal content of American preservationist and libertarian political culture". In the United Kingdom, Conservative government official Sajid Javid, the British Home Secretary since April 2018, has discussed the novel's effect on him and how he consistently rehashes the court scene from Roark's criminal preliminary. 

The book has a specific intrigue to youngsters, an intrigue that drove antiquarian James Baker to depict it as "more critical than its spoilers might suspect, despite the fact that not as vital as Rand fans envision". Savant Allan Bloom said the novel is "not really writing", however when he asked his understudies which books made a difference to them, somebody generally was impacted by "The Fountainhead". Writer Nora Ephron composed that she had cherished the novel when she was 18, yet conceded that she "overlooked what's really important", which she recommended is to a great extent subliminal sexual representation. Ephron composed that she settled on rehashing that "it is better perused when one is sufficiently youthful to overlook the main issue. Else, one can't resist supposing it is an in all respects senseless book." 

"The Fountainhead" has been refered to by various modelers as a motivation for their work. Engineer Fred Stitt, originator of the San Francisco Institute of Architecture, devoted a book to his "first structural coach, Howard Roark". As indicated by structural picture taker Julius Shulman, Rand's work "carried engineering into the open's concentration out of the blue". He said "The Fountainhead" was compelling among twentieth century designers, yet in addition it "was one, first, up front in the life of each engineer who was a cutting edge modeler". The tale additionally significantly affected the open impression of design. Amid his crusade for US President, land designer Donald Trump applauded the novel, saying he related to Roark. 

In 1949, Warner Bros. discharged a film dependent on the book, featuring Gary Cooper as Howard Roark, Patricia Neal as Dominique Francon, Raymond Massey as Gail Wynand, and Kent Smith as Peter Keating. Rand, who had past understanding as a screenwriter, was employed to adjust her own novel. The movie was coordinated by King Vidor. It netted $2.1 million, $400,000 not as much as its creation spending plan. Faultfinders panned the motion picture. Negative surveys showed up in distributions extending from papers, for example, "The New York Times" and the "Los Angeles Times", to motion picture industry outlets, for example, "Assortment" and "The Hollywood Reporter", to magazines, for example, "Time" and "Great Housekeeping". 

In letters composed at the time, Rand's response to the film was certain. She said it was the most reliable adjustment of a novel at any point made in Hollywood and a "genuine triumph". Offers of the novel expanded because of intrigue prodded by the film. She showed a progressively negative mentality later, saying she detested the whole motion picture and griping about its altering, acting, and different components. Rand said she could never pitch rights to another novel to a movie organization that did not enable her to pick the executive and screenwriter, just as alter the film. 

Different movie producers have communicated enthusiasm for doing new adjustments of "The Fountainhead", albeit none of these potential movies has started generation. During the 1970s, author executive Michael Cimino needed to film his own content for United Artists. In 1992, maker James Hill optioned the rights and chose Phil Joanou to coordinate. During the 2000s, Oliver Stone was keen on coordinating another adjustment; Brad Pitt was allegedly under thought to play Roark. In a March 2016 meeting, executive Zack Snyder likewise communicated enthusiasm for completing another film adjustment of "The Fountainhead". On May 28, 2018, Snyder was asked on the web-based social networking webpage Vero what his next task was, and he reacted "Wellspring". 

The Dutch venue organization Toneelgroep Amsterdam exhibited an adjustment for the stage (in Dutch) at the Holland Festival in June 2014. The organization's imaginative chief Ivo van Hove composed and coordinated the adjustment. Ramsey Nasr featured as Howard Roark, with Halina Reijn as Dominique Francon. The four-hour creation utilized video projections to demonstrate close-ups of the performers and Roark's illustrations, just as foundations of the New York horizon. After its presentation the generation went on visit, showing up in Barcelona, Spain, toward the beginning of July 2014, and at the Festival d'Avignon in France soon thereafter. The play showed up at the Odéon-Théâtre de l'Europe in Paris in November 2016, and at the LG Arts Center in Seoul from March 31 to April 2, 2017. The play had its first American creation at the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival, where it kept running from November 28 to December 2, 2017. 

The European preparations of the play got generally positive audits. The Festival d'Avignon creation got positive from the French papers "La Croix", "Les Échos", and "Le Monde", just as from the English paper "The Guardian", whose commentator portrayed it as "zapping theater". The French magazine "Télérama" gave the Avignon creation a negative audit, calling the source material second rate and whining about the utilization of video screens on the set, while another French magazine, "La Terrasse", complimented the arranging and acting of the Odéon generation. 

American commentators gave for the most part negative surveys of the Next Wave Festival creation. Helen Shaw's audit for "The Village Voice" said the adjustment was unwatchable in light of the fact that it depicted Rand's characters and perspectives genuinely without undermining them. The commentator for the "Monetary Times" said the play was excessively long and that Hove had moved toward Rand's "harmful" book with a lot of veneration. In a blended survey for "The New York Times", commentator Ben Brantley complimented Hove for catching Rand's "sheer mash offer", yet depicted the material as "hokum with a mess of awkward talks". A survey for "The Huffington Post" complimented van Hove's capacity to depict Rand's message, yet said the play was an hour excessively long. 

The epic was adjusted in Urdu for the Pakistan Television Network during the 1970s, under the title "Teesra Kinara". The sequential featured Rahat Kazmi, who likewise composed the adjustment. Kazmi's significant other, Sahira Kazmi, played Dominique. 

The tale was additionally satirize in a scene of the vivified experience arrangement "" and in season 20 of the enlivened sitcom "The Simpsons", in the last piece of the scene "Four Great Women and a Manicure". 

In 1944, "Omnibook Magazine" delivered a compressed version of the novel that was sold to individuals from the United States Armed Forces. Rand was irritated that Bobbs-Merrill enabled the altered variant to be distributed without her endorsement of the content. Lord Features Syndicate moved toward Rand the next year about making a dense, outlined form of the novel for syndication in papers. Rand concurred, gave that she could manage the altering and favor the proposed delineations of her characters, which were given by Frank Godwin. The 30-section arrangement started on December 24, 1945, and kept running in more than 35 papers. Rand biographer Anne Heller complimented the adjustment, calling it "liberally outlined".