Henry Wood 

Sir Henry Joseph Wood (3 March 186919 August 1944) was an English conductor best known for his relationship with London's yearly arrangement of promenade shows, known as the Proms. He led them for almost 50 years, acquainting several new works with British gatherings of people. After his demise, the shows were formally renamed in his respect as the "Henry Wood Promenade Concerts", in spite of the fact that they kept on being by and large alluded to as "the Proms". 

Conceived in humble conditions to guardians who energized his melodic ability, Wood began his profession as an organist. Amid his examinations at the Royal Academy of Music, he went under the impact of the voice educator Manuel Garcia and turned into his accompanist. After comparable work for Richard D'Oyly Carte's musical show organizations on crafted by Arthur Sullivan and others, Wood turned into the conductor of a little operatic visiting organization. He was before long connected by the bigger Carl Rosa Opera Company. One outstanding occasion in his operatic vocation was directing the British debut of Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin" in 1892. 

From the mid-1890s until his demise, Wood concentrated on show leading. He was locked in by the producer Robert Newman to lead a progression of promenade shows at the Queen's Hall, offering a blend of established and mainstream music at low costs. The arrangement was fruitful, and Wood directed yearly promenade arrangement until his passing in 1944. By the 1920s, Wood had guided the collection completely to established music. At the point when the Queen's Hall was devastated by bombarding in 1941, the Proms moved to the Royal Albert Hall. 

Wood declined the main conductorships of the New York Philharmonic and Boston Symphony Orchestras, trusting it his obligation to serve music in the United Kingdom. Notwithstanding the Proms, he led shows and celebrations all through the nation and furthermore prepared the understudy ensemble at the Royal Academy of Music. He had a huge impact on the melodic existence of Britain over his long vocation: he and Newman incredibly improved access to traditional music, and Wood raised the standard of symphonic playing and supported the flavor of the general population, showing an immense collection of music traversing four centuries. 

Wood was conceived in Oxford Street, London, the single offspring of Henry Joseph Wood and his better half Martha, "née" Morris. Wood senior had begun in his family's pawnbroking business, yet when of his child's introduction to the world he was exchanging as a diamond setter, optician and designing modeler, much looked for after for his model motors. It was a melodic family: Wood senior was a novice cellist and sang as vital tenor in the choir of St Sepulcher-without-Newgate, known as "the artists' congregation". His significant other played the piano and sang tunes from her local Wales. They energized their child's enthusiasm for music, getting him a Broadwood piano, on which his mom gave him exercises. The youthful Wood additionally figured out how to play the violin and viola. 

Wood got minimal religious motivation at St Sepulcher, however was profoundly mixed by the playing of the inhabitant organist, George Cooper, who permitted him into the organ space and gave him his first exercises on the instrument. Cooper passed on when Wood was seven, and the kid took further exercises from Cooper's successor, Edwin M. Lott, for whom Wood had significantly less respect. At ten years old, through the impact of one of his uncles, Wood showed up as an organist at St Mary Aldermanbury, being paid a large portion of a crown. In June 1883, visiting the Fisheries Exhibition at South Kensington with his dad, Wood was welcome to play the organ in one of the displays, establishing a sufficient connection to be locked in to give presentations at the show working throughout the following three months. As of now in his life, painting was about as solid an enthusiasm as music, and he examined in his extra time at the Slade School of Fine Art. He remained a long lasting beginner painter. 

In the wake of taking private exercises from the musicologist Ebenezer Prout, Wood entered the Royal Academy of Music at seventeen years old, contemplating concordance and creation with Prout, organ with Charles Steggall, and piano with Walter Macfarren. It isn't evident whether he was an individual from Manuel Garcia's singing class, yet it is sure that he turned into its accompanist and was enormously affected by Garcia. Wood likewise went with the musical drama class, educated by Garcia's child Gustave. Wood's desire at the time was to turn into an instructor of singing, and he gave singing exercises for an amazing duration. He went to the classes of the same number of singing instructors as he could, despite the fact that by his very own record, "I have a horrendous voice. Garcia said it would experience a block divider. Indeed, a genuine conductor's voice." 

On leaving the Royal Academy of Music in 1888, Wood showed singing secretly and was soon effective, drawing in "more singing students than I could easily manage" at a large portion of a guinea 60 minutes. He additionally filled in as a répétiteur. As indicated by his diaries, he worked in that limit with respect to Richard D'Oyly Carte amid the practices for the principal generation of "The Yeomen of the Guard" at the Savoy Theater in 1888. His biographer Arthur Jacobs questions this and limits trades Wood implied to have had with Sir Arthur Sullivan about the score. Jacobs depicts Wood's journals as "vivacious in style yet accurately questionable". 

It is sure, notwithstanding, that Wood was répétiteur at Carte's Royal English Opera House for Sullivan's great musical show "Ivanhoe" in late 1890 and mid 1891, and for André Messager's "La Basoche" in 1891– 92. He likewise worked for Carte at the Savoy as associate to François Cellier on "The Nautch Girl" in 1891. Wood stayed gave to Sullivan's music and later demanded programming his show works when they were out of style in melodic circles. Amid this period, he had his very own few arrangements performed, including an oratorio, "St. Dorothea" (1889), a light musical show, "Daisy" (1890), and a one-demonstration comic musical drama, "Restoring the Compliment" (1890). 

Wood reviewed that his first expert appearance as a conductor was at a choral show in December 1887. Specially appointed commitment of this sort were typical for organists, yet they brought little notoriety, for example, was given to British conductor-writers, for example, Sullivan, Charles Villiers Stanford and Alexander Mackenzie, or the rising age of German star conductors driven by Hans Richter and Arthur Nikisch. His previously continued work as a conductor was his 1889 arrangement as melodic executive of a little visiting musical show group, the Arthur Rouseby English Touring Opera. The organization was not of an elevated requirement, with an ensemble of just six players enlarged by neighborhood initiates at each visit scene. Wood in the long run arranged a discharge from his agreement, and after a concise come back to encouraging he verified a superior arrangement as conductor for the Carl Rosa Opera Company in 1891. For that organization he directed "Carmen", "The Bohemian Girl", "The Daughter of the Regiment", "Maritana", and "Il trovatore". This arrangement was trailed by a comparable commitment with an organization set up by previous Carl Rosa vocalists. 

At the point when Signor Lago, in the past director of the Imperial Opera Company of St. Petersburg, was searching for a second conductor to work with Luigi Arditi for a proposed London season, Garcia prescribed Wood. The season opened at the recently revamped Olympic Theater in London, in October 1892, with Wood directing the British debut of Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin". Around then the operatic conductor was not seen as an imperative figure, however the pundits who referenced the directing gave Wood great surveys. The work was not well known with people in general, and the season was stopped when Lago departed suddenly, leaving the organization unpaid. Prior to that failure, Wood had likewise led exhibitions of "Maritana" and practiced "Oberon" and "Der Freischütz". After the breakdown of the Olympic musical show season, Wood returned afresh to his singing educational cost. Except for a season at the Opera Comique in 1896, Wood's consequent leading vocation was in the show corridor. 

In 1894 Wood went to the Wagner celebration at Bayreuth where he met the conductor Felix Mottl, who thusly delegated him as his right hand and tune ace for a progression of Wagner shows at the recently fabricated Queen's Hall in London. The chief of the lobby, Robert Newman, was proposing to run a ten-week period of promenade shows and, awed by Wood, welcomed him to lead. There had been such shows in London since 1838, under conductors from Louis Antoine Jullien to Arthur Sullivan. Sullivan's shows during the 1870s had been especially effective, on the grounds that he offered his groups of onlookers something more than the typical light music. He presented significant established works, for example, Beethoven orchestras, ordinarily confined to the more costly shows introduced by the Philharmonic Society and others. Newman expected to do likewise: "I am going to run daily shows and train people in general by simple stages. Well known at first, continuously raising the standard until I have made an open for established and present day music." 

Newman's assurance to make the promenade shows appealing to everybody drove him to allow smoking amid shows, which was not formally disallowed at the Proms until 1971. Refreshments were accessible in all pieces of the corridor all through the shows, not just amid interims. Costs were impressively lower than those generally charged for traditional shows: the promenade (the standing region) was one pushing, the gallery two shillings, and the fantastic circle (saved seats) three and five shillings. 

Newman expected to discover monetary support for his first season. Dr George Cathcart, a well off ear, nose and throat master, offered to support it on two conditions: that Wood should lead each show, and that the pitch of the symphonic instruments ought to be brought down to the European standard "diapason typical". Show contribute England was almost a semitone higher than that utilized on the mainland, and Cathcart viewed it as harming for vocalists' voices. Wood, from his experience as a singing educator, concurred. As individuals from Wood's metal and woodwind segments were reluctant to purchase amazing failure pitched instruments, Cathcart imported a set from Belgium and loaned them to the players. After a season, the players perceived that the low pitch would be for all time received, and they purchased the instruments from him. 

On 10 August 1895, the first of the Queen's Hall Promenade Concerts occurred. Among those present who later reviewed the opening was the artist Agnes Nicholls: 

Just before 8 o'clock I saw Henry Wood take up his situation behind the drapery toward the finish of the stage – watch close by. Reliably, on the stroke of eight, he strolled rapidly to the platform, buttonhole and all, and started the National Anthem ... A couple of minutes for the crowd to settle down, at that point the "Rienzi" Overture, and the principal show of the new Promenades had started. 

The remainder of the program included, in the expressions of a history specialist of the Proms, David Cox, "for the most part ... unmitigated technicalities." Within days, in any case, Wood was moving the parity from light music to standard established works, with Schubert's Unfinished Symphony and further passages from Wagner musical dramas. Among different orchestras Wood directed amid the primary season were Schubert's "Extraordinary C Major", Mendelssohn's "Italian" and Schumann's Fourth. The concertos incorporated Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto and Schumann's Piano Concerto. Amid the season Wood introduced 23 novelties, including the London debuts of pieces by Richard Strauss, Tchaikovsky, Glazunov, Massenet and Rimsky-Korsakov. Newman and Wood before long felt ready to dedicate each Monday night of the period mainly to Wagner and each Friday night to Beethoven, an example that suffered for a considerable length of time. 

The salary from the shows did not allow liberal practice time. Wood had nine hours to practice all the music for every week's six shows. To pick up the best outcomes on so little practice, Wood created two features of his leading that remained his trademark all through his profession. To begin with, he purchased sets of the symphonic parts and stamped them all with minutely point by point guidelines to the players; also he built up an unmistakable and expressive leading system. An instrumental cellist composed that "in the event that you watched him, you couldn't come in off-base." The violist Bernard Shore expressed, "You might peruse at sight openly, however you can't in any way, shape or form turn out badly with "that" stick before you". Thirty-five years after Wood's demise, André Previn described a story by one of his players who reviewed that Wood "had everything arranged out and planned to the moment ... at 10 a.m. unequivocally his rod went down. You learned things so completely with him, however in the most affordable time." 

Another element of Wood's directing was his emphasis on exact tuning; before every practice and show he would check the instrument of every individual from the woodwind and string areas against a tuning fork. He endured in this training until 1937, when the perfection of the BBC Symphony Orchestra convinced him that it was never again essential. To improve group, Wood tried different things with the format of the ensemble. His favored format was to have the first and second violins assembled together to his left side, with the cellos on his right side, a design that has since turned out to be normal. 

Between the first and second period of promenade shows, Wood did his last work in the musical show house, leading Stanford's new musical show "Shamus O'Brien" at the Opera Comique. It kept running from March until July 1896, leaving Wood enough time to set up the second Queen's Hall season, which started toward the finish of August. The season was successful to the point that Newman tailed it with a winter period of Saturday night promenade shows, however notwithstanding being mainstream they were not a budgetary achievement, and were not rehashed in later years. In January 1897 Wood assumed the bearing of the Queen's Hall's lofty Saturday evening ensemble shows. He persistently exhibited new works by writers of numerous nationalities, and was especially known for his expertise in Russian music. Sullivan kept in touch with him in 1898, "I have never heard a better exhibition in England than that of the Tchaikovsky ensemble under your course last Wednesday". Seventy after five years, Sir Adrian Boult positioned Wood as one of the two biggest Tchaikovsky conductors as far as he can tell. Wood additionally effectively tested the across the board conviction that Englishmen were not equipped for leading Wagner. Whenever Wood and the Queen's Hall Orchestra performed at Windsor Castle in November 1898, Queen Victoria picked Tchaikovsky and Wagner for the program. Wood, who displayed his appearance on Nikisch, accepting it as a compliment that the ruler said to him, "Let me know, Mr Wood, would you say you are very English?" 

In 1898, Wood wedded one of his singing understudies, Olga Michailoff, a divorced person a couple of months his senior. Jacobs depicts it as "a marriage of immaculate expert and private amicability". As an artist, with Wood as her accompanist, she won applause from the commentators. 

The promenade shows prospered through the 1890s, yet in 1902 Newman, who had been putting indiscreetly in showy introductions, got himself unfit to hold up under the monetary duty regarding the Queen's Hall Orchestra and was proclaimed bankrupt. The shows were protected by the melodic sponsor Sir Edgar Speyer, an investor of German inception. Speyer set up the vital assets, held Newman as supervisor of the shows, and urged him and Wood to proceed with their undertaking of improving the open's taste. Toward the start of 1902, Wood acknowledged the conductorship of that year's Sheffield triennial celebration. He kept on being related with that celebration until 1936, changing its accentuation from choral to instrumental pieces. A German commentator, checking on the celebration for a Berlin production, expressed, "Two identities currently speak to another age in English melodic life – Edward Elgar as writer, and Henry J. Wood as conductor." Later in the year, strained by his huge remaining task at hand, Wood's wellbeing bankrupt down. Despite the fact that this was amid the Proms season, Cathcart demanded that Wood ought to have a total break and change of scene. Leaving the pioneer of the ensemble, Arthur Payne, to direct amid his nonattendance, Wood and his better half took a journey to Morocco, missing the Proms shows from 13 October to 8 November. 

In the early long stretches of the Proms there were grievances in some melodic diaries that Wood was dismissing British music. In 1899 Newman ineffectively endeavored to verify for Wood the debut of Elgar's "Conundrum Variations", yet around the same time Newman left behind the chance to acquaint the music of Delius with London concertgoers. Before the finish of the main decade of the new century, be that as it may, Wood's notoriety in directing British music was in no uncertainty; he gave the world, British or London debuts of in excess of a hundred British works somewhere in the range of 1900 and 1910. Then, he acquainted his crowds with numerous European writers. In the 1903 season, he customized ensembles by Bruckner (No. 7), Sibelius (No. 1), and Mahler (No. 1). Around the same time, he presented a few of Richard Strauss' tone lyrics to London, and in 1905 he gave Strauss' "Symphonia Domestica". This provoked the author to state, "I can't leave London without an outflow of adoration for the mind blowing Orchestra which Henry Wood's lord hand has made in such a brief span." 

Making the ensemble respected by Strauss had not been accomplished without a battle. In 1904, Wood and Newman handled the appointee framework, in which instrumental players, whenever offered a superior paid commitment, could send a substitute to a practice or a show. The treasurer of the Royal Philharmonic Society depicted it in this manner: "A, whom you need, signs to play at your show. He sends B (whom you wouldn't fret) to the primary practice. B, without your insight or assent, sends C to the second practice. Not having the capacity to play at the show, C sends D, whom you would have paid five shillings to remain away." After a practice in which Wood was looked with an ocean of altogether new faces in his own ensemble, Newman went ahead the stage to declare: "Noble men, in future there will be no representatives; hello." Forty players surrendered en coalition and shaped their own symphony: the London Symphony Orchestra. Wood maintained longstanding animosity and went to their first show, in spite of the fact that it was 12 years before he consented to direct the ensemble. 

Wood had extraordinary compassion toward general population symphonic players and took a stab at enhancements in their compensation. He tried to raise their status and was the main British director to demand that the symphony should remain to recognize commendation alongside the director. He brought ladies into the Queen's Hall Orchestra in 1913. He stated, "I don't care for women playing the trombone or twofold bass, however they can play the violin, and they do." By 1918 Wood had 14 ladies in his symphony. 

Wood directed his very own organizations and courses of action now and again. He gave his "Rhapsody on Welsh Melodies" and "Capriccio on Scottish Melodies" on progressive evenings in 1909. He created the work for which he is most observed, "Rhapsody on British Sea Songs", for a show in 1905, commending the century of the Battle of Trafalgar. It got the open extravagant quickly, with its blend of ocean shanties, together with Handel's "See the Conquering Hero Comes" and Arne's "Principle, Britannia!". He played it at the Proms in excess of multiple times, and it turned into an installation at the "Most recent Night of the Proms", the enthusiastic show denoting the finish of each season. It remained so under his successors, however frequently improved, quite by Sir Malcolm Sargent. A feature of the Fantasia is the hornpipe ("Jack's the Lad"); Wood said of it: 

They stamp their feet so as to the hornpipe – that is until I prepare the ensemble to a furious "accelerando" which abandons every one of those whose stepping system isn't of the best quality. I like to win by two bars, if conceivable; yet once in a while must be content with a bar and a half. It is great fun, and I appreciate it as much as they. 

Among Wood's different works was his "Purcell Suite", fusing topics from Purcell's stage works and string sonatas, which Wood performed at a symphonic celebration in Zurich in 1921, and instrumental interpretations of works by a scope of writers from Albéniz to Vivaldi. 

Wood worked with his better half for some shows, and was her piano accompanist at her presentations. In 1906, at the Norwich music celebration he displayed Beethoven's Choral Symphony and Bach's "St Matthew Passion", with his significant other among the artists. In December 1909, after a short sickness, Olga Wood kicked the bucket. Cathcart removed Wood to take his brain off his misfortune. On his arrival, Wood continued his expert daily schedule, with the special case that, after Olga's passing, he once in a while executed as piano accompanist for any other person; his aptitude in that craftsmanship was enormously missed by the pundits. In June 1911, he wedded his secretary, Muriel Ellen Greatrex (1882– 1967), with whom he had two little girls. Around the same time he acknowledged a knighthood, and declined the conductorship of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra in progression to Mahler, as he felt it his obligation to give himself to the British open. 

All through the early piece of the century, Wood was compelling in changing the propensities for concertgoers. Up to that point it had been standard for gatherings of people at ensemble or choral shows to cheer after every development or area. Wood disheartened this, at some point by motion and here and there by explicit solicitation imprinted in projects. For this he was greatly adulated in the melodic and national press. Notwithstanding his work at the Queen's Hall, Wood directed at the Sheffield, Norwich, Birmingham, Wolverhampton, and Westmorland celebrations, and at symphonic shows in Cardiff, Manchester, Liverpool, Leicester and Hull. His writing computer programs was condensed in "The Manchester Guardian", which recorded the quantity of every author's works played in the 1911 Proms season; the best ten were: Wagner (121); Beethoven (34); Tchaikovsky (30); Mozart (28); Dvořák (16); Weber (16); J.S. Bach (14); Brahms (14); Elgar (14); and Liszt (13). 

The 1912 and 1913 Prom seasons are singled out by Cox as among the best of this piece of Wood's profession. Among those directing their own works or hearing Wood lead them were Strauss, Debussy, Reger, Scriabin, and Rachmaninoff. Schoenberg's "Five Pieces for Orchestra" likewise gotten its first execution (the author not being available); amid practices, Wood asked his players, "Stick to it, men of honor! This is nothing to what you'll need to play in 25 years' time". The commentator Ernest Newman composed after the execution: "It is a rarity indeed an English group of onlookers murmurs the music it doesn't care for, however a decent third of the general population at Queen's Hall last Tuesday allowed themselves that extravagance after the execution of the five instrumental bits of Schoenberg. Another third of the group of onlookers was just not murmuring since it was giggling, and the staying third appeared to be too confounded either to chuckle or to murmur; so that all in all it doesn't look as though Schoenberg has so far made numerous companions in London." However, when Wood welcomed Schoenberg himself to lead the work's second British execution, on 17 January 1914, the author was so charmed with the outcome, more heartily got than had been the debut, that he praised Wood and the symphony energetically: "I should state it was the first run through since Gustav Mahler that I heard such music played again as an artist of culture requests." 

On the flare-up of the First World War in 1914, Newman, Wood and Speyer examined whether the Proms should proceed as arranged. They had at this point turned into a built up establishment, and it was consented to proceed. Notwithstanding, hostile to German inclination constrained Speyer to leave the nation and look for asylum in the US, and there was a crusade to forbid all German music from shows. Newman put out an announcement proclaiming that German music would be played as arranged: "The best instances of Music and Art are world belongings and unassailable even by the biases and interests of great importance." When Speyer left Britain, the music distributers Chappell's assumed on the liability for the Queen's Hall and its symphony. The Proms proceeded all through the war years, with less major new works than previously, in spite of the fact that there were all things considered British debuts of pieces by Bartók, Stravinsky and Debussy. An antiquarian of the Proms, Ateş Orga, stated, "Shows frequently must be re-coordinated to harmonize with the 'All Clear' between air attacks. Falling bombs, shrapnel, hostile to flying machine fire and the rambling of Zeppelins were consistently compromising. In any case, [Wood] kept things in a hurry and at last had an undeniable part to play in boosting spirit." 

Towards the finish of the war, Wood got an idea by which he was genuinely enticed: the Boston Symphony Orchestra welcomed him to turn into its melodic chief. He had been visitor director of the Berlin and New York Philharmonic Orchestras, yet he viewed the Boston symphony as the best on the planet. In any case, as he told Boult, "it was difficult to cannot, however I felt it was a devoted obligation to stay in my own nation, at the present minute." 

After the war, the Proms proceeded with much as previously. The second parts of shows still included piano-went with melodies instead of genuine traditional music. Chappell's, having assumed control over sponsorship of the Proms and burned through £35,000 propping the Queen's Hall up amid the war, wished to advance tunes distributed by the organization. The administration of Chappell's were additionally less eager than Wood and Newman about advancing new symphonic works, a large portion of which were not gainful. 

In 1921 Wood was granted the gold award of the Royal Philharmonic Society, the primary English conductor to get the respect. At this point he was starting to discover his situation as Britain's driving conductor under test from rising more youthful opponents. Thomas Beecham had been an undeniably powerful figure since around 1910. He and Wood disliked each other, and each maintained a strategic distance from notice of the other in his diaries. Adrian Boult, who, at Wood's proposal, assumed control over a portion of his obligations at Birmingham in 1923, constantly appreciated and regarded Wood. Other more youthful directors included men who had been individuals from Wood's symphony, including Basil Cameron and Eugene Goossens. Another protégé of Wood was Malcolm Sargent, who showed up at the Proms as an arranger conductor in 1921 and 1922. Wood urged him to desert musings of a vocation as a piano player and to focus on directing. Wood further demonstrated his enthusiasm for the eventual fate of music by assuming the conductorship of the understudy ensemble at the Royal Academy of Music in 1923, practicing it two times every week, at whatever point conceivable, for the following twenty years. Around the same time, he acknowledged the conductorship of the beginner Hull Philharmonic Orchestra, voyaging three times each year until 1939 to practice and direct its shows. 

In 1925 Wood was welcome to lead four shows for the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra at the Hollywood Bowl. Such was their prosperity, both imaginative and monetary, that Wood was welcomed back, and led again the next year. Notwithstanding an expansive number of English pieces, Wood customized works by arrangers as assorted as Bach and Stravinsky. He again led there in 1934. 

On his arrival to England from his first Hollywood outing, Wood ended up amidst a quarrel between the administrator of Chappell's, William Boosey, and the BBC. Boosey had considered an enthusiastic antagonistic vibe toward the telecom of music, expecting that it would prompt the finish of live shows. He endeavored to avoid any individual who wished to perform at the Queen's Hall from broadcasting for the BBC. This influenced a considerable lot of the craftsmen whom Wood and Newman required for the Proms. The issue was uncertain when Newman passed on in 1926. Quickly a while later, Boosey reported that Chappell's would never again bolster shows at the Queen's Hall. The prospect that the Proms probably won't almost certainly proceed caused far reaching alarm, and there was a general welcome for the BBC's declaration that it would assume control over the running of the Proms, and would likewise run a winter arrangement of orchestra shows at the Queen's Hall. 

The BBC routine brought quick advantages. The utilization of the second 50% of shows to advance Chappell's tunes stopped, to be traded by music picked for its very own magnificence: on the primary night under the BBC's control, the tunes in the second half were by Schubert, Quilter and Parry as opposed to anthems from Chappell's. For Wood, the best advantage was that the BBC gave him twice as much practice time as he had recently delighted in. He presently had an every day practice and additional practices as required. He was additionally permitted additional players when vast scores called for them, rather than having to rescore the work for the powers accessible. 

In 1929, Wood played a celebrated reasonable joke on musicologists and faultfinders. "I got "tired of them", continually criticizing any course of action or arrangements that I made ... 'ruining the first' and so forth and so forth.", thus Wood go off his very own coordination of Bach's "Toccata and Fugue in D minor", as an interpretation by a Russian author called Paul Klenovsky. In Wood's later record, the press and the BBC "fell into the device and said the scoring was brilliant, Klenovsky had the genuine flare for real nature and so forth – and a great many performances was given and "requested"." Wood stayed discreet for a long time before uncovering reality. The press regarded the misleading as an extraordinary joke; "The Times" went into the soul of it with a funny tribute to the bemoaned Klenovsky. 

As Wood's working life improved, his residential life began to fall apart. Amid the mid 1930s, he and his significant other progressively ended up repelled, and their relationship finished in sharpness, with Muriel taking the vast majority of Wood's cash and, for a significant part of the time, living abroad. She would not separate from him. The rupture among Muriel and Wood additionally caused his irritation from their girls. In 1934 he started an upbeat association with a bereaved previous understudy, Jessie Linton, who had sung for him habitually in the past under her expert name of Jessie Goldsack. One of Wood's players reviewed, "She transformed him. He had been severely dressed, dreadful garments. Jessie got him another night suit, rather than the mildew covered green one, and he thrived yellow gloves and a stogie ... he ended up human." As Wood was not allowed to remarry, she changed her name by deed survey to "Woman Jessie Wood" and was commonly accepted by people in general to be Wood's significant other. In his diaries, Wood referenced neither his second marriage nor his ensuing relationship. 

In his later years, Wood came to be related to the Proms instead of with the all year show season. Boult was delegated executive of music at the BBC in 1930. In that limit he endeavored to guarantee that Wood was welcome to lead a fitting number of BBC ensemble shows outside the Prom season. The BBC picked Wood for imperative coordinated efforts with Bartók and Paul Hindemith, and for the primary British execution of Mahler's tremendous Symphony No. 8. Yet, Jacobs noticed that, in the general show repertory, Wood currently needed to go up against surely understood outside conductors, for example, Bruno Walter, Willem Mengelberg, and Arturo Toscanini, "in examination with whom he was progressively observed as a workhorse". 

In 1936, Wood was responsible for his last Sheffield celebration. The choral works he led incorporated the Verdi "Memorial", Beethoven's "Missa Solemnis", Berlioz' "Te Deum", Walton's "Belshazzar's Feast", and, within the sight of the author, Rachmaninoff's "The Bells". The next year, Wood started getting ready for an excellent show to check his fiftieth year as a conductor. The Royal Albert Hall was picked as the setting, having a far bigger limit than the Queen's Hall. The show was given on 5 October 1938. Rachmaninoff had the performance impact in his Second Piano Concerto, and Vaughan Williams, at Wood's solicitation, created a short choral work for the event: the "Serenade to Music" for symphony and 16 soloists. Different writers spoke to in the program were Sullivan, Beethoven, Bach, Bax, Wagner, Handel and Elgar. The ensemble included players from the three London symphonies: the London Symphony, London Philharmonic and BBC Symphony Orchestras. The show raised £9,000 for Wood's picked philanthropy, giving social insurance to performers. Around the same time, Wood distributed his self-portrayal, "My Life of Music". 

In September 1939, the Second World War broke out and the BBC promptly put into impact its emergency courses of action to move quite a bit of its telecom far from London to places thought less defenseless to besieging. Its melodic exercises, including the symphony, moved to Bristol. The BBC pulled back the players, however money related help from the Proms. Wood discovered that the 1940 season would all things considered proceed. The Royal Philharmonic Society and a private business visionary, Keith Douglas, consented to back an eight-week season, and the London Symphony Orchestra was locked in. The season was abridged following a month, when extreme besieging constrained the Queen's Hall to close. The last Prom given at the Queen's Hall was on 7 September 1940. In May 1941, the lobby was wrecked by bombs. 

It was promptly concurred that the 1941 period of Proms ought to be held at the Albert Hall. It was double the extent of the Queen's Hall, with poor acoustics, yet a six-week arrangement was made a decision about a triumph, and the Albert Hall remained the home of the Proms. Wood, matured seventy-two, was convinced to have a partner conductor to assuage him of a portion of the weight. Basil Cameron embraced the undertaking and remained a Prom conductor until his retirement, matured eighty, in 1964. The BBC took its ensemble symphony back to London and continued its sponsorship of the Proms in 1942; Boult joined Cameron as Wood's partner director amid that season. In mid 1943, Wood's wellbeing decayed, and two days after the beginning of that year's season, he fallen and was requested to have a month in bed. In spite of wartime changes, the 1943 season sold almost 250,000 tickets, with a normal group of onlookers of around 4,000 – a lot more than could have fitted into the Queen's Hall. 

Regardless of his age and the troubles of wartime travel, Wood demanded going to commonplace urban areas to lead – to such an extent, as indicated by Jacobs, to enable the nearby symphonies to get by as to delight crowds. His last season was in 1944. The season started well with Wood in great structure, however following three weeks assaults by the staggering new German flying bombs made the administration request the conclusion of spots of diversion. The Proms were quickly moved to Bedford some away, where Wood kept on directing. He became sick toward the beginning of August and was unfit to lead the fiftieth commemoration Prom on 10 August; he was prohibited by his specialist even to tune in to its communicate. Wood kicked the bucket a little more than seven days after the fact on 19 August at Hitchin Hospital in Hitchin, Hertfordshire; his memorial service was held in the town at St Mary's congregation, and his fiery debris were entombed in the Musicians' Chapel of St Sepulcher-without-Newgate. 

Wood's chronicle profession started in 1908, when he went with his significant other Olga in "Goodbye, woodlands" by Tchaikovsky, for the Gramophone and Typewriter Company, also called His Master's Voice or HMV. They made eight different records together for HMV throughout the following two years. After Olga's demise, Wood marked an agreement with HMV's opponent, Columbia, for whom he made a progression of circles somewhere in the range of 1915 and 1917 with the artist Clara Butt, including passages from Elgar's "The Dream of Gerontius". Somewhere in the range of 1915 and 1925 he led 65 accounts for Columbia utilizing the early acoustic chronicle process, including numerous circles of Wagner portions and a truncated rendition of Elgar's Violin Concerto with Albert Sammons as soloist. At the point when the mouthpiece and electrical account were presented in 1925, Wood re-recorded the Elgar concerto, with Sammons, and made 36 different plates for Columbia throughout the following nine years. The 1929 account of the Elgar concerto has been reissued on minimal circle and is all around respected by certain commentators. 

Wood was charmed from Columbia by the youthful Decca organization in 1935. For Decca he directed 23 accounts throughout the following two years, including Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, Elgar's "Riddle Variations" and Vaughan Williams' "A London Symphony". In 1938 he came back to Columbia, for whom his five new chronicles incorporated the "Serenade to Music" with the 16 unique vocalists, a couple of days after the debut, and his own "Capriccio on British Sea Songs". 

Wood's chronicles did not stay in the lists long after his passing. "The Record Guide", 1956, records none of his records. A couple of his chronicles have along these lines been reissued on smaller circle, including the Decca and Columbia Vaughan Williams accounts from 1936 and 1938. 

In Jacobs' 1994 memoir, the rundown of debuts led by Wood stretches out to 18 pages. His reality debuts included Frank Bridge's "The Sea"; Britten's Piano Concerto; Delius' "A Song Before Sunrise", "A Song of Summer", and "Idyll"; Elgar's "The Wand of Youth" Suite No. 1, "Sospiri" and the fourth and fifth Pomp and Circumstance Marches; and Vaughan Williams' "Norfolk Rhapsody No. 1", "Flos Campi" and "Serenade to Music". 

Wood's UK debuts incorporated Bartók's "Move Suite"; Chabrier's "Joyeuse marche"; Copland's "Billy the Kid"; Debussy's "Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune" and "Ibéria"; Hindemith's "Kammermusik" 2 and 5; Janáček's Sinfonietta, "Taras Bulba" and Glagolitic Mass; Kodály's "Moves from Galanta"; Mahler's Symphonies Nos. 4, 7 and 8, and "Das Lied von der Erde"; Prokofiev's Piano Concerto No. 1 and Violin Concerto No. 2; Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No 1; Ravel's "Mama mère l'oye", "Rapsodie espagnole", "La valse" and Piano Concerto in D; Rimsky-Korsakov's "Capriccio Espagnol", "Scheherazade", and Symphony No. 2; Saint-Saëns' "The Carnival of the Animals"; Schumann's Konzertstück for four horns and symphony; Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No. 1 and Symphonies Nos. 7 and 8; Sibelius' Symphonies Nos. 1, 6 and 7, Violin Concerto, Karelia Suite, and "Tapiola"; Richard Strauss' "Symphonia Domestica"; Stravinsky's "The Firebird" (suite); Tchaikovsky's "Manfred Symphony" and "Nutcracker Suite"; and Webern's "Passacaglia". 

Notwithstanding the knighthood presented in 1911, Wood's state respects were his arrangements as Companion of Honor in 1944, to the Order of the Crown (Belgium; 1920), and Officer of the Legion of Honor (France; 1926). He got privileged doctorates from five English colleges and was an individual of both the Royal Academy of Music (1920) and the Royal College of Music (1923). 

Jacobs records 26 compositions devoted to Wood, including, notwithstanding the Vaughan Williams "Serenade to Music", works by Elgar, Delius, Bax, Marcel Dupré and Walton. The artist laureate, John Masefield, made a sonnet out of six stanzas in his respect, entitled "Sir Henry Wood", regularly alluded to by its first line, "Where does the articulated music go?". Walton set it to music as a song of praise for blended choir; it got its first execution on 26 April 1946 at St Sepulchre's, on the event of a function revealing a dedication recolored glass window in Wood's respect. 

Wood is honored for the sake of the Henry Wood Hall, the deconsecrated Holy Trinity Church in Southwark, which was changed over to a practice and recording scene in 1975. His bust stands upstage focus in the Royal Albert Hall amid the entire of every Prom season, designed by a chaplet on the Last Night of the Proms. His gathering of 2,800 orchestral scores and 1,920 sets of parts is presently in the library of the Royal Academy of Music. For the Academy he likewise settled the Henry Wood Fund, giving monetary guide to understudies. The University of Strathclyde named a structure at its Jordanhill grounds after him. His best-realized dedication is the Proms, authoritatively "the Henry Wood Promenade Concerts", however all around alluded to by the casual short form. 

His biographer Arthur Jacobs composed of Wood: 

His symphonic players warmly nicknamed him "Timber" – in excess of a play on his name, since it appeared to speak to his unwavering quality as well. His count of first exhibitions, or first exhibitions in Britain, was courageous: in any event 717 works by 357 composers. Significance as estimated by artfulness of execution may not be his, especially in his constrained heritage of chronicles, yet he stays a standout amongst the most wonderful artists Britain has delivered. 

Notes 

References