DJ AM 

Adam Michael Goldstein (March 30, 1973 – August 28, 2009), referred to expertly as DJ AM, was an American circle racer (DJ). Conceived in Philadelphia, Goldstein ended up keen on deejaying as a youngster subsequent to viewing Herbie Hancock play out his 1983 single "Rockit". Goldstein built up a chronic drug use as an adolescent and was sent to the dubious restoration focus Straight, Incorporated. After he left the middle, his medication issues turned out to be more terrible; he was dependent on rocks for quite a while in his mid twenties. After he endeavored suicide in 1997, Goldstein ended up calm and later supported different addicts through Alcoholics Anonymous. 

Goldstein started deejaying in clubs in Los Angeles and joined the band Crazy Town in 1999. He left the gathering in 2001 and concentrated on a vocation as a performance DJ. After he started dating Nicole Richie in 2003, his profession soar. In 2006, he acknowledged a $1 million contract to perform week by week at Caesars Palace on the Las Vegas strip and was additionally charging upwards of $10,000 for private occasions. In 2008 Goldstein and Travis Barker shaped the team TRV$DJAM. Barker and Goldstein were the main two overcomers of the 2008 South Carolina Learjet 60 crash, which slaughtered the other four individuals ready. 

Goldstein showed up as himself in a few TV arrangement, contributed blends to and depicted a playable character in the computer game "DJ Hero", and shot an appearance for "Iron Man 2". Goldstein facilitated the 2009 MTV sedate intercession arrangement "Gone Too Far", and he had all the earmarks of being battling with his habit amid taping. On August 28, 2009, he was discovered dead in his New York City loft from a medication overdose. The DJ AM Memorial Fund, an association intended to help individuals battling with illicit drug use, was propelled in his memory by his sister, and "Iron Man 2", which was discharged in 2010, was devoted to him. 

Adam Michael Goldstein was conceived on March 30, 1973, in Philadelphia. His folks, Andrea and Herbert – both of whom were Jewish – had been unfit to imagine youngsters normally, and they had received Goldstein's more established sister Lara a year prior to his introduction to the world. Goldstein's mom left her better half incidentally after she found him having extramarital sex with another man. Amid this time she engaged in extramarital relations herself, and she discovered she was pregnant with Adam subsequent to coming back to her significant other. While vigorously pregnant, she found her better half had been double-crossing a second time, and afterward she irately uncovered to him that he was not the organic dad of her infant. 

Goldstein expressed that his dad had verbally manhandled him. As a grown-up, he understood this was likely because of hatred that Goldstein was not his natural child. Goldstein saw his dad straightforwardly utilizing cocaine and cannabis all through his adolescence. Goldstein said he started indulging as a method for managing outrage and melancholy, getting to be large by the age of 10. He likewise started exploring different avenues regarding liquor when he was 11. 

Subsequent to viewing Herbie Hancock perform "Rockit" with Grand Mixer DXT at the 26th Annual Grammy Awards in 1984, Goldstein wound up fixated on deejaying, and understood that it was what he needed to accomplish for a vocation. He went to the Quaker school Friends' Central. When he was 14, Herbert was imprisoned for submitting bank extortion, and his mom in this way moved to Los Angeles with Goldstein and his sister. 

In Los Angeles, Goldstein related with a horde of substantial medication clients. At 16, he moved toward his mom and requested help with his medication issues. She organized him to go to Straight, Incorporated, a medication recovery focus that was later uncovered to manhandle patients. Goldstein unveiled that he was physically attacked and spat on by staff while there. At a certain point, he got away from the office, yet was captured and brought back in the wake of being perceived at Knott's Berry Farm. While he was in recovery, his mom visited him and uncovered that Herbert was not his natural dad, was gay, and was biting the dust from HIV/AIDS. Goldstein said that after he got this news he "detonated," assaulting one of his advisors. He was inevitably prosecuted and expelled from recovery for his treatment of more youthful patients in the blink of an eye before his eighteenth birthday celebration. Herbert kicked the bucket the next year. 

In the wake of leaving recovery, Goldstein started going to raves and trying different things with MDMA and nitrous oxide. He likewise began deejaying; he broke into a companion's home while he was away for the end of the week to rehearse on his turntables and in the long run proceeded to rehearse free-form deejaying consistently for an entire summer. Goldstein began utilizing rocks by the age of 20. He said that taking the medication and deejaying were "pretty much everything he did" for the following four years of his life. He would frequently vanish from loved ones for a considerable length of time at once. In 1997, he endeavored suicide; the weapon stuck in his mouth as he pulled the trigger. In no time thereafter, a companion urged Goldstein to end up calm. He started going to Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) gatherings, stayed away from his companions who still took medications, and committed himself to functioning as a DJ. Goldstein backslid following 90 days, however in this way restarted and finished the program. Individuals who complete the AA program are urged to support different addicts through the recuperation procedure; Goldstein turned into a backer for a few people. 

Goldstein's stage name, "DJ AM", represents his first and center names, Adam Michael. Subsequent to playing for his companions and at private gatherings for quite a while, Goldstein landed his initially paying position as a DJ at an unlicensed club in Los Angeles at 21 years old, where he earned $40 and a six-pack of brew for a night's work. He worked there for a long time. A meeting advertiser, awed with Goldstein's execution, offered him a deejaying work at the Hollywood club The Dragonfly. Goldstein met Shifty Shellshock through the club scene, and he was approached to join the rap/shake aggregate Crazy Town in 1999. He added to their 2000 hit "Butterfly", which achieved number one out of a few nations. As per bandmates Shellshock and Epic Mazur, Goldstein was the gathering's solitary calm part. He quit in 2001 to get away from the medication related brokenness tormenting the gathering. 

Goldstein's weight issues turned out to be continuously more terrible, regardless of long periods of abstaining from excessive food intake; in 2003, he gauged and experienced gastric detour medical procedure. The medical procedure was compelling, and he lost more than inside a year. After he started dating on-screen character Nicole Richie in 2003, Goldstein's DJ vocation soar. "Us Weekly" supervisor Janice Min said that he was skilled, yet that what set him apart from different disk jockeys was that he dated Richie. 

Because of the relationship, Goldstein showed up in a 2005 scene of "Punk'd", where Richie was the subject of a commonsense joke, and that equivalent year he included in a scene of "The Simple Life", an unscripted television show concentrating on Richie and Paris Hilton. Goldstein and Richie reported their commitment in February 2005, yet separated in late 2006. Goldstein was a visitor DJ on a scene of "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" in May 2006. He was an enthusiastic sneakerhead, owning in excess of 1,000 sets of shoes by 2007. This prompted him being offered an appearance as himself buying a couple in the 2006 TV arrangement "Company" scene "Shouldn't something be said about Bob?". That equivalent year, Goldstein additionally started working at Caesars Palace, turning into the occupant DJ of their dance club Pure. He was contracted to the club for the year for $1 million, which was viewed as a phenomenal sum for a DJ at the time. By 2007, he was additionally being paid somewhere in the range of $10,000 and $25,000 per occasion as a performance DJ. Goldstein scratched on collections for Papa Roach, Will Smith and Babyface. He played at private occasions for big names including Jennifer Lopez, Ben Stiller and Leonardo DiCaprio. Goldstein dated vocalist Mandy Moore for two months in 2007 and stayed dear companions with her in the wake of isolating. Later in 2007, he was impractically included with model Jessica Stam. 

In June 2008, Goldstein and Travis Barker started working together under the name TRV$DJAM. They performed at the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards on September 7, 2008. On September 19, in the wake of performing at a school occasion, he and Barker were on board a Learjet 60 when it smashed upon departure in Columbia, South Carolina. The accident murdered both group individuals and the other two travelers, a security watchman and Barker's right hand, fundamentally harming Goldstein and Barker. Goldstein endured severely charred areas to his arm and parts of his head. Both he and Barker were transported to the Joseph M. Still Burn Center in Augusta, Georgia. Moore traveled to be close by in medical clinic, and the media detailed that they were dating once more. He was discharged on September 26, 2008, and was relied upon to make a full recuperation. In December 2008, Goldstein recorded a common claim against the plane's sanction organization, Learjet and Goodyear tires; the suit guaranteed carelessness with respect to the pilots, and an assembling deformity on part of the plane. He requested harms for torment and enduring, mental anguish, distortion and loss of profit. The claim was settled by his domain in 2010, a year after his demise. 

In December 2008, MTV detailed that DJ AM would show up with Barker since the two endure the plane accident. The couple performed at New Year's Nation's Los Angeles 2008 New Year's Eve Party. That equivalent month it was accounted for that Goldstein had part from Moore and was dating model Haley Wood. In April 2009, Goldstein left his situation at Caesars Palace to progress toward becoming Rain Nightclub's standard Friday night DJ in the Palms Casino Resort, Las Vegas. 

Goldstein recorded an appearance for the motion picture "Iron Man 2" in June 2009, showing up as himself deejaying at the birthday gathering of Tony Stark (played by Robert Downey Jr.). Jon Favreau, the movie's executive, said that he was a devotee of Goldstein; the appearance should be taped in one day yet the team and Downey Jr. favored Goldstein and his stay on set reached out to around multi week. He set up turntables and gave Favreau tips on the most proficient method to DJ in the middle of takes. Goldstein was included with Activision's "DJ Hero" computer game, contributing unique blends to and furthermore showing up as a playable character. Goldstein and Barker performed at an Electronic Entertainment Expo occasion advancing the amusement in 2009. 

Goldstein was the host of "Gone Too Far", a medication mediation unscripted TV drama for MTV. He had drawn closer MTV in mid-2008, pitching the possibility of an unscripted TV drama that concentrated on his life to Tony DiSanto. DiSanto said that such shows were declining in fame, and rather recommended a medication mediation show to which Goldstein concurred. The show was still in pre-generation when Goldstein was harmed in the plane accident. Following the accident, the show's maker Cheryl Sirulnick said she accepted the show would not proceed, yet Goldstein demanded proceeding. Eight scenes were shot; three days before his demise, Goldstein tweeted that shooting had been finished. 

In a meeting with "Charm" in 2008, Goldstein said that while he had been calm for a long time, he needed to remind himself consistently that he was as yet a medication fiend, saying: "At some random minute, I'm five seconds from approaching somebody, snatching their beverage out of their hand and bringing down it. What's more, in the event that I do that, inside seven days, tops, I'll be smoking rocks." Following the plane accident, Goldstein was recommended painkillers and hostile to tension medicine. Superstar specialist Drew Pinsky said it was those solutions which opened the "conduits" to Goldstein's backslide. A companion of his achieved a similar end, saying: "I think the plane accident slaughtered him, it just took a year for it to do it." because of the plane accident, Goldstein built up a dread of flying, and kept taking nervousness medicine to help manage the standard flights his way of life required. 

Goldstein was battling with his previous habit amid the shooting of "Gone Too Far". He held a split pipe amid one scene. BJ Hickman, a mediation master who showed up in two scenes, saw Goldstein "had a minute" holding the break pipe, and later wanted to call his support. Goldstein later said of the experience: "I understood my palms were sweat-soaked and I resembled, hold up a moment, this isn't brilliant for me to hold this." In another scene, a cop demonstrates Goldstein seized drugs, including a pack of rocks. Presently, Goldstein leaves the structure, educating the camera group that he felt so enticed to expend the medications that it was not alright for him to stay there. 

In the weeks prior to his demise, Goldstein's conduct had been inconsistent and he had been missing arrangements. His chief and support were both so worried that they traveled to New York to visit him two days before his passing. Goldstein would not see his administrator, however permitted his support into his condo, devouring pills and smoking rocks before him. He guaranteed to take a look at himself into a restoration focus following his booked gig at Rain Nightclub in Las Vegas that Friday. When he missed his flight and would not return telephone calls, companions conveyed the police to his loft. 

Goldstein was discovered dead in his New York City condo on August 28, 2009. Medication stuff, including a break pipe and a pack of split, were discovered adjacent. The New York therapeutic analyst hence verified that Goldstein's demise was a mishap brought about by "intense inebriation" from a blend of cocaine, oxycodone, hydrocodone, lorazepam, clonazepam, alprazolam, diphenhydramine and levamisole. Haley Wood denied bits of gossip that a supposed ongoing division from Goldstein had added to his backslide, saying that the couple had still been as one at the time. 

After a dedication administration, Goldstein was entombed at Hillside Memorial Park Cemetery, a Jewish burial ground in Los Angeles, on September 2, 2009. The next day, a commemoration was held at the Hollywood Palladium. Among the several participants were Nicole Richie, Travis Barker, Lindsay Lohan, Samantha Ronson, Eric Dane, Rebecca Gayheart, Scott Caan and DJ Jazzy Jeff. Wood delivered an enthusiastic discourse at the administration, depicting Goldstein as her perfect partner. 

The planned introduction air date for "Gone Too Far" had been October 5, 2009. After Goldstein's passing, DiSanto recognized the likelihood that setting Goldstein close different addicts added to his backslide. In the wake of discussing whether to air the show in the wake of his passing, MTV chose to make a big appearance it on October 12. His family expressed: "It is our expectation through airing this demonstrate individuals will get the chance to see the side of Adam that we knew and adored. The choice to air the show has been troublesome, yet we do this with the significant conviction that it will motivate others to look for help". Favreau additionally counseled individuals near Goldstein about whether the recording of him in "Iron Man 2" should in any case be utilized; they concurred consistently it ought to remain. Favreau said that following his demise, "there was never any uncertainty" the film would be committed to him. 

The DJ AM Memorial Fund, an association intended to help individuals battling with chronic drug use, was propelled in his memory. In November 2009, 800 sets of Goldstein's tennis shoes were recorded on eBay to raise assets for the association. In August 2010, the reserve made a gift to the Los Angeles' Phoenix House Academy to help recovery patients create melodic abilities. Goldstein's sister Lara, who established the reserve, kicked the bucket from malignant growth in May 2011. In August 2011, a few DJs paid tribute to Goldstein at the Vanity Nightclub in the Las Vegas Hard Rock Casino, helping fund-raise for the reserve. In May 2012, the eighth yearly MusiCares advantage show included an exceptional introduction celebrating the dispatch of the DJ AM Memorial Fund. Goldstein's mom, related to the store, was accounted for to help MusiCares in giving recuperation administrations to addicts. Moby deejayed at the occasion in tribute to Goldstein. 

Goldstein after death won DJ of the Year at the 2009 BET Hip Hop Awards. In October 2009 he was portrayed in the "South Park" scene "Dead Celebrities", alongside different famous people who passed on in mid-2009. Eminem, who about kicked the bucket from a methadone overdose in late 2007, paid tribute to Goldstein on the 2010 melody "Talkin' 2 Myself", rapping: "Rest in harmony to DJ AM/'cause I realize what it resembles/I battle with this poop each and every day." On the front of the 2011 Blink-182 collection, "Neighborhoods", "DJ AM" can be seen composed on one of the structures, as a dedication. Wolfgang Gartner and will.i.am pay tribute to DJ AM in their 2011 single "Always," which incorporates a snapshot of quiet for him. Macklemore specifies DJ AM in his 2016 tune "Street pharmacist," alongside a few other striking passings from medication use. 

Film of Goldstein and a few different famous people are highlighted in the narrative movies "Downtown Calling" (2009), and "Electric Daisy Carnival Experience" (2011). A narrative film about Goldstein titled "As I AM: The Life and Times of DJ AM", was declared at the EDMbiz Conference on June 20, 2013. The movie was coordinated by Kevin Kerslake and discharged in April 2015. Dennis Harvey of "Assortment" considered it an engaging narrative, however thought, "there are some eminent holes left in the pic's after death comprehension of DJ AM ... as its garish surface doesn't generally assist us with understanding the unadulterated imaginative soul he's delineated as here." 

With Crazy Town 

DJ Mixes 

Shows up on 

Creation 

Scratching 

Remixes