What You Waiting For? 

"What You Waiting For?" is a melody by American artist Gwen Stefani from her presentation solo studio collection, "Love. Holy messenger. Music. Infant." (2004). Composed by Stefani and Linda Perry, the melody is the collection's opening track and was discharged as Stefani's presentation solo single. "What You Waiting For?" subtleties Stefani's absence of motivation, dread of delivering the collection, just as her response to weights applied by her record name. It is essentially an electropop melody and presents Stefani's four back-up artists, the Harajuku Girls, who had a noteworthy contribution to the collection's generation. 

"What You Waiting For?" was discharged as the collection's lead single; as per Stefani, as a "clarification for doing the record". The melody was generally welcomed by faultfinders, and was as often as possible refered to as a feature of the collection. The single was financially fruitful, topping the outline in Australia and achieving the best 10 out of a few nations. It was confirmed gold in the United States, and was named for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 47th Grammy Awards. The tune has been remixed various occasions, and was secured by the independent musical crew Franz Ferdinand and vocalist Marina and the Diamonds. 

Amid the evening of the 2003 Grammy Awards, Perry constrained Stefani into a strangle hold, and requested that they were "going to compose melodies together!", to which Stefani reluctantly concurred. Before long, Stefani completed the Rock Steady Tour with her band No Doubt, and accepted a call from her mark, who educated her that Perry was in a studio prepared to team up, and that Perry "just [had] five days out of the entire year to work with [her]." Stefani has since conceded that she was disappointed by not having the capacity to see her better half Gavin Rossdale, and was threatened at the prospect of joint effort, specifically with Perry, who she didn't feel was fit the bill to compose move music. Stefani was depleted by the as of late finished visit, and in the blink of an eye subsequently endured a passionate breakdown, which she spent in bed crying. 

Amid their first day of work, the two composed a melody titled "Fine by You", which Stefani later depicted as "a dumb love tune, however great". Perry commented that the tune "wasn't right", and the track was rejected from the collection. The session was inefficient, due to some extent to Stefani's reluctance and a mental obstacle, and she at one phase separated in tears in the studio. Stefani has since conceded that composition melodies without her band individuals felt "embarrassing and scaring regardless of whether they're sweet and energized, in light of the fact that you're suffocating in their innovativeness". 

That night, Perry started take a shot at another track, which she played for Stefani the following day to spur her. Stefani was awed with the track, and Perry asked her, "What are you hanging tight for?" According to Perry, Stefani accepting the inquiry as a challenge, answering, "You're absolutely testing me, right?" The two started composing verses for the new wave-styled tune dependent on Stefani's mental obstacle and fears about making a performance record, and it developed into "What You Waiting For?" 

Stefani thought of the possibility of the Harajuku Girls while composing the melody. Stefani first observed the ladies of Harajuku, known for their novel style drawing from Gothic Lolita and cyberpunk design, in 1996 and had respected them since. She chose to specify them in the line "You Harajuku Girls, damn you got some devilish style", and the idea developed into a running subject on "Affection. Heavenly attendant. Music. Infant.", which ventured to highlight one melody named after and devoted to them. 

"What You Waiting For?" joins the class of electropop, new wave, move shake, and funk, and was made in like manner time and in the key of G minor. It is written in stanza tune structure, and its instrumentation gets from the guitar and electronic console. The tune opens with a passionate piano solo as a tribute to Stefani's time with No Doubt. The section starts at just 60 beats for each moment and bit by bit moderates, blended with hints of acclaim from the gathering of people. A beat set at 138 BPM starts, and Stefani rehashes the expression "tick-tock", ordinarily translated as a kind of perspective to her maternal clock and the weights she felt about creating the collection. 

Stefani makes a contention between melodious personas by rotating her vocal range and perspective. Stefani's vocal range traverses two octaves in the melody, from G to G. In a tune like that of Weezer's "Hash Pipe", one side of Stefani's identity sings in a higher range in the primary individual, and the other, progressively certain identity sings lower in the second individual. Amid the sections, the more apprehensive identity talks about her worries about leaving No Doubt for a performance profession just as the transient achievement of female vocalists in the music business. The ensemble is an increase in certainty for her and proceeds with the melody's time theme with the lines "Check the time presently/You're as yet an overly hot female". Upheld by impeccable octave dyads, Stefani sings a refrain about her energy for her future, and the two identities converge into one amid the coda. 

"What You Waiting For?" got positive surveys from faultfinders. Scratch Sylvester of "Pitchfork" gave the tune a solid audit, rating it four and a half stars, and marked it "screwing incredible". The site proceeded to rank the melody sixteenth on its rundown of the Top 50 Singles of 2004. RJ Smith of "Blender" noticed the melody's new wave impact by expressing that it could begin a recovery of Missing Persons, and Amy Linden of "The Village Voice" analyzed the "jazzed, warbling vocals" to those of Lene Lovich's 1981 tune "New Toy". Jason Damas from "PopMatters" was blended on the melody, calling the opening "ungainly" and the hold back "strangely idiotic", however contending that the tune "is so pointless and inept that it ends up being splendid; it claims to be simply party bubblegum and accomplishes its aesthetic criteria perfectly." "Inclination Magazine"s Sal Cinquemani concurred, expressing that "it's this mischievousness that helps make 'What You Waiting For' one of the most sultry 'landing' tunes ever". Richard Smirke of Playlouder found the track's generation "fresh" and "tense", and Jennifer Nine of "Dotmusic" called the melody "itchily compelling". Jemma Volp-Fletcher, composing for Contactmusic.com, evaluated the tune nine out of 10, remarking that it has "powerful business destroy and a tune to bite the dust for" and that the track "capitalizes on her indisputable vocal and mirrors that off-the-divider Stefani identity consummately." Natasha Tripney from "musicOMH" gave the melody a negative audit, expressing that "it'll become one of those tracks that is irritatingly infectious—however on this underlying tuning in, Ms Stefani's introduction solo exertion is out and out bothering." 

Numerous analysts considered the track one of the collection's features. "Excitement Weekly" faultfinder David Browne gave "Love. Heavenly attendant. Music. Infant." a C+ rating however called the track "one of the collection's verifiable highs". In its survey of the collection, Nick Sylvester of "Pitchfork" trusted that "we can't expect 12 additional cuts as close to home or dire as introduction single 'What You Waiting For'", while naming it "a standout amongst the best electro melodies this year". Lisa Haines of BBC Music expressed that it "emerges as the best track on the collection for the manner in which it pits raging beats against eager verses" and contrasted the tune with Goldfrapp's 2003 single "Exacting Machine". Eric Greenwood of "Cabinet B", who felt that the collection "flops on each dimension", likewise remarked that "on the off chance that this collection had even two additional melodies this quick and appealing, at that point I'd stick my neck out for it, yet, tragically, it's the main tune worth tuning in to." In 2009, "The Daily Telegraph" recorded the tune at number 82 on their rundown "100 tunes that characterized the Noughties." 

In the United States, "What You Waiting For?" appeared at number 93 on the "Board" Hot 100 on the issue dated October 16, 2004. It achieved a pinnacle of number 47 on November 27, 2004 and stayed on the graph for an aggregate of 20 weeks. The melody beat the Hot Dance Club Play diagram, however just had moderate accomplishment on the pop outlines, achieving number 17 on the Mainstream Top 40 and number 24 on the Adult Top 40. The melody was affirmed gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on February 25, 2005. Moreover, it was assigned for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 2005 Grammy Awards, however lost to Norah Jones' "Dawn". 

Somewhere else, the tune's gathering was more grounded. In Canada, it appeared in the main 40 on the Canadian Singles Chart before achieving number 24 in late January 2005. In the United Kingdom, "What You Waiting For?" appeared and crested at number four on the UK Singles Chart and stayed on the outline for 15 weeks. The single performed well crosswise over the greater part of the remainder of Europe, achieving the main five in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, and Norway, and the best 10 in Austria, Hungary, the Netherlands, and Sweden. 

In Australia, "What You Waiting For?" appeared on the ARIA Singles Chart on November 14, 2004 and remained there for about fourteen days. It stayed inside the best three through January 17, 2005 and dropped off the graph following 15 weeks. In 2014, the single was guaranteed twofold platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA). The tune achieved number three on New Zealand's RIANZ Singles Chart and gone through four months on the diagram. 

The tune's music video was coordinated by Francis Lawrence and delivered by Caleb Dewart of DNA Inc. The video manages the verses' topic of Stefani's look for motivation in songwriting. It opens with a long non-melodic area in which Stefani touches base in Los Angeles off of No Doubt's Rock Steady Tour. She gets a few calls from Interscope name head Jimmy Iovine, who endeavors to drive her forward with her performance debut venture, yet she answers that she is drained and deadened. After a fizzled studio endeavor, Stefani sees a flyer promoting help for a temporarily uncooperative mind. Upon entry she is approached to round out a suspicious poll, where the camera skillet to the inquiries which will be imperative. She is then informed that she will be charged when she is done. She requests elucidation just to find that she is as of now back in the studio without anyone else's input. At the point when Stefani gets a larger than usual pocket watch from the piano, a rabbit trinket that she had recently observed hops over the room. She tosses the watch at the trinket, making her fall back on her seat and wind up transported to a dreamland dependent on "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking-Glass". 

Stefani depicts a few characters from the books, including Alice, the White Queen, and the Red Queen, in dresses by British-Gibraltarian style creator John Galliano. The video much of the time reduces in the studio to demonstrate her singing and performing in semi-synchronization with her activities inside her dreamland. As this comes to pass the melody is recording itself. Stefani at last rediscovers her certainty, and her full mindfulness is transported back to the customary truth of the studio similarly as she moves before her four chuckling Harajuku Girls. She at that point is given her bill by the advisor as a wooden seat topples to the floor. 

There are four adaptations of the video. The full, long form is one moment longer than the "Making the Video" adaptation, while the cut variant discards the scenes in which she leaves the airplane terminal and is sluggish and in which she rounds out the poll. The short form starts with Stefani rehearsing on the piano and her finding the watch only seconds after that. Her being charged isn't appeared in this variant, so the video closes with the Harajuku Girls snickering at her execution. 

The music video was generally welcomed by numerous analysts. Sam Bloch from Stylus Magazine alluded to it as a short film, contrasting it with "Michael Jackson's Thriller", and remarked, "I murmur with profound respect and wish each video was this alive." The video appeared on MTV's "Complete Request Live" on October 19, 2004 at number 11. The next month it achieved the highest point of the graph and was there for three non-back to back days, staying more than five weeks on the program. At the 2005 MTV Video Music Awards, the video won the honor for Best Art Direction and was named for Best Editing. In Canada, it just achieved number 11 on the MuchMusic's "Commencement", however it stayed on the outline for about two months. At the 2005 MuchMusic Video Awards, the video was assigned for Best International Video yet lost to Usher's "Got up to speed". It won the honor for Best Dressed Video at the first MTV Australia Video Music Awards, and was additionally designated for Video of the Year and Best Pop Video. 

Stuart Price (otherwise called Jacques Lu Cont) made the most outstanding remix of the melody, titled the Thin White Duke Mix, which was incorporated on the CD single. The track, more than eight minutes in length, is conveyed by a guitar riff and periodic tolls. The remix got positive audits from music commentators. Aaron Mandel of Pitchfork named it "remarkable", and John M. Cunningham of Stylus Magazine expressed that it "blessed [the song] with a feeling of glory". DJ InVincible from About.com saw the remix as "ill humored and somewhat sleep inducing", remarking that it is "most appropriate for early-night sets". Armand Van Helden made two remixes, the Armand Van Helden Remix and the Armand Van Helden Dub, which utilize just a portion of the first vocals and another bassline developed with synthesizers and some electric guitar. Felix da Housecat made the Rude Ho Mix, which utilizes increasingly low register guitar and forgets the first foundation vocals by Mimi Parker until the last refrain. 

Alex Kapranos, guitarist and lead vocalist of Scottish outside the box musical crew Franz Ferdinand, wore a Gwen Stefani stick on a Members Only coat as a tribute to "What You Waiting For?". In December 2005, the band played out a spread form of the melody on Live Lounge, a portion of "The Jo Whiley Show" on BBC Radio 1. The spread incorporates the theme from Billy Idol's 1983 melody "White Wedding". In October 2006, the melody was discharged as a piece of the "Radio 1's Live Lounge" gathering, and the spread got blended audits. Jack Foley from IndieLondon called the track "totally crazy", expressing that it "truly must be heard to be trusted." "The Guardian"s Dorian Lynskey found the spread conceited, including that "one of Alex Kapranos' eyebrows [is] raised so high that it for all intents and purposes clears his head." 

Welsh non mainstream pop vocalist Marina and the Diamonds secured "What You Waiting For?" amid a portion of her initial live exhibitions in 2009. Mary Bellamy of Drowned in Sound alluded to her introduction collection "The Family Jewels" (2010) as "an all-encompassing collection length re-express" of "What You Waiting For?". 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Adoration. Heavenly attendant. Music. Child."