The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati 

"The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" is the second scene of the seventh period of the American sci-fi TV arrangement "The X-Files". It was coordinated by Michael Watkins and composed by lead performing artist David Duchovny and arrangement maker Chris Carter. The portion investigates the arrangement's larger folklore and closes a set of three of scenes rotating around Fox Mulder's (Duchovny) extreme response to an outsider ancient rarity. Initially disclosed by the Fox arrange on November 14, 1999, "The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" got a Nielsen rating of 10.1 and was seen by 16.15 million watchers. Beginning audits were blended, and the plot and discourse pulled in analysis. Later commentators saw the scene in a progressively positive light, and a few authors named it among the best in the arrangement. 

"The X-Files" focuses on Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) specialists Mulder and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson), who chip away at cases connected to the paranormal, called X-Files. Mulder is an adherent to the paranormal, and the suspicious Scully was at first alloted to expose his work, yet the two have built up a profound fellowship. In this scene, Scully comes back from Africa to find Mulder in a state of extreme lethargy prompted by introduction to shards from an outsider spaceship wreck. After Mulder vanishes from the medical clinic, Scully joins previous government representative Michael Kritschgau (John Finn) and her manager Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi) to look for him. In the interim, in a fantasy, The Smoking Man (William B. Davis) offers Mulder another life and a new beginning. Subsequent to deliberating with a dream of Scully, Mulder stirs from his extreme lethargies and understands his obligation to anticipate outsider colonization. 

Carter was keen on the likelihood that extraterrestrials were associated with antiquated mass eradications on Earth and utilized these subjects in the scene. A great part of the scene was additionally enlivened by Nikos Kazantzakis' tale "The Last Temptation of Christ", and a scene demonstrating an activity on Mulder has been specifically contrasted with the Crucifixion of Jesus. For the fantasy successions, throwing executive Rick Millikan brought back numerous performing artists and on-screen characters who had been missing from the show for quite a while, including Jerry Hardin as Deep Throat, Rebecca Toolan as Teena Mulder, and Megan Leitch as Samantha Mulder. 

In the 6th season finale "Biogenesis", FBI specialists Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) examine a stone recorded with Navajo composing found in Côte d'Ivoire. While inspecting it in Washington, D.C., Mulder hears ringing sounds and endures a few cerebral pains. He swings to Agent Diana Fowley (Mimi Rogers), his previous love enthusiasm, for help before his psychological wellness quickly crumbles and he is exchanged to a mental medical clinic. In the mean time, Scully heads to New Mexico to ask a withering Albert Hosteen (Floyd Red Crow Westerman) to interpret what is on the stone: he finds that the thing incorporates entries from the Bible, and a guide of the human genome. 

In the seventh season debut "The Sixth Extinction", Scully voyages to Côte d'Ivoire and finds an outsider spaceship wreck. After Scully looks at the shards, she starts to trust that they hold the way to the majority of life's secrets. In the mean time, Mulder slips into a trance like state, and Assistant Director Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi) enrolls the assistance of previous Department of Defense operator Michael Kritschgau (John Finn) to figure out what's going on with Mulder. The two find that while Mulder's condition has made him lethargic, it has given him clairvoyant forces. Scully, working in Africa, witnesses a few bizarre occasions identifying with the disaster area before coming back to Washington. 

Teena Mulder (Rebecca Toolan) and The Smoking Man (William B. Davis) visit Mulder, who is incapacitated in an emergency clinic. In the wake of managing a medication that fixes his loss of motion, The Smoking Man uncovers himself to be Mulder's dad and takes him from the emergency clinic. In the interim, Kritschgau visits Scully and claims that Mulder's contact with the shard of an outsider spaceship has stirred the extraterrestrial dark oil with which he was tainted three years beforehand; on the grounds that he is contaminated with the infection, Mulder is confirmation of outsider life. Skinner, who has been searching for Mulder, discloses to Scully that Mulder's mom marked him out of the emergency clinic. The Smoking Man takes Mulder to a new neighborhood; inside another home, he discovers his previous source Deep Throat (Jerry Hardin). Profound Throat professes to have faked his own passing to get away from the weight he was under by being a piece of the Syndicate, and he proposes that Mulder would now be able to do likewise. Mulder meets Fowley, and the two engage in sexual relations. 

On the clinic security tapes, Scully observes Mulder's mom conversing with The Smoking Man however is unfit to get in touch with her. Scully gets a bundle containing a book on Native American convictions, which depicts how one man will keep the looming end times. Again visiting Kritschgau, she sees he has a stolen duplicate of her data on the outsider spaceship. After he concedes hacking her PC, she erases the records from his workstation. 

Mulder is brought together with his sister Samantha (Megan Leitch) in his new life. He weds Fowley and they have kids. The years pass rapidly; he becomes more seasoned and Fowley bites the dust. Mulder is uncovered to dream everything: in actuality he is in an administration office being tended to by specialists while The Smoking Man and Fowley watch. The Smoking Man is getting ready to have segments of Mulder's cranial tissue—which have been contaminated and enacted in light of the outsider infection—embedded into himself. Amid the activity, The Smoking Man concedes that he trusts that Mulder has turned into an outsider human cross breed, and that by taking Mulder's hereditary material only he will endure the coming outsider assault. 

Mulder turns into an elderly person in his fantasy, joined by an unaging Smoking Man who reveals to him that Fowley, Deep Throat, Samantha and Scully have all kicked the bucket. The Smoking Man watches out the window, uncovering an outsider holocaust. Back in all actuality, Alex Krycek (Nicholas Lea) murders Kritschgau, consumes his papers, and takes his PC. Scully, having prior been visited by the soul of Albert Hosteen who persuades her to supplicate, stirs in her loft to find that somebody has slipped a security card under her entryway. Utilizing it, she enters the office where Mulder is being held. In Mulder's fantasy, Scully meets him at his bedside and persuades him to break with his fanciful life. Truly, Scully discovers Mulder and the two departure the office. After seven days Scully meets Mulder at his loft and discloses to him that Fowley was discovered killed. Mulder trusts that, amid his difficulty, Scully filled in as his "touchstone". 

"The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" was composed by Duchovny and "The X-Files" maker Chris Carter, making it Duchovny's second on-screen composing credit, after the 6th season scene "The Unnatural". He had beforehand co-built up the second-season finale "Anasazi" with Carter, and had gotten a teleplay credit for the third-season scenes "Symbol" and "Talitha Cumi". Duchovny chipped away at his part of the content while Carter composed the season debut, "The Sixth Extinction". Carter at that point added his outstanding parts to Duchovny's content in the wake of completing his work on the past scene. The slogan that shows up in the opening credits for this scene is "love fati". This is a Latin expression alluding to the "affection for destiny", which is a vital idea in the philosophical works of Friedrich Nietzsche. With regards to the scene, the caption has been translated by author Charlton McIlwain in his book "When Death Goes Pop: Death, Media & the Remaking of Community" as a source of perspective to the adoration for a foreordained life, for this situation, Mulder's fantasy. In her book "We Want to Believe", Amy Donaldson proposes the expression implies that Mulder must "love his torment and inactively acknowledge it [and] effectively grasp his journey ... also, discharge his soul to discover new life." 

Mulder's fantasy and choices in "The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" are reminiscent of Jesus' activities in Nikos Kazantzakis' tale "The Last Temptation of Christ". Duchovny, a devotee of the book, discovered parallels between its focal story and Mulder's difficulty and consolidated a large number of the novel's ideas into the scene. In "The Last Temptation of Christ", Jesus is torn between his higher calling as the child of God and his craving towards his own humankind. Duchovny was attracted to the way that Christ's battle in the novel was "exceptional, yet in addition significantly human" and utilized this layout for Mulder; in the arrangement, Mulder is foreordained towards more noteworthy things—for this situation, ceasing the approaching outsider intrusion—yet he additionally wants to have a typical, human life. Duchovny noted: "Mulder is a person who's been given a similar issue [as Jesus]. What I'm doing is utilizing the exceptionally human model of Christ". Duchovny forewarned that he was not attempting to make Mulder into a Christ-like friend in need figure but instead "an everyman". Official maker Frank Spotnitz portrayed the idea as a hazard, however Duchovny felt that this investigation of Mulder's character was vital. 

A few of the lines in the scene demonstrated troublesome for the two fans and cast individuals to grasp. Fans did not promptly acknowledge that The Smoking Man was Mulder's dad. Davis, who depicted The Smoking Man, noticed that fans did not trust the disclosure since "part of its persona was that everyone had their very own concept of what was happening." The discourse in the scene demonstrated troublesome for Anderson to exhibit conceivably. She was vexed that her character was contending against the presence of extraterrestrials, when in the past scene her character had experienced an outsider wreck. When she conversed with Carter, she said that she didn't "know whether [she could] do this any longer" since her character was contending against data that had been affirmed in the initial two pieces of the scene. Carter clarified that there must be strife among Mulder and Scully for the show's "devotee versus cynic" dynamic to work legitimately. 

The segments of the scene about the outsider shard and Mulder's clairvoyant capacities suggest the antiquated space explorer hypothesis, which recommends that wise extraterrestrial creatures visited Earth and reached people in days of yore or ancient times. Spotnitz was astounded that the show got couple of objections, despite the fact that the "Biogenesis"/"The Sixth Extinction"/"Love Fati" story curve intensely proposed that outsiders built up the thoughts of God and religion. He commended the way in which the show dealt with this subject, saying, "Frequently previously, we've done stuff where I was certain we would get irate letters. In any case, we once in a while do. Also, the reason is a result of the manner in which we handle things. In 'Love Fati' we treated the religious side [of the story] with deference." Spotnitz later distinguished the blend of science and religion as "a combination of science and supernatural quality, of outsiders and religion, that we're beginning to create. It's purposeful on our part, to help unite every one of the folklores into one story line." The old space explorer topics were returned to in two season nine scenes: "Provenance" and "Fortune". 

"The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" highlights various performing artists and on-screen characters who had not showed up on the show for a few years, including Hardin as Deep Throat, Rebecca Toolan as Teena Mulder, and Megan Leitch as Samantha Mulder. Hardin had last showed up in the fourth-season scene "Thoughts of a Cigarette Smoking Man" amid a flashback succession, and Toolan's latest job was in the second portion of the 6th season scene "Lala land". Similarly, Leitch—who depicted Samantha as a grown-up—had acted in the second piece of the fifth-season opener "Revival". Milikan and the makers experienced troubles when throwing the kid whom Mulder meets on the shoreline in his fantasy. Initially, they cast the offspring of arrangement maker Paul Rabwin's neighbor, yet youngster work laws managed a breaking point on his day by day working hours, so twin young men were cast to enable the scenes to be shot in a solitary day. 

"The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" is the arrangement's last scene to include Mimi Rogers as Agent Fowley. Subsequent to perusing a duplicate of the content, Rogers understood that her character was going to bite the dust before she achieved the completion. The content incorporated an expansive part for Fowley, which Rogers portrayed as "by a wide margin the most [she] needed to do in a scene." She later clarified, "It struck me [while I was perusing the script], oh dear, this is excessively great. I have an excessive amount to do. They're going to slaughter me." 

Davis was satisfied with the scene, and he expressed: "For me the scene was fabulous to play since they wound up making the Cigarette Smoking Man fairly harder. We have seen such a great amount of delicate quality in him; it was extraordinary to play that extreme side." With that stated, he portrayed the scene in which he was tied to a surgical table with Mulder as "absolutely awkward", later clowning that "the main upside of that was that the creator [Duchovny] was lying directly adjacent to me, feeling similarly awkward. I wonder if David would have composed it that way in the event that he had comprehended what he would need to experience." 

Most of the scene—like the remainder of seasons six, seven, eight and nine—was taped in Los Angeles, California. The lodging network in Mulder's fantasy was taped in a "princely segment" among Malibu and Pacific Palisades. The scene in which The Smoking Man opens a window, uncovering a prophetically catastrophic outsider scene, utilized an extraordinary set and a matte painting foundation. Different embellishments, for example, blasts, were taped independently, and the pieces were carefully composited to make the last scene. A scene in which Mulder watched himself age was likewise shot, yet was cut for obscure reasons. 

The scene depicts Mulder as a Christ-like figure. As researchers probe him, he is put on a cross-like table, which has been translated to be representative of the cross to which Jesus was nailed. Mulder wears a metal ring around his head, like the scriptural crown of thistles. Donaldson takes note of that The Smoking Man's recommendation to Mulder to spare himself echoes what observers told Jesus as he dangled from the cross. She draws parallels between Mulder's status as the "friend in need" of humankind—as a result of his resistance from the outsider contamination—and Jesus, whom Christians love as mankind's rescuer. 

Donaldson, in her paper "The Last Temptation of Mulder", composes that in Kazantzakis' tale Jesus "speaks to what is the most extreme human test, that of discharging the godlikeness inside from its natural limits." along these lines, the Jesus of "The Last Temptation of Christ" speaks to "absolute humankind" and the "battle between the soul and the substance". Mulder is likewise tested when he is allured by The Smoking Man, and defeats enticement by surrendering his fantasy life and grasping his predetermination to stop the outsider intrusion. A few characters in the scene take after those in the novel. For example, Fowley is like Kazantzakis' adaptation of Mary Magdalene—the two characters "foil the mission" of the legend. Scully parallels Kazantzakis' variant of Judas Iscariot, as they both get the legends out of their particular stupors. 

As indicated by McIlwain, the scene speaks to the arrangement's definitive "blend of science, religion, and power". It is one of only a handful couple of scenes in which Scully sets aside her exact thinking to spare Mulder's life. Scully, speaking to the more levelheaded one "who must stay herself in the conviction of logical realities", finds the outsider shards and derives that they hold the way to "each inquiry that has ever been inquired". Mulder, then again, speaks to the person who "looks for reality among a domain of conceivable outcomes excessively awesome and past the domain of logical legitimacy" and has the required apparatus—his insusceptibility—to tackle the riddle. The scene additionally investigates the ethical side of The Smoking Man and his liking for malevolence. Kenneth Silber of Space.com takes note of that The Smoking Man's "alluring blandishments affirm he is a profoundly unsafe enemy, one whose Machiavellian innovativeness verges on the Satanic." Timothy Dunn and Joseph J. Foy note in "Moral Musings on a Cigarette Smoking Man" that The Smoking Man's underhanded deeds have little to do with his central goal in the Syndicate, rather mirroring his craving for "totally unwarranted" abhorrent. The two refer to his line "Aren't you anticipating that me should grow vampire teeth?" as proof that The Smoking Man knows about his wrongdoings however calmly disregards them. 

"The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" initially circulated in the United States on the Fox organize on November 14, 1999, and was first communicated in the United Kingdom on Sky1 on March 26, 2000. In the U.S., the scene was viewed by 16.15 million watchers and positioned as the 27th-most watched scene of any arrangement on system TV for the week finishing November 14. It earned a Nielsen family unit rating of 10.1, with a 14 share. Nielsen appraisals are gathering of people estimation frameworks that decide the group of onlookers size and piece of TV programming in the U.S. This implies generally 10.1 percent of all TV prepared families, and 14 percent of families staring at the TV, were viewing the scene. In the U.K., "The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" was seen by 840,000 viewers, making it the channel's third-most watched program for that week after scenes of "The Simpsons" and "Companions". On May 13, 2003, the scene was discharged on DVD as a major aspect of the total seventh season. After two years, the scene was incorporated on "The X-Files Mythology, Volume 3 – Colonization", a DVD gathering that contains scenes including the outsider pilgrims. 

Starting audits of the scene were blended. After the scene circulated, Silber was frustrated in its goals, expressing, "This scene adroitly joins surrealism and a feeling of approaching peak—possibly to sputter out in dissatisfaction when not a lot gets settled toward the end." He rejected "Mulder's one-week recuperation from his shocking trial" as "effortless and unconvincing". He wrote that Mulder's fantasy gave "believable knowledge into the openings of his agitated identity". "The X-Files" specialist and autonomous commentator Sarah Stegall granted the scene a three out of five score after the scene circulated. She contended that, in the scene, Mulder "isn't a saint however an injured individual" which makes him "pitiable, not chivalrous". Tom Kessenich, in his 2002 book "Examinations: An Unauthorized Look at Seasons 6– 9 of the X-Files", gave the scene a positive audit, taking note of that the "Duchovny-wrote last scene is flawless in exhibiting the excellence and intensity of Mulder and Scully's developing relationship." He regarded Mulder's fantasy groupings "motivated TV" and felt that the scene left itself open to understanding. In the October 2000 issue of "Cinefantastique", author Paula Vitaris gave the scene a blended survey, granting it two stars out of four. She scrutinized the reusing of the "one accomplice lies out cold while different goes around attempting to discover a fix" storyline, yet she was progressively positive towards Mulder's dream, calling it outwardly "delightful". 

Later surveys of the scene would in general observe the portion in an increasingly positive light. Robert Shearman and Lars Pearson, in their 2009 book "Needing to Believe: A Critical Guide to The X-Files, Millennium and The Lone Gunmen", appraised the scene four stars out of five. They expressed that the portion "commences the seventh season with extraordinary style", turning into an "arousing weep for the last leg of the race". The two making the most of its "genuine energy", which they felt folklore overwhelming scenes generally needed. In 2012, Todd VanDerWerff of "The A.V. Club" evaluated the scene a "B", yet censured the composition, calling it "extremely purple writing" and Carter's most "exhausted content since the greatness days of 'The Blessing Way'." He was additionally reproachful of the "completely terrible" make-up used to change Duchovny into an elderly person. Despite his cynicism towards the composition, plot, and make-up, VanDerWerff said that he genuinely "enjoy[ed] the two parts of 'The Sixth Extinction' all the equivalent" in spite of calling it "entertainingly terrible [and] unbelievably ridiculous". He complimented the scene in which The Smoking Man watched out onto the outsider end times, considering it a "quite great TV impacts achievement". 

Since its unique airing, faultfinders have recorded "The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati" among the best "X-Files" scenes. Kessenich named the section thirteenth in his rundown of the best 25 "The X-Files" scenes. Nook of Geek essayist Nina Sordi named the portion—as a set of three with "Biogenesis" and "The Sixth Extinction"— the fifth-best scene of the arrangement, composing that, "it is apparent that as ["The X-Files"] advanced, the scenes encompassing those storylines and the limits Mulder and Scully suffered push them further and further towards aggregate, irreversible annihilation. This is particularly strong when seeing this uneasiness instigating trio of scenes." Matt Champlin of "The Post-Standard" named the scene the ninth best of the arrangement. Monica S. Kuebler of "Shout!" called "The Sixth Extinction", alongside "Biogenesis" and "Love Fati", a standout amongst the best scenes of the show's "colonization" stage. Michael Liedtke and George Avalos, composing for the "Contra Costa Times", expressed that the last scene with Mulder and Scully was a standout amongst the most "delicate minutes" in which they didn't kiss. "Diversion Weekly" named a similar scene one of 25 "Incredible TV 'I Love You's'" , proclaiming that it "left [viewers] with goosebumps".