Sanctuary Sinai (Oakland, California) 

Sanctuary Sinai (formally the First Hebrew Congregation of Oakland) is a Reform synagogue situated at 2808 Summit Street (28th and Webster Streets) in Oakland, California, United States. Established in 1875, it is the most seasoned Jewish assemblage in the East San Francisco Bay district. 

Its initial individuals included Gertrude Stein and Judah Leon Magnes, who learned at Temple Sinai's Sabbath school, and Ray Frank, who instructed them. Initially conventional, the sanctuary improved its convictions and practices under the authority of Rabbi Marcus Friedlander (1893– 1915). By 1914, it had turned into a Classical Reform assemblage. That year the present asylum was constructed: a Beaux-Arts structure planned by G. Albert Lansburgh, which is the most seasoned synagogue working in Oakland. 

The gathering endured four noteworthy money related emergencies by 1934. From that point until 2011, it was driven by only three rabbis, William Stern (1934– 1965), Samuel Broude (1966– 1989), and Steven Chester (1989– 2011). 

In 2006 Temple Sinai set out on a $15 million capital battle to build an altogether new synagogue grounds adjoining its present haven. Pivotal occurred in October 2007, and by late 2009 the assembly had raised nearly $12 million towards the development. Starting at 2015, Temple Sinai had about 1,000 part families. The rabbis were Jacqueline Mates-Muchin and Yoni Regev, and the cantor was Ilene Keys. The synagogue has two emeritus rabbis, Samuel Broude and Steven Chester. 

Established in 1875 as the First Hebrew Congregation of Oakland, Temple Sinai is the most established synagogue in the East Bay district of the San Francisco Bay Area. It became out of Oakland's Hebrew Benevolent Society, which had been sorted out in 1862 by eighteen traders and retailers from a few outside nations—prevalently Polish Jews from Poznan. Albeit Hebrew Benevolent Societies regularly stopped tasks upon the establishing of a synagogue, Oakland's was strange in proceeding to work autonomously for various years (the two gatherings did not converge until 1881). 

By 1876, the assembly had acquired arrive on the south side of fourteenth and Webster roads; notwithstanding, because of an extreme retreat in California at the time, the gathering did not develop a structure until 1878. The wooden structure, with Moorish Revival components and onion arches, was finished at an expense of around $8,000 (today $). 

Administrations were at first conventional, after the Polish ceremony. People sat independently, however the "mehitza" isolating them was before long discarded. In 1881 the new president, David Hirschberg, drove a battle to modernize, and persuaded a little lion's share to present various changes, including the expansion of a blended choir of Christians and Jews and organ music, and the evacuation of the necessity for a "minyan". Conventionalists—who for the most part originated from the Hebrew Benevolent Society—questioned and pulled back, shaping their own Orthodox "minyan", which in the long run turned into Oakland's Congregation Beth Jacob. 

In 1881, the gathering procured Oakland's first rabbi, Meyer Solomon Levy. Conceived in England in January 1852 and raised there, he was the child of Rabbi Solomon Levy of Borough Synagogue in London. Meyer Solomon Levy had been appointed in England as an Orthodox rabbi before he was twenty, and moved to Australia as a young fellow. An early supporter of Zionism, he had filled in as a rabbi in Melbourne before moving to California in 1872 or 1873, where he filled in as the rabbi of Temple Emanu-El (at that point Bickur Cholim) in San Jose. Duty was paid $100 per month (today $), and gave a rate to poor people. 

Duty collided with Oakland's state funded schools, which wouldn't pardon Jewish understudies on High Holy Days. He appealed to that they be pardoned, however the director and region went much further, and coordinated educators not to plan examinations for those days. Albeit touchy to the necessities of the individuals, Levy was more perceptive than his gatherers, which likewise prompted strife. He acknowledged the changes of shortening the "Shabbat" administrations, and confronting the assemblage (instead of the ark) amid supplication, however he effectively opposed endeavors to receive Isaac Mayer Wise's 1885 ""Minhag" America" Prayer-Book. 

Albeit conventional somehow or another, Levy was dynamic in others. "Profoundly influenced by the illuminated soul of his day", as per history specialist Fred Rosenbaum, he "conveyed addresses with titles, for example, 'Advancement of Science' and, while at the First Hebrew Congregation, he welcomed Oakland's Unitarian clergyman to give a progression of talks at the synagogue. Toll thusly was generally welcomed at the Unitarian Church, where he talked on the hypothesis of advancement." 

In 1885, the synagogue burned to the ground, despite the fact that the Torah scrolls were spared by a devotee who entered the consuming structure to recover them. Duty tried massive endeavors to raise assets for another structure, going as far away as Vancouver. The synagogue's female individuals likewise raised critical assets through an "Excellent Fair". Their joined endeavors were effective, and by 1886 another structure had been raised at thirteenth and Clay avenues. The structure had "Moorish components propelled by Isaac Mayer Wise's Plum Street Temple in Cincinnati". 

The pressures between liberal-disapproved of individuals and the conventional Levy were never settled, and in 1891, the rabbi moved to San Francisco's Congregation Beth Israel. That year the ladies of the assemblage framed the Ladies Auxiliary (Temple Sisterhood), whose underlying command was to help crafted by the synagogue's Sunday school, and increment its enlistment. 

Amid Levy's residency, the synagogue had a few believers who were celebrated, or would turn out to be so. Beam Frank, the primary Jewish lady to lecture formally from a podium in the United States, settled in Oakland around 1885, and instructed Hebrew Bible investigations and Jewish history at First Hebrew Congregation's Sabbath school, where she was administrator. Her understudies there during the 1880s included Gertrude Stein, later to turn into a popular author, and Judah Leon Magnes, who might turn into an unmistakable Reform rabbi. Magnes' perspectives on the Jewish individuals were emphatically affected by First Hebrew's Rabbi Levy, and it was at the structure on thirteenth and Clay that Magnes initially started lecturing—his Jewish right of passage discourse of 1890 was cited finally in "The Oakland Tribune". 

Morris Sessler succeeded Levy as rabbi in 1892. He had served at Congregation of the Sons of Israel and David in Providence, Rhode Island, from 1887 to 1892. His residency kept going just a half year, as "his thoughts did not blend with those of the assemblage". He moved toward becoming rabbi of Congregation Gates of Prayer in New Orleans that equivalent year, where he served until 1904. 

The gathering enlisted Marcus Friedlander of Congregation Baith Israel in Brooklyn, New York in 1893. Not long after he was employed, California encountered another financial downturn, which hurt the funds of individuals from the gathering. The gathering sold its property at thirteenth and Clay (which had turned into the core of the business locale) in 1895, and moved to a more affordable area at the northwest corner of twelfth and Castro boulevards, and revamped the structure there in 1896. More than 500 individuals, the two Jews and non-Jews, were protected in the structure for quite a long time after the 1906 San Francisco seismic tremor. The synagogue had 95 individuals by 1907, with yearly incomes of $6,000 (today $). 

Friedlander and previous gathering president Abraham Jonas induced the assembly to present various huge changes in the administration: they initially embraced the Jastrow petition book, and later the Reform development's "Association Prayer Book" (however in an updated, less extreme adaptation distributed explicitly for First Hebrew, and approved by the Central Conference of American Rabbis). By 1908, the assemblage had wiped out the second day of "Rosh Hashanah", and couple of men wore head covers in the administration, and by 1914 the gathering had moved totally to the radicalism of "Traditional Reform". 

In 1910, First Hebrew purchased a great deal on Telegraph Avenue at Sycamore Street, close 26th Street, for $28,000 (today $), and sold its property at twelfth and Castro for a similar sum. The assembly, in any case, chose not to work there. In 1912 it found a superior area, and obtained its present website at 28th and Webster for $12,050 (today $). Weighty occurred on October 26, 1913, and the structure was finished there in 1914 at an expense of $100,000 (today $). Fourteen thousand dollars (today $) of the expenses were raised by the Ladies Auxiliary, which additionally bought another Austin pipe organ for the asylum at an expense of $5,000 (today $). The new structure was designated "Sanctuary Sinai", and from that point the assemblage itself wound up known as "Sanctuary Sinai", in spite of the fact that it held the official name of "First Hebrew Congregation of Oakland". 

Structured by noted American designer G. Albert Lansburgh, the Beaux-Arts structure had six tall recolored glass windows, a "circular vault", and a passage described by "agile Corinthian segments supporting a Greco-Roman porch". Cut into the entablature over the passageway was the Biblical refrain (). More unobtrusive in size than most Beaux-Arts structures, it all things considered had highlights run of the mill of that style, including its "cross-hub creation". Be that as it may, it was enhanced with "less complex materials, for example, squeezed block and cut wood", as opposed to the standard thing "flowery Classical plan components". Alongside the haven, the structure incorporated a social lobby and study halls. It is the main case of Lansburgh's work in Oakland, and one of around 150 Oakland structures given "An" or "Most astounding Importance" rating by the Oakland Cultural Heritage Survey, which means "exceptional design model or outrageous chronicled significance". The structure has a status code of "3S" in the California Historical Resource Information System database, demonstrating that it "seems qualified for the National Register of Historic Places" (NRHP). 

The episode of World War I, and the expenses of the new home loan, set a huge monetary strain on the individuals, and in 1915 they chose to discharge Friedlander from his agreement. Sanctuary Sinai procured Harvey B. Franklin as rabbi in 1917, however his residency there was just two years. Amid his term, the congregational school held classes two times every week, and had 285 understudies and 8 instructors. Franklin next served at Bickur Cholim in San Jose—the assemblage from which Temple Sinai's first rabbi, Myer Solomon Levy, had come. 

In the wake of abandoning a rabbi for an additional two years, in 1921 Temple Sinai contracted Rudolph I. Espresso, an Oakland local and cousin of Judah Leon Magnes. Espresso was blunt, and enthusiastically pushed liberal causes: he upheld demilitarization, anti-conception medication, and partition of chapel and state, and contradicted restriction, discrimination against Jews, and Tammany Hall. Alongside other nearby rabbis Jacob Nieto and Jacob Weinstein, he requested the arrival of work pioneers and charged planes Thomas Mooney and Warren Billings. He additionally bolstered California's necessary disinfection of the rationally sick and rationally impeded, and eugenicist E. S. Gosney's backing on this issue. 

Espresso was associated with the California State Prison System, and amid his residency at Temple Sinai he was leader of the Jewish Committee of Personal Service, a California-wide association that "tended to Jews in state jails". In January 1924, California's senator designated Coffee to the State Board of Charities and Corrections, which was in charge of managing California's state detainment facilities. 

In 1931, Coffee restricted California enactment proposed to manage the legitimate nourishment industry and preclude fake cases that sustenances were fit. In a letter to state representative E.H. Christian he expressed: 

I am unalterably restricted to this bill since Judaism need not call upon the State to settle its own interior issues. We are beginning a hazardous point of reference in California which can just prompt fiendishness consequences.Four years back you helped with keeping an expansion of "wine rabbis." The law in respect to holy wine was appropriately encompassed, and California Jews don't endure the disfavor which eastern brethren feel.This will bring a "meat rabbi" into reality. New York state has this fit law but then it didn't keep the horrible outrage which was revealed a month ago in New York City. Utilize your best impact to avoid it.If Judaism has insufficient inward assets to meet present day conditions, the sooner it passes away the better. 

In spite of Coffee's resistance, the enactment was established. 

Espresso's support, and Temple Israel's budgetary insecurity, in the long run added to his rejection from Temple Sinai in 1933; while the participation was encountering money related trouble because of the Great Depression, Coffee was upholding higher pay rates for government representatives. In the wake of leaving Temple Sinai, he progressed toward becoming clergyman at San Quentin State Prison. 

In 1934, Temple Sinai employed William M. Stern (initially Sternheser) as rabbi. A San Francisco local and child of an Orthodox rabbi, he had been influenced by Rabbi Martin Meyer of the Reform Congregation Emanu-El to go to Hebrew Union College (HUC), where Stern got his appointment. He filled in as rabbi at various Southern and Midwestern synagogues during the 1920s and mid 1930s. 

Significantly less formal than his antecedent Coffee, Stern was viewed as a poker-playing, stogie smoking "customary person", and he concentrated on fighting the spread of discrimination against Jews. His better half Rae was likewise exceptionally dynamic in the assembly. She instructed at the synagogue's Hebrew school, and drove the sisterhood. 

Albeit initially against Zionist, Stern's perspectives changed during the 1940s, and by 1942 he was emphatically upheld Jewish patriotism. At the point when an Oakland part of the counter Zionist American Council for Judaism shaped in 1944, Stern restricted its creation, despite the fact that numerous individuals, including its leader, were driving individuals from Temple Sinai. By 1948, be that as it may, the assembly had likewise turned out to be strong of Zionism. 

Amid Stern's residency Temple Sinai extended its offices, including a religious school building, workplaces, and a church in 1947– 1948, and moving the fundamental access to Summit Street. The principle building's inside was additionally altogether rebuilt, beside the asylum. The assembly likewise fabricated the Temple House (called Covenant Hall), in 1950. The next year the synagogue put on a presentation called "Expressions in real life", "that included stone workers, weavers, producers, ceramists, and others." The occasion's chief asked writer, craftsman and workmanship faultfinder Weldon Kees to jury a show of canvases; Kees wound up finding the compositions too. At the point when the Temple's board saw the chose works, they didn't need show every one of them, yet submitted after "a solid challenge". 

In 1965, the assembly purchased land in Oakland Hills, foreseeing a future move. In December of that year Stern passed on startlingly. Following his demise, Temple Sinai held for a long time a yearly Stern Lecture arrangement in his memory. 

In 1966, the assemblage procured Samuel Broude as rabbi. An alum of the University of Chicago, in the late 1940s he had worked in Pasadena at a Reconstructionist synagogue, as low maintenance cantor and Hebrew instructor, and afterward in the mid 1950s as cantor of Reform University Synagogue of Los Angeles. In the wake of finishing his rabbinic preparing, he wound up partner rabbi at Congregation Ansche Chesed in Cleveland, where he served under Rabbi Arthur Lelyveld for a long time before coming to Temple Sinai. 

Like Temple Sinai's past rabbis, Broude enthusiastically bolstered liberal causes, contradicting U.S. inclusion in the Vietnam War, and partaking in walks amid the Civil Rights Movement. In spite of the fact that he was a Reform rabbi, he had gone to an Orthodox "yeshiva" as a kid, and religiously he was from various perspectives more customary than his ancestors. He re-brought custom into the synagogue, however more argumentatively restricted intermarriage. His prompt antecedent, Stern, had directed at intermarriages "under specific conditions". Broude at first did as such too, under "special conditions" (for example on the off chance that the lady of the hour were pregnant). His position later solidified, and he would not perform such relational unions under any conditions. He even wouldn't permit different rabbis who would do as such direct at intermarriages at Temple Sinai. The issue inevitably went to a congregational vote in 1972, which upheld Broude, in spite of the fact that the discussion was never totally settled. 

Broude was, in any case, not contradicted to every single religious advancement. Under his administration, Temple Sinai started holding month to month expressive arts exhibitions as a feature of the Friday night administration, instead of the standard lesson. In December 1970, the Temple's expressive arts advisory group dispatched a unique move work from Anna Halprin and her multi-racial move troupe. For the following two months Broude met week by week with Halprin, instructing her in regards to the Friday night supplications. The finished work, titled "Kadosh", incorporated a candlelight vigil, and artists tearing their garments and yelling inquiries at Broude that reframed the great inquiry concerning God and The Holocaust regarding the Vietnam War: "In what capacity can there be a God in the event that He permits all the enduring of the Vietnam War to proceed?" The execution caused energetic reactions from the assemblage; as per Broude "I don't have the foggiest idea in the event that anybody was nonpartisan. Half idea it was awesome, half idea it was horrendous!" 

Broude additionally contended that the gathering ought to stay in downtown Oakland, and in 1975, persuaded them to remain. He resigned in 1989, the year the structures endure the Loma Prieta quake. After his retirement from Temple Sinai he stayed dynamic, filling in at synagogues for the most part in the Bay Area, and educating. He additionally composed a collection of memoirs, and a small time show dependent on it called "Tuning in for the Voice", which he performed at various East Bay synagogues, including, in 2009, at Temple Sinai. 

Steven Chester, an alum of UCLA, and appointed by HUC in 1971, progressed toward becoming rabbi in 1989. He had recently filled in as rabbi of Temple Beth Israel in Jackson, Michigan, from 1971 to 1976, and Temple Israel in Stockton, California, from 1976 to 1989, where he was additionally an assistant educator in the Religious Studies division of the University of the Pacific. Chester included a pre-school and grown-up instruction projects to the administrations offered by the synagogue, and upheld the assembly's arrival to progressively conventional works on, including the re-presentation of Hebrew into the administration. He additionally proceeded with his forerunners' energy for social equity, taking up causes "from upholding for nearby reasonable lodging and medicinal services for the disappointed to supporting ladies' conceptive rights and challenging the massacre in Darfur." In 2006, Chester was casted a ballot Reader's Choice for "Pastor/Rabbi/Imam with the Biggest Heart" in the "East Bay Express". 

The synagogue endure the Oakland Firestorm of 1991 for the most part sound, in spite of the fact that various gatherers lost their homes. Participation was over 640 families by 1993. In 1994, the gathering again essentially renovated the inside of the principle building, beside the asylum. In December of that year, the structure was assigned a Historic Property by the City of Oakland. 

Sanctuary Sinai has had three partner or right hand rabbis since 1998. Andrea Berlin joined the synagogue as its first right hand rabbi in 1998, in the wake of being appointed at HUC in Cincinnati. From 2006 to 2008, she additionally served on the leading group of the Jewish Family and Children's Services of the East Bay. Suzanne Singer joined Temple Sinai in 2003, subsequent to moving on from HUC in Los Angeles. Prior to turning into a rabbi, Singer had for two decades been a maker of TV projects and documentaries, winning two Emmy Awards. In 2005 she ended up between time rabbi of Temple Beth El of Riverside, California, and later its lasting rabbi. Jacqueline Mates-Muchin, a San Francisco local, moved on from HUC in New York in 2002. She is the primary Chinese-American rabbi on the planet. In the wake of filling in as an associate rabbi in Buffalo, New York, she joined Temple Sinai in 2005. 

To suit the vast number of individuals going to on the High Holy Days, since 2001 Temple Sinai has held its principle High Holy Day administrations at Oakland's NRHP-recorded Art Deco Paramount Theater. While despite everything it holds littler High Holy Day benefits in the asylum at 2808 Summit Street, the fundamental administrations at the Paramount fill the whole 1,800 seats on the mezzanine of the theater, and the majority of the 1,200 seats in the gallery. 

In 2006, the gathering set out on a battle to make another grounds for Temple Sinai, to be found contiguous the current asylum and social lobby. The $15 million venture included "new workplaces, a bigger house of prayer, a kitchen overhaul, open air holy space, another preschool with six study halls and a 4,500-square-foot playground ... 10 extra homerooms for Midrasha teenagers and grown-up instruction, a workmanship room, library, high schooler relax and extended stopping." The L-formed two-story school/place of business would be , and suit roughly 100 youngsters in the pre-school. The church, which would hold up to 250 individuals, would be an expansion to the back of the current social corridor. 

Pivotal occurred in October 2007, with a normal finish in Autumn, 2010. So as to suit the new structures, the school and house of prayer worked in the late 1940s were leveled, alongside two places of business on bordering parcels bought for the development. Nine convenient structures were introduced on the grounds of Merritt College in Oakland Hills to serve in the meantime. As of December 23, 2009, Temple Sinai had raised nearly $12 million from 651 families (70% of the assemblage). 

Chester had wanted to resign in June 2009, and the assemblage set out on a scan for another senior rabbi in 2008. Twenty-three competitors were limited to one finalist, yet toward the beginning of December that individual educated the pursuit board that he was pulling back his name from thought. While the hunt was advancing, Chester had understood that, because of the 2008 monetary emergency, he would need to continue working. After the primary applicant pulled back, the synagogue's leader moved toward Chester, approaching in the event that he would remain on for another term, which Chester consented to do. Chester resigned in June 2011, getting to be (alongside Broude) Rabbi Emeritus. 

Andrew Straus joined Temple Sinai as senior rabbi in December 2011. An alum of HUC, he had recently filled in as collaborator rabbi of Peninsula Temple Sholom in Burlingame, California, Temple Beth Sholom of New City, New York, and most as of late for a long time as rabbi of Temple Emanuel of Tempe, Arizona. Rabbi Straus surrendered his situation in 2014 by shared assent with the Board of Trustees. In January 2015, Rabbi Mates-Muchin was overwhelmingly chosen senior rabbi. Starting at 2014, Temple Sinai, the East Bay's most established synagogue, had about 1,000 part families. The full-time rabbis were Mates-Muchin and Yoni Regev, and the cantor was Ilene Keys.