2003– 04 Arsenal F.C. season 

The 2003– 04 season was the 109th in the historical backdrop of Arsenal Football Club. It started on 1 July 2003 and finished up on 30 June 2004, with focused matches played among August and May. The club finished the Premier League crusade as heroes without a solitary annihilation – a record of 26 wins and 12 draws. Munititions stockpile fared less well in the glasses, wiped out in the FA Cup and League Cup semi-finals to Manchester United and Middlesbrough separately, and at the quarter-last phase of the UEFA Champions League to Chelsea. 

Weapons store did little business in the move advertise from the get-go in the season because of the money related requests that accompanied the club's new arena venture. The principle expansion to the primary group was goalkeeper Jens Lehmann for £1.5 million; striker José Antonio Reyes was later acquired in the winter exchange window. Stockpile held their best players and effectively arranged new contracts for commander Patrick Vieira and midfielder Robert Pires. The security of the squad implied Arsenal were viewed as leaders for the Premier League title, alongside Manchester United, and Chelsea who were taken over by Russian extremely rich person Roman Abramovich. 

A solid begin to the season saw Arsenal top the group table after four matches. The group's draw at Manchester United in September denoted an unpalatable scene between the two clubs: a few Arsenal players were charged and fined as needs be by The Football Association as far as concerns them in a mass fight that happened after the match. In November, Arsenal beat Dynamo Kyiv by a solitary objective and all the more amazingly scored five against Inter Milan at the San Siro – two outcomes which kick-began their Champions League crusade. At the turn of the year, the group won nine alliance coordinates straight to merge first position. In the principal seven day stretch of April, they were disposed of from the FA Cup and Champions League, yet before the month's over had verified their status as alliance champions, with a 2– 2 draw against neighborhood rivals Tottenham Hotspur. 

34 distinct players spoke to the club in five rivalries and there were 15 diverse goalscorers. Munititions stockpile's top goalscorer for the third year running was Thierry Henry, who scored 39 objectives in 51 amusements. The Frenchman was given the award of PFA Players' Player of the Year by his individual companions and the FWA Footballer of the Year by football scholars. Despite the fact that the Arsenal group were fruitless in glass rivalries, their predominance in the class was viewed by numerous analysts as an independent accomplishment. They obtained the epithet "The Invincibles", much like the Preston North End group that went unbeaten in the debut Football League season. The club was granted a brilliant copy trophy by the Premier League once the season finished up and they stayed unbeaten for 49 diversions, setting another record. In 2012, the Arsenal group of 2003– 04 won the "Best Team" class in the Premier League 20 Seasons Awards. 

Weapons store had wrapped the past season as sprinters up in the Premier League, upgraded by Manchester United in the last ten weeks of the period. The club did, be that as it may, hold the FA Cup, with a 1– 0 success against Southampton. Such was Arsenal's successful begin to the 2002– 03 crusade, chief Arsène Wenger recommended his group could remain the entire season undefeated in all rivalries: "It's certainly feasible as A.C. Milan once did it however I can't perceive any reason why it's so stunning to state it. Do you think Manchester United, Liverpool or Chelsea don't dream that too? They're actually the equivalent. They simply don't state it since they're frightened to look silly, yet no one is ludicrous in this activity as we probably am aware anything can occur." The group lost to Everton a month after Wenger's announcement; young person Wayne Rooney scored the match victor, which finished a keep running of 30 alliance diversions without annihilation. By February 2003, Arsenal moved five points clear of Manchester United at the highest point of the association table, yet wounds to key players, not least commander Patrick Vieira, had destabilized the group. Attracts April, combined with an annihilation to Leeds United at home, numerically finished Arsenal's odds of holding the title. Wenger disproved sentiments from the media that their season was a disappointment and stated: 

In the nearby season, Chelsea was sold to Russian very rich person Roman Abramovich for £140 million, the greatest takeover in British football history at the time. The takeover was invited by writer Daniel King, who remarked the club were better ready to "break the Manchester United-Arsenal duopoly" in the association. Weapons store bad habit administrator David Dein anyway was disappointed, and jested that Abramovich had "stopped his Russian tanks on our yard and is shooting £50 notes at us", Abramovich was said to have put an offered for Arsenal striker Thierry Henry, which was turned down immediately. 

Arms stockpile's move action in the late spring was moderately tranquil, given the money related requirements that accompanied the club's new arena venture. The club had the capacity to keep the center of its group, effectively arranging new contracts for Vieira and winger Robert Pires. German goalkeeper Jens Lehmann was the main real expansion to the principal group; he supplanted David Seaman who joined Manchester City. Ukrainian protector Oleh Luzhny finished his four-year relationship with the club by joining Wolverhampton Wanderers on a free exchange, while striker Graham Barrett moved to Coventry City. Striker Francis Jeffers, who discovered open doors restricted in the main group, joined his previous club Everton on a season-long advance. Giovanni van Bronckhorst moved to Barcelona on a comparable arrangement, with a view to a lasting exchange toward the finish of the period. A few youthful players were procured from foundations abroad, in particular Gaël Clichy from Cannes and Johan Djourou, previously of Étoile Carouge. In January 2004, Arsenal marked Spanish striker José Antonio Reyes from Sevilla and in April concurred an arrangement with Feyenoord for winger Robin van Persie. 

Wenger toward the beginning of the period organized recapturing the alliance title: "I feel it is essential in our brains to do this and I realize the craving is solid to do it," and named Newcastle United and Liverpool, alongside Manchester United and Chelsea, as Arsenal's principle adversaries for the Premier League. Previous Arsenal midfielder Paul Merson declared that his old club were top picks since they had the "best players … If they all stay fit week-in week-out then they won't be beaten." Glenn Moore of "The Independent" composed of Arsenal's odds: "They will be something like that, yet except if Wenger at last puts his confidence in youth, and any semblance of Jérémie Aliadière, Jermaine Pennant and Phillipe Senderos reimburse him, they may come up short on the profundity to continue a title crusade." Defender Sol Campbell anyway trusted the squad was "sufficient for the association and FA Cup", yet questioned their odds of winning the UEFA Champions League. 

The club's home strip stayed unaltered from the past season; a red pullover with white sleeves, shorts and socks. The new away pack, a retro yellow shirt with a hands on trim and shorts, depended on the Arsenal strip worn in the 1979 FA Cup Final. 

In 

Out 

Credits in 

Credits out 

To plan for the imminent season, Arsenal played a progression of friendlies crosswise over Western Europe. Their first match finished in annihilation against Peterborough United of the Second Division; goalkeeper Stuart Taylor was compelled to fall off the field in the wake of crashing into Peterborough substitute Lee Clarke in the second half. Armory at that point played out a draw against Barnet, where trialist Yaya Touré – the sibling of Kolo, was incorporated into the group. In a 2011 meeting, Wenger reviewed Yaya's execution as being "totally normal on the day" and noticed his eagerness prevented him from joining Arsenal; Touré proceeded to play for Barcelona before joining Manchester City in 2010. Munititions stockpile embraced a visit in Austria, a year after group inconveniences constrained their match in Eisenstadt to be surrendered. Wenger was missing with a stomach vexed so right hand administrator Pat Rice assumed responsibility for Arsenal against SC Ritzing on 22 July 2003; the group originated from two objectives down to draw their second continuous inviting. Rice was satisfied with Philippe Senderos' appearance in protection stated: "Still some unpleasant edges yet he will just show signs of improvement working with Martin Keown and Sol Campbell." 

Stockpile recorded their first win of the pre-season against Austria Wien. Bergkamp topped off a "brilliant individual showcase" by scoring the main objective and setting up the second for Jeffers. The last match of the visit was against Beşiktaş, which required fixed security given the history among English and Turkish football supporters. Bergkamp scored the main objective of the match in the second a large portion of, "a shameless exertion through guardian Óscar Córdoba's legs". An Arsenal XI in England two days after the fact confronted St Albans City, where they won 3– 1. The primary squad at that point went to Scotland to play Celtic on 2 August 2003. The two objectives in the one-all attract came the second a large portion of; the match denoted the arrival of Vieira following three months out with a knee issue. Wenger uncovered a short time later that he proposed to utilize the pre-season as an investigation for his resistance. He joined forces focus back Campbell with Touré, who for quite a bit of last season played in midfield. Wenger was satisfied with Touré's execution against Celtic and stated: "He has quality. He was initially a focal safeguard and, in light of the fact that we have kept a couple of clean sheets as of late and he's played well, I thought we'd keep him there." An Arsenal XI ventured out to Belgium for a diversion against Beveren and yielded two objectives in the last five minutes to draw the match 2– 2. Munititions stockpile adjusted off their pre-season arrangements with a 3– 0 success against Rangers on 5 August 2003. 

The 2003 release of the FA Community Shield, a yearly English football coordinate, was challenged between Manchester United and Arsenal at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium on 10 August. Lehmann made his first focused begin for Arsenal and Touré kept on cooperating Campbell in focal protection. Joined took a fifteenth moment lead through Mikaël Silvestre, however Henry evened out for Arsenal before long, from a free-kick. Jeffers was sent off in the second half to kick out at Phil Neville and no further objectives scored implied the result of the match was chosen by a punishment shoot-out. Goalkeeper Tim Howard spared Van Bronckhorst and Pires' spot kicks as United won 4– 3 on punishments. Wenger made reference to Arsenal's low group turnout after the match and recommended it implied there was "less and less hunger" for the Shield. He was discontent with the association season starting on the next Saturday: "I would have liked to have had two additional weeks, particularly for the French players who were in the Confederations Cup. We surely were not as fit as Manchester United and know a large number of our players were behind them wellness insightful." 

The 2003– 04 period of the Premier League saw 20 groups play 38 matches; two against each other group, with one match at each club's arena. Three were granted for each success, one point for each draw, and none for annihilations. Toward the finish of the period the main two groups fit the bill for the gathering phases of the UEFA Champions League; groups in third and fourth expected to play a qualifier. 

The temporary installation list was discharged on 19 June 2003, however was liable to change in case of conflicts with different rivalries, global football, harsh climate, or matches picked for TV inclusion. Five of Arsenal's initial eight apparatuses were communicated on Sky Sports, three of which were on the system's leader program "Super Sunday". 

Weapons store facilitated Everton at Highbury on the opening few days of the period. Campbell was sent off in the 25th moment, for an expert foul on Everton midfielder Thomas Gravesen. Weapons store, in spite of their man disservice, went two objectives up following 58 minutes, before Tomasz Radzinski scored for the guests late on. An outing to the Riverside Stadium to confront Middlesbrough seven days after finished in a 4– 0 success; the initial three objectives, scored by Henry, Gilberto Silva and Sylvain Wiltord all came in the principal half. After three days, Campbell and Henry each scored as Aston Villa were beaten by two objectives. Arms stockpile proceeded with their ideal begin to the season, with an away success against Manchester City on 31 August 2003. As Campbell was suspended, Martin Keown came into the principal group to accomplice Touré. Despite the fact that Arsenal surrendered first – a "diverting" possess objective by Lauren – and played "the most exceedingly bad 45 minutes that any of their fans could recall" as per columnist Matt Dickinson, Wiltord leveled in the second half, before Freddie Ljungberg had exploited a Seaman blunder to score the triumphant objective. After four matches, Arsenal remained in first position, three clear of Manchester United. 

Because of global installations, Arsenal did not play another diversion for about fourteen days. On the resumption of club football, they confronted recently advanced Portsmouth at home. Striker Teddy Sheringham gave the guests a merited lead, before Arsenal were granted a punishment when Pires was declared to have been fouled in the punishment territory by Dejan Stefanović. Henry scored, and however their execution recognizably improved in the second a large portion of, the diversion finished in a draw. Portsmouth administrator Harry Redknapp whined about the punishment choice post-match and felt Pires "… would get a yellow card [for diving]." The player himself denied allegations that he hoodwinked the official: "I didn't jump and I am not a cheat. That isn't the manner in which I play." 

After seven days, Arsenal headed out to confront Manchester United at Old Trafford. Pires and Wiltord were dropped by Wenger for Ray Parlor and Ljungberg; Campbell did not venture out because of family loss. In the 80th moment, Vieira was sent off for a second bookable offense; he endeavored to kick out at striker Ruud van Nistelrooy, which was seen by arbitrator Steve Bennett. With the score 0– 0, United were granted a punishment in the 90th moment, however Van Nistelrooy's spot kick hit the bar and bounced back once again into play. At the last whistle, Van Nistelrooy was promptly gone up against by a few Arsenal players, which swelled into a fight between the two groups. Six of Arsenal's players (Ashley Cole, Lauren, Keown, Parlor, Lehmann, Vieira) were later accused of inappropriate lead by The Football Association (FA), while the club were fined £175,000, the biggest at any point given to a club by the FA. Lauren got a four-amusement boycott, while Vieira and Parlor were given one-coordinate suspensions. 

In their next match, Arsenal vanquished Newcastle United by three objectives to two; the champ was a punishment scored by Henry. Vieira endured damage amid the diversion; this initiated a time of him being in and out of the side, for two months. Weapons store at that point confronted Liverpool on the primary few days of October at Anfield. Without Vieira, Parlor was on obligation as skipper, while Campbell supplanted Keown in safeguard. Aliadière was matched close by Henry in assault. Weapons store went an objective down following 11 minutes, however adjusted when Sami Hyypiä inadvertently redirected Edu's header, from an Arsenal free-kick. Pires scored the victor in the second half, which kept up the group's lead at the highest point of the class table. "The Times" journalist Oliver Kay portrayed Arsenal's rebound as "vivacious" and noticed a distinction with the group, in contrast with the past season: 

A firmly battled match against Chelsea at home was settled by a second half mistake by goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini, which gave Henry his seventh alliance objective in nine matches. The two collaborates until that point were level on focuses at the highest point of the table and unbeaten. Wenger noted after the match that Chelsea's greater squad would work well for them as the season advanced, however focused on his littler squad had soundness: "We have been as one for a considerable length of time and have the solace of realizing we have won things previously. When we are tested, we become significantly progressively joined together." Arsenal finished October with a 1– 1 draw against Charlton Athletic. After 10 diversions, Arsenal collected 24. The point earnt at Charlton was sufficient for the group to move over into first position, which had been involved by Chelsea. 

Armory started November with a trek to Elland Road to confront Leeds United. There were no progressions to the group from the Charlton diversion; for Leeds, Pennant began against his parent club in the wake of being conceded consent by Wenger. Arms stockpile's triumph by four objectives to one was indistinguishable to the scoreline in the relating apparatus of last season. In a match report for the "Updates on the World", writer Martin Samuel picked Henry as the man of the match and attested Arsenal remained the group to beat. Consideration before long swung toward the North London derby, where Arsenal played Tottenham Hotspur on 8 November 2003. Tottenham had not beaten their adversaries since November 1999 and their last win at Highbury had come 10 years beforehand. Kanu was conveyed into the beginning line-up to accomplice Henry, as Wiltord was discounted with a calf strain. Armory surrendered an early objective after Darren Anderton profited by a cautious misunderstanding, however they scored two late objectives in what was depicted as "another faltering" execution in "The Observer". The outcome put Arsenal four points clear in first, but briefly as Chelsea's success at home to Newcastle United 24 hours after the fact slice their hole to one point. 

Stockpile did not play another diversion for a fortnight in light of the universal football break. On the resumption of club football, they played Birmingham City far from home. As suspensions came enthusiastically and there were wounds to first-cooperative people, Wenger was compelled to reshuffle his group. Clichy was given his full presentation and Pascal Cygan made his first beginning of the period, joining forces Campbell. Ljungberg opened the scoring for Arsenal inside four minutes and further objectives by Bergkamp and Pires guaranteed the group won their third straight match of November. By broadening their unbeaten keep running from the beginning of the period to 13 alliance matches, Arsenal set another Premier League record. They were then held by Fulham to a goalless draw who turned into the primary group to deny Arsenal from scoring in 46 association matches at Highbury. "The Guardian" journalist David Lacey condensed Arsenal's football on the day as "solid in the string segment yet short on percussion" and noted they returned to the example of scoring an ideal objective, rather than being effective. Chelsea's 1– 0 success over Manchester United implied Arsenal moved down to second place on the last day of November. 

Two additional focuses were dropped in Arsenal's next match, away to Leicester City on the primary few days of December. Henry was missing from the beginning group as was commander Vieira. Munititions stockpile had led the pack at the hour mark through a Gilberto header, however yielded the equalizer in stoppage time. What exacerbated the situation was the rejection of Cole for a two-footed jump on Ben Thatcher; he missed the group's next three apparatuses therefore. Wenger said thereafter: "It looked like Ashley needed to get this show on the road the ball however it was a two-footed handle that was excessively high, it was a red card and we need to acknowledge it." An objective from Bergkamp earned Arsenal a 1– 0 success the next week, at home to Blackburn Rovers. Chelsea's thrashing multi day before implied the success for Arsenal was sufficient to take them back top, a point clear of Manchester United, who were currently in second spot. 

Munititions stockpile at that point made a trip to the Reebok Stadium to play Bolton on 20 December 2003, the setting where their title challenge vacillated eight months prior. In spite of the fact that they again got only a point, Wenger trusted it was a helpful one: "If Bolton continue playing that way, we will glance back at this outcome and feel exceptionally cheerful. They are in the same class as a group as we have played." On Boxing Day, Henry scored twice for Arsenal in a 3– 0 success against Wolverhampton Wanderers. After three days, the group played Southampton. The main objective of the match came in the primary a large portion of: Henry's through pass discovered Pires "who slid the ball underneath the uncovered Antti Niemi". The success implied Arsenal had gone a large portion of the period without losing and the group as indicated by "The Times" had started to "set up a quality of invulnerability". Weapons store finished the date-book year in second spot, with 45 points from 19 matches. They were one point behind pioneers Manchester United and three in front of Chelsea. 

On 7 January 2004, Arsenal played Everton at Goodison Park. Wenger made a large group of changes: Cygan was reviewed in focal resistance, which implied Touré was moved onto the privilege and Lauren was dropped, while Parlor began instead of Gilberto in midfield. Kanu had given Arsenal the lead in the principal half, just for Radzinski to score a "luxuriously merited late equalizer" for Everton with fifteen minutes remaining. Manchester United's triumph at Bolton on that night expanded the bosses' lead at the top to three. Three days after the Everton coordinate, Arsenal facilitated Middlesbrough and put on a showcase Wenger portrayed as one of the period's ideal: "We continued playing our common diversion and could have scored more," he said. The 4– 1 success implied Arsenal moved back top of the association, but one after another in order as their focuses, objective contrast and objectives scored were indistinguishable to that of Manchester United. After seven days Arsenal beat Aston Villa by two objectives to nil; both of the group's objectives were scored by Henry. Discussion encompassed the Frenchman's first objective, an immediately taken free-kick which incited disarray among Villa's players and realized a response towards official Mark Halsey, who flagged it was allowable. After 22 recreations played, Arsenal were in the lead position, two points clear of Manchester United. 

Armory stayed unbeaten all through February, winning each of the five matches. In a home match against Manchester City, Reyes showed up for the club, going ahead as a substitute in the second half. He had no part in the triumphant objective, a "crunching, flawlessly made a decision about 25-yarder" scored by Henry. Munititions stockpile recorded an away success at Wolverhampton Wanderers on 7 February 2004, their 24th group coordinate, which bettered a club record of diversions unbeaten from the beginning of the period (initially held by George Graham's group of 1990– 91). Wenger in his post-coordinate question and answer session played down the record, and said of the unbeaten run: "You need a smidgen of karma and mental characteristics." Henry achieved an individual milestone against Southampton three days after the fact, scoring his 100th and 101st Premier League objectives. The triumph moved Arsenal five clear at the top, in spite of the fact that they had played one more diversion than Manchester United. 

A Saturday noon kick-off against Chelsea saw the arrival of Henry; he was missing in Arsenal's FA Cup fifth round win against a similar resistance. Weapons store got themselves an objective down following 27 seconds, however reacted with an equalizer in the fifteenth moment – Bergkamp's "carefully bending pass" discovered Vieira on the left side to shoot the ball past goalkeeper Neil Sullivan. The champ came six minutes after the fact: Sullivan misinterpreted a corner taken by Henry, which permitted Edu to shoot into an unfilled net. Munititions stockpile's lead was presently seven and it spoken to "a more grounded position than any they held last season" as indicated by Wenger. Touré's progress into a safeguard was featured in "The Times" football supplement: 

The last match of the month was against Charlton at Highbury. Arms stockpile scored twice in the space of the opening four minutes, however by the end were "sticking to their lead like anxious little cats". After 27 amusements, the group remained in first position and had aggregated 67 points. They were nine points clear of both Chelsea and Manchester United. 

Munititions stockpile conveyed their great structure into March; Henry and Pires scored in the thrashing of Blackburn Rovers. It was a toiled exhibition from the association heads, one which served a "… notice of the familiar proverb that titles are won by groups who can get focuses when they are not playing great." Arsenal at that point played Bolton Wanderers at home; Wenger rolled out one improvement from the past match – Bergkamp supplanted Reyes forthright. The tempestuous conditions constrained the amusement to be deferred by 15 minutes, roughly a similar measure of time it took Pires to score Arsenal's opener. By the 24th moment, it was 2– 0: Henry's cross discovered Bergkamp who shot the ball past Jussi Jääskeläinen at the main endeavor. In spite of the fact that Bolton's execution improved in the wake of scoring just before half time, the outcome was a ninth straight association win for Arsenal and kept them nine points clear at the top. 

The visit of Manchester United on 28 March 2004 gave a stern test to Arsenal; it was the two clubs' first gathering since the disaster at Old Trafford. Cole, harmed in the midweek Champions League diversion against Chelsea, was supplanted by Clichy in the beginning line-up, while Bergkamp was dropped for Reyes. Henry gave Arsenal the lead, with a long range shot that swerved past goalkeeper Roy Carroll. With five minutes of the amusement left, Louis Saha dodged the Arsenal barrier and scored the equalizer for Manchester United. Munititions stockpile approached a champ in damage time, just for Lauren to have his shot spared. The draw was nothing more than a bad memory for Sir Alex Ferguson, the chief of Manchester United, who a while later surrendered his group's odds: "They'll (Arsenal) proceed to win the association now – I'm certain about that. They are playing with extraordinary assurance … an exceptionally solid group, so should win the association truly". In maintaining a strategic distance from thrashing, Arsenal set another record-breaking class record of 30 matches unbeaten from the beginning of the period, initially held by Leeds and Liverpool. They stayed in first position toward the finish of March and were seven before Chelsea, with eight matches remaining. 

After two container exits over the course of about seven days, Arsenal confronted Liverpool on Good Friday at Highbury. Hyypiä opened the scoring for the guests following five minutes, and disregarding Henry's equalizer soon after the half-hour mark, Liverpool drove again before the interim. Weapons store reacted by scoring twice in a moment; Henry's second objective saw the player hold off Dietmar Hamann in midfield, weave through protector Jamie Carragher and spot the ball past Jerzy Dudek. The striker finished his cap trap in the 78th moment, after great work by Bergkamp. Liverpool administrator Gérard Houllier compared Arsenal to an "injured creature" after the match and trusted Henry was "the man who had the effect … he set the beat". Munititions stockpile played out a goalless draw with Newcastle United on Bank Holiday Monday, and after five days confronted Leeds United. On a night where Henry scored four objectives and was portrayed by his administrator as "the best striker on the planet", Arsenal moved to inside two successes of recapturing the class title. 

With Chelsea unfit to collect most extreme focuses in their next two matches, Arsenal knew before their amusement away at Tottenham that a draw would ensure their status as victors. Cole returned for the derby, in the wake of sitting out the Leeds coordinate with a lower leg damage. Munititions stockpile took an early lead when Vieira completed off a counter-assaulting move. Sharp football achieved the second objective, ten minutes before the break. Bergkamp passed the ball to Vieira, who slice it back for Pires to sidefoot. Tottenham answered in the second half by scoring twice – the equalizer a punishment – however it didn't stop the Arsenal players celebrating at the last whistle "before their supporters' White Hart Lane enclave". This denoted the second time the club had been delegated alliance champions at their opponents' ground: the first run through had been in 1971. Wenger commended his group for their prosperity, telling the BBC: "We've been strikingly predictable, haven't lost an amusement and we have played sleek football. We have engaged individuals who simply love football." 

In May, progressive attracts at home to Birmingham City and Portsmouth left Arsenal with 84 from 36 amusements. Reyes scored the main objective of the match against Fulham; he benefitted from a misstep by goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar: "The Dutchman attempted to go past the Arsenal forward, yet rather talented belonging and with it the least demanding of open objectives." Arsenal's last round of the association season was against Leicester City. They yielded the opening objective, however turned the match around in the second half through objectives from Henry and Vieira. With 26 wins, 12 draws and no thrashings, the group turned into the first since Preston North End in 1888– 89 to experience an alliance season undefeated. Assessing the match and by and large season, Amy Lawrence of "The Observer" stated: "Arms stockpile's accomplishment may not make them 'incredible' as everyone would see it – the individuals who characterize enormity just by European Cups, consecutive titles, and triple cartwheels while in transit to each objective – however it is amazing in its own right." 

The FA Cup is English football's essential glass rivalry. It was first held in 1871– 72 with just 15 groups entering; the development of the game and changes to the challenge's structure implied that by 2000, in excess of 600 groups partook. Clubs in the Premier League enter the FA Cup in the third round and are drawn haphazardly out of a cap with the rest of the clubs. In the event that a match is drawn it is replayed, commonly at the ground of the group who were away for the main diversion. Similarly as with association apparatuses, FA Cup matches are liable to change in case of amusements being chosen for TV inclusion and this regularly can be affected by conflicts with different rivalries. On account of Arsenal, everything except one of their ties (fourth round) was broadcast to the British crowd. 

Munititions stockpile entered the 2003– 04 version as holders of the container. The group were undefeated in 14 container ties since their 2– 1 misfortune to Liverpool in the 2001 FA Cup Final, and planned to win the challenge for a third season in progression, something last accomplished by Blackburn Rovers from 1884 to 1886. Henry trusted Arsenal's great glass structure demonstrated they were "intrigued" in the challenge and trusted their prosperity would proceed. The FA Cup was not high in Wenger's need list – "The [Premier League] and the Champions League are progressively essential," however he cleared up this never implied Arsenal proposed to disregard the challenge: "You win what you can and go the extent that you can." 

Stockpile were attracted to confront Leeds United away in the third round; the match was played on the principal few days of January. Wenger rolled out six improvements to the group which began at Southampton in the association, including Cole supplanting Clichy at left-back subsequent to serving his three-coordinate suspension. Following eight minutes, Leeds proceeded when Lehmann's objective freedom hit striker Mark Viduka and bounced back into the net. Stockpile adjusted through Henry, who changed over Ljungberg's cross from the privilege on a volley. Extra objectives from Edu, Pires and Touré incurred a third continuous 4– 1 annihilation for Leeds against Arsenal at Elland Road. At home to Middlesbrough in the fourth round, Bergkamp opened the scoring for Arsenal, following great play from Parlor. Joseph-Désiré Job balanced for the away group four minutes after, however Ljungberg reestablished Arsenal's lead with a shot outside the punishment box and scored a second, direct from a corner. George Boateng was sent off for the guests in the 86th moment for two bookable offenses and substitute David Bentley included a fourth objective for Arsenal, chipping the ball over goalkeeper Schwarzer in the last moment of typical time. 

In the fifth round, Arsenal played Chelsea at Highbury. Five minutes before the finish of the main half, striker Adrian Mutu gave Chelsea the lead, with a shot from 20 yards. Reyes, who supplanted Henry in the beginning eleven for the tie, leveled the scoreline with a long range exertion. He beat goalkeeper Sullivan for pace to score his second, which later ended up being the triumphant objective of the match. The quarter-last set Arsenal against Portsmouth at Fratton Park on 6 March 2004. Henry opened the scoring in the 25th moment and further objectives from himself, Ljungberg and Touré verified the group's section into the last four of the challenge. Edu was singled out for applause by "The Guardian" journalist Kevin McCarra, who enthused over the guests' execution: "Stockpile resounded the Ajax theory as players swapped position and continued changing the purpose of assault before according to the resistance." 

Manchester United were Arsenal's rivals for the semi-last, organized at Villa Park on 3 April 2004. The two groups had agreed to an attract the association the past Sunday, however given this was for a spot in the last, the stakes were a lot higher. Joined protector Gary Neville depicted the amusement as his group's "most imperative" of the period after they were disposed of from the Champions League and he esteemed them "excessively a long ways behind" in the Premier League. Wenger rested Henry, aware of the group's up and coming apparatus blockage. In spite of the fact that Arsenal began the better of the two groups, it was United midfielder Paul Scholes who scored the main objective of the diversion which guaranteed their advancement into the last. 

The Football League Cup is a container rivalry open to clubs in the Premier League and Football League. Like the FA Cup it is played on a knockout premise, except for the semi-finals, which are challenged over a two-legged tie. Wenger's residency at Arsenal has seen him utilize the challenge to field more youthful and lesser known players, something he and Ferguson were at first scrutinized for in 1997. While Ferguson felt it was an undesirable diversion at the time, Wenger stated: "If the challenge needs to endure it must offer the motivating force of an European spot." The victors of the League Cup in the 2003– 04 season earnt passage into the UEFA Cup, except if they fit the bill for the UEFA Champions League through their association position. Association Cup matches are liable to change in case of recreations being chosen for TV inclusion, severe climate and potential challenge conflicts. All rounds up until the last are played in midweek. 

Weapons store entered the League Cup in the third round and were attracted at home to Rotherham United. Wenger gave midfielder Cesc Fàbregas his presentation at 16 years and 177 days; starting at 2016 is as yet the most youthful player to turn out for the club. Arms stockpile drove from the eleventh moment through an Aliadière objective, yet yielded an equalizer late on which constrained additional time. Rotherham goalkeeper Mike Pollitt was sent off for taking care of the ball outside his punishment region; his substitute Gary Montgomery denied Wiltord from scoring the victor. As there were no further objectives, the match was chosen punishments which Arsenal won 9– 8 in the shootout. Individual divisional adversaries Wolverhampton Wanderers were crushed 5– 1 by Arsenal in the fourth round; Vieira, missing through damage in September and October, made his first group return and played the full match. 

In the fifth round, Arsenal headed out to The Hawthorns to play West Bromwich Albion. Wenger added involvement to the side to supplement youth, with Parlor, Edu, Kanu and Keown all highlighting. Stockpile led the pack in the 25th moment through Kanu. Lauren's cross from the right-hand side avoided toward the striker. His header was spared by goalkeeper Russell Hoult, who was unfit to deny Kanu shooting the bounced back ball into the net. Aliadière scored Arsenal's second objective of the match following Hoult's poor freedom. 

Munititions stockpile left the challenge in the semi-finals against Middlesbrough. At Highbury, the setting for the principal leg, Juninho scored the main objective of the tie. Munititions stockpile's assignment of advancing was made increasingly troublesome after Keown was sent off in the second leg and Boudewijn Zenden multiplied Middlesbrough's total scoreline. In spite of the fact that Edu adjusted for Arsenal on the night, Reyes' own objective earnt Middlesbrough the success. Wenger opined of the outcome: "I don't think we had the right to lose; notwithstanding when we were down to 10 men we were running the amusement." 

The UEFA Champions League is a mainland club football rivalry sorted out by UEFA. Established during the 1950s as the European Champion Clubs' Cup, the challenge was available to advocate clubs of every nation and orchestrated as a straight knockout competition. The development of TV rights saw the organization rebranded during the 1990s to incorporate a gathering stage and grant different participants. Weapons store had met all requirements for each victor League season since 1998– 99, however the club never advanced more distant than the quarter-last stage. In front of the new battle, Wenger evaluated his group expected to perform in the home recreations, including: "We are develop enough now and we should include that tad of shimmer to have the effect." 

Armory were attracted Group B, alongside Italian club Inter Milan, Lokomotiv Moscow of Russia and Ukraine's Dynamo Kyiv. Wenger trusted the treks to Eastern Europe compromised his group's odds of winning the Premier League: "The other English groups have more agreeable gatherings than we do. It is hard to go to Russia – I generally state that on the off chance that you need to travel over two hours it is troublesome. Now and again the players pay a high cost in the amusements that pursue the Champions League matches." 

Weapons store opened their Champions League battle with a 3– 0 annihilation against Inter Milan. Objectives from Julio Ricardo Cruz, Andy van der Meyde and Obafemi Martins all in the primary half broadened Arsenal's kept running of six home diversions in the challenge without a success. Wenger said a while later: "We can grumble and cry the entire night however that won't change the outcome. The main thing we can do is to react." The group, without Campbell and Vieira, earned an attract away to Lokomotiv Moscow, however stayed base of the gathering. Arms stockpile lost to Dynamo Kyiv in late October; Wenger's choice to move from his favored 4– 2 development made the group play more restricted than expected. Cole scored the triumphant objective in the turn around apparatus at Highbury. A cross by Wiltord was flicked on by Henry toward an approaching Cole, who jumped to head the ball past goalkeeper Oleksandr Shovkovskiy. 

The group scored four objectives in the second half against Inter Milan and won 5– 1. Wenger felt the outcome appeared there was "… an uncommon mental quality in the group", while Cole contrasted it with England's triumph against Germany in 2001 however included "this was stunningly better." Arsenal won 2– 0 against Lokomotiv Moscow to top Group B. Jacob Lekgetho's expulsion in the eighth moment implied the guests played the rest of the match with ten men. 

Munititions stockpile were combined facing Celta Vigo in the last 16 organize and the primary leg was held at the Balaídos. In spite of the fact that they yielded two objectives from set pieces, Arsenal scored multiple times to win which put the group in an ideal position given the away objectives rule. Their entry was verified with a 2– 0 success on 10 March 2004; Henry scored the two objectives for the group. 

In the quarter-finals, Arsenal met individual English club Chelsea. The draw frustrated bad habit administrator Dein: "One of the delights of playing in Europe is playing groups from abroad – and having played Chelsea multiple times, it is somewhat hostile to climactic." The principal leg, played at Stamford Bridge finished in a draw with Guðjohnsen and Pires scoring for their separate clubs. Munititions stockpile were unfit to exploit Marcel Desailly's rejection in the second half, yet Wenger felt his group were in a decent position to advance: "Our principle point will be to win at Highbury and we realize we can do that." 

Henry, rested for the FA Cup semi-last match, began close by Reyes for the second leg. It was the last forward who gave Arsenal the lead in damage time of the principal half, yet Frank Lampard evened out for Chelsea in the 51st moment. With three minutes surviving from the match, protector Wayne Bridge scored to wipe out Arsenal from the challenge. 

Munititions stockpile utilized an aggregate of 34 players amid the 2003– 04 season and there were 15 distinctive goalscorers. There were additionally three squad individuals who did not show up in the battle. The group played in a 4– 2 arrangement all through the season, with two wide midfielders. Touré included in 55 matches – the greater part of any Arsenal player in the battle and Lehmann began in each of the 38 alliance matches. 

The group scored a sum of 114 objectives in all rivalries. The most noteworthy scorer was Henry, with 39 objectives, trailed by Pires who scored 19 objectives. Three of Arsenal's objectives in the 2003– 04 season (Henry against Manchester City and Liverpool, Vieira against Tottenham Hotspur) were shortlisted for Goal of the Season by watchers of ITV's "The Premiership". Five Arsenal players were sent off amid the season: Jeffers, Vieira, Campbell, Cole and Keown. 

No. = Squad number 

Pos = Playing position 

Nat. = Nationality 

Applications = Appearances 

GK = Goalkeeper 

DF = Defender 

MF = Midfielder 

FW = Forward 

"Numbers in enclosures signify appearances as substitute. Players with name struck through and stamped left the club amid the playing season." 

In acknowledgment of the group's accomplishment, Wenger was granted the Barclaycard Manager of the Year. A representative of the honors board said of the choice: "Arsène Wenger is a commendable beneficiary of this award and has sent his group into the history books. Munititions stockpile have played energizing assaulting football all through the season and completing it unbeaten is an accomplishment that may not be rehashed for an additional 100 years." Henry was given the award of PFA Players' Player of the Year by his individual companions and the FWA Footballer of the Year by football journalists for the second successive season. He came sprinter up in both the 2003 FIFA World Player of the Year and the 2003 Ballon d'Or. 

Three Arsenal players got the Premier League Player of the Month grant – Henry twice in January and April 2004, and Bergkamp and Edu shared the honor in February 2004 after the judges "felt it was proper that we make a joint honor". Wenger was the Premier League Manager of the Month in August 2003 and February 2004. 

Multi day after the Leicester City coordinate, Arsenal strutted the Premier League trophy on an open-top transport, before in excess of 250,000 fans. The triumph march initiated at Highbury and finished at Islington Town Hall. At the town corridor gallery, Vieira tended to the group: "It has been an awesome season. We accomplished something mind boggling yet we couldn't have done it without the fans." In a meeting with the BBC, Dein included: "We've seen history made and I'd be amazed in the event that it happens once more. It's simply been a benefit to watch Arsenal this season." 

Munititions stockpile's accomplishment of experiencing the group season unbeaten got extensive recognition from those engaged with football. Derek Shaw, the administrator of Preston offered his congrats as they equalled his club's record of finishing an alliance season without annihilation, set 115 years already. Brazilian Roberto Carlos compared Arsenal's style of play to "samba football" while Michel Platini commended the group's "extraordinary energy and soul". Previous Arsenal supervisor George Graham ascribed the accomplishment to protective enhancements, since mix-ups the past season had demonstrated expensive and previous striker Alan Smith felt the group were "unquestionably the best Highbury's at any point seen". 

The British press consistently applauded Arsenal's accomplishment once the season attracted to a nearby; the "Updates on the World" marked the group as "Immortals", while "The Sunday Times" drove with the feature "Arms stockpile the New Invincibles". In a generally positive impression of Arsenal's season, Glenn Moore composed for "The Independent": "There may along these lines have been a trace of validity in Arsène Wenger's announcement that Arsenal's accomplishment was a more noteworthy triumph than winning the Champions' League. Munititions stockpile's drawn out festivals mirrored the size of this milestone but then, when they reflect in the mid year break, what number of players will concur with Wenger?". 

A coincidental brilliant reproduction trophy was authorized by the Premier League from that point; it was granted to Arsenal before their first home round of the accompanying season. The group obscured the alliance record of 42 matches without annihilation (set by Nottingham Forest) against Blackburn Rovers and went seven additional matches unbeaten until they lost – away to Manchester United in October 2004. In spite of the fact that Arsenal recovered the FA Cup – on punishments against United – they completed second to Chelsea in the alliance. The move to the Emirates Stadium in 2006 corresponded with a transitional stage for the club. A few experienced first teamers were dislodged for youth and the style of football moved more towards ball maintenance. Munititions stockpile have since neglected to recover the association title; they in any case remained an apparatus in the Champions League under Wenger's stewardship in the years after. 

The title succeed at White Hart Lane came third in a rundown of Arsenal's "Most noteworthy 50 Moments", and the execution at the San Siro was positioned tenth. In 2012, the Arsenal group of 2003– 04 won the "Best Team" classification in the Premier League 20 Seasons Awards. 

Explicit 

Source