Alexandre Banza 

Lieutenant Colonel Alexandre Banza (10 October 1932 – 12 April 1969) was a military officer and government official in the Central African Republic. Conceived in Carnot, Ubangi-Shari, Banza presented with the French Army amid the First Indochina War before joining the Central African Republic military. As leader of the Camp Kassaï army installation in 1965, Banza helped Jean-Bédel Bokassa topple the legislature of President David Dacko. Bokassa compensated Banza by delegating him as priest of state and priest of fund in the new government. Banza immediately settled the new routine's notoriety abroad and manufactured conciliatory relations with different nations. In 1967, Bokassa and his protégé had a noteworthy contention over the president's excesses. In April 1968, Bokassa expelled Banza as priest of account. Perceiving Bokassa's endeavors to undermine him, Banza made various comments exceedingly condemning of the president's treatment of the legislature. Bokassa reacted by canceling the priest of state position. 

Banza before long chose to organize an overthrow. He trusted in a couple of military officers, who he trusted would bolster his endeavor to pick up power. One of his partners, Jean-Claude Mandaba, reached the president and educated him of the date of the overthrow, 9 April 1969. Hours before he would execute his offer for power, Banza was trapped by Mandaba and taken straightforwardly to Bokassa. Bokassa about beat Banza to death before Mandaba recommended that Banza be put on preliminary for the good of appearance. On 12 April, Banza exhibited his case to a military council, which immediately condemned him to death by terminating squad. He was supposedly taken to an open field, where he was executed and covered in a plain grave. Interchange conditions of Banza's demise have been accounted for in "Time" and "Le Monde". In the repercussions of the fizzled upset, Banza's family, escort and close partners were altogether captured and either sent to imprison or ousted. With Banza disposed of, Bokassa spent extremely and encircle himself with adulators. 

Banza was conceived on 10 October 1932. He was the first of three children and experienced childhood in the core of Gbaya region. Banza examined In Cameroon and Cong-Brazzaville. In his twenties, he had presented with the French armed force in the First Indochina War and had been positioned in Gabon, Morocco, Tunisia and different areas in provincial Africa. He had a comparative military record to his future associate Jean-Bédel Bokassa, who had likewise served in the First Indochina War and had been positioned in Africa and Europe as a radio transmissions master. A short time later, Banza came back to the Central African Republic, where he enrolled in the military. Brian Titley, creator of "Dim Age: The Political Odyssey of Emperor Bokassa" depicted Banza as a "keen, goal-oriented, and corrupt" military officer. 

Focal African Republic President David Dacko, Bokassa's cousin, assumed control over the nation in 1960, in the wake of winning a power battle against Abel Goumba. Bokassa left the French armed force to join the Central African Republic armed force in 1962. By 1965, the nation was in unrest—tormented by debasement and moderate monetary development, while its fringes were broken by dissidents from neighboring nations. Dacko acquired budgetary guide from the People's Republic of China, yet disregarding this help, the nation's issues endured. Bokassa, presently president of the military, made arrangements to assume control over the administration; Dacko ended up mindful of this, and countered by framing a gendarmerie headed by police boss Jean Izamo, who rapidly turned into Dacko's nearest counselor. 

Pressures among Dacko and Bokassa expanded. In December 1965, Dacko affirmed a spending increment for Izamo's gendarmerie, however dismissed the spending proposition for Bokassa's military. Now, Bokassa told companions he was irritated by Dacko's treatment and was "going for an overthrow". Dacko intended to supplant Bokassa with Izamo as his own military counselor, and needed to elevate armed force officers faithful to the legislature, while downgrading Bokassa and his nearby partners. Bokassa acknowledged he needed to act against Dacko rapidly, and stressed that his 500-man armed force would be no counterpart for the gendarmerie and the presidential gatekeeper. He was additionally concerned the French would intercede to help Dacko, as had happened after the 23 February 1964 rebellion in Gabon against President Léon M'ba. In the wake of getting expression of the overthrow from the nation's military head of staff, Albert-Bernard Bongo, authorities in Paris sent paratroopers to Gabon and reestablished M'ba to control in merely hours. Banza, who was then authority of the Camp Kassaï army installation in upper east Bangui, offered Bokassa his help and induced the still-stressed president to complete the overthrow. He helped Bokassa spread out the designs for the upset, proposed to happen on 31 December 1965. 

Promptly at night of 31 December 1965, Dacko left the Palais de la Renaissance to visit one of his clergyman's estates southwest of the capital. At 22:30 WAT (UTC 21:30), Captain Banza offered requests to his officers to start the upset; one of his subordinates was to repress the security watch in the presidential royal residence, while the other was to assume responsibility for Radio-Bangui to avert correspondence among Dacko and his adherents. Bokassa called Izamo at his central station, requesting that he come to Camp de Roux to sign a few papers that required his quick consideration. Izamo, who was at a New Year's Eve festivity with companions, reluctantly concurred and went in his significant other's vehicle to the camp. Upon entry, he was gone up against by Banza and Bokassa, who educated him of the overthrow in advancement. Subsequent to reporting his refusal to help the overthrow, Izamo was overwhelmed and secured a basement. 

Soon after 12 pm, in the main minutes of 1 January 1966, Bokassa and Banza sorted out their troops and let them know of their arrangement to assume control over the legislature. Bokassa asserted that Dacko had left the administration and given the situation to his nearby counselor Izamo. He at that point advised the warriors that they needed to act currently to keep the gendarmerie from assuming control over the Central African Republic armed force. He at that point inquired as to whether they would bolster his game-plan; the men who declined were tossed behind bars. At 00:30 WAT, Banza, Bokassa and their supporters left Camp de Roux to assume control over the capital. They experienced little obstruction and had the capacity to take Bangui in merely hours. Bokassa and Banza then hurried to the Palais de la Renaissance, where they attempted to capture Dacko, who was not there. Bokassa started to freeze, as he trusted the president had been cautioned of the upset ahead of time, and promptly requested his troopers to look for Dacko in the field until he was found. 

Dacko didn't know about the occasions occurring in the capital. In the wake of leaving his clergyman's ranch close midnight, he made a beeline for Simon Samba's home to ask the Aka Pgymy pioneer to lead a year-end custom. Following an hour at Samba's home, he was educated of the upset in Bangui. He was captured by a couple of Bokassa's men as he entered Pétévo Junction, on the western outskirt of the capital. Dacko was escorted to the presidential royal residence, where Bokassa embraced the president and let him know, "I attempted to caution you—however at this point it's past the point of no return". President Dacko was then taken to Ngaragba Prison in east Bangui at around 02:00 WAT. In a move that he thought would support his prominence in the nation, Bokassa requested jail executive Otto Sacher to discharge all detainees in the correctional facility. Bokassa then took Dacko to Camp Kassaï at 03:20 WAT, where the president was constrained by Banza to leave from office. Banza needed to execute Dacko, yet Bokassa would not permit it, trusting that Dacko had not yet outlasted his value. Afterward, Bokassa's officers reported on Radio-Bangui that the Dacko government had been toppled and Bokassa had assumed control over control. Then, Banza took over regulatory focuses, where legislators, negotiators and other abnormal state authorities were commending the happening to the New Year. 

Banza was named clergyman of money and priest of state in the new government. The routine initially verified conciliatory acknowledgment from President François Tombalbaye of neighboring Chad, whom Bokassa met in Bouca, Ouham. After Bokassa responded by meeting Tombalbaye on 2 April 1966 along the southern outskirt of Chad at Fort Archambault, the two chose to help each other if either was in threat of losing power. Before long, other African nations started to carefully perceive the new government. At first, the French government was hesitant to help the Bokassa routine, so Banza went to Paris to meet with French authorities to persuade them that the upset was important to spare the nation from disturbance. Bokassa met with Prime Minister Georges Pompidou on 7 July 1966, however the French stayed cautious in offering their help. After Bokassa took steps to pull back from the franc money related zone, French President Charles de Gaulle chose to make an official visit to the Central African Republic on 17 November 1966. To the new government, this visit implied that the French had acknowledged the new changes in the nation. 

As a priest of money, Banza coordinated a lot of his vitality and time into lifting the nation out of chapter 11. Banza was likewise fruitful in his endeavors to construct the administration's notoriety abroad, at the same time setting up himself as a regarded and all around enjoyed pioneer. Many trusted that the characteristic conceived pioneer would not stay as Bokassa's correct hand man for any longer. After Banza was elevated from Captain to Lieutenant Colonel in 1965, Bokassa understood that his most noteworthy political danger wasn't from the rest of the gathering of Dacko supporters, however from Banza himself. 

After two years, the two had a noteworthy contention over the nation's financial plan, as Banza unyieldingly contradicted Bokassa's luxurious spending. Bokassa moved to Camp de Roux, where he believed he could securely run the administration without stressing over Banza's hunger for power. Meanwhile, Banza attempted to acquire a help base inside the military, investing quite a bit of his energy in the organization of officers. Bokassa perceived what his pastor was doing, so he sent military units most thoughtful to Banza to the nation's fringe and brought his own military supporters as near the capital as could be expected under the circumstances. In September 1967, he took a unique trek to Paris, where he requested assurance from French troops. After two months, the legislature conveyed 80 paratroopers to Bangui. 

On 13 April 1968, in another of his continuous bureau reshuffles, Bokassa downgraded Banza to clergyman of wellbeing, however given him a chance to stay in his situation as pastor of state. Perceptive of the president's expectations, Banza expanded his vocalization of disagreeing political perspectives. After a year, after Banza made various comments profoundly disparaging of Bokassa and his administration of the economy, the president, seeing a quick risk to his capacity, expelled him as his pastor of state. 

Banza uncovered his expectation to arrange an overthrow to Lieutenant Jean-Claude Mandaba, the boss of Camp Kassaï, who he looked to for help. Mandaba obliged the arrangement, however his faithfulness stayed with Bokassa. At the point when Banza reached his co-plotters on 8 April 1969, advising them that they would execute the overthrow the next day, Mandaba promptly called Bokassa and educated him of the arrangement. At the point when Banza entered Camp Kassaï on 9 April 1969, he was trapped by Mandaba and his fighters. The men needed to break Banza's arms before they could overwhelm and toss him into the storage compartment of a Mercedes and take him legitimately to Bokassa. At his home in Berengo, Bokassa beat Banza almost to death before Mandaba proposed that Banza be put on preliminary for the wellbeing of appearance. 

On 12 April, Banza introduced his case before a military council at Camp de Roux, where he admitted to his arrangement, however expressed that he had not wanted to execute Bokassa. He was condemned to death by terminating squad, taken to an open field behind Camp Kassaï, executed and covered in a plain grave. The conditions of Banza's passing have been debated. The American newsmagazine, "Time", announced that Banza "was hauled before a Cabinet meeting where Bokassa sliced him with a razor. Monitors at that point beat Banza until his back was broken, hauled him through the boulevards of Bangui lastly shot him." The French every day evening paper "Le Monde" revealed that Banza was killed in conditions "so repulsive that despite everything it makes one's substance creep": 

A couple of days after the fact, Bokassa had Banza's better half and their nine kids captured and extradited to Berbérati and afterward Birao. They were discharged on 6 May 1971. Banza's paramour, Julienne Kombo, who entered the Palais de la Renaissance crying insanely after her sweetheart's demise, was captured and imprisoned until 24 June 1972. Banza's dad was sent to imprison, where he passed on of appetite and fatigue on 24 April 1970 at Ngaragba Central Prison. Banza's two more youthful siblings, Beuoane and Gouboulo, were expelled from the gendarmerie in July and sent to Ngaragba Prison. In August 1971, they were taken from the jail, gone forever. 

Bokassa likewise chased down Banza's nearby partners, for example, Joseph Kallot, Faustin Marigot and Polycarpe Gbaguili. Kallot and Marigot passed on in jail in June 1969 and April 1971, individually. Except for Gbaguili, who stayed in jail until the destruction of the Bokassa routine on 20 September 1979, different partners were discharged a long time after their capture. Gbaguili filled in as an observer in Bokassa's criminal preliminaries for injustice, murder, barbarianism and theft amid the 1980s, clarifying in detail the various wrongdoings and human rights infringement the previous despot had finished. 

By taking out his unsafe adversary, Bokassa showed his capacity to manage dissenters and political adversaries. He began to govern all the more self-assertively after the Banza issue, giving himself control of different clerical positions and the military. In one case, he advanced Second Lieutenant François Bozizé, the future leader of the Central African Republic, to General after he beat a Frenchman who indicated affront for the president. As per Brian Titley, creator of "Dull Age: The Political Odyssey of Emperor Bokassa", he encircle himself with "sycophants, who were very eager to support his developing dreams of greatness"; with nobody to stop him, he likewise gone through cash with total surrender. 

References 

Source notes