Skirmish of Lipantitlán 

The Battle of Lipantitlán, otherwise called the Battle of Nueces Crossing, was battled along the Nueces River on November 4, 1835 between the Mexican Army and Texian radicals, as a major aspect of the Texas Revolution. After the Texian triumph at the Battle of Goliad, just two Mexican armies stayed in Texas, Fort Lipantitlán close San Patricio and the Alamo Mission at San Antonio de Béxar (present day San Antonio in the U.S. province of Texas). Expecting that Lipantitlán could be utilized as a base for the Mexican armed force to retake Goliad and furious that two of his men were detained there, Texian administrator Philip Dimmitt requested his assistant, Captain Ira Westover, to catch the fortification. 

The officer of Fort Lipantitlán, Nicolás Rodríguez, had been requested to annoy the Texian troops at Goliad. Rodríguez took the majority of his men on a campaign; while they were gone, Westover's power touched base in San Patricio. On November 3, a neighborhood man induced the Mexican army to surrender, and the next day the Texians disassembled the stronghold. Rodríguez returned as the Texians were crossing the swollen Nueces River to come back to Goliad. The Mexican warriors assaulted, however the more extended scope of the Texians rifles before long constrained them to withdraw. One Texian was harmed, 3– 5 Mexican warriors were murdered, and 14– 17 were injured. 

The harmed Mexican troops were permitted to look for medicinal treatment in San Patricio, and the staying Mexican officers withdrew to Matamoros. The Texians presently had full control of the Texas Gulf Coast, which implied that the troops positioned at San Antonio de Béxar could just get fortifications and supplies overland. Student of history Bill Groneman trusts this added to the inevitable Mexican thrashing at the attack of Béxar, which removed every single Mexican troop from Texas. The previous site of the stronghold is currently a Texas notable site. 

Post Lipantitlán was based on the grounds of an old campground along the west bank of the Nueces River on the Gulf shoreline of Texas. The site was first involved by a traveling Lipan Apache clan amid their occasional visits. After the Apaches deserted the zone, the campground was regularly utilized by evangelists, military units, and dealers advancing among Mexico and the Texas settlements. In 1825 or 1826, Mexican authorities built an alternative post, named Lipantitlán after the Lipan Apaches, at the campground. As per Texian John J. Linn, the stronghold "was a solitary bank of earth, lined inside by fence rails to hold the soil set up, and would have addressed decently well, maybe, for a below average hoard pen". The dike was encompassed by a vast jettison; simply outside the dump lay adobe and wooden cabins for the officers and their families. 

Somewhere in the range of 80 and 125 troopers from the second Active (Cavalry) Company of Tamaulipas were garrisoned at the post. They gathered traditions obligations and gave security to San Patricio, a little settlement of Irish and Mexican pilgrims around south. Littler battalions were situated at Copano Bay and Refugio, with a bigger power positioned at Presidio La Bahía in Goliad. 

In 1835, federalists in a few inside Mexican states rebelled against the inexorably centralist rule of Mexican President Antonio López de Santa Anna. The Texians arranged a minor rebel against traditions obligations in June, and watchful pioneers before long started shaping volunteer armies, apparently to secure themselves. Expecting that solid measures were expected to control the turmoil, Santa Anna requested General Martín Perfecto de Cos to lead a huge power into Texas; Cos touched base in Texas on September 20. 

The Texas Revolution formally started on October 2 at the Battle of Gonzales. Inside days, Texian agitators caught Presidio La Bahía, situated at Goliad. Twenty Mexican officers got away and quickly took shelter at Copano and Refugio; those armies before long relinquished their posts and joined the bigger power at Fort Lipantitlán. The Mexican warriors at Lipantitlán started improving the resistances of their little stronghold. As the main outstanding battalion on the Texas coast, Fort Lipantitlán was a crucial connection between the Mexican inside and Béxar, the political focal point of Texas which housed Cos and the main other power of Mexican troops in Texas. 

Chief Philip Dimmitt expected order of the Texians at Presidio La Bahía. In a letter to General Stephen F. Austin dated October 15, Dimmitt proposed an assault on Fort Lipantitlán, whose catch would "secure the outskirts, give a fundamental station to barrier, make unsteadiness among the centralists, and energize Mexican federalists". A large portion of the federalists in San Patricio feared striking back on the off chance that they transparently challenged Santa Anna's centralist arrangements. They were likewise hesitant to hold races for agents to the Consultation, which would choose whether Texians were battling for restoration of the Constitution of 1824 or for freedom from Mexico. Officers at Lipantitlán had additionally detained two of Dimmitt's men, John Williams and John Toole, as they attempted to convey messages to the federalist chiefs in San Patricio on October 10 and 11. Dimmitt would have liked to free the men subsequent to catching Fort Lipantitlán. 

On October 20, James Power, one of the Irish empresarios who had served to establish San Patricio, discovered that the Lipantitlán officers had been requested to retake Presidio La Bahia. Two hundred mounted force were required to fortify the Lipantitlán army before the assault, with an extra 200– 300 soldiers anticipated later. In spite of the fact that Dimmitt sent the knowledge to Austin, he was not offered approval to assault. The defer demonstrated exorbitant to Williams and Toole, who were walked to the Mexican inside, past the span of the Texians. As per Dimmitt's furious letter to Austin, Toole asked his captors to execute him through and through instead of send him on the walk, which he accepted would in any case result in his passing. Dimmitt finished up, "this news, after the tolerance appeared to the detainees taken here, couldn't neglect to make an exuberant, and a solid energy. The men under my order are rambunctious for striking back". 

The disturbance over the evacuation of Williams and Toole likely drove Dimmitt to bring matters into his very own hands. On October 31 he sent an individual from his staff, Adjutant Ira Westover, to take 35 men to assault Fort Lipantitlán. A self-named warning panel—John J. Linn, Major James Kerr and Power—rode along. The three consultants had been chosen to the Consultation yet deferred their takeoff with the goal that they could take an interest in the battling. 

As opposed to riding straightforwardly southwest to the fortress, Westover headed out southeast to Refugio. This elective course was likely planned to recommend that the endeavor was set out toward Copano Bay. An obscure number of men joined the endeavor in Refugio; student of history Craig Roell trusts that the undertaking developed by at any rate 20 men, and antiquarian Bill Groneman evaluated that Westover's power numbered 60– 70 men when it came to San Patricio. 

In the interim, the authority of the army at Fort Lipantitlán, Captain Nicolás Rodríguez, got requests to irritate the Texians at Presidio La Bahía. On October 31, as Rodríguez and his men neared Goliad, they discovered that a Texian compel had left the fortification before that day. The Mexican officers promptly backtracked their course. They didn't experience any Texian officers amid their walk and touched base on November 1 to discover the fortification left alone. Questionable with respect to what the Texians planned to do, Rodríguez and the main part of his battalion (practically 80 men) turned back towards Goliad to endeavor to capture the Texians. Somewhere in the range of 21 and 27 troopers, furnished with two gun, stayed to protect the stronghold. 

Rodríguez anticipated that the Texians should take an immediate course. his men watched the northern ways to deal with the fortification. Westover's men rather drew closer from the east, escaping the Mexican watches. Five miles (8 km) from San Patricio, Westover got word that Rodríguez was hunting down the Texians. He constrained the men to build their pace, and they touched base at San Patricio 30 minutes after dusk on November 3. Westover situated two little gatherings of men to watch the Nueces River intersections, about from the stronghold. As the remainder of the Texians arranged for a day break ambush, two San Patricio occupants meandered into their camp. Westover captured one of them, James O'Riley, for "supporting and helping the foe". In return for his freedom, O'Riley offered to convince the Mexican battalion to surrender. History specialists have no records of what techniques O'Riley utilized, however by 11 pm the Mexican officers had surrendered, without a shot discharged. They were discharged promptly as long as they guaranteed not to battle again amid the Texas Revolution. The Texians caught the two 4-lb (1.8-kg) guns, 18 flintlocks, and 3– 4 pounds (1.4– 1.8 kg) of powder. They likewise discharged a few Texians who had been held detainee in the fortress. 

The next day, Texians consumed the wooden cabins nearby the fortification and disassembled the dikes. By 3 pm they had gathered together 14 horses and were getting ready to take the guns back to Goliad. Meanwhile, Rodriguez had voyage practically right to Goliad. Before he achieved Presidio La Bahía, one of his covert agents touched base with news that the Texians had taken Fort Lipantitlán. Rodriguez and his men—including 10 colonists from San Patricio—walked back toward the fortress, touching base at around 4 pm. 

The Texians utilized a little kayak to transport men over the Nueces River, and when the Mexican warriors were located just 50% of the Texian constrain had crossed toward the east bank of the waterway. As the Mexican troopers assaulted, the Texians hid in a woods of trees. The trees kept the mounted force from drawing nearer, so Rodriguez's men got off and endeavored to assault from the two sides. The Texian rifles had an any longer range than the Mexican Brown Bess flintlocks—contrasted with . After 30 minutes of battling, the Mexicans pulled back, deserting 8 horses and a few injured men. The main Texian harmed was Lieutenant William Bracken, who lost three fingers. Texian sharpshooter A. J. Jones later wrote to Fannin that 3 Mexicans had passed on with 14 wounded, however history specialist Stephen Hardin trusts that 5 Mexicans kicked the bucket with 17 wounded. Jones' letter referenced that three of the injured were the "alcalde", judge, and sheriff of San Patricio. 

Without draft creatures, the Texians had no simple method to transport the gunnery. As night drew nearer, a virus downpour started to fall, and the men wound up disheartened. Westover, Kerr, Linn, and Power consented to toss the cannons in the waterway as opposed to keep on battling with it. The Texians likewise stored their reserve of caught ammo and black powder rifles in the waterway; as they would like to think, the provisions were futile. 

Most Texians went through the night in San Patricio, housed by thoughtful local people. The Mexican troops stayed outdoors outside close to the fight site. At first light, Westover consented to enable the injured Mexican troopers to be transported to San Patricio for treatment. The next the very beginning of the injured officers, Mexican Lieutenant Marcellino Garcia, passed on. Garcia was a close companion of Linn, and the Texians gave him a full entombment with distinction. 

Westover sent an emissary to Rodríguez to demand "another wonderful gathering". Rodríguez declined the offer and withdrew with his outstanding men to Matamoros. Their takeoff left just a single residual gathering of Mexican fighters in Texas, those under General Cos at Béxar. The Texians currently controlled the Gulf Coast, thus all correspondence among Cos and the Mexican inside must be exchanged overland. The long separation included seriously hindered the conveyance of messages and receipt of provisions and fortifications. As indicated by Groneman, this conceivable added to Cos' annihilation in the attack of Béxar, which removed the staying Mexican officers from Texas. 

On their arrival to Goliad, Westover's gathering experienced Agustín Viesca, the as of late dismissed legislative head of Coahuila y Tejas. A while previously, Viesca had been detained by the Mexican armed force for resisting endeavors by Santa Anna to disband the state governing body. He and individuals from his bureau had been freed by thoughtful warriors and quickly headed out to Texas to reproduce the state government. Westover and his men gave a military escort to Goliad, touching base on November 12. Dimmitt invited Viesca yet wouldn't perceive his position as senator. This caused a hubbub in the army; many bolstered the senator, while others trusted that Texas ought to be an autonomous nation and ought to in this manner not perceive the Mexican representative. 

Dimmitt later chastised Westover for not following requests amid the undertaking. Westover would not make an official report to Dimmitt. Rather, he sent a composed report to Sam Houston, the president of the normal armed force. As Westover would see it, "The men all battled boldly and those on the contrary bank of the waterway were empowered to work on the flanks of the adversary above and underneath the intersection which they did with fine impact." Houston commended "the lead and boldness of the officers and men who have so liberally cleared themselves in the undertaking thus deservedly won [a] notoriety for themselves and Glory for their Country". This was the primary furnished encounter battled since the Battle of Goliad, as indicated by student of history Hobart Huson, the triumph "recharged the assurance of the general population". Updates on the fight spread all through the United States, and the Texians were broadly adulated in American papers. 

The evacuation of Mexican armed force oversight empowered federalists in San Patricio. These men before long dealt with the civil government, framed a civilian army, and chose agents to speak to them at the Consultation. In any case, the town stayed partitioned; many still bolstered the centralist Mexican government. In the wake of achieving Matamoros, Rodríguez sent a letter to the town heads. The letter cautioned that the Mexican armed force would return and energized the general population of San Patricio to renounce the disobedience. One of the San Patricio federalists later composed Dimmitt, "We have neither men nor intends to withstand any power that might be sent against us." The Texians decided not to battalion men in or close San Patricio. In 1836, as a major aspect of Santa Anna's attack of Texas, General José de Urrea drove Mexican powers along the Texas coastline and retook San Patricio on February 27. 

In 1937, the land involving the previous site of Fort Lipantitlán was given to the province of Texas. The Texas State Parks Board dealt with the site in 1949. Presently named the Lipantitlan State Historic Site, the recreation center covers in Nueces County. A stone marker demonstrates the area of the previous post.