Bobby Eaton 

Robert Lee Eaton (brought into the world August 14, 1958) is an American resigned proficient wrestler, who made his presentation in 1976. Eaton is most well known for his work in label groups, particularly his days as one-portion of The Midnight Express. Under the administration of Jim Cornette, Eaton initially collaborated with Dennis Condrey and, later on, with Stan Lane. He has additionally worked with various other label group accomplices, including Koko B. Product, Steve Keirn, and "Master" Steven Regal. 

In his vocation, Eaton wrestled for expanded timeframes for different wrestling advancements: Mid-America Wrestling, Continental Wrestling Association, Mid-South Wrestling, World Class Championship Wrestling, Jim Crockett Promotions, World Championship Wrestling, and Smoky Mountain Wrestling. He has additionally shown up for Extreme Championship Wrestling and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, notwithstanding appearances for a significant number of free wrestling advancements throughout the years. He wrestled his last match in 2012 following a 26-year in-ring profession. 

Experiencing childhood in Huntsville, Alabama, Eaton was a devotee of expert wrestling, particularly the NWA Mid-America proficient wrestling advancement. This advancement was worked by Nick Gulas, who arranged wrestling appears in the Alabama and Tennessee district. Eaton's first association in the game came at 13 years old, while going to Chapman Middle School, when he helped set up wrestling rings in the place where he grew up. He later prepared under Tojo Yamamoto to turn into an expert wrestler. 

In May 1976, at 17 years old, Eaton made his presentation in NWA Mid-America. He entered his first match, a misfortune to Bearcat Wright, as a very late substitute for Wright's missing adversary. He rapidly turned into an ordinary in Mid-America and kept on preparing with the more experienced wrestlers. A little while later, fans, just as advertiser Nick Gulas, saw Eaton's physicality and ability to entertain. Gulas chose to "advance" Eaton up the positions of NWA Mid-America, giving him coordinates later in the show, closer to the headliner. The edge that truly raised Eaton's name up the card in the advancement occurred after the presentation of the label group The Hollywood Blonds (Jerry Brown and Buddy Roberts). Eaton battled the Blonds with an assortment of accomplices, including his old coach Yamamoto and "Gun" Pez Whatley. At the point when the Blonds chose to move to an alternate wrestling advancement, the storyline kept up that Eaton was in charge of driving them out of NWA Mid-America. 

In 1978, Eaton cooperated with Leapin' Lanny Poffo (sibling of the more outstanding "Macho Man" Randy Savage), and together they won the NWA Mid-America Tag Team Championship from Gypsy Joe and Leroy Rochester. It was Eaton's first title win, and he and Poffo held it for barely a month. Eaton proceeded to shape a group, known as The Jet Set, with George Gulas, Nick Gulas' child. Together, Eaton and Gulas held the label group title three times. Amid their time as a group, the two were engaged with a storyline quarrel with Terry Gordy and Michael Hayes before Gordy and Hayes ended up celebrated under the name The Fabulous Freebirds. 

In the spring of 1979, Eaton began a quarrel with Chris Colt, intended to set up Eaton as something other than a decent label group contender. The fight between the two was heated to the point that it saw Colt suspended for piledriving Eaton on the solid floor, influencing it to show up Eaton had been truly harmed. Eaton endured no wounds, in any case. Around then, the piledriver was prohibited in many organizations and treated as a move that could conceivably deaden a wrestler. This was done to give the move more "stun esteem". Eaton definitively crushed Colt, winning a spot as one of the top faces (heroes) in NWA Mid-America. Amid 1979 and 1980, Eaton worked a progression of singles matches against Dennis Condrey, a man he would later collaborate with to increase overall notoriety. 

Toward the finish of 1979, Eaton turned heel (trouble maker) without precedent for his vocation by joining Tojo Yamamoto's gathering of wrestlers, whom the fans despised. Despite the fact that Eaton is presently thought of fundamentally as a heel, his fans were astonished at the time. Eaton's heel run did not keep going well before he saved his previous Jet Set accomplice, George Gulas, from a two-on-one assault by The Blond Bombers (Larry Latham and Wayne Ferris) to come back to the fan-most loved side afresh. In the wake of rejoining the group, Eaton and Gulas had one last kept running with label group champions and worked an exceptional quarrel with Latham and Ferris. 

At the point when Nick Gulas' wrestling advancement shut because of lessening ticket deals, Eaton quickly wrestled for an advancement in Georgia. After a short time Eaton returned nearer to home, working for advertiser Jerry Jarrett's Continental Wrestling Association (CWA), which was focused in Memphis, Tennessee. Amid his initial days in the advancement, Eaton confronted Stan Lane a few times in label group rivalry. Eaton's best organization in the CWA, as far as title wins, was with Sweet Brown Sugar, nicknamed "the New Wave". The two wrestlers mixed their physicality and high flying capacities to shape an effective group. The New Wave held the AWA Southern Tag Team Championship multiple times (twice with administrator Jimmy Hart in their corner). In the wake of making progress as a label group, it was chosen that Eaton and Sugar should part up and fight with one another. This storyline brought about Eaton "compelling" Sugar out of the advancement after he won a "Washouts Leaves Town" coordinate against Sugar. 

Sugar's vanishing was before long pursued by the presence of a covered man called Stagger Lee, who looked and wrestled like Sugar. The storyline of Sugar returning under the cover to battle the heels helped make the conceal man right away mainstream with the group. Eaton, alongside the remainder of Jimmy Hart's steady "the First Family", attempted futile to expose Stagger Lee. 

Eaton turned face and re-cooperated with Sugar, in spite of the fact that they kept up the storyline that Eaton's accomplice was really "Stun Lee" and not Sugar. The group recovered the label group title before losing it to The Fabulous Ones (Stan Lane and Steve Keirn). Subsequently, Eaton collaborated with The Moondogs (Rex and Spot) to confront Jerry Lawler and the Fabulous Ones. Amid the match, one of the Moondogs unintentionally hit Eaton with their trademark bone, costing their side the match. After the match finished, the Moondogs, just as Jimmy Hart, turned on Eaton, pounding him until he was spared by Stagger Lee. 

Not long after Eaton joined Mid-South Wrestling under advertiser Bill Watts, he turned out to be a piece of the Midnight Express. Eaton cooperated with previous opponent Dennis Condrey under the administration of Jim Cornette to frame another adaptation of the label group. The Express had recently been a gathering of wrestlers comprising of Condrey, Randy Rose and Norvell Austin, however with Eaton's landing, the Midnight Express worked only as a two-man group. To supplement the epithet "Sweetheart Boy" Dennis, Eaton was nicknamed "Wonderful" Bobby, a moniker despite everything he utilizes when wrestling. At first, The Express was reserved in a point with the Mid-South Tag Team Champions Magnum T.A. what's more, Mr. Wrestling II. The feature of the edge saw Eaton and Condrey publicly shaming Magnum T.A. amidst the ring. The Express initially won the label group title when Mr. Wrestling II turned on Magnum T.A., assaulting him amid the title coordinate and permitting Eaton and Condrey to win the title absent much restriction. 

With Mr. Wrestling II and Magnum T.A. part up, the Midnight Express required another group to guard their recently won title against. They started a long arrangement of matches against The Rock 'n' Roll Express (Ricky Morton and Robert Gibson) which ran well into the 1990s and traversed a few wrestling advancements. The two groups quarreled all through 1984 in Mid-South Wrestling before the Midnight Express left the advancement. The Midnight Express versus Rock 'n' Roll Express arrangement of matches were so generally welcomed by the fans that free advertisers everywhere throughout the United States still book those two groups against one another today, 20 years after the competition began. The Midnight Express had a short remain in World Class Championship Wrestling in Texas, where they quarreled for the most part with The Fantastics (Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers). 

In 1985 Eaton, Condrey and Cornette marked with Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) and were given national presentation on JCP's broadcast programs on SuperStation TBS. Not long after joining JCP, the Midnight Express reignited their quarrel with the Rock 'n' Roll Express and won the NWA World Tag group title from them in February 1986. Over the span of their warmed point, Eaton and Condrey re-lost the title to the Rock 'n' Roll Express a half year later. Eaton and Condrey likewise had long running quarrels with The New Breed (Chris Champion and Sean Royal) just as The Road Warriors (Animal and Hawk). The fight with the Road Warriors incorporated a prominent Scaffold coordinate at Starrcade 1986, which the Midnight Express lost. 

In mid 1987, Condrey left JCP for undisclosed reasons, and "Sweet" Stan Lane had his spot as a component of the Midnight Express. In May 1987, in the wake of joining for just a couple of months, Eaton and Lane moved toward becoming bosses when they won the NWA United States Tag group title out of the blue, a title they would win multiple times amid their time together. After a year the group was gived a shout out to regardless of being heels, as the Midnight Express won the NWA World Tag Team Title from Arn Anderson and Tully Blanchard on September 10, 1988. This fight was stopped when Anderson and Blanchard marked with the WWF over cash issues. The Midnight Express' kept running with the title endured barely a month-and-a-half before the Road Warriors took the gold from them in a fierce coordinate, which saw the heel Road Warriors brutalize the now-prevalent Midnight Express. 

Presently the fan top choices, the Midnight Express needed to battle with a group thought to be disbanded always: the Original Midnight Express, which comprised of Condrey and Randy Rose, who joined JCP after a concise keep running in the AWA. The couple was driven by long-lasting Jim Cornette enemy Paul E. Perilously, in a storyline that saw them attempting to demonstrate the firsts were superior to the new form. The unexpected appearance of the Original Midnight Express gave Dangerously's group the underlying force in the fight, yet before long, Condrey left the advancement yet again. This constrained the bookers to acquire Jack Victory as a substitution as Condrey's vanishing cut the promising fight off. 

The Midnight Express at that point directed their concentration toward Paul E's. new group, The Samoan S.W.A.T. Group just as another adaptation of The Fabulous Freebirds. Eaton and Lane were crushed by the Freebirds in the finals of a competition for the emptied World Tag Team Titles. Following this misfortune, the Midnight Express cooperated with their previous adversaries The Road Warriors and "Dr. Demise" Steve Williams to overcome the SST and the Freebirds in a WarGames coordinate at The Great American Bash. Following this fight, Lane and Eaton started having issues with a youthful new group in the NWA known as "the Dynamic Dudes" (Shane Douglas and Johnny Ace). The Dudes conceded that the Midnight Express was one of their most loved groups and inquired as to whether Cornette would be their director also. Cornette consented to deal with the youthful group, to the disappointment of the Midnight Express. Subsequent to belligerence with the Express, Jim Cornette quit going with Eaton and Lane to the ring, deciding to just effectively deal with the Dudes. At the , the two groups met with Jim Cornette showing up in an impartial corner, compelled to pick between the groups. The Express begun in all respects forcefully, particularly for a group that should be fan top picks, and when the night was finished, the Midnight Express had by and by set up themselves as heels with Jim Cornette in their corner; Cornette had sided constantly with the Express. 

In the wake of coming back to their duping ways, the Midnight Express began a storyline with the exceptional group of Flyin' Brian and "Z-Man" Tom Zenk over the United States Tag group title. The Express won the title from the youthful group in mid 1990, however lost the belts to The Steiner Brothers (Rick and Scott) after three months. After a misfortune at the WCW pay-per-see Halloween Havoc 1990, the Midnight Express split up, as Jim Cornette and Stan Lane left the alliance, while Eaton stayed in WCW. Without precedent for very nearly 10 years, there was no Midnight Express. 

Out of the blue since 1979, Eaton was a singles contender, and he confronted a difficult task to build up himself. He wrestled his previous adversaries in label group rivalry, for example, Brad Armstrong (whom he vanquished at WrestleWar '91), Ricky Morton and "Z-Man" Tom Zenk (whom he crushed at Starrcade '90, however lost to at the Clash of the Champions XIV), yet it was not until he turned face amid the early pieces of 1991 that he began to climb the rankings. At SuperBrawl I, Eaton vanquished Arn Anderson to win the World Television Championship. Eaton's most noteworthy profile coordinate as a singles wrestler came when he went head to head against the World Heavyweight Champion "Nature Boy" Ric Flair at Clash of the Champions XV in a two-out-of-three falls coordinate. Eaton stuck Flair in the primary fall, at the end of the day lost to Flair two tumbles to one. His World Television Championship rule was fleeting, as he encountered newcomer "Staggering" Steve Austin, who duped his approach to win the title from Eaton. 

Late in 1991, Paul E. Perilously shaped the group The Dangerous Alliance. Eaton joined the gathering when he helped Rick Rude, with the storyline being that Dangerously had conveyed Rude to WCW, in crushing Sting for the United States Championship. In joining the gathering, Eaton moved toward becoming partners with Rude, Larry Zbyszko, and his two previous adversaries for the World Television Championship in Arn Anderson and Steve Austin. Soon after the gathering was framed, Anderson and Eaton turned into its label group pros. This appeared to bode well, as the two men had been fruitful label group wrestlers in their vocations; Anderson himself had been a two-time best on the planet cooperating with Tully Blanchard in the Four Horsemen and had likewise won the belts with Zbyszko prior in the year. Eaton and Anderson rapidly won the WCW World Tag Team Championship by vanquishing Ricky Steamboat and Dustin Rhodes, the group to whom Anderson and Zbyszko lost the belts, for the title and clutched the belts for five months before they lost them to the Steiner Brothers. 

The Dangerous Alliance was a predominant power in WCW. At a certain point amid 1992, they held each title aside from the WCW World Title, which was held by their principle rival and most despised foe Sting. The war between the Dangerous Alliance and Sting and companions heightened until it was chosen to settle it in a twofold ring War Games coordinate at WrestleWar 1992. Sting's group won when Sting constrained Eaton to surrender after Larry Zbyszko incidentally struck Eaton in the arm with a metal bar. This match would be given a 5-star rating from Dave Meltzer of the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter". 

In the fallout of the War Games coordinate, Zbyszko was kicked out of the Alliance for causing the Alliance misfortune. Not long after the Alliance deteriorated, Paul E. Perilously left WCW. Eaton and Anderson kept on joining after the Alliance went to pieces, presently overseen by Michael Hayes. Eaton and Anderson worked in the label group division until new WCW booker Bill Watts terminated Eaton alongside various other WCW regulars in a cost-cutting measure. 

At the point when Eaton wound up without a vocation, he contacted previous director Jim Cornette. Cornette had begun his own wrestling alliance, Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW) and greeted Eaton wholeheartedly. Eaton got together with "The Heavenly Bodies" (Stan Lane and Tom Prichard), and the three were reserved as the top impact points of the organization for some time. Eaton additionally won the league's form of the TV title, known as the SMW Beat the Champ Television Championship. 

Eaton visited Japan with New Japan Pro-Wrestling in 1993, 1994 and 1995. 

At the point when Bill Watts was expelled from his situation in WCW for Eric Bischoff in 1993, Eaton was rehired. Once back on the list, Eaton collaborated with a youthful Chris Benoit in Benoit's first spell with WCW. Together they were for the most part used to help build up rising groups or give built up groups resistance. After Benoit left to come back to Japan, in Eaton's next endeavor in tag joining, under the name "Awful Attitude", he collaborated with Steve Keirn, once in the past of the Fabulous Ones. Awful Attitude's single vital minute together came when they were available as Arn Anderson turned on label group accomplice Dustin Rhodes. Something else, the group did not get much introduction. Amid this time, Eaton additionally showed up in ECW because of an ability exchange game plan among WCW and ECW. His most outstanding appearance was at the "When Worlds Collide" appear on May 14, 1994, where he collaborated with Sabu to beat Arn Anderson and Terry Funk. 

After Bad Attitude discreetly finished, Eaton was set with British big talker "Ruler" Steven Regal. A progression of vignettes pursued, in which Regal instructed Eaton on the most proficient method to take care of business of class and advancement. The Blue Bloods at first quarreled with the Nasty Boys (Brian Knobs and Jerry Sags), their direct inverses as far as "modernity" and introduction. They likewise quarreled with Harlem Heat (Booker T and Stevie Ray) over the World Tag Team Championship, yet never took the belts, and occupied with a short "Stiff necks versus Rednecks" program with the Stud Stable (Bunkhouse Buck and Dick Slater). In all of 1996 the colleagues made just a single pay-per-see (PPV) appearance, as people in the "Deadly Lottery" amid May's Slamboree. Soon thereafter, Regal won the World Television Championship. Not long after, Eaton was moved out of the gathering, turning on his accomplices, wrestling Regal for the TV title on two events. 

The Blue Bloods storyline spoke to the last genuine push that Eaton was given by the WCW booking group. After the keep running with Regal and Taylor finished, Eaton wrestled basically on WCW's weekend appear, "Saturday Night", periodically winning against wrestlers low in the rankings and losing to wrestlers above him. 

In 2003, Eaton worked for NWA Mid-Atlantic, framing another variant of the Midnight Express with Ricky Nelson. This Midnight Express form was brief, and Eaton rather started visiting with Dennis Condrey (and now and again Stan Lane) as the Midnight Express. This adaptation of the Midnight Express performed together on select autonomous wrestling cards in the United States until 2012 when Eaton worked his last match. 

Eaton showed up for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling on August 13, 2003, as a piece of a Kid Kash storyline where Kash went head to head against a progression of 1980s wrestling stars, for example, Larry Zbyszko and Ricky Morton. Eaton lost to Kid Kash in his just TNA appearance to date. On October 23, 2015, Eaton wrestled his last match of his about 40-year profession, losing to Ricky Morton, additionally finishing the 30 or more year fight between The Rock 'n' Roll Express and The Midnight Express. 

Eaton is frequently viewed as one of the most delightful individuals in the wrestling business, despite the fact that he wrestled as a heel for a dominant part of his vocation. In his 1999 book "", Mick Foley adulated Eaton as being a standout amongst the most misjudged whizzes in the business, and its most pleasant, remarking that "it was damn close difficult to pay for anything with Bobby around, however I will admit to not making a decent attempt". This feeling was upheld in "The Stone Cold Truth" by Steve Austin. 

Notwithstanding his identity, he is likewise well known with different wrestlers because of his wrestling style. Wrestling Eaton is known as "a night off", on the grounds that Eaton is skilled to the point that the activity looks persuading yet does not hurt the rival. 

Eaton is hitched to Bill Dundee's little girl, Donna. When they initially begun dating, they needed to keep the relationship mystery from her dad, as her dad had prohibited her from dating the wrestlers he was reserving. At the point when Dundee discovered she was dating Eaton, he yielded in light of the fact that Eaton was such a pleasant person. Eaton and Donna have three youngsters: Dustin, Dylan, and Taryn. Dylan is an expert wrestler. 

In September, 2006 it was accounted for that Eaton was hospitalized in the wake of enduring a heart assault. Afterward, subsequent to being discharged from the clinic, Eaton discharged an announcement saying that he didn't show at least a bit of kindness assault yet was determined to have hypertension with a trace of diabetes. From that point forward, he has endured with a few medical problems, particularly cardiovascular issues which have seen him hospitalized on a few events. In June 2013, Eaton experienced effective medical procedure to have a pacemaker embedded. 

On August 5, 2016, Eaton was accounted for missing by his sister Debbie. As indicated by Tommy Dreamer, Eaton was most recently seen in Atlanta, where a photograph, which has since been erased, demonstrated him eating at the air terminal, and had no telephone and was confounded. Multi day later, Eaton was discovered safe. Wrestler Matt Sigmon posted a photograph on his Twitter record of himself and Bobby Eaton.