Caversham, New Zealand 

Caversham is one of the more established rural areas of the city of Dunedin, in New Zealand's South Island. It is sited at the western edge of the city's focal plain at the mouth of the lofty Caversham Valley, which ascends to the seat of Lookout Point. Significant street and rail courses south untruth adjacent; the South Island Main Trunk railroad goes through the suburb, and a detour skirts its primary retail territory, interfacing Dunedin's single direction road framework with the Dunedin Southern Motorway. The rural area is connected by a few transport courses to its neighboring rural areas and focal Dunedin. 

The rural area was established by rich pioneer William Henry Valpy, and its name mirrors his family associations with the town of Reading, in the English district of Berkshire. Caversham developed quickly amid the Central Otago Gold Rush of the 1860s due to its area on courses south to the Otago hinterland. Before the finish of the nineteenth century, Caversham was vigorously industrialized, and its populace included numerous gifted or semi-talented tradespeople. This, joined with the network's solid Protestant roots, prompted the region's commonly left-inclining political position. Caversham's initial history has been the subject of the Caversham Project, a noteworthy recorded and archeological examination by the University of Otago. Caversham was a different ward until 1904, when it was amalgamated with Dunedin city. It is right now directed as a major aspect of the city's South Dunedin ward. At a national dimension, it is a piece of the Dunedin South electorate. 

Caversham is currently prevalently private, with some mechanical premises in the east (prominently the Hillside Railway Workshops) and a retail region focused on South Road and Hillside Road. Inhabitants are by and large of low financial status. Caversham's outstanding structures incorporate the legacy recorded Lisburn House and a few unmistakable church structures. Another milestone is the rural area's war dedication, which is the fundamental door of Caversham School, one of the suburb's two grade schools. Caversham additionally contains an uncommon needs school. The closest optional schools are situated in St Clair, toward the south. 

Caversham has solid wearing associations, and is the area of Carisbrook, up to this point one of the city's fundamental games settings. The rural area is home toward the Southern Rugby Football Club, and gives its name to Caversham Football Club. A few eminent sportspeople have relationship with Caversham, among them Test cricketer Clarrie Grimmett and father and child rugby association managers "Old Vic" and "Youthful Vic" Cavanagh. Other eminent individuals with Caversham associations incorporate lawmaker Thomas Kay Sidey, draftsman Edmund Anscombe, and surveyor John Turnbull Thomson. 

Caversham lies at the mouth and in the lower scopes of a valley in the west of Dunedin's principle urban region, southwest of the downtown area, and north of the Pacific coast at St Clair. Toward the south lies Calton Hill, a goad of Forbury Hill, on which suburbia of Calton Hill, Corstorphine and Kew are found. 

Suburbia of Balaclava and Maryhill lie toward the north, near the western end of the edge that keeps running along the northern edge of focal Dunedin. These slopes were all once part of the edge of the Dunedin well of lava, the long-wiped out hole of which presently frames Otago Harbor. Different rural areas close-by incorporate Forbury, South Dunedin, Kensington, and Lookout Point. 

Caversham Valley has for some time been the real course out of the focal city toward the south. The rural area is found near the beginning of the Dunedin Southern Motorway (some portion of State Highway 1), the principle street access to focal Dunedin from the south, and near the South Island Main Trunk railroad. The making of the Dunedin Southern Motorway diverted traffic far from South Road, the fundamental avenue through Caversham. 

The railroad gives the suburb's most essential industry, through the Hillside Railway Workshops, which are situated in the southeast of the suburb and in the connecting suburb of South Dunedin. Regardless of this, there are never again any open railroad stations or stops in Caversham, the last station having shut in 1962. 

The slope inclines toward the north of Caversham are less thickly populated, and still hold some tree spread. This, alongside the steepness of the land, frames a characteristic boundary among Caversham and the suburb of Maryhill. Just a couple of winding streets navigate this obstruction, most remarkably Glen Road, at the eastern end of Caversham. At this end, the rural area gravitates toward to the foot of the slopes, and a characteristic valley, referred to locally as "The Glen", gives simpler street access to the slope edge. 

Toward the upper east of the Glen, a slope goad including a bluff isolates Caversham from the focal piece of the city. In spite of the fact that the name is seldom utilized, this goad is called Montecillo Ridge, named for the chateau of early pilgrim W.H. Reynolds. It is infrequently alluded to as "Slope", after the place of the city's establishing father Captain William Cargill which was situated here. This edge disregards "The Flat", as the plain extending crosswise over to the Pacific coast was (is still) privately known. South Road twists around the goad, associating with the southern end of Princes Street. One of the city's more seasoned and progressively memorable burial grounds, Dunedin Southern Cemetery, lies on the internal city side of this goad. 

At the highest point of Caversham Valley are an edge and the seat of Lookout Point. Post Point directions perspectives toward the southwest past the external rural areas of Burnside and Green Island to Saddle Hill, just as giving a view toward the east over the southern piece of the focal city to Otago Harbor and the Otago Peninsula. 

The most conspicuous structure in Lookout Point is the nearby flame station, which additionally serves both Caversham and Green Island. This 1956 structure is found quickly toward the north of the seat and is a conspicuous milestone after entering or leaving Dunedin. Not a long way from the flame station toward the north-east is Dunedin's tallest tree, an eucalyptus estimating an expected 100 meters. The Dunedin Southern Motorway authoritatively starts at the Lookout Point saddle, between Calton Hill and Maryhill, and breadths down over broken slope nation past Green Island to Mosgiel and the Taieri Plains. 

Post Point is likewise the home of the previous Caversham Industrial School, situated toward the upper east of the flame station on Mornington Road. Set up in 1869, the school was later a young men's home, and is presently a grown-up instructional hub. Post Point's fundamental lanes incorporate South Road, Caversham Valley Road, Riselaw Road, and Mornington Road. 

The Māori name for Lookout Point is "Ko Raka-a-runga-te-raki". It was the entombment site of boss Rangi-Ihia, a late eighteenth century Kati Mamoe boss who was generally in charge of joining the Kai Tahu and Kati Mamoe iwi. He was covered here so that "his soul may see thus his old frequents toward the southward." 

A timberland hold is situated on the upper inclines of Caversham Valley beneath Lookout Point. Bought by the Dunedin City Council in 1994 with the help of the Royal Forest and Bird Protection Society, it is home to different local fowl and invertebrate species, including one types of velvet worm accepted to be endemic to the Dunedin region. 

Caversham was named for Caversham, Berkshire, a suburb of Reading, by William Henry Valpy, a well off early pilgrim who cultivated the regions around the lower inclines of Forbury Hill; his underlying ranch, "The Forbury", was situated in what is currently St Clair, near a road which presently bears his name. An individual from Valpy's family was conceived in the English Caversham. 

In the beginning of Dunedin, it was incomprehensible for a dray to achieve the Caversham Valley in wet climate except if it passed by a winding course around the slopes. Valpy tackled this issue by enlisting men at his own cost to construct an unrefined street from the southern end of Princes Street to his ranch at Forbury. This shaped the reason for later streets into the suburb. The street bended around the edge of the slopes at the Glen to keep away from a substantial bog, the site of which is presently involved via Carisbrook sports ground. 

Settlement in the territory was moderate, however Caversham Valley was a favored course south out of the city. The Central Otago Gold Rush of 1861 prompted fast changes when a large number of individuals started utilizing the street on their approach to and from the gold fields. The rural area started to extend quickly at about this time, and the main open house, the Edinburgh Castle Hotel, was raised in 1861. Before the decade's over, Caversham had its very own school, post office, drill lobby (from the Southern District Rifles), and Anglican and Presbyterian temples. A third church, for the Baptist division, followed in 1872. 

A few magnanimous associations have had properties in Caversham, including the Otago Benevolent Institution home for invalids, and an IHC New Zealand focus at Kew Park. The Royal New Zealand Foundation of the Blind still has its Otago premises in Hillside Road. 

Early businesses in the zone included C and W Sheil's brickworks, which had quarries in Forbury, St Clair and Caversham, and Caversham Gasworks, which worked from 1882 until 1909. The last structures of the gasworks were a nearby milestone, and were not evacuated until the development of the Caversham sidestep during the 1980s. Other noted ventures in early Caversham included bottling works, a tannery, and a match industrial facility. 

Development of the South Island Main Trunk railroad south of Dunedin that started in 1871 prompted the development of a passage underneath Lookout Point, associating Caversham with Green Island. A second parallel passage – the primary twofold track burrow in the nation – was fabricated beginning in 1907, and all rail traffic moved to the new passage in 1910. Caversham was served by its very own railroad station until its conclusion in 1962. There has been a long-running effort to have the more established passage changed over into a cycleway, however this plan has never increased wholehearted board support. 

By the 1870s the number of inhabitants in Caversham was developing quickly, and in 1877, with the populace at around 4,000, it was announced a district. It held this status until amalgamation with Dunedin city in 1904. The district's territory included quite a bit of current Forbury and St Clair, just as what is normally viewed as Caversham today. 

The early history of the suburb and encompassing pieces of southern Dunedin has been the subject of a noteworthy progressing archeological and chronicled examine venture into early Dunedin by the University of Otago, referred to just as The Caversham Project. Through the span of the last 30 years, a database has been ordered of life in early South Dunedin, focussing on the ward of Caversham. This database is one of a kind in its size for a recorded report inside New Zealand or Australia, containing some 9.4 gigabytes of information, and has took into consideration the examination and production of subtleties identifying with the financial and statistic blend of early Dunedin. 

The multidisciplinary idea of the examination has brought about data being accumulated on subjects running from urban wanting to sexual orientation contemplates. By utilizing both quantitative and subjective investigations, and by including significant measures of oral history, it has took into account a clear entertainment of the general public of early urban New Zealand. A few books have come about because of the task, among them "Destinations of Gender: Women, Men and Modernity, 1890– 1939", altered by B. Brookes, A. Cooper, and R. Law (Auckland University Press, 2003) and "Class and Occupation: The New Zealand Reality" by E. Olssen and M. Hickey (University of Otago Press, 2005). 

In its developmental days, the Caversham Road Board controlled Caversham. This association filled in as a gathering for Caversham until May 1877, when it turned into a district. The precinct of Caversham, which existed until November 1904, took in a far bigger region than the present suburb, including quite a bit of Saint Clair, South Dunedin, Kew, and Kensington, and extended to the Pacific coast in the south and Otago Harbor in the east. The names of a few of the precinct's civic chairmen are honored in boulevards inside the previous district, among them Robert Rutherford, William Bridgman, and Thomas Kay Sidey. 

The Dunedin City Council right now controls Caversham; the rural area is situated in the city's South Dunedin ward, one of the city's six wards. This ward covers an extensive piece of Dunedin's principle urban region, just as the total of the Otago Peninsula. It chooses four councilors to Dunedin's 14-part city chamber. 

At a national dimension, Caversham was a different electorate from 1866 to 1908. MPs for the electorate included Thomas Kay Sidey and future Premier Robert Stout. Since 1908 Caversham has been in different electorates, and is as of now part of the Dunedin South electorate. , its MP is Clare Curran (Labor). 

Dissimilar to the majority of Dunedin, which was settled by Scots, numerous early pioneers in Caversham were English. This prompted some level of opposition by the chambers of the city and Caversham precinct in the beginning of settlement; Dunedin had been settled by the Presbyterian church, while Caversham's populace was generally Anglican, Methodist, and Baptist. There is little proof of this refinement in present day Caversham, other than the inceptions of nearby road names, a few of which mirror the names of English provinces and early English pioneers. 

Caversham started to a great extent as a lower-center to common laborers suburb. A considerable lot of the early inhabitants were talented or semi-gifted tradespeople. In its initial days, Caversham was known as "The woodworkers' ward", as a high extent of the gifted specialists inside the precinct were utilized in the structure exchange. The financial blend of the precinct, joined with the Protestant religious make-up of Caversham, prompted solid conventions of populist and social compassionate governmental issues in the ward. 

The left-inclining legislative issues of the region is as yet reflected to some degree in nearby political perspectives. The Dunedin South electorate, of which Caversham is a section, will in general return New Zealand Labor Party Members of Parliament and bolster this and other left-of-focus parties. In the 2008 New Zealand general race, 54.8% of substantial gathering cast a ballot cast in Caversham's two surveying stations were for the Labor Party and 10.4% were for the three other primary left-of-focus parties (Green, Alliance, and Progressive). The vote in favor of these gatherings over the entire Dunedin South electorate was 46.7% and 9.4% individually. The identical figures for New Zealand all in all were 34.0% and 7.7% individually. 

Numerous inhabitants of Caversham are still of generally low financial status when contrasted with those in encompassing slope rural areas. A 2007 Dunedin City Council report demonstrated that a high extent (39%) of the rural area's homes were a couple of room abodes. 

Caversham's 2006 populace was 5,058. The rural area has a somewhat higher extent of older occupants than the Otago normal, with 15.8% of inhabitants matured 65 and over. It additionally has an extensively higher extent of inhabitants of Māori and Pacific island drop than the Otago normal (10.3% and 4.4% separately). Caversham additionally has almost double the normal Otago extent of one-parent families (26.5%). Responsibility for access to home media communications, (for example, the web) and to private engine vehicles is significantly lower than the Otago normal. 

Caversham has no auxiliary schools, despite the fact that it contains two grade schools and an exceptional needs school. Caversham Primary School, at the edge of South Road and Surrey Street, has been at its present site since 1921. The school goes back to the mid 1860s, and has a present enlistment of around 80 students. The school's two-story 1920s block structures were pulled down and supplanted in 1961, as a result of their auxiliary unsoundness. The school's principle gate – the main enduring leftover of the prior structure – is the rural area's war remembrance. 

School Street School, south of South Road's retail zone, was based on a before site of Caversham Primary School. It was formally part of Caversham Primary School until 1959, when it was proclaimed a different establishment, and now has around 250 understudies. A third school, the Sara Cohen School in Rutherford Street, was set up in 1926. This school provides food for uncommon necessities understudies from grade school age through adulthood. The school was named for the late spouse of Mark Cohen, city councilor, campaigner for ladies' rights, and supervisor of the "Night Star" paper from 1893 to 1920. In 1889, Mark Cohen was a noteworthy figure behind the establishing of New Zealand's first kindergarten. 

There are kindergartens and tyke care focuses in both Rutherford Street (by Kew Park) and South Road (toward the east of the fundamental retail zone), and there are various pre-school offices and further elementary schools in suburbia of Forbury and Saint Clair, quickly toward the south of Caversham. The closest auxiliary schools are the single-sex schools of Queen's High School and King's High School, situated nearby each other near the limit between Saint Clair and South Dunedin, toward the south. 

In its initial years, Caversham was vigorously industrialized, yet in addition contained an extensive number of private properties. The populace incorporated countless tradespeople and craftspeople, and both vast and little ventures proliferated. Nearby enterprises toward the start of the twentieth century incorporated a brickworks, a gasworks, distilleries, a smithy, milliners, a few pastry kitchens, a tannery, a bootmakers, and Rutherford's Wax Vesta coordinate production line at Forbury Corner. In 1900, the South Road-David Street-Forbury Corner territory was home to more than 50 organizations. 

Today, the rural area is fundamentally private, however it has regions of retail and light modern organizations. The primary retail territory is on South Road between the beginning of the ascent up Caversham Valley and David Street, reaching out into David Street and the western end of Hillside Road (Forbury Corner, at times alluded to as Kew Corner). A couple of shops are additionally situated on South Road toward the east, close Carisbrook. Slope Road turns out to be progressively light modern as it approaches South Dunedin, with car engineers, vehicle deals yards, joineries, a rope processing plant, and a memorial service parlor. One of Dunedin's biggest mechanical destinations, the Hillside Railway Workshops, commands the eastern end of Hillside Road, near which lie other, littler, modern locales. Past this is the shopping region of South Dunedin. 

Caversham has four open houses – extensively less than in its developmental years. These are the Carisbrook Hotel, near the games ground for which it is named, Mitchell's Tavern in the South Road retail zone, the Waterloo Hotel at Forbury Corner, and the Fitzroy Hotel on Hillside Road close Bathgate Park. 

Carisbrook, the city's previous fundamental rugby association scene and a previous Test cricket ground, is at the eastern end of the suburb between The Glen and the Hillside Railway Workshops. It was the home of Otago Rugby Union until another arena opened in North Dunedin (the Forsyth Barr Stadium at University Plaza) in 2011. The new arena is the new home of the Otago Rugby Union and Highlanders Super Rugby establishment, and met with some resistance inside Dunedin, with protests concentrating to a great extent on the expense. The eventual fate of Carisbrook looks somber, and a considerable lot of the previous offices are being disassembled or evacuated. 

Other than Carisbrook, the suburb's principle sports ground is Bathgate Park, which lies at the fringe of Caversham and South Dunedin in the southeast. There are a few open territories of entertainment ground and parkland, quite Kew Park at Forbury Corner and Sidey Park and nearby parkland along the northern flank of the by-pass, and there are tennis courts near Kew Park on Thorn Street, and a croquet club between South Road and the Caversham by-pass. Kew Park is additionally home to one of the zone's most unmistakable pétanque clubs. 

Other wearing connections with the rural area incorporate Caversham Football Club, a standout amongst Dunedin's best football crews. Caversham has achieved the semi-finals of the national knockout challenge (the Chatham Cup) on three events, and was an individual from the previous New Zealand National Soccer League for a few seasons during the 1970s with a most astounding last position of fourth in 1975. They additionally played in the challenge's last season (2003). In spite of its name, Caversham play at Tonga Park, situated in the adjoining suburb of Forbury, a ground they share with the Carisbrook-Dunedin Cricket Club. Caversham is additionally home to one of Dunedin's primary games clubs. 

The Southern Rugby Football Club, a rugby association club, is situated at Bathgate Park toward the southeast of Caversham. Southern is reliably among Dunedin's more grounded club sides, and has been Otago club champion on more than 20 events. It was shaped from a merger of the Caversham and Pacific clubs in 1899. Southern's players have included more than 20 All Blacks, including Stephen Bachop, Stu Forster, Jamie Joseph, Laurie Mains, and Gary Seear. 

Slope Railway Workshops rule the southeast of Caversham and the neighboring suburb of South Dunedin. Set up at this site in 1875, the workshops are the primary railroad development and fix shop in the South Island. The workshops spread , of which are secured floor space. 

Toward the north of the workshops is Carisbrook, Dunedin's previous principle sports setting. Opened in 1883, the ground had a limit of 35,000 individuals, and was floodlit from the 1990s. Utilized fundamentally for rugby association, yet additionally for different games (remarkably as a Test cricket setting), Carisbrook lost its pre-distinction among the city's games fields with the development of another arena in the northern end of the city in 2011; obliteration started in 2013. The ground is named for the previous home of early provincial pilgrim James Macandrew, which thus was named for Carisbrooke Castle on the Isle of Wight in southern England. 

Lisburn House is one of the best enduring 1860s townhouses in New Zealand. Presently keep running as an informal lodging foundation, this house was worked in 1865 for the Fulton family, a pioneer cultivating family at their "Ravenscliffe" property on the Taieri Plains. The house was named for the family's birthplaces in Lisburn, Northern Ireland, and is Category I legacy recorded. William Clayton planned the 12-room house, remarkable for its steeply calculated slate rooftop and polychromatic brickwork. Two other Category II legacy structures are on Fitzroy Street: Faringdon Villa, and an untitled house. 

Different structures of note in Caversham incorporate the rural area's houses of worship. The Presbyterian church is situated on Thorn Street, generally somewhere between the South Road retail zone and Forbury Corner. It was worked in 1883 after the pulverization of the past structure by flame. The present structure, worked in Port Chalmers bluestone with Oamaru stone facings, was planned by T. B. Cameron. 

Caversham's Anglican church, St. Peter's, is situated on Hillside Road. Planned by H. F. Solid, the establishment stone was laid in 1882. The first structure required the congregation to have a tower, but since of issues with the pinnacle's establishments (which left the pinnacle inclining from the opposite) this was never developed. 

Caversham Baptist church is situated at the side of South Road and Surrey Street, near Caversham School. Surprising among Dunedin structures, this congregation has a formal Classical style, with its brickwork enlarged by pediments and square segments. The establishment stone for the structure was laid in 1906. The previous Baptist Church, in Playfair Street, is currently utilized as a Gospel Hall. 

A further church, situated in South Dunedin near the southeastern edge of Caversham, was the South Dunedin Wesley Methodist Church in Hillside Road. This structure, developed in 1893, was compromised with decimation from 2009, lastly destroyed in 2017. 

Some portion of the manufacturing plant of Donaghy's Industries, contiguous the eastern edge of Bathgate Park, is striking a direct result of its abnormal shape. This structure, which is not exactly wide yet some long, fills in as a ropewalk for Donaghy's, who have been producing rope and twine at this site since 1876. 

A to some degree disputable ongoing expansion to Caversham was the opening, in October 2013, of Whakamana Cannabis Museum, New Zealand's first historical center committed to the historical backdrop of cannabis use. Cannabis, while still a condemned medication in New Zealand, has moved some route towards hesitant acknowledgment, at any rate as a subject for open discourse. The historical center, keep running from a previous private house in David Street, is intended to be a data focus on parts of the history and enactment encompassing the medication, and furthermore a national community for the Aotearoa Legalize Cannabis Party, a minor single-issue ideological group. 

Noted occupants in the Caversham zone have included individuals from the Sidey family, a few of whom were neighborhood or national government officials. Among these was Thomas Sidey, New Zealand Attorney General 1928– 31. Sidey Park, near the northern edge of the Caversham sidestep, and Sidey Street in Corstorphine are both named in his respect. 

Commander William Cargill, organizer of the Otago settlement, lived just toward the upper east of Caversham over The Glen; his home "Slope" gave its name to Hillside Road, which was at one time called Cargill Road. The territory around the site of Cargill's for quite some time pulverized house between The Glen and Kensington is still alluded to as Hillside. Cargill's Corner, the real street intersection at the South Dunedin end of Hillside Road, is likewise named in his respect. 

Planner Edmund Anscombe was a Caversham occupant. Anscombe was in charge of various critical structures in mid 20th century New Zealand, a large number of which get by to the present day. Among them are the Sarjeant Art Gallery in Wanganui and the Former Post and Telegraph Building in Wellington. Noted neighborhood structures with work by Anscombe incorporate expansions to the University of Otago Clocktower complex in Dunedin North, the principle working of Otago Girls' High School in focal Dunedin, and the Allied Press working in Lower Stuart Street, Dunedin. 

Another outstanding nearby occupant was surveyor and engineer John Turnbull Thomson. Thomson was Chief Surveyor of the Otago Province from 1856 to 1873, and Surveyor-General of New Zealand from 1876 to 1879. Amid his time as commonplace Chief Surveyor, Thomson investigated and mapped expansive areas of the inside of the southern South Island. A large number of the spot names in this district mirror Thomson's Northumbrian inceptions, with trite names as a Northumbrian logic name for a creature. Thus, the zone is still sometimes alluded to as "Thomson's Barnyard" or "The Farmyard Patch". 

Among sportspeople with Caversham associations, Australian Test cricketer and 1931 Wisden Cricketer of the year Clarrie Grimmett is maybe the best known. Grimmett, the primary player to step through 200 Exam wickets, was conceived in the suburb on Christmas Day, 1891. Noted rugby association directors "Old Vic" Cavanagh and "Youthful Vic" Cavanagh were additionally conceived in Caversham. Between them, the dad and child were in charge of changes to the manner in which the sport of rugby association was played through their inventive training techniques and strategies. 

The cricketer, writer, lyricist and educator Robert J. Pope (1865– 1949) was additionally conceived in Caversham. 

The suburb's principle street is South Road, which at its eastern (Glen) end twists around the flanks of slopes before uniting with Princes Street and Dunedin's focal business locale. A slip street associates South Road with State Highway 1 at the foot of these slopes, simply above Carisbrook. 

Slope Road, which runs parallel with South Road a few hundred meters toward the south, is a blood vessel course associating South Dunedin (at its eastern end) with Dunedin's southwestern rural areas. At its western end is Forbury Corner, a street intersection connecting Hillside Road with rural blood vessel courses to suburbia of Saint Clair (Forbury Road) and Corstorphine (Easther Crescent), just as David Street, the significant street interface between Hillside Road and South Road. Various other little private avenues run parallel with David Street between Hillside Road and South Road. The suburb's other fundamental streets incorporate Caversham Valley Road, Playfair Street, Surrey Street, and Glen Road. The last of these lies at the Glen at the eastern end of Caversham, giving a connection between South Road and the slope rural areas of Maryhill, Balaclava, and Mornington. 

A Caversham sidestep was developed in the late 1970s and mid 1980s, and was authoritatively opened in 1987. It presently diverts State Highway 1 from the retail heart of the rural area, interfacing at its northern end with the city's single direction road framework. With the development of the detour, Caversham Valley Road was truncated near its intersection with South Road, and the upper stretch of the street proceeded as a component of State Highway 1, associating the detour with Dunedin Southern Motorway. 

Until the development of the detour, South Road and Caversham Valley Road framed the fundamental course out of Dunedin toward the south. State Highway 1 finished South Road the fundamental retail region, at that point pursued Caversham Valley Road to Lookout Point. Over its retail territory, South Road twists around the flank of Calton Hill; Caversham Valley Road frames a straighter, soak course that initially proceeded from the finish of South Road's retail zone. Consequently, the piece of South Road going through the retail territory is additionally now and then alluded to as a feature of Caversham Valley Road. Upgrades to Caversham Valley Road to ease blockage and increment security started in 2011. An intersection at the north end of Caversham's fundamental retail zone associates South Road with the detour. 

Caversham was served by a rural railroad station on the "South Line" among Dunedin and Mosgiel. Administrations stopped on this line in 1982. The railroad station structures were decimated quite a long while later. 

Cable cars served Caversham somewhere in the range of 1880 and 1954, working in Hillside Road, South Road, and David Street. A few transport courses currently serve Caversham, interfacing it with the core of the city. Citibus and Dunedin Passenger Transport run courses from the downtown area to Saint Clair and Corstorphine through Hillside Road, and to Lookout Point by means of South Road. Dunedin traveler transport additionally runs benefits between The Octagon and both Mosgiel and Brighton by means of South Road. Cargill's Corner, at the South Dunedin end of Hillside Road, is a noteworthy rural transport center point.