Bill Brown (cricketer) 

William Alfred Brown, OAM (31 July 1912 – 16 March 2008) was an Australian cricketer who played 22 Tests somewhere in the range of 1934 and 1948, captaining his nation in one Test. A right-gave opening batsman, his organization with Jack Fingleton during the 1930s is viewed as one of the best in Australian Test history. After the intrusion of World War II, Brown was an individual from Don Bradman's "Invincibles", who visited England in 1948 without annihilation. In a match in November 1947, Brown was the accidental casualty of the primary example of "Mankading". 

Brought up in New South Wales, Brown at first battled in both work and cricket, before bit by bit ascending through the cricket positions. He made his top notch debut for New South Wales in the 1932– 33 season and constrained his way into the national side amid the 1934 voyage through England. At the point when long haul openers Bill Ponsford and Bill Woodfull resigned toward the finish of the visit, Brown and his state opening accomplice Fingleton dominated. After poor structure made his choice for the 1938 voyage through England disputable, Brown reacted with a sum of 1,854 runs, including an unbeaten 206 that spared Australia from thrashing in the Second Test, and was regarded as one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year. 

The episode of the Second World War cost Brown his pinnacle years, which he spent in the Royal Australian Air Force. Cricket continued in 1945– 46 and Brown, in Bradman's nonattendance, captained an Australian eleven of every a match that was reflectively granted Test status. Dark colored missed the sum of the accompanying season on account of damage. Upon his arrival, he was unfit to rehash his past progress and was expelled from the opening positions by Arthur Morris and Sid Barnes. Chosen for the "Invincibles" visit, he performed sensibly well in the visit coordinates in any case, with Morris and Barnes dug in as openers, he batted out of position in the center request amid the initial two Tests. He battled and was dropped from the Test group, never to return. After coming back to Australia, Brown kept playing for Queensland until the finish of the 1949– 50 season. 

In retirement, Brown quickly filled in as a Test selector and sold autos and, later, sports merchandise. In 2000, he was granted the Medal of the Order of Australia for his administrations to cricket. At the season of his passing in 2008, he was Australia's most established Test cricketer. 

The child of a dairy rancher and lodging proprietor, Brown was conceived in Toowoomba, Queensland. Matured three, business disappointment hit the family, and they moved to Marrickville in internal Sydney. The family's poor money related position implied that they lived in a one-room home, with Brown and his sibling sharing a bed. Instructed at Dulwich Hill and Petersham High Schools in Sydney, Brown began playing cricket as a wicket-guardian, before changing his concentration to opening the batting. He left secondary school following two years, yet was unfit to discover standard all day work in the midst of the Great Depression. In 1929– 30, Brown played evaluation cricket for Marrickville Cricket Club, yet was unfit to hold down a normal spot. He was nearly leaving Sydney when an innings of 172 in the Poidevin-Gray Shield revived his vocation. Dark colored advanced through the evaluations and achieved the club's First XI, where he performed relentlessly to gain determination for New South Wales in 1932– 33. 

Making his five star debut for New South Wales in a Sheffield Shield coordinate against Queensland on 11 November 1932, Brown was run out for a duck without confronting a ball, while opening with Jack Fingleton. Nonetheless, the match finished cheerfully with Brown's group winning conclusively by an innings and 274 runs. The features of Brown's first season were his 79 against South Australia, and 69 against Douglas Jardine's England. Be that as it may, neither Harold Larwood nor Bill Voce, the "Bodyline" initiates, played in the match. Amid his first season, Brown earned the anger of Don Bradman, who was disappointed with Brown's poor correspondence with batting accomplices when running between the wickets, with the resulting danger of falling foul of run outs. Dark colored finished his presentation season with 269 keeps running at 29.88. 

The accompanying season, in the opening match of the period against Queensland at Brisbane in November 1933, Brown made 154, banding together Bradman in a remain of 294 in only three hours. This set up a sum of 4/494 proclaimed and an innings triumph. He pursued this with 205 of every an opening stand of 340 against Victoria. Darker amassed two further half-hundreds of years to finish with 878 keeps running for the season at a normal of 67.53, which put him second behind Bradman in the top notch run-scoring totals. At the point when the selectors met to talk about the visit party for the 1934 voyage through England, Brown and Fingleton had comparable figures, however with the occupant Victorian opening pair of Bill Ponsford and skipper Bill Woodfull solidly set up, there was just a single spot accessible for a hold opener. The selectors asked Bradman—Australia's driving batsman—for exhortation. Bradman selected Brown, trusting that his style was more qualified to English pitches. A disillusioned Fingleton differ and wrote to Woodfull, saying "You have picked chaps who don't care for quick bowling". Darker advocated his choice before takeoff with a couple of 90s in two counterparts for a joined Australian XI against Tasmania. 

Dark colored missed determination for the visit opener against Worcestershire—in which Australia generally handled its first-decision XI—before making his introduction in the second match against Leicestershire. He made a century against Cambridge University in his second visit coordinate, making 105 in the center request. Batting at number 3 against Lancashire in the last visit coordinate before the Tests, Brown scored 119. Subsequent to aggregating 351 keeps running at 43.88 in the opening visit matches, he was chosen for the Test side. Playing in each of the five Tests, Brown made his introduction at Trent Bridge, Nottingham and scored 22 in his first innings. After Australia lost three early wickets in the second innings, Brown scored 73 to help secure a triumphant lead. Dark colored at that point made a century while opening the batting against Northamptonshire, and an unbeaten 62 in the second innings, directing Australia to an eight-wicket triumph over the Gentlemen of England. He was elevated to open in the Second Test at Lord's with Woodfull, after Ponsford was inaccessible because of disease. At the home of cricket, Brown made his lady Test century, scoring 105 in the primary innings. His innings was an unhurried one; he would in general trust that the ball will go onto the bat as opposed to assaulting the calfskin. Be that as it may, he was unfit to keep Australia from being compelled to pursue on and made two; the match finished in an innings rout. He was held as opener upon Ponsford's arrival for the Third Test, with Woodfull dropping down the request in a reshuffled batting line-up. Dark colored made 72 and a duck. The match finished in a draw after the two groups passed 490 in the main innings. 

It was the beginning of an infertile month for Brown, who passed 30 just once in 11 top of the line innings, totalling 171 keeps running at 15.55. He finished the useless arrangement with an unbeaten 100 against Nottinghamshire. This came after Bill Voce had bowled Bodyline toward the beginning of the Australian innings, in repudiation of an earlier understanding. After an Australian dissent, Voce missed the rest of the match and Brown's innings was punctuated by irate bothering by the neighborhood supporters. 

He was unfit to pass 20 in the last two Tests and finished the arrangement with 300 keeps running at 33.33. In spite of his failure to make a considerable commitment, Australia won the Fifth Test by 562 hurries to recover the Ashes 2– 1. Darker scored three continuous half-hundreds of years after the Tests and finished with 1,287 top notch keeps running at 36.77. 

Dark colored's solid structure proceeded after coming back to Australia, arranging 683 keeps running at 45.53, including three centuries, to be the second most astounding run-scorer for the 1934– 35 residential season. He began the season with the tribute coordinate for Woodfull, who resigned after coming back to Australia. Darker scored 102 in the second innings to enable Woodfull's men to overcome Victor Richardson's XI by seven wickets. He began the Sheffield Shield season with 11 out of an innings triumph over South Australia, and scored fifties in three back to back matches, before adjusting off the season with 116 in the last match against Western Australia. 

With the retirement of Woodfull and Ponsford after the voyage through England, Brown and his state accomplice Fingleton turned into Australia's opening pair for the 1935– 36 voyage through South Africa. It was a standout amongst the most beneficial periods of the two men's profession. In Australia's warm-up match against Western Australia before cruising over the Indian Ocean, Brown struck 55 of every an innings win. 

Dark colored began the visit reliably, scoring 148, 58, 31 and 28 not out in the three warm-up matches. In the main match of the visit against Natal, both Brown and Fingleton made hundreds of years; the initial two matches were won by an innings and the third by ten wickets. 

Darker scored three back to back half-hundreds of years in the initial two Tests in Durban and Johannesburg. Australia won the first by nine wickets and were 124 keeps running from triumph with eight wickets close by in the second when awful light halted play. In the Third Test at Cape Town, the pair set another Australian opening record of 233, which established the framework for a substantial Australian aggregate and an innings triumph. It was Australia's first twofold century opening stand in Test cricket, and remains an Australian Test record for the principal wicket against South Africa. Darker posted 121, his most astounding Test score at the time. He scored 34 and 84 in Australia's solitary innings of the Fourth and Fifth Tests in Johannesburg and Durban, making strong opening stands with Fingleton, who scored three successive hundreds of years. The pair laid the stage for two further innings triumphs, as Australia stepped through the five-Examination arrangement 4– 0. Dark colored ordered 417 keeps running at 59.57 for the arrangement. He scored a further four fifties in the rest of the visit matches to finish with 1,065 keeps running at 62.65. 

In 1936, Brown acknowledged a training position and work as a vehicle sales rep to move back to Queensland, speaking to his condition of birth from 1936– 37 onwards. He was named chief the accompanying season. Darker began the new season firmly, scoring 111 for Victor Richardson's XI in a tribute coordinate against Bradman's XI, in the opening match of summer. In November, Brown played for an Australian XI and Queensland in two matches against the visiting England group, scoring 71 and 74 in the two drawn matches. 

His 1936– 37 season was hindered by damage and he showed up in just the Third and Fourth Tests against England. They were generally ineffective, yielding just 95 keeps running at 23.75 in four innings without passing fifty. By the by, Australia won the two matches. His introduction season for Queensland was tolerably fruitful, with 557 keeps running at a normal of 37.13, including one century and four fifties. Darker did not taste triumph with his home state amid the season; the nearest Queensland came was a one-wicket misfortune to New South Wales. 

Dark colored's structure began to crumble in 1937– 38; he scored just 400 keeps running at 36.36 for the season. Queensland played five matches under his supervision, losing three, and abandoned triumph. Of the two draws, one was washed out and in the other, Queensland held tight with two wickets close by when time ran out. Albeit Brown incorporated two centuries, he was just twelfth in the totals amid an Australian season with no worldwide visits. Subsequently, his choice for the 1938 visit to England was scrutinized in certain quarters. 

Darker began the visit patchily, in spite of the fact that Australia won every one of their initial four matches by an innings. In his initial four innings, Brown passed five just once, scoring 72 against Oxford University. He came back to shape with an unbeaten 194 against Northamptonshire, setting up an innings win, before including another 96 in the following match against Surrey. Darker entered the Tests with 504 keeps running at 56.00 ahead of the pack in visit matches. 

Subsequent to including 48 in Australia's first innings of 411, Brown scored 133 in the second innings of the First Test at Nottingham after the travelers were compelled to pursue on, helping Bradman (144 not out) to spare the Test. The Australians achieved 6/427 in the second innings when the match finished in a draw. 

Dark colored's most praised innings came in the Second Test at Lord's, conveying his bat to score 206 in the first broadcast Test coordinate. Britain batted first and amassed 494, to a great extent on the back of Wally Hammond's 240. Darker included in an opening stand of 69 preceding Fingleton was rejected. Hedley Verity at that point bowled Bradman for 18, leaving the score at 101, preceding Stan McCabe fell after a quickfire 38 with the score at 3/152. Dark colored enlisted his century in 193 minutes, amid an innings featured by his driving on the two sides of the wicket. After Lindsay Hassett was expelled for 56 following a 134-run association, Australia achieved stumps at 5/299, with Brown on 140. The next day, Brown begin guaranteeing that Australia would maintain a strategic distance from the pursue on, including in a forceful eighth-wicket remain with tailender Bill O'Reilly. The pair included 85 keeps running in only 46 minutes, with Brown reviewing "It was a pleasant day, and a decent wicket. O'Reilly came in, and I revealed to him I'd take the quicks—Wellard and Farnes—and Tiger [O'Reilly] took Verity." Brown proceeded past his twofold century and stayed unbeaten on 206 from only 375 minutes when his last accomplice fell, forgetting Australia for 422. Dark colored's innings was the 100th century by an Australian against England, and the most noteworthy Test score for a batsman conveying his bat; it remained until Glenn Turner made an unbeaten 223 of every 1972. Beam Robinson joked that Brown's execution "did not make smoke ascend from the back of those [television] sets yet the appeal of his style gave watchers a positive impression of Australian batsmanship". They proceeded to draw the match, which was vital in Australia's possible maintenance of the Ashes. Dark colored's continuous batting implied that he was on the field from the principal morning until late on the fourth day. 

Following making his most elevated Test score at Lord's, Brown recorded his most elevated five star score of 265 not out against Derbyshire, in six hours of batting. Australia amassed 4/441 pronounced and won by an innings and 234 runs. He at that point made it three centuries straight, scoring 101 against Warwickshire, setting up another innings win. 

The Third Test was washed out without a ball being bowled, and Australia won the Fourth Test by five wickets in a low-scoring match to hold the Ashes. Dark colored made 22 and nine as Australia scored 242 and 5/107. It was the beginning of a tranquil month for the opener, who scored just 194 keeps running in eight finished innings. He was the top Australian scorer in the two innings of the Fifth Test at The Oval, scoring 69 and 15. This was the match in which Len Hutton scored a world Test record 364 and England ordered 7/903, preceding winning by an innings and 579 runs, which remains a world record winning edge in a Test coordinate. All through the Tests, Brown accumulated 512 keeps running at 73.14, totalling 1,854 keeps running at 59.57 in all top notch matches for the visit. This set Brown second to Bradman in the two totals and normal. He was named as one of the Wisden Cricketers of the Year for his exhibitions in 1938. "Wisden" depicted him as a "cricketer of astounding forces" who batted with "a beguiling aptitude, coolness, keenness and assurance". 

After coming back to Australia, Brown scored 1,057 keeps running at 105.70 in the 1938– 39 Australian season, incorporating 990 at 110.00 in six Sheffield Shield matches. Darker began the season well, scoring 84 as Queensland amassed 501 against New South Wales. His old state were as yet 27 keeps running from making Queensland bat once more, yet time ran out with one wicket unblemished, with Brown yet to taste triumph with his new state. In any case, he kept on performing emphatically and passed 50 in every one of his initial four innings. In the fourth of these, he was out for 99 and after that pronounced at 5/510 to leave Victoria a triumph focus of 319. Dark colored at that point barely passed up an achievement for the second time in the match when Victoria scratched home by three wickets to deny him a lady triumph with his home state. In the following match, he conveyed his bat to make an unbeaten 174 against South Australia at the Adelaide Oval, as his group tumbled to an innings rout. 

After twelve counterparts for his condition of starting point, Brown was still to finish up on the triumphant side. This changed in the following match against New South Wales. After their adversaries had made 214, Brown top-scored with 95 as Queensland answered with 200. New South Wales made 264 to leave Brown's men 279 for triumph. The skipper drove the way, consolidating with Geoff Cook in Queensland's at that point record first-wicket association of 265. Darker was out for 168, yet his group clutched secure an eight-wicket triumph over New South Wales. It was Brown's first win in Queensland hues. He at that point scored 81 out of a ten-wicket annihilation to South Australia, before including a second triumph, this time over Victoria. Darker finished the season by accumulating 215 as Queensland achieved 7/575 pronounced before finishing an innings win. Dark colored finished the totals with 1,057 runs and was the main player to pass 1,000 keeps running for the season. 

Dark colored had another solid battle in the next year, netting 857 keeps running at 61.21, including three centuries. Notwithstanding this, Queensland had another poor season, losing five of their six matches. Dark colored began the season firmly, scoring 87 and 137, however he was unfit to stop New South Wales winning the opening match by three wickets. After a seven-wicket misfortune to Victoria, Brown made 156, however was unfit to keep an innings annihilation to South Australia. After an innings misfortune to New South Wales, he made 111 to control Queensland to its solitary win of the period, a two-wicket triumph over South Australia. He completed the season with 35 and 97 as The Rest of Australia lost to New South Wales by two wickets. 

Because of World War II, cricket in Australia was downsized and in an abbreviated season in 1940– 41, Brown made 307 keeps running at 30.70 in five matches, with two half-hundreds of years. In 1941– 42, he played one match, his last five star apparatus amid the war, scoring 56 and 69 out of a tight 19-run prevail upon New South Wales. 

Dark colored was a flight lieutenant with the Royal Australian Air Force, serving in New Guinea and the Philippines amid the Second World War, losing his prime a very long time from the age of 27 to 33. Amid the pre-war years, he had found the middle value of 49.02 in Test cricket. 

Top notch cricket continued in 1945– 46 after the Allied triumph, and Brown started the post-war period of his profession with a consistent season, scoring 604 keeps running at 46.46 with five half-hundreds of years in seven matches. This put him second to Sid Barnes in the run-scoring totals. His best exertion was a 98 against South Australia, denied a century by a run out. Queensland lost more than they won, with two triumphs and three misfortunes. Toward the finish of the period, Brown captained an Australian side on a voyage through New Zealand, and every one of the five matches brought about persuading triumphs for the sightseers. 

Australia played its debut Test against New Zealand in Wellington, a match that was reflectively given Test status. The unsure status of the visit saw the players wearing jackets that were marked ABC (Australian Board of Control), as opposed to the Australian ensign. Dark colored drove from the front, besting the visit totals and midpoints, with 443 keeps running at 73.83 in five matches. In the opening visit coordinate against Auckland, Brown chosen to bat and opened with 68 as Australia amassed 579 and took triumph by an innings and 180 runs. This was trailed by a match against Canterbury in Christchurch, in which Brown top-scored with 137. This established the framework for a sum of 8/415 and another innings triumph. Dark colored made his second back to back century in the third match against Otago at Carisbrook in Dunedin, again top-scoring with 106 of every an eight-wicket triumph. He made 34 in the last visit coordinate as Australia vanquished Wellington in another innings triumph. 

The visit finished in a match against New Zealand at the Basin Reserve in Wellington. With standard commander Don Bradman missing, Brown drove a group that included seven Test debutants. The hosts won the hurl and chose to bat first on a wet wicket, which occurred following seven days of downpour before the match. New Zealand figured out how to achieve 4/37 at lunch, before the sun rose and made the wicket transform into a sticky with erratic skip. Leg spinner Bill O'Reilly—in his last Test—and debutant Ernie Toshack, took 5/14 and 4/12 separately as New Zealand were bowled out for just 42, losing their last six wickets for five runs. In answer, Australia were 1/9 when Ken Meuleman was expelled. Having been dropped on 13, Brown at that point consolidated in a 109-run first-wicket remain with Barnes, before falling for the innings top-score of 67. It was the main association for the Test that went past 32. Barnes' expulsion set off a breakdown of 6/57, provoking Brown to announce Australia's innings shut down at 8/199. Australia at that point rejected New Zealand for 54 in the second innings in only two hours, bringing about triumph by an innings and 54 keeps running in only two days. As the hosts' batsmen fell rapidly, a considerable lot of the Australian bowlers had constrained chances. With one wicket left in the match, Brown utilized the flip of a coin to figure out which of the debutants Colin McCool and Ian Johnson would bowl in Tests out of the blue. McCool was given the ball and finished the match on his second conveyance. Dark colored's lone Test as commander makes him the first and the main local Queenslander to have driven Australia. 

Dark colored missed the whole 1946– 47 Test arrangement against England because of thumb damage. This permitted youthful New South Wales opener Arthur Morris to make his Test debut. Morris' execution in the arrangement in the long run dislodged Brown from his situation as a first-decision opening batsman close by Barnes. The damage implied that Brown was unfit to play a solitary counterpart for Queensland. 

Dark colored came back to top notch cricket in 1947– 48, scoring 192 keeps running at 38.40 in the initial three matches of the period. The season saw an Indian voyage through Australia. The selectors at first dropped Barnes to match Brown with Morris to open the batting. Aside from two Tests amid the 1936– 37 season against England, Brown had not played Test cricket on Australian soil. He had just a single open door with the bat in the First Test in Brisbane, making 11 as India tumbled to an innings rout. It was to be his solitary innings and Test coordinate on his home ground. Darker's investment in the arrangement was eclipsed by his dubious run out by Indian left arm customary spinner Vinoo Mankad in the Second Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground in December 1947. Darker was run out for 18, when in the demonstration of conveying the ball, Mankad clutched it and whipped the safeguards off at the non-striker's end. Darker was well out of his wrinkle while he was backing-up the striker, so he could get a head begin on the off chance that he endeavored a run. This was the second time amid the season that Mankad had rejected Brown in this style—as he had recently done as such in a match against an Australian XI in November. On that event, Mankad had cautioned Brown before running him out. The neighborhood press emphatically blamed Mankad for being unsportsmanlike, albeit a few Australians—including Bradman—guarded Mankad's activities. As far as concerns him, Brown assumed full fault and downplayed the episode through hilarious motions in later matches, which alluded to the occasion. After this episode, if a batsman is given out along these lines, he is said to have been "Mankaded". 

The expulsion finished another low-scoring innings, and Australia batted just once in an abbreviated match. Dark colored was excluded from the group for Barnes for the following two Tests. Morris—who had set up himself as one of Australia's first-decision opening batsmen amid Brown's damage cutback amid the past season—was refreshed for the Fifth Test as the Australian Board trialed potential contender for the 1948 voyage through England. Morris was discarded in the wake of losing a coin hurl to Barnes. Dark colored banded together Barnes, making 99 in the primary innings before being run out. Dark colored had endure a sure intrigue for got behind before he had scored, and Barnes was persuaded that his accomplice had edged the ball. Barnes guaranteed that had Brown neglected to have an effect in the innings, he would have been disregarded for the 1948 visit. 

Amid the principal innings, Brown captained Australia while Bradman was missing with fibrositis. The visitors fell for 331, with debutants Sam Loxton and Doug Ring taking three wickets each. India in the end tumbled to another innings rout, so Brown did not have another chance to score a Test century on home soil. His Test total in Australia remained at 223 keeps running at just 33.86, as opposed to his away average of 1,369 keeps running at 50.70. His top of the line batting normal of 43.58 for the season was second rate compared to that of Barnes and Morris, both of whom arrived at the midpoint of more than 50. 

Regardless, Brown had done what's necessary to be picked to visit England in 1948 with the group that wound up known as the "Invincibles", despite the fact that Barnes and Morris were the principal decision opening blend. Darker made a solid begin in the visit matches going before the Tests. In the fifth apparatus, which was against Cambridge University, Brown top-scored with 200 of every an innings triumph. In the accompanying match against Essex, he joined with Bradman in a second-wicket association of 219 out of an hour and a half, finishing with 153 as Australia scored a world-record 721 keeps running in one day. Australia continued to another innings triumph, and Brown finished his third century in the same number of innings with 108 against Oxford University. He continued to include a fourth century in under three weeks, with 122 against Nottinghamshire, and made an unbeaten 81 against Hampshire. Conversely, center request batsman Neil Harvey had battled in the underlying phases of his first voyage through England, neglecting to pass 25 in his initial six innings. In this manner, Brown picked up choice in the First Test at Trent Bridge, batting out of position in the center request, while Harvey was dropped in spite of making a century in Australia's latest Test against India. 

Dark colored made 17 in his solitary innings as Australia won by eight wickets. Between Tests, Brown scored 113 out of a moderate innings against Yorkshire to hold his center request position for the Second Test at Lord's. He was unfit to duplicate the Test hundreds of years he made in the former visits, scoring 24 and 32. It was to be his last Test, as Sam Loxton top-scored with 159 not out against Gloucestershire in the match before the Third Test, removing Brown from his center request position. Barnes was harmed in the Third Test, however Brown was not reviewed for the Fourth Test; rather, Lindsay Hassett was elevated to open with Morris, while the teenaged Harvey came into the center request and struck 112. Darker at that point scored 140 against Derbyshire following the Fourth Test, in a dreary showcase that disappointed observers, and after that scored continuous hundreds of years against Kent and the Gentlemen of England after the Tests. He finished with eight centuries and an aggregate of 1,448 keeps running on the visit at a normal of 57.92, behind just Bradman, Hassett and Morris, with the 200 against Cambridge University his most noteworthy score. Dark colored took 4/16 against the South of England in his solitary bowling task of the visit. It was his best vocation bowling figures, having amassed just six wickets in his top of the line profession. In three visits to England, Brown scored 18 centuries. 

After coming back to Australia, Bradman resigned and Barnes enjoyed a reprieve from cricket, in this manner opening two opportunities in the Test group. Dark colored had a sensible residential season in 1948– 49 to press his case for a Test review. He scored 626 keeps running at 41.73, the 6th most astounding total of the period, with a century and three fifties. Queensland won two and lost three amusements. Notwithstanding this, the 37-year-old Brown was not named in the visiting party for the Test voyage through South Africa in 1949– 50. Without the Test players, Brown scored 507 keeps running at 50.70 in the Sheffield Shield season, with a top score of 190, making him the third most noteworthy run-getter. In their initial five matches of the period, Queensland lost multiple times, before Brown's 190 in the last match against South Australia set up a nine-wicket win. It was his solitary century of the period after beforehand succumbing to 94 twice. 

With his chances decreasing, he resigned subsequent to captaining the Australian Second XI to New Zealand on a finish of-season visit, amid which the group went undefeated. The majority of the matches were not top of the line but rather Brown scored his last top of the line century against Otago, scoring 184 out of an innings triumph. He had been less viable in his later years, averaging 38.29 in Tests following World War II. 

Dark colored was viewed as a mindful starter who was hesitant to utilize his full exhibit of strokes. He had an upstanding position and was known for his trademark leg looking and arrangement of the ball. He snared every so often and scored most of his off-side keeps running with the cut shot. Johnny Moyes said that "notwithstanding when moderate, he never wearied, as some do, in light of the fact that his style was refined and free from shaking flaws". Moyes felt that Brown's predominant record on English soil was an aftereffect of the group disposition, which was progressively aware. At Australian grounds, eager observers who despised Brown's mindful batting habitually bugged him, reprimanding Brown for deferring Bradman's landing to the wrinkle. Moyes felt that the more peaceful English display enabled Brown to play to his blueprint without rushing to appease anxious observers. "A tranquil chap was Brown, and he jumped at the chance to play in quiet environment. At the point when hands on he was as unfeeling as an aloof." Moyes said that Brown was "constantly cool and astute, he favored artfulness to compel". The English writer Neville Cardus remarked "His cricket is interminably keeping an arrangement restful with minutes to save. Does the bat have a commitment this over with a half-volley? Great, at that point, put it down in the book. We'll be there for it. A lot of time." Bradman likewise noticed Brown's capacity to rapidly get into position to play the ball, expressing "One sign of good batting is that the player seems to have a lot of time in which to play his strokes. Bill Brown was an exceptional instance of one who never appeared to be in a rush for any stroke." Ray Robinson said that Brown was "the most quiet batsman I at any point saw play for Australia". Robinson said that "for aestheticness, Brown's leg-looking could be referenced in a similar breath as Archie Jackson's". Dark colored's tranquil nature stretched out to his perceptions of current cricket—he despised the enthusiastic presentations made by contemporary players. 

Darker's association with Fingleton was viewed as one of the extraordinary opening pairings in Australian Test cricket history. In ten Tests as an opening blend, the pair found the middle value of 63.75 for the primary wicket, higher than some other Australian team with in excess of 1,000 runs. Darker was known for his self-destroying nature and was all around loved among colleagues and adversaries alike. Of his batting, Brown clowned that "My better half said you could generally tell when I was batting by the quantity of individuals leaving the ground". Amid a residential match at the Adelaide Oval in December 1938, he redirected a ball onto his stumps without dislodging a safeguard. He added a further 147 races to end unbeaten on 174, endlessly saying 'sorry' for his karma. 

Notwithstanding his batting, Brown was an exceptionally respected fieldsman known for his wellness. He built up his aptitudes through persevering preparing with expert sprinters so as to improve his expectation and speed off the imprint. Dark colored regularly handled at slip or in the spreads. With Australia bragging the leg turn matching O'Reilly and Clarrie Grimmett during the 1930s, close-catchers were much of the time utilized. Alongside Fingleton, Brown regularly handled in the leg trap position. 

In 1940, Brown wedded Barbara Hart, an assistant. The couple had three children, whom Brown self-deprecatingly noted were "well spaced ... like my hundreds of years". Outside cricket, Brown worked in an assortment of employments. At the point when Bradman moved from New South Wales to South Australia in 1935, Brown accepted his position at the men's apparel store FJ Palmer. Following his movement to Queensland, Brown was a Brisbane vehicle sales rep, selling Chevrolets for Eagers and later running a games store. 

Darker was a Queensland selector from 1950– 51 to 1959– 60, and an Australian selector in 1952– 53 in the wake of vanquishing New South Wales' Chappie Dwyer in a race. He was the first Queenslander in 23 years to fill in as a national selector. His concise residency as a national selector was set apart by maltreatment and badgering from parochial Queenslanders, upset that he did exclude his individual statesmen in the Test group. Dark colored's games store was vandalized and he surrendered as a selector inside a year. In 1992, Brown was chosen an actual existence individual from the Queensland Cricket Association, and in 2000 was granted the Medal of the Order of Australia for his administrations to cricket. 

Upon Bradman's demise in February 2001, Brown turned into the most established living Australian Test cricketer, extraordinarily interested by the acclaim that accompanied the title. Very respected by Australian cricketers of the advanced time, Steve Waugh welcomed Brown to show Test debutant Adam Gilchrist with his loose green. The modest Brown was amazed, thinking himself a shameful decision. Waugh dissented, opining that "Bill is a loose green symbol who speaks to all that is great about playing for your nation. He is modest, self-destroying and deferential, pleased to have been managed the respect of being an Australian Test cricketer, and a man who dependably searches for the constructive in individuals." In March 2008, Brown kicked the bucket in Brisbane at 95 years old. He was the last enduring "Invulnerable" to have played Test cricket before World War II and his demise left just four living individuals from Bradman's 1948 group. 

In 2005 Brown was perceived as an extraordinary Queenslander in the Queensland Greats Awards and in 2009 was drafted into the Queensland Sport Hall of Fame. 

"Key: *– not out"