Cycling at the 2008 Summer Olympics – Women's individual street race 

The ladies' street race was one of the cycling occasions at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China. It occurred on 10 August 2008, including 66 ladies from 33 nations. It was the seventh appearance of an Olympic ladies' street race occasion and included a more drawn out course than any of the past six races. The race was kept running on the Urban Road Cycling Course (one of Beijing's nine transitory scenes), which is absolute. Counting a second lap around the last circuit, the complete separation of the ladies' race was , not exactly a large portion of the length of the men's race. 

Overwhelming precipitation amid a large portion of the race made conditions troublesome for the contenders. A gathering of five split away amid the last lap and cooperated until the last dash, where Nicole Cooke won the race. Cooke earned Great Britain's first award at these Games and 200th Olympic gold decoration by and large. Emma Johansson of Sweden and Tatiana Guderzo of Italy, completing second and third spot with a similar time as Cooke, got silver and bronze decorations individually. 

The race denoted the principal positive medication trial of the 2008 Olympic Games, by María Isabel Moreno of Spain. She was booked to contend in this occasion and the time preliminary to pursue, yet left Beijing on 31 July, before the race. The International Olympic Committee said on 11 August that she had tried positive for EPO. This left 66 cyclists to contend, one less than in 2004. 

The 2008 Summer Olympics denoted the seventh appearance of an Olympic ladies' street race occasion. Capability for the race was limited to three competitors for every National Olympic Committee (NOC) for the 16 top-positioned nations in generally speaking Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) standings at 1 June 2008, and a limit of two competitors each for the nations positioning 17– 24. A NOC with a competitor in the best 100 at 31 May 2008 got a spot, which was taken from the nations positioned 17– 24 in turned around request, gave that these competitors qualified through the UCI World Tour rankings. Furthermore, three spots were accessible at the B World Championship for NOCs that did not qualify through the UCI standing; Gu Sun-Geun, Hae Ok-Jeong and Thatsani Wichana verified Olympic capability for their NOCs along these lines, however just the first was picked by her national board of trustees to contend. The greatest quantity of the occasion was set at 67 cyclists, and starting at 5 June, 66 cyclists were qualified along these lines. In spite of the fact that the Chinese and Austrian NOCs were permitted to enter three cyclists, they just entered two. This left three open positions: two were apportioned to South Africa and New Zealand, in view of their World Tour rankings, and the third was given to Mauritius by direct welcome. Just 66 of the 67 participants started the race, as María Isabel Moreno of Spain left the nation days sooner in the wake of coming up short a medication test. 

Judith Arndt, the German rider who completed second at the 2004 Summer Olympics, was a solid top choice. Arndt had as of late completed first at the 2008 Coupe du Monde Cycliste Féminine de Montréal, and her structure in the months that went before the race was superb. Among different contenders were UCI Women's Road standings pioneer, Marianne Vos of the Netherlands; Briton Nicole Cooke, who said she had more noteworthy trust in her group on this event than in 2004, when she completed fifth; and Noemi Cantele of Italy. The Australian group was viewed as solid: it included Sara Carrigan (the guarding champion), Oenone Wood (victor of the 2008 Australian Road Race), and Katherine Bates, every one of whom could deal with one another's sake. Since the last leg of the course included soak inclines, riders viewed as climbing specialists (counting Cooke, Vos, and Susanne Ljungskog) were favored. 

In spite of the fact that not seen as a solid decoration contender, one previous victor taking an interest in the race was 49-year-old Jeannie Longo from France, who won the street race in 1996 and had contended in the debut occasion in 1984, showing up. 

Numerous cyclists expected tropical conditions amid the race and balanced their preparation to redress. For instance, Marianne Vos arranged in El Salvador. Cyclists had additionally foreseen an issue with abnormal amounts of contamination in Beijing, however these did not seem to influence the aftereffects of the men's street race. Despite the fact that the contamination levels in Beijing on 10 August far surpassed the World Health Organization's wellbeing level, the downpour amid the ladies' race diminished the brown haze level. 

In the men's race, led the earlier day, stickiness and warmth had negatively affected the competitors. To adjust for the normal warm climate, some female cyclists decided not to wear undershirts. This turned out to be a misinterpretation, as conditions were cooler in the Great Wall segment than on the earlier day—contrasted with . Tempests, bringing diligently substantial downpour and solid breezes, brought about genuine race conditions far not quite the same as anticipated. Different riders, for example, Katherine Bates (who did not complete), arranged by wearing cooling vests before the race and supplied up on ice packs amid it. 

The race was kept running on the Urban Road Cycling Course (one of Beijing's nine brief scenes), which was completely. In contrast to the past Olympic races, the begin and completion were not at a similar area. The early segment of the race occurred inside focal Beijing; the inclination of this piece of the race was generally level. After around , the riders achieved the Badaling segment of the Great Wall and started two circles of between the Badaling and Juyong Passes. The angle expanded now, as the Badaling Pass picked up in height from the beginning of the circuit to the most noteworthy point, including slopes as steep as a 10 percent inclination. From that point the cyclists rode over a bogus level before sliding a parkway towards the Juyong Pass. The last were a reasonably steep ascension, intended to guarantee an energizing finale should a few riders be assembled together toward the finish of the race. Altogether, the separation of the ladies' race was , not exactly a large portion of the length of the men's race. 

The race's beginning line was at the Yongdingmen Gate, a leftover of Beijing's old city divider, which is a piece of the Chongwen District of northern Beijing. The course gone through eight regions: Chongwen, Xuanwu, Dongcheng, Xicheng, Chaoyang, Haidian, Changping, and Yanqing. Milestones, for example, the Temple of Heaven, the Great Hall of the People, Tiananmen Square, the Yonghe Temple, and segments of the Great Wall of China were passed as the course ventured from urban Beijing into the field. It passed the structural highlights of the 2008 Olympics, including the Beijing National Stadium and Beijing National Aquatics Center (referred to conversationally as the Bird's Nest and the Water Cube). The course finished at the Juyong Pass in the Changping District. The course's landscape was portrayed by "The Guardian" as "outwardly lavish". 

Because of security guidelines set up by the Olympic coordinators, observers were not allowed to stand roadside along the course. A few conspicuous figures in cycling challenged this choice, including UCI president Pat McQuaid and two Australian riders, Stuart O'Grady and Cadel Evans, who contended in the men's race. McQuaid and O'Grady felt that the nonappearance of individuals along the course denied the race of the environment present at other cycling occasions, and said that it neglected to mull over supporters' desires. Cycling Australia's response to the cyclists' protests was to demand that security confinements be facilitated for the time preliminary to pursue, however this request was disregarded. 

The race began at 14:00 China Standard Time (UTC+8), and was booked to last until 17:30. The climate was unseasonably cool. It was shady and the streets were dry toward the beginning of the race. The mists brought relentless precipitation halfway through the race, making conditions testing. 

The race saw a few episodes which made riders lose profitable time. Gu Sun-Geun (South Korea) lost control of her bicycle, carrying others down with her. She in the long run fell into a solid dump in favor of the expressway. Natalia Boyarskaya (Russia), who had constructed a lead of 59 seconds over the highest point of Badaling, needed to stop to see which approach to pick at an inadequately checked convergence. 

The pursuit for Boyarskaya was driven by Christine Thorburn (United States), who brought the lead down to 34 seconds preceding the last circle of . Emma Pooley (Great Britain) and Tatiana Guderzo (Italy) rode far from the cluster on the trip and got Boyarskaya with to go, framing a three rider breakaway. The German group, with an enduring pace, got them before long. Guderzo assaulted with going to go over the last summit. She was before long joined by Christiane Soeder (Austria), Emma Johansson (Sweden), Nicole Cooke (Great Britain) and Linda Villumsen (Denmark). With outstanding, the gathering had increased 16 seconds on the primary peloton. Marianne Vos (Netherlands), one of the pre-race top choices who was not in the main gathering, dithered before driving the pursuit together with other pre-race most loved Judith Arndt. Cooke watched out of conflict as the five came round the last twist, yet she came around different riders with to go, guaranteeing the gold award with an unmistakable edge. Johansson came in second and Guderzo won the bronze. Vos in the end drove the bundle over the end goal, 21 seconds after the champ. 

It was later uncovered that Cooke had kept down purposefully, as she was utilizing lightweight tires not fit to blustery conditions. The British ladies' street group chief Julian Winn said "We were apprehensive somebody may descend before her, so we advised all her to one side. We realized she would bite them up after that." Cooke's triumph was the consequence of careful arranging, as the group had ridden the course before the race and defined the triumphant arrangement. 

The day after the race, an International Olympic Committee (IOC) representative declared that Spanish rider María Isabel Moreno had turned into the principal competitor of the 2008 Olympics to test positive for a prohibited substance. 

Moreno had given a pee test the day she landed in Beijing (31 July), yet flew back to Madrid around the same time, subsequent to enduring a fit of anxiety, and did not come back to participate in the race. The pee test tried positive for erythropoietin (EPO). The IOC stripped Moreno of her Games accreditation, later alluding the issue to the UCI which affirmed the positive outcome. An announcement on Moreno's site read that "she doesn't feel prepared to legitimize or clarify her purposes behind leaving the [Olympic] town". 

A sum of 66 cyclists have been qualified in the occasion at these Games. A large portion of them are not expected to complete one-day races, having worked in help for their groups (for this situation, countries) to put riders with better ascending abilities in great positions once the sloping piece of a course starts. Furthermore, any rider lapped by the race chief on the Badaling circuit would be compelled to stop, despite the fact that this circumstance did not happen. 

The documentation "s.t." demonstrates that the rider crossed the end goal in a similar gathering as the cyclist before her, and was hence credited with a similar completing time.