Cycling at the 2008 Summer Olympics – Men's individual street race 

The men's street race, a piece of the cycling occasions at the 2008 Summer Olympics, occurred on August 9 at the Urban Road Cycling Course in Beijing. It began at 11:00 China Standard Time (UTC+8), and was booked to last until 17:30 soon thereafter. The course ran north over the core of the Beijing metropolitan zone, passing such tourist spots as the Temple of Heaven, the Great Hall of the People, Tiananmen Square and the Beijing National Stadium. Subsequent to moving over moderately level landscape for north of the Beijing downtown area, the course entered an unequivocal circuit enveloping seven circles on a segment here and there the Badaling Pass, including slopes as steep as a 10 percent angle. 

The race was won by the Spanish rider Samuel Sánchez in 6 hours, 23 minutes, 49 seconds, after a six-man breakaway gathering challenged a run completion. Davide Rebellin of Italy and Fabian Cancellara of Switzerland, completing second and third spot with a similar time as Sánchez, got silver and bronze awards individually for the occasion. The sweltering and damp conditions were in sharp differentiation to the overwhelming precipitation endured in the ladies' street race the next day. 

The occasion was one of the most punctual to be closed at the 2008 Summer Olympics, occurring on the main day of rivalry. Concerns were raised before the Olympics about the danger of contamination in continuance sports, however no serious issues were evident in the race. 

In April 2009, it was reported that Rebellin had tried positive for Continuous erythropoietin receptor activator (CERA, a third-age type of erythropoietin) amid the Olympics. After his B-test therefore affirmed starting outcomes, he restored his decoration and reimbursed the prize cash he had won from the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI) while as yet keeping up his honesty. Cancellara and unique fourth-place finisher Alexandr Kolobnev were later granted new decorations comparing to their refreshed completing positions. 

Capability for the race was confined to five competitors for every National Olympic Committee (NOC), giving that these competitors qualified through the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) rankings, with the UCI ProTour viewed as better than the UCI Continental Circuits. The quantity of capability places designated fluctuated among the diverse UCI visits, which all keep up their very own positioning framework. Any NOC unfit to fill its standard of competitors from the ProTour was allowed to enter competitors from one of the mainland visits, and if that was not plausible, from the "B" World Championship. The quantity of spots apportioned to each visit were hence (in slipping request): 70 riders from the ProTour, 38 from the Europe visit, 15 from the America visit, nine from the Asia visit, five from the Africa visit, and three from the Oceania visit. Five participants qualified through the "B" World Championships. 

The last number of contenders was set to be 145, yet just 143 competitors began the race. Four cyclists were scratched from the race in the blink of an eye before it occurred. Damiano Cunego of Italy had not yet recouped from the wounds he continued in the 2008 Tour de France, so he was supplanted by Vincenzo Nibali. Portugal's Sérgio Paulinho, the silver medalist at the 2004 occasion, was said to be fit as a fiddle to race. After Russian Vladimir Gusev was terminated by his expert group for coming up short an interior doping check, he was supplanted in this occasion by Denis Menchov, who later contended in the time preliminary. While preparing prior in the week prior to the race, Switzerland's Michael Albasini smashed and broke his collarbone; there was not adequate time to discover a trade for him. 

Before the opening of the Games, the International Olympic Committee was quick to play down the hazard that competitors looked from contamination; in any case, the arranging body considered rescheduling of continuance occasions, (for example, the cycling street race) if the contamination levels were excessively high. Competitors sharing in these occasions can expend multiple times the measure of oxygen as a stationary individual. A more elevated amount of contamination noticeable all around could antagonistically influence execution, harm or aggravate a competitor's lungs, or fuel respiratory conditions, for example, asthma. 

Autonomous sources demonstrated that contamination levels were over the point of confinement regarded safe by the World Health Organization on August 9. In any case, the cycling occasion proceeded as booked without any protests from the competitors. Fifty-three of the 143 cyclists hauled out amid the race; be that as it may, this isn't uncommon (over half pulled back mid-race at the 2004 Summer Olympics). Post-race, various riders featured the rebuffing conditions, specifically the warmth () and mugginess (90%), which were a lot higher than in Europe, where most of UCI ProTour races are held. Contamination, be that as it may, was not generally refered to as an issue, however Stefan Schumacher of Germany, who had been viewed as an outside most loved for triumph in the occasion, said the components and the contamination assumed a job in his withdrawal. 

Among the pre-race top picks was the whole Spanish unexpected of riders. It included two victors of Grand Tours in Alberto Contador and Carlos Sastre, alongside exceptionally respected compatriots Alejandro Valverde, victor of the 2008 Critérium du Dauphiné Libéré and the authoritative Spanish national street race champion, and Samuel Sánchez, who had won three phases in the 2007 Vuelta an España. They likewise had 2008 Tour de France focuses grouping victor and three-time best on the planet Óscar Freire accessible to chip away at their sake. Valverde was viewed as the most grounded danger among the Spaniards. Other decoration hopefuls incorporated the shielding Olympic hero Paolo Bettini of Italy, Germany's Stefan Schumacher, and Australian Cadel Evans, twice a sprinter up in the Tour de France (2007 and 2008). It was suspected that individuals from the generally solid squads from Germany and Luxembourg could likewise battle for triumph. The German group contained Schumacher and numerous veterans of Grand Tours, for example, Jens Voigt to work in help, while Luxembourg had the Schleck siblings Andy and Fränk, alongside Kim Kirchen, every one of whom had worn pioneer's shirts amid the 2008 Tour de France. 

The Urban Road Cycling Course (one of Beijing's nine impermanent scenes) was completely, and the men's race was a separation of , the longest in Olympic history. The race's beginning line was situated at the Yongdingmen, a remade door of Beijing's old city divider, which is a piece of the Dongcheng District south of Beijing downtown area. The course finished at the Juyong Pass in the Changping District. 

The men's race design, which varied most fundamentally from the ladies' in that it was over twofold its length, saw the riders make seven circles forward and backward between the Badaling and Juyong Passes. The early segments of the race occurred inside focal Beijing; thusly, the inclination of this piece of the race was generally level. At roughly the point in the race the riders achieved the Badaling area of the Great Wall, and started their first of seven circles. The riders experienced an expansion in the slope now, with the Badaling Pass picking up in height over a separation of from the beginning of the circuit to the most noteworthy point. From that point the cyclists rode over a bogus level before diving an interstate towards the Juyong Pass. The last of the race gave the riders a decently steep move to battle with, which was intended to guarantee an energizing finale should a few riders have been gathered together toward the finish of the race, as there were. 

Because of security guidelines set up by the Olympic coordinators, no observers were allowed to stand roadside along the course. This choice ended up being questionable: a few conspicuous figures in cycling, including UCI president Pat McQuaid and riders Stuart O'Grady and Cadel Evans (both Australia), revolted against it. McQuaid and O'Grady both felt that the nonattendance of individuals along the course denied the race of the climate present at other cycling occasions, and said that it neglected to think about supporters' desires. Cycling Australia's response to the cyclists' grievances was to demand that security confinements be facilitated for the time preliminary to pursue, yet they were most certainly not. 

The men's street race started at 11:00 neighborhood time (UTC+8) and inside of the begin, Horacio Gallardo (Bolivia) and Patricio Almonacid (Chile) shaped a two-man breakaway. They held a most extreme favorable position of 15 minutes, however were never truly observed as a danger, and in truth neither proceeded to complete the race. With no single group willing to compel the pace, a 26-man breakaway shaped at the imprint, including Carlos Sastre (Spain), Kim Kirchen (Luxembourg), Jens Voigt (Germany), Roman Kreuziger (Czech Republic) and Simon Gerrans (Australia). Not long after the race achieved the end goal to start the first of seven circles, Gallardo was dropped by Almonacid. The solitary Chilean pioneer was then gotten by the now 24-man pursue amass at the summit on the second circle, subsequent to riding solo in front of the pack for over 90 minutes. 

Under the catalyst of Sastre and Kreuziger specifically, the 24-in number breakaway gathering assembled their lead to more than six minutes at the midpoint of the race, after four of the seven circuits. By then, the Italian-paced principle field expanded its speed so as to bring them back. Aleksandr Kuschynski (Belarus) and Ruslan Pidgornyy (Ukraine) went clear of the main gathering thereafter and picked up favorable position of a moment and 40 seconds over the Sastre gathering and 2 minutes, 45 seconds over the principle field by the beginning of the fifth lap over the uneven circuit. The Sastre assemble was consumed by the primary field at the to go mark, leaving just Kuschynski and Pidgornyy out front. Not long after, in a matter of seconds before the finish of the fifth circuit, Marcus Ljungqvist (Sweden), Rigoberto Urán (Colombia) and Johan Van Summeren (Belgium) assaulted from the peloton and reeled in Kuschynski and Pidgornyy. 

The following assault, one that would later be depicted as "daring" and "valiant", originated from Christian Pfannberger (Austria), who went free of the principle field around the finish of the 6th lap. His most extreme preferred standpoint never developed to over a moment, yet he stayed away until well into the seventh and last lap, being gotten with to go. Inside five minutes of wild assaults, less than 20 riders were left in the front gathering, a gathering that included Cadel Evans (Australia), Levi Leipheimer (United States), Santiago Botero (Colombia), and Jérôme Pineau (France), with Valverde and Bettini left behind them. Five riders, Samuel Sánchez (Spain), Michael Rogers (Australia), Davide Rebellin (Italy), Andy Schleck (Luxembourg), and Alexandr Kolobnev (Russia), came further obvious from the gathering of now 13 because of rehashed assaults from Schleck. Sánchez, Rebellin, and Schleck achieved the summit of the Badaling move, with to race, 10 seconds in front of Rogers and Kolobnev, and 26 seconds in front of the Evans gathering. Bettini, Valverde and Fabian Cancellara (Switzerland) assaulted from the principle peloton and joined the Evans assemble at the highest point of the trip. The main gathering's leeway over the two-man pursue was 15 seconds with to go. 

With left, Cancellara assaulted from the Evans gathering and got up to speed with the chasers that the gathering of three had abandoned, Kolobnev and Rogers. Them three effectively conquered any hindrance to the pioneers with going to go, and there were six riders challenging the last dash. Sánchez won the gold award, Rebellin the silver, and Cancellara the bronze. 

In April 2009, the IOC reported that six competitors had tried positive amid the 2008 Summer Olympics, without referencing names or sports. Afterward, bits of gossip developed that the competitors included two cyclists, one of them a decoration champ. The Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI) at that point affirmed that a male Italian cyclist had tried positive for Continuous erythropoietin receptor activator (CERA) amid the men's street race, without distinguishing him. The following day, on 29 April 2009, the Committee affirmed that Davide Rebellin was an included competitor. Rebellin's operator sent a solicitation for the examination of the B test. On 8 July 2009, Rebellin, alongside Stefan Schumacher, were affirmed as having tried positive. Schumacher was at that point serving a boycott in the wake of testing positive in the 2008 Tour de France, however faces further discipline, and Rebellin hence had his award expelled by the UCI and the IOC. On 27 November, Rebellin restored his silver award to CONI, per their and the UCI's solicitation. Per UCI guidelines, Cancellara and Kolobnev were climbed to second and third in the official outcomes, however did not at first get new awards. On December 18, 2010, Cancellara got the equivalent physical decoration at first given to Rebellin, in a function held in the place where he grew up of Ittigen, Switzerland. The award initially given to Cancellara will thusly be given to Kolobnev. 

Rebellin had claimed at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) against the choice to expel his silver decoration, however in July 2010, this was rejected. 

There had been debate in the months prior to the men's street race when, in the result of doping disclosures at the Tour de France, International Olympic Committee VP Thomas Bach had proposed that the men's street race's place in the Olympics ought to be reevaluated, and said that the validity of the game had been harmed; in spite of the fact that he cleared up that there was no quick danger. Pat McQuaid had responded furiously to these remarks, saying, "For what reason would it be a good idea for them to [the lion's share of cyclists] be undermined in view of a couple of rotten ones?" 

A sum of 142 riders have been qualified in the occasion at these Games. The greater part of them are not expected to complete one-day races, having worked in help for their groups (for this situation, countries) to put their riders with better ascending abilities in great positions once the rugged piece of a course starts. A significant number of these riders additionally tried to save themselves for the time preliminary that was to come. Also, if a rider was lapped by the race chief on the Badaling circuit, he would be compelled to stop. 

Source: Official outcomes