Fez (computer game) 

Fez (adapted as FEZ) is a non mainstream confuse stage computer game created by Polytron Corporation and distributed by Trapdoor. The player-character Gomez gets a fez that uncovers his two-dimensional (2D) world to be one of four sides of a three-dimensional (3D) world. The player pivots between these four 2D perspectives to realign stages and fathom the diversion's riddles. The object of the amusement is to gather 3D squares and shape pieces to reestablish request to the universe. 

The diversion was called a "dark horse dear of the outside the box amusement scene" amid its prominent and extended five-year improvement cycle. "Fez" creator and Polytron organizer Phil Fish picked up superstar status for his candid open persona and his conspicuousness in the 2012 narrative "", which definite "Fez" last phases of advancement and Polytron's connected legitimate issues. "Fez" met basic praise upon its April 2012 discharge for Xbox Live Arcade. The amusement was ported to different stages following the lapse of a yearlong eliteness understanding. 

Commentators lauded the diversion's accentuation on revelation and opportunity, yet scrutinized its specialized issues, in-amusement route, and endgame backtracking. They compared the amusement's revolution technician to the 2D– 3D movements of "Echochrome", "Nebulus", "Super Paper Mario", and "Pound". "Fez" won honors including the Seumas McNally Grand Prize and "Eurogamer" 2012 Game of the Year. It had sold one million duplicates before the finish of 2013, and it impacted diversions, for example, "Landmark Valley", "Crossy Road", and "Insider facts of Rætikon". An arranged spin-off was dropped when Fish suddenly left the outside the box amusement industry. 

"Fez" is a two-dimensional (2D) baffle stage amusement set in a three-dimensional (3D) world. The player-character Gomez lives calmly on a 2D plane until he gets a red fez and witnesses the separation of a monster, brilliant hexahedron that tears the texture of spacetime and uncovers a third measurement. After the diversion appears to glitch, reset, and reboot, the player can turn between four 2D perspectives on the 3D world, as four sides around a block like space. This revolution repairman uncovers new ways through the dimensions by associating generally difficult to reach stages, and is the premise of "Fez" confounds. For instance, gliding stages become a strong street, broken stepping stools become entire, and stages that move along a track remain on course. The object of the amusement is to gather solid shapes and 3D square pieces, which accumulate to reestablish request to the universe. Looking for these 3D squares, Gomez navigates the amusement condition by hopping between edges. Other platforming components change with the dimension topics, including cases that actuate switches, bombs that uncover sections, and cylinders that dispatch Gomez airborne. 

The exploratory pieces of the diversion include a progression of arcane codes and glyphs, treasure maps and chests, and mystery rooms. Players are left without direction to decide if amusement components are understandable subpuzzles or just false flags. These sorts of riddles incorporate concealed twist entryways, perplexing pillars, imperceptible stages, successions of tetrominos, a figured letter set, and QR codes. One of the diversion's common topics is an old human progress that endeavored to understand their dimensionality, as told through relics. 

"Fez" has no foes, supervisors, or disciplines for disappointment—the player-character rapidly respawns after tumbling to his demise. The diversion's fashioner depicted "Fez" as a stop and smell the blooms' sort of amusement". It organizes baffle understanding and persistence over the platforming sort's conventional enthusiasm for mastery. "Fez" includes a pixelated craftsmanship style and a restricted shading palette reminiscent of the 8-bit time. Its respect incorporates "Tetris" tetrominos engraved on the dividers and in the sky, "The Legend of Zelda" money box activitys, "Super Mario Bros." mushroom levels, travel by pipe, and drifting stages. The amusement's settings incorporate timberlands, plants, a beach front beacon, a urban city, and a library. "Fez" New Game Plus mode includes a first-individual point of view highlight and gives the player a chance to return to zones to gather "enemies of shapes" from harder riddles. This second 50% of the diversion is all the more testing and spotlights on code breaking. 

"Fez" five-year advancement cycle is known for its extended length and measure of open presentation. Nathan Grayson of "VG247" compared its rough history to "an independent "Duke Nukem Forever"", and "Polygon" analyst Arthur Gies noticed its standing notoriety as a "dark horse sweetheart of the non mainstream diversion scene". Its fashioner, Phil Fish, ended up prestigious in a path uncommon for diversion designers because of his noticeable quality in the 2012 narrative "". Aside from "Fez", which was discharged to wide praise, Fish himself ended up known for his straightforward and acidic open persona. 

"Fez" started as a coordinated effort between Canadian independent engineers Fish and Shawn McGrath. They took a shot at McGrath's thought for a riddle diversion in which a 3D space was seen from four 2D points. Despite the fact that their organization separated because of innovative contrasts, the total of "Fez" plan, story, and craftsmanship plummets from this diversion specialist. Fish kept on dealing with the undertaking in his extra time and requested for a software engineer on DeviantArt, where he discovered Renaud Bédard. "Fez" was first reported in July 2007 on "The Independent Gaming Source". It was assigned for two honors at the 2008 Game Developers Conference Independent Games Festival (GDC IGF). At the point when Fish's boss did not allow him a break to go to the honors, he quit. Fish later reviewed this minute as "when [he] ended up outside the box". The diversion won "Brilliance in Visual Art", and its quality made a flood of open enthusiasm for "Fez" that rode a simultaneous swell of enthusiasm for non mainstream amusement improvement all in all. Fish got a Canadian government advance to open Polytron Corporation as a new business and started all day take a shot at "Fez". In July 2009, Polytron declared that "Fez" would dispatch in mid 2010 as a Xbox Live Arcade restrictive. Advancement proceeded with an exploratory soul until the organization came up short on cash. Fish obtained from loved ones to stay with the open and considered dropping the task before the close-by Québécois engineer distributer Trapdoor offered to help. Fish felt that the Trapdoor association saved the amusement. 

"Fez" won different honors in 2011 and was a "PAX 10" choice at the 2011 Penny Arcade Expo. Fish is appeared for "Fez" stall at PAX East 2011, a prior show, in the 2012 narrative film "Outside the box Game: The Movie". The film annals the amusement improvement accounts of a few non mainstream engineers. As a subplot, the film presents Fish in the midst of a legitimate debate with a previous colleague that imperils "Fez" future. "Amusement Informer" considered Fish the film's "most critical engineer", and "Shake, Paper, Shotgun" composed that Fish is depicted as dramatic in a way that compounds his effectively candid notoriety. "Eurogamer" said that the part when Fish sets out to murder himself in the event that he doesn't discharge his diversion is "the film's most alarming minute". Close to the finish of "Fez" advancement, Fish told a "Gamasutra" columnist that he had gotten positive input from IGF Chairman Brandon Boyer and "Mesh" architect Jonathan Blow, yet that he felt "wore out". The last diversion included practically none of the first work from the initial two years of improvement. After a few postponements, "Fez" was submitted for affirmation in February 2012. 

"Fez" was discharged on April 13, 2012, and sold 200,000 duplicates amid its yearlong selectiveness to the Xbox Live Arcade stage. Fish censured Polytron's co-distributer, Microsoft Studios, for messing up the diversion's discharge by method for dull exposure. A while later, Polytron entered a prominent debate with Microsoft over the expense of fixing "Fez". About a year after "Fez" dispatch, Fish declared a Windows PC port for discharge on May 1, 2013. OS X and Linux ports appeared on September 11, 2013, and PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita ports by BlitWorks appeared on March 25, 2014. Ouya and iOS ports were likewise declared; the iOS discharge started improvement in April 2017 and was discharged in December 2017. No Android discharge is arranged. Bédard remained to port the Windows discharge before joining Toronto's Capybara Games. He attributed Polytron's long improvement cycle to his very own freshness in diversion advancement (exacerbated by the group's little size and trouble in setting sensible achievements), the amusement's extension, and Fish's compulsiveness. Fish had trusted that players would examine "Fez" subtleties online after its discharge. Players worked together online for seven days to comprehend the last "stone monument" confound by utilizing a cryptanalytic assault known as animal power. "Ars Technica" portrayed the evident end to "Fez" harder riddles as "unsatisfying", however Fish told "Eurogamer" in March 2013 that covered up in-amusement mysteries stay to be found. 

Over three years after its computerized dispatch, "Fez" got a physical discharge structured by Fish and restricted to a marked release of 500 in December 2015. The exclusive bundle incorporated the soundtrack and an adapted red journal with gold foil trim. Despite the fact that Bédard had proceeded onward to another organization, he kept on taking a shot at the diversion covertly. In August 2016, he discharged a last fix for the PC arrivals of "Fez" that included execution enhancements, because of a bound together codebase under an open source programming library, and highlights, for example, a speedrun mode. 

Bédard stated "Fez" in Microsoft Visual C# Express and XNA Game Studio Express. He coded the dimension manager and the amusement motor, Trixel, which changes over 2D tiles ("triles") into four-sided 3D voxels ("trixels"). Fish made 2D pixel craftsmanship in Photoshop for each side of the trixel, which Bédard's custom programming arranged into 3D amusement resources. Fish would then plan levels in the dimension proofreader by expelling surfaces, a procedure he found "overpowering" yet much the same as playing with Lego squares. In their work process, Fish initially proposed thoughts that Bédard would actualize. The two would then talk about and tweak the expansion—they functioned admirably together. 

The diversion came to embrace Metroidvania mechanics, with "mystery sections, twist entryways, and cheat codes". Fish refered to "Myst" as a motivation and analyzed its open world, nonlinear account, and "unfeeling metapuzzles" to "Fez" claim letters in order, numeric framework, and an "unreasonably difficult to get ... second arrangement of collectibles". He was additionally propelled by the Nintendo Entertainment System rounds of his childhood (especially those of the "Super Mario" and "The Legend of Zelda" arrangement), Hayao Miyazaki's mark "open blue sky", "feel-better" climate, and Fumito Ueda's "Ico". Fish looked to imitate "Ico" feeling of nostalgic and disengaged depression, and Ueda's advancement rationality wherein all unnecessary amusement components are evacuated ("structure by subtraction"). Fish made an individual test of structuring an amusement without depending on "set up mechanics". Accordingly, "Fez" was dependably a serene amusement that never contained an opponent. 

Rich Vreeland, otherwise called Disasterpeace, formed the amusement's chiptune-esque electronic soundtrack. Regardless of his experience in chiptune, Vreeland constrained his utilization of that classification's peculiarities in the score. He worked with delicate synth cushions and reverb to drive the score more like a 1980s synthesizer sound. He likewise diminished dependence on percussion and fused twisting methods like bitcrushing and stunning. Vreeland settled on slower sections with differing rhythms that could "ebb, stream, and inhale with the player". He left a few segments of "Fez" without music. Vreeland took a shot at its soundtrack during the evening for around 14 months while scoring "Shoot Many Robots", and Brandon McCartin of "Aquaria" contributed the diversion's audio cues. 

Vreeland's first organization for the amusement ("Adventure") turned into the soundtrack's first track. He composed it in the wake of meeting Bédard yet before talking about the soundtrack with Fish, and put together the piece with respect to "Fez" sound made preceding his entry. Vreeland needed to utilize recording devices for their particular sound, yet potential sound syncing issues with this strategy drove him to utilize advanced chronicle. Bits of the soundtrack progressively change between a few dozen constituent components and respond to the diversion condition. For instance, the "Confound" track's components change melodic key dependent on the in-amusement time of day. Certain tracks were proposed to emulate certifiable sounds, for example, those of bats, rainstorms, taiko, and water tumbling from stalactites. Different tracks extended from impromptu creations. Vreeland was additionally motivated by the "Ruler of the Rings" Shire subject, 1980s ghastliness media, the soundtrack of demoscene diversion "Jasper's Journeys", the "Legend of Zelda" cell music, the "Mass Effect" soundtrack, Tangerine Dream, and Steve Reich. "Continuum" is an orchestrated interpretation of Frédéric Chopin's Prelude, Op. 28, No. 4. Instruments utilized in account incorporate the Sonic Charge Synplant, minimoog, "engineered woodwind", and Boomwhacker. 

The soundtrack was discharged in an advanced configuration on April 20, 2012. Pre-orders for the soundtrack beat the Bandcamp diagrams. Kirk Hamilton of "Kotaku" composed that "Fez" audio cues evoked Jim Guthrie's "" sound. Janus Kopfstein of "The Verge" called the work "fabulous" and depicted it as a cross between a "1980s Vangelis synth odyssey" and a submerged vinyl record from an arcade. "Amusement Informer" Matt Miller composed that the soundtrack added to "Fez" "80s Nostalgia vibe". "Eurogamer" portrayed the music as "rich, creepy, and zapping", and "Edge" contrasted it with "Holst put through a Mega Drive". Oli Welsh of "Eurogamer" composed that the music coordinated the amusement's subjects of "concealed profundity". Welsh heard impacts of 1960s English psychedelia (Pink Floyd, Soft Machine), 1970s Krautrock (Tangerine Dream and Kraftwerk), 1980s synth (Jean Michel Jarre, Vangelis), and Erik Satie. He added that the soundtrack's commitment to "Fez" was "limitless". Damian Kastbauer of "Diversion Developer" utilized Vreeland's soundtrack to demonstrate that a retrogaming stylish in sound and visuals could be both "cutting edge and nostalgic" and give the "right 'voice' to help the amusement's plan expectations". 

"Amusement Developer" recorded Vreeland in their 2012 Power 50 for his work on the soundtrack, which they portrayed as "air, thoughtful, and possibly somewhat despairing". With regards to "Fez" subject of mysteries, pictures noticeable just through spectrogram were inserted into the soundtrack sound. Vreeland discharged a remix collection, "FZ: Side F", after a year on April 20, 2013. It highlights tracks from different craftsmen, including Jim Guthrie. Vreeland later discharged another remix collection, "FZ: Side Z", and every one of the three collections were incorporated into the August 2013 Game Music Bundle 5. 

Audits upon "Fez" unique discharge were "for the most part ideal", as indicated by survey aggregator Metacritic. Later discharges got "widespread approval". Each discharge was reliably among the top of the line discharges for every stage's year. GameRankings positions "Fez" inside its best 100 most astounding evaluated Xbox 360 recreations, top 20 PC diversions, and top 20 PlayStation 4 amusements. While being developed, "Fez" had won the 2012 GDC Independent Games Festival's Seumas McNally Grand Prize, the 2011 Indiecade Best in Show and Best Story/World Design, the 2011 Fantastic Arcade Audience Choice Award, and the 2008 GDC Independent Games Festival's Excellence in Visual Art. "Eurogamer" gave "Fez" their most elevated rating and named the "impeccable, silent science fiction illustration" their 2012 Game of the Year. "Advanced Spy" recorded "Fez" eighth in its Best Games of 2012, in front of high-spending recreations like "" and "Corona 4". "Fez" was picked as the 2012 round of the year by "Precious stone Trust of London" engineer Jason Rohrer and "Radiance 4" lead diversion planner Scott Warner. The Windows PC port was Metacritic's tenth best-looked into computer game of 2013. 

"The New York Times" called "Fez" Fish's "tribute to 1980s gaming ... affectionately, exorbitantly, gave to the brilliant period of Nintendo". Arthur Gies of "Polygon" depicted its feel as "so retro it harms", refering to its pixelated look, chiptune soundtrack, and methods for enlightening the player without express direction. Gies felt that however "8-bit wistfulness" was outdated, "Fez" demonstrated a comprehension of its persuasions and was the "most genuine" of the style. Jeremy Parish of "1UP.com" called the diversion's moderation "excellent" and compared its specialty style to that of "Cavern Story". "Kotaku" depicted "Fez" nostalgic way as "the computer game tasteful". Oli Welsh of "Eurogamer" regretted how "retro pixel workmanship" turned into a non mainstream amusement buzzword amid the diversion's advancement, yet felt that "Fez" rose above such generalizations through its commitment to the wonderment of early Nintendo titles. "Fish plainly reveres the Nintendo of his childhood", he composed. Welsh compared "Fez" to a 1970s, harmony cherishing, surrealist rendition of "" as envisioned by Shigeru Miyamoto, and anticipated its economic wellbeing as "the sweetheart of a specific outside the box faction" with "considered fashionable person cool". "Edge" portrayed the diversion as "a spot worked from gaming's history", whose liveliness makes it "a startling beneficiary to "Super Mario Bros."" with levels like very much created toys, and IGN video audit said the amusement "hauls the 8-bit time into what's to come". 

Writers compared "Fez" pivot repairman to the 2D– 3D movements of diversions like "Echochrome", "Super Paper Mario", and "Smash". Right off the bat being developed, Fish himself said that the thought is "nothing incredible" and that the diversion could have been made "anytime over the most recent 15 years". "Polygon" Gies favored how "Echochrome" utilized the point of view repairman, and Tom McShea of "GameSpot" considered "Fez" technician a trick. Matt Miller of "Amusement Informer" believed that "Fez" understood the technician's potential superior to anything other point of view moving diversions, and further lauded "Fez" confound plan and pacing up until the endgame. Mill operator additionally contrasted its story with that of the novella "Flatland", whose hero comparatively finds the complexities of another measurement. "1UP.com" Parish said that "Fez" pivot specialist was more profound than that of "Super Paper Mario" and not as subject to M. C. Escher topics as "Echochrome". "Edge" felt that the technician was "far less hesitant" and "increasingly agreeable" than in "Echochrome" and "Pulverize". The magazine composed that "Fez" indoor riddles were its best. "Eurogamer" Welsh thought about the amusement's "wraparound platforming" to the 1980s diversion "Nebulus" and portrayed the pivot specialist as among the reassure age's "most irregular specialized difficulties". 

Analysts praised the amusement's accentuation on disclosure and opportunity, yet discovered its dependence on backtracking, especially in the endgame, monotonous. Ward of "1UP.com" composed that open-world activity amusements like "Metroid Prime" all have these issues. "Edge" looked at "Fez" recondite traps to a more established period of diversion improvement that pressed amusements with Easter eggs, insider facts, and codes, refering to titles, for example, "Outcast" and "Fly Set Willy". The magazine additionally came to welcome the 3D map. IGN's Mitch Dyer differentiated the amusement's questions to the "Metal Gear Solid" codec recurrence baffle. Jeffrey Matulef of "Eurogamer" related his experience to the sentiment of first playing the 1994 "Myst", and "The New York Times" called "Fez" "a "Finnegans Wake" of computer games" for its codebreaking that "makes the player feel like John Nash as depicted by Russell Crowe in "A Beautiful Mind"". "Amusement Informer" suggested "Fez" for completionists who look for difficulties. "Polygon" Gies was dubious about whether the diversion's specialized edge rate issues were deliberate, and portrayed this predicament as having a "specific virtuoso". Different commentators noticed its specialized flaws: "Amusement Informer" as minor, and "1UP.com" as "effectively the glitchiest diversion I've played on my 360". 

"Fez" sold 20,000 duplicates in its first day, 100,000 in under two months, 200,000 inside a year, and, after the Humble Bundle, one million before the finish of 2013. It was Xbox Live's thirteenth top of the line Arcade title of 2012. "Fez" was refered to as a motivation for 2014 outside the box amusements "Landmark Valley", "Crossy Road", and "Insider facts of Rætikon". 

"Fez 2" was reported as "one all the more thing" toward the finish of the June 2013 Horizon non mainstream diversion question and answer session, held amid the yearly Electronic Entertainment Expo. The venture was dropped a month later after a Twitter contention among Fish and a computer game columnist. In a scene of Marcus Beer's "GameTrailers" show "Undetectable Walls", the columnist condemned Fish's reaction to inquiries regarding Microsoft's Xbox One independently publishing strategy change. Fish answered on Twitter with judgment for the business' pessimism and, in a last tweet, reported both "Fez 2" abrogation and his exit from the business. The news came as an amazement to the remainder of his organization, which has not remarked on up and coming undertakings other than ports since the spin-off's retraction. "Polygon" recorded Fish in their main 50 newsmakers of 2013 for the social intensity of his "burning utilization of Twitter".