U.S. Highway 40 Alternate (Keysers Ridge– Cumberland, Maryland) 

U.S. Highway 40 Alternate (Alt US 40) is the U.S. Roadway assignment for a previous section of U.S. Highway 40 (US 40) through Garrett and Allegany districts in Maryland. The parkway starts at US 40 close leave 14 on Interstate 68 (I-68) and runs eastbound to Cumberland, where it closes at exit 44 on I-68. Alt US 40 is kept up by the Maryland State Highway Administration (MDSHA). 

The thruway is known as National Pike since it pursues the first arrangement of the memorable National Road. Therefore, there are numerous noteworthy locales along Alt US 40, incorporating the Casselman Bridge in Grantsville and the final National Road toll door house in Maryland, situated in LaVale. 

At the point when the National Freeway was worked in western Maryland paralleling the old National Road, portions of US 40 were skirted. The piece of the skirted street between Keyser's Ridge and Cumberland progressed toward becoming Alt US 40, and other circumvent areas east of Cumberland moved toward becoming Maryland Route 144 (MD 144) and U.S. Highway 40 Scenic. In spite of the fact that Alt US 40 has decreased in significance from its unique status as the National Road with the development of I-68, it remains an essential course for nearby traffic and fills in as the Main Streets of Grantsville and Frostburg. 

Alt US 40 keeps running from Keyser's Ridge to Cumberland, following piece of the course of the National Road through a portion of Maryland's most bumpy territory in Garrett and Allegany provinces. The roadway is a piece of the National Highway System as an essential blood vessel from the eastern intersection with MD 36 in Frostburg to the convergence of Mechanic Street and Henderson Avenue in Cumberland. 

Alt US 40 branches from US 40 close leave 14 on I-68 at Keysers Ridge. It runs parallel to I-68 through northern Garrett County as a two-path street with truck paths on some tough segments. The yearly normal every day traffic (AADT)— that is, the quantity of vehicles that utilization the street every day, found the middle value of through the span of one year—is 1,831 at the western end of Alt US 40. For correlation, the parallel area of I-68 has an AADT of 14,271. Alt US 40 goes through probably the most sloping territory in Maryland. The course runs opposite to the mountain edges in Garrett County, and thus a significant part of the area of the street in Garrett County runs tough or downhill. The main mountain experienced by the interstate east of Keysers Ridge is Negro Mountain. The street disregards the mountain at a height of , which is the most noteworthy point on Alt US 40, and was likewise the most elevated point along the National Road. East of Negro Mountain, the roadway enters Grantsville, where traffic increments, with the AADT expanding to 3,711, the most astounding traffic thickness on Alt US 40 in Garrett County. In Grantsville, Alt US 40 meets MD 669, which associates with Pennsylvania Route 669 toward Salisbury, Pennsylvania. A short separation east of this crossing point, the parkway meets MD 495, which intersections with I-68 and proceeds with southward toward Oakland. East of Grantsville, Alt US 40 disregards the Casselman River on a steel connect worked in 1933. Downstream from this scaffold is the Casselman River Bridge State Park, fixated on the stone curve connect which initially conveyed the National Road over the Casselman River. 

Proceeding with eastbound from Grantsville, Alt US 40 crosses US  219 a short separation north of leave 22 on I-68, where US 219 leaves the turnpike. East of this crossing point, traffic diminishes, with an AADT of 1,681, the most minimal traffic thickness along the whole course. The US 219 convergence is at the highest point of a slope known as Chestnut Ridge. 

East of Chestnut Ridge, the roadway disregards Meadow Mountain at a tallness of . In eastern Garrett County, traffic on the course step by step increments to an AADT of 2,232. Alt US 40 goes under MD 546, which runs north from I-68, through Finzel, to the Pennsylvania fringe. In spite of the fact that Alt US 40 does not straightforwardly cross MD 546, it is associated with MD 546 by method for access street MD 546F, and furthermore by MD 946, which converges Alt US 40 close to the highest point of Little Savage Mountain. Simply east, the course crosses the bigger Big Savage Mountain at a height of before entering Allegany County. 

Subsequent to proceeding into Allegany County, Alt US 40 slips Savage Mountain into Frostburg, where it goes through the town as Main Street. Principle Street in Frostburg has the most elevated traffic thickness on the course, with an AADT of 15,022. For examination, the parallel area of I-68 between ways out 33 and 34 has an AADT of 20,931. In west Frostburg, the expressway meets MD 36, which at that point pursues a similar street as Alt US 40 for about a mile, isolating from Alt US 40 in east Frostburg. In focal Frostburg, Main Street meets MD 936, an old arrangement of MD 36. Proceeding with eastbound from Frostburg, traffic thickness diminishes, to an AADT of 13,585 at the MD 55 crossing point, remaining somewhere in the range of 13,000 and 15,000 for the rest of the thruway. Alt US 40 goes through Eckhart Mines, where it converges MD 638, which interfaces with MD 36 north of Frostburg. In the eastern piece of Eckhart Mines, the parkway crosses MD 743, which is an old arrangement of US 40 which was skirted by the roadway which progressed toward becoming Alt US 40. 

East of Eckhart Mines, Alt US 40 goes through Clarysville, where it meets MD 55. It is close Clarysville that the territory pursued by Alt US 40 changes: from Clarysville westbound to the summit of Savage Mountain, the street runs tough, while east of Clarysville, the street pursues valleys, first chasing after the valley Braddock Run to Cumberland, and afterward chasing after the valley Wills Creek into Cumberland. Close to the MD 55 crossing point is a stone curve connect which was at first worked in 1812 and modified during the 1830s, and conveyed the National Road over Braddock Run, a tributary to Wills Creek. East of Clarysville, the roadway goes through a hole cut by Braddock Run between Piney Mountain and Dan's Mountain. I-68, having been assembled later, is situated on the slope above Alt US 40, on the Dan's Mountain side of the hole. Alt US 40 then drops Red Hill into LaVale. At the base of Red Hill is the La Vale toll entryway house. Worked in 1836, tolls were gathered there until the mid 1900s, and it is the last unique National Road toll door house remaining in Maryland. In LaVale, the course converges MD 53, which fills in as a truck sidestep for US  220 to Cresaptown. Alt US 40 trades with westward I-68 at exit 39, yet eastward access is just accessible by means of MD 53 and MD 658, which meets Alt US 40 east of the exit 39 exchange. The expressway extends to a four-path street close to its convergence with MD 53, at that point strait to a two-path street close to its crossing point with MD 658. East of the crossing point with MD 658, Alt US 40 turns northward, going through LaVale toward the Narrows, bypassing Haystack Mountain toward the north, instead of I-68, which disregards straightforwardly Haystack Mountain, paralleling Braddock Road (MD 49). 

Upper east of LaVale, Alt US 40 converges MD 36 at the northern end of MD 36. Alt US 40 then goes through the Narrows, a hole between Haystack Mountain and Wills Mountain cut by Wills Creek, into Cumberland, where it pursues Henderson Avenue and Baltimore Avenue to exit 44 on I-68, where Alt US 40 closes. The roadway proceeds with eastbound as MD 639. 

The roadway which progressed toward becoming Alt US 40 in Garrett and Allegany areas is, with some realignments, the course pursued by the National Road through western Maryland. Different noteworthy locales related with the National Road can be found along Alt US 40, including a toll-door house (La Vale Tollgate House) and mile-marker in LaVale. The toll-entryway house in LaVale is the final toll-door house on the National Road in Maryland. A few memorable scaffolds from the National Road, since avoided by more up to date connects, are as yet present along the course of Alt US 40, including the Casselman Bridge over the Casselman River in Grantsville and an extension in Clarysville. 

In 1755, amid the French and Indian War, British troops under the direction of General Edward Braddock finished the difficult assignment of structure a street westbound from Fort Cumberland. They to a great extent pursued an Indian trail known as Nemacolin's Path, growing it to a street utilizing just hand apparatuses. The street development was a piece of the Braddock Expedition, which was the British crusade to catch Fort Duquesne from the French and Indian powers. Despite the fact that the military endeavor was a disappointment, the street kept on being utilized a while later. Be that as it may, with little support being done out and about, it rotted after some time until by the mid nineteenth century little survived from the street. The course pursued by Alt US 40 today is fundamentally the same as the course pursued by Braddock's Road, with the special cases of different realignments that have been done to the street throughout the years. For instance, Braddock's Road traversed Haystack Mountain west of Cumberland instead of following the Cumberland Narrows as later streets did. 

The National Road, the primary street financed by the U.S. government, was approved by the United States Congress in 1806, and kept running from Cumberland, Maryland, to Vandalia, Illinois. Development began in 1811, and by 1837 the street came to Vandalia. Numerous locales from the National Road stay along Alt US 40, specifically the LaVale toll entryway house, worked in 1836. Following the fulfillment of the National Road in 1837, the government surrendered the way to the states to work as a toll street, and toll entryway houses, for example, the one in LaVale were worked along its way in anticipation of the exchange. Tolls kept on being gathered along the National Road at the LaVale toll house until the late nineteenth century. The LaVale toll house is the first of its sort to be worked along the National Road, and it is the last standing toll house along the National Road in Maryland. The LaVale toll house was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places in 1977. 

Various realignments of the street that is currently Alt US 40 have happened since it was initially worked as the National Road. Most such realignments are minor, for example, to sidestep an old scaffold, however some have altogether influenced the way of the street. One such realignment happened in 1834, when another course for the National Road was worked through the Cumberland Narrows. The past course had pursued the Braddock Road, a course which is presently trailed by MD 49. The course following Braddock Road disregarded Haystack Mountain and was a lot more extreme than the more up to date course through the Narrows. The course through the Narrows enabled the way to sidestep this precarious mountain climb. The stone curve connect worked over Will's Creek for the new arrangement stayed in administration until 1932, when another extension which is the present scaffold over Will's Creek supplanted it. The old scaffold was torn down amid the development of the Will's Creek flood control framework during the 1950s. 

Another realignment of Alt US 40 happened in Eckhart Mines, where in 1969 the street, at that point assigned as US 40, was realigned toward the north, bypassing the area of the parkway through Eckhart Mines, which has a lower speed breaking point and sharp bends. As far as possible on the old arrangement is , and the new arrangement has a speed utmost of along the greater part of the detour. The new arrangement meets the old arrangement, assigned as MD 743, on the east end somewhere in the range of MD 638 and MD 55. The west end of the old arrangement meets MD 36 only south of its convergence with Alt US 40. MD 638, which before the realignment finished at US 40, was not truncated, and subsequently finishes at MD 743. 

There are a few notable scaffolds along the National Road that are as yet present close to the present course of Alt US 40. Among them are the Casselman River connect in Grantsville, and the extension over Braddock Run, a tributary of Wills Creek, in Clarysville. The first National Road connect over the Casselman River was a stone curve connect built in 1813. The range was worked to be the biggest extension of its sort in the United States at the time, and amid its development it was trusted that the scaffold couldn't remain without anyone else. The scaffold was developed thusly in the expectations that the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal would in the long run go under it, however development on the waterway was ceased at Cumberland in 1850. At the point when US 40 was first assigned in 1925, it crossed the Casselman River on the first stone scaffold. In 1933, another steel connect was developed to supplant the National Road scaffold, and it is this extension that Alt US 40 now pursues. The first extension was proclaimed a National Historic Landmark in 1964, and is presently part of the Casselman River Bridge State Park. 

Another memorable extension remains in Clarysville, close to the convergence of Alt US 40 and MD 55. This extension, which crosses Braddock Run, was worked in 1812, with later work being done in 1843. The stone curve connect, found only south of the present arrangement of Alt US 40, was reestablished in 1976. 

Preceding the development of I-68, US 40 pursued the course presently assigned as U.S. Highway 40 Alternate. The main section of what might move toward becoming I-68 was worked in Cumberland in the mid-1960s. The road, first assigned as US 48, was expanded westbound through the 1970s, achieving West Virginia in 1976. The parts of US 40 that were circumvent among Cumberland and Keysers Ridge progressed toward becoming U.S. Highway 40 Alternate, which originally showed up on MDSHA maps in the mid 1980s. As of now, US 40 was realigned to pursue the US 48 interstate, offering the expressway to US 48. In 1991 the turnpike was finished from Hancock to Morgantown, West Virginia. The US 48 assignment was resigned, and on August 2, 1991, the interstate progressed toward becoming I-68.