68th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment 

The 68th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment served in the Union Army amid the American Civil War. Otherwise called the Cameron Rifles or the Second German Rifle Regiment, the men were for the most part German outsiders. Composed in July 1861, three months after the episode of war, the 68th saw administration in the Eastern and Western theaters. 

As a piece of the Army of the Potomac, it was at first doled out to the barriers of Washington, D.C. Afterward, the 68th was exchanged to the Shenandoah Valley and battled at the Battle of Cross Keys. The men of the 68th were then reassigned to focal Virginia and ended up in the thick of the battling at Second Bull Run. In the wake of coming back to the country's capital, the regiment battled in Chancellorsville and was directed by Confederate powers. At Gettysburg, they saw fight on two of the three days and took substantial misfortunes. 

The regiment was then exchanged toward the west and took an interest in the Chattanooga Campaign. The 68th battled in the skirmishes of Wauhatchie and Missionary Ridge, aiding the Union triumphs there. The regiment walked to calm the attack of Knoxville, and after that spent the most recent year of the war on occupation obligation in Tennessee and Georgia, before being disbanded in November 1865. 

On July 22, 1861, the United States War Department approved Robert J. Betge to raise a volunteer infantry regiment in New York. Enlisted to serve for a long time, the men came for the most part from Manhattan (New York City), and furthermore from New Jersey, Maryland, and Pennsylvania. The for the most part German migrants were additionally called the "Second German Rifles" (the First German Rifles, raised a while prior, were the eighth New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment), yet Betge considered the regiment the "Cameron Rifles", after Secretary of War Simon Cameron. The officers were additionally German, and many had served in the armed forces of Austria, Prussia, and other German states. Altogether, 1,020 men filled the positions when the regiment had completed the process of enlisting. 

Acknowledged into administration on August 19, the 68th left New York the following day, going via train from Perth Amboy, New Jersey, to Washington, D.C., to join the unit of Brigadier General Louis Blenker in the Army of the Potomac. Blenker was a German outsider himself, an outcast of the Revolutions of 1848, and a significant number of the units under his order were intensely German-American. Stayed at Roach's Mills, Virginia, the 68th took an interest in the guard of Washington, losing three men in their first battle, a minor engagement with a Confederate watch. 

In November, the Army was redesigned; the 68th was moved to Colonel Adolph von Steinwehr's detachment and Blenker climbed to order the division. They stayed at Hunter's Chapel, Virginia, for the rest of the winter. There, Betge was brought under the watchful eye of a court-military, blamed for "direct unbecoming an officer and noble man": taking two steeds and other property from "faithful" Virginia residents, and accepting kickbacks to employ the 68th's regimental sutler. He was not indicted, and was allowed to come back to the regiment. 

In March 1862, the Army was again revamped and Blenker's unit was converged into the II Corps, driven by Maj. Gen. Edwin Vose Sumner. That month the 68th moved to Warrenton, Virginia, where it came into contact with Confederate mounted force; three of the officers were caught. The next month, Blenker's unit was moved into Maj. Gen. John C. Frémont's Mountain Department, requiring a walk to Winchester, Virginia, where the 68th and the remainder of Frémont's military watched the western piece of the Shenandoah Valley against attacks by Confederate powers under Lt. Gen. Stonewall Jackson. Their long walk had left the 68th dispossessed of provisions and low on proportions. Colonel Betge challenged the abuse of his regiment, and was set apprehended, surrendering direction to Lt. Col., John H. Kleefish. 

The underlying activity in Jackson's Valley Campaign occurred to their east, yet in June Frémont's power of 15,000 joined the 10,000-man division of Brig. Gen. James Shields to merge on Jackson south of Massanutten Mountain. Jackson was resolved to assault the two Union segments independently and organized portion of his troops to square Shields on the correct side of the mountain, while the other half, instructed by Maj. Gen. Richard S. Ewell, hindered the left side. Jackson's desire was acknowledged when, on June 8, Frémont's military assaulted. Frémont, trusting he was striking Jackson's back, rather assaulted Ewell head-on, and Jackson before long offered his entire power as a powerful influence for the Union troops in the Battle of Cross Keys. The men of the 68th went under concentrated flame out of the blue however were not intensely engaged with the fight, albeit two men were murdered. The fight was an annihilation for the Union, and Frémont's power did not assault once more, being obstructed rather by a little holding power from Ewell's wing. The remainder of Jackson's power at that point swung to assault Shields' military the following day at Port Republic, however Frémont's infantry did not figure in the fight, another Confederate triumph, however his cannons shelled the adversary from long range. 

After the fight, the 68th walked to Cedar Creek and the military was put under the general order of Maj. Gen. John Pope; Frémont's power was assigned the First Corps of the Army of Virginia. Frémont, who outranked Pope, surrendered in challenge, and President Lincoln acknowledged the abdication. Lincoln supplanted him with Maj. Gen. Franz Sigel, who had been telling troops in the Western theater. Sigel was, in the same way as other in the First Corps, a German settler, and the 68th and the other German regiments in the First Corps were upbeat for the adjustment in authorities. Sigel requested the 68th to Luray for picket obligation. When they arrived, Betge surrendered his bonus and Kleefish kept on telling the regiment until another colonel could be allocated. 

The regiment stayed in the Shenandoah Valley until August 1862 when they joined Pope's military and moved south to connect with Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. They arrived the day after the Battle of Cedar Mountain, and joined Pope's military in its retreat from that Confederate triumph. After a progression of minor activities along the Rappahannock, Pope's powers met Jackson's half of Lee's military close Manassas Station. Lee had partitioned his military into wings driven by Jackson and Lt. Gen. James Longstreet and sent Jackson's power to attack Pope's back to cut his supply line. Pope trusted he got an opportunity to devastate the Army of Northern Virginia one half at any given moment, and settled on the choice to assault. Jackson's men struck the primary blow, in any case, and drove off a bit of the Union power. The following day, having taken up a solid protective position along an incomplete railroad, Jackson anticipated Pope's development. Pope obliged him, sending the Army forward against Jackson's lines. The 68th and the remainder of Sigel's corps involved the center of the propelling line. They were unfit to break Jackson's lines, and pulled back. The Cameron Rifles had seen some activity at Cross Keys, yet this was their first experience of wild battling and they cleared themselves well, in spite of the disappointment of the assault. 

By the evening, Longstreet united Jackson with the other portion of Lee's military and assaulted the Union left. Longstreet trusted it was past the point of no return for an assault, and did not assault that day, other than in a minor conflict where his lines met some government units at sunset. The following day, August 30, Pope assaulted Jackson again at 3:00 p.m. toward the evening. Once more, the assaulting powers couldn't beat their foes' positions, and this time Longstreet counterattacked and constrained them back toward their unique positions. Sigel's powers, which did not partake in the underlying Union ambush, held firm against the Confederate counterattack, however after overwhelming losses the military withdrew. Among the setbacks were 22 killed from the 68th (counting Kleefish) and 59 injured, making Second Bull Run one of the unit's bloodiest commitment. 

The Army of Virginia withdrew almost right back to Washington. Pope was alleviated and Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan put accountable for the military yet again. Subsequent to covering Kleefish in Washington, the 68th redeployed to Fairfax, Virginia. With Kleefish dead and Betge having surrendered, order of the regiment fell incidentally to Major Carl von Wedell. The officers at that point requested of the Governor Horatio Seymour to commission Gotthilf von Bourry d'Ivernois as their new colonel, which he did. Von Bourry, a veteran of the Austrian armed force, had served on Blenker's staff as a chief and had inspired the officers of the 68th with his stories of valor in the Second Italian War of Independence. 

The 68th spent September and October 1862 guarding Washington where they were appended to Alexander Schimmelfennig's first Brigade of the XI Corps in the Army of the Potomac (the re-numbered I Corps once in the past of the Army of Virginia) still instructed by Sigel. In November, they progressed to Centreville with the remainder of the Army, presently under the direction of Maj. Gen. Ambrose Burnside. Burnside, who had assumed control over the Army when McClellan was alleviated of direction before that month, was resolved to convey fight to the foe, and he requested the Army to progress yet again to the Rappahannock. The 68th, nonetheless, stayed for possible later use with the remainder of the XI Corps, as was saved any part in the annihilation that occured for the Union Army at the Battle of Fredericksburg. The Army withdrew by and by, and the 68th went along with them in winter quarters at Stafford, Virginia. 

Resolve was low in the Army after Fredericksburg and the retreat that pursued, and Burnside was supplanted in direction by Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker. A few corps administrators were additionally supplanted, including Sigel, whose XI Corps go to Maj. Gen. Oliver O. Howard on April 2, 1863, when he surrendered in challenge since he trusted he merited a bigger corps. In a corps of generally German regiments, Howard was quickly disagreeable and his circulation of religious tracts to the troops did not improve the relationship. The regiment was littler, as well, than it had been: only 259 present for obligation. Their new leader in the XI Corps' third Brigade was another German, Brig. Gen. Carl Schurz. 

Hooker conveyed the Army to the Rappahannock for a third time, but instead than intersection legitimately into the guards of the Confederates, he separated his a lot bigger power to assault Lee's military from opposite sides at the same time. This time, the 68th and different regiments of the XI Corps were a piece of the activity, crossing the waterway with Hooker's fundamental power on May 1, 1863, to assault Lee's left. Regardless of Hooker's watchful arranging, the Battle of Chancellorsville was another Union thrashing. Subsequent to intersection the Rappahannock, Hooker had requested the wing including the XI Corps to end and anticipate the Confederate assault. Looked with assaults on opposite sides, Lee daringly separated his littler power to connect with both: the delay enabled Lee to send Jackson with the greater part of the military to meet the Union development and defeat their conservative the following day, May 2. In spite of the fact that he was cautioned of the looming assault, Howard did not organization the units under his order to settle in, and when Jackson's men arrived the XI Corps was gotten ill-equipped. At about 5:15 p.m., Jackson's power of 21,500 men got the XI Corps in the flank and unsuspecting the men were setting up their supper. Schurz requested his unit to move to meet the strike, and the 68th bounced to activity, yet they were still overpowered by the power of numbers and started a confused retreat an hour into the assault. In the wake of falling back, the 68th and the other withdrawing units energized to stay away from a total defeat and held off the Confederates until sunset. The XI Corps endured almost 2,500 losses, including 5 dead, 16 injured, and 32 missing from the 68th. The following day, the XI Corps held the left of the Union line and was again assaulted, yet dissimilar to the earlier day, they were not at the focal point of the Confederate assault. The whole armed force withdrew over the Rappahannock the following day, vanquished yet again. 

In the wake of Chancellorsville, papers piled disdain on the German regiments, accusing the 68th and the others for the annihilation. The XI Corps experienced low assurance, and a few officers surrendered their payments, including Lt. Col. Carl Vogel and five others from the 68th. The Army of the Potomac pulled over from the Rappahannock, and was soon progressing as the Army of Northern Virginia slipped past and walked north toward Pennsylvania. Driven by still another new administrator, Maj. Gen. George Meade, the Union armed force pursued the Confederates north. The 68th, presently with 267 present for obligation, had been moved to the XI Corps' first Brigade under Brig. Gen. Leopold von Gilsa when the Army of the Potomac arranged to meet the dissidents at the Battle of Gettysburg. The XI Corps was among the first to touch base on the scene on July 1, 1863. Schurz's unit arrived first, and he requested them to take up cautious positions north of the town. The other two divisions touched base straightaway, and Howard showed them to oppose the agitator surge he knew was just around the corner. The scene was generally without highlights that would help in resistance, however Gilsa's men had the capacity to settle in on one low ascent, Blocher's Knoll. The 68th was sent forward to encounter, alongside the 54th New York and part of the 153rd New York, and were the first to be assaulted and expelled from their positions when Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's Confederate division entered numbers and outmaneuvered them. The military withdrew south of the town, however Howard, subsequent to belligerence with Maj. Gen. Winfield Scott Hancock over who was in direction in Meade's nonappearance, aroused the troops there and requested them to dig in. 

The 68th started the second day in an increasingly faultless position on Cemetery Hill. This put them at the focal point of the Union line, and the vast majority of the day's initial activity was on the flanks. At night, in any case, Early's powers assaulted once more; the charging Confederates immediately achieved the highest point of the slope and some hand-to-hand battle broke out, yet misfortunes were light on the grounds that the developing dimness made it troublesome for fighters on the two sides to shoot precisely. Fortifications from the II Corps arrived and helped the XI Corps hold the position. On the third day, the 68th stayed in that position, however the significant assault of the day, Pickett's Charge, was to one side. The 68th performed superior to anything they had at Chancellorsville, taking an interest in their first Union triumph. They paid the cost with a lot higher losses, 8 killed and 63 injured; 67 were made detainees of war, numerous on the principal day amid the retreat to Cemetery Hill. In the thick of the activity for two out of three days, the 68th lost a larger number of men at Gettysburg than in some other fight. 

Lee's military withdrew into Virginia and, after some postponement, the Army of the Potomac pursued. After a clash in Hagerstown, Maryland, on July 12, the 68th crossed the Potomac into Virginia on July 16 and took up gatekeeper obligation along the Orange and Alexandria Railroad close Warrenton. The regiment stayed there until September, when it and the remainder of the XI Corps were withdrawn from the Army of the Potomac and sent to Tennessee. The XI and XII Corps, under Hooker's order, made up a free power added to the Armies of the Tennessee, the Cumberland, and the Ohio, which were all working in that theater. Maj. Gen. William Rosecrans, having quite recently lost the Battle of Chickamauga, was blockaded in Chattanooga, and different armed forces were social affair to lift the attack and assault the Confederate armed force there, driven by Lt. Gen. Braxton Bragg. Going for seven days by rail, the 68th landed in Tennessee on September 30. 

The regiment went through the principal month guarding railways once more, this time west of Chattanooga. Rosecrans before long ended up diminished of obligation, and Maj. Gen. Ulysses S. Concede was set in generally direction of the three armed forces in addition to Hooker's two corps. The 68th, as well, saw an adjustment in its initiative when Col. von Bourry was cashiered for inebriation and direction go to Lt. Col. Albert von Steinhausen. At this point, misfortunes from Gettysburg and ailment had decreased the regiment to 127 men present for obligation, a little more than a tenth of their numbers from the beginning of the war. 

Give's armed forces merged on Chattanooga and intended to assault Bragg's military. Getting into spot required the XI and XII Corps to cross the Tennessee River at Bridgeport, Alabama, and walk quickly for Lookout Valley, opening the supply line to Chattanooga. They did as such, to the shock of the Confederate powers there, which had not anticipated an assault from that quarter. On October 28, Hooker's two corps were assaulted by a piece of Bragg's military, which had at this point been joined by Longstreet and a few units from the Army of Northern Virginia. Bragg requested Longstreet to drive the federals back and he assaulted. In the following Battle of Wauhatchie, the XII Corps took the brunt of the underlying attack. Hooker skirted Howard and requested Schurz to raise the XI Corps to join the battle. The commitment was befuddled on the two sides, yet the Union powers were triumphant, driving off the revolutionaries and dispensing double the setbacks they got. With the supply lines presently revived to Chattanooga, Grant wanted to oust Bragg's military. At the Battle of Lookout Mountain, the 68th was held available for later on the primary day, November 24. The fight proceeded with the following day and a piece of Howard's XI Corps, including the 68th, was moved to the most distant left of the Union lines to strengthen Sherman's assault on Missionary Ridge. There, the 68th skirmished with the adversary, yet was unfit to progress. The Confederates were compelled to withdraw, be that as it may, as Maj. Gen. George Thomas' troops' strike on their middle sent Bragg's military into retreat from the edge. 

After four days, on November 28, the 68th, still connected to Sherman's military, walked north to mitigate Burnside's military, which was blockaded in Knoxville, Tennessee. Before they arrived, in any case, Burnside figured out how to crush the foe, and the regiment returned south. It spent the winter guarding railways close to their winter quarters in Bridgeport. In April, the selections of numerous three-year men were expected to terminate, including the men of the 68th. The men were sent to Louisville, Kentucky, and after that by rail back to New York City for about a month's time away. With the war not yet finished, the administration empowered re-enrolling, and a large number of the 68th did as such. The three-year men of the eighth and 29th Infantry, two other German-American units decreased by losses and terminating enrollment terms, were merged into the 68th. Drafted men and substitutes brought the positions up to 400 present for obligation. 

Among those proceeding in the military was the colonel of the eighth New York, Prince Felix Salm-Salm. As the 68th had been without a colonel since von Bourry had been cashiered, Governor Seymour designated Salm-Salm to the post on June 8, 1864. The most youthful child of a minor German sovereign, Salm-Salm had served in the Prussian and Austrian armed forces before coming to America and joining the Union Army in 1861. His arrangement to lead the 68th caused frustration among the officers, who had sought after the advancement of one of their own. They dissented to the senator fruitlessly, however acknowledged that Salm-Salm was to be their pioneer. After the commissions and re-enrollments were dealt with, the 68th came back to Tennessee. They were again serving under Hooker in the XX Corps, which was united from the XI and XII Corps and had now been appended for all time to Thomas' Army of the Cumberland. The 68th was doled out to Maj. Gen. James B. Steedman's fourth Brigade of the new corps and spent the following couple of months watching the Nashville and Chattanooga Railway in Tennessee. At that point, Confederate opposition in the territory was debilitated, and the rails and extensions were not harmed. Salm-Salm's significant other, Agnes, went along with him amid the winter of 1864– 1865, and the officers invested quite a bit of their energy engaging. 

The 68th was not engaged with the Battle of Nashville that December, in which Lt. Gen. John Bell Hood's Confederate armed force was almost annihilated, yet Salm-Salm got consent to join the fight himself while the 68th remained at their watch stations. After Thomas' triumph at Nashville, the 68th was requested to plan to seek after what survived from Hood's military. They redeployed to Decatur, Alabama, where Salm-Salm rejoined the regiment. They skirmished with Hood's back watchman, yet the blustery climate supported the Confederates' departure. Salm-Salm drove the regiment in the minor commitment following in January and February 1865 at Elrod's Tan Yard, Hog Jaw Valley, and Johnson's Crook. As Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman's Army of the Tennessee progressed more distant into Georgia, the 68th did too, making Atlanta their base camp in March 1865. They kept on serving in northern Georgia through the spring and summer of 1865, and were positioned there when news came that the real Confederate militaries had surrendered to Grant and Sherman. While there, they were requested to encourage the change from a slave-based economy to a tenant farmer framework by empowering manor proprietors and their previous captives to sign cultivating contracts. 

The 68th moved to Fort Pulaski, outside Savannah, Georgia, in October 1865. The men stayed there until November 30, 1865, when, with the war at long last finished, the 68th New York was summoned out of government administration. They boarded a steamship for New York and got their last pay at Hart's Island on December 14, where they disbanded. The regiment had served for over four years, and had endured setbacks of 47 executed, 133 injured, and 116 caught.