McDonnell Douglas AV-8B Harrier II 

The McDonnell Douglas (presently Boeing) AV-8B Harrier II is a solitary motor ground-assault air ship that comprises the second era of the Harrier Jump Jet family. Equipped for vertical or short departure and landing (V/STOL), the airplane was planned in the late 1970s as an Anglo-American improvement of the British Hawker Siddeley Harrier, the primary operational V/STOL air ship. The air ship is essentially utilized on light assault or multi-job missions, going from close air backing of ground troops to furnished observation. The AV-8B is utilized by the United States Marine Corps (USMC), the Spanish Navy, and the Italian Navy. A variation of the AV-8B, the British Aerospace Harrier II, was created for the British military, while another, the TAV-8B, is a committed two-situate coach. 

The undertaking that in the end prompted the AV-8B's creation began in the mid 1970s as a helpful exertion between the United States and United Kingdom (UK), went for tending to the operational deficiencies of the original Harrier. Early endeavors fixated on a bigger, all the more dominant Pegasus motor to significantly improve the capacities of the Harrier. Because of budgetary limitations, the UK deserted the venture in 1975. 

Following the withdrawal of the UK, McDonnell Douglas broadly overhauled the before AV-8A Harrier to make the AV-8B. While holding the general design of its antecedent, the flying machine consolidates another wing, a raised cockpit, an updated fuselage, one additional hardpoint per wing, and other auxiliary and streamlined refinements. The flying machine is controlled by an updated form of the Pegasus, which gives the air ship its V/STOL capacity. The AV-8B made its lady trip in November 1981 and entered administration with the USMC in January 1985. Later overhauls included a night-assault capacity and radar, bringing about the AV-8B(NA) and AV-8B Harrier II Plus, separately. A developed variant named Harrier III was likewise considered, yet not sought after. The UK, through British Aerospace, re-joined the improved Harrier venture as an accomplice in 1981, giving it a noteworthy work-share in the undertaking. After corporate mergers during the 1990s, Boeing and BAE Systems have together bolstered the program. Roughly 340 flying machine were delivered in a 22-year generation program that finished in 2003. 

Regularly worked from little plane carrying warships, substantial land and/or water capable ambush boats and straightforward forward working bases, AV-8Bs have taken part in various military and philanthropic tasks, substantiating themselves adaptable resources. U.S. Armed force General Norman Schwarzkopf named the USMC Harrier II as one of a few imperative weapons in the Gulf War. The airplane participated in battle amid the Iraq War starting in 2003. The Harrier II has served in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan since 2001, and was utilized in Operation Odyssey Dawn in Libya in 2011. Italian and Spanish Harrier IIs have participated in abroad clashes related to NATO alliances. Amid its administration history, the AV-8B has had a high mishap rate, identified with the level of time spent in basic take-off and landing stages. USMC and Italian Navy AV-8Bs are to be supplanted by the Lockheed Martin F-35B Lightning II, with the previous expected to work its Harriers until 2025. 

In the late 1960s and mid 1970s, the original Harriers entered administration with the Royal Air Force (RAF) and United States Marine Corps (USMC), yet were impaired in range and payload. In short departure and landing arrangement, the AV-8A (American assignment for the Harrier) conveyed not exactly a large portion of the 4,000 lb (1,800 kg) payload of the littler A-4 Skyhawk, over a progressively constrained range. To address this issue, Hawker Siddeley and McDonnell Douglas started joint improvement of a progressively competent form of the Harrier in 1973. Early endeavors focused on an improved Pegasus motor, assigned the Pegasus 15, which was being tried by Bristol Siddeley. Albeit all the more dominant, the motor's width was excessively expansive by to fit into the Harrier effectively. 

In December 1973, a joint American and British group finished a venture archive characterizing an Advanced Harrier fueled by the Pegasus 15 motor. The Advanced Harrier was planned to supplant the first RAF and USMC Harriers, just as the USMC's A-4. The point of the Advanced Harrier was to twofold the AV-8's payload and extend, and was in this way informally named AV-16. The British government hauled out of the task in March 1975 inferable from diminished protection subsidizing, increasing expenses, and the RAF's lacking 60-flying machine necessity. With advancement costs assessed to be around £180– 200 million (1974 British pounds), the United States was reluctant to finance improvement without anyone else's input, and finished the undertaking soon thereafter. 

Regardless of the task's end, the two organizations kept on taking distinctive ways toward an improved Harrier. Vendor Siddeley concentrated on another bigger wing that could be retrofitted to existing operational airplane, while McDonnell Douglas autonomously sought after a less driven, however still costly, venture taking into account the requirements of the US military. Utilizing information gathered from the AV-16 exertion, however dropping a few things, for example, the bigger Pegasus motor—McDonnell Douglas kept the essential structure and motor for a flying machine custom fitted for the USMC. 

As the USMC needed a generously improved Harrier without the advancement of another motor, the arrangement for Harrier II improvement was approved by the United States Department of Defense (DoD) in 1976. The United States Navy (USN), which had customarily secured military airplane for the USMC, demanded that the new structure be confirmed with flight testing. McDonnell Douglas altered two AV-8As with new wings, reexamined admissions, upgraded exhaust spouts, and other streamlined changes; the adjusted forward fuselage and cockpit found on all ensuing air ship were not joined on these models. Assigned YAV-8B, the main changed over air ship flew on 9 November 1978, because of Charles Plummer. The airplane performed three vertical departures and floated for seven minutes at Lambert– St. Louis International Airport. The second flying machine pursued on 19 February 1979, however slammed that November because of motor flameout; the pilot shot out securely. Flight testing of these changed AV-8s proceeded into 1979. The outcomes demonstrated more prominent than anticipated drag, hampering the airplane's greatest speed. Further refinements to the streamlined profile yielded little improvement. Positive test results in different zones, including payload, range, and V/STOL execution, prompted the honor of an improvement contract in 1979. The agreement stipulated an acquirement of 12 flying machine at first, trailed by a further 324. 

Somewhere in the range of 1978 and 1980, the DoD and USN more than once endeavored to end the AV-8B program. There had recently been strife between the USMC and USN over budgetary issues. At the time, the USN needed to get A-18s for its ground assault drive and, to cut expenses, constrained the USMC to embrace the also structured F-18 warrior rather than the AV-8B to satisfy the job of close air support (the two plans were inevitably amalgamated to make the multirole F/A-18 Hornet). Regardless of these bureaucratic obstructions, in 1981, the DoD incorporated the Harrier II in its yearly spending plan and five-year guard plan. The USN declined to take an interest in the acquisition, refering to the constrained range and payload contrasted and traditional flying machine. 

In August 1981 the program got a lift when British Aerospace (BAe) and McDonnell Douglas marked a notice of comprehension (MoU), denoting the UK's reentry into the program. The British government was allured by the lower cost of securing Harriers guaranteed by a huge generation run, and the way that the US was boring the cost of improvement. Under the understanding BAe was consigned to the situation of a subcontractor, rather than the full accomplice status that would have been the situation had the UK not left the program. Therefore, the organization got, in worker hours, 40 percent of the airframe work-share. Airplane generation occurred at McDonnell Douglas' offices in rural St. Louis, Missouri, and assembling by BAe at its Kingston and Dunsfold offices in Surrey, England. In the mean time, 75 percent work-share for the motor went to Rolls-Royce, which had recently consumed Bristol Siddeley, with the rest of the 25 percent doled out to Pratt and Whitney. The two organizations intended to fabricate 400 Harrier IIs, with the USMC expected to secure 336 airplane and the RAF, 60. 

Four full-scale advancement (FSD) airplane were developed. The first of these (BuNo 161396), utilized principally to test execution and dealing with characteristics, made its lady trip on 5 November 1981, guided by Plummer. The second and third FSD airplane, which presented wing driving edge root augmentations and changed motor admissions, first flew in April the next year; the fourth followed in January 1984. The principal creation AV-8B was conveyed to the Marine Attack Training Squadron 203 (VMAT-203) at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point (MCAS Cherry Point) on 12 December 1983, and formally given more than one month later. The remainder of the underlying cluster of 12 was conveyed in January 1985 to the bleeding edge Marine Attack Squadron 331 (VMA-331). The motor utilized for these air ship was the F402-RR-404A, with 21,450 lb (95.4 kN) of push; air ship from 1990 onwards got overhauled motors. 

Amid the underlying pilot change course, it wound up obvious that the AV-8B showed flight attributes not the same as the AV-8A. These distinctions, just as the advanced cockpit fitted rather than the simple cockpit of the TAV-8A, required extra pilot preparing. In 1984, subsidizing for eight AV-8Bs was occupied to the improvement of a two-situate TAV-8B coach. The first of the 28 TAV-8Bs in the long run obtained had its lady trip on 21 October 1986. This flying machine was conveyed to VMAT-203 on 24 July 1987; the TAV-8B was additionally requested by Italy and Spain. 

With fare enthusiasm from Brazil, Japan, and Italy filling in as a wellspring of support to proceed with advancement of the Harrier II, McDonnell Douglas initiated take a shot at a night-assault variation in 1985. With the expansion of an infrared sensor and cockpit interface upgrades, the 87th generation single-situate AV-8B turned into the primary Harrier II to be changed for night assaults, leaving the McDonnell Douglas creation line in June 1987. Flight tests demonstrated fruitful and the night assault ability was approved. The first of 66 AV-8B(NA)s was conveyed to the USMC in September 1989. A proportionate variant of the AV-8B(NA) additionally presented with the RAF under the assignment GR7; prior GR5 air ship were therefore moved up to GR7 norms. 

In June 1987, as a private endeavor, BAe, McDonnell Douglas, and Smiths Industries marked a MoU for the advancement of what was to turn into the AV-8B Plus, which saw the expansion of radar and expanded rocket similarity. The understanding was embraced by the USMC and, after much thought, the Spanish and Italian naval forces built up a joint prerequisite for an armada of air-protection Harriers. The United States, Spain, and Italy marked a MoU in September 1990 to characterize the duties of the three nations and build up a Joint Program Office to deal with the program. On 30 November 1990, the USN, going about as a specialist for the three taking part nations, granted McDonnell Douglas the agreement to build up the improved Harrier. The honor was trailed by a request from the USMC in December 1990 for 30 new air ship, and 72 modified from more established air ship. Italy requested 16 Harrier II Plus and two twin-situate TAV-8B air ship, while Spain marked an agreement for eight air ship. Creation of the AV-8B Harrier II Plus was directed, notwithstanding McDonnell Douglas' plant, at CASA's office in Seville, Spain, and Alenia Aeronautica's office in Turin, Italy. The UK likewise took an interest in the program by assembling parts for the AV-8B. 

Generation was approved on 3 June 1992. The lady trip of the model (BuNo 164129) occurred on 22 September, denoting the beginning of an effective flight-test program. The primary creation air ship was conveyed to St. Louis and made its underlying trip on 17 March 1993. Conveyances of new air ship occurred from April 1993 to 1995. In the meantime, the arrangement to remanufacture existing AV-8Bs to the Plus standard continued. On 11 March 1994, the Defense Acquisition Board affirmed the program, which at first included 70 flying machine, with four changed over in monetary year 1994. The program wanted to utilize new and revamped parts to reconstruct air ship at a lower cost than assembling new ones. Change started in April 1994, and the primary flying machine was conveyed to the USMC in January 1996. 

In March 1996, the US General Accounting Office (GAO) expressed that it was less expensive to purchase Harrier II Plus flying machine through and through than to remanufacture existing AV-8Bs. The USN evaluated the expense for remanufacture of every flying machine to be US$23– 30 million, rather than $30 million for each new-fabricated airplane, while the GAO assessed the expense per new air ship at $24 million. By and by, the program proceeded and, in 2003, the 72nd and last AV-8B to be remanufactured for the USMC was conveyed. Spain likewise partook in the program, the conveyance of its last restored airplane happening in December 2003, which denoted the finish of the AV-8B's creation; the last new AV-8B had been conveyed in 1997. 

During the 1990s, Boeing and BAE Systems expected administration of the Harrier family following corporate mergers that saw Boeing secure McDonnell Douglas and BAe amalgamate with other resistance organizations to frame BAE Systems. Somewhere in the range of 1969 and 2003, 824 Harriers of all models were conveyed. In 2001, "Flight International" detailed that Taiwan may meet its prerequisite for a short take off and vertical landing (STOVL) flying machine by buying AV-8Bs, equipped with the F-16 Fighting Falcon's APG-66 radar. A Taiwanese buy would have permitted the generation line to remain open past 2005. Notwithstanding the likelihood of renting AV-8Bs, enthusiasm for the flying machine disappeared as the nation changed its goals to getting the F-35 and updating its armada of F-16s. 

In spite of the fact that there have been no new AV-8B variations, in 1990 McDonnell Douglas and British Aerospace started discourses on a break flying machine between the AV-8B and the up and coming age of cutting edge STOVL air ship. The Harrier III would have exhibited a "transformative way to deal with maximize the current flying machine", the same number of the structures utilized on the Sea Harrier and AV-8B would be utilized. The wing and the torsion box were to be extended to suit additional fuel and hardpoints to improve the airplane's perseverance. Because of the expansion in size, the wing would have had collapsing wingtips. To meet the heavier load of the flying machine, Rolls-Royce was relied upon to plan a Pegasus motor variation that would have delivered more pushed than the most recent creation variation at the time. The Harrier III would have conveyed weapons, for example, AIM-120 AMRAAM and AIM-132 ASRAAM rockets. Boeing and BAE Systems kept considering the plan until the mid 2000s, when the venture was deserted. 

In 2013, the USMC was concentrating potential improvements to keep the AV-8B Harrier IIs state-of-the-art until its arranged retirement, for example, a protective cap mounted prompting framework. It is likewise anticipated that extra work on the flying machine's radars and sensor frameworks may happen. The USMC's Harrier II armada was intended to stay in administration until 2030, attributable to delays with the F-35B and the way that the Harriers have more administration life left than USMC F/A-18 Hornets. Be that as it may, by 2014 the USMC had chosen to resign the AV-8B sooner in light of the fact that changing the progress requests of Harrier II and Hornet armadas to the Lightning II would spare $1 billion. In the wake of entering administration in the mid-2010s, the F-35B will begin to supplant the AV-8B in 2016, with the AV-8B expected to proceed with administration until 2025. In the interim, the AV-8B will get patched up cautious measures, refreshed information connect ability and focusing on sensors, and improved rockets and rockets, among different upgrades. 

The AV-8B Harrier II is a subsonic assault air ship of metal and composite development that holds the essential design of the Hawker Siddeley Harrier, with even stabilizers and shoulder-mounted wings highlighting noticeable anhedral (descending slant). The flying machine is fueled by a solitary Rolls-Royce Pegasus turbofan motor, which has two admissions and four synchronized vectorable spouts near its turbine. Two of these spouts are situated close to the forward, chilly end of the motor and two are close to the back, hot end of the motor. This course of action appears differently in relation to most fixed-wing airplane, which have motor spouts just at the back. The Harrier II additionally has littler valve-controlled spouts in the nose, tail, and wingtips to give control at low velocities. 

The AV-8B is outfitted with one centerline fuselage and six wing hardpoints (contrasted with four wing hardpoints on the first Harrier), alongside two fuselage stations for a 25 mm GAU-12 gun and ammo pack. These hardpoints enable it to convey an aggregate of weapons, including aerial, air-to-surface, and against ship rockets, just as unguided and guided bombs. The airplane's inward fuel limit is , up 50 percent contrasted with its antecedent. Fuel limit can be conveyed in hardpoint-good outside drop tanks, which give the air ship a most extreme ship scope of 2,100 mi (3,300 km) and a battle range of 300 mi (556 km). The AV-8B can likewise get extra fuel by means of aeronautical refueling utilizing the test and-drogue framework. The British Aerospace Harrier II, a variation custom-made to the RAF, utilizes diverse aeronautics, and has one extra rocket arch on each wing. 

The Harrier II holds the pair arrival gear design of the original Harriers, albeit every outrigger arrival gear leg was moved from the wingtip to mid-length for a more tightly turning range while maneuvering. The motor admissions are bigger than those of the original Harrier, and have a reconsidered delta. On the underside of the fuselage, McDonnell Douglas included lift-improvement gadgets, which catch the reflected motor fumes when near the ground, surrendering what could be compared to 1,200 lb (544 kg) of additional lift. 

The mechanical advances consolidated into the Harrier II, contrasted and the first Harrier, altogether diminish the outstanding burden on the pilot. The supercritical wing, hands-on-throttle-and-stick (HOTAS) control guideline, and expanded designed parallel soundness make the air ship in a general sense simpler to fly. Ed Harper, general supervisor for the McDonnell Douglas Harrier II advancement program, abridged: "The AV-8B looks a ton like the first Harrier and it utilizes the equivalent working essentials. It just uses them much better". A substantial cathode-beam tube multi-reason show, taken from the F/A-18, makes up a significant part of the instrument board in the cockpit. It has a wide scope of capacities, including radar cautioning data and weapon conveyance agenda. The pilots sit on UPC/Stencel 10B zero-zero launch seats, implying that they can discharge from a stationary air ship at zero height. 

For the AV-8B, McDonnell Douglas overhauled the whole airframe of the Harrier, joining various basic and streamlined changes. To improve perceivability and better oblige the team and flight equipment, McDonnell Douglas raised the cockpit by and updated the shelter. This improved the forward (17° down), side (60°), and back perceivability. The front fuselage is made out of a shaped skin with an epoxy-based center sandwiched between two carbon-fiber sheets. To make up for the adjustments in the front fuselage, the back fuselage was stretched out by , and the taller vertical stabilizer of the Sea Harrier was utilized. The tail get together is comprised of composites to decrease weight. 

Maybe the most intensive upgrade was of the wing, the goal being to coordinate the execution of the dropped AV-16 while holding the Pegasus motor of the AV-8A. Architects planned another, one-piece supercritical wing, which improves voyage execution by postponing the ascent in drag and expanding lift-to-drag proportion. Made of composites, the wing is thicker and has a more drawn out range than that of the AV-8A. Contrasted with the AV-8A's wing, it has a higher viewpoint proportion, diminished range (from 40° to 37°), and a zone expanded from to . The wing has a high-lift setup, utilizing folds that convey naturally while moving, and hung ailerons. Utilizing the main edge root augmentations, the new wing takes into account a 6,700 lb (3,035 kg) increment in payload contrasted and the original Harriers after a 1,000 ft (300 m) departure roll. Since the wing is only composite, it is lighter than the AV-8A's littler wing. 

The Harrier II was the primary battle air ship to broadly utilize carbon-fiber composite materials, misusing their light weight and high quality; they are utilized in the wings, rudder, folds, nose, forward fuselage, and tail. Twenty-six percent of the flying machine's structure is made of composites, decreasing its weight by 480 lb (217 kg) contrasted with a customary metal structure. 

The vast majority of the primary "day assault" AV-8B Harrier IIs were moved up to Night Attack Harrier or Harrier II Plus benchmarks, with the rest of pulled back from administration. The AV-8B cockpit was additionally utilized for the early trialing of Direct Voice Input (DVI), which enables the pilot to utilize voice directions to issue guidelines to the airplane, utilizing a framework created by Smiths Industries. The primary assault aeronautics framework in unique air ship was the nose-mounted Hughes AN/ASB-19 edge rate besieging framework. The framework joined a TV imager and laser tracker to give a profoundly precise focusing on capacity. Guarded hardware incorporate a few AN/ALE-39 debris flare containers, AN/ALR-67 radar cautioning collector, and AN/ALQ-126C jammer unit. 

The coach form of the AV-8B is the TAV-8B, seating two pilots pair. Among different changes, the forward fuselage includes a 3 ft 11 in (1.19 m) augmentation to oblige the second cockpit. To make up for the slight loss of directional soundness, the vertical stabilizer's region was extended through increments in harmony (length of the stabilizer's root) and tallness. USMC TAV-8Bs component the AV-8B's computerized cockpit and new frameworks, yet have just two hardpoints and are not battle skilled. Starting TAV-8Bs were fueled by a 21,450 lbf (95.4 kN) F402-RR-406A motor, while later models were fitted with the 23,000 lbf (105.8 kN) F402-RR-408A. In the mid 2000s, 17 TAV-8Bs were moved up to incorporate a night-assault ability, the F402-RR-408 motor, and programming and auxiliary changes. 

Handled in 1991, the Night Attack Harrier was the principal overhaul of the AV-8B. It contrasted from the first flying machine in having a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera added to the highest point of the nose cone, a wide Smiths Industries head-up presentation (HUD), arrangements for night vision goggles, and a Honeywell advanced moving guide framework. The FLIR utilizes warm imaging to recognize protests by their warmth marks. The variation was controlled by the F402-RR-408 motor, which included an electronic control framework and was all the more dominant and solid. The flare and debris gadgets were moved, and the smash air admission was stretched at the blade's base. At first known as the AV-8D, the night-assault variation was assigned the AV-8B(NA). 

The Harrier II Plus is fundamentally the same as the Night Attack variation, with the expansion of an APG-65 multi-mode beat Doppler radar in an all-inclusive nose, enabling it to dispatch progressed past visual-extend rockets, for example, the AIM-120 AMRAAM. To make extra space for the radar, the point rate besieging framework was expelled. The radars utilized were taken from early F/A-18 air ship, which had been updated with the related APG-73. Notwithstanding the AIM-120, the AV-8B Plus can likewise convey AGM-65 Maverick and AGM-84 Harpoon rockets. As indicated by aeronautics creator Lon Nordeen, the changes "had a slight increment in drag and a touch of extra weight, however there truly was very little distinction in execution between the [– 408-powered] Night Attack and radar Harrier II Plus flying machine". 

The AV-8B experienced standard assessment to get ready for its USMC administration. In the operational assessment (OPEVAL), enduring from 31 August 1984 to 30 March 1985, four pilots and a gathering of upkeep and bolster work force tried the airplane under battle conditions. The air ship was reviewed for its capacity to meet its central goal prerequisites for exploring, obtaining targets, conveying weapons, and sidestepping and enduring adversary activities, all at the predetermined range and payload limits. The principal period of OPEVAL, running until 1 February 1985, required the AV-8B to fly both profound and close air bolster missions (profound air bolster missions don't require coordination with neighborly ground powers) working together with other close-bolster air ship, just as flying front line ban and furnished observation missions. The air ship flew from army bases at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton and Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake in California, Canadian Forces Base Cold Lake in Canada, and MCAS Yuma in Arizona. 

The second period of OPEVAL, which occurred at MCAS Yuma from 25 February to 8 March, required the AV-8B to perform warrior escort, battle air watch, and deck-propelled block missions. In spite of the fact that the assessment recognized deficiencies in the plan (along these lines amended), OPEVAL was regarded fruitful. The AV-8B Harrier II achieved introductory working capacity (IOC) in January 1985 with USMC squadron VMA-331. 

The AV-8B saw broad activity in the Gulf War of 1990– 91. Airplane dependent on and , and at on-shore bases, at first flew preparing and bolster fights, just as rehearsing with alliance powers. The AV-8Bs were to be held for possible later use amid the underlying period of the preliminary air strike of Operation Desert Storm. The AV-8B was first utilized in the war on the morning of 17 January 1991, when a call for air support from an OV-10 Bronco forward air controller against Iraqi gunnery that was shelling Khafji and a contiguous oil refinery, brought the AV-8B into battle. The next day, USMC AV-8Bs assaulted Iraqi positions in southern Kuwait. All through the war, AV-8Bs performed outfitted observation and worked working together with alliance powers to annihilate targets. 

Amid Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, 86 AV-8Bs amassed 3,380 flights and around 4,100 flight hours, with a mission accessibility rate of more than 90 percent. Five AV-8Bs were lost to foe surface-to-air rockets, and two USMC pilots were executed. The AV-8B had a steady loss rate of 1.5 flying machine for each 1,000 forays flown. U.S. Armed force General Norman Schwarzkopf later named the AV-8B among the seven weapons—alongside the F-117 Nighthawk and AH-64 Apache—that assumed an essential job in the war. In the result of the war, from 27 August 1992, until 2003, USMC AV-8Bs and other flying machine watched Iraqi skies in help of Operation Southern Watch. The AV-8Bs propelled from land and/or water capable attack sends in the Persian Gulf, and from forward working bases, for example, Ali Al Salem Air Base, Kuwait. 

In 1999, the AV-8B took an interest in NATO's besieging of Yugoslavia amid Operation Allied Force. Twelve Harriers were part equally between the 24th and 26th Marine Expeditionary Units (MEU). AV-8Bs of the 24th MEU were brought into battle on 14 April, and throughout the following 14 days flew 34 battle air bolster missions over Kosovo. Amid their half year arrangement on board USS "Nassau", 24th MEU Harriers found the middle value of a high mission-fit rate of 91.8 percent. On 28 April, the 24th MEU was mitigated by the 26th MEU, in view of . The main battle fights of the unit's AV-8Bs happened two days after the fact, one airplane being lost. The 26th MEU stayed in the performance center of activities until 28 May, when it was moved to Brindisi, Italy. 

USMC AV-8Bs partook in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan from 2001. The USMC fifteenth MEU landed off the bank of Pakistan in October 2001. Working from the unit's boats, four AV-8Bs started assault missions into Afghanistan on 3 November 2001. The 26th MEU and its AV-8Bs joined fifteenth MEU soon thereafter. In December 2001, two AV-8Bs originally sent to a forward base at Kandahar in Afghanistan. More AV-8Bs were sent with other USMC units to the area in 2002. The VMA-513 squadron sent six Night Attack AV-8Bs to Bagram in October 2002. These air ship each conveyed a LITENING focusing on case to perform observation missions alongside assault and different missions, fundamentally around evening time. 

The flying machine took an interest in the Iraq War in 2003, acting fundamentally in help of USMC ground units. Amid the underlying activity, 60 AV-8Bs were conveyed on boats, for example, and , from which more than 1,000 fights were flown all through the war. Whenever possible, land-based forward furnishing and refueling indicates were set up empower brief tasks. USMC leader Lieutenant General Earl B. Hailston said that the Harriers had the capacity to give 24-hour backing to ground powers, and noticed that "The airplane ... turned into the jealousy of pilots even from my background ... there's a dreadful parcel of things on the Harrier that I've discovered the Hornet pilots asking me [for] ... We couldn't have requested a superior record". 

USMC sources reported the Harrier as holding a 85 percent airplane accessibility record in the Iraq War; in simply under a month of battle, the air ship flew more than 2,000 forays. Whenever utilized, the LITENING II focusing on case accomplished more noteworthy than 75 percent slaughter adequacy on targets. In a solitary fight from USS "Bonhomme Richard", an influx of Harriers dispensed substantial harm on a Republican Guard tank unit ahead of time of a noteworthy ground attack on Al Kut. Harriers consistently worked in close help jobs for well disposed tanks, one of the airplane by and large conveying a LITENING case. Regardless of the Harrier's high denotes, the constrained measure of time that every flying machine could stay on station, around 15– 20 minutes, prompted a few calls from inside the USMC for the acquisition of AC-130 gunships, which could stand around for six hours and had a heavier close air bolster ability than the AV-8B. AV-8Bs were later utilized in mix with big guns to give steady shoot backing to ground powers amid overwhelming battling in 2004 around the guerilla fortification of Fallujah. The urban condition there required outrageous accuracy for airstrikes. 

On 20 March 2011, USMC AV-8Bs were propelled from USS "Kearsarge" in help of Operation Odyssey Dawn, implementing the UN no-fly zone over Libya. They did airstrikes on Sirte on 5 April 2011. Various AV-8Bs were associated with the safeguard of a brought down F-15E pilot, assaulting moving toward Libyans before the pilot's extraction by a MV-22 Osprey. 

Notwithstanding real clashes, USMC AV-8Bs have been conveyed in help of possibility and compassionate activities, giving fixed-wing air spread and furnished surveillance. The air ship served in Somalia all through the 1990s, Liberia (1990, 1996, and 2003), Rwanda (1994), Central African Republic (1996), Albania (1997), Zaire (1997), and Sierra Leone (1997). 

The AV-8B is to be supplanted by the F-35B variant of the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II, which was wanted to enter administration in 2012. The USMC had looked for a substitution since the 1980s, and has contended firmly for the advancement of the F-35B. The Harrier's execution in Iraq, including its capacity to use forward working bases, fortified the requirement for a V/STOL flying machine in the USMC arms stockpile. 

In November 2011, the USN bought the UK's armada of 72 resigned BAe Harrier IIs (63 single-situate GR.7/9/9As in addition to 9 twin-situate T.12/12As) and trade motors to give extras to the current USMC Harrier II armada. Despite the fact that the March 2012 issue of the magazine "AirForces Monthly" expressed that the USMC planned to fly a portion of the ex-British Harrier IIs, rather than utilizing them only for extra parts, the Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) has since expressed that the USMC has never had any designs to work those Harriers. 

On 14 September 2012, a Taliban strike wrecked six AV-8Bs and seriously harmed two others while they were stopped on the landing area at Camp Bastion in Afghanistan's Helmand Province. The majority of the air ship had a place with VMA-211. The two harmed AV-8Bs were flown out of Afghanistan in the hours after the assault. The assault was depicted as "the most exceedingly terrible loss of U.S. airpower in a solitary episode since the Vietnam War." The lost air ship were immediately supplanted by those from VMA-231. 

On 27 July 2014, USS "Bataan" started conveying USMC AV-8Bs over Iraq to give observation of Islamic State (IS) powers. Reconnaissance tasks proceeded after the beginning of Operation Inherent Resolve against IS activists. Toward the beginning of September 2014, a USMC Harrier from the 22nd MEU struck an IS focus close to the Haditha Dam in Iraq, denoting the first run through a USMC unit dropped arms in the activity. On 1 August 2016, USMC Harriers from started strikes against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Libya as a feature of kept an eye on and unmanned airstrikes on focuses close Sirte, propelling something like multiple times inside two days. 

In the late 1960s, after an exhibit of the Hawker Siddeley Harrier on the Italian Navy ("Marina Militare") helicopter transporter , the nation started exploring the likelihood of gaining the Harrier. Early endeavors were prevented by a 1937 Italian law that denied the naval force from working fixed-wing flying machine since they were the space of the aviation based armed forces. In mid 1989, the law was changed to enable the naval force to work any fixed-wing flying machine with a most extreme load of over 3,300 lb (1,500 kg). Following an extensive assessment of the Sea Harrier and AV-8B, a request was put for two TAV-8Bs in May 1989. Before long, an agreement for a further 16 AV-8B Plus air ship was agreed upon. After the TAV-8Bs and the initial three AV-8Bs, all consequent Italian Navy Harriers were privately collected by Alenia Aeronautica from packs conveyed from the U.S. The two-seaters, the first to be conveyed, landed at Grottaglie in August 1991. They were utilized for demonstrating flights with the naval force's helicopter transporters and on the light plane carrying warship . 

In mid 1994, the underlying clump of US-manufactured flying machine landed at MCAS Cherry Point for pilot transformation preparing. The primary Italian-amassed Harrier was revealed the next year. In mid-January 1995, "Giuseppe Garibaldi" set off from Taranto to Somalia with three Harriers on board to keep up solidness following the withdrawal of UN powers. The Harriers, flown by five Italian pilots, amassed in excess of 100 flight hours and accomplished 100 percent accessibility amid the three-month organization, performing observation and different missions. The squadron came back to port on 22 March. 

In 1999, Italian AV-8Bs were utilized without precedent for battle missions when they were sent on board "Giuseppe Garibaldi", which was partaking in Operation Allied Force in Kosovo. Italian pilots directed in excess of 60 forays close by other NATO flying machine, assaulting the Yugoslav armed force and paramilitary powers and besieging the nation's framework with regular and laser-guided bombs (LGB). 

In 2000, the Italian Navy was hoping to gain a further seven remanufactured flying machine to prepare "Giuseppe Garibaldi" and another bearer, . Existing air ship, in the interim, were refreshed to enable them to convey AIM-120 AMRAAMs and JDAM guided bombs. From November 2001 to March 2002, eight AV-8Bs were left on board "Giuseppe Garibaldi" and were conveyed to the Indian Ocean in help of Operation Enduring Freedom. The airplane, outfitted with LGBs, worked all through January and February 2002, amid which 131 missions were logged for a sum of 647 flight hours. 

In 2011, Italian Harriers, working from "Giuseppe Garibaldi", worked nearby Italian Eurofighters and air ship of different countries amid Operation Unified Protector, some portion of the 2011 military intercession in Libya. They led airstrikes just as knowledge and surveillance forays over Libya, utilizing the LITENING focusing on units while equipped with AIM-120 AMRAAMs and AIM-9 Sidewinders. Altogether, Italian military air ship conveyed 710 guided bombs and rockets amid forays: Italian Air Force Tornados and AMX contender aircraft conveyed 550 bombs and rockets, while the eight Italian Navy AV-8Bs flying from "Giuseppe Garibaldi" dropped 160 guided bombs amid 1,221 flight hours. 

Italian Navy AV-8Bs are slated to be supplanted by 15 (initially 22) F-35Bs, which will shape the air wing of "Cavour". 

Spain, previously utilizing the AV-8S Matador, turned into the principal universal administrator of the AV-8B by marking a request for 12 airplane in March 1983. Assigned VA-2 Matador II by the Spanish Navy ("Armada Española"), this variation is known as EAV-8B by McDonnell Douglas. Pilot transformation occurred in the US. On 6 October 1987, the initial three Matador IIs were conveyed to Naval Station Rota. The new air ship were painted in a two-tone matt dark completion, like US Navy flying machine, and conveyances were finished by 1988. 

BAe aircraft testers cleared the plane carrying warship for Harrier activities in July 1989. The bearer, which supplanted the World War II-period , has a 12° ski-bounce slope. It was initially arranged that the principal unit to work the air ship would be the "8 Escuadrilla". This unit was disbanded on 24 October 1986, after the offers of AV-8S Matadors to Thailand. Rather, "9 Escuadrilla" was shaped on 29 September 1987, to turn out to be a piece of the Alpha Carrier Air Group and work the EAV-8B. 

In March 1993, under the September 1990 Tripartite MoU between the U.S., Italy, and Spain, eight EAV-8B Plus Matadors were requested, alongside a twin-situate TAV-8B. Conveyances of the Plus-standard air ship began in 1996. On 11 May 2000, Boeing and the NAVAIR finished an agreement to remanufacture Spanish EAV-8Bs to bring them up to Plus standard. Boeing said the arrangement expected it to remanufacture two EAV-8Bs, with a possibility for another seven flying machine; different sources state the all out was 11 airplane. The remanufacture enabled the airplane to convey four AIM-120 AMRAAMs, upgraded the pilot's situational mindfulness through the establishment of new radar and flight, and gave another motor. In the long run, five air ship were altered, the keep going having been conveyed on 5 December 2003. 

Spanish EAV-8Bs joined Operation Deny Flight, implementing the UN's no-fly zone over Bosnia and Herzegovina. Spain did not send its plane carrying warship to take an interest in the Iraq War in 2003, rather conveying F/A-18s and other air ship to Turkey to safeguard that nation against potential Iraqi assaults. Beginning in 2007, Spain was hoping to supplant its Harrier IIs– with the possible alternative being the F-35B. The Spanish government, in May 2014 in any case, declared that it had chosen to stretch out the flying machine's administration life to past 2025 because of an absence of assets for a substitution airplane. 

Following the decommissioning of "Príncipe de Asturias" in February 2013, the sole maritime stage from which Spanish Harrier IIs can work is the land and/or water capable strike deliver . 

Amid its administration with the USMC, the Harrier has had a mishap rate multiple times that of the Corps' F/A-18s. , around 110 air ship have been harmed unrecoverable since the sort entered administration in 1985, the primary mishap happening in March that year. The "Los Angeles Times" announced in 2003 that the Harrier family had the most noteworthy rate of significant mishaps among military air ship in administration around then, with 148 mishaps and 45 individuals killed. Creator Lon Nordeen takes note of that few other USMC single-motor strike air ship, similar to the A-4 Skyhawk and A-7 Corsair II, had higher mishap rates. 

Mishaps have specifically been associated with the proportionate measure of time the air ship spends taking off and landing, which are the most basic stages in flight. The AV-8 was named a "widow creator" by some in the military. Further examination demonstrates that U.S. Marine senior officers never comprehended the uniqueness of the airplane. Reductions in senior support faculty and pilot botches disastrously affected the wellbeing of the American-worked AV-8B and unjustifiably picked up it a negative notoriety in the US press. 

As a major aspect of its 1996 Pepsi Stuff showcasing effort, Pepsi ran a notice promising a Harrier fly to any individual who gathered 7,000,000 Pepsi Points, a stifler that reverse discharges when a member endeavored to exploit the capacity to purchase extra indicates for 10 pennies each case a fly for US$700,000. At the point when Pepsi turned him down, a claim resulted, in which the judge decided that any sensible individual would infer that the ad was a joke.