Envision (John Lennon melody) 

"Envision" is a melody co-composed and performed by English artist John Lennon. The top of the line single of his performance vocation, its verses urge the audience to envision a world settled without the hindrances of outskirts or the divisions of religion and nationality and to think about how conceivable it is that the entire of humankind would live unattached to material belongings. In the blink of an eye before his demise, Lennon said that a significant part of the tune's "verse and substance" originated from his better half Yoko Ono, and in 2017, she got a co-composing credit. 

Lennon and Ono co-created the melody and collection of a similar name with Phil Spector. Recording started at Lennon's home studio at Tittenhurst Park, England, in May 1971, with last overdubs occurring at the Record Plant, in New York City, amid July. One month after the September arrival of the LP, Lennon discharged "Envision" as a solitary in the United States; the tune crested at number three on the "Announcement" Hot 100 and the LP achieved number one on the UK graph in November, later turning into the most industrially effective and widely praised collection of Lennon's performance profession. In spite of the fact that not initially discharged as a solitary in the United Kingdom, it was discharged in 1975 to advance an arrangement LP and it achieved number six on the diagram that year. The melody has since sold more than 1.6 million duplicates in the UK; it achieved number one after Lennon's homicide in December 1980. In 1985, the Central Park Conservancy memorialized a part of the recreation center out of appreciation for Lennon, called Strawberry Fields, with a mosaic that peruses "Envision". 

BMI named "Envision" one of the 100 most-performed tunes of the twentieth century. The melody positioned number 30 on the Recording Industry Association of America's rundown of the 365 Songs of the Century bearing the most chronicled noteworthiness. It earned a Grammy Hall of Fame Award and an enlistment into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's 500 Songs that Shaped Rock and Roll. A UK study led by the "Guinness World Records British Hit Singles Book" named it the second best single ever, while "Moving Stone" positioned it number three in their rundown of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time". Since 2005, occasion coordinators have played it just before the New Year's Times Square Ball drops in New York City. Many specialists have performed or recorded renditions of "Envision", including Madonna, Stevie Wonder, Joan Baez, Lady Gaga, Elton John and Diana Ross. Emeli Sandé recorded a spread for the BBC to use amid the end credits montage at the end of the 2012 Summer Olympics inclusion in August 2012. "Envision" in this way returned the UK Top 40, achieving number 18. 

A few sonnets from Yoko Ono's 1964 book "Grapefruit" motivated Lennon to compose the verses for "Envision" – specifically, one which Capitol Records duplicated on the back front of the first "Envision" LP titled "Cloud Piece", peruses: "Envision the mists trickling, delve a gap in your greenery enclosure to place them in." Lennon later said the creation "ought to be credited as a Lennon/Ono melody. A ton of it – the verse and the idea – originated from Yoko, however in those days I was more egotistical, more macho, and I kind of excluded her commitment, yet it was directly out of "Grapefruit"." When gotten some information about the tune's importance amid a December 1980 meeting with David Sheff for "Playboy" magazine, Lennon disclosed to Sheff that Dick Gregory had given Ono and him a Christian petition book, which enlivened him the idea driving "Envision". 

With the consolidated impact of "Cloud Piece" and the petition book given to him by Gregory, Lennon composed what writer John Blaney portrayed as "a humanistic paean for the general population". Blaney expressed, "Lennon fights that worldwide concordance is inside our span, yet just in the event that we dismiss the systems of social control that confine human potential." "Moving Stone"s David Fricke remarked: "[Lennon] requires a solidarity and correspondence based upon the total disposal of current social request: geopolitical fringes, composed religion, [and] monetary class." 

Lennon expressed: "'Imagine', which says: 'Envision that there was no more religion, no more nation, no more legislative issues,' is for all intents and purposes the Communist Manifesto, despite the fact that I'm not especially a Communist and I don't have a place with any development." He told "NME": "There is no genuine Communist state on the planet; you should understand that. The Socialism I talk about ... [is] not the manner in which some silly Russian may do it, or the Chinese may do it. That may suit them. Us, we ought to have a pleasant ... English Socialism." Ono depicted the melodious articulation of "Envision" as "exactly what John trusted: that we are every one of the one nation, one world, one individuals." "Moving Stone" portrayed its verses as "22 lines of agile, straightforward confidence in the intensity of a world, joined in reason, to fix and change itself". Nonbeliever creator Richard Dawkins held onto it as an "agnostic hymn". Lennon himself expressed that his tune "did not debilitate confidence". 

Lennon formed "Envision" one morning in mid 1971, on a Steinway piano, in a room at his Tittenhurst Park domain in Ascot, Berkshire, England. Ono looked as he made the tune, harmony structure and practically every one of the verses, about finishing the melody in one brief composition session. Depicted as a piano melody performed in the delicate shake kind, the tune is in the key of C major. Its 4-bar piano presentation starts with a C harmony at that point moves to Cmaj7 before changing to F; the 12-bar refrains additionally pursue this harmony movement, with their last 4 bars moving from Am/E to Dm and Dm/C, completing with G, G11 then G7, before settling back to C. The 8-bar ensembles advance from F to G to C, at that point Cmaj7 and E before closure on E7, a C harmony substituted for E7 in the last bar. The 4-bar outro starts with F, at that point G, before settling on C. With a length of 3 minutes and 3 seconds and a period mark of 4/4, the melody's rhythm falls around 75 beats for every moment. 

Lennon and Ono co-created the melody and collection with Phil Spector, who remarked on the track: "We recognized what we would do ... It would have been John owning a political expression, yet an extremely business one also ... I generally believed that 'Envision' resembled the national song of devotion." Lennon portrayed his working game plan with Ono and Spector: "Phil doesn't mastermind or anything like that—[Ono] and Phil will simply sit in the other room and yell remarks like, 'For what reason don't you attempt this sound' or 'You're not playing the piano excessively well' ... I'll get the underlying thought and ... we'll simply locate a sound from [there]." 

Recording occurred on 27 May 1971 at Ascot Sound Studios, Lennon's recently manufactured home studio at Tittenhurst Park, with string overdubs occurring on 4 July 1971 at the Record Plant, in New York City. Loose and tolerant, the sessions started amid the late morning, hurrying to simply before supper in the early night. Lennon showed the artists the harmony movement and a working course of action for "Envision", practicing the tune until he regarded the artists prepared to record. In his endeavor to reproduce Lennon's ideal sound, Spector had some early recordings include Lennon and Nicky Hopkins playing in various octaves on one piano. He additionally at first endeavored to record the piano part with Lennon playing the white child fabulous in the couple's everything white room. Be that as it may, subsequent to having regarded the room's acoustics unacceptable, Spector deserted the thought for the prevalent condition of Lennon's home studio. They finished the session in minutes, recording three takes and picking the second one for discharge. The completed the process of chronicle highlighted Lennon on piano and vocal, Klaus Voormann on low pitch guitar, Alan White on drums and the Flux Fiddlers on strings. 

Issued by Apple Records in the United States in October 1971, "Envision" turned into the top of the line single of Lennon's performance profession. It topped at number three on the "Bulletin" Hot 100 and achieved number one in Canada on the "RPM" national singles diagram, staying there for about fourteen days. Upon its discharge the melody's verses upset some religious gatherings, especially the line: "Envision there's no paradise". At the point when gotten some information about the tune amid one of his last meetings, Lennon said he believed it to be as solid an organization as any he had composed with the Beatles. He portrayed the tune's importance and explained its business offer: "Against religious, hostile to nationalistic, hostile to ordinary, hostile to free enterprise, but since it is sugarcoated it is acknowledged ... Presently I comprehend what you need to do. Put your political message crosswise over with somewhat nectar." In an open letter to Paul McCartney distributed in "Tune Maker", Lennon said that "Envision" was "'Working Class Hero' with sugar on it for preservationists such as yourself". On 30 November 1971, the "Envision" LP achieved number one on the UK diagram. It turned into the most financially effective and widely praised collection of Lennon's performance profession. 

In 1972, Lennon and Ono discharged a 81-minute film to go with the "Envision" collection which included film of the couple in their home, garden and the chronicle studio of their Berkshire property at Tittenhurst Park just as in New York City. A full-length narrative shake video, the film's first scene includes an injection of Lennon and Ono strolling through a thick mist, touching base at their home as the melody "Envision" starts. Over the front way to their home is an indication that peruses: "This Is Not Here", the title of Ono's then New York workmanship appear. The following scene indicates Lennon sitting at a white terrific piano in a faintly lit, all-white room. Ono bit by bit strolls around opening window ornaments that permit in light, making the room more splendid with the melody's movement. At the tune's decision, Ono sits adjacent to Lennon at the piano, and they share a curious look, at that point a short kiss. 

A few famous people showed up in the film, including Andy Warhol, Fred Astaire, Jack Palance, Dick Cavett and George Harrison. Ridiculed by commentators as "the most costly home film ever", it debuted to an American gathering of people in 1972. In 1986, Zbigniew Rybczyński made a music video for the tune, and in 1987, it won both the "Silver Lion" grant for Best Clip at Cannes and the Festival Award at the Rio International Film Festival. 

Discharged as a solitary in the United Kingdom in 1975 related to the collection "Shaved Fish", "Envision" crested at number six on the UK Singles Chart. Following Lennon's homicide in 1980, the single returned the UK graph, achieving number one, where it stayed for about a month in January 1981. "Envision" was re-discharged as a solitary in the UK in 1988, topping at number 45, and again in 1999, achieving number three. It has sold 1,640,000 duplicates in the UK as of June 2013, making it Lennon's top of the line single. In 1999, on National Poetry Day in the United Kingdom, the BBC reported that audience members had casted a ballot "Envision" Britain's main tune verse. In 2003, it achieved number 33 as the B-side to a re-arrival of "Glad Xmas (War Is Over)". 

"Moving Stone" portrayed "Envision" as Lennon's "most prominent melodic blessing to the world", lauding "the peaceful song; the pillowy harmony movement; [and] that calling, four-note [piano] figure". Robert Christgau called it "both a psalm for the Movement and an affection melody for his significant other, praising a Yokoism and a Marcusianism at the same time". Incorporated into a few tune surveys, in 1999, BMI named it one of the best 100 most-performed melodies of the twentieth century. Additionally that year, it got the Grammy Hall of Fame Award and an enlistment into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's 500 Songs that Shaped Rock and Roll. "Envision" positioned number 23 in the rundown of top of the line singles ever in the UK, in 2000. In 2002, a UK overview directed by the "Guinness World Records British Hit Singles Book" positioned it the second best single ever behind Queen's "Bohemian Rhapsody". Gold Radio positioned the tune number three on its "Gold's most prominent 1000 hits" list. 

"Moving Stone" positioned "Envision" number three on its rundown of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time", depicting it as "a suffering psalm of comfort and guarantee that has helped us through extraordinary sadness, from the stun of Lennon's own demise in 1980 to the unspeakable ghastliness of September eleventh. It is currently difficult to envision a world without 'Envision', and we need it more than he at any point imagined." Despite that assumption, Clear Channel Communications (presently referred to today as iHeartMedia) incorporated the melody on its post-9/11 "don't play" list. 

On 1 January 2005, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation named "Envision" the best melody in the previous 100 years as casted a ballot by audience members on the show "50 Tracks". The melody positioned number 30 on the Recording Industry Association of America's rundown of the 365 Songs of the Century bearing the most chronicled noteworthiness. Virgin Radio led a UK main tune review in December 2005, and audience members casted a ballot "Envision" number one. Australians chose it the best melody ever on the Nine Network's "20 to 1" commencement appear on 12 September 2006. They casted a ballot it eleventh in the adolescent radio system Triple J's Hottest 100 Of All Time on 11 July 2009. 

Jimmy Carter stated, "in numerous nations around the globe – my better half and I have visited around 125 countries– you hear John Lennon's tune 'Envision' utilized similarly with national hymns." On 9 October 2010, which would have been Lennon's 70th birthday celebration, the Liverpool Singing Choir performed "Envision" alongside other Lennon melodies at the divulging of the John Lennon Peace Monument in Chavasse Park, Liverpool, England. Beatles maker George Martin adulated Lennon's performance work, singling out the structure: "My main tune of all was 'Envision'". Music commentator Paul Du Noyer portrayed "Envision" as Lennon's "most adored" post-Beatles tune. Creators Ben Urish and Ken Bielen called it "the most incendiary pop tune recorded to accomplish exemplary status". Fricke remarked: "'Imagine' is an unobtrusively petulant melody, Lennon's most noteworthy consolidated accomplishment as a balladeer and fomenter." 

Urish and Bielen reprimanded the tune's instrumental music as excessively nostalgic and exaggerated, contrasting it with the music of the pre-shake time and depicting the vocal song as downplayed. As per Blaney, Lennon's verses portray speculative potential outcomes that offer no reasonable arrangements; verses that are on occasion indistinct and opposing, requesting that the audience relinquish political frameworks while urging one like socialism. Creator Chris Ingham demonstrated the bad faith in Lennon, the mogul hero living in a manor, urging audience members to envision living their lives without assets. Others contend that Lennon expected the tune's verses to move audience members to envision if the world "could" live without assets, not as an express call to surrender them. Blaney remarked: "Lennon realized he didn't have anything cement to offer, so all things being equal he offers a fantasy, an idea to be based upon." 

Blaney believed the melody to be "loaded with logical inconsistencies. Its psalm like setting sits awkwardly close by its creator's request for us to imagine a world without religion." Urish and Bielen depicted Lennon's "fantasy world" without a paradise or hellfire as a call to "influence the best world we to can at this very moment, since this is this is or will be". As they would see it, "since we are asked only to envision – to play an 'imagine a scenario in which' diversion, Lennon can get away from the harshest reactions. Previous Beatle Ringo Starr protected the tune's verses amid a 1981 meeting with Barbara Walters, expressing: "[Lennon] said 'envision', that's it in a nutshell. Simply envision it." 

The morning after the November 2015 Paris assaults, German musician Davide Martello conveyed a great piano to the road out before the Bataclan, where 89 concertgoers had been shot dead the prior night, and played out an instrumental variant to respect the casualties of the assaults; video of his execution circulated around the web. This drove Katy Waldman of "Slate" to contemplate why "Envision" had turned out to be so much of the time executed as a reaction to disaster. Notwithstanding its general ubiquity, she noticed its melodic effortlessness, its key of C major, "the plainest and least confounded key, without any sharps or pads" beside one entry with "a mournful significant seventh harmony that permits a modest piece of E minor into the tonic". That piano part, "delicate as a rocker", supports verses that, Waldman says, "has a place with the convention of psalms or spirituals that picture a magnificent existence in the wake of death without prophesizing any prompt end to enduring on earth". This comprehension is likewise intensified by the verifiable setting of Lennon's own brutal demise, "remind[ing] us that the universe can run ramshod over optimistic individuals". Eventually, the melody "catches the delicacy of our expectation after a brutal or dangerous occasion ... [bu]t likewise uncovers its perseverance". 

In June 2017, the National Music Publishers Association granted "Envision" a Centennial Song Award and perceived Lennon's craving to include Yoko Ono as a co-creator of the melody. 

In December 1971, Lennon and Ono showed up at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. Lennon performed "Envision" with an acoustic guitar, yielding the soonest known live account of the melody, later included on the "John Lennon Anthology" (1998). In 1975, he sang "Envision" amid his last open execution, a birthday festivity for Lew Grade. 

Elton John played out the melody consistently on his reality visit in 1980, including at his free show in Central Park, a couple of squares from Lennon's loft in The Dakota. On 9 December 1980, the day after Lennon's homicide, Queen performed "Envision" as a tribute to him amid their Wembley Arena appear in London. In 1983, David Bowie performed it in Hong Kong amid his Serious Moonlight Tour, on the third commemoration of Lennon's demise. On 9 October 1990, more than one billion individuals tuned in to a communicate of the tune on what might have been Lennon's 50th birthday celebration. Ratau Mike Makhalemele secured the tune on an EP of Lennon covers in 1990. In 1991– 92, Liza Minnelli played out the melody in her show at Radio City Music Hall. Stevie Wonder gave his version of the tune, with the Morehouse College Glee Club, amid the end function of the 1996 Summer Olympics as a tribute to the casualties of the Centennial Olympic Park bombarding. In 2001, Neil Young performed it amid the advantage show "". Madonna performed "Envision" amid the advantage "Torrent Aid: A Concert of Hope". Subside Gabriel played out the tune amid the 2006 Winter Olympics opening function. Herman Cain, at that point the CEO of Godfather's Pizza, played out a farce of "Envision", recognized as "Envision There's No Pizza", before the Omaha Press Club in 1991, which turned into a viral video when he kept running for President of the United States 20 years after the fact. 

Since 2005, "Envision" has been played before the New Year's Eve ball drop at New York City's Times Square. Starting in 2010, the melody has been performed live; first by Taio Cruz, at that point in 2011 by CeeLo Green and in 2012 via Train. Be that as it may, Green got analysis for changing the verse "and no religion as well" to "and all religions genuine", bringing about a prompt reaction from fans who trusted that he had affronted Lennon's heritage by changing the verses of his most notable melody. Green safeguarded the change by saying it intended to speak to "a world [where you] could accept what [you] needed". The occasion got media consideration outside of the US, with Britain's "The Guardian" expressing "Lennon's unique verses don't commend pluralism or compatible religious certainties – they damn them". 

In excess of 200 specialists have recorded spread renditions of "Envision". Joan Baez included it on 1972's "Originate from the Shadows" and Diana Ross recorded a variant for her 1973 collection, "Contact Me in the Morning". In 1995, Blues Traveler recorded the melody for the "" collection and Dave Matthews has played out the tune live with them. American guitarist Eva Cassidy recorded a rendition for her 2002 collection of a similar name; this form neglected to achieve the main 100 in the United Kingdom however topped at number 35 on the UK Indie Chart. A Perfect Circle secured the melody for the collection "eMOTIVe", discharged in 2004. Dolly Parton recorded the tune for her 2005 spreads collection "Those Were the Days". David Archuleta achieved number 36 in US and number 31 in Canada with his version. A spread adaptation of the tune, performed by Italian vocalist Marco Carta, entered the main 20 in Italy in 2009, topping at number 13. Seal, Pink, India.Arie, Jeff Beck, Konono Nº1, Oumou Sangaré and others recorded a form for Herbie Hancock's 2010 collection "The Imagine Project". 

Hancock performed it with Arie, Kristina Train and Greg Phillinganes at the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize Concert on 11 December. On 13 February 2011, the chronicle—with Pink, Seal, Malian artist Oumou Sangaré, India.Arie and Jeff Beck won a Grammy grant for Best Pop Vocal Collaboration. 

The melody was executed as a major aspect of the end service of the 2012 Summer Olympics. Performed by the Liverpool Philharmonic Youth Choir and the Liverpool Signing Choir, the choirs sang the principal refrain and went with Lennon's unique vocals amid the remainder of the tune. A spread performed by Emeli Sandé was likewise utilized by the BBC for an end montage that finished its inclusion. "Envision" along these lines reappeared the UK Top 40, achieving number 18. 

In 2015, American vocalist and musician Lady Gaga played out the melody at the 2015 European Games opening function. The tune was played for 70,000 individuals in Baku, Azerbaijan that filled in as host of the occasion. In 2018, the melody was performed at the 2018 Winter Olympics opening service in Pyeongchang (South Korea). That year Yoko Ono discharged her form of the melody, with herself co-credited as author.