Lieutenant Kijé (Prokofiev) 

Sergei Prokofiev's Lieutenant Kijé (, "Poruchik Kizhe") music was initially composed to go with the film of a similar name, created by the Belgoskino film studios in Leningrad in 1933– 34 and discharged in March 1934. It was Prokofiev's first endeavor at film music, and his first bonus. 

In the beginning of sound film, among the different recognized arrangers prepared to attempt their hand at film music, Prokofiev was not a conspicuous decision for the commission. Situated in Paris for right around 10 years, he had a notoriety for experimentation and disharmony, qualities inconsistent with the social standards of the Soviet Union. By mid 1933, in any case, Prokofiev was on edge to come back to his country, and saw the film commission as a chance to compose music in a progressively mainstream and open style. 

After the film's effective discharge, the five-development "Kijé" suite was first performed in December 1934, and rapidly turned out to be a piece of the global show collection. It has stayed one of the author's best-known and most every now and again recorded works. Components of the suite's score have been utilized in a few later movies, and in two well known tunes of the Cold War period. 

Sergei Prokofiev moved on from the Saint Petersburg Conservatory in 1914, having by then obtained an early notoriety as a cutting edge writer. His biographer Israel Nestyev attests that the Second Piano Concerto of 1913 was "Prokofiev's ticket of admission to the most noteworthy circles of Russian innovation". 

At the point when the First World War broke out in August 1914, Prokofiev maintained a strategic distance from military administration, potentially on the grounds that he was the main child of a widow. Amid the war years he kept on making; in May 1918, in the time of change following the October Revolution and the start of the Civil War, Prokofiev got consent from the Bolshevik government to travel abroad, and left for America. His biographers have kept up that he didn't "escape the nation"; rather that he left on a show visit, which he broadened when he wound up persuaded that his profession prospects would be better off in America and western Europe. He stayed in America until March 1922; he at that point stayed quickly in the little German town of Ettal before moving to Paris in October 1923. 

Instead of regarding Prokofiev as an outlaw or outcast, the Moscow government thought about him as a general represetative for Soviet culture, and the author restored the compliment by enrolling in France as a native of the Soviet Union, the new state shaped on 20 December 1922 by Russia and the conditions of the previous Russian Empire. Prokofiev communicated support for the political improvements in what despite everything he thought about his country, and was quick to continue contacts there. He was agreed VIP status when he paid his first visit to the Soviet Union in 1927, for a presentation visit. Further outings pursued, and in 1930 Prokofiev took a level in Moscow, in spite of the fact that Paris remained his essential home. Amid this time of rapprochement he deliberately looked to rearrange his melodic language into a structure that he accepted would be predictable with the official Soviet idea of craftsmanship. 

In the main long stretches of the quiet film time, from the 1890s, films were commonly joined by unrecorded music, regularly extemporized, given by piano or siphon organ. In the mid twentieth century, bigger films started to utilize symphonies, which would go with the film without-of-copyright established pieces or, progressively, with unique sytheses. The score for the 1916 exemplary "The Birth of a Nation", accumulated by Joseph Carl Breil from different established works and some unique composition, was a milestone in film music, and propelled remarkable authors of the day to give scores to quiet movies. Among these were the Americans Victor Herbert and Mortimer Wilson, from France Darius Milhaud and Arthur Honegger, and the Germans Gottfried Huppertz and Edmund Meisel. 

In 1927 advancements in sound innovation brought the landing of "talking pictures". In these, going with music was initially recorded on a circle, independently from the film pictures, however inside two years the "Movietone" framework empowered sound to be caught on the film itself. Music could now be adjusted explicitly with the film's on-screen activity—the purported "diegetic" approach. Early pioneers of this strategy were the Germans Friedrich Hollaender and Karol Rathaus, who gave the music to "The Blue Angel" (1930) and "The Murderer Dimitri Karamazov" (1931) individually. At this point in the Soviet Union, the youthful Dimitri Shostakovich had just started his productive vocation as an author of film sound-tracks, with "The New Babylon" in 1929 and "Alone" in 1931. 

When arranging their proposed film "Lieutenant Kijé" in 1932, the Belgoskino studios of Leningrad requested that the exile Prokofiev compose the going with music. In certain regards Prokofiev was an astonishing decision; he was at this stage preferred known abroad over in the Soviet Union, and had procured a notoriety for discord. In addition, his expressive dance "Le pas d'acier" had fared seriously at Moscow's Bolshoi Theater in 1929. The writer's first reaction was to deny the commission; an individual from the creation group reviewed that Prokofiev "completely dismissed my proposition. His time was planned far into the future, he had never composed music for film and he didn't know 'what sort of sauce' to put on it." But, pulled in by the story, Prokofiev immediately altered his opinion and acknowledged, seeing this first endeavor into film music as a chance to exhibit his capacity to speak to a mass Soviet gathering of people. 

"Lieutenant Kijé" was one of the most punctual sound movies made in the Soviet Union. The root of the story was a 1927 screenplay by the commentator and writer Yury Tynyanov, composed for the Soviet movie chief Sergei Yutkevich. This venture fizzled, and Tinyanov recast his content into a novella that was distributed in January 1928. In the mid 1930s, when the Belgoskino studios declared their enthusiasm for making the film, Tynyanov created a second content. The story has been depicted by Prokofiev's biographer Harlow Robinson as "a parody on the ineptitude of eminence and the especially Russian dread of disappointing one's unrivaled". By his very own record Prokofiev was right now "unsettled, and terrified of falling into academism"; a later commentator thought the Kijé story gave perfect material to this "so-regularly harsh and clever author". 

In the Russian Imperial Palace, while Tsar Paul I dozes, a dalliance between two subjects closes with a yell which arouses the tsar. Angered, he requests that his authorities produce the guilty party or face expulsion forever. In the interim, an assistant's slip of the pen while assembling a military obligation list results in the consideration in the rundown of an imaginary officer, "Lieutenant Kijé". At the point when the tsar investigates the rundown he is charmed by this name, and asks that the officer be introduced to him. The court authorities are excessively scared of the tsar to concede that a misstep has been made, and are in a quandary until it strikes them to fault "Kijé" for the nighttime unsettling influence. They educate the tsar, who properly arranges the nonexistent lieutenant whipped and sent to Siberia. 

At the point when the genuine guilty party admits, Kijé is acquitted by the tsar and restored in the majestic court with the position of colonel. The squires, in dread of the tsar, are compelled to broaden their creation's ghost vocation; accordingly, he evidently weds the princess Gagarina, after which the tsar stipends him grounds and cash and elevates him to general and officer of the military. At the point when Paul requests Kijé's quick nearness, the cornered authorities report that "General Kijé" has, tragically, passed on. A luxurious burial service is held, with full military distinctions. The miserly tsar requests the arrival of Kijé's fortune, yet is told by the retainers that Kijé has spent the cash on high living—actually, they have stolen it. The tsar decries Kijé as a cheat, and after death downgrades him from general to private. 

Notwithstanding his absence of involvement in creating film music, Prokofiev started his "Kijé" score unquestionably, later composition: "I by one way or another had no questions whatever about the melodic language for the film". He told the makers, "What is imperative to me is the time, the interior importance of every occasion, the identity of every saint", and cautioned them not to expect negligible melodic "representations". He went to practices and made nitty gritty notes of the activity and the acting. The period setting of the film spoke to Prokofiev; Robinson remarks that the "Kijé" score is one of a few works, including the "Traditional Symphony", "The Love of Three Oranges", "Cinderella", and "War and Peace", that show "the author's affection for the eighteenth century". The language he picked joined components of silliness and sentiment with a hidden despairing—he deciphered the story as more appalling than comic. Prokofiev had heard Ravel's "Boléro" in Paris, and had been quite inspired by the French arranger's utilization of the saxophone, an instrument at that point seldom utilized in symphonic organizations outside France yet which fit Prokofiev's goals splendidly. The author Gerard McBurney has called attention to the "eerie hints of the tenor saxophone" that accentuate the "Kijé" music. 

The commentator Ernest Chapman alludes to Prokofiev's "unfailingly clever and pleasant score". It includes just around 15 minutes of music, composed as a progression of 16 short pieces or leitmotifs which are rehashed at proper occasions amid the film's span, to feature explicit minutes in the show. This methodology was a takeoff in film music from the set up type of wide symphonic developments, and was depicted by Prokofiev's biographer Daniel Jaffé as "well in front of its time ... a standout amongst the most commended [film scores] of that time". 

The movie, coordinated by Alexander Feinzimmer, was made at the Belgoskino studios where the music was recorded under the course of Isaak Dunayevsky. The Moscow debut was hung on 7 March 1934, after which the film was discharged in London as "The Tsar Wants to Sleep" and in Paris as "Le Lieutenant Nantes". Prokofiev did not rate the film profoundly, in spite of the fact that he was satisfied with his music. After the New York discharge in December 1934, the commentator for "The New York Times" depicted the film as "determined to engage admirers of detail and veritable air in semi-chronicled films. Indeed, even the presentation of a little droll parody appears to be very with regards to the Russian custom." Prokofiev's commitment to the film isn't recognized in this audit. 

Not long after the film's discharge, Prokofiev got a welcome from the Moscow Radio Symphony Orchestra to make an instrumental suite from his "Kijé" film music—likely the main occurrence of a film score being adjusted into a noteworthy melodic work. The managing light behind the welcome was Boris Gusman, the associate chief of the Bolshoi Theater and a main film commentator. Gusman was a solid supporter of Prokofiev's desire to restore himself in the Soviet Union, and had consulted with the Moscow symphony for a progression of shows that would grandstand the restored author's ability. 

Prokofiev's assignment was not direct; the movie's 15 minutes of melodic material was fragmentary, and scored for a little chamber symphony. As indicated by Prokofiev's very own record, creating the suite was "a shrewd activity", which, he stated, "gave me substantially more inconvenience than the music for the film itself, since I needed to locate the correct structure, re-coordinate the entire thing, clean it up and even join a portion of the subjects." He needed the suite to speak to Soviet groups of onlookers hearing show music out of the blue. In an article in "Izvestia" in 1934 he composed of such music: "Most importantly, it must be resonant; also the tune must be basic and understandable without being monotonous or trivial ... The effortlessness ought not be an antiquated straightforwardness but rather another straightforwardness". He worked rapidly, and had completed the piece by 8 July 1934. Since it was distributed (Op. 60) by his standard music distributer in Paris, the French type of "Kijé" instead of the Russian "Kizhe" was embraced in the work's title. 

The "Kijé" suite is scored for: baritone voice (discretionary); piccolo; two woodwinds; two oboes; two clarinets; two bassoons; tenor saxophone; four horns; cornet; two trumpets; three trombones; tuba; bass drum; catch drum; triangle; cymbals; tambourine; sleigh ringers; celesta; piano; harp; and strings. 

The five developments of the suite are sorted out and titled as pursues (bolded capitals distinguish indicated subjects): 

An inaccessible, sad exhibit (A), played on a cornet speaking to a trumpet, is trailed by a lively military walk started by a two part harmony for side drum and piccolo. A section for metal goes before the presentation of a subject or leitmotif (B) related with the apparition Kijé which, after a repeat of the walk and a C significant crescendo, is rehashed on tenor saxophone, an instrument generally new to the symphony around then. The cornet display at that point comes back to close the development. 

The primary subject (C) for this development depends on an old tune, "The little dim bird is cooing", for which Prokofiev gave a discretionary part to baritone voice. The melody subject is created utilizing a scope of instruments, before offering path to a second topic presented by the tenor saxophone; this thus is supplanted, as the development attracts to its nearby, with the arrival of the "little dark pigeon" tune, presently ornamented by birdsong. 

The development starts with and is consistently visited by a wide, formal and fairly vainglorious tune (D), played on metal and woodwind. In the middle of these formal-sounding explanations are a bright cornet solo and different elaborations and minor departure from the Kijé topic, which together give the development a celebratory vibe, both riotous and nostalgic. 

The main tune in this development (E) is taken from an old Hussar tune, for which Prokofiev gave a discretionary baritone part. The song initially shows up in a moderate and to some degree offensive proclamation, after which the pace stimulates: sleigh chimes, quick pizzicato strings, and piano consolidate to give the impression of a quick winter's adventure by methods for the "troika", a conventional Russian three-horse sled. The ride is went with at ordinary interims by the melody subject, which conveys the development to its nearby with a moderate redundancy of its last expression. 

This last development is to a great extent a mélange of prior subjects, a progression of memories of Kijé's fanciful life. The opening cornet display returns, as does Kijé's leitmotif, together with "The little dark bird", this time interlaced with the wedding music. In what Orrin Howard in a program note for the Los Angeles Philharmonic portrays as "a contemplative, contacting goodbye", the music achieves its determination with a far off version of the flourish. 

Prokofiev led the primary execution of the suite in Paris on 21 December 1934. The piece got its American debut on 14 October 1937, when Serge Koussevitsky directed the Boston Symphony Orchestra; this execution shaped the premise of the main business recording of the work, issued in the next year. While Prokofiev was in the United States for the Boston debut he was extraordinarily looked for after by film makers, yet despite the fact that he was complimented and pulled in by their offers he never made a Hollywood film score. The suite quickly picked up prevalence, especially in the US; the choreographer Michel Fokine utilized the music in his expressive dance ', performed at the Boston Opera House on 23 January 1942. A further expressive dance form ' was formulated for Moscow's Bolshoi Ballet in 1963, by Alexander Lapauri and Olga Tarasova, with Raissa Struchkova in a main job. 

The music commentator David Gutman has called the suite "[o]ne of [Prokofiev's] most famous pieces today [and] likewise a standout amongst the most cultivated" Robinson rates the "Kijé" suite among the arranger's most prominent sytheses, close by "Romeo and Juliet" and the Second Violin Concerto as "open, straightforward and melodic". In his "Fundamental Canon of Classical Music" (2001), David Dubal comments on how the "Kijé" music has flourished in mainstream culture: "Odds and ends are utilized all over". Having started life as a 1930s film soundtrack, portions of the suite started to show up in later movies, for example, the British "The Horse's Mouth" (1958), and Woody Allen's 1975 spoof on Russian writing, "Love and Death". In the realm of popular music, the "Troika" development has been adjusted a few times, starting in 1958 as "Midnight Sleighride", a jazz band game plan by Eddie Sauter and Bill Finegan. In 1975 the "Troika" tune was utilized widely in Greg Lake's top of the line pop tune "I Believe in Father Christmas", and the "Sentiment" development framed the premise of the principle topic in Sting's 1985 enemy of war melody "Russians". The "Midnight Sleighride" course of action of "Troika" was utilized broadly in the 2018 Wes Anderson film "Isle of Dogs" and its advertising effort. 

The 1938 execution of the suite by Koussevitsky and the Boston Symphony Orchestra, recorded on 78rpm plates, gave the main industrially accessible account until the appearance of the LP period during the 1950s; a communicate execution by the Cleveland Orchestra under Fritz Reiner in December 1945 was not issued until numerous years after the fact. In 1951 Westminster issued Hermann Scherchen's account of the suite with the Vienna Symphony Orchestra, since which numerous chronicles of the work have been issued under an assortment of names. The principal stereo account was by Reiner with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra for RCA (March 1957). A 2008 release of the "Muze" review of chronicles records 19 accessible forms by ensembles from Eastern and Western Europe, Asia and the US. The adaptation with discretionary baritone voice has seldom discovered its way on to plate; Erich Leinsdorf recorded this form twice, with the Philharmonia Orchestra for EMI and with the Boston Symphony Orchestra for RCA. Vladimir Ashkenazy with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra and Andrei Laptev (2010) give ongoing models. A DVD of the Bolshoi Ballet creation, including Raisa Struchkova and Vladimir Vasiliev, was discharged in 2007.