The Way I See It 

The Way I See It is the third studio collection by American R&B vocalist, lyricist, and maker Raphael Saadiq. It was discharged on September 16, 2008, by Columbia Records. 

After freely discharging the 2004 collection "Beam Ray", Saadiq kept chipping away at other specialists' undertakings and built up an organization with sound architect Charles Brungardt, who imparted the artist's interest to noteworthy account procedures and hardware. In 2008, he came back from an excursion that propelled him to seek after exemplary soul music and recorded "The Way I See It" basically at his North Hollywood studio with the architect. 

Saadiq and Brungardt slighted their past involvement in chronicle creation while making "The Way I See It". Rather, they explored different avenues regarding more seasoned chronicle procedures trying to reproduce the Motown music stylish of the 1960s, creating a conventional soul collection that draws on the Motown Sound and Philadelphia soul styles. Saadiq, whose verses for the most part manage sentimental topic, portrayed it as a progression of adoration tunes about music and staying loyal to it regardless of patterns. 

"The Way I See It" was at first ignored by buyers, however diagrammed consistently on the "Bulletin" 200 and in the end sold 282,000 duplicates in the United States by 2011. It likewise performed well in European nations, for example, France, where it graphed for 51 weeks. The collection got for the most part positive audits from commentators and was viewed as a model arrival of the exemplary soul recovery at the time. It gathered Saadiq a fresher, increasingly various crowd as he visited widely in help of the collection, performing shows in the US, Europe, and Asia. 

In the wake of discharging his second studio collection "Beam Ray" in 2004, Saadiq kept filling in as a maker, arranger, and instrumentalist on other account craftsmen's music. He was acquainted with sound architect Charles Brungardt through creation and songwriting group Jake and the Phatman, who had chipped away at "Beam Ray". Brungardt interned at Blakeslee Recording Company, Saadiq's North Hollywood chronicle studio, and in the long run turned into his main sonic accomplice on activities. The two imparted an interest to memorable account strategies and gear. They additionally examined the 2006 book "Recording The Beatles" together and had an enthusiasm for the information of account gear by architects and specialists for English musical crew The Beatles. Brungardt expanded his designing yield, and in 2007, Saadiq enrolled him to build and blend English vocalist Joss Stone's studio collection "Presenting Joss Stone", which Saadiq created. 

While traveling in the Bahamas and Costa Rica in 2008, Saadiq watched individuals there tuning in to great soul music and was propelled to seek after it as a melodic bearing for his next collection. He described the involvement in a meeting for "Blues and Soul", saying that "I resembled 'Amazing, perhaps I should take advantage of this vibe, since it's really what I LOVE!' ... I understood that, however you can hear it in a large number of the records I've done all through my vocation, I'd never given 100% consideration to going toward that path previously. So the distinction this time is that I took a progressively engaged course." As a piece of Tony! Toni! Toné! amid the late 1990s, Saadiq had consolidated impacts from the music of Motown in his songwriting for the gathering. Before account "The Way I See It", Saadiq marked to Columbia Records. Mark official Rick Rubin visited Saadiq's home studio and was awed by his material there. He said of Rubin's visit and counsel to him as a performance craftsman, "He instructed me to never confine myself. I simply must act naturally. You must pursue your very own way. I've constantly gone not far off less voyaged, however at this point I do it significantly more forcefully." 

In the wake of coming back from his get-away, Saadiq began composing and recording "The Way I See It", which took four months. In a meeting for "Sound on Sound", he talked about his solace level when coming back to Blakeslee Recording Company: "The music for this collection streamed naturally, normally, and since I have my very own studio I had the capacity to consummate it and require my investment to make it right. I had the capacity to live with it for quite a while, and I feel that had a ton to do with how the collection turned out." He composed the melodies spontaneously, regularly by playing guitar and ad libbing riffs. He in this manner sung them while playing each instrument each one in turn, including guitar, bass, and fundamental piano parts that he intended to incorporate on the accounts. He credited this disconnected way to deal with "the condition of the business" and glorified "bounc[ing] thoughts off other individuals, do some composition with them, take the material to my band and state, 'alright, how about we cut it,' with the ensemble as of now there. That is my fantasy. I'd wrench records out week after week on the off chance that I had staff journalists as they did at Stax and Motown". 

Saadiq recorded generally at Blakeslee Recording Company; Additional sessions occurred at Harmonie Park Studios in Detroit and The Music Shed Studios in New Orleans. While recording, he submerged himself in a composite character of great soul vocalists from recordings he viewed, including Al Green, Gladys Knight and the Pips, the Four Tops, and the Temptations. He recorded his vocals with just Brungardt present in the studio, an inclination he felt kept him from "searching for answers from someone who may not so much know". Saadiq said he tended to "record total takes, and if something isn't exactly right yet it has a vibe that I realize I can never under any circumstance catch again, I'll abandon it, regardless of whether it's level. That is to say, there are level parts on my record, since it's not about flawlessness, it's about the spirit." He recorded foundation vocals for all melodies. Saadiq played a large portion of the instruments, including drums, guitar, piano, sitar, and low register guitar, his instrument of decision all through his vocation. He saw the bass playing of James Jamerson as an essential piece of Motown chronicles, refering to it as the motivation for his own bass sound on the collection. 

Saadiq worked with different artists, including Joss Stone, percussionist Jack Ashford, string arranger Paul Riser, multi-instrumentalist Bobby Ozuna, vocalist CJ Hilton, and recording craftsman Stevie Wonder. Ashford and Riser were individuals from The Funk Brothers, a gathering of session performers for Motown Records amid the 1960s. Ashford played tambourine, vibraphone, ringers, and shakers on tunes, for example, "100 Yard Dash", "Love That Girl", and "Remaining in Love". Ozuna, one-portion of Jake and the Phatman, co-created and co-composed three melodies and played a few instruments, including bongos, tambourine, and drums. Hilton co-stated "Never Give You Up" and played its drum and console parts. Marvel's commitment of a harmonica solo on the melody was offhand, as Saadiq contacted Wonder subsequent to recording the tune's vocal parts with the extemporized line, "I'd like to welcome Mr. Stevie Wonder to my collection. Please, Stevie!" After having the thought prescribed to him by rapper Q-Tip, Saadiq likewise connected with Jay-Z to record a highlighted rap for a remix of "Gracious Girl"; it was incorporated on the collection as a little something extra track. 

"The Way I See It" was designed by Saadiq, Gerry Brown, James Tanksley, and Brungardt, who blended the collection with Saadiq. Saadiq and Brungardt both got a kick out of the chance to layer numerous instruments and, preceding chronicle, had thought about procedures, for example, examining and drum programming. Be that as it may, they eventually discovered live instrumentalists progressively unique and moved themselves to repeat more established music preparations and the Motown tasteful of the 1960s. To acquaint themselves with vintage recording strategies, they considered Mark Lewisohn's 1988 book "The Complete Beatles Recording Sessions", books about Motown Records, and pictures of the name's studio faculty, setup of instruments, and mouthpiece arrangement. They likewise examined Motown EQs to accomplish a tone they found satisfactory for melodies' musicality guitar parts. Saadiq said that he needed to ignore "around 85 to 90 percent of the new systems ... Individuals used to pay attention to recording very. They used to wear sterile jackets at Abbey Road. So I quit fooling around with what I was attempting to do, both rationally and physically." Brungardt said in a meeting for "Blend" that he deserted the methodology learned on past records he had designed, where "they needed it clean with no contortion. I was educated to ensure it was clean, clean, clean, and to ensure everything fits right, the bass hits and things are perfect for the enormous pop vocal." 

Saadiq's studio coordinated present day hardware, for example, a Pro Tools computerized workstation and a SSL 9000 blending console, and highlighted different vintage gear, including Saadiq's 1960s Ludwig drum pack and a kick-drum mic bought from Abbey Road Studios. In the studio, Saadiq and Brungardt tried different things with methods and gear. They needed the tunes to have slower assaults like more established accounts, as makers in the past did not have propelled blowers, sound apparatuses that control the dynamic substance of signs and influence certain sounds in a chronicle's blend. Their generation connected cylinder preamps and tube blowers, with the previous utilized as a front end for Pro Tools. For Saadiq's vocals, he utilized a Shure SM57 dynamic mouthpiece to thicken and mutilate his voice and decorate his typically perfect conveyance, while Brungardt utilized a blower and a Pro Tools module amid the blend. Saadiq looked for a specific "edge" for his vocals and an unpolished sonic component for the collection. They likewise endeavored to record tracks onto tape tapes so as to create a grittier, more seasoned sound. Brungardt utilized a FilterBank module when blending the collection to uncompress vocals and move off top of the line sound from tracks. 

Despite the fact that they needed to recreate a more established sound, Saadiq and Brunghardt likewise needed to catch a greater amount of the bass and drum parts to include a more intense, current component to the blend. They connected an increasingly fundamental way to deal with miking the instruments and using the detachable apparatus, utilizing a Neumann U 47 for guitars, substituting overhead receivers for Saadiq's drum pack, a blend of dynamic and condenser mics for the unit's bass drum, and Ampex tape machines for additional glow to the pack. Brungardt utilized different standard mics for the catch drum to accomplish an increasingly strong breaking sound, instead of catching the drum's general tone. Their miking of the guitars' amps was adjusted from "The Complete Beatles Recording Sessions", and as Brungardt related, "It truly gave us warmth and character. It enabled the amp to inhale and we got the tones of the amp alongside the room. For me, that truly opened things up so I could play with the live room, utilizing distinctive reverbs to get a sound." For Saadiq's bass, they utilized a DI unit to associate a receiver preamplifier, expanded the increase on a module for less pressure, and balanced the low-end tones with an equalizer module. 

"The Way I See It" has a customary soul style formed after the 1960s Motown Sound and Philadelphia soul. It is a takeoff from Saadiq's past work with neo soul, which bears a hip bounce impact. J. Gabriel Boylan of "The New York Observer" said that Saadiq grows further past his work as a maker for other account craftsmen, for whom he supported an "exemplary tasteful, overwhelming on natural sounds and light on studio enchantment, profoundly obligated to the past and incredulous of simple equations". BBC Music's Chris Jones translated Saadiq's utilization of 1960s soul as the collection's source material to be an impression of "America's latest incredible political and social move ... the main genuine post-Obama articulation of expectation in record structure." Saadiq saw his rootsy course as a reaction to the condition of well known music and thought that it was practically equivalent to current legislative issues: "You drive such a significant number of horrendous things on individuals, they become weary of it. We have a dark president now." 

The collection's tunes draw on Motown's depressions, driving rhythms, tight drumming, tambourines in the cadence segment, guitar tunes, layered vocal courses of action, and two-to four-minute lengths. They likewise include splendid tunes, swinging bass, clearing strings, and catch drums that transmit reverb. Cameron Carrus of "The Lawrentian" said that the most snare situated riffs are played on the bass and guitar, which mix "the low with the high", and refered to "Keep Marchin", "Love That Girl", and "Remaining in Love" as precedents. Jon Pareles of "The New York Times" saw that Saadiq pursues the case of 1960s Motown specialists, for example, Marvin Gaye, Smokey Robinson, Stevie Wonder, and Holland– Dozier– Holland, the mark's songwriting and generation group. Robert Christgau composed that the collection shares Holland– Dozier– Holland's "splendid, quick, plainly snared tasteful". Saadiq sings in a tenor voice, which is marginally twisted because of the collection's after creation. 

Saadiq's songwriting is described by direct sentimentalism, positive appeals, pining ditties, and message melodies. Christgau translated Saadiq's persona on the collection to be "a sentimental who remains consistent with the conscious effortlessness" of the tune titles, yet "never takes steps to accept the fetal position in the event that he doesn't get the outrageous snuggling he pines for." Patrick Varine of the "Eyewitness Dispatch" stated that Saadiq veers off altogether from contemporary R&B verses: "there are no not so subtle nourishment sex allegories or pimp dreams". His songwriting additionally summarizes exemplary soul verses and, on the collection's slower tunes, communicates firmly snaked feelings. Saadiq said that a few tunes were expounded on his background. He portrayed the collection as "essentially a progression of affection melodies about music, how experiencing passionate feelings for can be simple, yet remaining consistent with it tends to be dubious." He expounded on this understanding in a meeting for the "Chicago Tribune": "You need to look out for those bends. In vogue music turns out, and how would you remain consistent with what you cherish? I'm not saying everything needs to seem like a '60s record to remain genuine, however you ought to never mess with the relationship." 

The opening track, "Beyond any doubt Hope You Mean It", includes marginally strange percussion, tambourine shakes, and verses about a man who anticipates an indication of endorsement from the lady he appreciates. "Keep Marchin", which evoked socially cognizant and positive feelings, was made in the vein out of the Civil Rights Movement time soul music by specialists, for example, Sam Cooke and the Staple Singers. Gail Mitchell from "Bulletin" contrasted the melody with Curtis Mayfield and the Impressions' 1968 tune "We're a Winner". Saadiq said "Keep Marchin" was additionally motivated by his adventure in the music business. "Enormous Easy", including New Orleans-style metal playing, was sung from the perspective of a man in New Orleans who responds to Hurricane Katrina and searches for his lost darling. J. Gabriel Boylan of "The New York Observer" commented that the tune "figures out how to give Hurricane Katrina a role as the miscreant in a sentiment, destroying sweethearts." Its arrangement—blending an euphoric sound with crippling verses—is like the songwriting method utilized by Holland– Dozier– Holland. Saadiq was propelled to state "Enormous Easy" in the wake of viewing the 2006 narrative film "When the Levees Broke". He clarified its perky creation in a meeting for "Everything Considered": "In New Orleans, when they grieve, they truly celebrate and have an incredible time. I needed to give it that equivalent soul." 

As indicated by Saadiq, "Only One Kiss" can be translated as a tune gave to a female love intrigue, "yet I'm truly discussing music and what it accomplished for me. That one guitar line, that specific drum beat, how it transformed my life into a bundle of gold." The melody fuses true to life strings, xylophone, and a moving crescendo. The song "Calling", including Mexican balladeer Rocio Mendoza, draws on Motown's late 1950s R&B roots and doo-wop music, and fuses Latin style guitar, and Spanish language verses. "Remaining in Love", an uptempo cadence and blues tune, was composed by Saadiq after he thought of an ex. Unintelligible with its 1960s-roused sound, "How about we Take a Walk" has explicitly forward verses and come-ons, which the storyteller uses to obtusely suggestion his affection intrigue. The midtempo "Never Give You Up" is formed in Motown's mid 1970 sound and, in contrast to different melodies on the collection, additionally consolidates components from progressively present day soul music. "Once in a while", which was motivated by Saadiq's childhood in an extreme neighborhood in Oakland, is tied in with managing the weakness of widespread hardships when they are intensified by the weight of prejudice. The line "now I realize what they implied by 'hold your head to the sky'" makes reference to Earth, Wind and Fire, whose music Saadiq drenched himself in while growing up. Saadiq said of the tune's message, "That is simply offering dap to my mothers and grandma and the general population who brought me up in the area to tell them its simple however not as simple as it appears to be constantly and here and there we need to back up and cry yet I'm simply expressing appreciation to the general population that helped me en route." 

Saadiq titled "The Way I See It" as a revelation to audience members about how his point of view was more educated by exemplary soul than before in his vocation. "This is the thing that I truly love", he later clarified. "What's more, all that you've gotten notification from me before has been founded on the foundations of this music." 

The spread photograph was taken at a show in 2006 at Sweet's Ballroom in Oakland, in which Saadiq performed Marvin Gaye's 1965 melody "Ain't That Peculiar". It indicated Saadiq singing into an amplifier with his arms raised and wearing a suit, tie, and thick-rimmed glasses: an appear to be like that of Temptations artist David Ruffin. As indicated by Saadiq, the photograph "set the tone for the entire collection ... me singing that tune, me wearing that suit, it said everything that this collection ought to be." Music columnist Greg Kot trusted the spread "brings out the emotional representations and shading plans of outdated jazz and soul collections. Think Ray Charles on Atlantic, Sonny Rollins on Blue Note, Sam and Dave on Stax ... With arms raised, he resembles he's affirming as much as singing." The remainder of the collection's bundling additionally holds fast to a retro stylish with its blood red tinted spread's textual style and 1960s Columbia Records logo. The bundling's photography was taken by Norman Seeff. 

Before finishing "The Way I See It", Saadiq saw its melodies in May 2008 to music industry partners and columnists at the Sony Club in New York City. He additionally arranged a grassroots showcasing technique for the record, which developed from his trouble with Columbia administrators to advance the collection and their concept of issuing its tunes as vinyl records. He felt that "no one at the name knew" him in a meeting with "The Dallas Morning News": "They had this record I turned in that seemed like a '60s record. 'What the heck do we do with this record?' It was quality. There was not a great deal of advertising and advancement, however they realized I had the believability so you don't simply toss it in the waste ... I wouldn't fret being a moderate consume in light of the fact that that is really a superior street to take. I need to go in once again and substantiate myself again in light of the fact that I am beginning once again once more." In the week paving the way to its discharge, Saadiq showed up at V-103's For Sisters Only, the International Soul Music Summit, and the Uptown Restaurant and Lounge in Atlanta. He likewise performed melodies from the collection on "VH1 Soulstage". Columbia discharged the collection both on CD and as an authority's release box set with 7-inch vinyl singles. In the United Kingdom, it was issued with two extra tracks—an "Euro adaptation" of "Huge Easy" and the tune "Please Home". 

"The Way I See It" was to a great extent neglected by customers upon its discharge. The collection appeared at number 19 on the US "Announcement" 200 graph, selling 23,000 duplicates in the seven day stretch of October 4. In any case, it was Saadiq's most elevated outlining collection in the United States at the time, and by November, had relentlessly sold 76,919 duplicates. Five singles were discharged from the collection—"Love That Girl" on August 5, 2008, "100 Yard Dash" on March 30, 2009, "Never Give You Up" on May 27, "How about we Take a Walk" on August 7, and "Remaining in Love" on October 5. "Love That Girl", "Never Give You Up", and "Remaining in Love" all graphed on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs, topping at number 45, number 26, and number 74, individually. Amid 2009, Saadiq went for limited time TV appearances and press in Europe, where "The Way I See It" had outlined in a few nations. In France, the record went through 51 weeks on the blue grass' collections outline, cresting at number 13 in the seven day stretch of February 24. In August, it reappeared the American diagram at number 101 and had sold 215,000 duplicates. The collection graphed for 41 weeks on the "Announcement" 200, filling in as the longest outline keep running of Saadiq's vocation. By May 2011, it had sold 282,000 duplicates, as indicated by Nielsen SoundScan. 

"The Way I See It" was met with commonly positive surveys from commentators. At Metacritic, which relegates a standardized rating out of 100 to audits from standard distributions, the collection got a normal score of 79, in view of 20 surveys. 

Surveying the collection for "The Guardian", Caroline Sullivan called it faultlessly created and performed by Saadiq, while "Moving Stone" magazine's Will Hermes said the record exhibited a unique interpretation of great Northern soul. Andy Gill of "The Independent" composed that it was a standout amongst 2008's most enamoring collections since "few have figured out how to retro-create that great sound so precisely, nor in the same number of unpretentious varieties" like Saadiq. AllMusic's Andy Kellman expressed, "Here's the place a cutting edge ace, upheld by living and breathing session artists ... aces the experts with frightening exactness." In "The Observer", Kitty Empire found the collection "both quill light and considerable" in view of how, "in contrast to most present day records, Saadiq's tunes accumulate weight the more profound in you go". Composing for "MSN Music", Christgau said Saadiq sang with Smokey Robinson's point by point nostalgia and Dennis Edwards' amiable identity. He developed his applause in "Slate", finding that, while "carefully retro", Saadiq's accomplishment "isn't repeating the Motown Sound however composing reliably enchanting and snappy tunes in that style". "Q" was progressively basic, finding the record without a "crisp methodology" to hoist it from a straightforward respect. As indicated by "PopMatters" author Christian John Wikane, "one's all out happiness regarding the collection relies upon their valuation for exemplary soul and R&B and whether such gratefulness is dependent upon outright legitimacy." 

Toward the finish of 2008, "The Way I See It" was incorporated into some of faultfinders' best collections records. It was named one of the year's 10-best records by the "Los Angeles Times", "The Wall Street Journal", and the "Houston Chronicle", which refered to it as ninth best. It was likewise positioned at number five by "Shout!", number seven by "The Irish Times", number one by NPR, number five by "The Observer", number three by "Time Out", and number two by "USA Today". "The Way I See It" was casted a ballot the eighteenth best collection of 2008 in the Pazz and Jop, a yearly survey of American pundits across the nation, distributed in "The Village Voice"; the survey's singles list had six of the collection's tunes casted a ballot in, including "100 Yard Dash" at number 114 and both "Love That Girl" and "Huge Easy" at number 250. Nate Chinen of "The New York Times" included "100 Yard Dash" in his main five singles list for 2008. "The Way I See It" additionally designated for the 2009 Grammy Award for Best R&B Album. "Love That Girl" was selected for Best Traditional R&B Vocal Performance, while "Never Give You Up" was assigned for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals. 

Saadiq visited for around two years to advance "The Way I See It", performing in settings all through the United States, Europe, and Asia. He was initially fearful at the possibility of visiting broadly, having visited insignificantly as a performance demonstration. He reexamined at the counsel of his musicality guitarist Rob Bacon, which he related in a meeting for the "Los Angeles Times": "The cash was simply OK, so I resembled, 'I don't have the foggiest idea – I could most likely remain home and discover something better,' But then Rob reminded me, 'You know, every one of those felines you adore, that is actually what they did. Little Richard? He played 10 demonstrates multi day at the Apollo.' I stated, 'alright, how about we go.'" To supplement his melodies' style, Saadiq embraced a vintage soul picture and, having considered film of great soul gatherings and collection sleeves, wore out-dated clothing and performed R&B move moves at shows. He wore a yellow custom-made suit, while his nine-piece backing band wore dark suits. The band incorporated a horn segment and reinforcement vocalist Erika Jerry. 

Prior to the collection's discharge, Saadiq had visited Europe amid the late spring in 2008. In November and December, he filled in as a supporting represent John Legend. He additionally opened for Seal and the Dave Matthews Band. All through his visiting in the US and Europe, Saadiq played different music celebrations, including Austin City Limits, Bonnaroo, Lollapalooza, South by Southwest, Voodoo Experience, Bumbershoot, Outside Lands, and Pori Jazz. In February 2009, he performed at the Harvard Club of Boston as a major aspect of the music TV arrangement "Live from the Artists Den". On June 25, he played the Blue Note Tokyo in Japan. His execution at the Bataclan in Paris on July 11 was shot and discharged as a DVD, entitled "Live in Paris", in 2010. After a stretch of summer celebration exhibitions in 2009, Saadiq set out on another leg of shows amid November and December, with Melanie Fiona, Janelle Monáe, and Anjulie as supporting acts. The visit highlighted dates in North America, yet Saadiq likewise performed at the Paradiso in Amsterdam on November 13. He kept visiting for the collection into 2010, including exhibitions at the JazzReggae Festival in May, the Essence Music Festival in July, and a featuring act at Central Park SummerStage in August. 

"The Way I See It" was a model arrival of the exemplary soul restoration amid its crest in 2008. The music scene was set apart by comparatively retro-disapproved of work from standard specialists, for example, Amy Winehouse and Adele, autonomous acts, for example, Sharon Jones and The Dap-Kings and Mayer Hawthorne, and more established craftsmen endeavoring rebounds, for example, Al Green and Bettye LaVette. Oliver Wang refered to Saadiq's collection, alongside Solange Knowles' 2008 record "Sol-Angel and the Hadley St. Dreams", as one of the "retro-soul" endeavors that were discharged by contemporary R&B craftsmen as the music scene topped in fame. Wang composed that "The Way I See It" "displayed an authority of any number of past R&B styles, including those out of Memphis, Muscle Shoals, Philadelphia, New Orleans, and obviously, Detroit." Estelle said in 2008, "Each tune resembles an alternate time of Motown ... Everything sounds precisely as it backed in the day. Not to detract from Amy, however this is the genuine poop." It was depicted by David Nathan as the "contemporary collection that was the nearest to truly reproducing the extraordinary soul music sound of the late '60s and mid '70s." Ken Tucker thought that it was unmistakable from other soul recovery music: "You can replicate minor departure from songs and mood, yet without an enthusiastic responsibility, it's everything monotonous pandering to children of post war America. For Raphael Saadiq, there's a sparkling liveliness in soul music that enables him to work out subjects and thoughts." 

"The Way I See It" likewise earned Saadiq the most elevated global profile of his vocation. In advancing the collection, he widened his group of onlookers statistic and extended his collection as a visiting craftsman. His broad visiting in the US and Europe accumulated the consideration of more youthful, white gatherings of people who were not presented to his past solo collections and work with Tony! Toni! Toné!. "The Press of Atlantic City" composed that the collection "got a totally different age of Saadiq fans, with melodies, for example, '100 Yard Dash' evoking genuine emotion with even unexpected young people." According to Gail Mitchell of "Announcement", "The Way I See It" helped Saadiq achieve "the significant market trendy person swarm, music directors and celebration bookers." He likewise accomplished a following among Japanese crowds. Saadiq's visiting for the collection affected his methodology for account his next collection, "Stone Rollin'", in 2011, as he noticed the more intense, crude sound and general sentiment of performing live. It additionally proceeded with his organization with Charles Brungart, who helped Saadiq in chronicle "Stone Rollin". 

Saadiq called "The Way I See It" "an amazing zenith of encounters educated by the music I experienced childhood with." Kristal Hawkins of "The Village Voice" said that he "hit his aesthetic development" with the collection. Robert Christgau commented on its place in his performance profession, "In 1996, Saadiq turned the climactic Tony! Toni! Toné! collection into a virtuoso history exercise. After six years, he attempted to astonish Maxwell in his own reflected brilliance. After six years once more, he outd[id] himself with a valiant come back to retro." Elton John, a devotee of Saadiq's music since his beginnings with Tony! Toni! Toné!, said that he was "overwhelmed" by "The Way I See It", refering to it as "my collection of the year – a spirit record of the most noteworthy quality." He in this way called Saadiq to compliment him for the collection and request that he play at his AIDS Foundation Academy Award Party in 2009. In a meeting for "Blues and Soul", Saadiq explained on the collection's effect on his profession: "before that record – after I'd been in Tony Toni Tone! what's more, Lucy Pearl – a great many people had thought 'Gracious well, he's a maker now. He's never going to be a craftsman, he's not going to put the time in' ... "The Way I See It" demonstrated to them that indeed, I could put the time in still and be a craftsman!" 

Credits are adjusted from the collection's liner notes.