J. C. W. Beckham 

John Crepps Wickliffe Beckham (August 5, 1869 – January 9, 1940) was the 35th Governor of Kentucky and a United States Senator from Kentucky. He was the state's first famously chosen representative after the section of the Seventeenth Amendment. 

Plummeted from an unmistakable political family, Beckham was picked as Democrat William Goebel's running mate in the gubernatorial decision of 1899 in spite of the way that he had turned 30, the base age for representative, amid the crusade. Goebel lost the decision to Republican William S. Taylor, yet the Kentucky General Assembly debated the race results. Amid the political wrangling that pursued, an obscure professional killer shot Goebel. Multi day later the General Assembly negated enough votes to give the decision to Goebel, who was sworn into office on his deathbed. Taylor asserted the decision had been stolen by the Democratic dominant part in the General Assembly, and a legitimate battle happened among him and Beckham over the governorship. Beckham eventually won and Taylor fled the state. Beckham later won a unique decision to fill the rest of Goebel's term, since not exactly a large portion of the term had terminated, and a race in his very own privilege in 1903. 

Amid his second term as representative, in 1906, Beckham made an offer to turn into a US congressperson. His position for disallowance cost him the votes of four officials in his own gathering, and the General Assembly gave the seat to Republican William O. Bradley, who had been representative from 1895 to 99. After six years, Beckham verified the seat by famous race, however he lost his re-appointment offer in 1920, to a great extent due to his expert balance perspectives and his restriction to ladies' suffrage. 

In spite of the fact that he kept on assuming a functioning job in state governmental issues for an additional two decades, he stayed away forever to chose office, falling flat both in his gubernatorial offer in 1927 (with suspected appointive misrepresentation) and his senatorial crusade in 1936. He passed on in Louisville on January 9, 1940. 

Beckham County, Oklahoma, is named for him. 

He was conceived at Wickland, close Bardstown in Nelson County, Kentucky, child of William Netherton and Julia Tevis (Wickliffe) Beckham. His maternal granddad, Charles A. Wickliffe, was legislative head of Kentucky from 1839 to 1840 and filled in as postmaster general in the organization of John Tyler. His uncle, Robert C. Wickliffe, filled in as legislative head of Louisiana. 

Beckham acquired his initial training at Roseland Academy in Bardstown. In 1881, he filled in as a page in the Kentucky House of Representatives at 12. Afterward, he enlisted at Central University (presently Eastern Kentucky University) in Richmond, Kentucky however was compelled to stop school at 17 to help his bereft mother. After two years, he progressed toward becoming vital of Bardstown government funded schools, from 1888 to 1893. 

Simultaneously, he contemplated law at the University of Kentucky, where he earned his law degree in 1889. He was admitted to the bar and started practice in Bardstown in 1893. He likewise filled in as leader of the Young Democrats' Club of Nelson County. 

Beckham's political profession started in 1894, when he was chosen without resistance to the Kentucky House of Representatives. He served four sequential terms and was its Speaker in 1898, his last year in the House. He likewise filled in as a representative to each Democratic National Convention from 1900 to 1920. 

Democrat William Goebel picked Beckham as his running mate in the Kentucky gubernatorial race of 1899. Goebel was reluctant about the determination since he needed somebody who could convey the vote of his home province in the general decision, and Beckham's local Nelson County was at that point focused on an adversary applicant. Notwithstanding, companions of Goebel guaranteed him that Beckham would be faithful to Goebel's change motivation, however the two other men Goebel was thinking about as running mates would "stack the Senate panels against him." Beckham was not yet 30, the base age to fill in as senator, at the season of his determination. 

Goebel lost a nearby race to Republican William S. Taylor. At the point when the General Assembly's session opened on January 2, 1900, the decision results were promptly tested. With Democrats responsible for the two places of the Assembly, the outcomes appeared to be certain to be turned around. The Assembly was all the while thinking on January 30, 1900, when Goebel was shot by an obscure aggressor as he entered the state legislative hall building. The next day, as Goebel was being treated for his injuries at a neighborhood inn, the General Assembly refuted enough votes to give him the decision. Beckham was sworn into office from his bed that day. After three days, Goebel kicked the bucket, failing to have ascended from the bed. 

Administrative confusion followed, as Taylor would not recognize the Assembly's choice and empty the governorship. The Republicans in the governing body complied with Taylor's requests, however the Democrats disregarded Taylor and pursued the requests of their administration. At last, on February 21, 1900, Taylor and Beckham consented to give the courts a chance to settle the issue. The case initially went under the watchful eye of the Louisville Circuit Court, which found for Beckham. Republicans spoke to the Kentucky Court of Appeals, at that point the court after all other options have run out in the state. On April 6, 1900, the Court of Appeals maintained the decision of the lower court. Taylor spoke to the US Supreme Court, which declined to hear the case on May 21, 1900. Taylor's solitary supporter on the court was John Marshall Harlan, from Kentucky. 

After the Supreme Court administering, Taylor fled to Indianapolis, Indiana, dreading he would be involved in Goebel's death. Beckham wound up acting senator, but since of the unordinary conditions encompassing the decision, a unique race was hung on November 6, 1900 to figure out who might total Goebel's unexpired term. Beckham, presently of age, prevailed upon the race Republican John W. Yerkes by less than 4,000 votes. In the blink of an eye thereafter, Beckham wedded Jean Raphael Fuqua, of Owensboro. The couple had two children. 

As representative, Beckham looked to join his gathering and the state by supporting changes to the explicitly fanatic Goebel Election Law, which had been wrote by his late running mate while the last was an individual from the General Assembly. He focused on non-disputable issues, for example, enhancements to streets and the state's instructive framework. He prescribed section of a law to set uniform school reading material costs, a change that both he and Goebel had pushed amid the gubernatorial crusade. Notwithstanding, his uninvolved initiative guaranteed that the General Assembly did little to address his motivation. The main significant bits of enactment go amid Beckham's term were an assessment increment that additional a half million dollars to the state's income and a kid work law that restricted kids under fourteen to work without their folks' assent. 

Despite the fact that the Kentucky Constitution disallowed governors from serving back to back terms, Beckham reported that he would look for a full term as representative in 1903. His office was tested in court, however the court ruled Beckham had not served a full first term as was qualified to run. His record of compromise and of supporting non-dubious changes avoided huge restriction when he won the gathering's selection. His record additionally denied his Republican adversary, Morris B. Belknap, of any huge crusade issue in the general race. Beckham vanquished Belknap and three minor applicants. 

In his message to the council in 1904, Beckham again raised the issue of a uniform school course reading law, which had not gone amid his first term. The law was one of couple of huge changes that go amid the 1904 session. Likewise amid the session, reserves were affirmed for structure another legislative center structure and a commemoration to the late Governor Goebel. 

In March 1904, Beckham marked the Day Law, ordering racial isolation of all schools in Kentucky. Berea College, a private school in eastern Kentucky that had been incorporated since the 1850s, quickly recorded suit to challenge the law. Its substance was maintained in the circuit court and the Kentucky Court of Appeals. Berea spoke to the Supreme Court, which, in 1908, which chose, in "Berea College v. Kentucky", against the school. Once more, just Harlan disagreed. 

Close to the end of the 1904 session, administrators endorsed the formation of Beckham County from parts of Carter, Elliott, and Lewis Counties. Olive Hill was made the province situate. Before long, the province's presence was tested in court on grounds that it missed the mark regarding the required by the state constitution and that it diminished the regions from which it was cut to not exactly . Carter County joined the claim, asserting the outskirt of Beckham County passed excessively near Grayson, the seat of Carter County, and to Vanceburg, the seat of Lewis County. The state constitution prohibited province fringes from passi g inside of an area situate. On April 29, 1904, the Kentucky Court of Appeals found for the offended parties and disintegrated Beckham County. 

Amid the 1906 administrative session, Beckham encouraged examination and arraignment of degenerate insurance agencies by following the lead of New York lawyer Charles Evans Hughes. Specifically, he suggested lessening the act of conceded profits, which permitted the insurance agencies to keep expansive stores of money close by for illicit purposes. He further pushed for insurance agencies working together in the state to be required to contribute a specific level of their income in Kentucky to reinforcing the state's economy and to give policyholders some security against extortion. 

Beckham wouldn't send troops into the western piece of the state to subdue the continuous Black Patch Tobacco Wars. He refered to protected purposes behind his refusal, yet more most likely, his reasons were political. The Democrats were predominant in the area, and he needed to abstain from testing his very own gathering. 

By gathering some old US Civil War obligations from the government, Beckham likewise essentially disposed of the state's obligation. Supported by the state's improved funds, the General Assembly casted a ballot to extend two of the state's typical schools: Western State Teachers College in Bowling Green (later Western Kentucky University) and Eastern State Teachers College in Richmond (later piece of Eastern Kentucky University). 

With a fruitful authoritative session behind him, Beckham made an intense political move in June 1906. He arranged a push to set the Democratic gubernatorial and senatorial primaries in November, an entire year before the gubernatorial race and two years before the senatorial race. Beckham needed the Senate situate, and if the essential was climbed two years, he could verify his gathering's assignment while he was still representative. He could likewise utilize his impact as senator to influence the gathering's selection of his potential successor as representative. State Auditor Samuel Wilbur Hager was Beckham's decision for representative and effectively prevailed upon the early essential challenger N.B. Roughages. Previous Governor James B. McCreary tested Beckham for the senatorial assignment, yet Beckham won by in excess of 11,000 votes. 

Beckham's term as representative finished on December 10, 1907. In January 1908, he confronted the lawmaking body as the Democratic chosen one for a seat in the Us Senate by uprightness of the essential that had been held two years sooner. The Republicans named previous Governor William O. Bradley. On the principal tally, Beckham verified 66 of the required 69 cast a ballot; Bradley got 64 cast a ballot. Seven Democrats had not voted in favor of Beckham. Throughout the following a month and a half, 25 additional votes were taken, with neither one of the men verifying a lion's share, despite the fact that William Jennings Bryan, the Democratic chosen one for president, battled for Beckham. A few Democrats forced Beckham to pull back and to enable a progressively attractive Democrat to run, yet he can't. On the 29th poll, taken close to the finish of February 1908, Bradley at last verified a larger part, after four Democrats crossed partisan principals to vote in favor of him. 

Beckham's fervent help of Prohibition likely cost him the race. That put him inconsistent with Henry Watterson, editorial manager of the ground-breaking "Louisville Courier-Journal". As senator Beckham had crossed the alcohol interests and the political machine in Louisville. At the point when the Kentucky Court of Appeals negated the consequences of Louisville's metropolitan races for obstruction by the city's "bourbon ring" in May 1907, Beckham selected Robert Worth Bingham, a youthful legal advisor and individual prohibitionist, as the between time civic chairman until races could be held in November. Bingham wiped out uniting in the police office, shut betting houses, and authorized blue laws that shut cantinas on Sunday. The bourbon ring, in this way, reported Beckham had relinquished the help of Louisville's administrators. In the senatorial decision in 1908, three of the four Democrats who casted a ballot against Beckham were from Louisville. Following his annihilation, Beckham came back to his law practice. 

After six years, Beckham again endeavored to win back hia Senate situate. The section of the Seventeenth Amendment implied that the Senate would never again be chosen by the governing body however rather by mainstream vote. 

In the Democratic essential, Beckham crushed Augustus O. Stanley, a 12-year veteran of the House of Representatives. The Republican chosen one was previous Governor Augustus E. Willson. Reinforced by his help of President Woodrow Wilson, Beckham won the decision by 32,000 votes. 

Beckham filled in as administrator of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the US Department of Labor from 1915 to 1917 and on the Senate Committee on Military Affairs. In the last position, he was compelling in verifying two substantial military preparing posts for Kentucky: Camp Zachary Taylor and Fort Knox. In spite of the fact that Camp Zachary Taylor was deserted after World War I, Fort Knox turned into the home of the US Bullion Depository. 

After the United States entered World War I, Beckham kept on sponsorship Wilson and later upheld the League of Nations. 

Consistent with his prohibitionist position, Beckham bolstered entry of the Eighteenth Amendment, which ordered Prohibition in the United States. The change was endorsed and ended up powerful in January 1920. Trusting that ladies ought to be shielded from inclusion in governmental issues, Beckham restricted the Nineteenth Amendment, which allowed ladies' suffrage. The revision bombed on February 10, 1919 however passed on June 4, 1919. Beckham casted a ballot against it the multiple times. 

The Democrats renominated Beckham without resistance in 1920. His adversary in the general decision was Republican Richard P. Ernst. Denial had devastated the refining business and the cantina business in the state, and in zones that those enterprises were conspicuous, Beckham got in excess of 5,000 less votes than Democratic presidential chosen one James M. Cox. He was additionally harmed by the ladies' vote and by his help of Wilson, who had lost notoriety since Beckham's race, in 1914. Ernst won the decision by less than 5,000 votes, winning the race with 50.3% of the vote to Beckham's 49.7&%. 

Amid his solitary term in the Senate, Beckham served close by three different US Senators from Kentucky: Ollie M. James, George B. Martin, and Augustus O. Stanley. 

After his term in the Senate finished, Beckham continued his legitimate practice in Louisville. He looked for another term as senator in 1927. This time, he had the help of the "Louisville Courier-Journal", which had been bought by his partner, Robert W. Bingham. He was restricted by an amazing political machine, known as the Jockey Club, whose fundamental intrigue was verifying enactment to permit parimutuel wagering at the state's steed courses. 

The Jockey Club ran a competitor in the two gatherings' essential decisions. In the Democratic essential, Beckham vanquished the Club's moderately dark applicant, Robert T. Crowe. Flem D. Sampson, the Club's chosen one in the Republican essential, won his gathering's assignment. In the general race, Beckham couldn't verify the help of Democratic Governor William J. Fields, who had been chosen with the assistance of the Jockey Club. In spite of the Democrats winning each other challenge on the tally, including the race for lieutenant senator, Beckham lost to Sampson by in excess of 32,000 votes, with casting a ballot misrepresentation suspected yet never demonstrated. It was assessed that the Club spent over $500,000 to overcome him. 

Beckham was relied upon to be the Democrats' candidate for representative in 1935, yet the demise of his child in late 1934 had abandoned him distressed, and his significant other was against another battle. The Democrats swung to A. B. "Upbeat" Chandler, of Henderson, who won the decision. Beckham upheld Chandler's offered, and consequently, Chandler selected him to the Kentucky Public Service Commission in 1936. Beckham additionally served on the Department of Business Regulations Commission and led the State Government Reorganization Commission. 

Beckham endeavored to come back to the Senate in 1936. The leader of the Jockey Club, James B. Dark colored, had lost his fortune and impact when his financial domain slammed in 1930. 

In 1933, Beckham's partner, Bingham, had been designated minister to the Court of St. James's, in London, expanding his unmistakable quality and his impact. Beckham likewise appreciated the help of the United Mine Workers and Louisville Mayor Neville Miller. The race was convoluted, be that as it may, by the section of John Y. Dark colored, a U.S. Law based Representative and previous Speaker of the Kentucky House of Representatives. He had consented to help Chandler's offered for the governorship in return for Chandler's help in his keep running for the Senate. Be that as it may, Chandler tossed his help to Beckham, and keeping in mind that Brown was not ready to win the seat without the help of Bingham and Chandler, he won 85,000 votes, the greater part of them to Beckham's detriment. Just occupant M. M. Logan held the seat by 2,385 votes. 

Beckham kicked the bucket in Louisville on January 9, 1940, and was covered in Frankfort Cemetery in Frankfort, Kentucky. Beckham County, Oklahoma, was named in his respect at the recommendation of a Kentuckian who was filling in as an agent to Oklahoma's sacred tradition in 1907. Wickland, his origination, was added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 16, 1973.