Áedán macintosh Gabráin 

Áedán macintosh Gabráin (articulated in Old Irish) was a ruler of Dál Riata from c. 574 until c. 609. The kingdom of Dál Riata was arranged in present day Argyll and Bute, Scotland, and parts of County Antrim, Ireland. Parentages record that Áedán was a child of Gabrán macintosh Domangairt. 

He was a contemporary of Saint Columba, and much that is recorded of his life and profession originates from hagiography, for example, Adomnán of Iona's "Life of Saint Columba". Áedán shows up as a character in Old Irish and Middle Irish language works of composition and stanza, some currently lost. 

The Irish archives record Áedán's battles against his neighbors, in Ireland, and in northern Britain, including endeavors to the Orkney Islands, the Isle of Man, and the east shoreline of Scotland. As recorded by Bede, Áedán was definitively vanquished by Æthelfrith of Bernicia at the Battle of Degsastan. Áedán may have been ousted, or have surrendered, following this thrashing. His date of death is recorded by one source as 17 April 609. 

The hotspots for Áedán's life incorporate Bede's "Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum"; Irish records, primarily the "Archives of Ulster" and the "Chronicles of Tigernach"; and Adomnán's "Life of Saint Columba". The "Senchus fer n-Alban", a registration and family history of Dál Riata, implies to record his heritage and that of his prompt relatives. None of these sources are contemporary. Adomnán's work was written in the exceptionally late seventh century, most likely to check the centennial of Columba's passing. It consolidates components from a lost before life of Columba, "De virtutibus sancti Columbae", by Cumméne Find. This may have been composed as right on time as 640; neither the components consolidated from Cumméne's work nor Adomnán's very own compositions can be treated as straightforward history. Bede's history was composed 30 years after Adomnán's. The enduring Irish archives contain components of an account kept at Iona from the center of the seventh century onwards, so these too are review when managing Áedán's time. 

The Rawlinson B 502 composition, dated to c. 1130, contains the story "Gein Branduib maic Echach ocus Aedáin maic Gabráin" ("The Birth of Brandub child of Eochu and of Aedán child of Gabrán"). In this story, Áedán is the twin sibling of Brandub macintosh Echach, a King of Leinster who had a place with the Uí Cheinnselaig related. Áedán is traded during childbirth for one of the twin girls of Gabrán, brought into the world that night, with the goal that every family may have a child. "The Prophecy of Berchán" additionally relates Áedán with Leinster. John Bannerman inferred that "[t]here is by all accounts no premise of reality behind these conventions." Francis John Byrne recommended that the "Echtra" was composed by an artist at the court of Diarmait macintosh Maíl na mBó, an eleventh century relative of Brandub, and was composed to concrete a union among Diarmait and the Scots lord Máel Coluim macintosh Donnchada ("Malcolm III"), who professed to be a relative of Áedán. A lost Irish story, "Echtra Áedáin macintosh Gabráin" ("The Adventures of Áedán child of Gabrán"), shows up in a rundown of works, however its substance are obscure. Áedán is a character in the epic "Scéla Cano meic Gartnáin", yet the occasions which roused the story seem to have occurred amidst the seventh century. He additionally shows up in the story "Compert Mongáin". 

Áedán furthermore shows up in an assortment of Welsh sources, making him one of only a handful few non-Britons to figure in Welsh custom. Welsh sources call him "Aedan Bradawc", signifying "The Treacherous" or "The Wily". He may have earned this sobriquet after the breakdown of a collusion with Rhydderch Hael, ruler of the close-by Brittonic kingdom of Alt Clut; hatred between them is recalled in the Welsh Triads and somewhere else. Another Triad records Áedán's host as one of the "Three Faithful War-Bands of the Island of Britain", as they "went to the ocean for their ruler". This may point to a generally lost convention concerning one of Áedán's ocean undertakings, for example, to Orkney or the Isle of Man. Also, a few Welsh works guarantee a Brittonic family for Áedán. The "Bonedd Gwŷr y Gogledd" records him as a descendent of Dyfnwal Hen of Alt Clut, however the lineage is highly befuddled ("Gauran" is given as his child, as opposed to father). The Cambro-Latin "De Situ Brecheniauc" and "Cognacio Brychan" guarantee his mom was Luan, little girl of Brychan of Brycheiniog in Wales. In spite of the fact that these families are conflicting and likely questionable, they are outstanding in featuring Áedán's nearby relationship with the Britons. 

Áedán was the head lord in Dál Riata, managing over lesser innate rulers. The "Senchus fer n-Alban" records the sub-divisions of Dál Riata in the seventh and eighth hundreds of years, yet no record from Áedán's time endures. As per the "Senchus", Dál Riata was separated into three sub-kingdoms in the seventh century, each ruled by a family aggregate named for their eponymous author. These were the Cenél nGabráin, named for Áedán's dad, who led over Kintyre, Cowal and Bute; the Cenél Loairn of northern Argyll; and the Cenél nóengusa of Islay. Inside these there were littler divisions or clans which are named by the "Senchus". Subtleties of the Irish piece of the kingdom are less clear. 

Searching externally, Dál Riata's neighbors in north Britain were the Picts and the Britons of the "Hen Ogledd", the Brittonic-talking portions of what is currently Northern England and southern Lowland Scotland. The most dominant Brittonic kingdom in the zone was Alt Clut, later known as Strathclyde and Cumbria. Late in Áedán's life, the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Bernicia turned into the best power in north Britain. 

In Ireland, Dál Riata shaped piece of Ulster, controlled by Báetán macintosh Cairill of the Dál Fiatach. The other real gathering in Ulster were the separated clans of the Cruithne, later known as the Dál nAraidi. The most essential Cruithne lord in Áedán's time was Fiachnae macintosh Báetáin. Past the kingdom of Ulster, and by and large unfriendly to it, were the different kingdoms and clans of the Uí Néill and their subjects and partners. Of the Uí Néill lords, Áed macintosh Ainmuirech of the Cenél Conaill, Columba's first cousin once evacuated, was the most vital amid Áedán's rule. 

Adomnán, the "Senchus fer n-Alban" and the Irish archives record Áedán as a child of Gabrán macintosh Domangairt (kicked the bucket c. 555– 560). Áedán's sibling Eoganán is known from Adomnán and his demise is recorded c. 597. The "Senchus" names three different children of Gabrán, to be specific Cuildach, Domnall, and Domangart. Albeit nothing is known about Cuildach and Domangart or their relatives, Adomnán makes reference to a certain Ioan, child of Conall, child of Domnall, "who had a place with the illustrious ancestry of the Cenél nGabráin", yet this is by and large perused as implying that Ioan was a brother of the Cenél nGabráin, and his granddad named Domnall isn't believed to be a similar individual as Áedán's sibling Domnall. 

Áedán was around forty years of age when he progressed toward becoming ruler, following the passing of his uncle Conall macintosh Comgaill in 574. His progression as lord may have been challenged; Adomnán states that Columba had favored the appointment of Áedán's sibling Eoganán. Adomnán claims that Áedán was appointed as ruler by Columba, the primary case of an appointment known in Britain and Ireland. 

In 574, after the record of Conall's demise, the "Chronicles of Ulster" and the "Archives of Tigernach" record a fight in Kintyre, called the Battle of Teloch, or Delgu. The exact area of the fight is unidentified. The records concur that "Dúnchad, child of Conall, child of Comgall, and numerous others of the partners of the children of Gabrán, fell." In 575, the "Chronicles of Ulster" report "the extraordinary tradition of Druim Cett", at Mullagh or Daisy Hill close Limavady, with Áed macintosh Ainmuirech and Columba in participation. Adomnán reports that Áedán was available at the gathering. The reason for the gathering isn't altogether sure, however one understanding made there concerned the status of Áedán's kingdom. Áedán and Áed concurred that while the armada of Dál Riata would serve the Uí Néill, no tribute would be paid to them, and warriors would just be given from the Dál Riata arrives in Ireland. 

The explanation behind this understanding is thought to have been the risk presented to Áedán, and furthermore to Áed, by Báetán macintosh Cairill. Báetán is said to have constrained the ruler of Dál Riata to pay reverence to him at Rosnaree on Islandmagee. Áedán is believed to be the ruler being referred to, and Ulster sources state that Báetán gathered tribute from Scotland. Following Báetán's passing in 581, the Ulstermen relinquished the Isle of Man, which they had caught in Báetán's time, maybe determined out by Áedán who is recorded as battling there c. 583. Prior, c. 580, Áedán is said to have struck Orkney, which had been liable to Bridei child of Maelchon, King of the Picts, at a prior date. 

Áedán's crusades on the Isle of Man have at times been mistaken for the fight against the Miathi referenced by Adomnán. The Miathi seem to have been the Maeatae, a clan in the zone of the upper stream Forth. This crusade was fruitful, however Áedán's children Artúr and Eochaid Find were slaughtered fighting as indicated by Adomnán. This fight may have occurred c. 590 and been recorded as the Battle of Leithreid or Leithrig. 

The "Prediction of Berchán" says of Áedán: "Thirteen years (in a steady progression) [he will battle against] the Pictish have (reasonable the diadem)." The main recorded fight among Áedán and the Picts seems to have been battled in Circinn, in 599 or after, where Áedán was vanquished. The chronicles notice the passings of his children here. It has been recommended that this fight was mistaken for the "Skirmish of Asreth" in Circinn, battled c. 584, in which Bridei child of Maelchon was executed. This fight is portrayed as being "battled between the Picts themselves". 

Various Welsh customs point to fighting among Áedán and King Rhydderch Hael of Alt Clut, the northern Brittonic kingdom later known as Strathclyde. Hector Munro Chadwick and resulting students of history propose Áedán was at first in a long haul collusion with Rhydderch and his forerunners, however that it in the end crumbled into struggle. Adomnán reports that Rhydderch sent a priest named Luigbe to Iona to talk with Columba "for he needed to realize whether he would be butchered by his adversaries or not". A Welsh Triad names Áedán's pillaging of Alt Clut as one of the "three over the top plunderings of Britain", and the ballad "Peiryan Vaban" recounts a fight among Áedán and Rhydderch. The lost Irish epic "Orgain Sratha Cluada" is generally thought to allude to the assault on Alt Clut in 870 by Vikings, however MacQuarrie recommends that it might allude to an assault by Áedán on Rhydderch. 

Degsastan shows up not to have been the primary fight among Áedán and the Bernicians. The passing of his child Domangart in the place where there is the Saxons is referenced by Adomnán, and it is assumed that Bran kicked the bucket in the equivalent generally unrecorded fight. 

Of the foundations of this contention, Bede makes reference to just that Áedán was frightened by Æthelfrith's development. Wherever the Battle of Degsastan was battled, Bede considered it to be existing in Northumbria. The fight was a definitive triumph for Æthelfrith, and Bede says, cautiously, that "[f]rom that day until the present, no lord of the Irish in Britain has set out to do fight with the English." Although successful, Æthelfrith endured misfortunes; Bede reveals to us his sibling Theodbald was killed with all his following. Theodbald seems, by all accounts, to be called Eanfrith in Irish sources, which name his executioner as Máel Umai macintosh Báetáin of the Cenél nEógain, child of High-King Báetán macintosh Ninnedo. The Irish ballad "Compert Mongáin" says that the lord of Ulster, Fiachnae macintosh Báetáin of the Dál nAraidi, supported Áedán against the Saxons, maybe at Degsastan. The "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" makes reference to that Hering, child of King Hussa of Bernicia, was available, clearly battling with Áedán. 

After the thrashing of Degsastan, the chronicles report nothing of Áedán until his demise around six years after the fact, maybe on 17 April 609, the date provided by the "Martyrology of Tallaght", made c. 800. The "Records of Tigernach" give his age as 74. The "Prediction of Berchán" places his demise in Kintyre and says "[h]e won't be ruler at the season of his passing", while the twelfth century "Acta Sancti Lasriani" claims that he was ousted from the authority. John of Fordun, writing in the fourteenth century, trusted that Áedán had been covered at Kilkerran in Kintyre. 

Áedán was prevailing by his child, Eochaid Buide. Adomnán gives a record of Columba's prescience that Eochaid's more established siblings would predecease their dad. Áedán's different children are named by the "Senchus fer n-Alban" as Eochaid Find, Tuathal, Bran, Baithéne, Conaing, and Gartnait. Adomnán additionally names Artúr, called a child of Conaing in the "Senchus", and Domangart, who is excluded in the "Senchus". Domangart too may have been a grandson as opposed to a child of Áedán, in all likelihood another child of Conaing. The principle line of Cenél nGabráin lords were the relatives of Eochaid Buide through his child Domnall Brecc, however the relatives of Conaing effectively challenged for the position of authority all through the seventh century and into the eighth. 

It has been proposed that Gartnait child of Áedán could be a similar individual as Gartnait child of Domelch, ruler of the Picts, whose passing is accounted for around 601, however this lays on the possibility of Pictish matriliny, which has been censured. Indeed, even less positively, it has been contended that Gartnait's successor in the Pictish ruler records, Nechtan, was his grandson, and in this way Áedán's incredible grandson. 

Less is known about Áedán's girls. Maithgemm, likewise recorded as Gemma, wedded a sovereign named Cairell of the Dál Fiatach. The names of Áedán's spouses are not recorded, yet one was said to be Brittonic, and another may have been a Pictish lady named Domelch, if without a doubt the Gartnait child of Domelch and Gartnait child of Áedán are one and the equivalent.