Cuil 

Cuil ( ) was a web crawler that sorted out site pages by substance and showed moderately long passages alongside thumbnail pictures for some outcomes. Cuil said it had a bigger list than some other web search tool, with around 120 billion site pages. It went live on July 28, 2008. Cuil's servers were closed down on September 17, 2010, with later affirmations the administration had finished. 

Cuil was overseen and grown to a great extent by previous representatives of Google, Anna Patterson and Russell Power. The CEO and prime supporter, Tom Costello, has worked for IBM and others. The organization had raised $33 million from investment firms including Greylock. Cuil's protection arrangement, in contrast to that of other web indexes, said it didn't store clients' hunt movement or IP addresses. 

Cuil propelled in July 2008 with a file of 121,617,892,992 website pages. Around one month after dispatch, Cuil's Product VP and inquiry technologist, Louis Monier, quit the organization refering to conflicts with the CEO, Tom Costello. On December 19, 2008, "BusinessWeek" recorded Cuil as a standout amongst the best U.S. new businesses of 2008, in light of the measure of cash they raised. As of February, 2009, Cuil had 127 billion filed pages. As indicated by Alexa, the website achieved a pinnacle of simply over 0.2% of overall web clients in late July 2008 and by September 12, 2008, it had dropped to 0.02% and positioned as the 5,340th webpage by traffic. By October 13, 2008, it had dropped to 0.005% and positioned as the 21,960th site in rush hour gridlock. 

"PC Magazine" announced that on the morning of September 17, 2010 "representatives were told about Cuil's death [...] and the servers were taken disconnected five hours after the fact." Laid-off workers were told they would not be paid. The shutdown apparently came after an obtaining understanding fell through before in the week. Their licenses were sold to Google and Anna Patterson came back to Google to work for its Search Engine office. 

A client could sign into their Facebook account through Cuil, which would then look companion refreshes for subjects, with inquiry joins. A client could likewise send messages to their companions through Cuil. 

Cuil dealt with a computerized reference book called Cpedia, worked by algorithmically abridging and bunching thoughts on the web to make reference book like reports. Rather than showing indexed lists, Cuil would demonstrate Cpedia articles coordinating the looked terms. This was intended to lessen duplication by joining data into one record. 

Cuil was accessible in 8 dialects: English, French, German, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Spanish and Turkish. More were arranged. 

The Irish lineage of Anna Patterson's better half Tom Costello started the name "Cuil", which the organization states is taken from a progression of Celtic fables stories including a character, Fionn macintosh Cumhaill, they wrongly allude to as Finn MacCuil. The organization says that "Cuil" is Irish for "information" and "hazel". 

A few language specialists are uncertain of this determination and articulation, and note that the cutting edge Irish word for "hazel" is spelled "coll" ("coill" or "cuill" in genitive structure, the previous spelling having supplanted the last because of the "Caighdeán Oifigiúil" changes of the mid-twentieth century). Foras na Gaeilge, the official administering body of the Irish language, did not bolster the declaration that 'cuil' signifies 'learning'. "I am unconscious myself of the signifying 'learning' being with the word 'cuil' in Irish," Stiofán Ó Deoráin, an authority on Foras na Gaeilge's phrasing advisory group, said. Indeed, even pre-Caighdeán lexicons, for example, Dineen don't relate the "cuil" spelling with information or hazel. Dinneen just records two things and one descriptive word with the spelling "cuil": ""f.", a fly, a steed fly...", ""f.", a venomous angle; incredible eagerness..." and ""gs." of col, as "a.", mischievous." 

The organization name had recently been spelled "Cuill". 

Cuil got generally basic press inclusion. Concerns were communicated about the site's moderate reaction times, unimportant or wrong indexed lists and in no less than one case, improperly explicit pictures showed close by query items. Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Watch scrutinized the legitimacy of Cuil's case that it had the world's biggest web search tool record and censured it for concentrating on size as opposed to importance. In any case, regardless of revealed issues with indexed lists, Net Applications announced that throughout the previous three days of July 2008, Cuil beat Google and Yahoo in the measure of time spent on a site after referral from an internet searcher. 

As indicated by a meeting with a Cuil delegate, while other Web 2.0 dispatches utilizing greatly parallel handling may fall flat with a moderate down or crash, Cuil's design was reacting with fragmented, "not exactly pertinent outcomes that at that point show up at the highest point of clients' pages." Cuil's VP of correspondences Vince Sollitto said the web crawler was encountering overwhelming first-day over-burdens and they were "caught up with putting out flames." Sollitto said Cuil "will just improve with time. It's the very beginning. Traffic is monstrous. We're new. There are bugs to fix, results to improve." 

After the underlying basic press inclusion, Cuil was claimed to have caused issues for certain sites, attributable to how the Cuil ordering robot surveyed certain destinations (counting under its pre-discharge name, "Cuill"). Numerous site proprietors announced that the Twiceler crawler more than once hit their site with haphazardly created URLs trying to discover pages difficult to reach by connections. Others revealed insignificant pictures related with their posting in Cuil's list items. 

The web creeps from Cuil were given to the Internet Archive where they were changed over into circular segment documents, which are accessible for download at https://archive.org/subtleties/cuilcrawl.