2009 World Series 

The 2009 World Series was the title arrangement of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 2009 season. As the 105th release of the World Series, it was a best-of-seven playoff challenged between the Philadelphia Phillies, bosses of the National League (NL) and shielding World Series champions, and the New York Yankees, heroes of the American League (AL). The Yankees crushed the Phillies, 4 recreations to 2, winning their 27th World Series title. The arrangement was played between October 28 and November 4, communicate on Fox, and viewed by a normal of generally 19 million watchers. Because of the beginning of the period being pushed back by the 2009 World Baseball Classic in March, this was the primary World Series consistently booked to be played into the long stretch of November. This arrangement was a rematch of the 1950 World Series. 

Home field advantage for the Series went to the AL for the eighth straight year because of its 4– 3 success in the All-Star Game. The Phillies earned their compartment into the playoffs by winning the National League East. The Yankees won the American League East to win their billet, posting the best record in the Major Leagues. The Phillies achieved the World Series by vanquishing the Colorado Rockies in the best-of-five National League Division Series, and the Los Angeles Dodgers in the best-of-seven NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Yankees crushed the Minnesota Twins in the American League Division Series and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in the AL Championship Series (ALCS) to progress to their first World Series since 2003. Because of their misfortune, the Phillies turned into the primary group since the Yankees to lose the World Series in the wake of winning it the earlier year. 

Precipice Lee contributed a total diversion the Phillies' Game 1 triumph, permitting just a single unmerited run, while Chase Utley hit two homers. In Game 2, solo grand slams by Mark Teixeira and Hideki Matsui helped the Yankees win by a score of 3– 1. After a downpour deferred begin, Game 3 included more offense, with a joined six homers and thirteen absolute runs in transit to a Yankee triumph. The Yankees won Game 4 by scoring the unequivocal three keeps running in the ninth inning after an alarm base running play by Johnny Damon. The Phillies maintained a strategic distance from end with a success in Game 5, helped by Utley's second two– grand slam round of the arrangement. The Yankees verified their World Series title with a Game 6 triumph in which Matsui hit his third grand slam of the arrangement. He was named Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the arrangement, making him the primary Japanese-conceived player and the principal full-time assigned hitter to win the honor; Matsui was the arrangement's MVP in spite of beginning just the three amusements that were played at Yankee Stadium, since the assigned hitter position isn't utilized in NL ballparks. 

A few records were tied, broadened, or broken amid this World Series, including group titles (Yankees with 27), vocation postseason wins (Andy Pettitte with 18), profession World Series spares (Mariano Rivera with 11), homers in a World Series (Utley with five), strikeouts by a hitter in a World Series (Ryan Howard with 13), and runs batted in a solitary World Series diversion (Matsui with six). 

Amid the off-season, the Phillies advanced associate general chief Rubén Amaro, Jr. to general supervisor, succeeding Pat Gillick who resigned toward the finish of a three-year contract. Their most remarkable offseason player change was in left field, as Pat Burrell withdrew because of free organization and was supplanted by free operator Raúl Ibañez. Another eminent procurement was free operator pitcher Chan Ho Park. Park was initially marked as a reinforcement choice for the warm up area, as reliever J. C. Romero was appointed a 50-amusement suspension subsequent to damaging the Major League Baseball medicate strategy, yet Park won the fifth starter's activity in Spring Training. 

In July 2009, Phillies scouts assessed pitcher Pedro Martínez in two reproduced diversions against the Phillies DSL group, prompting a one-year, $1-million contract. Supplanting Jamie Moyer as a starter in the Phillies turn on August 12, 2009, Philadelphia won every one of Martínez's initial seven begins, the first run through in establishment history this had happened with any appearing Phillies pitcher. The Phillies made one vast obtaining at the exchange due date, exchanging four small time players to the Cleveland Indians for pitcher Cliff Lee and outfielder Ben Francisco. Lee won seven of his twelve normal season begins for Philadelphia in 2009. 

Amid the normal season, the Phillies drove the National League East for a large portion of the year, defeating all comers for good on May 30. Ibáñez had begun the year firmly, batting great more than .300 with 17 grand slams and 46 runs batted in (RBI) in the initial two months of the period, which drove the "New York Post" to consider him an "early MVP applicant". He was put on the handicapped rundown in mid-June for crotch damage, in any case, and however he returned he didn't bat over .260 for whatever other month that season. In spite of the fact that Ibáñez did not get MVP cast a ballot his colleagues Ryan Howard and Chase Utley had fruitful years, completing third and eighth in the balloting individually. The Phillies completed the season with a record of 93– 69 (.574), six recreations over the second-place Florida Marlins in their division. 

The Phillies vanquished the special case Colorado Rockies in the National League Division Series (NLDS), three amusements to one, progressing to the National League Championship Series (NLCS). Confronting the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Phillies won the NLCS, four recreations to one, turning into the primary group to rehash as National League champions since the 1995– 96 Atlanta Braves. Ryan Howard won the NLCS MVP for his solid hostile execution amid the arrangement. Howard tied Lou Gehrig's postseason record by having no less than one RBI in eight straight diversions over the NLDS and NLCS. They turned into the main World Series champion to come back to the World Series the next year since the 2000– 01 New York Yankees. 

The Yankees' offseason started in November 2008 with power over their association moving from long-lasting proprietor George Steinbrenner to his child Hal Steinbrenner. Striking player takeoffs included Mike Mussina—who reported his retirement on November 20, 2008—just as Bobby Abreu, Jason Giambi, and Carl Pavano, who all left as free operators. Outstanding free specialist acquisitions included beginning pitchers CC Sabathia and A. J. Burnett, and first baseman Mark Teixeira. Another real expansion was outfielder Nick Swisher, gained in an exchange with the Chicago White Sox. 

The Yankees played the 2009 season in Yankee Stadium, their first year in that park in the wake of playing for a long time in "Old" Yankee Stadium. They won the American League East with an eight-diversion lead over their opponents, the Boston Red Sox, ordering a record of 103– 59. Sabathia won 19 diversions and position players Alex Rodriguez and Teixeira both had solid seasons unpleasantly, Rodriguez with 30 grand slams and 100 RBI and Teixeira with 39 and 122 separately. Shutting pitcher Mariano Rivera earned his 500th spare against the Yankees' cross-town rival New York Mets, turning into the second pitcher in history to do as such. On September 11, 2009, shortstop Derek Jeter recorded his 2,722nd vocation hit, passing Lou Gehrig to turn into the untouched pioneer in profession hits recorded as a Yankee. 

The Yankees vanquished the Minnesota Twins in three recreations in the American League Division Series and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in six amusements in the American League Championship Series (ALCS) to win their first American League flag since 2003. Sabathia was named MVP of the ALCS with two successes in the arrangement. The Yankees' triumph in the ALCS earned them their 40th World Series appearance in establishment history, and their first since losing to the Florida Marlins in . 

The two groups played a three-amusement interleague arrangement at Yankee Stadium in May 2009, with the Phillies winning two of the three recreations. The arrangement included two passed up Phillies' nearer Brad Lidge in recreations 2 and 3, despite the fact that the Phillies returned to win the last diversion in additional innings. 

The Yankees had home field advantage for the Series as the American League had won that year's All-Star Game. The group coordinate was vigorously examined and broke down in the media, per the east coast inclination, preceding the start of the arrangement. The two groups' hostile lineups were vigorously touted, with the Yankees and Phillies driving their particular classes in runs scored per diversion. Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez attracted specific center the media for his achievement in prior rounds of the 2009 playoffs as opposed to past postseason exhibitions. The two lineups highlighted twenty previous All-Stars and three previous MVP grant victors. Just a single customary starter between the two groups, Phillies catcher Carlos Ruiz, did not have somewhere around ten homers amid the 2009 normal season. The two groups joined for 468 homers amid the season, more than any pair of adversaries in World Series history. 

The pitching staffs were additionally the subject of huge dialog preceding the arrangement. The beginning pitchers for Game 1, CC Sabathia and Cliff Lee, were viewed as aces who ruled the 2009 postseason with a 0.96 earned run normal (ERA) between them. This matchup was of specific note, as Sabathia and Lee were previous partners from the Cleveland Indians and each had won a Cy Young Award with that establishment. Yankees chief Joe Girardi had been utilizing a three-man beginning turn amid the playoffs, as opposed to the four-pitcher revolution utilized by the Phillies. This distinction drove "USA Today" to give the Phillies' beginning pivot the "edge" in the arrangement, as the World Series had one less day away from work than past rounds of the playoffs, making the arrangement less helpful for utilizing a three-man turn. Quality Wojciechowski of ESPN condemned Girardi's methodology, contending that Chad Gaudin ought to have contributed Game 5 or 6, rather than A. J. Burnett or Andy Pettitte on decreased, three days' rest. Wojciechowski contended that while Sabathia had demonstrated his capacity to pitch on shorter rest, Burnett and Pettitte ought to have been given their standard time between begins. Burnett had drawn some analysis, as he performed ineffectively in his last appearance before the World Series, a begin in Game 5 of the ALCS in which he permitted six keeps running more than six innings. Nonetheless, Burnett had recently been effective on brief rest, running 4– 0 with a 2.33 ERA in four profession begins on brief rest before this amusement. Some trusted Girardi settled on a three-man revolution since he had constrained choices for a fourth beginning pitcher, either Gaudin or Joba Chamberlain, who had been conflicting as starters in the normal season and had been moved into the warm up area for the postseason. 

The matchup of closers, Mariano Rivera and Brad Lidge, additionally drew consideration. Rivera and Lidge were the main closers who had not blown a spare amid the 2009 postseason, though closers on other postseason groups blew 11 spares in the 24 postseason diversions before the World Series in 2009. Both had performed well amid the postseason, however Lidge had posted a 7.21 ERA amid the 2009 ordinary season, as opposed to Rivera's 1.76. Lidge's 2009 numbers were as a distinct difference to the past season (41 out of 41 spare chances, a 1.95 ERA, and 92 strikeouts in 62 recreations). Therefore, "USA Today" gave the Yankees the edge, taking note of that Lidge had blown two recoveries against the Yankees amid their normal season arrangement prior that year. 

The Series began on October 28, 2009, which was the most recent begin in World Series history, beating the past record held by the 2001 World Series (October 27). Game 4 was played on Sunday, November 1 and the arrangement winning Game 6 occurred on November 4. The Series was just the third to finish in a month other than October. The first came in , which was played altogether in September after the customary season was sliced short because of World War I. The other such arrangement was in when the September 11 assaults caused a deferral in the baseball season that inevitably constrained the apocalypse Series into November. 

Prior in the season Commissioner Bud Selig communicated enthusiasm for planning a World Series amusement amid light hours rather than the night. The beginning occasions were at last moved before 8 p.m. ET without precedent for a long time, however no day diversions were played. The Philadelphia Eagles and New York Giants of the National Football League (NFL) played over the road from Citizens Bank Park at Lincoln Financial Field upon the arrival of Game 4. The NFL moved that diversion's kickoff time to 1 p.m. to stay away from it finishing excessively near the beginning of Game 4. So also, Game 5 was played at Citizens Bank Park on a similar day as the Philadelphia Flyers facilitated the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League (NHL) at the Wachovia Center. The opening faceoff of the hockey match-up was planned for 7 p.m. be that as it may, the NHL moved it to 5 p.m. to keep away from strife. 

The umpires for the arrangement were Joe West, Dana DeMuth, Gerry Davis, Brian Gorman, Jeff Nelson, and Mike Everitt. The World Series team had included no less than 1 umpire who had never worked the World Series in 24 of the previous 25 arrangement; be that as it may, following a few slip-ups by umpires in prior rounds of the playoffs, this group did not. 

The Phillies had won the past season's World Series against the Tampa Bay Rays for the establishment's second title. The Yankees had lost their past World Series appearance to the Florida Marlins in and had not won since against the New York Mets. This was the fifth Series played between groups from New York and Philadelphia, and was the first Yankees– Phillies matchup since . The arrangement additionally was the fourth back to back time that the Phillies would have confronted a group from the present AL East in the World Series, while the Yankees had confronted a NL East adversary in four of their five latest World Series appearances. 

This Series had two informal epithets: "Interstate Series", for the New Jersey Turnpike, which interfaces New York to Philadelphia through the province of New Jersey, and "Freedom Series", in light of the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia and the Statue of Liberty in New York. 

First Lady Michelle Obama and Second Lady Jill Biden escorted previous Yankees catcher and World War II veteran Yogi Berra to the hill, where the formal first pitch was tossed by a veteran of the Iraq War. The Phillies' Ryan Howard got the main hit of the 2009 World Series by multiplying in the primary inning. Howard was stranded in the first and the amusement was scoreless after two innings. The Phillies scored first with a two-out grand slam by Chase Utley in the highest point of the third inning. Through the initial five innings, Philadelphia beginning pitcher Cliff Lee permitted no runs and three hits, striking out seven Yankees players. In the highest point of the 6th, Utley hit another grand slam to give the Phillies a 2– 0 lead. The beginning pitchers Lee and CC Sabathia kept on pitching until the highest point of the eighth when Sabathia was supplanted by Phil Hughes. Hughes strolled the initial two hitters and was supplanted by Dámaso Marte. Marte got two fast outs and was eased by David Robertson, who strolled Jayson Werth and surrendered a two-run single to Raúl Ibañez. The Phillies included two additional keeps running in the ninth with a RBI single by Shane Victorino and a RBI twofold by Howard. Lee completed with a total amusement permitting one unmerited keep running on six hits and striking out ten players, not strolling any of the hitters he confronted. 

Lee's contributing execution impacted the world forever a few different ways: 

Preceding the amusement, Jay-Z and Alicia Keys played out the melody "Realm State of Mind" for the Yankee Stadium swarm. This amusement denoted the first postseason appearance of Pedro Martínez against the Yankees since the 2004 American League Championship Series, when he was with the Boston Red Sox and a piece of the two groups' in length standing competition; it was likewise the second-historically speaking World Series begin that Martínez made. There was much media enthusiasm for Martínez's "arrival to Yankee Stadium" for Game 2, as he told correspondents at a pre-diversion question and answer session "When you have 60,000 individuals reciting your name, sitting tight for you to toss the ball, you need to see yourself as somebody extraordinary, somebody that truly has a reason out there." 

The Phillies scored first for the second amusement in succession, with Raúl Ibañez hitting a standard procedure twofold and afterward scoring on a Matt Stairs RBI single off A. J. Burnett in the second inning. 

Imprint Teixeira tied the diversion with a grand slam in the fourth inning, and Hideki Matsui broke the tie in the 6th with another homer. Martínez withdrew the diversion subsequent to surrendering back to back hits to Jerry Hairston, Jr. furthermore, Melky Cabrera to begin the seventh inning, and reliever Chan Ho Park surrendered a RBI single to Jorge Posada. With Cabrera at a respectable halfway point and Posada at first, Johnny Damon hit a low line drive at Phillies first baseman Ryan Howard. Howard got the ball and tossed to second where Posada was labeled and got out while remaining on the base. A respectable starting point umpire Brian Gorman decided that Howard had gotten the ball noticeable all around; in this manner, the outcome was an inning-finishing twofold play. Both Posada and Joe Girardi eagerly challenged the call, guaranteeing that the batted ball had hit the ground before being gotten; in any case, the umpires did not turn around the call. ESPN detailed that Gorman blew the call. This was the first of two calls made by Gorman in Game Two that were vigorously scrutinized. 

Burnett left the diversion after seven innings, having surrendered one run. He was supplanted by Mariano Rivera in the eighth inning. With one out in the eighth, the Phillies put two sprinters on with a stroll to Jimmy Rollins and a solitary by Shane Victorino. Notwithstanding, Chase Utley grounded into an inning-finishing twofold play finishing on a nearby play at a respectable starting point. The play was the second debated call made by umpire Brian Gorman in Game Two. Gorman himself later conceded he missed this call, saying, "on a stop outline, it would seem that there's a smidgen of a ball outside [Teixeira's] glove when [Utley] hits the sack." Ultimately, Rivera tossed 39 pitches and got six outs for his 38th postseason spare, his tenth in World Series play. 

The beginning of the amusement was deferred 80 minutes because of a downpour delay, pushing the begin time to 9:17 p.m. The cast of the TV arrangement "Happiness" (with Amber Riley singing lead) played out the national song of devotion as a component of a function including an extensive American banner and a few individuals from the equipped administrations. The Phillies scored first with Jayson Werth's lead-off grand slam, which was trailed by a bases-stacked walk and a fielder's choice to make the score 3– 0 in the base of the second inning. Following Mark Teixeira's stroll in the highest point of the fourth inning, Alex Rodriguez hit a profound ball down the correct field line. It was initially managed a twofold so Teixeira held at third base. The play was looked into utilizing MLB moment replay, which uncovered that the ball had struck a camera staying over the highest point of the divider, so the ball was ruled a two-run grand slam, giving Rodriguez his first World Series hit. This was the main grand slam inspected by moment replay in postseason play. In particular, the ball hit a camera claimed by Fox and MLB which expanded marginally over the correct field divider. The camera was moved back for Game 4 to such an extent that its focal point was in accordance with the divider. Fortuitously, Alex Rodriguez additionally had the primary normal season grand slam surveyed by replay. 

Scratch Swisher opened the highest point of the fifth inning with a twofold and scored on a solitary to focus field by Andy Pettitte. This was Pettitte's first vocation postseason RBI and the principal RBI by a Yankees pitcher in a World Series since Jim Bouton in 1964. Derek Jeter pursued Pettitte with another single, and the two sprinters scored on a two-run twofold by Johnny Damon. Cole Hamels then strolled Teixeira and was alleviated by J. A. Happ. Happ finished off the fifth without permitting further scoring, yet Nick Swisher added to the Yankees lead with a grand slam off of him in the 6th. Werth hit his second grand slam of the diversion opening the base of the 6th to close the Yankees lead to 6– 4, turning into the second Phillies player to hit different homers in this World Series. 

Chad Durbin eased Happ in the highest point of the seventh. He strolled Johnny Damon, who at that point stole a respectable halfway point. Rodriguez was then hit by a pitch, and Damon scored on a solitary by Jorge Posada. Joba Chamberlain soothed Pettitte in the base of the seventh and resigned the side all together. Brett Myers resigned the initial two players in the highest point of the eighth, yet Hideki Matsui then hit a grand slam substituting for Chamberlain. Phil Hughes pitched 33% of an inning in the base of the ninth and enabled a performance grand slam to Carlos Ruiz before being alleviated by Mariano Rivera. Rivera finished off the amusement, tossing only five pitches to record the last two outs. This amusement was Pettitte's seventeenth profession postseason win, broadening his MLB record. 

Before the beginning of the diversion, Derek Jeter and Albert Pujols were named champs of the Hank Aaron Award for their hostile exhibitions in 2009. This was the primary amusement to test director Joe Girardi's choice to utilize a three-man beginning turn, as CC Sabathia began the diversion on three days rest, a shorter period than he typically got amid the customary season. Jeter drove the amusement off with a solitary and progressed to third base on a twofold by Johnny Damon. Jeter scored by means of a Mark Teixeira ground out and Alex Rodriguez was hit by a pitch. Rodriguez was hit double the prior night and the umpires issued alerts to the two seats. Jorge Posada then added to the Yankees lead that inning with a fielder's choice. The Phillies addressed rapidly, scoring a keep running on progressive copies by Shane Victorino and Chase Utley in the base of the first. Sabathia deliberately strolled Jayson Werth, however got away from the inning moving forward without any more scoring. The Phillies tied the amusement in the base of the fourth as Ryan Howard singled, stole second, and scored on a solitary by Pedro Feliz. Despite the fact that the run tallied, moment replay of Howard's slide later demonstrated that he didn't contact home plate. 

Scratch Swisher strolled to open the fifth inning and progressed to second on a Melky Cabrera single. Swisher reestablished the Yankees' lead, scoring on a solitary by Jeter, and Cabrera added to it by scoring a keep running on a Damon single. Brett Gardner supplanted Cabrera in focus field as a guarded substitution in the base of the 6th inning after Cabrera left the diversion because of hamstring damage. Chan Ho Park diminished Phillies starter Joe Blanton in the seventh and held the Yankees scoreless in that inning. Pursue Utley hit his third grand slam of the arrangement in the base of the seventh with two outs, bringing the diversion to 4– 3. Dámaso Marte diminished Sabathia and got the last out of the seventh moving forward without any more scoring. 

Ryan Madson eased Park in the eighth and permitted a walk and a solitary yet held the Yankees scoreless. Joba Chamberlain supplanted Marte in the base of the inning. He struck out the initial two players he confronted yet permitted a diversion binds grand slam to Feliz before shutting the inning. 

Brad Lidge came into the diversion for the ninth inning, flying out Matsui and striking out Jeter before surrendering a two-out single to Damon—after a nine-pitch at bat with two strikes and four foul balls. At that point, with Teixeira batting, Damon stole second and, on a similar play, additionally stole third as the base was revealed because of a protective move against Teixeira. A few news outlets alluded to this as a "distraught dash", which Mike Vaccaro of the "New York Post" contrasted with Enos Slaughter's "Frantic Dash" in the 1946 World Series. Some trusted that Damon's play caused Lidge to abstain from tossing his best pitch—a slider with sharp descending development—for the remainder of the inning, as it gambled a wild pitch that would have enabled Damon to score from third base. Teixeira was then hit by a pitch and Rodriguez put the Yankees ahead with a twofold, scoring Damon. Posada added to that lead with a solitary that scored Teixeira and Rodriguez, yet was tossed out at second to end the inning. Mariano Rivera entered in the base of the ninth and spared the amusement for the Yankees on eight pitches for his second spare of the arrangement. 

The Yankees supplanted Melky Cabrera on their postseason program with Ramiro Peña because of his damage in Game 4, while Brett Gardner had Cabrera's spot in focus field. A. J. Burnett, the Yankees' Game 2 starter, began Game 5 on three days rest, one not exactly the Phillies' Cliff Lee. The Yankees scored first in the main inning, with Johnny Damon achieving base with a solitary and after that scoring on a two-out twofold by Alex Rodriguez. The Phillies reacted in the base of the inning with a solitary by Jimmy Rollins, Shane Victorino coming to in the wake of being hit by a pitch, lastly a three-run grand slam by Chase Utley to lead the pack. The Phillies added to their lead in the third inning with Utley and Ryan Howard drawing strolls pursued by RBI singles by Jayson Werth and Raúl Ibañez. Without any outs in the inning, Burnett was assuaged by David Robertson, who enabled another raced to score on a Carlos Ruiz ground out. 

Robertson held the Phillies scoreless for a second inning in the fourth. Jorge Posada entered as a substitute in the fifth inning for José Molina and grounded out. Eric Hinske then squeeze hit for Robertson and strolled, progressed to third on a Derek Jeter single, and scored on a ground out by Damon. Alfredo Aceves entered as the new Yankee pitcher in the base of the fifth. The principal hitter he confronted, Jayson Werth, hit a profound drive to focus field yet it was gotten for an out by Gardner, who crashed into the outfield divider to finish the play. Aceves finished the inning without a run scoring, prompting ground outs from Ibáñez and Ruiz. Phil Coke calmed Aceves in the seventh inning and permitted two Phillies players to tie World Series records. Initially, Utley tied Reggie Jackson's record for most grand slams in a World Series with a homer, his fifth of the arrangement. Coke at that point struck out Howard, Howard's twelfth strikeout in the arrangement, tying Willie Wilson's record for most strikeouts in a World Series. At long last, Coke was driven from the amusement in the wake of permitting another grand slam, this opportunity to Ibáñez, and was calmed by Phil Hughes. 

Victorino was supplanted protectively in the eighth inning by Ben Francisco. Lee was driven from the amusement subsequent to enabling a solitary to Damon, trailed by a twofold by Mark Teixeira, and after that a twofold by Rodriguez that scored the two sprinters. Chan Ho Park alleviated Lee and actuated a ground out from Nick Swisher, which best in class Rodriguez to third base. Rodriguez scored on a fielder's choice by Robinson Canó. Ryan Madson entered in the ninth to close the amusement, enabling a twofold to Posada and a solitary to Hideki Matsui without account an out. Batting with men on first and third base, Jeter grounded into a twofold play, permitting Posada to score however purging the bases. Damon singled to convey Teixeira to bat as the potential tying run, yet Madson struck him out to record his first World Series spare. Individuals from the news media, for example, Gene Wojciechowski, were reproachful of the three-man beginning revolution methodology following Game 3, and fought that Burnett's poor execution was brought about by lacking rest in the middle of begins. Be that as it may, Burnett had been effective so far in such circumstances, running 4– 0 with a 2.33 ERA in four vocation begins on brief rest (not exactly the typical four days between begins) before this amusement. 

This diversion was the first Game 6 in a World Series since the 2003 World Series six years sooner, the longest such hole ever of World Series. Mary J. Blige, a Bronx local, played out "The Star-Spangled Banner". Andy Pettitte began on three days rest, the third straight amusement in which the Yankees handled a pitcher on brief rest. The Phillies began Pedro Martínez, who called himself and contradicting pitcher Andy Pettitte "old goats" and recognized that Red Sox fans were pulling for him: "I realize that they don't care for the Yankees to win, not even in Nintendo recreations." 

The Yankees scored first with an Alex Rodriguez walk opening the base of the second inning pursued by a two-run grand slam by assigned hitter Hideki Matsui. The Phillies immediately reacted with a triple via Carlos Ruiz who at that point scored on a fielder's choice from Jimmy Rollins in the highest point of the third. Matsui replied back, adding to the Yankees lead again with a solitary with the bases stacked in the base of the third, scoring Derek Jeter and Johnny Damon. Damon, harmed running the bases while scoring, was supplanted protectively in the highest point of the fourth by Jerry Hairston, Jr. 

Phillies starter Pedro Martínez was evacuated in the wake of permitting four keeps running in four innings, alleviated in the fifth by Chad Durbin. Durbin permitted a standard procedure twofold to Jeter, who best in class to third on a penance hit by Hairston and scored on a solitary by Mark Teixeira. Durbin then hit Rodriguez with a pitch and was eased by J. A. Happ subsequent to recording only one out. Happ permitted a two-run twofold to Matsui, his fifth and 6th RBI of the diversion, which tied a World Series record for most RBI in a solitary amusement set by Bobby Richardson in the 1960 World Series. 

The Phillies made the amusement closer in the highest point of the 6th inning, as Chase Utley drew a walk and Ryan Howard tailed him with a two-run grand slam, bringing the score to 7– 3. After Raúl Ibañez hit a twofold into right field, Joba Chamberlain diminished Andy Pettitte and shut the 6th without enabling the Phillies to score. Chan Ho Park came in for Happ, finishing any Yankees danger that inning. Chamberlain was eased by Dámaso Marte in the highest point of the seventh in the wake of permitting two baserunners, however Marte struck out Utley to end the inning scoreless. After Park enabled a solitary to Rodriguez, Scott Eyre supplanted him. Eyre permitted Rodriguez to take second and deliberately strolled Jorge Posada however got away from the inning without permitting a run. 

Marte recorded one out, a strikeout of Howard, in the highest point of the eighth inning. With it Howard set another World Series record for most strikeouts by a hitter in a solitary arrangement with a sum of 13. After the out, Marte was assuaged by Yankees closer Mariano Rivera in a non-spare circumstance. Rivera enabled a twofold to Ibáñez, yet no runs, in the eighth. In the wake of resigning the initial two hitters in the eighth, Eyre offered approach to Ryan Madson, who enabled a solitary to Jeter before closure the base of the eighth inning. Matt Stairs begun the ninth as a substitute, yet lined out. Ruiz worked a stroll from Rivera, however progressive outs by Rollins and Victorino finished the diversion 7– 3 to secure the World Series for the Yankees. Pettitte added to his own record for most playoff wins, conveying his profession aggregate to 18. 

For the tenth back to back year in the United States, Fox Sports broadcast the Series. Joe Buck called play-by-play and Tim McCarver gave investigation. The Series was likewise communicated on ESPN Radio, with Jon Miller and Joe Morgan calling the activity. Fox Sports en Español additionally communicate the Series for the US Spanish-talking group of onlookers. The lead radio stations of the individual groups communicate all Series amusements with their nearby broadcasters. In Philadelphia, WPHT conveyed the Phillies' English-language communicates, with Scott Franzke, Larry Andersen, Tom McCarthy, Gary Matthews, and Chris Wheeler declaring, while WUBA disclosed the group's Spanish communicates. In New York, WCBS-AM conveyed the Yankees' English communicates with John Sterling and Suzyn Waldman declaring. This communicate made Waldman the primary lady to report a World Series diversion on radio. XM Satellite Radio offered various feeds of each amusement to its endorsers. 

TV appraisals for the 2009 World Series were phenomenal. Diversion 1 pulled in 19.5 million watchers, second just to the opening of the 2004 World Series for an arrangement opener since 2000 and 29% higher than 2008's opening amusement. Amusement 4 created the most elevated all out viewership of the arrangement with 22.8 million watchers, the most elevated for any World Series diversion since 2004 and the most noteworthy for a "non-conclusive Game 4" since 2001. At 11.7 generally speaking, the 2009 World Series was at the time the most elevated evaluated World Series since 2004 and the one of the main World Series to average twofold digits since 2007, the other being the 2016 World Series. 

Numerous players with the two groups won honors for their exhibitions amid the 2009 season. Teixeira and Jeter each won a Gold Glove and Silver Slugger Award; Jimmy Rollins and Shane Victorino won Gold Gloves, too; and Chase Utley won a Silver Slugger Award. Rivera was named the 2009 DHL Delivery Man of the Year, just as "Donning News" Pro Athlete of the Year. Alongside the Hank Aaron Award reported before Game 4, Jeter won the Roberto Clemente Award and was named "Sports Illustrated"s Sportsman of the Year for 2009. Matsui won the World Series MVP for his play, turning into the main Japanese player and first full-time assigned hitter to win the honor. A few things identified with the arrangement were sent to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum including bats from Jeter and Matsui; tops from Rivera, Lee, and Pettitte; and Johnny Damon's spikes. 

Matsui likewise joined Minnesota Twins radio examiner Dan Gladden as individuals from the 1994 big showdown Yomiuri Giants group as players who have won titles in North America and Japan. 

The arrangement win conveyed the Yankees' establishment title aggregate to 27, more than some other North American elite athletics establishment. This title came in the Yankees' first year in their new arena. They had additionally won the 1923 World Series, the opening year of the past Yankee Stadium. The triumph was noted by certain sportswriters as an individual accomplishment for Alex Rodriguez, winning his first title and prevailing in the playoffs where some had recently asserted he was a "choker and a failure". Before this arrangement, Rodriguez had showed up in 2,166 normal season diversions without a World Series appearance, at that point the second-most among dynamic players to Ken Griffey, Jr. 

The Yankees' triumph was credited to various diverse sources. Numerous players drew acclaim for their exhibitions, including Series MVP Hideki Matsui; free operators marked the past offseason including Mark Teixeira, CC Sabathia, and A. J. Burnett; and the alleged "Center Four" of Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera, Andy Pettitte, and Jorge Posada, who had all assumed a substantial job in the Yankees' past achievement during the 1990s. Supervisor Joe Girardi was additionally credited for his administration of the group, especially in his choice to utilize just three beginning pitchers in the Yankees postseason beginning turn. The Yankees were the main group to utilize just three starters in a World Series since the San Diego Padres in the 1998 Series. 

A few individuals from the Yankees establishment committed the World Series to a limited extent to group proprietor George Steinbrenner, who had as of late ventured over from his once unmistakable position with the group. Steinbrenner kicked the bucket upon the arrival of the All-Star Game the accompanying season at 80 years old. On November 6, a triumph march occurred for the Yankees in the "Gulch of Heroes" in Manhattan, New York City. The Yankees sent a gathering of players, mentor Tony Peña, and group Senior Vice President Felix Lopez with the Commissioner's Trophy to the Dominican Republic toward the beginning of January 2010 to meet with President Leonel Fernández. The vast majority of the 2009 Yankees got their title rings on Opening Day the following season. Matsui was on the Angels in 2010 and when the Angels played their first arrangement of the period in the Bronx, the Yankees home opener, they gave him his ring. They likewise visited U.S. President Barack Obama in the White House in April 2010, giving him a marked pullover. 

The Yankees came back to the playoffs the accompanying season, as the trump card. They lost to the Texas Rangers in the 2010 ALCS; which incorporated a 8-0 shutout in Yankee Stadium by previous Phillie pro Cliff Lee; it was Lee's seventh straight postseason win which included three triumphs against the Yankees (two as a Phillie in the 2009 World Series, and in 2010 amid the ALCS). 

Following Game 4, after the Yankees took a 3– 1 arrangement lead, "The Philadelphia Inquirer" coincidentally printed a seventy five percent page Macy's promotion complimenting the Phillies for winning the World Series, alongside an image of a Phillies title T-shirt. The paper accordingly apologized for the mix-up. 

Lee Jenkins of "Sports Illustrated" credited Philadelphia's misfortune to an absence of pitching profundity, noticing that three distinct Yankees starters figured out how to win diversions in the arrangement, while just Cliff Lee won recreations for the Phillies. The Phillies' 2008 postseason star pitchers, starter Cole Hamels and closer Brad Lidge, battled in their solitary appearances of the 2009 World Series. The Phillies warm up area which did well in the NLCS performed inadequately in the World Series, permitting seven keeps running in only 11 2/3 innings with a 5.40 ERA. Jorge Arangure Jr. of ESPN halfway ascribed the Phillies' misfortune to their absence of hostile creation, refering to the group's .227 batting normal in the World Series. Just Chase Utley performed well with 5 grand slams and 22 of the Phillies' 90 bases, while Shane Victorino and Jimmy Rollins battled at the plate, and Ryan Howard struck out a record multiple times in the World Series after his NLCS MVP execution. 

Prior to the beginning of the 2010 season, the Phillies exchanged away their 2009 postseason pro pitcher Cliff Lee. The Phillies posted the class' best record in 2010, and came back to the playoffs where they lost to the possible bosses the San Francisco Giants in the NLCS. 

Among those in participation amid Game 1 was New York Governor David Paterson, whose party had five tickets behind home plate. On March 3, 2010, the New York Commission on Public Integrity found that Paterson had abused state laws concerning endowments to open authorities, and that he lied after swearing to tell the truth to the commission about his expectation to pay for the tickets. The commission additionally discovered that Paterson utilized his situation to request and get the five tickets—esteemed at US$425 each—for nothing out of pocket from the Yankees, that he had never expected to pay for the tickets notwithstanding declaration despite what might be expected, and that he or an individual following up for his benefit composed an antedated check to pay for them simply after examination for the situation emerged. The Commission at last fined Paterson $62,125 for his activities.