Andha Naal 

Andha Naal () is a 1954 Indian Tamil-language secret spine chiller film, delivered by A. V. Meiyappan and coordinated by Sundaram Balachander. It is the main film noir in Tamil film, and the principal Tamil film to be made without tunes, move, or trick successions. Set in the milieu of World War II, the story is about the murdering of a radio designer Rajan (Sivaji Ganesan). The suspects are Rajan's significant other Usha (Pandari Bai), the neighbor Chinnaiya Pillai (P. D. Sambandam), Rajan's sibling Pattabi (T. K. Balachandran), Rajan's sister-in-law Hema (Menaka), and Rajan's paramour Ambujam (Suryakala). Every one's record of the episode focuses to another suspect. 

The lead job was at first offered to S. V. Sahasranamam and N. Viswanathan, however they were unconvincing to Meiyappan. The screenplay and discourse were composed by Javar Seetharaman, who additionally assumed a conspicuous job as an analytical officer in the film. Cinematography was dealt with by S. Maruti Rao, and the foundation score was formed by AVM Productions' very own music troupe, Saraswathy Stores Orchestra. The film was shorter than most contemporaneous Tamil movies. It was the main movie coordinated by Balachander for AVM Productions. 

The film was discharged on 13 April 1954, on the eve of "Puthandu" (Tamil New Year). It was widely praised and was granted a Certificate of Merit for Second Best Feature Film in Tamil at the second National Film Awards in 1955. In spite of being a business disappointment at the season of its unique discharge, it has gained faction status throughout the years, and is viewed as a critical film in Tamil film. In 2013, "Andha Naal" was incorporated into CNN-News18's rundown of the "100 Greatest Indian Films of All Time". 

The evening of 11 October 1943, amid World War II, Japanese powers bomb the Indian city of Madras (presently Chennai). The following morning, Rajan, a radio specialist and interchanges scientist, is discovered shot dead by his own hand weapon in his home in Madras after his neighbor, Chinnaiya Pillai, having heard the discharge, gripes to the police. Purushothaman Naidu, a nearby police investigator, touches base at Rajan's home and begins exploring the demise. Wrongdoing Investigation Department (C.I.D.) Officer Sivanandam joins Naidu to help with the examination. Naidu recommends that the executioner could be a cheat who slaughtered Rajan for the cash found at the wrongdoing scene. Be that as it may, Sivanandam is unconvinced by Naidu's hypothesis in light of the fact that the measure of cash at the scene coordinates the withdrawal section in the bank passbook found in a similar room. Rajan was going to leave Madras fully expecting the bombings. 

The two policemen question five individuals in and around Rajan's home, a large portion of whom are his relatives or companions. The first to be addressed is Rajan's better half Usha, who is unfit to talk in light of her misery. Sivanandam and Naidu feel humiliated and are hesitant to scrutinize her further. They start cross examining Chinnaiya Pillai, who revealed the gunfire. Chinnaiya Pillai recommends that the executioner is likely Pattabi, Rajan's more youthful sibling, and reviews an encounter between them: Pattabi requested a lot of the family property yet Rajan denied his solicitation, feeling that he and his better half would waste it. Chinnaiya Pillai presumes this may have incited Pattabi to slaughter Rajan. 

Whenever Sivanandam and Naidu grill Pattabi, who feels regret for Rajan's demise, he concedes that he didn't treat his sibling great nor comprehend his well meaning plans. He describes an episode in which his better half Hema battled with Rajan on the grounds that he would not distribute the property. Pattabi states that Hema could have slaughtered Rajan for the cash as she loses her rational soundness when overwhelmed by annoyance. 

Sivanandam leaves Naidu to question Hema. She is at first impudent and will not give an announcement about the wrongdoing, however she later concurs when Sivanandam takes steps to capture her significant other. She uncovers Rajan's extramarital undertaking with Ambujam, an artist who is pregnant with his youngster. As Rajan treated the news with a foolhardy mentality, Hema recommends that Ambujam could have executed him. Whenever addressed, Ambujam blames Chinnaiya Pillai for killing Rajan, saying that Chinnaiya Pillai was her non-permanent dad and needed her to avoid Rajan after the three met amid an excursion. As their relationship proceeded, Chinnaiya Pillai wound up rankled and needed to end the issue. 

Sivanandam grills Usha, who discloses to him how she and Rajan experienced passionate feelings for. Sivanandam traps Usha into utilizing a flawed wellspring pen so as to gather her fingerprints. That night, he and Naidu meet the majority of the suspects at Rajan's home. Sivanandam does an activity in which the suspectsincluding Ushamust imagine he is Rajan and shoot him utilizing guns stacked with phony slugs. Chinnaiya Pillai, Pattabi and Hema shoot him as trained, however Usha neglects to do as such and begins sobbing uncontrollably. Sivanandam then requests to have Pattabi and Hema captured, until Usha uncovers reality: Rajan was a radio architect who needed to pitch radios to the poor at a reasonable cost. Unfit to get any help from the administration, he went to Japan where his work was valued. He turned into a covert operative pitching India's military privileged insights to Japan. Usha found out about this and attempted ineffectively to change him. She couldn't stop him and endeavored to shoot him. She altered her opinion however pulled the trigger coincidentally, executing him. Subsequent to uncovering reality, Usha ends it all. 

As indicated by Sundaram Balachander's better half Shanta Balachander, the chief had viewed Akira Kurosawa's "Rashomon" (1950) at a film celebration, was propelled by it, and composed a play in a similar account style, however the content was dismissed by All India Radio. Balachander later drew nearer A. V. Meiyappan, the author of AVM Productions, and portrayed the story for him. In spite of the fact that Meiyappan consented to deliver the story as a film, he was unconvinced with Balachander's concept of making it without melodies or tricks; nonetheless, he consented to back the undertaking since he preferred the story and confided in Balachander's ability. "Andha Naal" hence turned into the primary Tamil movie that did not have any tunes or move arrangements, and was the main movie coordinated by Balachander for AVM Productions. 

The job of the radio designer Rajan was at first given to S. V. Sahasranamam, who was expelled following a couple of long stretches of shooting on the grounds that Balachander and Meiyappan were not happy with his execution and felt he looked "excessively old" to assume the job. The producers at that point connected with newcomer N. Viswanathan, a Tamilian educator from Calcutta (presently Kolkata). At the point when the generation was part of the way through, Meiyappan was disappointed with his execution and needed to reshoot the film with Sivaji Ganesan. At the point when Balachander denied Meiyappan requested the creation controller Vasu Menon to settle Balachander's compensation duty and to bring the reels to be scorched before him. Balachander was stunned on hearing this and obliged to Meiyappan's desire. Since Meiyappan had presented Ganesan in "Parasakthi" (1952), he was quick to have him assume the lead job. At first, Balachander was reluctant to approach Ganesan on the grounds that he was uncertain whether he would consent to assume a negative job. In his personal history, Ganesan expressed that the film was nearly finished before he was drawn closer. He consented to be a piece of the film since he found the story intriguing and suspected that depicting an assortment of characters would intrigue the group of onlookers. In 2009, film history specialist Film News Anandan proposed that the achievement of "Thirumbi Paar" (1953), which included Ganesan as a wannabe, urged him to assume a comparable job in "Andha Naal". As per film history specialist Randor Guy, Rajan was one of the most punctual screw-up jobs in Tamil film. 

Ganesan at first requested a total of for the film, which Meiyappan couldn't bear to pay. He offered to pay him , which Ganesan declined. Balachander, notwithstanding, persuaded Ganesan that Meiyappan would pay him for consistently they shot the film. A hesitant Ganesan consented to this, trusting the undertaking would set aside a long effort to finish. However, regrettably, Balachander finished the shoot in 17 days. The screenplay and discourse were composed by Javar Seetharaman, who additionally showed up in the film as a C.I.D. officer, and gave the voiceover in the opening succession before Rajan is shot. It was Seetharaman's first coordinated effort with AVM Productions as a performer and discourse essayist. Pandari Bai was chosen to play Rajan's significant other, while Malayalam performing artist T. K. Balachandran, performing artists Suryakala and Menaka, and P. D. Sambandam shaped the remainder of the cast. 

V. Srinivasan – who later turned out to be famously known as Muktha Srinivasan – helped Balachander with the film. Cinematography was dealt with by S. Maruti Rao, and altering was finished by S. Surya. The foundation score was recorded by Saraswathy Stores Orchestra, AVM Productions' music troupe. Two Hindi melodies are utilized in the film in instrumental structure: "Yeh Zindagi Usi Ki Hai" from "Anarkali" (1953) and "Chup Khade Ho" from "Bari Behen" (1949). No credit for the story is given in the initial credits. "Andha Naal"s photography was uniquely not the same as most early Tamil movies. Rao utilized the "work of art with light" strategy, which catches the performing artists' shadows to pass on their "disposition and character". Its finished edition was shorter than most contemporaneous Tamil movies. 

Viewed as the main film noir in Tamil film, "Andha Naal" is set in World War II, amid the shelling of the Indian city of Madras by Japanese powers in 1943. The tale of the visually impaired men and an elephant is referenced in the story, when Sivanandam noticed how each speculate's record of Rajan's passing negates those of the others. 

Despite the fact that different sources, including Ganesan, have expressed that the movie was motivated by "Rashomon", Randor Guy noticed that this idea is mistaken, that "Andha Naal" was really adjusted from the 1950 British movie "The Woman in Question" coordinated by Anthony Asquith, and that there was just a "topical likeness" between "Andha Naal" and "Rashomon". Film columnist Jason P. Vest portrays the three movies as following a nonlinear story by showing veering records of a similar occurrence. Film antiquarian Swarnavel Eswaran Pillai takes note of that "Andha Naal" is inconsequential to "Rashomon" aside from its whodunit plot, where the executing is investigated utilizing different edges, and furthermore takes note of that, not at all like "Rashomon", "Andha Naal" closes with the riddle being fathomed. In the sentiment of B. Vijayakumar of "The Hindu", "Andha Naal" is the primary film noir made in South India. 

As per Ganesan, the principle topic of "Andha Naal" is nationalism; for him the film recommends that if a nation does not value its skilled young fellows' endeavors, they could betray the country. As to increasingly close to home feelings, Ganesan said that the film tells how joblessness and devastation can lead youngsters to progress toward becoming backstabbers. Rajan turns into a double crosser by pitching Indian mysteries to Japan since his thought was dismissed by the Indian government. As per Guy, "Andha Naal" reuses the topical line of the 1946 Tamil film "Chitra": "an individual sending mystery messages to the adversary through radio". Swarnavel Eswaran Pillai analyzed Pandari Bai's "ideologically determined" character Usha in the film to her character in "Parasakthi", yet in the previous, "it is the possibility of the Indian country that she promises her devotion to." "The Times of India" thought about "Andha Naal" to "Resident Kane" (1941) for its comparable lighting and camera points. 

The film utilizes a Tamil saying ""Kolaiyum Seival patthini"" (a righteous spouse may even slaughter her own better half) as a hint to the character of the guilty party. Usha is delineated as a prudent spouse and a loyalist who adores her nation. When she finds that her significant other has sold out India, she chooses to murder him. The jury of the second National Film Awards portrayed Naidu as a "faithful" officer, and Sivanandam as a "splendid, flighty yet not all that genuine" man. 

"Andha Naal" got a "U" (all inclusive) declaration by the Central Board of Film Certification after 14 cuts. It was discharged on 13 April 1954 on the eve of "Puthandu" (Tamil New Year). The film got basic approval upon discharge, however bombed financially as the gatherings of people were disillusioned over the nonattendance of tunes. In theaters, they were baffled after the principal scene when Ganesan's character is shot dead, and many even exited. Theater proprietors needed to convince them to watch the whole film. After its business disappointment, Meiyappan never again made a film without melody arrangements. The film was later re-discharged subsequent to winning the Certificate of Merit for the Second Best Feature Film in Tamil at the second National Film Awards (1955), and turned into a film industry achievement. Moser Baer and AP International have discharged the film on home video. 

Notwithstanding its National Film Award win, the film won a Best Film Award from the Madras Filmfans' Association in 1955. Contemporary pundits praised Meiyappan and Balachander for the exploratory film. While Ganesan's job as a wannabe won him basic recognition, numerous pundits felt that Pandari Bai's job as the devoted spouse dominated his execution. Numerous contemporary commentators anticipated that the film should be a pioneer, yet it neglected to motivate numerous specifically comparable movies in Tamil. Quite a long while later, Shanta reviewed that Balachander was not influenced by the film's disappointment as he might have been "pleased that he pulled it off", with faultfinders adulating the exhibitions of Ganesan, Pandari Bai and different on-screen characters. 

A contemporary survey from the Tamil month to month magazine "Kalaimanram" applauded AVM for curiosity and called "Andha Naal" a challenging endeavor. The Tamil week after week "Kumudam" (dated 1 May 1954) lauded Meiyappan for perceiving "youthful abilities" like Balachander and Seetharaman. Notwithstanding, the commentator censured AVM for not publicizing the film as a spine chiller; he attested that had the film been exposed in such way, the fans would not have been appalled by the nonattendance of tunes in the film. The commentator's decision was "Accomplishment of craftsmanship; disappointment of account". That month, a gathering was sorted out by the Film Fans Association in Madras to compliment Meiyappan, Balachander, the performing artists and the other group individuals. V. C. Gopalaratnam, the leader of the affiliation, lauded Meiyappan for his "spearheading soul" in delivering a film without melodies or moves. The Tamil magazine "Gundoosi" said that, for fans who were pondering whether there would be multi day when a shorter film without melodies and move would be created that had an account past the customary romantic tale, "That Day has come. Such a film of renaissance is "Andha Naal"". The essayist additionally refreshing Maruti Rao's cinematography and Meiyappan's brave exertion, and requested that fans bolster such a film on the off chance that they "truly need Tamil film to advance". "The Indian Express" applauded the content by Seetharaman, the exhibitions of Ganesan, Pandari Bai and Sambandam, the nonattendance of tunes and move, and inferred that the film was "momentous for some fine and unique thoughts in photography". 

In a June 2008 review, "The Times of India" gave the movie a rating of four out of five, and expressed that it had an "ageless vibe both as far as narrating and introduction." The analyst adulated Ganesan and Pandari Bai's exhibitions, and reasoned that Seetharaman's screenplay and Balachander's heading made "Andha Naal" one of the best Tamil movies to that point. Composing for "Deccan Chronicle" in September 2014, Logesh Balachandran called Pandari Bai's job as an enthusiastic lady in the film an "essential" one. 

The film has been portrayed by French film student of history Yves Thoraval as an insurgency in Tamil film for the nonappearance of melodies and moves. Despite the fact that generally overlooked at the season of its unique discharge, it has since accomplished religion status in Tamil film. Notwithstanding turning into an innovator for Tamil movies without tunes, it set a benchmark in Tamil film for noir-style lighting with a portion of its sensational successions. In 2001, writer S. Muthiah called "Andha Naal" the "best film" delivered by Meiyappan. He noticed that it "demonstrated that a tune and-danceless film could likewise be a hit." In July 2007 when S. R. Ashok Kumar of "The Hindu" approached eight Tamil movie chiefs for a rundown of their unequaled most loved Tamil movies, three of them—K. Balachander, Mani Ratnam and Ameer—named "Andha Naal". Malaysian writer Devika Bai, composing for the "New Straits Times", depicted "Andha Naal" as Balachander's "perfect work of art", and Balachander as "Tamil film's Father of Film Noir". 

The film is viewed by numerous commentators as Balachander's ideal. Energized by its basic achievement, Balachander proceeded to direct and act in a few additional movies of a similar type: "Avana Ivan" (1962), "Bommai" (1964) and "Nadu Iravil" (1965). "Andha Naal" motivated a few later whodunit films: including "Puthiya Paravai" (1964), "Kalangarai Vilakkam" (1965), "Sigappu Rojakkal" (1978), "Moodu Pani" (1980) and "Pulan Visaranai" (1990), and a few songless Tamil movies, for example, "Unnaipol Oruvan" (1965), "Kudisai" (1979), "Veedu" (1988) and "Uchi Veyil" (1990). Scientist and ethnographer Preeti Mudliar analyzed "Ratha Kanneer" (1954) to "Andha Naal" on the grounds that in the two movies, "the transgression of strangeness is [neutralised] by a modest Tamil lady, the righteous spouse". Executive Chimbu Deven recognized "Andha Naal" as an effect on his 2014 film "Oru Kanniyum Moonu Kalavaanikalum". 

"Andha Naal" was screened in the "Tamil Retrospective Section" of the fourteenth International Film Festival of India in 1991. In 2008, Randor Guy lauded it for "being the principal Tamil movie which had no move, melody or trick succession and for [Balachander]'s amazing bearing and fine exhibitions by Sivaji Ganesan and Pandari Bai". In March 2012, film antiquarian Mohan Raman told "The Times of India" that, being the primary film noir in Tamil film, it was "among the critical highly contrasting movies of yesteryear", alongside "Mayabazar" (1957) and "Uthama Puthiran" (1940). In a 2013 meeting with the Tamil magazine "Ananda Vikatan", Malayalam movie producer Adoor Gopalakrishnan recorded "Andha Naal" as one of his soonest top choices in Tamil film. In April 2013, "Andha Naal" was incorporated into CNN-News18's rundown of "100 biggest Indian movies ever". In mid-April 2014, it was screened at the Russian Cultural Center, Chennai, to check its jewel celebration commemoration. 

In March 2015, the Film Heritage Foundation reported that it would reestablish "Andha Naal" alongside a couple of other Indian movies from 1931 to 1965 as a piece of its rebuilding ventures being done in India and abroad. The Foundation expressed that it would not colourise any of the movies as they ought to be "the manner in which the ace or the maker had seen it." Filmmaker Shivendra Singh Dungarpur additionally trusts that the film requires rebuilding on a "need premise". A 30-minute play adjustment of the movie was arranged in April 2016, coordinated by Balachander's child Raman. Another play adjustment, likewise coordinated by him, was organized the next year, on 13 April.