E. Urner Goodman 

Edward Urner Goodman (May 15, 1891 – March 13, 1980) was an 

persuasive pioneer in the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) development for a significant part of the twentieth century. Goodman was the national program executive from 1931 until 1951, amid the association's developmental long periods of huge development when the Cub Scouting and Exploring programs were set up. He built up the BSA's national instructional hub in the mid 1930s and was in charge of distribution of the generally read "Boy trooper Handbook" and other Scouting books, composing the "Pioneers Handbook" utilized by Scout pioneers in the United States amid the 1940s. During the 1950s, Goodman was Executive Director of Men's Work for the National Council of Churches in New York City and dynamic in chapel work. 

Goodman is best recalled today to have made the Order of the Arrow (OA), a well known and exceedingly fruitful program of the BSA that keeps on respecting Scouts for their happy administration. Since its establishing in 1915, the Order of the Arrow has developed to turn into an across the country program having a great many individuals, which perceives those Scouts who best represent the excellencies of bright administration, outdoors, and initiative by enrollment in BSA's respect society. Starting at 2007, the Order of the Arrow has in excess of 183,000 individuals. 

Goodman was brought up in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where his dad, George, was a printer and land operator. His mom, Ella, kicked the bucket of typhoid fever in mid 1895 when Goodman was only three years of age. He went to Central High School, graduating in 1909. He delighted recorded as a hard copy and started keeping a nitty gritty diary of every day exercises amid his senior year of secondary school, communicating his goals for the future alongside periodic questions. With a few colleagues, he started an abstract club and distributed a bulletin, "The Inkstand". He likewise demonstrated enthusiasm for music, playing the piano and violin, and formed a tune for his secondary school senior class. When it was not chosen by the class officers, he wrote in his diary of his mistake. 

Goodman likewise took an early enthusiasm for chapel exercises as an adolescent, taking part in a young men's fraternity gathering and Sunday school and turning into an individual from Tioga Presbyterian Church at age 14, an occasion he portrayed as "the most vital advance I at any point took or ever will take in my life." Just scarcely out of his teenagers, Goodman turned into a well known and profoundly regarded Sunday teacher and drove the Philadelphia section of a young fellows' gathering called the Brotherhood of Andrew and Philip. 

Trying to a profession in instruction, Goodman took a crack at the Philadelphia School of Pedagogy in 1911. He was chosen to be the initiation speaker at his graduation in 1913 and his location was entitled, "The Call to Teach". Goodman at that point graduated work in training at Temple University, while educating at the Potter School in Philadelphia. 

On June 18, 1920, Goodman wedded Louise Wynkoop Waygood, the little girl of a Presbyterian serve and a 1918 distinctions graduate of Swarthmore College. They had three youngsters: Theodore (brought into the world 1921), George (brought into the world 1923), and Lydia Ann (brought into the world 1927). He was an individual from Kiwanis, Rotary International, and a Freemason, joining Robert A. Lamberton Lodge No. 487, Free and Accepted Masons of Philadelphia on March 5, 1918. 

While concentrating for his degree in Education, Goodman originally wound up associated with Boy Scouting in 1911 when just 20 years of age, as a volunteer Scoutmaster of Troop 1, the main Scout troop in Philadelphia. To the extent can be built up, this would make him the second-most youthful Scoutmaster ever of BSA. In his four years as Scoutmaster, the troop developed to more than 100 Scouts. A contemporary of Goodman portrayed him in 1912 as "very much adored by the young men, makes the most of their certainty and is central core in this period of the work." In later years, he would review with wistfulness his troop, taking note of that prestigious author Albert Hay Malotte was "one of his young men" in Troop 1. In April 1915, he entered full-time proficient administration in Boy Scouting as a field official, serving that late spring as chief of the Philadelphia Scout Council's late spring camp. He was elevated in December 1917 to Scout official of the Philadelphia Council. 

Goodman's expert Scouting vocation was interfered with amid World War I, when he was drafted into the U.S. Armed force not long after his advancement to Scout official. He served in the infantry as a first lieutenant, yet his unit was never sent abroad. In December 1918, he was released from the Army and continued his expert vocation as Scout official in Philadelphia. He filled in as Scout official there until May 1927, when he was elevated to the bigger Chicago Area Council as Scout official (1927– 1931). Amid his four-year residency in the "Blustery City", he turned around a decrease in funds and expanded Scout participation from 11,806 to 16,920. 

On April 1, 1931, Goodman was advanced by Chief Scout Executive James E. West to wind up national program executive of the BSA, as a major aspect of a hierarchical rebuilding. Goodman was one of four division executives answering to West (different divisions were tasks, faculty, and business). As national program executive, he was in charge of expert and volunteer preparing, relations with supporting associations, advertising, and program improvement. The Cub Scouting and Exploring programs were set up under his initiative. He incredibly extended BSA preparing programs for grown-up pioneers, setting up the BSA's exceptionally respected national instructional hub at Schiff Scout Reservation in New Jersey in 1932 and, later, the preparation program at Philmont Scout Ranch, starting in 1938. He likewise managed the distribution of the "Boy trooper Handbook", altered by his great companion and partner William "Green Bar Bill" Hillcourt, just as the "Handbook for Scoutmasters" and the primary release of the broadly read "Scout Field Book". Goodman additionally composed the "Pioneer's Handbook", a key instructional guide for Scout pioneers. 

Toward the beginning of July 1937, the BSA held its first national Scout celebration in Washington, D. C., gone to by 25,000 Scouts and Scouters. Notwithstanding managing the inventive occasion itself, Goodman's advertising administration did yeoman work to guarantee broad news media inclusion. A celebration press tent suited 626 news media journalists, picture takers, and telecasters. Sixty-four news discharges were issued and the advertising administration aided the creation of 11 newsreels and 53 magazine articles. The three noteworthy U.S. radio systems of the time, NBC, CBS and Mutual, all set up total telecom studios close to the celebration central command to deliver practically 19 hours of live, nearby celebration inclusion communicate across the nation. Big names likewise visited the celebration, including surely understood telecaster Lowell Thomas and U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt. While at the celebration, Scouts likewise went to a three-amusement baseball arrangement between the Washington Senators and the Boston Red Sox at Griffith Stadium, with Goodman orchestrating Eagle Scouts to have a position of respect with President Roosevelt in the stands (imagined). 

In his thorough life story of E. Urner Goodman, Nelson Block composes that the shared regard among Goodman and West became over their 12 years of cooperating at the national BSA office: "West, the dedicated, conscientious official, came to depend on Goodman and his style of achieving huge things through tireless association and arranging, executed via deliberately selected staff...". 

At the point when the revered youth pioneer and long-term National Scout Commissioner Daniel Carter Beard kicked the bucket right away before his 91st birthday in June 1941, Goodman was chosen to be accountable for the dearest pioneer's burial service in Suffern, New York. An expected 2,000 people lined the memorial service course to the graveyard in Monsey, New York, where shaped a ceremonial group and helped with traffic control. 

As war mists cast an unfavorable shadow over Europe in the late 1930s in the midst of the ascent of despotism, West, Goodman, and other BSA pioneers thought about how Scouting may better train youth in law based standards of government. Alluding to the Nazi "Kristallnacht" frenzy against Jews in 1938, Goodman composed in the blink of an eye a short time later: "...the program of mistreatment has worked up our souls and psyches as nothing else that has occurred before has done. It has outfitted the catalyst of a rush of disdain against the malevolence; yet more than that, for a flood of fulfillment and thanksgiving concerning our very own more joyful state under a majority rules system." During World War II, different BSA programs were created under his authority in help of the country's war exertion, for example, the accumulation of scrap aluminum, tires, and waste paper for reusing into war material, conveyance of war bond and air strike blurbs, helping Civil Defense authorities, and planting of foods grown from the ground "triumph gardens". 

On September 16, 1951, Goodman resigned as national program executive, finishing an expert Scouting vocation crossing 36 years. He was given the title of National Field Scout Commissioner, to proceed with his administration to Scouting on the national dimension as a layman. 

As the Philadelphia Council's recently employed field official in 1915, one of Goodman's assignments was to fill in as executive of the committee's mid year camp at Treasure Island Scout Reservation on the Delaware River. He trusted that the mid year camp experience ought to accomplish something beyond show capability in Scoutcraft aptitudes; rather, the standards epitomized in the Scout Oath and Scout Law ought to progress toward becoming substances in the lives of Scouts. Alongside his associate camp executive, Carroll A. Edson, he began a trial program to perceive those Scouts best embodying those characteristics for instance to their companions. 

Goodman and Edson were emphatically affected by the utilization of American Indian culture by Ernest Thompson Seton in his Woodcraft Indians program. They chose to make their very own respect society at camp that late spring, in a way befitting a kid's advantage and comprehension. Goodman used the intrigue of Indian legend and acknowledgment by a Scout's friends as persuasive apparatuses. He conceived a program where troops picked, at the camp's decision, those young men from among their number who best exemplified the beliefs of Scouting. Those chosen were recognized as having shown, according to their individual Scouts, a soul of unselfish administration and fellowship. Edson helped Goodman inquire about the customs and language of the Lenni Lenape—otherwise called the Delaware—who had once occupied Treasure Island. 

The fellowship of Scout respect campers with its American Indian hints was a triumph and was rehashed the accompanying summer at Treasure Island. Those Scouts regarded at Treasure Island in 1915 and 1916 would in the long run become individuals from the Order of the Arrow's Unami Lodge. 

By 1921, Goodman had addressed Scout pioneers in encompassing states about the OA, and hotels were set up in a score of Scout boards in the upper east. In October 1921, he gathered the principal national gathering of what was then called the National Lodge of the Order of the Arrow in Philadelphia, and Goodman was chosen Grand Chieftain. Panels were composed to define a constitution, refine formal customs, devise symbol, and plan future improvement. Mirroring Goodman's continuous enthusiasm for music, he created the words to the Order of the Arrow's tune, "Firm Bound in Brotherhood", set to the mixing tune of a psalm found in the Presbyterian hymn book of the 1920s, "God the Omnipotent" in 11.10.11.9 meter, which was adjusted from the Russian national song of devotion, "God Save the Tsar!", made by Alexei Lvov in 1833. 

In the mid 1920s, many Scout administrators were incredulous of what they called "mystery camp brotherhoods". By September 1922, restriction to the Order of the Arrow was with the end goal that a formal goals contradicting "camp organizations" was proposed at a national gathering of Scout administrators. Goodman contended against the movement: "Utilizing the Scout standards as our extraordinary target", he stated, a camp action that will "further the progression of those beliefs" ought not be smothered. The movement was barely crushed, and the juvenile Order proceeded as an exploratory program all through the 1930s. 

Goodman kept up his dynamic help of the OA's National Lodge, as it was then called, amid his years as Scout official in Chicago and after that BSA national program chief. In recognition of the fifteenth commemoration of the fraternity's establishing, the National Lodge gave Goodman a decoration in 1930 formally remembering him as organizer. In 1940, the National Lodge gave him the principal Distinguished Service Award on the OA's 25th commemoration. The reference stated, to some extent, "As the author of the Order of the Arrow, through his capacity, astuteness, and premonition, his vision of administration to others was changed into a national respect fraternity which has been a positive impact in the lives of thousands of boys...". When he was first delegated as executive in 1931, there were OA holds up in seven percent of BSA boards across the nation. By 1948, around 66% of the BSA boards had set up OA lodges. In that year, three years before Goodman's retirement from the BSA, his "respect society of Scout outdoors" advancement was completely incorporated as an official piece of the Scouting program. Kenneth Davis, in his book "The Brotherhood of Cheerful Service: A History of the Order of the Arrow", presumes that the National Council's endorsement in 1948 "...was due to a great extent to his [Goodman's] individual endeavors and recommendation...". 

Throughout the decades since the Order of the Arrow's establishing, more than one million Scouts and Scouters have worn the OA band on their regalia, meaning enrollment in the Brotherhood of Cheerful Service. There are by and by 183,000 members of the Order of the Arrow in everything except two of BSA boards across the country. Abridging what he felt the request connoted, E. Urner Goodman wrote in the foreword to the "Request of the Arrow Handbook" from the point of view of in excess of 50 years after the fraternity's beginning: 

Following his retirement from expert Scouting, Goodman served the National Council of Churches (NCC) amid 1951– 1954 as the NCC's first broad chief of the "Joined Church Men", a laymen's program he framed to fortify men's connections to nearby houses of worship and their networks. Goodman freely initiated the laymen's gathering on October 7, 1951 in Cincinnati, Ohio. Before the finish of 1952, United Church Men divisions were framed in more than 24 states, giving budgetary help to NCC-partnered schools and teacher work. His new post involved working intimately with Eugene Carson Blake, NCC president (1954– 1957), and meeting much of the time with authorities of the taking an interest sections in the NCC. Talking with different men's congregation bunches in the U.S. what's more, abroad was, he trusted, a methods for advancing fellowship. Thinking about his NCC administration with these prominent church pioneers, Goodman said over 10 years after the fact, "Extraordinary confidence and gave administration, I am certain, are for customary people just as for the ministry. ... I have been favored to know some extraordinary ministers in my day ... in any case, I have likewise known and cherished some genuinely extraordinary laymen, men whose lives and works coordinated their confidence". Goodman resigned from his NCC post on September 1, 1954 due to tuberculosis. 

Keeping up his deep rooted enthusiasm for music, Goodman was dynamic in the Hymn Society of America (presently the Hymn Society in the United States and Canada) during the 1970s, and three songs he created were distributed: "Christ Calls Men", "As Within the Pillared Temple", and "O God of Love, Who Gavest Life". 

In 1965, Goodman expressed "The Building of a Life", an accumulation of memories describing a portion of his Scouting encounters and offering exhortation to young fellows. Summing up his years in Scouting and church work, he stated, "In the last examination, it is the things of the soul as opposed to material belongings that tally." Later that year, the Goodmans moved to the Penney Retirement Community at Penney Farms, Florida. Goodman at that point filled in as Director of Christian Education at Flagler Presbyterian Church in St. Augustine, Florida. 

In retirement, the Goodmans appreciated a rich family life, visiting regularly with child Theodore ("Ted") and his significant other Carol, and little girl Lydia ("Ann") and child in-law Bob. To his audacious joy, Urner and Louise Goodman had nine grandkids. Their child George was murdered in real life in France amid World War II, in any case. After hearing the news in December 1944, Goodman was profoundly lamented, and Louise, his better half of 60 years, said it was the main time she saw him cry. 

Albeit resigned, Goodman stayed dynamic arranged by the Arrow undertakings amid the 1970s. Acclaimed as an articulate speaker, his keynote addresses at the OA's biennial National Order of the Arrow Conferences apparently established an extraordinary connection upon his energetic groups of onlookers. Nelson Block writes in "A Thing of the Spirit", that even during the 1970s the octogenarian organizer "confused the nation to go to hotel and segment occasions... encompassed by youthful Arrowmen...witty and enchanting, keeping everybody captivated with his accounts." Displaying his self-expostulating humor, Goodman himself was progressively common pretty much the majority of the hero worship he got at OA social events, composing that, "to a considerable lot of the young fellows I was an exhibition hall piece. Actually I have been educated that there was impressive astonishment since I didn't stumble in on a stick and mutter in my dentures." But, he included, "I viewed them with profound feeling, for there was an otherworldly bond". 

Considering his vocation, Goodman said late throughout everyday life: 

He kept talking with OA individuals until quickly before his demise at age 88, when he surrendered to pneumonia on March 13, 1980, at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. He was covered at Penney Farms, Florida, on March 29, 1980. At his burial service, held at the Penney Memorial Church in Penney Farms, Goodman was praised by Executive Secretary of the Order of the Arrow William F. Downs: "The shake of [his] hand, earnestness of welcome, twinkle in the eye, grin and nobility promptly relayed...the feeling of certainty from the pioneer, so important to assemble cooperation. Urner made you feel imperative". 

Upon his retirement from full-time proficient Scouting in 1951, Goodman was granted a privileged Doctorate in Humanics from Missouri Valley College, the primary such degree granted by the school. He was additionally regarded in 1947 when he was made a privileged head of the Blackfoot Tribe of American Indians and given the name "Boss Eagle". 

In his memory, the BSA presents the E. Urner Goodman Camping Award, perceiving lodges that have exceeded expectations in the advancement of outdoors inside their host chamber. The Founder's Award is given by Order of the Arrow holds up out of appreciation for OA fellow benefactors Goodman and Edson. Up until 2004, the BSA controlled the E. Urner Goodman Scholarship Fund program, giving money related awards towards the school training of Arrowmen seeking to proficient Scouting professions.