Siward, Earl of Northumbria 

Siward ( or all the more as of late ) or Sigurd (, ) was an essential duke of eleventh century northern England. The Old Norse moniker "Digri" and its Latin interpretation "Grossus" ("the heavy") are given to him by close contemporary writings. Siward was most likely of Scandinavian cause, maybe a relative of Earl Ulf, and developed as a ground-breaking territorial strongman in England amid the rule of Cnut ("Canute the Great", 1016– 1035). Cnut was a Scandinavian ruler who vanquished England during the 1010s, and Siward was one of the numerous Scandinavians who came to England in the result of that victory. Siward thusly rose to move toward becoming sub-leader of the vast majority of northern England. From 1033 at the most recent Siward was responsible for southern Northumbria, that is, available day Yorkshire, overseeing as lord for Cnut's sake. 

He dug in his situation in northern England by wedding Ælfflæd, the little girl of Ealdred, Earl of Bamburgh. In the wake of murdering Ealdred's successor Eadulf in 1041, Siward dealt with all Northumbria. He applied his capacity in help of Cnut's successors, lords Harthacnut and Edward, helping them with imperative military guide and direction. He most likely overseen the center shires of Northampton and Huntingdon by the 1050s, and there is some proof that he spread Northumbrian control into Cumberland. In the mid 1050s Earl Siward betrayed the Scottish ruler Mac Bethad macintosh Findlaích ("Macbeth"). Regardless of the demise of his child Osbjorn, Siward vanquished Mac Bethad fighting in 1054. The greater part a thousand years after the fact the experience in Scotland earned him a spot in William Shakespeare's "Macbeth". Siward passed on in 1055, abandoning one child, Waltheof, who might in the long run prevail to Northumbria. St Olave's congregation in York and adjacent Heslington Hill are related with Siward. 

Source material on Siward's life and vocation is rare, and just a little and conceivably unrepresentative measure of data exists. No contemporary or close contemporary account has endure, and stories from around a great time, for example, the "Encomium Emmae" and the "Vita Ædwardi Regis" hardly notice him; students of history are in this manner subject to a couple of passages in the "Old English Saxon Chronicle" and similar Irish sources. Later Anglo-Norman narratives might be solid relying upon their source material, yet valuable ones incorporate the "Account" of John of Worcester (gathered somewhere in the range of 1124 and 1140), William of Malmesbury (composing between c. 1125 and 1142), Henry of Huntingdon (composing between c. 1133 and 1154), and Orderic Vitalis (composing between c. 1114 and 1141). Different sources incorporate the material ascribed to Symeon of Durham (ordered and composed as surviving between the late eleventh century and the principal half of the twelfth century). Unbelievable material, for example, that in hagiography or later medieval sources, for example, John of Fordun or Andrew of Wyntoun, isn't commonly viewed as valuable past its restricted potential for neatly protecting prior source material. 

Siward's vocation in northern England traversed the rules of four diverse rulers. It started amid the rule of Cnut, and kept going through those of Harold Harefoot and Harthacnut into the early long stretches of Edward the Confessor. Most imperative was the rule of Cnut, in which such a significant number of new political figures rose to control that a few students of history think it practically identical to the Norman triumph five decades later. These "new men" were military figures, for the most part with feeble genetic connects toward the West Saxon regal house that Cnut had ousted. As Cnut governed a few Scandinavian kingdoms notwithstanding England, control at the most abnormal amount was assigned to such strongmen. In England, it tumbled to a bunch of recently advanced "ealdormen" or "lords", who managed a shire or gathering of shires for the benefit of the ruler. Siward was, in the expressions of antiquarian Robin Fleming, "the third man in Cnut's new triumvirate of dukes", the other two being Godwine, Earl of Wessex and Leofwine, Earl of Mercia. 

Northern England in the eleventh century was a district very unmistakable from the remainder of the nation. The previous kingdom of Northumbria extended from the Humber and Mersey estuaries, northward to the Firth of Forth, where, passing the western Kingdom of Strathclyde, it met the Kingdom of Alba (Scotland). Northumbria had been joined with the West Saxon English kingdom just during the 950s, by King Eadred, and ensuing control was applied through the organization of somewhere around two ealdormen, one toward the north and one toward the south of the River Tees. The previous is related with the fortress of Bamburgh, while the last is related with the incomparable Roman city of York. It was a politically divided locale. The western part, from Lancashire to Cumberland, was vigorously settled by Norse-Gaels, while in the remainder of Northumbria English and Anglo-Scandinavian territorial magnates—thegns, holds and high-reeves—practiced a significant level of freedom from the ealdormen. One such precedent was the head honcho Thurbrand, a hold in Yorkshire, likely situated in Holderness, whose family were as often as possible inconsistent with the decision dukes at Bamburgh. 

Antiquarians by and large case Siward to be of Scandinavian birthplace, an end upheld by the "Vita Ædwardi Regis", which expresses that Siward was "[called] "Digri" in the Danish tongue" ("Danica lingua Digara"). Amazing material consolidated in the "Vita et passio Waldevi comitis" (or just "Vita Waldevi"), the hagiographic life story of Siward's child Waltheof, states that Siward was the child of a Scandinavian lord named Bjorn and gives a lineage guaranteeing that he was the relative of a polar bear, a typical bit of Germanic legends. 

Student of history Timothy Bolton has as of late contended that the similitudes between these lineages is proof of a mutual family custom between the relatives of Siward and Thorgil Sprakling. Bolton guessed that Siward's supposed dad Bjorn was most likely a verifiable figure, a sibling of Thorgil Sprakling. Siward would then have been first cousin to Earl Ulf, the duke of Denmark who wedded Cnut's sister Estrith and established the tradition of Danish rulers that in the long run succeeded Cnut's. Bolton contended that the Sprakling family had as of late ascended to noticeable quality in Scandinavia, as Siward's vocation in England was another sign of that family's accomplishment in Scandinavian legislative issues. 

The "Vita Waldevi" gives further incredible detail of Siward's voyage from Scandinavia to England. As indicated by the "Vita", Siward went through Orkney, slaughtering a monster there before proceeding onward to Northumbria. There he experienced another mythical serpent, before meeting an Oðinn-like elderly person on a slope, who gave him a raven standard and trained him to continue to London to get the support of the ruler of England. 

The accurate date and setting of Siward's entry in England are obscure, however the "Vita Waldevi" offers an amazing record. Contracts dating to 1019, 1024, 1032, 1033 and 1035 notice a "Si[ge]ward Minister", "the thegn Siward", however it is difficult to safely recognize any of these names with the man who progressed toward becoming Earl of Northumbria. The most punctual certain contemporary record of Siward happens in a sanction of King Cnut to Ælfric Puttoc, Archbishop of York, in 1033. This contract validation can be distinguished as Siward the duke since he is styled "dux" ("duke"). 

In spite of the fact that obviously Siward was duke by 1033, he may have accomplished the position to some degree prior. His antecedent Erik of Hlathir last showed up in the chronicled sources in 1023, leaving a ten-year hole amid which Siward could have taken the position. In spite of the fact that William of Malmesbury attested that Erik was driven back to Scandinavia, Scandinavian custom immovably kept up he kicked the bucket in England. Antiquarian William Kapelle trusted that Erik stopped to be lord in or not long after 1023, and that Carl child of Thurbrand was designated hold or high-reeve ("heahgerefa") for the ruler in Yorkshire. Carl held this position, it was contended, even after Siward was introduced as baron a couple of years after the fact, however from that point on he went about as a delegate to the lord instead of to the ruler. Richard Fletcher stayed rationalist on the point, despite the fact that he argueed that Erik more likely than not been dead by 1028. Timothy Bolton, despite the fact that dismissing Kapelle's contention concerning Carl child of Thurbrand, trusted Erik passed on c. 1023 and that the earldom may have stayed empty for a period. Bolton contended that Cnut left the earldom of Northumbria vacant and seems to have given it little consideration until the most recent long periods of his rule, and another northerner Ealdred child of Uhtred rose to control in the political vacuum. 

At the point when Cnut kicked the bucket in 1035, there were various opponent petitioners for his position of royalty. These incorporated his child Harthacnut, and the aristocrat Harold Harefoot, just as Alfred Ætheling and Edward (later, King Edward the Confessor), the ousted children of Æthelred the Unready. Confined in Scandinavia, Harthacnut was unfit to avert Harold Harefoot catching the crown for himself. Administering England from 1035, Harold kicked the bucket in 1040 similarly as Harthacnut was setting up an intrusion. Arriving not long after Harold's passing, Harthacnut reigned in England just two years before his own demise in 1042, a demise that prompted the tranquil progression of Edward. Straight to the point Barlow hypothesized on Siward's political position, speculating that amid these changes Siward accepted "a place of kind or judicious impartiality". 

Siward is found in 1038, as "Sywardus Comes" ("Earl Siward"), seeing a sanction of King Harthacnut to the Abbey of Bury St Edmunds. He saw an affirmation conceded by Harthacnut to Fécamp Abbey, somewhere in the range of 1040 and 1042, of a prior give made by Cnut. In 1042, he saw gives by Harthacnut to Abingdon Abbey and to Ælfwine, Bishop of Winchester. 

Siward was, at some stage, wedded to Ælfflæd, little girl of Ealdred II of Bamburgh, and granddaughter of Uhtred the Bold. The "Old English Saxon Chronicle" declares that, in 1041 Eadulf, Earl of Bamburgh, was "sold out" by King Harthacnut. The "double-crossing" appears to have been done by Siward; since when the "Libellus de Exordio" and different sources expound on a similar occasion, they state that Siward assaulted and slaughtered Eadulf. It was in this manner that Siward progressed toward becoming duke of all Northumbria, maybe the main individual to do as such since Uhtred the Bold. It is conceivable that Siward utilized Ælfflæd's genealogy to guarantee the earldom of Bamburgh for himself, despite the fact that it is hazy whether the marriage occurred previously or after Siward slaughtered Eadulf. Kapelle has brought up that no leader of Bamburgh after Uhtred is bore witness to at the English illustrious court, which he contended "must mean they were in rebellion" against the government, and that Siward's assault may in this way have been supported by a ruler wishing to pulverize a defiant or traitorous vassal. Siward anyway presumably had his own advantages as well. Executing Eadulf wiped out his primary adversary in the north, and the marriage related him with the group of Uhtred the Bold, and with Uhtred's enduring child Gospatric. 

There may regardless be an association between the homicide of Eadulf and occasions further south. For that year the "Account" of John of Worcester related that, in view of an assault on two of Harthacnut's assessment gatherers there, Siward partook in a backlash on the city and religious community of Worcester. Harthacnut ruled just one more year, biting the dust on 8 June 1042. He was prevailing by the banished English ætheling Edward. As a ætheling, an illustrious sovereign with a present or likely future case on the position of royalty, Edward seems to have been welcomed back by Harthacnut in 1041, serendipitously cover up the coming change in ruler. Edward was delegated ruler on Easter Day, 3 April 1043. 

Relations among Siward and King Edward seem to have been great. Neither Siward nor any partners of Siward were rebuffed by Edward in later years. Truth be told, Siward seems to have been a standout amongst Edward's most dominant supporters. On 16 November 1043, Siward, alongside Earls Godwine of Wessex and Leofric of Mercia, walked with King Edward against his mom, Queen Emma, helping the lord to deny the ruler of her colossal treasury. Edward at that point blamed Emma for injustice and removed Stigand, Bishop of Elmham, from his position "since he was nearest to his mom's direction". 

The Norman disseminator and history specialist, William of Poitiers, asserted that Siward was among the individuals who had making a solemn vow to maintain Edward the Confessor's supposed statement that William, Duke of Normandy (later King William I), was to be his beneficiary. Others said to have made that promise were Earls Godwine of Wessex and Leofric of Mercia, alongside Stigand, who had been absolved in 1044, and raised to Bishop of Winchester in 1047. On the off chance that this happened, it was likely amid or a little before spring 1051, when Robert, Archbishop of Canterbury, was venturing to Rome for his pallium. 

In 1051 Siward, alongside Earls Leofric and Ralph the Timid, activated powers with regards to the ruler against an insubordination by Earl Godwine and his children. The "Old English Saxon Chronicle" relates that in spite of the fact that Siward needed to call up fortifications, King Edward was fruitful and Earl Godwine was incidentally ousted. Lord Godwine remained a danger in a state of banishment, and the proceeded "contentious help" of Siward and Leofric was in this way imperative to King Edward's security. It was obviously, notwithstanding, the hesitance of these two barons to battle Earl Godwine that added to Godwine's re-foundation in England in 1052. 

There is proof to propose that Siward broadened his capacity southward, bringing the shire of Northampton into his control during the 1040s and the shire of Huntingdon during the 1050s. The proof originates from illustrious writs routed to Siward as duke in these shires. Siward's forerunners as lord in these regions were different Scandinavians, Thuri and Bjorn child of Earl Ulf; the previous was styled "baron of the Midlanders" ("comes mediterraneorum"), demonstrating that this earldom spoke to the before nation of the Middle Angles of Mercia. It was this region, instead of Northumbria, to which Siward's relatives were generally connected. 

In like manner, it has been contended that Siward brought Cumberland, thought by certain history specialists to have been lost to Strathclyde, back under Northumbrian lordship. The proof originates from an archive referred to history specialists as "Gospatric's Writ". This is a composed guidance, issued either by the future Gospatric, Earl of Northumbria, or Gospatric, child of Earl Uhtred, that was routed to all Gospatric's related and to the notables abiding in the "every one of the grounds that were Cumbrian" ("on eallun þam landann þeo Cōmbres"); it requested that one Thorfinn macintosh Thore be free no matter what ("þ Thorfynn macintosh Thore beo swa freo in eallan ðynges") in Allerdale, and that no man is to break the harmony which was given by Gospatric and Earl Siward. Students of history, for example, Charles Phythian-Adams trusted that such diction showed that Siward vanquished the area from its past rulers, in spite of the fact that others, as William Kapelle, trusted that the district had come, were it at any point lost, once more into English power before Siward's time. 

A little can be said about Siward's relations with the Northumbrian church, specifically concerning his relations with Durham. Because of Siward's marriage to Ælfflæd, Siward picked up ownership of a gathering of bequests in Teesside guaranteed by the ministers of Durham. Securing of these bequests may have brought resistance from the Bishop of Durham, yet Æthelric the officeholder had been ousted by the ministry of Durham in either 1045 or 1046 and, as per the "Libellus de Exordio", just returned by fixing Siward. As indicated by the "Libellus", the ministry were "alarmed and overpowered by the frightful intensity of the lord" and "were constrained helter skelter to be accommodated to the minister, and to concede him into his episcopal see". Regardless of this, Siward got away rebuke in the works of later Durham priests, something which recommends relations among Siward and Durham were most likely great all in all. 

Siward can be found seeing various sanctions amid Edward's rule, however not the same number of as the Godwinsons; Siward generally comes third in arrangements of barons, behind Godwine and Leofric yet in front of Godwine's children and different dukes. He saw somewhere around seven, perhaps nine, surviving contracts in 1044, six or seven of every 1045, two out of 1046, one out of 1048 and one of every 1049. A "Dux" ("duke") named Sihroþ and Sihroð saw two sanctions in 1050, and this might be Siward. There is another verification in 1050, and his name shows up in two questionable observer records joined to sanctions dating to 1052 and 1054. Conceivably Siward's last recorded appearance in English authoritative reports is in the understanding made—most likely at Lincoln—between Wulfwig, Bishop of Dorchester, and Earl Leofric, dating to somewhere in the range of 1053 and 1055. 

Siward is maybe most renowned for his undertaking in 1054 against Macbeth, King of Scotland, a campaign that cost Siward his oldest child, Osbjorn. The starting point of Siward's contention with the Scots is vague. As indicated by the "Libellus de Exordio", in 1039 or 1040, the Scottish lord Donnchad macintosh Crínáin assaulted northern Northumbria and blockaded Durham. Inside a year, Mac Bethad had removed and murdered Donnchad. The fizzled attack happened a year prior Siward assaulted and slaughtered Earl Eadulf of Bamburgh, and however no association between the two occasions is clear all things considered, they were connected. 

The "Records of Lindisfarne and Durham", written in the mid twelfth century, relate under the year 1046 that "Lord Siward with an extraordinary armed force came to Scotland, and removed ruler Mac Bethad, and named another; however after his takeoff Mac Bethad recuperated his kingdom". History specialist William Kapelle believed this was a veritable occasion of the 1040s, identified with the "Chronicles of Tigernach" section for 1045 that announced a "fight between the Scots" which prompted the passing of Crínán of Dunkeld, Donnchad's dad; Kapelle felt that Siward had attempted to put Crínán's child and Donnchad's sibling Maldred on the Scottish position of royalty. Another student of history, Alex Woolf, contended that the "Records of Lindisfarne and Durham" section was most likely alluding to the intrusion of Siward in 1054, yet lost under 1046. 

Amid the intrusion of 1054, a fight was battled some place in Scotland north of the Firth of Forth, a fight referred to differently as the "Skirmish of the Seven Sleepers" or the "Clash of Dunsinane". The convention that the fight really occurred at Dunsinane has its roots in later medieval legend. The most punctual notice of Dunsinane as the area of the fight is in the mid fifteenth century by Andrew of Wyntoun. 

The soonest contemporary English record of the fight is found in the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", recension D: 

The fight is referenced in the Irish archives as well, quickly in the "Chronicles of Tigernach" and all the more widely in the "Records of Ulster": 

Dolfin is unidentified, yet may have been a connection of Mac Bethad's adversary Crínán of Dunkeld, on the premise that a portion of Crínán's relatives may have borne this name. 

The motivation behind Siward's intrusion is hazy, however it might be identified with the personality of the "Máel Coluim" (Malcolm) referenced in the sources. The mid twelfth century narrative ascribed to John of Worcester, likely utilizing a prior source, composed that Siward vanquished Mac Bethad and made "Máel Coluim, child of the lord of the Cumbrians" a ruler ("Malcolmum, regis Cumbrorum filium, ut rex jusserat, regem constituit"). The personality of Máel Coluim and the explanations behind Siward's assistance are disputable. The customary chronicled translation was that "Máel Coluim" is Máel Coluim macintosh Donnchada, referred to in some cases today as Malcolm III or Malcolm Canmore, and that Siward was endeavoring to remove Mac Bethad to support him. 

The conventional recorded elucidation that "Máel Coluim" is Máel Coluim macintosh Donnchada gets from the "Narrative" ascribed to the fourteenth century writer of Scotland, John of Fordun, just as from prior sources, for example, William of Malmesbury. The last announced that Mac Bethad was murdered in the fight by Siward, yet it is realized that Mac Bethad outlasted Siward by two years. A. A. M. Duncan contended in 2002 that, utilizing the "Old English Saxon Chronicle" passage as their source, later journalists honestly misidentified Máel Coluim "child of the lord of the Cumbrians" with the later Scottish ruler of a similar name. Duncan's contention has been bolstered by a few resulting students of history spend significant time in the period, for example, Richard Oram, Dauvit Broun and Alex Woolf. It has additionally been proposed that Máel Coluim may have been a child of the Strathclyde British lord Owain Foel, maybe by a girl of Máel Coluim II, King of Scotland. 

Duncan in reality trusts that the Battle of the Seven Sleepers did not lead legitimately to a difference in authority in the Kingdom of Scotland. It has been recommended that the central result of Siward's campaign was not the oust of Mac Bethad, yet the exchange of A british area—maybe beforehand lying under Scottish suzerainty—to Northumbrian overlordship. Alex Woolf has set that, in such a specific situation, Máel Coluim may have been a malcontented Cumbrian ruler who had been compelled to "put himself under English security". Proof for Northumbrian control of Strathclyde in this period incorporates eleventh century Northumbrian workmanship found at the site of Glasgow Cathedral just as mid twelfth century claims from the archbishopric of York that Archbishop Cynesige (1051– 1060) had blessed two Bishops of Glasgow. 

The twelfth century history specialist, Henry of Huntingdon, in his "Historia Anglorum", relates that when Siward was assaulted by diarrhea, dreading to kick the bucket "like a bovine" and wishing rather beyond words a warrior, he dressed himself in protection and took to hand a hatchet and shield. Praised in such a way, Siward kicked the bucket. This account is of suspicious accuracy, and is believed to be gotten from the adventure gave to Earl Siward, presently lost. The "Vita Ædwardi Regis" states that Siward passed on at York and was covered in "the cloister of St Olaf" at Galmanho, a case affirmed by the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle", John of Worcester, and the "Historia Regum". 

Material consolidated in two enduring sources is thought by some to validate the presence of a lost adventure or some other sort of artistic custom concerning Siward's life. The main source is the "Vita et Passio Waldevi", a hagiographic history of Siward's faction moving child Waltheof. This content contains a record of Waltheof's fatherly inception, and in the process describes certain undertakings of his dad Siward . The second significant observer of the convention is Henry of Huntingdon's "Historia Anglorum", which contains concentrates of adventure like material identifying with Siward's intrusion of Scotland (1054) and his demise (1055). The Anglo-Saxonist Frank Stenton pronounced that Siward was "not a statesman, yet a Danish warrior of the crude kind". Scholars in the 50 years after his passing recollected Siward as a solid ruler who brought harmony and stifled brigandage. 

Siward kicked the bucket over 10 years before the passing of Edward the Confessor, however in spite of this the "Domesday Book" recorded 4 estates, 3 in Yorkshire and 1 in Derbyshire, claimed legitimately by Earl Siward in 1066, every one of them along these lines held by Hugh d'Avranches, Earl of Chester. This land was expressed to have been worth £212, while his child Waltheof was said to have held £136 worth of land crosswise over 9 regions. Domesday records give an inadequate image of Siward's property. In all out it recorded property worth £348 for Siward and his child, which all alone would contrast inadequately and the £2493 in esteem recorded to have been held by the group of the barons of Mercia. Of the last mentioned, be that as it may, Morcar of Mercia, Earl of Northumbria upon the arrival of King Edward's demise, had land worth £968, while Tostig, banished lord at the time, had land worth £491; both may have come into ownership of a portion of Siward's property over the span of getting to be Earls of Northumbria. In addition, the provinces that would progress toward becoming Durham, Northumberland, Cumberland and Westmorland were to a great extent discarded from the study, while, other than being without a doubt, all around ineffectively archived, the grounds in Yorkshire had been seriously crushed and downgraded amid the Harrying of the North. 

Siward is said to have constructed a congregation devoted to St Olaf at Galmanho, York. The record of his entombment in this congregation is the main notice of a non-regal lay internment inside a congregation in pre-Norman England. Siward's Howe, "i.e.", Heslington Hill close York, was in all probability named after Earl Siward, albeit most likely on the grounds that Siward held prevalent courts there as opposed to in light of the fact that it was his entombment place. 

One of Siward's children is known to have endure him, Waltheof, whose mother was Ælfflæd. Waltheof later rose to be a lord in the East Midlands before getting to be Earl of Northumbria. At the point when Waltheof defied William the Conqueror, be that as it may, the demonstration prompted his execution and to his ensuing love as a holy person at Crowland Abbey. Waltheof's little girl wedded David I, King of the Scots, and through this association Siward wound up one of the numerous precursors of the later Scottish and British rulers. 

Other than Ælfflæd, Siward is known to have been hitched to a lady named Godgifu, who kicked the bucket before Siward. The marriage is known from a concede she made of an area around Stamford, Lincolnshire, to Peterborough Abbey. Albeit no enduring kids are verified, and no source expresses the name of Osbjorn's mom, this marriage has in any case raised the likelihood that Waltheof and Osbjorn were destined to various moms, and William Kapelle recommended that Siward may have initially expected Osbjorn to acquire his southern domains while Waltheof acquired those regions in the north connected with the group of his mom Ælfflæd.