Harvey Milk 

Harvey Bernard Milk (May 22, 1930 – November 27, 1978) was an American legislator and the main transparently gay chosen official ever of, where he was chosen to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors. Despite the fact that he was the most genius LGBT government official in the United States at the time, legislative issues and activism were not his initial advantages; he was neither open about his sexuality nor communally dynamic until he was 40, after his encounters in the counterculture development of the 1960s. 

In 1972, Milk moved from New York City to the Castro District of San Francisco in the midst of a relocation of gay and indiscriminate men. He exploited the becoming political and financial intensity of the area to advance his interests and ineffectively ran multiple times for political office. Milk's showy battles earned him expanding prominence, and in 1977 he won a seat as a city boss. His race was made conceivable by a key part of a move in San Francisco governmental issues. 

Milk served just about eleven months in office, amid which he supported a bill restricting segregation in open facilities, lodging, and work based on sexual introduction. The Supervisors passed the bill by a vote of 11-1 and was marked into law by Mayor Moscone. On November 27, 1978, Milk and Mayor George Moscone were killed by Dan White, who was another city administrator. White had as of late surrendered to seek after a private business undertaking, yet that attempt in the end fizzled and he looked to recover his old occupation. White was condemned to seven years in jail for murder, which was later diminished to five years. He was discharged in 1983 and ended it all via carbon monoxide inward breath two years after the fact. 

In spite of his short vocation in legislative issues, Milk turned into a symbol in San Francisco and a saint in the gay network. In 2002, Milk was classified "the most well known and most altogether open LGBT official at any point chose in the United States". Anne Kronenberg, his last battle chief, composed of him: "What set Harvey apart from you or me was that he was a visionary. He envisioned a noble world inside his head and afterward he set going to make it seriously, for us all." Milk was after death granted the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009. 

Milk was conceived in the New York City suburb of Woodmere, to William Milk and Minerva Karns. He was the more youthful child of Lithuanian Jewish guardians and the grandson of Morris Milk, a retail establishment proprietor who sorted out the primary synagogue in the region. As a youngster, Harvey was prodded for his distending ears, enormous nose, and larger than usual feet, and would in general catch eye as a class jokester. While he was in school, he played football and built up an enthusiasm for musical show. In his youngsters, he realized that he had gay propensities yet kept it a firmly watched mystery. "I can't give it a chance to out," he said. "It would execute my folks." Under his name in the secondary school yearbook, it read, "Glimpy Milk—and they state WOMEN are never speechless". 

Milk moved on from Bay Shore High School in Bay Shore, New York, in 1947 and went to New York State College for Teachers in Albany (presently the State University of New York at Albany) from 1947 to 1951, studying science. He likewise composed for the school paper. One colleague recollected that, "He was never thought of as a conceivable strange—that is the thing that you called them at that point—he was a's man". 

After graduation, Milk joined the United States Navy amid the Korean War. He served on board the submarine salvage transport as a plunging officer. He later exchanged to Naval Station, San Diego to fill in as a plunging teacher. In 1955, he was released from the Navy at the position of lieutenant, junior evaluation. 

Milk's initial vocation was set apart by regular changes; in later years he would take get a kick out of discussing his transformation from a white collar class Jewish kid. He started educating at George W. Hewlett High School on Long Island. In 1956, he met Joe Campbell, at the Jacob Riis Park shoreline, a well known area for gay men in Queens. Campbell was seven years more youthful than Milk, and Milk sought after him enthusiastically. Indeed, even after they moved in together, Milk composed Campbell sentimental notes and lyrics. Becoming exhausted with their New York lives, they chose to move to Dallas, Texas, yet they were despondent there and moved back to New York, where Milk found a new line of work as an actuarial analyst at a protection firm. Campbell and Milk isolated after just about six years; it would be his longest relationship. 

Milk attempted to keep his initial sentimental life separate from his family and work. By and by exhausted and single in New York, he thought of moving to Miami to wed a lesbian companion to "have a front and each would not impede the other". In any case, he chose to stay in New York, where he covertly sought after gay connections. In 1962 Milk wound up included with Craig Rodwell, who was 10 years more youthful. In spite of the fact that Milk sought Rodwell fervently, waking him each morning with a call and sending him notes, Milk was awkward with Rodwell's inclusion with the New York Mattachine Society, a gay-rights association. At the point when Rodwell was captured for strolling in Riis Park, and accused of prompting an uproar and with profane introduction (the law required men's bathing suits to stretch out from over the navel to underneath the thigh), he went through three days in prison. The relationship before long finished as Milk wound up frightened at Rodwell's propensity to foment the police. 

Milk suddenly quit functioning as a protection statistician and turned into a specialist at the Wall Street firm Bache and Company. He was much of the time elevated in spite of his propensity to affront the more seasoned individuals from the firm by disregarding their recommendation and parading his prosperity. In spite of the fact that he was talented at his specific type of employment, colleagues detected that Milk's heart was not in his work. He began a sentimental association with Jack Galen McKinley and enlisted him to take a shot at moderate Republican Barry Goldwater's 1964 presidential crusade. Their relationship was vexed. At the point when McKinley initially started his association with Milk in late 1964, McKinley was 16 years of age. He was inclined to gloom and now and again took steps to end it all if Milk did not indicate him enough consideration. To make a point to McKinley, Milk took him to the medical clinic where Milk's ex-darling, Joe Campbell, was himself recovering from a suicide endeavor, after his sweetheart Billy Sipple left him. Milk had stayed benevolent with Campbell, who had entered the vanguard workmanship scene in Greenwich Village, however Milk did not comprehend why Campbell's gloom was adequate reason to think about suicide as an alternative. 

Since the finish of World War II, the significant port city of San Francisco had been home to a sizable number of gay men who had been removed from the military and chose to remain as opposed to come back to the places where they grew up and face exclusion. By 1969 the Kinsey Institute trusted San Francisco had more gay individuals per capita than whatever other American city; when the National Institute of Mental Health requested that the Institute overview gay people, the Institute picked San Francisco as its core interest. Milk and McKinley were among the a great many gay men pulled in to San Francisco. McKinley was a phase administrator for Tom O'Horgan, an executive who began his vocation in test theater, yet before long graduated to a lot bigger Broadway creations. They touched base in 1969 with the Broadway visiting organization of "Hair". McKinley was offered an occupation in the New York City generation of "Jesus Christ Superstar", and their rough relationship reached an end. The city spoke to Milk so much that he chose to remain, working at a speculation firm. In 1970, progressively disappointed with the political atmosphere after the U.S. intrusion of Cambodia, Milk let his hair become long. At the point when advised to cut it, he cannot and was terminated. 

Milk floated from California to Texas to New York, without a solid employment or plan. In New York City he ended up included with O'Horgan's performance center organization as a "general helper", marking on as partner maker for "Lenny" and for Eve Merriam's "Inward City". The time he had gone through with the cast of bloom kids eroded quite a bit of Milk's conservatism. A contemporary "New York Times" anecdote about O'Horgan depicted Milk as "a tragic peered toward man—another maturing flower child with long, long hair, wearing blurred pants and pretty globules". Craig Rodwell read the portrayal of the once uneasy man and thought about whether it could be a similar individual. One of Milk's Wall Street companions stressed that he appeared to have no arrangement or future, yet recalled Milk's mentality: "I think he was more joyful than whenever I had ever observed him in all his years." 

Milk met Scott Smith, 18 years his lesser, and started another relationship. Milk and Smith came back to San Francisco, where they lived on cash they had spared. In March 1973, after a move of film Milk left at a nearby shop was demolished, he and Smith opened a camera store on Castro Street with their last $1,000. 

In the late 1960s, the Society for Individual Rights (SIR) and the Daughters of Bilitis (DOB) started to neutralize police oppression of gay bars and entanglement in San Francisco. Oral sex was as yet a lawful offense, and in 1970, almost 90 people in the city were captured for engaging in sexual relations in open parks during the evening. City hall leader Alioto requested that the police focus on the parks, trusting the choice would speak to the Archdiocese and his Catholic supporters. In 1971, 2,800 gay men were captured for open sex in San Francisco. By examination, New York City recorded just 63 captures for a similar offense that year. Any capture for an ethics charge required enlistment as a sex wrongdoer. 

Congressman Phillip Burton, Assemblyman Willie Brown, and other California legislators perceived the developing clout and association of gay people in the city, and sought their votes by going to gatherings of gay and lesbian associations. Dark colored pushed for sanctioning of sex between consenting grown-ups in 1969 however fizzled. SIR was additionally sought after by well known moderate Supervisor Dianne Feinstein in her offer to move toward becoming city hall leader, contradicting Alioto. Ex-policeman Richard Hongisto labored for a long time to change the preservationist perspectives on the San Francisco Police Department, and furthermore effectively spoke to the gay network, which reacted by raising critical assets for his battle for sheriff. In spite of the fact that Feinstein was fruitless, Hongisto's success in 1971 demonstrated the political clout of the gay network. 

SIR had turned out to be ground-breaking enough for political moving. In 1971 SIR individuals Jim Foster, Rick Stokes, and "Backer" distributer David Goodstein shaped the Alice B. Toklas Memorial Democratic Club, known as essentially "Alice". Alice got to know liberal government officials to induce them to support bills, demonstrating effective in 1972 when Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon got Feinstein's help for a law banning work separation based on sexual introduction. Alice picked Stokes to keep running for a moderately insignificant seat on the junior college board. In spite of the fact that Stokes got 45,000 votes, he was calm and unassuming, and did not win. Cultivate, in any case, shot to national noticeable quality by being the primary straightforwardly gay man to address a political tradition. His discourse at the 1972 Democratic National Convention guaranteed that his voice, as per San Francisco lawmakers, was the one to be heard when they needed the feelings, and particularly the votes, of the gay network. 

Milk turned out to be increasingly intrigued by political and urban issues when he was looked with city issues and arrangements he detested. One day in 1973, a state civil servant entered Milk's shop Castro Camera and educated him that he owed $100 as a store against state deals charge. Milk was skeptical and exchanged yells with the man about the privileges of entrepreneurs; after he whined for a considerable length of time at state workplaces, the store was diminished to $30. Milk seethed about government needs when an educator came into his store to get a projector in light of the fact that the gear in the schools did not work. Companions additionally recollect around a similar time controlling him from kicking the TV while Attorney General John N. Mitchell gave reliable "I don't review" answers amid the Watergate hearings. Milk chose that the time had come to keep running for city chief. He said later, "I at long last achieved the point where I realized I needed to wind up included or shut up". 

Milk got a frosty gathering from the gay political foundation in San Francisco. Jim Foster, who had by then been dynamic in gay governmental issues for a long time, loathed that the newcomer had requested his underwriting for a situation as lofty as city director. Cultivate told Milk, "There's a well-known axiom in the Democratic Party. You don't get the chance to move except if you set up the seats. I've never observed you set up the seats." Milk was irate that Foster had censured him for the position, and the discussion denoted the start of an opposing connection between the "Alice" Club and Harvey Milk. Some gay bar proprietors, as yet doing combating police provocation and discontent with what they saw as a hesitant methodology by Alice to set up expert in the city, chose to underwrite him. 

Milk had floated through life so far, however he discovered his employment, as per writer Frances FitzGerald, who considered him a "conceived legislator". At first, his freshness appeared. He attempted to manage without cash, backing, or staff, and rather depended on his message of sound money related administration, advancing people over vast enterprises and government. After one discussion, an adversary let him know, "you truly gotta change your rap; it's a killjoy." He upheld the revamping of boss decisions from a citywide vote to region votes, which was proposed to decrease the impact of cash and give neighborhoods more command over their delegates in regional government. He likewise kept running on a socially liberal stage, restricting government obstruction in private sexual issues and supporting the authorization of pot. Milk's searing, showy addresses and sharp media aptitudes earned him a lot of press amid the 1973 decision. He earned 16,900 votes—clearing the Castro District and other liberal neighborhoods and coming in tenth spot out of 32 candidates. Had the decisions been revamped to enable locale to choose their own bosses, he would have won. 

From right off the bat in his political vocation, Milk showed a partiality for structure alliances. The Teamsters needed to strike against lager wholesalers—Coors specifically—who wouldn't sign the association contract. A coordinator approached Milk for help with gay bars; consequently, Milk requested that the association contract progressively gay drivers. A couple of days after the fact, Milk solicited the gay bars in and encompassing the Castro District, encouraging them to will not sell the lager. With the assistance of an alliance of Arab and Chinese merchants the Teamsters had additionally selected, the blacklist was fruitful. Milk found a solid political partner in composed work, and it was around this time he started to style himself "The Mayor of Castro Street". As Castro Street's essence developed, so milked's notoriety. Tom O'Horgan commented, "Harvey consumed a large portion of his time on earth searching for a phase. On Castro Street he at long last discovered it." 

Strains were developing between the more established residents of the Most Holy Redeemer Parish and the gays who were entering the Castro District. In 1973, two gay men endeavored to open a classical shop, yet the Eureka Valley Merchants Association (EVMA) endeavored to keep them from getting a business permit. Milk and a couple of other gay entrepreneurs established the Castro Village Association, with Milk as the president. He frequently rehashed his rationality that gays should purchase from gay organizations. Milk sorted out the Castro Street Fair in 1974 to draw in more clients to the region. In excess of 5,000 visited, and a portion of the EVMA individuals were shocked; they accomplished more business at the Castro Street Fair than on any earlier day. 

In spite of the fact that he was a newcomer to the Castro District, Milk had appeared in the little network. He was beginning to be paid attention to as a hopeful and chose to run again for boss in 1975. He reevaluated his methodology and trim his long hair, swore off maryjane, and pledged never to visit another gay bathhouse again. Milk's crusading earned the help of the teamsters, firemen, and development associations. Castro Camera turned into the focal point of action in the area. Milk would frequently destroy individuals off the road to work his battles for him—many found later that they coincidentally was the sort of men Milk found appealing. 

Milk favored help for private companies and the development of neighborhoods. Since 1968, Mayor Alioto had been attracting huge organizations to the city regardless of what faultfinders marked "the Manhattanization of San Francisco". As hands on occupations were supplanted by the administration business, Alioto's debilitated political base considered new initiative to be casted a ballot into office in the city. George Moscone was chosen civic chairman. Moscone had been instrumental in revoking the homosexuality law prior that year in the California State Legislature. He recognized Milk's impact in his decision by visiting Milk's race night home office, expressing gratitude toward Milk actually, and offering him a situation as a city chief. Milk came in seventh spot in the decision, just a single position far from procuring a chief seat. Liberal legislators held the workplaces of the civic chairman, lead prosecutor, and sheriff. 

Notwithstanding the new administration in the city, there were as yet traditionalist fortresses. In one of Moscone's first goes about as civic chairman, he selected a police boss to the troubled San Francisco Police Department (SFPD). He picked Charles Gain, against the desires of the SFPD. The majority of the power disdained Gain for condemning the police in the press for racial inhumanity and liquor maltreatment at work, rather than working inside the direction structure to change mentalities. In response to popular demand of the civic chairman, Gain clarified that gay cops would be invited in the office; this wound up national news. Police under Gain communicated their scorn of him, and of the city hall leader for deceiving them. 

Staying faithful to his commitment to Milk, recently chosen Mayor George Moscone delegated him to the Board of Permit Appeals in 1976, making him the principal transparently gay city chief in the United States. Milk, in any case, considered looking for a situation in the California State Assembly. The region was weighted vigorously to support him, as quite a bit of it was situated in neighborhoods encompassing Castro Street, where Milk's sympathizers casted a ballot. In the past race for boss, Milk got a greater number of votes than the as of now situated assemblyman. Nonetheless, Moscone had made an arrangement with the gathering speaker that another competitor should run—Art Agnos. Besides, by request of the civic chairman, neither named nor chose authorities were permitted to run a crusade while playing out their obligations. 

Milk went through five weeks on the Board of Permit Appeals before Moscone was compelled to flame him when he declared he would keep running for the California State Assembly. Rick Stokes supplanted him. Milk's terminating, and the private cabin bargain made between Moscone, the get together speaker, and Agnos, filled his crusade as he assumed the personality of a political dark horse. He railed that high officers in the city and state governments were against him. He grumbled that the common gay political foundation, especially the Alice B. Toklas Memorial Democratic Club, were closing him out; he alluded to Jim Foster and Stokes as gay "Uncle Toms". He energetically grasped a nearby free week after week magazine's feature: "Harvey Milk versus The Machine". The Alice B. Toklas Club made no support in the essential — neither Milk nor Agnos — while other gay-adjusted clubs and gatherings embraced Agnos or did double supports. 

Milk's job as a delegate of San Francisco's gay network extended amid this period. On September 22, 1975, President Gerald Ford, while visiting San Francisco, strolled from his lodging to his vehicle. In the group, Sara Jane Moore raised a firearm to shoot him. A previous Marine who had been strolling by snatched her arm as the weapon released toward the asphalt. The spectator was Oliver "Bill" Sipple, who had left Milk's ex-darling Joe Campbell years prior, inciting Campbell's suicide endeavor. The national spotlight was on him right away. On mental handicap leave from the military, Sipple would not consider himself a saint and did not need his sexuality uncovered. Milk, in any case, exploited the chance to show his motivation that open impression of gay individuals would be improved on the off chance that they exposed the unadulterated truth. He told a companion: "It's too great a chance. For probably the first time we can demonstrate that gays do brave things, not simply all that ca-ca about attacking kids and hanging out in washrooms." Milk reached a newspaper.<ref name="latimes2/13/89">Morain, Dan (February 13, 1989). "Distress Trailed a Veteran Who Saved a President and afterward Was Cast in an Unwanted Spotlight", "The Los Angeles Times", p. 1.</ref> 

A few days after the fact Herb Caen, a journalist at "The San Francisco Chronicle", uncovered Sipple as gay and a companion of Milk's. The declaration was grabbed by national papers, and Milk's name was incorporated into a considerable lot of the tales. "Time" magazine named Milk as a pioneer in San Francisco's gay network. Sipple, be that as it may, was attacked by correspondents, similar to his family. His mom, a staunch Baptist in Detroit, presently wouldn't address him. Despite the fact that he had been included with the gay network for quite a long time, notwithstanding taking an interest in Gay Pride occasions, Sipple sued the "Narrative" for intrusion of security. President Ford sent Sipple a note of a debt of gratitude is in order for sparing his life. Milk said that Sipple's sexual introduction was the reason he gotten just a note, instead of a solicitation to the White House. 

Milk's proceeding with battle, keep running from the retail facade of Castro Camera, was an investigation in confusion. In spite of the fact that the more seasoned Irish grandmas and gay men who volunteered were ample and glad to convey mass mailings, Milk's notes and volunteer records were kept on scrap papers. Whenever the battle required assets, the cash originated from the money register with no thought for bookkeeping. The battle chief's collaborator was a 11-year-old neighborhood young lady. Milk himself was hyperactive and inclined to fabulous upheavals of temper, just to recoup rapidly and yell energetically about something different. A large number of his rages were aimed at his sweetheart, Scott Smith, who was getting to be disappointed with the man who was never again the laid-back radical he had begun to look all starry eyed at. 

On the off chance that the hopeful was hyper, he was likewise committed and loaded up with affableness, and he had a specific virtuoso for getting media consideration. He spent extended periods of time enrolling voters and shaking hands at transport stops and cinema lines. He accepted whatever open door tagged along to advance himself. He altogether delighted in battling, and his prosperity was obvious. With the substantial quantities of volunteers, he had handfuls at once remain along the bustling avenue of Market Street as human bulletins, holding "Milk for Assembly" signs while suburbanites crashed into the core of the city to work. He conveyed his battle writing anyplace he could, including among a standout amongst the most persuasive political gatherings in the city, the Peoples Temple, an association that Milk went to routinely. Milk's volunteers even took a huge number of leaflets and on the grounds that the Peoples Temple pioneer, Jim Jones, was a politically influential individual in San Francisco, Milk urged Temple individuals to work his telephones, talked at the Temple and later composed a letter to President Jimmy Carter guarding Jones' character. Milk's association with the Temple was not by any means like other legislators' in Northern California. As per "The San Francisco Examiner", Jones and his parishioners were a "strong political power", choosing Moscone (who named him to the Housing Authority), District Attorney Joseph Freitas, and Sheriff Richard Hongisto. (Jacobs, John [November 20, 1978]. "S.F's. Leaders Recall Jones the Politician", "The San Francisco Examiner", p. C.) Milk talked at the Temple ("Another Day of Death", "Time", December 11, 1978.) and shielded Jones in a letter to President Jimmy Carter in 1978. (In that letter he called Jones "a man of the most elevated character," and censured frank Temple deserters for endeavoring to "harm Rev. Jones' notoriety" with "evident undeniable deceptions".) (Coleman, Loren (2004), "The Copycat Effect", Simon and Schuster, p. 68.). In any case, When Milk learned Jones was backing both him and Art Agnos in 1976, he told companion Michael Wong, "Well screw him. I'll take his specialists, at the same time, that is the amusement Jim Jones plays." But to his volunteers, he stated: "Ensure you're constantly pleasant to the Peoples Temple. On the off chance that they request that you accomplish something, do it, and afterward send them a note expressing gratitude toward them for requesting that you do it." 

The race was close, and Milk lost by less than 4,000 votes. Agnos, be that as it may, trained Milk an important exercise when he condemned Milk's crusade discourses as "a downer ... You talk about how you're going to toss the bums out, however how are you going to fix things—other than beat me? You shouldn't leave your gathering of people on a down." In the wake of his misfortune, Milk, understanding that the Toklas Club could never bolster him politically, helped to establish the San Francisco Gay Democratic Club. 

The juvenile gay rights development presently couldn't seem to meet sorted out restriction in the U.S. In 1977 a couple of all around associated gay activists in Miami, Florida, had the capacity to pass a social equality statute that made separation dependent on sexual introduction unlawful in Dade County. An efficient gathering of moderate fundamentalist Christians reacted, headed by artist Anita Bryant. Their crusade was titled Save Our Children, and Bryant guaranteed the mandate encroached her entitlement to show her youngsters Biblical profound quality. Bryant and the battle assembled 64,000 marks to put the issue to an area wide vote. With assets brought up to a limited extent by the Florida Citrus Commission, for which Bryant was the representative, they ran TV promotions that differentiated the Orange Bowl Parade with San Francisco's Gay Freedom Day Parade, expressing that Dade County would be transformed into a "hotbed of homosexuality" where "men ... cut loose with young men". 

Jim Foster, at that point the most dominant political coordinator in San Francisco, went to Miami to help gay activists there as race day neared, and an across the nation blacklist of squeezed orange was sorted out. The message of the Save Our Children battle was powerful, and the outcome was a staggering annihilation for gay activists; in the biggest turnout in any unique decision in the historical backdrop of Dade County, 70% casted a ballot to rescind the law. 

Christian preservationists were propelled by their triumph, and saw an open door for another, powerful political reason. Gay activists were stunned to perceive how little help they got. An off the cuff showing of more than 3,000 Castro inhabitants framed the evening of the Dade County statute vote. Gay men and lesbians were at the same time furious, reciting "Out of the bars and into the avenues!", and elated at their enthusiastic and incredible reaction. "The San Francisco Examiner" detailed that individuals from the group hauled others out of bars along Castro and Polk Streets to "stunning" good wishes. Milk drove marchers that night on a five-mile (8 km) course through the city, always moving, mindful that on the off chance that they halted for a really long time there would be an uproar. He pronounced, "This is the intensity of the gay network. Anita will make a national gay force."<ref name="sfexam6/8/78">Sharpe, Ivan (June 8, 1977). "Furious Gays March Through S.F.", "The San Francisco Examiner", p. 1.</ref> Activists had brief period to recuperate, be that as it may, as the situation replayed itself when social equality laws were upset by voters in Saint Paul, Minnesota; Wichita, Kansas; and Eugene, Oregon, all through 1977 and into 1978. 

California State Senator John Briggs saw an open door in the Christian fundamentalists' crusade. He was wanting to be chosen legislative leader of California in 1978, and was awed with the voter turnout he found in Miami. At the point when Briggs came back to Sacramento, he composed a bill that would restrict gays and lesbians from educating in state funded schools all through California. Briggs guaranteed in private that he didn't have anything against gays, telling gay columnist Randy Shilts, "It's legislative issues. Just governmental issues." Random assaults on gays ascended in the Castro. At the point when the police reaction was viewed as deficient, gatherings of gays watched the area themselves, on alarm for assailants. On June 21, 1977, a gay man named Robert Hillsborough kicked the bucket from 15 cut injuries while his aggressors assembled around him and recited "Faggot!" Both Mayor Moscone and Hillsborough's mom accused Anita Bryant and John Briggs. Multi week before the episode, Briggs had held a question and answer session at San Francisco City Hall where he considered the city a "sexual rubbish pile" as a result of gay people. Weeks after the fact, 250,000 people went to the 1977 San Francisco Gay Freedom Day Parade, the biggest participation at any Gay Pride occasion to that point. 

In November 1976, voters in San Francisco chose to rearrange administrator decisions to pick chiefs from neighborhoods as opposed to voting in favor of them in citywide tallies. Harvey Milk immediately qualified as the main hopeful in District 5, encompassing Castro Street. 

Anita Bryant's open battle contradicting homosexuality and the numerous difficulties to gay rights mandates over the United States energized gay governmental issues in San Francisco. Seventeen applicants from the Castro District entered the following race for boss; the greater part of them were gay. "The New York Times" ran a report on the veritable attack of gay individuals into San Francisco, evaluating that the city's gay populace was somewhere in the range of 100,000 and 200,000 out of a complete 750,000.<ref name="Gold11/6/77">Gold, Herbert (November 6, 1977), "A Walk on San Francisco's Gay Side", "The New York Times", p. SM17.</ref> The Castro Village Association had developed to 90 businesses; the neighborhood bank, in the past the littlest branch in the city, had turned into the biggest and was compelled to fabricate a wing to suit its new clients. Milk biographer Randy Shilts noticed that "more extensive chronicled powers" were filling his battle. 

Milk's best rival was the tranquil and keen legal advisor Rick Stokes, who was upheld by the Alice B. Toklas Memorial Democratic Club. Feeds had been open about his homosexuality well before Milk had, and had encountered increasingly extreme treatment, once hospitalized and compelled to suffer electroshock treatment to 'fix' him. Milk, in any case, was increasingly expressive about the job of gay individuals and their issues in San Francisco governmental issues. Feeds was cited saying, "I'm only a representative who happens to be gay," and communicated the view that any typical individual could likewise be gay. Milk's differentiating populist logic was transferred to "The New York Times": "We don't need thoughtful dissidents, we need gays to speak to gays ... I speak to the gay road individuals—the 14-year-old runaway from San Antonio. We need to compensate for many long periods of abuse. We need to offer would like to that poor runaway child from San Antonio. They go to the bars since places of worship are unfriendly. They need trust! They need a bit of the pie!" 

Different causes were additionally critical to Milk: he advanced bigger and more affordable tyke care offices, free open transportation, and the improvement of a leading group of regular folks to administer the police. He progressed vital neighborhood issues at each chance. Milk utilized indistinguishable hyper battle strategies from in past races: human boards, long stretches of handshaking, and many addresses approaching gay individuals to have trust. This time, even "The San Francisco Chronicle" embraced him for manager. On race day, November 8, 1977, he won by 30% against sixteen different hopefuls, and after his triumph ended up evident, he landed on Castro Street on the back of his crusade administrator's cruiser—escorted by Sheriff Richard Hongisto—to what a news story depicted as a "wild and moving welcome". 

Milk had as of late taken another sweetheart, a young fellow named Jack Lira, who was every now and again flushed out in the open, and similarly as frequently escorted out of political occasions by Milk's assistants. Since the race for the California State Assembly, Milk had been getting progressively brutal demise dangers. Worried that his raised profile checked him as an objective for death, he recorded on tape his considerations, and whom he needed to succeed him on the off chance that he were executed, including: "If a shot ought to enter my cerebrum, let that slug annihilate each storage room entryway". 

Milk's swearing-in stood out as truly newsworthy, as he turned into the first non-occupant transparently gay man in the United States to win a decision for open office.<ref name="cone1/8/1978">Cone, Russ (January 8, 1978). "Feinstein Board President", "The San Francisco Examiner", p. 1.</ref> He compared himself to spearheading African American baseball player Jackie Robinson and strolled to City Hall affectionately intertwined with Jack Lira, expressing "You can remain around and toss blocks at Silly Hall or you can take it over. Indeed, here we are." The Castro District was by all account not the only neighborhood to elevate another person to city legislative issues. Sworn in with Milk were likewise a single parent (Carol Ruth Silver), a Chinese American (Gordon Lau), and an African American lady (Ella Hill Hutch)— all firsts for the city. Daniel White, a previous cop and fireman, was likewise a first-time administrator, and he talked about how pleased he was that his grandma had the capacity to see him sworn in.<ref name="nyt1/12/78">Ledbetter, Les (January 12, 1978). "San Francisco Legislators Meet in Diversity", "The New York Times", p. A14.</ref> 

Milk's vitality, fondness for tricking, and unusualness now and again exasperated Board of Supervisors President Dianne Feinstein. In his first gathering with Mayor Moscone, Milk considered himself the "number one ruler" and managed to Moscone that he would need to experience Milk rather than the Alice B. Toklas Memorial Democratic Club on the off chance that he needed the city's gay votes—a fourth of San Francisco's casting a ballot populace. Be that as it may, Milk likewise turned into Moscone's nearest partner on the Board of Supervisors. The greatest focuses of Milk's rage were substantial enterprises and land engineers. He smoldered when a parking structure was slated to replace homes close to the downtown region, and endeavored to pass a suburbanite charge so office laborers who lived outside the city and crashed into work would need to pay for city administrations they utilized. Milk was regularly ready to cast a ballot against Feinstein and other progressively tenured individuals from the board. In one contention from the get-go in his term, Milk concurred with individual Supervisor Dan White, whose locale was found two miles south of the Castro, that a psychological well-being office for harried young people ought not be put there. After Milk became familiar with the office, he chose to switch his vote, guaranteeing White's misfortune on the issue—an especially powerful reason that White supported while battling. White did not overlook it. He restricted each activity and issue Milk bolstered. 

Milk started his residency by supporting a social liberties charge that banned separation dependent on sexual introduction. The law was known as the "most stringent and incorporating in the country", and its passing illustrated "the developing political intensity of gay people", as per "The New York Times". Just Supervisor White casted a ballot against it; Mayor Moscone energetically marked it into law with a light blue pen that Milk had given him for the event. 

Another bill Milk focused on was intended to take care of the main issue as indicated by an ongoing citywide survey: hound fecal matter. Inside a month of being confirmed, he started to deal with a city law to require hound proprietors to scoop their pets' defecation. Named the "pooper scooper law", its approval by the Board of Supervisors was secured broadly by TV and papers in San Francisco. Anne Kronenberg, Milk's crusade director, called him "an ace at making sense of what might get him canvassed in the paper". He welcomed the press to Duboce Park to clarify why it was important, and keeping in mind that cameras were rolling, ventured in the culpable substance, apparently unintentionally. His staff members, nonetheless, realized he had been at the recreation center for an hour prior to the question and answer session searching for the perfect spot to stroll before the cameras. It earned him the most fan mail of his residency in governmental issues and went out on national news discharges. 

Milk had become worn out on Lira's drinking and considered parting ways with him when Lira called half a month later and requested Milk get back home. At the point when Milk arrived, he discovered Lira had hanged himself. Effectively inclined to serious wretchedness, Lira had endeavored suicide already. One of the longest notes he left for Milk demonstrated he was vexed about the Anita Bryant and John Briggs battles. 

John Briggs was compelled to drop out of the 1978 race for California senator, yet gotten excited help for Proposition 6, named the Briggs Initiative. The proposed law would have made terminating gay instructors—and any government funded school workers who upheld gay rights—compulsory. Briggs' messages supporting Proposition 6 were inescapable all through California, and Harvey Milk went to each occasion Briggs facilitated. Milk battled against the bill all through the state too, and swore that regardless of whether Briggs won California, he would not win San Francisco. In their various discussions, which around the end had been sharpened to speedy forward and backward exchange, Briggs kept up that gay educators needed to mishandle and enroll youngsters. Milk reacted with insights assembled by law implementation that gave proof that pedophiles distinguished principally as hetero, and expelled Briggs' attestations with joke jokes: "On the off chance that it were valid that youngsters mirrored their instructors, you'd beyond any doubt have a helluva parcel more nuns going around." 

Participation at Gay Pride walks amid the late spring of 1978 in Los Angeles and San Francisco swelled. An expected 250,000 to 375,000 went to San Francisco's Gay Freedom Day Parade; papers guaranteed the higher numbers were because of John Briggs. Coordinators requested that members convey signs demonstrating the places where they grew up for the cameras, to indicate how far individuals came to live in the Castro District. Milk rode in an open vehicle conveying a sign saying "I'm from Woodmere, N.Y." He gave an adaptation of what turned into his most popular discourse, the "Expectation Speech", that "The San Francisco Examiner" said "lighted the crowd":<ref name="jacobs6/27/78">Jacobs, John (June 26, 1978). "An Ecumenical Alliance on the Serious Side of 'Gay' ", "The San Francisco Examiner", p. 3.</ref> 

On this commemoration of Stonewall, I ask my gay sisters and siblings to make the promise to battle. For themselves, for their opportunity, for their country ... We won't win our rights by staying discreetly in our closets ... We are turning out to battle the untruths, the fantasies, the mutilations. We are turning out to educate the certainties regarding gays, for I am burnt out on the trick of quiet, so I'm going to discuss it. What's more, I need you to discuss it. You should turn out. Turn out to your folks, your relatives. 

Regardless of the misfortunes in fights for gay rights the nation over that year, he stayed hopeful, saying "Regardless of whether gays lose in these activities, individuals are as yet being instructed. Due to Anita Bryant and Dade County, the whole nation was instructed about homosexuality to a more prominent degree than any time in recent memory. The initial step is dependably antagonistic vibe, and after that you can take a seat and discussion about it." 

Refering to the potential encroachments on individual rights, previous legislative head of California Ronald Reagan voiced his restriction to the recommendation, as did Governor Jerry Brown and President Jimmy Carter, the last in an idea in retrospect following a discourse he gave in Sacramento. On November 7, 1978, the suggestion lost by in excess of a million votes, surprising gay activists on race night. In San Francisco, 75 percent casted a ballot against it. 

On November 10, 1978 (10 months after he was confirmed), White surrendered his situation on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, saying that his yearly pay of $9,600 was insufficient to help his family.<ref name="exam11/11/78">"Mayor Hunts a Successor for White", "The San Francisco Examiner", (November 11, 1978), p. 1.</ref> Within days, White mentioned that his acquiescence be pulled back and he be reestablished, and Mayor Moscone at first agreed.<ref name="nyt11/29/78">Ledbetter, Les (November 29, 1978). "2 Deaths Mourned by San Franciscans", "The New York Times", p. 1.</ref> However, further thought—and mediation by different directors—persuaded Moscone to name somebody more in accordance with the developing ethnic assorted variety of White's locale and the liberal leanings of the Board of Supervisors.<ref name="time12/11/78">"Another Day of Death", "Time", December 11, 1978. Recovered on September 6, 2008.</ref> 

On November 18 and 19, news broke of the mass suicide of 900 individuals from the Peoples Temple. The clique had moved from San Francisco to Guyana. California Representative Leo Ryan was in Jonestown to mind the remote network, and he was murdered by gunfire at an airstrip as he endeavored to get away from the strained circumstance. Dan White commented to two associates who were working for his reestablishment, "You see that? One day I'm on the first page and the following I'm cleared appropriate off." 

Moscone intended to report White's substitution on November 27, 1978. A half hour before the question and answer session, White stayed away from metal finders by entering City Hall through a cellar window and went to Moscone's office, where observes heard yelling pursued by shots. White shot Moscone in the shoulder and chest, at that point twice in the head.<ref name="nyt11/28/78">Turner, Wallace (November 28, 1978). "Suspect Sought Job", "The New York Times", p. 1.</ref> White at that point immediately strolled to his previous office, reloading his police-issue pistol with empty point projectiles en route, and blocked Milk, approaching him to venture inside for a minute. Dianne Feinstein heard discharges and called police, at that point discovered Milk face down on the floor, shot multiple times, incorporating twice in the head. Before long, she reported to the press, "Today San Francisco has encountered a twofold catastrophe of massive extents. As President of the Board of Supervisors, it is my obligation to illuminate you that both Mayor Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk have been shot and murdered, and the suspect is Supervisor Dan White." Milk was 48 years old. Moscone was 49. 

Inside 60 minutes, White called his significant other from an adjacent coffee shop; she met him at a congregation and was with him when he handed himself over. Numerous individuals left blooms on the means of City Hall, and that night 25,000 to 40,000 shaped an unconstrained candlelight walk from Castro Street to City Hall. The following day, the assortments of Moscone and Milk were conveyed to the City Hall rotunda where grievers offered their regards. Six thousand grievers went to an administration for Mayor Moscone at St. Mary's Cathedral. Two dedications were held for Milk; a little one at Temple Emanu-El and an increasingly uproarious one at the Opera House. 

In the wake of the Jonestown suicides, Moscone had as of late expanded security at City Hall. Faction survivors described drills for suicide arrangements that Jones had called "White Nights". Bits of gossip about the homicides of Moscone and Milk were filled by the fortuitous event of Dan White's name and Jones' suicide arrangements. A dazed District Attorney called the deaths so near the news about Jonestown "tremendous", however denied any association. Representative Jerry Brown arranged all banners in California to be flown at half staff, and considered Milk a "persevering and devoted administrator, a pioneer of San Francisco's gay network, who stayed faithful to his obligation to speak to every one of his constituents". President Jimmy Carter communicated his stun at the two killings and sent his sympathies. Speaker of the California Assembly Leo McCarthy called it "a crazy disaster". "A City in Agony" beat the features in "The San Francisco Examiner" the day after the homicides; inside the paper accounts of the deaths under the feature "Dark Monday" were printed consecutive with updates of bodies being sent home from Guyana. A publication depicting "A city with more trouble and depression in its heart than any city ought to need to hold up under" proceeded to ask how such catastrophes could happen, especially to "men of such warmth and vision and incredible energies". Dan White was accused of two tallies of homicide and held without safeguard, qualified for capital punishment attributable to the ongoing entry of a statewide suggestion that permitted demise or life in jail for the homicide of an open authority. One investigation of the months encompassing the killings called 1978 and 1979 "the most candidly crushing a long time in San Francisco's breathtakingly spotted history". 

The 32-year-old White, who had been in the Army amid the Vietnam War, had kept running on an extreme enemy of wrongdoing stage in his locale. Partners announced him a high-accomplishing "all-American kid". He was to have gotten an honor the following week for saving a lady and tyke from a 17-story consuming structure when he was a fireman in 1977. In spite of the fact that he was the main boss to cast a ballot against Milk's gay rights mandate prior that year, he had been cited as saying, "I regard the privileges surprisingly, including gays". Milk and White at first got along well. One of White's political assistants (who was gay) recollected, "Dan shared more for all intents and purpose with Harvey than he did with any other individual on the board". White had casted a ballot to help a middle for gay seniors, and to respect Phyllis Lyon and Del Martin's 25th commemoration and spearheading work. 

After Milk's vote in favor of the emotional well-being office in White's locale, be that as it may, White would not talk with Milk and spoke with just a single of Milk's associates. Different colleagues recalled White as exceptionally serious. "He was impulsive ... He was an incredibly aggressive man, fanatically so ... I figure he couldn't take rout," San Francisco's associate flame boss told correspondents. White's first crusade administrator quit amidst the battle, and told a correspondent that White was an egomaniac and obviously he was antigay, however he denied it in the press. White's partners and supporters depicted him "as a man with a pugilistic temper and an amazing limit with regards to sustaining resentment". The assistant who had taken care of interchanges among White and Milk talked, "to him, I understood that he saw Harvey Milk and George Moscone as speaking to every one of that wasn't right with the world". 

At the point when Milk's companions looked in his storeroom for a suit for his coffin, they figured out the amount he had been influenced by the ongoing diminishing in his pay as a manager. The majority of his garments were falling to pieces and the majority of his socks had openings. His remaining parts were incinerated and his powder were part. His dearest companions dissipated the vast majority of the fiery debris in San Francisco Bay. Different powder were exemplified and covered underneath the walkway before 575 Castro Street, where Castro Camera had been found. There is a dedication to Milk at the Neptune Society Columbarium, ground floor, San Francisco, California. Harry Britt, one of four individuals Milk recorded on his tape as a worthy substitution should he be killed, was picked to fill that situation by the city's acting civic chairman, Dianne Feinstein. 

Dan White's capture and preliminary drummed up some excitement and delineated serious strains between the liberal populace and the city police. The San Francisco Police were for the most part common laborers Irish relatives who strongly disdained the developing gay movement just as the liberal heading of the regional government. After White handed himself over and admitted, he sat in his cell while his previous partners on the police compel disclosed to Harvey Milk jokes; police straightforwardly wore "Free Dan White" T-shirts in the days after the homicide. An undersheriff for San Francisco later expressed: "The more I saw what went on at the correctional facility, the more I started to quit seeing what Dan White did as the demonstration of an individual and started to consider it to be a political demonstration in a political development." White demonstrated no regret for his activities, and showed weakness just amid an eight-minute call to his mom from prison. 

The jury for White's preliminary comprised of white working class San Franciscans who were for the most part Catholic; gays and ethnic minorities were pardoned from the jury pool. A portion of the individuals from the jury cried when they heard White's mournful recorded admission, toward the finish of which the examiner expressed gratitude toward White for his trustworthiness. White's protection lawyer, Doug Schmidt, contended that his customer was not in charge of his activities; Schmidt utilized the lawful safeguard known as reduced limit: "Great individuals, fine individuals, with fine foundations, essentially don't execute individuals without blinking." Schmidt endeavored to demonstrate that White's anguished mental state was a consequence of control by the politicos in City Hall who had reliably baffled and puzzled him, at long last encouraging to give his activity back just to deny him once more. Schmidt said that White's psychological disintegration was shown and exacerbated by his lousy nourishment gorge the night prior to the homicides, since he was typically known to have been wellbeing sustenance cognizant. Zone papers immediately named it the Twinkie protection. White was vindicated of the principal degree murder allegation on May 21, 1979, yet discovered liable of willful homicide of the two unfortunate casualties, and he was condemned to serve seven and 66% years. With the sentence decreased for time served and great conduct, he would be discharged in five. He cried when he heard the decision. 

Acting Mayor Feinstein, Supervisor Carol Ruth Silver, and Milk's successor Harry Britt censured the jury's choice. At the point when the decision was reported over the police radio, somebody sang "Danny Boy" on the police band. A flood of individuals from the Castro District strolled again to City Hall, reciting "Retaliate for Harvey Milk" and "He pulled off homicide". Disorder quickly raised as rocks were flung at the front entryways of the structure. Milk's companions and associates endeavored to stop the pulverization, however the horde of in excess of 3,000 disregarded them and lit squad cars ablaze. They pushed a consuming the broken entryways of City Hall, at that point cheered as the flares developed. One of the agitators reacted to a correspondent's inquiry concerning why they were devastating pieces of the city: "Simply tell individuals that we ate such a large number of Twinkies. That is the reason this is occurring." The head of police requested the police not to strike back, however to hold their ground. The White Night riots, as they wound up known, kept going a few hours. 

Later that night, a few police cruisers loaded up with officers wearing mob gear landed at the Elephant Walk Bar on Castro Street. Harvey Milk's protégé Cleve Jones and a journalist for the "San Francisco Chronicle", Warren Hinckle, looked as officers raged into the bar and started to beat benefactors at arbitrary. Following a 15-minute skirmish, they left the bar and struck out at individuals strolling along the road. The head of police at long last arranged the officers out of the area. Before breakfast, 61 cops and 100 agitators and gay inhabitants of the Castro had been hospitalized. City Hall, police cruisers, and the Elephant Walk Bar endured harms in overabundance of $1,000,000. 

After the decision, District Attorney Joseph Freitas confronted an angry gay network to clarify what had turned out badly. The investigator confessed to feeling frustrated about White before the preliminary, and fail to ask the cross examiner who had recorded White's admission (and who was a beloved companion of White's and his police softball crew mentor) about his inclinations and the help White got from the police since, he stated, he would not like to humiliate the criminologist before his family in court. Nor did Freitas question White's attitude or absence of a past filled with psychological instability, or bring into proof city legislative issues, proposing that vengeance may have been a rationale. Chief Carol Ruth Silver affirmed on the most recent day of the preliminary that White and Milk were not amicable, yet she had reached the investigator and demanded affirming. It was the main declaration the jury caught wind of their stressed relationship. Freitas accused the jury whom he asserted had been "taken in by the entire enthusiastic part of [the] preliminary". 

The killings of Milk and Moscone and White's preliminary changed city governmental issues and the California lawful framework. In 1980, San Francisco finished region administrator decisions, expecting that a Board of Supervisors so troublesome would be unsafe to the city and that they had been a factor in the deaths. A grassroots neighborhood exertion to reestablish locale races in the mid-1990s demonstrated effective, and the city came back to neighborhood agents in 2000. Because of Dan White's preliminary, California voters changed the law to lessen the probability of vindications of blamed who recognized what they were doing however asserted their ability was impeded. Reduced limit was nullified as a barrier to a charge, however courts permitted proof of it when choosing whether to imprison, submit, or generally rebuff an indicted litigant. The "Twinkie barrier" has entered American folklore, prominently portrayed as a situation where a killer escapes equity since he gorged on shoddy nourishment, streamlining White's absence of political sharp, his associations with George Moscone and Harvey Milk, and what "San Francisco Chronicle" writer Herb Caen depicted as pandemic police "abhorrence of gay people". 

Dan White served somewhat more than five years for the twofold crime of Moscone and Milk. On October 21, 1985 (18 months after his discharge from jail), White was discovered dead via carbon monoxide harming in a running vehicle in his ex's carport. He was 39 years old. His resistance lawyer told journalists that he had been down and out over the loss of his family, and the circumstance he had caused, including, "This was a wiped out man."<ref name="nyt10/22/85">Lindsey, Robert (October 22, 1985). "Dan White, Killer of San Francisco Mayor, a suicide", "The New York Times", p. A18.</ref> 

Milk's political vocation fixated on making government receptive to people, gay freedom, and the significance of neighborhoods to the city. At the beginning of each battle, an issue was added to Milk's open political reasoning. His 1973 crusade concentrated on the primary point, that as an entrepreneur in San Francisco—a city ruled by huge enterprises that had been sought by civil government—his interests were being ignored in light of the fact that he was not spoken to by an expansive money related organization. In spite of the fact that he didn't conceal the way that he was gay, it didn't turn into an issue until his race for the California State Assembly in 1976. It was conveyed to the fore in the chief race against Rick Stokes, as it was an expansion of his thoughts of individual opportunity. 

Milk emphatically trusted that areas advanced solidarity and a community experience, and that the Castro ought to give administrations to every one of its occupants. He restricted the end of a primary school; despite the fact that most gay individuals in the Castro did not have kids, Milk saw his neighborhood having the capacity to invite everybody. He advised his assistants to focus on fixing potholes and flaunted that 50 new stop signs had been introduced in District 5. Reacting to city occupants' biggest protest about living in San Francisco—hound dung—Milk made it a need to institute the mandate requiring hound proprietors to deal with their pets' droppings. Randy Shilts noticed, "some would guarantee Harvey was a communist or different sorts of ideologues, be that as it may, in actuality, Harvey's political theory was never more muddled than the issue of dogshit; government ought to tackle individuals' fundamental issues." 

Karen Foss, a correspondences educator at the University of New Mexico, characteristics Milk's effect on San Francisco governmental issues to the way that he was not normal for any other individual who had held open office in the city. She expresses, "Milk happened to be a very enthusiastic, magnetic figure with an adoration for showy behavior and nothing to lose ... Utilizing giggling, inversion, greatness, and his insider/outcast status, Milk made an atmosphere in which discourse on issues wound up conceivable. He additionally gave a way to coordinate the divergent voices of his different supporters." Milk had been a stirring speaker since he started crusading in 1973, and his rhetoric abilities just improved after he moved toward becoming City Supervisor. His most renowned ideas ended up known as the "Expectation Speech", which turned into a staple all through his political profession. It opened with a play on the allegation that gay individuals enroll receptive youth into their numbers: "My name is Harvey Milk—and I need to select you." A variant of the Hope Speech that he gave close to an incredible finish was considered by his companions and associates to be the best, and the end the best: 

Furthermore, the youthful gay individuals in the Altoona, Pennsylvanias and the Richmond, Minnesotas who are turning out and hear Anita Bryant in TV and her story. The main thing they need to anticipate is trust. Also, you need to give them trust. Trust in a superior world, trust in a superior tomorrow, trust in a superior spot to come to if the weights at home are excessively extraordinary. Expectation that all can't avoid being okay. Without expectation, gays, yet the blacks, the seniors, the disabled, the us'es, the us'es will surrender. Furthermore, on the off chance that you help choose to the focal advisory group and different workplaces, increasingly gay individuals, that gives a green light to all who feel disappointed, a green light to push ahead. It implies would like to a country that has surrendered, in such a case that a gay individual makes it, the entryways are available to everybody. 

In the most recent year of his life, Milk stressed that gay individuals ought to be progressively noticeable to end the segregation and viciousness against them. In spite of the fact that Milk had not turned out to his mom before her demise numerous prior years, in his last proclamation amid his taped forecast of his death, he encouraged others to do as such: 

I can't keep anybody from getting irate, or frantic, or disappointed. I can dare to dream that they'll transform that outrage and disappointment and frenzy into something positive, with the goal that two, three, four, five hundred will venture forward, so the gay specialists will turn out, the gay legal advisors, the gay judges, gay financiers, gay architects ... I trust that each expert gay will say 'enough', approach and tell everyone, wear a sign, let the world know. Possibly that will help. 

Be that as it may, Milk's death has progressed toward becoming weaved with his political viability, incompletely on the grounds that he was slaughtered at the apex of his fame. Student of history Neil Miller expresses, "No contemporary American gay pioneer still can't seem to accomplish in life the stature Milk found in death." His inheritance has turned out to be questionable; Randy Shilts finishes up his life story composing that Milk's prosperity, murder, and the unavoidable treachery of White's decision spoke to the experience of all gays. Milk's life was "a representation for the gay involvement in America". As indicated by Frances FitzGerald, Milk's legend has been unfit to be supported as nobody seemed ready to have his spot in the years after his demise: "The Castro considered him to be a saint however comprehended his affliction as an end as opposed to a start. He had kicked the bucket, and with him a lot of the Castro's hopefulness, optimism, and aspiration appeared to bite the dust also. The Castro could locate nobody to have his spot in its affections, and potentially needed nobody." On the twentieth commemoration of Milk's passing, student of history John D'Emilio stated, "The heritage that I figure he would need to be associated with is the basic to carry on with one's life consistently with trustworthiness." For a political profession so short, Cleve Jones ascribes more to his death than his life: "His homicide and the reaction to it made perpetual and irrefutable the full interest of gay and lesbian individuals in the political procedure." 

The City of San Francisco has paid tribute to Milk by naming a few areas after him. Where Market and Castro avenues converge in San Francisco flies a tremendous Gay Pride banner, arranged in Harvey Milk Plaza. The San Francisco Gay Democratic Club changed its name to the Harvey Milk Memorial Gay Democratic Club in 1978 (it is presently named the Harvey Milk Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Democratic Club) and flaunts that it is the biggest Democratic association in San Francisco. In New York City, Harvey Milk High School is a school program for in danger youth that focuses on the necessities of gay, lesbian, cross-sexual, and transgender understudies and works out of the Hetrick Martin Institute. 

In July 2016, US Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus prompted Congress that he planned to name the second ship of the Military Sealift Command's John Lewis-class oilers, USNS "Harvey Milk". All boats of the class are to be named after social liberties pioneers. 

In light of a grassroots exertion, in June 2018 the city committee of Portland, Oregon casted a ballot to rename a thirteen-square southwestern segment of Stark Street to Harvey Milk Street. The civic chairman, Ted Wheeler, announced that it "sends a flag that we are an open and an inviting and a comprehensive network". The road is situated in a region of the city's West side that is verifiably known as a nexus for Portland's LGTBQ+ people group and is the site of numerous gay bars and dance club. 

In 1982, independent correspondent Randy Shilts finished his first book: a history of Milk, titled "The Mayor of Castro Street". Shilts composed the book while unfit to get an unfaltering line of work as a straightforwardly gay columnist. "The Times of Harvey Milk", a narrative film dependent on the book's material, won the 1984 Academy Award for Documentary Feature. Chief Rob Epstein talked later concerning why he picked an amazing subject: "At the time, for those of us who lived in San Francisco, it had an inclination that it was extraordinary, that every one of the eyes of the world had arrived, however in actuality the greater part of the world outside of San Francisco had no clue. It was only a truly short, common, confined recent developments story that the city hall leader and a city gathering part in San Francisco were executed. It didn't have much resonation." 

Milk's life has been the subject of a melodic theater creation; an eponymous musical drama; a cantata; a kids' image book; a French-language authentic novel for youthful grown-up perusers; and the biopic "Milk", discharged in 2008 following 15 years really taking shape. The movie was coordinated by Gus Van Sant and featured Sean Penn as Milk and Josh Brolin as Dan White, and won two Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actor. It took two months to film, and frequently utilized additional items who had been available at the genuine occasions for vast group scenes, including a scene delineating Milk's "Expectation Speech" at the 1978 Gay Freedom Day Parade. 

Milk was incorporated into the ""Time" 100 Heroes and Icons of the twentieth Century" as "an image of what gays can achieve and the perils they face in doing as such". Regardless of his tricks and exposure stunts, as indicated by author John Cloud, "none seen how his open job could influence private lives superior to Milk ... [he] realized that the underlying driver of the gay dilemma was imperceptibility". "The Advocate" recorded Milk third in their "40 Heroes" of the twentieth century issue, citing Dianne Feinstein: "His homosexuality gave him an understanding into the scars which every single persecuted individuals wear. He trusted that no penance was too extraordinary a cost to pay for the reason for human rights." 

In August 2009, President Barack Obama after death granted Milk the Presidential Medal of Freedom for his commitment to the gay rights development expressing "he battled separation with visionary boldness and conviction". Milk's nephew Stuart acknowledged for his uncle. Not long after, Stuart helped to establish the Harvey Milk Foundation with Anne Kronenberg with the help of Desmond Tutu, co-beneficiary of 2009 Presidential Medal of Freedom and now an individual from the Foundation's Advisory Board. Later in the year, California senator Arnold Schwarzenegger assigned May 22 as "Harvey Milk Day", and enlisted Milk in the California Hall of Fame. 

Since 2003, the tale of Harvey Milk has been highlighted in three presentations made by the GLBT Historical Society, a San Francisco– based exhibition hall, chronicles, and research focus, to which the domain of Scott Smith gave Milk's own assets that were saved after his demise. On May 22, 2014, the United States Postal Service issued a postage stamp regarding Harvey Milk, the first transparently LGBT political authority to get this respect. The stamp includes a photograph taken before Milk's Castro Camera store and was uncovered on what might have been his 84th birthday celebration. 

Harry Britt condensed Milk's effect the night Milk was shot in 1978: "Regardless of what the world has shown us ourselves, we can be delightful and we can get our thing together ... Harvey was a prophet ... he lived by a vision ... Something exceptionally unique will occur in this city and it will have Harvey Milk's name on it." 

In 2012, Milk was enlisted into the Legacy Walk, an open air open presentation which observes LGBT history and individuals. 

In November 2017, plans were introduced for a ventured commemoration square in the Castro locale planned by American design firm Perkins Eastman.