Margaret Lea Houston 

Margaret Lea Houston (April 11, 1819 – December 3, 1867) was First Lady of the Republic of Texas amid her better half Sam Houston's second term as President of the Republic of Texas. They met following the first of his two non-back to back terms as the Republic's leader, and wedded when he was an agent in the Congress of the Republic of Texas. She was his third spouse, staying with him until his passing. 

She originated from an affectionate family in Alabama, a large number of whom additionally moved to Texas when she wedded the man who was a practiced government official in both Tennessee and Texas, and who had won the Battle of San Jacinto amid the Texas Revolution. The couple had eight kids, and she brought forth the majority of them while he was away taking care of legislative issues. Her mom Nancy Lea was a steady in their lives, assisting with the kids, dealing with the family unit help, and continually giving either money related help or impermanent lodging. With the assistance of her more distant family in Texas, Margaret persuaded her better half to surrender both liquor and profane language. He trusted his better half to be a commendable lady of confidence and, under her impact, changed over to the Baptist group, after he had numerous years sooner been submersed a Catholic in Nacogdoches, Texas. 

Following the Annexation of Texas to the United States, Sam Houston carried forward and backward to Washington, D.C. as the state's U.S. congressperson for a long time, while Margaret stayed in Texas bringing up their kids. When he was chosen the state's senator, Margaret turned out to be First Lady of the province of Texas and was pregnant with their last youngster. Her concise residency went ahead the cusp of the Civil War, when the state was destroyed over the discussion of whether to withdraw from the United States, while her significant other worked futile to crush the Texas Ordinance of Secession. There had been an attempt to kill he, and furious hordes accumulated in the avenues close to the representative's manor. With youngsters to ensure, and no administration security powers set up, she lived in dread for her family's wellbeing. 

Her better half was expelled from office by the Texas Secession Convention for declining to swear devotion to the Confederacy. Margaret turned into a war-time mother, whose oldest child joined the Confederate Army and was taken prisoner at the Battle of Shiloh. Her significant other kicked the bucket before the finish of the war. In her few outstanding years, she turned into the manager of the Sam Houston heritage and opened his records to a confided in biographer. When she passed on of yellow fever four and a half years after the fact, Margaret couldn't be covered with her significant other in an open burial ground in Huntsville inspired by a paranoid fear of pollution, and was rather entombed beside her mom on private property. 

Margaret Moffette Lea was conceived April 11, 1819, into a group of sincere Baptists in Perry County, Alabama. Her dad Temple Lea was a congregation elder and the state treasurer of the Alabama Baptist Convention, and her mom Nancy Moffette Lea was the main lady delegate at the tradition's development. Margaret was the fifth of six kids that included more established kin Martin, Varilla, Henry Clinton and Vernal, just as more youthful sister Antoinette. The Lea cotton manor had been obtained with cash from a Moffette family legacy, and was worked by Nancy. 

At the point when her dad kicked the bucket in 1834, she acquired four slaves, including Joshua and Eliza, her top choice. The more seasoned Lea kids had hitched before Temple's demise, however Vernal, Margaret and Antoinette went with the bereaved Nancy when she moved into her child Henry's home at Marion. He was a cultivated lawyer who sat on the sheets of instructive foundations, and would be chosen to the Alabama State Senate in 1836. Margaret was enlisted at Professor McLean's School, and furthermore went to Judson Female Institute. The last was established by Baptists to educate cultured young ladies in what were satisfactory objectives of their time and spot, "capability in embroidery, moving, drawing, and handwriting". Overwhelming accentuation was put on Baptist philosophy and evangelist work. She composed verse and read sentimental books, while additionally getting to be cultivated on guitar, harp and piano. Reverend Peter Crawford absolved her in the Siloam Baptist Church of Marion when she was 19, by which time the qualified young woman was considered "practiced, all around associated and profoundly religious". 

Sam Houston was a lawyer by calling and politically achieved even before he moved to Texas. In Tennessee, he had been both an individual from the United States House of Representatives and Governor. His military triumph at the Battle of San Jacinto raised him to saint status in Texas. In the wake of finishing his first term as President of the Republic of Texas toward the beginning of December 1838, he kept on specializing in legal matters from his office in Liberty. He touched base in Mobile, Alabama, in the early long stretches of 1839 as an accomplice of the Sabine City Company, looking for speculators to build up a network that is today known as Sabine Pass. Through Martin Lea, he made the colleague of Antoinette's significant other William Bledsoe, an affluent representative who thusly recommended Nancy Lea as a conceivable speculator. Welcome to a greenery enclosure party at Martin's home, it was there Houston previously wound up familiar with Margaret. The common fascination was momentary. 

Nancy was positively awed with Houston's territory attempt to sell something, yet not all that inspired with his enthusiasm for her girl. She and others in the family were worried about his notoriety for being a hard-drinking carouser with a proclivity for irreverence, who was 26 years more established than Margaret and twice wedded. Half a month of affection letters had been traded among Margaret and Houston when he proposed marriage that late spring of 1839, giving her his picture cut on an ornament. With an end goal to alleviate the family's restriction to the association, Houston went through a little while in the Lea home in Alabama. 

In September amid his nonattendance from Texas, his supporters in San Augustine County chose him to serve in the Republic of Texas House of Representatives. At the point when the couple's commitment was declared in papers, the Leas were by all account not the only ones who were distrustful. Associates in Texas were knowledgeable with his own history and mindful that he had not separated from the main spouse when he wedded once more, as of late getting that separate bearing in mind the end goal of wedding a Texas lady who, as it played out, rejected him for another suitor. Political buddy Barnard E. Honey bee Sr. endeavored to debilitate him from making a third endeavor at marriage, trusting him to be "completely precluded for residential bliss." 

As the day of their May 9, 1840, wedding drew nearer, some relatives still viewed Houston with vulnerability and were resolved to stop what they accepted would be a deplorable association for Margaret. She would not be prevented, nonetheless, and the Reverend Peter Crawford directed over the wedding of Margaret and the man with whom she had experienced passionate feelings for. The love birds went through their wedding trip week at the Lafayette Hotel before cruising to Galveston, where Nancy and the Bledsoes had effectively settled habitations. Houston held a house he possessed in the city named for him, yet Margaret had no preference for the rushing about and favored the lesser-populated Galveston. She and her own slaves, who had went with the love birds from Alabama, shared her mom's home while Houston voyaged. 

The prior year he met Margaret, Houston had acquired property at Cedar Point on Galveston Bay in Chambers County, which he named Raven Moor, and wanted to grow with pay from his law practice. The current two-room log dogtrot house with its separated slaves' quarters neglected Galveston Bay and turned into the love birds' first home, loaded up with both Margaret's own decorations from Alabama, just as fresher pieces. She renamed it Ben Lomond as a tip of the cap to the sentimental Walter Scott works she had perused, and appointed administration of the family unit to her mom Nancy. 

Amid his second term as delegate from San Augustine, Houston was chosen in 1841 to indeed fill in as the Republic's leader. Margaret hated crusade occasions and, surrendering her security, as often as possible remaining home while her better half gone about the Republic campaigning for votes. However, when she rose to the event, for example, the all-encompassing post-decision voyage through San Augustine County and triumph festivities in Washington County and Houston City, the open worshiped her, and she turned into a great political resource. She rode in a nearby presidential motorcade, yet remained home instead of movement to the initiation in Austin. At the point when the couple showed up at a few occasions in Nacogdoches, his old companions paid heed to his all out shirking of liquor, and he kept on guaranteeing her that he was surrendering it totally. He additionally started to tidy up his language to satisfy his new spouse, and would in the end guarantee to have dispensed with his irreverence inside and out. 

Roughly north of Ben Lomond, the Bledsoes worked a sugar stick manor at Grand Cane in Liberty County. Monetarily enhanced by Nancy, the ranch turned into a family assembling spot. About a year after Vernal and Mary Lea likewise moved there, Mary endured a pregnancy unnatural birth cycle. Not long from that point onward, the couple acknowledged trusteeship of a 7-year-old Galveston vagrant named Virginia Thorne, who was then set under the watchful eye of Nancy. It was a risky relationship from the earliest starting point, and would develop to have legitimate consequences for Margaret. 

Occasions paving the way to the 1842 Battle of Salado Creek made Houston trust that Mexico was arranging a full-scale attack to re-take Texas. Accordingly, he moved the Republic's capital more remote east to Washington-on-the-Brazos, and sent Margaret back to her relatives in Alabama. Upon her later return, they incidentally lived with the Lockhart family at Washington-on-the-Brazos until they had the capacity to procure a little home there. The couple's first tyke Sam Houston Jr. was conceived in the new house on May 25, 1843. After learning of her child Martin's passing in a duel, Nancy moved in with the Houstons, helping Margaret with the new infant, and over Houston's complaints, contributing with some monetary help for nourishment and family necessities. 

At the point when his presidential term finished on December 9, 1844, Houston directed his concentration toward the Raven Hill manor he had obtained that year northwest of Grand Cane and east of Huntsville. Margaret's slave Joshua was placed responsible for the carpentry to fabricate her another house. Nancy, Margaret and sister Antoinette gave their opportunity to exercises in Grand Cane's Concord Baptist Church, of which they were establishing individuals. She kept on being a spouse who was most joyful when she and her better half remained nearby to home. In spite of the fact that she went with him to President Andrew Jackson's Tennessee burial service in the mid year of 1845, she didn't go to fetes held in her significant other's respect by his old companions and supporters. Amid the last piece of the year, Antoinette's better half William kicked the bucket, pursued a couple of months after the fact by the passing of Vernal's significant other Mary. Before her demise, she had evoked a guarantee from Margaret to accept the trusteeship of Virginia Thorne. 

Texas authoritatively surrendered its sway on February 19, 1846, to turn into the 28th state in the association, and Houston was chosen by the Texas State Legislature to serve in the United States Senate. Margaret's pregnancy kept her from going with him, so when time and obligation allowed he went forward and backward among Texas and a transitory lodging living arrangement in the country's capital. At the point when Reverend George W. Samson initially met Houston at the E-Street Baptist Church in Washington, D.C., the congressperson disclosed to him that his participation had been impacted by "a standout amongst the best Christians on earth," his better half Margaret. For the term of his senatorial administration, Houston routinely went to the E-Street church, offering his better half's letters to Samson and digging into religious dialogs relating to Margaret's elucidation of sacred writings. 

Margaret's sister Antoinette ran off with affluent Galveston agent Charles Power in April and started another life on his sugar manor. Houston was home amid a Congressional break when their second youngster Nancy (Nannie) Elizabeth Houston was conceived at Raven Hill on September 6. About this time, in a letter to Houston that gave knowledge into Nancy's intense consistent nearness in their lives, Margaret yielded, "She is brave and a touch of oppressive, I admit ..." yet exhorted her significant other to simply surrender to the unimportant issues. Houston answered, "I adore the old Lady as a Mother, and have set out to concede to her age and her aura. Her blood is much similar to my own." 

Amid the early piece of 1847, Houston's letters to Margaret were loaded up with his exhaustion of being far from home, and his worry that he had no letters from her for a considerable length of time. He guaranteed that toward the finish of the current authoritative session, he would "... fly with all speed to meet and welcome my Love and grasp our little ones." When she at long last replied, she at first just let him know of a genuine disease that Sam Jr. had since recuperated from, despite the fact that he knew about past issues she had with a bosom protuberance. She had been encouraged to see a master in Memphis, Tennessee, if there was a repeat. At the point when entanglements showed up, family companion Dr. Ashbel Smith prescribed medical procedure in Texas; at exactly that point, did she illuminate her better half of the circumstance. Endless supply of her letter, Houston quickly left Washington, D.C. 

After his arrival home, Houston arranged a work swap game plan with Raven Hill's supervisor Captain Frank Hatch. In lieu of a money installment for his administrations, the greater part of Houston's slave work constrain was locked in to deal with Hatch's property at Bermuda Spring. The rest of the slaves were held as house work for Margaret. In the end, Houston turned into the proprietor of Bermuda Spring when he and Hatch swapped properties, and he set going to assemble the Woodland home for his significant other. The main kid to be conceived in the house was Margaret (Maggie) Lea Houston, touching base on April 13, 1848, while Congress was in session and Houston was in Washington. 

The bereaved Vernal remarried to Catherine Davis Goodall in 1849, however trusteeship of Virginia Thorne, at this point a youngster, stayed with Margaret. With the greater part of his time spent in the country's capital, Houston's impression of Thorne was fundamentally second-hand gleanings from Margaret's letters; yet, he hated and questioned the stranded young lady to the point where he dreaded for the wellbeing and security of his kids with her in the house. Fueling the circumstance was Margaret's objection to the relationship that the adolescent young lady created with regulator Thomas Gott. Push actually came to push amid an occurrence in which Margaret restrained her for what she accepted was harsh treatment of one of the kids. Thorne claimed that amid the following argument about the circumstance, Margaret had utilized dangers and physical brutality against her. After she ran off with Gott a month later, the couple documented threatening behavior charges against Margaret. At the point when a terrific jury examination brought about a gridlock, the issue was alluded to the nearby Baptist church that Margaret helped found, and she was vindicated of the charges. Houston came to trust that the recording of lawful charges against his better half had been energized by his political adversaries. 

Girl Mary William (Mary Willie) Houston was conceived on April 9, 1850, in the Woodland house, amid another Congressional session when Houston was in the country's capital. Their fourth youngster Antoinette (Nettie) Power Houston landed on January 20, 1852, while he was again away on an excursion for work. 

Numerous companions and colleagues came to visit the Houstons at Woodland, including individuals from the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe who had aligned with Houston amid the Texas Revolution; he consequently had helped them in their being allowed a booking in east Texas. All through the most recent long periods of his administration, Houston had endeavored various endeavors for the Republic to discover shared opinion with the different clans, attesting their entitlement to claim land. Numerous clans had come to regard him as their companion. 

Nancy moved southwest of Huntsville to Independence in 1852, and a great part of the rest of the Lea family started to shape its core in the Washington County people group. Antoinette and Charles Power were additionally living in Independence after their Galveston sugar ranch was destroyed by a typhoon. Siblings Vernal and Henry both passed on that year. The next year, Varilla's significant other Robertus Royston additionally kicked the bucket and she joined the remainder of the family in Independence. That August, the Houstons purchased a house close to the first Baylor University grounds in Independence. While Houston was taking care of business in Washington, their 6th youngster Andrew Jackson Houston was conceived on June 21, 1854. 

As required by Mexican government law for property possession in Coahuila y Tejas, Houston had been immersed into the Catholic confidence in the Adolphus Sterne House in Nacogdoches preceding Texas freedom. By 1854, when Houston disclosed to Reverend Samson he felt constrained to make an open calling of confidence, maybe on the floor of the United States Senate, Margaret and her family had gone through 14 years impacting her significant other's confidence. Eventually, he chose to make the calling among the individuals who realized him best in Texas. 

Word rapidly spread about Houston's up and coming open immersion, and onlookers made a trip from neighboring networks to observe the occasion. Reverend Rufus Columbus Burleson, the leader of Baylor University and nearby church minister, played out the custom in Little Rocky Creek, southeast of town. Houston a while later still felt disgraceful of taking the Eucharist and turning into an individual from Margaret's congregation. At her solicitation, Reverend George Washington Baines of Brenham directed with him to take out his self-questions. In appreciation and festivity, Nancy sold her flatware to buy a ringer for the Rocky Creek Baptist Church. 

The state assembly chose amid Houston's third senatorial term not to re-choose him, so he kept running for the workplace of Governor of Texas, losing to Hardin Richard Runnels. He was still in Washington when William (Willie) Rogers Houston was conceived on May 25, 1858, their last tyke conceived in the Woodland home. So as to fulfill loan bosses of his gubernatorial battle obligations, Houston was compelled to pitch the house to his political supporter J. Carroll Smith. He therefore crushed officeholder Runnels with a second offer for the workplace amid a period when the people was harshly isolated over the issue of withdrawal from the United States, and was confirmed December 31, 1859. 

Development on the Texas Governor's Mansion in Austin had been finished three years sooner and first involved by Governor Elisha M. Pease, whose spouse played leader to any individual who made a trip for a visit. The Houston family and their entourage of slaves moved into the chateau amid a political atmosphere that became progressively unfriendly over the severance banter. The family furniture had been moved from Independence by Joshua, since the state government had no financial plan for staffing, outfitting or keeping up the representative's habitation. That money related weight fell on the shoulders of the occupant, and the state mostly defaulted on Houston's compensation. Margaret dreaded for the family's security, as her significant other progressed in the direction of overcoming entry of the state's Ordinance of Secession. There had been a messed up death endeavor on Houston, and she saw crowds of furious killjoys assembling in the city. Margaret shut the chateau ways to everything except those with a welcome from the Houstons. 

The family and family slaves dwelled on the second floor of the manor, while others lived in the stable. As with wherever else had they lived, she didn't think anything about open life, and rather worked with Eliza and different hirelings to make a home that invited more distant family individuals and close companions of the Houstons. Houston would sporadically procure out a portion of his work constrain. The primary kid conceived in the Texas senator's chateau was likewise the remainder of the Houston kids; Temple Lea Houston was conveyed on August 12, 1860. This last birth left the 41-year-old Margaret incapacitated for very nearly two weeks, with a careful Houston continually close by. 

The Texas Secession Convention passed the Texas Ordinance of Secession on February 1, 1861, successfully winding up some portion of the Confederate States of America on March 1. Houston, similar to all other office holders in the state, was relied upon to make a vow of unwaveringness to the Confederacy. He cannot and was expelled from office by the Secession Convention on March 16, prevailing by Lieutenant Governor Edward Clark. 

Their home in Independence having been rented out to the Baptists, withdrawing there was impossible. Houston was in weakness, just as profoundly and monetarily broken. After a concise visit in Nancy's home, and over her protests, the family came back to Ben Lomond toward the beginning of April. 

At some point amid August 1861, Sam Houston, Jr., enrolled in the Confederate States Army second Texas Infantry Regiment, Company C Bayland Guards, sending Margaret into depression. She feared that her first-conceived youngster could never be home again. "My heart appears to be nearly broken ... what will I do? In what capacity will I bear it? When I initially heard the news, I figured I would rests and bite the dust," she kept in touch with her mom. Houston attempted to assist by accepting consideration of their other kids in the middle of his all-encompassing visits to Galveston. Her feelings of trepidation appeared to be very much established when her child was basically injured and left for dead at the April 1862 Battle of Shiloh. A second projectile was halted by his Bible, bearing an inside engraving from Margaret. He was found moping in a field by a Union Army pastor who got the Bible and furthermore found a letter from Margaret in his pocket. Taken prisoner and sent to Camp Douglas in Illinois, he was later discharged in a detainee trade and got a restorative release in October. 

Without the monetary way to repurchase their Woodland home, they leased the Steamboat House in Huntsville. The 69-year-old Houston was in his last days and physically weak, requiring the utilization of a stick to get around. Until little girl Maggie took over as his own partner, his significant other bore the obligations. All things being equal, amid this period, he figured out how to get the Confederate War Department to release all draftees from the Alabama-Coushatta clan, which had separated itself totally from the contention. 

On July 26, 1863, with Margaret at his bedside perusing the 23rd Psalm to him, Houston kicked the bucket. His will named her as his executrix, and named his cousin Thomas Caruthers, just as family companions Thomas Gibbs, J. Carroll Smith and Anthony Martin Branch, as agents. He had passed ashore rich, yet money poor. The stock aggregated of his domain after his passing recorded a few thousand sections of land in land, $250 money, slaves (one of which was Joshua Houston), a bunch of domesticated animals and his own belongings. 

Margaret was presently a widow with seven of her eight kids younger than 18 and monetarily subject to her. She came back to live close to her mom in Independence, Texas swapping land for a close-by property that ended up known as the Mrs. Sam Houston House. The Texas lawmaking body in the end gave Margaret a sum proportionate to her better half's unpaid gubernatorial pay; in any case, so as to bear the cost of Sam Jr's. enlistment at medicinal school at the University of Pennsylvania, she leased the Ben Lomond ranch. 

Nancy Lea kicked the bucket of an undiscovered arrangement of influenza like infirmities on February 7, 1864, and was buried on the grounds of her home. Margaret kicked the bucket on December 3, 1867, having contracted yellow fever amid a plague. Walter Reed would not make his disclosure of the reason for yellow fever through mosquito chomp until 1900; defilement through contact was the infesting dread in 1867, and kept Margaret's remaining parts from being entombed in an open graveyard with her husband's. She was covered in the ground next to Nancy's tomb at 11 p.m. by her hireling Bingley, family companion Major Eber Cave, and her two little girls Nettie and Mary Willie. No memorial service was performed. 

Two years after Sam Houston's passing, Baylor University president William Carey Crane was dispatched by Margaret to keep in touch with her significant other's account, enabling total access to all correspondence and records. Crane was a Lea family companion from Alabama who had minimal in excess of a passing colleague with "the saint of San Jacinto". His impression of Margaret, in any case, was that of an unprecedented lady, in numerous perspectives equivalent to the man she wedded. He expressed that Houston's "watchman blessed messenger", as he called her, had set out from the time she met Houston to refine his harsh edges and give a strong establishment to his own life. That appraisal of Margaret's association with her significant other was resounded over a century later by creator James L. Haley, "... Houston confided in the consideration of his spirit to Margaret, that he had no more war to battle inside himself, left him with more vitality to wage political fight." Ultimately, a few of Houston's partners were agreeable with the Crane attempt, however not every person was roused to join the exertion. As indicated by little girl Maggie, the creator had disclosed to her that numerous important archives were obliterated by Margaret in an attack of displeasure when somebody she considered a companion communicated lack of engagement. "Life and Select Literary Remains of Sam Houston of Texas" was dismissed by the underlying distributer, yet was in the end distributed by J. B. Lippincott in 1884. 

After liberation and Margaret's demise, "Auntie Eliza", as the kids called her, substituted her time among Nannie's and Maggie's family units. At the point when Eliza kicked the bucket in 1898, at her solicitation, she was covered by Margaret. Nancy's tomb tumbled to rot throughout the years, after which she was re-entombed in the ground with Margaret and Eliza. There was much exchange amid the Texas 1936 centennial about moving Margaret's remaining parts alongside her better half's in Huntsville, however the family and different specialists never went to an understanding over it. Not until May 15, 1965, was a chronicled marker raised in Independence to mean her commitments to Texas history. 

"First Lady and the female authority of a standout amongst the most noteworthy families in Texas history." – Texas Historical Commission 

The on-screen character Nancy Rennick (1932-2006), who had a main job in the syndicated experience TV arrangement "Salvage 8", played Mrs. Houston in the 1958 scene "The Girl Who Walked with a Giant" of the syndicated collection arrangement, "Demise Valley Days", facilitated by Stanley Andrews. The story centers around Margaret's job as a friend of her better half from his days as leader of the Republic of Texas to his time as senator, a post that he surrendered in 1861 in light of the fact that he couldn't in great still, small voice bolster the Confederate States of America, of which Texas was an accomplice. The scene has no association with the Death Valley nation.