HMS Eagle (1918) 

HMS "Falcon" was an early plane carrying warship of the Royal Navy. Requested by Chile amid the South American battleship race as the "Almirante Cochrane", she was set down before World War I. In mid 1918 she was obtained by Britain for change to a plane carrying warship; this work was done in 1924. Her consummation was postponed by work inconveniences and the likelihood that she may be repurchased by Chile for reconversion into a war vessel, just as the requirement for similar preliminaries to decide the ideal format for plane carrying warships. The ship was at first relegated to the Mediterranean Fleet and after that later to the China Station, investing next to no energy in home waters other than for intermittent refits. 

"Falcon" went through the initial nine months of World War II in the Indian Ocean hunting down German trade pillagers. Amid the early piece of the war, the Fleet Air Arm was urgently shy of contenders and "Bird" was outfitted exclusively with Fairey Swordfish torpedo aircraft until late 1940. She was exchanged to the Mediterranean in May 1940, where she escorted caravans to Malta and Greece and assaulted Italian transportation, maritime units and bases in the Eastern Mediterranean. The ship additionally took an interest in the Battle of Calabria in July yet her air ship neglected to score any hits when they endeavored to torpedo Italian cruisers amid the fight. At whatever point "Falcon" was not adrift, her air ship were landed and utilized shorewards. 

The ship was diminished by an increasingly current transporter in March 1941 and requested to chase for Axis delivering in the Indian Ocean and the South Atlantic. Her flying machine sank a German barricade sprinter and impaired a German oil tanker in mid-1941 however did not locate some other Axis transports before the ship was requested home for a refit in October. In the wake of finishing a broad refit in mid 1942, the ship made treks conveying warrior flying machine to Malta to help its air protections in the primary portion of 1942. "Hawk" was torpedoed and sunk by the on 11 August 1942 while escorting a guard to Malta amid Operation Pedestal. 

In 1911, the Chilean Navy requested one super-gunboat war vessel, with a possibility for a second ship, each to be equipped with ten 14-inch (356 mm) and sixteen six-inch (152 mm) weapons, that were named and "Almirante Cochrane". "Almirante Latorre" was set down in December 1911, trailed by "Almirante Cochrane" at the Armstrong yards at Newcastle upon Tyne on 20 February 1913. On the episode of the First World War, development of the two boats was suspended. As "Almirante Latorre" was practically finished, she was acquired for the Royal Navy, entering administration as in 1915. "Almirante Cochrane" was practically finished up to the forecastle, despite the fact that her side protective layer had not yet been introduced when war broke out. No work was done amid the war until the British chose to finish her as a plane carrying warship for the Royal Navy. She was subsequently obtained from Chile on 28 February 1918 to be changed over into the transporter HMS "Hawk". She was the fourteenth ship of the Royal Navy to manage that name. 

The Director of Naval Construction started primer plan work even before the ship was acquired and presented a framework structure on 8 February 1918. This plan had a full-length flight deck and its most particular highlights were the two islands isolated by the flight deck. Every island was to be long, containing two channels and a tripod pole. Despite the fact that they were stumbled to make it increasingly troublesome for a foe ship to evaluate the ship's course, they were to be associated with one another with substantial propping. The extension was to be mounted over this supporting which left an unmistakable stature of for the air ship on the flight deck. There was to be a wide space between the islands where the air ship were to be amassed before taking off. Air ship would be transported between the shelter and the flight deck by two flying machine (lifts). A crane was to be situated at the toward the back end of every island to lift flying machine on board and to recuperate seaplanes. Mass oil stockpiling comprised of in tins stowed on the forecastle deck and secured by plating. Two prepared use tanks close to the islands would permit flying machine on the flight deck to refuel. The ship's arranged combat hardware comprised of nine 6-inch weapons and four enemy of air ship firearms mounted on the stage between the islands. "Hawk" held the war vessel's blend of coal and fuel oil, however the amounts were expanded to of coal and of oil, as the forward and back 14-inch magazines and shell rooms were changed over to be utilized as oil tanks. 

In view of preliminaries with , in which pilots were found by and large to divert to port while recuperating from a prematurely ended getting, the structure was reconsidered to dispose of the port island in April 1918. The starboard island was extended to and its width was diminished to limit air disturbance. The island contained the extension, the two pipes and the tripod pole that conveyed the flame control executives for the deadly implement. In line with Admiral David Beatty, administrator of the Grand Fleet, the fundamental combat hardware was expanded to 12 six-inch weapons, including one mounted on the island, and eighteen torpedo tubes were included, three triple fixed mounts on each broadside, on the off chance that the ship met German light cruisers during the evening. The counter airplane deadly implement was decreased to a solitary 4-inch firearm mounted on the island between the channels as Beatty trusted that the ship's own warriors would be her best protection against adversary air ship. This plan was affirmed in June, despite the fact that work had started before. 

The reinforcement got ready for her upper belt was utilized to ensure the ship's waterline. The effectively finished superstructure was expelled similar to the barbettes for the 14-inch firearms. "Falcon" was propelled on 8 June 1918 and was towed downriver to the shipbuilder's High Walker yard for fitting-out ten days after the fact. The heater takes-up were re-directed and the current openings were plated over. The current upper deck turned into the floor of the storage deck and another superstructure was worked above it. The flight deck was thick and filled in as the highest quality deck, or principle supporting deck, of the ship. At the point when the war finished in November 1918, the ship was around nine months from culmination. 

Development was hindered by modern activity after the war, and was suspended on 21 October 1919 as Chile needed to repurchase the ship and have it re-changed over to a war vessel. The £2.5 million expense of doing as such would have been higher than the £1.5 million offered by the Chileans and the Admiralty chose to hold the ship. The Royal Navy expected to complete flying preliminaries with a bearer fitted with an island, and the Admiralty affirmed the utilization of "Hawk" on 11 November. Armstrong Whitworth plated over the openings for the undelivered lifts on the flight deck (which had been dropped when they couldn't meet the particulars), completed the back pipe, expelled the torpedo tubes, and plated over the forward channel takes-up before she cruised to the Royal dockyard at Portsmouth for the alterations vital for the preliminaries on 20 April 1920. Just two of her boilers, changed over to keep running on fuel oil just, could be utilized amid the preliminaries. 

The preliminaries mainly tried the longitudinal capturing gear utilized beforehand on the little plane carrying warship . They were not expected to quit landing airplane—the arrival velocities of the time were low enough this was pointless given a decent headwind—but instead to keep air ship from veering off to the other side and tumbling off the flight deck. At first, the capturing gear was about long and was introduced excessively far forward. Through the span of the preliminaries it was moved further to the back and extended to an aggregate of . 

The ship was directed amid the preliminaries by Captain Wilmot Nicholson, who had recently told the bearer in 1918, and the Royal Air Force delegate was Group Captain Charles Samson. Maneuvering preliminaries started on 10 May with Sopwith Camel warriors and Parnall Panther surveillance flying machine while the ship was still docked. Flights over and around the ship to assess air flows over the flight deck and around the island started right away a while later and the first ready landing was made on 1 June. Bigger flying machine like the Bristol F2B warrior, the Sopwith Cuckoo torpedo aircraft, and the De Havilland DH.9 plane were additionally assessed amid the preliminaries. They were commonly effective with just 12 minor mishaps in 143 arrivals in a wide range of climate conditions, in spite of the fact that they revealed that air ship arriving on board bearers would require landing gear fitted with safeguards to deal with the effect of arriving on a pitching deck. Gathering Captain Samson firmly favored the disposal of the island altogether, however Nicholson prescribed that the ship be held for administration, despite the fact that he was not happy with the size and state of the island. He likewise prescribed that "Falcon" be changed over to consume fuel oil solely and that the expulsion of the 6-inch weapons in return for hostile to airplane firearms would permit the tripod pole in the island to be dispensed with, since it would not then be required for shoot control purposes . 

The ship was satisfied on 16 November, however did not start development to a reconsidered plan until 24 March 1921 at Portsmouth. The Admiralty acknowledged a portion of Nicholson's recommendations, however not all. The shape and size of the island was adjusted as per the outcomes from wind burrow testing at the National Physical Laboratory, however the 6-inch weapons were held. The forward edge of the flight deck was faired into the ship's bow to smooth out the air flows over the bow and the 4-inch against flying machine firearms were mounted nearby the island. The forward lift was moved to the forward end of the shelter. After development started, hostile to torpedo swells were included, profound, and the oil tin extra space was supplanted by a tank. The ship's planned fuel limit was , however this was expanded to when she was swell. Notwithstanding, of this sum was required to go about as counterbalance to balance the heaviness of the island and its hardware. 

"Falcon" had a general length of , a light emission and a draft of at profound burden. She dislodged at standard burden. Every one of the ship's four arrangements of Brown-Curtis outfitted steam turbines drove one 3-bladed propeller. They were fueled by 32 Yarrow little cylinder boilers. Amid her ocean preliminaries on 9– 10 September 1923, the turbines created and gave "Bird" a speed of , yet this caused holes in the turbine joints and she was constrained to a limit of in administration. She had a scope of at . 

The ship's flight deck was long and her shed was long and no not exactly wide. Its base tallness was , and it was furnished with four steel shade fire blinds to seclude any flames in the storage. The forward lift's measurements were and the rearward lift was . The fore-and-toward the back capturing gear was long and expanded the length of the flight deck between the edges of the lifts. An expansive crane with a sweep was situated behind the island. The ship's air ship limit was 25 to 30 and, in 1939, the ship's team totalled 41 officers and 750 men, select of the air gathering. 

For self-protection against foe warships, "Falcon" had nine BL Mk XVII 6-inch weapons, three at the stern and six along the two sides of the ship. The ship conveyed 200 rounds for each weapon. Two of her five QF Mk V 4-inch AA firearms were situated on the flight deck before the island while a third was behind the island. The staying two firearms were mounted over the island, one between the two pipes, and each weapon was given 150 rounds. 

"Bird" was allocated to the Mediterranean Fleet on 7 June 1924 after she dispatched on 26 February and wrapped working up. She was the biggest plane carrying warship on the planet at the time and set out 24 flying machine in four six-air ship flights of the Fleet Air Arm of the Royal Air Force. These comprised of No. 402 Flight with Fairey Flycatchers, No. 422 Flight with Blackburn observation air ship, No. 440 Flight (Supermarine Seagull flying pontoons) and No. 460 Flight with Blackburn Dart torpedo aircraft. 

While in the Mediterranean, one flight more often than not worked shorewards at either RAF Hal Far, Malta, or Aboukir, Egypt. The Seagulls turned out to be unsuitable in administration and they were supplanted by Fairey IIIDs in January 1925. Avro Bison spotters of No. 421B Flight worked on board for a period in late 1925. "Bird" cruised for Devonport toward the finish of 1925 for a short refit where the longitudinal capturing gear was expelled as it had been observed to be for all intents and purposes pointless in administration. Two single QF 2-pounder "pom-pom" light enemy of flying machine firearms were included forward of the 4-inch weapons on the flight deck before the island and the ship's petroleum limit was expanded to . 

At the point when the ship came back to the Mediterranean after the finish of her refit in 1926, the Bisons of No. 448 Flight supplanted No. 422 Flight. In 1928 she was joined by which enabled the armada to try different things with multi-bearer tasks. "Hawk" was refitted again in mid 1929 and a salt-water splash framework was fitted to battle shelter fires. On 29 June 1929, she protected Spanish Air Force Major Ramón Franco – sibling of future Spanish tyrant Francisco Franco – and his group, who had been uncontrolled in the North Atlantic Ocean since 22 June when their flying watercraft, the Dornier Do J Wal ("Whale") "Numancia" was constrained down because of fuel weariness on the principal leg of an endeavor to fly westbound around the globe. 

Whenever "Hawk" came back to the Mediterranean later in the year, both 440 and 448 Flights had re-outfitted with Fairey IIIF surveillance airplane. "Falcon" withdrew Malta on 8 January 1931, in transit to Portsmouth to stack the most recent bearer flying machine for a showing at the British Industries Exhibition at Buenos Aires, Argentina. She came back to the Mediterranean to take an interest in the late spring armada practices before cruising for Devonport where she started a long refit in August. 

The ship's boilers were supplanted amid the refit and the 4-inch weapon between the channels was supplanted by an eight-barrel QF 2-pounder Mark V "pom-pom" mount. A solitary fourfold Vickers .50 machine firearm mount was included the starboard rearward side of the flight deck. Four putting out fires froth generators were additionally fitted on the flight deck. A solitary High Angle Control System (HACS) executive was fitted on the toward the back end of the control top on the tripod pole. The team, presently numbering 753 mariners and 253 aviators, profited by improved settlement. The refit was finished on 28 November 1932, however staff deficiencies kept her from working up until April 1933. 

Following the refit, "Falcon" was sent to the Far East, serving on the China Station all through 1934, with her air ship being conveyed against privateer ships and their bases. The tropical warmth caused issues in cooling the bomb magazines, and the sustenance extra spaces and the ventilation ended up being scarcely palatable. Another fourfold .50 machine weapon mount was included forward of the 2-pounder firearm on the flight deck and the first mounting was moved over to the port side. Amid this time, the ship's air gather contained nine Hawker Osprey contenders of 803 Squadron and 12 Fairey IIIFs of 824 Squadron; the last unit was re-assigned as 825 Squadron in October 1934. 803 Squadron exchanged to when she soothed "Hawk" toward the finish of 1934. They were supplanted by Blackburn Baffin torpedo planes of 812 Squadron when "Falcon" landed in the Mediterranean in February 1935. The two squadrons stayed behind at RAF Hal Far when the ship cruised for Devonport for another refit in June. 

"Hawk" was satisfied until her refit started in mid 1936. Transverse capturing gear was introduced and a second octuple "pom-pom" supplanted the 2-pounders before the island. Two increasingly fourfold .50 machine weapon mounts were introduced in sponsons on either side of the bow. The limit of her bomb magazines was additionally expanded amid this refit, and the ship's ventilation and protection game plans were improved too. She was sent back to the Far East in 1937 with just nine Fairey Swordfish torpedo aircraft (fabric secured biplanes) of 813 Squadron on board just as nine more Swordfish to re-prepare 824 Squadron when it exchanged from "Hermes" in April. Commander Clement Moody instructed "Hawk" from 1 January 1937 until alleviated by Captain A. R. M. Scaffold on 16 June 1939. In August 1939 the ship's team was traded in Hong Kong and "Falcon" cruised for Singapore to start a short refit on 12 August. 

At the point when World War Two started the next month, the ship had quite recently finished her refit in Singapore. She put to ocean a couple of days after the fact and started scanning for German vendor sends in organization with the light cruiser and escorted by the destroyer . A Swordfish found the tanker south of the port of Padang on Sumatra and "Birmingham" was requested to capture it while "Hawk" proceeded with her air watches. She touched base in Colombo, Ceylon, on 10 September and until 5 October she hunt the Indian Ocean down German ships between the west shoreline of India and the Maldive Islands with the light cruiser . "Bird" was then relegated to Force I together with the substantial cruisers and , to scan the Indian Ocean for the pocket war vessel and other German business looters. In mid-December her boilers and base were cleaned amid a time of upkeep in Durban, South Africa. 

"Bird" kept on patroling the Indian Ocean in 1940, however escorted a substantial Australian troop guard to Suez right off the bat in the year. While in the region of the Nicobar Islands on 14 March, a bomb incidentally detonated, murdering 14 men. The harm to the ship was for the most part bound to the bomb magazines, albeit two generators were thumped out. The blast flashed upwards through the port bomb lift and touched off the wing on one Swordfish stowed in the shelter. Everything except four of the air ship were harmed by the destructive salt-water splash framework when the fire was drenched. She was fixed at Singapore somewhere in the range of 15 March and 9 May when the ship cruised for Colombo in transit to the Mediterranean, which she came to on 26 May. In June three crated Gloster Sea Gladiators were found away at Dekheila and these air ship turned into the main contenders accessible for the whole armada in the Eastern Mediterranean. 

Flying from shore bases on 5 July, 813 Squadron assaulted Tobruk harbor in a joined assault with the RAF at nightfall, sinking the and the vessel , and passing the bow over the destroyer . Two other freighters must be stranded before they sank. Amid the Battle of Calabria on 9 July, 813 Squadron was utilized to pursuit and track the Italian armada while 824 Squadron made two ineffective assaults on Italian cruisers without misfortune. On the night of 10 July, "Eagle"s air ship assaulted Augusta harbor in Sicily, sinking the destroyer . While under overwhelming ethereal assault on 13 July, pilots of the Sea Gladiator Flight shot down three Italian planes. The evening of 20 July, six air ship from 824 Squadron, flying from Sidi Barrani, sank the destroyers and just as the vessel . While giving removed spread to a caravan headed for Greece, one Savoia-Marchetti SM.79 medium aircraft was shot down on 29 July by "Eagle"s Sea Gladiators while assaulting the armada. 

On 22 August three Swordfish from 824 Squadron, flying from Sidi Barrani, assaulted and sank the and the warehouse deliver "Monte Gargano" in the Gulf of Bomba. The boats were conveying eight frogmen and four kept an eye on torpedoes to assault British sending in Alexandria harbor. In September, she was joined by the bearer and the two boats assaulted Italian airbases on Rhodes on 9 September. "Eagle"s 12 Swordfish were late in taking off and assaulted the landing strip at Maritza after the Italians had been cautioned by the before assault by "Celebrated" flying machine on the close-by airbase at Collato. Four airplane were shot somewhere near the shielding Fiat CR.32 and Fiat CR.42 contenders, however two SM.79s were crushed on the ground and four other flying machine were harmed. These misfortunes were the ship's heaviest in any single mission of the war. 

While covering another caravan to Malta on 12 October, she was harmed by close misses from SM.79s situated in Sicily. The harm to her avionics fuel framework was not promptly obvious and she secured another guard soon thereafter. While coming back to Alexandria, her airplane assaulted Maltezana seaplane base on Rhodes on 27 October. Four of her Swordfish from 824 Squadron had been landed before and were traveled to Fuka Landing Ground for a night assault on Tobruk harbor. The 824 Squadron air ship diverted the safeguards with 250-pound bombs, while the 12 other Swordfish laid mines. On 28 October, "Hawk" and the remainder of the Mediterranean Fleet watched off the west shoreline of Greece for a couple of days wanting to block the Italian Navy on the off chance that it bolstered the Italian Army in their intrusion of Greece, however no contact was made. 

At the point when the ship was inspected on 5 November, her avionics fuel framework was spilling and required fixes. Five of her air ship were exchanged to "Distinguished" for an assault on 11 November on Taranto (Operation Judgment), while "Falcon" stayed in Alexandria. One of "Eagle"s Swordfish was shot somewhere near the extraordinary Italian enemy of airplane shoot. The ship secured different caravans to Greece and Malta amid the remainder of November. Six of her air ship bombarded Tripoli harbor amid the evening of 24/25 November without misfortune. "Hawk" burned through the greater part of December in Alexandria, yet her air ship upheld the ground war, most quite when they spotted for the warships and amid the siege of Bardia on 2 January 1941. In mid-January, the ship secured a guard to Greece, yet awful climate thwarted designs to assault Italian bases in transit. After her arrival, her flying machine supplement was redesigned to incorporate more warriors, as "Hawk" presently had sole duty regarding contender spread over the armada after the devastating of "Distinguished" by German plunge aircraft on 11 January. So as to prepare for the contenders, one of the Swordfish squadrons was landed and used to help the ground war. Whenever "Bird" was covering another caravan to Malta in mid-February, the ship conveyed nine Fairey Fulmars of 805 Squadron, five Sea Gladiators and six Swordfish. 

After the transporter touched base on 9 March to alleviate "Famous", orders were dropped that would have exchanged Eagle toward the South Atlantic to chase for German business thieves and the ship did not leave Alexandria until 9 April. Meanwhile, both Swordfish squadrons were exchanged to Port Sudan to work against Italian sending in Massawa, in Italian East Africa, on 25 March. They were fruitful and come back to the ship on 13 April after she had gone through the Suez Canal. After she achieved Mombasa, Kenya, on 26 April, she was requested to ocean on 29 April on a fruitless look for a pillager in the Indian Ocean. The ship was then arranged on 1 May to continue to Durban, South Africa, to meet with the warship and to continue to Gibraltar. After the two boats touched base in Freetown, Sierra Leone, on 25 May to refuel, "Nelson" was requested to keep on gibraltar, yet "Eagle"s orders changed and she was currently accused of chasing for German supply dispatches in the South Atlantic. Chief A. R. M. Scaffold was eased by E. G. H. Rushbrooke as of now. 

"Falcon" started looking through the South Atlantic on 29 May, generally joined by "Dorsetshire" or the light cruiser . The transporter's Swordfish found, bombarded and sank the barricade sprinter "Elbe" on 6 June. The oil tanker "Lothringen" was caught on 15 June by "Dunedin" after it had been besieged and strafed by a few Swordfish. The ship kept watching without occurrence aside from an overhang fire that slaughtered one air ship technician on 20 September. Everything except four of the ship's Swordfish were harmed by the splash used to put out the flame, yet the ship herself was intact. 

In October 1941, "Hawk" was requested to come back to Britain for a refit at Gladstone Dock, Liverpool. She landed off Greenock on 26 October and was docked at Liverpool on 1 November. The fourfold .50 machine firearms were supplanted by 12 physically worked programmed 20 mm Oerlikon light enemy of flying machine firearms, six in sponsons on each side of the flight deck, and the teams of the four-inch AA weapons were given assurance from chips by the expansion of zarebas around every weapon. The HACS was moved to the front of the control top and fitted with a Type 285 gunnery radar. A Type 290 air cautioning radar was additionally introduced. The ship's oil fuel limit was decreased to in return for an expansion in her petroleum stockpiling of . This diminished her range to at a speed of . 

"Eagle"s refit was finished on 9 January 1942 and she was working up for the following five weeks. She joined the guard WS16 on the way to Gibraltar on 16 February and achieved it seven days after the fact. 813 and 824 Squadrons had rejoined the ship with their Swordfish and they were enhanced by four Hawker Sea Hurricane 1B warriors from a unit of 804 Squadron and the Fighter Flight of 813 Squadron. Since their wings couldn't overlay, they couldn't utilize either lift and stayed on the flight deck consistently. The ship achieved Gibraltar on 23 February and was alloted to Force H. 

Upon "Bird's" entry in Gibraltar, 824 Squadron exchanged to RAF North Front and the ship stacked 15 Supermarine Spitfire contenders conveyed to Gibraltar by the transporter . These airplane were halfway gathered dockside and raised on board for definite get together. They were too enormous to fit beneath deck and stayed on the flight deck, where they hindered the tasks of "Eagle"s airplane, with the exception of those few likewise carried on the flight deck, until the carried flying machine were taken off. On 27 February 1942, she cruised to convey the Spitfires to Malta, escorted by the war vessel , "Argus", the cruiser , and nine destroyers, however the task must be dropped when the long-go fuel tanks of the Spitfires demonstrated faulty. The issues were not redressed until 7 March, when the 15 Spitfires were effectively taken off to Malta. Upon her arrival, the ship's motors required fixes that kept going until 13 March. Nine additional Spitfires were conveyed to Malta on 21 March and an extra seven on 29 March. After her arrival, her guiding apparatus required broad fixes that kept going until the finish of April. 

As a major aspect of Operation Bowery, "Falcon" rendezvoused the evening of 7/8 May with the American bearer , conveying 47 Spitfires, while "Hawk" had handled her whole air ship supplement to account for 17 Spitfires of her own. Sixty of them arrived securely at Malta. For the following activity on 17 May, the Swordfish and Sea Hurricanes of 813 Squadron flew back ready to join the 17 Spitfires and six Fairey Albacore torpedo aircraft bound for Malta. The contenders took off without occurrence, however motor issues constrained the majority of the Albacores to return. After they had handled, the ship was assaulted by about six SM.79 torpedo planes which neglected to score any hits. The radar-guided weapons of the escorting light cruiser, , were instrumental in driving off the decided Italian flying machine. 

"Falcon" landed every last bit of her flying machine, with the exception of her four Sea Hurricanes, to prepare for 31 Spitfires and flew them off on 3 June amid Operation Style. Another 32 were taken off on 9 June amid Operation Salient. Later in the month, the ship gave air spread to another escort, Operation Harpoon, which left for Malta in the meantime as the Operation Vigorous guard did, from the other way. Twelve Sea Hurricanes of 801 Squadron and four Fulmars from 807 Squadron fortified the four Sea Hurricanes of 813's Fighter Flight to manage the substantial air assaults foreseen. The caravan was liable to overwhelming air assaults by both the German and Italian Air Forces; "Eagle"s Sea Hurricanes figured out how to upset numerous assaults, asserting nine air ship crushed and a further two presumably decimated for the loss of one Sea Hurricane from 813 Squadron and three Fulmars. The escorts achieved Gibraltar on 17 June and did not make the following conveyance of flying machine until 14 July when 32 Spitfires were taken off to Malta (Operation Pinpoint). Amid this time, the bearer's flying machine supplement comprised exclusively of six Sea Hurricanes of 801 Squadron. Another 29 Spitfires just as four Swordfish of 824 Squadron were stacked on 20 July and the Spitfires were taken off the next day. Prior in the day, the ship was ineffectively assaulted by the . 

"Falcon" secured Operation Pedestal together with the transporters and . "Bird" conveyed 16 Sea Hurricanes of 801 and 813 Squadrons just as four hold air ship for the activity. On the early evening of 11 August, "Falcon" was hit by four torpedoes from the , instructed by Helmut Rosenbaum, and sank inside four minutes, south of Cape Salinas at position 

. 131 officers and men, mostly from the ship's apparatus spaces, were lost in the sinking, Sixteen Sea Hurricanes were lost; four from 801 were high up when the ship was torpedoed, and arrived on different transporters. The destroyers and the pull "Chipper" saved 67 officers and 862 mariners.