Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It) 

"Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)" is a tune from Beyoncé's third studio collection, "I Am... Sasha Fierce" (2008). Columbia Records discharged "Single Ladies" as a solitary on October 13, 2008 as a Double A-side close by "On the off chance that I Were a Boy", displaying the differentiation among Beyoncé and her forceful in front of an audience modify self image Sasha Fierce. It investigates men's reluctance to propose or submit. In the tune, the female hero is in a club to commend her single status. 

"Single Ladies" won three Grammy Awards in 2010, including Song of the Year, among different honors. A few news media sources named it as a standout amongst the best tunes of 2008, while some thought of it as a standout amongst the best melodies of the decade. It beat the US "Board" Hot 100 graph for four non-sequential weeks and has been confirmed fourfold platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The melody diagrammed among the main ten inside the singles classification in a few different nations. Comprehensively, it was 2009's seventh top of the line advanced single with 6.1 million duplicates sold hence getting to be a standout amongst the smash hit singles ever. 

A high contrast music video went with the single's discharge. It won a few honors, including the Video of the Year at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. Beyoncé has performed "Single Ladies" on TV and amid her show visits. The tune and especially its music video have been broadly caricatured and imitated. A few eminent specialists have performed spread renditions. Media use has included situation in prevalent network shows. 

"Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)" was composed by Beyoncé, Terius "The-Dream" Nash, Thaddis "Kuk" Harrell, and Christopher "Dubious" Stewart, and was delivered by Nash and Stewart. Beyoncé recorded the melody in May 2008 at the Boom Room Studio in Burbank, California, and it was blended by Jaycen Joshua and Dave Pensado, with help from Randy Urbanski and Andrew Wuepper. Nash conceptualized "Single Ladies" after Beyoncé's mystery marriage to hip jump recording craftsman Jay-Z in April 2008. Stewart remarked that the melody was "the main open proclamation that [Beyoncé and Jay-Z had] ever constructed about marriage", and that while in the studio recording the tune Beyoncé had stayed tightlipped, even to the point of evacuating her wedding ring. Beyoncé's marriage motivated Nash to create a melody around an issue that influenced numerous individuals' connections: the dread or reluctance of men to submit. In a meeting with "Announcement" magazine, Beyoncé added that she was attracted to the melody on account of the all inclusiveness of the point, an issue that "individuals are energetic about and need to discuss and discuss". She expressed that albeit "Single Ladies" is an energetic uptempo melody, it tends to an issue that ladies experience each day. 

In "Single Ladies", Beyoncé depicts her change sense of self Sasha Fierce, which shows up on the second piece of "I Am... Sasha Fierce". The melody was discharged at the same time with "On the off chance that I Were a Boy"; as lead singles, they were intended to show the idea of the dueling identities of the vocalist. This strengthened the subject of the collection, which was made by putting its songs and uptempo tracks on discrete circles. The singles appeared on US radio on October 8, 2008; "Single Ladies" did as such on standard urban New York radio station Power 105.1. The two singles were added to cadenced contemporary radio playlists on October 12, 2008; "Single Ladies" was sent to urban contemporary playlists that day, while "On the off chance that I Were a Boy" was rather grouped for contemporary hit radio. The two melodies were discharged as a twofold A-side single on November 7, 2008, in Australia, New Zealand, and Germany. Move remixes of the melody were made accessible in the US on February 10, 2009, and in Europe on February 16, 2009. "Single Ladies" was not initially discharged as a solitary in the UK, however the melody turned out to be progressively well known there and achieved the main ten in the UK Singles Chart because of download deals. On February 16, 2009, it was discharged as a CD single, and the move remixes wound up accessible as a computerized download. 

"Single Ladies" is an uptempo move pop and R&B melody with dancehall, disco and ricochet impacts. It is set in like manner time, and utilizes staccato skip based hand applauds, Morse code blares, a climbing whistle out of sight, and a punchy natural beat. The instrumentation incorporates a bass drum, a console and separated out synthesizers that once in a while zoom in and out; one reporter, Sarah Liss of CBC News, noticed that their course of action shockingly comes as light, rather than thick. As indicated by the sheet music distributed at Musicnotes.com by Sony/ATV Music Publishing, "Single Ladies" is written in the key of E major and played in a moderate furrow of 96.9 beats every moment. Beyoncé's vocals extend from the note of F to D. It has a harmony movement of E in the stanzas, and Bdim– C– Bdim– Am in the chorale. J. Opportunity du Lac of "The Washington Post" noticed the melody highlights "play area vocals". 

"Single Ladies" is musically like Beyoncé's 2007 single "Get Me Bodied"; Andy Kellman of Allmusic considered it a "critical return" to the tune. Stewart and Harrell said in a meeting given to "Individuals" magazine that the comparative cadence of the two melodies is "the thing that Beyoncé reacts to". Ann Powers of the "Los Angeles Times" saw the tune's subject of female strengthening as an expansion of that of "Imperative" (2006), and Daniel Brockman of "The Phoenix" noticed that its utilization of "hazy pronouns, for example, "it" takes after Beyoncé's 2005 single "Keep an eye on It". Liss remarked that the beat of the "Single Ladies" summons African gumboot moving and schoolyard Double Dutch serenades, a view shared by Douglas Wolf of "Time" magazine. Trish Crawford of the "Toronto Star" presumed that "Solitary Ladies" is "a solid tune of female strengthening", and other music commentators have noticed its intrigue to Beyoncé's fan base of free ladies as in the tune, Beyoncé offers backing to ladies who have part up from their awful sweethearts. 

In "Single Ladies", Beyoncé underlines her forceful and sexy adjust sense of self Sasha Fierce. She shows much demeanor in her voice, as expressed by Nick Levine of Digital Spy. Reverberating Levine's assessments, Liss composed that Beyoncé sounds "joyously cheeky". The verses reflect post-separation circumstances. Joined by automated like sounds, the opening lines of the tune are call and reaction; Beyoncé drones, "All the single women", and foundation artists reverberation the line each time. In the main section, Beyoncé portrays the ongoing end to a poor relationship after she "cried [her] tears for three great years". She recovers her entitlement to be a tease, have a ton of fun, and discover a darling who is more dedicated than the past one. Beyoncé goes out to celebrate with her companions in a club where she meets another adoration intrigue. Be that as it may, her previous sweetheart is watching her, and she guides the melody to him. She at that point sings the tune, which utilizes minor harmonies and contains a few snares, "In the event that you like it, at that point you shoulda put a ring on it ... Gracious goodness gracious". 

In the second section, Beyoncé discloses to her ex-darling that, as he didn't endeavor to make things increasingly perpetual when he got the opportunity, he has no motivation to gripe since she has discovered another person. On the extension, she attests that she needs her new love enthusiasm "to make like a ruler and snatch her, conveying her to 'a fate, to boundlessness and past" while "Ideal man is left remaining there like the second lead in a lighthearted comedy". Towards the finish of the melody, Beyoncé adopts a progressively forceful vocal strategy and utilizes a center eight as she sings, "And like an apparition I'll be no more". When she drones the chorale for the third and last time, her vocals are inescapable inside layers of music, as depicted by Frannie Kelley of NPR. An electronic swoop pulls in persistently until the tune closes. 

Scratch Levine of Digital Spy especially lauded its beats, which as per him, "simply don't stop". Michelangelo Matos of "The A.V. Club" composed that the tune is "fantastic, with shining creation, a humongous snare, and beats for quite a long time". Ann Powers of the "Los Angeles Times" was likewise inspired with the general creation of the tune, explicitly the tune, including "More than most female artists, Beyoncé comprehends the out of control craft of singing musically, and this is a prime model." Fraser McAlpine of BBC Online considered "Single Ladies" to be the best melody Beyoncé has endeavored since "Ring the Alarm" (2006) and complimented the previous' hold back, depicting it as "so incredibly infectious that it gives a shockingly strong establishment to the whole tune". Alexis Petridis of "The Guardian" complimented the undermining climate that "Solitary Ladies" makes by utilizing minor harmonies. Daniel Brockman of "The Phoenix" complimented the tune's utilization of "it", and composed that the procedure "entireties up her partitioned melodic persona undeniably more viably than the [album's] two-circle split-identity trick." 

Darryl Sterdan of Jam! called the tune single-commendable, and composed that it is "a tune that really seems like a Beyoncé number". Sarah Liss of CBC News composed that "Solitary Ladies" speaks to Beyoncé getting it done, portraying it as "a quickly addictive [and] a fun featherweight move pop track". She further remarked that it was wonderful hear a voice which "changes timbre normally, a voice with genuine breaks and gaps (anyway slight)" as opposed to the "Auto-Tune scourge that is by all accounts tormenting such a large number of her standard pop companions". Douglas Wolf of "Time" magazine included that "Solitary Ladies" is a chime in which permits Beyoncé to show her virtuosity and "an engaged, instructing show of uniqueness that represents each raised hand without a ring on it". Sasha Frere-Jones of "The New Yorker" composed that the melody consolidates a muddle of emotions and sounds that "don't resolve yet additionally never turned out to be tiring". He reasoned that "Solitary Ladies" was commonly glad and that Beyoncé's vocals were unadulterated and flickering. Andy Kellman of Allmusic and Jessica Suarez of "Glue" magazine noticed the tune as one of the champions from "I Am... Sasha Fierce", and saw similitudes to "Get Me Bodied". 

Authors applauded the melody's move beat; Colin McGuire of PopMatters commended "Single Ladies" as a standout amongst Beyoncé's best move tracks. Spence D. of IGN Music depicted the tune as a "Caribbean pizazz and goods shaking celebration that ought to get even the most staid of audience members snapping their necks and spinning cheerfully". Joey Guerra of the "Houston Chronicle" composed that it is a "hip-shaking club" melody like "Keep an eye on It". Leah Greenblatt of "Stimulation Weekly" magazine composed that "Solitary Ladies" is a "jazzed, high-venturing crossover of melodious kiss-off and bubbly bounce rope jam". Depicting the melody as a "triumphant high-venturing" one, Adam Mazmanian of "The Washington Times" composed that "Solitary Ladies" is intended to get the ladies out on the move floor as Beyoncé sings it with "a truly rebellious, autonomous voice". A few pundits were neutral by "Single Ladies". Mariel Concepcion of "Board" magazine called it "standard shriek pound passage". "The Observer"s Adam Mattera saw "Single Ladies" and "Diva" as potential wellsprings of motivation for drag rulers, in spite of the fact that they may leave others confounded. Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine scrutinized its expressive irregularities, proposing it is an "extra" from "B'Day". 

"Moving Stone" named "Single Ladies" the best tune of 2008, and expressed, "The beat ... is overpowering and rich, the vocal snare is stormy and virtuosic." "Single Ladies" positioned as the second-best tune of the 2000s decade in the magazine's 2009 perusers' survey, and "Moving Stone" faultfinders set it at number 50 on the rundown of the 100 Best Songs of the Decade. "Single Ladies" was put at number two on MTV News' rundown of The Best Songs of 2008; James Montgomery called it "hyperactive and supercharged in manners I never thought conceivable. It's epic and hot and even somewhat pitiful." "There is totally zero possibility Beyoncé ever discharges a solitary like this until the end of time", Montgomery finished up. "Time" magazine commentator Josh Tyrangiel, who called the melody "absurdly irresistible", positioned it as the seventh-best tune of 2008. Douglas Wolf of a similar production set it at number nine on his rundown of the All-Time 100 Songs. 

"Single Ladies" showed up at number six on the "Eye Weekly"s commentators' rundown of the Best Singles of 2008, and at number six on About.com's Mark Edward Nero's rundown of the Best R&B Songs of 2008. On "The Village Voice"s year-end Pazz and Jop singles list, "Single Ladies" was positioned at numbers three and forty one of every 2008 and 2009 separately. Also, the Maurice Joshua Club Mix of the tune was positioned at number 443 on the 2008 rundown. "Single Ladies" was named the best melody of the 2000s decade by Black Entertainment Television (BET). Sarah Rodman, composing for "The Boston Globe", named "Single Ladies" the fourth most compelling melody of the decade, and expressed, "[Beyoncé] joined leotards with coarse commitment bling bedeviling into one delectable attractive yet-outdated bundle. The video had the entire world moving and waving along by means of YouTube." VH1 positioned "Single Ladies" at number sixteen on its rundown of The 100 Greatest Songs of the 2000s. In his book "Eating the Dinosaur" (2009), Chuck Klosterman composed that "Solitary Ladies" is "ostensibly the main tune obviously advertised toward urban lone rangeress parties". Jody Rosen of "The New Yorker" credited the songs that buoy and dart over the pound for making another sound in music that didn't exist on the planet before Beyoncé. He further expressed, "On the off chance that they sound 'typical' presently, this is on the grounds that Beyoncé, and her numerous adherents, have retrained our ears." 

"Single Ladies" has gotten various honors and assignments, including the Song of the Year, Best R&B Song and Best Female R&B Vocal Performance at the 52nd Grammy Awards. It additionally won the honors for Favorite Song at the 2009 Kids' Choice Awards, Song of the Year at the 2009 Soul Train Music Awards, and Best R&B Song at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) perceived "Single Ladies" as a standout amongst the most performed melodies of 2009 at the 27th ASCAP Pop Music Awards. The tune was selected in the Best Song class at the 2009 NAACP Image Awards and in the English-language "Record of the Year" classification at the 2009 Premios Oye! Grants. It was additionally selected for Record of the Year at the 2009 Soul Train Music Awards, Viewer's Choice Award at the 2009 BET Awards, Best R&B/Urban Dance Track at the 2009 International Dance Music Awards, and World's Best Single at the 2010 World Music Awards. 

"Single Ladies" appeared at number 72 on the US "Bulletin" Hot 100 diagram issue dated November 1, 2008. On December 6, 2008, it moved from number 28 to number two on the Hot 100 graph, because of its introduction at number one on the Hot Digital Songs diagram, selling 204,000 digital downloads. The melody turned into Beyoncé's fifth solo single to top the Hot Digital Songs outline. "In the event that I Were a Boy" outlined at number three on the Hot 100 diagram that week, and in this way Beyoncé turned into the seventh female in the US to have two tunes in the best five places of that specific graph. The next week "Single Ladies" moved to number one on the Hot 100 graph, selling 228,000 downloads, and turned into Beyoncé's fifth solo single to top the outline. It tied her with Olivia Newton-John and Barbra Streisand at number six on the rundown of female craftsmen with the most Hot 100 number one hits, starting at 2010. 

The tune was at the highest point of the diagram for four non-sequential weeks, amid the remainder of which computerized downloads of "Single Ladies" expanded by 157 percent to 382,000 units—its greatest seven day stretch of advanced deals. For the week finishing January 15, 2009, the melody moved to number one on the Hot 100 Airplay diagram with 147.3 million audience impressions. It achieved number one on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs diagram, where it stayed for twelve back to back weeks. "Single Ladies" bested the Pop Songs and the Hot Dance Club Play graphs, and achieved number two on the Pop 100 outline. The melody has been confirmed fourfold platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for offers of more than 4,000,000 duplicates. It passed the 5 million deals mark in October 2012. 

"Single Ladies" appeared at number 81 on the Canadian Hot 100 outline for the week finishing November 29, 2008. On January 24, 2009, its ninth diagramming week, it moved to its pinnacle spot at number two, and was thusly guaranteed twofold platinum by the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA) for offers of more than 160,000 duplicates. The tune topped at number seven, and burned through 112 weeks on the UK Singles Chart. 

It bested the UK R&B Chart, where it succeeded the melody's twofold A-side, "On the off chance that I Were a Boy". On October 23, 2009, "Single Ladies" was affirmed platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for offers of more than 600,000 duplicates. As of November 2013, it has sold 704,000 duplicates in the UK. On the Irish Singles Chart, it achieved number four and delighted in twenty weeks of graphing, while on the Japan Hot 100 diagram it advanced toward number 25. In Australia, the single achieved a high purpose of number five on the ARIA Singles Chart, and got a five-times platinum accreditation from the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for offers of more than 350,000 duplicates. It topped at number two on the New Zealand Singles Chart, and was guaranteed platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ) for shipment of more than 15,000 duplicates. "Single Ladies" showed up on a few graphs in terrain Europe, and crested at number 20 on the European Hot 100 Singles outline. It achieved the best 10 in the Netherlands, Italy and Spain, and the best 40 in both Belgian regions (Flanders and Wallonia), just as in Hungary, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland. "Single Ladies" was 2009's seventh top of the line advanced single with 6.1 million units sold around the world, and is a standout amongst the smash hit singles ever. 

The music video for "Single Ladies" was shot following that of "In the event that I Were a Boy", however it got less consideration amid creation than the "higher-shine, higher-profile video" for "In the event that I Were a Boy". The two recordings were shot in high contrast in New York City and were coordinated by Jake Nava, with whom Beyoncé had chipped away at past music recordings including "Insane in Love" and "Delightful Liar". "Single Ladies" was arranged by Frank Gatson Jr. furthermore, JaQuel Knight, and joins J-Setting movement. The two music recordings debuted on MTV's "All out Request Live" appear on October 13, 2008 to fortify the idea of clashing identities. The recordings were discharged to other news sources on a similar date and in this way included on Beyoncé's remix collection with videography, "Above and Beyoncé", and the platinum release of "I Am... Sasha Fierce". 

Beyoncé told Simon Vozick-Levinson of "Stimulation Weekly" that the motivation for the video was a 1969 Bob Fosse routine entitled "Mexican Breakfast" seen on "The Ed Sullivan Show", which included Fosse's significant other, Gwen Verdon, hitting the dance floor with two other ladies. "Mexican Breakfast" had turned into an Internet viral sensation the past summer after Unk's "Walk It Out" was named over the first blend. Beyoncé needed to endeavor a comparable move and in the end, the movement of "Single Ladies" was generously adjusted from "Mexican Breakfast": 

I saw a video on YouTube. [The dancers] had a plain foundation and it was shot on the crane; it was 360 degrees, they could move around. Furthermore, I stated, 'This is virtuoso.' We kept a great deal of the Fosse movement and included the down-south thing—it's called J-Setting, where one individual accomplishes something and the following individual pursues. So it was a bizarre mixture ... It resembles the most urban movement, blended with Fosse—exceptionally present day and very vintage. 

Beyoncé needed a basic music video; it was taped with insignificant elective camera shots and trims, and no progressions to haircuts, outfits and sets. As per JaQuel Knight, Beyoncé additionally needed the video to feel "great and incredible" and incorporate movement that could be endeavored by anyone. The day the video was shot, the tune was separated into three sections. Nava purposely utilized protracted shots so watchers "would associate with the human undertaking of Beyoncé's striking move", with every one of the adjustments in looks, points, and lighting executed live on-camera since he needed to keep the vibe "extremely natural and un-gimmicky". The styling was propelled by a "Vogue" photograph shoot. In the video Beyoncé wears a titanium roboglove planned by her long-lasting goldsmith, Lorraine Schwartz, to supplement her change sense of self Sasha Fierce. The glove comprises of a few pieces, including a ring and a different segment that covers Beyoncé's upper arm. She originally wore the roboglove on celebrity central at the MTV Europe Music Awards on November 8, 2008. The video shoot took around twelve hours. Numerous exhibitions of the melody were recorded without intrusion, and altered together to give the feeling that the last video was shot in a solitary take. 

In the video for "Single Ladies", accentuation is laid on Beyoncé's increasingly forceful and erotic side, her adjust inner self Sasha Fierce. It demonstrates her in an uneven leotard and high-heels, with two reinforcement artists, Ebony Williams and Ashley Everett. Beyoncé's mom, Tina Knowles, structured the high-cut leotards in the wake of seeing something comparable in the American melodic movies "A Chorus Line" and "Such Jazz". The move routine consolidates numerous styles, including jazz, tap, and hip jump, and is credited with promoting J-Setting, a showy lead and pursue move style unmistakable in numerous African American gay clubs crosswise over Atlanta and utilized by the all-female Prancing J-Settes move troupe of Jackson State University. 

The video highlights Beyoncé and her two friends moving inside a vastness bay, which switches back and forth among highly contrasting and puts the emphasis on the unpredictable movement. All through the video the ladies click their heels and shake their hips and legs. In any case, the primary aim is to draw in the watchers' consideration toward their hands and ring fingers as they do the hand-spin move. At a certain point amid the video, the artists keep running up to a divider, which, as indicated by Frank Gatson Jr., pays reverence to Shirley MacLaine's demonstration in the 1969 film "Sweet Charity". Close to the finish of the video, Beyoncé flashes her very own wedding band on her finger. 

In spite of the fact that the video for "Single Ladies" was the least expensive and speediest of every one of her recordings to deliver, Beyoncé felt that it wound up being "the most iconic ... something extraordinary". It brought forth a move rage and motivated a huge number of impersonations everywhere throughout the world, a significant number of which were posted on YouTube. In a meeting with MTV, Beyoncé communicated her energy about the open's reaction to the video, and expressed that she had invested much time viewing a few of these spoofs: "It's excellent to feel you contact individuals and breath life into a melody with a video." Nava additionally communicated his shock at the positive gathering of the video, and credited its prosperity to the video's downplayed, toning it down would be ideal methodology. In a meeting with Chandler Levack for "Eye Weekly", Toronto executive Scott Cudmore expressed that the Internet age has affected the manner in which music recordings are made, just as seen by a group of people. Despite the fact that Cudmore trusts that the music video as a medium may be "vanishing ... from the standard open eye", he licensed "Single Ladies" with its resurgence, and expressed that after the video showed up on the Internet, individuals started to "deliberately search for music recordings due to its specialty". 

The music video has won a few honors and awards. It was casted a ballot Best Dance Routine in the 2008 Popjustice Readers' Poll; and won Video of the Year turning into the principal high contrast music video since Don Henley's The Boys of Summer, Best Choreography, and Best Editing at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. The tune likewise won Best Video at the 2009 MTV Europe Music Awards, the 2009 MOBO Awards, and the 2009 BET Awards. The video has additionally gotten numerous selections: Best Video in the 2009 Popjustice Readers Polls (put fourth); nine (counting the three that it won) in the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards; Best International Artist Video at the 2009 MuchMusic Video Awards (losing to Lady Gaga's "Poker Face"); Outstanding Music Video at the 2009 NAACP Image Awards; and two at the 2009 MTV Australia Awards for Best Video and Best Moves. The video was positioned at number four on BET's "Legally approved: Top 100 Videos of 2008" commencement, and at number three on VH1's Top 40 Videos of 2009. It was casted a ballot best music video of the 2000s decade by devotees of the music site MUZU TV and fifth-best of the decade by perusers of "Announcement" magazine. Claire Suddath of "Time" magazine included it in her 30 All-Time Best Music Videos, composing that "occasionally the best manifestations are additionally the most straightforward". In 2013, John Boone and Jennifer Cady of E! Online put the video at number one on their rundown of Beyoncé's ten best music recordings stating, "[It has] All of the sex offer. Ever... Beyoncé needn't bother with anything other than a vacant room in this one. It's about the moving. It's about the leotard. It's about the furiousness. What's more, it's epic.". The music video was affirmed platinum by CRIA for shipment of offers 10,000 units. 

"Single Ladies" was named for nine honors at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards, eventually winning three including Video of the Year. Its inability to win the Best Female Video class, which went to American nation pop artist Taylor Swift's "You Belong with Me", started discussion amid the function. Quick's acknowledgment discourse was hindered by rapper Kanye West, who got her mouthpiece to proclaim the "Single Ladies" video as "a standout amongst the best recordings ever". Film of Beyoncé in the group of onlookers looking stunned was then appeared. At the point when Beyoncé won the Video of the Year grant soon thereafter, she thought back about when she won her first MTV grant with her previous gathering, Destiny's Child, and called the experience "a standout amongst the most energizing minutes in [her] life". She at that point welcomed Swift in front of an audience to complete her discourse and "have her minute". 

Beyoncé first advanced "Single Ladies" in a show sorted out by Power 105.1 radio in New York on October 29, 2008, and in this manner played out the melody at different honors functions, shows and network shows. At the 2008 World Music Awards in Monaco, Beyoncé performed "Single Ladies" while wearing her roboglove, and indicated the glove as she sang the melody's ensemble. Beyoncé sang "Single Ladies" on "Saturday Night Live" ("SNL") on November 15, 2008. That night, Beyoncé was highlighted in a satire of the tune's music video, where the two female reinforcement artists from the video were supplanted by pop artist Justin Timberlake and "SNL" cast individuals Andy Samberg and Bobby Moynihan. On November 16, 2008, Beyoncé played out a mixture of "In the event that I Were a Boy", "Single Ladies", and "Insane in Love" amid the last scene of "All out Request Live". "Single Ladies" was likewise performed by Beyoncé on November 18, 2008, on "106 and Park", on November 23, 2008, at the 2008 American Music Awards, on November 25, 2008, on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" and on November 26, 2008, at Rockefeller Plaza on "The Today Show". She conveyed an act of "Single Ladies" with two male artists on "The Tyra Banks Show" on January 9, 2009. 

In July 2009, Beyoncé gave a show at the Staples Center in Los Angeles where American on-screen character Tom Cruise hit the dance floor with her and her artists as they played out the move routine of "Single Ladies". At the MTV Video Music Awards on September 13, 2009, Beyoncé performed "Single Ladies" supported by "a multitude of single women" in front of an audience. In a survey led by "Bulletin" magazine, the execution was positioned as the seventh best in the historical backdrop of MTV Video Music Awards. A faultfinder wrote in the magazine: "The world gave a group 'hold up' when Beyonce released her 'Single Ladies' video, yet to see those move moves become animated at the 2009 VMAs was past eye-popping." Erika Ramirez of a similar production put the execution at number two on her rundown of Beyoncé's five greatest TV exhibitions. "Single Ladies" was incorporated on the set arrangements of Beyoncé's I Am... Yours shows and her I Am... World Tour. The melody was in this way included on Beyoncé's live collections "" (2009) and "I Am... World Tour" (2010). "Single Ladies" was later performed by Beyoncé in a pink periphery dress at a show at Palais Nikaia in Nice, France, on June 20, 2011, and at the Glastonbury Festival on June 26, 2011, before in excess of 175,000 observers. On July 1, 2011, Beyoncé gave a free show on "Great Morning America" as a major aspect of its "Mid year Concert Series", which included "Single Ladies". Upheld by her everything female band and her sponsorship artists The Mamas, Beyoncé performed "Single Ladies" before 3,500 individuals amid the 4 Intimate Nights with Beyoncé revue at the Roseland Ballroom in New York, in August 2011. In May, 2012, Beyoncé played out the tune amid her revue at Revel Atlantic City, an inn. Ben Ratliff of "The New York Times" referenced "Single Ladies" in the "practically ceaseless high point" of the show. Rebecca Thomas of MTV News composed that Beyoncé's moving amid "Single Ladies" mirrored the female strengthening topic of the tune. On February 3, 2013, Beyoncé played out the melody alongside her previous bandmates from Destiny's Child amid the Super Bowl XLVII halftime appear. The melody was added to the set rundown of her Mrs. Carter Show World Tour (2013). Beyoncé's performed "Single Ladies" at The Sound of Change Live show on June 1, 2013 at Twickenham Stadium, London as a major aspect of the Chime for Change development. 

"Single Ladies" increased across the board notoriety for its snappy snare and topic of female strengthening. Faultfinders have contrasted the tune with Aretha Franklin's "Regard" and Gloria Gaynor's "I Will Survive", incited by their verses, which all advance female strengthening. The music video accomplished popularity for its perplexing movement and its arrangement of jazz hands with a wrist turn. It has been credited with beginning the "primary real move fever of both the new thousand years and the Internet", setting off various satires of the move movement. Billy Johnson of Yahoo! Music composed that the video of "Single Ladies" was the top music-related viral hit of 2009. MTV News' James Montgomery composed that "it seems like [the music video] was uniquely crafted for the YouTube age, which most likely clarifies why making reverences turned into an overall wonder." The video produced enthusiasm for J-Setting, the move structure that choreographer JaQuel Knight features in the video, and Beyoncé is attributed with conveying the move style to the standard. 

In a radio meeting on NPR's "Everything Considered", Knight shared his energy that the prevalent video made individuals need to figure out how to move. Trish Crawford from the "Toronto Star" saw how it has engaged all age gatherings and sexual orientations, interestingly with the fleeting move furor roused by Soulja Boy two years prior, which she considered "predominantly a male hip-jump move". Crawford referenced, "Little children have handled [the 'Single Ladies' dance]. [So have] entertainment focus move classes, sorority sisters in their apartments, rural young people in their cellars and secondary school team promoters." In February 2009, Columbia Records reported the dispatch of a "Solitary Ladies" Dance Video Contest. Fans matured eighteen and more seasoned were welcome to hold fast definitely to the move routine performed by Beyoncé and her two artists in the first generation. The triumphant video was incorporated into her live collection, "I Am... World Tour". 

"Single Ladies" was first mocked in the November 15, 2008, scene of "SNL", which included Beyoncé. She was at first hesitant to take an interest in the fragment however consented to after a visit from Timberlake in her changing area. Beyoncé's choreographer, Frank Gatson Jr., communicated blended feelings at the outcome, saying: "I was vexed in light of the fact that I realize that Justin's an incredible artist and in the event that he took in the movement, he could do it actually well... On the off chance that they're making spoofs [of our work] simply like they make farces of government officials and presidents, that implies it must be for sure. So in that regard, I need to salute them for doing it." Later, Joe Jonas of the pop musical crew Jonas Brothers posted a video on their YouTube account where he imitated the move in a dark leotard and heels. Irish pop pair Jedward ridiculed Beyoncé's move moves for the video of their spread rendition of "All the Small Things". In London, one hundred artists wearing leotards like the one worn by Beyoncé played out the movement on April 20, 2009, to advance Trident Unwrapped gum. On November 20, 2009, BBC Newsreaders including Fiona Bruce, Sophie Raworth, Kate Silverton, and Susanna Reid performed "Single Ladies" in dark military-style garbs. They were later joined in front of an audience by their male newsreader partners Bill Turnbull, Ben Brown, Nicholas Owen, and Charlie Stayt before taking on Diversity, champs of the third arrangement of "England's Got Talent", in a move off. They played out the movement to raise assets for the UK battle, "Kids In Need". 

The music video enlivened an army of beginner imitators to post recordings of themselves playing out the movement on YouTube. A standout amongst the most seen viral recordings is that of Shane Mercado, who showed up on "The Bonnie Hunt Show" in two-piece bottoms to play out the movement. His consequent gathering with Beyoncé turned into a media occasion. Beyoncé has recognized the notoriety of the recordings on YouTube; amid her show visit, selections from a significant number of the YouTube recordings were played out of sight while Beyoncé was playing out the tune. Cubby, who is an on-air identity for Charlotte, North Carolina's 96.1 The Beat AM, put together his farce with respect to the "SNL" one. His video lead to a meet and welcome with Beyoncé and in the long run, a chance to join her dramatic at a show stop in Atlanta amid her I Am... World Tour. Numerous recordings including infants of various ages, copying the move movement of "Single Ladies", have been transferred on YouTube. A video indicating Cory Elliott, a child kid from New Zealand, playing out the move while viewing Beyoncé on TV, increased critical inclusion from a few news sources. "Time" magazine's commentator Dan Fletcher positioned it as the fourth best popular video of 2009 and stated, "Youthful youngsters love melodies with great cadence and redundancy, and 'Single Ladies' unquestionably has both." However, when a video of seven-year-old young ladies performing movement from "Single Ladies" at a move rivalry in Los Angeles turned into a web sensation on YouTube, it made a debate and started shock from numerous watchers, who felt the young ladies were sexualized by the suggestive move moves. 

In a video shot by vocalist John Legend, US President Barack Obama shows up with his better half Michelle performing some portion of the "Single Ladies" schedule. He likewise quickly played out the hand-whirl move from the tune's video at the Obama Inaugural Celebration. This video provoked an Obama resemble the other alike, Iman Crosson, to do his own form of the "Single Ladies" movement. A few other surely understood identities, including American tree hugger and government official Joe Nation and American on-screen character Tom Hanks, have played out the move. In the music video for "Dancin on Me" by DJ Webstar and Jim Jones, three females are included out of sight, mirroring the "Single Ladies" move. Wearing a dark leotard and gold glove, Katy Brand played out the movement with two reinforcement female artists for the last of BBC One's "How about we Dance for Comic Relief" to fund-raise for the philanthropy Comic Relief on March 12, 2010. Jenna Ushkowitz, Chris Colfer and Heather Morris did the "Single Ladies" move as a major aspect of the Glee Live visit in June 2011. The music serve at Geyer Springs First Baptist Church in Little Rock, Arkansas, figured it would be "a superb thought" to draw in enthusiasm for the congregation choir by utilizing a remix of "Single Ladies" and having choir individuals move to it. In the music video he made, the choir individuals sing, "All the singing women, all the singing fellas ... In the event that you like the choir, at that point won't you come and sing in it." Cyndi Wilkerson, Music Ministry Assistant at Geyer Springs First Baptist Church, transferred the video to YouTube on August 29, 2011. In April 2013, YouTube wonder Psy did the move routine amid a show in Seoul while wearing a red leotard and red boots. A TV advert for the South African cell administration Vodacom, utilized the tune as a setting to a performing artist who was cleverly imitating Beyoncé's moving, the advert rapidly became a web sensation and spawed a few unique varieties. 

"Single Ladies" has been utilized in different media including network shows, ads and books. In the Best of 2009 issue of "Individuals" magazine, Khloe, Kim, and Kourtney Kardashian were positioned at number nine on the magazine's rundown of "25 Most Intriguing People"; the photo going with the article demonstrated the three ladies in leotards emulating the look from the "Single Ladies" video. The melody has been incorporated into numerous network shows, including "", "Cougar Town", and in two scenes in "Merriment". In the United Kingdom, the video for "Single Ladies" was utilized for a 2009 TV plug for the new Doner kebab seasoned Pot Noodle. In other media, issue 33 of comic book arrangement "The Brave and the Bold" includes a scene in which Wonder Woman, Zatanna, and Barbara Gordon sing a karaoke rendition of the tune while at a club. A concoction video of the subject of "Single Ladies" and "The Andy Griffith Show" circled on the Internet in mid 2010. It was created by Party Ben toward the finish of 2008. In July 2010, the line "Put a Ring on It" was utilized by the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS as the slogan for a female condom open mindfulness battle in the US. The melody shows up in the Marvel Studios film "Specialist Strange". The melody was highlighted in the 2016 musicality diversion "Simply Dance 2017". 

Artists and groups of different classes have shrouded the melody in their very own style. Scottish band Marmaduke Duke played out a spread form in April 2009 on BBC Radio 1's "Live Lounge" appear. In October 2009, it was discharged on "Radio 1's Live Lounge – Volume 4", an aggregation of "Live Lounge" chronicles. Australian artist Stan Walker sang a jazzier rendition of the tune on the seventh arrangement of "Australian Idol" in October 2009. That year, primary school gather PS22 melody secured "Single Ladies" and "Radiance" (2009) amid "Billboard"s yearly Women In Music lunch get-together held at The Pierre in New York City. In her brief Broadway revue "About Me" in March 2010, Dame Edna Everage played out a form of the tune with reinforcement artists Gregory Butler and Jon-Paul Mateo. It was additionally secured by Jeff Tweedy and British artist lyricist Alan Pownall. As indicated by Simon Vozick-Levinson of "Amusement Weekly", Tweedy sang just a couple of bars; he gave "Single Ladies" an acoustic feel and presented the remainder of the melody's verses. He played out the hand developments that Beyoncé and her artists do in the melody's video. Pomplamoose, an American outside the box music team comprising of Jack Conte and Nataly Dawn, recorded a front of "Single Ladies" on record, which utilizes split screens to demonstrate Dawn on vocals and Conte playing the instruments. Motivated by the cutting edge Dogme 95 development in film, Conte started to record tunes on record as a brisk method to make "natural and crude" music. They picked "Single Ladies" as they trusted that it would enable them to develop their gathering of people. 

Amid a show at New York's Madison Square Garden, Prince played out a concoction of his 1984 melodies "Pop Life" and "I Would Die 4 U", fusing an example of "Single Ladies". Amid her visit in Melbourne, Australia, on August 13, 2010, Katy Perry performed "Single Ladies" and endeavored to imitate the movement. English writer of traditional music Mark-Anthony Turnage made a setting out of the tune which he titled "Pounded Out". Depicting it as his "most R&B work to date", Turnage disclosed to Tim Rutherford-Johnson of "The Guardian" that he was persuaded to put the "Single Ladies" reference in his work by his young child, an enthusiast of the tune. The piece debuted at the BBC Proms on August 27, 2010. Sara Bareilles secured the tune as a component of "Billboard"s "Mashup Mondays" and performed it as a feature of her set rundown on the 2010 Lilith Fair Tour. As expressed by a commentator composing for the magazine, Bareilles put "a piano-pop" curve on "Single Ladies" and turned it "into a moderate, energetic track, total with crawling bassline and vocal harmonies". American musical gang A Rocket to the Moon secured "Single Ladies" and put it on their EP, "The Rainy Day Sessions", which was discharged in October 2010. 

On September 26, 2010, Kharizma sang their variant of the melody on the second arrangement of "The X Factor Australia", and on May 31, 2011, Matthew Raymond-Barker sang the tune live on the seventh prime of the second arrangement of the "X Factor France". Amid the finale of the tenth period of "American Idol" on May 25, 2011, the woman hopefuls consolidated in front of an audience to perform "Single Ladies" and endeavored the move moves from the melody's video. The film "Sex and the City 2" includes an execution of the melody by American artist and on-screen character Liza Minnelli. On October 18, 2011, Young Men Society sang "Single Ladies" on the third arrangement of "The X Factor Australia", and on June 30, 2014, Holly Tapp sang the melody on the third arrangement of "The Voice Australia". 

Credits adjusted from "I Am... Sasha Fierce" collection liner notes. 

!scope="col" colspan="3"| Mastertone 

!scope="col" colspan="3"| Music video