thirteenth Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Handschar (first Croatian) 

The thirteenth "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian) was a mountain infantry division of the Waffen-SS, an outfitted part of the German Nazi Party that served nearby however was never formally part of the Wehrmacht amid World War II. From March to December 1944, it battled a counter-revolt crusade against socialist drove Yugoslav Partisan opposition powers in the Independent State of Croatia, an extremist manikin province of Germany that included practically all of cutting edge Croatia, all of advanced Bosnia and Herzegovina just as parts of Serbia. It was given the title Handschar () after a nearby battling blade or sword conveyed by Ottoman policemen amid the hundreds of years that the locale was a piece of the Ottoman Empire. It was the first non-Germanic "Waffen"- SS division, and its arrangement denoted the development of the "Waffen"- SS into a multi-ethnic military power. Made out of Bosnian Muslims (ethnic Bosniaks) with some Catholic Croat fighters and for the most part German and Yugoslav "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic German) officers and non-authorized officers, it made a vow of faithfulness to both Adolf Hitler and the Croatian head Ante Pavelić. 

The division battled quickly in the Syrmia area north of the Sava stream before intersection into northeastern Bosnia. Subsequent to intersection the Sava, it built up an assigned "security zone" in northeastern Bosnia between the Sava, Bosna, Drina and Spreča waterways. It likewise battled outside the security zone on a few events, and earned a notoriety for ruthlessness and brutality, amid battle tasks, yet in addition through abominations submitted against Serb and Jewish regular citizens. In late 1944, portions of the division were exchanged quickly to the Zagreb region, after which the non-German individuals started to leave in expansive numbers. Over the winter of 1944– 45, it was sent to the Baranja locale where it battled against the Red Army and Bulgarians all through southern Hungary, falling back by means of a progression of protective lines until they were inside the Reich boondocks. The vast majority of the staying Bosnian Muslims left now and endeavored to come back to Bosnia. The rest withdrew further west, planning to surrender toward the Western Allies. The vast majority of the rest of the individuals progressed toward becoming detainees of the British Army. Hence, 38 officers were removed to Yugoslavia to deal with criminal indictments, and 10 were executed. Several previous individuals from the division battled in the 1947– 48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine and the 1948 Arab– Israeli War. 

After the attack of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia by the Axis controls on 6 April 1941, the outrageous Croat patriot and extremist Ante Pavelić, who had been estranged abroad in Benito Mussolini's Italy, was designated "Poglavnik" (pioneer) of a Ustaše-drove Croatian state – the Independent State of Croatia (regularly called the NDH, from the ). The NDH joined practically all of advanced Croatia, all of cutting edge Bosnia and Herzegovina and parts of current Serbia into an "Italian-German semi protectorate". NDH specialists, driven by the Ustaše Militia, hence executed destructive arrangements against the Serb, Jewish and Roma populace living inside the outskirts of the new state. 

With an end goal to verify the dependability of the Bosnian Muslims, Pavelić requested that a property in Zagreb be changed over into a mosque that he named the "Poglavnik's Mosque". In spite of Pavelić's affirmations of correspondence with the Croats, numerous Muslims rapidly ended up disappointed with Croatian guideline. A Muslim head detailed that not one Muslim involved a persuasive post in the organization. Despite the fact that this was an exaggeration, Muslims were underrepresented in government positions, containing just two of 20 pastoral positions, none of the six state secretaries was a Muslim, and there were just 13 Muslim "individuals agents" in a sum of 206. Savage battling broke out between the Ustaše, Serb-jerk Chetniks and dish Yugoslav Partisans in NDH region. Some Ustaše Militia units ended up persuaded that the Muslims were socialist sympathizers, and consumed their towns and killed numerous regular people. The Chetniks blamed the Muslims for participating in the Ustaše savagery against Serbs and executed comparative monstrosities against the Muslim populace. The Muslims got little insurance from the Croatian Home Guard, the ordinary armed force of the NDH, whom the Germans portrayed as "of insignificant battle esteem". Nearby civilian armies were raised, however these were additionally of restricted esteem and just one, the Tuzla-based Home Guard Hadžiefendić Legion, driven by Muhamed Hadžiefendić, was of any criticalness. 

The Bosnian Muslim first class and notables in different urban communities and towns issued goals or memoranda that freely reproved Croat-German collaborationist measures alongside laws and brutality against Serbs. These were issued in: Prijedor (23 September 1941), Sarajevo (12 October), Mostar (21 October), Banja Luka (12 November), Bijeljina (2 December) and Tuzla (11 December). The goals censured the Ustaše in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both for their abuse of Muslims and for their endeavors to turn Muslims and Serbs against each other. One reminder announced that since the start of the Ustaše routine, the Muslims had feared the untamed exercises that the Ustaše, Croatian government experts and different illicit gatherings had been executing against the Serbs. 

The Bosnian Muslims' disappointment with the Ustaše guideline of the NDH and their requirement for insurance were joined with sentimentality for the time of Habsburg rule in Bosnia and a for the most part well disposed disposition towards Germany among noticeable Bosnian Muslims. These elements prompted a push towards self-sufficiency for the Bosnian Muslim people group which was firmly contradicted by Pavelić as counter to the regional respectability of the NDH. By November 1942, the autonomists were urgent to secure the Muslim individuals and wrote to Adolf Hitler asking that he add Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Reich. 

On 6 December 1942, "Reichsführer-SS" Heinrich Himmler and key "Waffen"- SS enrolling officer "SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Waffen-SS" Gottlob Berger moved toward Hitler with the proposition to raise a Bosnian Muslim SS division. Both the Wehrmacht and the "Waffen"- SS were worried about the quickly falling apart security circumstance in the NDH that secured German military faculty required somewhere else. A German source noticed that by 1943 more than 100,000 Bosnian Muslims had been executed and 250,000 had moved toward becoming displaced people. Moreover, a genuine sustenance lack undermined the locale. "The Muslims," commented "SS-Gruppenführer und Generalleutnant der Waffen-SS" Artur Phleps, "bear the unique status of being aggrieved by all others". 

The sentimental thoughts that Himmler had about the Bosnian Muslims were likely critical in the division's beginning. He was by and by entranced by the Islamic confidence and trusted that Islam made intrepid fighters. He found their fierceness desirable over the social polish of Christians and trusted their military characteristics ought to be additionally created and put to utilize. He imagined that Muslim men would make impeccable SS troopers as Islam "guarantees them Heaven on the off chance that they battle and are executed in real life." As for their ethnic foundation and SS prerequisites, it creates the impression that Himmler acknowledged the hypotheses progressed by both Croatian and German patriots that the Croatian individuals, including the Muslims, were not ethnic Slavs but rather unadulterated Aryans of either Gothic or Iranian drop. 

Himmler was roused by the prominent accomplishments of the Bosnian-Herzegovinian Infantry in World War I. He "attempted to reestablish what he called 'an old Austrian' custom by resuscitating the Bosnian regiments of the previous Austro-Hungarian Army as a Bosnian Muslim SS Division". When raised, the division was to connect with and decimate Josip Broz Tito's Partisan powers working in north-eastern Bosnia, in this manner reestablishing neighborhood "request". Himmler's essential worry in the district was not the security of the nearby Muslim populace, yet the welfare of ethnic German pilgrims toward the north in Syrmia. "Srem (Syrmia) is the breadbasket of Croatia, and ideally it and our cherished German settlements will be verified. I trust that the territory south of Srem will be freed by ... the Bosnian division ... with the goal that we can in any event reestablish fractional request in this absurd (Croatian) state." 

Hitler formally endorsed the venture in mid-February 1943 and Himmler put Phleps, officer of the seventh SS Volunteer Mountain Division "Prinz Eugen", accountable for raising the main SS division to be selected from a non-Germanic individuals. 

On 18 February 1943, Phleps went to Zagreb to start formal dealings with the NDH government. He met with German remote service agent Siegfried Kasche and NDH Foreign Minister Dr. Mladen Lorković who spoke to Pavelić. Pavelić had effectively consented to raise the division, yet the "Waffen"- SS and NDH governments had altogether different thoughts of how it would be enrolled and controlled. Lorković proposed that it be named the SS Ustaša Division, a Croatian unit raised with SS help, with well-known topographically based regimental names, for example, "Bosna", "Krajina" and "Una". This mirrored the worries shared by Pavelić and Kasche that a solely Muslim division may help a Muslim offer for freedom. As a trade off, "Croatian" was incorporated into its official title and Catholic Croatian officers were selected. Himmler and Phleps to a great extent won and made the division as they saw fit, leaving the NDH extremely discontent with the result, especially in regards to its ethnic sythesis. 

"SS-Standartenführer" Karl von Krempler, an authority in Islam who spoke Serbo-Croatian, was charged by Himmler and Phleps with sorting out the division. On 3 March 1943, Phleps met with von Krempler, who was to work with NDH government agent Dr. Alija Šuljak. The battle started on 20 March 1943, when von Krempler and Šuljak started a 18-day enlisting visit through 11 Bosnian locale. With help from the SS, enlisting revitalizes were held in the towns of Živinice and Gračanica. Meanwhile the Germans started raising the divisional base camp staff in Berlin, including "SS-Standartenführer der Reserve" Herbert von Oberwurzer, who was exchanged from the sixth SS Mountain Division Nord to direction the division. 

Šuljak and von Krempler before long dropped out over the points and reasons for the proposed division. Šuljak, an altogether political deputy, condemned von Krempler's Serbian tongue and his utilization of customary Islamic hues and images (green banners and bow moons) amid the enlistment drive instead of the Ustaše images. When he came to Tuzla in focal Bosnia, von Krempler met with the volunteer army pioneer Hadžiefendić. On 28 March, Hadžiefendić escorted von Krempler to Sarajevo, where he acquainted him with the pioneer of Bosnia's Islamic ministry, Hafiz Muhamed Pandža, the "reis-ul-ulema", just as other driving Muslim government officials not included with the Ustaše. The NDH government and Kasche were enraged, requesting von Krempler's quick evacuation. The SS disregarded the interest and von Krempler kept selecting, including weaklings from the NDH military. 

In March– April 1943, both Himmler and a gathering of Muslim pioneers inside the NDH mentioned that the Mufti of Jerusalem, Haj Amin al-Husseini, at that point inhabitant in Berlin, help with sorting out and enlisting Muslims into the "Waffen"- SS and different units. He was escorted by von Krempler, who communicated in Turkish. From 30 March to 10 April, the Mufti visited Zagreb, Sarajevo and Banja Luka to meet senior Muslim pioneers and disturb in help of the new division. The Mufti likewise visited so as to favor and investigate the division. The Mufti demanded, "The most imperative assignment of this division must be to ensure the country and families [of the Bosnian volunteers]; the division must not be allowed to leave Bosnia", yet the Germans gave no consideration. 

Regardless of the help of al-Husseini, enlistment of Muslims for the division missed the mark concerning the numbers required. Himmler at that point permitted a 10 percent Christian segment, yet the enlistment of adequate Muslims kept on demonstrating troublesome, bringing about the acceptance of 2,800 Catholic Croats into the division. Sadly, this was more noteworthy than the proportion of Catholics to Muslims that he had needed. 

Hussein Biščević (Husejin Biščević or Biščević-ask; brought into the world 28 July 1884) was the most astounding positioning (and maybe the most established) Bosnian military officer to volunteer. Bišcević had served in the Austro– Hungarian armed force and in August 1943 was named as a "SS-Obersturmbannführer" to direction the divisional enemy of flying machine brigade. He was in the end made a decision about inadmissible, and was supplanted with a German just before the division went into battle. 

Sources vary with respect to the division's underlying piece. Pavlowitch states that 60% of its volunteers were Muslims and the rest were Yugoslav "Volksdeutsche" who made up most of its officers and non-dispatched officers. Tomasevich states that it was shaped with 23,200 Muslims and 2,800 Croats, with for the most part German officers. He further states it was the biggest of the Muslim SS divisions with 26,000 men. Lepre shows that the division's recommended quality was decreased from 26,000 to 21,000, and Cohen states that the division accomplished a most extreme quality of 17,000 in April 1944. The division had a Muslim imam for every unit other than the all-German flag brigade. For around a half year the division included around 1,000 ethnic Albanians from Kosovo and the Sandžak district who made up the first Battalion of the second Regiment, which later turned into the first Battalion of the 28th Regiment (I/28). 

When the division had finished its preparation, it was still around 33% beneath its assigned quality in the two officers and NCOs, and its officer corps remained predominantly German. The majority of the officers and NCOs were drawn from substitution units of other "Waffen"- SS divisions. 

The division was at first sent to southern France for arrangement and preparing, where it was obliged essentially in towns and towns in the Aveyron and Lozère départements. For an extensive stretch after its official development, the division was anonymous and was alluded to as the "Kroatische SS-Freiwilligen-Division" (Croatian SS-Volunteer Division) or the "Muselmanen-Division" (Muslim Division). The choice by the "Waffen"- SS to frame and prepare the division outside Bosnia was in opposition to guidance given by the NDH's German diplomat general, Edmund Glaise von Horstenau. This guidance before long demonstrated prophetic. 

On 9 August 1943, "Oberst" Karl-Gustav Sauberzweig took order of the division from von Oberwurzer. Sauberzweig exchanged to the "Waffen"- SS and was delegated to the position of "SS-Oberführer". He was a Prussian who had been beautified as an eighteen-year-old organization administrator amid World War I, and had filled in as a regimental authority amid the beginning times of Operation Barbarossa before being injured. A "demonstrated pioneer of men", he talked no Serbo-Croatian yet immediately picked up the enduring admiration and friendship of the men of the division. 

The evening of 16/17 September 1943, while the thirteenth SS Division was preparing in Villefranche-de-Rouergue in France, a gathering of genius Partisan fighters driven by Muslim and Catholic junior officers organized a revolt inside the Pioneer contingent. Driven by Ferid Džanić, Božo Jelinek (otherwise known as Eduard Matutinović), Nikola Vukelić and Lutfija Dizdarević, they caught the majority of the German faculty and executed five German officers, including legion authority "SS-Obersturmbannführer" Oskar Kirchbaum. Evidently, the rebels trusted that a considerable lot of the enrolled men would go along with them and they could achieve the Western Allies. 

The revolt was put down with the help of the unit imam, Halim Malkoč, and unit doctor Dr. Willfried Schweiger. Malkoč told the Bosnian enrolled men of first Company that they were being hoodwinked, discharged the German NCOs and revived the organization to chase down the instigators. Schweiger did likewise with second Company. Dizdarević and Džanić were shot and slaughtered amid the battling, and Vukelić was caught, while Jelinek got away. 

Sources differ on the quantity of double-crossers executed after the revolt was smothered. Tomasevich states that 78 of the most exceedingly bad guilty parties were executed, yet Lepre records just 14 executions while four additional traitors were found and shot in late September. Cohen states that around 150 double-crossers were executed quickly, while Noel Malcolm composes that 15 of the rebels kicked the bucket and a further 141 were slaughtered in a resulting "tidy up task." The Germans credited the invasion to Tito's recommendation that his Partisan adherents enroll for police obligation to get prevalent weapons, regalia and preparing. Enlistees who were esteemed "inadmissible for administration" or "politically untrustworthy" were in this way cleansed. In the end, 825 Bosnians were expelled from the division and sent to Germany for work administration with "Association Todt". Of these, 265 cannot and were sent to the Neuengamme inhumane imprisonment where many them kicked the bucket. 

Talking about the Bosnian Muslim troops who had served in the Austro– Hungarian armed force, Himmler later stated, "I knew quite possibly a couple of double crossers may be snuck into the division, however I haven't the smallest uncertainty concerning the reliability of the Bosnians. These troops were faithful to their incomparable leader twenty years back, so is there any good reason why they shouldn't be so today." Himmler granted both Malkoč and Schweiger the Iron Cross Second Class for foiling the uprising. Five troopers were additionally enlivened. 

At the point when Villefranche-de-Rouergue was freed in 1944, the neighborhood populace chose to pay tribute to the double-crossers by naming one of its roads "Road des Croates" (Bosnian Muslims were seen by the nearby populace as Croats of Islamic confidence) and recognizing "the revolt of the Croats" each 17 September. Cohen states that after the war, the Yugoslav government mentioned it be changed to "the revolt of the Yugoslavs" so as to cloud the double-crossers' ethnicity; this solicitation was declined by the French. The Villefranche-de-Rouergue uprising was initially remembered in the city with a landmark planned by Croatian stone carver Vanja Radauš. 

Because of the rebellion, the division was moved to the Neuhammer preparing grounds in the Silesian district of Germany (present-day Poland) to finish its preparation. Amid the preparation stage, the German officers, satisfied with its encouraging, instituted the expression "Mujo" for the Bosnian Muslims. The individuals from the division made a solemn vow of loyalty to both Hitler and Pavelić. 

On 9 October 1943, SS central command authoritatively named the division the "13. SS-Freiwilligen b.h. Gebirgs-Division (Kroatien)", however a brief span later a change was made to separate it from those that were made out of Germans and it turned into the thirteenth "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian) (, ). The division was named "Handschar", after a nearby battling blade or sword conveyed by Turkish policemen amid the hundreds of years that the district was a piece of the Ottoman Empire. On 15 February 1944, the division finished its preparation and came back to the NDH by rail. 

The division was framed for the essential job of verifying around of an area (the assigned security zone) in north-eastern Bosnia inside the NDH. The security zone incorporated the Posavina, Semberija and Majevica districts between the Sava, Bosna, Drina and Spreča waterways. It generally compared with the region of activities of the Partisan third Corps. Himmler saw this errand as basic to the defending of essential agrarian territories and "Volksdeutsche" settlements in the Syrmia district toward the north. 

The division took part in what may have been the biggest enemy of Partisan compass of World War II: Operation "Maibaum". The thirteenth SS Division likewise partook in other divisional and corps-sized enemy of Partisan tasks among March and May 1944. 

The division originally observed activity amid Operation "Wegweiser" (Signpost) from 9 to 12 March 1944. The point of Operation "Wegweiser" was to clear a piece of the Syrmia district which was involved by Partisans who undermined the Zagreb-Belgrade railroad. The Partisans were working from timberlands around Bosut and towns along the Sava. As the division entered the territory, the Partisans pulled back toward the south-east, keeping away from definitive commitment. Sauberzweig asserted the Partisans endured 573 slaughtered and 82 caught. Hoare composes that the division slaughtered several Serb regular citizens amid the task. As per Vladimir Dedijer and Antun Miletić, 223 regular people were executed in Bosut, 352 in Sremska Rača, and 70 in Jamena, for the most part elderly people men, ladies and kids. The task was an achievement in clearing the Bosut woodlands, however the Partisans came back to the zone not long after it closed. 

On 15 March 1944, Operation "Spare" was propelled with the target of clearing Partisans from the Semberija district. Sauberzweig composed an open letter to the division: "We have now achieved the Bosnian outskirts and will (soon) start the walk into the homeland. ... The Führer has furnished you with his best weapons. In addition to the fact that you have (these) in your grasp, yet over all you have a thought in your souls – to free the homeland. ... After a short time, every one of you will remain in the spot that you call home, as a fighter and a man of his word; standing firm as a safeguard of sparing the way of life of Europe – the possibility of Adolf Hitler." 

Sauberzweig likewise requested that every officer read a readied message as his unit crossed the Sava River, which accentuated that the "freedom of Bosnia" and at last the freedom of "Muslim Albania" was their objective. This was an immediate intrigue to the Albanian troops just as the Bosnians. The 27th Regiment crossed the Sava at sunrise at Bosanska Rača close to the juncture with the Drina. The rest crossed at Brčko secured by a serious ordnance assault. Contact was promptly made with Partisan powers, who rapidly pulled back into the backwoods. The administration bolster units stayed north of the Sava in Vinkovci, which turned into their changeless army region. The 27th Regiment progressed effectively over the Pannonian Plain through Velino Selo to Brodac and afterward on to Bijeljina which was taken against light Partisan opposition late on 16 March. 

The 27th Regiment at that point united its situation in Bijeljina while the 28th Regiment and the divisional observation legion () endured the worst part of the battling as they progressed through Pukis, Čelić and Koraj at the foot of the Majevica mountains. Sauberzweig later recorded that the second legion of the 28th Regiment (II/28) "at Čelić raged the Partisan guards with (new) contingent authority Hans Hanke at the point" and that foe powers pulled back after a hard fight with overwhelming misfortunes, low on ammo. 

When the region was verified, guarded positions were set up along the Čelić– Lopare street and friends quality units were conveyed to lead surveillance. The evening of 17– 18 March, components of the Partisan sixteenth Vojvodina Division and 36th Vojvodina Division mounted fruitless assaults against the 28th Regiment's situations at Koraj and Zabrđe, losing more than 200. 

After Operation "Spare", the division remained generally static for over three weeks, wiping up and repulsing nearby Partisan assaults. The Muslims were fretful to push further into Bosnia, yet the observation legion was intensely connected on the divisional western flank, assaulting positions held by the Partisan third Vojvodina Brigade of the 36th Vojvodina Division at Gornji Rahić on 26 March, slaughtering 124 Partisans and catching 14. The contingent caught a few progressively Partisan positions in the next week. Toward the beginning of April, 200 Partisans of the sixteenth Muslim Brigade surrendered to the division. They were for the most part previous individuals from different Muslim local armies who had been recruited into the positions of the Partisans. 

Task "Osterei" (Easter Egg) started on 12 April 1944 with the objective of clearing the Majevica mountain, which was held by components of the third Corps driven by General Kosta Nađ. The 27th Regiment immediately caught Janja and drove through Donja Trnova to achieve the Ugljevik coal mineshafts, an imperative financial goal for the German war machine. Following battling which proceeded into the night of 13 April, the 27th Regiment detailed Partisan setbacks of 106 dead, 45 caught and two cowards alongside a lot of weapons and ammo. The regiment likewise caught a colossal measure of therapeutic supplies from help stations in the region of Donja Trnova. 

The 28th Regiment drove south through Mačkovac and amid battling around Priboj, its first Battalion (I/28), made up of Albanians, acquired substantial setbacks. The Partisan third Corps at that point pulled back the sixteenth and 36th Vojvodina Divisions south over the Tuzla– Zvornik street. The surveillance regiment proceeded with the development, crashing into the western Majevicas and catching Srebrnik and Gradačac then connecting up with the Croatian Home Guard first Mountain Brigade. The Germans considered Operation "Osterei" a noteworthy achievement, accomplishing all targets with negligible misfortunes. 

Amid the last period of Operation "Osterei", I/28 was pulled back from the battling and moved to Pristina in Kosovo to shape some portion of the 21st "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Skanderbeg" (first Albanian) being raised by Himmler's organization. Another I/28 was raised from other divisional units and newcomers. 

In the last piece of Operation "Osterei", "Jagdkommandos", gently furnished and versatile "seeker groups" of organization or force quality, were utilized to separate and irritate Partisans as yet working on the flanks. These groups slaughtered more than 380 Partisans and caught more than 200 somewhere in the range of 21 and 23 April. By mid-April, half of the security zone had been cleared of Partisans. 

The driven objective of Operation "Maibaum" (Maypole) was to decimate the Partisan third Corps. Armed force Group F requested V SS Mountain Corps to frame a barricade along the Drina to keep the Partisan power from intersection into Serbia. Activity "Maibaum" was one of the biggest counter-uprising tasks of World War II and included seventh SS Division and NDH powers. The thirteenth SS Division was under the order of V SS Corps, and the essential assignments of the division were to catch Tuzla and Zvornik, at that point drive south parallel with the Drina to meet different Corps components. The first arrangement incorporated the parachute addition of 500th SS Parachute Battalion into the Vlasenica region, yet this was dropped because of inadmissible climate. Flank security was to be given by the observation brigade in the Srebrnik region. The arrangement south of the Spreča, and in this way outside the security zone, amid Operation "Maibaum" was requested by the corps leader, Phleps, notwithstanding restriction from Sauberzweig. This caused grinding between the two that in the long run required Himmler's intercession. 

On 23 April, the 28th Regiment drove south along mountain streets through Tuzla. The next day it proceeded similarly as Stupari. On 25 April, the 27th Regiment propelled south to catch Zvornik. In the meantime, the 28th Regiment sent I/28 east towards Vlasenica and II/28 proceeding with south towards Kladanj, catching the town on 27 April. Because of the dimension of the Drinjača at Kladanj, rather than fording the waterway and driving east towards Vlasenica, II/28 proceeded with south-east towards Han Pijesak, where they met components of seventh SS Division propelling north. 

I/28 caught Vlasenica on 28 April, yet was very quickly assaulted from the east by two Partisan divisions. A third Partisan division encompassed the home office of 28th Regiment at Šekovići, 30 kilometres north-west of Vlasenica. Both II/28 and the surveillance legion were raced to Vlasenica, where II/28 assuaged the battered I/28 and after that encompassed Šekovići. Following a 48-hour fight, amid which II/28 was devastated, the town was taken. 

While the skirmish of Šekovići roared, the 27th Regiment expanded the Drina bar further south, ambushing a Partisan section and achieving Nova Kasaba on 30 April. After the circumstance at Šekovići enhanced 1 May, the 27th Regiment came back to watching the Tuzla– Zvornik street. The 28th Regiment moved to the Simin Han-Lopare region on 5 May, while the seventh SS Division sought after the Partisans pulling back south. 

Task "Maibaum" had not just prevented the Partisan third Corps from intersection the Drina into Serbia, it had dispersed the Partisan arrangement. On 6 May, V SS Mountain Corps requested the division to come back to the security zone north of the Spreča. 

On 17– 18 May 1944, the division, alongside the nearby Majevica-Tuzla Chetnik unit told by Radivoj Kerović, started Operation "Maiglöckchen" (May Bell) to obliterate a few Partisan detachments in the Majevicas. The Partisans were circled in the Stolice statures. An endeavor by the Partisan sixteenth Vojvodina Division to soothe the encompassed power was crushed by the observation force and components of the 28th Regiment. The calming section was driven back over the Spreća. After substantial barrage by the cannons regiment, the caught Partisan power got away south out of the pocket under front of dimness on 18 May. The Partisans endured extensive setbacks, for instance the seventeenth Majevica Brigade of the 27th East Bosnia Division lost 16 slaughtered and 60 missing. At the finish of Operation "Maiglöckchen", the 27th Regiment stayed close Zvornik and the 28th Regiment sent close Srebrenik. 

After Operation "Maiglöckchen", the division moved to a to a great extent guarded stance went for denying the Partisans access to the security zone. Since its entry in the zone the division had been aided this undertaking by neighborhood powers of shifting unwavering quality. These included four gatherings of Chetniks numbering 13,000, Nešad Topčić's "Zeleni kadar" (or Green Cadres, a Muslim patriot civilian army) a large portion of which in the end joined the Partisans, and both Ustaše local army and the Croatian Home Guard, neither of which was powerful. These equivalent gatherings, alongside the Partisans, had at the same time been endeavoring to support Bosnian and Croat individuals to desert. Among March and June 1944, these endeavors were generally unproductive, delivering less than 200 betrayers. 

Following Operation "Rösselsprung" (Knight's Move), the German endeavor to murder or catch Tito at Drvar in western Bosnia on 25 May 1944, the Partisan chief arranged a general uprising. The Partisan third Corps arranged a hostile that included three parallel sections of divisional quality pushing north into the zone to draw in and obliterate German and nearby associated powers. The segments involved: 

Task "Vollmond" (Full Moon) was contrived rapidly after the surveillance unit watched Partisan powers crossing the Tuzla– Zvornik street on the night of 6 June 1944. Sauberzweig's point was to strike from the east and north, pushing the propelling Partisan powers against the Drina. The German arrangement thought little of the quality of the Partisan "Western Column" and had put just a single legion (I/28) on high ground in the Partisans' way. This contingent included numerous crude enlists, and was securing two batteries of the ordnance regiment, one of which (7/AR13) was conveyed only east of Lopare. 

Late on 7 June, the Partisans dissipated I/28 and in spite of the fact that II/28 was sent from Srebrenik to help, the sixteenth Vojvodina Division flooded forward against the places of 7/AR13, which comprised of 80 men with four 150 mm weapons and just a single automatic weapon. Following four hours battling, and with a large portion of the battery's work force dead, the artillerymen came up short on little arms ammo and dissipated into the woodland. Because of a counterattack by II/28 on the evening of 9 June and all through 10 June, the sixteenth Vojvodina Division pulled back that evening and the contingent sought after both the "Western Column" and "Center Column" south. The weapons and vehicles of 7/AR13 had been devastated by the Partisans before they pulled back and there were reports that the German dead at Lopare had been disfigured. The "Eastern Column" was ceased by the 27th Regiment and the remainder of the Partisan third Corps was pushed back over the Spreča on 12 June. 

As indicated by German records, Operation "Vollmond" cost the division 205 dead, 528 injured and 89 missing. I/28 had been obliterated, with just 180 men remaining. Sauberzweig asserted 3,000 Partisans were slaughtered in this activity, yet Phleps expelled this as "a huge distortion". As indicated by one German after-activity report, they had slaughtered more than 1,500 Partisans and caught a lot of arms and ammo. As per Partisan sources, the misfortunes of the Partisan third Corps were: 

At the finish of Operation "Vollmond", the officer of the 27th Regiment, Desiderius Hampel, was selected division leader at his substantive position of "Standartenführer" and Sauberzweig was entrusted with shaping another corps home office, the IX "Waffen" Mountain Corps of the SS (Croatian). The officer of the 28th Regiment, Helmuth Raithel, was entrusted to raise the new 23rd "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Kama" (second Croatian). Both the new corps home office and new division were to be shaped in southern Hungary. Three NCOs from each organization of thirteenth SS Division, alongside other work force, were exchanged to frame the center of 23rd SS Division. New leaders were delegated to the two mountain infantry regiments, outstandingly Hanke to the 28th. 

Not long after Hampel's presumption of direction, he ended up mindful that nearby Chetniks were rummaging the Operation "Vollmond" combat zones for divisional gear. He met with the Chetnik pioneer Kerović and orchestrated the arrival of the hardware in return for little arms ammo and boxes of hand projectiles. 

All through the rest of June 1944 and into the main seven day stretch of July, the division was occupied with fending off endeavored Partisan invasions into the security zone and strengthening neighborhood NDH and Chetniks who were enduring an onslaught from the Partisans. Amid the late spring of 1944, components of the division were entrusted with guarding Hungarian Jewish constrained workers building fortresses in Tuzla. While guarding the workers, they exposed them to barbarous treatment, and shot 22 who were unfit to keep working. 

Activity "Fliegenfänger" (Flypaper) was propelled on 14 July 1944. It planned to pulverize an improvised Partisan runway in the Osmaci zone about southeast of Tuzla, south of the Tuzla– Zvornik street and the Partisan powers guarding it. The airstrip was only north of the southern limit of the security zone and was being utilized by Allied air ship to get supplies and empty injured Partisans to Italy. It had been worked by the nineteenth Birač Brigade of the 27th East Bosnia Division somewhere in the range of 3 and 6 July, and the principal trip into the runway happened the evening of 6/7 July. The nineteenth Birač Brigade was additionally in charge of its safeguard. Two units of the 27th Regiment, alongside a brigade of Chetniks from Majevica propelled the task from the line of Caparde– Memići– Prnjavor, and caught the towns of Osmaci and Memići and harmed the landing strip regardless of hardened obstruction. That evening, the nineteenth Birač Brigade counter-assaulted and pushed the German and Chetniks back over the Tuzla– Zvornik street. In the meantime as the counter-assault was in progress, the central command of the Partisan third Corps requested the 36th Vojvodina Division to clear the foe from the region with the goal that the runway could be utilized. Amid the evening of 14/15 July, components of the 36th Vojvodina Division landed in the Osmaci territory and diminished the nineteenth Birač Brigade, which moved towards Srebrenica. Amid the evening of 16/17 July, Allied flying machine conveyed hardware to Osmaci and around 100 injured Partisans were carried to Italy. 

As per German reports, 42 Partisans were murdered, while the division's misfortunes were four dead and seven injured. The Partisan power pulled back south to the Vlasenica– Rajići zone. The collaboration with the Chetnik brigade was portrayed in the IX SS Mountain Corps war journal as "compelling". 

While the division was leading Operation "Fliegenfänger", the Second Panzer Army was building up an arrangement to hinder an extensive Partisan power from moving from focal Bosnia into western Serbia to strengthen the Partisans. Because of issues with the accessibility of different units of V SS Mountain Corps, the arranged Operation "Rose" was dropped. 

In the meantime, since the greater part of the division was conveyed in the southern piece of the security zone, Hampel arranged a divisional-level task, named Operation "Heiderose" (Wild Rose) focusing on Partisan positions north-west of Šekovići, south of the Spreča. The 27th Regiment, fortified by the equivalent Chetnik contingent that collaborated in Operation "Fliegenfänger", would assault east towards Šekovići and the 28th Regiment would push south. A disconnected legion of seventh SS Division would go about as a blocking power driving north. Hampel was obviously discontent with the execution of the new officer of the 27th Regiment ("SS-Obersturmbannführer" Hermann Peter) and put the divisional head of staff, "SS-Sturmbannführer" Erich Braun, accountable for the 27th Regiment. 

On 17 July, the activity started. Furious obstruction was promptly experienced by the 28th Regiment, while the 27th Regiment climbed the statures to Udrč before nightfall without genuine resistance. At an opportune time 18 July, the Chetniks assaulted from Matkovac towards Šekovići. The 27th Regiment came to Bačkovac and caught the high ground south of Šekovići on 19 July 1944. The 28th Regiment constrained the Partisan 36th Vojvodina Division back. The unit from seventh SS Division experienced genuine obstruction around Vlasenica however pushed through. On 19 July, the 28th Regiment drove north towards Gornje Petrovice to assault the Partisan twelfth Corps at Živinice. The surveillance brigade of seventh SS Division pushed in from Vareš as a blocking power to prevent the Partisans from pulling back through Kladanj. 

The Partisans at that point submitted the sixteenth Vojvodina Division to help the 36th Vojvodina Division that had borne the brunt of Operation "Heiderose" to this point. On 20 July, the two divisions assaulted the 27th Regiment, which counterattacked the next day after the Partisans were rebuked with overwhelming losses. On 23 July, the Partisans started to pull back south out of the region. The division started to scan for the concealed Partisan bases that German knowledge had demonstrated were situated there. Following multi day of looking, the division revealed in excess of ten Partisan bases, which the participating Chetniks started to clear regardless of having indicated little enthusiasm for really battling the Partisans in earlier days. 

Task "Heiderose" was a critical accomplishment for the division, exacting genuine misfortunes on the Partisans. In excess of 900 Partisans were murdered and a lot of hardware was caught: one enemy of tank weapon, two mortars, 22 assault rifles, more than 800 rifles and about 500,000 rounds of little arms ammo. The division endured 24 executed and more than 150 injured. Socialist sources hold that the Partisans endured genuine misfortunes, with the twelfth Corps alone having 250 dead, injured and missing. Be that as it may, Partisan reports gauge that German misfortunes were fundamentally bigger than their own. Erich Braun was prescribed for the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross yet the suggestion was not bolstered, evidently because of differences between the divisional staff and Phleps that had happened amid the division's development. 

In the principal seven day stretch of August 1944, the Second Panzer Army was at last prepared to move to frustrate the Partisan development from Bosnia into Serbia, initially arranged as Operation Rose. Renamed Operation "Rübezahl" (Mountain Spirit), the redid plan required the seventh and thirteenth SS Divisions to frame the Bosnian period of the task, named Operation "Hackfleisch" (Minced Meat). "Hackfleisch" expected to drive out the Partisans involving the region between the towns of Kladanj, Vlasenica, Sokolac and Olovo, south of the security zone. The general arrangement included segments that were to drive the Partisans eastwards into the pliers of different units, consequently wrecking them. 

The segments were assigned errands and made as pursues: 

The 27th Regiment progressed toward becoming secured savage battling with the Partisan 27th East Bosnia Division and 38th Bosnia Division, which had propelled a hostile close Vlasenica. The powerlessness of the 27th Regiment to push forward implied that the arrangement to enclose the Partisan power was not accomplished and the Partisans gotten away by intersection the Vlasenica– Han Pijesak street toward the east. Other Partisan powers pulled back toward Goražde. 

To the extent the Germans were concerned, Operation "Hackfleisch" was a moderate achievement, with 227 Partisans executed and more than 50 detainees taken. It deferred, however did not keep, the Partisans' development into Serbia. So as to enable the seventh SS Division to seek after Partisan powers pulling back towards focal Bosnia, both I/28 and III/28 were put under the order of that division for the time of 8– 17 August 1944. Amid the rest of August 1944, the back end of the division contended energetically to keep the Partisans out of the security zone. The Partisan eleventh Krajina Division and 38th Bosnia Division immediately penetrated into the southern piece of the security zone and the 27th East Bosnia Division crossed into the region north-west of Srebrenica and drove towards Bratunac. After a progression of fast redeployments and unit and regimental assaults, the division dissipated the eleventh Krajina Division and battered the 27th East Bosnia Division. 

The division had at this point been battling ceaselessly all through the late spring. As per divisional administrator Hampel, it had been depleted even before Operation "Hackfleisch" started. The aggregate impact of this depletion, the breaking down circumstance that the Germans looked on all fronts and bits of gossip most likely spread among individuals by the Partisans and Ustaše, was that the division started to deteriorate toward the beginning of September 1944. 

Toward the beginning of September 1944, the division returned north to the security zone, basing the infantry contingents in the towns of Kurukaja, Vukovije (south of Foča), Osmaci and Srebrnik. Very quickly, the Partisan third Corps initiated a hostile, assaulting II/28 at Srebrnik. It hung on regardless of being squeezed hard amid two days of battling against the eleventh Krajina Division. Before the finish of the principal week in September, divisional supply segments were being assaulted by Chetniks, detecting German shortcoming and searching for arms and supplies. Three individuals from the division were murdered in these assaults. Over that week, the Allies led Operation Ratweek all through the Balkans, which included Allied air control beating Axis troop focuses and key framework so as to obstruct the German withdrawal from Greece. The neighborhood impact was to entangle the division's coordinations through devastation of the Sarajevo-Brod railroad and mass departures of NDH troops entrusted with verifying supply lines. 

On 8 September, II/27 was struck ineffectively by the Partisans at Matkovac. After the primary seven day stretch of September, the vast majority of the division's battling power was moved toward the western limit of the security zone to meet Partisan invasions. The division prevailing with regards to dislodging Partisan units from Slatna and Međeđa and partnered Chetniks caught Skurgić. After help by NDH powers, the division's battling regiments pulled back to Brčko for rest and refit. Because of the move toward the western zone of the security zone, the zone's southern territory was rapidly invade by Partisan powers. Zvornik and Tuzla had fallen by mid-September. 

On 17 August 1944, Tito offered a general absolution and numerous in the division exploited this chance. Amid the initial three weeks of September, while hard battling proceeded, more than 2,000 Bosnians left, many taking their weapons with them. They returned home, joined the Green Cadres civilian army or headed toward the Ustaše. Many absconded to the Partisans, with more than 700 having joined the Partisan third Corps by early October. 

Because of high rates of renunciation from thirteenth SS Division, Sauberzweig proposed to incapacitate the Bosnians in both thirteenth SS Division and 23rd SS Division, yet Himmler rather picked to transport the 2,000 Bosnians of 23rd SS Division from Hungary to Bosnia and re-arrange the rest of the troops of the two divisions there, with key help units from thirteenth SS Division incorporated under IX SS Mountain Corps, which would likewise move to Bosnia from Hungary. 

In the early morning of 3 October 1944, the Partisan 28th Slavonia Division struck a squadron of the observation contingent at Janja near the Drina on the eastern limit of the security zone. As they broke out of the enclosure toward the north, the remainder of the observation brigade drove south from Bijeljina and ceased the Partisan development at overwhelming expense. Hurrying towards Janja from the east, III/27 came into contact with Partisans around Modran, achieving the Janja army at 10 pm that night and got ordnance support by 3/AR 13 amid the night. At day break the next day, an extra four Partisan detachments assaulted the battalion in Janja, with battling proceeding for the duration of the day preceding the Partisans pulled back toward the south. "Jagdkommandos" were sent after the escaping adversary however were not ready to exact critical misfortunes on them as they had officially crossed the Drina into the German-involved domain of Serbia. Following this fight, Army Group F presumed that the division's general battle esteem was negligible. 

A couple of days after the fact, the ninth Company of the 28th Regiment (9/28) showed what could at present be accomplished by the Bosnians under decided administration when "Leutnant" Hans König trapped the Partisan seventeenth Majevica Brigade close Vukosavci, killing something like 67 and catching requests for future tasks. König was granted the German Cross in Gold for his over the top authority. 

While 9/28 was battling close Vukosavci, various units, comprising mostly of cannons, were incidentally disconnected for obligation with different developments of Second Panzer Army battling Soviet troops inside the German-involved region of Serbia. The division was not re-joined until January 1945. 

After a solicitation from Army Group F to Himmler, a choice was made to move IX SS Mountain Corps and the division to perform street and railroad security obligations close Zagreb. This would assuage LXIX Army Corps from those obligations so it could fortify a guarded line along the Drina confronting the propelling Red Army. The 28th Regiment, I/27 and III/AR 13 were to stay behind at the Brčko bridgehead to keep the Sava waterway connect open. The substantial abandonments from the division were the principle explanation behind the move from north-east Bosnia to northern Croatia, however it exacerbated the situation: the Bosnians were hesitant to leave Bosnia and the officially genuine departure rate turned into a flood when the move started on 16 October 1944. Many took their weapons with them and hundreds joined the Partisans. In mid-October, 700 individuals from the division positioned at Orašje joined the Partisans, and were dispersed between the seventeenth Majevica Brigade and 21st East Bosnian Brigade. 

On 20 October, the Red Army and Partisan powers caught Belgrade and the next day the divisional staff imam, Abdulah Muhasilović, impelled a revolt and drove 100 men back to Bosnia. Himmler at long last consented to the incapacitating of the "untrustworthy" Bosnians under Operation "Herbstlaub" (Autumn Leaves) on 25 October. Somewhere in the range of 900 and 1,000 Bosnians in the Brčko bridgehead and more than 2,300 in Zagreb were designated to work units and comparative non-soldier helper obligations, in spite of the fact that the incapacitating task was not finished in the Zagreb zone until mid-November. By the start of November the division, which had been ninety five percent non-German in January 1944, ended up 50% German. The designs to re-arrange the division were deserted and Sauberzweig was mitigated of order. Also, Sauberzweig's IX SS Mountain Corps staff was broken up and the remainders were put under the order of LXVIII Army Corps, under which they stayed for the remainder of the war. 

In the mean time, the development of the Red Army through Belgrade and north into the once in the past Hungarian-involved Yugoslav area of Baranja made holding the line of the Danube basic for the Germans. Toward the beginning of November the Soviet troops built up a bridgehead over the Danube from Apatin (in advanced Serbia). From 9 November ahead, the division was submitted in a few phases toward the Eastern Front, beginning with the surveillance legion which went energetically at Dárda west of the Apatin bridgehead on 10 November. They were trailed by a gathering of three contingents (I/27, II/28 and II/28), a mounted guns brigade (III/AR 13) and pioneer support. Known as "Kampfgruppe Hanke" after their officer Hans Hanke, they moved from the Brčko bridgehead and joined a blocking position at Pélmonostor on 14 November south-west of a second Soviet bridgehead that had been set up at Batina (in current Croatia). Subsequently, the last Muslim SS troops left Bosnia. Inside seven days they were joined by the observation legion, which had vindicated itself well in battling west of Apatin. By 20 November, the Red Army was over the Danube in power at Batina. The next day "Kampfgruppe Hanke" was driven out of its positions, when the staying 200 troops pulled back. By 25 November the remainder of the division was en route from the Zagreb zone. The leftovers of "Kampfgruppe Hanke" were set under order of "Reichsgrenadier Division Hoch und Deutschmeister", pulling back similarly as Siklós in southern Hungary by 29 November. 

Inside days "Kampfgruppe Hanke" was pulled back from the cutting edge to rejoin the division and re-fit, and they were moved to Barcs on the Drava stream for that reason. On 2 December the division was brought together, aside from the remainder of the pioneer unit, which stayed stranded in Bosnia by harmed spans and railroads. Because of proceeded with departures and the cataclysmic setbacks endured by "Kampfgruppe Hanke", the division held little of its unique Bosnian character. Notwithstanding the arrival of incapacitated Bosnians from work units, the connection of Hungarian infantry and mounted guns units and entry of German substitutions implied the division appeared to be minimal unique from some other unit in the Second Panzer Army. 

After a brief break, the division was designated to a segment of the Margarethe Line, a progression of fixed cautious works south of Lake Balaton which held up the Soviet development. After a few Red Army strikes were rebuffed, static channel fighting created between December 1944 and January 1945. Toward the beginning of March 1945, a couple of units partook in Operation Frühlingserwachen (Spring Awakening), which was to be Germany's last real hostile. In the interim, from December 1944 to March 1945, the remainder of the division stayed at Barcs remaking. In February, they had been joined by the divisional pioneer contingent, which had at long last figured out how to pull back from Bosnia. On 16 March, the Soviets propelled the Vienna Offensive, bypassing the Barcs region. That night, the division assaulted the flanks of the Soviet drive at Heresznye, where it attempted its last hostile activity of the war. 

On 29 March, the Soviet 57th Army and the Bulgarian First Army ambushed the whole Second Panzer Army front, rapidly breaking the line close Nagybajom. The division, holding positions only south of the entrance, started to pull back toward the north-west. It fell back to the Mura and scarcely figured out how to cross under steady air and ground assaults, with heinous losses. Unfit to take up viable positions, the division crossed the Reich boondocks on 6 April and took up positions at Pettau in the supposed "Reich Defense Line", where it stayed until 5 May. Its last battling was around Kiesmanndorff on 19 April. 

On 5 May, the division's residual men, both German and Bosnian, started to withdraw northwards towards Austria. On 8 May, a request was sent to withdraw to Wolfsberg, Carinthia. On learning of the requests, unit imams of the 28th Regiment "moved toward their leader, Hans Hanke and mentioned that they and their men be released and be permitted to endeavor to come back to their homeland ... Before long, the majority of the Bosnians staying in the division were inquired as to whether they wished to stay." There are two reports of huge scale backlash killings of these individuals from the division by the Partisans, one of which incorporated the mass shooting of 1,400 officers. 

The retreat proceeded until 11 May. On 12 May, Hampel completed surrender arrangements with the British Army at Sankt Veit a der Glan. On 15 May a large portion of the men were transported to Rimini in Italy, where they were imprisoned with different detainees of war from seventh SS Division and sixteenth SS Panzergrenadier Division Reichsführer-SS. Dissipated remainders did not surrender until 18 May and many endeavored to pulverize their SS blood aggregate tattoo. Hampel got away from a wartime captive camp in Fallingbostel. 

While it accomplished victories and substantiated itself skilled in counter-rebellion activities against the Partisans in eastern Bosnia, the division earned a notoriety for mercilessness and brutality, amid battle tasks, yet in addition through abominations submitted against Serb and Jewish regular people in the security zone. Its backlash assaults in northern and eastern Bosnia left a huge number and potentially upwards of a few thousand Serb regular citizens dead by the spring and summer of 1944. 

Thirty-eight individuals from the division were removed to Yugoslavia to confront preliminary after the war. Some ended it all, including "Generalleutnant" Sauberzweig on 20 October 1946 and "SS-Obersturmführer" Hans König. Preliminaries occurred at a military court in Sarajevo somewhere in the range of 22 and 30 August 1947. Just seven of the 38 litigants were accused of explicit offenses, in spite of the fact that the prosecution blamed the division for killing approximately 5,000 individuals. The charged were protected by three Yugoslav legal counselors: two regular citizen and one military officer. All were discovered liable; 10 were condemned to death, and 28 got jail terms of between five years and life. "SS-Obersturmführer" Imam Halim Malkoč had just been executed in Bihać on 7 March 1947. Those who were executed were junior officers and non-appointed officers. Practically every one of the detainees were discharged early and by 1952 all had been liberated, aside from one who had passed on. Having gotten away, Hampel never confronted preliminary and lived in Graz, Austria until his passing on 11 January 1981. 

Many individuals from the thirteenth and 23rd SS Divisions volunteered to battle in the 1948– 1949 Arab– Israeli War. The Syrian government made a solicitation for the exchange of 8,000 Bosnian Muslim evacuees to Syria, numerous for enrollment into the Syrian Armed Forces. Iraq sent agents to Europe and welcomed 2,500 Bosnian Muslims to settle there. Frantzman and Culibrk gauge that roughly 1,000 previous Bosnian Muslim SS individuals battled in Palestine. A significant number of the volunteers served in the Arab Liberation Army's Ajnaddin Battalion. 

The accompanying officers directed the division. The initial two raised and prepared the division in its beginning periods of improvement and Sauberzweig and Hampel directed it on dynamic tasks against the Partisans and later against the Red Army and Bulgarians: 

A few individuals were enhanced with high German military honors, with five granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross (counting Hampel and Hanke), five granted the German Cross in Gold (counting Hanke) and one granted the German Cross in Silver. Each of the five introductions of the Knight's Cross to individuals from the division are questioned and can't be confirmed at the German National Archive. As per Gerhard von Seemen, Hampel, Karl Liecke and Hanke probably got the Knight's Cross around the same time from the administrator of the second Panzer Army, "General der Artillerie" Maximilian de Angelis. 

From 24 September 1944, the supply and coordinations forces were consolidated to shape the thirteenth SS Service Support/Supply Regiment. 

The uniform was ordinary SS M43 field-coat issue, with a divisional neckline fix demonstrating an arm holding a scimitar over a swastika. On the left arm was a Croatian armshield (red-white chessboard) and on the privilege an Edelweiss blossom fix. The chessboard armshield was questionable, particularly with the imams, who, subsequent to intersection the Sava stream, expelled them. Previous SS faculty serving in the division were qualified for wear a Sig Rune identification that was appended to one side front pocket of the tunic. 

Headgear was either the SS M43 fez which was to be worn by all positions, while German officers had the choice to wear the mountain top ("Bergmütze"). The fez was picked by Himmler since it had been worn by the Bosnian-Herzegovinian Infantry regiments of the Austro-Hungarian armed force from 1894 to 1918, just as by the Austro-Hungarian Albanian Legion from 1916 to 1918. There were two renditions of the fez: a field dim model to be worn in battle and keeping in mind that on obligation and a red model for motorcades, walking practices and keeping in mind that on leave. Both the fez and mountain top bore the passing's head and falcon of the SS. The mountain top was likewise embellished with an Edelweiss bloom fix, worn on the left half of the top. 

Set to the tune of "Wir fahren gegen Engelland" by Herms Niel.