Herschel Greer Stadium 

Herschel Greer Stadium is a relinquished Minor League Baseball park in Nashville, Tennessee, on the grounds of Fort Negley, an American Civil War stronghold, around south of the city's downtown region. The office has been shut and unused since the finish of the 2014 baseball season, and left since mid 2015. , the arena is as yet standing, yet the city hopes to start obliteration in mid 2019 preceding reincorporating the land into Fort Negley Park. 

Greer was opened in 1978 for the Nashville Sounds, a development establishment of the Double-A Southern League who moved to the Triple-An American Association in 1985 and to the Triple-A Pacific Coast League in 1998. The arena played host to the group until 2014. The subject of various updates and fixes to keep up its usefulness, Greer ended up one of the most seasoned arenas utilized by a Triple-A group, and before the finish of its utilization had fallen well underneath expert baseball's measures for an arena at that class level. For over 10 years, the Sounds endeavored to verify concurrences with the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County for another ballpark to supplant Greer, in the end bringing about the development of First Tennessee Park, which turned into the Sounds' new home in 2015. 

In the midst of the Sounds' 37-season run, Greer all the while facilitated two expert baseball clubs in 1993 and 1994, going about as a transitory home to an uprooted Southern League establishment referred to amid that period as the Nashville Xpress. The arena additionally observed infrequent use as a setting for school baseball, secondary school football, and philanthropy softball occasions. It has been the site of three small time top pick amusements, eight no-hitters, including one immaculate diversion, and a 24-inning amusement which tied the record for the longest diversion in Pacific Coast League history. The arena is best perceived by its unmistakable guitar-formed scoreboard. 

Larry Schmittou, the pioneer of a push to take proficient baseball back to Nashville in the late 1970s, realized he would need to manufacture another ballpark for his group as the city's past ballpark, Sulfur Dell, had been obliterated in 1969. He gained from an individual from the Metro Board of Parks and Recreation that neither the Parks Board or the city of Nashville would pay for such a recreation center. In this way, Schmittou, alongside assistance from nation performer Conway Twitty, set up together a gathering of financial specialists including other blue grass craftsmen Cal Smith and Jerry Reed, just as different Nashvillians, to back an arena and a small time group. The Metro Parks Board consented to rent to Schmittou a plot of land at the foot of St. Cloud Hill on the grounds of Fort Negley, an American Civil War fortress, around south of downtown, for a time of 20 years as long as he constructed an arena with a base limit of 6,500 at an expense of at any rate US$400,000 inside 10 years. The city would likewise migrate the city-possessed softball complex that involved the site. Schmittou would be in charge of structure the arena, making good on the property regulatory obligations, and paying the city seven percent of the group's complete income in the second ten years. 

Stoll-Reed Architects educated Schmittou that development with respect to an appropriate arena would cost somewhere in the range of $300,000 and $500,000, however offers for the undertaking ran from $980,000 to $1.2 million. Schmittou looked to neighborhood providers to give development materials, took out a $30,000 credit from a bank, sold season tickets ahead of time of having a group, and even sold his own home to help pay for the office. The real cost totaled $1.5 million. The arena was after death named for Herschel Lynn Greer, a conspicuous Nashville agent and the main leader of the Nashville Vols baseball crew, whose family gave $25,000 for arena development. 

The home opener for Greer's first inhabitants, the Southern League's Nashville Sounds, Double-A partner of the Cincinnati Reds, was booked for April 25, 1978. Development was in progress, however Schmittou realized the ballpark would not be prepared by that date. The group mentioned to open the season with street amusements and needed to swap an arrangement with the Chattanooga Lookouts so as to have more opportunity to finish the arena. Indeed, even with this additional time, the ballpark was still behind timetable. A significant part of the grass that been laid that winter passed on. When the substitution grass had arrived, the group procured to lay the turf had left. General Manager Farrell Owens sorted out a volunteer group to lay the turf by calling a neighborhood radio station to declare the group was having a "grass party". A gathering of around 50 people turned out to lay and roll the grass the day preceding the planned opening amusement. 

The planned April 25 Greer home opener was rained out and pushed back to the night of April 26. In the wake of playing their initial ten diversions from home, and with tractors and evaluating machines as yet setting up the field on amusement day, the Sounds played their first home amusement on April 26, 1978. The 12– 4 victory against the Savannah Braves was seen by a sellout horde of 8,156 onlookers. Southern League president Billy Hitchcock was close by to observe the occasion, and Conway Twitty tossed out the principal pitch. On the field, Sounds catcher Joe Griffin drove the 16-hit Nashville offense with 5 runs batted in (RBI) while beginning pitcher Bruce Berenyi got the success and closer Doug Corbett earned a spare. 

In spite of the fact that the arena was opened on schedule, the late turf was by all account not the only issue on opening day. The power was turned on just five minutes before the entryways opened. Just two ladies' bathrooms and one men's bathroom were working, however a couple of convenient toilets were likewise accessible. The arena's seats, which had recently been introduced in Atlanta's Fulton County Stadium, arrived in the nick of time. Development of the screen was all the while being finished on opening day. Players for both the Sounds and the meeting Braves had worries about the security of playing on the immediately introduced infield, at first declining to play superficially. Left defenders grumbled about the additional precarious incline in left field that kept them from seeing home plate. The outfield grass was taken up and the dirt regraded to reduce this issue while the Sounds were away on an eight-day excursion. 

At first, Greer was equipped for seating 7,200 spectators, yet was extended to 8,800 before the finish of the debut season. Theater-type seats with back help and armrests represented 3,000 of the arena's seats; grandstand seats made up the rest of. The press box included two radio communicate stalls and an organ corner. There were storage spaces for two groups, which each suited 25 people, just as a storage space for umpires. The field estimated 330 feet (100 m) down the left and right field lines, 375 feet (114 m) to left-and right-focus fields, and 405 feet (123 m) to focus field. The home group involved the third base hole, and guests involved the a respectable starting point hole, with each group's warm up area situated in a foul area in the outfield corners. Eight lighting networks on steel shafts 100 feet (30 m) high given enlightenment to night recreations. Luxuries for clients at the recreation center included two people's bathrooms and seven snack bars. 

With the expansion of 5,000 permanent seats, Greer's seating limit was expanded to 13,000 for the 1979 season. Enhancements to the playing field included new water system and seepage frameworks which raised the field 5 feet (1.5 m) over its past height. 

Preceding the 1981 season, Greer experienced various remodels including the expansion of over 1,200 box seats and over 1,000 new general affirmation seats. Two wooden general confirmation seating regions were supplanted by 2,000 contoured seats. The first stopping board which comprised of a few steel posts was moved up to a steel link framework, wiping out a large portion of the shafts. Other arena redesigns included two new holes, three passageway and off-ramps, another sound framework, multiplying the extent of the peruser board on the scoreboard, and developing the ticket office. The ballpark's unsurpassed participation record was determined to August 18, 1982, when 22,315 people watched the Sounds rout the Columbus Astros, 3– 0. Bits of the outfield must be restricted to suit the group, which was far in abundance of Greer's seating limit. 

From February through mid-summer 1984, noteworthy redesigns and increases were made to the office. A full-administration eatery, The Hall of Fame Stadium Club, and a smaller than normal rooftop, to cover the last five lines of the held seating area and the principle concourse, were fabricated. Another press box included lodging for extra individuals from the media, two separate stalls for home and visiting radio communicates, and two separate corners for home and visiting transmissions. Ten sky boxes were constructed contiguous the press box; by 1989, the quantity of sky boxes had expanded to 18. 

In July 1984, Schmittou acquired the Triple-An Evansville Triplets of the American Association. The group moved from Evansville to Nashville for the 1985 season, whereupon the Triplets' heritage was resigned and the establishment received the Sounds' name and history, successfully hoisting the association from Double-A to Triple-A. The Double-A Southern League establishment was moved to Huntsville, Alabama, where the group started play as the Huntsville Stars at the hurriedly built Joe W. Davis Stadium. 

To plan for the move to Triple-A, remodels proceeded preceding the 1985 season with the expansion of 1,200 box seats, which supplanted a portion of the held show off seating, just as additionally seating past the correct field foul post. A 4-line scoreboard 10 feet (3.0 m) high supplanted the arena's unique, which was moved to far left field to fill in as an away scoreboard, giving scores to American League, National League, and American Association ball games. 

Schmittou's longing to arrive a Triple-A group was a piece of a bigger arrangement to set Nashville in a place to fight for a Major League Baseball establishment later on. Alongside this objective, the requirement for all the more seating, and a longing to make Greer an increasingly alluring ballpark, noteworthy remodels started after the 1987 season. The quantity of box seats was expanded by 40 percent, the clubhouse and umpire offices were updated, and the holes were totally revamped. The new holes occupied marginally more space than the past ones, bringing about a minor withdrawal of the field's measurements: 327 feet (100 m) down the left and right field lines, 371 feet (113 m) to left and right-focus fields, and 400 feet (120 m) to focus field. The primary concourse entrance was updated to join the stonemasonry of the adjoining Fort Negley. This extension brought Greer's all out seating limit up to 18,000. 

In 1990, Major League Baseball (MLB) group proprietors satisfied to need that small time proprietors improve their ballparks so as to satisfy their ideal guidelines. Greer had effectively fallen behind different parks when it went to the nature of the field and clubhouse, and it additionally came up short on a weight room and batting confines. Following a fizzled offer to verify a MLB group for Nashville in the 1993 Major League Baseball extension process (Nashville was one of ten urban communities considered, yet was disposed of from conflict in all respects right off the bat all the while; the two new establishments were in the long run granted to Denver and Miami), Schmittou concentrated on downsizing his proposed MLB arena into another Triple-An office for the Sounds. When other Triple-A urban areas were fabricating new, generally rich ballparks, Schmittou was unfit to persuade civic chairman Phil Bredesen or the Metro Council to pay for such another park. He thought about moving the group to an encompassing area, and investigated locales in La Vergne, Cool Springs, and Mount Juliet. He even attempted, ineffectively, to get the Metro Council to pass a submission to give citizens a chance to cast a ballot on a transitory expense increment to satisfy a proposed $40 million arena in three years. At last, Schmittou chose to keep the Sounds at Greer yet make noteworthy enhancements to the arena. 

Greer's particular guitar-molded scoreboard, made by the Fair-Play organization, was introduced behind the left-focus field divider preceding the 1993 season. Another expansion in 1993 was that of a second group to play at Greer. From 1993 to 1994, the ballpark all the while filled in as the home field for the Sounds and the Nashville Xpress, the Double-A member of the Minnesota Twins which played in the Southern League. This came about when Charlotte, North Carolina, procured a Triple-A development establishment in 1993, leaving the city's Double-A group, the Charlotte Knights, without a home. Schmittou offered Greer Stadium as an impermanent home for the group. So as to suit another club at Greer, the Xpress planned its home diversions amid the Sounds' travels. This denoted the first occasion when that two small time groups would work in a similar city since 1972, when the Charlotte Hornets and Charlotte Twins shared Calvin Griffith Park. 

The Xpress played their first home diversion at Greer on April 16, 1993, against the Orlando Cubs. Pitchers Todd Ritchie, Mike Misuraca, and Jason Klonoski constrained Cubs hitters to five hits and no keeps running in the 4– 0 shutout. Nashville's Brian Raabe multiplied in the second inning bringing home David Rivera and Rich Becker giving the Xpress every one of the runs they required. The amusement was gone to by only 1,715 people on a harshly cool night. In April 1994, Michael Jordan's invasion into expert baseball pulled in 16,842 fans to Greer to see the Xpress face his group, the Birmingham Barons, out of the blue that season. The Nashville Xpress played their keep going home diversion on September 1, 1994, against the Huntsville Stars. With Nashville holding a 1– 0 lead going into the eighth inning, Huntsville scored three keeps running in both the eighth and ninth innings while in transit to a 6– 2 annihilation of the home group. In 1995, the Xpress migrated to Wilmington, North Carolina, and turned into the Port City Roosters. 

Over $200,000 was spent on remodels in the fall and winter before the 1995 season. The home clubhouse and weight room were redesigned, passageways behind the burrows were reemerged to diminish tricky regions, and the whole playing field was re-sodded. This was the primary substitution and redesigning of the field since the first grass was laid in 1978. In the first place, the majority of the old grass was taken from the field. At that point, the grounds team introduced another waste framework. Four channels were burrowed and laid with 2,500 feet (760 m) of seepage pipe to divert water from the field and past the inside field divider. A layer of rock was laid over the pipe, and a 4-to-6-inch (10 to 15 cm) layer of sand was set over the rock. In the wake of raising the dimension of the infield earth and block cautioning track to a similar tallness of the new field, 100,000 square feet (9,300 m²) of Tifton 419 Bermuda Grass was introduced on the field and edged into a baseball field setup. 

The 1996 season denoted the last that Schmittou was the group's leader and part greater part proprietor. With the city arranged to respect a National Football League establishment, the Tennessee Titans, Schmittou felt that income would be drawn far from his baseball crew, so he and agent Walter Nipper sold their 59 percent stake in the Sounds to Chicago-based businesspeople Al Gordon, Mike Murtaugh, and Mike Woleben. The new possession gathering, working as AmeriSports Companies LLC, repaired each region of the arena, including the snack bars, restrooms, concourse, arena outside, home clubhouse (a guest's clubhouse had been worked under the third base grandstands for the 1996 season), and parking garages. A few areas of seats in left field past third base were expelled and supplanted by tents and a gathering outing zone. This diminished the seating ability to 11,500. 

Following the 1997 season, the American Association was broken up, and the Sounds moved toward becoming individuals from the Pacific Coast League (PCL). Subsequently, Greer turned into the eastern-most arena in PCL history behind the Indianapolis Indians' Bush Stadium when that group played in the PCL from 1964 to 1968. Greer was the eastern-most dynamic PCL arena from 1998 to 2014. 

As customer inclinations changed and with an end goal to pull in bigger gatherings to the ballpark, in the late 1990s, Greer Stadium's fixed-seating limit was decreased to 10,300 by taking out the cheap seat areas along the third base side and past right field, and building three gathering decks in their places. Therefore, the general affirmation zone progressed toward becoming bound just to the current cheap seats behind the saved seating along the a respectable starting point line in right field. A fourth gathering territory was made by repurposing unused space on the grandstands behind home plate. Another deck was built behind the right-field foul shaft, which, now and again, included a rentable hot tub. 

The maturing Greer Stadium had never been intended to last longer than 30 years, and was the subject of numerous remodels in the mid 2000s to fulfill least Triple-A guidelines. In 2003, the Sounds proposed another arena to be worked with a blend of open and private assets at the side of first Avenue South and Gateway Boulevard (presently Korean Veterans Boulevard) in Downtown Nashville on the previous site of the city's warm exchange vitality plant, focusing on an opening date in April 2006. Following two years of the Sounds campaigning for the new park and taking steps to leave town (either for suburbia or another city out and out), Mayor Bill Purcell consented to help fundamental designs for the arena on October 25, 2005, and the Nashville Metro Council endorsed the new arena on February 7, 2006, due to some degree to the Sounds verifying development financing through a consortium of banks, maintaining a strategic distance from citizen cost. The office was to be called First Tennessee Field. Opening day at the proposed scene was over and over pushed back, in the end to as late as April 2009. Be that as it may, the Sounds and private engineers Struever Brothers, Eccles, and Rouse were unfit to finish financing and configuration plans for the new arena by the April 15, 2007, due date set by the Metro Council. Thus, the First Tennessee Field development venture was dropped and the Sounds stayed at Greer with a questionable future. 

Following the disintegration of the designs for the new ballpark, and before the 2008 season, more than $1 million in updates and fixes were made to Greer. The upgrades, which incorporated another clubhouse for the Sounds and visiting groups past the middle field divider, improved field lighting, and enhancements to bathrooms, walkways, and seating, were made so as to keep the arena useful for another three to five years. 

MFP Baseball, which bought the Sounds in mid 2009, contributed over $2 million to make fixes and moves up to the maturing arena's playing field, bathrooms, snack bars, scoreboard, sound framework, and seating. The infield was re-sodded and leveled, defensive railing was introduced along the edge of the field, and the stopping board netting was supplanted. The whole concourse and guitar scoreboard were repainted, broken seats were supplanted, and the fourth-floor Sluggers Sports Bar and Grill was redesigned. A changeless show organize and a family fun zone were developed by the concourse entrance. 

In 2011, MFP Baseball and the Mayor's Office started moving in the direction of another arena, with the city distinguishing three potential destinations for development, and selecting arena manufacturer Populous to ponder each. The three destinations were a zone on the north end of The Gulch, the state-claimed parking garage on the site of Nashville's first ballpark (Sulfur Dell), and different territories legitimately neighboring Nissan Stadium and the eastern end of the John Seigenthaler Pedestrian Bridge. The Sounds still favored the past Thermal site because of its closeness to the city's stimulation and focal business regions, yet the city was not willing to influence a second endeavor at an arena in that area (To rise Amphitheater was in the end worked there). City hall leader Karl Dean favored the Sulfur Dell site, trying to support monetary development on downtown's slow North side, while fusing the ballpark into the encompassing neighborhoods. In pre-fall 2013, the Sounds and the Nashville Metropolitan Government achieved a consent to assemble another $37 million downtown ballpark at Sulfur Dell. Development on First Tennessee Park started after fundamental land-swaps with the State of Tennessee, and the new ballpark opened in time for the beginning of the 2015 season. 

Realizing that the 2014 season would be the group's 37th and last battle at the old ballpark, the Sounds propelled the "Last Cheer at Greer", a season-long festival of the arena that included gestures to its history and limited time giveaways to recognize the end. On August 27, 2014, the Sounds facilitated their last amusement at Greer Stadium: a 8– 5 misfortune to the Sacramento River Cats. In his solitary plate appearance of the night, Nashville catcher Lucas May hit out swinging with a full check and the bases stacked to end the amusement. Declared participation at the diversion was a standing-room-just horde of 11,067, the main sellout since 2010, and the biggest group since 2007. 

After the Sounds' managerial workplaces were moved to First Tennessee Park in mid 2015, Greer turned out to be basically surrendered. Vandals peppered the site with spray painting, and a significant number of the structure's windows and box seats were harmed. The playing field ended up congested with brush, and photographs of the arena's inside started showing up on the sites and web-based social networking records of mysterious urban travelers. 

Soon thereafter, Mayor Dean communicated enthusiasm for changing over the office to a network donning complex or another city park, at the same time, nearing the finish of his term, at last conceded the choice to the following city hall leader (Megan Barry, chose 2015). Meanwhile, Metropolitan Director of Parks Tommy Lynch prescribed that the arena be devastated because of the potential expenses for any remodel, including the expulsion of asbestos. The office approached Mayor Barry for $800,000 to support the devastation of the concourse and seating bowl in order to grow the green space at the property which could then be sold to private engineers. 

Proposed utilizes for the land incorporated a soccer arena, an indoor tennis office for Belmont University, open tennis courts, rodeo grounds, a Kroger supermarket, and an area park. In a letter to the manager of "The Tennessean", previous Sounds President Larry Schmittou communicated his enthusiasm for Greer turning into a novice baseball park, refering to its luxuries and a few Metro secondary schools that needed baseball fields of their own. Two open gatherings were held in September 2016 to talk about these and different recommendations and thoughts for the space. 

The city's objective was to make a blended use improvement with green space and moderate lodging. By April 2017, an exceptional board had limited the look for an arrangement and site engineer down to five recommendations. In May 2017, the Barry organization chose a proposition called Cloud Hill by the Nashville-based Mathews Company and supported by music maker T Bone Burnett. The proposed redevelopment of the 21-section of land site included music and workmanship space, a network focus, open park space, and moderate lodging. The impression of the baseball field and outfield would have been transformed into the Great Lawn, a green space pleasing beginner baseball and soccer. Renderings demonstrated the guitar scoreboard and a part of the outfield divider unblemished. The arrangement, which anticipated last endorsement by Metro Parks and the Metro Council, was met with worries by residents and gatherings whom liked to see the property reestablished completely to parkland and the site's Civil War history saved. Different concerns were raised over the absence of straightforwardness in the city's arranging procedure and the privatization of openly possessed land. Cloud Hill's designers dropped their arrangements in January 2018 after archeologists confirmed that undisturbed territories on the edge of the Greer property, however not part of the arena itself, were the plain internment locales of slaves compelled to manufacture Fort Negley. City hall leader Barry communicated her craving that the site respect the historical backdrop of the individuals who kicked the bucket assembling the stronghold. 

Following Barry's renunciation in March 2018, acting Mayor David Briley proposed the obliteration of Greer Stadium, which would reincorporate the site into Fort Negley Park. He has looked for Metro Council endorsement for the roughly $1 million expected to crush the arena, which would then be seeded over with grass. The Metro Historical Commission has been entrusted with deciding an arrangement to change over the site into one which will respect its Civil War history. The city has looked for a firm to devastate the arena. , Greer is as yet standing, however the city anticipates that destruction should start in mid 2019. 

The Southern League All-Star Game was held twice at Greer Stadium, first in 1979 and again in 1983. The July 12, 1979, challenge set a group of the association's All-Stars against the significant alliance Atlanta Braves. In the third inning, Braves pitcher Preston Hanna was taken profound for a grand slam by Columbus outfielder Danny Heep, and Nashville's Duane Walker included a kept running with his RBI single, scoring Memphis second baseman Tim Raines from third. Up 2– 0, the All-Stars never trailed. The All-Stars proceeded to crush the Braves, 5– 2, preceding a horde of 11,079 fans. Charlotte pitcher Larry Jones was the triumphant pitcher. Walker, who notwithstanding his run-scoring fair hit, likewise drew a walk, stole two bases, and finished a twofold play from third base, was chosen as the diversion's Most Valuable Player (MVP). Nashville was additionally spoken to on the All-Star squad by Geoff Combe, Paul Householder, Dave Van Gorder, and supervisor George Scherger who trained the group. 

The middle of the season show came back to Nashville on June 19, 1983. This time, the Sounds were enrolled to fill in as the All-Stars' opposition. Thusly, no Sounds player could be casted a ballot on to All-Star group. In lieu of this, the group perceived all Sounds players as All-Stars. MLB Commissioner Bowie Kuhn was close by to hurl out the main pitch before a group of people of 1,221 who had held up out about an hour's downpour delay. The All-Stars scored three keeps running in the 6th inning, including a two-run homer by Birmingham's George Foussianes, the diversion's possible MVP. Subsequent to reviving back with two keeps running on Scott Bradley's double RBI single in the eighth, Nashville's Erik Peterson stood out in the ninth with the tying and winning keeps running on base to end the diversion. The alliance's group had bested Nashville, 3– 2. Jacksonville's Mark Gubicza earned the success. 

Greer played host to the Triple-An All-Star Game on July 13, 1994, with a horde of 11,601 available notwithstanding live TV and radio groups of onlookers. Players from each of the three Triple-An alliances (the American Association, Pacific Coast League, and International League) were separated into two groups, American and National, in light of their MLB parent club's connection. Notwithstanding an early American League lead, the Nationals returned to score the triumphant keep running in the fifth inning when Tucson's Brian Hunter got back home on a wild pitch. The Nationals won by a last score of 8– 5. The "Star of Stars", or MVP, for the American Association was Nashville's Ray Durham who had three hits and scored the amusement's initially run. Luis Lopez of the Richmond Braves was the International League's MVP for his three-hit, two-RBI night; Paul Faries, of the Phoenix Firebirds, was the PCL's MVP with one hit and two RBI. 

Other All-Star merriments incorporated a Hollywood All-Star Game including VIPs Fred Willard, Jason Bateman, Barry Bostwick, Treat Williams, and Kristoff St. John. There was likewise a Home Run Derby with four of Triple-A's top grand slam hitters: Scott Coolbaugh of the Louisville Redbirds, Rich Aude of the Buffalo Bisons, Dwayne Hosey of the Omaha Royals, and Drew Denson of the Sounds. Each hitter being given ten swings each to hit however many homers as could be expected under the circumstances, Coolbaugh and Denson progressed to the finals with two homers each. In the last round, Coolbaugh won the derby by hitting six grand slams in his ten swings. 

Greer facilitated 18 noteworthy group show diversions during the 1990s. Five were rivalries between the Nashville Sounds and their MLB parent clubs, while the other thirteen were spring preparing amusements between significant alliance clubs. 

The primary such diversion happened on April 16, 1981, when the New York Yankees made a stop in Nashville to play a display amusement against their Double-A Sounds. The 10– 1 Yankees triumph was played before a standing-room just horde of 17,318 spectators. A few Yankees present at the diversion included proprietor George Steinbrenner, mentor Yogi Berra, and players Reggie Jackson, Bucky Dent, Lou Piniella, Bobby Murcer, Goose Gossage, Tommy John, and Johnny Oates. The Yankees returned for another diversion against the Sounds on April 28, 1983. Previous Sound Don Mattingly, just as Yankees supervisor Billy Martin and players Ken Griffey Sr and Goose Gossage were in participation. The Sounds, who trailed the Yankees, 4– 0, going into the base of the ninth inning, scored five rushes to beat the Yankees, 5– 4, preceding a horde of 13,641. The tying and winning runs fell off the bat of catcher Frank Kneuer who, with two outs, multiplied down the left documented line bringing home Matt Gallegos and Derwin McNealy from second and first. 

On April 12, 1985, Nashville contended in a display amusement against their significant alliance offshoot, the Detroit Tigers. Chief Sparky Anderson's Detroit club included Kirk Gibson, Alan Trammell, Lou Whitaker, Rusty Kuntz, Milt Wilcox, and Larry Herndon. Trailing 2– 0 after the primary inning, Detroit scored three keeps running in the highest point of the fifth on a trio of Sounds mistakes and a solitary, yet Nashville tied the amusement with a Pedro Chavez RBI twofold in the base half. At last, the Tigers outlived the Sounds, scoring six keeps running in the tenth inning to overcome Nashville, 9– 3, preceding a horde of 16,182. On April 23, 1990, 14,012 fans went to a show amusement at Greer among Nashville and their new member, the Cincinnati Reds. Reds pitchers Danny Jackson and Ron Robinson held the Sounds to only five hits, three by Terry McGriff and two by Keith Lockhart. Luis Quiñones scored the triumphant keep running in the primary when he got back home on a misplayed ball hit on the ground by Paul O'Neill. Lou Piniella's Cincinnati squad shutout Nashville, 3– 0. An April 3, 1994, diversion was booked between the Sounds and Chicago White Sox, yet dropped because of wet grounds and the dread of player damage, particularly to top White Sox stars Tim Raines and Ozzie Guillén who were opened to play. 

In March 1996, Greer facilitated eight noteworthy alliance groups contending in seven amusements over the range of four days in what was charged as the Nashville Baseball Classic. The Chicago White Sox, Cincinnati Reds, Cleveland Indians, Detroit Tigers, Kansas City Royals, Montreal Expos, St. Louis Cardinals, and Texas Rangers all visited Nashville as they arranged for the 1996 season. The Sounds played a presentation amusement against the Pittsburgh Pirates on June 3, 1999, gone to by 5,720 fans. Nine grand slams were hit in the diversion which was overwhelmed by offense. The Pirates, whose list included Jason Kendall, Emil Brown, and Dale Sveum, plated 13 runs in the fifth inning while in transit to 16– 15 win. 

Greer Stadium was the setting for eight no-hit amusements, including one immaculate diversion. The first occurred on May 16, 1981, when Jeff Cornell, of the meeting Jacksonville Suns, pitched a 4– 0 no-hitter diversion against the Sounds. The second no-hitter at Greer was Jim Deshaies' 5– 1 success over the Columbus Astros on May 4, 1984. In the second inning, Deshaies strolled three players and hit another, representing the main Astros keep running of the diversion, some portion of a seven-inning doubleheader. The third, a 6– 0 success over the Oklahoma City 89ers, was tossed by Nashville's Bryan Kelly on July 17, 1985. Kelly permitted only one baserunner by means of a stroll in the close impeccable amusement. 

In an uncommon event, the Sounds and the Indianapolis Indians traded no-hitters on consecutive evenings on August 6 and 7, 1988. In the first place, Indianapolis' Randy Johnson and Pat Pacillo consolidated for a no-hit misfortune against the Sounds, a 1– 0 Nashville win. Nashville won when Lenny Harris strolled to initially base, stole a respectable halfway point and third base, and afterward returned home, scoring on a groundout. The following night, Nashville's Jack Armstrong enlisted a no-hit diversion against the Indians, a 4– 0 Sounds triumph. This was the main time in American Association history that groups played in consecutive no-hit diversions. 

On April 7, 2003, John Wasdin hurled an ideal amusement at Greer in a 4– 0 success over the Albuquerque Isotopes. This was only the second nine-inning ideal complete diversion in the 100-year history of the Pacific Coast League. Wasdin tossed 100 pitches, striking out 15 batters. Later in the year, on August 2, Colorado Springs Sky Sox pitchers Chris Gissell (7 innings pitched (IP)) and Jesús Sánchez (2 IP) consolidated for a no-hit 3– 0 win against the Sounds. The last no-hit exertion at Greer occurred on July 15, 2006, when Nashville pitchers Carlos Villanueva (6 IP), Mike Meyers (2 IP), and Alec Zumwalt (1 IP) consolidated on a 2– 0 success over the Memphis Redbirds. 

On May 5– 6, 2006, Greer was the site of a diversion which tied the record for the longest amusement, as far as innings played, in Pacific Coast League history. The Sounds and the New Orleans Zephyrs contended in a 24-inning amusement, played through the span of two days, which endured a sum of eight hours and seven minutes. New Orleans vanquished Nashville, 5– 4. The record was initially determined to June 8, 1909, in a diversion between the San Francisco Seals and Oakland Oaks. A couple of years after the fact, on September 10, 1911, the record was tied by the Sacramento Solons and Portland Beavers. The Sounds and Zephyrs set the PCL records for the most pitchers utilized in one diversion by the two clubs (17), and tied the record for the most players utilized by the two clubs (40). They set the records for the most strikeouts, batting and pitching, in an amusement by the two clubs (48), the most at bats by the two groups (166), and the most helps by the two groups (53). The Sounds tied the records for the most pitchers utilized by one group (9) and the most helps by a solitary group (28). 

In 1979 and 1980, Greer Stadium was the home of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) World Series. The Lipscomb Bisons of Nashville's Lipscomb University won the 1979 arrangement, and the Grand Canyon Antelopes of Grand Canyon University won in 1980. Until the 2011 opening of E. S. Rose Park, the Belmont Bruins baseball crew played most of its season at Greer. 

In the mid 1980s, Greer filled in as the home field for the Father Ryan High School football crew. Father Ryan came back to playing at Greer from 2006 through 2008, preceding moving to another school athletic complex for the 2009 season. In the football design, the field kept running along the a respectable starting point line. 

Greer was the site of the City of Hope Celebrity Softball Challenge from 1991 to 2014. Two groups of down home music stars took an interest in the diversion, from which continues went toward the examination and treatment of malignancy and other dangerous sicknesses. Members included Vince Gill, Carrie Underwood, Brad Paisley, Billy Ray Cyrus, Sara Evans, Montgomery Gentry, and Phil Vassar. Through the 2008 occasion, more than $1.5 million had been raised. In 2015, the amusement migrated to First Tennessee Park. 

From 2001 to 2011, Greer was home to the Jeff Fisher and Friends Charity Softball Game. At that point Tennessee Titans head mentor Jeff Fisher and players from the group, at various times, contended so as to profit neighborhood philanthropies. Titans members included Vince Young, Steve McNair, Eddie George, Frank Wycheck, Rob Bironas, and Keith Bulluck, among others. Tomáš Vokoun and head mentor Barry Trotz of the National Hockey League's Nashville Predators additionally participated. 

The Oak Ridge Boys, including Sounds' minority investor Richard Sterban, were captured remaining in the seats along Greer's left field line for the front of their 1989 collection, "American Dreams". In 2002, the music video for Steve Earle's "A few Dreams", a melody included in the movie "The Rookie", was taped at Greer. The video, intercut with clasps from the film, indicates Earle and his band playing out the melody on the unfilled ballpark's field. 

Greer's particular guitar-molded scoreboard was fabricated by the Fairtron Corporation and introduced by the Joslin Sign Company before the 1993 season at an expense of $400,000. It was initially imagined as the focal point for a proposed significant class ballpark in Nashville looked for after by proprietor Larry Schmittou as a piece of the 1993 Major League Baseball development. Initially painted blue with red and white trim to coordinate the Nashville Sounds' shading plan, it was repainted dark with red, yellow, and white trim to coordinate their then-current shading plan in 2008, and is situated behind the outfield divider in left-focus field. 

The whole scoreboard estimates 115.6 feet (35.2 m) over, 53 feet (16 m) high, and 2 feet (0.61 m) profound. Singular parts of the guitar are as per the following: 60-foot (18 m) body, 36-foot (11 m) neck, and 19.6-foot (6.0 m) tuning key segment. It is introduced around 80 feet (24 m) over the ground. It takes 243,155 watts to control its 8,179 total lights, which are associated with 64,169 feet (19,559 m) of wire. The whole showcase weighs 35,825 pounds (16,250 kg). 

The line score was shown on the guitar's neck, while the ball/strike/out tally, the hitter's uniform number, and the hit/mistake marker are altogether arranged on the headstock. Six little publicizing signs speak to the tuning keys. The body of the guitar includes just a LED showcase board for showing messages. At first, the scoreboard highlighted two network message sheets: a low-goals RGB shading board on the left which included promoting and livelinesss, and a white-light monochromatic board on the right, which fundamentally included measurable data and other content based messages. The monochrome board was supplanted by an orange-tinted LED show board in 2009 which filled the two needs, while the shading board was deactivated and secured with publicizing signage. The scoreboard has never could show video or any sort of high-goals pictures. Between the two loads up are a simple clock and a temperature show. Starting at 2014, the temperature show was never again dynamic. Encompassing the sheets are four vast spaces for publicizing; the two on top are static, and the two on base pivot between three pictures each (the turning spaces were secured with static signage starting in 2009). High-pressure nets spread the electronic segments to shield them from grand slam balls. Over the board is a round promoting space. This sign initially showed the group's guitar-swinger logo, and on occasion has shown different Sounds logos. Initially, when a grand slam was hit, the guitar-swinger logo would illuminate and border lights around the whole scoreboard would start blazing; it was additionally equipped for shooting firecrackers after every stable homer. By the mid-2000s, the scoreboard had fallen into a condition of dilapidation and out of date quality, and was just possibly practical. A significant number of the lights were never again ready to be lit, and new parts were winding up hard to discover. At the point when MFP Baseball bought the group in late 2008, the association made minor redesigns to the scoreboard, rendering it indeed completely useful, despite the fact that not to its unique details. It was additionally repainted dark, red, yellow, and white over its unique red, white, and blue shading plan to mirror the group's present hues at the time. By 2013, because of breaks in its outside, the scoreboard's usefulness could be disabled for a timeframe following a rainstorm, rendering a significant number of its electronic highlights dim. 

Greer's guitar scoreboard was not moved to First Tennessee Park when the Sounds moved in 2015, and stays remaining as of February 2019. The Sounds association introduced an advanced rendition at the new scene, fit for showing top quality video. The primary plan renderings of First Tennessee Park did not include a guitar scoreboard. On April 22, 2014, at the declaration of First Tennessee's naming rights understanding, Sounds proprietor Frank Ward told "The Tennessean": "The guitar scoreboard at Greer is remaining at Greer. Sooner or later in time we will share what our new scoreboard will resemble, however it's too soon all the while. We're endeavoring to make sense of it at this very moment." after two months, on June 20, 2014, Ward declared that another guitar scoreboard would without a doubt be built, refering to overpowering interest from the network. 

Prior to the establishment of the guitar, Greer's unique scoreboard was a dark, non-descript, rectangular unit with a 2-line peruser board. In 1985, it was moved to adjacent to one side field foul post to prepare for another rectangular 4-line scoreboard 10 feet (3 m) high with a completely vivified peruser board. The first unit was then utilized as an away scoreboard, showing the scores of other ball games. At the point when the guitar show was introduced in 1993, the first scoreboard was evacuated and supplanted constantly scoreboard, which turned into the new away board. From 2008 to 2014, the away scoreboard was not used to show scores; rather it was utilized just as a help for extra promoting signage. 

Seating at the ballpark included fixed arena seats, general confirmation cheap seats, some with shaped seats, and eighteen skyboxes situated on the third floor. Starting at 2014, all out seating limit was 10,300. Amusements could be viewed from one of four excursion zones—one behind home plate, one on the third pattern, one in the third base stands, and one past the correct field divider. A rentable hot tub deck was situated in the correct field corner. There was a show stage and family fun zone situated on The Plaza inside the concourse entrance. 

A few snack bars and truck merchants were situated on the concourse. A full-administration eatery known as Sluggers Sports Bar and Grill, built in 1984 as The Hall of Fame Stadium Club, was situated on the fourth floor. The eatery and bar was open amid all Sounds home dates, and diversions could be seen from the eatery by means of windows disregarding the field. 

Explicit 

General