Dorset Ooser 

The Dorset Ooser () is a wooden head that included in the nineteenth century society culture of Melbury Osmond, a town in the southwestern English province of Dorset. The head was empty, hence maybe filling in as a veil, and incorporated a humanoid face with horns, a whiskers, and a pivoted jaw which enabled the mouth to open and close. Albeit some of the time used to alarm individuals amid viable jokes, its principle recorded reason for existing was as a major aspect of a neighborhood variation of the charivari custom known as "skimity riding" or "harsh music", in which it was utilized to mortify the individuals who were esteemed to have acted in a corrupt way. 

The Dorset Ooser was first conveyed to open consideration in 1891, at which time it was under the responsibility for Cave group of Melbury Osmond's Holt Farm. Subsequent to going with Edward Cave to Somerset, the Ooser disappeared around 1897. From that point forward, different folklorists and students of history have discussed the sources of the head, which has conceivable associations with the horned ensembles now and again worn by members in English Mummers plays. The folklorists Frederick Thomas Elworthy and H. S. L. Dewar trusted that the head was a portrayal of the Devil and in this manner was intended to scare individuals into carrying on as per the neighborhood network's ethical framework. Alternately, the folklorist Margaret Murray proposed that it spoke to a pre-Christian divine force of ripeness whose love made due in Dorset into the cutting edge time frame, albeit later grant has been exceedingly doubtful of this translation. The derivation of "Ooser" is likewise debated, with different potential outcomes accessible. 

In 1975 a copy of the first Ooser was created by John Byfleet, which has since been in plain view at Dorset County Museum in Dorchester. This veil holds a spot in Dorset society culture, being expelled from the exhibition hall for use in nearby Morris moving parades held by the Wessex Morris Men on both St. George's Day and May Day. The plan of the Ooser has likewise enlivened the creation of duplicates which have been utilized as portrayals of the Horned God in the cutting edge Pagan religion of Wicca in both the United Kingdom and United States. 

A wooden head, the Dorset Ooser had been cut from a solitary square of timber, except for the lower jaw, which was portable and associated with the remainder of the veil by calfskin pivots. The lower jaw could be moved by pulling on a string which went through an opening in the upper jaw to associate with the lower. The cover additionally contained locks of hair on either side of its head, a facial hair on its jaw, and a couple of bullock's horns. Between the Ooser's eyes was an adjusted manager, the importance of which is obscure. The Ooser was empty, enabling somebody to put their own head inside it, conceivably allowing it to be worn as a cover while being bolstered on the shoulders; nonetheless, there were no gaps taking into account the wearer to see while wearing it thusly. The history specialist Ronald Hutton portrayed the Ooser as "an unnerving horned cover with human face, gazing eyes, whiskers, and snapping teeth". Additionally, the folklorist H. S. L. Dewar expressed that "the declaration of the eyes [conveyed] a truly struggled soul of scorn, fear, and depression". 

The expression "Ooser" was articulated with a short, speedy "s" by residents as "Osser". It is vague if the head itself was the Ooser, or whether it rather was planned as a portrayal of a substance called the Ooser. Dewar proposed the likelihood that it may have been associated with the expression "Wurse", utilized for the Devil in Layamon's "Brut", or to the seventeenth century Italian term "Oser", again utilized for the Devil. On the other hand, he recommended that it may be a subordinate of "Guisard" or "Guiser", two old terms for a mummer. Hutton rather suggested that "Osser" potentially got from "Wooset", a term utilized in the tongue around Wiltshire to allude to a shaft whereupon a pony's skull with deer's horns was joined. This Wooset was recorded as having been marched by adolescents in the Marlborough region until the 1830s, where it was utilized to taunt neighbors whose accomplices were associated with conjugal betrayal, the horns being a conventional indication of cuckoldry. Comparable conventions have been recorded in Wiltshire and Somerset, where they can be followed back to at any rate the mid seventeenth century. 

The principal open notice of the Dorset Ooser was in a 1891 release of "Somerset and Dorset Notes and Queries", where it was the subject of an article by the diary's proofreader, Charles Herbert May. The head was, at the time, in the ownership of Thos Cave of Holt Farm in Melbury Osmond; the editorial manager noticed that it had been claimed by Cave's family from "time out of psyche". Cavern had expressed that it had once been kept in an "old malt-house" in the town, "where it was an object of dread to kids who dared to encroach upon the premises". May noticed that it was "perhaps the main model now in presence, or at any rate from one of the not many which may even now get by in the County", including that Cave was "eager to discard this veil to an admirer of objects of collector intrigue". 

Eventually before 1897, another individual from the family, the specialist Edward Cave, left Holt Farm and moved to Crewkerne in Somerset, taking the Ooser with him. In 1897, he migrated to Bath, leaving the Ooser with his family coachman; when Edward Cave in this manner endeavored to recoup the head, he was educated that it had been "discarded", with some proposal that it had discovered its way to the United States. In 1935, an old stories gatherer named S. A. Ramsden embraced enquiries into the destiny of the head at the inciting of the Egyptologist and folklorist Margaret Murray. His enquiries drove him to meet with Cave's coachman, Lawrence, who – after Cave left Crewkerne – had along these lines filled in as the coachman for Cave's substitution, a specialist by the name of Webber. Lawrence said that Cave went out in the town, where it was hung up in a space and started to go to pieces; Lawrence wore it to scare individuals amid a procession around 1900, at which time the hair was dropping out. He said that the house was later pulled down, with the head likely still inside it, all together for a nearby mail station to be built in its place. 

In "Somerset and Dorset Notes and Queries", May noticed that "no memory of its consistently being utilized is held", despite the fact that suspected that "it might conceivably be guessed" that the Ooser was utilized in "town revels, and at comparative occasions of rural excitement". The next year, a Dorchester-based author, H. J. Moule, distributed a note in a similar diary relating that their youth nurture, who was from the town of Cerne Abbas, had discussed the head, and had alluded to it as the "Wurser". Moule included that it was "clearly" utilized in Mummers plays performed at Christmas time. 

Dewar, after resulting research, announced the memories of K. G. Knight—an individual from the Melbury Estate staff—that occupants of Melbury Osmond related the head with a people custom known as "Skimity Riding" or "Harsh Music". In this custom, somebody blamed for "spouse beating, reprimanding, sexual unfaithfulness or abnormality, and cuckoldry" were made to ride on a jackass or steed, confronting the heading of the creature's tail, while the collected group made much commotion by beating browning container, pots, bull's horns, and bones. In Melbury Osmond, the Ooser was brought out into the group at such an event. Comparable types of "horde discipline" were recorded in parts of neighboring Devon, where the demonstration was named "Skimmety Riding", "Skimmington", and "Skivetton". As he esteemed it too overwhelming to even consider being conveyed or worn by an individual, the student of history of old stories Peter Robson later proposed that the Ooser may initially have been mounted in a festival parade. 

Dewar additionally recorded the residents' cases that the Ooser was conveyed to the entryway of a tallet so as to alarm the nearby youngsters, and that it was likewise used to terrify grown-ups on certain events. Knight ran over the case that it was once used to alarm a steady hand, who bounced through a window to escape it, and in doing as such "so harmed himself that his life was surrendered all expectations regarding". Dewar further drew correlations with the horned veils once in a while worn amid Mummers plays. He noticed that for a situation of a gathering of Christmas Wassailers at Kingscote, Gloucestershire, a man was "wearing a sack, his head in a genuine bull's face, head and horns total". Another case featured by Dewar was considered given by G. W. Greening of Dorchester, in which an individual from the Bradstock Mummers was dressed as Beelzebub. Given these likenesses, Dewar at last proposed that the Ooser was "sufficiently likely an off-shoot from the fourteenth century and later Mummers' plays". The classicist Frederick Thomas Elworthy communicated the view that the Dorset Ooser was "the plausible head" of an interest horse. The folklorist E. C. Cawte, in his top to bottom investigation of the leisure activity horse convention in English people culture, expressed that albeit both involved sprucing up in a bestial ensemble, the Ooser had no reasonable association with this custom. 

Elworthy proposed that the Ooser was a delineation of the Devil, a thought bolstered by Dewar, who trusted that, as the Devil, its symbolism was "planned to rouse fear in the brains of the silly and the fiendish". On the other hand, others have recommended that it is a delineation of a pre-Christian god. In her 1931 book "The God of the Witches", Margaret Murray associated the Ooser to her adaptation of the witch-faction speculation—the possibility that those aggrieved in the Early Modern witch preliminaries were followers of an enduring pre-Christian ripeness religion—guaranteeing that the cover was a clique thing that reflected proceeding with love of the religion's Horned God. Murray's theory is currently ruined. The antiquarians Jeffrey B. Russell and Brooks Alexander have expressed that "today, researchers are concurred that Murray was something other than wrong [regarding the presence of the witch-cult] – she was totally and embarrassingly wrong on almost every last bit of her fundamental premises". The Ooser's pre-Christian beginning hypothesis was resounded in the "Peruser's Digest" reference book of British fables, "Old stories, Myths and Legends of Britain", where it was portrayed as "the icon of a previous divine force of richness". Despite the fact that not trusting that the Ooser was a particular portrayal of an enduring pre-Christian god, Dewar proposed that the symbolism of the Devil, and in this manner of the Ooser, was initially drawn from the pre-Christian divine forces of "phallic or fruitfulness adore". 

In 1975 the neighborhood Morris artist John Byfleet made a reproduction of the first Ooser, which he cut from a log utilizing a penknife. This copy is in plain view at Dorset County Museum in Dorchester. It is taken from the exhibition hall two times every year, on May Day and St. George's Day, when it is utilized by the Wessex Morris Men as a major aspect of their occasional merriments. In 2005, a columnist from "The Guardian" provided details regarding a day break function performed by the troupe on May Day on Giant Hill close Cerne Abbas. The function included one part conveying the Dorset Ooser imitation on his head, with different Morris men moving around him; after the ritual they continued, as yet moving, to a nearby bar, the Red Lion. In summer 2006, the Wessex Morris Men took the reproduction to Melbury Osmond out of the blue, where they played out a move in a nearby road. 

Murray's translation of the Ooser was grasped by Doreen Valiente, a prior specialist of the cutting edge Pagan religion of Wicca, who expressed that the cover "is unquestionably associated with the Old Religion [i.e. the witch-cult], and that from far back". The Gardnerian Wiccan Melissa Seims proposed that the iconography of the Ooser was an impact on the plan of the Head of Atho, a statue of the Wiccan Horned God made by Raymond Howard in mid-twentieth century England. Wiccans in the Minnesota region of the United States utilize a head with stag tusks that they term the Minnesota Ooser. Speaking to the religion's Horned God, it is kept on a special stepped area and brought out for use in Sabbat customs.