24th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Karstjäger 

The 24th "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Karstjäger" was a German mountain infantry division of the "Waffen"- SS, the outfitted wing of the German Nazi Party that served close by, however was never formally part of, the Wehrmacht amid World War II. Named "Karstjäger" ("Karst Hunter"), it was one of the 38 divisions handled by the "Waffen"- SS. Framed on 18 July 1944 from the SS Volunteer "Karstwehr" Battalion, its ostensible quality was never more than hypothetical and the division was before long diminished to the "Waffen" Mountain ("Karstjäger") Brigade of the SS. All through its reality as a force, division and unit, it was essentially associated with battling partisans in the Karst Plateau on the boondocks of Yugoslavia, Italy, and Austria; the rugged landscape required specific mountain troops and gear. 

Established in 1942 as an organization, the unit comprised for the most part of Yugoslav "Volksdeutsche" and enlisted people from South Tyrol. Albeit concentrated on against divided tasks, it likewise observed activity in the wake of the Italian surrender when it moved to incapacitate Italian troops in Tarvisio and ensure ethnic German people group in Italy. What's more, toward the finish of the war it effectively battled to keep goes into Austria open, enabling German units to get away from the Balkans and surrender to British powers. The leftovers of the unit turned into a portion of the last Germans to set out their arms when they surrendered to the British sixth Armored Division on 9 May 1945. A joint Italian-German examination ensnared the division in 23 separate atrocities including the executing of a sum of 277 individuals between the Italian surrender and the finish of the war. 

In mid-1942, the "Waffen"- SS framed an organization proposed for hostile to divided tasks in the tough and high-elevation fringe area between Italy, Austria and Yugoslavia known as the "Karst". SS-"Standartenführer" (Colonel) Hans Brand, a geologist and speleologist, recommended the making of the unit. The organization was framed at the SS preparing focus in Dachau on 10 July 1942 from warriors of the supply administrations preparing and substitution regiment of the 23rd "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Kama" (second Croatian). 

It was extended to legion quality of around 500 troops in November 1942, and as the SS-"Freiwilligen-Karstwehr" Battalion, it went through the initial a half year of 1943 preparing in Austria. The unit drew its volunteers for the most part from among the Germans of Yugoslavia ("Volksdeutsche") and South Tyrolians, with the officer framework being drawn from SS topographical separations. The unit quality "Waffen"- SS Geological Corps (), from which such separations were drawn, was shaped in April 1941 and comprised predominantly of designers with a couple of geologists. They inspected caverns and normal hindrances, and decided if rough terrain territory was appropriate for tanks. They were likewise in charge of finding wellsprings of crisp water. Following the Armistice of Cassibile in September 1943, the contingent was entrusted with incapacitating Italian troops around Tarvisio on the outskirt between the three nations. It at that point proceeded onward to defensive obligations for close-by "Volksdeutsche" people group. From October 1943 until June 1944, the contingent was based at Gradisca d'Isonzo in Italy, and took part in hostile to factional activities in the zones of Trieste, Udine and the Istrian promontory. On 10 October, a section of the brigade was trapped at the Predil Pass, enduring three executed and eight injured. The next day the regiment torched the town of Strmec and killed 16 neighborhood men in countering. Up to 19 October 1943, the legion endured an aggregate of 18 slaughtered and 45 injured in a progression of commitment close to the town of Bovec (Flitsch). Amid a similar period, the force caught two Italian 75 mm mountain firearms, which essentially expanded its capability. 

Amid late October and November 1943, the brigade was occupied with hostile to divided activities around Žaga (Saga) and Kobarid (Karfreit), including Operation "Traufe" (Eaves). In late November, it was put under the order of the Supreme SS and Police Leader, Italy, "SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Waffen-SS" (Lieutenant General) Karl Wolff for an activity. In February 1944, the force directed Operation "Ratte" (Rat), amid which it torched the towns of Komen and Branik (Rihenberg), and interned the number of inhabitants in the two towns in labor camps. From the get-go in 1944, Brandt proposed that Slovene patriots be enlisted into the contingent, however the thought was dismissed by SS home office who expected that such an approach would permit the penetration of the unit by Yugoslav Partisans. At this stage, it was assessed that there were around 20,000 socialist partisans working in the Gorizia area. Amid March 1944, the legion was associated with a fast arrangement of activities, including "Zypresse" (Cypress), "Märzveilchen" (Violet), "Maulwurf" (Mole) and "Hellblau" (Light Blue), bringing about noteworthy guerrilla losses, just as executions of caught partisans. In March and April, Operation "Osterglocke" (Daffodil) was directed more than 12 days, trailed by Operation "Liane" in late May, and the long-running Operation "Annemarie" which secured the period 7 May to 16 July 1944. In June 1944, a watch from the force neglected to come back from an errand in the region of Cividale del Friuli. After two days, they were discovered stripped with their separated heads pierced on pikes. The unit wound up known for shooting speculated partisans. While occupied with against divided work, the force developed to a quality of around 1,000. 

On 18 July 1944, "Reichsführer"- SS Heinrich Himmler requested that the brigade be extended to divisional size, despite the fact that the approved quality was just 6,600 troops. The 24th "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Karstjäger" was to be built up by the Higher SS and Police Leader () for the Operational Zone of the Adriatic Littoral, SS-"Gruppenführer" (Major General) Odilo Globocnik. The name "Karstjäger" was gotten from a mix of "Karst", signifying the area of tasks, and "Jäger", the German military term for light infantry. The division was to comprise of two "Gebirgsjäger" (mountain infantry) regiments, with an ordnance regiment, observation, "Panzerjäger" (hostile to tank) and pioneer brigades, just as substitution and supply troops. The division was provided with 14 caught Italian Carro Armato P 40 tanks, yet these demonstrated inconsistent, with just half being workable at any one time. In August 1944, the under-quality division took an interest in Operation "Dachstein" under the direction of the 188th Mountain Division. Among August and November 1944, the division kept performing hostile to divided obligations in a similar locale, however its quality had just achieved 3,000, not exactly 50% of its approved foundation. It demonstrated difficult to select adequate troops for the division, and in December 1944 the division was minimized to a unit. 

Amid late 1944 and mid 1945, the "Waffen" Mountain ("Karstjäger") Brigade of the SS battled first against British-upheld partisans in the Julian Alps, and was then conveyed to the waterfront zone around Trieste and the Marano-Grado Lagoon. In peril of being cut off by Allied powers, the unit before long came back to the Julian Alps, battling its way through the Tagliamento waterway valley among Osoppo and Gemona. Around the finish of April 1945, the unit battled British and New Zealand powers on the southern edge of the Julian Alps. The detachment substitution organization, which had been sent to Cividale from its instructional hub at Pottenstein, Bavaria, figured out how to devastate various British tanks with panzerfausts and the help of a tank organization. In the last a long time of the war the detachment was a piece of a "Kampfgruppe" (battlegroup) instructed by SS-"Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen"- SS (Brigadier) Heinz Harmel, which was requested to keep the Karawanks passes open among Yugoslavia and Austria. This assignment was basic in enabling German powers to pull back from Yugoslavia so as to surrender to British as opposed to Yugoslav powers. The "Kampfgruppe" prevailing in its last errand, and was one of the last German units to surrender, when it experienced the British sixth Armored Division on 9 May 1945. 

A joint Italian-German examination embroiled individuals from the division in 23 unique wrongdoings including the slaughtering of 277 individuals in Italy between the Armistice of Cassibile and the finish of World War II. The biggest of these killings were: 

On paper, the division's last request of fight was to comprise of: 

The division foundation additionally included supply units. Be that as it may, just the 59th "Waffen Gebirgsjäger" Regiment, one unit of the 24th SS Mountain Artillery Regiment, one organization of the 24th SS Pioneer Battalion and a half-organization of the divisional panzer organization were ever settled. 

As per history specialist Gordon Williamson, three "Waffen"- SS officers told the division and along these lines the unit: 

Conversely, Roland Kaltenegger just records Hahn as ordering the unit. 

The unit badge was a stylised Týr rune with bolts indicating the left and right. A neckline symbol was produced, yet it is trusted that these were never issued or worn, and the individuals from the division wore the standard SS Sig runes.