Beam Emery 

Raymond Robert Emery (September 28, 1982 – July 15, 2018) was a Canadian expert ice hockey goaltender who played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for eleven seasons. Emery was picked 99th by and large by the Ottawa Senators in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft. Amid the 2006– 07 season, he drove the Senators to the Stanley Cup Finals. It was the cutting edge Senators' first appearance in the finals. He won a Stanley Cup title with the Chicago Blackhawks in 2013. 

Emery got various honors and awards. In April 2013, he won the William M. Jennings Trophy alongside partner Corey Crawford, granted to the goaltender or goaltenders who surrender the least objectives in the season. Emery completed the 2012– 13 season with a 1.94 objectives against normal and a 0.922 spare rate. His 17 wins included 12 straight to begin the year, the best such streak in NHL history. Emery was a two-time Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy finalist for his devotion and constancy. His partners and fans regularly alluded to him as "Razor" or "Sugar Ray" for his forceful playing style. 

Raymond Robert Emery was conceived September 28, 1982 to Sharlene and Paul Emery. He was the oldest of three children. He was conceived in Hamilton, Ontario, and experienced childhood in community Cayuga, Ontario, in extremely old farmhouse. Emery exceeded expectations in school, and was offered a grant. He played numerous games other than ice hockey, including golf, baseball, and soccer. In hockey, he initially played safeguard, yet changed to goaltender at nine years of age because of a deficiency of goaltenders in his alliance. 

Emery focused on hockey on the guidance of his mom, after a potential grant amid his interest for advanced education pushed him to exploit his characteristic capacity. At 16 years of age, Emery arrived with the Ontario Junior Hockey League Junior C Dunnville Terriers after ineffectively going for eight diverse junior groups. Emery was named the group's Rookie of the Year. 

The Ontario Hockey League (OHL's) Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds drafted Emery in the fifth round of the 1999 OHL Draft. Emery split the 1999– 2000 season between the Welland Cougars of the OHA and the Greyhounds in the OHL. In 2000– 01, he played with the Greyhounds. Amid his last season in junior hockey, 2001– 02, Emery picked up reputation for his battling capacity. He was named the OHL's Goaltender of the Year, setting a record of 33 wins and a GAA of 2.73. 

Emery was chosen in the fourth round, 99th generally speaking by the Ottawa Senators in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft. In 2002– 03, Emery joined the Binghamton Senators of the American Hockey League (AHL) and quickly took on the situation of beginning goaltender for his first expert season with the group. He was named to the AHL All-Star group, made the association's everything new kid on the block group and turned into Binghamton's MVP. 

Emery was suspended twice for on-ice episodes a similar season, once to knock a ref which brought about a three-amusement suspension; the second time for a squabble with Denis Hamel of the Rochester Americans who confessed to articulating a racial slur. Emery struck back and was suspended for three diversions. Emery and Hamel later progressed toward becoming partners in Binghamton, and Hamel apologized "for not considering what was stating, in the warmth of an amusement". 

With the Ottawa Senators, Emery started his NHL vocation in 2005– 06 by setting a record for wins to begin a profession, winning his initial 9 recreations, pushing forward of Bob Froese, who began the 1982– 83 season with eight successes while playing for the Philadelphia Flyers. In March of a similar season, Emery won 12 recreations, tying Bernie Parent's 1974 record for the most successes in a month. 

Toward the start of the 2005– 06 season, Emery had won nine straight amusements amid the ordinary season as the back-up to Dominik Hašek. At the point when Hašek harmed his crotch amid the 2006 Winter Olympics, Emery turned into Ottawa's accepted starter, with Mike Morrison, asserted off of waivers from the Edmonton Oilers, as Emery's reinforcement. Emery was the beginning goaltender for the remainder of the period, driving the Senators to the second round of the 2006 Stanley Cup playoffs. 

After the 2005– 06 season, the Senators picked not to bring back Hašek, rather obtaining Martin Gerber to contend with Emery for the starter position. Gerber was the starter toward the start of the period, yet because of his poor play, Emery supplanted him in mid-November. On February 10, 2007, Emery was suspended for three recreations from the NHL for striking Montreal Canadiens forward Maxim Lapierre in the face with his stick after Lapierre collided with Emery's net. 

After twelve days, after his suspension had finished, Emery was engaged with a mêlée between the Senators and the Buffalo Sabers. He and Sabers goaltender Martin Biron left their wrinkles to battle one another. After the primary battle was done, Sabers authority Andrew Peters got Emery and a second battle resulted. The two goaltenders got amusement unfortunate activities, and Emery had the uncommon accomplishment (for a goaltender) of accepting two five-minute majors for battling in a similar occurrence. Altogether, Emery got 22 punishment minutes (two five-minute majors for battling, a two-minute minor for leaving the wrinkle and the 10-minute diversion unfortunate behavior) for this fight. After the quarrel, fans and media named him "Sugar Ray" in reference to resigned fighter Sugar Ray Robinson and Emery's notoriety for being a warrior. At that point partner Brian McGrattan opined that if Emery were a position player and not a goalie, he would almost certainly rank among the best five warriors in the NHL. 

Before the 2007 playoffs, Emery and the Senators won 5– 2 against Montreal on March 30, 2007, which was his 100th NHL amusement. Emery's solid play in the season proceeded in the playoffs, as the Senators vanquished the Pittsburgh Penguins, New Jersey Devils and Buffalo Sabers each in five-diversion arrangement on the way to their first Stanley Cup Final appearance since the group was established in 1992, where the Senators eventually lost to the Anaheim Ducks in five amusements. He turned into a confined free operator after the finish of the period and petitioned for compensation discretion, later consenting to a three-year manage the Senators worth $9.5 million before the hearings were held. 

By the pre-period of the 2007– 08 crusade, Emery had endured wrist damage that constrained him to only 40 minutes of the pre-season and constrained him to miss a few recreations right off the bat in the Senators' season. On April 18, 2008, Murray reported to the media in a finish of-season question and answer session that Emery would not come back to the Senators for the 2008– 09 season. On June 20, 2008, Emery was postponed by the Senators; he cleared waivers three days after the fact and turned into a free specialist subsequently. 

Emery marked a one-year, $2 million contract with Atlant Moscow Oblast of the recently framed Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) on July 9, 2008. In the wake of surrendering five objectives amid an amusement, he pursued a coach who endeavored to put a supported top on Emery's head. As a remote goaltender, Emery was just permitted to play in 65% of his group's 56 normal season diversions because of tenets that empower the improvement of Russian goaltenders. He split obligations for the season with previous Colorado Avalanche goaltender Vitaly Kolesnik and finished the season as a top goaltender in the KHL with a .926 spare rate and 1.86 GAA. 

On June 10, 2009, the Philadelphia Flyers reported that they had consented to terms with Emery on a one-year contract worth $1.5 million. On December 8, Emery was put on harmed hold to have medical procedure on a torn muscle in his belly. Initially expected to miss around about a month and a half, the anticipation changed when it was found that he had avascular putrefaction. In March 2010, Flyers general chief Paul Holmgren reported that Emery would be out for the rest of the period because of the analysis and that a bone unite would be done to lighten his hip issues. 

Specialists had the capacity to come down with the ailment at an opportune time before it spread, dissimilar to the instance of baseball and American football player Bo Jackson. Accordingly, in April, specialists declared an amazingly fruitful medical procedure. Jackson stood up about Emery, conjecturing that they were the main two competitors to return after the illness. Jackson included, "I take my cap off [to him]. I need him to realize I am in his corner. It's a great deal of diligent work. To return and play, it takes an extremely, exceptional and driven individual. He has an alternate cosmetics to need to do all the seemingly insignificant details he needs to contend on an expert dimension." Unlike Jackson, who required various hip substitutions, Emery had the advantage of headways in current drug, experiencing an exceptionally particular and complex method that included expelling 13 centimeters from his correct fibula, and after that joining it to the femur to re-acquaint a legitimate blood supply with the territory. Holmgren said that while the medical procedure went superior to expected, he didn't know precisely to what extent Emery's recuperation would take. 

On July 1, Emery turned into an unhindered free specialist as his damage considered him unfit to play until he recovered. In August, he was given the thumbs up to start the tiring and dreary exercise and restoration process. In November 2010, TSN visited Emery amid an on-ice exercise and were shocked to see him get down into the butterfly position and play out of the blue since medical procedure. Emery expressed that he didn't "give it a second thought whether [he could] stroll in seven years", and he "only [wanted] to play". To the shock of his specialists and mentors, Emery has been showing improvement over anticipated. In January 2011, Emery started skating with an OHL group, taking shots and preparing with Eric Lindros, and working with fitness coach Matt Nichol and goalie mentor Eli Wilson. As indicated by Wilson, Emery was "as sharp and prepared now as he was the late spring before Ottawa's Stanley Cup Final run". 

In March 2011, Emery's damage and undefeated come back to the NHL with the Anaheim Ducks collected much media consideration and interest, with a unique fragment included on CBC's "Hockey Night in Canada". Emery had 13 centimeters of bone missing from his leg. This later accumulated him an assignment for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy. 

On February 7, 2011, four NHL groups indicated enthusiasm for marking Emery before he marked a one-year, two-path contract with the Anaheim Ducks. He was then alloted to the Syracuse Crunch to start the standard fourteen day molding AHL stretch where he proceeded to play a sum of five recreations for the Crunch in their 2010– 11 season, posting a 4– 1– 0 record, 1.98 GAA and .943 spare rate. On February 23, endless supply of his molding spell, Emery was called up to the Ducks. Emery made his Ducks debut on March 11, 2011, to an overwhelming applause against the Phoenix Coyotes when he supplanted goaltender Dan Ellis, showing up since he last played in March 2010 with the Flyers. Emery proceeded to win six straight begins to open his Anaheim profession, falling one short of coordinating the Ducks record for sequential successes by a goaltender, held by Guy Hebert. In the seven day stretch of March 14, Emery was regarded with the NHL's Second Star of the Week subsequent to running 2– 0– 0 with a 0.99 GAA and .968 spare rate. 

Emery drove the Ducks into the playoffs, completing tied for fourth in the group and posting a 7– 2– 0 record with 2.28 GAA and .926 spare rate in 10 ordinary season NHL appearances. In April, Emery's rebound was perceived when the Anaheim section of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association (PHWA) named Emery as their chosen one for the 2011 Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy. The NHL likewise assigned Emery for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy, making him one of three finalists. 

On October 3, 2011 Emery marked a one-year contract for the 2011– 12 season with the Chicago Blackhawks after an effective experiment with. Before the finish of the period, Emery aggregated a 15– 9– 4 record and 2.81 GAA in 34 ordinary season appearances, posting a 10– 0– 3 record and 2.15 GAA in 16 appearances at Chicago's United Center. Emery was again assigned, this time by the Blackhawks, for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy, respecting devotion and constancy. In April 2012, the Blackhawks marked Emery to a one-year augmentation worth $1.15 million to keep him with the group into the 2012– 13 season. 

Emery made NHL history in March 2013 by turning into the principal goaltender to ever begin a season with 10 straight successes, going 10– 0– 0. He improved his NHL record to 11 straight successes against the Colorado Avalanche on March 18. Emery went to 12– 0– 0 of every a shutout win against the Calgary Flames, in his 200th NHL begin. On April 10, he made establishment history by account his third shutout in five amusements, assisting him to be third in the NHL with a 1.90 GAA and seventh in spare rate at .924 with a 15– 1– 0 record. Emery demonstrated his past wounds were never again a worry, posting vocation highs. 

In April 2013, Emery and colleague Corey Crawford won the honor for the NHL's best consolidated GAA, the 2013 William M. Jennings Trophy, granted to the goaltender who surrenders the least objectives in the season. Emery completed the season with a 1.94 GAA, .922 spare rate, and 17 wins. He won his first Stanley Cup when the Blackhawks crushed the Boston Bruins in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals. 

On July 5, 2013, Emery marked a one-year manage the Philadelphia Flyers worth $1.65 million. With the Flyers, Emery filled in as the reinforcement to normal goaltender Steve Mason. On November 1, Emery took an interest in a fight against the Capitals, sucker-punching contradicting goaltender Braden Holtby, who was uninterested in battling. For the season, he was 9– 12– 2 with a 2.96 GAA in 28 appearances. On July 1, 2014, he re-marked for one more year in a similar job for $1 million. In 31 appearances with the Flyers in the 2014– 15 season, Emery had a 10– 11– 7 record and 3.06 GAA, and his spare rate was under .900. 

On September 8, 2015, the Tampa Bay Lightning declared that Emery would go to preparing camp on a PTO (proficient tryout). Amid the preseason he was discharged from this PTO on September 27. In October and November 2015, Emery prepared with the Ontario Reign of the AHL, associate to the Los Angeles Kings. It was reported on December 18, 2015, that Emery had consented to an expert tryout arrangement with the Toronto Marlies of the American Hockey League (AHL), who are related with the Toronto Maple Leafs. 

Emery was lauded for his administration and tutoring capacities; on January 24, 2016, upon Crawford recording his alliance driving seventh shutout of the period with the Blackhawks after a success against the Blues, he credited Emery for pivoting his work propensities. Crawford expressed that Emery's work propensities drove him to build his concentration and arrangement before an amusement and amid training. "As a goalie, I've never observed a person be so engaged and prepared for a diversion", Crawford said. "I was somewhat doing the opposite – being emotionless and doing other stuff and not having a daily schedule. You get in that physical schedule that just makes you prepared rationally. You deceive yourself into realizing that it's diversion time and time to play." Kyle Dubas, aide GM of the Marlies, refered to Emery for his mentorship towards the group. 

On February 5, 2016, Emery marked with Adler Mannheim of the German tip top class Deutsche Eishockey Liga for the rest of the period, subsequently finishing his expert tryout with the Marlies. On March 29, he marked a tryout contract with the Flyers, and on April 1, the group declared that it had marked Emery for the rest of the period. Toward the finish of the period, Emery resigned from the NHL. 

Emery was a fan-most loved and praised contender in the NHL, a game that permits battling, on the grounds that it was uncommon for a goaltender to lock in. Emery was a boxing fan and had pictures of Joe Frazier, Bernard Hopkins, Mike Tyson and the anecdotal Rocky Balboa on his caps. 

Emery had affirmed off-ice episodes plugged, and was liable to much theory by the press amid his residency with the Ottawa Senators in 2007– 2009. Charges included indignation the board, vehicular episodes, and theorized recreational medication use. Press individuals broadcasted a missed trip amid the playoffs, Emery being late for training, battles with colleagues practically speaking, incorporating a physical fight with partner Brian McGrattan, and a stick-crushing episode at training since Emery was not getting as much ice time as Martin Gerber, as mentor John Paddock guaranteed. Enclosure told the press that Emery was showing whimsical conduct, was sent home (missing the majority of preparing camp) and pitched a small fit toward the finish of a morning skate. The media estimated that Emery was included with a terrible group and recreational medications. At the point when asked by ESPN, Emery expressed, "I'm not a holy person and I'm not in prison, either." Paddock later communicated lament on how Emery was taken care of and was somewhat in charge of marking Emery to the Flyers, where they cooperated, amid 2013– 2016. 

A viral video surfaced of Emery endeavoring to punch and pursuing a group mentor while the coach was endeavoring to put a cap on his head in January 2009. Emery said he took outrage the executives classes in the small time and experienced two months of social directing. 

In June 2010, Emery started dating Canadian vocalist Keshia Chanté, and featured as the adoration enthusiasm for Chanté's music video for "Test Drive". On June 16, 2016, Emery proposed to Chanté on her birthday in Nassau, Bahamas. Emery and Chanté were set to marry in June 2017, in any case, all the while with the arrival of her spread on "The present Bride", Chanté declared by means of her Instagram account that she had canceled the wedding. On September 18, 2017, Emery was captured for articulating dangers and attack with a weapon towards Chanté, after she went to police looking for a controlling request. Chanté expected Emery to go to outrage the board in return for charges being cleared, which Emery consented to and effectively finished. On July 16, 2018, Chanté wrote an enthusiastic tribute to Emery expressing that she was "shattered" and that he was "a Superhero" who was "cherishing, warm, shrewd, funny, giving". She likewise expressed that they "may have had contrasts" however they "pardoned one another and kept on cherishing each other ideal to the very end." 

On October 15, 2018, preceding a diversion versus the Dallas Stars, the Senators exhibited a tribute for Emery. Among those present were his dear companion Jason Spezza, who was playing for the Stars, and Chanté, who sung the national songs of devotion. 

In March 2007, Emery was charged in a minor accident going to the air terminal, driving him to miss a group sanctioned trip to a street amusement. In September 2007, he had a much-promoted street rage occurrence with a 65-year-elderly person he was blamed for taking steps to slaughter and cutting off on the roadway. No charges were laid. 

In February 2008, Ottawa police pulled over Emery, who purportedly removed a police cruiser with his Hummer. They said he was forceful with officers. In March 2009, he was charged for trick driving for having gone 50 km/h or progressively over the posted speed limit. Police seized his Hummer. He showed up on TSN's "Confidentially with Michael Landsberg", saying that, at the time, his Hummer was pulled over no less than multiple times in the earlier years. 

On July 14, 2018, Emery was helping fund-raise, alongside other previous and current expert hockey players for Hamilton philanthropy Food4Kids. On July 15, 2018, Emery ran swimming with companions close to the Leander Boat Club in Hamilton, Ontario. He bounced off a pontoon and companions called crisis administrations at around 6:00 AM the point at which he didn't reemerge. His body was found at about 2:50 PM that equivalent day, around 20 yards from where he went into the water, as indicated by Hamilton Police, who alluded to the occurrence as an "instance of misfortune". The look for Emery took longer than foreseen because of unspecified security worries for the plunge group before they could enter the water. Police expressed that albeit unfairness was not suspected, the careful conditions encompassing Emery's demise were still under scrutiny. 

Insights through Eliteprospects