Cleopatra Selene of Syria 

Cleopatra Selene (; – 69 BC) was the ruler of Syria as Cleopatra II Selene (82– 69 BC). She was the little girl of Ptolemy VIII of Egypt by Cleopatra III, in whose political moves Cleopatra Selene, supported by her mom, turned into a pawn. In 115 BC, Cleopatra III constrained her child Ptolemy IX to separate from his sister-spouse Cleopatra IV, and picked Cleopatra Selene as the new ruler partner of Egypt. Pressure between the lord and his mom developed and finished with his ejection from Egypt, deserting Cleopatra Selene; she most likely at that point wedded the new ruler, her other sibling Ptolemy X. 

In 102 BC, Cleopatra III chose to set up a coalition with Antiochus VIII of Seleucid Syria; Cleopatra Selene was sent as his lady and remained with him until his death in 96 BC. The now bereaved ruler chose to wed Antiochus VIII's sibling Antiochus IX, however she lost her new spouse in 95 BC. Her last marriage was to her stepson, Antiochus IX's beneficiary Antiochus X, who vanished from the records and is dared to have kicked the bucket in 92 BC. Cleopatra Selene shrouded some place in Syria with her kids until 83/82 BC (230 Seleucid year (SE)), when the Seleucid honored position in Damascus, led by Antiochus XII, ended up empty. 

Cleopatra Selene had numerous kids by a few spouses; most likely after the passing of Antiochus XII, she announced Antiochus XIII, her child by Antiochus X, lord, and appears to have pronounced herself co-ruler. Be that as it may, the general population of the Syrian capital Antioch and the legislative leader of the southern capital Damascus, depleted by the Seleucids' thoughtful wars, welcomed remote rulers to administer them: Tigranes II of Armenia took Antioch, while Aretas III of Nabataea took Damascus. Cleopatra Selene controlled a few seaside towns until Tigranes II assaulted her in 69 BC in Ptolemais; the Armenian lord caught the ruler and later executed her. 

Continuously century BC, the Seleucid Empire and the Ptolemaic Kingdom were debilitated by dynastic fights, steady wars against one another (known as the Syrian Wars), and Roman impedance. To facilitate the pressure, the two administrations intermarried. Cleopatra I of Syria wedded Ptolemy V of Egypt in 193 BC, and her granddaughter Cleopatra Thea wedded three Syrian lords in progression beginning in 150 BC. Those intermarriages helped Egypt destabilize Syria which was particularly divided between various inquirers to the position of royalty; siblings battled among themselves and Egypt meddled by supporting one petitioner against the other. 

Cleopatra Selene was conceived somewhere in the range of 135 and 130 BC to Ptolemy VIII and Cleopatra III. Cleopatra Selene had numerous kin, including Ptolemy IX, Ptolemy X, and Cleopatra IV. Antiquated essayists, for example, Cicero and Appian, notice that the ruler's name is Selene, and Strabo elucidated that she was surnamed "Cleopatra". Then again, present day researchers, for example, Arthur Houghton and Catharine Lorber, trusted that Selene was actulay a designation. The paleologist Nicholas L. Wright recommended that she accepted the designation "Selene" when she progressed toward becoming ruler of Egypt and that it is a divinising appellation, demonstrating that Cleopatra Selene introduced herself as the sign of the moon goddess on earth. Coins struck in her name record her as Cleopatra Selene. Selene was the name of the Greek moon goddess and it is associated with the word selas (σέλας), signifying "light". "Cleopatra" was a Ptolemaic dynastic name; it signifies "popular in her dad" or "famous in her family". As a ruler of Syria, she was the second to govern with the name 'Cleopatra'. Henceforth, she is named "Cleopatra II Selene" to separate her from her forerunner and auntie Cleopatra I Thea, who was the mother of Cleopatra Selene's spouses Antiochus VIII and Antiochus IX. Classicist Grace Macurdy numbered Cleopatra Selene as "Cleopatra V" inside the Ptolemaic administration and numerous history specialists have utilized this tradition. 

Kin marriage was known in antiquated Egypt and, despite the fact that it was anything but a general practice, it was adequate for the Egyptians; the Ptolemaics rehearsed it, maybe to unite the tradition. In 116 BC, Ptolemy VIII passed on and his will left Cleopatra III to administer close by a co-leader of her decision from between her two children; she needed to pick Ptolemy X yet the general population of Alexandria (the capital of Egypt) restricted this, compelling her to acknowledge Ptolemy IX's climb to the position of authority. Not long after his height, Cleopatra III constrained Ptolemy IX to separate from Cleopatra IV, his sister whom he had hitched before their dad's demise; the second century antiquarian Justin suggested that Cleopatra III made this a state of tolerating him as co-ruler. Cleopatra Selene, supported by her mom Cleopatra III, was picked as the new ruler associate in 115 BC. In 107 BC, the connection between Ptolemy IX and his mom disintegrated; Cleopatra III constrained him out of Egypt, and he left his significant other and kids behind. 

That year, 107 BC, Cleopatra Selene was presumably offered to the new lord, her more youthful sibling, Ptolemy X. In 103 BC, Ptolemy IX was battling in Judea. The ruler mother dreaded a collusion against her between Ptolemy IX and his companion Antiochus IX of Syria, who was battling a common war with his sibling Antiochus VIII; this drove her to send troops to Syria. Cleopatra III and Ptolemy X vanquished Ptolemais, and as indicated by Justin, the ruler, stunned by his mom's cold-bloodedness, surrendered her and fled; Cleopatra III at that point chose to wed Cleopatra Selene to Antiochus VIII, as a stage to convey Antiochus VIII to her side so as to counter a coalition between Ptolemy IX and Antiochus IX. In the event that it is acknowledged that Cleopatra Selene wedded Ptolemy X, at that point Cleopatra III separated from her from him after he abandoned. 

The marriage of Cleopatra Selene and Antiochus VIII occurred c. 102 BC; history specialist Leo Kadman recommended that Cleopatra III gave her girl to the Syrian lord in Ptolemais before she withdrew to Egypt, and that Cleopatra Selene kept that city as her fundamental base until an incredible finish. Subtleties of Cleopatra Selene's existence with Antiochus VIII are not clear; no realized posterity came about because of the marriage, however six of Antiochus VIII's youngsters from his past marriage are known. In 96 BC, Herakleon of Beroia, a general of Antiochus VIII, killed his ruler and endeavored to usurp the position of royalty, however fizzled and withdrew to the place where he grew up Beroia. The capital of Syria, Antioch, was a piece of Antiochus VIII's domain at the season of his death; Cleopatra Selene presumably dwelled there. 

The ruler held out in the capital for some time before wedding Antiochus IX. The way in which Antiochus IX assumed responsibility for Antioch and his new spouse in 95 BC isn't clear; he could have taken the city by power or it may be the case that Cleopatra Selene herself paved the way for him. In the perspective on history specialist Auguste Bouché-Leclercq, Cleopatra Selene had little motivation to confide in the five children of her past spouse; the ruler required a partner who might help her control the capital while Antiochus IX required a wife and Cleopatra Selene's impact over the city's battalion and her late husband's authorities. It is far-fetched that this marriage was gotten well by Antiochus VIII's children. The first of them to act was Seleucus VI who was built up in Cilicia. Inside a time of his marriage to Cleopatra Selene, Antiochus IX walked against his nephew however was vanquished and killed. Before long a while later, Seleucus entered the capital. Cleopatra Selene most likely fled before the new lord's landing. On the other hand, she may have been sent to Arados by Antiochus IX for security before he walked against Seleucus. 

In 218 SE (95/94 BC), Antiochus X, the child of Antiochus IX, broadcasted himself lord in Arados, and wedded Cleopatra Selene. The Seleucid line had a point of reference of a child wedding his stepmother: Antiochus I had hitched his stepmother Stratonice, and this may have made it simpler for Cleopatra Selene. However, the marriage was shameful. Appian composed an account concerning the appellation of Antiochus X, ""Eusebes"" ("the devout"): the Syrians offered it to him to deride his show of reliability to his dad by bedding his widow. The method of reasoning for the marriage may have been sober minded: Antiochus X looked to be best, however had little assets and required a ruler. Cleopatra Selene was in her forties and couldn't just wed an outside ruler. Antiochus X drove Seleucus VI out of Antioch in 94 BC and ruled northern Syria and Cilicia, while Seleucus VI's siblings Philip I and Demetrius III ruled Beroea and Damascus separately. The last proof for the rule of Antiochus X is dated to 92 BC; he is commonly expected to have kicked the bucket at around this date. In any case, antiquated sources contain opposing records and dates, and the numismatist Oliver D. Hoover proposed the date of 224 SE (89/88 BC) for Antiochus X's end. Antioch was taken by Demetrius III then Philip I. 

Cleopatra Selene's area amid the reign of Antiochus X's successors in Antioch is obscure. She clearly took asylum with her kids some place in the kingdom, and conceivably fled to Cilicia or Coele-Syria, most likely the city of Ptolemais, which she held until her passing. Antiochus XII, another child of Antiochus VIII who was managing in Damascus, passed on in 230 SE (83/82 BC). With the position of authority of Antiochus XII empty, Cleopatra Selene proclaimed her child Antiochus XIII ruler. 

In view of the proof of the coins portraying her close by her decision child, it gives the idea that Cleopatra Selene went about as the official. A significant number of those coins have been found, and they portray Antiochus XIII out of sight and herself in the frontal area, in the style of a ruler regnant, where Cleopatra Selene's name is composed before that of the king's. When she pronounced her child lord, Cleopatra Selene controlled grounds in Cilicia or Phoenicia or both. The excavator Alfred Bellinger proposed that she was responsible for a few beach front Syrian urban areas from a base in Cilicia; she positively controlled Ptolemais and most likely Seleucia Pieria. The first century antiquarian Josephus composed of "Selene ... who led in Syria", demonstrating her proceeded with impact in spite of her never controlling the capital Antioch. Her youngsters most likely stayed in Cilicia or elsewhere in Asia Minor for assurance, which would clarify Antiochus XIII's moniker, ""Asiaticus"". 

As per Josephus, "those that held Damascus" welcomed Aretas III, King of the Nabataeans, to control them since they dreaded Ptolemy (child of Mennaeus), ruler of the Iturea. Damascus' history between the passing of Antiochus XII and 241 SE (72/71 BC), when the Armenian ruler Tigranes II took the city, is dark. In view of her jugate coins which delineate her nearby Antiochus XIII, Hoover recommended that Selene worked from Damascus; those coins utilized a broken-bar Alpha, cursive Epsilon and squared Sigma. This typography showed up in the Damascene coins of Demetrius III and Antiochus XII and is generally uncommon in the Hellenistic world. On the off chance that her money was stamped in Damascus, at that point it dates to the period between the passing of Antiochus XII and Tigranes II' control of the city. Two situations are conceivable: 

In the north, Philip I governed until his passing, after which Cleopatra Selene asserted the privileges of her youngsters with Antiochus X to the empty honored position. The ruler's cases of power were not commonly acknowledged by the Syrians, and the general population of Antioch welcomed Tigranes II to govern Syria, being baffled by the Seleucids' steady polite wars. The year in which this occasion occurred is discussed; 83 BC is, with no verification, regularly acknowledged as Philip I's time of death by most of researchers who depend on the record of Appian, who doled out a rule of fourteen years for Tigranes II, which finished in 69 BC. Oliver D. Hoover recommended that Tigranes II attacked Syria just in 74 BC, with Philip I governing until 75 BC in Northern Syria, permitting Cleopatra Selene and Antiochus XIII to guarantee the nation unopposed for some time. A contention for Cleopatra Selene and her child being the sole claiments of Syria in 75 BC is an announcement by Cicero: the Roman statesman composed that Antiochus XIII and his sibling were sent to Rome by their mom in 75 BC. They came back to Syria in 240 SE (73/72 BC); the siblings asserted the position of royalty of Egypt dependent on their mom's claim. To inspire the Roman Senate, the ruler blessed her youngsters with adequate resources, which incorporated a jeweled candlestick that was committed to the sanctuary of Jupiter Capitolinus. The Senate would not hear their appeal for the Egyptian honored position, be that as it may, as indicated by Cicero, their "by right" appropriate to the Syrian royal position which they had acquired from their precursors was at that point recognized. 

The announcement of Cicero shows that in 75 BC, Tigranes II was still not responsible for Syria, for in the event that he were, Antiochus XIII would have approached the Roman Senate for help to recapture Syria, since Tigranes II was the child in-law of Rome's adversary, Mithridates VI of Pontus. In like manner, Philip I couldn't have been alive since Antiochus XIII went to Rome without declaring his entitlement to Syria. In a paper exhibited at the 131st yearly gathering of the American Historical Association, Nikolaus Overtoom, in view of Hoover's sequence, recommended that Cleopatra Selene was responsible for the south while Philip I managed the north until 75 BC; his demise implied that Cleopatra Selene's child was the most grounded possibility to the honored position, yet Philip I's group, being against Cleopatra Selene, offered the crown to Tigranes II who attacked and vanquished the nation in 74 BC. 

The rule of Cleopatra Selene likely finished in 75 BC as the adventure of Antiochus XIII to Rome demonstrates that he had just achieved his lion's share or was near it. Tigranes II, whose intrusion most likely occurred amid Antiochus XIII's nonattendance, never controlled the whole nation and took Damascus just in 72 BC. Cleopatra Selene opposed the Armenians in Ptolemais while Antiochus XIII most likely took haven in Cilicia. In 69 BC, Tigranes II assaulted Ptolemais; the city fell by Josephus, however Tigranes II needed to move north quick as the Romans began assaulting Armenia. As per Strabo, Tigranes II detained the ruler in Seleucia and later had her executed. Those records appear to repudiate one another, however in the perspective on the seventeenth century student of history William Whiston, they don't, since Josephus does not make reference to that Tigranes II caught the ruler in Ptolemais. History specialist John D. Grainger clarified Tigranes II' activity as a result of Cleopatra Selene's political significance; she was a triumphant card in the hands of her spouses, and Tigranes II looked to deny different yearning men from getting impact through her. Others see Cleopatra Selene as a pawn in political plans who later advanced into a rogue in her very own right, one who chose her activities successfully dependent on her own advantage. 

Cleopatra Selene's long vocation, as the spouse of three progressive Syrian rulers, and the mother of one and a ruler in her very own right, notwithstanding her celestial status, transformed her into an image of Seleucid coherence. The antiquated Near East was governed by progressive lines whose rulers asserted the title of Great King, for example supreme overlord. At the point when the Romans finished the Seleucid line in 64 BC, they endeavored to just supplant the Syrian rulers as a supreme specialist, yet the political truth of Rome as a republic implied that its authenticity in the East was addressed. The Seleucid diadem was viewed as an image of authenticity even after the fall of the Seleucid administration, and numerous eastern rulers, for example, the Parthian ruler Mithridates II, utilized Seleucid imperial iconography to pick up the neighborhood honorability's help in their spaces. The Ptolemaic leaders of Egypt were the nearest relatives of the Seleucids and their genuine successors; Cleopatra VII of Egypt utilized the name of Cleopatra Selene for her little girl Cleopatra Selene of Mauretania, brought into the world 40 BC; this can be seen with regards to Cleopatra VII's endeavors to guarantee the Seleucid progression rights in the East. 

Cleopatra Selene conceivably bore Ptolemy X his child Ptolemy XI however her maternity can not be affirmed; Cleopatra IV may have been the mother rather, yet this is likewise a suspicion and the character of Ptolemy XI's mom remains a secret. 

Distinguishing Antiochus X and Cleopatra Selene's youngsters is dangerous; Cicero composed that the ruler had two children, one of them named Antiochus. More youngsters, maybe a little girl, may have come about because of the marriage, yet it can not be affirmed; as indicated by Plutarch, Tigranes II "put to death the successors of Seleucus, and [carried] off their spouses and little girls into bondage". Accordingly, it is conceivable that Cleopatra Selene had a girl caught by Tigranes II.