White-bellied ocean bird 

The white-bellied ocean falcon ("Haliaeetus leucogaster"), otherwise called the white-breasted ocean hawk, is a huge diurnal feathered creature of prey in the family Accipitridae. Initially depicted by Johann Friedrich Gmelin in 1788, it is firmly identified with Sanford's ocean hawk of the Solomon Islands, and the two are viewed as a superspecies. An unmistakable flying creature, the grown-up white-bellied ocean hawk has a white head, bosom, under-wing coverts and tail. The upper parts are dark and the dark under-wing flight plumes stand out from the white coverts. The tail is short and wedge-molded as on the whole "Haliaeetus" species. In the same way as other raptors, the female is somewhat bigger than the male, and can make the grade regarding long with a wingspan of up to , and weigh . Youthful winged creatures have darker plumage, which is step by step supplanted by white until the age of five or six years. The call is a noisy goose-like blaring. 

Occupant from India and Sri Lanka through Southeast Asia to Australia on coasts and major conduits, the white-bellied ocean falcon breeds and chases close water, and fish structure around half of its eating routine. Pioneering, it expends carcass and a wide assortment of creatures. In spite of the fact that evaluated as "Least Concern" all inclusive, it has declined in parts of southeast Asia, for example, Thailand, and southeastern Australia. It is positioned as "Undermined" in Victoria and "Helpless" in South Australia and Tasmania. Human unsettling influence to its natural surroundings is the fundamental danger, both from direct human movement close homes which impacts on rearing achievement, and from expulsion of reasonable trees for settling. The white-bellied ocean hawk is respected by indigenous individuals in numerous pieces of Australia, and is the subject of different people stories all through its range. 

The white-bellied ocean falcon was first portrayed by the German naturalist Johann Friedrich Gmelin in 1788, in spite of the fact that John Latham had made notes on the species in 1781, from an example got in February 1780 at Princes Island off the westernmost cape of Java amid Captain Cook's last voyage. Its particular name is gotten from the Ancient Greek "leuko-" 'white', and "gaster" 'tummy'. Its nearest relative is the little-realized Sanford's ocean hawk of the Solomon Islands. These structure a superspecies, and as is normal in other ocean hawk superspecies, one (the white-bellied ocean falcon) has a white head, rather than the other species' dull head. The bill and eyes are dull, and the claws are dim yellow as in all Southern Hemisphere ocean hawks. Both these species have probably some dim colouration in their tails, however this may not generally be plainly noticeable in the white-bellied ocean falcon. The nucleotide successions of the cytochrome b quality of the two ocean birds were among those investigated in a recent report. In spite of the fact that they contrast extraordinarily in appearance and biology, their hereditary uniqueness of 0.3% shows that the progenitors of the two structures may have wandered as of late as 150,000 years prior. The investigation creators infer that in spite of the fact that the hereditary dissimilarity is increasingly reliable with subspecies, the uniqueness in appearance and conduct warrants the two being held as independent species. Mitochondrial succession of the cytochrome b locus varies in all respects somewhat from that of Sanford's ocean bird recommending a moderately ongoing uniqueness after New Guinea-based white-bellied ocean falcons colonized the Solomon Islands. 

The white-bellied ocean hawk's affinities past the Sanford's ocean falcon are somewhat less clear; sub-atomic information demonstrate that it is one of four types of tropical ocean bird (alongside the African fish falcon and the Madagascar fish falcon), while allozyme information show it may have a closer association with the ocean falcons of the northern side of the equator. A further atomic investigation distributed in 2005 demonstrated the white-bellied and Sanford's ocean hawks to be basal to the four fish falcons (the two referenced above in addition to the two up to this point untested types of the variety "Ichthyophaga"). 

Just as white-bellied ocean bird and white-breasted ocean falcon, other recorded names incorporate white-bellied fish-sell, white-hawk, and dim upheld ocean hawk. 

The white-bellied ocean falcon has a white head, backside and underparts, and dull or slate-dim back and wings. In flight, the dark flight quills on the wings are effectively observed when the feathered creature is seen from beneath. The huge, snared bill is a heavy blue-dim with a darker tip, and the irides are dull dark colored. The cere is likewise lead dim. The legs and feet are yellow or dark, with long dark claws (paws). Dissimilar to those of falcons of the variety "Aquila", the legs are not feathered. The genders are comparative. Guys are long and weigh . Females are somewhat bigger, at and . The wingspan ranges from . A recent report on 37 feathered creatures from Australia and Papua New Guinea (3 °S to 50 °S) found that fowls could be sexed dependably on size, and that flying creatures from scopes further south were bigger than those from the north. There is no occasional variety in plumage. The shedding example of the white-bellied ocean hawk is ineffectively known. It seems to take longer than a year to finish, and can be hindered and later continued from the purpose of interference. 

The wings are altered when skimming with the goal that they ascend from the body at a point, however are nearer to even further along the wingspan. In outline, the relatively long neck, head and bill stand out from the front nearly to the extent the tail does behind. For dynamic flight, the white-bellied ocean falcon substitutes solid profound wing-beats with brief times of floating. 

A youthful white-bellied ocean bird in its first year is transcendently darker, with pale cream-streaked plumage on their head, neck, scruff and rear end regions. The plumage turns out to be more penetrated with white until it gains the total grown-up plumage by the fourth or fifth year. The species breeds from around six years old onwards. The life expectancy is believed to associate with 30 years. 

The boisterous goose-like blaring call is a natural sound, especially amid the rearing season; combines regularly blare as one, and frequently carry on for quite a while when roosted. The male's call is higher-pitched and more fast than that of the female. Australian naturalist David Fleay saw that the call is among the most intense and uttermost conveying of all Australian winged creature calls, as an unmistakable difference to the generally tranquil calls of the wedge-followed bird. 

Grown-up white-bellied ocean hawks are obvious and probably not going to be mistaken for some other winged animal. Juvenile winged animals can be mistaken for wedge-followed hawks. Nonetheless, the plumage of the last is darker, the tail longer, and the legs feathered. They may likewise be mistaken for the dark breasted scavanger ("Hamirostra melanosternon"), yet this species is a lot littler, has white fixes on the wings, and has an all the more undulating flight. In India, the Egyptian vulture has white plumage, however is littler and has a more white back and wings. The white tail of the white-bellied ocean hawk in flight recognizes it from different types of expansive falcons. In the Philippines, it very well may be mistaken for the Philippine falcon, which can be recognized by its peak; juvenile white-bellied ocean birds take after youthful dim headed fish hawks, however can be distinguished by their all the more entirely dull dark colored underparts and flight plumes, and wedge-formed tail. 

The white-bellied ocean falcon is found normally from Mumbai (now and again north to Gujarat, and in the past in the Lakshadweep Islands) eastwards in India, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka in southern Asia, through all of beach front Southeast Asia including Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Indochina, the principle and seaward islands of the Philippines, and southern China including Hong Kong, Hainan and Fuzhou, eastwards through New Guinea and the Bismarck Archipelago, and Australia. In the northern Solomons it is confined to Nissan Island, and supplanted somewhere else by Sanford's ocean hawk. In Victoria, where it is generally rare, it is locally increasingly normal at Corner Inlet and Gippsland Lakes. Likewise in South Australia, it is most bottomless along the north shoreline of Kangaroo Island. The range stretches out to the islands of Bass Strait and Tasmania, and it is thought ready to move between the islands and the terrain. There is one unsubstantiated record from Lord Howe Island and a few from New Zealand. 

They are a typical sight in beach front regions, yet may likewise be seen well inland (It is apparently observed at the Panna Tiger Reserve in focal India, about far from the ocean shore) The white-bellied ocean hawk is commonly stationary and regional, in spite of the fact that it might travel long separations. They have been accounted for making a trip upriver to chase for flying foxes ("Pteropus"). Populaces in inland Australia move around as inland waterways show up and afterward evaporate. In one example, a couple came to breed at Lake Albacutya in northwestern Victoria after the lake had been vacant for a long time. The species is effectively aggravated by people, particularly while settling, and may abandon settling destinations therefore. It is found in more prominent numbers in zones with almost no human effect or obstruction. 

The white-bellied ocean falcon is commonly regional; a few flying creatures structure lasting sets that possess regions consistently, while others are migrant. The species is monogamous, with sets staying together until one fowl passes on, after which the enduring winged creature rapidly looks for another mate. This can prompt some home locales being ceaselessly involved for a long time (one site in Mallacoota was involved for more than fifty years). Youthful winged creatures are commonly dispersive, with many moving over far from the region they were raised. One adolescent brought up in Cowell, South Australia was accounted for away at Fraser Island in Queensland. An investigation of the animal types in Jervis Bay demonstrated increments in the quantities of youthful and subadult flying creatures in pre-winter, in spite of the fact that it was vague whether these were privately fledged or (as was viewed as more probable) a flood of youthful feathered creatures brought up somewhere else in Australia. Flying creatures are regularly observed roosted high in a tree, or taking off over conduits and contiguous land. They are most normally experienced separately or in sets. Little gatherings of white-bellied ocean birds now and again assemble if there is an ample wellspring of sustenance, for example, a remains or fish offal on a ship. A significant part of the white-bellied ocean hawk's conduct, especially reproducing, remains inadequately known. 

The rearing season shifts as indicated by area—it has been recorded in the dry season in the Trans-Fly locale and Central Province of Papua New Guinea, and from June to August in Australia. A couple of white-bellied ocean hawks performs skilful showcases of flying before lovemaking: plunging, skimming and pursuing one another while calling noisily. They may reflect one another, flying separated and replicating each other swooping and swerving. A claw hooking show has been recorded where the pair will fly high before one flips topsy turvy and attempts to catch different's claws with its own. In the event that effective, the two at that point dive cartwheeling before isolating as they approach the ground. This conduct has additionally been recorded as a forceful showcase against a wedge-followed falcon. 

The white-bellied ocean falcon more often than not picks tall trees or man-made arches to settle in. Frequently, areas are looked for where there is a tall dead tree or high branch with great perceivability which can be utilized as a roost to study the encompassing territory, which is commonly a low-lying region close water with some timberland spread. The roost winds up shrouded in defecation and pellets and creature stays litter the quick encompassing region. The home is a vast profound bowl developed of sticks and branches, and fixed with so much materials as grass or kelp. Yearly redesigns result in homes getting step by step greater. Homes are by and large sited in the forks of huge trees neglecting waterways. Old homes of wedge-followed falcons or whistling kites have been remodeled and utilized. Precipices are likewise appropriate settling destinations, and on islands homes are now and then constructed legitimately on the ground. A reproducing pair, with the male being progressively dynamic, goes through three to about a month and a half structure or revamping the home before laying eggs. Regularly a grasp of two dull, white, oval eggs are laid. Estimating 73×55 mm, they are brooded more than about a month and a half before bring forth. The youthful are semi-altricial, and shrouded in white down when they rise up out of the egg. At first, the male brings nourishment and the female feeds the chicks, however the two guardians feed the chicks as they become bigger. Albeit two eggs are laid, it is irregular for two youthful to be raised effectively to fledging (leaving the home). One egg might be fruitless, or the second chick may bite the dust in the home. In the event that the main grip is lost, the guardians may endeavor a second brood. Nestlings have been recorded fledging when 70 to 80 days old, and staying around the guardians' region for as long as a half year or until the accompanying reproducing season. 

The white-bellied ocean bird is a shrewd flesh eater and expends a wide assortment of creature prey, including remains. It regularly gets a fish by flying low over the water and getting a handle on it in its claws. It gets ready for the strike by holding its feet far forward (practically under its jawline) and after that strikes in reverse while at the same time beating its wings to lift upwards. For the most part just a single foot is utilized to catch prey. The white-bellied ocean falcon may likewise plunge at a 45 degree point from its roost and quickly submerge to get fish close to the water surface. While chasing over water on bright days, it regularly flies straightforwardly into the sun or at right points to it, apparently to abstain from throwing shadows over the water and subsequently cautioning potential prey. 

The white-bellied ocean hawk chases for the most part sea-going creatures, for example, fish, turtles and ocean snakes, however it takes feathered creatures, for example, little penguins, Eurasian coots and shearwaters, and warm blooded animals (counting flying foxes) also. In the Bismarck Archipelago it has been accounted for benefiting from two types of possum, the northern basic cuscus and basic spotted cuscus. It is a gifted seeker, and will assault prey up to the measure of a swan. They additionally feed on carcass, for example, dead sheep, winged animals and fish found along the waterline, just as attacking angling nets and following stick reapers. 

They annoy littler raptors, for example, swamp harriers, whistling kites, brahminy kites and ospreys, driving them to drop any nourishment that they are conveying. Different winged creatures deceived incorporate silver and Pacific gulls, cormorants and Australasian gannets. There is one record of a white-bellied ocean hawk catching a gannet when fruitless in getting its prey. They may even take sustenance from their own species, including their mates. The white-bellied ocean falcon assaults these flying creatures by hitting them with outstretched claws from above or by flying topsy turvy underneath the littler predator and grabbing the prey, at the same time shrieking harshly. Southern hide seals have additionally been focused for their fish. 

White-bellied ocean falcons feed alone, in sets, or in family gatherings. A couple may coordinate to chase. Prey can be eaten while the winged animal is flying or when it arrives on a raised stage, for example, its home. The white-bellied ocean hawk skins the unfortunate casualty as it eats it. It is particularly effective at processing its sustenance, and spews just modest pellets of divided bone, hide and plumes. 

A 2006 investigation of inland waterways around Canberra where wedge-followed hawks and white-bellied ocean falcons share regions demonstrated little cover in the scope of prey taken. Wedge-followed falcons took rabbits, different macropods, earthly winged creatures, for example, cockatoos and parrots, and different passerines including jaybirds and starlings. White-bellied ocean hawks got fish, water-abiding reptiles, for example, the eastern since quite a while ago necked turtle and Australian water winged serpent, and waterbirds, for example, ducks, grebes and coots. The two species went after the maned duck. Rabbits established just a little part of the white-bellied ocean hawk's eating routine. In spite of settling close to one another, the two animal varieties only here and there communicated, as the wedge-followed hawks chased far from water and the white-bellied ocean birds scrounged along the lake shores. Nonetheless, clash with wedge-followed hawks over settling locales in remainder trees has been recorded in Tasmania. 

The white-bellied ocean falcon is recorded as being of "Least Concern" by the IUCN. There are an expected 10 thousand to 100 thousand people, in spite of the fact that there is by all accounts a decrease in numbers. They have turned out to be uncommon in Thailand and some different pieces of southeast Asia. They are moderately copious in Hong Kong, where the populace expanded from 39 to 57 flying creatures somewhere in the range of 2002 and 2009. A field think about on Kangaroo Island in South Australia demonstrated that settling sets in regions of high human unsettling influence (as characterized by clearing of scene and high human action) had lower reproducing achievement rates. In the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, homes have been emptied as human exercises have infringed on the birds' regions. Somewhere else, the clearing of trees reasonable for settling has seen it to a great extent vanish locally, for example, the expulsion of stands of "Casuarina equisetifolia" in Visakhapatnam region in Andhra Pradesh in India. In India, home densities of around one for every 4.32 km of coastline have been noted in Sindhudurg and one for each 3.57 km (45 settles along 161 km) in Ratnagiri region of Maharashtra. They additionally home on Netrani Island, where around a 100 feathered creatures were noted in 1875 (at that point known as Pigeon Island) by Allan Octavian Hume who noticed this was maybe the biggest reproducing state of the species. In 2000, the unsettling influence to the island from torpedo-terminating practices led by the Indian naval force was noted as a danger. Almost 100 homes have been noted in 2004 on this island. 

DDT was a broadly utilized pesticide in horticulture that was found to have noteworthy unfavorable consequences for natural life, especially egg diminishing and resulting breakage in winged animals of prey. A survey of DDT's effect on Australian raptors somewhere in the range of 1947 and 1993 found that the normal egg-shell thickness had diminished by 6%. This normal dimension of diminishing was not thought liable to result in altogether more breakage generally speaking, anyway singular grasps that had been considerably more slender may have broken. The white-bellied ocean hawk was one of the more influenced species, presumably because of its encouraging in territories vigorously treated with pesticide, for example, swamps. DDT utilize crested in 1973, yet was never again affirmed after 1987 and its utilization had successfully stopped by 1989. 

The white-bellied ocean bird is recorded under the "marine" and "transient" classes which give it ensured status under Australia's government Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999. As a basically beach front animal categories, it is defenseless against environment annihilation in Australia's undeniably populated and urbanized waterfront territories, especially in the south and east of the nation, where it seems to have declined in numbers. Nonetheless, there may have been an expansion in populace inland, auxiliary to the formation of repositories, dams and weirs, and the spread of the presented normal carp ("Cyprinus carpio"). Be that as it may, it is uncommon along the Murray River where it was once normal. It is likewise recorded as "Compromised" under Victoria's Flora and Fauna Guarantee Act (1988), with potentially less than 100 rearing sets staying in the state. On the 2007 warning rundown of compromised vertebrate fauna in Victoria, the white-bellied ocean bird is recorded as "powerless". 

There are less than 1000 grown-up flying creatures in Tasmania, where the species is recorded as "Helpless" under Schedule 3.1 of the Tasmanian Threatened Species Protection Act 1995. In Tasmania it is compromised by home aggravation, loss of appropriate settling living space, shooting, harming, catching, and crash with electrical cables and wind turbines, just as ensnarement and ecological contamination. Estuaries are a favored living space, and these are regularly subject to natural unsettling influence. white-bellied ocean birds have been seen to expand their chasing extents to incorporate salmon fish ranches, yet the impact of this on rearing achievement is obscure. 

The white-bellied ocean hawk was essential to various clans of indigenous individuals crosswise over Australia. The gatekeeper creature of the Wreck Bay native network, it is additionally the official token of the Booderee National Park and Botanic Gardens in the Jervis Bay Territory. The people group considered territories around Booderee National Park to be associated with it. A neighborhood Sydney name was "gulbi", and the winged creature was the totem of Colebee, the late eighteenth century indigenous pioneer of the Cadigal individuals. The white-bellied ocean falcon is critical to the Mak individuals of the floodplains toward the southwest of Darwin in the northern Territory, who perceived its association with "great nation". It is their totem and indispensably associated with their territory. The expression "Mak" is their name for both the species and themselves. The Umbrawarra Gorge Nature Park was a Dreaming site of the feathered creature, here known as "Kuna-ngarrk-ngarrk". It was comparatively emblematic to the Tasmanian indigenous individuals—"Nairanaa" was one name utilized there. 

Known as "Manulab" to the general population of Nissan Island, the white-bellied ocean hawk is viewed as exceptional and executing it is illegal. Its calls during the evening are said to prognosticate threat, and seeing a gathering of calling falcons flying overhead is an indication that somebody has kicked the bucket. Neighborhood Malay society stories recount the white-bellied ocean falcon shouting to caution the shellfish of the turning of tides, and a nearby name "burung hamba siput" interprets as "slave of the shellfish". Called "Kaulo" in the as of late wiped out Aka-Bo language, the white-bellied ocean hawk was held to be the precursor of all winged animals in one Andaman Islands people story. On the Maharashtra coast, their name is "kakan" and its call is said to show the nearness of fish in the ocean. They once in a while home on coconut trees. Proprietors of the trees annihilate the home to maintain a strategic distance from assaults when collecting the coconuts. 

The white-bellied ocean bird is highlighted on the $10,000 Singapore note, which was brought into course on 1 February 1980. It is the token of the Malaysian territory of Selangor. Malay tycoon Loke Wan Tho had a pinnacle worked for the sole motivation behind watching a white-bellied ocean bird home in the castle patio nurseries of Istana Bukit Serene in Johor Bahru. Taken in February 1949, the subsequent photos showed up in "The Illustrated London News" in 1954. The winged creature is the symbol of the Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles rugby group, picked at the club's initiation in 1947. From 2010, a settling pair of white-bellied ocean falcons have had their endeavors at raising chicks taped live on "EagleCam", with film in plain view at the adjacent Birds Australia Discovery Center in Sydney Olympic Park, New South Wales. In the wake of raising one brood, be that as it may, their home crumbled in February 2011. The story pulled in statewide consideration.