Hod Stuart 

William Hodgson "Hod" Stuart (February 20, 1879 – June 23, 1907) was a Canadian expert ice hockey spread point (presently known as a defenceman) who played nine seasons for a few groups in various classes. He likewise played quickly for the Ottawa Rough Riders football crew. With his sibling Bruce, Stuart played in the primary expert ice hockey group, the American-based International Professional Hockey League (IPHL), where he was viewed as a standout amongst the best players in the alliance. 

Disappointed with the brutality related with the IPHL, he left the group late in 1906 and came back to Canada, where in 1907 he helped the Montreal Wanderers win the Stanley Cup, the title trophy for hockey. After two months, he kicked the bucket in a jumping mishap. To fund-raise for his widow and kids, the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association facilitated an elite player amusement, the first of its sort to be played in any game. An expected 3,800 observers went to the Hod Stuart Memorial Game on January 2, 1908, depicted by the "Montreal Herald" as "interesting in the historical backdrop of hockey in Montreal, if not in the entire of Canada". 

In a period when defencemen were relied upon to remain behind amid the play, Stuart wound up known for his capacity to score objectives while assuming a protective job, and for his capacity to try to avoid panicking amid matches that frequently turned fierce. He additionally wound up known for his work to diminish that savagery and to expand the pay rates of hockey players. His endeavors were recognized when the Hockey Hall of Fame was made in 1945 and he ended up one of the initial nine players to be drafted. He was joined there by his sibling Bruce in 1961. 

Stuart was conceived in Ottawa, Ontario, the oldest child of William Stuart and Rachel Hodgson. He had two siblings, Alex and Bruce, and two sisters, Jessie and Lottio. Stuart was associated with games since the beginning. His dad had been a decent styler and was once point skip of the Ottawa Curling Club, and both Hod and Bruce played hockey since early on, frequently for similar groups. Stuart likewise played rugby and football, and played for the nearby expert football crew, the Ottawa Rough Riders. 

Outside of hockey Stuart functioned as a bricklayer, and later in his life he likewise worked with his dad in development. He was said to have been a calm individual, and not at all like different competitors of his time was not one to discuss his adventures, aside from with dear companions. Loughlin, his significant other, originated from Quebec; around 1903 they were hitched and had two youngsters together. 

Stuart originally joined a senior hockey group when he spent the winter of 1895– 1896 with the Rat Portage Thistles, a group in northwestern Ontario. Alongside his sibling Bruce, Stuart joined the Ottawa Hockey Club of the Canadian Amateur Hockey League (CAHL) for the 1899 season. He played the 1900 season for Ottawa, captaining the group. Through his dad's business contacts, Stuart found a new line of work in Quebec and moved there in 1900; after landing there he joined the Quebec Bulldogs, additionally of the CAHL. He scored seven objectives in fifteen diversions with the group throughout the following two seasons. 

In 1902, the Pittsburgh Bankers of the Western Pennsylvania Hockey League marked Stuart to an expert contract; this was debated between the Bankers and the Pittsburgh Victorias, who additionally asserted him. In the end the Bankers won the debate and kept Stuart; the next year they would likewise sign Bruce. Stuart was offered a compensation of US$15– 20 every week, in addition to enduring pay from a normal everyday employment in Pittsburgh. Stuart scored seven objectives and had eight helps and was named the best spread point in the class in 1903. 

After one season in Pittsburgh, Stuart moved to the Portage Lakes Hockey Club, a group in northern Michigan, for the 1903– 1904 season and played in fourteen presentation diversions, completing fourth in the group with thirteen objectives scored. With the development of the International Professional Hockey League, Stuart left Portage Lake for the Calumet Miners, where he acknowledged the places of mentor and administrator, notwithstanding playing spread point, for $1,800. He scored eighteen objectives for Calumet in 1904– 1905, helped the group with the alliance title and was named as far as possible of season top pick group as the best spread point in the association. 

On December 11, 1905, preceding the beginning of the 1905– 06 season, Stuart was suspended from the association after the western groups whined that he had won such a large number of titles and was unreasonably unpleasant for the alliance. He was reestablished by the association on December 30, and joined the Pittsburgh Professionals. After Pittsburgh completed their season, Stuart joined Calumet for one amusement so they could attempt to win the alliance title, which they lost to the Portage Lakes Hockey Club. By and by he was named best spread point in the IPHL as he scored eleven objectives. A major man with a liquid skating stride, he was considered the best defenceman of his time for his remarkable play on both offense and protection. 

As the IPHL persuaded players to move to the United States and get paid to play, hockey groups in Canada were compelled to coordinate the pay rates so as to keep their players. Stuart, who was troubled playing in Pittsburgh due to the brutality engaged with diversions, got notification from Dickie Boon that the Montreal Wanderers, guarding Stanley Cup victors, of the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA) were eager to make Stuart the most generously compensated player in hockey if he somehow happened to join the group. On December 13, 1906, Stuart had a letter distributed in the "Montreal Star" that point by point his issues with the IPHL. Stuart's central concern was the administering; he said they "don't have the foggiest idea how to run hockey here, the arena individuals choose the most imbecilic and clumsy officials that could be found." In December 1906 Pittsburgh wouldn't play a diversion against Michigan Soo, guaranteeing they didn't care for the decision of arbitrator. While a typical issue in the IPHL, Pittsburgh's administration trusted Stuart was behind the activity, and discharged him from the group. Never again bound to any group, Stuart joined the Wanderers; his first amusement with the group was viewed by 6,069 fans. He participated in the Wanderers' Stanley Cup challenge against the New Glasgow Cubs, a group from Nova Scotia, on December 27 and 29, 1906, and alongside colleagues Riley Hern, Frank Glass, Moose Johnson and Jack Marshall, turned into the principal proficient hockey players to seek the Stanley Cup. 

Stuart did not escape brutality in the ECAHA. On January 12, 1907, the Wanderers confronted the Ottawa Senators, an amusement the Wanderers at last won 4– 2. Charles Spittal of Ottawa was portrayed as "endeavoring to part Cecil Blachford's skull", Alf Smith hit Stuart "over the sanctuary with his stick, spreading him out like a carcass", and Harry Smith split his stick crosswise over Ernie "Moose" Johnson's face, breaking Johnson's nose. Stuart was complimented for his activities amid the diversion; it was said that he neither jumped nor countered, even in the wake of bearing the greater part of the hits. At a group meeting on January 18, the Montreal Victorias proposed suspending Spittal and Alf Smith for the season in light of their activities, however this was voted against and the leader of the alliance, Fred McRobie, surrendered. Whenever the Senators visited Montreal for an amusement, the police captured Spittal, Alf and Harry Smith, prompting $20 fines for Spittal and Alf, and an exoneration for Harry. Indeed, even with the diligent brutality, Stuart helped the Wanderers to an undefeated season; they at that point acknowledged a test from the Kenora Thistles for the Stanley Cup. The Thistles won the arrangement, held in January, however lost a rematch between the groups in March, giving the Cup back to the Wanderers. Stuart took an interest in the two difficulties, and however did not score an objective in any of the four diversions, he was said to have played the best round of his profession in the main round of the arrangement, even with a broken finger. Viewed as the most vital player on the Wanderers, Stuart was said to realize how to play each situation on the ice, and passed his insight into the diversion onto his partners. 

Tired of the steady brutality, Stuart quit hockey after the Stanley Cup title in 1907 and joined his dad in development. As a major aspect of this activity, Stuart was sent to Belleville, Ontario, to regulate the structure of the Belleville Drill Shed, one of his dad's agreements. While in Belleville, he kept on getting offers to join another hockey group. He was inquired as to whether he needed to deal with the Belleville group; a comparable offer originated from Peterborough, Ontario, while a town outside Toronto was said to have offered a railroad president's compensation if Stuart would go along with them. On the evening of June 23, 1907, Stuart went to the Bay of Quinte, close Belleville, to swim with certain companions. Stuart swam to the close-by beacon, about a large portion of a kilometer far from his gathering, climbed onto a stage and jumped into the shallow water. He made a plunge onto rugged rocks, slicing his head and breaking his neck. He was executed in a split second. His body was taken back to Ottawa, where an administration was held at his family's home before he was covered at Beechwood Cemetery. 

To fund-raise for Stuart's widow and two kids, the ECAHA chose to have an elite player diversion, the first of its sort to be played in any game. An expected 3,800 onlookers went to the Hod Stuart Memorial Game on January 2, 1908, with tickets selling out days ahead of time. Portrayed by the "Montreal Herald" as "remarkable in the historical backdrop of hockey in Montreal, if not in the entire of Canada," the occasion included the Montreal Wanderers, Stuart's previous group, playing against a squad of top players from different groups in the ECAHA. The Westmount Arena consented to have the occasion for no charge, and all returns from the amusement went to Stuart's family, totalling over $2,100. Fans were solicited to mail in decisions from who should play on the top pick group, with the challenge victors given two tickets to the diversion. The Wanderers, a set up group, played superior to the All-Stars, who needed to figure out how to play together, and drove 7– 1 after the primary portion of the amusement; however the All-Stars played better in the second a large portion of, the Wanderers won by a score of 10– 7.