Jesus nahm zu sich pass on Zwölfe, BWV 22 

The work, which is in five developments, starts with a scene from the Gospel perusing in which Jesus predicts his enduring in Jerusalem. The obscure artist of the cantata content accepting the scene as a beginning stage for a grouping of aria, recitative, and aria, in which the contemporary Christian replaces the pupils, who don't comprehend what Jesus is educating them regarding the occasions soon to unfurl, yet tail him by the by. The end chorale is a stanza from Elisabeth Cruciger's song "". The music is scored for three vocal soloists, a four-section choir, oboe, strings and continuo. The work demonstrates that Bach had aced the organization of a sensational scene, an expressive aria with obbligato oboe, a recitative with strings, an abundant move, and a chorale in the style of his antecedent in the situation as Thomaskantor, Johann Kuhnau. Bach coordinated the primary execution of the cantata amid a chapel gathering, together with another tryout piece, . He played out the cantata again on the last Sunday before Lent a year later, after he had taken up office. 

The cantata demonstrates components which progressed toward becoming benchmarks for Bach's Leipzig cantatas and even the Passions, including an "edge of scriptural content and chorale around the operatic types of aria and recitative", "the fugal setting of scriptural words" and "the scriptural narrative ... as an emotional ". 

Supposedly, the soonest cantatas of Johann Sebastian Bach were performed in Mühlhausen from 1706 to 1708. He was utilized as an organist there, yet he sometimes formed cantatas, for the most part for exceptional events. The cantatas depended for the most part on scriptural messages and songs, for example, (a hymn setting), and the Easter chorale cantata . 

Bach was next selected organist and chamber artist in Weimar on 25 June 1708 at the court of the co-reigning dukes in Saxe-Weimar, Wilhelm Ernst and his nephew Ernst August. He at first focused on the organ, forming real works for the instrument, including the , the Toccata and Fugue in D minor, BWV 565, and the Prelude and Fugue in E major, BWV 566. He was elevated to on 2 March 1714, a respect that involved playing out a congregation cantata month to month in the . The primary cantatas he created in the new position were , for Palm Sunday, for Jubilate Sunday, and , for Pentecost. For the most part motivated by writings by the court artist, Salomo Franck, they contain recitatives and arias. At the point when Johann Samuel Drese, the (executive of music), kicked the bucket in 1716, Bach trusted futile to turn into his successor. Bach searched for a superior position and discovered it as at the court of Leopold, Prince of Anhalt-Köthen. Nonetheless, the duke in Weimar did not expel him and captured him for rebellion. He was discharged on 2 December 1717. 

In Köthen, Bach found a business who was an energetic performer himself. The court was Calvinist, subsequently Bach's work from this period was for the most part mainstream, including the instrumental suites, the cello suites, the sonatas and partitas for solo violin, and the "Brandenburg Concertos". He created mainstream cantatas for the court for events, for example, New Year's Day and the ruler's birthday, including . He later ridiculed some of them as chapel cantatas without significant changes, for instance . 

Bach created his cantata as a component of his application for the situation of in Leipzig, the official title being (Cantor and Director of Music). As cantor, he was in charge of the music at four Lutheran places of worship, the primary temples Thomaskirche (St. Thomas) and the Nikolaikirche (St. Nicholas), yet in addition the Neue Kirche (New Church) and the Peterskirche (St. Diminish). As chief of music, the Thomaskantor was Leipzig's "senior artist", in charge of the music on authority events, for example, town committee decisions and reverences. Capacities identified with the college occurred at the Paulinerkirche. The position wound up empty when Johann Kuhnau kicked the bucket on 5 June 1722. Bach was intrigued, referencing as one reason that he saw more potential outcomes for future scholastic investigations of his children in Leipzig: "... but this post was depicted to me in such good terms that at last (especially since my children appeared to be slanted to [university] thinks about) I cast my parcel, for the sake of the Lord, and made my voyage to Leipzig, took my examination, and after that rolled out the improvement of position." 

By August 1722, the town gathering had just picked Georg Philipp Telemann as Kuhnau's successor, however he declined in November. In a gathering meeting on 23 November, seven hopefuls were assessed, however no understanding was come to on whether to incline toward a possibility for scholarly showing capacities or melodic execution. The principal board archive with Bach named as a competitor dates from 21 December, together with Christoph Graupner. All things considered, Bach was the just a single without a college instruction. 

The choice to welcome Bach was made by the chamber on 15 January 1723. The gathering appeared to have favored Bach and Graupner on the grounds that they were welcome to demonstrate two cantatas each, while different competitors were mentioned to indicate just one. Two applicants even needed to display their work in a similar administration. Graupner's execution occurred on the last Sunday after Epiphany, 17 January 1723. Two days before the occasion, the town committee officially consented to offer him the position. 

Christoph Wolff expect that Bach got a welcome for the tryout together with the writings, most likely recommended to the competitors and drawn from a printed gathering, just weeks before the date. In Köthen Bach made two cantatas on two distinct subjects from the endorsed Gospel for the Sunday, , on the point of recuperating the visually impaired close Jericho and about Jesus declaring his misery, which the followers don't get it. 

Bach needed to head out to Leipzig early on the grounds that he was inexperienced with the area and the entertainers. Wolff accept that Bach was in Leipzig as of now on 2 February for the Marian dining experience of Purification when competitor Georg Balthasar Schott exhibited his tryout piece at the Nikolaikirche. Bach brought the scores and a few sections, however extra parts must be replicated in Leipzig by understudies of the Thomasschule. Bach drove the main execution of the two tryout cantatas on 7 February 1723 as a feature of a chapel gathering at the Thomaskirche, this cantata before the lesson, and after the message. The score of BWV 22 bears the note "This is the Leipzig tryout piece" (). 

Wolff takes note of that Bach utilized the three turn down the volume in BWV 22 and the upper three voices in BWV 23, and presents a rundown of the diverse piece procedures Bach utilized in the two tryout cantatas; they showed "a wide and exceptionally coordinated range of ... vocal craftsmanship". 

A press survey peruses: "On Sunday rearward in the first part of the day the Hon. Capellmeister of Cöthen, Mr. Bach, gave here his test at the congregation of St. Thomas' for the up to this point empty cantorate, the music of the equivalent having been abundantly lauded on that event by all educated persons ...". 

Bach left Leipzig without trust in the position since it had been offered to Graupner, yet he was not rejected by his boss, Ernst-Ludwig of Hesse-Darmstadt. After a gathering on 9 April 1723, with inadequate documentation containing "... since the best couldn't be gotten, an unremarkable one would need to be accepted ...", Bach got an idea to sign a fundamental contract. 

Bach took on the situation of on 30 May 1723, the main Sunday after Trinity, performing two goal-oriented cantatas in 14 developments each: , pursued by . They structure the start of his endeavor to make a few yearly cycles of cantatas for the events of the formal year. 

He performed again on 20 February 1724, as a printed lyrics appears, and likely did as such again in later years. 

Bach created his cantata in 1723 for the Sunday Estomihi (Quinquagesima), the last Sunday before Lent. In Leipzig, "tempus clausum" was seen amid Lent, in this manner it was the last Sunday with a cantata exhibition before a festival of the Annunciation, Palm Sunday and the vespers administration on Good Friday and Easter. The endorsed readings for the Sunday were taken from the First Epistle to the Corinthians, "acclaim for adoration" (), and from the Gospel of Luke, recuperating the visually impaired close Jericho (). The Gospel likewise contains the declaration by Jesus of his future enduring in Jerusalem, and that the devotees don't comprehend what he is stating. 

The cantata content is the typical blend of Bible citation, free contemporary verse and as shutting chorale a stanza from a psalm as an insistence. An obscure writer browsed the Gospel refrains 31 and 34 as the content for development 1, and composed a grouping of aria, recitative and aria for the accompanying developments. His graceful content places the Christian all in all, including the audience at Bach's time or whenever, in the circumstance of the devotees: he is imagined as needing to pursue Jesus even in affliction, despite the fact that he doesn't understand. The verse finishes on a petition for "forswearing of the substance". The end chorale is stanza 5 of Elisabeth Cruciger's "", escalating the petition, on a song from the "Lochamer-Liederbuch". 

Elaborate examinations with different works by Bach recommend that a similar artist composed the writings for both tryout cantatas and furthermore for the two first cantatas which Bach performed when taking up his office. The verse for the second aria has a bizarrely long first area, which Bach took care of exquisitely by rehashing just piece of it in the da capo. 

Bach organized the cantata in five developments, and scored it for three vocal soloists (an alto (A), tenor (T) and bass (B)), a four-section choir (SATB), and for a Baroque symphony of an oboe (Ob), two violins (Vl), viola (Va) and basso continuo. The term is given as . 

In the accompanying table of developments, the scoring, partitioned in voices, winds and strings, pursues the Neue Bach-Ausgabe. The continuo assemble isn't recorded, on the grounds that it plays all through. The keys and time marks are taken from Alfred Dürr. The image is utilized to signify normal time (4/4). 

The content of the primary development, "" (Jesus collected the Twelve) is a citation of two sections from the endorsed Gospel for the Sunday (). The development is a scene with various performers, described by the Evangelist (tenor), in which Jesus (bass, as the or voice of Christ) and his teaches (the theme) interface. A "consistently climbing" instrumental "brings out the picture of the street of enduring encapsulated by going up to Jerusalem". The Evangelist starts the portrayal (). Jesus declares his future enduring in Jerusalem, "" ("Behold, we go up to Jerusalem"). He sings, while the ritornello is played a few times. After another rehash of the ritornello as an intermission, a choral fugue outlines the response of the pupils, following section 34 from the Gospel (): "" ("However they don't got anything"). The voices are first joined just by the continuo, at that point multiplied by different instruments. Bach denotes the voices in the signature score as "concertists" for the primary area and "ripienists" when the instruments come in. 

The development is closed by an instrumental postlude. The musicologist Julian Mincham takes note of that the fugue strays from the "conventional rotating of tonic and overwhelming entries ... as a somewhat recondite sign of the absence of lucidity and desire among the followers, Bach is alluding to this in melodic terms by having each voice enter on an alternate note, B-level, F, C and G and quickly contacting upon different related keys. The music is, as usual, clear and focussed however the takeoff from conventional fugal method sends a brief message to the individuals who welcome the nuances of the melodic procedures". 

The musicologist Richard D. P. Jones calls attention to that "the scriptural story is set as a sensational deserving of the Bach Passions" and that the "striking show of that development has no genuine partner in Bach's Cycle I cantatas." 

In the primary aria, "" ("My Jesus, draw me after You"), the alto voice is joined by an obbligato oboe, which expressively heightens the content. 

An aria is, as indicated by Johann Mattheson in "Der vollkommene Capellmeister" (Part II, section 13, passage 10), "accurately depicted as an all around created tune, which has its own specific key and meter, is normally separated into two sections, and briefly communicates an extraordinary fondness. Sometimes it closes with a reiteration of the initial segment, every so often without it." 

In this aria, an individual devotee demands Jesus to influence him to pursue, even without grasping where and why. Mincham watches a state of mind or affekt of "profound contribution and meditative duty", with the oboe making "a quality of affliction and a feeling of battling and coming to upwards looking for something indefinable such that no one but music can recommend." 

The recitative "" ("My Jesus, draw me, at that point I will run") is definitely not a straightforward secco recitative, however is joined by the strings and inclines towards an arioso, particularly close to the end. It is the main development in a noteworthy mode, and shows in fast runs the movement and the running referenced. 

The second aria, "" ("My all things considered, my endless great"), again with strings, is a move like development in free da capo structure, A B A'. The strangely long content, of four lines for the A segment and two for the B segment, results in Bach's answer for rehash the finish of the main line (my everlasting great) after all content of An, and after that after the center segment B rehash just the primary line as An', along these lines finishing An and An' a similar way. In this changed rehash, the voice holds a long note on the word "" ("harmony"), after which a similar topic shows up in the ensemble and again in the continuo. The musicologist Tadashi Isoyama takes note of the passepied character of the music, reminiscent of mainstream Köthen cantatas. Mincham portrays: "Bach's demeanor of the delight of association with Christ can regularly appear to be very common and uninhibited", and abridges: "The 3/8 time signature, symmetrical stating and fast string skirls consolidate to make a feeling of a move of surrender." 

The end chorale is "" ("Kill us through your integrity" or "Us embarrass through graciousness"), the fifth stanza of Elisabeth Cruciger's "". Its tune depends on one from Wolflein's "Lochamer-Liederbuch", imprinted in Nürnberg around 1455. It initially shows up as a hallowed tune in Johann Walter's Wittenberg hymn book (1524). 

The standard four-section setting of the voices is lit up by nonstop keeps running of the oboe and violin I. Isoyama feels that Bach may have purposefully imitated the style of his ancestor Johann Kuhnau in the "richly streaming obbligato for oboe and first violin". John Eliot Gardiner depicts the development's bass line as a "mobile bass as an image of the followers' adventure to satisfaction. Mincham remarks that Bach "kept up the built up disposition of lightness and idealism with a chorale game plan of practically unparalleled vitality and mirth" and closes: 

Jones abridges: "The tryout cantatas ... show Bach feeling his way towards a trade off between the dynamic, musical drama impacted and the traditionalist, clerical styles." He recognizes the standard BWV 22 sets for later church cantatas: Isoyama calls attention to: "BWV 22 fuses move rhythms, and is composed with a cutting edge polish." Mincham deciphers Bach's methodology in both tryout functions as "a reasonable case of the scope of music which is appropriate for love and from which others may get the hang of", clarifying the "sheer scope of structures and melodic articulation in these two cantatas". 

Gardiner, who directed the Bach Cantata Pilgrimage with the Monteverdi Choir and composed a journal on the venture, remarks on the pupils' response ("and they saw none of these things, neither knew they the things which were spoken"): 

The sections of the accompanying table pursue the determination on the Bach Cantatas Website. Groups playing period instruments in generally educated execution are set apart by green foundation. 

During the 1930s Harriet Cohen's piano course of action of the cantata's end chorale was distributed by Oxford University Press under the title "Bless us by the integrity". It was in the collection of, for instance, Alicia de Larrocha. 

Scores 

Books 

Online sources 

A few databases give extra data on every cantata, for example, history, scoring, hotspots for content and music, interpretations to different dialects, discography, talk and melodic investigation. 

The total accounts of Bach's cantatas are joined by liner notes from performers and musicologists: Gardiner remarked on his Bach Cantata Pilgrimage, Klaus Hofmann and Tadashi Isoyama composed for Masaaki Suzuki, and Wolff for Ton Koopman.