Lions (collection) 

Lions is the 6th studio collection by American musical crew The Black Crowes. It was discharged in 2001 as their first collection on V2 Records following their takeoff from Columbia, and is their solitary studio collection to highlight guitarist Audley Freed. "Lions" was recorded in New York City in January and February of that year, and was delivered by Don Was. Low register guitar obligations were shared by Rich Robinson and Was, as Greg Rzab had left the band and was not supplanted until the visit that pursued the arrival of the collection. 

The collection appeared on the "Announcement" 200 at its pinnacle position of 20, selling in excess of 53,000 duplicates in its first week. "Lions" got blended surveys; in spite of the fact that the general sound of the collection by and large earned recognition, a continuous protest was the absence of "essential" melodies. The pundits who appraised "Lions" most reduced thought of it as a poor impersonation of the band's persuasions, for example, Led Zeppelin. 

The band bolstered "Lions" with two North American visits (one with Oasis co-featuring), and a short voyage through Europe and Japan in the middle. Soundboard accounts of a few shows were accessible for download to the individuals who possessed the collection. Following the visit, the band went on break until 2005. 

The Black Crowes started composing tunes for the follow-up to their 1999 collection "Close by" as free specialists, having left Columbia Records through an escape clause in their agreement. The choice to leave was driven by Columbia's advancement of "Close by". As per band part Rich Robinson, "That record was bound to come up short because ... [Columbia executives] just stated, 'It won't do well ... It's no utilization sitting idle or money.' " The band likewise was baffled by the mark's solicitation for collections sounding like their first, 1990's "Shake Your Money Maker". 

In late 1999, lead vocalist Chris Robinson started an association with Kate Hudson, which would impact unobtrusively the verses on "Lions". The pair met at a Friday night party in Manhattan, which prompted a Saturday walk around Central Park and a Sunday move-in. Their wedding at the Aspen, Colorado, farm of Kurt Russell and Kate's mom, Goldie Hawn, pursued on , 2000. 

Prior to the 2000 visit with Jimmy Page, bassist Sven Pipien was terminated in the wake of arriving late for an act and missing the arrival flight. Rich said it was insufficient to warrant end, however Pipien's preventiveness when gone up against about the occurrence was an excessive amount to deal with. Greg Rzab and Andy Hess were considered as substitutions; the band picked Rzab in light of the fact that he had more visiting knowledge than Hess. Rzab, be that as it may, left before the account of "Lions". 

In mid-2000, the band marked with Richard Branson's V2 Records. Rich clarified, "The cool thing about V2, the reason that we picked them, is that they let us know, 'You all go make the record you need to make. At that point offer it to us and we'll offer it.' That's what we expected to hear." The opportunity V2 managed through its hands-off methodology affected the music, however the collection title also. As per Chris, ""Lions" is an image that represents the furious inclination and opportunity that music permits you." 

Chris Robinson allowed that the experience of playing Led Zeppelin melodies with Jimmy Page impacted "Lions", yet not on a tune by-tune premise. "Driven Zeppelin's music is sensational and exceptionally unique. That is something we've endeavored to do with our style too. I think it certainly influenced how we make our music." Funk and R&B were greater impacts than on past collections, and "Supernatural occurrence to Me" was affected by Nick Drake. 

Chris asserted Kate Hudson's impact on his verses was unobtrusive: "More so than a strict reference to her, it's the vantage point from where I'm composing. The reasons I'm singing and it's the inclination. That is an impact far more prominent than the exacting impact." He granted, notwithstanding, that "Spirit Singing" and "Supernatural occurrence to Me" were composed in light of Hudson, and clarified that the collection's track request generally pursues a way from disarray to lucidity that reflected his own. Maker Don Was said of Chris, "I understood he was taking on something that was critical. He was expounding on turning into a man ... There's a ton of elderly person/young fellow imagery that is a self-conversation ... I don't have the foggiest idea about that anybody has really chronicled being 33 [years old] just as this collection." 

Warmed dialogs amid the composition of "Lions" were uncommon, attributable to the Robinson siblings' standard technique in which Rich composes the music and Chris composes the verses. "Soul Singing" was the main tune to cause contradiction; "I'd composed this part where despite the fact that the vocals changed the music remained the equivalent all through. I figured we should include something or just not complete it, however Chris thought it was at that point a tune, and a decent one. So we discussed that one for some time", Rich reviewed. 

The Black Crowes had recently sent Was demos to show him delivering "Close by", however Was trusted the demos were adequate to be the collection. Columbia Records couldn't help contradicting Was' evaluation, in any case, prompting Kevin Shirley's procuring. With complete creative control under V2 Records, the band was allowed to procure Was for "Lions". Recording occurred in January and at Montana Rehearsal Studios and Theater 99 Recording in New York City. The chronicle sessions advanced as easily as the composition; just "Please" caused strife between the band and Was. Rich recognized, "We more likely than not recorded 'Please' around multiple times in various ways ... At that point [Was] just removed it with him and returned with this diverse blend", which inspired the band, prompting its consideration on the collection. The band eventually was fulfilled by the chronicle understanding, finding that was committed to understanding their vision for the collection instead of forcing his own. 

The sessions were recorded on tape and Pro-Tools all the while; the band eventually utilized the tape rendition, as they favored its sound quality. Most tunes were recorded live with the band individuals playing together in one room, and amplifiers set up to catch the general sound as opposed to that of individual instruments. Was felt this methodology best approximated the vibe of a Black Crowes show, later noticing that the "Lions" melodies appeared at a private show in "sounded precisely like the record." Most of the chronicles that involve the collection were recorded amid preproduction, the reason for which was to test courses of action. "[W]e didn't think we were recording the record. What's more, it ended up being incredible" said Rich. Audley Freed played guitar on just three tracks since Rich did not need "the meat of the tune, which is the riff", to become mixed up in a "mass of sound". In spite of the fact that Rich brought his whole accumulation of guitars and various enhancers, he for the most part recorded with a 1954 Fender Esquire through a Harry Joyce amp. To accomplish a resonator-like tone on "Soul Singing", he utilized a James Trussart metal-bodied electric. Since Andy Hess did not join The Black Crowes until the above private show, the band did not have a bassist amid the account sessions; Rich in this manner played bass on generally tracks. On "Lay It All on Me", be that as it may, Rich played piano, leaving the low pitch guitar obligations to Don Was. 

An aggregate of twenty melodies were recorded amid the "Lions" sessions. Of the seven cut from the collection, four were blended and aced for potential discharge; three ("Last Time Again", "Love Is Now" and "Sleepyheads") showed up as B-sides, and the other ("The Pretty Gurl Song") circles on a contraband chronicle. 

Not long after the "Lions" sessions, V2 Records tossed a "fruition party" at The Bank in New York City, at which The Black Crowes performed four tunes from the new collection, five tunes from their index and a front of Fleetwood Mac's "Such is life". The band at that point played dispersed dates in the U.S. also, UK, including an appearance on "Later... with Jools Holland", in front of "Lions"' discharge. Amid this succession of shows, each melody from the collection was performed with the exception of "Losing My Mind" and "Ozone Mama"; the staying two would be played on the collection supporting visit. 

"Lions" was discharged on , 2001, in the UK and multi day later in the U.S.; it thusly appeared at its pinnacle position of number 20 on the "Bulletin" 200 diagram, and sold more than 53,000 duplicates in its first week. As of , the collection had sold 192,000 duplicates in the U.S. 

Around the collection's discharge, band individuals showed up. Chris Robinson guested on "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" the day preceding the collection was discharged in the U.S., and Chris and Steve Gorman showed up on "The Howard Stern Show" the next day. The band performed "Soul Singing" on "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno" on , and was accepted into Hollywood's RockWalk four days after the fact. A second late night TV execution of "Soul Singing" occurred on , this time on the "Late Show with David Letterman". 

"Lickin'" was the principal single from the collection; it crested at number 9 on "Board's" Mainstream Rock Tracks on . The melody's special video was a gathering of different takes of a static, low-point shot of the band playing out the tune on a little stage. Second single "Soul Singing" crested at number 12 on a similar diagram on ; its limited time video highlighted the band playing in a lush field as the sun ascends in the sky. A third single, "Wonder to Me", was dropped, however not before a limited time video was shot of the band apparently recording the melody in a studio. Recordings additionally were taped for "Please", "Oily Grass River" and "Cypress Tree". In spite of not playing on the collection, Andy Hess shows up in a portion of these recordings, which are all accessible as gushing media on the band's authentic site. 

Media surveys of "Lions" were blended. Various journalists identified a Led Zeppelin impact (which was adulated by a few, yet panned by others) and credited it to The Black Crowes' ongoing visit with Jimmy Page. Dave McKenna, composing for "The Washington Post", contrasted Steve Gorman's drumming with that of John Bonham and discovered analogs to explicit guitar and console tones in Led Zeppelin collections. Nigel Williamson of "The Times" discovered likenesses in Chris Robinson's voice on "Please" to that of Robert Plant, and composed that the melody "could nearly be a "Driven Zeppelin II" push off." Other analysts noted similitudes to Aerosmith; Howard Cohen of "The Miami Herald" called "Lickin'" "the best Aerosmith single that band hasn't recorded in years." The apparent absence of innovation, however, killed a few faultfinders. The "Messenger Sun's" Andrew McUtchen derived "The Black Crowes are ignorant it's never again the '70s and after one tune in to "Lions" ... it's unmistakable somebody should let them know." Everett True of Playlouder agreed, stating "It's blindingly evident the Crowes are imitators, and dependably will be", however Elysa Gardner, composing for "USA Today", perceived the band "display a vitality and aptitude that redress—at any rate to some degree—for their absence of innovation." 

Numerous commentators commended the sound of "Lions" however felt the melodies were feeble. Composing for dotmusic, John Mulvey featured the "gutsy, no-messing sound", however refreshing "Grandiose Friend" for being "as amazingly distraught as you'd trust, as well, starting like Beatles psychedelia, taking in gigantic Brazilian drumming and a dash of pedal steel, before blending into enraged overwhelming rock." Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic portrayed "Lions" as an "incredible, finished hard shake record that makes a ton of progress, flooding from ground-breaking riffs to gospel melodies and crazier than-anticipated riffs", however he additionally grumbled that "the tunes can appear to be inadequate." Critics differ on which tunes were missing, however. "Losing My Mind" and "Young fellow, Old Man" were classified "features" by Jane Stevenson of the "Toronto Sun", however somewhere else the previous was designated "woeful" and the last a "'Freddie's Dead' vamp" that ought to have been skipped. 

The verses of "Lions" were another objective for the faultfinders. Imprint Beaumont of "NME" expressed that the expert articulation closes at the "Come awn come awn!/Everyone!" chorale of "Please", and Stephen Thompson of "The A.V. Club" moaned about that "aged tropes proliferate". 

Soon after the arrival of "Lions", The Black Crowes and Oasis, with opening band Spacehog, left on a co-featuring voyage through North American theaters and amphitheaters. The Black Crowes had recently met Liam and Noel Gallagher and hit it off; "... so we called them and inquired as to whether they were intrigued [in visiting together]. Thus they resembled, 'No doubt, we'd love to!'" said Rich. The Black Crowes performed last every night, and their seventy-five-minute set constantly incorporated various melodies from "Lions". Individuals from Oasis ordinarily would go along with them for a reprise spread, for example, "Lucifer Sam", "Wouldn't you be able to Hear Me Knocking" or "Street Runner". 

The Black Crowes pursued the visit with coincidental dates and celebrations crosswise over Europe and Japan, including demonstrates opening for Neil Young. The vast majority of these shows, just as a large portion of the dates with Oasis, were made accessible by V2 Records as soundboard accounts. With "Lions" stacked in a CD-ROM drive, one could stream each show, just as download one live track for each week and one show completely. 

Following a month-long break, the gathering came back to the street in late August for their Listen Massive Tour, with Beachwood Sparks as the opening band. The visit was charged as an arrival to two-hour indicates highlighting a pivoting set rundown. The show at the Greek Theater in Los Angeles was dropped, yet the band played out the following night in Tucson, Arizona, as planned. All benefits and stock deals from the next week's three shows at the Beacon Theater in New York City were given to the New York State World Trade Center Relief Fund and the New York City Public/Private Initiative. While in New York City, Chris and Rich performed "Close by" on "Late Night with Conan O'Brien". The Listen Massive Tour finished up with a 140-minute show at the Orpheum Theater in Boston, Massachusetts, on . This would be Andy Hess and Audley Freed's last show as band individuals, as The Black Crowes went on break presently. 

All melodies composed by Rich and Chris Robinson.