Sadie Harris 

Sadie Harris is an anecdotal character from the American TV restorative show "Dim's Anatomy", which affectation on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in the United States. The character was made by arrangement maker Shonda Rhimes and depicted by performer Melissa George. Presented as a careful assistant who has an old brotherhood with the arrangement's hero Meredith Gray (Ellen Pompeo), she in the long run structures a kinship with Lexie Gray (Chyler Leigh), and leaves after it is uncovered she bamboozled her way into the careful program. 

George was welcome to meet with "Dark's Anatomy" official makers after the show's throwing operators saw her in the 2008 TV dramatization, "In Treatment". The on-screen character's unique contract included eight to eleven scenes of repeating appearances in season five, with the likelihood of turning into an arrangement normal. She was initially wanted to be a sentimental foil for Erica Hahn (Brooke Smith) and Callie Torres (Sara Ramirez), yet the job was retooled after the previous left in November 2008. 

After theory with respect to whether the character would turn into an arrangement normal, it was affirmed that George's character would not be joining the arrangement and would before long withdraw. George clarified that it was her very own choice to leave the show, in light of the attestations that her takeoff was done to "de-gay" "Dim's Anatomy". The character has gotten blended input from pundits, and has been described as "shrewd", "devilish", and "nutty". 

Sadie Harris initially shows up in the season five scene "These Ties That Bind", in which it is made realized that she was at one time a dear companion of Meredith Gray (Ellen Pompeo). Harris and Meredith Gray had given each other epithets amid an all-encompassing get-away in Europe: "Pass on" and "Demise", separately. Meredith Gray's closest companion is Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh); Yang winds up envious of the kinship between Meredith Gray and Harris. Having joined Seattle Grace Hospital as a careful understudy, Harris starts a companionship with individual assistant Lexie Gray (Chyler Leigh), Meredith Gray's sister. The medical clinic's assistants are baffled with their absence of careful chances, so Harris cuts her very own shoulder and after that gives the understudies a chance to line it back together. 

Harris later volunteers herself to have an appendectomy to enable the assistants to discover that surgery, relying on the prerequisite that she gets an opportunity to perform one subsequently. The assistants commit an error in the medical procedure, and Harris is genuinely imperiled, however is protected by the occupants. The understudies are put on post trial supervision and censured by Meredith Gray, despite the fact that Harris discloses to Lexie Gray that she isn't sorry. Following the medical procedure disaster, Harris approaches the emergency clinic's head of medical procedure Richard Webber (James Pickens, Jr.), and cases duty regarding the episode. He illuminates her that the reason she has not been terminated is a result of his own kinship with her dad. 

Afterward, she plays with Callie Torres (Sara Ramirez), despite the fact that the relationship is never sought after. Harris keeps on pursueing a fellowship with Lexie Gray, notwithstanding venturing to enable her spread to up Lexie Gray's sprouting association with Mark Sloan (Eric Dane). In "Previously, then after the fact", amid a challenge among the understudies set up by Izzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl), George O'Malley (T.R. Knight) sees Harris' absence of medicinal learning. In spite of the fact that he offers to mentor Harris, she decreases and decides not to tell Webber, which O'Malley does. At the point when Harris turns out from a discussion with Webber, she discloses to Meredith Gray that she has chosen to stop, and that she didn't meet all requirements for the careful program. When she endeavors to get Meredith Gray to return to traveling in Europe, Meredith Gray decreases and Harris withdraws. 

Melissa George got a challenge to meet the show's official makers, Shonda Rhimes and Betsy Beers, from "Dark's Anatomy" throwing operators after they saw her repetitive visitor exhibitions in the TV dramatization "In Treatment" (2008). George clarified that in the wake of meeting with the makers, she was set to start working. 

George's underlying contract included eight to eleven scenes of repeating appearances, with the likelihood of turning into an arrangement standard. Nonetheless, as per George's agent, she didn't plan to accomplish in excess of eight scenes. Harris was first wanted to have a sentiment with Torres, however Rhimes in the end changed that after George began shooting. She was at first composed as a lesbian, however was overhauled as promiscuous. 

In January 2009, George affirmed her takeoff from "Dark's Anatomy", and a few reasons were refered to for her leaving. George said she had chosen to leave to seek after another venture, and offered acclaim to the cast individuals. Notwithstanding, a delegate of the show asserted the performing artist's flight was because of a common understanding between "Dark's Anatomy" and George, clarifying that the character's storyline "arrived at a characteristic end", however that everybody was angry with her takeoff. Following Erica Hahn (Brooke Smith's) flight, "E! On the web" Kristin Dos Santos affirmed that Smith's rejection from the show, and the revamp of Harris' storyline, was authorized by the American Broadcasting Company (ABC), as a major aspect of an endeavor to "de-gay" "Dark's Anatomy", yet these cases were censured by Rhimes. 

George's character has been depicted as "wicked" and "devilish", just as "nutty". She included that Harris' sexuality isn't the primary part of her identity. George called her character "broken", and opined that her friendly identity is intended to conceal something different. George expressed that the manner in which she depicted Harris was affected by the frankness of Lisa Rowe, a sociopathic character from "Young lady, Interrupted" (1999) played by Angelina Jolie. 

Subside Nowalk, one of the show's journalists, described Harris as "very much a coquettish lady". Other "Dark's Anatomy" cast individuals have likewise remarked on the character of Harris; Chandra Wilson expressed that Harris is quick paced, while Leigh said that the character is there to "unleash devastation on Seattle Grace". "Excitement Weekly" Michael Ausiello said that Harris is "an understudy with a receptive outlook towards sexuality". 

Debbie Chang, composing for BuddyTV, and Jonathan Toomey of "The Huffington Post" additionally thrown thoughts regarding Harris' self-cut in the scene "In the Midnight Hour", thinking about whether she "has a desire to die" and "what's up with her". Stacy McKee, an essential essayist for the show, said Harris is Meredith Gray's "pre Cristina" and that she shares "a history with Meredith that Cristina can't". 

All through her keep running on "Dim's Anatomy", the character got blended input among faultfinders. Jon Caramanica of the "Los Angeles Times" was disparaging of her character improvement, calling George "woefully abused". Composing for "The Age", Michael Idato opined that the storyline among Harris and Yang was "chilly", including that the composing was in a "genuine cleanser design". 

Darren Devlyn of the "Messenger Sun" thought about whether the makers got George to "shake up the show", and found the character's cross-sexual storyline like Hahn's. Talking about George's leave, Kris De Leon of BuddyTV noticed that she withdrew on the "best of terms" in examination with Isaiah Washington (Preston Burke), Smith, and Knight—previous cast individuals who had "rough" exits. 

Erin McWhirter of "The Daily Telegraph" called George's character "absurd" in light of the appendectomy. Previous "Star-Ledger" proofreader Alan Sepinwall was disparaging of the character, saying he feigned exacerbation as to her giving the assistants a chance to perform strategies on her, snidely stating: "Ooooh, she's harmed! What's more, hot! She removes her top and afterward anxiously cuts herself for different understudies! That is hot!" "television Guide" Erin Lulevitch alluded to her as a "masochist" because of her self-entry point. 

Scott Ellis of "The Sydney Morning Herald" appreciated the character, calling her "charming". "Stimulation Weekly" Jennifer Armstrong delighted in Harris in "Compassion toward the Devil", thinking that its "sweet" when she assumed the fault for prompting Sloan's penile break, to maintain a strategic distance from Lexie Gray being humiliated. Chang of BuddyTV asserted that Harris is "somewhat of a radical", and the "Day by day News" Lauren Johnston regarded her identity "reckless".