Wish You Were Here (Pink Floyd collection) 

Wish You Were Here is the ninth studio collection by the English musical gang Pink Floyd, discharged on 12 September 1975 through Harvest Records and Columbia Records, their first discharge for the last mentioned. In view of material Pink Floyd formed while performing in Europe, "Wish You Were Here" was recorded over various sessions all through 1975, at Abbey Road Studios in London. 

The collection envelops an assortment of subjects, including analysis towards the music business, estrangement, just as a tribute to establishing part Syd Barrett, who left seven years sooner because of his disintegrating psychological wellness. Like their past record, "The Dark Side of the Moon" (1973), Floyd utilized studio impacts, synthesizers and got visitor artists, including Roy Harper, who gave the lead vocals on "Have a Cigar", and Venetta Fields, who added backing vocals to "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond". To advance the collection, the band discharged the twofold A-side single "Have a Cigar"/"Welcome to the Machine". 

"Wish You Were Here" gotten blended surveys from faultfinders upon its underlying discharge, who observed its music to be unsatisfying and substandard compared to their past work. It has reflectively gotten basic recognition, hailed as one of the best collections ever, and was refered to by keyboardist Richard Wright and guitarist David Gilmour as their most loved Pink Floyd collection. The collection achieved number one in the US and UK, and Harvest's parent organization, EMI, was unfit to stay aware of the interest. From that point forward, the record has sold an expected 13 million duplicates. 

Amid 1974, Pink Floyd portrayed out three new organizations, "Raving and Drooling", "You Gotta Be Crazy" and "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond". These tunes were performed amid a progression of shows in France and England, the band's first visit since 1973's "The Dark Side of the Moon". As Pink Floyd had never utilized a marketing specialist and kept themselves inaccessible from the press, their association with the media started to harsh. Artisan said later that a basic "NME" survey of the band's new material, composed by Syd Barrett enthusiast Nick Kent, may have had impact in keeping the unite as one, as they came back to the studio in the principal seven day stretch of 1975. 

"Wish You Were Here" is Floyd's second collection with a theoretical subject composed altogether by Roger Waters. It mirrors his inclination that the brotherhood that had served the band was, by at that point, to a great extent missing. The collection starts with a long instrumental prelude and segues into the verses for "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond", a tribute to Syd Barrett, whose psychological breakdown had driven him out the gathering seven years sooner. Barrett is affectionately reviewed with lines, for example, "Recall when you were youthful, you shone like the sun" and "You went after the mystery too early, you sobbed for the moon". 

"Wish You Were Here" is likewise an evaluate of the music business. "Sparkle On" crosses flawlessly into "Welcome to the Machine", a melody that starts with an opening entryway (portrayed by Waters as an image of melodic revelation and advancement sold out by a music industry increasingly keen on ravenousness and achievement) and closures with a gathering, the last exemplifying "the absence of contact and genuine sentiments between individuals". Also, "Have a Cigar" hates record industry "big shots" with the verses rehashing a flood of banalities heard by rising newcomers in the business, and including the inquiry "coincidentally, which one's Pink?" asked of the band on something like one event. The verses of the following tune, "Wish You Were Here", relate both to Barrett's condition, and to the division of Waters' character, with covetousness and aspiration fighting with empathy and optimism. The collection closes with a repeat of "Sparkle On" and further instrumental journeys. 

"I had a few reactions of "Clouded Side of the Moon"… " noted David Gilmour. "A couple of the vehicles conveying the thoughts were not as solid as the thoughts that they conveyed. I figured we should invest and work more energy on wedding the thought and the vehicle that conveyed it, so they both had an equivalent enchantment… It's something I was expressly pushing when we made "Wish You Were Here"." 

Alan Parsons, EMI staff engineer for Pink Floyd's past studio collection, "The Dark Side of the Moon", had declined the band's idea to keep working with them. The gathering had worked with specialist Brian Humphries on "Progressively", recorded at Pye Studios, and again in 1974 when he supplanted an unpracticed show engineer. Humphries was hence the normal decision to take a shot at the band's new material, despite the fact that since an outsider to EMI's Abbey Road set-up he experienced some early challenges. On one event, Humphries incidentally ruined the support tracks for "Sparkle On", a piece that Waters and drummer Nick Mason had spent numerous hours idealizing, with reverberation. The whole piece must be re-recorded. 

The sessions for "Wish You Were Here" at Abbey Road's Studio Three kept going from January until July 1975, recording on four days every week from 2:30 pm until late at night. The gathering thought that it was troublesome at first to devise any new material, particularly as the accomplishment of "The Dark Side of the Moon" had left each of the four physically and candidly depleted. Keyboardist Richard Wright later depicted these sessions as "falling inside a troublesome period", and Waters reviewed them as "unbearable". Bricklayer found the procedure of multi-track recording drawn out and dull, while Gilmour was progressively keen on improving the band's current material. Gilmour was additionally ending up progressively baffled with Mason, whose coming up short marriage had expedited a general discomfort and feeling of detachment, the two of which meddled with his drumming. 

Humphries gave his perspective with respect to these battled sessions in a 2014 meeting: "There were days when we didn't do anything. I don't think they recognized what they needed to do. We had a dartboard and an air rifle and we'd play these word diversions, lounge around, get alcoholic, return home and return the following day. That is all we were doing until all of a sudden everything began becoming alright." 

Following half a month, Waters started to picture another idea. The three new pieces from 1974's visit were no less than a beginning stage for another collection, and "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond" appeared a sensible decision as a highlight for the new work. For the most part an instrumental twenty-minute-in addition to piece like "Echoes", the opening four-note guitar express helped Waters to remember the waiting phantom of previous band-part Syd Barrett. Gilmour had made the expression totally unintentionally, yet was empowered by Waters' sure reaction. Waters needed to part "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond", and sandwich two new melodies between its two parts. Gilmour deviated, however was outvoted three to one. "Welcome to the Machine" and "Have a Cigar" were scarcely hidden assaults on the music business, their verses working conveniently with "Sparkle On" to give an able rundown of the ascent and fall of Barrett; "In light of the fact that I needed to get as close as conceivable to what I felt ... that kind of indefinable, unavoidable despairing about the vanishing of Syd." "Raving and Drooling" and "You Gotta Be Crazy" had no spot in the new idea, and were put aside until the accompanying collection, 1977's "Creatures". 

On 5 June 1975, on the eve of Pink Floyd's second US visit that year, Gilmour wedded his first spouse, Ginger. That day, the band were finishing the blend of "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond" when an overweight man with shaven head and eyebrows entered conveying a plastic sack. Waters did not remember him. Gilmour assumed he was an EMI staff part. Wright assumed he was a companion of Waters, however acknowledged it was Barrett. Bricklayer likewise neglected to remember him and was "alarmed" when Gilmour recognized him. In Mason's Pink Floyd journal "", he reviewed Barrett's discussion as "irregular and not by any stretch of the imagination reasonable". Tempest Thorgerson thought about Barrett's quality: "A few people cried. He sat round and talked for a bit however he wasn't generally there." 

Waters was supposedly decreased to tears by seeing his previous bandmate. At the point when individual guest Andrew King asked how Barrett had put on so much weight, Barrett said he had a huge fridge in his kitchen and had been eating heaps of pork cleaves. He referenced that he was prepared to help with the chronicle, however while tuning in to the blend of "Sparkle On", hinted at no understanding its pertinence to him. Barrett joined Gilmour's wedding gathering in the EMI flask, however left without bidding a fond farewell. It was the last time the band individuals saw Barrett until his passing in 2006. Barrett's appearance may have impacted the last form of "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond"; an unobtrusive shun performed by Wright "See Emily Play" is discernable towards the end. 

As in "The Dark Side of the Moon", the band utilized synthesizers, for example, the EMS VCS 3 (on "Welcome to the Machine"), however diminished with Gilmour's acoustic guitar and percussion from Mason. The start of "Sparkle On" contains leftovers from a past however deficient studio recording by the band known as "Family unit Objects". Wine glasses had been loaded up with changing measures of liquid, and chronicles were made of a wet finger revolving around the edge of each glass. These chronicles were multi-followed into harmonies, and utilized in the opening of "Sparkle On". 

Jazz musician Stéphane Grappelli and traditional violin player Yehudi Menuhin were performing in another studio in the structure, and were welcome to record a piece for the new collection. Menuhin looked as Grappelli played on the melody "Wish You Were Here"; be that as it may, the band later chosen his commitment was unacceptable and, until 2011, it was trusted that the piece had been cleaned. It turns out his playing was incorporated on the collection, however so low in the last blend that the band assumed it is offending to credit him. He was paid £300 for his commitment (proportionate to £ in 2019). Dick Parry again played saxophone, on "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond". The opening bars of "Wish You Were Here" were recorded from Gilmour's vehicle radio, with someone turning the dial (the traditional music heard is the finale of Tchaikovsky's Fourth Symphony). 

Recording sessions had twice been hindered by US visits (one in April and the other in June 1975), and the last sessions, which happened after the band's execution at Knebworth, demonstrated especially troublesome for Waters. He attempted to record the vocals for "Have a Cigar", requiring a few takes to play out an adequate variant. His issues stemmed to some extent from the burdens set upon his voice while recording the lead vocals of "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond". Gilmour was approached to sing in his place, however declined, and in the long run associate and companion Roy Harper was approached to remain in. Harper was recording his own collection in another of Abbey Road's studios, and Gilmour had just played out some guitar licks for him. Waters later lamented the choice, trusting he ought to have played out the melody. The Blackberries recorded sponsorship vocals for "Sparkle On You Crazy Diamond". 

The band played quite a bit of "Wish You Were Here" on 5 July 1975 at the Knebworth music celebration. Roy Harper, performing at a similar occasion, on finding that his stage outfit was missing, continued to pulverize one of Pink Floyd's vans, harming himself all the while. This postponed the typical setup strategy of the band's sound framework. As a couple of World War II Supermarine Spitfire had been reserved to fly over the group amid their passage, the band were not ready to defer their set. The outcome was that a power supply issue pushed Wright's consoles totally off key, harming the band's execution. At a certain point he left the stage, however the band had the capacity to proceed with a less touchy console, a piano and a more straightforward light show. Following a short recess, they came back to play out "The Dark Side of the Moon", yet commentators disappointed about being denied get to behind the stage savaged the execution. 

"Wish You Were Here" was sold in one of the more detailed bundles to go with a Pink Floyd collection. Tempest Thorgerson had went with the band on their 1974 visit and had given genuine idea to the significance of the verses, inevitably choosing that the tunes were, all in all, worried about "unfulfilled nearness", as opposed to Barrett's disease. This subject of nonappearance was reflected in the thoughts delivered by his extended periods went through conceptualizing with the band. Thorgerson had noticed that Roxy Music's "Nation Life" was sold in an obscure green cellophane sleeve – blue penciling the spread picture – and he replicated the thought, covering the work of art for "Wish You Were Here" in a dark shaded therapist wrap (hence making the collection craftsmanship "missing"). The idea driving "Welcome to the Machine" and "Have a Cigar" proposed the utilization of a handshake (a frequently unfilled signal), and George Hardie structured a sticker containing the collection's logo of two mechanical hands occupied with a handshake, to be put on the misty sleeve (the mechanical handshake logo would likewise show up on the marks of the vinyl collection this time in a beat up foundation). 

The collection's spread pictures were captured by Aubrey 'Po' Powell, Storm's accomplice at the structure studio Hipgnosis and propelled by the possibility that individuals will in general cover their actual sentiments, because of a paranoid fear of "getting singed", and along these lines two agents were imagined shaking hands, one man ablaze. "Getting singed" was likewise a typical expression in the music business, utilized regularly by specialists denied sovereignty installments. Two stand-ins were utilized (Ronnie Rondell and Danny Rogers), one wearing a flame retardant suit secured by a matching suit. His head was secured by a hood, underneath a wig. The photo was taken at the Warner Bros. studios in Los Angeles. At first the breeze was blowing off course, and the flares were constrained into Rondell's face, consuming his mustache. The two stand-ins changed positions, and the picture was later turned around. 

The collection's back spread portrays a nondescript "Floyd sales rep", in Thorgerson's words, "selling his spirit" in the desert (shot in the Yuma Desert in California again by Aubrey ' Po ' Powell). The nonattendance of wrists and lower legs implies his essence as an "unfilled suit". The inward sleeve demonstrates a cover disguising a naked lady in a desolate Norfolk forest, and a sprinkle less jumper at Mono Lake – titled "Monosee" (the German interpretation of Mono Lake) on the liner notes – in California (again accentuating the topic of nonattendance). The choice to cover the spread in dark plastic was not well known with the band's US record organization, Columbia Records, who demanded that it be transformed (they were over-ruled). EMI were less concerned; the band were allegedly amazingly content with the final result, and when given a pre-creation mockup, they acknowledged it with an unconstrained round of acclaim. 

The collection was discharged on 12 September 1975 in the UK, and on the next day in the US. It was Pink Floyd's first collection with Columbia Records, a partner of CBS; the band and their director Steve O'Rourke had been disappointed with the endeavors of EMI's US mark Capitol Records, The band stayed with EMI's Harvest Records in Europe. 

In Britain, with 250,000 advance deals, the collection went directly to number one, and request was to such an extent that EMI educated retailers that just 50 percent of their requests would be satisfied. With 900,000 advance requests (the biggest for any Columbia discharge) it achieved number one on the US "Announcement" graph in its second week. "Wish You Were Here" was Pink Floyd's quickest selling collection ever. The collection was guaranteed Silver and Gold (60,000 and 100,000 sales individually) in the UK on 1 August 1975, and Gold in the US on 17 September 1975. It was ensured multiple times platinum on 16 May 1997, and by 2004 has sold an expected 13 million duplicates around the world. "Have a Cigar" was picked by Columbia as their first single, with "Welcome to the Machine" on the B-side in the US. The collection was a business hit in Europe, topping Dutch, English and Spanish diagrams - in Spain, the collection stayed at number one for 20 weeks. 

On discharge, the collection got blended surveys. Ben Edmunds sent in "Moving Stone" that the band's "languid aura" leaves the subject of Barrett "unrealised; they give such a self evident truth perusing of the goddamn thing that they should sing about Roger Waters' brother by marriage getting a stopping ticket." Edmunds finished up the band is "void" of the "true enthusiasm for their 'specialty'" that contemporary space shake acts purportedly have. "Song Maker" commentator expressed: "From whichever heading one methodologies "Wish You Were Here", despite everything it sounds unconvincing in its cumbersome earnestness and showcases a basic absence of creative energy in all divisions." 

A positive survey originated from Robert Christgau in "The Village Voice": "The music isn't just basic and alluring, with the synthesizer utilized for the most part for surface and the guitar breaks for input, yet it really accomplishes a portion of the symphonic nobility (and cross-referencing) that "The Dark Side of the Moon" reproduced so awkwardly." Years after the fact, he thought about further the record: "My most loved Pink Floyd collection has dependably been "Wish You Were Here", and you know why? It has soul, that is the reason – it's Roger Waters' regret for Syd, not my concept of a lamentable saint but rather as long as he's Roger's that doesn't make a difference." 

"Wish You Were Here" has since been as often as possible viewed as one of the best collections. As indicated by Acclaimed Music, it is the 185th most positioned record on pundits' unequaled records. In 2012, it was casted a ballot 211th on "Moving Stone" magazine's rundown of the "500 Greatest Albums of All Time". In 2015, it was picked as the fourth most noteworthy dynamic shake collection by "Moving Stone". In 1998 "Q" perusers casted a ballot "Wish You Were Here" the 34th most prominent collection ever. In 2000 a similar magazine set it at number 43 in its rundown of the 100 Greatest British Albums Ever. In 2007, one of Germany's biggest open radio stations, WDR 2, approached its audience members to vote in favor of the 200 best collections ever. "Wish You Were Here" was casted a ballot number one. In 2004 "Wish You Were Here" was positioned number 36 on Pitchfork Media's rundown of the Top 100 collections of the 1970s. IGN appraised "Wish You Were Here" as the eighth most prominent exemplary shake collection. what's more, Ultimate Classic Rock put "Wish You Were Here" second best in their rundown of "Most exceedingly awful to Best Pink Floyd Albums". 

In spite of the issues amid generation, the collection remained Wright's top choice: "It's a collection I can tune in to for delight, and there aren't numerous Floyd collections that I can." Gilmour shares this view: "I most definitely would need to state that it is my most loved collection, the "Wish You Were Here" collection. The final product of all that, whatever it was, unquestionably has left me a collection I can live with extremely in all respects cheerfully. I like it without a doubt." 

"Wish You Were Here" has been remastered and re-discharged on a few organizations. In the UK and US the collection was re-issued in quadraphonic utilizing the SQ group in 1976, and in 1980 an uncommon "Hello there Fi Today" audiophile print was discharged in the UK. In the US it was discharged on CD in 1983, and in the UK 1985, and again as a remastered CD with new work of art in 1994. In the US, Columbia's CBS Mastersound name discharged a half-speed aced audiophile LP in 1981, and in 1994 Sony Mastersound discharged a 24-carat gold-plated CD, remastered utilizing Super Bit Mapping, with the first craftsmanship from the LP in both longbox and gem case shapes, the last with a cardboard slipcover. The collection was incorporated as a major aspect of the crate set "Sparkle On", and after five years Columbia Records discharged a refreshed remastered CD, 17 seconds longer than the EMI remasters from 1994, giving a running time of 44:28. 

The name was a diversion of the first machine handshake logo, with a beat up foundation. The collection was therefore re-discharged in 2000 for its 25th commemoration, on the Capitol Records name in the US. The collection was re-discharged and remixed in 2011 in different versions as a feature of the "Why Pink Floyd...?" reissue crusade. The "Wish You Were Here - Immersion Box Set" incorporates the new stereo advanced remaster (2011) by James Guthrie on CD, an unreleased 5.1 Surround Mix (2009) by James Guthrie on DVD and Blu-beam, a Quad Mix (which had been discharged just on vinyl LP and 8-track tape) on DVD, just as the first stereo blend (1975) on DVD and Blu-beam. This crusade likewise included the 2011 stereo remaster on 180g heavyweight vinyl just as the 2011 stereo remaster and the 5.1 encompass sound blend (2009) as a half breed Super Audio CD (SACD). In 2016, the 180g vinyl was re-discharged individually Pink Floyd Records mark this time remastered by James Guthrie, Joel Plante and Bernie Grundman. 

Educational notes 

References 

Book index