2006 Westchester County tornado 

The 2006 Westchester County tornado was the most grounded and biggest tornado in Westchester County, New York since the 1904 Chappaqua tornado. It contacted down there on Wednesday, July 12, 2006 and went into southwestern Connecticut amid a 33-minute range through two states. The tornado contacted down at 3:30 p.m. EDT (19:30 UTC) on the shore of the Hudson River before turning into a waterspout and traversing the waterway. Coming aground, the tornado entered Westchester County and struck the town of Sleepy Hollow at F1 power. In the wake of going through the town, it escalated into a F2 tornado and developed to right around a fourth of a mile (400 m) in measurement. The tornado proceeded through the area, harming various structures, until it crossed into Connecticut at 4:01 p.m. EDT (20:01 UTC). Not long in the wake of entering the state, it dispersed in the town of Greenwich at 4:03 p.m. EDT (20:03 UTC). At the point when the tornado entered Westchester County, it was the eighth realized tornado to either contact down or enter the region since 1950. 

Two horse shelters and a distribution center were devastated, and a substantial recolored glass window was broken. Various homes and organizations were harmed and a large number of trees were evacuated. There were no fatalities and just six minor wounds were related with the tempest. The expense of harms was assessed at $12.1 million. 

On July 12 a supercell rainstorm created over eastern New Jersey in relationship with a surface low-weight region in southwestern Ontario. Daytime warming in the Tri-State Region prompted moderate unsteadiness, a key factor in the advancement of showers and tempests. With conditions good for the advancement of a tornado, the Storm Prediction Center issued a tornado watch at 12:40 p.m. EDT (16:40 UTC). A solid tempest created around 2:00 p.m. EDT (18:00 UTC) which delivered a pipe cloud close Carlstadt at around 2:45 p.m. EDT (18:45 UTC), albeit no harm was related with the pipe. That equivalent tempest escalated and formed into a supercell as it crossed into New York. About 15 minutes later, a tornado cautioning was issued for southern Rockland and Westchester regions which would stay as a result until 4:15 p.m. EDT (21:15 UTC). At around 3:30 p.m. EDT (19:30 UTC), a F1 tornado contacted down close Grand View-on-Hudson along the Hudson River in Rockland County. The 100 yard (91 m) wide tornado contacted down on a dock before turning into a waterspout as it took a way over the stream. The tornado go close to the Tappan Zee Bridge before intersection into Westchester County. After entering Westchester, it was the eighth tornado at any point recorded in the district. 

The tornado hit the town of Sleepy Hollow, New York, around 3:37 p.m. EDT (19:37 UTC); after two minutes, a breeze blast was accounted for along the fringe of the tornado. As the tornado neared New York State Route 9A, it strengthened to F2 status, creating ends up to , and struck the California Closet Warehouse. At the time, the tornado was evaluated to be 300 yd (274 m) wide and was the most grounded tornado at any point recorded in Westchester County. Not long after, it debilitated back to F1 force. Minor harm was accounted for through the Kensico Reservoir in Valhalla as the tornado neared the New York– Connecticut outskirt. The track length through Westchester County was estimated at around . Subsequent to intersection the state fringe into Fairfield County, Connecticut, it debilitated further before lifting at 4:03 p.m  EDT (20:03 UTC) in Greenwich in the wake of going in Connecticut. Another concise touchdown may have happened not long after close to the Merritt Parkway. By and large, the tornado followed over a sum of through two states over a period more than 33 minutes. 

The tornado took a way through Rockland, Westchester, and Fairfield districts, bringing down or removing a large number of trees and harming a few structures, including noteworthy basic harm to the California Closets distribution center. Six minor wounds were likewise revealed. Taking all things together, the tornado dispensed $12.1 million in harm. 

Minor harm was accounted for in Rockland County. One dock and one watercraft were harmed by the tornado. In the wake of intersection the Hudson River, the tornado entered Westchester County, where the most noticeably bad of the harm occurred. It struck the town of Sleepy Hollow, harming rooftops and detaching the siding various homes and organizations. A 10-foot (3 m) tall recolored glass window in the St. Teresa of Avila Church was broken. A while later, the town of Pocantico Hills was struck as the tornado increased to F2 force. A few trees were evacuated and two horse shelters were decimated. The California Closet Warehouse endured extreme basic harm; two solid dividers were crushed. An inside staircase, which representatives utilized as a sanctuary, crumbled causing four wounds. Solid squares from the structure were blown about, some of which struck autos in a close-by parking area. An adjacent Comfort Inn had some portion of its rooftop detached. After a tornado cautioning was issued, a school close to the stockroom was emptied. 

As the tornado crossed New York State Route 9A, it got a state trooper vehicle and flipped it a few times before it tumbled to the ground; the officer inside endured just minor wounds. Moving towards the east-upper east, the tornado struck the towns of Mount Pleasant and Hawthorne, harming various trees and causing minor basic harm. Harm along the Saw Mill River Parkway incited authorities to close down an area of the thruway close Mount Pleasant. Trees fell on boulevards and railroad tracks, stopping Metro-North Railroad administration and making significant traffic delays. In the wake of going by the Kensico Reservoir in Valhalla, the tornado crossed into Connecticut, where it thumped down various electrical cables, slicing capacity to around 10,000 habitations in the area. On the whole, six individuals continued minor wounds and harms added up to $10.1 million. 

The debilitating tornado finished its term in Fairfield County, Connecticut, in the town of Greenwich. A huge number of trees were either evacuated or snapped along the tornado's way through the state. Minor harm was incurred upon a few structures. The tornado left 1,700 living arrangements in Greenwich without power and blocked six streets. The vast majority of the harm was concentrated toward the northwestern corner of the town. Harms in the state totaled to $2 million. 

In the wake of the tornado, the civic chairman of Sleepy Hollow announced a highly sensitive situation for the whole town. Two hundred crisis work force reacted to the tempest. ConEdison teams were conveyed to fix brought down electrical cables and clear streets. By the following night, control was reestablished to everything except 600 of the past 10,000 homes without power in Westchester. Westchester County opened its Emergency Operations Center after the tempest to react to the occasion. Two days after the tempest, a considerable lot of the streets had been cleared and control was completely reestablished. A recreational way in Tarrytown, New York, was not expected to be open for an additional two weeks because of various fallen trees. Metro-North Railroad suspended trains on the northern piece of the Harlem Line until 5:00 p.m. EDT (21:00 UTC) for the evacuation of garbage on the tracks. Southbound travelers took transports while the tracks were closed down. All trains were back on timetable by 7:00 p.m. EDT (23:00 UTC).