2009 Orange Bowl 

The 2009 FedEx Orange Bowl was the 75th release of the yearly American school football bowl amusement known as the Orange Bowl. It set the 2008 Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) champion Virginia Tech Hokies against the Big East Conference champion Cincinnati Bearcats on January 1, 2009, at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida. Virginia Tech crushed Cincinnati, 20– 7. The diversion was the second challenge in the 2008– 2009 Bowl Championship Series (BCS) of the 2008 NCAA Division I FBS football season and was the closing round of the period for the two groups. The diversion was broadcast in the United States on FOX, and an expected 9.3 million watchers watched the communicate live. 

Virginia Tech was chosen to take an interest in the Orange Bowl after a 9– 4 season that finished in a 30– 12 triumph in the 2008 ACC Championship Game. Cincinnati was chosen as the other portion of the matchup after a 11– 2 season that finished with a 29– 24 win against Hawaii. In the weeks between the groups' choice and the playing of the amusement, media consideration concentrated on the idea of Cincinnati's first BCS diversion appearance and Virginia Tech's endeavor to win its first BCS amusement since 1995. Consideration likewise centered around Cincinnati's capable offense and Virginia Tech's very appraised barrier. 

The diversion commenced at 8:47 p.m. Eastern Standard Time in warm climate, and Cincinnati scored first, changing over the amusement's opening belonging into a touchdown and a 7– 0 lead in the primary quarter. Virginia Tech reacted in the second quarter, tying the diversion at seven preceding taking a 10– 7 lead with a field objective as time lapsed in the principal half. In the second from last quarter, the two groups combat protectively, with just the Hokies ready to score any focuses as Tech stretched out its lead to 13– 7. Amid the last quarter, Virginia Tech scored its second touchdown of the diversion, giving the Hokies a 20– 7 lead that endured until time terminated. 

In acknowledgment of his execution amid the diversion, Virginia Tech running back Darren Evans was named the amusement's most important player. He set a Virginia Tech bowl-diversion record for conveys and tied the Tech record for hurrying yards in a bowl amusement. Cincinnati supplanted two mentors after the misfortune, and three months after the diversion, players from each group entered the National Football League (NFL) by means of the 2009 NFL Draft. Cincinnati had six players chosen in the draft, while Virginia Tech had one. 

The Orange Bowl is one of five Bowl Championship Series (BCS) bowl diversions that have been played at the finish of each school football season since 2006. As characterized by contract, the bowl coordinates the hero of the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) against an everywhere pick picked by an uncommon board of trustees. On December 6, 2008, the Virginia Tech Hokies crushed the Boston College Eagles in the 2008 ACC Championship Game, therefore winning a programmed offer to the 2009 Orange Bowl Game. 

The everywhere spot in the Orange Bowl was filled by means of a round-robin choice strategy characterized by the other Bowl Championship arrangement diversions (the Sugar, Fiesta, and Rose dishes) and the programmed offers. The request of everywhere determinations turns yearly among the BCS bowls. In 2009, the Fiesta Bowl picked first, trailed by the Sugar Bowl, at that point the Orange Bowl. The Fiesta Bowl picked Ohio State, while the Sugar Bowl chosen Utah. The Orange Bowl was accordingly left to choose Big East Conference champion Cincinnati, satisfying the BCS' authoritative commitment to give an amusement to the gathering's victor. 

The Cincinnati Bearcats finished the 2007 school football season with a 10– 2 record, incorporating a success in the 2007 PapaJohns.com Bowl over Southern Miss, 31– 21. It was just the second time in school history that Cincinnati had won 10 amusements in a season. Prior to the 2008 season, the Bearcats trusted quarterback Ben Mauk would be permitted to play an unordinary 6th year of school football, a probability made by a year lost to damage and a redshirt year. After Mauk's solicitation was denied by the NCAA, the yearly survey of media covering Big East football picked Cincinnati to complete fifth in the eight-group Big East. 

The Bearcats opened the 2008 school football season against , winning 40– 7 of every a hostile exertion driven by senior quarterback Dustin Grutza, who was named the group's starter at that position following Mauk's expulsion. For its second round of the period, Cincinnati made a trip to Norman, Oklahoma, to confront the Oklahoma Sooners out of the blue. In a 52– 26 misfortune to a group that would play for the national title that season, Grutza broke his lower leg and was supplanted by junior Tony Pike. 

For their third round of the period, the Bearcats came back to Nippert Stadium—their home field—to play the first of two Mid-American Conference (MAC) adversaries, in-state rival Miami. In the 113th Battle for the Victory Bell, Cincinnati won, 45– 20. Following the triumph against Miami, the Bearcats went to Akron, Ohio to play the Akron Zips. Against the Zips, Pike broke his arm and was supplanted by redshirt first year recruit Chazz Anderson, who was likewise harmed amid the amusement. Individual redshirt green bean Zach Collaros then entered the diversion and drove the Bearcats to a 17– 15 triumph. The nearby success against Akron was trailed by a 33– 10 prevail upon Marshall, the Bearcats' last nonconference diversion before starting Big East play. 

Toward the beginning of gathering play, the Bearcats were 4– 1, and their solitary misfortune was against top-five rival Oklahoma. With Pike still harmed, Cincinnati beat Rutgers, 13– 10, in the Bearcats' first Big East round of the period. The Bearcats endured their second annihilation of the period in the next week, in any case, losing to the UConn Huskies, 40– 16. Pike came back from the damage and had the Bearcats driving at halftime, yet he left the amusement at the half when deadness in his non-tossing hand kept him from having the capacity to take the snap. In the two weeks that pursued the misfortune to the Huskies, Cincinnati recuperated to beat two top-25 rivals: No. 23 South Florida and No. 20 West Virginia. The two triumphs pushed the Bearcats to a 3– 1 gathering record and the No. 22 position in the AP Poll before Cincinnati's yearly competition diversion against Louisville. That diversion, otherwise called the Battle for The Keg of Nails, finished in a Cincinnati triumph out of the blue since 2002. 

Following the contention diversion win, Cincinnati played the Pittsburgh Panthers in an amusement for control of the lead position in the Big East. Before a record swarm at Cincinnati's home field, the Bearcats guaranteed in front of the rest of the competition with a 28– 21 win. Heading into its diversion against the Syracuse Orange, Cincinnati was guaranteed no less than an offer of the Big East Championship, however a 30– 10 prevail upon Syracuse gave the Bearcats sole ownership of the title, the main Big East title in school history. In the wake of securing the Big East Championship and an offer to a BCS bowl, Cincinnati finished the normal season with a diversion in Hawaii against the Hawaii Warriors. Regardless of trailing for a significant part of the diversion, the Bearcats scored 19 unanswered focuses and finished the customary season with a 29– 24 triumph. Effectively guaranteed a BCS billet by temperance of their Big East title, on December 7, 2008, the Bearcats were chosen to partake in the 2009 Orange Bowl. 

The Virginia Tech Hokies entered the 2008 season after a 11– 3 generally speaking 2007 record that incorporated a success in the 2007 ACC Championship Game and a misfortune to the Kansas Jayhawks in the 2008 Orange Bowl. In spite of the fact that the Hokies won the ACC for the second time in under four years, fans and investigators foreseen Virginia Tech would burn through 2008 revamping a group that saw 12 starters alumni or enter the National Football League (NFL) Draft. Despite the fact that picked in a preseason survey to win the Coastal Division of the ACC, the Hokies were vexed in their season opener by East Carolina University. 

Following the misfortune, Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer declared that reinforcement quarterback Tyrod Taylor, who had recently been relied upon to redshirt and sit out the season, would play in the Hokies' second amusement, against . Both Taylor and Sean Glennon performed well against Furman, and Tech won, 24– 7. Tech's third round of the period came against the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets, who were appearing another hostile framework the spread alternative under first-year head mentor Paul Johnson. Not at all like the amusement against Furman, Taylor began the diversion and stayed at quarterback all through, controlling the Hokies to their first ACC triumph of the period, 20– 17. The success gave Tech the sudden death round against the Yellow Jackets in case of a tie in the division standings toward the finish of the period. The Hokies' fourth round of the period came against the North Carolina Tar Heels, who were crushed by a similar edge of triumph as Tech's success against Georgia Tech, 20– 17. 

The twin meeting triumphs were trailed by two out-of-gathering wins: at Big 12 rival Nebraska and against autonomous Western Kentucky. Toward the finish of the four-diversion series of wins, the Hokies had a 4– 1 record, 2– 0 in gathering, and were positioned No. 17 in the nation. On October 18, notwithstanding, the Hokies lost to unranked Boston College in Boston, 28– 23. The amusement was a rematch of the earlier year's ACC Championship Game and was a review of the 2008 ACC Championship Game matchup. The misfortune was the beginning of a slide that saw Tech lose three of four recreations, just dealing with a triumph against Maryland, 23– 13. The last challenge of that four-diversion extend was a 16– 13 misfortune to Coastal Division rival Miami, which at that point held the sudden death round over the Hokies in case of any no holds barred tie. 

Amid the last two rounds of the customary season, in any case, the Hokies oversaw two triumphs: a 14– 3 win against last-place ACC group Duke, and a 17– 14 triumph over conventional adversary Virginia. Miami, in the interim, lost its last two rounds of the period: against Georgia Tech and North Carolina State. These misfortunes dropped Miami to a 4– 4 record in the ACC, one diversion behind the Hokies, who were tied with Georgia Tech at 5– 3 following the finish of the ordinary season. By goodness of the Hokies' straight on win against the Yellow Jackets, Virginia Tech won the Coastal Division and a spot in the ACC Championship Game. At the point when Tech won the title diversion against Atlantic Division champion Boston College, 30– 12, it was granted the ACC's programmed offer to the Orange Bowl. 

Pregame media inclusion of the amusement concentrated on the way that the 2009 Orange Bowl was Cincinnati's first Bowl Championship Series diversion in school history. For Virginia Tech, inclusion concentrated on the Hokies' winless history in BCS amusements since 1995, as Tech had lost each of the four of its appearances in a BCS diversion since a steamed success over Texas in the 1995 Sugar Bowl. Likewise referenced was the way that the two groups had confronted each other in the 1947 Sun Bowl, which had been each school's first bowl amusement. The low win rate of ACC groups by and large was another focal point. Groups from the gathering had won only one of their ten appearances in a BCS bowl before the Orange Bowl. Prior to the Orange Bowl matchup, the two groups last played in 2006, when the Hokies crushed the Bearcats, 29– 13, at Virginia Tech's home field, Lane Stadium. For the Orange Bowl, spread bettors supported an inversion of that 2006 last, as Cincinnati was at first supported by one point. This extended to 1.5 focuses by December 9. The pattern toward Cincinnati proceeded, and on December 27, wagering associations gave Cincinnati the edge by two or over two points. 

The amusement included two groups both positioned lower than the two groups playing in a non-BCS bowl, a first in BCS history. The 2008 Poinsettia Bowl highlighted the No. 9 Boise State Broncos against the No. 11 TCU Horned Frogs. In Miami, Virginia Tech and Cincinnati each done arrangements to change housing to an alternate inn on the day preceding the diversion to all the more likely reenact the vibe of a standard season amusement. Cincinnati's turn was quickened multi day when rapper Sean "Diddy" Combs moved into the inn and mentors, looking to keep away from a diversion, climbed the date of the group's takeoff. 

The pace of ticket deals for the Orange Bowl differed uncontrollably between the two schools. Each group got a designation of 17,500 tickets to pitch to its fans, and each school sold around 4,000 tickets in the two days quickly following the declaration. Media covering Virginia Tech believed the rate of ticket deals to be moderate in light of the fact that the Hokies had sold 50 percent all the more amid a comparative time span the earlier year. Media following Cincinnati ticket deals believed the pace to be quick, calling the Orange Bowl diversion a "hot ticket". The $125 tickets sold by Cincinnati created the biggest measure of ticket deal income at any point recorded by the Cincinnati Athletics Department, netting the school more than $500,000 in the primary day of offers. Travel organizations offered bundles including diversion tickets, airfare, and a lodging to enthusiasts of the two groups. Attributable to the interest, fans were cautioned against the risk of fake tickets. 

In the days quickly following the declaration of the matchup, ticket deals separated. By December 12, Cincinnati sold around 9,000 tickets. This complete expanded to roughly 13,000 tickets by December 20, and the school arranged different visit transports for an understudy escort to the diversion. At Virginia Tech, then, deals slacked. With an end goal to goad deals, Tech overseers had head football mentor Frank Beamer star in a video asking Hokies fans to purchase tickets to the amusement. Attributable to constrained interest for tickets, costs in the optional market dove. 

As late as December 31, neither one of the teams had sold its whole apportioning of 17,500 tickets. Cincinnati fans had purchased 13,000 tickets, while Virginia Tech fans purchased less than 5,000 tickets from the school's portion. Countering Virginia Tech's low immediate ticket deals were extensive quantities of fans who abstained from paying presumptive worth for tickets—US$125—by getting them on the optional market, frequently for as meager as 99 pennies. 

Prior to the Orange Bowl, Cincinnati was positioned 50th (of 119 Division I FBS groups) in all out offense. The group was positioned 24th in passing offense, with the five quarterbacks squeezed into administration amid the season averaging 254.1 passing yards per diversion. Before the finish of the period, Tony Pike rose as Cincinnati's sole beginning quarterback. He completed the standard season having finished 183 of 291 pass endeavors for 2,168 yards, 18 touchdowns, and 7 block attempts. He positioned second in the Big East and 29th broadly in passing productivity with a passer rating of 141.07. 

Among Cincinnati recipients, there was none of the vulnerability that harrowed the Bearcats' quarterbacks. Wide recipient Mardy Gilyard got 74 passes amid the standard season, setting a Cincinnati record with 1,118 receiving yards. He likewise had 10 touchdowns amid the season, driving all Cincinnati players. Gilyard likewise played as the Bearcats' essential kick returner. He returned 32 kicks, collecting a school-record 2 touchdowns. Individual wide beneficiary Dominick Goodman outpaced Gilyard in gatherings with 78, yet he had just 977 receiving yards and 7 touchdowns. On the principal play of Cincinnati's amusement against Hawaii, Dominick harmed his shoulder and his capacity to play in the Orange Bowl was in uncertainty. 

Cincinnati's ground offense was less measurably huge than its passing offense. It was driven by running back Jacob Ramsey, who conveyed the ball 148 times for two touchdowns. Reinforcement running back John Goebel had 124 hurrying endeavors for 7 touchdowns. 

At the finish of the customary season before the Orange Bowl, Virginia Tech's offense was positioned among the most noticeably bad in Division I, 107th among 119 teams. The Hokies found the middle value of simply 296 yards per diversion amid the normal season, and amid the ACC Championship Game—the last Tech amusement before the Orange Bowl—had made a season-low 234 yards of offense. Beginning left watchman Nick Marshman was not expected to play in the wake of ending up scholastically ineligible after the fall semester, and was supplanted by redshirt green bean Jaymes Brooks. 

On the field, the Hokies' offense was driven by quarterback Tyrod Taylor, who finished 86 of his 151 pass endeavors for 896 yards, 2 touchdowns, and 6 interceptions in the season before the Orange Bowl. He likewise conveyed the ball 132 times for an absolute addition of 6 touchdowns on the ground. As fruitful as Taylor was surging the ball, Virginia Tech's offense on the ground was driven by rookie running back Darren Evans, who set a Virginia Tech first year recruit record for hurrying yards by collecting 1,112 amid the standard season. He likewise scored 10 touchdowns, was named a second-group All-ACC player, and completed second in the voting in favor of the ACC's youngster of the year grant. Evans turned into the 6th rookie in the historical backdrop of the Atlantic Coast Conference to scramble for more than 1,000 yards and set a Virginia Tech single-amusement record for hurrying yards when he kept running for 253 yards in Tech's diversion against Maryland. 

Entering the Orange Bowl, the Bearcats were positioned 26th in absolute protection, permitting a normal of 316 yards per diversion to restricting offenses. Cincinnati was 26th in scoring safeguard, allowing a normal of 20.2 focuses per diversion. The Bearcats were No. 1 in sacks among Big East groups, recording 35 amid the season. 

Protective end Connor Barwin drove the Bearcats' barrier in sacks with 11, an assume that additionally was the most astounding in the Big East and No. 14 broadly. He completed the customary season with 48 tackles, an assume that incorporated the 11 sacks. In acknowledgment of his execution, he was named a first-group All-Big East determination, implying his status as the best player at his situation in the gathering. 

In the protective auxiliary, the Bearcats were driven by cornerback Mike Mickens and wellbeing Brandon Underwood. Mickens was a second-group All-Big East choice, and Underwood was a first-group All-Big East determination. Mickens was Cincinnati's profession chief in interferences and capture attempt return yardage, and had 65 handles (third in the group) regardless of missing three diversions because of damage. Underwood was fifth in the group in handles with 60, and had 6 pass breakups. 

The most prominent player for Cincinnati, notwithstanding, was punter Kevin Huber, who was named an Associated Press All-American and turned into the primary player in Bearcats history to procure that respect in two sequential years. On account of Huber's execution amid the customary season, Cincinnati drove the nation in punting normal (41.5 yards per kick) and was No. 1 in the Big East for the second sequential year. 

Virginia Tech's guard was considered among the best in Division I before the Orange Bowl. The Hokies were positioned seventh in all out resistance, permitting simply 277.08 yards per diversion by and large. Virginia Tech additionally was profoundly positioned in a few other protective classes: eighth in turnovers picked up (30), thirteenth in scoring resistance (17.46 points per amusement), fifteenth in pass barrier (170.08 yards per diversion), and nineteenth in surging guard (107.00 yards per amusement). The Hokies' protection additionally scored five defensive touchdowns amid the normal season. 

Tech's resistance was driven on the field by senior cornerback Victor "Macho" Harris. Amid the standard season, Harris tied for fifth in the nation in captures with six, including two returned for touchdowns. He likewise had 44 tackles, and was named the top cautious player in the province of Virginia. At protective end, Tech highlighted Orion Martin, a previous stroll on who rose to a beginning position and had 7.5 sacks, 13 tackles for misfortune, and 53 tackles amid the normal season. Heading into the Orange Bowl, the Hokies' protection was harassed by wounds. Guarded end Jason Worilds had shoulder damage. Beginning linebacker Brett Warren, who had 86 tackles, with 5 tackles for misfortune, 2 forced bumbles, and 2 interceptions amid the customary season, endured a torn front cruciate tendon and was relied upon to miss the amusement. 

The 2009 Orange Bowl commenced at 8:47 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida. An expected aggregate of 73,602 tickets were sold for the amusement, however bowl authorities assessed 15,781 sold tickets went unused, giving a gate participation of 57,821. The amusement was broadcast on FOX, and the commentators were Thom Brennaman, Charles Davis, and Chris Myers. An expected 9.3 million watchers watched the communicate, gaining it a Nielsen rating of 5.4. Figures on the absolute payout change, however Virginia Tech and Cincinnati each got somewhere in the range of $17 million and $18 million for playing in the Orange Bowl, a sum that was imparted to different groups in each school's athletic meeting. 

The stylized execution of the national song of praise was played on trumpet by Arturo Sandoval. Toward the beginning of the diversion, the climate was clear, with an air temperature of and relative stickiness of 69 percent. The breeze was from the upper east at . J. O'Neill was the ref, B. Neale was the umpire, and the linesman was J. Quinn. Orange Bowl Committee administrator Daniel Ponce played out the stately pre-amusement coin hurl to decide first belonging. The hurl was won by Virginia Tech, which chose to get the ball to start the second half, guaranteeing Cincinnati the privilege to get the ball to start the amusement. 

Virginia Tech's opening kickoff was come back to the Cincinnati 28-yard line, where the Bearcats executed the amusement's first play, a five-yard kept running by running back John Goebel. On the following play, the Bearcats earned the diversion's underlying first down with a 13-yard go from quarterback Tony Pike to wide beneficiary Dominick Goodman. Presently at their 46-yard line, Pike at that point tossed his second-longest finished go of the amusement, a 38-yard go to wide beneficiary Mardy Gilyard. The play propelled the Bearcats' offense to the Virginia Tech 16-yard line, and three plays later, Pike finished a 15-yard go to Gilyard for a touchdown and the diversion's first focuses. The additional point kick by Cincinnati kicker Jake Rogers was great, and with 13:08 staying in the opening quarter, the Bearcats took a 7– 0 lead over Virginia Tech. 

Cincinnati's kickoff after the touchdown was come back to the Virginia Tech 24-yard line, and the Hokies arranged for their first hostile ownership of the amusement. That play was a 27-yard kept running by wide recipient Dyrell Roberts, who ran an end-around for the huge increase. Presently on the Cincinnati side of the field, Virginia Tech running Back Darren Evans kept running for one yard, at that point Hokies quarterback Tyrod Taylor finished a 34-yard go to wide collector Danny Coale. The catch gave Virginia Tech a first down at the Cincinnati 14-yard line. On the principal play following the long consummation, Evans was handled for a six-yard misfortune, driving the Hokies back to the Bearcats' 20-yard line. On the following two plays, Tyrod Taylor scrambled for an aggregate of 11 yards, however was unfit to increase another first down. Confronting fourth down, Virginia Tech head mentor Frank Beamer sent kicker Dustin Keys into the diversion to endeavor a 26-yard field objective. The kick cruised right of the uprights, be that as it may, and Virginia Tech was denied a scoring opportunity. 

After the missed kick, Cincinnati's offense took to the field at their 20-yard line. The Bearcats were not ready to pick up a first down, in any case, and went three and out before punting back to Virginia Tech. Following the kick, the Hokies began at their 16-yard line. Tech's first play of the drive was a 14-yard go from Taylor to wide beneficiary Jarrett Boykin for a first down, yet the Hokies were unfit to increase another first down. Tech punted back to Cincinnati, and the ball took off of limits at the Cincinnati 30-yard line. The main play of the drive brought about a short misfortune, yet on the second play, Pike finished a 39-yard go to Gilyard. The play propelled the Bearcats profound into Virginia Tech domain and gave them a first down. In spite of the long play, Cincinnati was unfit to increase another first down, and Rogers entered the amusement to endeavor a 44-yard field objective. The kick was mostly blocked and missed the mark, denying the Bearcats three points. With 3:07 staying in the quarter, Cincinnati still held a 7– 0 lead. 

Following the missed field objective, Virginia Tech's offense took over at their 27-yard line, the spot from which the kick had been missed. Taylor finished a 12-yard go to Coale, at that point Evans ran 11 yards, propelling the ball to the 50-yard line. After a go from Taylor fell deficient, he finished his next two endeavors for an absolute increase of 19 yards and a first down. Virginia Tech at that point submitted a five-yard false begin punishment, driving the Hokies back to the Cincinnati 26-yard line. With time running out in the quarter, be that as it may, Virginia Tech running back Josh Oglesby made great the punishment with a 13-yard raced to the Cincinnati 23-yard line. Toward the finish of the principal quarter, Cincinnati still drove, 7– 0. 

The second quarter started with Virginia Tech possessing the ball and confronting a second down and two at the Cincinnati 24-yard line. On the main play of the quarter, Cincinnati submitted an offsides punishment, giving the Hokies five yards and a first down. From the Bearcats' 19-yard line, Taylor finished a two-yard pass. On the following play, Taylor endeavored to keep running forward with the ball, yet bumbled before recuperating the free football. Presently confronting third down, Taylor mixed 18 yards to the objective line for Virginia Tech's first touchdown of the amusement. The additional point kick by Keys was great, and with 13:00 staying in the quarter, the amusement was tied at 7– 7. 

Virginia Tech's post-touchdown kickoff was come back to the Cincinnati 28-yard line, and the Bearcats' offense started its first ownership of the second quarter. Pike tossed an inadequate pass, at that point associated on a 10-yard toss for a first down. That gain was countered on the following play by a 10-yard holding punishment against the Bearcats. Cincinnati was unfit to recover the yardage lost to the punishment and punted. Following the kick, Virginia Tech was correspondingly obstructed by back to back punishments and a sack of Taylor by Cincinnati's Terrill Byrd. Tech punted, and the kick was returned by Cincinnati wide collector D.J. Woods to the Virginia Tech 45-yard line. In spite of beginning in Virginia Tech's half of the field, Cincinnati was unfit to underwrite and went three and out. The Bearcats' punt was brought down at the Virginia Tech three-yard line, and the Hokies' offense came back to the field. 

In spite of being stuck against their very own objective line, the Hokies at first had some achievement moving the ball. Taylor finished a two-yard pass, Evans kept running for six yards, and Taylor kept running for two yards on third down to acquire a first down at the Tech 13-yard line. After a Tech timeout, Darren Evans kept running for five yards. On the following play, he broke free for a 32-yard run, propelling the ball to the 50-yard line. The Hokies were unfit to gain by Evans' run, be that as it may, as on the following play, a go from Taylor was blocked by Cincinnati safeguard Brandon Underwood at the Cincinnati 28-yard line. 

Cincinnati's offense took over at the spot of the capture attempt and promptly started moving down the field. Pike finished three successive passes: a five-yard go to Gilyard, a 10-yard toss to Goodman, at that point a 31-yard hurl to Gilyard. After the long toss, Cincinnati had a first down at the Virginia Tech 26-yard line. The Bearcats proceeded with their drive after a fragmented go by Pike with a 18-yard culmination to Goebel that gave the Bearcats a first down at the Virginia Tech eight-yard line. Two plays later, in any case, Cincinnati's drive reached an end when Virginia Tech protector Stephan Virgil blocked a go from Pike to a player at last zone, denying the Bearcats an opportunity to score. Virgil was brought down at last zone for a touchback, and Virginia Tech's offense began at its 20-yard line after the turnover. 

Tech's drive started with a finished go for no increase to Evans. This was trailed by a five-yard kept running by Evans and a 23-yard go from Taylor to tight end Greg Boone for a first down at the Tech 48-yard line. Taylor at that point finished a nine-yard go to Boone. After two plays were halted for no increase, Taylor ran two yards for a first down, keeping the drive alive. With time running out in the principal half, Taylor finished a nine-yard go to Boone, at that point ran six yards for a first down at the Cincinnati 26-yard line. The Hokies at that point called another timeout to stop the clock with three seconds staying in the quarter. Tech kicker Dustin Keys came back to the diversion, and as time lapsed in the main half, he kicked a 43-yard field objective that gave the Hokies a 10– 7 lead. 

Following a halftime melodic act by The Doobie Brothers, the second half started. Since Cincinnati got the ball to start the diversion, Virginia Tech got the ball to start the second half. 

The Bearcats' kickoff was come back to the Tech 14-yard line, and the Hokies started the primary drive of the second from last quarter. Evans scrambled for four yards, yet Oglesby lost four yards on a keep running amid the following play. Confronting third and ten, Taylor got the first down with a 11-yard run, yet bobbled the ball toward the finish of the play. The free ball was gathered up by Boone, who propped the Hokies' drive up at the Tech 30-yard line. After the bobble, Evans kept running for seven yards and Taylor finished a 10-yard go to Roberts for a first down at the Tech 47-yard line. Coale then scrambled for seven yards on an end-around, and his run was trailed by one by Boone, who kept running for 16 yards and a first down at the Cincinnati 30-yard line. Two additional surges by Roberts and Evans brought about another first down, yet once the Hokies passed the Cincinnati 20-yard line, the Bearcats' barrier hardened and denied the Hokies another first down. Confronting fourth down, Tech again sent in Keys, who kicked a 35-yard field objective. The kick stretched out Tech's lead to 13– 7 with 8:32 staying in the quarter. 

Following Virginia Tech's kickoff, Cincinnati started its first drive of the second half at its 36-yard line. Pike was ceased for no increase on a surging endeavor, at that point endeavored a long pass downfield. The ball was blocked by Virginia Tech safeguard Kam Chancellor, and the Hokies' offense came back to the field after only two Cincinnati plays. Tech's first play after the capture attempt brought about Taylor being sacked by Cincinnati protector Brandon Underwood for lost three yards, however Darren Evans made up the lost yardage by surging 14 yards to the Tech 43-yard line for a first down. Taylor and Evans rotated short surges, at that point Taylor finished a five-yard go to Coale for another first down, this one at the Cincinnati 47-yard line. Once in Cincinnati domain, in any case, the Hokies' offense floundered. Evans was handled for a two-yard misfortune, at that point Taylor was sacked once more, this time by John Hughes. A long pass endeavor fell fragmented, and Tech punted without precedent for the second half. Returner Danny Milligan bobbled the ball, yet he recouped the free ball and returned it to the Cincinnati 20-yard line. 

The Bearcats' second ownership of the second half was more effective than their first. On the main play of the drive, running back Jacob Ramsey broke free of the Tech barrier for a 25-yard run, the longest keep running of any Cincinnati player in the amusement. He pursued that first-down kept running by increasing eight additional yards on continuous runs. Pike at that point ran three yards for a first down at the Tech 44-yard line. There, in any case, Cincinnati's offense sputtered and couldn't increase another first down. The Bearcats' punted, and the ball took off of limits at the Tech 14-yard line with six seconds staying in the quarter. The Hokies possessed energy for one play, a 21-yard kept running by Evans to the Tech 35-yard line. With one quarter remaining, Virginia Tech had a 13– 7 lead over Cincinnati. 

The final quarter started with Virginia Tech possessing the ball and confronting a first down at their 35-yard line. The main play of the quarter brought about a 20-yard gain by Evans on a running play. From that point onward, in any case, the Hokies did not increase another first down and punted to Cincinnati. Following the kick, the Bearcats began their first ownership of the final quarter at their 14-yard line. Running back Isaiah Pead kept running for three yards, yet then a go by Pike was caught at the 10-yard line by Tech safeguard Orion Martin. Three hurrying plays later, Evans ran six yards for a touchdown. The additional point kick was great, and with 11:29 staying in the amusement, Virginia Tech took a 20– 7 lead. 

The Tech kickoff was returned 17 yards by Gilyard to the Cincinnati 40-yard line, giving the Bearcats great field position to begin their drive. Two surges by Goebel brought about 11 yards and a first down at the Tech 49-yard line. This accomplishment on the ground was trailed by progressively through the air, as Pike finished three continuous passes: a 16-yarder to Gilyard, a 3-yarder to Goodman, and a 14-yarder to Gilyard. Goebel then ran five yards to the Tech 11-yard line. Two Pike passes fell fragmented, setting up fourth down. Instead of endeavor to kick a field objective, Cincinnati head mentor Brian Kelly requested the offense to endeavor to change over the fourth down. This was done when Pike finished a seven-yard go to Goodman for a first down at the Virginia Tech four-yard line. Two more Pike passes fell inadequate before Goebel surged three yards to the Virginia Tech one-yard line. Cincinnati again confronted a fourth down, and once more, Kelly chose to endeavor to score a touchdown instead of kick a field objective. Pike endeavored to cross the objective line on a running play, yet was ceased by the Virginia Tech resistance. With 7:25 staying in the diversion, Cincinnati turned the ball over on downs to the Virginia Tech offense, which came back to the field. 

With a firm lead and now possessing the ball, Virginia Tech started to run out the clock by executing short surging plays up the focal point of the field. Since the amusement check does not stop in American school football if a player stays in limits shy of the first down marker, the Hokies could hurry the finish of the diversion and save their lead by following this system. From their one-yard line, Taylor ran the ball for a one-yard gain, trailed by two surges by Evans for another four yards. The Hokies arranged to punt the ball, yet amid the kick, Cincinnati submitted a 15-yard individual foul punishment by handling Tech punter Brent Bowden. The punishment gave Virginia Tech a first down and propped their drive up. From the Tech 21-yard line, Evans was ceased for lost one yard, yet broke free for a 11-yard gain and a first down on the following play. As the clock kept on ticking down, Cincinnati started to utilize its timeouts with an end goal to stop the clock after each play. This system was mostly fruitful, as Tech was denied another first down and punted with 2:31 staying in the diversion. 

The kick was come back to the Cincinnati 48-yard line, and the Bearcats arranged for a franticness drive with expectations of narrowing the Hokies' lead. On the main play after the punt, be that as it may, Pike tossed a capture attempt to Virginia Tech safeguard Cody Grimm. Back possessing the ball, Taylor bowed on the ball multiple times to unwind the amusement clock. After the last kneeldown, Virginia Tech verified the 20– 7 win. 

In acknowledgment of his execution amid the amusement, Virginia Tech running back Darren Evans was named the diversion's most profitable player. Evans completed the diversion with 28 conveys for 158 yards and a touchdown. He likewise gotten two goes for five yards, set a Virginia Tech bowl-amusement record for conveys, and tied the Tech record for hurrying yards. Evans completed the season with 1,265 surging yards and 11 touchdowns– the two imprints were Virginia Tech records for a first year recruit. On the contrary side of the ball, Cincinnati's hurrying offense was driven by Jacob Ramsey, who completed the amusement with 4 conveys for 34 yards. Cincinnati's John Goebel had nine conveys yet just gathered 26 hurrying yards. 

The vast majority of the Bearcats' offense got through the air, notwithstanding. Cincinnati quarterback Tony Pike completed the amusement having finished 16 of his 33 pass endeavors, bringing about 239 passing yards, 1 touchdown, and 4 block attempts. Pike likewise ran the ball multiple times for four yards. Pike's four interferences were a profession high and checked just the second time he tossed more than one block attempt in a diversion. For Virginia Tech, quarterback Tyrod Taylor completed the amusement with 13 culminations from 22 pass endeavors, bringing about 140 passing yards and 1 capture attempt. Notwithstanding his passing, Taylor kept running with the ball multiple times, picking up 47 yards and a touchdown all the while. 

Taylor's most loved passing targets were wide collector Danny Coale, who completed the diversion having gotten three goes for 52 yards, and tight end Greg Boone, who got 3 balls for 41 yards. On the Bearcats' side of the field, Cincinnati's Mardy Gilyard drove all recipients with 7 gets for 158 yards and a touchdown. Gilyard's accepting all out was his best of the period and set another Cincinnati bowl-diversion record. He additionally set a Bearcat bowl-amusement record for kickoff return yardage, recording 97 yards in that classification. Individual Cincinnati collector Dominick Goodman got 6 goes for 51 yards, in the process turning into Cincinnati's unsurpassed pioneer in profession accepting yards. 

The two groups' protections additionally performed measurably well amid the amusement. Cincinnati's Terrill Byrd driven all safeguards by account 11 handles amid the amusement. Incorporated into that all out were four handles for misfortune, including one sack. That execution was his best as far as amount amid the season, and his four handles for misfortune moved him into 6th spot on Cincinnati's rundown of profession handles for misfortune pioneers. For the Hokies, Dorian Porch had eight handles, driving all Tech players. Cody Grimm, Orion Martin, Stephan Virgil, and Kam Chancellor each recorded one capture. The four capture attempts were a Tech bowl-amusement record, and Chancellor's catch gave him six for the season, tying him with Victor Harris for the most in the group. It was the first run through since 1968 that two Virginia Tech players had six captures each. Cincinnati's sole block attempt came because of Brandon Underwood, who counted his third of the period. 

Each group discovered accomplishment on unique groups too. Cincinnati punter Kevin Huber, a first-group All-American, kicked the ball multiple times, averaging 45.8 yards per punt. A 56-yard punt in the primary quarter denoted the ninth sequential amusement he had a kick of something like 50 yards. Virginia Tech placekicker Dustin Keys missed his first field objective endeavor of the diversion however effectively changed over his next two kicks, giving him 23 field objectives and the Tech single-season record in that class. 

Virginia Tech's triumph raised it to a last record of 10– 4, while Cincinnati's misfortune dropped it to a record of 11– 3. The Hokies' 10-win season was the fifth back to back year in which Tech recorded something like 10 wins, an accomplishment coordinated just by the University of Southern California and the University of Texas amid a similar timespan. As a reward for training the Hokies to an ACC Championship and an Orange Bowl title, Virginia Tech mentors were given a huge number of dollars in rewards. 

In Miami, hoteliers and Dolphins Stadium needed to rapidly get ready for the entry of Oklahoma and Florida, the two groups that played in the 2009 BCS National Championship Game multi week after the Orange Bowl. Signs were changed, the playing field was repainted, and facilities were set up for the a large number of anticipated observers. Altogether, South Florida's economy got an expected $220 million help from guests who touched base to watch the two recreations. 

In the postseason that pursued the Bearcats' misfortune to Virginia Tech, Cincinnati aide head mentor and protective line mentor Keith Gilmore surrendered to acknowledge the situation of guarded line mentor at the University of Illinois. To supplant Gilmore, Cincinnati advanced uncommon groups mentor Mike Elston, who expected aide training and cautious line obligations. In February, Cincinnati protective facilitator Joe Tresey was terminated by the school. He accordingly was employed by the University of South Florida to fill that school's empty protective facilitator position. Supplanting Tresey is Virginia cautious organizer Bob Diaco. 

As the last round of the 2008– 2009 ordinary season, the 2009 Orange Bowl gave Virginia Tech and Cincinnati players an opportunity to demonstrate their aptitudes before the 2009 NFL Draft. Cincinnati had six players chosen in the draft. Guarded end Connor Barwin was the principal Bearcats player taken. He was picked in the second round, 46th generally. He was trailed by punter Kevin Huber (142nd generally speaking), cornerback DeAngelo Smith (143rd), cornerback Brandon Underwood (187th), cornerback Mike Mickens (227th), and protect Trevor Canfield (254th). A few Cincinnati players were marked as free specialists after the draft. These included protective handle Adam Hoppel, linebacker Corey Smith, and hostile lineman Khalil El-Amin. 

Virginia Tech had only one player taken in the 2009 draft: cornerback Victor Harris, who was picked by the Philadelphia Eagles with the 157th by and large choice. Four Hokies were taken as free-specialist determinations after the draft. Protective end Orion Martin, quarterback Sean Glennon, focus Ryan Shuman, and fullback Devin Perez were marked to go for different NFL groups.