2009 International Bowl 

The 2009 International Bowl was a postseason school football bowl amusement between the Connecticut Huskies (UConn) and the Buffalo Bulls at Rogers Center in Toronto, Canada, on January 3, 2009. The amusement was the last challenge of the 2008 NCAA Division I-Football Bowl Subdivision (Division I-FBS) football season for the two groups, and finished in a 38– 20 triumph for Connecticut. UConn spoke to the Big East Conference (Big East) in the diversion; Buffalo entered as the Mid-American Conference (MAC) champion. 

Connecticut was chosen as a member in the 2009 International Bowl following a 7– 5 standard season where they won their initial five recreations, just to lose five of their last seven challenges. Confronting the Huskies were the Buffalo Bulls with an ordinary season record of 8– 5, featured by an annoyed success over then-No. 12 and undefeated Ball State in the 2008 MAC Championship Game. Pre-diversion media inclusion concentrated on the inheritance of the 1958 Buffalo Bulls, the primary group from the college to be welcome to a bowl amusement. At the point when informed that the two African-American individuals from the group would not be permitted to play in view of isolation, the group chose to decline the bowl offer. Wild ox would not play in a bowl until this diversion, 50 years later. 

The diversion started at 12:00 PM EST. Connecticut, driven by running back Donald Brown's 208 yards surging, overwhelmed the main half measurably, yet ended up down 20– 10 halfway during that time quarter since they submitted six bungles, five of which were recuperated by Buffalo. UConn would close the hole to 20– 17 by halftime, and lead the pack for good late in the second from last quarter off a 4-yard touchdown go from quarterback Tyler Lorenzen to tight end Steve Brouse. The Connecticut triumph was fixed when, late in the final quarter, Buffalo quarterback Drew Willy tossed a pass that was captured by UConn wellbeing Dahna Deleston and returned 100 yards for a touchdown. 

UConn junior running back Donald Brown was named player of the amusement. He completed with 261 rushing yards and one touchdown; his 2,083 rushing yards for the 2008 season was best in the NCAA. Following the diversion, Brown pronounced his qualification for the 2009 NFL Draft; he would turn into the main Connecticut player at any point drafted in the first round. Three other UConn players were drafted in the second round. 

The International Bowl had contracts with the Big East and Mid-American Conferences that enabled them to choose one group from every gathering to take part in their yearly amusement. By temperance of being the Big East boss Cincinnati was granted a programmed Bowl Championship Series compartment; they would play in the 2009 Orange Bowl. The Gator Bowl and Sun Bowl shared the second pick of Big East groups; after the Gator Bowl picked to choose Big 12 part Nebraska and the Sun Bowl discovered that they would not be permitted to choose Notre Dame, Pittsburgh got the Sun Bowl welcome. The Meineke Car Care Bowl, which had the third choice, picked West Virginia. The fourth, fifth, and 6th choices of Big East groups had a place aggregately with the International Bowl, PapaJohns.com Bowl, and St. Petersburg Bowl, which, in counsel with the Big East, chose which schools were the best fit for each bowl. There were three residual bowl-qualified Big East groups: Connecticut, Rutgers, and South Florida. The past season, Rutgers had played in the International Bowl and South Florida had showed up in the PapaJohns.com Bowl; bowls when all is said in done abhorrence welcoming a similar group in sequential years, on the hypothesis that fans are less inclined to need to head out to a similar goal they were at the prior year. Also, the St. Petersburg Bowl, in its debut year, looked to have neighborhood group South Florida play in their amusement to drive nearby participation. Hence, the groups were distributed among the dishes as pursues: South Florida to the St. Petersburg Bowl, Rutgers to the PapaJohns.com Bowl, and Connecticut to the International Bowl. On December 7, 2008, UConn formally acknowledged the bowl welcome, the third in their history. 

Bison acknowledged a solicitation to the International Bowl following their triumph over then-undefeated Ball State in the 2008 MAC Championship Game. Despite the fact that in past years the MAC champion had been welcome to the Motor City Bowl, Buffalo liked to go to the International Bowl because of Toronto being nearer to the school than Detroit, the home of the Motor City Bowl. The diversion denoted the main bowl for the Bulls after their first MAC Championship since moving to Division I-An and joining the MAC in 1999. 

The Bulls and Huskies had been visit adversaries amid the earlier decade as the two projects made the change from Division I-AA to Division I-A. The two groups played each other in six back to back seasons from 1999 to 2005, with Connecticut winning five of the six substance. The 2005 diversion, won by UConn 38– 0, was the latest gathering between the two groups. By and large, the Huskies and Bulls had played each other multiple times since their first gathering in 1939, with Connecticut holding a 12– 4 advantage in the untouched arrangement. Preceding the 2008 season, Buffalo and UConn had marked an agreement to play a four-amusement, home-and-home arrangement starting in 2010. 

Entering 2008, the Bulls looked to work off of their 2007 season, where they shared the MAC East title yet did not show up in the title amusement because of a 31– 28 misfortune to individual division co-champion Miami (Ohio). Their 5– 7 last record, while not sufficient to meet all requirements for a bowl diversion, was as yet the best by a Buffalo group since they had climbed to Division I-An out of 1999. With 10 starters returning on offense and eight on protection, the 2008 group was anticipated to be maybe the most skilled group in Bulls history; be that as it may, because of their difficult calendar, their last record was anticipated to be no superior to 3– 9. 

Wild ox opened the season more grounded than anticipated, with a predominant home success over the University of Texas-El Paso (UTEP), 42– 17. This was trailed by a closer-than-anticipated misfortune at intensely supported Pittsburgh, 27– 16. Bison's third amusement and meeting opener, versus Temple, was a forward and backward challenge that came down to the last play of the diversion. Keeping the amusement inside seven for the initial seventy five percent, the Bulls originally led the pack with 2:27 left in the final quarter, on a 25-yard field objective by A.J. Principe. Sanctuary reacted with a nine-play, 74-yard drive topped by a 11-yard touchdown get by wide recipient Bruce Francis, his second score of the amusement, to take a 28– 24 lead with just 38 seconds remaining. Taking over at their own 40-yard line after the kickoff left limits, the Bulls drove down the field, scoring the diversion winning touchdown on a 35-yard franticness hurl from Drew Willy to wide collector Naaman Roosevelt with no time staying on the clock. Wild ox's record following the very late success was 2– 1, denoting the first run through since 1969 that the Bulls had a record more than .500 past Week 1 as a Division I-A group. The last time the Bulls had begun a season 2– 1 was 1998, while they were as yet played in Division I-AA. 

The Bulls continued to lose their next three diversions. Wild ox was unfit to stay aware of No. 5-positioned Missouri, losing 42– 21 of every a diversion that Missouri saw as a tuneup for their later season. In the following challenge, against MAC adversary Central Michigan, down nine points with under three minutes left Buffalo scored on a 65-yard go to James Starks, recouped an onside kick to hold ownership, and endeavored an amusement winning field objective—yet A.J. Principe's 46-yard kick hit the correct goalpost to give Central Michigan the triumph. In the following diversion, against the Western Michigan Broncos, additionally in the MAC, Buffalo wasted a two-touchdown advantage with a little more than five minutes left, enabling the Broncos to win in extra time. Wild ox's general record tumbled to 2– 4, 1– 2 in the MAC. 

Ricocheting back, Buffalo won their next five recreations. Against Army, Buffalo turned around the aftereffect of the Western Michigan amusement, returning from a two-touchdown shortfall to win in additional time. Dealing with gathering rivals Ohio and Miami (Ohio) without any difficulty, Buffalo proceeded with meeting play by beating Akron in a four-hour, four-extra time slugfest, 43– 40, in Akron's last football match-up at the Rubber Bowl. In their next amusement, against Bowling Green, the Bulls ended up down 21– 0 halfway through the second from last quarter, yet at the same time figured out how to return for their third extra time win of the period. With the success, Buffalo secured the MAC East title and guaranteed that they would have their first winning normal season since moving to Division I-A; the last ordinary season diversion, a 24– 21 misfortune to Kent State, was just a convention. The Bulls completed the ordinary season with a general record of 7– 5, 5– 3 inside the meeting. 

Wild ox's adversary in the 2008 MAC Championship Game would be the No. 12-positioned Ball State Cardinals, who had gone undefeated in winning the MAC West. Ball State was a two-touchdown most loved entering the diversion; Buffalo in its history was 0– 5 against the Cardinals. The Bulls hit first with a touchdown late in the principal quarter; Ball State reacted with a touchdown and a field objective in the second quarter to take a 10– 7 lead at the half. The two groups exchanged touchdowns right off the bat in the second from last quarter. Calamity at that point struck for Ball State: on two back to back belongings late in the second from last quarter, in the wake of having crashed into the red zone, the Cardinals mishandled the ball. Bison returned both of these bobbles for touchdowns and took a lead they would not surrender. The Bulls won 42– 24, winning their first-since forever MAC Championship just as their first-historically speaking win over a positioned rival in nine endeavors. 

The Huskies entered 2008 looking to demonstrate their prosperity the past season was no fluke. In 2007, Connecticut earned their first Big East co-title, though in the wake of losing to their kindred co-champion, West Virginia, 66– 21. A misfortune to Wake Forest in the 2007 Meineke Car Care Bowl—the group's second bowl appearance untouched—gave the Huskies a last 2007 record of 9– 4. In the Big East preseason media survey, UConn was picked to complete sixth generally speaking in the gathering. 

UConn began the season solid, winning their initial five amusements. The Huskies effectively won their first amusement 35– 3 against Division I-Football Championship Subdivision (Division I-FCS) adversary Hofstra. The second diversion, at Temple, was played as the leftovers of Hurricane Hanna hit Philadelphia. UConn won 12– 9 in additional time as Donald Brown kept running for a then-profession high 214 yards and scored the amusement winning touchdown. Connecticut next retaliated for their misfortune to Virginia from 2007, winning the rematch 45– 10. Baylor was next on the calendar; the Huskies hauled out the success in a forward and backward diversion, 31– 28. Connecticut opened Big East gathering play in their next diversion against Louisville. The diversion was not chosen until UConn linebacker Lawrence Wilson restored a capture attempt for a touchdown with 2:45 left in the final quarter, giving the Huskies a 26– 21 lead they would not give up. This was the second in a row season where Connecticut won their initial five diversions; before 2007, they had not opened a season so effectively since 1995, when they won their initial six straight. Following the diversion, UConn accomplished their sole positioning of the year, showing up at No. 24 in the Associated Press (AP) and Harris surveys and No. 23 in the Coaches' survey. Be that as it may, beginning quarterback Tyler Lorenzen broke his foot in the Louisville diversion; the Huskies would be compelled to depend on reinforcement Zach Frazer for the following couple of amusements. 

The Huskies were unfit to coordinate their initial achievement in the second 50% of the period, losing five of their next seven amusements. Everything turned out badly for UConn in their amusement at North Carolina, as Frazer was caught multiple times and three Connecticut punts were blocked; North Carolina won in a victory, 38– 12. Against Big East adversary Rutgers, UConn lost 12– 10 as kicker Tony Ciaravino missed three field objectives, incorporating one with 1:09 left in the diversion that hit the correct goalpost. The Huskies skiped back in their next amusement against possible Big East boss Cincinnati, winning in a victory 40– 16. While not positioned in any of the surveys, after the success Connecticut got itself No. 25 in the BCS standings. The Huskies would instantly surrender that respect, losing to West Virginia 35– 13 subsequent to driving 10– 0 toward the finish of the primary quarter and 13– 7 at halftime. UConn would win the following week at Big East base inhabitant Syracuse, 39– 14, as Lorenzen came back from his damage. This would turn out to be their last win of the normal season, as the Huskies completed with misfortunes to South Florida (17– 13) and No. 23-positioned Pittsburgh (34– 10). Connecticut finished the ordinary season with a record of 7– 5, 3– 4 inside the Big East gathering. 

In the weeks paving the way to the amusement, media inclusion concentrated on the accomplishments of the Buffalo Bulls. Wild ox had been a standout amongst the most ineffective projects in school football from their progress to Division I-An out of 1999 to 2006, amid which they had a total record of 12– 79. In 2008, the Bulls had their first winning season since 1996, won five diversions in succession out of the blue since 1986, beat a positioned group without precedent for program history with their furious triumph over Ball State in the MAC Championship Game, and would show up in school history. The turnaround of the Buffalo program conveyed praise to Bulls head mentor Turner Gill, who had assumed control over the group in 2007. 

Nearly, Connecticut was a bit of hindsight heading into the diversion. Pre-bowl inclusion of UConn concentrated on NCAA hurrying pioneer Donald Brown, who was thinking about prior his senior season to enter the 2009 NFL Draft. Dark colored showed before the amusement that he had chosen to come back to UConn for the 2010 season. 

Following the standard season, theory encompassed whether Turner Gill would leave Buffalo for another school's head instructing position. He was distinguished as a hopeful at two schools: Syracuse and Auburn. In neither one of the cases was Gill contracted; Syracuse selected New Orleans Saints hostile organizer Doug Marrone, while Auburn ignored him for Iowa State head mentor Gene Chizik, a move that conspicuous previous National Basketball Association (NBA) player, Basketball Hall-of-Famer, and Auburn former student Charles Barkley asserted was because of prejudice. Gill wound up marking an agreement augmentation with Buffalo. 

UConn head mentor Randy Edsall, who had been with the Huskies since 1999, was additionally reputed to be a contender for the Syracuse work. Edsall, a Syracuse graduate, denied any intrigue. Hostile facilitator Rob Ambrose acknowledged the head instructing position at Towson, his place of graduation; he would remain to mentor UConn amid the bowl amusement, be that as it may. 

While the 2009 International Bowl denoted the main appearance of the Buffalo Bulls in a bowl diversion, it was not the first run through the school had been welcome to a bowl. Fifty years sooner, the 1958 Buffalo Bulls group completed with a record of 8– 1. They were granted the Lambert Cup, given to the best little school group in the eastern US, and got an offer to play in the 1958 Tangerine Bowl, where they would confront Florida State. There was one trick: the group's African-American players—beginning running back Willie Evans and reinforcement protective end Mike Wilson—would not be permitted to play. The Tangerine Bowl arena was constrained by the Orlando High School Athletic Association, who disallowed incorporated football match-ups. College authorities and the training staff chose to enable the group to cast a ballot on whether they would acknowledge the bowl offer. Before mystery votes could be passed out, the players consistently chose to dismiss the offer. 

Enduring individuals from the 1958 Bulls group were welcome to the 2009 International Bowl and were regarded before the amusement. The Reverend Jesse Jackson talked at the kickoff lunch get-together before the diversion, paying tribute to the heritage of the 1958 group. 

Wild ox included a powerful, high-beat, adjusted offense that was great at not submitting turnovers. Amid the ordinary season the Bulls arrived at the midpoint of 380.5 offensive yards per amusement, 45th best in the country, and scored a normal of 31.3 points per diversion, 31st best. Wild ox's turnover edge was 6th best in the country, at +1.15. 

The Bulls were driven obnoxiously by the triple risk of quarterback Drew Willy, running back James Starks, and wide collector Naaman Roosevelt. The three consolidated to break 14 single-season school records, incorporating most focuses scored in a season (404). Willy, heading into his last diversion as a Buffalo Bull, had just outperformed the 3,000-yard mark in passing on the season, tossing for 25 touchdowns against just five interceptions. Starks, while not seen as a similar gauge of player as UConn's Donald Brown, had kept running for over 1,300 yards and got 41 passes for 340 yards, scoring 16 touchdowns on the year. Roosevelt was viewed as the top playmaker, going over the 100-yard mark in every one of Buffalo's last five games and scoring in any event once in his last seven. 

Particularly contrasted with Buffalo, the UConn offense was incredibly unequal; the Huskies positioned nineteenth in the country in running, averaging 204.6 yards per amusement, however just 106th in the country in passing, averaging 147.3 yards per diversion. Connecticut's offense was based on running back Donald Brown. Portrayed as "a definitive workhorse", Brown drove the NCAA in hurrying going into the diversion with 1,822 yards. He had officially tied the school single-season surging touchdown record with 17 scores. His overwhelming execution prompted him being named the Big East hostile player of the year just as an All-American by different associations. Fairly shockingly, he was not a finalist for the Doak Walker Award, yearly given to the best running back in school football; the honor was in the end won by Shonn Greene of Iowa. UConn's surging assault was enhanced by the endeavors of quarterback Tyler Lorenzen and running back Jordan Todman. 

The Huskies attempted to pass the ball all season, just finishing four touchdown goes as a group heading into the International Bowl. Lorenzen finished under portion of his passing endeavors on the season. He tossed for 820 yards with more block attempts (eight) than touchdowns (two). In any case, before the diversion Randy Edsall affirmed that Lorenzen would be the beginning quarterback for UConn in the International Bowl. This would be his ninth appearance at quarterback on the season; he missed four diversions with a broken right foot. 

The Buffalo resistance was depicted as "among the most noticeably bad in the MAC, which means it's among the most exceedingly awful in school football". In Division I-FBS, the Bulls positioned 84th in all out resistance, permitting a normal of 408 yards per diversion. Wild ox's run resistance was 83rd in the nation, permitting 141.1 yards per amusement; their pass safeguard was positioned 97th, permitting practically 250 yards per diversion. The Bulls enabled different groups to score a normal of 27 points against them per diversion, which positioned 73rd in the nation. 

Wild ox had one quality on safeguard: compelling turnovers. The Bulls recuperated 20 fumbles and got eight interceptions on the year. Wild ox's turnover edge of +1.15 was 6th best in the country. 

On the other hand, UConn bragged one the better resistances in the nation. The Huskies permitted the tenth least yards per amusement in the country with 281 yards permitted. Connecticut was particularly great against the pass; they permitted a normal of just 165 yards per amusement, seventh-best in the nation. No UConn rival go for more than 259 yards amid the customary season. 

The Huskies had a few champion players on safeguard. One was cautious end Cody Brown, who drove UConn with 14 tackles for a misfortune (TFL) and nine sacks while likewise being named to the All-Big East first group. Cornerback Jasper Howard was another champion player: he had four interceptions on the year while likewise driving the Big East in punt returns. 

Source: 

The 2009 International Bowl commenced on January 3, 2009, at 12:00 PM in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Official participation was recorded at 40,184, the most noteworthy ever of International Bowl. The participation record was to a great extent because of Buffalo fans; an expected 30,000 went to the diversion. John Saunders, Jesse Palmer, and Doug Flutie, all with connections to Canada, were the commentators for the transmission, which publicized on ESPN2. The diversion was viewed by over 2 million households with a rating of 2.12, both the most astounding in International Bowl history. Before the diversion, spread bettors favored Connecticut to win by four and a half points. 

Wild ox got the ball first to start the amusement, and restored the opening kickoff to their very own 24-yard line. They were unfit to move the ball in three plays, and punted the ball to Connecticut. The Huskies took ownership all alone 18-yard line and drove down the field with substituting surges by running back Donald Brown and quarterback Tyler Lorenzen, gaining two first downs. On 2nd down and 5 from the UConn 49-yard line, Lorenzen was sacked by Buffalo's Sherrod Lott and bungled; the ball was recuperated by UConn right handle Mike Hicks, enabling the Huskies to hold ownership. A holding punishment on the following play approached UConn left handle William Beatty set up third and-24. Donald Brown scrambled for fifteen yards however was unfit to achieve the first-down marker, constraining UConn to punt. 

Wild ox took over at their very own 19-yard line and instantly earned their 1st first down of the amusement on a 10-yard pass from quarterback Drew Willy to wide collector Naaman Roosevelt. The Bulls' drive slowed down from that point, compelling them to punt. The punt struck the ground and hit UConn's Jonathan Jean-Louis, who was endeavoring to obstruct for the punt return; Buffalo recouped the free ball, giving them back belonging at the Connecticut 23-yard line. The Bulls were unfit to draw the ball any nearer to the end zone, and agreed to a 38-yard field objective by kicker A. J. Principe, giving them a 3– 0 lead with 4:26 staying in the main quarter. 

The following kickoff was returned by UConn running back Jordan Todman 45 yards to the Buffalo 45-yard line. On the principal play from scrimmage, Donald Brown got through the Buffalo resistance and ran the length of the field for the primary touchdown of the day. UConn kicker Dave Teggart's additional point endeavor was great, giving UConn their first lead of the day, at 7– 3. 

Wild ox took care of business the ball back at their very own 21-yard line and were just ready to propel it to their 34-yard line before punting the ball back to Connecticut. UConn cornerback Jasper Howard restored the ball 26 yards to the Bulls' 41-yard line. The Huskies gave the ball to Donald Brown for five straight running plays, propelling the ball to the Buffalo 19-yard line as the primary quarter clock lapsed. Toward the finish of the principal quarter, UConn held a 7– 3 lead and appeared to be in position to score more when the second quarter started. 

UConn started the second quarter by having Tyler Lorenzen surge the ball for four yards. On third and 7, Lorenzen endeavored his first go of the diversion, which was behind Husky wide collector Michael Smith. Dave Teggart kicked a 32-yard field objective to expand Connecticut's lead to 10– 3. 

The Bulls started their next drive at their very own 26-yard line, however went three-and-out. Wild ox punter Peter Fardon kicked the ball over the head of UConn returner Jasper Howard; as opposed to release the ball, he pursued in reverse pursuing it. Attempting to snatch the ball behind him, he fumbled the catch, and the ball ricocheted into the end zone, where it was recouped by Buffalo's Ray Anthony Long for a Bull touchdown. The extraordinary groups miscue by Howard enabled Buffalo to tie the amusement at 10– 10 with 11:36 staying in the second quarter. 

UConn's turnover misfortunes proceeded on their next belonging when, on their second play from scrimmage in the wake of accepting Buffalo's kickoff, Tyler Lorenzen was sacked, making him mishandle the ball. The Bulls recouped and drove down the field to the UConn 12-yard line where they were halted. Principe kicked a 29-yard field objective giving Buffalo back the lead, at 13– 10. 

The resulting kickoff saw one more Connecticut uncommon groups screw up. UConn running back Robbie Frey misplayed the ball off of the kickoff, giving it a chance to fold again into the end zone. Frey recouped the free ball; in the event that he had just taken a knee, by guideline it would have been a touchback and the Huskies would have made history the ball at their very own 20-yard line. Rather, Frey did the chunk of the end zone, was hit at the 4-yard line, and mishandled. Wild ox recouped and immediately scored on a 4-yard touchdown kept running by Bull running back James Starks, giving themselves a 20– 10 lead. UConn had submitted its fifth bumble of the amusement, four of which were recouped by Buffalo. The majority of Buffalo's 20 were legitimately off of UConn turnovers. 

Connecticut mishandled the ball for the 6th time on the following belonging; this time Donald Brown was in charge of failing. Wild ox recouped for the fifth time, however was unfit to score, punting to ball back to UConn with 4:37 left in the half. Dark colored compensated for his before slip-up by severing a 75-yard keep running before being gotten from behind. On the following play Tyler Lorenzen ran the ball into the end zone from 13 yards out. Neither one of the teams scored for the rest of the main half, making the score 20– 17 Buffalo going into halftime. 

Connecticut got the ball to begin the second from last quarter and drove down the field on hurrying plays by Donald Brown, Jordan Todman and Tyler Lorenzen, before the drive slowed down at the Buffalo 36-yard line. UConn punter Desi Cullen's punt was brought down at the Buffalo 1-yard line, sticking them against their own end zone. The Bulls were unfit to move the ball, punting the ball back to UConn after three plays. Beginning from their own 44-yard line, the Huskies headed to inside the Buffalo 10-yard line; an offside punishment on Buffalo's Jerry Housey gave UConn a first and-objective at the Buffalo 4-yard line. Connecticut utilized a play-activity pass, just their second pass endeavor of the amusement, to trick the Bulls; UConn tight end Steve Brouse was wide open at last zone, getting the ball for the touchdown and giving Connecticut back the lead at 24– 20 with 5:22 left in the second from last quarter. 

Wild ox got the ball off the kickoff all alone 28-yard line. Losing eight yards on their three plays, Buffalo indeed punted the ball to Connecticut. UConn headed to the Buffalo 25-yard line and endeavored a 42-yard field objective; the kick by Dave Teggart was blocked. Bison took care of business the ball back with not exactly a moment left in the quarter and finished two passes, moving the ball 13 yards down the field before the quarter terminated. The score stayed to support Connecticut, 24– 20. 

Wild ox started the last quarter with the ball in a second and-11 circumstance and were unfit to change over the first down. UConn got Buffalo's punt and were likewise unfit to move the ball, going three-and-out and punting back to the Bulls. On their next belonging Buffalo figured out how to get a first down off of a Drew Willy go to tight end Jesse Rack, however were unfit to move the ball more distant than UConn's 49-yard line and punted once more. 

Connecticut took over at their very own 32-yard line and, in the wake of tossing just two passes in the primary three quarters, finished three passes over 10 yards each to move down the field. On a second and-5 from the Buffalo 15-yard line, Tyler Lorenzen scored his second surging touchdown of the diversion. UConn's lead was stretched out to 31– 20 with under five minutes left in the diversion. 

Getting the ball at their very own 8-yard line following a punishment on the kickoff return, Buffalo started to move down the field, with Drew Willy finishing a 38-yard go to wideout Brett Hamlin and a 29-yard go to Naaman Roosevelt. On third and-4 from the Connecticut 19-yard line, Willy finished a ten-yard go to James Starks, giving the Bulls a first and-objective. Starks scrambled for four yards on first down; on second down, Willy tossed an inadequate pass expected for Roosevelt. On third and-objective from the Husky 5-yard line, Willy endeavored a pass that was diverted and blocked by UConn security Dahna Deleston, who restored the ball 100 yards for the diversion fixing touchdown. UConn won 38– 20. 

For his execution in the 2009 International Bowl, Connecticut running back Donald Brown was named the player of the diversion. Dark colored scrambled for 261 yards and one touchdown on 29 attempts. He completed the 2008 school football season with 2,083 rushing yards which drove the country. Dark colored set a few new UConn school records, including the single-season records for hurrying yards (2,083), endeavors (367), and yards per diversion (160.2), the profession records for surging yards (3,800) and endeavors (698), and the record for successive amusements with in any event 100 yards rushing (8). His execution did not break the International Bowl hurrying record, in any case; the earlier year Rutgers running back Ray Rice kept running for four touchdowns. 

Dark colored's prevailing hurrying execution was enhanced by RB Jordan Todman's 62 yards on seven attempts, QB Tyler Lorenzen's 32 yards on twelve attempts, including two touchdowns, and fullback Anthony Sherman's three yards on one attempt; in all out Connecticut kept running for 358 yards. The Huskies endeavored to pass just multiple times amid the diversion; Lorenzen finished four of them for 49 yards and a touchdown. Four diverse UConn recipients got one pass each: wide beneficiary Kashif Moore (18 yards), cornerback and at some point wide collector Darius Butler (16 yards), fullback Anthony Sherman (11 yards), and tight end Steve Brouse (4 yards and a touchdown). 

Wild ox's hostile execution was somehow or another the inverse of Connecticut's: while UConn commanded on the ground and scarcely passed the ball, Buffalo battled with the run however had a decent day passing. The Bulls kept running for an aggregate of 24 yards on the amusement; James Starks represented 25 yards on thirteen carries and scored a touchdown, while RB Brandon Termilus ran three times for five yards. Their all out was in part counterbalanced by Drew Willy, who lost six yards on three surging endeavors. Willy had a substantially more fruitful day passing, finishing 29 out of 43 passes for 213 yards and one interception. Namaan Roosevelt drove the Buffalo beneficiaries with 90 yards on eight catches; of the five different Bulls who got passes, WR Brett Hamlin captured four passes for 54 yards, TE Jesse Rack got three for 22 yards, RB Starks captured 11 for 21 yards, WR Ernest Jackson got two for 17 yards, and WR Gary Rice got one for 9 yards. 

Connecticut overwhelmed Buffalo measurably in the primary half, increasing 225 yards to the Bulls' 94, driven by Donald Brown's 208 yards rushing. Bison won the turnover fight in any case, recouping five UConn bumbles. The Bulls scored 20 points off UConn turnovers in the main half, yet were held scoreless in the second half when the Huskies quit turning the ball over. 

Connecticut's success gave the group a last record of 8– 5 and consecutive winning seasons out of the blue since 2003– 04. Bison's last record tumbled to 8– 6, which still denoted the principal winning season for the Bulls since changing to Division I-A football in 1999. 

In a public interview after the diversion, Brown declared that he would not return for his senior season and enter the NFL Draft, saying he told the media he said he was remaining to remove the concentration from himself preceding the amusement. Darker was drafted 27th generally speaking by the Indianapolis Colts, turning into the first UConn player at any point drafted in the first round. Three other UConn players were drafted in the second round: Darius Butler 41st in general by the New England Patriots, Will Beatty 60th by and large by the New York Giants, and cautious end Cody Brown 63rd by and large by the Arizona Cardinals. Tight end Martin Bédard was drafted fifteenth generally speaking in the second round of the Canadian Football League's (CFL) 2009 Draft. Bison did not have any players drafted by either association in 2009; in the 2010 NFL Draft James Starks was chosen in the 6th round, 193rd generally speaking, by the Green Bay Packers. UConn cornerback Robert McClain was likewise drafted by the NFL in 2010, in the seventh round, 249th in general, by the Carolina Panthers. 

In the offseason Connecticut enlisted Joe Moorhead as their new hostile organizer, supplanting the withdrew Rob Ambrose. Turner Gill came back to mentor Buffalo in 2009. Following that season, in any case, he left to assume control over the football program at the University of Kansas. 

Connecticut and Buffalo continued their competition on September 25, 2010, playing a standard season amusement at UConn's Rentschler Field. Despite the fact that the score was tied 14– 14 at halftime, the Huskies pulled away in the second half subsequent to evolving quarterbacks, winning the rematch 45– 21.