2008 Humanitarian Bowl 

The 2008 Humanitarian Bowl was a postseason school football bowl diversion between the Maryland Terrapins and the Nevada Wolf Pack on December 30, 2008. It was the two groups' first gathering. The diversion included two meeting tie-ins: the University of Maryland spoke to the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) and the University of Nevada spoke to the Western Athletic Conference (WAC). The diversion was played at Bronco Stadium in Boise, Idaho and was the twelfth release of the Humanitarian Bowl. It was supported by the New Plymouth, Idaho-based organization Roady's Truck Stops, which professes to be the biggest chain of truck stops in the United States. 

The highlighted coordinate was between what was known as an "uncontrollably conflicting" Maryland group and the third-best surging barrier and fifth-best absolute offense of Nevada. The outcome was a hostile shoot-out. The last score of 42– 35 for Maryland surpassed all out focuses forecasts by as much as 17 and tied the unsurpassed Humanitarian Bowl record. 

Prior to the kickoff, seven Maryland players, including six starters, got halfway diversion suspensions for disregarding the group's time limitation. Maryland took a speedy lead inside the initial two minutes of play, yet rehashed mistakes enabled Nevada to stay aggressive and the lead changed hands multiple times. In the second quarter, Nevada's double danger quarterback, Colin Kaepernick, was limped by a lower leg damage that modified the appearance of the amusement. All things considered, Kaepernick stayed in the diversion for nearly its total and had the capacity to scramble for a touchdown. Part of the way through the second from last quarter, Maryland's driving running back, Da'Rel Scott, showed up of the diversion. He had been one of the suspended players, yet scored twice in the last quarter to help secure a triumph for the Terrapins. 

The ACC had a legally binding tie-in with the Humanitarian Bowl that managed the bowl sorting out board of trustees the eighth pick of the meeting's bowl-qualified groups. An ACC group took part in the amusement consistently from 2003 to 2008. Prior to the determinations, the ACC reported that 2008 would be the last year of its tie-in with the amusement because of movement and cost contemplations. 

The other gathering tie-in was with the WAC, which has for the most part handled its hero in the amusement. The WAC has given a group to the Humanitarian Bowl each year since 2001. At first, it was conjectured that the WAC title group, Boise State, would show up in the bowl played in its home arena. 

Toward the finish of the customary season, there were three undefeated groups from non-Bowl Championship Series (BCS) meetings, and National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) rules required just a single to be given a billet in a BCS amusement. These three non-BCS groups were Ball State, Boise State, and Utah. The Utes were viewed as overwhelming top choices for that compartment. In a preemptive move, Humanitarian Bowl authorities led exchanges with Ball State of the Mid-American Conference (MAC) with an end goal to orchestrate a "Skirmish of the Unbeatens" with Boise State. In the event that Ball State acknowledged, probably with the assent of the ACC, it would have constrained a group from the ACC to discover an everywhere offer. In any case, Ball State authorities were discontent with the home-field advantage that would have been given to Boise State and the costs related with heading out to Idaho. Ball State, which lost the MAC Championship Game and finished its ideal record, declined the suggestions and rather met Tulsa in the 2009 GMAC Bowl. 

In 2008, the ACC encountered a period of surprising equality and handled a NCAA-record number of ten bowl-qualified groups. Six of those had indistinguishable 4– 4 meeting records, and the staying four had 5– 3 gathering records. Among the qualified groups, N.C. State (6– 6) had the main non-winning in general record and was along these lines constrained by NCAA tenets to discover an everywhere billet outside of the ACC tie-in amusements. 

For the 2008 season, the ACC had nine tie-in amusements. The Orange Bowl was the gathering's BCS amusement and allowed a programmed offer to the victor of the ACC Championship Game. The Chick-fil-A Bowl in Atlanta, Georgia had the main pick of qualified ACC groups after the BCS amusement, trailed by the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Florida and the Champs Sports Bowl in Orlando, Florida. The Music City Bowl in Nashville, Tennessee; the Meineke Car Care Bowl in Charlotte, North Carolina; and the Emerald Bowl in San Francisco, California presented their inclinations together, and chose in a specific order if an understanding between them couldn't be come to. An exceptional condition additionally ensured that, with at least eight successes, the failure of the title diversion would be chosen no lower than by the Music City Bowl. The Humanitarian Bowl had the eighth-generally speaking decision pursued by the debut EagleBank Bowl in Washington, D.C. 

That season, a monetary subsidence considered into the determinations. By and large, bowl authorities endeavored to choose groups in close geographic vicinity to make up for a foreseen drop in ticket deals. Maryland, in any case, expressed that they would not acknowledge a billet to look in-state rival Navy in the close-by EagleBank Bowl because of a contention with the school's last, most important tests. The Emerald Bowl was not seen as a practical decision because of Maryland's support in it the year earlier. 

Maryland head mentor Ralph Friedgen presented his defense to bowl authorities by saying that the Terrapins had beaten four of the other five 4– 4 groups and not played a diversion against the fifth, Miami. Three of those groups were chosen in front of Maryland: the Meineke Car Care Bowl chosen the close-by North Carolina group; the Gator Bowl picked Clemson, a school with a generally well-voyaging fanbase; and the Emerald Bowl chosen Miami. After the higher-need bowl recreations made their choices, the Humanitarian Bowl had the decision of either Maryland or Wake Forest, the school with the littlest enlistment in any BCS football meeting. Compassionate Bowl authorities picked Maryland in light of its bigger graduated class base, all around voyaged fans, and more prominent TV advertising potential. 

In week 12 of the 2008 season, Maryland had a 7– 3 record and remained on the ACC Atlantic Division. Nonetheless, the Terps lost their last two standard season recreations and slid to a four-route tie for third spot in the division. Prior in the season, Maryland crushed four positioned adversaries, an accomplishment outperformed just by the two groups that played in the BCS National Championship Game, Florida and Oklahoma—and those each played an additional amusement with their meeting titles. Maryland went through three weeks positioned in the best 25 of the Associated Press Poll. 

Toward the finish of the 2008 season, the WAC had six bowl-qualified groups, five of which took an interest in bowl amusements. The WAC had three gathering tie-ins: the New Mexico Bowl in Albuquerque, New Mexico; the Hawaii Bowl in Honolulu, Hawaii; and the Humanitarian Bowl. Moreover, the WAC had arrangements for contingent cooperation in the Poinsettia Bowl in San Diego, California; the Independence Bowl in Shreveport, Louisiana; and the GMAC Bowl in Mobile, Alabama. 

Previously, the Humanitarian Bowl normally chosen the WAC title group. Be that as it may, Boise State was not substance to play a center evaluation ACC group after arrangements with Ball State fizzled. The WAC magistrate said that the Broncos would search for another coordinate that had "a similar kind of sizzle" as a coordinate against Ball State. The "Idaho Statesman" included that "The Terrapins don't 'sizzle.'" Boise State headed out to the Poinsettia Bowl, where they confronted eleventh positioned TCU, which had lost just to the BCS-bound Oklahoma and Utah groups. 

In Nevada's last customary season amusement, Kaepernick drove the Wolf Pack in a second-half rebound to crush Louisiana Tech. The seventh win ensured Nevada a compartment in one of the three WAC tie-in dishes. The Wolf Pack completed the season in a three-manner tie for second spot in the WAC close by Hawaii and Louisiana Tech. Hawaii had a standing contract with the main residence Hawaii Bowl where it played Notre Dame. Louisiana Tech, having lost to both Nevada and Hawaii, seemed probably not going to be chosen for a bowl by any stretch of the imagination. In any case, the Bulldogs had the capacity to exploit a temporary WAC compartment in the Independence Bowl since neither the Big 12 nor the Southeastern Conference could give qualified groups. Two other WAC groups accomplished bowl qualification with 6– 6 records. Fresno State verified a space in the New Mexico Bowl, however San Jose State was unfit to discover an everywhere billet. 

With Boise State's choice to decrease the Humanitarian Bowl welcome, the sorting out advisory group looked to Nevada. Like Maryland, Nevada finished the customary season with a 7– 5 record. The Wolf Pack's timetable included misfortunes against then 6th positioned Missouri, ninth-positioned Boise State, and twelfth positioned Texas Tech. Nevada completed the customary season positioned second broadly in hurrying offense and fifth in all out offense. The Wolf Pack had two 1,000-yard rushers: double danger quarterback Colin Kaepernick and running back Vai Taua. Kaepernick additionally tossed for more than 2,000 yards. 

On December 7, 2008, the Humanitarian Bowl formally stretched out solicitations to Maryland and Nevada, the two of which were acknowledged. 

The site of the diversion was Bronco Stadium in Boise, Idaho, the home field of Boise State University. The field's blue fake turf has the refinement of being the main non-green playing field being used by a Division I Football Bowl Subdivision group. Because of the shade of its field, the arena is nicknamed "The Blue" and the field itself is some of the time informally alluded to as "smurf turf". 

Savants and rivals have declared that Boise State profits by an additional preferred standpoint by wearing their blue home garbs to coordinate the playing field. Boise State had a 64– 2 record at Bronco Stadium from 1998 to 2008. Nevada, assigned as the home group, in like manner wore blue garbs amid the Humanitarian Bowl. 

ACC groups saw a compartment in the Humanitarian Bowl as bothersome because of its area. Beside being one of the lower need tie-ins, the goal is far outside the meeting's geographic impression. Travel costs from the East Coast are restrictively costly and generally caused low turnout among ACC fans. Likewise, the amusement is facilitated at a chilly climate scene, which is a weakness in examination with ACC bowl diversions in spots, for example, Florida, California, and Georgia. 

The amusement truly depended on nearby ticket deals, and the partaking schools attempted to sell their dispensed tickets. On December 8, a Boise-zone TV news station detailed that Maryland and Nevada had sold only sixteen and eight tickets, separately. The story was generally coursed by games related sites, yet the figures were defamed by a Maryland official. On December 18, the Reno Gazette-Journal announced that 100 tickets had been sold by Nevada. Maryland authorities conceded that ticket deals among its fans were relied upon to be low, with one expressing they were in the "mid-hundreds" a week and a half from the diversion date. As per a "Baltimore Sun" columnist, Maryland's last ticket figure was around 800. By correlation, Clemson sold around 3,500 tickets for the 2001 Humanitarian Bowl, and Georgia Tech sold about 250 tickets for the 2007 Humanitarian Bowl. 

Forecasts for the amusement changed, yet for the most part supported Nevada with Maryland as the dark horse. A few productions, including "Sports Illustrated", named Nevada as three-point top picks in spread wagering. ESPN's ACC reporter anticipated Nevada to win by 21 points. Las Vegas wagering firms allocated Nevada as 0.5-to 3.0-point top choices. The over-under was anticipated to be somewhere in the range of 60.0 and 62.0 points. 

Under head mentor Ralph Friedgen, Maryland had earned a notoriety for irregularity, now and again notwithstanding being alluded to as "schizophrenic". Amid the ordinary season, the Terrapins figured out how to beat four of the five top-25 groups they confronted: 23rd-positioned California, twentieth positioned Clemson, 21st-positioned Wake Forest, and sixteenth positioned North Carolina. Those groups therefore took an interest in bowl diversions. Notwithstanding, Maryland likewise lost to groups they were relied upon to overcome. They lost by ten to 12.5-point longshots Middle Tennessee State. Maryland endured a 31-point shut-out against Virginia, a group (at that point 1– 3) that had lost to Duke, 31– 3, the week earlier. 

Nevada endured three of its five misfortunes against then top-twelve positioned groups. They lost to Big 12 Championship sprinter up Missouri and Texas Tech, which, in middle of the season, was in conflict for the national title and was driven by Heisman Trophy prospect Graham Harrell. Nevada dealt with a nearby diversion against Boise State. The Wolf Pack lost by seven points to a group that recorded a normal 21.4-point edge of triumph in an ideal 12– 0 regular season. Boise State safeguarded triumph when a Hail Mary go from Kaepernick was separated in the last seconds. Nevada, notwithstanding, was additionally blamed for conflicting play. The Wolf Pack endured a home misfortune to "lasting WAC scavenger" New Mexico State, 48– 45. 

Maryland's offense was controlled by first-year hostile facilitator and previous wide beneficiaries mentor James Franklin, who used a West Coast framework. Amid the 2008 standard season, beginning quarterback Chris Turner tossed for 2,318 yards, 11 touchdowns, and 10 interceptions. NFL Draft prospect Darrius Heyward-Bey aggregated 561 receiving yards in ten recreations. Heyward-Bey likewise recorded 208 rushing yards and was regularly used in turns around and other trap plays because of his breakaway speed. Maryland had another hostile weapon in running back Da'Rel Scott, who kept running for 959 yards amid the normal season. By and large, the surging offense increased 134.5 yards per diversion and was positioned 72nd in the country. Against Virginia Tech and Boston College, Maryland scrambled for −12 and −6 yards, individually. The earlier year, in the 2007 Emerald Bowl against Oregon State, Maryland recorded 19 yards on the ground against the then second-positioned hurrying safeguard. 

About Maryland, Nevada head mentor Chris Ault stated, "Their offense to me is adjusted. They can run the ball and work superbly. With [quarterback Chris] Turner, they split out and they have some decent collectors. Though Missouri was going to toss it as much as Texas Tech did, I think Maryland is most likely one of the more adjusted groups we've played for this present year." 

The Maryland offense confronted first-year cautious facilitator Nigel Burton's Nevada barrier. It positioned third in the country against the run, permitting 74.5 rushing yards per amusement, yet was last (120th) in the country in passing protection, permitting a normal of 321.1 passing yards per diversion. Nevada was positioned eighth in the quantity of quarterback sacks with 35. Kevin Basped, positioned tenth in the country in sacks, and Dontay Moch, positioned fifteenth, aggregated in excess of nine each. Maryland quarterback Turner was sacked 11 times in the Terrapins' last two amusements against Florida State and Boston College. Nevada was likewise positioned 6th broadly in handles for misfortune, with a normal of 8.0 per diversion. 

In 2008, Nevada regularly ran a hostile plan alluded to as the "gun offense", a framework that was spearheaded by head mentor Chris Ault. In the gun offense, the quarterback lines up four yards straightforwardly behind the inside and with a running back legitimately behind the quarterback. Under the framework, the offense endeavors to keep the contradicting protection shaky by broadening the sorts of plays that can be run, with an attention on running up the center, "quarterback attendants" in which the passer runs the ball, and play activity passes where the quarterback fakes a hand-off before tossing to a collector. It means to make man-to-man coordinate ups with the beneficiaries and adjust for an undersized hostile line. With the running back clouded from view by the quarterback, it can likewise make perplexity for the contradicting linebackers and permit progressively powerful misleading, which is basic to play-activity fakes. 

The framework functioned admirably amid the customary season. Nevada beginning quarterback and 2008 WAC Offensive Player of the Year Colin Kaepernick kept running for more than 16 touchdowns notwithstanding going for 19 touchdowns. Nearby Kaepernick, Nevada's hurrying offense was driven by running back Vai Taua, who kept running for 14 touchdowns. With two 1,000-yard rushers without precedent for school history, Nevada kept running for a normal of 291.4 yards per diversion. Nevada was positioned fifth broadly as far as complete offense, averaging 510.6 yards per diversion. 

With respect to confronting the gun offense, Maryland head mentor Ralph Friedgen stated, "In the event that we can keep our assignments and handle, we'll be OK. One missed handle could be a major play ... With the tossing diversion, there could be a great deal of one-on-one circumstances. To me, it's pick your toxic substance. What they specialize in is run it. What we'd like to do is get them off timetable. On the off chance that they blend it, at that point we're stuck in an unfortunate situation." 

Nevada mentor Ault stated, "I think the Maryland barrier is as physical as Missouri's might have been." Kaepernick stated, "You see how restrained and how hard they play. They're never crooked. On the off chance that they should be some place, they will be there and they will be prepared to make a play. At the point when plays come their direction, they make them. That is something we must be prepared for. We need to discover a shortcoming and endeavor it." 

After Maryland's last standard season diversion, cautious organizer Chris Cosh and tight finishes mentor and exceptional groups right hand Danny Pearman reported their abdications. Cosh came back to Kansas State, where he had instructed before Maryland, to accept guarded play-calling obligations under as of late re-enlisted head mentor Bill Snyder. Danny Pearman came back to his place of graduation, Clemson, to work for Dabo Swinney, who had been elevated from hostile organizer to between time head mentor and, at long last, head mentor for the Tigers. For the bowl diversion, Maryland's guarded line mentor, Al Seamonson, was named as the interval cautious facilitator. Third-year understudy Brian White filled in for Pearman as the between time tight closures mentor and would help head mentor Friedgen in running the extraordinary groups. 

Quickly before the amusement, Maryland head mentor Ralph Friedgen set incomplete diversion suspensions on seven players who abused the group's pre-bowl time limitation. The suspended players were linebackers Moise Fokou, Trey Covington, Antwine Perez, and Derek Drummond, cornerback Jamari McCollough, the quarterback's favored third-down wide recipient Danny Oquendo, and driving running back Da'Rel Scott. All with the exception of Drummond were standard starters. Therefore, an a lot more youthful line-up began for Maryland, including, as indicated by Friedgen, some who most likely would not have seen playing time generally. 

Friedgen expressed that the time limitation infringement happened more than a few evenings, and that diverse players abused the standard to isolate degrees. He educated Maryland athletic chief Deborah Yow of the infractions and at first proposed sending the majority of the time limitation violators back to Maryland by transport. Yow disagreed, and they consented to suspend the players for part of the amusement. Depicting the episode, Friedgen said that "Five percent of [the] folks figured they didn't have to hear me out, that they could get bed looked at and sneak." He included, "However I checked again at 1 o'clock. "This isn't my first rodeo." 

The 2008 Humanitarian Bowl commenced at 2:30 p.m. Mountain Time on Tuesday, December 30, 2008 before a horde of 26,781 spectators at Bronco Stadium in Boise, Idaho. The climate conditions were shady with a temperature of 38 °F (3 °C) and wind at eight mph (12.9 km/h) from the southeast. The directing staff comprised of arbitrator Clair Gausman, umpire Rico Orsot, linesman Cal McNeill, line judge Gary McNanna, back judge Tom Bessant, field judge Shane Standley, side judge Kim Nelson, and scorer Mike Cannon. The amusement was broadcast on ESPN and drew a TV rating of 2.1 for an expected 3,039,000 watchers. It was a 218% increase in watchers at home from the past season's diversion. 

The amusement began with Maryland getting the kickoff, which Kenny Tate returned 17 yards to the Terrapins' 35-yard line. Quarterback Chris Turner tossed a short go to Torrey Smith, conveying the ball to the Maryland 41-yard line, and afterward tossed a fragmented pass. On third down with three yards to go, Turner associated with first year recruit Adrian Cannon for a 59-yard touchdown pass. In any case, placekicker Obi Egekeze missed the additional point. 

In consequent belongings, Nevada and Maryland both neglected to increase first downs and traded punts. Nevada quarterback Colin Kaepernick then drove a drive that incorporated a 68-yard go to the Maryland three-yard line. The Terrapins' safeguard halted two surging endeavors by Vai Taua, however a short go to wide beneficiary Chris Wellington was finished for Nevada's first touchdown. With the additional point, Nevada led the pack, 7– 6. Wolf Pack placekicker Brett Jaekle executed a 69-yard kickoff to Torrey Smith, and he returned it 99 yards for a second Maryland touchdown. Egekeze made the additional point and Maryland recovered the lead, 13– 7, with 7:53 staying in the quarter. 

On the resulting kickoff, Egekeze endeavored to dismiss the ball as it tumbled from the tee. This brought about an unexpected squib that was returned 36 yards to the Terps' nine-yard line. Nevada's Kaepernick endeavored to surge yet was halted for no addition. On the following play, he tossed the ball into the end zone, yet it was blocked by Maryland wellbeing Kenny Tate, bringing about a touchback. The Terps began their very own 20-yard line, and running back Davin Meggett scrambled for 13 yards and a first down. Turner at that point connected up with green bean collector Ronnie Tyler for another first down at the Maryland 49-yard line. After a bogus begin punishment, the Terps were unfit to pick up a first down and punted the ball away. The ball folded into the end zone for a touchback, and Nevada began the last drive of the quarter at its 20-yard line. Kaepernick then go for two first downs, grabbed another because of a pass obstruction call against Maryland, and mixed for one more. He at that point gave off to Taua, who surged 17 yards for a touchdown. Nevada re-led the pack, 14– 13, with 46 seconds staying in the quarter. 

Nevada's Jaekle made a short commencement, and Maryland tight end Dan Gronkowski restored the ball eight yards to the Maryland 44-yard line. On the last play of the quarter, Turner gave the ball off to sophomore running back Morgan Green, who got three yards. The quarter finished with Nevada driving, 14– 13. 

The second quarter started with Maryland possessing the ball at its 47-yard line. On the principal play of the quarter, Turner gave off to Green, who broke free of the Nevada barrier for a 53-yard gain and a touchdown. The score and additional point gave Maryland an important lead, 20– 14, with 14:50 staying in the main half. 

Nevada and Maryland at that point traded punts multiple times, and the Wolf Pack punted it away a fourth time. In the range of two arrangement, Kaepernick was sacked multiple times, when each by linebackers Dave Philistin, Alex Wujciak, and Adrian Moten. Accordingly, Kaepernick endured a lower leg sprain and played the remainder of the amusement, yet he detectably supported his healthy side. The Terps took over on their 47-yard line with 0:29 staying in the half. Turner finished an eight-yard go to Ronnie Tyler, and a Nevada hit outside the field of play brought about a 15-yard punishment against Nevada and a first down for Maryland. After two fragmented passes, Turner at that point changed over on third down again with a hurl to Tyler for 16 yards and afterward yet again for 14 yards and a touchdown to acquire the score to 26– 14 Maryland's support. The Terps chose to endeavor a two-point change, and Turner finished a go to a wide-open Meggett in the correct side of the end zone. With six seconds staying in the main half, Maryland had a 28– 14 lead. Nevada got Maryland's kickoff, yet chose to run out the clock and head into halftime. 

Maryland commenced to Nevada to begin the second half, and the groups again traded punts twice. Kaepernick sat out the following arrangement because of his sprained lower leg. Reinforcement quarterback Nick Graziano dominated however was unfit to finish two passes and Nevada punted a third time. In the following arrangement, Turner tossed a capture attempt to Nevada wellbeing Jonathan Amaya, who returned it for 33 yards to the Maryland 22-yard line, at that point bumbled. The ball was recouped by Nevada, and Kaepernick gained by the turnover with a 17-yard touchdown go to Taua, narrowing Nevada's shortfall to 28– 21. 

Jaekle commenced to the Maryland 30-yard line where it was returned by Green for two yards. A new Da'Rel Scott at that point showed up in the diversion. He conveyed the ball multiple times in progression to progress to the Nevada 46-yard line. On third down with nine yards to go, Turner was sacked by protective lineman Kevin Basped and the ball was thumped free. It was gotten by Wolf Pack linebacker Brandon Marshall who at that point additionally bumbled. Maryland hostile lineman Scott Burley recuperated it on the Nevada 45-yard line. The rotating changes under lock and key gave Maryland a first down, and Turner at that point associated with Darrius Heyward-Bey on a 11-yard go for another first down. Scott hurried twice to get a first down at the Nevada 23-yard line. After a surge by Meggett, Turner was sacked by cautious end Dontay Moch and again bungled. This time, Nevada recuperated the ball and held belonging. Kaepernick then go to wide collector Mike McCoy for 38 yards to the Maryland 27-yard line. Vai Taua got seven yards on a surge endeavor, and the quarter reached an end with Maryland driving, 28– 21. 

The final quarter started with Nevada possessing the ball at the Maryland 20-yard line. The primary play of the quarter was a surge endeavor by Taua, yet he bobbled and recuperated the ball for lost one yard. On the second play of the quarter, Kaepernick finished a 21-yard touchdown go to wide collector Marko Mitchell, tying the score at 28– 28. 

Following the Nevada kickoff, Turner gave off to Scott, who got two yards. After a deficient pass, Turner associated with Torrey Smith on a 26-yard hurl for a third-down change. Scott at that point scrambled for three yards to the Nevada 49-yard line, and conveyed it again down the center, this time breaking free for a 49-yard touchdown run. On the accompanying Nevada arrangement, Kaepernick mounted a 38-yard drive to the Maryland 34-yard line, yet neglected to change over on fourth and 12. On the following arrangement, Da'Rel Scott was given the ball multiple times in progression to get first downs with surges of 11, 23, 30 yards and a touchdown on a two-yard run. The score and additional point gave Maryland a two-touchdown lead, 42– 28. Nevada's offense came back to the field with 7:44 remaining in the diversion and utilized very nearly three minutes in a 37-yard drive that finished in a block attempt by Maryland wellbeing Jeff Allen on the Maryland 38-yard line. After no addition on a surge by running back Morgan Green, Maryland endeavored an end-around. Turner was ventured on, and the handoff was messed up. The proposed beneficiary, Heyward-Bey, failed yet figured out how to recoup it for lost six yards. After Nevada got a period out, Green scrambled for a five-yard gain. Nevada consumed its final time out to stop the clock with 4:06 left. Maryland punted it away on fourth down with 11 yards to go. 

Kaepernick took over on the Nevada 23-yard line with 4:01 and made four consummations to drive to the Terps' 15-yard line. Misusing a vast opening, Kaepernick clutched the ball and ran it into the end zone to tight Maryland's lead to one touchdown, 42– 35, with 2:19 remaining. Jaekle endeavored an onside kick with an end goal to give Nevada another shot on offense, however the ball was recouped by Maryland collector Danny Oquendo. Scott scrambled for two and after that 19 yards. With the first down, Maryland had enough time to run out the clock and secure the 42– 35 victory. 

The 2008 Humanitarian Bowl Most Valuable Player respects were granted to Maryland running back Da'Rel Scott, who scrambled for 174 yards, and Nevada quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who tossed for 370 yards. Every wa the measurable pioneer at his separate position, and Scott scored Maryland's two last touchdowns to break the 28– 28 stalemate. Scott additionally had the capacity to enable Maryland to secure the triumph in the last minutes by scrambling for a first down that enabled the group to run out the clock. 

The 77 scored in the diversion tied the Humanitarian Bowl record for all out focuses, which had been set in 1998 by Idaho and Southern Miss. 

Nevada quarterback Colin Kaepernick set the Humanitarian Bowl passing yardage record with 370 yards through the air, and he scored three touchdowns all the while. Regardless of the misfortune, Kaepernick's group outflanked Maryland as far as passing yardage, absolute offense, first downs, and time of ownership. 

Maryland first year recruit wide beneficiary Torrey Smith, with his 99-yard kickoff return, broke the untouched Atlantic Coast Conference single-season kickoff return yards record with 1,089 yards. Smith likewise broke the Humanitarian Bowl kick return record, which was already 98 yards. 

With 174 yards, Da'Rel Scott set the Maryland record for hurrying yards in a bowl diversion, regardless of playing only one and a half quarters because of his check in time suspension. The past record was 165 yards, set by Lu Gambino in Maryland's first bowl diversion, the 1948 Gator Bowl. Scott additionally broke the 1,000 yards-per-season hindrance, making him one of only seven players in school history to do as such. Scott said before in the year that achieving the 1,000-yard benchmark was an individual objective he set for the 2008 season. Among Scott and Davin Meggett, Maryland additionally came the nearest it ever needs to having both a 1,000-and 500-yard rusher in a similar season. Meggett fell simply 43 yards short of the 500-yard mark. 

Nevada set a school record for single-season all out hostile yards, recording 6,611 in 2008. This outperformed the past record of 6,263 yards, set in 1995. 

Four Maryland reinforcements who saw huge playing time because of the suspensions scored touchdowns: second-string opening collector Ronnie Tyler, second-string X-beneficiary Torrey Smith, third-string space recipient Adrian Cannon, and third-string running back Morgan Green. 

Maryland gathered 456 yards of absolute offense: 198 in the air and 258 yards on the ground. Quarterback Chris Turner finished goes to five collectors amid the amusement: Ronnie Tyler (five), Darrius Heyward-Bey (four), Torrey Smith (two), Adrian Cannon (one), and Emani Lee-Odai (one). Gun and Tyler each got a go for a touchdown. Running back Davin Meggett got a go for a two-point transformation. Turner likewise tossed one capture attempt. 

On the ground, hurrying endeavors were made by running backs Da'Rel Scott (14 for 174 yards), Morgan Green (10 for 72 yards), and Davin Meggett (10 for 35 yards). Wide collector Heyward-Bey additionally made a surging endeavor, however failed and recuperated it for lost six yards. 

Maryland had recently demonstrated a capacity to strike rapidly on offense and did as such again in the amusement. In the 2008 season, the group scored 18 out of 28 touchdowns in drives comprising of six or less plays or under two minutes of diversion time. This prompted the group regularly trailing adversaries in time of ownership. In the Humanitarian Bowl, Maryland proceeded with the example by scoring in the main 1:01 with a 59-yard Chris Turner go to Adrian Cannon. Maryland likewise had the ball for 2:26 not as much as Nevada. 

Maryland, which was third-best in the ACC in third down endeavors (40.4%), did nearly inadequately amid the diversion, changing over just four of 14 third downs (28.6%). 

Protectively, Maryland had the capacity to hold the country's third-positioned hurrying offense to only 114 yards on the ground. Nevada quarterback Kaepernick, who kept running for 1,115 yards, was held to simply 19 rushing yards, 15 of which were picked up amid a touchdown run. Two players made their first vocation capture attempts: genuine rookie wellbeing Kenny Tate and senior guarded back Jeff Allen. Tate's capture attempt in the Maryland end zone kept a Nevada score, while Allen's block attempt with 4:54 remaining helped seal the triumph for Maryland. Hostile lineman Scott Burley constrained a bumble against Nevada linebacker Brandon Marshall, who had recouped a third-down bungle by Turner. Burley hence recuperated the constrained bumble and gave Maryland a first down. 

Maryland's exceptional groups recorded one touchdown when Torrey Smith restored a kickoff for 99 yards. After the primary touchdown of the diversion, senior placekicker Obi Egekeze missed an additional point without precedent for his vocation. Right off the bat in the season, Egekeze missed his initial five field objective endeavors, at the same time, preceding the Humanitarian Bowl, he had made all 64 extra-point endeavors of his vocation. After the first fizzled kick, Egekeze made the other five additional point endeavors of the diversion. The placekicker additionally blundered when he endeavored to dismiss the ball as it tumbled from the tee, bringing about a short 15-yard kick which was returned 36 yards by Nevada to the Maryland nine-yard line. 

Nevada recorded preferred insights over Maryland in a few zones notwithstanding eventually losing the diversion. The Wolf Pack assembled seven all the more first downs, 172 more passing yards, 28 more all out hostile yards, 15 fewer punishment yards, 15.8% more third down transformations, and 2:26 more time possessing the ball. 

In the passing amusement, Colin Kaepernick accomplished a 51.1% pass finish rate (24 out of 47). He tossed for 370 yards, including three touchdowns. He finished goes to Mike McCoy (13), Marko Mitchell (five), Chris Wellington (three), Arthur King, Jr. (two), and Vai Taua (one). Mitchell, Wellington, and Taua each got a go for a touchdown. Because of Kaepernick's damage, reinforcement quarterback Nick Graziano played for one arrangement yet was unfit to make a finishing on two endeavors. 

On the ground, Nevada battled against the Maryland barrier, recording 114 rushing yards, far less than its 291.4 per amusement normal. Running plays were endeavored by Kaepernick and Taua, who made 23 carries for 101 yards and one touchdown. In spite of experiencing a sprained lower leg, Kaepernick additionally had the capacity to hasten 15 yards for a hurrying touchdown. 

On the other hand, the Nevada protection experienced issues halting the Maryland run. Nevada's surge resistance permitted 258 yards, contrasted and its ordinary season normal of simply 74.5 yards permitted per diversion. This was particularly valid after a very much refreshed Da'Rel Scott entered the diversion amidst the second from last quarter. Head mentor Chris Ault stated, "He just went through us like we weren't there." Defensive back Jonathan Amaya captured a Chris Turner go for his fourth interference of the period. 

Brett Jaekle dealt with the majority of Nevada's kicking obligations. He made every one of the five additional point endeavors. Jaekle punted multiple times for 295 yards and commenced multiple times for 270 yards. With 1:42 remaining, he endeavored an onside kick, however the ball was recuperated by Maryland's Danny Oquendo. 

With the bowl diversion, Maryland completed the season with a 8– 5 record. The success was Maryland's 600th in school history. Ralph Friedgen's postseason record improved to 4– 2, which gave him twice the same number of bowl wins as some other head mentor in school history. For the 2008 season, Maryland stood 5– 1 in diversions chosen by seven points or less and 8– 0 in amusements commenced amid sunshine hours. 

Nevada posted a last record of 7– 6. The diversion was the third back to back postseason misfortune for Chris Ault and Nevada. Ault's post-season bowl record slid to 1– 5 as an outcome.