Tidus 

Tidus was planned by Tetsuya Nomura with a happy appearance, as opposed to past "Definite Fantasy" heroes. Situation author Kazushige Nojima needed to extend the connection among player and character with monologs portraying the amusement's setting. Tidus is voiced essentially by Masakazu Morita in Japanese and James Arnold Taylor in English. The two on-screen characters delighted in voicing the character, and Morita likewise played out his movement catch. 

He has been commonly generally welcomed by computer game commentators. Tidus' sprightly identity and chivalrous characteristics make him an engaging hero, appearing differently in relation to past male characters in the establishment. His character improvement and sentimental association with Yuna are considered among the best in computer games, in spite of the fact that commentators and fans were separated on Taylor's voicing. Tidus has been well known with fans, regularly positioning as a standout amongst the best "Last Fantasy" characters in surveys. Activity figures and Tidus-related gems have been delivered, and he is a well known cosplay character. 

Before the advancement of "Conclusive Fantasy X", amusement situation author Kazushige Nojima was worried about the connection between the player and the fundamental character in a "Last Fantasy" title and needed to attempt to make the story simpler to pursue. Since the player and the primary character wind up in another world, Nojima needed Tidus' comprehension of that world to follow the player's advancement in the diversion. Nojima felt that Tidus was the most straightforward character to attract the primary portion of "Conclusive Fantasy X", since character and player find out about the storyline together. Nojima made a concise depiction of Tidus for character fashioner Tetsuya Nomura, and Nomura made a sketch for contribution from Nojima and other staff individuals. Nomura was approached to plan Tidus uniquely in contrast to the amusement's subject so he would emerge. Film executive Hiroshi Kuwabara noticed the trouble the designers had in making Tidus and the other fundamental characters reasonable. The staff needed to utilize an undead individual as a playable character, and Tidus was intended to be that character. Amid "Definite Fantasy X" advancement, in any case, Nojima saw a film with a comparable thought for its hero. The job of an undead individual was then given to an auxiliary character, Auron. 

Nomura referenced the complexity between the lead male and female heroes set up by their names; Tidus' name depends on the Okinawan word for "sun", and Yuna's name signifies "night" in Okinawan. The differentiation is additionally shown by the things required to engage their divine weapons: the sun sigil and peak for Tidus, and the moon sigil and peak for Yuna. The engineers experienced issues with Tidus and Yuna's kissing scene, since they were not used to quickening sentimental scenes. As indicated by Visual Works executive Kazuyuki Ikumori, this was because of the utilization of 3D models, and it was reexamined a few times because of a negative reaction from female staff individuals. Executive Yoshinori Kitase said that in the advancement of "Conclusive Fantasy X", one of the staff's fundamental goals was to concentrate on the sentiment among Tidus and Yuna. Nojima said that he cried amid the diversion's closure, when Tidus and Yuna isolated and Tidus evaporates. 

Originator Nomura said that he needed Tidus' garments and assistants to recommend an association with the ocean. Tidus' attire has an unmistakable blue theme; his blitzball crew logo, in view of a fish snare, is an amalgam of the letters "J" and "T" (the primary letters of Tidus' name and that of his dad, Jecht). Since a player can change Tidus' name, the character isn't alluded to by name in capable of being heard exchange; be that as it may, a character in Dream Zanarkand utilizes Tidus' name in a discourse box. The main other in-amusement appearance of his name is "Tidu" in Spiran content on the nameplate of an Auroch storage in the Luca arena. Before "Conclusive Fantasy X"s discharge, Tidus was referred to the media as Tida. In mid 2001, PlayOnline changed the character's name to "Tidus". Since his name is never spoken in "Definite Fantasy X", its proposed articulation has been discussed. Meetings with James Arnold Taylor and spoken exchange in the English renditions of "Dissidia Final Fantasy", "Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy", and "Kingdom Hearts" (with appearance appearances by the character) demonstrate that it is articulated (); in the English variant of "Kingdom Hearts II", Tidus' name is articulated (). As indicated by Taylor, it was articulated amid the restriction of "Conclusive Fantasy X" on the grounds that the storyteller of an early English trailer articulated it that way. 

For the continuation, "Last Fantasy X-2", maker Kitase felt that the best fan desire was for the gathering of Tidus and Yuna after their detachment in the primary diversion. The diversion created gossipy tidbits about Tidus' association with the scoundrel, Shuyin, who was physically comparative and had similar performers. Square reacted that such a storyline, given Tidus' temperament, would be excessively convoluted. For the remastering of "Definite Fantasy X" and "Last Fantasy X-2", maker Kitase's inspiration was to have individuals too youthful to even consider having played the amusements experience them; his child was just mature enough to know the characters of Tidus and Yuna from "Dissidia Final Fantasy" and its prequel. For the initial two "X" recreations' rerelease, Nomura upgraded Tidus dependent on his more established appearance from the audiodrama "Will". For the establishment's 30th commemoration, Square displayed Tidus' new plan in an exhibition hall. 

As indicated by Nomura, he needed to give Tidus a chipper persona and appearance in the wake of structuring genuine, ill humored primary characters for "Conclusive Fantasy VII" and "Last Fantasy VIII". He needed to proceed with the ongoing pattern of sky-related names, and Kazushige Nojima picked a name dependent on "tiida" (Okinawan for "sun"). Nojima called Tidus' identity "vivacious" and contrasted him with "Definite Fantasy VIII"s Laguna Loire and Zell Dincht, two other happy characters. Tidus was at first an inconsiderate handyman who was a piece of a reprobate group, however Kitase said he would be a powerless hero and he was made a competitor. 

His association with his dad depended on "stories all through the ages, for example, the old Greek legends" and would uncover the way to the shortcoming of Sin, the amusement's fundamental opponent. Kitase noticed that, as opposed to past vagrant characters found in the establishment, Tidus' character curve included tolerating Jecht's looking for recovery for Tidus' youngster misuse. Kitase felt that the voice acting and outward appearance were significant to Tidus at this stage. Motomu Toriyama said that when "Last Fantasy X" was discharged, he saw the story from Tidus' perspective: "about parent, tyke and family". 

Masakazu Morita voiced Tidus in Japanese. He considered the character a lifelong feature, similar to his voicing of "Dye" manga hero Ichigo Kurosaki. Morita likewise delighted in playing out Tidus' movement catch, which gave him a more noteworthy comprehension of the character's identity; when he recorded Tidus' discourse for the diversion, he moved his body. Morita said that Tidus was his top pick, calling him "the most exceptional, most unique character to me". As his first work as a performing artist, he has affectionate recollections of voicing Tidus and associating with other "Last Fantasy X" staff individuals. Morita said that there was no trouble in filling in as Tidus, since the character's identity was like his own, and he didn't have to think about the character. Notwithstanding, he was worried that if fans did not appreciate Tidus it would affect his profession. When it declared the Japanese performing artist, Square said that Morita was picked in light of the fact that he likewise did the movement catch for Zell (which would influence fans to recall past diversions). Crosswise over "Definite Fantasy X" there are additionally flashback scenes which delineate a seven-year old Tidus. For these scenes Tidus is rather voiced by Yūto Nakamura. 

For the battling amusement "Dissidia Final Fantasy", Morita came back to voice Tidus. He was worried about having the capacity to play out the character's lines like the first "Last Fantasy" arrangement, since it had been almost 10 years since he voiced Tidus. At that point, he was likewise increasingly acquainted with going about as Ichigo and Keiji Maeda from Capcom's "Sengoku Basara" hack-and-cut diversions and the characters had an unexpected vocal tone in comparison to Tidus'. At the point when Moriata came back to voice Tidus, he attempted to make it coordinate his unique execution. At the point when the diversion executive complimented Morita for keeping the character's tone, Morita was diminished and clowned that he felt more youthful. 

James Arnold Taylor was Tidus' English-language voice. Taylor was offered the job by voice chief Jack Fletcher (who trusted that he would fit the character), and interpreter Alexander O. Smith disclosed Tidus to him. As opposed to Morita, Taylor made the character friendlier and less genuine with the staff's endorsement. In the wake of account "Last Fantasy X", Taylor said that he would appreciate voicing Tidus once more; the character was "like an old companion to me now. I discover a lot more about him now than I did when we originally began, knowing barely anything about him. I would truly loathe it in the event that any other person voiced him". Recording the diversion took Taylor three-and-a-half months, and he delighted in the experience. 

As per Taylor, it would be farfetched for Tidus to conceal feeling. He said that in spite of the fact that there were things he would change about his execution, (for example, the scene where Tidus and Yuna start giggling together), he was appreciative for the warm fan gathering of his work. Smith felt that the constrained snicker scene was adjusted well from the first Japanese scene, due to how "stilted and strange" it was in the first form. Smith was confounded by Morita and Mayuko Aoki's execution, yet in the wake of talking about it with Nojima he thought that it was well done in the two dialects and called it "unbalanced" and "amusing". At the point when "Last Fantasy X" was re-discharged in 2013, Taylor said that he was pleased to be Tidus' voice. For "Dissidia NT", Taylor remarked that while Tidus' new job would appear to be new to players because of how he is driven by and by into fight, individuals would in any case discover him as an engaging new attribute. 

In "Definite Fantasy X", Tidus is a player in the submerged game of blitzball in a progressed, innovative variant of Zanarkand. Belying his lively, cheerful frame of mind, Tidus despises his missing dad, Jecht—at first due to his mom's disregard, and later for their competition at blitzball. Amid a blitzball competition, Zanarkand is crushed by a colossal, covered animal known as Sin. Sin transports Tidus and Jecht's companion, Auron, to the universe of Spira. After his entry on Spira, Tidus floats to the island of Besaid and joins various gatekeepers on an adventure to help Yuna rout Sin. Tidus goes along with them in the expectation of discovering his direction home. 

When he meets Auron, Tidus discovers that Jecht and Auron made a similar journey ten years before to ensure the summoner Braska (Yuna's dad) and vanquished Sin (who was reawakened as Jecht). As the adventure proceeds, Tidus, losing trust that he will return home, starts a sentimental association with Yuna and swears not to give her bite the dust after the watchmen a chance to disclose to him that Sin's fight will kill her. At the point when the gathering approaches Zanarkand, Tidus discovers that he and Zanarkand are the fantasies of dead individuals known as "fayth". "Dream" Zanarkand was made when Sin was conceived amid the war among Zanarkand and Bevelle and the first Zanarkand was destoyed. In the event that Sin is forever crushed, the calling of Dream Zanarkand and its kin (counting Tidus) will stop. In the genuine Zanarkand, the gathering chooses to figure out how to obliterate Sin which does not require the penance of a watchman or a summoner. They assault Sin, entering its shell. They in the long run discover Jecht (whom they should annihilation to dispose of Sin), and Tidus makes harmony with his dad in the outcome. Subsequent to crushing the soul of Yu Yevon (who is in charge of Sin's resurrection), the "fayth" are permitted to leave and the calling of Dream Zanarkand closes. As he evaporates, Tidus bids a fond farewell to his companions and joins the spirits of Auron, Jecht and Braska in life following death. 

Tidus shows up in the plot of the 2003 spin-off, "Conclusive Fantasy X-2", despite the fact that gathering him is the player's goal. Two years after the occasions of "Conclusive Fantasy X", Yuna sees a circle with a young fellow (looking like Tidus) caught in a jail. She joins the Gullwings, a circle chasing gathering, and goes around Spira in the desire for discovering more pieces of information that Tidus is alive. The person in the circle is later uncovered as Shuyin. Contingent upon the player's advancement amid the diversion, the "fayth" will appear to Yuna toward the end and disclose to her that they can make Tidus come back to her. He at that point shows up in Spira, and he and Yuna are brought together. In another last scene, Tidus (uncertain whether he is as yet a fantasy) needs to stay with Yuna. He is additionally an unlockable character as Star Player, a blitzball player. In "Definite Fantasy X-2: International + Last Mission" (the amusement's refreshed variant), Tidus is a playable character for fights. An additional scene, set after the first diversion's play-through, uncovers that he is living in Besaid with Yuna. A fantasy of Tidus additionally shows up as a manager character. 

Tidus' discourse, monologs and melodies were incorporated on the "Last Fantasy X Vocal Collection" and "feel/Go dream: Yuna and Tidus" CDs. Despite the fact that he doesn't completely comprehend that he isn't the "fayth" dream, Tidus feels that vanishing would be desirable over making Yuna cry once more. The epic "Last Fantasy X-2.5 ~Eien no Daishou~", set after "Conclusive Fantasy X-2", investigates Tidus and Yuna's visit to Besaid Island 1,000 years prior. The HD remastered rendition of "Conclusive Fantasy X" and "Last Fantasy X-2", "Last Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster", includes a sound show ("Final Fantasy X: Will") in which Tidus is another blitzball star who has all the earmarks of being hiding damage. After Yuna parts ways with him, Tidus causes her on a mission to crush a reawakened Sin. Tetsuya Nomura made an amendment of Tidus' structure for this amusement, indicating it will be utilized in a conceivable "Last Fantasy X-3". 

He likewise shows up in amusements outside the "Last Fantasy X" anecdotal universe, and a more youthful form is a companion of the heroes Sora and Riku in the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement. In "Kingdom Hearts", Tidus shows up with more youthful variants of Wakka and "Last Fantasy VIII"s Selphie as a discretionary competing rival. The character shows up in "", and is referenced quickly in "Kingdom Hearts II". A computerized imitation of Tidus is a manager character in "Kingdom Hearts Coded", and he shows up with Auron and Yuna in the tabletop game based "Itadaki Street Special". 

In "Dissidia Final Fantasy" (an activity diversion with a few "Last Fantasy" legends and lowlifess), Tidus is the saint from "Conclusive Fantasy X": a warrior from the goddess, Cosmos, whose father works for the adversary god Chaos. Tidus has two regalia in this diversion, and his contemplations and activities allude to "Conclusive Fantasy X". With the cast, he returns in the prequel "Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy" and speaks to Chaos in the past war. Tidus is gone up against by Yuna and offers his life to spare her from an assault by the reprobate Emperor, yet is spared by Jecht to turn into a warrior of Cosmos. Notwithstanding his past outfits, Tidus has a plan dependent on a representation by Square craftsman Yoshitaka Amano. He shows up in the third section in the arrangement, "Dissidia Final Fantasy NT". Executive Takeo Kujiraoka noticed that the staff got various demands by fans to incorporate Tidus' "Will" look as an elective plan yet Nomura said it was impractical as the organization would initially need to create "Last Fantasy X-3". 

Tidus is a playable character in the "Theatrhythm Final Fantasy" mood amusement. He likewise shows up in "Universe of Final Fantasy", and "Fortune Street: Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy 30th Anniversary". Tidus' vanishing between "Definite Fantasy X" and its spin-off is likewise clarified in the diversion "Mobius Final Fantasy". Caught in a black market like spot known as Palamecia, Tidus unites with a warrior known as Wol. The two join on a journey to turn out to be completely Warrior of Light however Tidus utilizes as a diversion since he couldn't care less about his very own prosperity, happy with his activities in Spira. In the wake of seeing one of Yuna's animals vanish from Palamecia, Tidus chooses to look for an approach to come back to Spira. Following more fights, Tidus finds a precious stone which enables him to be transported back to the world. 

Tidus had a positive gathering in computer game distributions. Raymon Padilla of GameSpy considered him a "pompously dressed Leonardo DiCaprio", whose his blemishes make him engaging. As per GameSpot analyst Greg Kasavin, players may not at first like the character but rather would in the end discover him "reasonably charming". Kasavin composed that Tidus had the "astounding profundity" normal for past "Definite Fantasy" heroes, and called the amusement's consummation "candidly charged and fulfilling". PSXextreme's Arnold Katayev loved Tidus' accommodating identity, standing out it from those of past (standoffish) "Last Fantasy" heroes. Atlus character originator Kazuma Kaneko called him "a dashing lead character". GameZone adulated Tidus' job as the male lead contrasted and past characters for its "interminable feel of youth and guiltlessness". In the book, "Cells, Dragons, and Digital Denizens: The Digital Role-Playing Game", writers Gerald A. Voorhees and Joshua Call contrasted Tidus and "Last Fantasy VII" hero Cloud Strife in appearance and weapon; notwithstanding, they discovered Tidus more sensible than Cloud. In "Support computer games and worldwide enterprises", Mia Consalvo that in spite of Tidus was structured from a Western's point of view which differentiated the others' Eastern plans, the amusement figured out how to mix their looks and advance to the gathering of people. 

In spite of the fact that the disclosure of his actual nature in the amusement's closure was third on 1UP.com's rundown of top-five computer game spoilers (decreasing "something like two 1UP staff members to a condition of teary grieving"), Tidus' revival in the spin-off was called unlikely. GamesRadar's Dave Meikleham discovered the character's destiny in the primary diversion befuddling; he seems, by all accounts, to be alive in the epilog regardless of his vanishing, which isn't clarified until the continuation's end. Matthew Walker of Cheat Code Central composed that Tidus told his dad he detested him in the peak, however later valued him. As per Walker, the amusement's last scene was planned to give trust that Tidus was alive; Walker found the closure (where Sin's thrashing makes Tidus vanish) dismal. 

The character was contrasted with Squall Leonhart, the hero of "Definite Fantasy VIII". The staff of IGN noted contrasts in appearance between them, differentiating Squall's dull hued outfit and "lasting sulk" with Tidus' more splendid outfit and weapon and "a permanent smile". Kurt Kalata of Gamasutra discovered Tidus a more engaging character than Squall, though "somewhat whiny". GameSpot condemned his English-language voicing, saying that they would have favored "a nearly quiet lead character, a la Squall". 1UP discovered him the most exceedingly bad dressed computer game character, refering to Nomura's "manage it" outfit structure; notwithstanding the "over the top" plan, Square could "effectively sell" Tidus as "Definite Fantasy X"s primary hero. As per Square Enix maker Shinji Hashimoto, Tidus cosplay has been well known. The character has additionally enlivened activity figures and adornments. To honor the establishment's twentieth commemoration, Square discharged dolls of Tidus and other "Last Fantasy" heroes. 

In the English-language rendition, IGN said that the character "tends to talk excessively high and quick when he gets energized". Andrew Long of RPGamer scrutinized James Arnold Taylor's work, saying that Tidus should sound "imprudent and enthusiastic" yet his discourse is "idiotic and adolescent". Eurogamer's Tom Brawell concurred, calling Tidus' voice "whiny" and "vile". Regardless of his aversion of the voice acting, Chris Carter of Destructoid delighted in playing as Tidus in the hybrid battling amusement "Dissidia Final Fantasy" and anticipated its reboot. Then again, PSXextreme preferred Taylor's work in voicing Tidus. In the book "Gaming Lives in the Twenty-First Century", the journalists reviewed that Tidus' portrayal varies in the first Japanese arrival of "Definite Fantasy X" and its English name; the confined adaptation neglected to imitate the first Tidus. In a "Last Fantasy X" scene, Yuna advises Tidus to chuckle (to perk him up) and Tidus powers a snicker. In spite of the fact that fans condemned the giggling as excessively constrained, Taylor expressed that it was a deliberately "unbalanced, silly, idiotic chuckle." 

The connection among Tidus and Yuna was recorded as one of the computer game "extraordinary adores" by GameSpot, which called it "a standout amongst the best (and eventually saddest) precedents" of develop sentiment in diversions and refered to its movement through the story as one of the amusement's best components. GamesRadar found the relationship sensible, taking note of that regardless they endeavor to rejoin notwithstanding their penances. Kotaku's Mike Fahey composed that the prevalence of Tidus and Yuna's relationship and his blurring without end at the diversion's end constrained Square to make a continuation so they could meet once more. Gamasutra's Leigh Alexander, calling Tidus a "forgettable legend", all things considered adulated his and Yuna's relationship. In 2001, Tidus and Yuna won "Diversion Informer" Best Couple of the Year grant. Their kiss was positioned the second-best in computer games by Lisa Foiles of "The Escapist". "Kotaku" called the scene a standout amongst gaming's most sentimental, and IGN recorded Tidus and Luna as one of gaming's most noteworthy couples. Yuna's English voice on-screen character, Hedy Burress, said that Tidus' cooperation with Yuna gave her a refined, "womanly perspective". The 1UP.com staff portrayed Tidus as the "great sort of athlete" in light of his help for the amusement's different heroes, however his resentment and development shielded him from being a "cliché cub scout". As indicated by Eurogamer's Tom Brawell, Tidus and different characters "make considerably more honorable and reasonable choices than those made by their antecedents in other "Last Fantasy" amusements". "NowGamer" and "Computerized Spy" found the remastered diversion ailing in feeling, however "Destructoid" said that its models still look great in contrast with more up to date pretending amusements discharged. 

Tidus' character has additionally showed up in notoriety surveys and includes in computer game distributions. He was "Last Fantasy X" second-most-mainstream character (behind Auron) in a fan survey. "Complex" recorded him as the second-best "Last Fantasy" character, outperformed just by Cloud. His minding, lively identity (standing out from past "Conclusive Fantasy" heroes) was commended. "GameZone" positioned Tidus the third-best "Last Fantasy" character (behind Cloud and Sephiroth, likewise from "Conclusive Fantasy VII"), and Heath Hooker called him "a total blend of everything mushy and everything enthusiastic". Tidus was the fourth-most-prevalent male "Last Fantasy" character in a 2012 Square Enix survey. In a "Famitsu" survey, Tidus was casted a ballot the twentieth best computer game character in Japan. Christian Nutt of "GamesRadar" composed that in spite of beginning issues, Tidus' character improvement amid the diversion made him increasingly amiable; Nutt positioned him the fourth-best "Last Fantasy" saint. Tidus and Yuna were incorporated into "The Inquirer"s rundown of most important computer game couples, with Tidus' altruism and their goodbye noted.