Vidya Balan 

Vidya Balan (articulated ; brought into the world 1 January 1979) is an Indian performing artist. Known for spearheading an adjustment in the idea of a Hindi film courageous woman with her depictions of solid willed ladies, she is the beneficiary of a few honors, including a National Film Award, six Filmfare Awards, and six Screen Awards. She was granted the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 2014. 

Vidya tried to a vocation in film since early on and had her first acting job in the 1995 sitcom "Murmur Paanch". She sought after a graduate degree in human science from the University of Mumbai and at the same time made a few ineffective endeavors to begin a profession in film. She accordingly highlighted in TV plugs and music recordings. In 2003 she made her component film debut as the hero of the autonomous Bengali dramatization "Bhalo Theko". In 2005 Vidya earned acclaim for her first Hindi film, the show "Parineeta", and tailed it with a main job in the top-netting parody film "Lage Raho Munna Bhai" (2006). 

This leap forward was trailed by jobs in the rom-coms "Heyy Babyy" (2007) and "Kismat Konnection" (2008) which had negative surveys. Vidya proceeded to build up herself as a main performing artist of Hindi film by assuming five successive jobs to wide basic recognition in the 2009 show "Paa", the 2010 dark parody "Ishqiya", the 2011 semi-personal spine chiller "Nobody Killed Jessica", the 2011 biopic "The Dirty Picture", and the 2012 spine chiller "Kahaani". She pursued this with a progression of movies that performed ineffectively in the cinematic world, in spite of the fact that her execution in "" (2016) was commended. This changed in 2017 when she featured as a radio racer in the fruitful parody dramatization "Tumhari Sulu". 

Notwithstanding acting in movies, Vidya advances philanthropic causes and supports the strengthening of ladies. She at first drew analysis for her fluctuating weight and "sketchy" dress sense, yet was later credited in the media for "not transforming herself to fit into any ordinary space". She turned into an individual from the Indian Central Board of Film Certification in 2017. Vidya is hitched to the film maker Siddharth Roy Kapur. 

Vidya Balan was conceived on 1 January 1979 in Mumbai, to guardians of Tamilian drop. Her dad, P. R. Balan, is the official VP of Digicable and her mom, Saraswathy Balan, is a homemaker. As per Vidya, they talk a blend of Tamil and Malayalam at home. Her senior sister, Priya Balan, works in promoting. The on-screen character Priyamani is her second cousin. 

Vidya experienced childhood in the rural neighborhood of Chembur, Mumbai and went to St. Anthony Girls' High School. Since early on, she sought to a profession in film and was roused by crafted by performers Shabana Azmi and Madhuri Dixit. At 16 years old, she featured in the principal period of Ekta Kapoor's sitcom "Murmur Paanch" as Radhika, a bespectacled adolescent. After the arrangement finished, Vidya declined executive Anurag Basu's idea to star in a TV cleanser musical drama, as she needed to focus on a movie profession. Her folks were strong of the choice yet urged her to finish her training first. She went to St. Xavier's College to seek after a four year college education in humanism and later earned a graduate degree from the University of Mumbai. 

While seeking after her graduate degree, Vidya was given a role as the female lead in the Malayalam film "Chakram", inverse Mohanlal and was in this manner marked on for 12 other Malayalam language films. Notwithstanding, because of generation troubles, "Chakram" was retired. The delay of a film featuring Mohanlal was an unheard event in Malayalam film and makers accused Vidya for bringing "misfortune" to the undertaking; marked her as a "curse"; and supplanted her in the movies that she had been contracted for. She moved concentration to Tamil film. In 2001, she was given a role as the female lead in N. Linguswamy's "Run" (2002). In any case, subsequent to finishing the main shooting plan, she was unceremoniously dropped and supplanted by Meera Jasmine. She was joined under misrepresentations for a sex satire, a classification she was awkward with, and chose to leave the task. From that point, she marked on for a third Tamil movie, "Manasellam" (2003), however was supplanted by Trisha as the chief was disappointed with her work. "Kalari Vikraman", another Malayalam film that she finished work for in 2003, neglected to get a dramatic discharge. In the wake of neglecting to begin a movie vocation, Vidya showed up in around 60 TV advertisements and in music recordings for Euphoria and Shubha Mudgal; a larger part of these were coordinated by Pradeep Sarkar. 

In 2003, Vidya was marked on by Goutam Halder for his autonomous Bengali show "Bhalo Theko": her first film discharge. Her depiction of Anandi, a young lady thinking back about her past, won her an Anandalok Purashkar for Best Actress. Vidya made her Hindi film debut in 2005 with Pradeep Sarkar's melodic show "Parineeta". Before being thrown, she needed to experience broad tryouts for a half year. The film, an adjustment of Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay's tale of a similar name, portrayed the romantic tale of a visionary Lalita (Vidya) and an artist Shekhar (Saif Ali Khan), the child of an entrepreneur agent. Her execution in the film was adulated by commentators; Derek Elley from "Assortment" stated, "An acting disclosure is Tamil newcomer [Vidya] Balan, whose dedicated yet honorable Lalita is the image's substance." "Parineeta" got her a Best Female Debut grant and a designation for Best Actress at the yearly Filmfare Awards function. The next year, Vidya showed up inverse Sanjay Dutt in Rajkumar Hirani's parody film "Lage Raho Munna Bhai". She depicted the job of Jhanvi, a radio racer and the adoration enthusiasm of the hero Munna Bhai. To plan for her job, she met with several radio moves and watched them at work. Her execution was fundamentally generally welcomed, and the film rose as a noteworthy budgetary accomplishment with income of . 

In 2007 Vidya included in a supporting job in Mani Ratnam's semi-true to life show "Master" as a lady experiencing various sclerosis. The film, which featured Mithun Chakraborty, Abhishek Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, and R. Madhavan in driving jobs, performed well in the cinematic world. Nonetheless, film commentators Khalid Mohamed and Raja Sen noticed that her "ability was squandered" in a "minute job". Her next discharge was Nikhil Advani's "", a lighthearted comedy including a group cast, in which she was combined inverse John Abraham. The film, which described six romantic tales, saw Vidya assume the job of a TV correspondent, Tehzeeb Hussain, experiencing a memory misfortune condition. The film, which was a basic and business disappointment, produced positive audits for Vidya. Sukanya Verma of Rediff.com expressed, "Vidya's change from a confident working lady to a powerless, helpless individual is wonderful." 

Vidya then played a supporting job in Vidhu Vinod Chopra's show "", close by Amitabh Bachchan, Boman Irani, Sharmila Tagore, Saif Ali Khan, and Sanjay Dutt. The film, which flopped monetarily, met with positive basic surveys and was chosen as India's legitimate passage to the Oscars for the 80th Academy Awards. She was later given a role as Isha Sahni, a single parent, in Sajid Khan's "Heyy Babyy", close by co-stars Akshay Kumar, Ritesh Deshmukh, and Fardeen Khan. The satire was a film industry achievement yet collected negative audits from commentators, as did Vidya's execution; CNN-IBN's Rajeev Masand condemned her closet and make-up, and thought of her as the "sore thumb" of the film. 

Vidya's fifth and last film of 2007 was Priyadarshan's "Bhool Bhulaiyaa", a change of the Malayalam film "Manichitrathazhu" (1993). Vidya highlighted as Avani Chaturvedi (a character played by Shobana in the Malayalam unique), a lady experiencing dissociative personality issue. Co-featuring Shiney Ahuja, Akshay Kumar, and Ameesha Patel, "Bhool Bhulaiyaa" was a business accomplishment with an overall income of over . Analysts, while being commonly negative of the film, were keen to Vidya's execution. Composing for "Hindustan Times", Khalid Mohamed portrayed her as "bankably affable" and Bollywood Hungama's Taran Adarsh marked her as "awe inspiring". The job earned Vidya a second Filmfare assignment in the Best Actress classification. 

In 2008's "Halla Bol", Vidya assumed a supporting job nearby Ajay Devgn and Pankaj Kapur. The story depended on the life of dissident Safdar Hashmi, who was murdered by political adversaries while performing in a road play ("Halla Bol") in 1989. The film was a basic disappointment. Soon thereafter, she co-featured with Shahid Kapoor in Aziz Mirza's lighthearted comedy "Kismat Konnection". Faring ineffectively in the cinematic world, the film and her execution created a negative reaction; commentator Sonia Chopra remarked, "[Balan] is made to look absolute dull. The hair style is unflattering, the make-up excessively plain, the garments more often than not in grayish or darker. In addition the character is tedious and helps us to remember the one she played in "Lage Raho Munna Bhai"." 

In 2009 Vidya assumed the job of an unwed gynecologist battling with her 12-year-old child's progeria disorder, in the R. Balki-coordinated dramedy "Paa". Amitabh Bachchan assumed the job of Vidya's child and Abhishek Bachchan played the title character. A basic and business achievement, the film has been portrayed as a noteworthy defining moment in her profession. Sukanya Verma contrasted her acting style with that of Dimple Kapadia and noted, "Balan is powerful yet limited and tasks a noteworthy figure of effortlessness and respectability"; Nikhat Kazmi from "The Times of India" further contended that Vidya was fruitful in loaning an "uncommon poise to the picture of the Bollywood mother." Her depiction accumulated her few honors, including a Filmfare Award for Best Actress and a Screen Award for Best Actress. 

Vidya pursued the accomplishment of "Paa" with the Vishal Bhardwaj-delivered "Ishqiya" (2010), a dark parody coordinated by debutant Abhishek Chaubey; co-featuring Naseeruddin Shah, Arshad Warsi, and Salman Shahid. Vidya's job was that of the explicitly manipulative Krishna Verma. Vidya depicted her character as "an embodiment of dark" and a takeoff from the regular depiction of ladies in film. In anticipation of her part, she embraced proficient preparing to talk in the nearby Uttar Pradesh-vernacular. The element just as her execution got basic recognition. Anupama Chopra of NDTV expressed, "Vidya Balan's seething looks singe the screen even as her eyes allude to disaster. She demonstrates that she is miles in front of the cutout Barbie dolls that messiness Bollywood and that erotic nature has next to no to do with appearing." Her work in the film earned Vidya a Filmfare Critics Award for Best Actress, a second successive Best Actress grant at Screen and a designation for Best Actress at Filmfare. 

Raj Kumar Gupta's semi-true to life spine chiller "Nobody Killed Jessica" with Rani Mukerji was Vidya's first arrival of 2011. The film, in light of the Jessica Lal murder case, saw her depict the genuine character of Sabrina Lal, Jessica's hesitant sister. While getting ready for the job, Vidya did not meet Lal on the request of Gupta as "the Sabrina [...] today is not the same as the Sabrina 10 years prior, [when] the story starts". "Nobody Killed Jessica" met with differentiating surveys from pundits, however Vidya's execution was especially lauded. "The Hindu" commented on Vidya's capacity to be "in eminent power over her feelings" and Savera Someshwar of Rediff.com included that "her reluctant non-verbal communication, her confidence, her weakness, her wrath, her distress and her appreciation all go over perfectly". The film had profit of and was noted for being a business accomplishment regardless of the nonappearance of a male lead. Vidya earned another Filmfare selection in the Best Actress class for the film. In March 2011, a review of Vidya's movies was held in Australia, as a major aspect of the Bollywood and Beyond celebration. That equivalent year, Vidya highlighted in a visitor appearance in Santosh Sivan's Malayalam language dream film "Urumi". 

Vidya's next appearance was in Ekta Kapoor's generation "The Dirty Picture", a biopic dependent on the life and demise of the disputable Indian performing artist Silk Smitha. Vidya was given a role as Silk, who was—in Vidya's words—"known for her audacity and in-your-face sexuality." She depicted the job as the "boldest" she had ever played, one that "required a great deal of mental readiness." To look like it, she picked up . The film opened to major basic approval, and Vidya got consistent recognition for her depiction which a few commentators viewed as her best execution to date. Khalid Mohamed watched, "She's exceptional: gutsy, reliably in character and unafraid of uncovering her darker side. Here's the sort of complex execution which you haven't prove in forever and a day." Her chief Milan Luthria portrayed her as the contemporary petitioner of the "sex-image" title and thought about her "ampleness" to any semblance of days of old performing artists Sridevi and Vyjayanthimala. With profit of around the world, "The Dirty Picture" positions among her best discharges. Vidya won a second Filmfare Award, a third back to back Screen Award, and a National Film Award for Best Actress. 

For her next component film, Vidya featured as Vidya Bagchi, a pregnant lady looking for her missing spouse in Sujoy Ghosh's "Kahaani" (2012). The spine chiller, set in the city of Kolkata amid the Durga Puja celebrations, met with wide basic praise. To loan genuineness to her part, Vidya met a few pregnant ladies and found out about their way of life. She produced open and media consideration by wearing a phony child knock amid the film's limited time exercises. Vidya got further thankfulness for her execution in "Kahaani". Subhash K. Jha adulated Vidya's depiction of "elegance under strain" as "estimated and gifted"; Pratim D. Gupta of "The Telegraph" included that she "gets into the physicality of a pregnant lady with unfailing dominance". By and by, the film ended up being a triumph, earning over around the world. Vidya won a fourth sequential Best Actress Award at Screen and a third Best Actress Award at Filmfare. 

In the wake of finishing the obligations of a jury part at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival, Vidya featured inverse Emraan Hashmi as a tumultuous Punjabi lady in "Ghanchakkar", a comic-spine chiller from chief Raj Kumar Gupta. Faultfinders were apathetic about the film and it earned little in the cinematic world. Vidya then gave the voice of Draupadi to "Mahabharat", a 3D movement film dependent on the Indian epic of a similar name. 

The lighthearted comedy "Shaadi Ke Side Effects" was Vidya's first film arrival of 2014. Coordinated by Saket Chaudhary and co-featuring Farhan Akhtar, the film is about a hitched couple who face a progression of comic occasions after the introduction of their youngster. Faultfinders observed the film to be a "bit overstretched", yet commended both Akhtar and Vidya's exhibitions. Additionally that year, Vidya highlighted as the host of "No More Kamzor", a TV extraordinary on ladies strengthening. She at that point featured in the parody dramatization "Bobby Jasoos", in which she assumed the eponymous job of a Hyderabadi lady trying to be an analyst. Vidya was attracted to playing an analyst and related to the character's battle to substantiate herself. It expected her to brandish twelve expound camouflages, and she prepared with a language mentor to embrace a Hyderabadi complement. Saumil Gandhi of "Mumbai Mirror" composed that Vidya's "foam rubs off on the procedures and gives it a vitality that drives the film". Be that as it may, both "Shaadi Ke Side Effects" and "Bobby Jasoos" neglected to locate a wide crowd. 

In 2015, Vidya reteamed with Hashmi in the Mohit Suri-coordinated sentimental dramatization "Hamari Adhuri Kahani". Written by Mahesh Bhatt, the film recounts to the narrative of Vasudha, a single parent caught in an oppressive marriage, who has an additional conjugal illicit relationship. Shubha Shetty-Saha of "Late morning" remarked that Vidya "has demonstrated to us what she's equipped for in her prior motion pictures. Yet, here, saddled with an exhausting, obsolete, tearful character, there was not a lot even she could do". Vidya next assumed the piece of a cop in "Te3n" (2016), a spine chiller roused by the 2013 South Korean film "Montage", co-featuring Amitabh Bachchan and Nawazuddin Siddiqui. She related to her character's "quiet animosity" and attracted to playing a character who directions regard. NDTV's Saibal Chatterjee censured the choice to charge Vidya's crucial job as an uncommon appearance and noticed how much her essence profited the film. Rajeev Masand was condemning of the film's anticipated conclusion, however composed that Vidya "is dependably strong each time she's on screen, raising her forehead, twisting her lip to successfully impart beyond what words can". She at that point depicted the performing artist Geeta Bali in various melodies for "Ekk Albela", a Marathi language biopic of Bhagwan Dada. 

Vidya's last arrival of 2016 was Sujoy Ghosh's "", a spin-off of "Kahaani", despite the fact that it portrayed an alternate story. The film was profoundly foreseen, and faultfinders trusted that Vidya's ongoing spate of inadequately gotten movies would arrive at an end. "Kahaani 2", in any case, was not too gotten as the principal film, despite the fact that Vidya got a Best Actress designation at Filmfare for her depiction of a tyke sexual maltreatment survivor in the film. Raja Sen felt that notwithstanding being a drawing in spine chiller the film's outcome was unsurprising, yet included that "with colossal pledge to the part, [Vidya] gives us a mixing exhibition free of vanity or conspicuousness" and adulated her "skill for prevailing upon the group of onlookers; when she heaves, we pant". 

Srijit Mukherji's period dramatization "Begum Jaan" (2017) saw Vidya assume the job of the main procurer. A Hindi language redo of the Bengali film "Rajkahini" (2015), "Begum Jaan" recounts to the tale of whores who are influenced by the parcel of India in 1947. In planning, Vidya worked with Mukherji to give a backstory to her character, and she investigated the time by perusing Urvashi Butalia's tale "The Other Side of Silence". Shooting in the desolate scene of rustic Jharkhand ended up being a test for Vidya, and she said that the experience instructed her that "when it's all said and done, I can overcome scorpions, snakes and whatever else". Anna M. M. Vetticad of "Firstpost" disdained the film and reprimanded the composition for Vidya's powerlessness to "uncover profound and bring a relatable individual". 

Later in 2017, Vidya played Sulu, a lively housewife who moonlights as a relationship exhortation anchor person, in the parody dramatization "Tumhari Sulu". She related to her character's energetic identity and was tested by the chance to have an uncommon comic impact. She drew on her experience of playing a radio racer in "Lage Raho Munna Bhai" and tuned in to late-night syndicated programs. Composing for "The Times of India", Neil Soans complimented Vidya for "injecting Sulu with a wealth of irresistible positive thinking without being irritating", and Shubhra Gupta of "The Indian Express" observed how well she directed "her unmistakable voice and full-bellied chuckling to contribute Sulu with genuine warmth". With profit of over on a financial plan, "Tumhari Sulu" ended up being Vidya's first business accomplishment since "Kahaani". NDTV recorded her execution as the best by a Hindi film performing artist that year, and she won her fifth Screen Award and fourth Filmfare Award for Best Actress. 

Following a year-long nonappearance, Vidya came back to the screen in 2019 to play Basavatarakam, the main spouse of performing artist, movie producer and lawmaker N. T. Rama Rao (played by Nandamuri Balakrishna) in a two-section Telugu-language biopic coordinated by Krish, titled "" and "".. Sangeetha Devi Dundoo of "The Hindu" observed Vidya to be a "treat to watch", including that "her quietude and eyes [...] express a thousand words differentiating NTR's showmanship". Composing for "Firstpost", Hemanth Kumar opined that "there's something calming about her unimportant nearness that makes you need to regard her in a flash". The two movies neglected to perform well monetarily. 

Vidya will next star nearby a group cast, including Akshay Kumar and Taapsee Pannu, in "Mission Mangal", a retelling of the Mars Orbiter Mission (which denoted India's first interplanetary campaign), and in "Nerkonda Parvai", a Tamil-language revamp of the court dramatization "Pink" (2016), featuring Ajith Kumar. She has likewise dedicated to deliver and star as Indira Gandhi in a yet-untitled web arrangement dependent on Sagarika Ghose's account "Indira – India's Most Powerful Prime Minister". 

The broad communications has regularly conjectured about a sentimental connection among Vidya and her co-performers, yet she has emphatically denied these reports. In 2009, Vidya was engaged with a debate when she referenced a past relationship in which "harsh comments" were made at her because of her weight. She stated, "In the event that somebody who matters to you brings you down, it can break you. That somebody whose endorsement made a difference to me began to continually discover flaws with me. By then of time, it was critical to leave that relationship." Though she would not name the individual, newspaper reports proposed that she was alluding to Shahid Kapoor (her co-star in "Kismat Konnection"). Kapoor, be that as it may, denied the claims. Amid a meeting in May 2012, Vidya reported that she was dating Siddharth Roy Kapur, the CEO of UTV Motion Pictures. On 14 December 2012, the couple were hitched in a private service in Bandra, Mumbai. 

Vidya is prepared in Carnatic music and quickly contemplated the move types of Bharatnatyam and Kathak. As to religious affiliations, Vidya stated, "I am an individual with a great deal of confidence and I have discussions [with God] constantly yet I am not all that religious in the ordinary, composed sense". She rehearses vegetarianism and was recorded as "India's most smoking veggie lover" in surveys directed by PETA in 2011 and 2012. Her weight changes throughout the years have been the subject of significant media inclusion in India. 

Other than acting in film, Vidya advances philanthropic causes and supports magnanimous organizations. In March 2011, she embraced World Wildlife Fund's Earth Hour crusade in India. She battled for the reason for nourishment in India for Child In Need Institute (CINI), a non-benefit association situated in Kolkata. In September 2012, Vidya visited a town in Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh, where she partook in a crusade to advance kids' training and the strengthening of ladies. For her endeavors to enable ladies, Vidya was granted The Prabha Khaitan Puraskar 2012 by the Calcutta Chamber of Commerce; she was the most youthful beneficiary of the honor. In August 2013, she filled in as the fabulous marshal of the India Day march held in New York City. In September that year, she propelled an innovation based learning stage for underprivileged youngsters in the Thanapur town of Uttar Pradesh. On the event of International Women's Day in 2015, Vidya composed an assessment section in "Hindustan Times" on the issues looked by ladies in India. In August 2017, Vidya was made an individual from the Indian Central Board of Film Certification, to guarantee films for showy presentation. The next year, she turned into the altruism envoy of Arpan, a NGO that makes mindfulness on sexual maltreatment. 

Following the achievement of "Parineeta" and "Lage Raho Munna Bhai", Vidya's film jobs were liable to wide basic investigation. Vir Sanghvi noticed that the movies "Heyy Babyy" and "Kismat Konnection" were "abnormal movies [...] in which she endeavored to profess to be what she is not —a Bollywood bimbette." Vidya depicted that specific stage in her vocation as a "battle to be another person". Because of the analysis that her film decisions evoked, Vidya chose to pick jobs that she "put stock in" as opposed to pick by tradition. Individuals from the media have thusly named her as "strong" and "brave" in her decisions. 

Her featuring jobs in "Heyy Babyy" and "Kismat Konnection" likewise prompted significant consideration in the media for her "flawed closet". A few productions recorded her as the "most exceedingly awful dressed performer" and her ensemble planners credited her inability to cart away western garments because of her weight and body structure. She was later commended in the media for wearing saris at open occasions; fashioner Niharika Khan clarified, "Vidya's excellence lies in her bends. She's agreeable in her curve, and consequently in a sari." Vidya has since been distinguished as opposing "an anglicized thought of sexuality" and exemplify the possibility of "crude Indian sexuality". 

Subsequent to depicting solid heroes in "Paa", "Ishqiya", "Nobody Killed Jessica", "The Dirty Picture" and "Kahaani", Vidya was credited in the media for spearheading a development that breaks the cliché depiction of courageous women in Bollywood. The real business achievement of the last two earned her the title of a "female saint" and Kalpana Nair of "Firstpost" noticed that with these two movies Vidya led an adjustment in the jobs that were offered to performing artists more than 30. Pundit Mayank Shekhar anticipated, "Only a couple of brilliant male performing artists can totally change the essence of a business, star-driven film industry. Taking a gander at [...] Vidya Balan [...] it shows up, that change could well start from the main woman." 

"India Today" included Vidya in their 2012 posting of the country's most influential ladies and noticed that "she has toppled the all commanding legend, lessening him to a supporting job in a male overwhelmed film industry". Vidya was highlighted by "Forbes India" in their yearly Celebrity 100 rundown in 2012 and 2013. She involved the top space in Rediff.com's yearly posting of the year's best exhibitions for two back to back years (2010– 11). She additionally included in the rundown for the years 2005, 2006, 2009, 2012, and 2016. In 2012, the magazine "Verve" included her as one of India's "Young Power Women" and stated, "In a reel world inhabited by size zero-conditioned bodies and lovely as-an image champions, Vidya appears to be totally genuine and natural – a lady who has pursued her own senses and set out to experience her predetermination by being her very own individual and not transforming herself to fit into any ordinary space." after two years, the magazine recorded her as a power symbol. In 2018, "The Economic Times" considered Vidya to be a standout amongst the most conspicuous big name brand ministers in India. 

In 2014, Vidya was granted the Padma Shri, the fourth most astounding non military personnel grant in India, for her commitments to media outlets. The next year, she got a privileged Doctor of Arts degree from Rai University; the college likewise named a grant program for underprivileged young ladies after her. The chancellor of the college, Harbeen Arora stated, "Among the class of notable performing artists, Vidya is a pioneer inside and out. Her movies typify an unmistakable Indianness and a ground-breaking womanhood". 

Among Vidya's film grants are a National Film Award for Best Actress for "The Dirty Picture" (2011); and six Filmfare Awards: Best Female Debut for "Parineeta" (2005); Best Actress for "Paa" (2009), "The Dirty Picture" (2011), "Kahaani" (2012), and "Tumhari Sulu" (2017); and Critics Award for Best Actress for "Ishqiya" (2010).