Boydell Shakespeare Gallery 

The Boydell Shakespeare Gallery in London, England, was the primary phase of a three-section venture started in November 1786 by etcher and distributer John Boydell with an end goal to cultivate a school of British history painting. Notwithstanding the foundation of the exhibition, Boydell wanted to create a delineated release of William Shakespeare's plays and a folio of prints dependent on a progression of artistic creations by various contemporary painters. Amid the 1790s the London display that demonstrated the first sketches developed as the undertaking's most well known component. 

Crafted by William Shakespeare delighted in a recharged fame in eighteenth century Britain. A few new versions of his works were distributed, his plays were resuscitated in the theater and various centerpieces were made delineating the plays and explicit creations of them. Profiting by this intrigue, Boydell chose to distribute an excellent delineated release of Shakespeare's plays that would feature the gifts of British painters and etchers. He picked the prominent researcher and Shakespeare supervisor George Steevens to administer the version, which was discharged somewhere in the range of 1791 and 1803. 

The press announced week after week on the structure of Boydell's display, planned by George Dance the Younger, on a site in Pall Mall. Boydell charged works from popular painters of the day, for example, Joshua Reynolds, and the folio of inscriptions demonstrated the venture's most enduring inheritance. Be that as it may, the long deferral in distributing the prints and the delineated version incited analysis. Since they were rushed, and numerous outlines must be finished by lesser craftsmen, the last results of Boydell's endeavor were made a decision to baffle. The task caused the Boydell firm to end up ruined, and they were compelled to sell the exhibition at a lottery. 

In the eighteenth century, Shakespeare moved toward becoming related with rising British patriotism, and Boydell took advantage of a similar state of mind that numerous different business people were misusing. Shakespeare claimed not exclusively to a social world class who prided themselves on their masterful taste, yet in addition to the developing white collar class who found in Shakespeare's works a dream of a differentiated society. The mid-century Shakespearean showy restoration was likely most in charge of reintroducing the British open to Shakespeare. Shakespeare's plays were basic to the theater's resurgence as of now. Regardless of the upsurge in theater-going, composing catastrophes was not gainful, and subsequently couple of good disasters were composed. Shakespeare's works filled the hole in the collection, and his notoriety developed thus. Before the finish of the eighteenth century, one out of each six plays performed in London was by Shakespeare. 

The on-screen character, chief, and maker David Garrick was a key figure in Shakespeare's dramatic renaissance. His supposedly great acting, unrivaled preparations, various and essential Shakespearean pictures, and his fabulous 1769 Shakespeare Jubilee advanced Shakespeare as an attractive item and the national writer. Garrick's Drury Lane theater was the focal point of the Shakespeare lunacy which cleared the country. 

The visual expressions likewise assumed a huge job in growing Shakespeare's prevalent intrigue. Specifically, the discussion pieces planned mostly for homes created a wide group of onlookers for scholarly workmanship, particularly Shakespearean craftsmanship. This convention started with William Hogarth (whose prints achieved all dimensions of society) and accomplished its crest in the Royal Academy shows, which showed works of art, illustrations, and figures. The shows ended up imperative open occasions: thousands ran to see them, and papers revealed in detail on the works showed. They turned into a chic spot to be seen (as did Boydell's Shakespeare Gallery, later in the century). All the while, the open was refamiliarized with Shakespeare's works. 

The ascent in Shakespeare's notoriety corresponded with Britain's quickening change from an oral to a print culture. Towards the century's end, the premise of Shakespeare's high notoriety changed. He had initially been regarded as a dramatist, yet once the performance center progressed toward becoming related with the majority, Shakespeare's status as an "extraordinary essayist" moved. Two strands of Shakespearean print culture rose: average prevalent releases and academic basic versions. 

So as to turn a benefit, book shops picked understood writers, for example, Alexander Pope and Samuel Johnson, to alter Shakespeare versions. As per Shakespeare researcher Gary Taylor, Shakespearean analysis turned out to be so "related with the players of eighteenth century English writing ... [that] he couldn't be extricated without removing a century and a half of the national standard". The eighteenth century's first Shakespeare release, which was likewise the first shown version of the plays, was distributed in 1709 by Jacob Tonson and altered by Nicholas Rowe. The plays showed up in "wonderful and decipherable books in little arrangement" which "were assumed ... to have been taken for normal or greenery enclosure use, local as opposed to library sets". Shakespeare moved toward becoming "tamed" in the eighteenth century, especially with the distribution of family versions, for example, Bell's in 1773 and 1785– 86, which publicized themselves as "increasingly informative and coherent; particularly to the young women and to youth; glaring obscenities being evacuated". 

Insightful versions likewise multiplied. At first, these were altered by creator researchers, for example, Pope (1725) and Johnson (1765), however later in the century this changed. Editors, for example, George Steevens (1773, 1785) and Edmund Malone (1790) created fastidious versions with broad commentaries. The early versions spoke to both the white collar class and to those inspired by Shakespeare grant, however the later releases advanced only to the last mentioned. Boydell's version, toward the century's end, attempted to rejoin these two strands. It included delineations however was altered by George Steevens, one of the principal Shakespeare researchers of the day. 

Boydell's Shakespeare venture contained three sections: a delineated release of Shakespeare's plays; a folio of prints from the display (initially planned to be a folio of prints from the version of Shakespeare's plays); and an open exhibition where the first artistic creations for the prints would hang. 

The possibility of a fantastic Shakespeare version was considered amid a supper at the home of Josiah Boydell (John's nephew) in late 1786. Five imperative records of the event endure. From these, a list if people to attend and a reproduction of the discussion have been gathered. The list of attendees mirrors the scope of Boydell's contacts in the creative world: it included Benjamin West, painter to King George III; George Romney, a famous picture painter; George Nicol, book shop to the lord; William Hayley, a writer; John Hoole, a researcher and interpreter of Tasso and Aristotle; and Daniel Braithwaite, secretary to the postmaster general and a benefactor of specialists, for example, Romney and Angelica Kauffman. Most records additionally place the painter Paul Sandby at the social occasion. 

Boydell needed to utilize the release to help animate a British school of history painting. He wrote in the "Prelude" to the folio that he needed "to propel that craftsmanship towards development, and build up an English School of Historical Painting". A court report utilized by Josiah to gather obligations from clients after Boydell's passing relates the account of the supper and Boydell's inspirations: 

[Boydell said] he should get a kick out of the chance to wipe away the disgrace that every outside faultfinder tossed on this country—that they had no virtuoso for chronicled painting. He said he was sure from his achievement in empowering etching that Englishmen needed only legitimate consolation and an appropriate subject to exceed expectations in chronicled painting. The consolation he would attempt to discover if an appropriate subject were called attention to. Mr. Nicol answered that there was one incredible National subject concerning which there could be no second supposition, and referenced Shakespeare. The recommendation was gotten with approval by the Alderman [John Boydell] and the entire organization. 

Nonetheless, as Frederick Burwick contends in first experience with a gathering of papers on the Boydell Gallery, "[w]hatever claims Boydell may make about assisting the reason for history painting in England, the real mobilizing power that united the craftsmen to make the Shakespeare Gallery was the guarantee of engraved production and conveyance of their works." 

After the underlying accomplishment of the Shakespeare Gallery, many needed to assume praise. Henry Fuseli since a long time ago guaranteed that his arranged Shakespeare roof (in impersonation of the Sistine Chapel roof) had given Boydell the thought for the exhibition. James Northcote asserted that his "Demise of Wat Tyler" and "Murder of the Princes in the Tower" had spurred Boydell to begin the undertaking. In any case, as indicated by Winifred Friedman, who has inquired about the Boydell Gallery, it was likely Joshua Reynolds' Royal Academy addresses on the prevalence of history painting that affected Boydell the most. 

The coordinations of the endeavor were hard to sort out. Boydell and Nicol needed to create a represented version of a multi-volume work and planned to tie and sell the 72 extensive prints independently in a folio. A display was required to show the artistic creations from which the prints were drawn. The release was to be financed through a membership crusade, amid which the purchasers would pay some portion of the cost in advance and the rest of conveyance. This surprising practice was required by the way that over £350,000—a tremendous entirety at the time, worth about £ today—was in the end spent. The display opened in 1789 with 34 canvases and included 33 more in 1790 when the primary inscriptions were distributed. The last volume of the release and the "Accumulation of Prints" were distributed in 1803. Amidst the venture, Boydell concluded that he could get more cash-flow in the event that he distributed diverse prints in the folio than in the represented version; therefore, the two arrangements of pictures are not indistinguishable. 

Ads were issued and put in papers. At the point when a membership was circled for a decoration to be struck, the duplicate read: "The encouragers of this incredible national endeavor will likewise have the fulfillment to know, that their names will be passed on to Posterity, as the Patrons of Native Genius, enlisted with their own hands, in a similar book, with the best of Sovereigns." The language of both the notice and the award stressed the job every supporter played in the support of expressions of the human experience. The endorsers were basically working class Londoners, not blue-bloods. Edmund Malone, himself a supervisor of an adversary Shakespeare version, composed that "before the plan was all around shaped, or the proposition totally printed off, close to six hundred people enthusiastically set down their names, and paid their memberships to a lot of books and prints that will cost every individual, I think, around ninety guineas; and on investigating the rundown, there were not over twenty names among them that anyone knew". 

The "heavenly and precise" Shakespeare release which Boydell started in 1786 was to be the focal point of his undertaking—he saw the print folio and the display as branches of the primary task. In a promotion introducing the principal volume of the version, Nicol composed that "quality and wonderfulness, joined with accuracy of content were the incredible objects of this Edition". The volumes themselves were attractive, with plated pages that, not at all like those in past insightful releases, were unhampered by references. Each play had its very own cover sheet pursued by a rundown of "People in the Drama". Boydell saved no cost. He employed the typography specialists William Bulmer and William Martin to create and cut another typeface explicitly for the version. Nicol clarifies in the prelude that they "set up a printing-house ... [and] a foundry to cast the sorts; and even a manufactory to make the ink". Boydell likewise utilized fantastic wove Whatman paper. The outlines were printed freely and could be embedded and evacuated as the buyer wanted. The principal volumes of the "Sensational Works" were distributed in 1791 and the toward the end in 1805. 

Boydell was in charge of the "quality", and George Steevens, the general editorial manager, was in charge of the "accuracy of content". Steevens, as per Evelyn Wenner, who has considered the historical backdrop of the Boydell version, was "at initial a fervent supporter of the arrangement" however "before long understood that the proofreader of this content should in the very plan of things offer approach to painters, distributers and etchers". He was additionally at last disillusioned in the nature of the prints, yet he didn't utter a word to imperil the release's deals. Steevens, who had effectively altered two complete Shakespeare releases, was not requested to alter the content once more; rather, he picked which variant of the content to republish. Wenner depicts the subsequent half breed release: 

All through the version, present day (for example eighteenth century) spelling was favored as were First Folio readings. 

Boydell searched out the most prominent painters and etchers of the day to contribute compositions for the exhibition, inscriptions for the folio, and delineations for the release. Craftsmen included Richard Westall, Thomas Stothard, George Romney, Henry Fuseli, Benjamin West, Angelica Kauffman, Robert Smirke, James Durno, John Opie, Francesco Bartolozzi, Thomas Kirk, Henry Thomson, and Boydell's nephew and colleague, Josiah Boydell. 

The folio and the outlined Shakespeare release were "by a wide margin the biggest single etching endeavor at any point attempted in England". As print authority and seller Christopher Lennox-Boyd clarifies, "had there not been a business opportunity for such inscriptions, not one of the works of art would have been authorized, and hardly any, of the craftsmen would have gambled painting such expand pieces". Researchers trust that an assortment of etching techniques were utilized and that line etching was the "favored medium" since it was "clear and hardwearing" and in light of the fact that it had a high notoriety. Stipple etching, which was snappier and regularly used to deliver shading impacts, destroyed speedier and was esteemed less. Numerous plates were a blend of both. A few researchers have proposed that mezzotint and aquatint were additionally utilized. Lennox-Boyd, be that as it may, claims that "nearby examination of the plates affirms" that these two strategies were not utilized and contends that they were "absolutely unacceptable": mezzotint wore rapidly and aquatint was excessively new (there would not have been sufficient specialists equipped for executing it). The majority of Boydell's etchers were additionally prepared specialists; for instance, Bartolozzi was famous for his stippling system. 

Boydell's associations with his artists were commonly amiable. One of them, James Northcote, lauded Boydell's liberal installments. He wrote in a 1821 letter that Boydell "helped out the progression of expressions of the human experience in England than the entire mass of the respectability set up together! He paid me more respectably than some other individual has done; and his memory I will ever hold in love". Boydell ordinarily paid the painters between £105 to £210, and the etchers somewhere in the range of £262 and £315. Joshua Reynolds at first declined Boydell's idea to chip away at the task, however he concurred when squeezed. Boydell offered Reynolds "full power" for his artworks, giving him an up front installment of £500, a phenomenal sum for a craftsman who had not in any case consented to complete a particular work. Boydell in the long run paid him a sum of £1,500. 

There are 96 delineations in the nine volumes of the represented release and each play has no less than one. Roughly 66% of the plays, 23 out of 36, are each shown by a solitary craftsman. Around 66% of the all out number of outlines, or 65, were finished by three craftsmen: William Hamilton, Richard Westall, and Robert Smirke. The essential artists of the version were known as book artists, while a dominant part of the specialists incorporated into the folio were known for their sketches. Lennox-Boyd contends that the delineations in the version have a "consistency and cohesiveness" that the folio needs on the grounds that the craftsmen and etchers taking a shot at them comprehended book representation while those chipping away at the folio were working in a new medium. 

The print folio, "A Collection of Prints, From Pictures Painted to illustrate the Dramatic Works of Shakspeare, by the Artists of Great-Britain" (1805), was initially expected to be an accumulation of the representations from the version, yet a couple of years into the undertaking, Boydell modified his arrangement. He speculated that he could sell more folios and releases if the photos were unique. Of the 97 prints produced using sketches, 66% of them were made by ten of the specialists. Three craftsmen represent 33% of the works of art. Taking all things together, 31 craftsmen contributed works. 

In June 1788, Boydell and his nephew verified the rent on a site at 52 Pall Mall () to assemble the exhibition and connected with George Dance, at that point the Clerk of the City Works, as the planner for the task. Pall Mall around then had a blend of costly living arrangements and business tasks, for example, bookshops and courteous fellow's clubs, famous with in vogue London society. The region additionally contained some less cultured foundations: King's Place (presently Pall Mall Place), a back street hurrying toward the east and behind Boydell's display, was the site of Charlotte Hayes' high-class whorehouse. Over King's Place, promptly toward the east of Boydell's structure, 51 Pall Mall had been obtained on 26 February 1787 by George Nicol, book retailer and future spouse of Josiah's senior sister, Mary Boydell. As a sign of the changing character of the region, this property had been the home of Goostree's man of honor's club from 1773 to 1787. Started as a betting foundation for affluent young fellows, it had later turned into a reformist political club that tallied William Pitt and William Wilberforce as individuals. 

Move's Shakespeare Gallery building had an amazing, neoclassical stone front, and a full-length display corridor on the ground floor. Three interconnecting show rooms involved the upper floor, with a sum of more than of divider space for showing pictures. The two-story façade was not particularly vast for the road, yet its strong style had an overwhelming impact. A few reports depict the outside as "sheathed in copper". 

The lower story of the façade was ruled by a huge, adjusted angled entryway in the inside. The unmoulded curve laid on wide docks, each broken by a tight window, above which ran a straightforward cornice. Move set a transom over the entryway at the dimension of the cornice bearing the engraving "Shakespeare Gallery". Beneath the transom were the primary section entryways, with coated boards and side lights coordinating the flanking windows. A spiral fanlight filled the lunette over the transom. In every one of the spandrels to one side and right of the curve, Dance set a cutting of a lyre inside a ribboned wreath. Over this ran a framed band course partitioning the lower story from the upper. 

The upper façade contained combined pilasters on either side, and a thick entablature and triangular pediment. The designer Sir John Soane scrutinized Dance's mix of thin pilasters and a substantial entablature as a "bizarre and unrestrained silliness". The capitals beating the pilasters brandished volutes in the state of ammonite fossils. Move developed this neo-traditional element, which wound up known as the Ammonite Order, explicitly for the exhibition. In a break between the pilasters, Dance set Thomas Banks' figure "Shakespeare gone to by Painting and Poetry", for which the craftsman was paid 500 guineas. The figure delineated Shakespeare, leaning back against a stone, between the Dramatic Muse and the Genius of Painting. Underneath it was a framed platform recorded with a citation from "Hamlet": "He was a Man, take him for all things considered, I will not view his like once more". 

The Shakespeare Gallery, when it opened on 4 May 1789, contained 34 works of art, and before the finish of its run it had somewhere in the range of 167 and 170. (The careful stock is dubious and the vast majority of the artworks have vanished; just around 40 canvases can be related to any sureness.) According to Frederick Burwick, amid its sixteen-year task, the Gallery mirrored the progress from Neoclassicism to Romanticism. Works by craftsmen, for example, James Northcote speak to the moderate, neoclassical components of the exhibition, while those of Henry Fuseli speak to the recently rising Romantic development. William Hazlitt adulated Northcote in a paper entitled "On the Old Age of Artists", expressing "I imagine any individual would be progressively hit with Mr. Fuseli at first sight, however would wish to visit Mr. Northcote oftener." 

The display itself was an in vogue hit with the general population. Papers conveyed updates of the development of the exhibition, down to illustrations for the proposed façade. The "Day by day Advertiser" included a week by week section on the display from May through August (presentation season). Craftsmen who had impact with the press, and Boydell himself, distributed unknown articles to elevate enthusiasm for the exhibition, which they trusted would build offers of the release. 

Toward the start of the endeavor, responses were commonly positive. The "Open Advertiser" composed on 6 May 1789: "the photos by and large give a reflection of the artist ... [The Shakespeare Gallery] offers reasonable for structure such an age in the History of the Fine Arts, as will set up and affirm the predominance of the English School". "The Times" composed multi day later: 

Fuseli himself may have composed the audit in the "Systematic Review", which lauded the general arrangement of the display while in the meantime dithering: "such an assortment of subjects, it might be assumed, must show an assortment of forces; all can't be the first; while some must take off, others must skim the glade, and others content themselves to stroll with nobility". In any case, as indicated by Frederick Burwick, pundits in Germany "reacted to the Shakespeare Gallery with definitely more careful and fastidious consideration than did the commentators in England". 

Analysis expanded as the venture delayed: the main volume did not show up until 1791. James Gillray distributed an animation named "Boydell yielding the Works of Shakespeare to the Devil of Money-Bags". The writer and prospective co-writer of the kids' book "Stories from Shakespeare" (1807) Charles Lamb scrutinized the endeavor from the start: 

Northcote, while valuing Boydell's largesse, additionally condemned the aftereffects of the task: "except for a couple of pictures by Joshua [Reynolds] and [John] Opie, and—I trust I may include—myself, it was such an accumulation of slip-slop idiocy as was shocking to take a gander at, and turned out, as I had expected it would, in the ruin of poor Boydell's issues". 

By 1796, memberships to the version had dropped by 66%. The painter and diarist Joseph Farington recorded this was an aftereffect of the poor etchings: 

West said He investigated the Shakespeare prints and was sorry to learn them of such mediocre quality. He said that with the exception of that from His Lear by Sharpe, that from Northcote's youngsters in the Tower, and some little ones, there were not many that could be endorsed. Such a blend of dabbing and etching, and such a general inadequacy in regard of illustration which He watched the Engravers appeared to know little of, that the volumes displayed a mass of works which He didn't ponder numerous supporters had declined to proceed with their membership. 

The blend of etching styles was scrutinized; line etching was viewed as the unrivaled structure and craftsmen and endorsers detested the blend of lesser structures with it. In addition, Boydell's etchers fell behind calendar, postponing the whole task. He was compelled to draw in lesser specialists, for example, Hamilton and Smirke, at a lower cost to complete the volumes as his business fizzled. Present day craftsmanship students of history have by and large agreed that the nature of the inscriptions, especially in the folio, was poor. In addition, the utilization of such a significant number of various specialists and etchers prompted an absence of complex union. 

In spite of the fact that the Boydells finished with 1,384 memberships, the rate of memberships dropped, and remaining memberships were likewise progressively in uncertainty. In the same way as other organizations at the time, the Boydell firm kept couple of records. Just the clients realized what they had bought. This caused various challenges with indebted individuals who guaranteed they had never bought in or had bought in for less. Numerous endorsers likewise defaulted, and Josiah Boydell invested a long time after John's passing endeavoring to constrain them to pay. 

The Boydells concentrated all their consideration on the Shakespeare version and other huge activities, for example, "The History of the River Thames" and "The Complete Works of John Milton", instead of on lesser, increasingly beneficial endeavors. At the point when both the Shakespeare venture and the Thames book fizzled, the firm had no cash-flow to fall back upon. Starting in 1789, with the beginning of the French transformation, John Boydell's fare business to Europe was cut off. By the late 1790s and mid nineteenth century, the 66% of his business that relied on the fare exchange was in genuine budgetary trouble. 

In 1804, John Boydell chose to speak to Parliament for a private bill to approve a lottery to discard everything in his business. The bill got illustrious consent on 23 March, and by November the Boydells were prepared to sell tickets. John Boydell kicked the bucket before the lottery was drawn on 28 January 1805, yet lived sufficiently long to see every one of the 22,000 tickets acquired at three guineas each (£ each in present day terms). To support ticket deals and decrease unsold stock, each buyer was ensured to get a print worth one guinea from the Boydell organization's stock. There were 64 winning tickets for real prizes, the most elevated being simply the Gallery and its accumulation of artistic creations. This went to William Tassie, a diamond etcher and appearance modeler, of Leicester Fields (presently Leicester Square). Josiah offered to repurchase the exhibition and its depictions from Tassie for £10,000 (worth about £ now), however Tassie can't and unloaded the canvases at Christie's. The depiction gathering and two reliefs by Anne Damer brought a sum of £6,181 18s. 6d. The Banks design amass from the façade was at first planned to be kept as a landmark for Boydell's tomb. Rather, it remained some portion of the façade of the structure in its new pretense as the British Institution until the structure was torn down in 1868– 69. The Banks mold was then moved to Stratford-upon-Avon and re-raised in New Place Garden among June and November 1870. The lottery spared Josiah from liquidation and earned him £45,000, empowering him to start business again as a printer. 

From the beginning, Boydell's undertaking enlivened imitators. In April 1788, after the declaration of the Shakespeare Gallery, however a year prior to its opening, Thomas Macklin opened a Gallery of the Poets in the previous Royal Academy expanding on the south side of Pall Mall. The primary presentation highlighted one work from every one of 19 specialists, including Fuseli, Reynolds, and Thomas Gainsborough. The display included new works of art of subjects from verse every year, and from 1790 enhanced these with scenes from the Bible. The Gallery of the Poets shut in 1797, and its substance were offered by lottery. This did not stop Henry Fuseli from opening a Milton Gallery in a similar structure in 1799. Another such endeavor was the Historic Gallery opened by Robert Bowyer in Schomberg House at 87 Pall Mall in around 1793. The display aggregated 60 compositions (numerous by similar craftsmen who worked for Boydell) authorized to represent another version of David Hume's "The History of Great Britain". At last, Bowyer needed to look for parliamentary endorsement for a deal by lottery in 1805, and different endeavors, as Boydell's, likewise finished in budgetary disappointment. 

The structure in Pall Mall was obtained in 1805 by the British Institution, an exclusive hangout of authorities established that year to hold presentations. It remained an essential piece of the London workmanship scene until disbanded in 1867, regularly holding a Spring show of new works available to be purchased from the beginning of February to the main seven day stretch of May, and a credit display of old bosses, for the most part not available to be purchased, from the primary seven day stretch of June as far as possible of August. 

The depictions and inscriptions that were a piece of the Boydell Gallery influenced the manner in which Shakespeare's plays were organized, acted, and delineated in the nineteenth century. They additionally turned into the subject of analysis in essential works, for example, Romantic writer and writer Samuel Taylor Coleridge's "Addresses on Shakespeare" and William Hazlitt's emotional analysis. Regardless of Charles Lamb's analysis of the Gallery's creations, Charles and Mary Lamb's kids' book, "Stories from Shakespeare" (1807), was shown utilizing plates from the undertaking. 

The Boydell endeavor's most suffering heritage was the folio. It was reissued all through the nineteenth century, and in 1867, "by the guide of photography the entire arrangement, aside from the representations of their Majesties George III. also, Queen Charlotte, is currently displayed in a convenient structure, reasonable for common libraries or the illustration room table, and offered as a proper dedication of the tercentenary festivity of the writer's introduction to the world". Researchers have depicted Boydell's folio as a forerunner to the cutting edge foot stool book. 

The "Folio" and "Outlined Edition" records were taken from Friedman's "Boydell's Shakespeare Gallery". 

The "Works of art" list is gotten from the numbered index "The presentation of the Shakspeare exhibition, Pall-Mall: being the last time the photos can ever be viewed as a whole accumulation" (London: W. Bulmer and Co., 1805), "The Boydell Shakespeare Gallery" altered by Walter Pape and Frederick Burwick (Bottrop: Peter Pomp, 1996), and "What Jane Saw".