Scarlett Johansson 

Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (; conceived November 22, 1984) is an American on-screen character and artist. Johansson is the world's most generously compensated performing artist, has shown up in the "Forbes" Celebrity 100, and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. She sought to be an on-screen character since early on, and first showed up in front of an audience in an Off-Broadway play as a youngster. Johansson made her film debut in the dream parody "North" (1994), and was assigned for an Independent Spirit Award for "Manny and Lo" (1996). She increased further acknowledgment for her work in "The Horse Whisperer" (1998) and "Phantom World" (2001). 

Johansson moved to grown-up jobs in 2003 with her exhibitions in "Lost in Translation," which won her a BAFTA Award for Best Actress, and "Young lady with a Pearl Earring". She was named for four Golden Globe Awards for these movies, and for playing an antagonized adolescent in the show "A Love Song for Bobby Long" (2004), and a temptress in the suspenseful thrill ride "Match Point" (2005). Different movies amid this period, incorporate the riddle spine chiller "The Prestige" (2006) and the parody show "Vicky Cristina Barcelona" (2008). She likewise discharged two collections: "Anyplace I Lay My Head" (2008) and "Separate" (2009), the two of which outlined on the "Announcement" 200. 

In 2010, Johansson appeared on Broadway in a restoration of "A View from the Bridge", which won her a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress. Soon thereafter, she started depicting Black Widow in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. She voiced a wise PC working framework in the 2013 parody show "Her", played an outsider in the 2013 sci-fi film "Under the Skin" and a lady with psychokinetic capacities in the 2014 sci-fi activity "Lucy". She was the most elevated earning performing artist of 2016, and is additionally the most elevated netting performer ever in North America in ostensible dollar terms. 

As an open figure, Johansson is a Hollywood sex image. She is a conspicuous big name brand endorser, and furthermore underpins different philanthropies and causes. She has been hitched twice, to the Canadian on-screen character Ryan Reynolds from 2008 to 2011 and the French businessperson Romain Dauriac, with whom she has a little girl, from 2014 to 2017. 

Scarlett Ingrid Johansson was conceived in the Manhattan ward of New York City. on November 22, 1984. Her dad, Karsten Olaf Johansson, is a designer initially from Copenhagen, Denmark, and her fatherly granddad, Ejner Johansson, was a craftsmanship student of history, screenwriter and movie executive, whose claim father was Swedish. Scarlett's mom, Melanie Sloan, a maker, originates from an Ashkenazi Jewish family, from Poland and Russia. She has a more seasoned sister, Vanessa, likewise a performing artist; a more established sibling, Adrian; and a twin sibling, Hunter. Johansson additionally has a more seasoned relative, Christian, from her dad's first marriage. She holds both American and Danish citizenship. 

Johansson went to PS 41, a grade school in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. Her folks separated from when she was 13. Johansson was especially near her maternal grandma, Dorothy Sloan, a clerk and teacher; they frequently hung out and Johansson considered Sloan her closest companion. Intrigued by a vocation in the spotlight since the beginning, she regularly put on tune and-move schedules for her family. She was especially partial to melodic theater and jazz hands. She took exercises in tap move, and expresses that her folks were steady of her vocation decision. She depicts her youth as exceptionally conventional. 

As a youngster, Johansson working on acting by gazing in the mirror until she made herself cry, needing to be Judy Garland in "Meet Me in St. Louis". At age seven, she was crushed when a headhunter marked one of her siblings rather than her, however she later chose to turn into a performing artist in any case. She selected at the Lee Strasberg Theater Institute, and started trying out for advertisements, yet before long lost intrigue: "I would not like to advance Wonder Bread." She moved her concentration to film and theater, showing up in the Off-Broadway play "Misconception" with Ethan Hawke, in which she had two lines. Around this time, she started learning at Professional Children's School (PCS), a private instructive establishment for hopeful youngster performers in Manhattan. At age nine, Johansson made her film debut as John Ritter's girl in the dream parody "North" (1994). She says that when she was on the film set, she knew instinctively what to do. Johansson later assumed minor jobs including as the little girl of Sean Connery and Kate Capshaw's characters in the puzzle spine chiller "Worthy motivation" (1995), and a craftsmanship understudy in "If Lucy Fell" (1996). 

Johansson's first driving job was as Amanda, the more youthful sister of a pregnant young person who flees from her encourage home in "Manny and Lo" (1996) close by Aleksa Palladino and her sibling, Hunter. Her execution got positive audits: one composed for the "San Francisco Chronicle" noted, "[the film] develops on you, to a great extent in view of the appeal of ... Scarlett Johansson," while commentator Mick LaSalle, composing for a similar paper, remarked on her "serene air", and trusted, "On the off chance that she can traverse pubescence with that quality undisturbed, she could turn into a critical performing artist." Johansson earned a selection for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Lead Female for the job. 

Subsequent to showing up in minor jobs in "Fall" and "Home Alone 3" (both 1997), Johansson pulled in more extensive consideration for her execution in the movie "The Horse Whisperer" (1998), coordinated by Robert Redford. The dramatization film, in light of the 1995 novel of a similar name by Nicholas Evans, recounts to the tale of a skilled mentor with a present for getting ponies, who is procured to help a harmed young person played by Johansson. The performing artist got a "presenting" credit on this film, despite the fact that it was her seventh job. On Johansson's development, Redford depicted her as "13 going on 30". Todd McCarthy of "Assortment" remarked that Johansson "convincingly passes on the cumbersomeness of her age and the internal agony of a joyful young lady abruptly disappeared by appalling chance". For the film, she was assigned for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress. She trusted that the film changed numerous things throughout her life, understanding that acting is the capacity to control one's feelings. On discovering great jobs as an adolescent, Johansson said it was hard for her as grown-ups composed the contents and they "depict kids like shopping center rodents and not seriously ... Children and youngsters simply aren't being depicted with any genuine profundity". 

Johansson later showed up in "My Brother the Pig" (1999) and in the neo-noir, Coen siblings film "The Man Who Wasn't There" (2001). Her leap forward came playing a pessimistic pariah in Terry Zwigoff's dark parody "Apparition World" (2001), an adjustment of Daniel Clowes' realistic novel of same name. Johansson tried out for the film by means of a tape from New York, and Zwigoff trusted her to be "a special, unusual individual, and ideal for that part". The film debuted at the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival; it was a film industry disappointment, however has since built up a faction status. Johansson was credited with "affectability and ability [that] give a false representation of her age" by an "Austin Chronicle" pundit, and won a Toronto Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress for her execution. 

With David Arquette, Johansson showed up in the frightfulness satire "Eight Legged Freaks" (2002), about an accumulation of arachnids that are presented to harmful waste, making them develop to immense extents and start executing and reaping. In the wake of moving on from Professional Children's School that year, she connected to New York University's Tisch School of the Arts; she chose to concentrate on her movie vocation when she was rejected. 

Johansson changed from youngster to grown-up jobs with two movies in 2003: the rom-com show "Lost in Translation" and the dramatization "Young lady with a Pearl Earring". In the previous, coordinated by Sofia Coppola, she plays Charlotte, a drowsy and forlorn youthful spouse, inverse Bill Murray. Coppola had first seen Johansson in "Manny and Lo", and contrasted her with a youthful Lauren Bacall; Coppola put together the film's story with respect to the connection between Humphrey Bogart and Bacall in "The Big Sleep" (1946). Johansson found the experience of working with a female executive distinctive as a result of Coppola's capacity to relate to her. Made on a financial plan of $4million, the film earned $119million in the cinematic world and got positive surveys. Roger Ebert was satisfied with the film and portrayed the lead exhibitions as "great", and "Stimulation Weekly" composed of Johansson's "grasping, peaceful peacefulness". "The New York Times" applauded Johansson, at that point 18, for playing a more seasoned character. 

In Peter Webber's "Young lady with a Pearl Earring", which depends on the novel of same name by Tracy Chevalier, Johansson played Griet, a youthful seventeenth century worker in the family unit of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer (played by English on-screen character Colin Firth). Webber met 150 performers before throwing Johansson. Johansson found the character moving, however did not peruse the novel, as she thought it was smarter to approach the story with a new beginning. "Young lady with a Pearl Earring" got positive surveys and was gainful. In his audit for "The New Yorker", Anthony Lane felt that her essence kept the film "alive", stating, "She is regularly silent and near plain onscreen, however sit tight for the fervency with which she can gather a closeup and sprout under its look; this is her film, not Vermeer's, the whole distance." Owen Gleiberman, of "Diversion Weekly" noticed her "almost quiet execution", watching, "The transaction all over of dread, obliviousness, interest, and sex is seriously emotional." She was designated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress for the two movies in 2003, winning the previous for "Lost in Translation". 

In "Assortment" sentiment, Johansson's jobs in "Lost in Translation" and "Young lady with a Pearl Earring" set up her as among the most adaptable performers of her age. Johansson had five discharges in 2004, three of which—the adolescent heist film "The Perfect Score", the show "A Love Song for Bobby Long", and the dramatization "A Good Woman"— were basic and business disappointments. Co-featuring with John Travolta, Johansson played a malcontented and suspicious adolescent in "A Love Song for Bobby Long", which depends on the novel "Off Magazine Street" by Ronald Everett Capps. "Assortment" David Rooney composed that Johansson's and Travolta's depictions protected the film. Johansson earned a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Drama assignment for the film. 

In her fourth discharge in 2004, the real to life vivified satire "The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie", Johansson voiced Princess Mindy, the little girl of King Neptune. She took the part in view of her adoration for kid's shows and "The Ren and Stimpy Show". The film was her most financially effective work that year. She tailed it with "In Good Company", a parody show in which she confounds the life of her dad when she dates his a lot more youthful supervisor. Audits of the film were commonly positive, portraying it as "clever and beguiling". Roger Ebert was awed with Johansson's depiction, composing that she "keeps on utilizing the gravitational draw of calm interest". 

Johansson played Nola, a hopeful on-screen character who starts an undertaking with a wedded man (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) in Woody Allen's show "Match Point" in 2005. In the wake of supplanting Kate Winslet with Johansson for the job, Allen changed the character's nationality from British to American. As an admirer of Allen's movies, Johansson preferred working with him, however felt apprehensive her first day on the set. "The New York Times" was inspired with Johansson and Rhys Meyers' exhibitions, and Mick LaSalle, writing in the "San Francisco Chronicle", said that Johansson "is a powerhouse from the word go", with an execution that "verges on shocking". The film, a film industry achievement, earned Johansson assignments for the Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress. Additionally that year, Johansson experienced a tonsillectomy, after which she featured with Ewan McGregor in Michael Bay's sci-fi film "The Island", in double jobs as Sarah Jordan and her clone, Jordan Two Delta. Johansson discovered her taping plan debilitating: she needed to shoot for 14 hours every day, and she hit her head and harmed herself. The film got blended surveys and netted $163million against a $126million spending plan. 

Two of Johansson's movies in 2006 investigated the universe of stage performers, both inverse Hugh Jackman. Allen cast her inverse Jackman and himself in the film "Scoop" (2006), in which she played a news-casting understudy. The film was a humble overall film industry achievement, yet captivated pundits. Ebert was disparaging of the film, however discovered Johansson "beautiful as usual", and Mick LaSalle noticed the freshness she conveyed to her part. She additionally showed up in Brian De Palma's "The Black Dahlia", a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria. Johansson later said she was an enthusiast of DePalma and had needed to work with him on the film, however believed that she was unsatisfactory for the part. Anne Billson of "The Daily Telegraph" in like manner discovered her miscast. Nonetheless, CNN said that she "takes to the thick time frame air as though it were oxygen". 

Additionally in 2006, Johansson featured in the short film "When the Deal Goes Down" to go with Bob Dylan's tune "When the Deal Goes Down..." from the collection "Current Times". Johansson had a supporting job of colleague and admirer of Jackman's character, a noble entertainer, in Christopher Nolan's puzzle spine chiller "The Prestige" (2006). Nolan thought Johansson had "equivocalness" and "a protected quality". She was interested with Nolan's coordinating strategies and preferred working with him. The film was a basic and film industry achievement, prescribed by the "Los Angeles Times" as "a grown-up, provocative bit of work". A few commentators were doubtful of her execution: Anne Billson discovered her miscast, and Dan Jolin in "Realm" magazine condemned her English intonation. 

Johansson's solitary work in 2007 was in the basically panned parody dramatization "The Nanny Diaries" close by Chris Evans and Laura Linney, where she plays a college alum functioning as a caretaker. Audits of her execution were blended; "Assortment" expressed, "[She] papers a connecting with courageous woman", and "The New Yorker" reprimanded her for looking "only confounded" while "attempting to give the material a conceivable enthusiastic focus". In 2008, Johansson featured, with Natalie Portman and Eric Bana, in "The Other Boleyn Girl", which likewise earned blended surveys. Advancing the film, Johansson and Portman showed up on the front of "W", talking about with the magazine the open's gathering of them. In "Moving Stone", Pete Travers scrutinized the film for "[moving] in baffling herks and rascals", however believed that the pair were the main positive part of the creation. "Assortment" acknowledged the give a role as "nearly flawless ... at the highest point of its diversion", refering to "Johansson's calmer Mary ... as the [film's] enthusiastic focus". 

In her third cooperation with Woody Allen, the lighthearted comedy show "Vicky Cristina Barcelona" (2008), which was shot in Spain, Johansson plays one of the adoration interests of Javier Bardem's character close by Penélope Cruz. The film was a standout amongst Allen's most beneficial and got great surveys. A commentator in "Assortment" portrayed Johansson as "open and flexible" contrasted with different performers. She likewise played the "femme fatale" Silken Floss in "The Spirit", in light of the paper funny cartoon of a similar name by Will Eisner. It got poor surveys from pundits, who esteemed it sensational, predictable, and misogynist. Johansson's solitary job in 2009 was as Anna Marks, a yoga teacher, in the troupe satire dramatization "He's Just Not That Into You" (2009). The film was discharged to lukewarm audits, however was a film industry achievement. 

Johansson had sought to show up on Broadway since her adolescence. She made her presentation in a 2010 restoration of Arthur Miller's dramatization "A View from the Bridge". Set during the 1950s, in an Italian-American neighborhood in New York, it tells the disastrous story of Eddie (played by Liev Schreiber), who has an improper love for his better half's stranded niece, Catherine (played by Johansson). After certain second thoughts about playing a young character, Johansson consented to the play when a companion persuaded her to take on the part. Ben Brantley of "The New York Times" composed of Johansson's execution that she "liquefies into her character so completely that her radiance of big name vanishes". " Variety"s David Rooney was inspired with the play and Johansson specifically, portraying her as the central entertainer. She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play. A few pundits and Broadway on-screen characters condemned the honor advisory group's choice to compensate crafted by standard Hollywood performing artists, including Johansson. Accordingly, she said that she comprehended the dissatisfaction, yet had buckled down for her achievements. 

Johansson played Black Widow in Jon Favreau's "Iron Man 2" (2010), a piece of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Before she verified the job, she colored her hair red to persuade Favreau that she was directly for the part, and embraced trick and quality preparing to get ready for the job. Johannsson said the character resounded with her, and she respected the hero's human qualities. The film earned $623.9million against its $200million spending plan, and got commonly positive surveys from pundits, however she was for the most part censured for her execution. Tim Robey of "The Daily Telegraph" and Matt Goldberg felt that she had little to do however look alluring. In 2011, Johansson assumed the job of Kelly, a zookeeper in the family film "We Bought a Zoo" close by Matt Damon. The film got chiefly ideal surveys, and Anne Billson lauded Johansson for conveying profundity to a somewhat uninteresting character. Johansson earned a Teen Choice Award for Choice Movie Actress: Drama assignment for her execution. 

Johansson took in some Russian from a previous instructor on the telephone for her job as Black Widow in "The Avengers" (2012), another section from the MCU. The film got fundamentally positive surveys and broke many film industry records, turning into the third most elevated netting film both in the United States and around the world. For her execution, she was designated for two Teen Choice Awards and three People's Choice Awards. Soon thereafter, Johansson depicted the on-screen character Janet Leigh in Sacha Gervasi's "Hitchcock", an off camera show about the creation of Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 film "Psycho". Roger Ebert composed that Johansson did not look much like Leigh, however passed on her spunk, insight, and comical inclination. 

In January 2013, Johansson featured in a Broadway recovery of "Feline on a Hot Tin Roof," coordinated by Rob Ashford. Set in the Mississippi Delta, it analyzes the connections inside the group of Big Daddy (played by Ciarán Hinds), fundamentally between his child Brick (played by Benjamin Walker) and Maggie (played by Johansson). Her execution got blended audits. "Amusement Weekly"s Thom Geier stated, "Scarlett Johansson brings a savage battling soul" to her part, however Joe Dziemianowicz from "Every day News" called her execution "alarmingly one-note". The 2013 Sundance Film Festival facilitated the debut of Joseph Gordon-Levitt's directorial debut, "Wear Jon". In this rom-com dramatization, she plays a lady astounded by the sex entertainment dependent title character. Gordon-Levitt composed the job for Johansson, who had recently respected his acting work. The film got positive surveys and Johansson's execution was featured by commentators. Claudia Puig of "USA Today" thought of it as a standout amongst her best exhibitions. 

In 2013, Johansson voiced the character Samantha, a savvy PC working framework, in Spike Jonze's film "Her," supplanting Samantha Morton in the job. The film debuted at the eighth Rome International Film Festival, where Johansson won Best Actress; she was additionally selected for the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress. Johansson was threatened by the job's intricacy, and thought of her as account sessions for the job testing yet freeing. Dwindle Travers trusted Johansson's voice in the film was "sweet, hot, mindful, manipulative, startling [and] grant commendable". "Time magazine's" Richard Corliss called her execution "tempting and winning", and "Her" was appraised as a standout amongst the best movies of 2013. 

She likewise won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her execution. Johansson was cast in the job of an outsider who preys on men in Scotland in Jonathan Glazer's sci-fi film "Under the Skin" (2013). The film, an adjustment of Michel Faber's tale of a similar name, took nine years to finish. For the job, she figured out how to drive a van and talk with an English articulation. Johansson extemporized discussions with non-proficient performers in the city, who did not realize they were being taped. It was discharged to commonly positive surveys, with specific recognition for Johansson. Erin Whitney, composing for "HuffPost", thought of it as her best execution to date, and noticed that it was her first completely bare job. It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film selection. 

Proceeding with her work in the MCU, Johansson repeated her job as Black Widow in "" (2014). In the film, she unites with Captain America (Chris Evans) and Falcon (Anthony Mackie) to reveal a scheme inside S.H.I.E.L.D., while confronting a secretive professional killer known as the Winter Soldier. Johansson and Evans composed their own discourse for a few scenes they had together. Johansson was pulled in to her character's method for carrying out her responsibility, utilizing her female wiles and not her physical intrigue. The film was a basic and business achievement, earning over $714million around the world. Commentator Odie Henderson saw "a real passionate shorthand at work, particularly from Johansson, who is amazing here". The job earned her a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress assignment. 

Johansson assumed a supporting job in the movie "Culinary specialist" (2014), close by Robert Downey, Jr., Sofía Vergara, and chief Jon Favreau. It earned over $45million in the cinema world and was generally welcomed by faultfinders. The "Chicago Sun-Times" essayist Richard Roeper found the film "entertaining, idiosyncratic and quick, with an abundance of intriguing supporting characters". In Luc Besson's sci-fi activity film "Lucy" (2014), Johansson featured as the title character, who increases psychokinetic capacities when a nootropic tranquilize is ingested into her circulation system. Besson talked about the job with a few performing artists, and cast Johansson dependent on her solid response to the content and her order. Commentators for the most part applauded the film's topics, visuals, and Johansson's execution; some found the plot unreasonable. IGN's Jim Vejvoda credited the film's prosperity to her acting and Besson's style. The film netted $458million on a financial plan of $40million to turn into the eighteenth most astounding earning film of 2014. 

In 2015 and 2016, Johansson again played Black Widow in the MCU films "" and "". Amid recording of the previous, a blend of close-ups, disguising outfits, stunt pairs and enhanced visualizations were utilized to shroud her pregnancy. The two movies earned more than $1.1billion, positioning among the most elevated netting movies ever. For "Commander America: Civil War", Johansson earned her second designation for Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress in an Action Movie and her fourth for Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress. Prior in 2016, Johansson had highlighted in the Coen siblings' generally welcomed satire film "Hail, Caesar!" about a "fixer" working in the traditional Hollywood film, attempting to find the end result for a cast part who disappeared amid the recording of a scriptural epic; Johansson plays a performing artist who ends up pregnant while her film is underway. She likewise voiced the character Kaa in Disney's real life redo of "The Jungle Book", and Ash in the vivified melodic satire film "Sing" (both 2016). 

Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders' 2017 film adjustment of the "Phantom in the Shell" establishment. The film was applauded for its visual style, acting, and cinematography, yet was disputable for whitewashing the cast, especially Johansson's character, a cyborg who was intended to hold the recollections of a Japanese lady. Reacting to the analysis, she said she could never play an individual of another race, yet needed to accept the uncommon open door to star in an establishment with a female hero. The film earned $169.8million worldwide against a generation spending plan of $110million. In March 2017, Johansson facilitated "Saturday Night Live" for the fifth time, making her the seventeenth individual, and the fourth lady, to enter the NBC sketch satire's esteemed Five-Timers Club. Johansson's next 2017 film was the satire "Harsh Night", where she played Jess Thayer, one of the five companions—close by Kate McKinnon, Jillian Bell, Ilana Glazer, and Zoë Kravitz—whose unhitched female gathering turns out badly after a male stripper kicks the bucket. The film had a blended basic gathering and moderate film industry returns. 

In 2018, Johansson voiced show hound Nutmeg in Wes Anderson's stop-movement enlivened film "Isle of Dogs", discharged in March, and repeated her MCU job as Black Widow in "", which pursued the following month. Johansson was because of star in "Rub and Tug", a true to life film in which she would have played Dante "Tex" Gill, a transgender man who worked a back rub parlor and prostitution ring during the 1980s. She dropped out of the undertaking after reaction against the throwing of a cisgender lady playing a transgender individual. 

In October 2014, it was reported that Johansson will star in and official produce the up and coming eight-scene period arrangement "The Custom of the Country", in view of Edith Wharton's 1913 novel of a similar name. She is set to play Undine Spragg, a young lady from the Midwest who attempts to climb her way up the New York City social stepping stool. Johansson will star close by Adam Driver in Noah Baumbach's presently untitled movie, She will likewise play Black Widow in "", the fourth in the arrangement, planned for April 2019, and in her own performance movie coordinated by Cate Shortland. 

In 2006, Johansson sang the track "Mid year" for "Surprising DreamsSongs From the Stars", a non-benefit accumulation of tunes recorded by Hollywood on-screen characters. She performed with the Jesus and Mary Chain for a Coachella gathering appear in Indio, California, in April 2007. The next year, Johansson showed up as the main woman in Justin Timberlake's music video, for "What Goes Around... Comes Around", which was assigned for a MTV Video Music Award for Video of the Year. 

In May 2008, Johansson discharged her presentation collection "Anyplace I Lay My Head", which comprises of one unique melody and ten spread forms of Tom Waits tunes, and highlights David Bowie and individuals from the Yeah Yeahs and Celebration. Audits of the collection were blended. "Turn" was not especially awed with Johansson's singing. A few faultfinders observed it to be "shockingly appealing", "a fearlessly erratic choice", and "a splendid collection" with "spooky enchantment". "NME" named the collection the "23rd best collection of 2008", and it topped at number126 on the "Announcement" 200. Johansson began tuning in to Waits when she was 11 or 12 years of age, and said of him, "His tunes are so delightful, his voice is so unmistakable and I had my own specific manner of doing Tom Waits melodies." 

In September 2009, Johansson and vocalist lyricist Pete Yorn discharged a cooperative collection, "Separate", roused by Serge Gainsbourg's two part harmonies with Brigitte Bardot. The collection achieved number 41 in the US. In 2010, Steel Train discharged "Horrendous Thrills Vol.1", which incorporates their most loved female craftsmen singing tunes from their self-titled collection. Johansson is the primary craftsman on the collection, singing "Shot". Johansson sang "One Whole Hour" for the 2011 soundtrack of the narrative film "Villains and Jabberers" (2010). also, in 2012 sang on a J.Ralph track entitled "Before My Time" for the end credits of the atmosphere narrative "Pursuing Ice" (2012) 

In February 2015, Johansson framed a band called the Singles with Este Haim from HAIM, Holly Miranda, Kendra Morris, and Julia Haltigan. The gathering's first single was classified "Sweets". Johansson was issued a restraining request from the lead artist of the Los Angeles-based musical crew the Singles, requesting she quit utilizing their name. In 2016, she performed "Trust in Me" for "The Jungle Book" soundtrack and "Set It All Free" and "I Don't Wanna" for "". In 2018, Johansson worked together with Pete Yorn again for an EP titled "Separated", discharged June 1. 

Johansson is half Jewish and celebrates both Christmas and Hanukkah. She has expressed that she hates it when famous people say thanks to God or Jesus in their honor acknowledgment talks. 

While going to PCS, Johansson dated schoolmate Jack Antonoff from 2001 to 2002. She dated her "Dark Dahlia" co-star Josh Hartnett for around two years until the finish of 2006; Hartnett said they split on the grounds that their bustling timetables kept them separated. Johansson started an association with Canadian on-screen character Ryan Reynolds in 2007; they wound up occupied with May 2008, wedded in September 2008, isolated in December 2010, and separated in July 2011. 

In November 2012, Johansson began dating Frenchman Romain Dauriac, the proprietor of a promoting organization; they wound up connected the next September. The couple separated their time between New York City and Paris. In 2014, she brought forth their little girl, Rose Dorothy Dauriac. Johansson and Dauriac wedded that October in Philipsburg, Montana. They isolated in mid-2016, and separated in September 2017. It was affirmed in December 2017 that Johansson had started an association with "Saturday Night Live" co-head essayist and "End of the week Update" co-have Colin Jost. 

Johansson has scrutinized the media for advancing a picture that causes unfortunate weight control plans and dietary problems among ladies. In one article she composed for "HuffPost", she urged the peruser to keep up a solid body. She seemed naked on the front of the March 2006 issue of "Vanity Fair" nearby on-screen character Keira Knightley and completely dressed style fashioner Tom Ford. This caused some contention as it was trusted the photograph exhibited that ladies are compelled to display their sexuality more regularly than men. In September 2011, bare photos of Johansson hacked from her mobile phone were distributed on the web. Following a FBI examination, the programmer was captured, confessed, and was condemned to 10 years in jail. Johansson said the photographs had been sent to her then-spouse, Reynolds, three years before the occurrence. In 2014, Johansson won a claim against French distributer JC Lattès for disparaging proclamations about her connections in the novel "The First Thing We Look At" by Grégoire Delacourt. Johansson was granted $3,400; she had guaranteed $68,000. 

Johansson has been designated "ScarJo" by the media and fans, however detests the moniker, thinking that its languid, sassy and annoying. She is depicted as a sex image by the media. "The Sydney Morning Herald" portrays Johansson as "the exemplification of male dream". Amid the shooting of "Match Point", executive Woody Allen remarked on her appeal, calling her "excellent" and "explicitly overpowering". In 2014, "New Yorker" film faultfinder Anthony Lane composed that "she is obviously, and productively, mindful of her sultriness, and of what amount, down to the last inch, it adds to the shapes of her notoriety." Johansson said that she loathed being sexualized, and that a distraction with an individual's engaging quality does not last. She lost the lead job of Lisbeth Salander in "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" (2011), as the movie's executive, David Fincher, thought she was "unreasonably attractive" for the part. 

Johansson positions exceedingly in a few marvel postings. "Proverb" incorporated her in their Hot 100 from 2006 to 2014. She has been named "Hottest Woman Alive" twice by "Esquire" (2006 and 2013), and has been incorporated into comparative postings by "Playboy" (2007), "Men's Health" (2011), and "FHM" (since 2005). She was named "GQ" Babe of the Year in 2010. Madame Tussauds New York exhibition hall introduced a wax model of her in 2015. 

Johansson was welcome to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in June 2004. In 2006, Johansson showed up on "Forbes" Celebrity 100, and again in 2014, 2015 and 2018. Johansson got a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in May 2012. In 2014, 2015, and 2016, she was one of the world's most generously compensated performers, with yearly income of $17million, $35.5 million, and $25million, individually. In 2018, she was named the world's most generously compensated on-screen character with yearly income of $40.5million. She was the most noteworthy netting performer of 2016, with an aggregate of $1.2billion. Therefore, "IndieWire" lauded her for taking on hazardous jobs. As of May 2017, Johansson is the most astounding netting performing artist ever in North America, with her movies making over $4.3billion. 

Johansson has showed up in promoting efforts for Calvin Klein, Dolce and Gabbana, L'Oréal, and Louis Vuitton, and has spoken to the Spanish brand Mango since 2009. Johansson was the primary Hollywood VIP to speak to a champagne maker, showing up in notices for Moët and Chandon. In January 2014, the Israeli organization SodaStream, which makes home-carbonation items, enlisted Johansson as its first worldwide brand represetative, a relationship that started with a TV plug amid Super Bowl XLVIII on February 2, 2014. This demonstrated dubious, as SodaStream is situated in Israeli-involved domain in the West Bank. 

Johansson has upheld different altruistic associations, including "Help Still Required, Cancer Research UK, Stand Up To Cancer, Too Many Women" (which neutralizes bosom disease), and "USA Harvest", which gives nourishment to individuals in need. In 2005, Johansson turned into a worldwide minister for the guide and advancement office Oxfam. In 2007, she participated in the counter destitution battle ONE, which was sorted out by U2's lead vocalist Bono. In March 2008, a UK-put together bidder paid £20,000 with respect to an eBay sale to profit Oxfam, winning a hair and cosmetics treatment, a couple of tickets, and a chauffeured outing to go with her on a 20-minute date to the world debut of "He's Just Not That Into You". 

In January 2014, Johansson left her Oxfam position after analysis of her advancement of SodaStream, whose primary manufacturing plant was situated in Mishor Adumim, an Israeli settlement in the West Bank; Oxfam restricts all exchange with such Israeli settlements. Oxfam expressed that it was appreciative for her commitments in raising assets to battle neediness. Together with her "Vindicators" costars, Johansson raised $500,000 for the casualties of Hurricane Maria. 

In 2018, she teamed up with 300 ladies in Hollywood to set up the Time's Up activity to shield ladies from provocation and segregation. She participated in Women's March in Los Angeles in January 2018 and talked on points, for example, maltreatment of intensity and shared her very own involvement. Johansson was scrutinized for getting out James Franco on charges of sexual offense as in the past she had been quiet on working with Woody Allen in the midst of allegation by his little girl Dylan Farrow. 

Johansson was enlisted as a free, at any rate through 2008, and crusaded for Democratic competitor John Kerry in the 2004 United States presidential race. At the point when George W. Hedge was reelected in 2004, she said she was baffled. 

In January 2008, her battle for Democratic hopeful Barack Obama included appearances in Iowa focused at more youthful voters, an appearance at Cornell College, and a talking commitment at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota, on Super Tuesday, 2008. Johansson showed up in the music video for rapper will.i.am's tune, "Yes We Can" (2008), coordinated by Jesse Dylan; the tune was propelled by Obama's discourse after the 2008 New Hampshire essential. In February 2012, Johansson and Anna Wintour facilitated a style dispatch of star Obama dress, packs, and frill, whose returns went to the President's re-appointment battle. She tended to voters at the Democratic National Convention in September 2012, requiring Obama's re-appointment and for greater commitment from youthful voters. She urged ladies to vote in favor of Obama and denounced Mitt Romney for his resistance to Planned Parenthood. 

Johansson openly embraced and upheld Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer's 2013 keep running for New York City Comptroller by facilitating a progression of pledge drives. To urge individuals to cast a ballot in the 2016 presidential decision, in which Johansson embraced Hillary Clinton, she showed up in a business close by her Marvel Cinematic Universe co-star Robert Downey, Jr., and Joss Whedon. In 2017, she talked at the Women's March on Washington, tending to Donald Trump's administration and expressing that she would bolster him on the off chance that he works for ladies' rights and quits pulling back government subsidizing for Planned Parenthood.