Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria 

Ivan Alexander (, transliterated "Ivan Aleksandǎr"; articulated ; unique spelling: ), likewise now and again Anglicized as John Alexander, led as Emperor ("Tsar") of Bulgaria from 1331 to 1371, amid the Second Bulgarian Empire. The date of his introduction to the world is obscure. He passed on 17 February 1371. The long rule of Ivan Alexander is viewed as a transitional period in Bulgarian medieval history. Ivan Alexander started his standard by managing inward issues and outer dangers from Bulgaria's neighbors, the Byzantine Empire and Serbia, just as driving his domain into a time of financial recuperation and social and religious renaissance. 

Nonetheless, the ruler was later unfit to adapt to the mounting attacks of Ottoman powers, Hungarian intrusions from the northwest and the Black Death. In a doomed endeavor to battle these issues, he isolated the nation between his two children, in this way driving it to confront the inevitable Ottoman triumph debilitated and partitioned. 

Ivan Alexander was the child of the "despotēs" Sracimir of Kran by Petrica, a sister of Michael Asen III of Bulgaria. Along these lines, Ivan Alexander was a nephew of Michael Asen III. In a fatherly way, Ivan Alexander dropped from the Asen administration. By 1330 Ivan Alexander was himself a "despotēs" and represented the city of Lovech. Together with his dad and his dad in-law Basarab of Wallachia, Ivan Alexander battled in the Battle of Velbazhd against the Serbs at present day Kyustendil in 1330, in which Bulgaria endured rout. The thrashing, joined with the intensifying relations with the Byzantine Empire, encouraged an inside emergency, which was exacerbated by an attack of the Byzantines. An overthrow drove Ivan Stefan out of the capital Tarnovo in 1331, and the plotters set Ivan Alexander on the royal position. 

The new ruler begin merging his situation by recapturing domains as of late lost to the Byzantine Empire. In 1331 Ivan Alexander crusaded around Adrianople and reconquered northeastern Thrace. Then, Stefan Uroš IV Dušan removed his dad Stefan Uroš III Dečanski and ended up Serbian lord in 1331. This standardized the already tense relations between the two nations. Ivan Alexander and Stefan Uroš IV Dušan closed a collusion, which was established by the marriage of the Serbian ruler to Helena of Bulgaria, a sister of Ivan Alexander, on Easter 1332. 

At about a similar time, Belaur, a sibling of Michael Asen III, revolted in Vidin, most likely in help of his dismissed nephew Ivan Stefan's case to the royal position. The development of the Byzantine Emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos against Bulgaria in the late spring of 1332 extended military tasks against the radicals. The Byzantines overran Bulgarian-controlled northeastern Thrace, yet Ivan Alexander surged southward with a little armed force and quickly made up for lost time with Andronikos III at Rusokastro. 

In the wake of giving the feeling that he wished to arrange, Ivan Alexander, strengthened by Mongol mounted force, overpowered the littler yet better composed Byzantine armed force in the Battle of Rusokastro. The challenged urban communities surrendered to Ivan Alexander, while Andronikos III looked for shelter inside the dividers of Rusokastro. The war finished with Ivan Alexander meeting Andronikos and concurring a harmony dependent on "business as usual". To seal the coalition, he pledged his oldest child, Michael Asen IV, to Andronikos' little girl Maria (Eirene), the marriage in the long run occurring in 1339. The Bulgarian sovereign was presently allowed to turn his considerations to Belaur, yet it was not until 1336 or 1337 that the resistance in the northwest was put down. 

In around 1332 Ivan Alexander had delegated his oldest child Michael Asen IV co-sovereign, maybe to shield ownership of the position of royalty by his very own family. He lined up this customary relationship with the crowning ceremony of his more youthful children Ivan Sracimir and Ivan Asen IV in 1337. Ivan Alexander may have planned the making of two more youthful co-heads to set up quick command over essential urban areas and districts, as Ivan Sracimir was in the end situated in Vidin, and Ivan Asen IV maybe in Preslav. By the by, this was a checked takeoff from Byzantine practice, in which more youthful children of the sovereign were made "despotēs", regardless of whether they were accused of a regional organization or not. 

In the mid 1340s relations with the Byzantine Empire incidentally crumbled. Ivan Alexander requested the removal of his cousin Šišman, one of the children of Michael Asen III, compromising the Byzantine government with war. Ivan Alexander's show of power exploded backward, as the Byzantines figured out how to see through his expectations and sent against him the armada of their partner, the Turkish emir of Smyrna Umur Beg. Arriving in the Danube Delta, they plundered the farmland and assaulted close-by Bulgarian urban areas. Compelled to limit his requests, Ivan Alexander attacked the Byzantine Empire again toward the finish of 1341, asserting that he was gathered by the general population of Adrianople. In any case, Ivan Alexander's troops were crushed twice by Turkish partners of the Byzantines close to the city. 

In 1341– 1347 the Byzantine Empire was dove into an extended common war between the rule for Emperor John V Palaiologos under Anna of Savoy and his planned gatekeeper John VI Kantakouzenos. The neighbors of the Byzantines exploited the common war, and keeping in mind that Stefan Uroš IV Dušan of Serbia agreed with John VI Kantakouzenos, Ivan Alexander supported John V Palaiologos and his regime. In spite of the fact that the two Balkan rulers picked inverse sides in the Byzantine common war, they kept up their collusion with one another. As the cost for Ivan Alexander's help, the rule for John V Palaiologos surrendered him the city of Philippopolis (Plovdiv) and nine critical strongholds in the Rhodope Mountains in 1344. This quiet turnover comprised the last significant achievement of Ivan Alexander's remote strategy. 

Amid a similar period, the Serbian ruler exploited the Byzantine common war to claim what is currently Macedonia, and of the vast majority of Albania and northern Greece. In 1345 he started to call himself "Sovereign of Serbs and Greeks", and in 1346 he was delegated in that capacity by the recently made Serbian Patriarch. These activities, which the Byzantines got with ire, seem to have been bolstered by Bulgaria, as the Patriarch of Bulgaria Simeon had taken an interest in both the making of a Serbian Patriarchate of Peć and the majestic crowning ritual of Stefan Uroš IV Dušan. 

Continuously 50% of the 1340s, little survived from Ivan Alexander's underlying victories. John VI Kantakouzenos' Turkish partners plundered pieces of Bulgarian Thrace in 1346, 1347, 1349, 1352 and 1354, to which were included the desolates of the Black Death. The Bulgarians' endeavors to repulse the intruders met with rehashed disappointment, and Ivan Alexander's third child and co-sovereign, Ivan Asen IV, was murdered fighting against the Turks in 1349, just like his more established sibling Michael Asen IV in 1355 or somewhat prior. 

By 1351 the Byzantine common war was finished, and John VI Kantakouzenos had understood the danger presented by the Ottomans to the Balkan Peninsula. He spoke to the leaders of Serbia and Bulgaria for a unified exertion against the Turks and approached Ivan Alexander for cash to build warships, yet his interests failed to attract anyone's attention as his neighbors doubted his expectations. Another endeavor for collaboration among Bulgaria and the Byzantine Empire followed in 1355, after John VI Kantakouzenos had been compelled to relinquish and John V Palaiologos had been set up as incomparable head. To bond the arrangement, Ivan Alexander's little girl Keraca Marija was offered to the future Byzantine Emperor Andronikos IV Palaiologos, yet the partnership neglected to create solid outcomes. 

At home Ivan Alexander traded off the interior security of his domain by separating from his first spouse Theodora of Wallachia (in around 1349) and wedding a changed over Jew, additionally named Theodora. The new marriage delivered new children, whom Ivan Alexander continued to crown co-sovereigns, Ivan Šišman in around 1356 and Ivan Asen V by 1359. Ivan Alexander's last enduring child from his first marriage, the co-sovereign Ivan Sracimir, turned out to be adequately autonomous around 1356; and Ivan Alexander's authority over other ground-breaking vassals, for example, the leaders of Wallachia and Dobruja, who sought after their own outside strategies, was not really more grounded. 

From the center of the fourteenth century, Bulgaria fell prey to the desires of the Angevin lord Louis I of Hungary, who added Moldavia in 1352 and set up a vassal realm there, before overcoming Vidin in 1365, and taking Ivan Sratsimir and his family into imprisonment. 

Meanwhile Bulgarians and Byzantines had conflicted again in 1364. In 1366, when Emperor John V Palaiologos was coming back from his excursion toward the west, the Bulgarians would not give him a chance to go through Bulgaria. This position reverse discharges, as another Byzantine partner, Count Amadeus VI of Savoy, driving the Savoyard campaign, caught a few Bulgarian oceanic urban areas in striking back, including Ankhialos (Pomorie) and Mesembria (Nesebǎr), however he neglected to take Varna. Defeated, Ivan Alexander was compelled to make harmony. 

The caught urban communities were swung over to the Byzantine Empire, while Emperor John V Palaiologos paid the aggregate of 180,000 florins to Ivan Alexander. The Bulgarian head utilized this entirety and regional concessions to actuate his at any rate "by law" vassals Dobrotica of Dobruja and Vladislav I of Wallachia to reconquer Vidin from the Hungarians. The war was fruitful, and Ivan Sracimir was reinstalled in Vidin in 1369, despite the fact that the Hungarian lord constrained him to recognize his overlordship. 

The moderately effective goals of the emergency in the northwest did nothing to help recuperate the misfortunes in the southeast. To exacerbate the situation, in 1369 (the date is questioned), the Ottoman Turks under Murad I vanquished Adrianople (in 1363) and made it the compelling capital of their growing state. In the meantime, they additionally caught the Bulgarian urban areas of Philippopolis and Boruj (Stara Zagora). As Bulgaria and the Serbian rulers in Macedonia arranged for joined activity against the Turks, Ivan Alexander passed on February 17, 1371. He was prevailing by his children Ivan Sracimir in Vidin and Ivan Šišman in Tǎrnovo, while the leaders of Dobruja and Wallachia accomplished further freedom. 

Amid Ivan Alexander's standard, the Second Bulgarian Empire entered a time of social renaissance, which is now and then alluded to as the "Second Golden Age of Bulgarian culture", the first one being the standard of Simeon the Great. A substantial number of Bulgarian religious communities and temples were developed or redesigned on the request of Ivan Alexander. Painting pictures of him as a benefactor can be found in the Bachkovo Monastery's ossuary and in the Rock-cut Churches of Ivanovo. Contributor's deeds of Ivan Alexander demonstrate that the cloisters of the Holy Mother of God Eleoussa and St Nicholas in Nesebǎr were remade amid that period, similar to the St Nicholas religious community close Pernik, as per a Hilandar religious community deed. What's more, the tsar likewise started the development of the Dragalevci and Kilifarevo religious communities. 

Scholarly movement additionally thrived amid the rule of Ivan Alexander. A few imperative abstract works were made in the period, for example, the Middle Bulgarian interpretation of the Manasses Chronicle (1344– 1345), right now protected in the Vatican Secret Archives in Rome, the luxuriously delineated Tetraevangelia of Ivan Alexander (1355– 1356), presently showed in the British Library, the Tomić Psalter (1360), today in Moscow, and the Sofia Psalter (1337). 

Ivan Alexander's standard was likewise set apart by endeavors to reinforce the situation of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church by seeking after apostates and Jews. He composed two enemy of blasphemous church boards, in 1350 and 1359– 1360, that denounced different groups, for example, the Bogomils, the Adamites and the Judaizers. 

The profound routine with regards to hesychasm, a type of incantatory petition, profoundly impacted certain regions of the Eastern Orthodox universe of the fourteenth century. A prominent Bulgarian agent of the development amid Ivan Alexander's rule was Theodosius of Tǎrnovo. 

Amid this time, the Bulgarian Empire had exchange relations with the Mediterranean oceanic forces Venice, Genoa and Ragusa. In 1353, Ivan Alexander issued a contract enabling Venetian shippers to purchase and sell merchandise all through Bulgaria after Doge Andrea Dandolo guaranteed him they would watch the earlier settlements between the two nations. 

In present day times, the standard of Ivan Alexander motivated Bulgarian national essayist Ivan Vazov to compose the novelette "Ivan-Aleksandǎr" and the dramatization "Kǎm propast" ("Towards an Abyss"), in the two of which the tsar is the principle character. 

A bit of an article of clothing marked by Ivan Alexander and entwined with gold was found in a respectable's grave close Pirot during the 1970s; today it is saved in the National Museum of Serbia in Belgrade. It is the primary find of its sort, exhibiting a medieval convention validated recorded as a hard copy as per which Orthodox rulers would show their most famous dignitaries with a bit of a piece of clothing they had worn. 

Ivan Alexander Point on Nelson Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria. 

By his first spouse Theodora of Wallachia (cloister adherent Teofana), a little girl of Basarab of Wallachia, Ivan Alexander had a few youngsters, including Ivan Sracimir, who governed as head of Bulgaria in Vidin 1356– 1397, related rulers Michael Asen IV (co-ruled c. 1332– 1354/5) and Ivan Asen IV (co-ruled 1337– 1349). 

By his second spouse Sarah-Theodora, Ivan Alexander had a few other youngsters, which included Keraca Marija, who wedded the Byzantine Emperor Andronikos IV Palaiologos, Ivan Šišman, who prevailing as ruler of Bulgaria in Tǎrnovo 1371– 1395, Ivan Asen V, related as head of Bulgaria by 1359– 1388?, a little girl called Thamar (Kera Tamara), who was hitched first to the "despotēs" Constantine (Konstantin), and after that to Sultan Murad I of the Ottoman Empire, just as two little girls named Desislava and Vasilisa.