Skirmish of San Patricio 

The Battle of San Patricio was battled on February 27, 1836, between Mexican troops and insubordinate outsiders from the Mexican territory of Texas, known as Texians. The fight denoted the beginning of the Goliad Campaign, the Mexican hostile to retake the Texas Gulf Coast. It occurred in and around San Patricio. 

Before the finish of 1835, every single Mexican troop had been driven from Texas. Forthright W. Johnson, the leader of the volunteer armed force in Texas, and James Grant accumulated volunteers for an arranged intrusion of the Mexican port town of Matamoros. In the wake of going through a little while gathering ponies for the Matamoros Expedition, in late February, Johnson and around 40 men drove the group to San Patricio. Johnson doled out a portion of his troops to a farm outside town to monitor the steeds, while the remainder of his men garrisoned in three unique areas nearby. 

Unbeknownst to the Texians, on February 18 Mexican General José de Urrea had driven a substantial unexpected of troops from Matamoros into Texas. Their objective was to kill the Texian warriors assembled along the coast. Urrea's men effectively pursued the trail left by Johnson's crowd of ponies. Mexican warriors astounded the dozing Texians in San Patricio in the early long stretches of February 27. Following a fifteen-minute fight, everything except six Texians had been killed or detained. One Mexican trooper was murdered and four harmed. 

Under President Antonio López de Santa Anna, the Mexican government started to move far from a federalist model to a progressively brought together government. Santa Clause Anna's inexorably authoritarian approaches, including the disavowal of the Constitution of 1824 in mid 1835, induced federalists all through the country to revolt. The Mexican Army rapidly put down rebellions in the Mexican inside, including a merciless concealment of local armies in Oaxaca and Zacatecas. Distress proceeded in the northeastern Mexican territory of Coahuila y Tejas. The zone that flanked the United States, known as Texas, was populated basically by English-talking pilgrims, known as Texians. In October, the Texians waged war in what wound up known as the Texas Revolution. The next month, Texians announced themselves part of a state free from Coahuila and made a temporary state government dependent on the standards of the Constitution of 1824. Before the year's over, every single Mexican troop had been removed from Texas. 

Driving federalists in Mexico supported an arrangement to assault centralist troops in Matamoros. Individuals from the General Council, the between time Texas administering body, were fascinated with the possibility of a Matamoros Expedition. They trusted it would motivate other federalist states to revolt and keep the exhausted Texian troops from forsaking the military. In particular, it would move the combat area outside Texas. The Council formally endorsed the arrangement on December 25, and on December 30 Frank W. Johnson, the officer of the volunteer armed force, and his assistant James Grant took the main part of the military and practically the majority of the provisions to Goliad to get ready for the endeavor. 

Resolved to subdue the insubordination, Santa Anna started collecting a substantial power to reestablish request; before the finish of 1835, his military numbered 6,019 officers. In late December, at his command, Congress passed the Tornel Decree, pronouncing that any outsiders battling against Mexican troops "will be esteemed privateers and managed in that capacity, being residents of no country by and by at war with the Republic and battling under no perceived banner". In the mid nineteenth century, caught privateers were executed right away. The goals in this way gave the Mexican Army authorization to show no mercy in the war against the Texians. Santa Clause Anna actually drove the majority of his troops inland to San Antonio de Béxar and requested General José de Urrea to lead 550 troops along the Atascocita Road toward Goliad. Urrea's endeavors to control the insubordination along the Texas Gulf Coast have turned out to be known as the Goliad Campaign. 

The Texas temporary government had named Sam Houston the officer of another normal armed force in Texas, however without power over the volunteers who answered to Johnson. The temporary senator, Henry Smith, contradicted the Matamoros Expedition and requested Houston to figure out how to disband it. In an animating discourse to the volunteers, Houston discouraged the greater part of the men from proceeding with their central goal. Many left the military, while others joined the troops positioned under Houston's second-in-order, James Fannin, at Presidio La Bahia in Goliad. Before the finish of January 1836, just 70 men stayed with Johnson and Grant. A large portion of these volunteers were Americans or Europeans who had touched base in Texas after the Texas Revolution had started. 

Urrea achieved Matamoros on January 31. A submitted federalist himself, he before long persuaded different federalists in the territory that the Texians' definitive objective was withdrawal and their endeavor to start a federalist revolt in Matamoros was only a technique for occupying consideration from themselves. Urrea's power crossed into Texas on February 18. 

In the mean time, Mexican twofold operators kept on guaranteeing Johnson and Grant that they would most likely take Matamoros effectively. Regardless of hearing bits of gossip that the Mexican armed force was drawing closer, Grant and Johnson took their men south of the Nueces River, into region having a place with the province of Tamaulipas, to scan for ponies to purchase, take, or generally assemble. About February 21, Johnson and part of the gathering started crowding around 100 steeds once again into Texas. The remainder of the men stayed with Grant, apparently to search for more steeds. In reality, he was endeavoring to meet with his partners close Matamoros to decide if federalists were all the while willing to ascend against the Mexican armed force. 

Johnson's men touched base on February 24 in San Patricio, an Irish settlement about north of Matamoros. A considerable lot of the San Patricio occupants were centralists, faithful to the Mexican government. Johnson sent twelve men to monitor the steeds at the farm of Julian de la Garza, roughly outside the town, while the rest garrisoned in San Patricio. The climate was sub zero, and the men's garments were beat up. Sure that Grant would alarm him if Mexican troops were in the zone, Johnson decided not to choose guards, rather enabling the majority of the men to take cover. 

The Mexican troops effectively pursued the trail left by Johnson's crowd. On February 25, Urrea drove 100 dragoons and 100 infantry to corner the Texians. By 10 p.m., scouts announced that Texian troops were set up in San Patricio. The Mexican warriors kept walking through the chilly night; six of the troops kicked the bucket of presentation. 

Urrea taught three officers to go to San Patricio dressed as regular citizens and caution the centralists that the Mexican armed force was drawing nearer. With an end goal to decrease losses and property harm, centralists were approached to proclaim their loyalties by leaving lights consuming in their windows. Local people likewise gave the officers exact data on which structures housed Texian troopers. Urrea sent 30 men under Captain Rafael Pretalia to de la Garza's farm to amaze the Texians stayed outdoors there. At 3:30 a.m. on February 26, the staying Mexican warriors entered San Patricio. 

One gathering of Texians surrendered quickly when they stirred to wind up encompassed by Mexican troops. At the point when another gathering of Texians was approached to surrender, they rather started shooting, slaughtering a Mexican officer and injuring two different fighters. Resolved to counteract more losses, Mexican dragoons arranged to set the house ablaze to constrain the Texians out. Now, a few Texians called that they were surrendering. As they went out, they were shot or speared. 

By possibility, Johnson and three of his men, Lieutenant Daniel Toler and Sergeants Love and Miller, were as yet wakeful and examining strategies. Mexican troops had been informed that the house where Johnson was quartered was one of their objectives, yet a light consumed in the window, flagging this was the home of a follower. Out of a wealth of alert, a gathering of troops thumped on the entryway. Before the Texians could open the entryway, they heard the gunfire from the town square. Toler watched out a window and saw formally dressed troops on the yard. Without opening the entryway, he told the warriors, in Spanish, that there were no troops there, however he would open the entryway immediately. The battling moved into the road, and fighters who had been guarding the indirect access of the house hurried around to the front. Johnson, Toler, Love, and Miller dashed out the secondary passage and got away. 

At the de la Garza farm, the Texians had been alternating standing guard. Exposed to the harsh elements, the majority of the guards had nodded off. Pretalia's warriors opened flame on the resting men, harming two Texians. In the consequent battle, four Texians kicked the bucket, eight men (three Americans and five "Tejanos", Mexican-Ethnicity Texans) were taken prisoner, and a few got away. 

The battling finished inside fifteen minutes. 

Six Texians circumvented, including Johnson, Toler, Miller, Love, and John F. Beck. They advanced by walking to Refugio, where they sent a delivery person to Fannin at Goliad, north, to tell him that Urrea's military was close. The survivors came to Goliad on February 29. In the wake of rounding out an official report on the fight, Johnson, Toler, and Love left the military and went to San Felipe. The rest of the survivors joined Fannin's troops and were later executed in the Goliad Massacre. 

Eleven Texians were murdered inside and out, five endured mortal injuries, and 21 others were taken prisoner. Six neighborhood men were additionally captured for supporting the defiance. A few students of history report that most were executed quickly in the town square. As indicated by reports by Johnson and another Texian, Urrea scrutinized a few of the detainees, and there were reports that the men were tormented. Inside 72 hours the majority of the detainees were dead. One Mexican officer was slaughtered and four were injured. 

Urrea's authentic records express that the fight was battled at Fort Lipantitlán, on the opposite side of the Nueces River. Texian accounts are reliable that the battling happened around the local area and at the de la Garza farm. While Urrea sat tight for fortifications before starting his walk towards Goliad, his development party looked for Grant and the remaining Texians. In the wake of taking in of Grant's whereabouts from neighborhood spies, on March 2 Mexican dragoons trapped the Texians at Agua Dulce Creek.