Kingdom Hearts (computer game) 

The diversion was a takeoff from Square's standard pretending recreations, presenting a considerable activity and hack and slice component to the interactivity. "Kingdom Hearts" has a top pick voice thrown and incorporates a significant number of the Disney characters' legitimate voice performing artists. It was long-lasting Square character planner Tetsuya Nomura's first time in a directorial position. 

"Kingdom Hearts" was adulated for its irregular blend of activity and pretending, just as its surprisingly agreeable blend of Square and Disney components. It was a vast nearness in the 2002 Christmas season, accepting various year-end amusement grants, and proceeded to accomplish Sony "Most prominent Hits" status. The amusement provoked various spin-offs, and the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement has proceeded to dispatch more than 30 million duplicates around the world. "Kingdom Hearts" is the tenth top rated PlayStation 2 round ever, and is considered by some gaming productions to be one of the best computer games ever. The amusement's prosperity brought about a Japan-selective re-arrival of the diversion including additional substance, "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix", discharged in December 2002. 

The "Last Mix" rendition of the amusement was re-aced in superior quality and discharged all around in 2013 as a piece of the "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix" accumulation for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4. 

"Kingdom Hearts" is affected by its parent establishment, "Last Fantasy", and conveys ongoing interaction components over into its own activity based, hack and slice framework. The primary fight party comprises of three characters: Sora, Donald Duck, and Goofy. Sora is straightforwardly constrained by the player from a third individual camera point. All other gathering individuals are PC controlled, however the player can modify their conduct to a degree through the respite menu. Donald and Goofy contain the gathering in many regions, however about each dimension includes a character who may supplant them. For example, Jack Skellington can join Sora's gathering in Halloween Town, however can't go with the player somewhere else. In certain universes, the gathering changes its appearance, has capacities one of a kind to that world or both; the characters can fly in Neverland, secure amphibian structures in Atlantica which empower them to endure submerged, and gain Halloween outfits in Halloween Town to mix in with local people. 

Like conventional pretending amusements, "Kingdom Hearts" includes an encounter point framework that decides character improvement. As foes are crushed, the player characters gain involvement and become more grounded, accessing new capacities. In contrast to different rounds of its sort, "Kingdom Hearts" permits a level of character improvement customization through a short instructional exercise found toward the start of the diversion. The instructional exercise enables the player to choose from one of three primary attributes―strength, guard, or magic―for Sora to exceed expectations in and one to need in. By picking certain alternatives, the player may control how Sora learns capacities, develops measurably, and gains levels. Donald, Goofy, and some other extra gathering individuals are alloted explicit territories of solidarity from the start. Donald exceeds expectations in enchantment, while Goofy exceeds expectations in resistance and extraordinary assaults. 

The amusement advances directly starting with one story occasion then onto the next, normally displayed as a cutscene, however there are various side journeys accessible that give advantages to the characters. Players may likewise pick the request in which they handle a few zones. The majority of the ongoing interaction happens on interconnected field maps where fights occur. Battle in "Kingdom Hearts" happens continuously and includes squeezing catches to start assaults by the on-screen character. An activity menu, like those found in "Definite Fantasy" diversions, found at the base left of the screen gives other battle choices, for example, utilizing enchantment and things, despite the fact that players can likewise allocate chosen enchantment spells that can be immediately utilized while holding the shoulder catch. As players advance through the amusement, they can get certain Disney characters as request, for example, Dumbo and Tinker Bell, each with their very own interesting capacities. There is likewise a setting touchy choice at the base of the menu, typically utilized for interfacing with nature or performing unique assaults. This menu is controlled by utilizing the correct simple stick or computerized cushion, while development is constrained by the left simple stick, enabling the player to explore the menu while staying away from or moving toward adversaries. 

Sora, alongside his partners, both have a Hit Point (HP) meter and a Magic Point (MP) meter, which increment as they gain understanding and level up. The MP meter is isolated into different segments that are spent at whatever point that character performs enchantment, with all the more dominant enchantment utilizing more MP. MP can be recharged by performing skirmish assaults or utilizing things. The HP meter decides the character's wellbeing, lessening at whatever point a character takes harm, despite the fact that it very well may be recharged by utilizing mending things or spells. On the off chance that one of Sora's partners comes up short on wellbeing, they will be thumped out incidentally until somebody recuperates them. Notwithstanding, if Sora loses the majority of his wellbeing, the amusement closes and the player must resume play from the earliest starting point of a territory or supervisor. Crushing foes makes different spheres fall; green circles which recharge wellbeing, blue circles which reestablish MP, and yellow spheres which speak to Munny, the diversion's cash, which can be utilized to buy new things. 

The Gummi Ship is the method of movement between the different universes in the amusement. The ongoing interaction for directing the vessel is unique in relation to the remainder of the amusement as it changes to a rail shooter group. The player controls the Gummi Ship from a back third-individual point of view as it goes in a space setting. While voyaging, the player must maintain a strategic distance from hindrances and safeguard against foe delivers that endeavor to obliterate the player's vessel by terminating rockets or slamming it. Enduring the course enables access to the following scene. When the player's gummi transport is pulverized, it will have the choice to either come back to the world choice menu or retry the dimension. Toward the start of the amusement, there are not many alternatives accessible to tweak the vessel, yet as the diversion advances, new weapons, motors, and shield become accessible. Distinctive pre-planned diagrams can be found all through the amusement that can be utilized to rapidly develop Gummi Ships. Geppetto additionally gives the player diverse Gummi Ship structures dependent on the quantity of Heartless vanquished. From the begin, the player can go between universes by utilizing "Ordinary Drive", which starts the rail shooter-like minigame. Later in the diversion, Sora can secure a "Twist Drive," which permits moment travel between already visited universes without playing the minigame. Be that as it may, universes that have not been visited can't be gotten to with Warp Drive, and should be found typically first. 

The universe of "Kingdom Hearts" is an accumulation of different dimensions, alluded to as "universes," through which the player must advancement. Thirteen can be gotten to in the amusement and one, Disney Castle, is appeared in cutscenes. Extra universes are referenced by different characters, yet are out of reach since they have been devastated by the Heartless. Ten Disney universes depend on fiction, basically from the Disney energized highlights group, and the other four were made by Square explicitly for the diversion. 

The illustrations and characters of every world were intended to take after the work of art style of every Disney films. Every Disney world is occupied by characters from the film: incorporating Hercules and Philoctetes in Olympus Coliseum, and Aladdin, Princess Jasmine and Jafar in Agrabah. Every world is detached from the others and exists independently. Most characters on the planets are ignorant of different ones, with couple of special cases. Players head out starting with one world then onto the next by means of Gummi Ship. 

The universes made explicitly for the amusement reflect the general appearance of different universes and highlight either new characters or ones from a few "Last Fantasy" diversions. The new universes include: the Destiny Islands, where the story opens; Traverse Town, which fills in as a starting point for the greater part of the diversion; Hollow Bastion, which a large number of the "Last Fantasy" characters call home; and the End of the World, a substantial, dim world made from the remainders of different universes devoured by the Heartless. The principle characters venture out from world to world to seal every "Keyhole"; this shields the world from the Heartless and at last from decimation. They additionally attempt to limit their communication with characters of different universes to keep up an equalization of partition. This occasionally requires Sora, Donald and Goofy to mix in with the world occupants by changing their physical appearance. 

The coordinated effort among Disney and Square brought about a blend of natural Disney and Square characters, just as a few new characters made and structured by Tetsuya Nomura. The essential hero of the diversion is Sora, a 14-year-old kid picked to employ the Keyblade—a weapon which is a combination of a key and a sword—for engaging obscurity. The amusement likewise includes two companions from his home world, Riku and Kairi. For the majority of the amusement, Sora is joined by Donald Duck and Goofy. Donald, the court wizard, and Goofy, skipper of the regal gatekeeper, are sent from Disney Castle to discover the Keyblade. The three unite to look for King Mickey Mouse, Kairi, and Riku. The essential foe is Ansem, who looks for power and information by utilizing dull creatures called the Heartless. The Heartless, hearts defiled by obscurity, fill in as a large portion of the adversaries experienced in the diversion and arrive in an assortment of shapes and sizes. Wrathful, from the 1959 film "Dozing Beauty", drives a gathering of Disney scoundrels that tries to utilize the Heartless for their very own addition. 

As an amusement intended to investigate the anecdotal universes of different Disney films, more than one hundred Disney characters are included in different limits. While many fill in as real characters in the story, others show up in appearance jobs, for example, the One Hundred and One Dalmatians having an influence in a side-journey. Most universes likewise highlight a Disney scoundrel whom the player must thrashing. The player can call different Disney characters to battle nearby Sora in fight, causing Donald and Goofy to pull back from the combat zone for the length of the bring. Accessible gathered characters incorporate the Genie from "Aladdin", Tinker Bell from "Subside Pan", and Simba from "The Lion King", among others. 

Square additionally consolidated a few characters from the "Last Fantasy" arrangement into the diversion, however the characters were somewhat adjusted to fit the amusement's back-story. On the Destiny Islands, the player meets more youthful variants of Tidus and Wakka from "Definite Fantasy X", and Selphie from "Conclusive Fantasy VIII". In Traverse Town, the player experiences Squall Leonhart (otherwise called "Leon") from "Conclusive Fantasy VIII", just as Aerith, Cid, and Yuffie from "Definite Fantasy VII". Rikku from "Conclusive Fantasy X" was initially set to show up, however was supplanted by Yuffie. Cloud and Sephiroth, both from "Conclusive Fantasy VII", show up in Olympus Coliseum, where the player can battle them in competitions. The accentuation on characters from later "Last Fantasy" portions comes from Nomura's faltering to utilize characters he didn't plan. The amusement additionally utilizes other "Last Fantasy" symbols, for example, the Moogles who intercede thing union. 

Sora, Riku, and Kairi manufacture a pontoon with the aim to leave the Destiny Islands and investigate new universes. On the night prior to the arranged voyage, the islands are assaulted by the Heartless, and Riku and Kairi vanish. Before the Heartless expend the islands, Sora gets the Keyblade, a weapon viable against the Heartless. Then, King Mickey has left his very own reality to manage the expanding number of Heartless, leaving guidelines for Donald and Goofy to locate the "key" that will shield the universes from the infringing dimness. Donald and Goofy utilize the Gummi Ship to achieve Traverse Town, where they discover Sora after he has floated there from his wrecked world. The three choose to travel together – Donald and Goofy to discover Mickey, and Sora to discover Kairi and Riku – making a trip to different universes and "Keyholes" on the planets that, when fixed, keep the "heart" of those universes from being devoured by the Heartless. In the mean time, a gathering of Disney reprobates driven by Maleficent search out the seven Princesses of Heart to open the last keyhole that prompts Kingdom Hearts, a storehouse of information and control, and the wellspring everything being equal. Wrathful additionally discovers Riku and enlisted people him into her administrations, persuading him that Sora deserted him and a sluggish Kairi while offering her guide to him. 

Sora and his companions in the end touch base at Hollow Bastion, Maleficent's base camp, where Riku takes the Keyblade from Sora, uncovering himself to be its planned client while Sora just gotten it in his nonattendance; Donald and Goofy reluctantly leave Sora according to their requests. Sora later difficulties Riku, expressing that his heart gets quality from his companions, moving Donald and Goofy to come back to him and recovering control of the Keyblade. After the three thrashing Maleficent, Sora discovers Kairi's body and faces Riku, who is presently controlled by Ansem, a figure who has been controlling Maleficent from the earliest starting point to open the best approach to Kingdom Hearts. Ansem uncovers Kairi as the seventh Princess of Heart, her heart having moved into Sora's body when the Destiny Islands were devastated. In the wake of crushing the had Riku, Sora pierces himself with Ansem's Keyblade, which is intended to open hearts, discharging the two his and Kairi's hearts; Kairi's heart comes back to her body, thus finishing the last Keyhole, while Sora turns into a Heartless. Kairi later perceives Sora's Heartless, and the light in her heart reestablishes him to human structure. 

After Kairi gives him a four leaf clover, Sora and his gathering dare to the End of the World to battle Ansem as he achieves the way to Kingdom Hearts, which Ansem accepts to be a definitive supply of dimness before being pulverized by the light that blasts through the entryway. Likewise past the entryway are Mickey and Riku, who help Sora and his companions close the entryway before Sora and Mickey lock it with their Keyblades from the two sides. The universes lost to the Heartless recreate themselves; as the Destiny Islands change, Kairi returns there while Sora is compelled to part with her. Transported to a winding street, Sora, Donald, and Goofy purpose to discover Riku and Mickey. 

The underlying thought for "Kingdom Hearts" started with a discourse between Shinji Hashimoto and Hironobu Sakaguchi about "Super Mario 64". They were wanting to make a diversion with opportunity of development in three measurements like "Super Mario 64" however deplored that just characters as well known as Disney's could equal a Mario amusement. Tetsuya Nomura, catching their discussion, volunteered to lead the undertaking and the two makers consented to give him a chance to coordinate. A shot gathering among Hashimoto and a Disney official in a lift—Square and Disney had recently worked in a similar structure in Japan—permitted Hashimoto to pitch the thought straightforwardly to Disney. Nomura struck down various proposition from Disney so as to seek after his own idea including a unique character not founded on a Disney property. The creation group comprised of more than one hundred individuals from both Square and Disney Interactive. The diversion started advancement in February 2000 and initially centered more around the ongoing interaction with a basic story to speak to Disney's objective age extend. After official maker Hironobu Sakaguchi told executive Tetsuya Nomura the amusement would be a disappointment on the off chance that it didn't go for a similar dimension as the "Last Fantasy" arrangement, Nomura started to build up the story further. While picking the Disney universes to incorporate into the diversion, Nomura and his group endeavored to pick universes that had particularly unique looks. They likewise endeavored to consider universes with Disney characters that would intrigue. On account of help from Disney's then-president and current director and CEO Bob Iger, the group had couple of confinements on which universes they could use from the Disney establishments. Notwithstanding, they endeavored to stay inside each character's limits set by their particular Disney films. In a June 2013 meeting, Nomura expressed the name of the diversion was enlivened by Disney Theme Parks, especially Animal Kingdom, which had as of late opened when improvement on the amusement started. Be that as it may, Nomura couldn't verify the IP as just "Kingdom". Later on, when the advancement group started to consider "hearts" as a center piece of the story, it was chosen to join the two to frame the title "Kingdom Hearts". 

Extra substance was added toward the North American discharge that was missing in the underlying Japanese discharge: new discretionary supervisors, one of which was named after the victor of the official site's "Name-In-Game" sweepstakes, an additional trouble level, and a mystery of "Kingdom Hearts II" open by meeting certain criteria. Nomura incorporated the secret so as to measure fan response to the likelihood of a continuation; he felt that on the off chance that the thought was disliked, at that point it is ideal to leave certain occasions in the amusement unexplained. The new substance was later added to the Japanese re-discharge "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix". "Last Mix" included further extra substance, for example, new things, cutscenes, and adversaries, for example, another mystery manager that sets up the spin-off. The new substance further alluded to plotlines that would be clarified in spin-offs. Some substance excluded from "Kingdom Hearts" was later included into "Kingdom Hearts II". A world dependent on "The Lion King", for example, was unfeasible on the grounds that an extra program was required to process development on four legs—a need since Sora would turn into a lion in that world. Because of time limitations, the engineers forgot a discretionary manager fight, like the Sephiroth fight, against Tifa Lockhart. She was later incorporated into "Kingdom Hearts II" as an increasingly created character. 

Yoko Shimomura formed and delivered the music of "Kingdom Hearts". While there are orchestrated tunes got from past Disney films, the vast majority of the soundtrack comprises of unique subjects composed explicitly for the diversion by Shimomura. The opening organization and completion credits topic were masterminded and arranged by Kaoru Wada and performed by the New Japan Philharmonic Orchestra. The principle vocal topic for the first Japanese discharge is titled . The English adaptation of "Hikari," "Basic and Clean," was utilized in the Western discharges and the Japanese re-discharge, "Last Mix". The two renditions were created and performed by Hikaru Utada. Her contribution, alongside the Japanese tune title, was declared in January 2002. Utada was the main vocalist Nomura had as a top priority for the "Kingdom Hearts" signature melody. This denoted the first run through Utada had delivered a melody for a computer game. The single, "Hikari," was discharged in Japan on March 20, 2002 and turned out to be prevalent; by August 2002, it had sold over 860,000 copies in Japan. The "Kingdom Hearts" soundtrack was discharged on a two CD set on March 27, 2002 in Japan and after a year in the United States. The soundtrack was later incorporated into the "Kingdom Hearts Original Soundtrack Complete", which was discharged in Japan on March 28, 2007. Music from "Kingdom Hearts" was additionally incorporated into Shimomura's best works aggregation collection "Drammatica". 

"Kingdom Hearts" highlighted surely understood voice performing artists for both the Japanese and English forms. The Japanese adaptation highlighted Miyu Irino as Sora, Risa Uchida as Kairi, and Mamoru Miyano as Riku. Other remarkable voice on-screen characters included Kōichi Yamadera, Hideo Ishikawa, and Maaya Sakamoto. An uncommon exertion was made to protect the official voice on-screen characters of characters from the Disney films utilized in "Kingdom Hearts". A portion of the voice on-screen characters from the related TV arrangement or direct-to-video spin-offs were picked over the first voice performing artists from movies, where pertinent (for example Dan Castellaneta as Genie, instead of Robin Williams). The English variant highlighted Haley Joel Osment as Sora, David Gallagher as Riku, and Hayden Panettiere as Kairi. Other remarkable voice on-screen characters included Billy Zane, Christy Carlson Romano, David Boreanaz, James Woods, and Mandy Moore. 

"Kingdom Hearts" was reported at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in May 2001. Introductory subtleties were that it would be a joint effort among Square and Disney Interactive and would highlight universes created by the two organizations and Disney characters. New characters were planned by Nomura and included Sora, Riku, Kairi, and the Heartless. A playable demo was accessible at the Tokyo Game Show in 2001. The ongoing interaction of the demo displayed many activity pretending diversion components that would be incorporated into the last item. To help showcase the English arrival of the diversion, Square propelled the official site in April 2002, which included trailers, a "Name-In-Game" sweepstakes, and other Internet content. On May 14, 2002, a public statement declared a rundown of the English voice on-screen characters. The rundown included Haley Joel Osment, David Gallagher, and Hayden Panettiere as the three new characters presented in the diversion. It additionally declared that huge numbers of the Disney characters would be voiced by the official voice performers from their individual Disney films. Other promoting endeavors included sales of the diversion and related things before the North American discharge and a Consumer Demo Day in San Francisco, California. 

"Kingdom Hearts" got positive audits and deals figures. Amid the initial two months of its North American discharge it was one of the best three most elevated selling computer games and was among the top selling titles amid the 2002 Christmas and Christmas season. In November 2002, UBS Warburg recorded it as the sixth most astounding console amusement regarding deals amid the seven day stretch of November 5. Toward the finish of April 2003, Square declared that "Kingdom Hearts" had sold its millionth duplicate in the United States, which made it qualified for PlayStation's "Most noteworthy Hits" status, and over 3.0 million around the world. Deals achieved 1.2 million in Japan in the primary quarter of 2004, and broke 4.0  million around the world. In December 2005, the NPD Group recorded it as "one of the main ten smash hit PlayStation 2 titles ever in North America." By July 2006, "Kingdom Hearts" had sold through 2.6 million duplicates and earned $100 million in the United States alone. "People to come" positioned it as the seventh most noteworthy selling diversion propelled for the PlayStation 2, Xbox or GameCube between January 2000 and July 2006 in that nation. As of December 2006, "Kingdom Hearts" had delivered over 5.6 million duplicates worldwide with 1.1 million in PAL locales, 1.5 million in Japan, and 3.0 million in North America. Starting at 2006, the first diversion and the "Last Mix" form had sold 6 million duplicates on PS2. As of February 2019 , the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement has transported in excess of 30 million duplicates around the world. 

The diversion got basic approval among commentators. In IGN's Best of 2002 honors, it was assigned for "PS2's Best Game of 2002 Editor's Choice Award" and was a sprinter up for "PS2's Best Game of 2002 Reader's Choice Award." In 2007, the site recorded "Kingdom Hearts" as the 22nd best PlayStation 2 round ever. Pundits complimented the visuals, symphonic score, voice acting, and cross breed activity experience and pretending feel to the amusement. IGN named it "Best Art Style/Direction," sprinter up for "Best CG Graphics," and fair notice for "Best Animation" in IGN's 2003 rundown of "Most attractive Games on PS2." GameSpy recorded "Kingdom Hearts" twice in its "Main 25 Video Game Cinematic Moments." "GamePro" expressed that the illustrations were "dazzling," giving them high stamps. The sound was likewise adulated, especially the nature of the voice-overs and melodic score. "GamePro" had positive remarks on the general sound and gave that viewpoint an ideal score. 

Analysis about the ongoing interaction was blended. Numerous surveys grumbled that the camera was now and again disappointing and the Gummi Ship parcels were strange. GameSpot refered to "repetitive" interactivity and Gummi Ship segments as "pale impersonations of the "Star Fox" arrangement," yet expressed that the battle was fun, especially the supervisor battles. Dengeki Online remarked on the camera controls, saying that the camera would regularly keep running into items while being pivoted by the player. "GamePro" contrasted the fight framework with "old N64 "Zelda" diversions" and had positive remarks about Donald and Goofy's computerized reasoning. 

GameSpot remarked that the idea of blending the genuine components of "Definite Fantasy" with the lighter components of Disney appeared to be outlandish, however was pulled off great. In view of that they granted "Kingdom Hearts" "Best Crossover Since "Capcom versus SNK"" in their 2002 Best and Worst of the Year grants. GameSpy noticed that the occasional takeoff from the fundamental plot into the Disney side stories was baffling, and when the first plot works to a peak, "the story neglects to gel because of a befuddling mess of ambiguous terms and imagery that most likely seemed well and good in the chief's head than in this last item." Aside from the plot, they expressed that the general bundle merited playing all the way to the finish. G4TV granted it "Best Story" at their 2003 G-Phoria entertainment ceremony. Fan reaction was likewise positive; "Kingdom Hearts" was casted a ballot as the nineteenth best round ever by perusers of the Japanese magazine "Famitsu", sixteenth by the clients of site GameFAQs, and 92nd by IGN clients. "Kingdom Hearts" positioned ninth on IGN's latest "Top 25 PS2 Games of All Time" list. It was likewise a chosen one for the Best Game Award from the for 2001-2002. Really taking shape of the 2004 computer game "Fullmetal Alchemist and the Broken Angel" the engineers, Racjin, took a gander at different titles for motivation, especially "Kingdom Hearts" when making the diversion. 

Various renditions of "Kingdom Hearts" have been discharged. The first was the first Japanese discharge, trailed by the North American and PAL discharges, which incorporates extra substance. The amusement was later re-discharged in Japan as "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix", which includes the substance of the North American/PAL discharge, just as increasingly new substance. 

Both Square and Disney additionally discharged various kinds of stock when the arrival of the amusement. Stock extended from toys and puppets to garments things and books. Like the "Last Fantasy" diversions, Square discharged a "Ultimania" book on "Kingdom Hearts" in Japan following the arrival of the amusement and an updated version following the arrival of "Conclusive Mix". In North America, a system control was discharged by Brady Games. It highlighted an exhaustive walkthrough and a sticker movement diary. A manga arrangement dependent on the amusement was discharged in Japan and the United States. An epic arrangement additionally dependent on the amusement was discharged in Japan. It was composed by Tomoco Kanemaki and outlined by Shiro Amano. The epic arrangement comprises of two volumes and was discharged in North America on March 25, 2008. 

Initially discharged just in Japan on December 26, 2002, "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix" has a few occasions and various interactivity changes that are not in past discharges. Spoken exchange is in English, with Japanese captions. New scenes, clearing up certain plot focuses, for example, Riku's adventure and hinting of "Kingdom Hearts II", were incorporated, however no new discourse was recorded. An interactivity alternative enables the player to skip cutscenes subsequent to seeing them once. The discretionary supervisors initially incorporated into the English adaptation were acquainted with Japanese players out of the blue, alongside another battle against "Obscure Man," trying to raise enthusiasm for the spin-off. 

In another endeavor at foretelling, a video titled "Another Side, Another Story 【 profound plunge 】" plays at the closure if the player achieves certain undertakings. New music tracks joined were "Vanished" and "Another Side." The "Night on Bald Mountain" and "One-Winged Angel" tracks from the English adaptation were incorporated also. Different changes incorporate new capacities, new weapons, new things, extra and recolored foes, and ongoing interaction changes to make the diversion simpler for the player, alongside two new dimensions of trouble. At the point when previously discharged, "Last Mix" included either a deck of "Kingdom Hearts" cards or exceptional music CD. A restricted "Platinum Edition" adaptation of "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix" was later discharged with an activity figure of Sora, a sticker set, and outlines of a portion of the principle characters. 

It was discharged without precedent for North America, Europe and Australia as a major aspect of "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix". 

The amusement was adjusted into a manga by Shiro Amano. The story pursues the occasions that occurred in the diversion with a couple of minor contrasts to represent the loss of intuitiveness a computer game gives. A few occasions that occurred in the "Last Mix" variant were additionally included. The manga was initially serialized in Japan by Enterbrain's "Famitsū PS2", yet has since been discharged worldwide in four volumes. The volumes have been distributed in English in the United States by Tokyopop. The main volume was discharged on October 11, 2005, and the fourth volume was discharged on July 10, 2006. The whole arrangement was later discharged in a boxed set on October 10, 2006. 

The manga arrangement has had moderate achievement. The principal volume was positioned 95th in "USA Today"s "Top 150 smash hits" amid the seven day stretch of its discharge. IGN commended Amano's craftsmanship and remarked on needing to replay the amusement in the wake of perusing. They scrutinized the absence of new substance and expressed the change from diversion to print lost the majority of the story's intrigue. The arrangement was trailed by others dependent on the amusement's continuations: "" and "Kingdom Hearts II". 

Amid August 2011, Nomura communicated want to discharge a top quality rerelease of the diversion however he presently couldn't seem to affirm such plans. In September 2012, Square Enix declared "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix", a gathering for the PlayStation 3, that incorporates both "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix" and "" in HD and trophy support. The character models from "" were utilized as a base for the amusement's characters. The interactivity of the first "Kingdom Hearts" was adjusted to play progressively like "Kingdom Hearts II". Moreover, the gathering incorporates HD true to life scenes from "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days". It was discharged in Japan on March 14, 2013, in North America on September 10, 2013, on September 12, 2013 for Australia, and September 13, 2013 for Europe. 

In June 2013, Nomura expressed that the first amusement resources for "Kingdom Hearts" had been lost some time back. He clarified, "[The amusement data] was lost, so we needed to research, and we needed to uncover from the real diversion what was accessible and reproduce everything for HD. We needed to reproduce every one of the illustrations and it was really not so natural." 

In October 2016, Square Enix reported a solitary circle arrangement arrival of "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix" and "Kingdom Hearts HD 2.5 Remix" for the PlayStation 4. It was discharged on March 9, 2017, in Japan, and was discharged on March 28, 2017, in North America, and March 31, 2017, in Europe. An extra bit of free downloadable substance for the PS4 adaptation discharged in June 2017 included a Theater mode for "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix". 

"Kingdom Hearts" was trailed by a few continuations, turning into the main diversion in the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement. It was trailed by an immediate spin-off, "", on the Nintendo Game Boy Advance, which was discharged in Japan on November 11, 2004. "Kingdom Hearts II" is the third amusement in the arrangement, set one year after "Chain of Memories", and was discharged in Japan on December 22, 2005 for Sony PlayStation 2. Like the main amusement it was re-discharged as "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix" close by a PS2 redo of "Chain of Memories". A "Kingdom Hearts" diversion was grown solely for V CAST, Verizon Wireless' broadband administration, and was discharged on October 1, 2004 in Japan and on February 4, 2005 in the United States. In November 2008, "Kingdom Hearts coded" was discharged for cell phones in Japan, the diversion happens after the occasions of "Kingdom Hearts II". A followup, "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days", was created for the Nintendo DS and discharged in Japan on May 30, 2009 and in North America on September 29, 2009. A prequel was discharged in Japan on January 9, 2010, entitled "Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep", for the PlayStation Portable, which happens 10 years before the occasions of "Kingdom Hearts". The accompanying title in the arrangement was "" for the Nintendo 3DS, discharged in 2012. At E3 2013, "Kingdom Hearts III" was reported to be being developed for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.