Skirmish of Agua Dulce 

The Battle of Agua Dulce Creek was an engagement amid the Texas Revolution between Mexican troops and defiant pilgrims of the Mexican region of Texas, known as Texians. As a component of the Goliad Campaign to retake the Texas Gulf Coast, Mexican troops trapped a gathering of Texians on March 2, 1836. The conflict started roughly south of San Patricio, in domain having a place with the Mexican province of Tamaulipas. 

At the point when Mexico changed to a concentrated government in 1835, supporters of federalism waged war. Pilgrims in Texas revolted in October 1835 and before the year's over had removed every Mexican troop from their territory. With threats briefly suspended, Frank W. Johnson, the authority of the volunteer armed force in Texas, and James Grant accumulated volunteers for an arranged attack of the Mexican port town of Matamoros. In late February 1836, Johnson and half of the volunteers drove a group of steeds to San Patricio, while Grant took the rest of the men to accumulate more ponies and to endeavor contact with federalist sympathizers close Matamoros. 

Obscure to the Texians, on February 18, Mexican General José de Urrea drove an extensive unforeseen of troops from Matamoros into Texas to kill the revolutionaries accumulated along the coast. His troops effectively vanquished Johnson's little power on February 26. A few days after the fact, sources uncovered Grant's area, and on the morning of March 2, Urrea sent 150 troops to snare the dissidents. After a concise fight, the fundamental body of the Texian and Tejano troops were crushed. Allow and two others got away from the fight and were sought after for . Allow was murdered, as were 11 men under his order. Six Texians were taken prisoner; in spite of Santa Anna's requests, Urrea did not execute them, yet rather sent them to a correctional facility in Matamoros. An extra six Texians got away; five of them later passed on in the Goliad slaughter. 

Under President Antonio López de Santa Anna, the Mexican government started to move far from a federalist model to a progressively incorporated government. His undeniably oppressive strategies, including the denial of the Constitution of 1824 in mid 1835, induced federalists all through the country to revolt. The Mexican Army rapidly put down rebellions all through the nation's inside, including a fierce concealment of volunteer armies in Oaxaca and Zacatecas. Agitation proceeded in the Mexican territory of Coahuila y Tejas. The region that circumscribed the United States, known as Texas, was populated fundamentally by English-talking pioneers, known as Texians. In October, the Texians waged war in what ended up known as the Texas Revolution. The next month, Texians pronounced themselves part of a Mexican state autonomous from Coahuila and made a temporary state government dependent on the standards of the Constitution of 1824. Before the year's over, every single Mexican troop had been ousted from Texas. 

Driving federalists in Mexico supported an arrangement to assault centralist troops in Matamoros, a noteworthy Mexican port. Individuals from the General Council, the break Texas overseeing body, were enchanted with the possibility of a Matamoros Expedition. They trusted it would move other federalist states to revolt and keep the exhausted Texian troops from forsaking the military. In particular, it would move the combat area outside Texas. The Council authoritatively endorsed the arrangement on December 25, and on December 30 Frank W. Johnson, the authority of the volunteer armed force, and his helper James Grant took the main part of the military and practically the majority of the provisions to Goliad to get ready for the endeavor. History specialist Stuart Reid places that Grant was a British mystery operator and that his endeavors were an informal plan to propel British interests in the district. England did not respect the possibility of an autonomous Texas, and the intrusion of Matamoros was an approach to attach Texas all the more firmly to Mexico. 

Resolved to subdue the disobedience, Santa Anna started collecting a vast power to reestablish request. In late December, at Santa Anna's command, the Mexican Congress passed the Tornel Decree, proclaiming that any outsiders battling against Mexican troops "will be esteemed privateers and managed accordingly, being natives of no country directly at war with the Republic and battling under no perceived banner." In the mid nineteenth century, caught privateers were executed right away. The goals along these lines gave the Mexican Army authorization to show no mercy in the war against the Texians. Santa Clause Anna by and by drove the heft of his troops inland to San Antonio de Béxar, and requested General José de Urrea to lead 550 troops along the Atascocita Road toward Goliad. Urrea's endeavors to suppress the insubordination along the Texas Gulf Coast have turned out to be known as the Goliad Campaign. 

The Texas temporary government had named Sam Houston the leader of another ordinary armed force in Texas, however without power over the volunteers who answered to Johnson. The temporary representative, Henry Smith, restricted the Matamoros Expedition and requested Houston to figure out how to disband it. In an awakening discourse to the volunteers, Houston prevented the greater part of the men from proceeding with their main goal. Many left the military. Others joined the troops positioned under Houston's second-in-order, James Fannin, at Presidio La Bahía in Goliad. Before the finish of January 1836, just 70 men stayed with Johnson and Grant. The greater part of these volunteers were Americans or Europeans who had touched base in Texas subsequent to battling had initiated. 

Urrea achieved Matamoros on January 31. A submitted federalist himself, he before long persuaded different federalists in the territory that the Texians' definitive objective was severance and their endeavor to start a federalist revolt in Matamoros was only a technique for occupying consideration from themselves. In the interim, Mexican twofold specialists kept on guaranteeing Johnson and Grant that they would almost certainly take Matamoros effectively. Urrea's power crossed into Texas on February 18. 

Notwithstanding hearing bits of gossip that the Mexican Army was drawing closer, Grant and Johnson took their men south of the Nueces River, into region having a place with the territory of Tamaulipas, to scan for steeds to purchase, take, or generally assemble. About February 21, Johnson and a little gathering started crowding around 100 steeds once more into Texas. The remainder of the men stayed with Grant, apparently to search for more steeds. In reality, he was endeavoring to meet with his partners close Matamoros to decide if federalists were all the while willing to ascend against the Mexican Army. 

Mexican troops touched base in San Patricio in the early long stretches of February 26. Following a fifteen-minute fight, Johnson's men were vanquished; six Texians, including Johnson, got away, and the rest of killed or caught. While Urrea hung tight for fortifications before starting his walk towards Goliad, his development party scanned for Grant and the remaining Texians. Uninformed of Johnson's destiny, on February 27 Grant and his gathering started their walk northward to San Patricio, driving a crowd of a few hundred steeds he had acquired. The men stayed outdoors along San Fernando Creek on March 1. Neighborhood farmers invited them, however that night sent a courier to Urrea with Grant's area and plans. 

Mexican troops walked medium-term towards El Puerto de los Cuates de Agua Dulce, a notable intersection point on Agua Dulce Creek. Roughly south of San Patricio, about from Banquete, and only north of present day Kingsville, Mexican warriors sought shelter in two forests of trees. Urrea had roughly 150 troops, including 80 dragoons. 

Give's organization contained around 53 men, including a vast unforeseen of "Tejanos" (Mexican-conceived inhabitants of Texas) under the order of Plácido Benavides. The men were in great spirits and rode at a simple pace towards San Patricio. Allow, Benavides, and Ruben Brown rode in front of the principle assemblage of Texians and saw no indications of Mexican fighters. 

Somewhere in the range of 10 and 11 am, as the main part of the Texians achieved the trees, the Mexican mounted force assaulted. Taken totally uninformed, a significant number of the Texians were shot before they had the capacity to raise their weapons. As they attempted to escape, dragoons pursued them down and speared them off their steeds. Five Texians got off and made a keep running for a little town adjacent, wanting to pick up spread so they could utilize their rifles. Urrea sent the infantry after them. Two of those Texians were caught and the rest got away. 

Concede, Benavides, and Brown swung back to join the different Texians. Once in the fight, Brown got off, either to reload his rifle or in light of the fact that his steed was executed. Seeing that the fight was lost, Grant pulled Brown onto another pony, and both of them and Benavides swung to escape. Mexican rangers endeavored to stop them; Grant shot one officer and he and Benavides then dashed past that officer's pony. Now, the group charged, compelling the Mexican mounted force aside. The three Texians pursued the ponies. Mexican warriors expeditiously gave pursue. As indicated by Brown's later memory, the two his and Grant's ponies were injured as Mexican fighters terminated after them. 

The three Texians kept running for , once in a while shooting their guns to drive Mexican dragoons to remain back. Mexican fighters shouted that the men would be saved in the event that they surrendered, however none of the Texians trusted them. Benavides had the most grounded mount, and Grant requested him to proceed to caution Fannin that the Mexican Army was near Goliad. Allow and Brown were encompassed and compelled to stop. Give slaughtered a Mexican warrior who drove a spear through Brown's arm. Somewhere in the range of ten and twelve Mexican officers at that point encompassed Grant, and he kicked the bucket in the wake of being penetrated on various occasions. Student of history Stuart Reid speculates that Mexican warriors were anxious to guarantee Grant did not endure the fight. Allow could distinguish federalist sympathizers in Matamoros and the encompassing regions, and his insight possibly put Urrea and a portion of his federalist-identifying troops in danger. 

Darker tossed his vacant gun at one Mexican officer, at that point snatched the spear from the man Grant had shot and utilized it to safeguard himself. After warriors lassoed him, Brown surrendered and was abducted. Darker was then taken back to the site of the snare. He reviewed that one seriously harmed Texian, Joseph Carpenter, was lying in the earth, asking for his life. Dark colored at that point saw a Mexican trooper shoot him. 

In spite of the fact that Urrea announced that 42 Texians were slaughtered, mid twentieth century history specialists for the most part just rundown 12 Texians as executed. Tejano contribution in the upset had been remarkably missing from reading material until the 1970s, so almost certainly, history specialists were excluding the "Tejanos" under Benavides. Six Texians were taken prisoner. In disobedience of the Tornel Decree, Urrea saved the individuals who surrendered and sent them to a jail in Matamoros. Reports demonstrated that Urrea offered mercy after the mediation of Francita Alavez, the courtesan of one of Urrea's fighters. 

Six Texians got away. Five of these joined Fannin's battalion at Goliad and were later executed in the Goliad slaughter. No reports of Mexican misfortunes have been found, in spite of the fact that no less than one Mexican warrior is thought to have kicked the bucket. After the fight, Mexican troopers gathered together the steeds that the Texians had been crowding and kept them. The fight denoted the finish of the Matamoros Expedition. In spite of the fact that it happened around the same time that Texas proclaimed autonomy, Grant and his men did not realize that they were battling for the new Republic of Texas. 

As indicated by history specialist Stephen Hardin, this fight demonstrated that the Texians did not battle well on open prairies. Updates on the fight came to Fannin on March 4. Urrea's up and coming entry stressed Fannin, who expected that Santa Anna would lead his troops from San Antonio de Béxar towards Goliad, basically catching Fannin and his men between the two parts of the Mexican Army. Fannin kept in touch with the Acting Governor, James Robinson, "I am a superior judge of my military capacities than others, and on the off chance that I am met all requirements to order an Army, I have not discovered it out." The acting Texas government regardless left Fannin responsible for the stronghold at Goliad, educating him to decide if it was ideal to withdraw or hold fast. Fannin deferred settling on a choice, at last leaving Goliad on March 19. Urrea's troops caught Fannin's men on an open prairie. The Texians surrendered after the Battle of Coleto and most, including Colonel Fannin, were executed seven days after the fact in the Goliad slaughter.