Ælfheah of Canterbury 

Ælfheah (c. 953 – 19 April 1012) was an Anglo-Saxon Bishop of Winchester, later Archbishop of Canterbury. He turned into an anchorite before being chosen abbot of Bath Abbey. His notoriety for devotion and holiness prompted his advancement to the episcopate, and inevitably, to his getting to be ecclesiastical overseer. Ælfheah facilitated the clique of Dunstan and furthermore supported learning. He was caught by Viking pillagers in 1011 amid the Siege of Canterbury and later executed by them the next year in the wake of declining to enable himself to be recovered. Ælfheah was consecrated as a holy person in 1078. Thomas Becket, a later Archbishop of Canterbury, implored him just before his own homicide in Canterbury Cathedral. 

Purportedly conceived in Weston on the edges of Bath, Ælfheah turned into a priest from the get-go throughout everyday life. His introduction to the world occurred around 953. He previously entered the cloister of Deerhurst, yet then moved to Bath, where he turned into an anchorite. He was noted for his devotion and somberness and rose to progress toward becoming abbot of Bath Abbey. The twelfth century writer William of Malmesbury recorded that Ælfheah was a priest and earlier at Glastonbury Abbey, however this isn't acknowledged by all history specialists. Signs are that Ælfheah moved toward becoming abbot at Bath by 982, maybe as right on time as around 977. He maybe imparted expert to his ancestor Æscwig after 968. 

Presumably because of the impact of Dunstan, the Archbishop of Canterbury (959– 988), Ælfheah was chosen Bishop of Winchester in 984, and was sanctified on 19 October that year. While priest he was to a great extent in charge of the development of a substantial organ in the basilica, capable of being heard from over a mile (1600 m) away and said to require more than 24 men to work. He likewise manufactured and augmented the city's temples, and advanced the faction of Swithun and his very own antecedent, Æthelwold of Winchester. One act advancing Æthelwold's clique was the interpretation of Æthelwold's body to another tomb in the house of God at Winchester, which Ælfheah directed on 10 September 996. 

Following a Viking strike in 994, a harmony arrangement was concurred with one of the pillagers, Olaf Tryggvason. Other than getting danegeld, Olaf changed over to Christianity and embraced never to strike or battle the English again. Ælfheah may have had an influence in the bargain exchanges, and it is sure that he affirmed Olaf in his new confidence. 

In 1006 Ælfheah succeeded Ælfric as Archbishop of Canterbury, accepting Swithun's head with him as a relic for the new area. He went to Rome in 1007 to get his pallium—image of his status as an ecclesiastical overseer—from Pope John XVIII, however was victimized amid his voyage. While at Canterbury he advanced the faction of Dunstan, requesting the composition of the second "Existence of Dunstan", which Adelard of Ghent formed somewhere in the range of 1006 and 1011. He additionally brought new practices into the sacrament, and was instrumental in the Witenagemot's acknowledgment of Wulfsige of Sherborne as a holy person in around 1012. 

Ælfheah sent Ælfric of Eynsham to Cerne Abbey to assume responsibility for its devout school. He was available at the committee of May 1008 at which Wulfstan II, Archbishop of York, lectured his "Sermo Lupi advertisement Anglos" ("The Sermon of the Wolf to the English"), reprimanding the English for their ethical failings and censuring the last for the tribulations harassing the nation. 

In 1011 the Danes again assaulted England, and from 8– 29 September they laid attack to Canterbury. Supported by the foul play of Ælfmaer, whose life Ælfheah had once spared, the bandits prevailing with regards to sacking the city. Ælfheah was taken prisoner and held hostage for seven months. Godwine (Bishop of Rochester), Leofrun (abbess of St Mildrith's), and the lord's reeve, Ælfweard were caught additionally, however the abbot of St Augustine's Abbey, Ælfmær, figured out how to get away. Canterbury Cathedral was ravaged and consumed by the Danes following Ælfheah's catch. 

Ælfheah would not enable a payment to be paid for his opportunity, and subsequently was slaughtered on 19 April 1012 at Greenwich (at that point in Kent, presently part of London), supposedly on the site of St Alfege's Church. The record of Ælfheah's passing shows up in the E variant of the "Old English Saxon Chronicle": 

Ælfheah was the main Archbishop of Canterbury to bite the dust a fierce passing. A contemporary report advises that Thorkell the Tall endeavored to spare Ælfheah from the horde going to slaughter him by offering all that he claimed aside from his ship, in return for Ælfheah's life; Thorkell's essence isn't referenced in the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", in any case. A few sources record that the last blow, with the back of a hatchet, was conveyed as a demonstration of consideration by a Christian proselyte known as "Drone." Ælfheah was covered in St Paul's Cathedral. In 1023 his body was moved by King Cnut to Canterbury, with incredible function. Thorkell the Tall was horrified at the mercilessness of his kindred looters, and changed sides to the English ruler Æthelred the Unready after Ælfheah's passing. 

Pope Gregory VII sanctified Ælfheah in 1078, with a gala day of 19 April. Lanfranc, the main post-Conquest ecclesiastical overseer, was questionable about a portion of the holy people loved at Canterbury. He was convinced of Ælfheah's holiness, yet Ælfheah and Augustine of Canterbury were the main pre-success Anglo-Saxon diocese supervisors kept on Canterbury's date-book of holy people. Ælfheah's sanctuary, which had turned out to be ignored, was revamped and extended in the mid twelfth century under Anselm of Canterbury, who was instrumental in holding Ælfheah's name in the congregation logbook. After the 1174 flame in Canterbury Cathedral, Ælfheah's remaining parts together with those of Dunstan were put around the high raised area, at which Thomas Becket is said to have complimented his life into Ælfheah's consideration in no time before his affliction amid the Becket debate. The new hallowed place was fixed in lead, and was north of the high raised area, imparting the respect to Dunstan's sanctum, which was found south of the high special stepped area. An "Actual existence of Saint Ælfheah" in exposition and refrain was composed by a Canterbury priest named Osbern, at Lanfranc's solicitation. The exposition rendition has endure, however the "Life" is especially a hagiography: a considerable lot of the tales it contains have evident Biblical parallels, making them think as a chronicled record. 

In the late medieval period, Ælfheah's gala day was praised in Scandinavia, maybe in light of the holy person's association with Cnut. Scarcely any congregation commitments to him are known, with the vast majority of them happening in Kent and one each in London and Winchester; just as St Alfege's Church in Greenwich, a close-by medical clinic (1931– 1968) was named after him. In the town of Solihull in the West Midlands St Alphege Church is committed to Ælfheah going back to around 1277. In 1929 another congregation in Bath was devoted to Ælfheah, under the name Alphege, structured by Giles Gilbert Scott in praise to the antiquated Roman church of Santa Maria in Cosmedin.