1956 Winter Olympics 

The 1956 Winter Olympics, authoritatively known as the VII Olympic Winter Games (French: Les "VII Jeux olympiques d'hiver"; Italian: "VII Giochi olimpici invernali"), was a multi-sport occasion held in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, from 26 January to 5 February 1956. 

Cortina, which had initially been granted the 1944 Winter Olympics, beat out Montreal, Colorado Springs and Lake Placid for the privilege to have the 1956 Games. The Cortina Games were exceptional in that a large number of the settings were inside strolling separation of one another. The arranging board of trustees got monetary help from the Italian government for framework upgrades, however the remainder of the expenses for the Games must be secretly financed. Thus, the arranging advisory group was the first to depend intensely on corporate sponsorship for subsidizing. 

Thirty-two countries—the biggest number of nations taking part in the Winter Olympics up to that point—contended in the four games and twenty-four occasions. Austrian Toni Sailer turned into the main individual to clear every one of the three snow capped skiing occasions in a solitary Olympics. The figure skating rivalry was held outside once and for all at these Games. Strategically, the main issue experienced was an absence of snow at the elevated skiing occasions. To cure this, the Italian armed force transported a lot of snow to guarantee the courses were enough secured. 

Legislative issues did not influence the 1956 Winter Games as at the Summer Games in Melbourne, Australia, where the Soviet suppression of the Hungarian Revolution and the Suez War made numerous countries blacklist the Games. The Cortina Olympics were the main Winter Olympics broadcast to a global gathering of people. These were the main Olympic Games under the IOC Presidency of Avery Brundage. 

Cortina d'Ampezzo is a ski resort town arranged in the Dolomite Alps in the north-eastern corner of Italy. In 1956, it had a populace of 6,500 individuals. Tally Alberto Bonacossa, a cultivated snow capped skier, figure skater and an individual from the International Olympic Committee (IOC) since 1925, led the push to convey the Olympic Games to Cortina d'Ampezzo. He induced the city committee of Cortina to offer for the 1944 Games. Amid the 38th IOC Congress held in London in 1939, Cortina d'Ampezzo was granted the 1944 Winter Olympics, however the Games were dropped because of the episode of World War II. 

In 1946 the Italian Winter Sports Federation assembled in Milan and chose to help another endeavor from Cortina to have the Winter Games. A designation, driven by Count Bonacossa, introduced Cortina's offered to have the 1952 Winter Olympics at the 40th IOC Session in Stockholm, Sweden. They were sponsored by the city's chamber and the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI, "Comitato Olimpico Nazionale Italiano"). An opponent offer from Oslo, Norway, soundly vanquished Cortina. Check Bonacossa's and CONI arranged a third offer, this time for the 1956 Winter Games. The host city choice occurred in Rome, amid the 43rd IOC Session. On 28 April 1949, Cortina d'Ampezzo was chosen with 75% of the votes, over offers from Montreal, Colorado Springs and Lake Placid. Sadly, Bonacossa kicked the bucket on 30 January 1953, three years before he could observer Cortina have the Games. 

A sum of 32 countries sent competitors to Cortina d'Ampezzo. Alongside the Soviet Union, Bolivia and Iran contended at the Winter Games out of the blue, making Bolivia the main totally Tropical country to take an interest in a Winter Olympic. Korea, Liechtenstein, and Turkey returned in the wake of having missed the 1952 Winter Olympics, while Argentina, Denmark, New Zealand, and Portugal did not contend at these Games, in the wake of having taken an interest in the past release. Competitors from West Germany (FRG) and East Germany (GDR) contended together as the United Team of Germany, a game plan that would proceed for the accompanying two Olympiads. 

The following is the rundown of taking an interest countries, with the quantity of contenders demonstrated in sections: 

<noinclude> 

These are the main ten countries that won awards at the 1956 Winter Olympics: 

<nowiki>*</nowiki> Two gold decorations were granted when Soviet skaters tied in the 1,500 metre speed skating rivalry. 

The 1956 Winter Olympics was sorted out by a board of trustees made out of individuals from the Italian National Olympic Committee and the Italian government. Onlookers were sent to the Oslo Games in 1952 to gather data with respect to the games program, foundation, and settlement necessities. The knowledge assembled there demonstrated that Cortina's offices were not up to Olympic measures. The town did not have an ice arena, or a speed skating arena; the snow capped ski runs, ski bounce and bobsleigh run were in poor condition. Cortina was a little town, and its foundation would be overpowered by the groups expected for the Games. To suit the convergence of individuals, new streets and rail lines must be assembled, and the city's capacity framework and phone lines extended. Improvements likewise must be made to sewer and water limit. The Italian government provided Italian lira 460 million for foundation enhancements. The Italian Olympic Committee was in charge of financing the remainder of the expenses of facilitating the Games. They did this by putting aside monies from their own financial plan, ticket deals, and notwithstanding winnowing assets from neighborhood football wagering pools. The sorting out board of trustees additionally made the exceptional stride of selling corporate sponsorship. For instance, Fiat was assigned the official vehicle of the 1956 Winter Olympics, and Olivetti provided typewriters for the 400 writers going to the Games. 

The Cold War started after the partnered triumph in World War II. Until 1952, a large number of the Communist nations of Eastern Europe had taken an interest in Worker's Olympics or Spartakiads. The Soviet Union rose up out of global confinement by shunning the Spartakiad and taking part in the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki; they made their Winter Olympics debut at the Cortina Games. Soviet general secretary Nikita Khrushchev's point was to utilize worldwide games rivalries, for example, the Olympics, to exhibit the prevalence of socialism, fortify political ties with other socialist nations, and undertaking the Soviet Union as a harmony adoring country effectively occupied with the world. The Soviets' cooperation at the Olympics raised the dimension of rivalry as they won the most decorations and more gold awards than some other country. The Cortina Games were held before the Hungarian Revolution and resulting Soviet intrusion, and the Suez War, which happened in the fall of 1956; the Winter Games got away from the blacklists that tormented the Melbourne Olympics, which were commended in November and December of that year. 

The Cortina Games were the principal Winter Olympics to be communicated to a worldwide group of onlookers. TV as a mass correspondence innovation was extending quickly during the 1950s. Amidst the Cold War, Europe was a promulgation combat zone as nations handed-off TV motions over the Iron Curtain. By 1956, nations in the Soviet range of authority had accomplished an innovative preferred standpoint and had the capacity to communicate socialist TV programs into Finland, the eastern outskirt locales and increasingly separated geographic regions of West Germany and Austria, where inhabitants had inclusion from an East German communicate with an ace socialist perspective. Most West Germans viewed the 1956 Winter Olympics by means of Eurovision communicates which were transferred all over western Europe including all significant West German stations (Eurovision network in 1956 ) The political repercussions were by all account not the only effect TV had these Olympics. The Cortina Games did not create income from TV – the 1960 Winter Olympics in Squaw Valley were the first to do as such – yet were an analysis in the practicality of broadcasting an expansive multi-sport occasion. Out of the blue at an Olympic Games, the scenes were worked in view of TV. For instance, the show off at the crosscountry ski scene ("Lo Stadio della neve") was manufactured confronting south with the goal that the TV cameras would not be antagonistically influenced by the rising or setting sun. 

Decorations were granted in 24 occasions challenged in 4 sports (8 disciplines). The program for the 1956 Winter Games saw two new occasions added to the four games and twenty-two occasions from the 1952 Olympics, to be specific the men's 30 kilometre crosscountry ski race and the ladies' 3x5 kilometre crosscountry multi stage sprint. 

The opening services occurred on Thursday, 26 January 1956 in the Olympic Ice Stadium. Brief seating was added to help the arena's ability to 14,000 individuals. Competitors speaking to 32 countries walked in the function and Mr Giovanni Gronchi, President of the Italian Republic, pronounced the Games open. Now, speed skater Guido Caroli skated into the arena with the Olympic fire. While he was on a circuit of the Ice Stadium he stumbled and fell over a TV link; he recovered his feet and lit the cauldron. The Olympic vow was conveyed by Giuliana Chenal-Minuzzo; this was the first run through a female competitor gave the pledge at an Olympic Games. The Olympic Hymn, authoritatively perceived in that capacity at the IOC congress in Paris on 13 June 1955, was played out of the blue at the Cortina Games. 

There were two bobsleigh occasions, the two-man and four-man rivalries. Each partaking country was restricted to two sleighs in every occasion. The sleighs made four runs, with the all out time summed. The Italians won gold and silver in the two-man occasion. Switzerland took third spot when they passed Spain on the fourth run. In the four-man occasion held seven days after the fact, the Swiss won the gold award, Italy got the silver, and the United States won the bronze. Italy had taken an interest in every one of the six past Olympic bobsleigh rivalries yet had never achieved the platform. Italians Renzo Alverà and Eugenio Monti won the silver in the two-man rivalry and were additionally on the silver-winning four-man sleigh. Monti's silver decorations at the 1956 Games were the first of six Olympic awards he would win in his bobsleigh profession. The bobsleigh keep running at Cortina was in the long run renamed the Eugenio Monti track to respect his bobsleigh profession. The awards won in bobsleigh would be the host country's solitary decorations at these Games. One grumbling of the bobsleigh occasions was that the track surface endured broad harm because of abuse. This hampered the execution of groups attracted late the challenge. 

The eighth Olympic ice hockey competition additionally filled in as both the European and World Championships. Split into three pools before the competition, the ten taking part countries started by playing each group in their pool in a round robin position. The best two groups from each pool progressed to the last round, with the rest of the groups played in a relief aggregate for seventh through tenth spots. Canada, Czechoslovakia, and the Soviet Union came out ahead of the pack in their starter pools with undefeated records. Germany, the United States, and Sweden came in just short of the win in their pools. 

A vital early matchup of the last round was the amusement among Canada and the United States. The Canadians had never lost to the US in Olympic play before that amusement. In what was viewed as an enormous miracle, the United States vanquished Canada 4– 1. The Americans, who put fourth at the 1955 World Ice Hockey Championships and were not expected to award, at that point confronted the USSR, who won the competition in 1954 and took silver in 1955 behind Canada, in a diversion that would in the end have the effect in the gold decoration. The Soviets overpowered the dark horses and won the match 4– 0. The USSR at that point played Canada, who still got an opportunity to win the gold on the off chance that they crushed the Soviets, and won 2– 0 in spite of being drastically outscored in the first and second time spans. The USSR won gold, the United States surpisingly took silver and Canada, with their two misfortunes, earned bronze, their most exceedingly bad outcome to date in Olympic play. 

The Cortina Games were the last Olympics to include figure skating outside. Skaters from the United States won five awards, clearing the men's occasion and taking the main two spots in the women's occasion. Tenley Albright was the ladies' Olympic hero regardless of supporting genuine damage by and by. Under about fourteen days before the Olympics she was rehearsing her skating routine when she hit a trench in the ice and fell. Her skate slice through a few layers of attire, and cut her correct leg at the lower leg. Her partner Carol Heiss won the silver, and Austrian Ingrid Wendl earned the bronze decoration. Americans Hayes Jenkins, Ronald Robertson, and Jenkins' sibling David Jenkins were the men's medallists. The Austrian pair of Sissy Schwarz and Kurt Oppelt took the gold decoration in the sets occasion. Canadians Frances Dafoe and Norris Bowden won the silver and the Hungarian kin Marianna Nagy and László Nagy protected their bronze award from the 1952 Games. 

The Soviet Union commanded the speed skating occasions by winning seven of the twelve awards, including four golds. Soviet skaters set two world records, an Olympic record, and had no less than one medallist in every one of the four occasions. Yevgeny Grishin was the top individual entertainer, with two gold awards and two world records. Grishin and Soviet partner Yuri Mikhaylov tied in the 1,500 metre race. It was chosen to grant both of the competitors gold decorations and leave the silver award position empty. Sigvard Ericsson of Sweden earned gold and silver awards and set an Olympic record in the 10,000 metre occasion. 

Six snow capped skiing occasions were held, three for men and three for ladies. The races were the declining, slalom and mammoth slalom. Toni Sailer of Austria cleared the men's gold decorations, turning into the main individual to win three high skiing golds in a solitary Olympics. Driven by Sailer, the Austrians commanded the snow capped skiing occasions for the two people, winning nine out of a conceivable eighteen awards. The Austrians were especially effective in the mammoth slalom; the men cleared the decorations and the ladies took silver and bronze. Chiharu Igaya won the principal Winter Olympics award for Japan when he set second in the slalom. Swiss partners, Madeleine Berthod and Renée Colliard won the ladies' declining and slalom races. Germany earned its solitary gold decoration of the Games when Ossi Reichert took first in the mammoth slalom. 

Two ladies' occasions were added to the crosscountry skiing program out of the blue. The Soviet ladies took the main two spots in the individual 10 kilometre race however lost to Finland in the new 3x5 kilometre transfer. The men had another occasion too, the 30 kilometre race, which was won by Veikko Hakulinen from Finland. The other three men's occasions were won by three distinct countries: Norway took the 15 kilometre race, Sweden the 50 kilometre occasion, and the Soviet Union won the transfer. By and large the Soviet Union won seven out of a conceivable eighteen awards in crosscountry skiing. Sweden, behind the solid skiing of Sixten Jernberg, won six awards. Jernberg won a gold, two silvers, and a bronze, which were the first of nine Olympic decorations he would procure in his crosscountry profession. 

There were huge changes to the Nordic joined occasion at the 1956 Games. The occasion had dependably been a crosscountry race pursued by a ski hop. Initially the rivals in the Nordic consolidated were gone into the open 18 kilometre crosscountry race, which implied that they contended close by competitors who were committed crosscountry skiers. Their occasions were joined with their score from two ski hops to decide the champ. At the Cortina Games, the arrangement was changed to enable the Nordic consolidated competitors to contend in a devoted 15 kilometre crosscountry race. After two days they had three bounces on the ski hop slope. Their best two scores were joined with their crosscountry time to decide a victor. This arrangement would turn into the standard for Nordic consolidated rivalries going ahead. Norway proceeded with its strength of Nordic joined when Sverre Stenersen won the gold award. Since its commencement at the 1924 Games, the nation had just lost the Nordic joined occasion once. Stenersen was trailed by Bengt Eriksson of Sweden and Poland's Franciszek Gąsienica Groń. 

In the ski bouncing occasion, the Swiss jumper, Andreas Däscher presented another style of hopping, which would before long come to be known as the Däscher strategy. Prior to these Games, the competitors would hold their arms forward over their heads. Däscher contemplated that if the competitor held his arms next to him he would fly more distant. Disciples to this new style ruled the challenge. Finnish jumpers Antti Hyvärinen and Aulis Källakorpi took first and second spot; Harry Glass of Germany won the bronze decoration. This challenge denoted the finish of Norwegian strength in the game. Since the main winter Games in 1924, the Norwegians had won the gold award at every Olympics until 1956. The poor execution of the Norwegian jumpers was ascribed to their refusal to utilize the new hopping procedure. 

The end services occurred on Sunday, 5 February in the Olympic Ice Stadium. They were gone before by a figure skating show performed by the men's, women's, and matches figure skating champions. The banner bearers of every country at that point entered the arena pursued by the banners of Greece and the United States. These two banners were raised to respect the country that established the Olympics and the following nation to have the Winter Games. Avery Brundage, President of the International Olympic Committee, pronounced the Olympics shut, and a firecrackers show closed the Games. 

The opening function was hung on 26 January, alongside the main rounds of the hockey competition. From 27 January until 5 February, the day of the end function, no less than one occasion last was held every day. 

† The numeral shows the quantity of occasion finals for each game held that day. 

A special element of the Cortina Olympics was the vicinity of numerous occasion areas which were in strolling separation of one another inside the town of Cortina. The speed skating occasions were held at Lake Misurina, generally from Cortina. The settings highlighted grandstands warmed by silica curls incorporated with the seats. Silica curl warming was an innovation that had as of late turned out to be efficient. The rivalries were held without occurrence aside from the skiing occasions, which experienced an absence of snow. 

A prominent scene not found at the 1956 Games was an Olympic Village, where the competitors would be housed. The town of Cortina d'Ampezzo had a populace of under 7,000 individuals in 1956. Neighborhood inns were worried that after the Olympics an Olympic Village would so remarkably increment the lodging limit it would make a significant number of them bankrupt. Competitors were billeted by nearby families or remained in lodgings amid the Games. 

The Olympic Ice Stadium ("Stadio Olimpico Del Ghiaccio") was expected to be the point of convergence of the Games. It was based on the banks of the Boite stream only north of Cortina. After new streets and a scaffold had been developed, the arena was an eight-minute stroll from the focal point of town. The arena was worked to oblige 6,000– 7,000 individuals. Because of space constraints the grandstands were developed vertically, with levels fabricated straightforwardly over one another. There were two fake ice arenas of , with a complete ice surface of . An extraordinary cooling plant was worked under the arena, which solidified the ice through the vanishing of smelling salts. The development cost totaled ITL 1.3 billion (US$2.1 million in 1956), making it the most costly setting of these Games. The arena was utilized for the opening and shutting services, the majority of the figure skating rivalries and select ice hockey occasions. After the Games, the sorting out panel made the Ice Stadium a blessing to the city of Cortina. It was utilized as an ice skating arena in the winter and an outside exercise center for judo and aerobatic in the mid year. 

The "Apollonio Stadium" was utilized for select rounds of the ice hockey competition. Extensive work must be done to convey the arena modern. A second arena was added to take into consideration two diversions to be held at the same time. The arena was furnished with electric lights and the seating limit was developed to suit 2,000 individuals. 

The bobsleigh run ("Pista Olimpica di Bob – Eugenio Monti"), was initially developed in 1928. The track was revamped and extended a few times amid the years paving the way to the Olympics. A best in class flag board was introduced showing an outline of the keep running with the situation of each sleigh on the run appeared with lights. 

Arranged around from Cortina, close Zuel, the "Italia" Jump ("Trampolino Olimpico Italia") was initially worked in 1923 as the "Franchetti" Jump. After alterations in 1926, the primary structure was decimated in 1939 and remade in 1940. With the 1956 Games coming to Cortina, the hop must be refreshed again to conform to the specialized requests of the Olympics. On April 15, 1955, the "Franchetti" Jump was at long last obliterated and the new "Italia Jump" was finished around the same time at an expense of about ITL 310 million ($500,000). The strengthened solid stage was high, and had a long, 35° soak in-run. Two grandstands, each with a limit with respect to 3,000 individuals, were set on either side of the arrival incline; a characteristic amphiteatre at the base of the slope could hold up to 40,000 standing observers. An exceptional street was worked among Cortina and the setting for the vehicle of competitors, authorities and specialists. 

The Snow Stadium ("Stadio della neve") was developed from Cortina, and facilitated the majority of the crosscountry occasions. Two grandstands were built to suit 6,000 individuals. Three sorts of crosscountry courses were developed: one of , three of , and four of . A portion of these courses experienced the bobsleigh run. Thus, an extension must be built so occasions happening in the two settings would not meddle with one another. 

The high runs ("Le piste elevated") were based on the slants of Monte Tofana and Monte Faloria in the close-by Dolomite alps. The people's declining and slalom races were hung on Tofana. Faloria was the site of the two monster slalom occasions. It took almost two years to finish development of the runs. In earlier years, absence of snow was never an issue, yet in the winter of 1956 there was lacking snowfall for skiers to securely explore the runs. As a result, snow must be transported from different pieces of the mountains by the Italian armed force. 

The Misurina arena ("La pista di Misurina") was the area of the speed skating occasions. This was the last time that speed skating at the Olympics was hung on normal ice. It was from Cortina. The arena was set up at the northern end of the lake with a mountain setting. Stands were developed to oblige 8,500 individuals. Notwithstanding the occasion being held outside on lake ice, two world records and two Olympic records were broken amid the challenge. 

Three of the scenes for these recreations (the bobsleigh run, indoor field, and ski hop) would fill in as film area for the 1981 James Bond film "For Your Eyes Only".