John Edward Brownlee sex embarrassment 

The John Brownlee sex embarrassment happened in 1934 in Alberta, Canada, and constrained the abdication of the commonplace Premier, John Edward Brownlee. Brownlee was blamed for luring Vivian MacMillan, a family companion and a secretary for Brownlee's lawyer general in 1930, when she was 18 years of age, and proceeding with the undertaking for a long time. MacMillan guaranteed that the wedded chief had disclosed to her that she should engage in sexual relations with him for the good of his own and that of his invalid spouse. She had, she affirmed, yielded after physical and passionate weight. Brownlee considered her story a manufacture, and proposed that it was the aftereffect of a connivance by MacMillan, her future life partner, and a few of Brownlee's political rivals in the Alberta Liberal Party. 

MacMillan and her dad sued Brownlee for temptation. After a shocking preliminary in June 1934, the six-man jury found for the offended parties, granting them $10,000 and $5,000, separately. In a strange move, preliminary judge William Ives neglected the jury's finding and rejected the case. The Supreme Court of Canada in the end upset the choice and granted MacMillan $10,000 in harms. This honor was attested by the Judicial Committee of the British Privy Council, Canada's most astounding court of offer at the time. The majority of this was to a great extent scholarly to Brownlee, who surrendered after the jury's finding. Amid the following decision, his United Farmers of Alberta were cleared out of the governing body, losing each seat. 

John Brownlee wound up Premier of Alberta in 1925 as the pioneer of the parliamentary council of the United Farmers of Alberta (UFA). Right off the bat in his prevalence, he accomplished various triumphs, including winning control of the region's normal assets from the national government, yet by 1933 the Great Depression was negatively affecting his administration's fame. Political powers were upholding radical redesigns of the budgetary framework. The Co-usable Commonwealth Federation and components of the UFA's grassroots favored communism and government responsibility for methods for generation, while the Alberta Liberal Party, numerous inside the UFA, and William Aberhart's new commonplace development favored social credit, in spite of the fact that in contrasting structures and with varying dimensions of energy. 

In 1934, Brownlee was involved in a sex outrage, with significant outcomes to his political vocation. Those included with the embarrassment gave generally divergent records of the encompassing certainties; on just a minority of subtleties did the gatherings concur. In 1930, Brownlee visited Edson while battling in the 1930 commonplace decision. While there, Allan MacMillan—the city hall leader of Edson and a political partner of Brownlee's—took him to a ranchers' cookout. While in transit to the occasion, Brownlee visited with MacMillan's little girl, Vivian, at that point seventeen years of age and uncertain as to her future. The chief urged her to come to Edmonton and study business at Alberta College. She did as such and, subsequent to graduating in June 1931, began working in the workplace of the common Attorney-General as a stenographer on July 3. 

While in Edmonton, she turned out to be near the Brownlee family. On July 5, 1933, while the remainder of his family was traveling at Sylvan Lake, Brownlee was taking MacMillan for a vehicle ride when he saw they were being pursued. In the seeking after vehicle were John Caldwell, a suitor of MacMillan's and third-year medicinal understudy at the University of Alberta, and Neil MacLean, a noticeable Edmonton attorney and Liberal Party supporter who had been contradicting counsel in the bitter and prominent separation continuing of Brownlee's Minister of Public Works, Oran McPherson. Brownlee made a progression of sharp turns and inversions, with an end goal to initially find out whether he was to be sure being pursued and, when fulfilled that he was, to dodge the other vehicle. Unfit to do as such, he dropped MacMillan off at her home and came back to his. 

That August, Brownlee got a letter from MacLean perusing to some extent "We have been told to start activity against you for harms for the enchantment of Miss Vivian MacMillan." Later that month, he exploited a break in the government Royal Commission on Banking and Currency, of which he was a part, to visit Allan MacMillan in Edson. He talked rather to Mrs. MacMillan, who at first wouldn't give him access to the house and requested that he leave. She in the long run yielded and let him in; he disclosed to her that seeking after the issue could demolish Vivian's future, to which she reacted "shouldn't something be said about you?" Concluding that the gathering was futile, Brownlee separated by reporting "I am not requesting that you avoid your activity, yet I need to reveal to you that the claim isn't valid and I will confront them honestly and answer any inquiries ... On the off chance that its cash you are after, I haven't got it." 

On September 22, MacLean recorded an announcement of case under the watchful eye of Judge John R. Boyle in the interest of Allan and Vivian MacMillan. The case was made under the Alberta Seduction Act, and looked for harms of $10,000 for Vivian and $5,000 for Allan. It claimed that Brownlee, subsequent to organizing Vivian's turn from Edson to Edmonton, had enticed her in the fall of 1930 when she was eighteen, and had customary sexual contact with her for a time of three years. Brownlee denied the charges promptly (and made a rejected idea to leave from the Royal Commission) and on November 13 recorded a counter-guarantee against Vivian MacMillan and John Caldwell, asserting that they had contrived to get cash through false claims. 

As indicated by Vivian MacMillan, when she met Brownlee in 1930 he disclosed to her that she would "grow up to be a wonderful lady", encouraged her to move to Edmonton, and offered to orchestrate an administration work for her. He further offered to go about as watchman to her and enable her to live in his home until she found her very own position. On his recommendation and affirmations, she moved to Edmonton and, subsequent to moving on from Alberta College, got the stenographer's position that she asserted had been masterminded her by the head. 

Following her landing in Edmonton, she stated, Brownlee had called her—remarking that "a little birdie" had disclosed to him that she was around the local area—and welcomed her to his home to meet his family; she before long turned into a normal guest there. She claimed that in October 1930, while Brownlee was driving her home after one such visit, the head grasped her hand and asked her what she knew "about existence". On her reaction that she knew likely as much as any young lady of eighteen, he welcomed her out the following night for what she assumed would be some counsel. Rather, he drove her west of town on Highway 16 and stopped on a side street before requesting that her have intercourse with him. He said that he had been frantically enamored with her from the begin, that he was desolate, that he and his better half had not lived respectively as man and spouse in quite a while, that his significant other (an invalid) would be jeopardized by a pregnancy, and that he couldn't be chief any more extended except if MacMillan consented to engage in sexual relations with him. He disclosed to her that in the event that she denied him, he would be compelled to continue his sexual association with his better half, and this would probably slaughter her. MacMillan responded dreadfully, and inquired as to whether there was whatever else she could do to help Brownlee and his better half; he answered that there was definitely not. 

The following week on another ride home, a comparative discussion resulted, this one coming full circle in Brownlee driving an opposing MacMillan into the vehicle's rearward sitting arrangement where he halfway entered her without wanting to. After two weeks, she affirmed, they had total consensual intercourse. After, when she communicated worry about getting to be pregnant, he revealed to her that "he knew about certain pills that he would give me and on the off chance that I took them toward the finish of every prior month I discharged that they would be sheltered and there would not be any peril of me getting to be pregnant." MacMillan described that their relationship proceeded along these lines, with sex happening a normal of three times each week. In September 1931, she remained in the Brownlee house for three days while Mrs. Brownlee was in Vancouver; she affirmed that amid that time, Brownlee had his child, who as a rule rested in Brownlee's room, exchanged to an alternate room so that Brownlee and MacMillan could engage in sexual relations. 

A portion of MacMillan's most thrilling charges concerned a six-week time frame in the spring of 1932 when she was filling in at the Brownlee family unit for a missing house cleaner. She said that she dozed in the servant's room, one of three rooms on the second floor of Brownlee's home; a second room was involved by Brownlee and his child Jack, and the third by Florence Brownlee and her child Alan. Amid this six-week time span, she guaranteed, she and Brownlee had engaged in sexual relations consistently; Brownlee would flag her to abandon her room by turning on the tap in the second floor washroom, and afterward flush the latrine and stroll in lockstep with her to veil the sound of her development. Once in the head's room, they would engage in sexual relations by his dozing child, taking consideration to be peaceful. She related how on one event Jack had appeared to blend, and Brownlee had turned on the light amidst intercourse to ensure that his child was OK. 

MacMillan said that amid the mid year of 1932 she encountered a mental meltdown (for which Florence Brownlee paid the clinic bills), and that she met and went gaga for Caldwell before long. She set out to end her issue with Brownlee however he responded irately, disclosing to her that it would mean his better half's passing and MacMillan's failure to get a new line of work anyplace in Alberta. That night, she trusted the issue to her landowner. On October 31, 1932, she ate with Brownlee's children and visited Brownlee, who was wiped out in bed. In spite of her protestations that she was en route to a Halloween party with Caldwell, he demanded that they engage in sexual relations, which they did. From that point, the issue continued. On another event, he summoned her from her meeting mother to have intercourse with him at the governing body building. 

In late January 1933, Caldwell proposed to her. She separated and let him know of the undertaking. She portrayed his response as thoughtful, however he revoked the proposition to be engaged. In May, at Caldwell's asking, she counseled a legal counselor, however proceeded with the undertaking until July 5, the evening of the game changing drive. 

MacMillan affirmed that for the term of the undertaking she kept on having intercourse with Brownlee "from fear and on the grounds that he disclosed to me it was my obligation to do it and he appeared to have an impact over me which I couldn't break." She asserted that there had been no adoration going with the sex, and that it had been physically excruciating for her on each event. 

Brownlee denied totally MacMillan's cases. He said that there had been no sexual action among him and MacMillan, comparing their relationship rather to that of an uncle and his most loved niece. To claims that he had incited MacMillan to move to Edmonton and organized a situation for her in the Attorney General's office, he declared "in the thirteen years I have been in open life I have never guaranteed any individual in this Province a position." He denied having persuaded MacMillan to move to Edmonton and expressed that he had not by any means realized that she had done as such until Christopher Pattinson, Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Edson, let him know. He further guaranteed that his sexual coexistence with Mrs. Brownlee was what he would think about typical for a couple (which was verified by his better half). 

He recognized that he had been driving MacMillan around the night of July 5, 1933, when he was trailed by Caldwell and MacLean, yet gave a significantly unique record of his purposes behind doing as such. As indicated by him, there had been discussion of MacMillan joining his family at their rental house at Sylvan Lake that end of the week gave that she could get the fundamental time off work, and that night he called her to see whether she had the capacity to. Amid the resulting telephone discussion, MacMillan disclosed to him that she had different issues disturbing her, and approached if Brownlee would take her for a drive to examine them. He consented to do as such, and it was amid this drive he seen that he was being pursued. 

In help of this story, Brownlee indicated investigational work by Harry Brace, a private criminologist in the utilize of Attorney General John Lymburn. As indicated by Brace, Caldwell had told somewhere around three observers that he expected to before long get a lot of cash from somebody "high up in political life". He additionally explicitly let one know of Brace's operators that he had intentionally embarked to outline Brownlee, that in choosing Neil MacLean as his legal advisor he had purposely picked a Liberal (the Liberals were viewed as the real restriction to Brownlee's administration at the time), and that if the Liberals won the following decision there would be "nothing I need I won't almost certainly get". Disappointingly for Brownlee, Brace did not reveal proof that MacMillan was lying about the undertaking itself: Caldwell, in light of his remarks to Brace's men, appeared to be especially under the feeling that the issue had happened precisely as asserted. Besides, Brace found that Carl Snell, MacMillan's one-time suitor, professed to have been told in 1932 that MacMillan was having a consensual illicit relationship with the head. 

Brownlee's protectors called into uncertainty MacLean's inspiration for contribution for the situation: as indicated by talk, MacLean had been engaged with a tanked driving occurrence quite a while past in which he had driven his vehicle into a jettison. At the point when another driver had hauled him out, MacLean had endeavored ineffectively to head out with the chains still connected to his vehicle, for which he was charged. He had supposedly asked Brownlee, at that point the Attorney General, to have the charges dropped. Upon Brownlee's refusal, he had supposedly promised to "get" him. At last, Brownlee tried taking note of that, as a restorative understudy, Caldwell would have been all around situated to mentor MacMillan on her cases about the pills she was taking to stay away from pregnancy. As indicated by Brownlee, the occasions affirmed were a finished manufacture, the consequence of plotting by a deft youthful therapeutic understudy and his naive sweetheart, energized by a malicious legal advisor and corrupt political adversaries. 

The preliminary started in June 1934 preceding Justice William Ives with three days of declaration from MacMillan. Brownlee's legal counselor, Arthur LeRoy Smith, utilized his interrogation to raise doubt about nearly everything MacMillan said. To disprove her case that Brownlee had persuaded her to move to Edmonton, he went into proof a letter she had kept in touch with Alberta College looking for data on its projects, dated before she had even met Brownlee. He further exhibited that on the night of the enchantment, which had purportedly occurred in a vehicle on a side street west of Edmonton, the city had been immersed in a snow squall. Additionally, the administration vehicle in which the enchantment should have occurred had not been bought until over a year after that date. In light of her declaration that she had dependably rested in the servant's room while remaining with the Brownlees, Smith created letters demonstrating that she had really dozed in Mrs. Brownlee's room. After MacMillan yielded her oversight, Smith noticed that Mrs. Brownlee's room had an expansive deadbolt on the entryway: on the off chance that she had dreaded Brownlee, why had she not utilized it? "Since I simply did as Mr. Brownlee said," was the offended party's reaction. MacMillan, when addressed, conceded that the period amid which she had been remaining in the Brownlee home in the spring of 1932, which she had at first put at about a month and a half, was in reality just four. When she distinguished these a month as the most recent two weeks of April and the initial two of May, Smith demonstrated that Brownlee had been away for everything except ten evenings of that period. 

Different observers for the offended parties incorporated a previous servant of Brownlee's, who affirmed that she had seen the chief lift MacMillan up in his vehicle late one night, and MacMillan's landowner's little girl, who affirmed that she discovered MacMillan crying in her room one night. Allan MacMillan was additionally called: however he affirmed that Brownlee had urged his girl to move to Edmonton and guaranteed to advance data about Alberta College, he recognized that the chief had not finished and not reached her again until she was in Edmonton. 

The safeguard called Brownlee, who related his form of occasions. He affirmed that he had been generally involved on a considerable lot of the days that he and MacMillan had as far as anyone knows engaged in sexual relations; in one case, he delivered news stories demonstrating that he had been giving a discourse in Stettler during a period that MacMillan had guaranteed he was constraining himself upon her in Edmonton. In another, he affirmed that he was meeting with O. H. Snow, the city hall leader of Raymond. MacLean on questioning attempted to paint Brownlee as a man of gigantic enticing forces, reviewing his time as a legal advisor in Calgary, just to have Brownlee answer that he had just at any point attempted two cases, investing the greater part of his energy drafting business archives. MacLean additionally stressed the $1,400 that Lymburn as Attorney General had spent researching the case, proposing this added up to government reserves being spent to vindicate Brownlee by and by; outside of the court, Lymburn reacted that his office had gotten a grievance that an "Edmonton legal counselor"— taken by all required to be MacLean—had moved toward a young lady offering cash to put Brownlee in a trading off position, and that, as a criminal charge, it had been the commitment of his office to examine. He further underlined that, against his protestations, Brownlee had demanded repaying the legislature for the full expense of the examination. 

After the head's declaration was finished, Smith called his better half, Florence Brownlee. She upheld her significant other's record of MacMillan's association with the Brownlee family and revealed that, when the head drove MacMillan home around evening time, he was only here and there late returning. On questioning, she denied that she would have safeguarded her better half on the off chance that she trusted him to be blameworthy. Extra observers for the safeguard incorporated Brownlee's own secretary, Civil Service Commissioner Frederick Smailes, and four assembly janitors. Smailes recognized knowing at the season of MacMillan's contracting that she was familiar with Brownlee, however denied association on Brownlee's part in the choice to procure her, while the janitors denied consistently observing a young lady enter the head's office in the nights. Jessie Ellergert, who had worked for the Brownlees as a servant, said that she had no motivation to trust that there was a sexual connection between the chief and MacMillan; additionally, she explicitly reviewed the Halloween night MacMillan had alluded to in her declaration, and affirmed that the family unit was unreasonably clamoring for the supposed sex to have happened. 

The preliminary finished up with a field trip, as the jury went to see both Brownlee's home and two stretches of street where MacMillan had asserted key experiences occurred. Blustery climate implied that time and again the members of the jury and legal counselors needed to drive autos out of the mud. In spite of the fact that one street basically coordinated MacMillan's portrayal, it was situated by a populated settlement instead of betrayed as she had asserted. The other, as opposed to her portrayal of it as a side street, was a bustling interstate. Upon the jury's arrival, Smith astounded them by declaring that Brownlee's counter-guarantee was being dropped; he said that there was no compelling reason to confound the obvious issue of "enchantment or no temptation" with proof about a connivance with respect to MacMillan and Caldwell. Legitimate student of history Patrick Brode condemned this choice, recommending that the jury was anticipating confirmation of a trick and that, when this verification was not imminent, Brownlee's validity was harmed. 

Other than the verifiable issues that the jury was approached to mediate, there was a lawful issue of what comprised "temptation" under the law. The premise of the case was a two-hundred-year-old tort which enabled a man to sue anyone who impregnated his female worker. The reason for harms under such a case was the worker's failure to play out her obligations to the inconvenience of the business. The tort was later expanded to enable the seductee's dad to sue; just in resolution in 1903 was the law corrected to offer remaining to the lady herself. At issue was what harm, assuming any, she expected to appear so as to have a reason for activity. The resistance contended that in all points of reference there had been a pregnancy coming about, and that without one the offended parties couldn't guarantee harms. Accordingly, MacLean underscored the not so much consensual nature of the supposed relationship. Brownlee himself reacted that if the supposed relationship had been non-consensual, he ought to have been charged under the criminal law for assault, not sued for temptation; that the offended parties had not endeavored to squeeze criminal allegations was proof, he accepted, of their dishonesty and monetary inspiration. 

Following six days of declaration, shutting contentions were given: Smith's kept going two hours and fifteen minutes and underscored the inconsistencies in MacMillan's story. MacLean's was a moderately short forty minutes, in which he contended that the implausible and incredible nature of his customer's story was proof that she couldn't in any way, shape or form have created it. Ives at that point trained the attendants, and characterized "enchantment" as "initiating a lady to part with her uprightness ... [which] might be by any cunning gadget that realizes her assent." After four hours and forty minutes the jury returned and reported its finding that Brownlee had enticed MacMillan in October 1930 when he had incompletely entered her, and that both she and her dad had endured harms in the sums asserted. Ives quickly reported that he unequivocally couldn't help contradicting the jury's discoveries, and that "the proof does not warrant them". On July 2, he issued his composed governing, upsetting the jury's decision and expelling the activity; his explanation behind doing as such was what he seen as the absence of harm being exhibited by the offended parties. As indicated by Ives, regardless of whether the realities had been actually as MacMillan had portrayed, as an issue of law the offended parties couldn't guarantee harms without a pregnancy or an ailment. 

The preliminary was shrouded in startling point of interest, particularly by the "Edmonton Bulletin", which called it "the best show ever to be heard in an Alberta court". The "Release" was a Liberal paper, and MacLean had given it a development duplicate of his announcement of case, which enabled MacMillan's charges to be distributed and scattered before the announcement of case was recorded. The "Notice" was vehemently thoughtful to MacMillan in its inclusion, and printed her point by point declaration (which incorporated the dates and times of explicit experiences) practically verbatim. Under the feature "Vivian Testifies to Harrowing Ordeal", it applauded the youthful offended party as "persevering with superb backbone" and confronting the trial "with bold manner". Brownlee, conversely, was an "affection torn, sex crazed casualty of enthusiasm and desire, constraining his will upon her in stopped automobiles and on nation interstates". The jury was not sequestered and was allowed to peruse these records. Edmontonians were no less excited than their paper, and many appeared at the town hall right off the bat the times of preliminary, planning to get a seat. Towards the finish of the preliminary, Ives denied the "Notice's" press benefits at the preliminary and fined its distributer $300 and a correspondent $100 for distributing expressing "prone to aggravate popular sentiment and meddle with the fair course of equity." 

Media consideration on the preliminary spread past the commonplace and national outskirts: "Time" magazine distributed no less than two articles on the preliminary in the United States, and the "Every day Mail" and "Paris Midi" secured it from over the Atlantic. 

Response to the preliminary's result was blended. The "Announcement" was offended, just like the Canadian Civil Liberties Protective Association, which called Ives' choice to topple the jury's discovering one that "set the clock back 300 years". Both sorted out memberships to back a normal intrigue. The "Winnipeg Free Press" required an examination of Ives for obvious partiality towards Brownlee. The "Vancouver Sun", then again, felt for the chief, contending that his "own challenges ought not have been broadcast freely". Brownlee's political partners, including Irene Parlby and Henry Wise Wood, stayed steadfast, with Wood keeping an expansive picture of Brownlee on the mass of his visitor room. 

The offended parties requested and the case went under the watchful eye of the Alberta Supreme Court offers division in January 1935. On February 2, by a 3– 2 choice, the court maintained Ives' decision. The greater part controlling by Chief Justice Horace Harvey cast genuine questions on MacMillan's validity, calling her story "very unsupported by other proof" and taking note of that she "demonstrated a status to concede that she may have been mixed up as respects positive explanations recently made when by the inquiries it showed up there might be free proof she wasn't right". Notwithstanding concurring with Ives on the purposes of law, he felt that the jury had not put together its finding of actuality with respect to the proof for the situation. Judges Mitchell and Ford agreed. Equity Clarke, in difference, concurred that MacMillan's story was far-fetched, however communicated an eagerness to concede to the jury on inquiries of reality. On the legitimate inquiries, he refered to a point of reference composed by Justice Harvey himself in which the central equity had contended that the incorporation of tempted ladies as potential offended parties under the "Temptation Act" demonstrated that its designers expected a more extensive meaning of harm than money related harm. Equity Lunney agreed. The court was consistent in maintaining Ives' expulsion of Allan MacMillan's activity, and he didn't bid further. 

Not happy with the decision, the "Announcement" again composed a crusade to finance an intrigue, which was submitted to the Supreme Court of Canada; on March 1, 1937, Ives' choice was upset. Boss Justice Lyman Duff, composing for the lion's share, acknowledged the jury's finding of truth and, resounding Justice Clarke, inferred that the designers of the Alberta Seduction Act had not proposed that harm to a seductee be required to be equivalent to those to her dad or boss (for example budgetary) so as to be noteworthy. The court requested Brownlee to pay $10,000 in harms to MacMillan, in addition to preliminary expenses. Henry Hague Davis in dispute focussed less on the inquiries of law and more on the proof for the situation, and contended that the jury's finding of actuality was unreasonable and that the intrigue ought to be expelled. 

After the Supreme Court administering, Brownlee settled with MacMillan, yet at the same time wanted to demonstrate his innocence. On July 1, 1937, the government by Order in Council gave him leave to engage the Judicial Committee of the British Privy Council, at the time Canada's most noteworthy court of offer. On March 11 and 12, 1940, the council heard Brownlee's allure. It was denied, as the advisory group embraced the Supreme Court of Canada's emphasis on statutory elucidation. 

For John Brownlee's political profession, Ives' decision and the resulting bids were immaterial: when the jury's finding descended, he quickly reported that he would leave when a substitution could be found. On July 10, 1934, he was prevailing as Premier by Richard Gavin Reid, his administration's Treasurer and Minister of Health and Municipal Affairs. Brownlee remained on as MLA and tried to hold his Ponoka situate in the 1935 commonplace race, yet was trounced by Edith Rogers of William Aberhart's Alberta Social Credit League. Not a solitary UFA part won re-appointment as Aberhart's development and its guarantees of creative answers for the western world's monetary issues rode to an unequivocal triumph. In assessing Social Credit's triumph, students of history consistently refer to the region's desperate monetary straits as the fundamental factor, however University of Alberta antiquarian David Elliott has recognized that "Aberhart and his motivation were likewise helped" by the enticement embarrassment. This view has been supported by University of Western Ontario humanist Edward Bell. John Barr, in his history of the Alberta Social Credit Party, is progressively contemptuous, calling it "improbable" that the embarrassment was a main consideration in the UFA's thrashing. 

Brode recognizes that the subject of whether Brownlee lured MacMillan "resists any complete answer" however says that the proof exhibited in the preliminary did not legitimize a finding that he did, and guesses that if MacMillan had acquired her suit a later age she would have been "chuckled out of court". Lakeland College student of history and Brownlee biographer Franklin Foster does not take a situation on whether Brownlee was blameworthy of enchantment, however implies that a conceivable truth may lie "between the two limits" of the gatherings' cases: that Brownlee and MacMillan had a consensual issue which was then highjacked and abused by the head's increasingly deft and wrathful rivals. He leaves little uncertainty that he considers the conduct of the "Edmonton Bulletin" and of the Liberal Party, particularly its pioneer, William R. Howson, to have been significantly unscrupulous. Athabasca University student of history Alvin Finkel has censured Foster for being excessively inviting towards Brownlee, saying that he doesn't consider the outrage adequately from MacMillan's viewpoint. 

A play at the 2008 Edmonton International Fringe Festival, "Regarding the Action for Seduction: The Brownlee Affair", depended on the outrage, and got normal to better than expected surveys. 

Subsequent to leaving office, John Brownlee came back to the act of law. He passed on in 1961. Vivian MacMillan avoided the spotlight. She didn't wed Caldwell, and came back to Edson, where on August 7, 1935, she marry confectioner Henry Sorenson. Following her significant other's passing, she turned into the clerk for a Calgary development organization. After an issue, she wedded her manager, Frank Howie, in 1955. Vivian Howie passed on in 1980.