Urse d'Abetot 

Urse d'Abetot (c. 1040 – 1108) was a Norman who pursued King William I to England, and moved toward becoming Sheriff of Worcestershire and a regal authority under him and Kings William II and Henry I. He was a local of Normandy and moved to England not long after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, and was delegated sheriff in around 1069. Little is known about his family in Normandy, who were not noticeable. In spite of the fact that Urse's master in Normandy was available at the Battle of Hastings, there is no proof that Urse participated in the attack of England in 1066. 

Urse fabricated the most punctual type of Worcester Castle in Worcester, which infringed on the church graveyard there, acquiring him a revile from the Archbishop of York. Urse put down a disobedience to King William I in 1075, and fought with the Church in his province over the purview of the sheriffs. He proceeded in the administration of William's children after the lord's passing, and was designated constable under William II and marshal under Henry I. Urse was known for his greed, and amid William II's rule was viewed as second just to Ranulf Flambard, another illustrious authority, in his avarice. Urse's child succeeded him as sheriff yet was consequently ousted, along these lines relinquishing the workplace. Through his little girl, Urse is a predecessor of the Beauchamp family, who in the end moved toward becoming Earls of Warwick. 

On 5 January 1066 Edward the Confessor, King of England, passed on. Edward's absence of youngsters implied there was no reasonable authentic successor, driving in the long run to a progression question. Some medieval journalists express that in a matter of seconds before Edward's passing he named his brother by marriage, Harold Godwinson, Earl of Wessex, as his beneficiary. Others guarantee that Edward had guaranteed the position of authority to his cousin, William, Duke of Normandy, an incredible self-ruling ruler in northern France. Harold, the most dominant English honorable, stepped up to the plate and was delegated ruler on 6 January. William, coming up short on Harold's vicinity to the focuses of English illustrious government, accumulated troops and arranged an attack armada. He attacked England in October, and therefore crushed and slaughtered Harold at the Battle of Hastings on 14 October 1066. William was delegated on Christmas Day at Westminster, getting to be William I. 

Between his royal celebration and 1071, William combined his hold over England, crushing various uprisings that emerged especially in the north and west of the nation. Following Hastings, just those English aristocrats who battled in the fight lost their territories, which were circulated to Normans and others from the mainland who had upheld William's attack. The uprisings of the years 1068 to 1071 prompted crisp appropriations of English land, again dispersed to William's mainland devotees. By 1086, when William requested the arrangement of Domesday Book to record landholders in England, the majority of the local English honorability had been supplanted by Norman and other mainland nobles. 

The principle hotspots for Urse's life are English archives, for example, contracts and writs which notice his exercises. Frequently these are contained in accumulations of such records, known as cartularies, which were amassed by religious communities and house of prayer sections to archive their landholdings. Cartularies as often as possible contain archives from landholders encompassing a religious community, which is the situation with huge numbers of the reports referencing Urse. Different wellsprings of data on Urse are Domesday Book, which makes reference to his landholdings in 1086, and various narratives, including William of Malmesbury's "Gesta pontificum Anglorum", Florence of Worcester's "Chronicon ex chronicis", and "Fixing's Cartulary", a blended account and cartulary from Worcester Cathedral. There are additionally notices of Urse in Norman sources, for example, contracts for Saint-Georges de Boscherville Abbey. 

Urse originated from an undistinguished family, and advanced on military notoriety. He was likely conceived in around 1040, yet the definite date is obscure. He was from St Jean d'Abbetot in Normandy, where his family had terrains, and where he himself was an occupant of the masters of Tancarville. Different occupants of the Tancarville masters included Robert d'Abetot and his better half Lesza, who held terrains near St Jean d'Abbetot in the mid twelfth century; in spite of the name, it isn't sure that Robert d'Abetot was identified with Urse. Urse had a sibling for the most part called Robert Despenser, at times known as Robert fitz Thurstin, who additionally turned into an illustrious authority. The history specialist Emma Mason recommended that Urse may have been an epithet as opposed to a forename, maybe given because of his diligent disposition. Urse's standard last name gets from his tribal town in Normandy. His sibling's standard last name of Despenser gets from his office, that of "distributor", in the illustrious family unit. 

Ralph, the Lord of Tancarville amid the rule of King William I of England and Urse's overlord in Normandy, battled at the Battle of Hastings, however there is no proof that Urse himself was available. He is most likely a similar individual as the "Urse d'Abetot" who was an observer to a sanction of William before the attack of England. The student of history Lewis Loyd alludes to Urse as "in beginning a man of no significance who advanced as a trooper of fortune". 

Urse touched base in England after Hastings, yet it is obscure if his sibling Robert landed with him or independently. Urse was selected Sheriff of Worcestershire some time after the Norman Conquest of England, presumably in around 1069, some portion of the discount supplanting of English regal authorities with Norman and different foreigners that occurred in the early piece of William's rule. As sheriff, Urse was in charge of gathering duties and sending them to the treasury, and was enabled to raise armed forces if disobedience or intrusion compromised. The sheriff managed the shire court, and was responsible for the shire's yearly installments to the ruler. Amid the rules of William the Conqueror and his children, the workplace of sheriff was an incredible one, as it didn't impart capacity to some other authority in the shire, except if there was a duke in by and large control. On account of their control of the courts for the hundreds – which were subdivisions of the shire – sheriffs had open doors for support and furthermore had a substantial state in who progressed toward becoming individuals from the hundred and shire court juries. The passing of Edwin, Earl of Mercia, who held power in Worcestershire until his demise in 1071 amid a resistance to William, permitted Urse to gather greater specialist in Worcestershire, as Edwin was the last Earl of Mercia. 

Urse likewise regulated the development of another château at the town of Worcester, albeit nothing presently survives from the palace. Worcester Castle was set up by 1069, its external bailey based ashore that had recently been the burial ground for the priests of the Worcester church building part. The motte of the stronghold neglected the waterway, only south of the church. In spite of the fact that Urse had control of the manor after it was worked, by 1088 he had lost it to the ministers of Worcester. 

In 1075, three dukes revolted, for no good reason, and looked for help from the King of Denmark, Sweyn II Estridsson, who had a removed case to the English honored position. Among the dissidents was Roger de Breteuil, the Earl of Hereford, whose lands neighboured those of Urse. Alongside Bishop Wulfstan of Worcester, Abbot Æthelwig of Evesham, and Walter de Lacy, Urse kept de Breteuil from intersection the River Severn. Urse's activities shielded the radicals from catching control of the Severn Valley and getting together with the other English agitators, Waltheof, the Earl of Northumbria, and Ralph de Gael, the Earl of Norfolk. Urse and the magnates battling nearby him, notwithstanding their conspicuous want to stifle defiance, had an enthusiasm for vanquishing de Breteuil, as he was the most dominant master in the region. De Breteuil was gotten, attempted, and detained forever, expanding the intensity of his opponents. 

Urse, alongside his counterparts, profited by the expanding power used by the sheriffs. Albeit regal authorities, including the sheriffs, had been appropriating religious terrains since the late tenth century, in the prompt a very long time after the Norman Conquest churchmen grumbled about the expanded measure of land seized by the sheriffs. Urse got a lot of objections, yet he was a piece of a more extensive pattern amid the early long stretches of William I's rule. The allotment of land prompted an expansion in the chronicle of rights and assets by church as well as by laymen, finishing in the account everything being equal and the rights held by the ruler over them in the Domesday Survey of 1086. This conduct was not constrained to the sheriffs, as different nobles were likewise blamed in contemporary narratives for appropriating land from temples and from local Englishmen. 

Amid the rule of William I, Urse ended up engaged with a question with Bishop Wulfstan over the privileges of the sheriff in the terrains of the bishopric. When of Domesday Book in 1086, Urse's forces as sheriff had been rejected from the Oswaldslaw, the zone of Worcestershire constrained by the priests of Worcester. Domesday Book records that the Oswaldslaw was viewed as a resistance, excluded from legal activities by regal authorities. Urse griped that this resistance diminished his salary, however this did not influence the result of his question with Wulfstan, who won. Despite the fact that Wulfstan guaranteed that the invulnerability dated from before the Conquest, it really owed its reality to the capacity of the priest to fill the shire court with his supporters, and consequently impact the discoveries of the court. 

Urse was likewise engaged with a question among Wulfstan and Evesham Abbey over grounds in Worcestershire as, after the Conquest, Urse obtained the terrains of Azur, a brother of a prior Bishop of Worcester, Beorhtheah. Azur had initially rented the grounds from the see, yet after Urse reallocated the terrains, the sheriff did not restore the terrains to the diocesan, and rather kept them for himself. The Worcester priest Hemming recorded the loss of the terrains to Urse in "Stitching's Cartulary", a cartulary expounded on 1095 chronicle grounds and contracts having a place with the see of Worcester. "Hemmings' Cartulary" makes reference to Azur's properties, however others at Acton Beauchamp, Clopton, and Redmarley as taken from the ward of Worcester by Urse. After Abbot Æthelwig's passing, Urse additionally obtained grounds that Æthelwig had seized through not exactly lawful methods, when William I's stepbrother Odo of Bayeux, the Bishop of Bayeux, managed at the claim brought to decide the responsibility for terrains. Odo gave some of the debated domains to Urse over the span of the claim. 

The twelfth century writer William of Malmesbury records how, not long after Urse was delegated sheriff, he fabricated a mansion which infringed on the burial ground of the church part of Worcester Cathedral. Ealdred, the Archbishop of York, articulated a rhyming condemnation on Urse, proclaiming "Thou are called Urse. May you have God's revile." Ealdred had been Bishop of Worcester before getting to be ecclesiastical overseer, and still held an enthusiasm for the see. Gerald of Wales, a late twelfth and mid thirteenth century essayist, composed that Wulfstan expressed the revile after Urse had endeavored to have Wulfstan removed as cleric. Gerald proceeds to relate that Wulfstan expressed he would just surrender his episcopal staff to the lord who had allowed it, William I's ancestor, Edward the Confessor. Gerard then reports that Wulfstan continued to work a supernatural occurrence at Edward's tomb, a marvel so great that King William affirmed Wulfstan in his episcopate. Despite the fact that Urse did not prevail with regards to expelling Wulfstan, and in spite of the fact that there are surely embellishments included Gerald's story, obviously Urse and Wulfstan were the primary powers in Worcestershire, and were in this manner extraordinary opponents. 

The Archbishop's revile had no perceivable impact, either on Urse's profession or the stronghold. Different writers record that Urse stole devout grounds, including some from Evesham Abbey. Urse picked up a notoriety for voracity and covetousness, particularly with respect to chapel lands. Extraordinary Malvern Priory, be that as it may, guaranteed him as an organizer in a fourteenth century record. 

In 1086, the Domesday Survey archives that while most of Urse's territories were in Worcestershire, he additionally held land in Warwickshire, Herefordshire, and Gloucestershire. His territories in Warwickshire were held straightforwardly from the lord, as an inhabitant in-boss, while others were held as an under-occupant of other people who had their properties legitimately from the ruler. Urse's properties in Herefordshire in like manner were held as a blend of inhabitant in-boss and sub-occupant, as was additionally the situation in Gloucester. Of the terrains that Urse held in Worcestershire, he held them both legitimately from the ruler and from the Bishop of Worcester. Domesday likewise records that the income that Urse was in charge of as sheriff was £128 and 4 shillings from Worcestershire. This was only the sum due for the regal domains in Worcester, as Urse was likewise in charge of installments of £23 and 5 shillings for the illustrious terrains in the Borough of Worcester, £17 as benefits on the shire and hundred courts with an extra £16 or a chasing bird of prey, explicitly a "Norway sell"; additionally due from the courts. Urse likewise needed to pay the ruler £5 in addition to £1 extra for a "sumpter horse". These installments were ensured by Urse, who needed to make up any setback. 

Domesday makes it evident that Urse was the most dominant layman in Worcester, and the main individual who could challenge his capacity in the region was the Bishop of Worcester. The power battle proceeded into the twelfth century, as Urse's relatives still challenged the religious administrators. Just a single other layman is recorded as having a stronghold in Worcestershire in Domesday, and he held significantly less land than Urse. 

After the passing of King William I of England, Urse kept on serving William's children and successors, Kings William II Rufus and Henry I. While William I allowed the duchy of Normandy to his oldest child, Robert Curthose, England went to his second enduring child, William Rufus. Henry (later Henry I), the most youthful child, was given a total of cash. In 1088, soon after William Rufus progressed toward becoming ruler, Urse was available at the preliminary of William de St-Calais, Bishop of Durham, and is referenced in "De Iniusta Vexacione Willelmi Episcopi Primi", a contemporary record of the preliminary. Amid William I's rule, Urse had served the ruler for the most part as a local authority, yet amid William II's reign Urse started to play a more extensive job in the kingdom in general. Urse turned into a constable in the lord's family unit for both William II and Henry I, and under William II, he rose to the workplace of marshal. 

Urse was a right hand to William II's principle serve, Ranulf Flambard, and as often as possible filled in as a regal judge. The history specialist Emma Mason contends that Urse, alongside Flambard, Robert Fitzhamon, Roger Bigod, Haimo the dapifer, or seneschal, and Eudo, another dapifer, were the primary unmistakable aristocrats of the Exchequer. Amid his nonappearance from England, the ruler tended to various writs to Urse, alongside Haimo, Eudo, and Robert Bloet, requesting them to uphold William's choices there. The history specialist Francis West, who contemplated the workplace of the justiciarship, declares that Haimo, Eudo, and Urse, alongside Flambard, could be viewed as the primary English justiciars. 

Urse's domains became under William II, halfway because of the legacy of a portion of the grounds of his sibling, Robert Despenser, who kicked the bucket around 1097. Afterward, Urse combined his possessions by trading a portion of Robert's territories in Lincolnshire with Robert de Lacy for terrains closer to his base in Worcestershire. Urse d'Abetot picked up and go to his beneficiaries a home that later turned into the Barony of Salwarpe, Worcestershire. 

William II kicked the bucket in a chasing mishap on 2 August 1100. His more youthful sibling Henry quickly rode to Winchester and had himself delegated lord before his senior sibling, Robert Curthose, could guarantee the royal position. Despite the fact that Urse did not validate the contract Henry issued after he caught the position of royalty, Urse was at court in the blink of an eye a while later. At the point when Robert Curthose attacked England in 1101 trying to take the English position of royalty, Urse bolstered Henry. Urse was available at the court held at Winchester on 2 August 1101, when a harmony settlement was sanctioned between the siblings. Amid Henry's rule, the lord regranted Urse's properties to him, with some of them presently conceded as an occupant in-boss when already Urse had held those grounds as an under-inhabitant, and not straightforwardly from the ruler. Urse's properties at Salwarpe were recently held by Roger of Montgomery, however were allowed to Urse as an immediate occupant of the lord when Roger's child, Robert of Belesme, was prohibited in 1102. Urse kept on bearing witness to a large number of Henry's sanctions until 1108, despite the fact that he didn't utilize the title of "constable" in those contracts. 

At some point among May and July 1108, Henry tended to a writ to Urse and the Bishop of Worcester from Reading. The imperial archive told the sheriff not call the shire and hundred courts to areas unique in relation to standard nor that he gather them on dates other than those typical for such courts. From this, the history specialist Judith Green conjectures that Urse had been gathering these courts at surprising occasions and afterward fining the individuals who did not visit. The lord explicitly instructed that this method stop and afterward proceeded to detail the different courts which would hear what sorts of cases and the kind of strategy that could be utilized in what sort of case. 

Urse passed on some time in 1108. Little is known about his significant other, Alice, whose passing is unrecorded. Urse was prevailing as sheriff by his child Roger d'Abetot, who was ousted in around 1110 and relinquished the workplace of sheriff. Roger's successor, Osbert d'Abetot, was most likely Urse's sibling. Urse likewise had a little girl, most likely named Emmeline, who wedded Walter de Beauchamp. Walter prevailing to Urse's territories after Roger's outcast. A sanction for the Abbey of Saint-Georges, Boscherville may show that Urse had a second child, named Robert. Urse may likewise have had another little girl, who wedded Robert Marmion, as a portion of Urse's domains went to Marmion's family and others to the Beauchamps. 

Urse earned a notoriety for coercion and money related exactions. Amid the rule of William II, he was viewed as second just to the lord's priest Ranulf Flambard in his ravenousness. The main notice of his exactions is in "Stitching's Cartulary". Further subtleties were given by the medieval writers William of Malmesbury and Gerald of Wales, both of whom relate Ealdred's revile. His exactions were additionally referenced in "Domesday Book", where a section in the study for Gloucestershire noticed that he abused the occupants of Sodbury so much that they were unfit to pay their standard rents. He threatened the priests of the Worcester house of God part into conceding him a rent of two of their bequests, Greenhill and Eastbury. Urse was one of another type of imperial official, one who was not restricted to illustrious power but instead invited it, as it helped his own position. 

Through his little girl, he is a precursor of the Beauchamp group of Elmley Castle in Worcestershire, a scion of which, William de Beauchamp, moved toward becoming Earl of Warwick. Almost certainly, the Beauchamp family's token, a bear, gets from their relationship to Urse.