R U Professional 

"R U Professional" is a 2009 ironical melody by the American non mainstream musical crew The Mae Shi, motivated by a July 2008 upheaval by on-screen character Christian Bale on the arrangement of "Eliminator Salvation". Parcel was taping with performing artist Bryce Dallas Howard when he chided chief of photography, Shane Hurlbut, for strolling into his viewable pathway. A sound chronicle of the episode showed up on site TMZ on February 2, 2009. The Mae Shi created and recorded the tune later around the same time, and discharged it the following day. The gathering expressed that the piece was made to respect Bale. The tune spoofs Bale by inspecting his voice from the 2008 revilement. The ensemble joins Bale's utilization of "proficient" from his erupt. The verses reference a few movies the performing artist featured in, including "Newsies", "Swing Kids", "American Psycho", and "The Dark Knight". 

The melody was made accessible on YouTube and by means of download on MediaFire the following day. "R U Professional" got a by and large positive gathering, and was adulated as a compelling farce of Bale's on-set aggravation. MTV contrasted its style with new wave bunches like Devo. The "Los Angeles Times" portrayed it as an enthusiastic popular music tribute to the performing artist. "USA Today" sorted the melody as fun move music and called it inventively propelled. "The Toronto Sun" composed decidedly of its innovative verses and utilization of sound from the Bale discourse. "El País" classed the piece as an electropop tune that added to the viral spread of the Bale rage on the web. "Portion" set the melody inside the class of an electro jam session. Distributions including "The A.V. Club" and Pitchfork Media were inspired with the gathering's capacity to make and discharge the melody twenty-four hours after the sound of the episode seemed on the web. The "Irish Independent" composed that they figured the gathering may have utilized a tune they previously had and adjusted it for the melody to discharge it so rapidly. 

In July 2008, on-screen character Christian Bale was inundated in shooting a scene for the film "Eliminator Salvation" in New Mexico. While performing with on-screen character Bryce Dallas Howard, Bale yelled at the movie's executive of photography, Shane Hurlbut, for strolling into his viewable pathway. Hurlbut reacted smoothly, apologized to Bale, and kept shooting for seven hours after the episode. 

A sound account of the occurrence showed up on the site TMZ on February 2, 2009. Amid the four-minute sound chronicle, Bale can be heard yelling and swearing at Hurlbut and taking steps to stop the film if Hurlbut did it again and was not terminated. Preceding discharging the sound on the web, TMZ had given an account of the occurrence on their site in July 2008. TMZ revealed that film officials for "Eliminator Salvation" had sent a duplicate of the sound chronicle to the film's insurance agency on the off chance that Bale quit the film. 

In an announcement to Los Angeles radio station KROQ-FM on February 6, 2009, Bale said he had acted improperly, and that he and Hurlbut had talked after the episode and completely settled the issue. Bunch recognized that the two cooperated for a few hours after the episode, and for a month a short time later too. He noticed that he had seen a draft variant of the film and applauded the cinematography work done by Hurlbut. 

The Mae Shi disclosed the gathering's motivation to compose the melody in an announcement. The gathering felt Bale's upheaval was nonsensical and was persuaded to compose a piece about it. The Mae Shi underlined in their explanation this was not a customary tune related with their gathering's ordinary work, yet rather a tribute to Bale. 

The Mae Shi drummer Brad Breeck remarked in a meeting that the band chose to make a tune about the occurrence late at night of February 2, 2009. Breeck noticed that they tuned in to the sound of the Bale denunciation and set up together their tribute piece inside a range of two hours before putting it on the web. Jacob Cooper, another drummer in the band, remarked to "The Arizona Daily Star" that he was astonished how prevalent their piece moved toward becoming when they had given generally brief period to creating and recording it. 

The verses of the tune incorporate references to films Bale showed up in including "Newsies", "Swing Kids", "American Psycho", and "The Dark Knight". The tune starts with the expression, "He is the Dark Knight, he is proficient." The piece consolidates sound clasps from the episode using inspecting. The melody of the tune references Bale's utilization of "proficient" in his quarrel: "Gracious, whoo wow/He is proficient/But I believe he's lost control". Verses include: "Swing Kid with a fierce streak", "Venture back, avoid his light/Better not attempt to set up a battle/Newsies will get you today around evening time/'Cause they're proficient!", and "Don't look excessively somewhere down in his eyes/he can't shroud what's within his brain/and it may get somewhat terrible/and you may meet an American Psycho". 

"R U Professional" was made accessible on YouTube and MediaFire on February 3, 2009. The video depiction on YouTube by the gathering expressed, "Tune By The Mae Shi commending the life and work of Xtian Bale. Parcel's execution as John Connor in the forthcoming Terminator 4 'Reclamation' Film will no uncertainty be one of the best ever. He will win each Oscar for his execution, even the embellishments and movement ones." "The Independent" detailed that the band would show up at a music celebration, "The Fans Strike Back", and mentioned they perform "R U Professional". 

A few news sources endeavored to put the work inside a specific sort. MTV contrasted the melody's style with the gathering Devo and new wave music. "El País" portrayed the piece as an electropop melody that added to the viral spread of the Christian Bale tirade after its discharge on the Internet. "Portion" depicted it as an electro jam session which utilized inspecting from the sound of Bale's talk. The "Los Angeles Times" considered the piece an exuberant popular music tribute to the on-screen character. "USA Today" called the tune fun move music and innovatively inspired. "The Toronto Sun" adulated its unique verses and utilization of sound from the occurrence, and portrayed the piece as a combination of electro-pop styles and a decent tune for moving. "New Musical Express" suggested the piece, and depicted it as electro-shake which adroitly tested Bale all through the tune. The "St. Louis Post-Dispatch" portrayed the piece as a type of new wave music which utilized the most fitful fragments of the episode, and remarked that the finished result was comedic. "The Arizona Daily Star" portrayed the piece as a popular music move melody. 

Different sources commented upon the speed with which The Mae Shi had the capacity to assemble the melody and discharge it. "The A.V. Club" featured the tune among Internet images roused by the Bale scuffle, and composed that however the sort was put out rapidly it was very engaging and creative. The "Irish Independent" was astonished at the speed various distinctive mocking adjustments of the Bale disturbance sound including "R U Professional" were assembled. The paper addressed whether the tune was created in one day, and hypothesized that the song may have been composed by the gathering already and changed to use with sound from the Bale episode. "Pitchfork Media" was awed that "R U Professional" was made in twenty-four hours. 

Different sites remarked that the tune was a one of a kind method to pay tribute to Christian Bale and his group of work. "Boing" considered the tune an entertaining respect to Bale. "C7nema" remarked that the tune was amusing and committed to Bale's odd conduct. "The Celebrity Cafe" composed that the piece was superior to anything "Parcel Out" by RevoLucian which likewise managed the episode. "Chicagoist" composed that the tune by The Mae Shi was their most loved of the Christian Bale remixes. "Chico News and Review" considered the piece a minding honor to Bale's on-set tirade.