God Hates Us All 

God Hates Us All is the ninth studio collection by American whip metal band Slayer, discharged on September 11, 2001 by American Recordings. It was recorded more than three months at The Warehouse Studio in Vancouver, and incorporates the Grammy Award-selected "Devotee". Guitarist Kerry King composed most of its verses, adopting an alternate strategy from prior accounts by investigating points, for example, religion, murder, vengeance, and discretion. The band tested, recording the majority of the collection in C# tuning, with three melodies in drop B and two others with seven-string guitars in B♭. 

The collection's discharge was postponed because of its unequivocal spread work of art, which prompted elective slip covers in some retail outlets, challenges amid blending, and a difference in wholesaler for the band's name. Regardless of this, "God Hates Us All" got positive surveys from commentators and topped at number 28 on the "Board" 200. 

Slayer started composing verses for another collection before their appearance at the 1999 Ozzfest. Be that as it may, each three to four months the band was occupied by responsibilities to Ozzfest, and around the world "Tattoo the Earth" visit with Slipknot. Guitarist Jeff Hanneman later conceded "that was the last break. At that point we got our crap together." The band's long-lasting maker, Rick Rubin, was too occupied to even consider working with Slayer, and felt "wore out"— unfit to make extraordinary music. Araya and King had comparable emotions about Rubin, and King commented he "needed to work with somebody into the overwhelming music scene, and Rubin's not any longer. I needed someone who realizes what's hot, comprehends what's selling, knows the new methods, and will keep me on my toes." Rubin prescribed two makers, in spite of the fact that the main maker was not getting down to business out identity astute as indicated by Hanneman. The band gave second hopeful, Matt Hyde, a preliminary on the tune "Bloodline", which showed up in the motion picture "Dracula 2000". The band was satisfied with Hyde's work on "Bloodline" and contracted him to deliver the whole collection. 

"God Hates Us All" was to be recorded in a Hollywood studio; be that as it may, the band moved to Vancouver, British Columbia because of the accessibility of less expensive studio time. Hyde prescribed a studio to the band—The Warehouse Studio (possessed by Bryan Adams) as he had recently worked there. The studio was adjusted to make it "feel like home" for Slayer; instead of the setting for, in King's words, the "lightweight Canadian pop artist". This comprised of including incense burners, candles, diminished lights and sex entertainment on the dividers. Two pennant banners of two center fingers were additionally hung up. Vocalist Tom Araya says "that was essentially the frame of mind of Slayer in the studio. We had a red villain head on one of the speakers. We had a skull on another. That is the sort of crap we set up. Creepy stuff that makes you feel comfortable." 

Hyde utilized the computerized sound workstation Pro Tools amid the building, generation, and sound blending phases of the collection. Slayer individuals needed to downplay the utilization of PC impacts, just to incorporate a little measure of postponement and twisting. Likewise with past chronicles, the drum tracks were recorded first. Drummer Paul Bostaph pursues a basic standard proposed by Rubin when in the studio: "The ideal take is the one that felt like it was going to go into disrepair yet never did." Seven-string guitars were utilized on the tracks "Scarstruck" and "Here Comes the Pain," the first run through Slayer had done as such. Lord was at the B.C. Rich guitar organization (producer of his mark show, the KKV) and chose to get a seven string guitar. In the wake of thinking of one melody, King requested a seven string as he suspected "there's no point making them tune for only one tune," so he composed another, proceeding to remark "you don't need to be great to make up a seven-string riff." The collection highlights two tunes on seven string guitars, four tunes with guitars tuned to Drop-B and every other tune in C# Standard. 

"God Hates Us All" investigates such topics as religion, murder, retribution, and restraint. Ruler composed a greater part of the verses, which he dependent on "road" subjects which everybody could identify with, as opposed to "Satan this," "Satan that," and "the standard Dungeons and Dragons poo" from the band's past records. Lord told "Guitar World": 

The melody "Edge" is tied in with achieving one's utmost with an individual in a circumstance where one is going to break—and are going to explode as they get "under your skin", while "Cast Down" highlights a fallen holy messenger who falls into medications. "God Send Death" and "Abnormality" take up slaughtering individuals for joy. The two tunes were composed by Hanneman. Having perused a few books on sequential executioners, Hanneman arrived at the resolution he could possibly slaughter somebody on the off chance that they truly "annoyed him", and chose he was unfit to murder somebody he didn't know only for power. He later conceded he was endeavoring to get into that individual's psyche; "for what reason do they get off on it? Without being furious, simply murdering for executing and getting off on it. I simply needed to get into that mentality." 

While different individuals went to nearby bars, Araya spent his free hours perusing genuine books with respect to sequential executioners, including Gordon Burn's "Upbeat Like Murderers: The Story of Fred and Rosemary West". Araya was looking for motivation, and planned to sound persuading while at the same time singing the verses, dodging himself to seem like a contrivance. Araya sang the verses increasingly "over-the-top" than done on past collections, as King's composition style is more "aggro." This brought about "Kerrang!" analyst Jason Arnopp depicting the collection's verses as "so pressed with foul and oppressive language that it seems as though D-12 and the Sopranos family were clashing in a superstar swearathon." 

"God Hates Us All" was initially proposed to be named "Soundtrack to the Apocalypse". In any case, Araya proposed that the title would be better utilized for a crate set, which the band discharged in 2003. The expression "God Hates Us All" starts from the tune "Supporter", amid which the line is rehashed over the melody. The verses are in reference to God's stipend of acts, for example, suicide and psychological warfare, while apparently doing nothing to avert them (see issue of insidiousness). An individual from the overwhelming metal band Pantera recommended utilizing "God Hates Us All" for a shirt structure subsequent to King played the tune to the band. Ruler concurred, in spite of the fact that he figured the expression would have more effect as the collection title. 

The first collection spread delineates a Bible spiked with nails put in a pentagram star shape, canvassed in blood with "Slayer" consumed crosswise over it. The liner notes scatter the verses between sections from the scriptural Book of Job, incompletely crossed out with a dark marker. The thought was proposed by the band's record organization, despite the fact that King needed more opportunity to build up a superior spread. Ruler's idea for the spread was to demonstrate nails in the state of a pentagram, and have them miss catchphrases in Bible refrains so it showed up as though it had been made by a sociopath who knew where each word shows up. He later griped that the result was run of the mill of "a record organization with positively no thought what the heck they would do", and said that the spread "resembled a seventh grader mutilated the Bible." A slip embed was set before the spreads in real retail outlets. 

"God Hates Us All" was set for discharge on July 10; be that as it may, concerns in regards to sound blending, the collection spread, and the band's mark—American Recordings—evolving merchant, caused the discharge date to be deferred until September 11, 2001. The discharge attracted an association with the September 11 assaults, which was the second time Slayer caused contention towards one of their discharges—the video for "Seasons in the Abyss" was shot in Egypt and discharged before the Gulf War. In its seven day stretch of discharge, "God Hates Us All" appeared at number 28 on the "Announcement" 200, and sold 51,000 duplicates. It entered the Canadian Albums Chart at number 9, and appeared at number 18 on the top Internet collection outline. As of August 16, 2006, the collection has sold 304,000 duplicates in the United States. 

"God Hates every one of us" got commonly positive surveys from music commentators. On Metacritic, the collection has a score of 80 out of 100 dependent on 12 audits. "Kerrang!" Jason Arnopp portrayed the collection as "effectively Slayer's most persuading accumulation since "Seasons in the Abyss"," granting the collection five out of five. "Moving Stone" Rob Kemp composed the record was "Slayer's most ruthless record since 1986's undying (or undead) "Reign in Blood"," depicting the music as "dashing twofold bass-drum salvos" which "switch on a dime to irate twofold time pulverizing, as inauspicious power harmonies and rough shred performances cut up with Formula One exactness." Kemp granted the collection three and a half out of five. AllMusic analyst Jason Birchmeier remarked that "about 20 years into their development, Slayer have deserted the extravagancies and availability of their late-'80s/mid '90s work and came back to consummate the crude methodology of their initial years. A close impeccable collection," and that Araya's execution potentially makes "the most debilitating Slayer collection yet." 

Not all pundits were inspired with the collection. Blabbermouth.net commentator Borivoj Krgin pretentiously named the collection as "another disappointment on the band's part to step up and rehash themselves." Krgin portrayed King as "the more fragile and less innovative of the two principle musicians" (King and Hanneman), feeling the collection pursued "a commonplace heading that quite often sounds worn out and constrained" because of King being the collection's primary lyricist. Krgin likewise singled out Araya for analysis, and considered the vocalist an "empty shell of his previous self, flaunting a singing style that is dreary, without imagination and now and again for all intents and purposes unlistenable." Krgin granted the record 6 out of 10, and finished the survey by seeing that "Slayer's quickly reducing record deals ("Diabolus In Musica" has moved under 300,000 duplicates in the US contrasted with 600– 700,000+) as a sign that the band is in desperate need of another rent on life." "The Washington Post" gave it a blended audit, expressing, "obviously, what Slayer says should be about as essential as how it says it: The riffs are all overdriven and choking, and that is a cognizant choice. In its least complex structure, a tune like "Outcast" could be mistaken for Motorhead pushed through the sharp edges of a garden cutter, yet that is undercutting Slayer; guitarist Kerry King effectively battles the score that normally originates from playing substantial shake and-roll." 

The melody "Devotee" got a Grammy Award selection for "Best Metal Performance" at the 44th Grammy Awards, the band's first designation. The individuals thought neither about the assignment nor the honor service, and in spite of the fact that they didn't hope to win, thought it was "cool" to be named. The function occurred on February 27, 2002, with Tool winning the honor for their melody "Split". 

Preceding Christmas 2001, Bostaph supported constant elbow damage which frustrated his capacity to drum, bringing about his choice to leave the band. His third-to-last execution with Slayer was recorded on "War at the Warfield". To date, Bostaph has not seen the recording; he has compared the experience to "saying a final farewell to a sweetheart," and needs to proceed onward with his life. Bostaph does not lament his time went through with the band, and portrayed the period as a high point in his vocation. Bostaph in the long run rejoined Slayer in 2013, by and by supplanting Dave Lombardo. Without a drummer the band were unfit to complete their "God Hates Us All" visit. Lord reached unique drummer Dave Lombardo just about ten years after his takeoff, and inquired as to whether he would play for the rest of the visit. Lombardo acknowledged the offer, and played for the rest of the 21 appears; in any case, he didn't take on a stable situation with the band. 

Following the visit, the band proceeded with their look for a changeless drummer, and looked for requesting through demo tape and snail mail. Intrigued fans sent video chronicles of versions of the melodies "Follower," "God Send Death," "Stain of Mind," "Holy messenger of Death", "After death/Raining Blood," "South of Heaven," "War Ensemble," and "Seasons in the Abyss"; complete with list of references. The band tuned in to many demo tapes, and made a "decent heap" and "ungood heap," however the "ungood" was a lot bigger. Those whose exhibitions the band were satisfied with were offered a tryout in Dallas, San Francisco or Peoria, Illinois; numerous candidates, be that as it may, were unfit to go to because of flight costs. The band tried out approximately a few drummers per day, and their top decision was one of Lombardo's proposals. In any case, the band eventually came back to Lombardo in the wake of concluding that they couldn't discover a drummer who fit the activity; Lombardo re-joined Slayer and went to music celebrations worldwide to advance "God Hates Us All" and record drums on the 2006 collection "Christ Illusion".