Ferugliotherium 

Ferugliotherium is a sort of fossil warm blooded animals in the family Ferugliotheriidae from the Campanian and additionally Maastrichtian period (Late Cretaceous; around 70 million years back) of Argentina. It contains a solitary animal types, Ferugliotherium windhauseni, which was first portrayed in 1986. Albeit initially translated based on a solitary brachydont (low-delegated) molar as an individual from Multituberculata, a wiped out gathering of little, rat like well evolved creatures, it was perceived as identified with the hypsodont (high-delegated) Sudamericidae following the revelation of extra material in the mid 1990s. After a jaw of the sudamericid "Sudamerica" was portrayed in 1999, these creatures (altogether known as Gondwanatheria) were never again viewed as multituberculates and a couple of fossils that were recently viewed as "Ferugliotherium" were doled out to unspecified multituberculates. Since 2005, a connection among gondwanatheres and multituberculates has again gotten help. A firmly related creature, "Trapalcotherium", was depicted in 2009 based on a solitary tooth. 

Around twenty teeth and a jaw section have been alluded to "Ferugliotherium", yet the task of a large number of these is dubious or has been supplanted. The upper and lower incisors are long and rat like and have lacquer on just a single side of the crown. A section of the lower jaw demonstrates that the tooth attachment of the lower incisor was long, stretching out underneath the fourth premolar (p4). The p4 is saved in this part. It is sharp edge formed and takes after multituberculate p4s. In any case, the assurance of this fossil as "Ferugliotherium" is being referred to. The character of a couple of extra secluded premolars doled out to "Ferugliotherium", some taking after multituberculates, is additionally questionable. The principal lower molariform (molar-like tooth; mf1) is known from four precedents, of which two were initially recognized as upper molars of an alternate animal types ("Vucetichia gracilis"), which is currently viewed as an equivalent word of "Ferugliotherium". They bear two longitudinal lines of three or four cusps and transverse peaks and wrinkles. A solitary precedent every one of the second lower (mf2) and first upper molariform (MF1) get defensive likewise had longitudinal cusp columns and transverse wrinkles and peaks, however the mf2 had just two or maybe three cusps for every line and the MF1 had three longitudinal lines. 

Despite the fact that "Ferugliotherium" teeth are much lower-delegated than those of the Sudamericidae, they share a basically comparable example on the occlusal (biting) surface of mf1 and mf2, comparable incisors, in reverse jaw development amid biting, and lacquer with little crystals. "Ferugliotherium" is thought to have been a little creature, with a weight of about 70 g (2.5 oz), and may have eaten creepy crawlies and plant material. Its remaining parts have been found in two topographical developments of southern Argentina, where it is a piece of a warm blooded animal fauna that likewise incorporates the sudamericid "Gondwanatherium" and an assortment of dryolestoids. 

"Ferugliotherium windhauseni" was named in 1986 by Argentinean scientist José Bonaparte based on a solitary second lower molar (m2) from the Late Cretaceous Los Alamitos Formation of Argentina. Both the nonexclusive name, "Ferugliotherium", and the particular name, "windhauseni", respect geologists who contemplated the topography of Patagonia: Egidio Feruglio and Anselmo Windhausen, separately. Bonaparte made another family, Ferugliotheriidae, for the new species and probably relegated it to Multituberculata, a wiped out gathering of warm blooded creatures that was different amid the late Cretaceous, generally in the northern mainlands (Laurasia). In consequent years, different finds allowed a progressively certain task to Multituberculata. In 1990, Bonaparte depicted "Vucetichia gracilis" based on what he translated as two upper molars of a relative of "Gondwanatherium" inside the request Gondwanatheria, a little mammalian gathering that was at the time known just from Argentinean fossils and thought to be identified with xenarthrans as a major aspect of a now-disposed of gathering called Paratheria. The nonexclusive name, "Vucetichia", celebrates Argentinean scientist Guiomar Vucetich, and the particular name, "gracilis" (Latin for "thin"), alludes to the creature's little size. 

Be that as it may, in 1990 David W. Krause and Bonaparte contended that Gondwanatheria, including "Ferugliotherium" (family Ferugliotheriidae), "Gondwanatherium", and "Sudamerica" (family Sudamericidae), ought to be set inside Multituberculata. After two years, Krause, Bonaparte, and Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska depicted extra material of "Ferugliotherium" (which they likely set in the multituberculate suborder Plagiaulacoidea) and recommended that the alleged upper molars of "Vucetichia" were in truth intensely worn first lower molariforms (mf1) of "Ferugliotherium". In 1993, Krause portrayed an unworn mf1 of "Ferugliotherium" and affirmed that "Vucetichia" depended on worn examples of "Ferugliotherium" and thusly an equivalent word of the last mentioned. Around the same time, he and Bonaparte contended by and by that "Ferugliotherium", "Gondwanatherium", and "Sudamerica" framed a firmly related gathering of multituberculates, which they called the superfamily Gondwanatherioidea. Kielan-Jaworowska and Bonaparte portrayed a lower jaw piece with a multituberculate-like lower fourth premolar (p4) from Los Alamitos in 1996 and probably distinguished it as "Ferugliotherium". Based on the morphological highlights of the jaw section, they contended that gondwanatherians were not firmly identified with some other multituberculate gathering, and thusly put them in their very own suborder, Gondwanatheria. 

In 1999, Rosendo Pascual and associates portrayed a jaw of "Sudamerica". Since a portion of this current jaw's highlights were believed to be incongruent with a multituberculate personality, they respected gondwanatheres (counting "Ferugliotherium") as Mammalia "incertae sedis". Notwithstanding, in 2009 Yamila Gurovich and Robin Beck contended for a cozy connection between gondwanatheres (counting "Ferugliotherium") and multituberculates. The discussion is mostly because of contradiction over the task of two upper premolars and the jaw part depicted by Kielan-Jaworowska and Bonaparte in 1996; Gurovich and Beck distinguish these as "Ferugliotherium", while Kielan-Jaworowska and others view them as vague multituberculates. 

During the 2000s, some conceivable close relatives of "Ferugliotherium" were found. A perplexing tooth from the Paleogene of Peru, LACM 149371, was portrayed in 2004 as conceivably identified with the family Ferugliotheriidae. Kielan-Jaworowska and partners portrayed a p4 from the La Colonia Formation (Late Cretaceous of Argentina) as another multituberculate variety, "Argentodites", in 2007, yet Gurovich and Beck noted close similitudes between this p4 and the p4 in the conceivable jaw section of "Ferugliotherium" and proposed that it spoke to "Ferugliotherium" or a firmly related animal varieties. A solitary mf1 from the Allen Formation (Late Cretaceous of Argentina) was depicted as another ferugliotheriid sort, "Trapalcotherium", in 2009. 

"Ferugliotherium" is known from secluded teeth, the task of some of which is disputable. The material from the Los Alamitos Formation, which is for the most part in the Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales Bernardino Rivadavia (MACN) in Buenos Aires, with one tooth in the Museo de La Plata (MLP) in La Plata, Argentina, has been altogether portrayed; while there are extra "Ferugliotherium" fossils from the La Colonia Formation, they have not been depicted in detail. In spite of the fact that the fragmentary idea of the known fossils of "Ferugliotherium" makes it difficult to decide its dental recipe with sureness, Gurovich proposed that it had one incisor (conceivably two in the upper jaw), no canines, a couple of premolars, and two molars on each side of the lower and upper jaws. In any case, based on examinations with "Sudamerica", which is known to have had four lower molariforms (molar-like teeth, either premolars or molars) in its lower jaw, Pascual and Ortiz-Jaureguizar proposed in 2007 that "Ferugliotherium" may likewise have had four lower molars. 

"Ferugliotherium" was a lot littler than the sudamericids "Gondwanatherium" and "Sudamerica", and its weight is evaluated to have been about 70 g (2.5 oz). Not at all like the hypsodont (high-delegated) sudamericids, "Ferugliotherium" has brachydont (low-delegated) molariform teeth that are bolstered by somewhere around two roots, not a solitary enormous root. The course of wear on the teeth demonstrates that "Ferugliotherium", "Gondwanatherium", and "Sudamerica" all had palinal jaw development (i.e., the lower jaw moved in reverse amid the power stroke of biting)— an element generally just observed in multituberculates among well evolved creatures. 

Three fragmentary "Ferugliotherium" lower incisors (MACN Pv-RN 701A, 701B, and 701C) are known from the Los Alamitos Formation. Another incisor, MACN Pv-RN 970, was doled out to "Ferugliotherium" by Bonaparte in 1990, yet it is a lot bigger than the other three incisors, which are generally comparable, and most likely speaks to "Gondwanatherium." Just the tips of the three incisors are protected. They are along the side packed, with an expected width of 1.3 mm and tallness of 2.4 mm in 701A. The average side (towards the center of the mouth) is level, yet the parallel side (towards the sides) is arched. There is veneer just on the lower (ventral) side. A vast wear feature is available at the tip, shaping a point of about 35° with the ventral edge in 701A. The three incisor pieces are distinguished as "Ferugliotherium" in light of their size and provenance and the nearness of a limited finish band. They show highlights, for example, parallel pressure, an intense point at the tip, little ebb and flow, and an unpredictable cross area, that are normally found in lower, not upper incisors in warm blooded animals with procumbent incisors, for example, rodents and taeniolabidoid multituberculates. 

Four examples (MACN Pv-RN 702A through 702D) are thought to speak to second upper incisors (I2) of "Ferugliotherium". 702A (tallness 1.5 mm; width 1.1 mm) and 702B are marginally bigger than 702C (stature 1.2 mm; width 0.9 mm) and 702D. The littler incisors can't be sidelong incisors (I3), on the grounds that 702C's wear aspect is more grounded than would be normal in an I3; consequently, each of the four upper incisors are recognized as focal incisors (I2). To clarify the size contrast, Krause and associates proposed that "Ferugliotherium" was variable in size or that the littler incisors were deciduous antecedents of the bigger changeless tooth. They thought of it as more outlandish that different species with comparative incisors were available. The upper incisors have veneer just on the dorsal side. The wear aspect at the tip is saved just in 702C, framing an edge of 52° with the dorsal side, and is more inward than the feature in the lower incisors. 702A– D are conspicuous as upper incisors since they have a less intense point at the tip and are less along the side packed, increasingly bended, and curved in cross area. 

Incisors of "Ferugliotherium" and "Gondwanatherium" are comparative fit as a fiddle and offer a confined band of polish—a component generally observed just in multituberculates among Mesozoic well evolved creatures. The incisors of "Sudamerica" are likewise comparable. 

MACN Pv-RN 975, a piece of the mandible (lower jaw) protecting one premolar, was found in 1991 and likely distinguished as "Ferugliotherium" by Kielan-Jaworowska and Bonaparte in 1996, however this task stays dubious. The inadequately saved and worn premolar is a bladelike tooth, taking after multituberculate fourth lower premolars (p4). The premolar is 4.8 mm long and bears eight swoon edges on both the labial (towards the lips) and lingual (towards the tongue) sides. On the labial side, the four edges at the back are more generally isolated than the four before them. The back and front edges of the tooth are parallel and there is no little cusp on the labial side. There are two roots; the one at the front is bigger than the one at the back and bears a wrinkle. The lower fringe of the lacquer spread is set apart by two crescent augmentations of the polish on the front side, however there is just a single such expansion at the back. By its size, the quantity of edges, and evidently more prominent length than tallness, it varies from all known multituberculate first, second, and third lower premolars, showing that it is a p4. 

The dentary (lower jaw bone) itself is vigorous and short. The length pivot of the p4 makes a point of about 58° with the length hub of the jawbone. The bone is inward on the lingual, yet arched on the labial side. There is a diastema (hole) between the p4 and the incisor that would have been before it, as in the jaw of "Sudamerica". Gurovich assessed the length of the diastema as 2.5 mm. There is an adjusted mental foramen (an opening in the labial side of the jawbone), with a breadth of 0.7 mm, situated about 0.8 mm beneath the dorsal edge of the bone and 1.5 mm before the p4. In spite of the fact that the incisor itself isn't safeguarded, its alveolus (the lodging of the root) is to a limited extent. As in "Sudamerica", it stretches out far into the dentary, going beneath p4. The alveolus is 1.5 mm wide underneath the front base of p4 and 1.4 mm at the back of the jaw section. Despite the fact that the tallness of the alveolus can't be resolved on the grounds that the lower side is split away, the incisor more likely than not been very profound. 

When it was found that "Sudamerica" had four molariform teeth and no bladelike premolar in its lower jaw, Pascual, Kielan-Jaworowska, and associates expelled MACN Pv-RN 975 from "Ferugliotherium", which they expected to have a similar dental equation as its individual gondwanathere "Sudamerica", and distinguished it as a vague multituberculate. Pascual and associates contended that molariform teeth as observed in "Sudamerica" couldn't have developed from the bladelike p4 of "Ferugliotherium", and that it was far-fetched that extra molars had been included "Sudamerica". In 2004 and 2007, Kielan-Jaworowska and partners adjusted the dentary with the multituberculate suborder "Plagiaulacida" in light of the fact that the p4 is rectangular in labial view, not bended as in the suborder Cimolodonta. This element was likewise used to recognize MACN Pv-RN 975 from the single p4 allocated to "Argentodites", which was probably put in Cimolodonta. 

Gurovich, Guillermo Rougier, and partners, then again, keep up that the dentary is referable to "Ferugliotherium" and that the p4s of "Argentodites" and MACN Pv-RN 975 are fundamentally the same as. The alveolus of MACN Pv-RN 975 fits the lower incisors ascribed to "Ferugliotherium" in size and the cutting edge like premolar is of the size expected for a creature with molariforms the span of "Ferugliotherium" teeth. On the off chance that the dentary and premolars (whose distinguishing proof has been also dubious; see beneath) don't have a place with "Ferugliotherium", at that point, Gurovich and Beck contend, the Los Alamitos Formation would contain two vertebrates ("Ferugliotherium" and a multituberculate) comparative in size and morphology, and subsequently probably possessing comparable biological specialties—and one of those future spoke to just by molariforms and incisors and the other just by premolars and a jaw section among the accessible fossils. Besides, they noticed that the progress from cutting edge like to molariform premolars had really been seen in the fossil record of the wiped out sthenurine kangaroos, and that the first molariform in "Sudamerica" and "Gondwanatherium" is along the side packed, proposing that it might have gotten from a sharp edge like tooth. Gurovich and Beck credited the distinction fit as a fiddle between the MACN Pv-RN 975 and "Argentodites" p4s to the broad wear of the previous, and proposed that the two are comparative enough that they likely speak to at any rate firmly related species. 

Krause and associates distinguished a solitary tooth, MACN Pv-RN 251, as a conceivable deciduous front (i.e., not p4 or dp4, the deciduous variant of p4) lower premolar of "Ferugliotherium". It is infinitesimal, with a length of 0.85 mm and width of 0.5 mm (accepting the tooth is situated accurately). It bears two serrations (little projections) at the tip of the crown—one around the center of the crown and the other at what might be the back of the crown, where it is most astounding. Two unmistakable edges slip from every serration towards the front down the sides of the tooth. No roots are protected, yet the adjusted surface of the lower side of the tooth recommends they may have been resorbed, which would demonstrate that the tooth is deciduous. Krause and associates proposed that the tooth may have been the frontmost premolar, regardless of whether deciduous or lasting. Be that as it may, Kielan-Jaworowska and Bonaparte composed that this tooth does not coordinate the halfway jaw MACN Pv-RN 975, which has no alveoli before p4, and Pascual and partners concurred in 1999 that the tooth presumably does not have a place with "Ferugliotherium". 

Bonaparte had recognized another tooth, MACN Pv-RN 252, as a conceivable "Ferugliotherium" lower premolar in 1990, yet this fossil is fragmentary and as per Krause and partners, it can't be ended up being a mammalian tooth. 

Krause and partners recognized two teeth, MACN Pv-RN 249 and 250, as front upper premolars. 249 bears two longitudinal lines of cusps. One line (push A; potentially the lingual one) incorporates four cusps, the other (push B) incorporates something like two, yet is harmed. In column A, there are three edges (at the front, center, and back) stretching out from the tip of the base of every cusp. The second and third cusps are biggest and most generally isolated from one another. In column B, one cusp bears three edges, of which one reaches out towards the other cusp in the line and the two others towards line An) and the other cusp is harmed. 250 is progressively fragmentary, yet bears somewhere around five cusps and may speak to a similar tooth position as 249, however it would originate from the contrary side of the mouth. The microstructure of the finish of this tooth has been examined. With a width of about 55 μm close to the tip of a cusp, the veneer is slim. The veneer crystals are straight, little, and adjusted and there is minimal material between the crystals. Little, adjusted crystals are additionally observed in "Gondwanatherium", "Sudamerica", and different gondwanatheres, yet in few multituberculates. Indeed, even in those multituberculates that do have little crystals, the crystal sheath is shut, yet the sheath is inadequate in "Gondwanatherium" and potentially "Ferugliotherium". 

Krause and partners composed that these two teeth take after multituberculate deciduous front upper premolars, especially second and third premolars (P2 and P3), and utilized this as one of their contentions for recognizing "Ferugliotherium" as a multituberculate. Be that as it may, as with the dentary MACN Pv-RN 975, the two upper premolars were prohibited from "Ferugliotherium" and distinguished as multituberculates by Kielan-Jaworowska and partners after the disclosure of the jaw of "Sudamerica". Gurovich keeps on recognizing them as "Ferugliotherium" based on their size and provenance and different likenesses among "Ferugliotherium" and multituberculates. 

Five putative lower molariforms of "Ferugliotherium" are known from the Los Alamitos Formation (MACN Pv-RN 20, 174, 175, and 253 and MLP 88-III-28-1). These teeth incorporate the holotypes of "Ferugliotherium windhauseni" (MACN Pv-RN 20, the main second lower molariform, or m2) and "Vucetichia gracilis" (MACN Pv-RN 174). 

The best-protected mf1 is MLP 88-III-28-1. The crown is unworn and complete and there are no roots, recommending that the tooth had not yet ejected when its proprietor passed on. Krause, who initially portrayed the tooth in 1993, recognized it as a correct molar, yet the consequent disclosure of the jaw of "Sudamerica" clarified that "Ferugliotherium" molariforms had been turned around, and MLP 88-III-28-1 is really from the left half of the jaw. The tooth is 2.2 mm long and 1.5 mm wide. The crown is generally rectangular, with adjusted corners, and bears two longitudinal columns of cusps. The lingual line comprises of four cusps, which are littler and lower than the three labial ones. The cusps in this line become littler and lower from the front to the back. Two edges dive from the tip of every cusp to the lingual and labial sides. The labial edges on the first and fourth cusp just achieve the base of the cusp, however those on the second and third cusps join edges dropping from the first and second labial cusp. In the initial three cusps, the lingual edge reaches out to close to the lingual edge of the tooth and after that turns in reverse; the finish of the edge is lingual to the following cusp. In the fourth cusp, the edge barely expands posteriorly, but instead labially, shaping the back edge of the tooth and joining an edge plunging from the last labial cusp. The labial cusp push incorporates three, bigger cusps, every one of which bears two edges that plummet lingually into the valley between the two cusp lines. The front edge of each pair finishes in the focal valley, and the back edge joins an edge from a lingual cusp. The edge design results within the sight of three transverse wrinkles between the fundamental cusps. 

Another mf1, MACN Pv-RN 253, is nearly unworn, yet harmed: just the front two lingual cusps and the initial two cusps and part of the third in the labial line are saved. This tooth is like MLP 88-III-28-1 in all regards. Nonetheless, Gurovich proposes that it might likewise be a m2. MACN Pv-RN 174, which is vigorously worn, and MACN Pv-RN 175, which isn't just intensely worn yet has likewise experienced extreme scraped area, were initially recognized as upper molars of "Vucetichia gracilis" by Bonaparte in 1990. The foundations of MACN Pv-RN 174 are saved; at the front and back of the tooth, there is a couple of roots, which are intertwined close to their bases. It has little finish crystals. Krause and partners proposed in 1992 that 174 and 175 were mf1s of "Ferugliotherium" based on likenesses with 253, and Krause affirmed this in 1993 by depicting the total mf1 MLP 88-III-28-1. The related ferugliotheriid variety "Trapalcotherium" is known from a solitary mf1, which is like "Ferugliotherium" mf1s however extraordinary in some morphological subtleties (see "Trapalcotherium": Relationships). 

The holotype, MACN Pv-RN 20, is a privilege mf2 as per both Krause and associates (1992) and Gurovich (2005), however Gurovich considered the side that Krause and partners thought was lingual to be labial, and the other way around. The last translation is utilized in the accompanying portrayal. It is practically square, yet at the front it is somewhat smaller than at the back. The labial side of the tooth is taller and less worn than the lingual side. There are two lines of cusps, and every lingual cusp is associated with every labial cusp by an expansive peak, with at least one fossas in the center. One of the two labial cusps may have been separated into two littler cusps. The two peaks are isolated by a profound wrinkle. The finish crystals of this tooth are little, similar to those of the premolar MACN Pv-RN 250. 

Transverse edges between the cusps, as observed in "Ferugliotherium", are known in just a single multituberculate, "Essonodon", yet the edge design in "Essonodon" is progressively convoluted and the creature does not have the conspicuous wrinkles of "Ferugliotherium" and contrasts in various different highlights. Then again, generally speaking examples of cusps and edges are basically comparable among "Ferugliotherium", "Gondwanatherium", and "Sudamerica", demonstrating that the three are firmly related. 

A solitary tooth, MACN Pv-RN 248, is presently recognized as a "Ferugliotherium" upper molariform. In 1992, Krause and partners marked it as a privilege MF1, however Gurovich recognizes it as a left MF1 or perhaps even a privilege mf1. LACM 149371, a puzzling tooth from the Paleogene of Santa Rosa, Peru, may speak to an upper molar of a creature identified with "Ferugliotherium". Like the last mentioned, it has cusps that are compacted from front to back and that are associated with the focal point of the crown by low peaks. 

MACN Pv-RN 248 is to some degree harmed and practically rectangular, however somewhat smaller at the back than at the front. The tooth bears three longitudinal lines of cusps. The center line comprises of five cusps, the labial line (expecting it is a left M1; on the off chance that it is from the right, "lingual" and "labial" ought to be switched) incorporates two or maybe three cusps, and the lingual column incorporates presumably four cusps. The lingual and center lines reach out over the whole length of the tooth, however the labial line is shorter, stretching out crosswise over about 70% of the length. The center column is situated sideways as for the length hub of the tooth, so it meets with the lingual line towards the back of the tooth. The front lingual corner of the tooth is missing, however it gives the idea that the primary cusps in the lingual and center lines are associated by two edges, one at the front edge of the tooth and one at the back of the cusps. A profound fossa (bowl) lies between the two cusps and their associating edges. Behind these two cusps, a transverse wrinkle stretches out over the width of the tooth. The second lingual and center cusps are likewise associated by a peak, which is to some degree flimsier than those interfacing the main cusps. Another transverse wrinkle reaches out behind the second cusps and furthermore isolates the second center cusp from the labial line. A third wrinkle, behind the third lingual and center cusps, likewise isolates the first from the second labial cusp. Three edges slip from the fourth lingual cusp: one associates with the fourth center cusp, one finishes indiscriminately between the fourth lingual and center cusps, and one interfaces with the fifth center cusp. The second labial cusp, which is bigger than the first, is externally separated into two littler cusps by a space on its lingual side. There are vertical furrows at the bases of the cusps. 

Stays of "Ferugliotherium" originate from two developments in the Late Cretaceous of southern Argentina, the Los Alamitos and La Colonia Formations. These and the Allen Formation (which has yielded "Trapalcotherium") are altogether dated to the Campanian (84– 71 million years prior) as well as Maastrichtian (71– 66 million years back), the penultimate and extreme phases of the Cretaceous. The La Colonia Formation might be to some degree more youthful than the other two, while the Los Alamitos Formation has been considered Campanian, and can be dated to the Campanian or Maastrichtian based on palynology. The Allen Formation is likely Maastrichtian, yet not most recent Maastrichtian. 

The Los Alamitos Formation is situated in southeastern Río Negro Province, in the region of the town of Cona Niyeu and was most likely saved in a boggy domain. In 1983, it yielded the principal Mesozoic warm blooded animal to be found in Argentina, "Mesungulatum houssayi", and from that point forward, the mammalian fauna has extended to 14 species. The vast majority of those have a place with the obsolete mammalian gathering Dryolestoidea, yet the fauna additionally incorporates the gondwanatheres "Ferugliotherium" and "Gondwanatherium". The dryolestoids "Mesungulatum houssayi" and "Groebertherium novasi" and the two gondwanatheres are the most widely recognized well evolved creatures. Different fossils found in the Los Alamitos Formation incorporate fish, frogs, turtles, madtsoiid snakes, dinosaurs, for example, "Secernosaurus", gastropods, and different spineless creatures. 

The La Colonia Formation outcrops in north-focal Chubut Province, and the mammalian fossils originate from the Mirasol Chico valley. The development incorporates fluvial (waterway), remote ocean, and close shore stores, and the mammalian fauna most likely originates from an estuary, salt marsh, or beach front plain. The La Colonia Formation likewise contains dryolestoids, for example, "Coloniatherium" and "Reigitherium", just as a ferugliotheriid and the putative multituberculate "Argentodites". Likewise, the La Colonia Formation has yielded fossils of a wide exhibit of different creatures, including crocodiles, plesiosaurs, lungfish ("Ceratodus"), and dinosaurs (counting "Carnotaurus"). 

The high-delegated sudamericids were presumably herbivores, however the lower-delegated "Ferugliotherium" was all the more most likely an insectivore or omnivore, as comparative multituberculates, for example, "Mesodma", which is thought to have eaten bugs, different arthropods, seeds, and additionally nuts. It might have utilized its incisors for chewing or cutting, and the sharp edge like p4 may likewise have been utilized for cutting hard plant parts, for example, seeds. The wear designs on "Ferugliotherium" teeth freely recommend that the creature may have eaten some plant material.