second Red Banner Army 

The second Red Banner Army () was a Soviet field armed force of World War II that filled in as a component of the Far Eastern Front. 

The military was shaped at Khabarovsk in the Soviet Far East in 1938 as the second Army. After the Far Eastern Front was part in September that year it turned into the second Independent Red Banner Army. At the point when the front was improved in June 1940, the military was redesignated as the second Red Banner Army, positioned in the Blagoveshchensk region. It spent the majority of World War II guarding the fringe around there, sending arrangements toward the Eastern Front while experiencing a few redesigns. In August 1945, the military battled in the Soviet attack of Manchuria, catching the Japanese braced areas of Aihun and Sunwu nearby its part of the outskirt, and progressing into Manchuria to Qiqihar. The military was disbanded after the war in late 1945. 

Because of expanded pressures with Japan, the second Army was made in July 1938 on the Far Eastern wildernesses of the Soviet Union from the eighteenth Rifle Corps as a component of the Far Eastern Red Banner Front. It was directed by at that point "Komkor" (Corps administrator) Ivan Konev. In September, the front was broken down and its troops were part into two autonomous armed forces, which both acquired the Order of the Red Banner recently granted to the front. The military, redesignated as the second Independent Red Banner Army (second OKA), still under Konev's direction, was headquartered at Khabarovsk and controlled troops in the oblasts of the Lower Amur, Khabarovsk, Primorsky, Sakhalin, and Kamchatka, the Jewish Autonomous Oblast, and the okrugs of Koryak and Chukotka. It was straightforwardly subordinate to the People's Commissariat of Defense and operationally controlled the Amur Red Banner Flotilla. The second OKA incorporated the third, twelfth, 34th, 35th, 69th, and 78th Rifle Divisions amid its reality, just as the sustained areas of De-Kastri, Lower Amur, Ust-Sungari and Blagoveshchensk. 

Components of the military battled in the Battles of Khalkhin Gol, a progression of outskirt conflicts between the Soviet Union and Japan, in mid-1939 under the control of different developments. On 4 October 1939, the Northern Army Group was built up at Nikolayevsk-on-Amur, controlling troops in the strengthened locales of Nikolayevsk-on-Amur and De-Kastri, Kamchatka and Sakhalin. Subjected to the second OKA, the gathering operationally controlled the Northern Pacific Flotilla. By a request dated 21 June 1940, the Far Eastern Front was reproduced and the central command of the second Independent Red Banner Army was nullified and used to frame the base camp of the second and fifteenth Armies. The second (Blagoveshchensk) Red Banner Army (second KA) was headquartered at Kuibyshevka. It incorporated the third and twelfth Rifle Divisions and the 69th Motorized Division (the previous 69th Rifle Division, positioned in the Blagoveshchensk region). The 34th, 35th, and 78th Rifle Divisions turned out to be a piece of the fifteenth Army. Lieutenant General Vsevolod Sergeyev moved toward becoming armed force authority on 22 June. On 27 August, the 31st Mixed Aviation Division (SmAD) was framed from its 26th Mixed Aviation Brigade. In March 1941, the 59th Tank Division was framed in the Khabarovsk region as a component of the military. Lieutenant General Makar Teryokhin supplanted Sergeyev on 11 March. By 22 June the military likewise incorporated the 101st Blagoveshchensk and the Ust-Bureysk Fortified Regions. 

Amid World War II, the military secured the outskirt around Blagoveshchensk and sent fortifications to the dynamic powers battling on the Eastern Front. Following the start of Operation Barbarossa, the German attack of the Soviet Union, on 22 June 1941, an order dated 25 June exchanged the 59th Tank and 69th Motorized Divisions by rail toward the Eastern Front. On 28 June the 31st SmAD withdrew for the Eastern Front, and remaining units, including the third Fighter Aviation Regiment, were made legitimately subordinate to the Air Force (VVS) of the second KA. In August the 95th Mixed Aviation Division was framed in the VVS of the second KA; it turned into the 95th Fighter Aviation Division (IAD) by 1 September. 

By 1 September, the military incorporated the Svobodny Rifle Division, and the 82nd Bomber Aviation Division (BAD) had been added to the VVS of the second KA. By 1 October the Svobodny Rifle Division had been supplanted by the 204th Rifle Division, the 95th IAD had turned into the 95th SmAD, and the 96th SmAD had been made. By 1 November, the first and second Rifle Brigades and the Zeya and Blagoveshchensk separate rifle regiments had been shaped in the military. The 95th SmAD had again been redesignated as the 95th IAD by 1 December, and a different mounted force regiment and the 73rd and 74th Tank Brigades had been framed. Starting at 1 December the two separate rifle regiments had vanished from the request of fight and the first and second Rifle Brigades were appeared as being a piece of the 101st Fortified Region. 

The Ust-Bureysk Fortified Region was likely disbanded in December, as it doesn't show up in the request of fight for 1 January 1942. The 95th IAD turned into a SmAD again in December. In January the 82nd BAD quickly exchanged to the VVS of the Far Eastern Front, yet exchanged back to the military's VVS in February. Around a similar time the 96th Rifle Division and 258th and 259th Rifle Brigades turned out to be a piece of the military. In March the 95th SmAD was disbanded and its units legitimately subjected to the military's VVS. The 96th SmAD was changed over into an IAD in May. In July, the 96th and 204th Rifle Divisions were delivered toward the Eastern Front and the seventeenth and 41st Rifle Brigades were shaped. The VVS of the military turned into a different unit, the eleventh Air Army, in August. 

In April 1943, the first and second Amur Tank Brigades were framed in the military from its different tank contingents; in June, the first was converged into the second, turning into the 258th Tank Brigade in July. The military's structure stayed steady for the vast majority of 1944; the 342nd and 355th Rifle Divisions were shaped in the military in late November and December, separately, from its four rifle detachments. The 345th and the 396th Rifle Divisions were shaped in the military in March 1945. In July, the 342nd and the 345th Divisions exchanged out of the military to the 87th Rifle Corps and the 355th Division joined the Chuguyevka Operational Group, a free unit straightforwardly constrained by the Far Eastern Front central command. 

In anticipation of the Soviet intrusion of Manchuria, the military turned out to be a piece of the second Far Eastern Front after the Far Eastern Front was part on 5 August. For the intrusion, the military had a quality of 240 tanks and self-moved firearms and 1,270 weapons and mortars, and involved an area. It numbered 54,000 men out of an ostensible quality of 59,000. The military's three rifle divisions were at around 90% of their ostensible quality, with around 9,000 to 10,000 men each; the third and twelfth Divisions were marginally bigger than the 396th. The 101st Fortified Region numbered 6,000 men and was nearly at full quality. The military included three tank detachments (the 73rd, 74th, and 258th) and three self-impelled mounted guns forces. Front leader Army General Maxim Purkayev at first requested that the military guard the Blagoveshchensk region from Japanese assault, in collaboration with the Amur Flotilla's Zee-Bureysk Brigade and separate units of waterway ships. At the point when the fundamental Soviet assaults made progress, the military was to dispatch a strike intersection of the Amur River, lessen or detach the Japanese Sakhalian, Aihun, and Holomoching braced locales and safeguards around Sunwu, and advance south through the Lesser Khingan Mountains to Qiqihar and Harbin. The front's hostile activities were later referred to in Soviet historiography as the Sungari Offensive. 

An operational gathering comprising of the third and twelfth Rifle Divisions and the 73rd and 74th Tank Brigades was situated in the military's middle and to its left side flank. It was to assault south over the Amur from Konstantinovka to catch Sunwu and its fortresses, at that point advance south through Peian to Harbin. Another gathering with the 396th Rifle Division, the 368th Mountain Rifle Regiment, and the 258th Tank Brigade was to dispatch a supporting drive over the Amur from the Blagoveshchensk zone, take the invigorated locales of Sakhalian and Aihun, and advance south to Nencheng, Noho, and Qiqihar. The military's 101st Fortified Area, with mounted guns and assault rifle brigades, was situated on the Amur between the two gatherings to lead supporting assaults. 

The principle hostile started on 9 August, yet the military stayed in its situations until 11 August. Amid this time, it led observation and irritating assaults over the Amur, catching a few of the waterway's islands. The principle collections of the operational gatherings were put in focus territories, situated in the military's back. Because of the quick development of the other Soviet powers, Purkayev requested the military late on 10 August to start its assault from the get-go the next morning. Aihun, Sunwu, and Hsunho were booked to be caught before the finish of 11 August. That night, the operational gatherings pushed ahead to their assault beginning positions. The assault started promptly toward the beginning of the day under the front of a big guns barrage, as surveillance and strike separations from the principal echelons of the operational gatherings crossed the Amur, catching bridgeheads close Sakhalian, Aihun, and Holomoching, coming into contact with Japanese stations and covering powers. The third and twelfth Rifle Divisions initiated crossing the stream in a matter of seconds subsequently, less one regiment, east and west of Konstantinovka; the 396th Division and 368th Regiment close Blagoveshchensk and the 101st Fortified Region crossed south of Blagoveshchensk. 

Due to crossing over gear deficiencies, the military was not completely over the stream until 16 August, constraining the piecemeal responsibility of powers. Forward units kept on drawing in Japanese propelled positions south of Holomoching and north of Aihun on 12 August, as fortifications landed. Adequate troops to strengthen the assault had touched base on the other bank of the Amur by 13 August, permitting the third Rifle Division and 74th Tank Brigade to infiltrate the Japanese guards held by the 123rd Infantry Division's 269th Infantry Regiment on the statures upper east of Sunwu. A regiment from the twelfth Division crossed the Amur east of Sunwu and propelled west along the Sunwu street, assaulting the Japanese left flank. The 396th Division, 258th Tank Brigade and 368th Regiment pushed the 135th Independent Mixed Brigade back towards the principle invigorated area at Aihun, while little Japanese powers were pulverized by troops crossing the stream father north at Huma and Santaoka. 

Wild battling occurred on 14 and 15 August for the principle sustained districts east and north of Sunwu. Bolstered by the 73rd Tank Brigade, the third and twelfth Divisions got through Japanese barriers at Shenwutan, dissipating a separation from the 269th Regiment, and driving another back towards Nanyang Hill, only east of Sunwu, and assaulting the 123rd Division's fundamental powers in the Sunwu Fortified Region. In the mean time, the 74th Tank Brigade, fortified by a rifle organization, mounted guns unit, and an antitank regiment, moved south and avoided Sunwu, progressing to cut the Sunwu– Peian street. Exploiting the tank assault, the 396th Division and 368th Regiment progressed on Sunwu from the north, encompassing the majority of the 135th Brigade in the Aihun Fortified Region. A forward separation was conformed to the 74th Brigade to seek after the Japanese remainders southwest along the Nencheng street. 

The 369th Rifle Division's second echelon 614th Rifle Regiment and the 101st Fortified Region were entrusted with diminishing the Aihun and Sunwu sustained areas, as the operational gatherings walked in two courses towards Nencheng and Peian, in excess of 93 miles (150 kilometers) separated. The development was impeded by awful climate and sloppy and rutted streets, and two designer sapper contingents were connected to the lead separations of the operational gatherings to accelerate the development. For the following a few days, the avoided Japanese troops kept on guarding the Sakhalian, Aihun and Sunwu braced locales, propelling regular assaults against the Soviet troops. After further substantial mounted guns and bombarding from the Soviet eighteenth Mixed Aviation Corps of the tenth Air Army, Japanese obstruction loosened on 17 and 18 August, and numerous safeguards surrendered or were devastated. Around Sunwu, an aggregate of 17,061 Japanese military work force were caught, while 4,520 warriors at Aihun did not surrender until 20 August. 

The Kwantung Army formally surrendered on 18 August, while the operational gatherings gradually propelled south, catching Nencheng and Peian on 20 and 21 August before moving towards Qiqihar and Harbin. The military came to Qiqihar on 21 August, where it connected up with troops from the 36th Army. The Japanese around the sustained districts were in this way portrayed by history specialist David Glantz as the most impressive looked by Soviet troops in the battle. The dimension of opposition and street conditions eased back the military's development to a normal of 20 kilometers every day, one of the most reduced paces of Soviet powers amid the intrusion; it propelled a profundity of 200 kilometers into Manchuria. Amid the crusade, the military lost 645 slaughtered, 1,817 injured, and 74 missing. 

The 390th Rifle Division of the fifth Separate Rifle Corps was exchanged to the military by 3 September 1945, alongside the 32nd Guards Tank Brigade. After the war, the military quickly turned out to be a piece of the Far Eastern Military District, shaped from the second Far Eastern Front on 10 September. It was disbanded there in November 1945, the central station authoritatively dissolving on 15 December. The 390th and 396th Divisions were disbanded with the military, while the third and twelfth Divisions exchanged to the 26th Rifle Corps of the first Red Banner Army in the Transbaikal-Amur Military District. 

The military was directed by the accompanying officers amid its reality: