Henry Wrigley 

Air Vice Marshal Henry Neilson Wrigley, CBE, DFC, AFC (21 April 1892 – 14 September 1987) was a senior leader in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). A spearheading flyer and aeronautics researcher, he directed the first trans-Australia departure from Melbourne to Darwin in 1919, and a short time later laid the basis for the RAAF's air control tenet. Amid World War I, Wrigley joined the Australian Flying Corps and saw battle with No. 3 Squadron on the Western Front, gaining the Distinguished Flying Cross; he later directed the unit and distributed a background marked by its wartime misuses. He was granted the Air Force Cross for his 1919 crosscountry flight. 

Wrigley was an establishing individual from the RAAF in 1921 and held staff posts in the resulting years. In 1936, he was elevated to assemble chief and took order of RAAF Station Laverton. Raised to air commodore not long after the episode of World War II, he progressed toward becoming Air Member for Personnel in November 1940. One of his undertakings was sorting out the recently settled Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force and choosing its chief, Clare Stevenson, in 1941. He was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire that year. Wrigley filled in as Air Officer Commanding RAAF Overseas Headquarters, London, from September 1942 until his retirement from the military in June 1946. He kicked the bucket in 1987 at the age of ninety-five. His works on air control were gathered and distributed after death as "The Decisive Factor" in 1990. 

Henry Neilson Wrigley was conceived on 21 April 1892 in Collingwood, a suburb of Melbourne, to Henry and Beatrice Wrigley. He was instructed at Richmond Central School and at Melbourne High School, where he joined the cadets. Learning at the University of Melbourne, he turned into a state teacher and an individual from the volunteer army before the episode of World War I. He joined the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) on 5 October 1916. Wrigley prepared as a pilot under the tutelage of Lieutenant Eric Harrison at Central Flying School in Point Cook, Victoria, before withdrawing Melbourne on 25 October on board a troopship headed for Europe. 

After further preparing in England, Wrigley was presented on France and flew on the Western Front with No. 3 Squadron AFC (additionally referred to until 1918 as No. 69 Squadron, Royal Flying Corps). Working Royal Aircraft Factory R.E.8s, the unit was occupied with observation, mounted guns spotting and ground bolster obligations. Having been elevated to chief, Wrigley was granted the Distinguished Flying Cross for his "remarkable commitment to obligation", specifically his tirelessness in squeezing home an assault against foe infantry on 29 October 1918 notwithstanding "extreme automatic rifle and rifle shoot"; the respect was proclaimed in the "London Gazette" on 3 June 1919. Wrigley later seen that most wartime flying machine were "difficult to battle in", and that senior officers were "excessively busy with urging planes into the air and instructing pilots to cut them down again without breaking their necks" to think about the more extensive ramifications of air control. 

Wrigley moved toward becoming No. 3 Squadron's leader in January 1919, and came back to Australia on 6 May. Soon thereafter he participated in the primary cross-country trip crosswise over Australia, from Melbourne to Darwin, to correspond with the principal England-to-Australia flight. Joined by his technician and previous classmate, Sergeant Arthur "Spud" Murphy, Wrigley withdrew Point Cook on 16 November and landed in Port Darwin on 12 December, having voyage some in forty-seven flying hours. The men flew in a solitary engined Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2, with no radio, over unmapped and regularly risky territory, and overviewed seventeen potential landing fields en route. Wrigley considered the decision of Murphy as his companion "an especially upbeat one" however called the flying machine they were alloted "an out of date type, notwithstanding to prepare purposes", while yielding that "it was basically solid and airworthy". In acknowledgment of their accomplishment the men were each granted the Air Force Cross, gazetted on 12 July 1920. Such was the apparent threat of the campaign that while getting ready for the trip back they got a message from the Defense Department requesting them to disassemble the B.E.2 and come back with it by ship. 

On 1 January 1920, Wrigley exchanged to the Australian Air Corps (AAC), a brief association framed by the Army following disbandment of the wartime AFC. He was selected assistant at Central Flying School the next month. In 1921, Wrigley joined the recently settled Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) as a flight lieutenant. Prevalently known as "Wrig", he was one of the first twenty-one officers reporting in real time Force's quality at its development that March. For the following seven years he held staff posts at RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne, starting with the situation of staff officer to the Director of Personnel and Training. On 5 July 1922, Wrigley wedded Marjorie Rees; the couple had a child and a little girl. That month, he supplanted Flight Lieutenant Frank McNamara as Staff Officer (Operations and Intelligence). He filled in as RAAF Training Officer from March 1923 to April 1925—amid which time he was elevated to squadron pioneer—before being selected Director of Organization and Staff Duties. In November 1927, he partook trying to make the main night departure from Sydney to Melbourne. Taking off from RAAF Station Richmond in an Airco DH.9, Wrigley and his co-pilot were noticeable all around for six hours and secured before a broken fuel line constrained them to arrive for fixes; they finished the adventure the next day. 

Wrigley headed out to England in 1928 to go to RAF Staff College, Andover, getting to be one of the first RAAF officers to finish the course. Staying in England, he was selected Australian Air Liaison Officer to the Air Ministry in 1929. That October, he started correspondence with the British Air Council to talk about a proposition for the RAAF to embrace as its very own the Royal Air Force's aphorism "Per Ardua Ad Astra"; casual endorsement was allowed by letter to Wrigley in March 1930. Coming back to Australia, he moved toward becoming Director of Operations and Intelligence at RAAF Headquarters in October 1930, and Director of Organization and Staff Duties in December 1931. He was elevated to wing administrator in December 1932. In 1935 he distributed his history of No. 3 Squadron, "The Battle Below", which was viewed as a definitive treatment regarding the matter of armed force co-task. He was advanced gathering skipper in July 1936, and that October took over as boss of RAAF Station Laverton, Victoria, from Group Captain McNamara. Wrigley gave over the station's direction to Group Captain Adrian Cole in February 1939. In May 1939, Wrigley filled in as the senior master assessor on the board of an investigation into three late mishaps including Avro Ansons; the full report passed on in October found that preparation on the sort pursued the prospectus, however that pilots required increasingly handy involvement in managing in-flight occurrences, as human blunder was the imaginable clarification for somewhere around one accident. 

As a major aspect of the RAAF's rearrangement following the flare-up of World War II, No. 1 Group was framed under Wrigley's direction in Melbourne on 20 November 1939, to regulate the activities of air bases and units in Victoria, South Australia, and Tasmania. Advanced air commodore, in 1940 Wrigley filled in as Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Southern Area, the successor association to No. 1 Group, before taking up the situation of Air Member for Personnel (AMP) in November that year. He was delegated a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1941 New Year Honors. As AMP, Wrigley's duties included arranging the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force (WAAAF), set up on 25 March 1941 as the main formally dressed ladies' part of a furnished administration in the nation. He trusted that selecting servicewomen was fundamental to increase the many ground staff required to help the war exertion, and thought about that while such an association ought to be naturally independent from the RAAF, its individuals ought to be firmly incorporated inside the present power structure. 

The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) was as of now a RAF officer, Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Burnett, who would have liked to see his girl Sybil-Jean, a veteran of Britain's Women's Auxiliary Air Force, assume responsibility for the WAAAF. Wrigley effectively contended against this, disclosing to Burnett that there had just been "sufficient open clamor" over a non-Australian being named CAS, and there would be "a further open objection" on the off chance that anybody other than an Australian was delegated WAAAF Director. On 21 May, he chose Berlei official Clare Stevenson as WAAAF Director, disregarding brief representative Mary Bell, spouse of a serving RAAF bunch commander. Wrigley picked Stevenson based on her administration foundation and in light of the fact that she was not a "socialite". Ringer, who was offered the situation of Deputy Director, left the WAAAF on learning of Stevenson's arrangement, however Wrigley later persuaded her to rejoin. In the mean time, Wrigley had a main impact in the improvement of the Air Training Corps, shaped in April 1941 to encourage fundamental preparing for young people matured sixteen to eighteen who would have liked to move toward becoming RAAF aircrew. 

Wrigley's advancement to acting air bad habit marshal was declared in May 1941, making him just the third individual from the RAAF—after Richard Williams and Stanley Goble—to achieve this position. In September 1942, he was presented on London to take over from Frank McNamara as AOC RAAF Overseas Headquarters. For a period, he was engaged with a pull of-war with Air Marshal Williams over exactly who was in control. Williams, who told Overseas Headquarters at its beginning in December 1941, with McNamara as his appointee, had thusly been delegated as the RAAF's agent to Washington, DC, leaving McNamara responsible for the London office until Wrigley arrived. The Minister for Air, Arthur Drakeford, was supportive of Williams telling the RAAF workplaces in both the US and UK while Wrigley represented him in London, in spite of Wrigley having been named AOC. Wrigley's journal recorded that when Williams came back to London in October 1942 to go to a gathering, he started "tossing his weight around" and "fascinating to have himself made AOC, and potentially AOC in C [Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief] of all RAAF units and work force outside Australia and the SW Pacific". Despite the fact that Williams left England in January 1943, the issue was just completely let go in mid-1943, when the CAS, Air Vice Marshal George Jones, prompted Williams that it was unfeasible for him to direction workplaces in both Washington and London. 

As AOC RAAF Overseas Headquarters, Wrigley was in charge of taking care of the interests of RAAF aircrew positioned in the European and the Middle Eastern theaters, liaising between the British Air Ministry and the Australian government in regards to specialized improvements and data on the war in the Pacific, and arranging updates to the terms of the Empire Air Training Scheme (EATS). The job had little impact on the sending of Australian work force for the air hostile in Europe, who were liable to RAF arrangement and system notwithstanding when they had a place with RAAF squadrons. As indicated by the official history of Australia in the war, Wrigley and his ancestors could barely accomplish more than "hinder the radial powers influencing Australian mien, and fix the most exceedingly awful managerial troubles emerging from wide scattering". 

Wrigley turned into a commonplace and famous figure for the a large number of Australian aviators who went through London amid the war, and was known to remove his coat and mix drinks at Codgers, the home office's watering gap. An EATS graduate later commented that "under Air Vice-Marshal Wrigley we got huge service ... I was in North Africa, Italy, Sardinia, Corsica and after that back in the United Kingdom. We got our mail, we got our comforts ... Not just that, when some dairy animals proceeded to squeeze 100 quid from me when I was on leave in London, the following day, with a shaking hand, I had the capacity to sign for another 100 quid and have a decent time." 

In March 1943, after exchanges that had started the earlier year, Wrigley marked a modification of EATS that at long last perceived Australia's "national goals" in regards to convergence of her pilots in RAAF squadrons instead of them being dispersed all through RAF units, sensible prospects of advancement and pivot for staff, and pay and different states of administration affirmed as being per RAAF stipulations. The official history battled that "generally Australia was still left pursuing a fantasy instead of a reality", the same number of statements in the understanding were "subject to operational exigencies" and to be clung to just "beyond what many would consider possible". Wrigley visited the Mediterranean in September, visiting No. 459 Squadron in the Middle East, and venturing out to Sicily to talk with ground staff of No. 450 Squadron over their complaints concerning absence of advancement and leave; his quality was considered to have defused this circumstance. 

Wrigley's child Ronald enrolled in the Royal Australian Navy in September 1944 and served until his deactivation in 1946. The finish of threats in Europe on 7 May 1945 raised a noteworthy calculated test for Wrigley as the senior officer in charge of approximately 13,500 RAAF work force spread crosswise over Britain, the Mediterranean, and the mainland, just a minority of whom were in ostensibly Australian squadrons, the mass presenting with RAF foundations. "The errand was vigorously met", as indicated by the official history; less than 1,000 RAAF staff stayed in RAF units by 1 September, in spite of the fact that repatriation proceeded through into the new year. 

Wrigley was persuasively resigned from the RAAF in 1946, alongside other senior leaders and veterans of World War I, apparently to clear path for the progression of more youthful and similarly competent officers. Definitely frustrated with the choice, Wrigley was authoritatively released on 6 June. He thought that it was hard to verify regular citizen work in light of the fact that, "when I got back, all the beneficial occupations round Australia had been gobbled up by individuals, aviation based armed forces individuals as well as other individuals on the spot". After a fruitless endeavor to maintain his own retail business, he "in the end earned a living by taking on some managerial occupations which carried on for a couple of years". Wrigley was made a privileged air bad habit marshal in July 1956. In 1966 he wound up official officer of the Victorian Overseas Foundation, and later a trustee. He distributed "Air ship and Economic Development: The RAAF Contribution" through the Royal Aeronautical Society in 1969. In March 1971, he was among a select gathering of enduring establishing individuals from the RAAF who went to a celebratory supper at the Hotel Canberra to stamp the administration's Golden Jubilee; his kindred visitors included Air Marshal Sir Richard Williams, Air Vice Marshal Bill Anderson, Air Commodore Hippolyte De La Rue, and Wing Commander Sir Lawrence Wackett. After the demise of his first spouse, Marjorie, Wrigley wedded Zenda Edwards on 5 January 1972. In December 1979, he was the visitor of respect at festivities stamping sixty years of flying at Darwin; the RAAF flew him from Point Cook to Darwin to remember his memorable 1919 trip with Arthur Murphy. Wrigley composed a past filled with the Victorian part of the United Services Institution in 1980. Matured ninety-five, he passed on in Melbourne on 14 September 1987. 

For an amazing duration, Wrigley was a "deep rooted note-taker" who arranged broad documentation concerning the hypothesis and routine with regards to air control, on which he addressed among partners in the RAAF amid the 1920s. The ideas that he proliferated included air prevalence, the requirement for an aviation based armed forces to be discrete from different parts of the equipped administrations, control of the air as a methods for doing hostile strikes, and the substitution of airborne powers for ground troops. While contending for the autonomy of the air arm, Wrigley rushed to disperse any idea that it would just "land from God knows where, drop [its] bombs God knows where, and go off again God knows where"; rather it should act working together with the military and naval force in encouragement of government arrangement. He is consequently credited with establishing the frameworks for the RAAF's cutting edge air control tenet, which would in the long run be classified as the "Air Power Manual" in 1990. Wrigley's widow handed down twenty volumes of his works, maps, and photos to the RAAF Museum at Point Cook after his passing; they were altered and distributed via Air Commodore Brendan O'Loghlin and Wing Commander Alan Stephens in 1990 as "The Decisive Factor: Air Power Doctrine via Air Vice-Marshal H.N. Wrigley". In 1996, Wrigley's previous home as leader of RAAF Station Laverton before World War II was dedicated Wrigley House in his respect. His name is additionally borne by Henry Wrigley Drive, moving toward Darwin International Airport. In March 2010, the Chief of Air Force, Air Marshal Mark Binskin, built up the AVM H.N. Wrigley Prize for air control examination, as a feature of the yearly Chief of Air Force Essay Competition.