Sanctuary of Eshmun 

The Temple of Eshmun () is an antiquated spot of love committed to Eshmun, the Phoenician divine force of recuperating. It is situated close to the Awali stream, upper east of Sidon in southwestern Lebanon. The site was involved from the seventh century BC to the eighth century AD, recommending a coordinated association with the close-by city of Sidon. Albeit initially built by Sidonian lord Eshmunazar II in the Achaemenid time ( 529– 333 BC) to praise the city's recouped riches and stature, the sanctuary complex was enormously extended by Bodashtart, Yatan-milk and later rulers. Since the proceeded with development spread over numerous era of substituting freedom and outside authority, the asylum includes an abundance of various compositional and beautifying styles and impacts. 

The asylum comprises of an esplanade and a stupendous court restricted by a tremendous limestone porch divider that underpins a fantastic platform which was once beaten by Eshmun's Graeco-Persian style marble sanctuary. The haven includes a progression of custom bathing bowls bolstered by waterways directing water from the Asclepius stream (current Awali) and from the hallowed "Ydll" spring; these establishments were utilized for helpful and purificatory purposes that describe the religion of Eshmun. The asylum site has yielded numerous antiques of significant worth, particularly those recorded with Phoenician writings, giving important understanding into the site's history and that of old Sidon. 

The Eshmun Temple was improved amid the early Roman Empire with a corridor road, yet declined after quakes and fell into obscurity as Christianity supplanted agnosticism and its vast limestone squares were utilized to fabricate later structures. The sanctuary site was rediscovered in 1900 by neighborhood treasure seekers who blended the interest of universal researchers. Maurice Dunand, a French paleontologist, completely uncovered the site from 1963 until the start of the Lebanese Civil War in 1975. After the finish of the threats and the retreat of Israel from Southern Lebanon, the site was restored and recorded to the World Heritage Site conditional rundown. 

Eshmun was the Phoenician lord of mending and restoration of life; he was a standout amongst the most imperative divinities of the Phoenician pantheon and the principle male holiness of Sidon. Initially a nature eternality, and a divine force of spring vegetation, Eshmun was compared to Babylonian god Tammuz. His job later extended inside the Phoenician pantheon, and he increased heavenly and infinite qualities. 

The fantasy of Eshmun was connected by the 6th century Syrian Neoplatonist logician Damascius and ninth century Patriarch of Constantinople, Photius. They relate that Eshmun, a young fellow from Beirut, was chasing in the forested areas when Astarte saw him and was stricken by his excellence. She irritated him with her loving interest until he weakened himself with a hatchet and kicked the bucket. The lamenting goddess resuscitated Eshmun and transported him to the sky where she made him into a divine force of paradise. 

From a verifiable point of view, the principal composed notice of Eshmun returns to 754 BC, the date of the marking of the settlement between Assyrian lord Ashur-nirari V and Mati'el, ruler of Arpad; Eshmun figures in the content as a benefactor of the bargain. 

Eshmun was related to Asclepius because of the Hellenic impact over Phoenicia; the soonest proof of this condition is given by coins from Amrit and Acre from the third century BC. This reality is exemplified by the Hellenized names of the Awali waterway which was named "Asclepius fluvius", and the Eshmun Temple's encompassing forests, known as the forests of Asclepius. 

In the ninth century BC, the Assyrian ruler Ashurnasirpal II vanquished the Lebanon mountain range and its beach front urban communities. The new sovereigns claimed tribute from Sidon, alongside each other Phoenician city. These installments invigorated Sidon's look for new methods for provisioning and advanced Phoenician resettlement and development, which crested in the eighth century BC. 

At the point when Assyrian lord Sargon II passed on in 705 BC, the Sidonian ruler Luli united with the Egyptians and Judah in a fruitless insubordination to Assyrian rule, however was compelled to escape to Kition (current Larnaca in Cyprus) with the entry of the Assyrian armed force headed by Sennacherib, Sargon II's child and successor. Sennacherib instated Ittobaal on the honored position of Sidon and reimposed the yearly tribute. 

At the point when Abdi-Milkutti climbed to Sidon's royal position in 680 BC, he likewise opposed the Assyrians. Accordingly, the Assyrian lord Esarhaddon laid attack to the city. Abdi-Milkutti was caught and guillotined in 677 BC following a three-year attack, while his city was wrecked and renamed Kar-Ashur-aha-iddina (the harbor of Esarhaddon). Sidon was deprived of its region, which was granted to Baal I, the lord of opponent Tire and steadfast vassal to Esarhaddon. Baal I and Esarhaddon marked a bargain in 675 in which Eshmun's name includes as one of the gods conjured as underwriters of the contract. 

Sidon came back to its previous dimension of success while Tire was attacked for 13 years (586– 573 BC) by the Chaldean lord Nebuchadnezzar II. By and by, the Sidonian lord was as yet held in a state of banishment at the court of Babylon. Sidon recovered its previous remaining as Phoenicia's central city in the Achaemenid Empire (529– 333 BC). Amid this period, Xerxes I granted ruler Eshmunazar II with the Sharon plain to utilize Sidon's armada in his administration amid the Greco-Persian Wars. 

Eshmunazar II showed his recently discovered riches by building various sanctuaries to Sidonian divinities. Engravings found on the lord's stone casket uncover that he and his mom, Amashtarte, fabricated sanctuaries to the divine forces of Sidon, including the Temple of Eshmun by the "Ydll source close to the storage". 

As two arrangement of engravings on the establishments of the grand platform bear witness to, development of the asylum's platform did not start until the rule of King Bodashtart. The principal set of engravings bears the name of Bodashtart alone, while the second contains his name and that of the crown ruler Yatan-milk. A Phoenician engraving, found upstream from the sanctuary, that dates to the fourteenth year of Bodashtart's rule, implies water adduction works from the Awali stream to the "Ydll" source that was utilized for custom cleansing at the sanctuary. 

The Eshmun haven was harmed by a tremor in the fourth century BC, which annihilated the marble sanctuary on the platform; this structure was not modified but rather numerous churches and sanctuaries were later added at the base of the platform. 

The sanctuary site remained a position of journey in the traditional relic amid the early Roman Empire and until the approach of Christianity, when the religion of Eshmun was restricted amid the Persecution of agnostics in the late Roman Empire and a Christian church was worked at the sanctuary site over the Roman road from the platform. Leftovers and mosaic floors of a Byzantine church can in any case be seen on the site. 

A Roman corridor was worked in the third century, likely by head Septimius Severus, and a Roman Villa demonstrated a time of recharged relative significance for the city amid the late time of Phoenicia under Roman standard. Moreover, inside the first Phoenician sanctuary site the Romans included the processional stairway, the bowls for ablutions and a nymphaeum with pictorial mosaics, that are still to a great extent flawless. Worn statuettes of three sprites remain in the specialties of a Roman wellspring. 

Another quake hit Sidon around 570 AD; Antoninus of Piacenza, an Italian Christian explorer, depicted the city as incompletely in remnants. For a long time after the vanishing of the religion of Eshmun, the asylum site was utilized as a quarry: Emir Fakhr-al-Din II, for instance, utilized its enormous squares to assemble a scaffold over the Awali waterway in the seventeenth century. 

The site later fell into blankness until the nineteenth century 

Somewhere in the range of 1737 and 1742, Richard Pococke, an English anthropologist, visited the Middle East and composed of what he thought were vestiges of protective dividers worked with stone squares close to the Awali waterway. At the point when the French orientalist Ernest Renan visited the territory in 1860, he saw that the Awali connect projections were worked of finely rusticated obstructs that started from a before structure. He likewise noted in his report, "Mission de Phénicie", that a nearby fortune seeker let him know of a substantial structure close to the Awali connect. 

In 1900, nearby surreptitious fortune seekers burrowing at the Eshmun Temple site indiscriminately found engravings cut onto the sanctuary's dividers. This disclosure blended the enthusiasm of Theodore Macridy, caretaker of the Museum of Constantinople, who cleared the sanctuary stays somewhere in the range of 1901 and 1903. Wilhelm Von Landau likewise exhumed the site somewhere in the range of 1903 and 1904. In 1920, Gaston Contenau headed a group of archeologists who reviewed the sanctuary complex. The principal broad archeological removal uncovering the Eshmun Temple remains was attempted by Maurice Dunand somewhere in the range of 1963 and 1975. Archeological proof demonstrates that the site was involved from the seventh century BC to the eighth century AD. 

Amid the Lebanese Civil War and the Israeli control of South Lebanon (1985– 2000), the sanctuary site was ignored and was attacked by vegetation excess; it was cleared and recuperated its previous condition after the Israeli withdrawal. Today the Eshmun haven can be visited lasting through the year and gratis, it is available from an off-ramp off the principle Southern Lebanon interstate close to Sidon's northern passage. The site holds a specific archeological significance since it is the best protected Phoenician site in Lebanon; it was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List's Cultural classification on , 1996. 

In writing, the sanctuary of Eshmun figures in Nabil Saleh's 2009 novel, "The Curse of Ezekiel" as the setting where Bomilcar experiences passionate feelings and salvages princess Chiboulet from the insidious structure of one of the sanctuary's ministers. 

Various old writings notice the Eshmun Temple and its area. The Phoenician engravings on the stone coffin of Eshmunazar II, a Sidonian ruler, remember the development of a "house" for the "sacred sovereign" Eshmun by the lord and his mom, ruler Amashtart, at the "Ydll source by the reservoir". 

Dionysius Periegetes, an old Greek travel author, distinguished the Eshmun sanctuary by the Bostrenos River, and Antonin de Plaisance, a sixth century AD Italian traveler recorded the sanctum as close to the stream Asclepius fluvius.Strabo and other Sidonian sources depict the asylum and its encompassing "holy woods" of Asclepius, the Hellenized name of Eshmun, in composed writings. 

Situated about south of Beirut and upper east of Sidon, the Eshmun Temple sits on the southern bank of the advanced Awali waterway, recently alluded to as Bostrenos or Asclepius fluvius in old content. Citrus forests, known as "Bustan el-Sheik" (, the woods of the Sheik), involve the antiquated "holy timberlands" of Asclepius and are a most loved summer cookout area for local people. 

Worked under Babylonian principle (605– 539 BC), the most seasoned landmark at the site is a pyramidal structure looking like a ziggurat that incorporates an entrance slope to a water reservoir. Sections of marble segment bases with Torus moldings and facetted segments discovered east of the platform are likewise credited to the Babylonian period. 

The pyramidal structure was superimposed amid Persian principle by a gigantic ashlar platform developed from vigorously bossed limestone hinders that deliberate more than crosswise over by thick, which were set down in courses high. The platform stands high, keeps running into the slope, and brags a wide façade. The porch on of the platform was once secured by a Greco-Persian style marble sanctuary presumably worked by Ionic craftsmans around 500 BC. The marble sanctuary has been decreased to a couple of staying stone pieces because of burglary. 

Amid the Hellenistic time frame, the haven was reached out from the base of the platform over the valley. Toward the east base of the platform stands a huge house of prayer, , dating to the 4th century BC. The house of prayer was decorated with a cleared pool and a substantial stone royal position cut of a solitary square of rock in the Egyptian style; it is flanked by two sphinx figures and encompassed by two lion models. The royal position, credited to the Sidonian goddess Astarte, leans against the church divider, which is adorned by help models of chasing scenes. The once imperative Astarte bowl lost its capacity amid the second century AD and was loaded up with earth and statue sections. The west base contains another fourth century BC sanctuary—focused on a bull protome topped capital—that remaining parts saved at the National Museum of Beirut. 

Generally known as the "Tribune of Eshmun" due to its shape, the special raised area of Eshmun is a white marble structure dating to the fourth century BC. It is long by wide and tall. Uncovered in 1963 by Maurice Dunand, it remains on a limestone socleplated with marble obstructs that lean against a holding divider. The special raised area is embellished with Hellenistic style help forms and is encircled by ornamental moldings, one of which partitions the raised area into two particular registers of symmetrical organization. The upper register depicts 18 Greek gods, including two charioteers encompassing the Greek god Apollo, who is delineated playing a cithara (a kind of lyre). The lower register praises Dionysus, who drives his "thiasos" (his blissful income) in a move to the music of pipe and cithara players. The Tribune is shown at the National Museum of Beirut. 

Upper east of the site, another 3rd century BC sanctuary stands nearby the Astarte house of prayer. Its façade is worked with extensive limestone squares and shows a two-register help adornment outlining a tanked celebration to pay tribute to Dionysus, the Greek divine force of wine. Among the sanctuary reliefs, one demonstrates a man endeavoring to catch a substantial chicken which was the normal conciliatory creature for Eshmun-Asclepius. 

The Eshmun Temple complex includes an expand pressure driven establishment directing water from "Ydll" spring that is comprised of a mind boggling arrangement of water channels, a progression of holding bowls, consecrated bathing bowls and cleared pools. This framework shows the significance of ceremonial ablutions in Phoenician restorative factions. 

Later remnants date from the Roman age and incorporate a colonnaded street fixed with shops. Of the substantial marble segments circumscribing the Roman road just pieces and bases remain. The Romans likewise constructed a fantastic staircase decorated with mosaic examples that prompts the highest point of the platform. To one side of the Roman street, close to the passageway of the site stands a nymphaeum with specialties where statues of the sprites once stood. The floor of the nymphaeum is secured by a mosaic delineating the Maenads. Over the colonnaded street, confronting the nymphaeum, are the vestiges of a Roman manor; just the estate's yard has made due alongside the remaining parts of a mosaic portraying the four seasons. To one side of the processional Roman staircase stands a cubic raised area, additionally of Roman development. Other Roman period structures incorporate two segments of an extraordinary colonnade prompting pools and other cultic establishments. 

Eshmun's religion delighted in a specific significance at Sidon as he was the main divinity after 500 BC. Beside the extramural asylum at Bustan el-Sheik, Eshmun likewise included a sanctuary inside the city. The extramural Eshmun Temple was related with decontamination and mending; custom lustral ablutions were performed in the haven's consecrated bowls enhanced by running water from the Asclepius River and the "Ydll" spring water which was considered to have a hallowed character and restorative quality. 

The recuperating attributions of Eshmun were joined with his awesome partner Astarte's treating powers; the last had an extension house of prayer with a consecrated cleared pool inside the Eshmun haven. Pioneers from everywhere throughout the antiquated world rushed to the Eshmun Temple leaving votive hints of their commitment and confirmation of their fix. There is proof that from the third century BC onwards there have been endeavors to Hellenize the faction of Eshmun and to connect him with his Greek partner Asclepius, however the asylum held its therapeudic work. 

Aside from the substantial embellishing components, cut friezes and mosaics which were left in situ, numerous relics were recuperated and moved from the Eshmun Temple to the national exhibition hall, the Louver or are in control of the Lebanese directorate general of ancient pieces. A portion of these littler finds incorporate an accumulation of engraved ostraca uncovered by Dunand giving uncommon instances of cursive Phoenician writing in the Phoenician terrain. One of the recouped ostracon bears the theophoric Phoenician name "grtnt" which recommends that love of the lunar-goddess Tanit happened in Sidon. 

Various divided votive life-estimate models of little kids lying on their side and holding a pet creature or a little article were likewise recuperated at the sanctuary site; among the best known about these is a figure of a regal tyke holding a pigeon with his correct hand; the kid's head is shaved, his middle is uncovered and his lower body is enveloped by an expansive fabric. The socle of this model is engraved with a commitment from Baalshillem, the child of a Sidonian lord to Eshmun, which shows the significance of the site to the Sidonian government. These votive figures seem to have been intentionally broken after devotion to Eshmun and afterward ceremoniously cast into the hallowed trench, most likely reproducing the penance of the wiped out tyke. These models speak to young men. A limestone bust of a Kouros dating from the 6th century BC was found at the site, however not at all like the old Greek kouroi this figure isn't exposed. 

Among the striking finds is a brilliant plaque demonstrating a snake twisting on a staff, a Hellenic image of Eshmun. also, a stone special stepped area bearing the name of Egyptian Pharaoh Achoris revealed in the Eshmun asylum. This blessing bears witness to the great relations between the Pharaoh and the lords of Sidon. 

The notoriety of the haven was extensive. Cypriot pioneers from Paphos left characteristics of their commitment for Astarte on a marble stele engraved both in Greek and Cypriot syllabary at Astarte's hallowed place; this stele is currently in the authority of the Lebanese directorate general of ancient pieces. 

Fortune seekers have searched out the Eshmun Temple since vestige; around 1900 curios bearing Phoenician engravings from the sanctuary site found their approach to Beirutine artifacts markets where they mixed the enthusiasm of the Ottoman specialists and provoked a progression of archeological burrows. 

Amid the common war, upon a solicitation from that point Lebanese chief general of relics Maurice Chehab, Maurice Dunand moved in excess of 2000 ancient rarities from Sidon to an underground load at the Byblos crusader palace, north of Beirut. In 1981, the warehouse was plundered and around 600 figures and compositional components were stolen and carried out of Lebanon. Rolf Stucky, ex-executive of the Institute of Classical Archeology of Basel certified amid a meeting in Beirut in the fruitful distinguishing proof and return of eight figures to the Lebanese national exhibition hall.