New York State Route 22 

New York State Route 22 (NY 22) is a north– south state expressway that parallels the eastern fringe of the U.S. province of New York, from the edges of New York City to the villa of Mooers in Clinton County close to the Canadian fringe. At , it is the state's longest north– south course and the third longest state course in general, after NY 5 and NY 17. A considerable lot of the state's major east– west streets meet with, and regularly join, Route 22 just before intersection into the neighboring New England states, where U.S. Highway 7 (US 7), which initially incompletely pursued NY 22's arrangement, also parallels the New York state line. 

Practically all of Route 22 is a two-path country street through little towns and villages. The special cases are its southern end in the vigorously populated Bronx and lower Westchester County, and a segment that goes through the city of Plattsburgh close to the northern end. The rustic scene that the street goes through differs from pony nation and perspectives on the supplies of the New York City watershed in the northern rural areas of the city, to dairy cultivates further upstate in the Taconic and Berkshire mountains, to the undeveloped, vigorously forested Adirondack Park along the shores of Lake Champlain. A segment from Fort Ann to Keeseville is a piece of the All-American Road known as the Lakes to Locks Passage. 

The most seasoned parts of the present Route 22, in Westchester County and along the Lake Champlain shoreline, were Native American trails. Dutch, and after them English, pilgrims kept on utilizing the way to get their ranch items to advertise, with the southernmost segment in the end turning into the White Plains Post Road in the eighteenth and nineteenth hundreds of years. In the mid twentieth century, as vehicle use wound up broad, the state cleared the more intensely utilized segments and manufactured new streets to make the present expressway, first assigned as Route 22 in 1930. In its initial years the roadway started in Manhattan; until 2008 its northern end was the Canadian fringe. 

Route 22 begins as a urban blood vessel street, going through the most crowded networks along its course inside its first . In the wake of running northerly from its inception in the Bronx it veers somewhat toward the upper east in the region of a traffic hover close Kensico Dam before traveling northward for good as a for the most part two-path rustic course right to the state's North Country. 

Most of NY 22's directing is kept up by the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT); in any case, a few areas are kept up by different locales. The southernmost of these is in the Bronx, where the aggregate of the thruway inside the ward is kept up by the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT). In Westchester County, Route 22 is for the most part privately kept up inside the city of Mount Vernon and is region kept up inside the city of White Plains. In Clinton County, the course is privately kept up inside the city of Plattsburgh. 

Amid its course, NY 22 meets or runs simultaneously with 46 other assigned highways: one state road, five Interstate Highways, and seven U.S. Thruways not including its very own ends. Of the surface street convergences, 18 end at Route 22 and 15 are concurrencies imparted to the intersection courses, representing , or 21.5% of the thruway's all out length. 

Route 22 begins as Provost Avenue at a crossing point with U.S. Route 1 (US 1) in the Eastchester area of the Bronx, converging with East 233rd Street going toward the north. It before long crosses the Westchester province line into Mount Vernon and turns out to be South Third Avenue, starting a segment in that area. Not long after the region line, Route 22 makes a sharp swing toward the east at the South Columbus Avenue crossing point, before long passing St. Paul's Church National Historic Site on its north, at that point bending back to that heading. It parallels the close-by Hutchinson River Parkway as it goes through suburbia of Bronxville and Tuckahoe. At Wilson Woods Lake, it crosses under a railroad connect on the Metro-North New Haven Line and turns out to be North Columbus Avenue, at that point has its first trade with a restricted access street at the Cross County Parkway. 

Nation clubs on either side section NY 22's entrance into Eastchester. It makes a swing toward the upper east, passing the Vernon Hills Shopping Center to one side. In the wake of leaving Eastchester, NY 22 proceeds with north into the town of Scarsdale. Paralleling the Bronx River Parkway (BRP), enters Westchester's province situate, White Plains. NY 22 likewise meets NY 125 and NY 119 in downtown White Plains, at that point twists toward the northwest along North Broadway, in the end converging the Cross-Westchester Expressway (Interstate 287 or I-287). The White Plains Rural Cemetery is obvious toward the west as Route 22 proceeds with northward out of the city. In North White Plains, the encompassing zone turns out to be less created as it goes over a delicate ascent from which a short connector runs downhill to the traffic circle where the BRP closes and the Taconic State Parkway starts, only south of Kensico Dam. 

While the Taconic State Parkway proceeds with the northwest heading Route 22 had been following, Route 22 itself veers toward the upper east along the supply's south shore. Subsequent to traverse one of the supply's narrows, NY 22 turns into a four-path separated parkway and starts a thousand-foot (() simultaneousness, the first of 15 along its length, with NY 120. The joined streets pass only west of IBM's Armonk central station and the "Duke's Trees edge", the westernmost point in Connecticut. Out of the blue, NY 22 runs parallel to New York's eastern outskirt, converging I-684 for the first of a few times only north of the short segment of that roadway in Connecticut, after which NY 22 returns to two paths. A short separation later, NY 433, one of the state's most brief expressways, travels south from NY 22 into Greenwich. 

After that intersection, NY 22 twists back toward the north, paralleling I-684 as a thin, shaded wandering two-path rustic course through the Westchester wide open of vast lush parcels and houses all around screened from the street. In downtown Bedford, the main settlement since White Plains, the expressway covers with NY 172 for a mile (1.6 km), its first simultaneousness with an east-west course, at that point veers back toward the northwest at the focal point of town. Just toward the north, NY 121, the main north– south state interstate whose course is completely east of NY 22, forks off from its southern end. Another mile past that, Route 22 comes back to a due-north heading, passing the John Jay Homestead State Historic Site a National Historic Landmark, where it turns west quickly, and Harvey School, where it bends toward the northwest once more. After the Katonah Museum of Art it broadens quickly at a noteworthy convergence with NY 35. north of that intersection, NY 22 winds up parallel with I-684 into the Town of Somers and the villa of Goldens Bridge. On the opposite side of the Interstate, open by means of NY 138, is the Goldens Bridge station on Metro-North Railroad's Harlem Line, which starts a long parallel arrangement with NY 22 now. 

The railroad's Purdy's station is a short separation west of the following intersection, NY 116. At another traffic light toward the north, NY 116 goes east to Titicus Reservoir at the northern convergence, the expressway crosses under I-684, staying among it and the railroad tracks. Simply past the Interstate, Route 22 turns west onto Hardscrabble Road, which before long turns north again to pursue the tracks to the following station, North Salem's village of Croton Falls. Only north of the village, Route 22 crosses under the tracks, and is joined by US 202. Quickly a while later, the street crosses back under the railroad again and enters Putnam County, following the Croton River north past the spillway of East Branch Reservoir. 

In the wake of paralleling the repository for nearly , a third course, US 6, joins the simultaneousness only east of the town of Brewster, framing the main three-course cover along Route 22. The three courses cross under a high, long scaffold conveying I-84, at that point veer east to a trade with the north end of I-684. US 6 and 202 proceed with east for Danbury while NY 22 utilizes the northbound entrance ramp of the I-684 roadway. The following thousand feet (300 m) of Route 22, along the short expansion of I-684, is the interstate's solitary turnpike segment; the roadways union and thin to two paths after they cross the Croton's East Branch. 

Route 22 keeps traveling upper east along a limited segment of land between the East Branch and Bog Brook supplies. It at that point continues its northward heading, following an a lot straighter course than it had as yet, on two paths through lush zones of the town of Patterson, where two nearby state thruways, NY 312 and 164, roll in from the west. The parkway step by step grows to three and now and then four paths as it leaves through worked behind regions of strip improvement. Soon after meeting a third state parkway, NY 311, and passing another strip square, NY 22 crosses into Dutchess County. 

After another store strip toward the east, a long, delicate separated twist in the street right around a mile long finishes with a bridge where NY 55 roll in from the west. It joins NY 22 as the two courses, coming back to two paths, go through the eastern edge of the town of Pawling and after that by Trinity-Pawling School. Past the town, the railroad tracks edge nearer to the parkway as NY 22 enters the grand Harlem Valley, close to the lower end of the Taconic Mountains. The street bends all the more tenderly and takes longer straightaways, with lower thickness of private and business advancement. from Pawling, the Appalachian Trail crosses the street by the line's comparatively named station. 

Routes 22 and 55 proceed with their long bend into the town of Dover, past the Harlem Valley– Wingdale station alongside the street opposite the now-shut structures of Harlem Valley Psychiatric Center. The NY 55 simultaneousness closes when that street forks off east towards Connecticut at the villa of Wingdale. The street proceeds through Dover Plains and into Amenia, where a cover with NY 343 starts. The railroad line closes at Wassaic. Route 343 stays united with Route 22 into the villa of Amenia, where it isolates and heads towards Sharon, Connecticut. At a similar intersection, US 44 roll in from Millbrook to start a cover with Route 22. The valley opens up as the southern Taconics loom ahead. Soon after intersection into the Town of North East, the expressway goes by the huge Coleman Station Historic District. 

Subsequent to converging with NY 199 at its eastern end, NY 22 and US 44 veer upper east into the little town of Millerton in the northern distension of Dutchess County's Oblong, a zone once the subject of a limit debate between New York and Connecticut in the late seventeenth century. US 44 proceeds with eastbound towards Lakeville, Connecticut, just a mile (1.6 km) east now, while NY 22 resumes its northward course into the shadow of the edge ahead, where Brace Mountain, Dutchess County's most astounding pinnacle, commands the view. At another delicate bend, NY 22 slips into Columbia County and the town of Ancram. North of the area line, Massachusetts turns into the state behind Alander Mountain and different pinnacles obvious toward the east. The southernmost course from New York to the Massachusetts state line, NY 344, leaves for Bashbish Falls State Park only west of the villa of Copake Falls. 

The following real intersection is at Hillsdale, where NY 23, the longest east– west state interstate not to cover with NY 22, crosses at a traffic light only east of downtown. At Green River, NY 71, the state's most limited two-digit course, starts it short eastbound course into Massachusetts. NY 22 then crosses into Austerlitz, where the encompassing landscape turns out to be significantly more lush and the valleys become smaller. In the focal point of town, the memorable village of Old Austerlitz, East Hill Road offers a short bypass to Steepletop, the ranch where Edna St. Vincent Millay lived, another National Historic Landmark. A short separation later, NY 22 meets with NY 203 at its eastern end. 

Route 22 then veers forcefully toward the upper east, continuing a northward course inside of the state line, the parkway's nearest way to deal with it along its whole length. It at that point adjusts a mountain and heads west, paralleling the New York State Thruway's Berkshire area (I-90) for a mile. NY 980D (an unsigned reference course) leaves toward the east, where it progresses toward becoming Massachusetts Route 102 at the state line. After Thruway exit B3, NY 22 resumes its northerly heading. From here it meets NY 295, at that point passes Queechy Lake. NY 22 then rectifies to achieve New Lebanon, where it converges US 20. Closure a stretch without any concurrencies, the longest on Route 22, New York's longest east– west course (US 20) covers with its longest north– south course (NY 22) for a mile before the previous proceeds to Pittsfield and the last comes back to the outskirt paralleling course, which brings it into Rensselaer County. 

As NY 22 proceeds with north, it stays, at first, inside a mile of Massachusetts, moving toward the east to cross with NY 43 in Stephentown. North of that intersection, it starts to go through a profound, disengaged, softly populated valley in the New York segment of the Berkshires. Wide bends take the street through the town of Berlin. Route 22 inclines further west, at that point back east to where NY 2 crosses by means of a bridge at Petersburgh on its approach to Petersburg Pass, the northernmost intersection of the New York– Massachusetts state line. The following street to travel east from NY 22, NY 346 at North Petersburgh, enters Vermont. 

In no time a while later, the expressway slides delicately from the Berkshires to meet another major east– west state street, NY 7. In the wake of swinging upper east to go along with it at a traffic light, NY 22 covers with Route 7 for , then forks off toward the north just before intersection the Hoosic River. NY 22 pursues the stream for to Hoosick Falls, the principal town it has gone through since Millerton. There are no other state courses here, yet after another , at North Hoosick, NY 67 roll in from the east and the two streets cover as they leave Rensselaer County. 

The following of Route 22 cross Washington County, the longest segment of the expressway in a solitary province. Very quickly after the joined streets go too far, NY 67 divides from toward the west, crossing the Hoosick once more into Rensselaer County, while NY 22 rectifies again to go due north. After , it achieves Cambridge, where NY 313 forks off toward the east. Amidst town, NY 372, a nearby connector to Greenwich, closes. 

North of Cambridge, the expressway proceeds through a moving scene of fields and ranches, the low transitional nation between the Appalachians and the Adirondacks. Past NY 29's eastern end at Greenwich Junction, Route 22 travels eastbound again through of farmland until, just before coming to Granville, it goes inside of the state line, the nearest it has gone to that limit since Austerlitz. At the town's south end, NY 22 meets NY 149 and the two courses cover for until Route 149 starts its short voyage to Vermont. Only north of Granville, the first of NY 22's two suffixed courses, NY 22A, starts its course running firmly parallel to the state line and after that into Vermont, where it progresses toward becoming Vermont Route 22A (VT 22A), paralleling the parent course for some separation on the opposite side of the state line. 

Following this intersection, NY 22 starts a long bend far from the state line that makes them keep running due west toward the finish of NY 40 in North Granville. It travels northwest somewhat further until, in the wake of going between Great Meadows and Washington state detainment facilities, it comes to US 4 and swings ideal to go along with it, continuing its northward course. Now the roadway is from the state line, the most distant west it has gotten from it since southern Westchester County. The cover with US 4, the first to combine Route 22 with another north– south course since the short simultaneousness with NY 120, goes on for along the base of the Adirondack lower regions between the low nation and Lake George, before closure in Whitehall, where US 4 leaves to expect the east– west course it takes crosswise over northern New England. 

As NY 22 twists westbound subsequent to leaving Whitehall, it adjusts the north end of the edge toward the west, offering sees into Vermont. By and by the Vermont state line is extremely close NY 22, however at this point it is isolated from New York by water rather than land. The stream at the base of this valley, encompassed by the low lying Drowned Lands flood plain, is the inflow for Lake Champlain. The lake's South Bay, which the street crosses following this turn, is additionally the Blue Line. Route 22 has now entered the Adirondack Park, the Forest Preserve and National Historic Landmark, and the biggest openly secured region in the adjoining United States. Inside the recreation center, NY 22 primarily pursues the lakeshore, closer to a portion of its progressively populated zones. 

It moves through shake cuts as it wanders north on the narrowing isthmus between Lakes Champlain and George. Close to the northern end, it crosses the Essex County line. into the district, it achieves the primary settlement along its length inside the Adirondack Park, Ticonderoga. The parkway skirts the northeastern edge of the town, the site of key fights in both the French and Indian and Revolutionary Wars, as NY 74 roll in from the ship toward the east, the principal crossing state course since Whitehall, finishing the longest such break on NY 22 at . The two courses cover for nearly until NY 74 proceeds at the crossing point with NY 9N, while NY 22 swings appropriate to join NY 9N, the longest suffixed course in the state, and come back to its northbound introduction for the longest of its concurrencies, at . 

At first, Routes 22 and 9N veer west, far from the lake, yet then come back to its shoreline to maintain a strategic distance from an adjacent mountain, just before Crown Point. NY 185, a little connector street, keeps running from 9N and 22 along the landmass to move toward becoming VT 17. The street stays near the extending lake for the following , with the tracks of the Delaware and Hudson Railroad, utilized today by CSX for cargo and Amtrak for traveler administration between New York and Montreal, once in a while promptly toward the east. Subsequent to going through Port Henry to Westport, where 9N leaves traveling west for Elizabethtown. Past that intersection, Route 22 again turns inland, experiencing the simple go around Split Rock Mountain, going northwest to Wadhams where it swings upper east to Whallonsburg, at that point north. At Boquet, it makes a sudden swing to go due east back to the lakeshore and ship arriving at Essex, where it interfaces with the Charlotte– Essex Ferry through Dock Street, prompting VT F-5 on the contrary side of Lake Champlain. 

The roadway again pursues the lakeshore to Willsboro, where Route 22 heads toward the northwest once more, inland, through thick timberland, until it travels west and crosses US 9 in the town of Chesterfield, the other major north– south surface course up the state's eastern side. Routes 22 and 9 combine, firmly parallel to the Adirondack Northway (I-87), the main other course in the state to straightforwardly associate New York City with Canada. The three courses, spread over numerous miles in the southern piece of the state, go through a restricted passageway for until Routes 9 and 22 veer east again toward Keeseville. 

Here, Route 9N closures and Routes 9 and 22 isolated, finishing the last simultaneousness along the last mentioned. The two will trade halls, with US 9 following the lake shore line while NY 22 remains for the most part inland. NY 22 enters Clinton County only north of Keeseville, and after that leaves Adirondack Park past at the Peru town line. 

Only south of the village of Peru, the short NY 442 ends at Route 22. In the village itself, after the Little Au Sable River crossing, NY 22's other suffixed course, NY 22B, diverges further inland. NY 22 proceeds with north of Peru, and comes back toward the Northway's side again in a mile. After another , it has its first exit on the Northway close to the now-shut Plattsburgh Air Force Base. It proceeds with northeastward, crossing the Saranac River into Plattsburgh, the main city and most crowded network NY 22 has gone through since White Plains. 

NY 22 keeps running along South Catherine Street for a couple of squares, at that point partitions into single direction couplets out of the blue since Westchester County, with northbound traffic moving a square toward the east to pursue Oak Street, while southbound traffic descends North Catherine Street. It parallels US 9 for a few squares, converging NY 3 (Cornelia Street) only a square west of its eastern end at that interstate. After Boynton Avenue, the different roads rejoin and turns northwest just before it has its second and last exit with the Northway. Soon after the exit, NY 374 starts along the westward course as NY 22 swings toward the north by and by. 

The thruway pursues the railroad tracks into Beekmantown until it bears left at a fork, slanting further west to Beekmantown Corners, where another short neighborhood street, County Route 58, once in the past NY 456, arrives at its western end. Subsequent to intersection into the following town, Chazy, NY 22 bears left again at another fork to float further toward the west. The landscape around the street turns out to be progressively lush, with long solid stretches of pine, in the northern segment of the town. This is quickly broken at another western end of a short neighborhood street, County Route 23, once NY 191, in the village of Sciota. 

NY 22 proceeds past Sciota in a genuinely straight north-northwesterly course through more woods with little home and homestead clearings. Those respect for the most part fields just before the Great Chazy River, after which NY 22 enters the villa of Mooers. NY 22 arrives at an end after meeting US 11. 

The street from the cutting edge Bronx (at that point some portion of Westchester County) through White Plains to Bedford and focuses north was initially an old Native American way. This way was later utilized and enlarged by the primary European pioneers. Amid provincial occasions, the street was known as "the way to Bedford and Vermont". Further north, close Lake Champlain, the course presently utilized by Route 22 was utilized by the St. Francis Indians of Canada as they went south to discover hotter angling regions. The old street was likewise utilized intensely amid the American Revolution to transport iron south from the mines in the Adirondacks. 

When White Plains turned into the area seat of Westchester in 1759, the street between the town and the city of New York (at that point incorporating just Manhattan) turned into a critical course and was built up as the White Plains Post Road. Prior to 1797, the fundamental street making a beeline for focuses north and east out of Manhattan went by means of Kingsbridge along the old Boston Post Road. Another extension over the Harlem River (the first Harlem Bridge) was opened in 1797, shortening the course out of Manhattan. This likewise migrated the Boston and White Plains Post streets to another arrangement along Third Avenue and Boston Road. The White Plains Post Road isolated from the Boston Post Road in Bronxdale, with the way to Boston traveling east and the way to White Plains traveling north. The old White Plains Post Road generally pursued the arrangement of present day "White Plains Road", which was spread out in 1863. (The first post street was toward the east of the advanced road). The White Plains Post Road proceeded with north through Olinville, Wakefield, and Mount Vernon, where the course moved east to advanced White Plains Post Road, experiencing Bronxville and Scarsdale to White Plains. 

The stretch from Salem to the Vermont fringe in Granville was a piece of the old Northern Turnpike, which started in Lansingburgh and came present day NY 40. The Northern Turnpike was contracted on April 1, 1799. 

In 1868, the New York State Legislature shaped a commission "to control, level, broaden, rock, and improve the old White Plains Post Road", which was revised in 1870 to "macadamize the street" between Mount Vernon and White Plains. The post street south of Mount Vernon, which was a piece of New York City, was later augmented somewhere in the range of 1902 and 1908. 

State thruways were first formally characterized by the state assembly in 1909 and given numeric assignments, in spite of the fact that these underlying assignments were not openly marked. Bits of present day Route 22 were characterized as a component of administrative routes 1 and 22. Administrative route 1 went from the New York City line north along the White Plains Post Road to White Plains, at that point rerouted to Harrison (through Westchester Avenue), before continuing north to Armonk (by means of present day NY 120). Authoritative route 1 proceeded with north along present day NY 22 to Austerlitz, where it at that point swung northwest to Valatie (through current NY 203 and NY 980B), at that point pursued US 9 to Albany. Authoritative route 22 had two fragments. The southern portion started in Troy, following NY 7 to Hoosick, at that point went north along current NY 22 up to Putnam Station (south of Ticonderoga). 

In 1924, New York marked a few noteworthy state streets with course numbers. The greater part of Legislative Route 1 was assigned as NY 22, however with an immediate course between White Plains and Armonk. Additionally, rather than proceeding to Valatie, NY 22 at first finished at the NY 23 crossing point in Hillsdale. By 1929, the way to Valatie had been improved and NY 22 was stretched out to US 9, with a length of . The center segment of current NY 22 was assigned in 1924 as NY 24, running for from Stephentown to Comstock. The segment of present day NY 22 north of Whitehall stayed unnumbered in 1924 however the following year NY 30, a course doled out in 1924 that connected Mechanicville to Whitehall, was stretched out north from Whitehall to the Canadian fringe north of Mooers. In the 1930 renumbering, the NY 24 and NY 30 assignments were both reassigned somewhere else. NY 22 was then expanded north along their previous courses, joining recently improved streets among Austerlitz and Stephentown, making the course that existed until 2008. The portion of old NY 22 among Austerlitz and Valatie was renumbered to NY 203. 

In 1934, at the request of the Automobile Club of New York, a few numbered courses were expanded and marked inside New York City, with NY 22 among them. It was expanded south from the Mount Vernon line in the Bronx along White Plains Road, at that point following East 233rd Street to Webster Avenue until Fordham Road (US 1). From that point, it proceeded with south along the Grand Concourse (at that point covered with NY 100), crossing into Manhattan by means of East 149th Street to the 145th Street Bridge. In Manhattan, the NY 22/100 simultaneousness proceeded with south along Lenox Avenue, 110th Street, Fifth Avenue, 96th Street, and Park Avenue, finishing at Houston Street (NY 1A). By 1941, the arrangement inside Mount Vernon was moved east to utilize Columbus Avenue and South third Avenue (current NY 22), proceeding with its course to New York City through East 233rd Street as previously. On January 1, 1970, the NY 22 assignment was expelled from Manhattan and the majority of the Bronx, and the short piece staying in the city was realigned to meet US 1 at Route 22's present southern end. 

In the first arrangement for the U.S. Expressway System, as endorsed by the Bureau of Public Roads in November 1926, US 7 was characterized as starting in New York City and assigned on the arrangement of NY 22 to Amenia, where it moved upper east into Sharon, Connecticut, to utilize old New England Route 4 through Massachusetts and Vermont right to the Canadian fringe. Obviously New York did not support this arrangement, and by mid-1927 the official course log distributed by the American Association of State Highway Officials had moved the southern end of US 7 to Norwalk, Connecticut. 

In the 1930 renumbering of state roadways in New York, the stretch from Ticonderoga to Keeseville now simultaneous with NY 9N was assigned exclusively as Route 22. The north end of NY 47 was additionally situated at a crossing point with Route 22 in Ticonderoga. At Westport, NY 22 associated with NY 195, an east– west roadway prompting Elizabethtown. At the time, Route 9N just reached out from that point to Keeseville. NY 9N was stretched out southward to Lake George , displacing Routes 47 and 195 and getting to be simultaneous with NY 22 among Ticonderoga and Westport. 

NY 8 initially stretched out eastbound from Hague to a ship crosswise over Lake Champlain at Putnam when it was relegated as a major aspect of the renumbering. In the middle of the two areas, the course used present day NY 9N, Montcalm Street, NY 22, and Wrights Ferry and Wrights streets. It was realigned in the mid 1930s to proceed with east from Ticonderoga on what is presently NY 74 to another ship over the lake. NY 8 was adjusted again to pursue NY 22 north from Ticonderoga to Crown Point, where it killed the roadway onto Bridge Road (presently NY 185). Route 8 stayed flawless along this directing until , when Route 8 was truncated southwestward to NY 9N at Hague. 

Through the span of numerous years, a few areas of NY 22 were rectified, realigned to new streets, or both. Some old arrangements are still either area kept up or state-kept up. A few of these are in Dutchess County. In Dover Plains, the southern leg of NY 22's intersection with NY 343 is kept up by the state as NY 980G, a reference course. Toward the north in the town of Amenia, a circle off NY 22 among Wassaic and Amenia is assigned as CR 81. Another previous directing of NY 22 in the town of Dover exists as CR 6, a circle course between the villas of Wingdale and Dover Plains that keeps running along the west bank of the Ten Mile River. Inside the 44/22 simultaneousness, some portion of CR 5 (and its short goad 5S), a mile-long (1.6 km) circle west of the roadway south of Millerton, is additionally a previous arrangement of Route 22. 

Before the development of I-684, NY 22 proceeded with upper east along Sodom Road north of Brewster on what is currently CR 50, an impasse street kept up by Putnam County. Present day NY 22 joins the I-684 roadway at exit 10 (the northern end of I-684) and interfaces with the surface street on the contrary side of the Croton River by means of the NY 981B connector. South of Copake Falls, the state likewise still keeps up an old arrangement assigned as NY 980F. North of Copake Falls, the northern portion of the first arrangement was assigned as an expansion of NY 344. 

The portion of NY 22 north of US 11, named Hemmingford Road, was state-kept up until 1988, when possession and upkeep of that piece of the course was exchanged to Clinton County as a major aspect of a thruway support swap between the district and the province of New York. Following the swap, it was co-assigned as CR 34 by Clinton County. In 2008, the marked northern end of NY 22 was moved toward the east end of its cover with US 11 in Mooers. The official arrangement of NY 22 was not changed, be that as it may, as the New York State Department of Transportation still believed the Canadian outskirt to be NY 22's northern end until 2014. 

The street is commended and depicted in Benjamin Swett's 2007 photographic travelog, "Route 22". 

NY 22 has two suffixed courses, both in the North Country.