Henry Wells (general) 

Lieutenant General Sir Henry Wells, (22 March 1898 – 20 October 1973) was a senior officer in the Australian Army. Filling in as Chief of the General Staff from 1954 to 1958, Wells' vocation finished with his arrangement as the primary Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee, a position checking him as the expert leader of the Australian Military. He served in this limit from March 1958 until March 1959, when he resigned from the military. 

Conceived in Victoria, Wells started his profession in the Australian Army in 1916 when he entered the Royal Military College, Duntroon. Graduating as a lieutenant three years after the fact, he served in an assortment of staff and instructional positions before the flare-up of the Second World War. At first presented on the seventh Division as a staff officer in 1940, Wells was elevated to lieutenant colonel and made senior contact officer to I Corps. Serving in Greece and North Africa, he was granted the Distinguished Service Order for his administration at El Alamein. Exchanged toward the South West Pacific performance center in 1943 as a brigadier, he served in the New Guinea Campaign with the home office of II Corps and later in the Borneo battle with I Corps. 

Wells was elevated to real broad in 1946 and designated Deputy Chief of the General Staff. Following advancement to lieutenant general, he was made Commander-in-Chief, British Commonwealth Forces Korea from 1953 to 1954, serving amid the most recent days of the war. In retirement, Wells was a chief of a few organizations. Matured 75, he kicked the bucket in 1973. 

Wells was conceived in the Victorian town of Kyneton on 22 March 1898, the most youthful of seven kids to Arthur Wells, a draper, and his better half Elizabeth (née Carter). Taught at Kyneton High School, Wells entered the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in February 1916, where he was a sharp sportsman. Moving on from the school in December 1919, he was authorized as a lieutenant in the Australian Army, and presented on England for further preparing. 

On his arrival to Australia, Wells was designated as aide and officer of the eighth Light Horse Regiment in 1921. The next year, he was apportioned to the ninth Light Horse Regiment. In February 1926, Wells was quickly delegated detachment major of the sixth Cavalry Brigade, before turning into an educator at the Small Arms School, Sydney, amid July. On 14 December that year, Wells wedded Lorna Irene Skippen in a function at St John's Church of England, Cessnock; the couple would later have two children. 

Amid 1927, Wells was alloted to the Royal Military College, Duntroon as an organization leader and elevated to commander that December. Coming back to the Small Arms School as an educator in 1931, he was dispatched to England and went to the Staff College, Camberley somewhere in the range of 1935 and 1936. Touching base back in Australia, Wells was made auxiliary and officer of the fourth/third Battalion, and later detachment major of the first Infantry Brigade. Amid 1938, he was reposted to Royal Military College, Duntroon as a teacher on strategies. 

On 15 May 1940, Wells exchanged to the Second Australian Imperial Force for dynamic administration amid the Second World War. Elevated to significant, he was presented on the central station of the seventh Division. Wells continued with the division to the Middle East, where, on touching base in December, he was elevated to lieutenant colonel and posted as senior contact officer to I Corps. Amid this time, the Australian sixth Division and I Corps Headquarters were occupied for administration in the Greek Campaign. 

Wells landed in Greece on 7 March 1941, with a development gathering of Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Blamey's I Corps staff. On 10 April, an arrangement was defined to pull back Greek and Commonwealth troops from their situations in the Verria go of the Vermion Mountains to the River Aliakmon. To complete this, Blamey despatched Wells to facilitate the development of the twelfth Greek Division west to its new position. The withdrawal started on 12 April, however the power's development was hampered due to absence of vehicles and the division did not land until late night the next day. Amid this time, Wells went between I Corps Headquarters and the twelfth Greek Division, arranging and organizing the division's development, in spite of regular air assaults on the streets. 

On 24 April 1941, Wells left from Greece alongside the rest of the I Corps Headquarters amid the British and Commonwealth withdrawal. Praised for his "obvious aptitude, capacity and vitality" and encouraging "shared certainty and altruism between the Allied powers", Wells was suggested for the Distinguished Service Order, yet was in this manner designated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for his administrations in Greece. The declaration of the honor was distributed in an enhancement to the "London Gazette" on 30 December 1941. At that point Brigadier Stanley Savige later composed of Wells amid the crusade: "Eager in his long voyages, supportive every which way, and fearless in all conditions". For his "courageous and recognized administrations" amid this time, Wells was also Mentioned in Despatches. 

Following Greece, the base camp of I Corps came back to Palestine. Wells was made General Staff Officer, second Grade (GSO2), the vice president of staff accountable for arranging activities. I Corps was cautioned to participate in the Syria-Lebanon Campaign, despite the way that since Blamey had been elevated to Deputy Commander in Chief Middle East Command, the corps came up short on a leader. General Sir Henry Maitland Wilson—the British leader in Palestine and Transjordan—trusted that I Corps' loss of transport and flag gear blocked it from partaking in the battle from the beginning. Rather, Wilson endeavored to practice order from the King David Hotel. This ended up being a genuine mistake, as his staff were distracted with political and managerial issues, and were excessively remote from the war zones to practice the nearby order required. Following a progression of turns around, I Corps central command was sent for on 18 June, and Lieutenant General John Lavarack expected order that day. The base camp was defied by a troublesome circumstance, with practically all stores submitted. Lavarack started regrouping his power, focusing the seventh Division for a conclusive push towards Beirut. Hard battling was required before the crusade was conveyed to a fruitful end. 

Elevated to colonel, Wells wound up General Staff Officer, first Grade (GSO1), to the ninth Division in November 1941. In that capacity, he was the ninth Division's head of staff, in charge of the full scope of staff exercises. On 28 June 1942, Wells went with Lieutenant General Sir Leslie Morshead—Commander of the ninth Division—to Cairo, where they got orders entrusting the ninth Division with the safeguard of Cairo. The pair went through that night and the next day sorting out designs for the move, before Morshead got further requests on 30 June dropping his past guidelines and coordinating the division rather be dispatched to Alexandria; the move occurred on 1 July. After two days, it was chosen that the 24th Infantry Brigade would be sent forward to fortify the situation at El Alamein. The detachment was deficient in hardware, and Wells went through that day organizing gear for the unit just as directing its readiness; the unit pushed ahead the following day. The divisional home office continued to El Alamein on 7 July, and was presented on the northern flank of the British cutting edge. The unit at that point spent the rest of the month in real life against Axis powers in the zone. For his "recognized administrations" amid this period, Wells was Mentioned in Despatches a second time. 

On 23 October 1942, the British and Commonwealth powers under Lieutenant General Bernard Montgomery propelled a hostile against Axis powers at El Alamein. The ninth Division partook in the fight, and was at first entrusted with the seizure of an area of the Oxalic Line. Over the procedure twelve days, the Australians vigorously added to the strike, with Morshead and his staff planning the ninth Division's tasks; achievement was guaranteed on 4 November. Lauded for his "capacity of high request", Wells was granted the Distinguished Service Order for his endeavors in preparing and setting up the division before the fight, notwithstanding his works amid the commitment. The notice for the embellishment was distributed in an enhancement to the "London Gazette" on 11 February 1943. 

In late November 1942, the individuals from the ninth Division came back to Palestine. In January, the unit set out from North Africa and cruised home to Australia in anticipation of administration against the Japanese in the South West Pacific. 

Wells touched base back in Australia amid February 1943. On 15 March, Morshead was named to order II Corps, and Wells was exchanged alongside him to the unit's home office as Brigadier, General Staff. He was elevated to impermanent brigadier in April. Amid this time, the battle powers of the corps embraced preparing in both wilderness and land and/or water capable fighting in anticipation of its arranged organization to New Guinea. Wells took a functioning hand in sorting out these activities, before he moved with the corps central command to New Guinea amid October. 

The development of II Corps concurred with the horrendous battling around the Huon Peninsula and Finisterre Range. Wells aided the arranging and coordination of activities over the resulting months, which finished in the seizure of Madang amid April 1944. Wells was granted his third Mention in Despatches amid this time for his "extraordinary administrations in the field". 

In April 1944, II Corps was redesignated as I Corps and came back to Australia, where it built up itself on the Atherton Tableland in Queensland. The next month, Wells continued to Land Command Headquarters in Sydney, where he went to a gathering on staff arrangements. He came back to the corps eleven days after the fact. Amid this period, Wells was indeed dynamic in sorting out the unit's preparation off the Queensland coast, before he was allowed a time of leave amid August; he came back to obligation on 26 September. On 19 July 1945, Wells was moved up to a Commander of the Order of the British Empire for his "extraordinary capacity and exceptional dedication to obligation" related to the "profitable help" given all through the New Guinea battle to the General Officer Commanding New Guinea Force. 

Amid March 1945, Wells went about as one of the eight pallbearers for Major General George Alan Vasey at the last's burial service. Vasey had been slaughtered in a plane accident simply off the shore of Cairns, while in transit to expect direction of the sixth Division in New Guinea. That equivalent month, it was concluded that I Corps would lead an attack against the island of Borneo. As a result, home office of I Corps moved to Morotai, where it opened on 24 April. The underlying Borneo arrivals occurred on 1 May, with the Australian power in real life at Tarakan. Over the procedure commitment, Wells aided the association and execution of the activities in Borneo. As the war attracted to a nearby in September 1945, Wells came back to Australia and was presented on Army Headquarters in Melbourne. 

In March 1946, Wells was quickly posted as executive of military tasks at Army Headquarters, before being elevated to brief real broad and delegated Deputy Chief of the General Staff. The next year, he set out for the United Kingdom where he went to the Imperial Defense College in London. Amid this time, Wells went to an inauguration function at Buckingham Palace, where he was given his Commander of the Order of the British Empire by King George VI. On his arrival to Australia in 1949, Wells was made Commandant of the Royal Military College, Duntroon. He served in this situation until February 1951, when he was named General Officer Commanding Southern Command with the position of impermanent lieutenant general. In June of that year, Wells went about as one of the ten pallbearers to Field Marshal Sir Thomas Blamey at his state burial service in Melbourne. 

Wells was selected Commander-in-Chief, British Commonwealth Forces Korea, in 1953. Accepting the job on 11 February, he drove the Commonwealth unexpected for the following twenty-one months as the Korean War was arriving at an end. Like his antecedents in the position, Wells practiced managerial order just, and had no immediate command over combat zone tasks. Despite the fact that its occupants were considered to have performed well, the job collected little credit for encouraging battle achievement however was a vulnerable objective for analysis when tasks did not run easily. Wells had been sent to Korea without any guidelines in regards to the withdrawal of troops and—as peace negotiation talks showed up nearly achievement—he was firmly engaged with contact with the heads of Commonwealth governments in regards to General Mark Clark's solicitations for their promise to hold powers in the performance center for some period following the finish of threats. 

Raised to substantive lieutenant general on 12 April 1954, Wells was named a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the Queen's Birthday Honors that June. He was praised for his "excellent exemplary administration" in Korea, and granted the United States' Legion of Merit in the level of Commander. Given the beautification by General John E. Body on 19 October, Wells came back to Australia three days after the fact. In December, he was made Chief of the General Staff; the expert leader of the Australian Army. Wells' arrangement corresponded with the dedication of Australian powers to the Malayan Emergency, and in that capacity he directed the sending of warriors to the commitment just as the development of the principal normal detachment gathering. He was moved up to a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1956 New Years Honors. 

On 23 March 1958, Wells was selected the main Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC); the expert leader of the Australian Military. The position had recently existed as an expansion to the obligations of the senior administration boss—either the Chief of Naval Staff, Chief of the General Staff or Chief of the Air Staff—yet Wells was the first to possess the situation as a different post. The chairmanship of COSC was made as a feature of the Australian government's reaction to an audit of the Defense gathering of offices directed by Lieutenant General Sir Leslie Morshead in 1957, which suggested more noteworthy centralisation of the military. In spite of the fact that the Chairman was the Government's foremost military guide and detailed legitimately to the Minister for Defense, Wells was not advanced and stayed at a similar position as the leaders of the Navy, Army and Air Force. He was additionally hampered by being given just a little staff. The job of the Chairman, COSC was not fortified until 1965, when Air Marshal Sir Frederick Scherger—who had been delegated to the situation in 1961—was elevated to air boss marshal so he out-positioned the administration heads. Wells served in this limit until his retirement from the Australian military on 22 March 1959. 

In retirement, Wells was designated as a chief to a few organizations, including Broken Hill South Ltd, Metal Manufactures Ltd, Navcot Australia Pty Ltd and Sitmar Line (Australia) Pty Ltd. Amid April 1961, Wells was delegated privileged colonel of the Royal Victoria Regiment. Depicted as "to some degree held and unsocial" amid his life, Wells kicked the bucket at Yarrawonga, Victoria, on 20 October 1973, and was made due by his significant other and their two children. His burial service occurred with full military distinctions at Toorak Presbyterian Church, after which he was incinerated. In his will, Wells handed down a sizable extent of his bequest to Junior Legacy, Melbourne. Wells Road, a road in Duntroon, Australian Capital Territory, is named in his respect.