Derek Jeter 

Derek Sanderson Jeter ( ; conceived June 26, 1974) is an American previous expert baseball shortstop, representative, and baseball official. He has been the (CEO) and part proprietor of the Miami Marlins of Major League Baseball (MLB) since September 2017. 

As a shortstop, Jeter went through his whole 20-year MLB playing profession with the New York Yankees. A five-time World Series champion, Jeter is viewed as one of the essential supporters of the Yankees' accomplishment of the late 1990s and mid 2000s for his hitting, baserunning, handling, and initiative. He is the Yankees' unequaled profession pioneer in hits (3,465), copies (544), diversions played (2,747), stolen puts together (358), times on base (4,716), plate appearances (12,602) and at bats (11,195). His honors incorporate 14 All-Star determinations, five Gold Glove Awards, five Silver Slugger Awards, two Hank Aaron Awards, and a Roberto Clemente Award. Jeter was the 28th player to achieve 3,000 hits and completed his profession positioned 6th in MLB history in vocation hits and first among shortstops. In 2017, the Yankees resigned his uniform number 2. 

The Yankees drafted Jeter out of secondary school in 1992, and he appeared in the significant alliances at age 21 out of 1995. The next year, he turned into the Yankees' beginning shortstop, won the Rookie of the Year Award, and helped push the group to win the 1996 World Series. Jeter kept on playing amid the group's title periods of 1998– 2000; he completed third in voting in favor of the American League (AL) Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award in 1998, recorded different vocation high numbers in 1999, and won both the All-Star Game MVP and World Series MVP Awards in 2000. He reliably put among the AL chiefs in hits and runs scored for a large portion of his vocation, and filled in as the Yankees' group skipper from 2003 until his retirement in 2014. All through his profession, Jeter contributed dependably to the Yankees' establishment victories. He holds numerous postseason records, and has a .321 batting normal in the World Series. Jeter earned the monikers of "Skipper Clutch" and "Mr. November" because of his extraordinary play in the postseason. 

Jeter was a standout amongst the most vigorously showcased competitors of his age and is associated with various item supports. As a big name, his own life and associations with different famous people has drawn the consideration of the media. 

Derek Sanderson Jeter was conceived on June 26, 1974 in Pequannock Township, New Jersey, the child of bookkeeper Dorothy (née Connors) and substance misuse instructor Sanderson Charles Jeter. His mom is of English, German, and Irish heritage, while his dad is African-American. They met while serving in the United States Army in Germany. His dad played baseball at Fisk University in Tennessee as a shortstop, and holds a PhD. At the point when Jeter was a tyke, his folks made him sign an agreement consistently that characterized worthy and inadmissible types of conduct. Dorothy imparted an inspirational frame of mind in her child, demanding that he not utilize "can't". It was a baseball family, and Jeter's more youthful sister Sharlee (brought into the world 1979) was a softball star in secondary school. 

The Jeters lived in New Jersey until Derek was four years of age, so, all things considered they moved to Kalamazoo, Michigan. At five years old Jeter started playing youth baseball. The youngsters lived with their folks amid the school year and went through their summers with their grandparents in New Jersey. Going to New York Yankees diversions with his grandparents, Jeter turned into an enthusiastic aficionado of the group. Watching star outfielder Dave Winfield roused him to seek after a vocation in baseball. 

Jeter went to Kalamazoo Central High School, where he ran crosscountry in the fall, played b-ball in the winter and baseball in the spring. Jeter posted high batting midpoints for the school's baseball crew; he batted .557 in his somophore year and .508 as a lesser. In his senior year, he batted .508 and accumulated 23 runs batted in (RBIs), 21 walks, four grand slams, a .637 on-base rate (OBP), a .831 slugging rate (SLG), 12 stolen bases (in 12 attempts), and just a single strikeout. 

Jeter got a few distinctions after his senior season. These incorporated an All-State fair notice, recognizing him as a standout amongst the best secondary school baseball players in Michigan, the Kalamazoo Area B'nai B'rith Award for Scholar Athlete, the 1992 High School Player of the Year Award from the American Baseball Coaches Association, the 1992 Gatorade High School Player of the year grant, and "USA Today"s High School Player of the Year. Kalamazoo Central High School accepted Jeter into its Athletic Hall of Fame in 2003 and renamed its baseball field in his respect in 2011. Jeter earned a baseball grant to go to the University of Michigan and play school baseball for the Michigan Wolverines. 

The Houston Astros held the principal generally speaking pick in the 1992 MLB draft. Lobby of Fame pitcher Hal Newhouser, who worked for the Astros as a scout, assessed Jeter broadly and campaigned group the executives to choose him. Dreading Jeter would demand a compensation reward of at any rate $1 million to swear off school for an expert contract, they picked Cal State Fullerton outfielder Phil Nevin, who marked for $700,000. Newhouser felt so firmly about Jeter's potential that he quit his place of employment with the Astros in dissent after they overlooked his drafting exhortation. 

The Yankees, who chose 6th, likewise evaluated Jeter profoundly. Yankees scout Dick Groch, allocated to scout in the Midwest, watched Jeter partake in an elite player camp held at Western Michigan University. In spite of the fact that Yankees authorities were worried that Jeter would go to school as opposed to marking an expert contract, Groch persuaded them to choose him, saying, "the main spot Derek Jeter's going is to Cooperstown". The second through fifth picks were Paul Shuey, B. J. Wallace, Jeffrey Hammonds, and Chad Mottola; those five would consolidate for two All-Star Game appearances (Nevin and Hammonds). The Yankees drafted Jeter, who turned professional, marking for $800,000. 

Jeter played four seasons in small time baseball, at that point known as the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues (NAPBL). Jeter started the 1992 season with the Gulf Coast Yankees of the Rookie-level Gulf Coast League, situated in Tampa, Florida. In his first expert amusement, Jeter neglected to get a hit in seven at-bats, going 0-for-7, while striking out multiple times. Jeter kept on battling amid the remainder of the period, batting .202 out of 47 recreations. Director Gary Denbo sidelined Jeter in the season's last amusement to guarantee his normal would not dip under .200, referred to in baseball as the Mendoza Line. Disappointed by his absence of achievement and yearning to go home, Jeter accumulated $400-per-month telephone bills from every day calls to his folks. 

The Yankees elevated Jeter to the Greensboro Hornets of the Class A South Atlantic League (SAL) to give him more at-bats. He batted .247 in his initial 11 amusements with Greensboro, and battled protectively, making nine mistakes in 48 possibilities. Gauging , Jeter had a lean appearance that did not coordinate his notoriety for being the Yankees' future chief. Jorge Posada and Andy Pettitte, who played for the Hornets that season, at first scrutinized the promotion encompassing Jeter, yet perceived his ability and balance. 

Jeter concentrated the following offseason on his handling. "Baseball America" appraised Jeter among the main 100 prospects in baseball before the 1993 season, positioning him 44th. Coming back to the Hornets in 1993, his first full period of expert baseball, Jeter hit .295 with five homers, 71 RBIs, and 18 stolen bases; SAL supervisors casted a ballot him the "Most Outstanding Major League Prospect" in the alliance. He completed second in the SAL in triples (11), third in hits (152), and eleventh in batting normal, and was named to the postseason All-Star group. Jeter submitted 56 mistakes, a SAL record. In spite of this, he was named the SAL's Best Defensive Shortstop, Most Exciting Player, and Best Infield Arm by "Baseball America". 

Falling off his solid 1993 season, "Baseball America" evaluated Jeter as the sixteenth best prospect in baseball. Jeter played for the Tampa Yankees of the Class An Advanced Florida State League (FSL), the Albany-Colonie Yankees of the Class AA Eastern League, and the Columbus Clippers of the Class AAA International League amid the 1994 season, joining to hit .344 with five grand slams, 68 RBIs, and take 50 bases over the three dimensions. He was respected with the Minor League Player of the Year Award by "Baseball America", "The Sporting News", "USA Today", and Topps/NAPBL. He was additionally named the most significant player of the FSL. 

Considered the fourth-best prospect in baseball by "Baseball America" heading into the 1995 season, Jeter was anticipated as the beginning shortstop for the Yankees. Nonetheless, he endured mellow irritation in his correct shoulder in the Arizona Fall League after the finish of the 1994 normal season. As a safety measure, the Yankees marked Tony Fernández to a two-year contract. With Fernández the beginning shortstop, the Yankees doled out Jeter to Class AAA. Amid the 1994– 95 Major League Baseball strike, Gene Michael, the Yankees' general administrator, offered Jeter the chance to work out for the MLB group with substitution players in spring preparing before the 1995 season. Jeter denied accepting the offer, and he didn't cross the picket line. 

From the get-go in the 1995 season, Fernández and infielder Pat Kelly were harmed. Subsequently, Jeter made his MLB debut on May 29, 1995. He was relegated uniform number 2, which was most as of late worn by Mike Gallego from 1992 to 1994. Batting ninth, he went hitless in five at bats, striking out once. The next day, he recorded his initial two noteworthy association hits and scored his initial two vocation runs. Jeter batted .250 and submitted two mistakes in 13 games before being downgraded to Class AAA Columbus; Fernández supplanted Jeter at shortstop. The Yankees progressed to the postseason in 1995. Jeter went with the group amid the 1995 American League Division Series (ALDS), however he was not on the dynamic program. The Yankees lost to the Seattle Mariners. 

After Fernández batted a disillusioning .245 and showed up in just 108 games because of wounds in 1995, recently procured Yankees supervisor Joe Torre swung to Jeter for the 1996 season, seeking after a .250 batting normal and reliable guard. Yankees proprietor George Steinbrenner, frequently distrustful of more youthful players, was unconvinced. After Clyde King, a nearby Steinbrenner guide, watched Jeter for two days in spring preparing in 1996, he left away with the feeling that Jeter was not yet prepared to contribute at the real group level. To give profundity to the group at the shortstop position after damage to Fernández, Steinbrenner affirmed an exchange that would have sent pitcher Mariano Rivera to the Mariners for shortstop Félix Fermín, yet Michael, by then the VP of exploring, and aide general director Brian Cashman persuaded Steinbrenner to give Jeter a chance. 

Appraised the 6th best prospect in baseball by "Baseball America" heading into the 1996 season, Jeter began on Opening Day, the principal Yankee freshman to begin as shortstop for the group since Tom Tresh in 1962. He hit his first MLB grand slam that day. With his speed and capacity to execute the attempt at manslaughter, Jeter filled in as a supplement to leadoff hitter Tim Raines while batting in the ninth spot in the batting request. By the end of the year Jeter far surpassed Torre's desires – and anybody's – hitting .314 with 10 home runs, 104 runs scored, and 78 RBIs. He was named the consistent AL Rookie of the Year, accepting each of the 28 in front of the rest of the competition cast a ballot in just the fifth breadth in the respect's 50-year history. 

The Yankees came to the 1996 postseason, and Torre batted Jeter in the leadoff spot dependent on his solid year-long execution. Amid Game 1 of the 1996 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the Yankees trailed the Baltimore Orioles 4– 3 in the eighth inning when Jeter hit a fly ball to right handle that was ruled a grand slam by the umpires following twelve-year-old fan Jeffrey Maier came to over the divider to get the ball. In spite of the fact that the ball would have stayed in play notwithstanding Maier, and could have been gotten by Tony Tarasco, the grand slam remained as called, tying the diversion. It denoted the primary grand slam of Jeter's postseason profession. The Yankees won and crushed the Orioles in five amusements. By and large, Jeter batted .361 in the 1996 postseason, driving the Yankees disagreeably with Bernie Williams, as Wade Boggs, Paul O'Neill, and Tino Martinez battled. The Yankees crushed the Atlanta Braves in the 1996 World Series to win their first title since the 1978 World Series. 

Following his Rookie of the Year crusade, considered the "new yield" of shortstops, alongside Alex Rodriguez and Nomar Garciaparra, as the professions of more seasoned shortstops, for example, Cal Ripken Jr., Barry Larkin, Ozzie Smith, and Alan Trammell were finishing up. Rodriguez, the principal by and large choice in the 1993 MLB draft, first reached Jeter about his encounters as a high-first round pick. The two progressed toward becoming companions to the degree that "The New York Times" writer Jack Curry remarked "[r]arely have two higher-profile rivals been as close". Rodriguez portrayed Jeter as being "like my sibling", despite the fact that they were on-field foes. 

Prior to the 1997 season, Jeter and the Yankees concurred on a $540,000 contract with execution rewards. Turning into the Yankees' leadoff player, Jeter batted .291, with 10 home runs, 70 RBIs, 116 runs, and 190 hits. In spite of the fact that he hit two grand slams amid the 1997 American League Division Series, the Yankees lost to the Cleveland Indians, three diversions to two. 

Jeter earned $750,000 for the 1998 season. That year, Jeter was chosen for his first All-Star Game. In the ordinary season, he batted .324 with a class driving 127 runs, 19 home runs, and 84 RBIs, for a group that won 114 games amid the normal season and is broadly viewed as one of the best ever. In the playoffs, Jeter hit just .176 in the 1998 ALDS and ALCS, yet batted .353 in the World Series, as the Yankees crushed the San Diego Padres in four recreations. At season's end, Jeter completed third in voting in favor of the AL Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award. 

Qualified for pay discretion out of the blue before the 1999 season, Jeter was granted a $5 million compensation. Jeter drove the AL in hits that season with 219, while completing second in the group in batting normal (.349) and runs scored (134), showing up in his second All-Star amusement that year. His season aggregates in batting normal, runs, hits, runs batted in, pairs (37), triples (9), grand slams (24), SLG (.552), and OBP (.438) are on the whole close to home bests. Jeter, who for part of the year hit third in the batting request, likewise drove in 102 runs, ending up just the second Yankee shortstop to do as such, after Lyn Lary's 107 RBIs in 1931. In the postseason, Jeter batted .455 in the ALDS, .350 in the ALCS, and .353 in the World Series, as the Yankees crushed the Braves to win another title, Jeter's third. 

Amid the 1999– 2000 offseason, the Yankees consulted with Jeter, probably consenting to a seven-year, $118.5 million contract. Notwithstanding, on the grounds that Steinbrenner did not have any desire to set a record for the biggest contract, Stein Juan González and the Detroit Tigers consulted on a detailed eight-year, $143 million contract augmentation. At the point when that understanding failed to work out, so did Jeter's speculative arrangement. To maintain a strategic distance from intervention, Jeter and the Yankees consented to a one-year bargain worth $10 million. 

Jeter batted a group best .339 in the 2000 standard season and included 15 home runs, 73 RBIs, 119 runs scored, and 22 stolen bases. In the 2000 MLB All-Star Game, he recorded three hits, including a two-run single that gave his group the lead and triumph. The execution earned him the All-Star Game MVP Award, the first run through a Yankee won the honor. Amid the postseason, he batted just .211 in the Division Series however bounced back to hit .318 in the Championship Series against the Seattle Mariners, and .409 in the World Series against the New York Mets. Jeter included two homers, a triple, and two duplicates in the World Series, including a leadoff grand slam on the primary pitch of Game 4 and a triple later in the third inning. His grand slam in Game 5 tied the diversion and expanded his World Series hitting streak to 14 games. The Yankees vanquished the Mets in five amusements for their third successive title and fourth in Jeter's initial five full seasons. Jeter won the World Series MVP Award, turning into the main player to win the All-Star Game MVP and World Series MVP Awards in a similar season. 

With one year staying until he would wind up qualified with the expectation of complimentary organization, Jeter marked a ten-year, $189 million contract before the 2001 season to stay with the Yankees. Alex Rodriguez had marked a ten-year, $252 million contract with the Texas Rangers prior in the offseason, setting the market for Jeter's arrangements. Jeter turned into the second-most generously compensated competitor over all group activities and auto dashing, trailing just Rodriguez. The $18.9 million normal yearly estimation of Jeter's agreement was the third-most noteworthy in baseball, behind just Rodriguez ($25.2 million) and Manny Ramirez ($20 million). 

In 2001, Jeter posted another solid season, batting .311 with 21 home runs, 74 RBIs, 110 runs scored, and 27 stolen bases, showing up. Jeter made a striking guarded aid Game 3 of the 2001 American League Division Series against the Oakland Athletics. With Jeremy Giambi on a respectable starting point, Oakland right defender Terrence Long hit a twofold off Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina into the right-field corner. As Giambi adjusted third base and set out toward home plate, Yankees right defender Shane Spencer recovered the ball and made a wild lose that missed cut man Tino Martinez and spilled down the a respectable starting point line. Jeter kept running from shortstop to get the ball and flipped it underhanded to catcher Jorge Posada, as opposed to tossing it overhand. Posada labeled Giambi out on the leg just before he crossed home plate, protecting the Yankees' one-run lead. Confronting end, the Yankees in the end won, just as the arrangement. The play, known as "The Flip", was later casted a ballot seventh in "Baseball Weekly"s 10 Most Amazing Plays ever, and won the 2002 Best Play ESPY Award. 

Because of the September 11 assaults, the beginning of the playoffs was deferred and the season's end was stretched out past the typical October time allotment. The Yankees progressed to the 2001 World Series to confront the Arizona Diamondbacks. Diversion 4 denoted the first occasion when that any non-presentation MLB amusement had been played in the period of November. In additional innings, Jeter hit an amusement winning grand slam off of Byung-hyun Kim. The words "Mr. November" flashed on the scoreboard, suggesting previous Yankee Reggie Jackson's moniker, "Mr. October". Regardless of the grand slam, Jeter drooped at the plate; he denied wounds were a factor, however a fall into a picture taker's case endeavoring to get a foul ball may have exasperated a before hamstring damage. Jeter batted .148 in the World Series, as the Yankees lost in seven recreations. 

Jeter batted .297, with 18 home runs, 75 RBIs, 124 runs scored, 191 hits, and a vocation best 32 stolen bases amid the 2002 customary season. He drove the majors in stolen base rate (91.4%), getting captured just multiple times. He showed up. In the 2002 postseason, the Anaheim Angels vanquished the Yankees in the ALDS on their approach to winning the World Series. 

On Opening Day of the 2003 season, Jeter separated his left shoulder when he crashed into Toronto Blue Jays catcher Ken Huckaby at third base. He was set on the handicapped rundown for about a month and a half and missed 36 games; he had never played less than 148 games in the earlier seven full seasons. Jeter came back to bat .324, completing third in batting normal to Bill Mueller, who batted .326. Ramirez completed second. 

Steinbrenner named Jeter the commander of the Yankees on June 3, 2003, after eight seasons without a chief after Don Mattingly resigned in 1995. That postseason, Jeter batted .314 with two grand slams, five RBIs, and 10 runs scored crosswise over 17 playoff amusements, incorporating three hits in Game 3 of the 2003 World Series against the Florida Marlins – the main three hits Josh Beckett permitted amid the diversion. Jeter submitted a critical mistake in a Game 6 misfortune, and the Marlins won the arrangement in six diversions. 

The Yankees procured Rodriguez from the Texas Rangers amid the 2003– 04 offseason. Rodriguez had won two Gold Glove Awards at shortstop and was viewed as the best shortstop in baseball. Jeter—who had no Gold Gloves at the time—remained the group's beginning shortstop while Rodriguez moved to third base. Rodriguez's handling range permitted Jeter to surrender ground on his right side to Rodriguez and cheat to one side: handling balls hit to one side is a shortcoming recognized by scouts. The 2004 season started with Jeter buried in a droop, at one point getting just a single hit in a range of 36 at-bats; through April, he batted .168. His batting normal improved to .277 by the All-Star break in July. 

Jeter made the All-Star group and completed the season with a .292 normal; 23 home runs, the second-the greater part of his vocation; 78 RBIs; 111 runs scored; and a profession best 44 doubles, which broke the Yankee single-season record for pairs by a shortstop, besting Tony Kubek's 38 out of 1961. He batted .316 with a group driving four RBIs as the Yankees vanquished the Minnesota Twins in the 2004 ALDS. Jeter battled in the 2004 ALCS, batting .200 with one additional fair hit, as the Yankees lost the arrangement to the Red Sox in seven amusements, in spite of winning the initial three diversions. 

In the twelfth inning of a tied amusement on July 1, 2004, against their opponents, the Boston Red Sox, Trot Nixon hit a pop fly down the left field line. Jeter kept running from his situation at shortstop and made an over-the-bear get. He propelled himself over the third-base side railing and two lines of seats, getting a slashed jaw and wounded face. The Yankees proceeded to win in the base of the thirteenth inning. This was casted a ballot the Play of the Year in the "This Year in Baseball Awards" rivalry, as casted a ballot on by fans at MLB.com. Following the 2004 season, Jeter was given his first Gold Glove Award; his jumping get on July 1 was refered to as a purpose behind the honor. In spite of the fact that Jeter was fourth among shortstops in handling rate and mistakes, two conventional handling insights, faultfinders indicated his lower evaluations in the further developed sabermetric measurements, for example, go factor and extreme zone rating (UZR). 

Jeter was second in the AL in runs scored (122) in the 2005 season, and was third in the association in both at bats (654) and hits (202). Despite the fact that his pundits kept on considering Jeter to be an obligation protectively, he won his second back to back Gold Glove in 2005. Orlando Cabrera of the Angels had a higher handling rate and submitted less blunders, yet voters noticed that Jeter had more helps. In spite of the fact that Jeter batted .333 amid the 2005 ALDS, the Yankees lost to the Angels. 

For the 2006 season, the Yankees marked Johnny Damon to play focus field and lead off, moving Jeter to the second position in the batting lineup. Amid the 2006 season, Jeter recorded his 2,000th profession hit, turning into the eighth Yankee to achieve the achievement. Jeter completed the season second in the AL in both batting normal (.343) and runs scored (118), third in hits (214), and fourth in OBP (.417), gaining his seventh All-Star determination. Jeter batted .500 with one grand slam in the 2006 ALDS, including an ideal 5-for-5 execution in Game 1, making him the 6th player to record five hits in one postseason diversion. The Yankees lost to the Detroit Tigers, three amusements to one. 

Many expected Jeter would win the AL MVP Award for 2006. In a nearby vote, Jeter completed second in the casting a ballot to Justin Morneau of the Twins. It was his 6th top-10 complete in the MVP balloting in 11 full seasons through 2006. In spite of the fact that he lost the MVP Award, he won the Hank Aaron Award, given for unrivaled hostile execution. He additionally won his third back to back Gold Glove Award. 

Despite the fact that the Yankees kept on battling with postseason disappointments, Jeter remained a reliable giver. Amid the 2007 season, Jeter was third in the AL with 203 hits, his third continuous season and 6th by and large, with somewhere around 200 hits. He additionally completed ninth in batting normal (.322). He was chosen for his eighth All-Star appearance. In the field, he was associated with turning a profession high 104 twofold plays. He battled amid the 2007 ALDS, batting 3-for-17 (.176) with one RBI, as the Indians crushed the Yankees. 

Jeter hit his 400th profession twofold on June 27, 2008, and his 200th grand slam on July 12. Jeter's slugging rate (SLG) dropped to .410 in the 2008 season, his most reduced imprint since 1997. His offense took an upward turn after May as he hit .322 with a .824 OPS after June 1. Jeter was chosen to his ninth All-Star amusement as the beginning shortstop. He completed the season with a .300 batting normal. 

Jeter tied Lou Gehrig's record for hits at Yankee Stadium (1,269) with a grand slam off Tampa Bay Rays pitcher David Price on September 14, 2008. On September 16, he broke the record against Chicago White Sox pitcher Gavin Floyd. The Yankees were dispensed with from postseason conflict, the main full season in Jeter's profession where he didn't contend in the playoffs. Following the last amusement in Yankee Stadium history, Jeter delivered a discourse in line with the Yankees, expressing gratitude toward the Yankees fans for their help—after a minute casted a ballot by fans as the Moment of the Year in MLB.com's This Year in Baseball Awards: 

For the 2009 season, Yankees administrator Joe Girardi exchanged Jeter and Damon in the batting request, with Damon moving to second and Jeter to the leadoff job. Jeter batted .334, third-best in the AL, with a .406 OBP, a .871 OPS, 18 grand slams, 66 RBIs, 30 stolen bases in 35 endeavors, 107 runs scored, 72 strolls, and 212 hits (second in MLB). Protectively, Jeter submitted a profession low eight mistakes, and his .986 handling rate was his vocation best. The expansion of Gold Glove-winning first baseman Mark Teixeira permitted second baseman Robinson Canó to move his concentration on his right side, helping Jeter. Amid the season, the "Wearing News" named Jeter eighth on their rundown of the 50 biggest flow players in baseball. 

Jeter accomplished two vocation hit achievements in the second 50% of the 2009 season. On August 16, 2009, against the Seattle Mariners, Jeter multiplied down the right-field line for his 2,675th hit as a shortstop, breaking Luis Aparicio's past real alliance record. At that point, Jeter turned into the unequaled hits pioneer as an individual from the Yankees (2,722), passing Lou Gehrig on September 11, 2009. The hit was a solitary off Baltimore Orioles pitcher Chris Tillman in the third inning. 

In the 2009 postseason, Jeter batted .355, including .407 in the 2009 World Series, as he won his fifth World Series title. He was named Sportsman of the Year for 2009 by "Sports Illustrated", and won the Roberto Clemente Award, Hank Aaron Award, his fourth Gold Glove Award and his fourth Silver Slugger Award. Jeter additionally completed third in the AL MVP casting a ballot, behind Minnesota's Joe Mauer and Yankee partner Mark Teixeira. It was additionally the fifth title for Pettitte, Posada, and Rivera, who alongside Jeter were alluded to as the "Center Four". 

In 2010, Jeter, alongside Posada and Rivera, turned into the main trio of partners in any of the four noteworthy class sports in North America (MLB, NFL, NBA, or NHL) to play in somewhere around 16 back to back seasons on a similar group as colleagues. The 2010 season was factually Jeter's most exceedingly bad in numerous regards. The Yankee skipper batted .270 with a .340 OBP and .370 SLG, all profession lows, as he hit more ground balls than expected. In spite of this, Jeter was chosen to begin at shortstop in the All-Star Game. He bounced back to bat .342 in his last 79 at-bats subsequent to making acclimations to his swing with the assistance of Kevin Long, the Yankees hitting mentor, who had effectively helped Nick Swisher and Curtis Granderson make modifications that improved their creation. With Long, Jeter changed the manner in which he walked with his left leg. Following the season, Jeter won his fifth Gold Glove grant. Jeter submitted six mistakes amid the season, his most reduced aggregate in 15 full seasons. 

After the 2010 season, Jeter turned into a free specialist without precedent for his profession. At age 36, Jeter gave off an impression of being in decay; Joe Sheehan of "Baseball Prospectus" proposed that Jeter, once a "decent, not extraordinary" shortstop, had declined to progress toward becoming "underneath normal" protectively, to the degree that he would almost certainly need to change positions; Cashman later recognized that Jeter may need to move to the outfield. Despite the fact that Jeter expressed that he needed to stay with the Yankees, arrangements ended up tense. Jeter's operator, Casey Close, expressed that he was "astounded" by the Yankees' way to deal with the dealings, and Cashman, presently the group's general chief, reacted freely that Jeter should test the open market to determine his esteem, which rankled Jeter. As per reports, Jeter at first looked for a four-year contract worth somewhere in the range of $23 million and $25 million per season. He achieved a concurrence with the Yankees on a three-year contract for $51 million with a possibility for a fourth year. He went through the offseason working with Long on acclimations to his swing. 

The changes left Jeter disappointed, as he batted .242 in the main month of the 2011 season. As he battled, it created the impression that the 2011 season was the continuation of Jeter's decrease. Jeter broke Rickey Henderson's establishment record for stolen bases when he stole his 327th base against the Mariners on May 28, 2011. He endured calf damage on June 13 that required his fifth spell on the 15-day debilitated rundown, and his first since 2003. By then, he was batting .260 for the 2011 season with a .649 OPS. Restoring from his damage in Tampa, Jeter took a shot at his swing with Denbo, his previous small time administrator. With Denbo, Jeter came back to the mechanics he utilized in his small time days. Following his initiation from the handicapped rundown, he hit .326 with a .806 OPS in his last 64 rounds of the period. Jeter completed the year with a .297 batting normal, 6 grand slams, 61 runs batted in, 84 runs, and 16 stolen bases. He attributed the turnaround to his work with Denbo; Long recognized that his endeavor to change Jeter's swing did not work. 

On July 9, 2011, Jeter recorded his 3,000th vocation hit, a grand slam off of David Price of the Tampa Bay Rays. Jeter completed the day with five hits in five at-bats, the second player to have five hits on the day he accomplished his 3,000th hit (the first was Craig Biggio). He likewise turned into the second player to hit a grand slam for his 3,000th hit, Wade Boggs having done as such in 1999. The remainder of Jeter's five hits turned out to be the amusement winning hit. He is the main individual from the 3,000 hit club to record the majority of his hits with the New York Yankees, and the main player to join the club as a Yankee. Jeter joined Honus Wagner as just the second customary shortstop to achieve the 3,000 hit plataeu. Just Ty Cobb, Hank Aaron, and Robin Yount were more youthful than Jeter upon the arrival of their 3,000th hit. MLB and HBO delivered "Derek Jeter 3K", a narrative that profiled his way to 3,000 hits and initially disclosed on July 28, 2011. 

Exhausted from the worry of pursuing 3,000 profession hits and needing to rest his calf, Jeter picked not to go to the 2011 MLB All-Star Game. Jeter and Posada played their 1,660th amusement together on July 14, 2011, breaking the past establishment record of 1,659 by Gehrig and Tony Lazzeri. Jeter played his 2,402nd diversion with the Yankees on August 29, 2011, breaking Mickey Mantle's record for most recreations played as a Yankee. He completed the 2011 season with 162 hits, his sixteenth continuous season with 150 hits, which tied him with Pete Rose for the second-most successive 150-hit seasons, one behind Hank Aaron for the MLB record. Jeter was respected with the Lou Gehrig Memorial Award, given in acknowledgment of beneficent undertakings. 

In spite of proceeding with worries about his age, the start of the 2012 season saw Jeter on a hot streak: he batted .411 through April 23. Rodriguez remarked that Jeter is playing as he did in 1999, while Girardi said Jeter appears as though he is 25 years of age. In the 2012 MLB All-Star Game, Jeter recorded his eleventh All-Star hit, passing Mantle for the most All-Star Game hits in Yankees history. Jeter went 1-for-2 in the diversion, moving into fourth record-breaking with a .458 normal among players with at least 12 plate appearances in the All-Star Game. 

Jeter completed the 2012 season with the most hits in MLB (216). Against the Tampa Bay Rays on September 14 of that year, he moved into the Top 10 on the untouched hit list, outperforming Willie Mays by demolishing an infield single for his 3,284th profession hit. In the wake of hitting .364 in the 2012 ALDS, Jeter cracked his left lower leg amid Game 1 of the 2012 ALCS against the Detroit Tigers going after a ground ball, damage which finished his season. Jeter had gotten a cortisone shot to treat a bone wound in his left foot in September, which could have added to the break. Jeter had medical procedure on his broken left lower leg on October 20, with a normal recuperation time of four to five months. 

While restoring, Jeter endured a little split in the region of his past lower leg crack. Thus, Jeter started the 2013 season on the handicapped rundown. The Yankees actuated Jeter on July 11, yet in the wake of playing in one diversion, Jeter came back to the handicapped rundown with a quadriceps strain. He came back to the Yankees lineup on July 28, hitting a grand slam on the principal pitch off of Matt Moore of Tampa Bay. Jeter was again put on the 15-day incapacitated rundown on August 5 because of a Grade 1 calf strain, and after a concise come back to the lineup, he was put on the 15-day crippled rundown for a third time on September 11 because of issues with his lower leg, finishing his season. On September 14, 2013 Jeter was exchanged to the 60-day crippled rundown. Jeter batted .190 in just 17 diversions played amid the 2013 season. 

Jeter re-marked with the Yankees on a one-year, $12 million contract for the 2014 season. Jeter reported on his Facebook page on February 12, 2014, that the 2014 season would be his last. Amid his last season, each contradicting group regarded Jeter with a blessing amid his last visit to their city, which has included gifts to Jeter's philanthropy, the Turn 2 Foundation. 

On July 10, Jeter recorded his 1,000th profession multi-hit amusement, turning into the fourth player to do as such. He was chosen to begin at shortstop in the 2014 All-Star Game, and batted leadoff for the AL. Jeter went 2 for 2, scored one run and got two overwhelming applauses in the four innings he played at the 2014 All-Star Game. Accordingly, Jeter's .481 vocation All-Star batting normal (13 for 27) positioned him fifth unsurpassed (among players with no less than 10 at-bats). At 40, Jeter additionally turned into the most established player to have at least two hits in an All-Star Game. In July, Jeter broke Omar Vizquel's MLB profession record of 2,609 diversions began at shortstop, and Gehrig's establishment vocation record of 534 duplicates. On July 17, Derek scored the 1,900th keep running of his profession turning into the tenth player in MLB history to do as such. Jeter passed Carl Yastrzemski for seventh spot on MLB's record-breaking vocation hit list on July 28 and on August 11 he passed Honus Wagner moving to 6th on the unequaled hits list. 

The Yankees respected Jeter with a pregame tribute on September 7. Starting with that day's diversion, the Yankees wore a fix on their caps and regalia respecting Jeter for the rest of the period. In the last seven day stretch of Jeter's profession, MLB Commissioner Bud Selig regarded him as the fifteenth beneficiary of the Commissioner's Historic Achievement Award for being "a standout amongst the most practiced shortstops ever". 

Amid Jeter's last arrangement at Yankee Stadium, Louisville Slugger declared they would resign their "P72" show homerun stick, the bat Jeter utilizes, however it will be sold under the name "DJ2", in Jeter's respect. The normal ticket cost for Jeter's last home diversion, on September 25, came to $830 on the optional market. In his last amusement at Yankee Stadium, Jeter hit a stroll off single against Orioles pitcher Evan Meek to win, 6– 5. 

Jeter chose to play solely as the assigned hitter in the last arrangement of his profession, at Fenway Park in Boston, with the goal that his last recollections of playing shortstop would be at Yankee Stadium. The Red Sox regarded Jeter with a pregame function including Red Sox resigned stars Carl Yastrzemski, Jim Rice, Fred Lynn, Luis Tiant and Rico Petrocelli, the Boston Bruins' Bobby Orr, New England Patriots collector Troy Brown and the Boston Celtics' Paul Pierce, while numerous Boston fans at Fenway Park noisily cheered for Jeter and gave him an overwhelming applause. In his last at-bat, he hit a RBI infield single against Clay Buchholz, before being substituted for squeeze sprinter Brian McCann; he got an applause from the Red Sox fans as he left the field. 

Jeter began at shortstop for the United States national baseball crew in the 2006 World Baseball Classic. He hit 9-for-20 (.450) and scored five keeps running in six diversions. Just partner Ken Griffey, Jr. (.524) and Cuba's Yoandy Garlobo (.480) had a higher batting normal with at least 20 at-bats. Jeter's play earned him acknowledgment as the shortstop choice on the All-Tournament Team. 

In the 2009 World Baseball Classic, Jeter again began at shortstop. He was named chief of the United States group by supervisor Davey Johnson, and he batted 8-for-29 (.276) in eight recreations. Jeter and the United States group confronted the Yankees at Steinbrenner Field in a show diversion, the main time Jeter played against the Yankees. 

Jeter is viewed as a standout amongst the most predictable baseball players ever. He played less than 145 diversions a season just multiple times in his vocation: when he disjoined his left shoulder on Opening Day 2003 (119 amusements), when he harmed his calf in 2011 (131 recreations), and in 2013 when he battled with a bunch of wounds (17 diversions). For his vocation, he found the middle value of 204 hits, 113 runs scored and 21 stolen bases for every 162 amusements. He is at present sixth on the unsurpassed hits list in Major League Baseball history. Exceedingly focused, Jeter once stated, "In case you're going to play by any stretch of the imagination, you're out to win. Baseball, prepackaged games, playing "Danger!", I prefer not to lose." Seen as a standout amongst the best players of his age, most sportswriters trust that Jeter will be a first tally acceptance to the Baseball Hall of Fame and conceivably a consistent choice in his first year of qualification (2020). 

A forceful hitter, Jeter swings at most contributes the strike zone and numerous close it. In spite of the fact that right-gave hitters frequently maneuver the ball into left field, Jeter's mark back to front swing, named the "Jeterian Swing", results in the greater part of his hits going to focus and right field. Likewise, the greater part of his grand slams have been hit to right field as opposed to focus or to left, as his swing exploits Yankee Stadium's nearby right-field wall. 

Jeter is additionally known for his polished skill. During a time where proficient competitors frequently end up in close to home outrages, Jeter has generally evaded real discussion in a prominent profession in New York City while keeping up a solid hard working attitude. Because of his style of play, rivals and partners held Jeter in high regard. A clubhouse chief, Jeter frequently defused showdowns between colleagues. 

Jeter is noted for his postseason exhibitions and has earned the titles of "Commander Clutch", and "Mr. November" because of his remarkable postseason play. He has a profession .309 postseason batting normal, and a .321 batting normal in the World Series. Aside from 2008, 2013 and 2014, the Yankees have been to the postseason consistently since Jeter joined the group. Jeter holds MLB postseason records for amusements played (158), plate appearances (734), at-bats (650), hits (200), singles (143), copies (32), triples (5), runs scored (111), complete bases (302) and strikeouts (135). Jeter is additionally third in grand slams (20), fourth in runs batted in (61), fifth in base on balls (66) and 6th in stolen bases (18). 

Jeter has won five Gold Glove Awards, trailing just Vizquel, Ozzie Smith, Luis Aparicio, Dave Concepción, and Mark Belanger for most by a shortstop. He is credited with situating himself well and for a brisk discharge when he tosses the ball. One of his mark guarded plays is the "hop toss", by which he jumps and tosses to initially base while moving towards third base. 

Regardless of this present, Jeter's guard has been the subject of analysis from various sabermetricians, including Rob Neyer and the production "Baseball Prospectus". The 2006 book "The Fielding Bible" by John Dewan contains a paper by Bill James in which he reasons that Jeter "was likely the most inadequate cautious player in the significant classes, at any situation" over his whole profession. A recent report by analysts at the University of Pennsylvania found that, from 2002 through 2005, Jeter was the most noticeably awful cautious shortstop in MLB. Two destinations that depend on cutting edge guarded insights, FanGraphs.com and FieldingBible.com, evaluated Jeter beneath center of-the-pack status in 2010, notwithstanding his getting his fifth Gold Glove Award that season. 

Jeter submitted 18 mistakes in 2007, his most astounding aggregate since completing with 24 of every 2000. After the season, Cashman and his staff saw Jeter's barrier as a zone that should have been tended to. At the Yankees' solicitation, Jeter set out on a thorough preparing project to battle the impacts of age, by concentrating on horizontal development and initial step briskness. Jeter's definitive zone rating (UZR) improved from most exceedingly awful in the AL for shortstops in 2007 to near class normal in 2008. 

At the point when solicited to react to analysis from his guard, Jeter answered: "I play in New York, man. Analysis is a piece of the diversion, you accept analysis as a test." Jeter further declared that numerous protective components can't be measured. The contention over Jeter's handling has turned into a glimmer point for the discussion about whether the investigations of insights or emotional perception is the better technique to survey a player's cautious capacity and for analysis of the Gold Glove Award. 

Jeter keeps up homes in Marlboro Township, New Jersey; Greenwood Lake, New York; and the Davis Islands neighborhood of Tampa, Florida. He recently possessed a penthouse loft in Manhattan's Trump World Tower. As to official living arrangement, Jeter settled a duty question with the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance in 2008. New York State asserted that Jeter ought to have settled state pay government expense from 2001 to 2003, as Jeter dwelled in the Manhattan condo he purchased in 2001; Jeter professed to have set up his living arrangement in Tampa, Florida, in 1994 and that he was as yet an occupant of Florida at the time. Florida has no state pay charge. 

Jeter's own life has been an incessant point in tattle sections and VIP magazines since his new kid on the block year in 1996. He had an all around announced association with vocalist Mariah Carey from 1997 to 1998. Jeter additionally had an association with model Vida Guerra. Jeter has likewise dated previous Miss Universe Lara Dutta, vocalist Joy Enriquez, TV character Vanessa Minnillo, and the performers Jordana Brewster, Jessica Biel, Minka Kelly, and model Hannah Davis. 

In December 2002, Yankees proprietor George Steinbrenner censured Jeter for remaining out until 3 a.m. at a birthday party amid the 2002 season, saying that his star shortstop "wasn't completely engaged" and that "it didn't sit well" with him. The two ridiculed the episode in a May 2003 VISA business, like the way in which Steinbrenner and previous Yankees director Billy Martin downplayed their fight in a Miller Lite business amid the 1970s. 

Jeter and Davis ended up occupied with 2015. In July 2016, the two wedded. On February 13, 2017, Hannah reported that she was pregnant with a little girl. Their first kid, a little girl, was conceived in August 2017. Their second little girl was conceived in January 2019. 

Amid his damage abbreviated 2013 season, Jeter masterminded an association with Simon and Schuster to frame an engraving called Jeter Publishing. He called it "the plan for postcareer". It will start distributing true to life books for grown-ups, kids' image books, basic evaluation fiction, and books for youngsters who are figuring out how to peruse. In the end, the association could prompt film and TV creations. 

On October 1, 2014, Jeter's new site, ThePlayersTribune.com, seemed on the web; it was charged as "another media stage that will show the unfiltered voice of expert competitors, conveying fans nearer to the diversions they cherish than any time in recent memory". It was accounted for by the Tampa Bay Business Journal in March 2015 that Jeter had banded together with Concessions Tampa to offer for a space inside the Tampa International Airport, and plans to open an eatery named after his site. 

Jeter likewise fills in as a brand improvement officer for Luvo Inc. also, has speculation interests in multi-channel video arrange organization, Whistle Sports Network. He investigated buying the Buffalo Bills football crew in 2014. 

In July 2017, Jeter occupied with the offering for responsibility for Miami Marlins. In August 2017, Jeter and Bruce Sherman settled an arrangement to buy the Miami Marlins. The deal was finished in September 2017, after consistent endorsement of the other 29 MLB group proprietors. In spite of the fact that Jeter just possesses a 4% stake in the establishment, he was named CEO of the group, and controlling proprietor Bruce Sherman depended him to manage everyday activities of the group. 

Jeter made the Turn 2 Foundation, a magnanimous association, in 1996. It was built up to support kids and youngsters stay away from medication and liquor fixation, and to compensate the individuals who show high scholastic accomplishment. In 2012, Jeter got a privileged doctorate from Siena College regarding him for his establishment's work. 

Jeter additionally fills in as a diplomat for Weplay, a site intended to urge youngsters to get engaged with games. 

Jeter has showed up in national advertisement crusades for Nike, Gatorade, Fleet Bank, Ford, VISA, Discover Card, Florsheim, Gillette, Skippy, and XM Satellite Radio. He underwrites a cologne named "Driven", planned as a team with and conveyed by Avon. Jeter has his very own Jumpman shoe. To celebrate Jeter's last year, the Jordan brand made a tribute business titled "#RE2PECT", which had numerous baseball players, (for example, Jon Lester) and big names, even adversary Boston Red Sox fans tip their tops. 

In 2006, Jeter was the second-most generously compensated endorser in baseball, behind Ichiro Suzuki, who got underwriting bargains in Japan. He was positioned as the most attractive player in baseball as per the 2003, 2005, and 2010 Sports Business Surveys. A 2011 rundown by the promoting firm Nielsen positioned Jeter as the most attractive player in baseball, representing individual characteristics, for example, truthfulness, congeniality, experience, and impact. 

Jeter has showed up on TV as a visitor on-screen character in the sitcom "Seinfeld" in the scene titled, "The Abstinence" and "Saturday Night Live", a late-night live TV sketch parody and theatrical presentation, in scene 7 amid season 27. He had appearance appearances in the parody films "Outrage Management" and "The Other Guys". Jeter was the subject of a 2005 section on the TV news magazine "an hour" and a 2014 scene of "Finding Your Roots", a Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) open TV arrangement. Jeter likewise shows up as a character in the Broadway play "Bronx Bombers". Jeter showed up close by Peyton Manning to observe "Saturday Night Live's" 40th Anniversary in February 2015. 

Computer games have highlighted Jeter on their spread, including 2K Sports' "MLB 2K5", "MLB 2K6", and "MLB 2K7", Acclaim Entertainment's "Elite player Baseball" arrangement of computer games, and Gameloft's remote telephone ball game, "Derek Jeter Pro Baseball 2008". A wax figure deifies Jeter at the Madame Tussauds Wax Museum in New York, and a model at the Louisville Slugger Museum and Factory in Louisville, Kentucky. 

In 2015, Jeter was enlisted into the New Jersey Hall of Fame.