Heavenly attendant of Death (Slayer tune) 

"Heavenly attendant of Death" is the opening track on the American whip metal band Slayer's 1986 collection "Reign in Blood". The verses and music were composed by guitarist Jeff Hanneman. They detail the Nazi doctor Josef Mengele's human trials at the Auschwitz inhumane imprisonment amid World War II. 

In spite of the fact that the verses depict Mengele's maltreatment as opposed to underwriting them, "Heavenly attendant of Death" prompted allegations of Nazi identifying and bigotry against the band, which they vivaciously denied yet which tailed them all through their initial profession. Regardless of the debate and the subsequent postponement in the arrival of "Reign in Blood", the melody remains a live top pick, and has showed up on the majority of Slayer's live collections. 

The tune has been portrayed as exceedingly powerful in the advancement of whip metal or speed metal, and is profoundly respected by certain commentators; AllMusic's Steve Huey considered it a work of art and the collection "the apex of speed metal". The half-time riff was examined by Public Enemy in their 1988 melody "She Watch Channel Zero?!." 

Slayer guitarist Jeff Hanneman stated "Heavenly attendant of Death" in the wake of perusing books about Nazi doctor Josef Mengele while on visit with the band. He said that he ceased "somewhere where I purchased two books on Mengele. I thought, 'This has gotta be some wiped out poo.' So when it came time to do the record, that stuff was still in my mind—that is the place the verses to 'Blessed messenger of Death' originated from." 

The verses are composed both from Mengele's perspective and from that of a disconnected onlooker denouncing his activities. They detail Mengele's careful trials on patients at the Auschwitz inhumane imprisonment amid World War II. Mengele's investigations were led on such gatherings as diminutive people and twins, and included both physical and mental examinations. Among the tests he played out that are referenced in "Holy messenger of Death" are trial medical procedures performed without anesthesia, transfusion of blood between twins, disconnection perseverance, gassing, infusions with deadly germs, sex change tasks, the evacuation of organs and appendages, and abacination. 

The verses of "Heavenly attendant of Death" deferred the arrival of "Reign in Blood". The band were marked to Def Jam Records, whose wholesaler, Columbia Records, wouldn't discharge the collection because of its topic and work of art, which they accepted were "excessively realistic". "Reign in Blood" was in the long run dispersed by Geffen Records on October 7, 1986. Be that as it may, because of the discussion, "Reign in Blood" did not show up on Geffen Records' legitimate discharge plan. 

"Heavenly attendant of Death" caused shock among Holocaust survivors, just as their families and the overall population. The contention prompted allegations of Nazi identifying which have pursued Slayer all through their vocation. Individuals took Hanneman's enthusiasm for Nazi history and his gathering of Nazi decorations, his most prized thing being a German Knight's Cross, as proof of identifying. Hanneman questioned, expressing: According to guitarist Kerry King: "Better believe it, 'Slayer are Nazis, fundamentalists, Communists'— such fun poop. What's more, obviously we got the most fire for it in Germany. I was constantly similar to, 'Read the verses and reveal to me what's hostile about it. Would you be able to consider it to be a narrative, or do you believe Slayer's proclaiming screwing World War II?' People get this idea in their minds—particularly in Europe—and you'll never work them out of it." 

The melody drew allegations of bigotry, which the band has denied. The band individuals are regularly gotten some information about the allegations in meetings, and have expressed various occasions that they don't approve bigotry and are just intrigued by the subject. 

Hanneman likewise expressed "SS-3", a melody about senior SS officer Reinhard Heydrich, which showed up on the band's 1994 collection "Divine Intervention". The tune "Jihad" from their 2006 collection "Christ Illusion" has attracted correlation with "Blessed messenger of Death". "Jihad" manages the September 11, 2001, assaults, and is told from a psychological oppressor's viewpoint. Araya anticipated that the topic should make a comparable reaction to that of "Blessed messenger of Death", in spite of the fact that it didn't appear, to a limited extent, he accepts, because of individuals' view that the tune is "simply Slayer being Slayer". 

At 4 minutes and 51 seconds, "Blessed messenger of Death" is the longest track on the collection, which is 29 minutes altogether. It is a standout amongst the most fundamentally regular tunes on the collection, including conspicuous stanzas and ensembles, which the greater part of the melodies shun. Araya's vocal execution starts with a penetrating, silent shout. "[G]uitarists Kerry King and Jeff Hanneman convey their multifaceted riffs [and] drummer Dave Lombardo plays out probably the most dominant drumming at any point recorded" at 210 thumps for every moment. 

At the point when drummer Lombardo left Slayer in 1992, they enlisted a full-time substitution in Forbidden drummer Paul Bostaph. Bostaph committed one error out of the nine tunes the band trialed him with, on "Holy messenger of Death". Before the "huge twofold bass part" there is a lead area, which Bostaph couldn't comprehend, as he needed to gain from live records recorded with Lombardo. Bostaph couldn't tell what number of unrests the guitar riff goes before the bass succession. The band individuals let him know there were eight, "culminating" the melody a while later. 

In spite of the fact that "Blessed messenger of Death" did not graph, it was exceptionally commended by pundits assessing "Reign in Blood". Earth Jarvas of "Stylus Magazine" saw how the melody "smokes the asses of any band playing quick as well as substantial today. Expressively laying out the abhorrences to come, while musically laying the foundation for the remainder of the record: quick, lean and messy." Adrien Begrand of "PopMatters" commented that "There's no better tune to kick things off than the marvelous 'Blessed messenger of Death', a standout amongst the most momentous melodies in metal history."