Sigi Schmid 

Siegfried "Sigi" Schmid (; March 20, 1953 – December 25, 2018) was a German-American soccer mentor who had the most successes in the historical backdrop of Major League Soccer (MLS). Conceived in Tübingen, West Germany, he moved to the United States with his family when he was a tyke. He played school soccer from 1972 to 1975 at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), where he was a beginning midfielder in every one of his four years. He instructed his previous school group, the UCLA Bruins, somewhere in the range of 1980 and 1999. Amid that period, he wound up a standout amongst the best university mentors ever, driving the Bruins to a record of 322– 63– 33 (wins– losses– draws). The group showed up from 1983 to 1998, winning the national title in 1985, 1990, and 1997. Schmid additionally worked with U.S. Soccer all through the 1990s. 

Schmid trained the Los Angeles Galaxy and the Columbus Crew in MLS, before turning into the head mentor of Seattle Sounders in 2009. In spite of failing to have played soccer at an expert dimension, he has the most instructing successes in MLS history and was the beneficiary of the MLS Coach of the Year Award in 1999 and 2008. All through his profession, Schmid got acclaim from pundits for his capacity to distinguish new ability. His guarded strategies were additionally exceedingly respected in the press and frequently refered to as a factor in his prosperity. Be that as it may, their arrangement in his last two seasons with Los Angeles drove legitimately to the end of his agreement. 

Subsequent to winning the MLS Cup with Columbus in 2008, Schmid was employed by the extension Seattle Sounders as their first head mentor. From 2009 to 2016, Schmid drove the Sounders to seven playoff appearances, four Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup titles, and a MLS Supporters' Shield in 2014. After dull exhibitions in the playoffs and stumbles amid the primary portion of the 2016 season, Schmid left the club on common terms and was supplanted by Brian Schmetzer as between time head mentor. Schmid joined ESPN as a studio examiner and was named the head mentor of Los Angeles by and by in 2017, supplanting Curt Onalfo. He left the situation in September 2018 and was supplanted by right hand mentor Dominic Kinnear. 

With Bachelor of Economics and Master of Business Administration degrees from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), Schmid was a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) before instructing full-time. Schmid and his significant other had four kids. Schmid kicked the bucket on December 25, 2018, weeks in the wake of being hospitalized in Los Angeles with a heart-related condition. 

Sigi Schmid was conceived in Tübingen, West Germany, on March 20, 1953. At four years old, he moved with his family to the United States; they relocated to Torrance, California, in 1962. Schmid's dad, Fritz, who had been a POW amid World War II, worked at Pabst Brewing; his mom, Doris, ran a Los Angeles-based German shop, where Schmid dealt with ends of the week. Schmid's family communicated in German at home, making him feel German notwithstanding spending such an extensive amount his life in America. He started school in the United States with small comprehension of English and a faltering discourse issue he didn't defeat until secondary school. In his childhood, Schmid visited Germany each mid year, playing soccer with the nearby kids and watching Bundesliga clubs play presentation coordinates in neighboring towns. In 1964, Schmid played for one of the debut American Youth Soccer Organization groups, and was drafted into the AYSO Hall of Fame in 1996. 

In spite of Schmid's initial soccer experience, his folks thought a vocation in the game was unfeasible and urged him to seek after business. He enlisted at UCLA in 1972 and was a beginning midfielder for the UCLA Bruins from 1972 to 1975. In his initial two seasons, the Bruins were national sprinters up in the titles, and progressed to the national elimination rounds in 1974. In his senior year, Schmid was chosen to the 1975 All Far-West group. Schmid finished his playing profession at UCLA positioned eleventh taking all things together time helps at the school. 

He got his Bachelor of Economics degree in 1976 preceding acquiring a Master of Business Administration from the University of Southern California. Somewhere in the range of 1978 and 1984, he worked eight months of the year as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). 

Schmid's first training knowledge was in 1975 for Bishop Montgomery High School. He additionally established and trained a little club called the South Bay Vikings. Somewhere in the range of 1977 and 1979, he filled in as an associate mentor under Steve Gay at UCLA. Schmid took over as head mentor after Gay left the situation in 1980. He started concentrating exclusively on instructing before the 1984 season and was named "Mentor of the Year" by the magazine "Soccer America". UCLA then won the 1985 NCAA Division I title by overcoming American University 1– 0 after eight times of additional time. In his initial 10 years as mentor, the Bruins won or tied 85 percent of their diversions. 

The Bruins won the 1990 national title by crushing Rutgers 4– 3 on extra shots after a scoreless guideline, two sessions of additional time, and another two times of abrupt demise. Amid the 22-diversion season, UCLA outscored their rivals 61– 16. The group kept on flourishing in the accompanying season, some portion of their prosperity originating from Schmid's choice to move Cobi Jones from a midfield position to advance. Jones later played for Schmid in the MLS and turned into a top player for the national group. Schmid was named the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation Coach of the Year for a long time straight (1995– 97), and NCAA Coach of the Year in 1997 after UCLA vanquished the University of Virginia to win a third NCAA title. A journalist for the "Richmond Times-Dispatch" composed that subsequent to winning only two titles in 17 postseason appearances, UCLA had at long last shed "its 'underachiever' name". The essayist likewise acclaimed Schmid's choice to move the group's driving striker into a midfield position which prompted the player scoring the triumphant objective. 

Schmid burned through 19 seasons as the head mentor at UCLA, gathering a record of 322– 63– 33 (wins– losses– draws), and achieving 16 sequential playoffs somewhere in the range of 1983 and 1998. He earned a notoriety for creating a portion of the country's best goalkeepers when David Vanole, Brad Friedel, and Matt Reis got through the college. By 1994, he had instructed 16 players at UCLA who were later chosen for the U.S. national group. Schmid abstained from enlisting outside ability to reinforce his squad. He depended predominantly on players from California, whom he accepted to be less physically forceful yet increasingly inventive and assaulting. 

While training at UCLA, Schmid started to work with the U.S. national group. He was the associate mentor at the 1991 World University Games and went with the group to Germany in the fall of 1992. In January 1993, he was chosen as a right hand to Bora Milutinović for the 1994 FIFA World Cup, amid which five of Schmid's UCLA players showed up for the national group. He proceeded as a right hand amid the 1995 Pan American Games. Subsequent to being named U.S. Under-20 national group mentor in January 1998, Schmid assembled his squad around guarded strategies. The group accomplished second spot in their gathering amid the 1999 FIFA World Youth Championship, overcoming England and Cameroon, yet were wiped out by the inevitable bosses Spain in the opening knockout round. Schmid came back to mentor the U-20 national group at the 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship. The U.S. won the gathering in the opening phase of the competition without surrendering an objective, however lost to Italy in the first round of the knockout stage. One of the advances on the national group, Eric Wynalda, said that Schmid's association on the field was trained. Wynalda remarked that Schmid had an "extraordinary handle on edge side of the amusement" while he likewise appreciated that the strikers were permitted to be innovative. Schmid was drafted into the UCLA Hall of Fame in 2004 in the wake of working with UCLA, the national group, and the Los Angeles Galaxy. 

Schmid left UCLA to supplant Octavio Zambrano as head mentor of the Los Angeles Galaxy five recreations into the 1999 MLS season. At the time, the group was positioned fifth in the Western Conference with a count of just three objectives. Under Schmid in the rest of the period, the group had a record of 17– 9, completed with the second-best record in the class and won their meeting, acquiring him the MLS Coach of the Year Award. The group's commander, Robin Fraser, offered credit to Schmid's accentuation on resistance subsequent to being named the MLS safeguard of the year. Los Angeles lost 2– 0 to D.C. Joined in that year's MLS Cup. Schmid made basic remarks of the officials after the match; he got a $1,000 fine and suspension for the principal round of the accompanying season. 

In 2000, Schmid guided Los Angeles to the playoffs yet lost in the elimination rounds to the Kansas City Wizards. The group additionally played in that year's CONCACAF Champions' Cup, a challenge comprising of the best clubs from North America, Central America, and the Caribbean. The Galaxy crushed the Honduran victor Olimpia 3– 2 to win the Cup. Schmid was compelled to play an atypical squad since the last was held amid the MLS off-season while changes in accordance with coming up next season's lineup were being made. 

His effective group of 2001 appreciated assaulting play. The squad included experienced players, for example, Cobi Jones, Sasha Victorine, Luis Hernández, Simon Elliott, and Mauricio Cienfuegos. The Galaxy won the meeting by two and completed fourth generally speaking with a 14– 7– 5 record. The group proceeded to lose to the San Jose Earthquakes in the MLS Cup, yet won the U.S. Open Cup seven days after the fact with a 2– 1 additional time triumph against the New England Revolution. 

Achievement followed in 2002 when the Galaxy won the Supporters' Shield for having the best standard season record in the group. Schmid was praised for his guarded strategies in the wake of altering the group's standard development to a 3– 5– 2 right off the bat in the season. The move permitted Alexi Lalas to play as a sweeper without explicit stamping duties in the three-man cautious line. Schmid likewise presented Guatemalan Carlos Ruiz to the group; Ruiz won class Most Valuable Player (MVP) grant that year. In the midst of analysis for neglecting to win in earlier years, the establishment won its first MLS Cup with a 1– 0 extra time triumph against New England. The group again achieved the Open Cup last yet lost to the Columbus Crew. 

Triumph in the MLS Cup earned the group another compartment in the 2003 CONCACAF Champions' Cup. Los Angeles progressed past Motagua in the first round yet fell against Necaxa in the quarterfinals. In MLS, the club had its initially losing season with a 9– 12– 9 record and no triumphs out and about. The Galaxy neglected to score objectives reliably amid the year, overseeing just a fourth-place complete in the five-group Western Conference. In the first round of the playoffs, Los Angeles crushed San Jose 2– 0 in the principal leg, however amid the second leg, yielded five objectives in the second 50% of the match and were disposed of. Schmid was scrutinized by fans and the press conjectured he would not return in 2004.<ref name="CNN/SI 2003-11-26"></ref> A neighborhood author put a portion of the fault on a change to protective style of play while a few players scrutinized his strategies. After it was declared that he would stay in his job next season, Schmid anticipated a time of revamping the group. The next year, he was picked to mentor the Western Conference in the All-Star diversion. Halfway through the season, with the Galaxy in the lead position, Schmid was terminated after a five-amusement extend with no successes, in which the group scored just three objectives. General supervisor Doug Hamilton said that the group had a mission "to go after and win titles", and that "an all the more engaging and appealing item on the field." was required. Schmid left with a general record of 79– 53– 32 with a 16– 7– 3 imprint in the playoffs. 

Considering his aura in Los Angeles, Lalas said Schmid had "epic blasts". One columnist called him "burnable", while another alluded to him as "red hot". Lalas likewise remarked that playing for Schmid in Los Angeles required polished methodology on and off the field. 

Schmid came back to the class as mentor of the Columbus Crew in 2006, appraised by the group's general supervisor Mark McCullers as "the best mentor in America". The group contained youthful ability yet needed profundity and had no star players. In August, after a dash of 13 winless matches, Schmid considered leaving. The group experienced wounds and conflicting lineups all through the season, completing toward the end in the Eastern Conference with only 30 objectives, the most minimal in the association. 

By the beginning of 2007, Schmid had modified the list, keeping just three players he had acquired and securing Argentine assailant Guillermo Barros Schelotto. Schmid cut the Crew's goalkeeper, Jon Busch, who had been with the group for a long time. Schmid had worries over Busch's playing style and wellness. Busch later condemned Schmid's administration aptitudes, and said he could never work for the mentor again, however offered credit to Schmid's strategic methodology. Scheletto's commitments were vital to Columbus' improvement that season, however the group neglected to make the playoffs. An author for ESPN conjectured that the Crew endured on the grounds that the group the board would not spend more cash, while Schmid regretted that he couldn't pull in an outside star to the little-known city of Columbus. 

The Crew's execution improved strikingly in the 2008 season. Schmid balanced their hostile strategies to be founded on ball ownership and flank speed. He made Schelotto a focal piece of the arrangement in a meandering playmaker position, a job in which Schelotto exceeded expectations and the Argentinian was named the association's MVP. With a 1– 0 triumph over the Houston Dynamo at Crew Stadium on April 26, Schmid turned into the second MLS mentor to win 100 ordinary season amusements. The Crew proceeded to win the Supporters' Shield with the best record in the alliance. In the playoffs, Columbus crushed the New York Red Bulls 3– 1 at Schmid's previous home arena, Los Angeles' Home Depot Center, to win the MLS Cup. Schmid got the Coach of the Year Award for the second time. Some portion of the achievement was credited to Schmid's rebuilding of the squad in 2006 and 2007. 

Schmid declined an agreement offer from Columbus after the 2008 season and progressed toward becoming mentor of Seattle Sounders. The Crew's proprietorship trusted that Schmid had been in contact with Sounders notwithstanding being denied authorization to converse with different groups amid the season. It was additionally asserted that he imparted secret data to Seattle after his agreement with the Crew had finished. The MLS decided that no altering had happened, yet requested Sounders FC to monetarily remunerate the Crew. 

Schmid was named the main mentor of the new development establishment, Seattle Sounders FC. In their 2009 debut season, Seattle crushed D.C. Joined to win the U.S. Open Cup. On October 24, 2009, Seattle crushed FC Dallas 2– 1, giving Schmid his 125th profession MLS customary season win; this success moved Schmid past Bob Bradley for the most successes in MLS history. He drove Seattle to the playoffs where, in the first round, the Dynamo vanquished the group 1– 0 in additional time of the second leg. Seattle was the main development group to make the playoffs in a debut season since the 1998 Chicago Fire, when the association was only two years of age. 

The group started the 2010 MLS season gradually with wounds to key players that affected Schmid's beginning lineups. The group had a record of 4– 8– 3 over the initial 15 recreations. The Sounders likewise progressed through the fundamental round of the 2010– 11 CONCACAF Champions League yet neglected to move beyond the gathering stage. The 2010 U.S. Open Cup crusade finished in Schmid winning his third title with a 2– 1 triumph over the Crew at Seattle's Qwest Field. No MLS group had recently won consecutive Open Cups. The Sounders bounced back in the second 50% of the standard season with a 10– 2– 3 record to fit the bill for the playoffs. The group confronted Bruce Arena's Galaxy in the two-legged quarter-last. The two mentors are viewed as among the best in the MLS, and it was the principal meeting between the two in the playoffs. The Sounders lost by a 3– 1 total and Arena moved inside one round of Schmid's MLS postseason record of 19 wins. 

In 2011, Schmid's Sounders FC had numerous misfortunes and a moderate begin to the season (the club won only 3 of its initial 10 matches). Schmid marked a long haul contract expansion on July 14, 2011, which could keep him with the club through the 2015 MLS season. The expansion is subject to some club choices and execution triggers. Albeit a few fans had turned out to be disappointed with what they saw as strategic resoluteness and botch of players, general administrator Adrian Hanauer lauded Schmid's demonstrable skill and achievement. The Sounders proceeded to complete the standard season with the second-best record in the class at 18 wins, 7 misfortunes, 9 draws, and fit the bill for the playoffs for a third back to back year. Schmid again driven his club to the last of the U.S. Open Cup competition. They crushed the Chicago Fire 2– 0 to turn into the primary group since 1968 to win the competition multiple times successively. Seattle likewise progressed to the thump out phases of the CONCACAF Champions League. In any case, in the MLS playoffs, Sounders FC was again wiped out from the MLS Cup playoffs in the meeting elimination round by Real Salt Lake. 

In 2012, Seattle lost in the 2-legged 2011– 12 CONCACAF Champions League quarter finals by a total score of 7– 3 to Santos Laguna. The Sounders progressed to the finals of the Open Cup where they were crushed by Sporting Kansas City after extra shots. Schmid was angry over what he saw as a questionable consider that gave Kansas City the triumph. The group completed the ordinary season with a 15– 8– 11 record to make the playoffs where they progressed past Real Salt Lake to achieve the meeting title arrangement against the Galaxy. The group played cautious and endured a 3– 0 victory in the primary leg. They won on the arrival leg yet lost on total. 

The Sounders started the 2013 ordinary season without a success until their 6th match. In the wake of progressing through the beginning times of the 2012– 13 CONCACAF Champions League the year earlier, Seattle lost in the elimination rounds to Santos Laguna. The group was thumped out of the 2013 Open Cup in their first match against the lower division Tampa Bay Rowdies. Seattle would rally amid the center of the period to put the Supporter's Shield and the local Cascadia Cup in reach. In any case, the group finished the season on a slide of seven matches without a success that included significant misfortunes to both Colorado and adversary Vancouver. The Sounders beat Colorado in the knockout round of the 2013 MLS Cup Playoffs before losing two matches against chief opponent Portland. Toward the finish of the period, a survey in "The Seattle Times" demonstrated that numerous fans needed to see Schmid terminated. Savants hypothesized on the likelihood of his end dependent on what they saw as poor strategies, a background marked by botching talented players, and a fan base that had higher desires. Proprietor Joe Roth held a post-season meeting with Hanauer and Schmid. Roth later said that the likelihood of Schmid losing his employment was "close", yet rather decided on work force changes to the squad. 

Thusly, Schmid met with a center gathering of players spoken to by Osvaldo Alonso, Clint Dempsey, and Brad Evans. The gathering concurred on changes to the group. Beginning striker Eddie Johnson was later exchanged while another focal protector, winger, midfielder, goalkeeper, and profundity at the forward position were acquired. The group played 2014 with Dempsey and Obafemi Martins playing increasingly through the center as the Sounders won the US Open Cup and the Supporters Shield. 

He spent piece of the 2015– 16 offseason with AS Roma to examine their preparation strategies. Amid the primary portion of the 2016 season, the Sounders neglected to meet desires, putting close to the base of the association with 6 wins, 12 misfortunes, and 2 draws. After a 3– 0 misfortune on July 24 to Sporting Kansas City, in which the Sounders had just a single shot, Schmid left the club on shared terms and was supplanted by aide mentor Brian Schmetzer. 

In the wake of leaving the Sounders, Schmid joined ESPN as a studio examiner. 

On July 27, 2017, the LA Galaxy named Schmid as their new mentor, supplanting Curt Onalfo—the associate mentor and successor to Bruce Arena, who had withdrawn the Galaxy in November 2016 to assume control over the United States men's national group. Under Onalfo, the Galaxy had lost portion of their 20 coordinates and were on a five-coordinate losing streak in mid-July, missing a few key players to wounds. Schmid's first counterpart for the Galaxy in 2017 finished in a scoreless draw against the Seattle Sounders, however the group would just win two matches before consummation the season in last spot—missing the playoffs out of the blue since 2008 and the fourth time in their history. 

Schmid was given more noteworthy forces identified with player work force choices by the Galaxy, like that of Arena's residency and supplanting jobs served by general supervisor Pete Vagenas, and hoped to enter the 2018 season with a "triumphant" program. Amid the offseason, the Galaxy redesignd its program and declined to re-sign a few beginning players, including commander Jermaine Jones and homegrown player Gyasi Zardes. Schmid supplanted the center group with free operators and exchanges from different MLS groups, including Perry Kitchen, Chris Pontius, Ola Kamara, and David Bingham. The Galaxy likewise marked star striker Zlatan Ibrahimović, who Schmid trusted would be a "positive effect" in the group. 

The Galaxy began the season with wounds to key players and a portion of its fresh debuts. The group scored an early triumph against new opponent Los Angeles FC in the debut match of "El Tráfico", with Ibrahimović appearing as a substitute and driving the group to a 4– 3 success. The Galaxy at that point slipped and lost four matches in succession, a few by a solitary objective, however recuperated and left on a nine-coordinate unbeaten streak that kept going until August. The Galaxy at that point neglected to win its next five matches under Schmid and slipped to eighth spot in the Western Conference, yielding 11 objectives in two away matches to Seattle and Salt Lake. Schmid left the Galaxy on September 10, 2018, and was supplanted by partner mentor Dominic Kinnear. Kinnear supplanted Schmid's 3– 5– 2 arrangement with a regular 4– 2 lineup and restored the group to playoff dispute, in any case neglected to secure a playoff compartment. 

Schmid lived in Bellevue, Washington, amid the soccer season. He was hitched to Valerie Schmid and had four kids: Erik, Lacey, Kurt, and Kyle. Kurt has been the head scout for Sounders FC and was additionally the Director of Player Personnel and Scouting for the L.A. System. Kyle played as a protector at UC Irvine and was in the USL Premier Development League with Orange County Blue Star. Kyle is currently an associate mentor at Cal State Fullerton. Sigi once in a while missed diversion days in MLS, however got some much needed rest for Lacey and Kurt's weddings and Kurt's school graduation. Schmid's more youthful sibling, Roland, lived in Sammamish, Washington, and having family in the region was one of the elements which induced Schmid to acknowledge the Seattle work. Subsequent to leaving the Galaxy in September 2018, Schmid expressed that he intended to join another MLS club's front office or compose a book. 

Schmid was hospitalized a few times amid his later profession, including once for an episode of pneumonia in 2009 and again for an undisclosed issue in 2015 that expected him to miss an ordinary season coordinate with the Sounders. 

Schmid had weight and heart issues that later figured into his choice to resign from the LA Galaxy in 2018. Schmid was hospitalized on December 10, 2018, in Los Angeles and put in serious consideration at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center while anticipating a heart transplant. He passed on December 25, 2018, at 65 years old. A remembrance administration was held in Manhattan Beach, California, on January 18, 2019. 

Schmid has been depicted as one of the two "back up parents" of American soccer, close by long-lasting opponent Bruce Arena, with associations with the instructing and specialized staffs crosswise over MLS. In the days after his passing, Schmid's commitments to the amusement and his treatment of players and mentors under the care of him were featured in commendations and remembrances. On January 11, 2019, MLS reported that it would rename its Coach of the Year Award to respect the Sigi Schmid Coach of the Year Award out of appreciation for Schmid's commitments to the association.