Super Meat Boy 

Super Meat Boy is an autonomous computer game planned by Edmund McMillen and Tommy Refenes, and created by "Group Meat". It is the successor to "Meat Boy", McMillen and Jonathan McEntee's 2008 glimmer amusement. The amusement was discharged on the Xbox 360 through Xbox Live Arcade in October 2010, on Microsoft Windows in November 2010, on OS X a year later in November 2011, on Linux in December 2011 as a piece of the Humble Indie Bundle #4 (in May 2012 as a piece of the Humble Indie Bundle #5), on PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita in October 2015, on Wii U in May 2016, and for the Nintendo Switch in January 2018. 

In the amusement, the player controls Meat Boy, a red, 3D shape formed character, as he endeavors to protect his better half, Bandage Girl, from the diversion's opponent Dr. Baby. The interactivity is portrayed by fine control and split-second planning, as the player runs and bounces through over 300 hazardous dimensions while maintaining a strategic distance from deterrents. Extra player-made dimensions are accessible for nothing download. 

Advancement of the diversion started in January 2009. McMillen chipped away at level plan and work of art, while Refenes coded the diversion; it was tried fundamentally by the pair and their families. At first planned for discharge in mid 2010 for PCs and the WiiWare download administration, the discharge date was pushed back as the structure was changed to incorporate more dimensions, yet avoid multiplayer modes. The WiiWare form was dropped because of the administration's specialized constraints, and rather the principal discharge was on the Xbox 360. The music for the amusement was made by Danny Baranowsky, who had additionally made the music for the first "Meat Boy". The soundtrack was discharged as a collection, and music from "Super Meat Boy" was discharged as downloadable substance for "Musical gang 3". 

The diversion was widely praised; in 2010, it got grants for "Most Challenging Game" from IGN, and for "Best Downloadable Game" from GameSpot and GameTrailers. Faultfinders commended the diversion's exact controls, retro work of art, and soundtrack. Commentators for the most part commended the amusement's test, albeit some cautioned that not all players would welcome the abnormal state of trouble (perhaps a return to rounds of yesteryear). The amusement was a business and monetary achievement, and sold more than one million duplicates by January 2012. 

A continuation of the amusement, "Super Meat Boy Forever", is being developed, for discharge in April 2019. 

"Super Meat Boy" is a stage diversion in which players control a little, dim red, block formed character named Meat Boy, who must spare his 3D shape molded, intensely dressed sweetheart Bandage Girl from the abhorrent researcher Dr. Hatchling. The diversion is separated into sections, which together contain more than 300 dimensions. Players endeavor to achieve the finish of each dimension, spoken to by Bandage Girl, while abstaining from disintegrating squares, saw sharp edges, and different other lethal hindrances. The player can hop and keep running on stages, and can hop off or slide down dividers. The center interactivity requires fine control and split-second planning, and was contrasted with, in regards to both ongoing interaction and dimension of trouble, conventional stage amusements, for example, "Super Mario Bros." and "Phantoms 'n Goblins". 

Levels in every section can be played in any request, however a specific number of levels should be finished to get to the manager arrange, which opens the following part whenever cleared. The player has a boundless number of endeavors to finish each dimension. In the event that Meat Boy is murdered, he quickly restarts the dimension, however the fancy red meat squeeze abandoned on surfaces that the player has contacted remains. A replay work, which might be gotten to after a dimension is finished, at the same time demonstrates all the player's endeavors to finish the dimension. Finishing a dimension inside a specific time acquires an "A+" grade, which opens a harder substitute rendition of the dimension in the "dim world", a discretionary arrangement of particularly troublesome dimensions. Shrouded stages called twist zones are gotten to by discovering entries in explicit dimensions. These twist zones include extra dimensions that have either the craftsmanship style of more established computer games and a farthest point of three lives, or are designed after another independent computer game, for example, "Manor Crashers" or "Plait". The player may control characters other than Meat Boy, a significant number of whom initially showed up in other autonomous computer games. Each character has diverse characteristics, for example, Commander Video's capacity to quickly glide in midair. These characters can be opened by gathering swathe things set all through the amusement's dimensions or finishing certain twist zones. A few wraps must be gathered by utilizing certain characters. A few dimensions, for example, twist zones and manager levels, must be played with explicit characters. The accessible characters change contingent upon the form of the diversion played. 

The Xbox Live Arcade (XBLA) rendition includes an unlockable mode called "Teh Internets", which is refreshed with new, free, authoritatively curated levels. The PC adaptation has a "Super Meat World" area, which enables clients to play and rate extra dimensions that players have made with a dimension editorial manager. This editorial manager was discharged in May 2011. Players can likewise get to an unsupported designer mode inside the amusement to alter their very own dimensions utilizing the "harsh" devices that Team Meat used to make the diversion. 

The first "Meat Boy" is an Adobe Flash amusement made by Edmund McMillen and modified by Jonathan McEntee. The diversion was created over a three-week time span, and was discharged on Newgrounds on October 5, 2008. By April 2009, it had collected more than 840,000 perspectives at Newgrounds, and 8 million by and large. A guide pack for the Flash form was discharged on December 8, 2008. McMillen started advancement of "Super Meat Boy" after Nintendo and Microsoft mentioned that he make an amusement for their download administrations, WiiWare and Xbox Live Arcade, as they were awed by the accomplishment of his Flash recreations "Aether" and "Meat Boy". At the time, he was working with Tommy Refenes on a Flash diversion titled "Dim Matter". In spite of the fact that McMillen at first pitched the organizations a spin-off of "Gish" or "Aether", the pair chose to shape Team Meat and work on an extended variant of "Meat Boy." Group Meat additionally incorporates soundtrack arranger Danny Baranowsky and audio effects creator Jordan Fehr. As per the engineers, "Super Meat Boy" is "a major return to a great deal of very bad-to-the-bone NES works of art like "Ghosts'n Goblins", "Uber Man", and the Japanese form of """, with the plot composed as "a blend of each videogame story from the mid 90s". The diversion was unequivocally structured by the group to be reminiscent of "Super Mario Bros.", and McMillen thought of it as a tribute to Shigeru Miyamoto, the engineer of "Super Mario Bros." 

Advancement of "Super Meat Boy" started in January 2009. At first declared for WiiWare and PC, the amusement was set to be discharged in the primary quarter of 2010. The discharge date was pushed back to the final quarter on the grounds that the engineers needed more opportunity to make additional dimensions, for example, the dull universes. An image discharged on Team Meat's Twitter page on February 22, 2010, uncovered that the amusement would likewise be discharged for XBLA. The following day, they reported that, while all renditions would be discharged around the same time, the diversion would be discharged for XBLA first because of "legally binding commitments". In August 2010, the designers were reached by Microsoft with the possibility of incorporation in Microsoft's 2010 Fall GameFeast XBLA advancement two months after the fact. As they were practically out of cash, they didn't trust that they could monetarily bolster themselves until the Spring occasion, however felt they had four months of work left to finish on the diversion. For the last two months of advancement they worked every day, dozed five hours per night, and much of the time neglected to eat—a procedure that McMillen said he "could never willfully experience" again. As indicated by McMillen, because of Microsoft's low desires for the diversion, "Super Meat Boy" was gently advanced. The dimension of advancement was not expanded amid the GameFeast, however the diversion enormously beat the remainder of the amusements in the occasion. The group portrayed the exertion required to complete the diversion for the advancement as "by a wide margin the greatest oversight [they] made amid SMB's improvement". Their advancement battle is portrayed in the narrative "". The amusement was discharged on XBLA in October 2010 and on PCs by means of Steam and Direct2Drive every month later. McMillen noticed that the PC discharge was more intensely advanced than the XBLA adaptation. An adaptation for Mac OS X was discharged in November 2011, while another rendition for Linux working frameworks was discharged in December 2011 as a major aspect of the Humble Indie Bundle #4 amusement pack. 

Because of Sony's underlying absence of enthusiasm for the diversion, Team Meat went into legally binding commitments that precluded "Super Meat Boy" from regularly being discharged on the PlayStation 3. In spite of this an adaptation for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita was in the long run reported The WiiWare variant was dropped on the grounds that the diversion's record estimate had been extended past the points of confinement forced by Nintendo. Group Meat investigated discharging it as a retail Wii amusement, however were told by all outsider distributers they moved toward that a spending title would not be beneficial so late into the Wii's lifecycle. Be that as it may, after Team Meat indicated it in October 2015, "Super Meat Boy" has been affirmed for the Wii U eShop through a discharge reel appeared on the European Nintendo Direct of March 2016. The Wii U port is taken care of by BlitWorks, a different non mainstream designer, and was discharged in 2016. Group Meat reported a Nintendo Switch port in August 2017, and it is discharging on January 11, 2018. The Switch rendition incorporated a stage elite "Race Mode", permitting two players on the Switch's part screen and utilizing separate Joy-Con to race through arrangements of levels. This mode was added to the Windows form in October 2018. 

A constrained version retail form of the PC amusement was discharged in April 2011. It included rewards, for example, in the background recordings, an example plate of the diversion's music, and a "Super Meat Boy" comic. In 2012 Team Meat started prototyping an iOS and Android variant of the diversion. The amusement is proposed to be an alternate interpretation of the "Super Meat Boy" idea that is more adjusted to contact screen controls than an immediate port would be. This amusement was later affirmed to be titled "Super Meat Boy: Forever", which is slated for a 2018 discharge. Later Team Meat discharged two pictures of the new diversion one with the new designs and other with the new part named The Green Hills. 

Group Meat discharged a few bits of stock identified with "Super Meat Boy". These incorporate "Super Meat Boy Handheld", an iOS application discharged on April 3, 2010 and styled on a Tiger Electronics handheld. It was discharged as a joke after Refenes' amusement "Zits and Giggles" was expelled from the iTunes Store following an announcement by Refenes that compared the iPhone to a Tiger handheld. McMillen has discharged a "Super Meat Boy" microgame for "WarioWare D.I.Y." Team Meat sells charms, extravagant toys, and blurbs identified with the diversion, just as T-shirts, stickers, stress balls, and a constrained release "Super Meat Boy" comic. In 2011, Voxelous discharged a lot of four "Super Meat Boy" figures of Meat Boy, Bandage Girl, Brownie, and Tofu Boy, later making figures of Commander Video, Jill, Ogmo, and Dr. Baby. 

"Super Meat Boy"s soundtrack was made by Danny Baranowsky, who recently created the soundtracks for the outside the box computer games "Canabalt", "Cortex Command", and "Gravity Hook". He additionally created the music for the first "Meat Boy". McMillen knew about Baranowsky's other work, and moved toward him late in "Meat Boy"s advancement, requesting that he supply whatever tracks he had available. For the soundtrack of "Super Meat Boy", Baranowsky joined the music he had accommodated "Meat Boy" into an extended soundtrack. He attempted to guarantee that the music would go with the activity on the screen without overwhelming the audio cues. Baranowsky was given finished opportunity for the amusement's music, and held the majority of the rights to it; McMillen trusted that being more put resources into the diversion would let Baranowsky express the piece of him that was "hyper, over the top, complex, and loaded with life". McMillen feels that the soundtrack "gets your pulse up, supplements each part of its interactivity, and remains with you for a considerable length of time". 

On October 26, 2010, the amusement's soundtrack was discharged as a download-just collection by means of the online Bandcamp store titled "Super Meat Boy! Soundtrack". This discharge highlights 34 tracks and a 100-minute runtime, and incorporates a few remixes of tracks from the amusement. On January 11, 2011, Baranowsky and Team Meat discharged an uncommon release soundtrack on Bandcamp as both a downloadable and physical collection. This version incorporates a second circle of tunes excluded in the first discharge, just as extra remixes. The collection, titled "Decent to Meat You", has an aggregate of 73 tracks, is 2 hours 25 minutes in length, and highlights collection work of art by McMillen. Three music tracks from the amusement were discharged as downloadable substance for "Musical gang 3" in June 2011. 

Baranowsky's music was not utilized for the PlayStation 4, Nintendo Wii U, Nintendo Switch and PlayStation Vita variants, as he "no longer [had] a working association with Team Meat" and they couldn't concede to permitting terms. Rather, those adaptations of the amusement highlight a soundtrack formed by Ridiculon (Matthias Bossi and Jon Evans), David "Scattle" Scatliffe, and Laura Shigihara, who have recently taken a shot at recreations, for example, "", "Hotline Miami", and "Plants versus Zombies" separately. A soundtrack collection for the new music, titled "Tunes in the Key of Meat: Music from SMB fifth Anniversary", was discharged on Bandcamp on October 6, 2015. On April 13, 2017, Tommy Refenes presented the elective soundtrack on the PC port. 

"Pleasant to Meat You" track list 

"Super Meat Boy" got basic praise. Subsequent to being exhibited at the Penny Arcade Expo 2010, "Super Meat Boy" was proclaimed Game of the Show by Destructoid and designated for a similar honor by Machinima.com. The amusement got designations for the Grand Prize and Excellence in Audio grants at the 2010 Independent Games Festival. It won the honor for Most Challenging Game in IGN's Best of 2010 honors, and got designations for Best Soundtrack and Best Retro Design. It was casted a ballot GameSpot's Best Downloadable Console Game of 2010, and won the Best Downloadable Game honor from GameTrailers. Deals were solid, with almost 140,000 units of the Xbox 360 form sold before the finish of 2010. The Steam and Xbox 360 adaptations had sold more than 600,000 duplicates consolidated by April 2011; 400,000 of these deals were through Steam. On January 3, 2012, Team Meat reported on Twitter that the amusement had outperformed 1,000,000 deals. 

Pundits lauded "Super Meat Boy"s platforming components, and frequently remarked on the amusement's trouble. "X-Play" commentator Alexandra Hall said the amusement had "riveting platforming activity", and included that ""Super Meat Boy"s originators are experts of their art." Henry Gilbert of GamesRadar felt the platforming was "flawless". He composed that "while it's constantly intense and requesting, it never feels shabby, or like the diversion is conning you." An analyst from GameTrailers expressed that "the trouble rides the ideal line between making you totally bonkers when you come up short and making you feel like a stage expert when you succeed". Joystiq's Richard Mitchell reverberated other analysts' remarks: ""Super Meat Boy" is intense, as extreme as the hardest nails in the hardest universe." Gilbert refered to the dimension of trouble, which he accepted made the diversion difficult to reach to certain players, as his purpose behind not granting the amusement an ideal score. Tom McShea of GameSpot lauded the diversion's "exact control", "superb dimension plan", and "smooth trouble bend". Analyst Tom Bramwell of Eurogamer cautioned that "Super Meat Boy" is "a hard amusement. It should make you need to toss the cushion over the room". 

Commentators gave high checks to the amusement's retro workmanship bearing and introduction. "Official Xbox Magazine" (UK)s Mike Channel valued the assortment found in each arrangement of levels. He expressed that "while the illustrations may look unrefined, the introduction is outstanding. Each dimension has a particular visual style." Daemon Hatfield, an analyst for IGN, noticed the uniqueness of the amusement's visual introduction. He remarked that the twist zone levels pay tribute to exemplary 8-bit amusements, and commended the diversion's soundtrack: "The shaking chiptune soundtrack is the best I've heard since "Scott Pilgrim versus The World: The Game"". Joe Leonard of 1UP.com noticed that the diversion's amusingness and over-the-top ongoing interaction help to quiet disappointments with respect to the trouble: ""Super Meat Boy"s most prominent quality must be the means by which it never pays attention to itself as well—as infuriating as a portion of the dimensions got, I would never remain furious at the amusement for a really long time", said Leonard. MTV Multiplayer commentator Russ Frushtick adulated the diversion's visual plan. He valued the diversion's cutscenes, which he noted are "hand-drawn energized [shorts] which [bear] in excess of a passing similarity to a great computer game introduction". 

While the diversion got high recognition by and large, certain distributions voiced objections. Hatfield noticed that the cutscenes had low creation esteems, expressing that "they don't have the clean of the remainder of the diversion". The analyst for "PC Gamer" referenced "a couple of minor, yet-to-be-fixed bugs". Eduardo Reboucas of Game Revolution said that "a ton of the dimensions in "Super Meat Boy" depend excessively much on jerk reflexes and experimentation retention". He likewise expressed that "there are a few bits of latrine humor all over that are duds", and that the diversion's abnormal state of trouble "will make most easygoing players timid away". Mitchell Dyer of "GamePro" concurred, saying that certain "foolishly troublesome" levels broke the stream of the diversion, particularly in the manager levels and the later sections. 

Meat Boy has shown up in the computer games "Bit.Trip Runner", "Bit.Trip Fate", and "", just as in "Spelunky", "", "Ori and the Blind Forest", "Retro City Rampage", and "ilomilo". A spoof Flash amusement, "Super Tofu Boy", was discharged by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) on December 1, 2010, to challenge the diversion and advance veganism. Accordingly, Team Meat included its own understanding of Tofu Boy to the PC form of the real "Super Meat Boy" on December 2, 2010. The amusement's prosperity prodded the advancement of the 1930s-style energized outside the box computer game "Cuphead". 

On August 29, 2014, Team Meat reported that a continuation, "Super Meat Boy: Forever", was being developed for cell phones, tablets, and Steam. "Perpetually" is styled as an interminable sprinter, however the player has extra capacities, for example, battle controls, to finish levels. Levels themselves are powerfully constructed dependent on the trouble level, and get logically increasingly troublesome as the player finishes them. The diversion was affirmed for discharge in 2018 on Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, iOS and Android frameworks in August 2017.