Hoodlum II 

Hoodlum II: The Metal Age is a 2000 stealth computer game created by Looking Glass Studios and distributed by Eidos Interactive. Like its antecedent "", the amusement pursues Garrett, an ace criminal who works in and around a steampunk city called the City. The player expect the job of Garrett as he disentangles a scheme identified with another religious organization. Garrett takes on missions, for example, thefts and frameups, while attempting to evade discovery by watchmen and mechanized security. 

"Hoodlum II" was intended to expand on the establishment of its forerunner. Because of input from players of "Criminal", the group put a substantial spotlight on urban stealth in the spin-off, and they limited the utilization of beasts and labyrinth like dimensions. The diversion was made with the third cycle of the Dark Engine, which had been utilized beforehand to create "Cheat" and "Framework Shock 2". "Cheat II" was declared at the 1999 Electronic Entertainment Expo, as a component of an all-encompassing contract between Looking Glass and Eidos to discharge amusements in the "Criminal" arrangement. Mirror neared chapter 11 as the amusement was created, and the organization was continued running by advances from Eidos. 

"Criminal II" got positive audits from faultfinders, and its underlying deals were more grounded than those of its ancestor. Be that as it may, the diversion's eminences were prepared gradually, which intensified Looking Glass' money related inconveniences. Thus, the organization shut in May 2000, with designs for "Hoodlum III" dropped. The third diversion in the arrangement, entitled "", was created by Ion Storm and distributed by Eidos in 2004. "Criminal 2X: Shadows of the Metal Age", a generally applauded development mod for "Cheat II", was discharged in 2005. In 2014, Square Enix distributed a reboot of the arrangement, created by Eidos Montréal. 

"Criminal II" is a stealth amusement that happens from a first-individual viewpoint in a three-dimensional (3D) graphical condition. The player looks to finish mission goals and to avoid the notice of rivals, for example, protects. The player must limit the perceivability and perceptibility of the player character, Garrett, to escape recognition. Players attempt to maintain a strategic distance from lit zones and noisy ground surface for shadows and calm deck. A light screen on the heads-up showcase (HUD) demonstrates the player character's perceivability. While it is feasible for the player character to take part in direct battle, he is effectively vanquished. 

The diversion's 15 missions happen in expansive dimensions that can be stood up to in numerous ways. Watchmen might be thumped out with a blackjack or executed with a bow or sword, and their fallen bodies might be grabbed and covered up. Notwithstanding human adversaries, the amusement highlights security robots and reconnaissance cameras. While finishing goals, for example, frameups and extortion, the player takes assets that might be utilized to buy stealing gear between missions. The player's principle devices are particular bolts, including water bolts to drench lights, greenery bolts to hose the player character's strides and rope bolts to achieve higher ground. 

"Hoodlum II" is intended to be played efficiently, and the player prepares by exploring, perusing the amusement's guide and watching watch designs. The player character has a zooming mechanical eye, which associates with throwable "Exploring Orb" cameras. One Scouting Orb might be sent at once; when it handles, the player sees the diversion world from its point of view until ordinary play is continued. The player tunes in for commotions, for example, strides and murmuring, to decide the areas of foes. On the most elevated of the amusement's three trouble levels, slaughtering people results in a diversion over, and in specific missions the player must not thump out any watchmen. 

Like its ancestor "", "Hoodlum II" is set in a steampunk city called the City, whose appearance takes after that of both medieval and Victorian period urban communities. Enchantment and steam innovation exist one next to the other, and three groups—the manipulative and puzzling Keepers, the innovation centered Hammerites and the "agnostic" admirers of the Pan-like Trickster god—are in task. "Cheat II" happens one year after the primary diversion. In the consequence of the Trickster's thrashing and the disappointment of his arrangement to return the world to a wild, crude express, a faction in the Hammerite religion brings forth the "Mechanist" organization, which fanatically values mechanical advancement. The new developments of the Mechanists are utilized by a resurgent police power to get serious about wrongdoing. The agnostics are in disorder, and have been crashed into the wild past the City. From that point, they take part in guerrilla fighting against the Mechanists. The Keeper group is torpid as the amusement starts. 

The diversion proceeds with the account of Garrett (voiced by Stephen Russell), the negative ace cheat who crushed the Trickster. Seeking after Garrett is the new sheriff, Gorman Truart (voiced by Sam Babbitt), who has forced a zero resilience arrangement on wrongdoing. Viktoria (voiced by Terri Brosius), the previous partner of the Trickster, inevitably unites with Garrett to battle the Mechanists. The amusement's essential opponent is the author of the Mechanists, Father Karras (likewise voiced by Russell), a rationally precarious designer who detests the common world. 

The diversion starts as Garrett proceeds with his life as a criminal. In any case, he is sold out by his fence and trapped after an early mission, and he confirms that Truart, the neighborhood sheriff, is chasing him. Managers take Garrett to hear a prescience about the "Metal Age", which he disregards. As Garrett abandons, one of the Keepers illuminates him that Truart had been procured to execute him, and he gives Garrett a letter that guides him to spy on a Mechanist meeting. There, Garrett catches Truart and Father Karras talking about the change of road individuals into thoughtless "Hirelings", who wear covers that produce a red vapor equipped for decreasing themselves and close-by people to rust. Truart guarantees to give Karras twenty exploited people for the Servant venture, not understanding that Karras is recording his words for use in coercion. Garrett takes the account from a sheltered store box, so as to pressure Truart into uncovering his boss. 

Nonetheless, Garrett discovers Truart killed at his bequest. Proof at the wrongdoing scene drives him to keep an eye on the cop Lt. Mosley. Garrett sees Mosley convey a suspicious letter, which is brought through an entrance by an injured agnostic. Garrett enters the entry and ends up outside the City, and he pursues the agnostic's trail of blood to Viktoria, who influences Garrett to join her against the Mechanists. On a lead from Viktoria, he penetrates Karras' office to find out about the "Cetus Project", and unintentionally finds that Karras is offering Servants to the City's nobles. Garrett goes to a Mechanist base to discover progressively about the Cetus Project, which is uncovered to be a submarine. So as to find and seize a high-positioning Mechanist named Brother Cavador, Garrett stows away in the vehicle. 

Subsequent to conveying Cavador to Viktoria, Garrett takes a Servant veil to find out about a Mechanist innovation called a "Cultivator". In the mean time, Karras stows away inside the Mechanist church in anticipation of his arrangement. Garrett and Viktoria discover that it is the Cultivators inside Servant covers which transmit red vapor, or "rust gas". Karras had given Servants to nobles cultivates so as to set off a whole-world destroying chain response. Viktoria plans to bait the Servants into the hermetically fixed Mechanist house of God before Karras initiates their covers, however Garrett trusts this to be excessively risky and leaves. Viktoria goes to the house of God alone and bites the dust while filling it with plants, and Garrett finishes her arrangement, executing Karras in the rust gas. A short time later, Garrett is drawn closer by a Keeper who clarifies that Karras' plan and Viktoria's demise had been forecasted. Garrett requests to know the remainder of the Keepers' predictions as the diversion closes. 

Mirror Studios started planning "Criminal II" in January 1999. The group's objective was to expand on the establishment of "Criminal: The Dark Project", a diversion that "Cheat II" venture chief Steve Pearsall later said was a trial. He clarified that the group had taken no chances by including certain "investigation ... or on the other hand experience arranged" missions with "hopping and climbing baffles" in "Hoodlum", and that the new diversion was fundamentally progressively centered around stealth. Battle was given less conspicuousness than in the first. In light of criticism from players and analysts of "Hoodlum", the group chose to downsize the utilization of labyrinth like dimensions and beasts, for example, zombies for urban conditions and human adversaries. Pearsall expressed that "Thief"s beasts were contrarily gotten in light of the fact that, in contrast to the diversion's human foes, they didn't obviously show when they saw the player. The group looked to cure this issue by improving the sound signals given by non-human adversaries in the spin-off. 

Creation of "Criminal II" started in February. Mirror made the diversion's group out of "a large portion of the first creators and half fresh recruits", as indicated by official maker James Poole. The organization endeavored to choose individuals who coincided well both by and by and imaginatively, trying to ensure a smooth improvement cycle. Adrenaline Vault proofreader in-boss Emil Pagliarulo was contracted as a lesser originator, to some extent due to his positive survey of "Criminal". Rich "zdim" Carlson and Iikka Keränen joined from Ion Storm's "Daikatana" group, and Looking Glass temporary worker Terri Brosius was employed as a full-time planner. 33% of the group was female, which Pearsall trusted added to a solid gathering dynamic. As was run of the mill at Looking Glass, the "Criminal II" group worked in a divider less space called a "pit", which enabled them to chat effectively. Depicting the workplace at the time, author Laura Baldwin noticed that "discussions dash frantically about the room, [and] when somebody is showing something intriguing everybody floats over to look." 

Amid the primary long periods of advancement, the group normally assembled to watch films relevant to Garrett's character and to the diversion's visual plan, for example, "The Third Man", "The Castle of Cagliostro", "M" and "City". Pearsall said that the last two movies were "Criminal II"s "greatest stylish impacts", while the principle motivation for its plot was Umberto Eco's tale "The Name of the Rose". The group additionally drew impact from Fritz Leiber's "Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser". The diversion's story was written in the three-demonstration structure: Garrett was expected to progress from his "pessimistic self" in the main demonstration to a private agent in the second, and to a character like James Bond in the third. The City's innovation and design were impacted by the presence of Victorian London, and certain zones were given an Art Deco subject to give "kind of a "Batman" feel", in reference to the 1989 film. Lead craftsman Mark Lizotte caught more than two-thousand photos amid his get-away in Europe, and these were the reason for a significant number of the amusement's surfaces. 

"Hoodlum II" was worked with the third cycle of the Dark Engine, which had been utilized beforehand for "Cheat" and "Framework Shock 2". As indicated by Pearsall, the Dark Engine had turned into "a very surely knew improvement condition", which made for a simpler creation process. Motor updates made for "Framework Shock 2, for example, support for 16-bit shading, were extended to "Hoodlum II". The normal character show in "Hoodlum II" was offered near twofold the polygons of the normal model in "Cheat", with a significant part of the additional detail concentrated on characters' heads. This was an endeavor to give the characters an "increasingly natural" look. Certain man-made consciousness (AI) schedules composed into the Dark Engine, which enabled adversaries to see changes in nature, for example, open entryways, had not been utilized in "Cheat" or in "Framework Shock 2 "yet were actualized in "Hoodlum II". Climate impacts, for example, haze and downpour were included, and innovation from "Flight Unlimited III" was utilized to create the sky and mists. 

"Cheat II" was reported amid the Electronic Entertainment Expo on May 13, 1999, as a major aspect of an agreement between Looking Glass and Eidos Interactive to discharge four new recreations in the "Hoodlum" arrangement, starting with "Criminal Gold". The arrangement had been marked on May 7, approximately three months after "Cheat II" entered generation. A tech demo of the diversion, which Bruce Geryk of Games Domain depicted as "around three rooms with some Mages", was shown on the show floor. The demo was utilized to grandstand the refreshed Dark Engine, which highlighted support for shaded lighting, higher polygon models and bigger conditions. The group uncovered their goal to incorporate more dimensions with human adversaries, and reported an anticipated discharge date of spring 2000. Plans to incorporate a helpful multiplayer mode were likewise nitty gritty at the show. IGN's Jason Bates noticed that the "Cheat II" show pulled in "somewhat of a buzz and a little horde of committed spectators". 

By July, the group had started beginning development of the amusement's dimensions. "Hoodlum II"s expanded spotlight on stealth required new dimension plan ideas: the most stealth-based missions in "Cheat" had focused on urban thievery, yet Pearsall clarified this "would get drained really quick" whenever rehashed in each dimension. The group expanded "Criminal II" by planning missions with so much destinations as abducting, shakedown and listening in. The initial two dimensions were intended to consistently acquaint new players with the center diversion mechanics, without an instructional exercise mission that may lose the enthusiasm of experienced players. While making a mission, the group would frequently start by settling on the player's target, after which they would create an unpleasant dimension plan. The mission would then experience a companion audit to decide whether it ought to be added to the amusement. Every one of the amusement's dimensions was a collaboration as opposed to crafted by a solitary creator. Fashioner Randy Smith clarified that, while "Thief"s levels had been intended to fit a prior story, the "Cheat II" group "attempted to consider great missions first" and after that balanced the plot to suit them. He noticed that it was exceedingly hard to orchestrate the two. 

The diversion's sound group was made out of Kemal Amarasingham, Damin Djawadi and sound executive Eric Brosius. As indicated by Brosius, every individual from the sound division did "everything", without clear boundaries between jobs. Like "Hoodlum", "Criminal II" includes a sound motor that mimics engendering continuously. To accomplish this impact, each dimension's geometry was input both to the dimension manager and to a "separate [sound] database", which mapped how solid would sensibly engender dependent on "the physical room qualities [... and] how all the diverse rooms and zones are associated together". For instance, clamor voyages unreservedly through an open entryway however is blocked when the entryway is shut. The group utilized the new "impediment" highlight in EAX 2.0 to make "Hoodlum II"s sound condition increasingly sensible and to enable the player to tune in through entryways. The diversion includes progressively audio effects, music and discourse than the first "Criminal". "Hoodlum II"s score, likewise with that of its antecedent, was intended to "obscure surrounding [sound] and music" together. Be that as it may, Brosius later expressed that, while "Thief"s soundtrack is made out of "basic and entrancing" circles just a couple of moments long, "Criminal II" includes longer and "all the more insightfully" developed pieces. He trusted that this technique had positive perspectives, however that it brought about a less vivid sound condition. 

Craftsman Dan Thron came back to make the diversion's cutscenes, with help from Jennifer Hrabota-Lesser. Thron later called Hrabota-Lesser "one of the best craftsmen I've at any point seen". The cutscenes, which "PC Games Magazine" called "special", highlight different layers of craftsmanship and film of live performers shot against a green screen. These parts were joined and enlivened in Adobe After Effects. The procedure had been created for the first "Cheat", as an advancement of originator Ken Levine's proposal to utilize movement comic cutscenes. David Lynch's movies "Eraserhead" and "The Elephant Man" were vital effects on their style. 

By October 1999, the group had cut the diversion's multiplayer include. Pearsall clarified that Looking Glass did not "have the assets to complete another sort of multiplayer and ship a finely tuned single-player amusement". Plans were reported in January 2000 to discharge a multiplayer-just "Hoodlum" diversion not long after the finishing of "Criminal II". As "Cheat II"s advancement kept, Looking Glass experienced outrageous money related inconveniences. The organization's Marc LeBlanc later said that "Eidos was composing a check each week to cover our consume rate" amid the most recent months of the task. The amusement's last expense was generally $2.5 million. As per organization head Paul Neurath, Eidos educated Looking Glass that "it was anything but an alternative" for "Criminal II" to miss its discharge date, and that there would be "critical outcomes if [we] missed by even multi day". A mysterious Looking Glass staff member later revealed to Salon.com that Eidos "let us know fundamentally to transport ["Thief II"] by their financial quarter or bite the dust". 

By January, Pearsall affirmed that the diversion had achieved beta, and that a large portion of the group's vitality was being spent "tuning, cleaning, and fixing bugs". He noted toward the beginning of February that "Cheat II" had been delivered for the most part on calendar. The organization slipped behind close to the finish of the venture and entered time to get down to business to make up the misfortune. On February 24, "Hoodlum II" maker Michael McHale reported that the diversion had achieved "highlight solidify", and that the group was in "super crunch mode". Various diversion analyzers from Eidos joined the undertaking. Nonetheless, McHale said that the group was empowered and that "spirits [were] high". Certain workers dozed in the workplace and abstained from washing with the goal that the diversion could achieve its March due date. LeBlanc later expressed his conviction that the diversion was hurried, and that its quality endured subsequently. By and by, the group met their objective, and the amusement was discharged on March 23, 2000. Eidos sped up the organization's installment for finishing the amusement. 

"Cheat 2" appeared high on the blockbusters list for PC amusements, and its underlying deals were superior to those of its economically effective ancestor. By November 2000, its worldwide deals had outperformed 220,000 duplicates; "PC Zone" portrayed these figures as "business recognition." The United States alone represented 67,084 deals before the finish of 2000, which attracted incomes of $2.37 million. The amusement later got a "Silver" deals grant by the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), demonstrating offers of no less than 100,000 duplicates in the United Kingdom. "Criminal II" additionally gotten positive surveys from faultfinders, with a total score of 87/100 on Metacritic and 89% on GameRankings. 

"PC Gaming World"s Thomas L. McDonald composed that "everything in "Cheat II" is greater, more honed, better, and increasingly compelling" than in its antecedent. He making the most of its story and called its dimensions "huge and mind boggling", with "amazingly unpredictable and frequently wonderful" engineering; however he observed the diversion's designs to be to some degree dreary. McDonald outlined "Criminal II" as an interesting "gamer's diversion". Jim Preston of "PC Gamer US" believed the amusement to be "more engaged and cleaned than the first", and he applauded the evacuation of "zombie fights". While he blamed its designs, he outlined it as "a serious decent diversion". 

Jasen Torres of "GameFan" expressed, "On the off chance that you enjoyed "Cheat", you'll cherish "Hoodlum 2: The Metal Age"; it's a greater amount of the stuff that made "Criminal" incredible, with less of the irritating stuff". He commended the evacuation of "zombie executioner" missions and trusted the diversion's sound to be "better than some other amusement". He believed its story to be "great" yet "nothing extraordinary" and its illustrations to be "conventional"; yet he remarked that the amusement was "actually about the ongoing interaction", which he adulated as "very convincing and fun". Benjamin E. Sones of "PC Games Magazine" believed the amusement's story to be "very great", however he blamed Looking Glass for neglecting to detail the occasions of the principal diversion for new players. He composed that "Cheat II"s illustrations were tolerable however that its sound structure was "exceptional". Sones applauded its missions as "great made", and noticed that they gave the impression of being in "a no nonsense world." He condensed, "It may not be flawless, however "Cheat 2" has got it where it matters most". 

Charles Harold of "The New York Times" considered the diversion a "reviving option in contrast to amusements that laud savagery". He observed its story to be "slight", yet he commended its reality as "incredibly alive" and its AI as an "astounding pantomime of genuine insight". Composing for "GamePro", Barry Brenesal remarked that "Cheat II" "gives a strong gaming knowledge" however "doesn't surprise like its antecedent". He composed that its missions highlighted a "lot of assortment", and he applauded their "capacity to calmly recommend an a lot bigger world", however he griped that they were straight. He believed the amusement's composition to be "among the best in the business". While Brenesal appreciated the amusement's surfaces and lighting, he noticed the low detail of the diversion's human models, whose livelinesss he observed to be "joint". "PC Zone"s Paul Presley composed that the amusement's dimensions were bigger yet simpler than those of "Criminal", and he believed their targets to be to some degree straight. He discovered "Hoodlum II"s designs to be dated and composed that its absence of ongoing lighting "will in general give every condition a kind of 'false' quality". Nonetheless, he trusted that the amusement "still has enough climate to inundate you", and he applauded its sound plan. Presley believed the diversion to be a direct repeat of its ancestor, and he completed, "An all the more obvious instance of continuation itis there has never been." 

While "Criminal II" performed well economically, Looking Glass was not set to get sovereignties for a while. The organization had battled monetarily since the business disappointments of its independently published amusements "" and "English Open Championship Golf". Mirror's "Flight Unlimited III" had floundered at retail, and the improvement of "Jane's Attack Squadron" had gone over spending plan and fallen behind calendar. An arrangement to co-build up the stealth amusement "Profound Cover" with Irrational Games had as of late fell. As indicated by Looking Glass' Tim Stellmach, the postponement in "Criminal II" eminences "confronted [us] with the possibility of coming up short on cash." Looking Glass the executives marked an arrangement in which Eidos Interactive would get the organization, yet Eidos fell into an abrupt money related emergency, to some extent on account of the disappointment of Ion Storm's $40 million amusement "Daikatana". These variables prompted the conclusion of Looking Glass on May 24, 2000, with the arranged "Criminal II" successors "Hoodlum II Gold" and "Cheat III" dropped. 

The "Hoodlum" arrangement had been arranged as a set of three, and work on "Cheat III" was "in a genuinely propelled stage" when Looking Glass shut, as indicated by "PC Zone"s Keith Pullin. Randy Smith and Terri Brosius were selected as lead planners, and they built up the amusement's idea more than a while. In an open letter distributed after the organization's chapter 11, Smith composed that the third diversion would have occurred in an "open-finished, self-coordinated city", and that its plot would have fixated on the Keepers. Brosius recommended that "Cheat III" would have seen Garrett "accept[ing] that there are results to his activities", and that he would almost certainly have progressed toward becoming "prepared to give, instead of dependably take." The player would have revealed the diversion's story bit by bit, while investigating a free-meander condition. Genuine plans had been made to incorporate co-employable multiplayer, and another motor, Siege, had been underway. When Looking Glass shut, its benefits were exchanged and the "Criminal" protected innovation was sold at closeout. This raised questions that the "Cheat" set of three would be finished, a circumstance that Salon.com essayist Wagner James Au contrasted with Lucasfilm shutting after the arrival of "The Empire Strikes Back". Be that as it may, following bits of gossip, Eidos declared on August 9, 2000 that it had acquired the rights to "Hoodlum". 

Improvement of "Hoodlum III" was appointed to the Warren Spector-directed Ion Storm, which had as of late finished "Deus Ex". As indicated by Spector, "Criminal III" would have been given to Core Design or Crystal Dynamics had he not acknowledged it. The amusement was declared for Windows and the PlayStation 2. On August 10, Spector remarked that Ion Storm's first objective was to gather a center group, made to some extent out of previous Looking Glass workers, to structure and plot the diversion. "Cheat II" colleagues Randy Smith, Lulu Lamer, Emil Pagliarulo and Terri Brosius were contracted to start the task. On August 16, Ion Storm declared its contracts, and expressed that idea take a shot at "Hoodlum III" would start in September. The group intended to "wrap up [the] remaining details" of the arrangement, and they assembled legitimately upon the "Cheat III" idea work done at Looking Glass. "Criminal III" was in the long run renamed "", and it was discharged for Windows and the Xbox on May 25, 2004. 

In May 2009, following a while of bits of gossip, a fourth amusement in the "Hoodlum" arrangement was declared by "" engineer Eidos Montréal. It was divulged in the April 2013 issue of "Amusement Informer". The diversion, entitled "Hoodlum", is a reboot of the "Cheat" arrangement; and it doesn't include the Hammerites, agnostics or Keepers. Its plot pursues Garrett (voiced by Romano Orzari instead of Stephen Russell) in the fallout of a mishap that leaves his protégé, Erin, missing. Garrett has amnesia after this episode, and the City is assailed by a plague called the Gloom. The diversion was discharged for Windows and the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Xbox One and PlayStation 4 in February 2014. 

Not long after the chapter 11 of Looking Glass, a fan assemble called the Dark Engineering Guild started building up a development mod to "Criminal II", entitled "Cheat 2X: Shadows of the Metal Age". At first, they would have liked to fill the void left by the wiping out of "Criminal III", however they kept on chipping away at the mod after the declaration and arrival of "Hoodlum: Deadly Shadows". Discharged in 2005 following five years being developed, the mod pursues Zaya, a young lady who is burglarized while visiting the City and who at that point looks for vengeance. She is coached by an agnostic loner named Malak, who prepares her as a cheat yet who has ulterior thought processes. The group planned Zaya to be physically proficient and to have a "center eastern/north-african look", however endeavored to keep away from similitudes to Mulan. Sequentially, the story begins close to the finish of "Cheat" and finishes amidst "Hoodlum II", in this way portraying the ascent of Gorman Truart and the beginning of the Mechanists. "Hoodlum 2X" highlights 13 missions, with new enlivened cutscenes and approximately 3,000 new lines of recorded exchange. 

The mod was lauded by commentators and by the "Cheat" fan network. Brett Todd of "PC Gamer US" granted it "Mod of the Month" and expressed, "It doesn't exactly have the baffling charm of the first recreations, however it's horrendously close". An author for Jolt Online Gaming lauded the mod's visuals and believed its missions to be "unfathomably very much planned". While the author remarked that "Hoodlum 2X" did not superbly pursue the arrangement's tone and that its voice acting was "not the best", they wrapped up by saying that enthusiasts of the "Criminal" arrangement had "no reason not to play "T2X"." "PC Gamer UK"s Kieron Gillen composed that he had anticipated that the mod should be dropped, given that the "web is brimming with [...] five-percent completed masterworks from individuals who pointed far, very high." After "Cheat 2X"s discharge, he praised it as the best "Cheat" fan work, and as "a standout amongst the most noteworthy accomplishments of any fan network for any diversion."