Nikolai Kulikovsky 

Nikolai Alexandrovich Kulikovsky (5 November 1881 – 11 August 1958) was the second spouse of Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia, the sister of Tsar Nicholas II and girl of Tsar Alexander III. 

He was naturally introduced to a military landowning family from the south of the Russian Empire, and pursued the family convention by entering the military. In 1903, he was seen by Grand Duchess Olga amid a military audit, and they turned out to be dear companions. Olga needed to separate from her first spouse, Duke Peter Alexandrovich of Oldenburg, and wed Kulikovsky, yet neither her better half nor her sibling, the Tsar, would permit it. 

Amid World War I, Olga in the end got a separation and wedded Kulikovsky. They had two children. Her sibling was removed in the Russian Revolution of 1917, and Kulikovsky was expelled from the military by the progressive government. The Kulikovskys were constrained into outcast, and he turned into a rancher and businessperson in Denmark, where they lived until after World War II. In 1948, they emigrated to Canada as horticultural migrants, yet inside four years of their landing they had sold their homestead and moved into a little rural house. He turned out to be progressively impaired by back torment, and passed on in 1958 matured 76. 

Nikolai Kulikovsky was naturally introduced to a military family from the Voronezh area of Russia. His granddad was a general amid the Napoleonic Wars, and his family claimed two substantial domains in Ukraine. He rode since the beginning, turned into a specialist horseman, and was taught at Petrograd Real College of Gurevich, trailed by the Nikolai Cavalry College, from where he graduated with a degree. 

He joined the Blue Cuirassier regiment of the supreme Russian mounted force right away before 1903. Stupendous Duke Michael, the more youthful sibling of Tsar Nicholas II, was the regiment's privileged colonel. In April 1903, amid a military motorcade at the Pavlovsk Palace, Grand Duchess Olga, the most youthful sister of Nicholas and Michael, saw Kulikovsky and asked Michael to organize the seating at an easygoing lunch meeting so she and Kulikovsky were neighboring. The Grand Duchess was at that point hitched to Duke Peter Alexandrovich of Oldenburg, who was clandestinely accepted by his loved ones to be gay. A couple of days after her short gathering with Kulikovsky, Olga approached Oldenburg for a separation, which he rejected with the capability that he would rethink his choice following seven years. 

Kulikovsky was selected as chief in the Blue Cuirassiers and presented on the territories. By 1906, he and Olga were relating routinely, when Olga's significant other Duke Peter selected Kulikovsky as his confidant. With Peter's consent, Kulikovsky moved into the 200-room living arrangement in Sergievskaya Street, Saint Petersburg, that Peter imparted to Olga. As indicated by an individual officer, tattle about a conceivable sentiment among Kulikovsky and the Grand Duchess, in view of minimal more than their clasping hands openly, spread through high society. 

In spite of the fact that Olga more than once asked Tsar Nicholas II to enable her to separate, her sibling declined on religious and dynastic grounds; he trusted marriage was forever and that sovereignty ought to wed inside eminence. At the point when their sibling, Grand Duke Michael, stole away with his courtesan, Natasha Wulfert, the Tsar and Olga were scandalized alongside the remainder of society. Natasha was an ordinary person who had been separated from twice, and one of her previous spouses was an officer in a similar regiment as Kulikovsky. Michael was ousted from Russia, and the probability of the Tsar regularly allowing Olga's separation, or allowing her to wed an everyday citizen, looked remote. 

At the episode of World War I, Kulikovsky was sent to the front with his regiment. Michael was reviewed from abroad, and Olga got down to business in a military medical clinic as an attendant. Olga kept on squeezing the Tsar to permit her separation. In a letter she composed, "...finish with the separation now amid the war while everyone's eyes and brains are involved somewhere else—and such a little thing would be lost in all the more noteworthy things". The war went seriously for the Russian royal powers, and the Central Powers, driven by Germany, progressed into Russia. Afraid for Kulikovsky's security, Olga begged the Tsar to exchange him to the general wellbeing of Kiev, where she was positioned at an emergency clinic. In 1916, in the wake of visiting her in Kiev, the Tsar authoritatively abrogated her marriage to Duke Peter, and she wedded Kulikovsky on 16 November 1916, in the Kievo-Vasilievskaya Church on Triokhsviatitelskaya (Three Saints Street) in Kiev. Just the administering minister, Olga's mom the Dowager Empress Marie, Olga's brother by marriage Grand Duke Alexander, two individual medical caretakers from the clinic in Kiev and four officers of the Akhtyrsky regiment, of which Olga was privileged colonel, visited. Their fourteen day special first night was spent in a farmhouse in Podgorny that had a place with family companions of the Kulikovskys. Subsequent to visiting Kulikovsky's folks and grandma in Kharkov, Olga and Kulikovsky came back to Kiev. 

Amid the war, interior strains and monetary hardship in Russia kept on mounting and progressive feelings developed. After Nicholas II was dismissed in mid 1917, numerous individuals from the Romanov tradition, including Nicholas and his close family, were held under house capture. The new government resigned Kulikovsky from the military with the position of lieutenant-colonel. Dame Empress Marie, Grand Duke Alexander, Grand Duchess Olga, and Kulikovsky figured out how to disappear to the Crimea where they lived for a period before they also were set under house capture at one of the majestic domains. As an ordinary person, Kulikovsky was allowed more opportunity of development than the Romanovs, and was periodically ready to leave the home in a horse truck, which enabled him to run errands, get sustenance, and look for updates outwardly. On 12 August 1917, Olga and Kulikovsky's first tyke and child, Tikhon, was conceived in the Crimea. He was named after one of the Grand Duchess' most loved holy people, Tikhon of Zadonsk. In spite of the fact that the grandson of a sovereign and the nephew of another, Tikhon got no titles since his dad was an everyday person. 

As papers were prohibited and letters rare, the Romanovs under house capture knew little of the destiny of Tsar Nicholas and his family. Nicholas, his significant other, and their kids, were initially held at their official home, the Alexander Palace at Tsarskoye Selo, yet the temporary government under Alexander Kerensky moved them to Tobolsk, Siberia. In the end, in July 1918, in the wake of being exchanged to Yekaterinburg, Nicholas and his family were slaughtered by their Bolshevik watchmen. In the Crimea, the Grand Duchess' family were sentenced to death by the Yalta progressive chamber however the executions were remained by the Sevastopol gathering, who would not act without requests from Moscow. In March 1918, German powers progressed on the Crimea, and the progressive watchmen were supplanted by German ones. 

At the point when Germany surrendered to the Allies of World War I in November 1918, the German troops cleared, permitting the enduring individuals from the royal family time to escape abroad. The British warship HMS "Marlborough" saved the Dowager Empress Marie and a portion of her family from the Crimea however Grand Duchess Olga and Kulikovsky chose to remain in Russia and headed out to the Caucasus district, where the Bolsheviks had been pushed back by the White Army. Amid the adventure, a coupling on the train carriage in which they were voyaging built up a blame, potentially from damage, and Kulikovsky slithered over the carriage rooftops to achieve the driver and stop the train. In the Caucasus, Kulikovsky accepted a position taking a shot at a homestead as he was unfit to verify a military posting in the White Army on the grounds that the telling general, Anton Denikin, wished to evade relationship with the Romanovs. In a leased farmhouse at the substantial Cossack town of Novominskaya Olga and Kulikovsky's second child, Guri, was conceived on 23 April 1919. He was named after Guri Panaev, who had been executed serving in Olga's Akhtyrsky regiment. As the White Army was pushed back and the Red Army drew nearer, the family set out on what might be their last adventure through Russia; they ventured out to Rostov-on-Don, and from that point took shelter at Novorossiysk in the habitation of the Danish diplomat, Thomas Schytte, who educated them of Dowager Empress Marie's protected landing in Denmark. 

After a concise remain with the Danish representative, the family were dispatched to a displaced person camp on the island of Büyükada in the Dardanelles Strait close Istanbul, Turkey, where the Kulikovsky family imparted three rooms to eleven different grown-ups. Following two weeks, they were emptied to Belgrade in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The Yugoslav Regent Alexander Karageorgevich, later to progress toward becoming King Alexander I, offered them a perpetual home there, yet Dowager Empress Marie called her little girl to Denmark. The Grand Duchess agreed, and the family touched base in Copenhagen on Good Friday 1920. They lived with Kulikovsky's relative, Dowager Empress Marie, at first at the Amalienborg Palace and after that at the regal bequest of Hvidøre. Kulikovsky and Marie did not get along; he was angry of his significant other going about as Marie's secretary and buddy, and Marie was removed toward him. 

Without a job or rank, Kulikovsky agonized in Denmark, getting to be irritable and drowsy. Spinal damage supported amid the war, for which he needed to wear an undergarment, stayed unhealed. In 1925, Kulikovsky went with his better half to a Berlin nursing home to meet Anna Anderson, who professed to be Olga's niece, Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia. As per Harriet von Rathlef, who saw the gathering, while Olga and Anderson speaked, he sat in a corner and sulked. In spite of the fact that Olga felt compassion toward Anderson, if simply because she was sick, she in the end reproved her as an impostor. Perhaps, she was influenced to do as such by Kulikovsky and Dowager Empress Marie. 

Marie passed on 13 October 1928, and the Kulikovskys moved out of Hvidøre. After a concise remain in the Amalienborg Palace, the Kulikovskys moved to Holte, close Klampenborg, where a Danish tycoon, Gorm Rasmussen, connected with Kulikovsky to deal with his stables. Hvidøre and a portion of Marie's adornments were sold. With Olga's legacy, Kulikovsky and his family had the capacity to buy "Knudsminde" Farm, a few miles outside of Copenhagen. Kulikovsky was designated to the leading body of a Russian insurance agency situated in Copenhagen, and directed the running of the homestead. The ranch home turned into a middle for the Russian monarchist and hostile to Bolshevik people group in Denmark. 

On 2 February 1935, he and Olga visited and went about as godparents, to the absolving of Aleksander Schalburg, the child of Christian Frederik von Schalburg. 

On 9 April 1940, unbiased Denmark was attacked by Nazi Germany and was involved for the remainder of World War II. As Olga's children, Tikhon and Guri, filled in as officers in the Danish Army, they were interned as detainees of war, yet their detainment in a Copenhagen inn kept going under two months. Other Russian émigrés, quick to battle against the Soviets, enrolled in the German powers. In spite of her children's internment and her mom's Danish beginnings, Olga was involved in her countrymen's agreement with German powers, as she kept on meeting and stretch out help to Russian émigrés battling against socialism. After the surrender of Germany in 1945, the Soviet Union kept in touch with the Danish government blaming the Grand Duchess for trick against the Soviet specialists. With the finish of the war, Soviet troops involved the easternmost piece of Denmark, and Olga became frightful of a death or capture endeavor. She chose to move her family over the Atlantic to the general wellbeing of country Canada, a choice with which Kulikovsky agreed. 

In May 1948, the Kulikovskys headed out to London by Danish troopship. They were housed in an effortlessness and-support condo at Hampton Court Palace while game plans were made for their voyage to Canada as agrarian settlers. On 2 June 1948, Kulikovsky, Olga, Tikhon and his Danish-conceived spouse Agnete, Guri and his Danish-conceived wife Ruth, Guri and Ruth's two youngsters, Xenia and Leonid, and Olga's sidekick and previous house cleaner Emilia Tenso ("Mimka") withdrew Liverpool on board the "Ruler of Canada". After a harsh intersection, the ship docked at Halifax, Nova Scotia. The family continued to Toronto, where they lived until they acquired a 200-section of land (0.8 km) ranch in Halton County, Ontario, close Campbellville. Kulikovsky was soothed to move out of Toronto, and break media consideration. 

By 1952, the ranch had turned into a weight to the older couple. Their children had moved away; work was difficult to find; Kulikovsky endured expanding back agony and incapacity, and a portion of Olga's residual gems was stolen. The homestead was sold, and Kulikovsky, Olga, and Mimka, moved to a littler 5-room house at 2130 Camilla Road, Cooksville, Ontario, a suburb of Toronto (presently amalgamated into the city of Mississauga). Mimka endured a stroke that left her an invalid, and Olga breast fed her until Mimka's passing in 1954. Neighbors and guests to the area, including remote and imperial dignitaries, checked out Olga as the "last Romanov", and visited their little home, which was additionally a magnet for Romanov impostors whom both Kulikovsky and Olga thought about a danger. Welcome guests included Princess Marina, Duchess of Kent, the little girl of her first cousin Grand Duchess Elena Vladimirovna of Russia, in 1954. 

By 1952, Kulikovsky had contracted more than 4 inches (10 cm) from his pinnacle stature of 6 ft 2 inches (188 cm). He questioned traditional prescription and attempted homeopathy. By 1958, he was essentially deadened, and experienced issues dozing. Toward an incredible finish he was resting on the couch in the front room of the couple's Cooksville house, to abstain from waking his better half. He kicked the bucket there the evening of 11 August 1958. His domain was esteemed at 12,123.47 Canadian dollars, about 98,000 Canadian dollars starting at 2012. The Grand Duchess passed on two years after the fact, and was entombed by her better half in York Cemetery, Toronto.