Dark currawong 

The dark currawong ("Strepera fuliginosa"), likewise referred to locally as the dark jay, is a huge passerine winged creature endemic to Tasmania and the adjacent islands inside the Bass Strait. One of three currawong animal types in the class "Strepera", it is firmly identified with the butcherbirds and Australian jaybird inside the family Artamidae. It is an expansive crow-like feathered creature, around long overall, with yellow irises, a substantial bill, and dark plumage with white wing patches. The male and female are comparable in appearance. Three subspecies are remembered, one of which, "Strepera fuliginosa colei" of King Island, is powerless against eradication. 

Inside its range, the dark currawong is commonly stationary, in spite of the fact that populaces at higher elevations move to bring down regions amid the cooler months. The natural surroundings incorporates thickly forested zones just as high heathland. It is uncommon underneath elevations of . Omnivorous, it has an eating routine that incorporates an assortment of berries, spineless creatures, and little vertebrates. Less arboreal than the pied currawong, the dark currawong invests more energy searching on the ground. It perches and breeds in trees. 

The dark currawong was first portrayed by ornithologist John Gould in 1836 as "Cracticus fuliginosus", and in 1837 as "Coronica fuliginosa". The particular sobriquet is the Late Latin descriptor "fuliginosus" "dirty" from Latin "fūlīgo" "sediment", and alludes to the dark plumage. American ornithologist Dean Amadon viewed the dark currawong as a subspecies of the pied currawong ("Strepera graculina"), considering it to be a piece of a continuum with subspecies "ashbyi" of the last species, the complex having continuously less white plumage as one moves south. Resulting creators have thought of it as a different animal categories, in spite of the fact that Richard Schodde and Ian Mason portray it as framing a superspecies with the pied currawong. 

Basic names incorporate dark currawong, dirty currawong, dark ringer jaybird, dark or mountain jaybird, dark or dingy crow-shrike, and muttonbird. Dark jay is a nearby name connected to the species inside Tasmania. The species is frequently mistaken for the nearby dim plumaged subspecies of the dark currawong ("S. versicolor"), known as the clunking currawong or slope jaybird. 

There are three subspecies of the dark currawong: the choose structure "Strepera fuliginosa" of Tasmania; "Strepera fuliginosa parvior" of Flinders Island, depicted by Schodde and Mason in 1999; and "Strepera fuliginosa colei" of King Island, portrayed by Gregory Mathews in 1916. The two island subspecies have indistinguishable plumage to the choose, yet are somewhat littler with shorter wings and tails, subspecies "colei" having a shorter tail than "parvior". 

Together with the pied and dark currawong, the dark currawong shapes the family "Strepera". Despite the fact that crow-like in appearance and propensities, currawongs are just remotely identified with genuine crows, and are rather firmly identified with the Australian jaybird and the butcherbirds. The affinities of every one of the three genera were perceived from the get-go and they were put in the family Cracticidae in 1914 by ornithologist John Albert Leach after he had examined their musculature. Ornithologists Charles Sibley and Jon Ahlquist perceived the cozy connection between the woodswallows and the butcherbirds and relatives in 1985, and joined them into a Cracticini clade, which later turned into the family Artamidae. 

The dark currawong is about long with a wingspan. The male is somewhat bigger and heavier than the female; guys of the name subspecies normal to females' . Male wings normal around and tails , while female wings normal and tails . Information for the two island subspecies is constrained, yet guys of subspecies "colei" have been estimated at with wings all things considered, and a female at with a wing, and subspecies "parvior" at for guys with wings by and large, and wing for a female. The genders are comparable in plumage, which is all dark with the exception of white patches at the tips of the wings and tail quills. The bill and legs are dark and the eyes brilliant yellow. The white tips line the trailing edges of the wings in flight, and a paler circular segment over the bases of the essential flight quills is likewise unmistakable on the underwing. In spite of the fact that there is no occasional variety to the plumage, the dark may blur a little to a dim darker with wear. Youthful fowls have browner-tinged plumage, and a yellow expand until they are two years of age. The most seasoned recorded age of a dark currawong has been 15 years; a winged animal was located in July 2004 close Fern Tree, Tasmania, not exactly from where it had been joined in July 1989. 

The dark currawong is a noisy and vocal animal varieties, and makes an assortment of calls. Its primary call is especially unique in relation to the pied or dark currawongs and has been portrayed as a mix of exchanging "kar" and "wheek" sounds, "killok", or even much the same as part tune and part human chuckling. Albeit frequently uproarious when flying in herds, it very well may be quiet when looking for prey or stealing sustenance. Previously or around first light and at sunset have all the earmarks of being times of expanded calling, and feathered creatures are accounted for to be increasingly vocal before downpour or tempests. Guardians likewise make a long fluting whistle to bring their young. 

The dark currawong is usually mistaken for the clunking currawong, yet the last species has a white posterior and bigger white wing patches. The dark currawong has a heavier bill and a trademark consider dissimilar to the ring call of the clunking. The timberland and little ravens are comparable in size yet do not have the white wing patches, and rather have completely dark plumage and white, as opposed to yellow eyes. The dark currawong is probably not going to be confused with the firmly related pied currawong as the last does not achieve Tasmania, however it has a more drawn out and more profound bill and comes up short on the white back end and undertail coverts. 

The dark currawong is endemic to Tasmania where it is across the board, despite the fact that it is unprecedented or missing from territories beneath elevation. It breeds chiefly in the Central Highlands, with dissipated records somewhere else in Tasmania. Reports of rearing are uncommon from the upper east. It is found on numerous islands of Bass Strait, including the Hunter and Furneaux Groups. It was recorded verifiably from the Kent Group, yet its status there is obscure. Inside its range it is to a great extent inactive, albeit a few populaces at higher elevations may move to bring down heights amid winter. Herds have likewise been recorded making the long voyage crosswise over water from Maria Island to the terrain toward the beginning of the day and returning at sunset, just as moving between islands in the Maatsuyker gathering. The dark currawong has ventured into the upper east corner of the island, to Musselroe Bay and Cape Portland. 

The dark currawong is assessed as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. One of its subspecies, "Strepera fuliginosa colei" of King Island, has declined over a lot of its range on King Island, perhaps because of clearing of its woods natural surroundings, and has been recorded as Vulnerable. There are assessed to associate with 500 feathered creatures. It is vague whether rivalry with the more various woodland raven is affecting on the subspecies there. 

The dark currawong is commonly found in wetter eucalypt timberlands, ruled by such species as snow capped fiery remains ("Eucalyptus delegatensis"), messmate ("E. obliqua"), and mountain gum ("E. dalrympleana"), here and there with a beech ("Nothofagus") understory. It additionally frequents cool rainforest of beech, lord billy pine ("Athrotaxis selaginoides"). In marshes it is progressively confined to denser woodlands and soggy gorges, while it additionally happens in snow capped scrubland and heathland at height. In dryer increasingly open backwoods, it is supplanted by the ringing currawong, in spite of the fact that the two may co-happen in spots, for example, the Central Highlands and Eastern Tiers. Both the Flinders and King island subspecies are found over their particular islands, yet incline toward increasingly forested natural surroundings there. The dark currawong has been recorded in patio nurseries in Hobart in Tasmania's southeast, and around Mount Wellington, on Hobart's edges, in winter. Some stayed to breed in Hobart in 1994 following a time of serious climate. 

Dark currawongs are found independently or in sets, yet may assemble into gatherings of 20 to 80 winged animals. Winged animals have been watched uncovering wet yellow earth from underneath a channel and applying it everywhere on their plumage. Cleaning the carpal territories of wings specifically with their bills, they didn't seem to wash a while later, utilizing the methodology as a type of earth shower. The dark currawong has an undulating flight design in time with its wing beats, and frequently cocks its tail noticeable all around for equalization when it lands. Play conduct has been watched, especially with subadult people. Dark currawongs have been watched grappling with one another, where a winged creature would endeavor to drive its rival on its back, at Maydena, while others have been accounted for moving on their backs and juggling with nourishment things, for example, pears with their feet. 

One types of biting lice, "Australophilopterus curviconus", has been recouped and portrayed from a dark currawong close Launceston. 

Rearing happens from August to December. Like all currawongs, it manufactures a vast glass home out of sticks, fixed with milder material, and put in the fork of a tree from high. Old homes are now and again cleaned up and reused in following years. A run of the mill grip has two to four pale dim dark colored, purplish-buff, spotted, blotched red-darker or purplish-darker eggs. As in all passerines, the chicks are brought into the world stripped, and dazzle (altricial), and stay in the home for an all-inclusive period (nidicolous). The two guardians feed the youthful, yet the male feeds only them subsequent to leaving the home and as they become progressively autonomous, and furthermore moves from giving nourishment legitimately to them to putting it on the ground close them so they figure out how to eat for themselves. 

No deliberate examinations have been done on the eating regimen of the dark currawong, however it is known to be omnivorous, benefiting from a wide assortment of foodstuffs including bugs and little vertebrates, flesh, and berries. Flying creatures rummage on the ground regularly, yet additionally in tree coverings. They utilize their bills to test the ground or turn over hunks of earth or little shakes searching for nourishment. Flying creatures have been seen utilizing strolling tracks to scrounge along. A gathering of ten flying creatures were watched endeavoring to tear open ice on a solidified lake. They have been recorded scavenging along the shoreline for fly hatchlings in stranded kelp. Most regularly, dark currawongs search in sets, yet they may assemble in bigger gatherings—groups of 100 flying creatures have dropped on plantations to eat apples or spoiled organic product. The species has been seen in a blended animal varieties runs with backwoods ravens ("Corvus tasmanicus"), and silver gulls ("Chroicocephalus novaehollandiae"), white-confronted herons ("Egretta novaehollandiae"), white-fronted talks ("Epthianura albifrons"), and European starlings ("Sturnus vulgaris") on the shoreline at Sundown Point. They have been watched verifying dead bigger prey to ease consequent dissection; a parent currawong had wedged a dead chicken's wings under a log to encourage pulling off bits, for example, legs and guts to bolster to its young, and some other time snared a dead rabbit on a goad of a log to tear it into pieces. 

The dark currawong devours the berries of the heath species "Leptecophylla juniperina", and "Astroloma humifusum", and the local sedge "Gahnia grandis", just as local pea, and apples. Spineless creatures expended incorporate worms (Lumbricidae) and numerous sorts of creepy crawlies, for example, ants, moths, flies, crickets, grasshoppers and bugs like weevils, scarabs and leaf bugs. It is versatile, and has figured out how to eat the presented European wasp ("Vespula germanica"). A winged animal that was being badgering by three red robins ("Petroica boodang") was seen to all of a sudden turn on them and get and eat one. Different vertebrates recorded as prey incorporate the house mouse ("Mus musculus"), little reptiles, tadpoles, chickens, ducklings, the youthful of residential turkey, Tasmanian nativehen ("Gallinula mortierii"), fire robin ("Petroica phoenicea") and rabbit. 

It can turn out to be very strong and agreeable, much like its nearby relative, the pied currawong on the Australian terrain, particularly in open stops and gardens where individuals make a propensity for encouraging it. Dark currawongs have been recorded taking youthful peas from pods, assaulting plantations, catching chickens from poultry yards, and entering outbuildings looking for mice. 

Dark currawongs are exceptionally basic around cookout zones in Tasmania's two most well known National Parks, Freycinet and Cradle Mountain-Lake St Clair, and are regularly bolstered by visitors there. The National Parks Authority endured this training until 1995, when they found the winged creatures were turning into an annoyance and started demoralizing individuals from nourishing natural life. Be that as it may, the coordinated currawongs are capable at grabbing pieces of sustenance left by picnickers so the flying creatures may just at last be debilitated by an (unrealistic) prohibition on nourishment in National Parks. Feathered creatures likewise take different things, for example, cleanser or cutlery from campgrounds to inspect.