Pied currawong 

The pied currawong ("Strepera graculina") is a medium-sized dark passerine flying creature local to eastern Australia and Lord Howe Island. One of three currawong animal groups in the class "Strepera", it is firmly identified with the butcherbirds and Australian jaybird of the family Artamidae. Six subspecies are perceived. It is a powerful crowlike flying creature averaging around long, dark or dirty dim dark in plumage with white undertail and wing patches, yellow irises, and a substantial bill. The male and female are comparative in appearance. Known for its sweet calls, the species' name "currawong" is accepted to be of indigenous beginning. 

Inside its range, the pied currawong is commonly inactive, in spite of the fact that populaces at higher elevations move to bring down territories amid the cooler months. It is omnivorous, with an eating routine that incorporates a wide assortment of berries and seeds, spineless creatures, fledgling eggs, adolescent flying creatures and youthful marsupials. It is a predator which has adjusted well to urbanization and can be found in parks and gardens just as country forest. The environment incorporates a wide range of forested regions, albeit develop woods are favored for reproducing. Perching, settling and the main part of scavenging happen in trees, interestingly with the ground-rummaging conduct of its relative, the Australian jaybird. 

The pied currawong was first portrayed by English ornithologist George Shaw in 1790 as "Coracias strepera", in spite of the fact that "Strepera" was received as a nonexclusive name. Its binomial names were gotten from the Latin "strepera", signifying "loud", and "graculina" for looking like a jackdaw. Pied crow-shrike is an old vernacular name from pioneer days, and the expression "pied" alludes to at least two hues in blotches. Other normal names incorporate pied chillawong, currawang, charawack, kurrawack, tallawong, tullawong, sheep winged animal, Otway forester, and pied evening tea fledgling. The onomatopoeic term "currawong" itself is gotten from the feathered creature's call. In any case, the precise source of the term is hazy; the in all likelihood precursor is "garrawaŋ" from the indigenous Jagera language from the Brisbane district, despite the fact that the Darug word "gurawaruŋ" from the Sydney bowl is a plausibility. "Yungang" just as "Kurrawang" and "Kurrawah" are names from the Tharawal individuals of the Illawarra area. 

Its nearest relative is the dark currawong ("S. fuliginosa") of Tasmania, which has in some cases been viewed as a subspecies. Together with the bigger dim currawong ("S. versicolor"), they structure the sort "Strepera". Despite the fact that crow-like in appearance and propensities, currawongs are just remotely identified with genuine crows, and rather have a place with the family Artamidae, together with the firmly related Australian jaybird and the butcherbirds. The affinities of every one of the three genera were perceived right off the bat and they were put in the family Cracticidae in 1914 by ornithologist John Albert Leach after he had considered their musculature. Ornithologists Charles Sibley and Jon Ahlquist perceived the cozy connection among woodswallows and butcherbirds in 1985, and consolidated them into a Cracticini clade, which turned into the family Artamidae. 

Six subspecies are at present perceived, described chiefly by contrasts in size and plumage. There is an enduring change to the feathered creatures' morphology and size the further south they are experienced, with lighter and progressively grayish plumage, bigger body estimate, and a shorter bill. Southerly populaces additionally show progressively white plumage in the tail, with less whiteness on the wing. 

The pied currawong is commonly a dark flying creature with white in the wing, undertail coverts, the base of the tail and most unmistakably, the tip of the tail. It has yellow eyes. Grown-up flying creatures are long, with a normal of around ; the wingspan fluctuates from , averaging around . Grown-up guys normal around , females . The wings are long and wide. The long and substantial bill is around one and a half occasions as long as the head and is snared toward the end. Adolescent winged creatures have comparative markings to grown-ups however have gentler and tanish plumage generally, despite the fact that the white band on the tail is smaller. The upperparts are darker brown with scallops and streaks over the head and neck, and the underparts lighter darker. The eyes are dim darker and the bill dim with a yellow tip. The expand is a noticeable yellow. More seasoned flying creatures become darker until grown-up plumage is accomplished, yet adolescent tail markings just change to grown-up late being developed. Winged animals seem to shed once every year in pre-fall in the wake of rearing. The pied currawong can live for more than 20 years in nature. 

Pied currawongs are vocal winged creatures, calling when in flight and consistently of the day. They are increasingly loud promptly in the first part of the day and in the prior night perching, just as before downpour. The uproarious particular call has been interpreted as "Kadow-Kadang" or "Curra-wong", much the same as a croak. They additionally have an uproarious, shrill, wolf-like whistle, interpreted as "Wheeo". The endemic Lord Howe Island subspecies has a particular, increasingly musical call. 

The littler white-winged chough has comparable plumage yet has red eyes and is found for the most part on the ground. Australian crow and raven species have white eyes and come up short on the white back end, and the comparative measured Australian jaybird has red eyes and unmistakable high contrast plumage. The bigger dark currawong is promptly recognized by its lighter dim in general plumage and absence of white quills at the base of the tail. In northwestern Victoria, the dark winged currawong (subspecies "melanoptera" of the dim) has a darker plumage than other dim subspecies, yet its wings come up short on the white primaries of the pied currawong. 

The pied currawong is basic in both wet and dry sclerophyll woods, country and semi-urban situations all through eastern Australia, from Cape York Peninsula to western Victoria and Lord Howe Island, where it happens as an endemic subspecies. It has adjusted well to European nearness, and has turned out to be increasingly basic in numerous territories of eastern Australia, with overviews in Nanango, Queensland, Barham, New South Wales, Geelong, Victoria, just as the Northern Tablelands and South West Slopes districts in New South Wales, all demonstrating an expansion in populace. This expansion has been most checked, in any case, in Sydney and Canberra since the 1960s, individually. In the two urban communities, the species had recently been a winter occupant just, however at this point remains all year and breeds there. They are a prevailing animal types and normal occupant of Sydney gardens. 

When all is said in done, the pied currawong is stationary, albeit a few populaces from higher heights move to territories of lower rise in winter. Be that as it may, proof for the degree of relocation is clashing, and the species' developments have been minimal concentrated to date. All the more as of late still, a review of the number of inhabitants in pied currawongs in southeastern Queensland somewhere in the range of 1980 and 2000 had discovered the species had turned out to be increasingly various there, including rural Brisbane. One 1992 study revealed the absolute number of pied currawongs in Australia had multiplied from three million feathered creatures during the 1960s to six million in the mid 1990s. 

The pied currawong can cross waterways of some size, as it has been recorded from Rodondo Island, which lies off the bank of Wilsons Promontory in Victoria, just as some seaward islands in Queensland. It has vanished from Tryon, North West, Masthead and Heron Islands in the 

Capricorn Group on the Great Barrier Reef. The nearness of the Lord Howe subspecies is perhaps the aftereffect of a possibility arrival there. 

The pied currawong's effect on littler fowls that are powerless against home predation is dubious: a few examinations have proposed that the species has turned into a difficult issue, however reality of this broadly held recognition was questioned in a 2001 survey of the distributed writing on their rummaging propensities by Bayly and Blumstein of Macquarie University, who saw that regular presented winged creatures were more influenced than local feathered creatures. In any case, predation by pied currawongs has been a factor in the decay of Gould's petrel at a settlement on Cabbage Tree Island, close Port Stephens in New South Wales; currawongs have been accounted for going after grown-up seabirds. Their expulsion from the islands stopped a decay of the undermined petrels. Moreover, a University of New England think about distributed in 2006 detailed that the reproducing achievement rates for the eastern yellow robin ("Eopsaltria australis") and red robin ("Petroica boodang") on the New England Tablelands were improved after homes were ensured and currawongs separated, and some yellow robins even re-colonized a zone where they had turned out to be locally wiped out. The nearness of pied currawongs in Sydney gardens is adversely associated with the nearness of silvereyes ("Zosterops lateralis"). 

The species has been ensnared in the spread of weeds by devouring and scattering products of the soil. In the principal half of the twentieth century, pied currawongs were shot as they were viewed as irritations of corn and strawberry crops, just as aiding the spread of the thorny pear. They were additionally shot on Lord Howe Island for assaulting chickens. Be that as it may, they are viewed as advantageous in ranger service as they devour phasmids, and furthermore in horticulture for eating covers of the codling moth. 

Pied currawongs are for the most part tree-staying, chasing and scrounging a few meters over the ground, and along these lines ready to impart an area to the ground-rummaging Australian jaybird. Flying creatures perch in forested regions or vast trees around evening time, scatter to scrounge in the early morning and return in the late evening. Albeit frequently single or experienced in little gatherings, the species may frame bigger groups of at least fifty winged animals in harvest time and winter. On the ground, a pied currawong jumps or swaggers. 

Amid the reproducing season, pied currawongs will match up and become regional, guarding both settling and bolstering zones. A recent report in Sydney's verdant northern rural areas estimated a normal separation of between homes, while another in Canberra in 1990 had three pairs in a section of pine-tree lined road. Domains have been estimated around 0.5– 0.7 ha in Sydney and Wollongong, in spite of the fact that these were limited to settling regions and did exclude a bigger sustaining an area, and 7.9 ha in Canberra. Pied currawongs vivaciously drive off dangers, for example, ravens, and take part in bill-snapping, plunge shelling and airborne interest. They embrace a particular risk show against different currawongs by bringing down the head so the head and body are parallel to the ground and calling attention to mouth out forward, frequently straightforwardly at the interloper. The male prevails in danger showcases and regional protection, and gatekeepers the female intently as she assembles the home. 

Groups of flying creatures seem to take part in play; one routine includes a fledgling roosting on a tall tree, shaft or tower, and others swooping, tumbling or jumping and endeavoring to unstick it. A fruitful challenger is then tested in its turn by different fowls in the herd. 

The pied currawong washes by swimming into water up to profound, crouching, dodging its head under, and shaking its wings. It dresses its plumage subsequently, now and then applying mud or soil first. The species has likewise been watched anting. 

Albeit found in numerous kinds of forest, the pied currawong likes to breed in develop backwoods. It fabricates a home of flimsy sticks fixed with grass and bark high in trees in spring; by and large eucalypts are picked and never confined ones. It creates a grip of three eggs; they are a light pinkish-dark colored shading (compared by one creator to that of senseless putty) with splotches of darker pink-dark colored and lavender. Decreased oval fit as a fiddle, they measure about . The female broods alone. The brooding time frame isn't notable, because of the trouble of watching homes, however perceptions demonstrate around 30 days from laying to incubating. Like all passerines, the chicks are brought into the world exposed, and dazzle (altricial), and stay in the home for an all-encompassing period (nidicolous) They rapidly grow a layer of ashy-dark down. The two guardians feed the youthful, despite the fact that the male does not start to sustain them legitimately until a couple of days after birth. 

The channel-charged cuckoo ("Scythrops novaehollandiae") parasitizes pied currawong homes, laying eggs which are then raised by the clueless temporary parents. The eggs intently look like those of the currawong has. Pied currawongs have been known to leave settles once cuckoos have visited, forsaking the current currawong youthful, which bite the dust, and a channel-charged cuckoo has been recorded executing a currawong settling. The dark colored goshawk ("Accipiter fasciatus") and trim screen ("Varanus varius") have likewise been recorded taking nestlings. 

The pied currawong is an omnivorous and crafty feeder, eating foods grown from the ground just as going after numerous spineless creatures, and littler vertebrates, generally adolescent flying creatures and winged animal eggs, in spite of the fact that they may take sound grown-up feathered creatures up to the extent of a Crested Pigeon now and again. Currawongs will chase in trees, grabbing winged animals and eggs from homes, just as bugs and berries from trees. They likewise chase noticeable all around and on the ground. Bugs prevail in the eating routine amid summer months, and natural product amid the winter. They will frequently search, eating scraps and waste and can be very striking when looking for nourishment from individuals, waiting around outing regions and feathered creature bolstering plate. Scarabs and ants are the most well-known kinds of bugs devoured. Pied currawongs have been recorded taking mice, just as chickens and turkeys from homesteads. The pied currawong devours natural product, including a wide assortment of figs, for example, the Moreton Bay ("Ficus macrophylla"), Port Jackson ("F. rubiginosa"), Banyan ("F. virens") and Strangler fig ("F. watkinsiana"), just as lillypillies ("Syzygium" species), white cedar ("Melia azedarach"), plum pine ("Podocarpus elatus"), and geebungs ("Persoonia" species). Other natural product is likewise looked for after, and currawongs have been known to assault plantations, eating apples, pears, strawberries, grapes, stone organic product, citrus, and corn. Pied currawongs have been in charge of the spread of the intrusive fancy "Asparagus aethiopicus" (frequently called "A. densiflorus") in the Sydney region, the weedy privet species "Ligustrum lucidum" and "L. sinense", and firethorn species "Pyracantha angustifolia" and "P. rogersiana" around Armidale. 

Winged creatures scavenge separately or in sets in summer, and all the more frequently in bigger rushes in harvest time and winter, amid which time they are bound to dally around individuals and urban territories. They once in a while partner with Australian jaybirds ("Gymnorhina tibicen") or basic starlings ("Sturnus vulgaris") when scrounging. Winged creatures have likewise been experienced with dim currawongs ("S. versicolor") and silk bowerbirds ("Ptilinorhynchus violaceus"). The species has been accounted for taking nourishment from different winged animals, for example, the Australian diversion ("Falco longipennis"), busted sparrowhawk ("Accipiter cirrocephalus"), and sulfur-peaked cockatoo ("Cacatua galerita"). Pied currawongs will likewise pester one another. A recent report directed by analysts from the Australian National University demonstrated that white-browed scrubwren ("Sericornis frontalis") nestlings wound up quiet when they heard the recorded sound of a pied currawong strolling through leaf litter.