Tim Duncan 

Timothy Theodore Duncan (conceived April 25, 1976) is an American previous expert ball player. He played his whole 19-year vocation from 1997 to 2016 with the San Antonio Spurs of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Generally viewed as the best power forward ever just as one of the best ball players ever, he is a five-time NBA champion, two-time NBA MVP, three-time NBA Finals MVP, and a NBA All-Star Game MVP. He is additionally a 15-time NBA All-Star and the main player to be chosen to both the All-NBA and All-Defensive Teams for 13 back to back seasons. 

Duncan began as a swimmer and just started playing ball in ninth grade after Hurricane Hugo pulverized the main Olympic-sized pool on his home of Saint Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. He played for St. Dunstan's Episcopal High School, and had a school vocation with the Wake Forest Demon Deacons, winning the Naismith College Player of the Year, USBWA College Player of the Year, and John Wooden honors in his senior year. In the wake of graduating, Duncan earned NBA Rookie of the Year respects subsequent to being chosen by San Antonio with the main generally pick in the 1997 NBA draft. 

Off the court, Duncan is known for his tranquil and unassuming nature and his dynamic generosity. He holds a degree in brain research and made the Tim Duncan Foundation to raise general wellbeing mindfulness and reserve training and youth sports in different pieces of the United States. 

Tim Duncan is the child of Ione, a birthing assistant, and William Duncan, an artisan. He has two more established sisters, Cheryl and Tricia, and one more seasoned sibling, Scott, a chief and cinematographer. He was brought up on Saint Croix, one of the fundamental islands forming the U.S. Virgin Islands. In school, Duncan was a splendid student and longed for turning into an Olympic-level swimmer like his sister Tricia. His folks were exceptionally strong and Duncan exceeded expectations at swimming, turning into an adolescent champion in the 50, 100 and 400 meters free-form and intending to make the 1992 Olympic Games as an individual from the United States Team. 

At the point when Hurricane Hugo decimated the island's solitary Olympic-sized pool in 1989, Duncan was compelled to swim in the sea and he rapidly lost his eagerness for swimming due to his dread of sharks. Duncan was managed another passionate blow when his mom was determined to have bosom malignant growth and kicked the bucket one day before his fourteenth birthday celebration. In her last days, she made Duncan and his sisters guarantee to complete school with a degree, which would later disclose Duncan's refusal to leave school early. Duncan never swam intensely again, yet was roused by his brother by marriage to swing to ball. 

Duncan at first experienced issues adjusting to the diversion he thought would help soothe his torment and dissatisfaction. Nancy Pomroy, the athletic chief of the St. Long distance Country Day School was cited: "[Duncan] was so tremendous. So enormous and tall, however he was dreadfully unbalanced at the time." He defeated this to turn into a champion for the St. Dunstan's Episcopal High School, averaging 25 for every diversion as a senior. His play pulled in the consideration of a few colleges, regardless of having just grabbed the diversion in ninth grade. Wake Forest University b-ball mentor Dave Odom specifically became inspired by Duncan after the 16-year-old supposedly played NBA star Alonzo Mourning to an attract a 5-on-5 impromptu game. Odom was hunting down a tall, physical player to play close to the bin. Given the powerless dimension of ball in the Virgin Islands, Odom was watchful about Duncan at first, particularly after first gathering him and believing him to be oblivious; Duncan gazed vacantly at Odom for a large portion of the discussion. Nonetheless, after the principal talk, Odom comprehended this was only Duncan's method for focusing, and found that he was physically gifted, yet additionally a snappy student. Inevitably, in spite of grant offers by the University of Hartford, the University of Delaware and Providence College, Duncan joined Odom's Wake Forest Demon Deacons. 

In the year prior to Duncan's landing in Wake Forest University, the Demon Deacons achieved the Sweet 16, yet then lost principle scorer Rodney Rogers, who entered the 1993 NBA draft. In the 1993– 94 NCAA season, Coach Dave Odom was thinking about redshirting Duncan, however was compelled to play him after individual first year recruit huge man Makhtar N'Diaye was precluded due to NCAA rules infringement and in the end exchanged to Michigan. Duncan battled with early change issues and was even held scoreless in his first school diversion, however as the year advanced, he and partner Randolph Childress drove the Deacons to a 20– 11 win-misfortune record. Duncan's style of play was straightforward however viable, consolidating a variety of low-post moves, mid-run bank shots and intense safeguard. He was picked to speak to the U.S. in the 1994 Goodwill Games. In the mean time, Duncan progressed in the direction of a degree in brain science and furthermore took classes in human sciences and Chinese writing. Regardless of concentrating vigorously on b-ball, Wake Forest brain research office executive Deborah Best was cited: "Tim [...] was one of my increasingly intelligent understudies. [...] Other than his tallness, I couldn't let him know from some other understudy at Wake Forest." Duncan additionally settled his notoriety for being an apathetic player, to the degree that contradicting fans insulted him as "Mr. Spock", the prototypical legitimate, disengaged character from "Star Trek". 

In the 1994– 95 NCAA season, the sophomore was before long called a standout amongst the best qualified NBA prospects, alongside his companions Joe Smith, Rasheed Wallace and Jerry Stackhouse. Los Angeles Lakers general chief Jerry West proposed that Duncan may turn into the top pick in the 1995 NBA draft on the off chance that he went early, yet Duncan guaranteed everybody he had no aim of going master until he graduated, despite the fact that the NBA was intending to include a tenderfoot compensation top in 1996. He was surrendering a great deal of cash, yet was resolved to remain in school. In that season, he drove the Demon Deacons into the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) title amusement against a Rasheed Wallace-drove North Carolina Tar Heels. Amid that amusement, Duncan killed the danger of Wallace, while Childress fixed the success with a bounce shot with four seconds left in extra time. In the NCAA Tournament, the Demon Deacons achieved the Sweet 16, and playing against Oklahoma State, Duncan scored 12 to run with 22 bounce back and eight squares, outflanking Bryant Reeves, however his group lost 71– 66. All things considered, Duncan finished the year averaging 16.8 focuses and 12.5 bounce back per amusement, was named Defensive Player of the Year and turned into the third-absolute best blocker in NCAA history with 3.98 squares per diversion. He was additionally casted a ballot All-ACC First Team, an accomplishment he would rehash in every one of his two residual years at Wake Forest. 

In the accompanying 1995– 96 NCAA season, Wake Forest needed to manage the loss of Childress, who graduated the past season and entered the NBA. This gave a chance to Duncan to demonstrate his administration characteristics, and his unpracticed group lost just four recreations in the whole ACC season. The Demon Deacons won the ACC Finals once more, however in the Sweet 16, Duncan contracted seasonal influenza, and his group missed the Final Four by one win. He finished another striking season with midpoints of 19.1 focuses and 12.3 bounce back per amusement, and was again casted a ballot ACC Defensive Player of the Year and won his first ACC Player of the Year grant. At the season's end the Wake Forest star was supposed to enter the 1996 NBA draft, yet at last, he remained in school. 

In the 1996– 97 NCAA season, Duncan was helped by the expansion of future NBA player Loren Woods, a 7'1" player who facilitated the weight on Duncan near the bin. The Demon Deacons won their initial 13 diversions, yet then got into a droop and neglected to win a third ACC title. The NCAA battle was similarly as disappointing, as Stanford University, driven by future NBA point protect Brevin Knight, disposed of Duncan's group with a 72– 66 win. Duncan completed with a separately noteworthy season however, averaging 20.8 focuses, 14.7 bounce back and 3.2 helps per diversion while shooting .606 from the field and winning the Defensive Player of the Year for a third straight season. He earned first-group All-America praises for the second time, and was a consistent pick for both USBWA and Naismith College Player of the Year. Duncan drove the 1996– 97 NCAA Division I in bouncing back, was tenth in blocked shots (3.3 bpg) and 28th in scoring (20.8 ppg). He was casted a ballot ACC Player of the Year again and won the 1997 John Wooden Award as the NCAA's best by and large male player dependent on the votes of sportscasters and newswriters. 

As opposed to contemporary prep-to-expert players like Kevin Garnett, Jermaine O'Neal, Tracy McGrady or Kobe Bryant, Duncan remained at school for an entire four years. Amid that period, he was a two-time ACC Player of the Year, and a three-time NABC Defensive Player of the Year. The middle additionally made the All-ACC Tournament somewhere in the range of 1995 and 1997, the All-ACC First Team somewhere in the range of 1995 and 1997, and was named Most Valuable Player of the 1996 ACC Tournament. Further, 1996 was where he driven the gathering in scoring, bouncing back, field objective rate and blocked shots, turning into the principal player in meeting history to lead every one of the four of those classes. By and large, Duncan drove his group to a 97– 31 win– misfortune record and completed his school profession as the untouched driving rebounder in NCAA history in the post-1973 period (later outperformed by Kenneth Faried). He stays one of just ten players with in excess of 2,000 vocation focuses and 1,500 profession bounce back. He was additionally the main player in NCAA history to achieve 1,500, 1,000 bounce back, 400 blocked shots and 200 helps. He left school as the record-breaking driving shot-blocker in ACC history with 481 squares—at the time second in NCAA archives behind Colgate's Adonal Foyle and third on the ACC profession bouncing back rundown with 1,570 bounce back. In the wake of gaining his professional education, Duncan turned out to be naturally qualified for the 1997 NBA draft. 

In the 1997 NBA draft, the San Antonio Spurs drafted Duncan with the main draft pick. The Spurs were falling off damage perplexed 1996– 97 season; their best player, David Robinson—himself a main draft pick in 1987—was sidelined for the vast majority of the year, and they had completed with a 20– 62 win– misfortune record. In any case, as the 1997– 98 season drew closer, the Spurs were viewed as a remarkable risk in the NBA. With an accomplished focus in Robinson and the main pick in Duncan, the Spurs included a standout amongst the best frontcourts in the class. Duncan and Robinson wound up known as the "Twin Towers", having earned a notoriety for their extraordinary safeguard near the container, constraining rivals to take lower rate shots from outside. From the earliest starting point, Duncan built up himself as a quality player: in his second street diversion, he snatched 22 bounce back against restricting Chicago Bulls Hall of Fame control forward Dennis Rodman, a numerous bouncing back hero and NBA Defensive Player of the Year. Duncan was casted a ballot to the 1998 NBA All-Star Game by mentors. Afterward, when Duncan played against contradicting Houston Rockets Hall of Fame control forward Charles Barkley, Barkley was so awed he stated: "I have seen the future and he wears number 21." In his youngster season, Duncan satisfied desires for being the main draft pick, beginning in every one of the 82 customary season diversions, averaging 21.1 focuses, 11.9 bounce back, 2.7 helps and 2.5 squares per amusement, and acquiring All-NBA First Team praises. His guarded commitments guaranteed that he was chosen to the NBA All-Defensive Second Team and was likewise named NBA Rookie of the Year, having won the NBA Rookie of the Month grant each and every month that season. Goads mentor Gregg Popovich praised Duncan's psychological strength, expressing his new kid on the block's "mien was independently surprising", Duncan dependably "place things into viewpoint" and never got "excessively playful or excessively discouraged." Center Robinson was similarly awed with Duncan: "He's the genuine article. I'm pleased with his frame of mind and exertion. He gives all the additional exertion and work and needs to improve as a player." 

The Spurs met all requirements for the 1998 NBA Playoffs as the fifth seed, however Duncan had a terrible first half in his first playoff diversion against the Phoenix Suns, causing Suns mentor Danny Ainge to play Duncan with less cautious weight. The new kid on the block exploited this by completing Game 1 with 32 points and 10 bounce back and reproducing the execution in Game 2, adding to a 3– 1 triumph over the Suns. Notwithstanding, the Spurs lost in the second round to the possible Western Conference Champions Utah Jazz. In this arrangement, Duncan was hollowed against Hall-of-Fame control forward Karl Malone. Duncan outscored Malone in the initial two amusements which the Spurs lost, yet as the arrangement advanced, the more experienced Malone shut Duncan down on guard and overwhelmed on offense, outscoring the youthful power forward in Games 3 to 5 18– 10, 34– 22 and 24– 14 individually. 

Amid the lockout-abbreviated 1998– 99 season, the Spurs began with a dull 6– 8 record and Popovich experienced harsh criticism from the press. Be that as it may, Duncan and Robinson remained behind their mentor, and completed the season with a 31– 5 run. The sophomore arrived at the midpoint of 21.7 focuses, 11.4 bounce back, 2.4 helps and 2.5 squares in the ordinary season, making both the All-NBA and All-Defense First Teams. In the 1999 NBA Playoffs, the Spurs vanquished the Minnesota Timberwolves 3– 1, cleared the Los Angeles Lakers and the Portland Trail Blazers 4– 0, and crushed the Cinderella story New York Knicks 4– 1 in the Finals. In this arrangement, a substantial unforeseen of Virgin Islanders flew over to help their nearby saint, and were not frustrated. In the initial two diversions, the "Twin Towers" outscored their Knicks partners Chris Dudley/Larry Johnson with 41, 26 bounce back, and nine squares versus five, 12 bounce back, and zero squares. After a Game 3 misfortune in which Duncan was held scoreless in the second from last quarter and submitted three turnovers in the last quarter, Duncan skiped back with 28 and 18 bounce back in a Game 4 win, and in Game 5, the Spurs shielded a 78– 77 lead seconds from the end with the ball in the Knicks' ownership. Twofold joined by Duncan and Robinson, Knicks swingman Latrell Sprewell missed a very late edginess shot, and subsequent to finishing off the arrangement with a solid 31-point and 9-bounce back appearing Game 5, Duncan was named Finals MVP, bringing San Antonio their first-ever NBA title. The honors for the Spurs before long touched base, with "Sports Illustrated" announcing that the San Antonio "monkey has been shed", and that the Spurs were never again known as the "San Antonio softies". The magazine commended Finals MVP Duncan, who was later cited: "This is staggering. We maintained our concentration and we hauled it out." "Sports Illustrated" writer and resigned NBA player Alex English included: "Duncan came up huge each time they went to him with that sweet turnaround jumper off the glass. He was the man today around evening time [in Game 5]." And Popovich later said to losing mentor Jeff Van Gundy: "I have Tim [Duncan] and you don't. That is the distinction." 

In the 1999– 2000 season, Duncan further solidified his notoriety. He found the middle value of 23.2 focuses, 12.4 bounce back, 3.2 helps and 2.2 squares per amusement, earned another pair of All-NBA and All-Defense First Team call-ups, and was co-MVP with Shaquille O'Neal of the NBA All-Star Game. In any case, the Spurs had a disillusioning post-season. Duncan harmed his meniscus without further ado before the finish of the ordinary season and was unfit to play in even one post-season amusement. Thus, the Spurs were wiped out in the first round of the 2000 NBA Playoffs, losing 3– 1 to the Phoenix Suns. Regardless, Duncan bounced back in the following season, and with solid ordinary season midpoints of 22.2 focuses, 12.2 bounce back, 3.0 helps and 2.3 squares, earned himself one more pair of All-NBA and All-Defensive First Team call-ups. In the 2001 NBA Playoffs, the Spurs dispensed with the Timberwolves 3– 1, vanquished the Dallas Mavericks 4– 1, yet then bowed out against the Lakers driven by hotshots Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant, losing in four straight diversions. "Sports Illustrated" portrayed the arrangement as a "[m]erciless confuse", and Duncan was scrutinized as "quiet when the Spurs need him most". 

On the back of two continuous playoff disillusionments, Duncan improved measurably in the 2001– 02 season. He arrived at the midpoint of vocation highs in scoring (25.5 focuses per diversion, including a class driving 764 field objectives and 560 endeavored free tosses) and bouncing back (12.7 sheets per amusement, and his collected 1042 sheets again drove the alliance), and furthermore found the middle value of 3.7 helps and 2.5 squares per diversion, both profession highs. Combined with another pair of All-NBA and All-Defensive First Team call-ups, he was named the class' Most Valuable Player, joining colleague David Robinson as the main Spurs individuals to procure the respect. Then again, Duncan's group battled with the way that the maturing Robinson was never again ready to support his dimension of execution, and reinforcement focus forward Malik Rose needed to venture in more frequently. In the 2002 NBA Playoffs, the Spurs were again outmatched by the Lakers. Facing star focus O'Neal yet again, the Spurs were vanquished 4– 1 by the inevitable heroes. Duncan, who oversaw 34 and an establishment high 25 bounce back in Game 5, expressed his dissatisfaction: "I thought we truly got an opportunity at this arrangement. The Lakers turned out to be beyond what we could deal with. Once more, we had a (hell) of a keep running at it. We had chances to win amusements and make it an alternate arrangement, however that is only the manner in which the ball rolls once in a while." Nevertheless, NBA.com commended Duncan as "marvelous" and censured his supporting cast, expressing Duncan "made 11-of-23 shots and 12-of-14 free tosses, including four helps and two squares [a]nd by and by, he didn't have enough help." Also, Robinson said "Tim [Duncan] resembled Superman out there", and surrendered that the Lakers were essentially better, much the same as in the last playoffs battle. 

The 2002– 03 season saw Duncan appreciate another champion season in which he arrived at the midpoint of 23.3 focuses, a vocation high 12.9 bounce back, 3.9 helps and 2.9 squares per amusement, but then another double All-NBA and All-Defense First Team call-up, bringing about his second NBA Most Valuable Player Award. At age 37, Robinson declared that year as his last season, and his playing time was sliced by mentor Popovich to spare his vitality for the playoffs. The Spurs qualified effectively for the playoffs, closing the ordinary season as the Conference number one seed with a 60– 22 record. Despite the fact that San Antonio now had new hostile dangers in Tony Parker and Manu Ginóbili, amid the playoffs, it was Duncan's execution in the semi-finals against the Los Angeles Lakers which was singled out for acclaim by Popovich, who expressed: "I thought in Game 5 and Game 6, he [Duncan] was bewildering in his core interest. He pulled everybody along these last two amusements." In the arrangement, Duncan was coordinated facing forward Robert Horry, and had the capacity to rule him the whole arrangement and finished off the arrangement in style; Duncan completed Game 6 with 37 and 16 bounce back, permitting Spurs mentor Popovich to call timeout with 2:26 left to train his group not to celebrate too much. The Spurs made it to the finals, and crushed the New Jersey Nets 88– 77 in Game 6 to win another NBA title. Aided by a motivated Robinson, Duncan nearly recorded a fourfold twofold in the last diversion, and was named the NBA Finals MVP. Duncan said of the triumph: "We were all certain that something would occur, that we would turn the diversion to our support, and it did", however felt pitiful that Robinson resigned in the wake of winning his second title ring. Following this fruitful Spurs crusade, Robinson and Duncan were named "Sports Illustrated"s 2003 "Sportsmen of the Year". 

Before the 2003– 04 season started, the Spurs lost their enduring skipper David Robinson to retirement. Grasping the solitary group pioneer job, Duncan drove an improved Spurs group which included Slovenian focus Rasho Nesterovič, cautious stalwart Bruce Bowen, Argentinian shooting watch Ginóbili and youthful French point monitor Parker. Falling off the seat were grasp shooting power forward Robert Horry, flexible Hedo Türkoğlu and veterans Malik Rose and Kevin Willis. By and large, Robinson remarked that at first, Duncan was hesitant to venture into the void, as yet requiring some an opportunity to genuinely build up his authority aptitudes. Factually however, Duncan stayed solid; after another persuading season with midpoints of 22.3 focuses, 12.4 bounce back, 3.1 helps and 2.7 squares, he drove the Spurs into the Western Conference Semifinals. There, they met the Los Angeles Lakers once more, split the arrangement 2– 2, and in Game 5, Duncan made an intensely shielded hop shot which put the Spurs ahead by one point with 0.4 seconds left to play. In spite of the brief period remaining, Lakers point monitor Derek Fisher hit a bell blender for an agitated Lakers win. At last, the Spurs lost the arrangement 4– 2, and Duncan ascribed the solid Lakers protection as one reason for the misfortune. 

Duncan and his Spurs looked to re-champion themselves in the following 2004– 05 season. Regardless of their new chief's slight measurable droop (20.3 focuses, 11.1 bounce back, 2.7 helps, 2.6 squares per diversion), the Spurs won the second seed for the 2005 NBA Playoffs by winning 59 amusements. In the first round, the Spurs killed the Denver Nuggets four diversions to one, and met the Seattle SuperSonics in the semi-finals. In the wake of part the initial four amusements, Duncan drove his group to two unequivocal triumphs, setting up a gathering with the Phoenix Suns, known for their up-beat ball. The Spurs figured out how to beat the Suns unexpectedly, crushing them 4– 1 and winning a spot in the 2005 NBA Finals against the Detroit Pistons. In the Finals, Duncan was hollowed against Detroit's protectively solid frontcourt secured by various NBA Defensive Player of the Year Ben Wallace. After two persuading Game 1 and 2 wins for the Spurs, the Pistons twofold joined Duncan and constrained him to play further from the crate. Detroit won the following two recreations and the arrangement was in the end tied at 3– 3, yet Duncan was instrumental in Game 7, recording 25 points and 11 bounce back as the Spurs crushed the Pistons. NBA.com announced that "with his special multidimensional ability, Duncan exhausted and dismembered the Pistons... He was the support of for all intents and purposes each key play down the stretch", and mentor Popovich included: "[Duncan's] complete amusement is so stable, so major, so unnoticed now and again, in such a case that he didn't score, individuals think, 'Well, he didn't do anything'. In any case, he was mind blowing and he was the power that completed it for us." Pistons focus Ben Wallace commented: "He put his group on his shoulders and conveyed them to a title [...t]hat's what the extraordinary players do." Duncan won his third NBA Finals MVP Award, joining Michael Jordan, Shaquille O'Neal, and Magic Johnson as the main players in NBA history to win it multiple times. 

Amid the 2005– 06 season, Duncan experienced plantar fasciitis for the vast majority of the period, which was in any event halfway in charge of his sinking yield (18.6 focuses, 11.0 bounce back, 3.2 helps and 2.0 squares per diversion), and furthermore for his inability to make the All-NBA First Team after eight continuous appearances. The enormous man returned solid in the 2006 NBA Playoffs against the Dallas Mavericks, where he outscored rival control forward Dirk Nowitzki 32.2 to 27.1 focuses, with neither Nowitzki nor Mavericks focus Erick Dampier ready to stop Duncan with their man-to-man safeguard. Yet, in the wake of part the initial six recreations, Duncan turned into the heartbreaking saint of his group in Game 7. Regardless of scoring 39 points in guideline time and fouling out both Dampier and Keith Van Horn, Duncan just made one of seven field objective endeavors in additional time against Mavericks hold focus DeSagana Diop, and the Spurs lost Game 7. 

The accompanying season, be that as it may, was another title year for Duncan and the Spurs. Duncan arrived at the midpoint of 20.0 focuses, 10.6 bounce back, 3.4 helps and 2.4 squares per amusement in the normal season, and was chosen as a Western Conference starter for the 2007 NBA All-Star Game, his ninth appearance in the occasion. In the playoffs, he drove the Spurs to a 4– 1 arrangement win over the Denver Nuggets in the opening round of the 2007 NBA Playoffs, a 4– 2 success over the Phoenix Suns in the second round, and a 4– 1 success against the Utah Jazz in the Western Conference Finals, setting up a gathering with the Cleveland Cavaliers in the Finals. There, the Spurs cleared the Cavaliers 4– 0, winning Duncan his and San Antonio's fourth since forever title. Duncan broadcasted that that title was "the best" of his four titles; nonetheless, he additionally recognized he played "inferior" and in this manner got just a single vote in favor of NBA Finals MVP from a board of ten. His partners were increasingly keen to Duncan; among others, ex-colleague David Robinson alluded to the Spurs titles as the "Tim Duncan time", and commended his authority. Mentor Popovich additionally commended Duncan: "Tim is the shared factor. He's [had] an alternate cast around him [in] '99, '03 and '05. He's invited them all. [...] But he is that simple to play with, and his aptitudes are so on a very basic level sound that other individuals can fit in." Then-NBA official David Stern included: "[Duncan] is a player for the ages. I'm a tennis fan, and Pete Sampras is one of the greats. Alright, he wasn't Andre Agassi or John McEnroe. He simply happens to be one of the best players ever. You accept incredible players as you discover them." 

Amid the 2008 NBA All-Star Weekend, Duncan was an individual from the San Antonio group that won the Shooting Stars Competition. For the season, he played 78 recreations and posted his commonplace 20/10 numbers, San Antonio closed the 2007– 08 customary season with a 56– 26 record, completing behind the Lakers and New Orleans Hornets in the Western Conference and setting up themselves for a first-round challenge against the Suns. The Suns—crushed by the Spurs in three of the previous four periods of playoffs—were out for retribution and included another player in four-time NBA champion Shaquille O'Neal. In Game 1, Duncan set the tone with a 40-point amusement and an uncommon three-pointer that sent the diversion into twofold extra time. The trio of Duncan, Ginóbili and Parker kept playing to shape for the rest of the arrangement, and the Spurs dispensed with the Suns in five amusements. In the primary round of the following round against the Chris Paul-drove Hornets, San Antonio was severely vanquished 101– 82 as Duncan played one of the most exceedingly bad playoff diversions in his vocation, recording just 5 points and 3 bounce back. The Spurs dropped the following amusement also, however recuperated in Games 3 and 4, with Duncan setting up a group high 22 point/15 bounce back/4 square execution in the diversion that tied the arrangement. Duncan at that point recorded 20 points and 15 bounce back in Game 6, and the Spurs depended on their experience to seal the arrangement in Game 7. Be that as it may, most outstanding adversaries Los Angeles Lakers vanquished San Antonio in five amusements in the Conference Finals, and the Spurs by and by neglected to catch consecutive NBA titles. 

Duncan began the 2008– 09 season with solid showings in focuses and bounce back per diversion. Be that as it may, by mid-season, his execution declined and he was accordingly determined to have constant knee tendinosis. Regardless of Duncan having issues with his knee and the group losing the administrations of shooting monitor Ginóbili for a large portion of the period, San Antonio fit the bill for the playoffs as the third seed with a 54– 28 record. Combined with a maturing supporting cast (Bowen, Michael Finley and Kurt Thomas were all in their late 30s), be that as it may, the Spurs were just viewed as periphery contenders for the title. As it turned out, Duncan and Parker were insufficient to enable the Spurs to maintain a strategic distance from a 4– 1 thrashing by Dallas, and the Spurs were dispensed with in the first round of the playoffs out of the blue since 2000. 

With the Spurs hoping to give a progressively strong supporting cast in the 2009– 10 season, they procured Richard Jefferson, Theo Ratliff, Antonio McDyess, DeJuan Blair, and Keith Bogans. The group got off to a 5– 6 begin, however a progression of twofold exhibitions by Duncan gave them a 9– 6 record before the finish of November. Duncan was therefore named the Western Conference Player of the Week for the most recent seven day stretch of November. Indeed, even at 34 years old, he remained a consistent 20– 10 risk, being just a single of three players in the association at the mid-season to average no less than 20 points and 10 bounce back an amusement. On January 21, 2010, Duncan was named as the beginning forward for the West for the 2010 NBA All-Star Game. Subsequent to verifying one more 50-win season, the Spurs fit the bill for the playoffs as the seventh seed, and crushed Dallas 4– 2 in the first round, just to lose 4– 0 to Phoenix in the following round. 

Eleven recreations into the 2010– 11 season, Duncan turned into the Spurs' record-breaking pioneer in focuses scored and diversions played. En route, the Spurs ordered a 12-amusement series of wins to go 13– 2 after 15 diversions. On November 30, 2010, Duncan recorded his third vocation triple-twofold against the Golden State Warriors. after 12 days, in a diversion against the Portland Trail Blazers, Duncan turned into the 94th player in NBA history to play 1,000 recreations. Through his 1,000th diversion, the Spurs have been 707– 293; just Scottie Pippen (715– 285) had a superior record with his group through his initial 1,000 amusements. The Spurs were 29– 4 after 33 diversions—one of the ten best begins in NBA history– and drove the class at 35– 6 part of the way through the season. Despite the fact that Duncan created profession lows in focuses and bounce back per diversion, the Spurs finished the standard season as the primary seed in the West for the 2011 NBA Playoffs, and were second in the class (to Chicago). Notwithstanding completing with a 61– 21 record, be that as it may, the Spurs couldn't abstain from being disturbed in the first round, 4– 2, by the eighth-seeded Memphis Grizzlies. 

The Spurs again completed the 2011– 12 season as the main seed in the West—it was a lockout-abbreviated 66-diversion season—tying with the Chicago Bulls for an alliance best 50– 16 record. Preceding a diversion against the Philadelphia 76ers on March 24, 2012, head mentor Gregg Popovich chose to allow Duncan a night off by posting him on the official scorecard as "DNP-OLD", making jokes about his 36-year-old body. By and large, Duncan's numbers stayed at standard with the past season. The triumvirate of Duncan-Parker-Ginóbili entered the 2012 NBA Playoffs very much refreshed and sound, and the Spurs cleared the Utah Jazz and the Los Angeles Clippers 4– 0 in the initial two rounds. On May 31, 2012, in the third round of the Western Conference Finals against the Oklahoma City Thunder, Duncan set the record for most vocation hinders in playoffs history, outperforming Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. The Spurs' playoff run arrived at an end when the Thunder crushed them 4– 2. 

On July 11, 2012, Duncan consented to re-sign with the Spurs. Aided by a supporting cast involving Danny Green, Tiago Splitter, Gary Neal and Kawhi Leonard that had been developing relentlessly throughout the last two seasons, Duncan and the Spurs would again make the playoffs with a 58– 24 customary season record. Duncan likewise came back to the All-Star line-up and was named to the All-NBA First Team. He completed the normal season with 23,785 profession focuses, which broke George Gervin's record for most focuses in a Spurs uniform (23,602). In the playoffs, the Spurs cleared the Los Angeles Lakers, beat Golden State in six diversions and vanquished the Memphis Grizzlies in the Western Conference Finals in a 4– 0 breadth to achieve the NBA Finals. In diversion 2 of the Western Conference Finals, Duncan recorded his 500th playoff square, turning into the main player in NBA history to achieve that achievement, in spite of the fact that the NBA did not follow obstructs preceding the 1973– 74 season. The Spurs met shielding NBA champions Miami Heat in the NBA Finals in a firmly challenged arrangement. Miami had home court advantage, yet San Antonio took the principal diversion and headed into amusement 6 with a 3– 2 lead. In that amusement, Duncan scored 25 in the primary a large portion of, his greatest pull in a half of a NBA Finals diversion. Be that as it may, the Spurs lost the amusement in additional time, and afterward lost the choosing seventh diversion. 

On December 2, 2013, Duncan turned into the most established player to record a 20– 20 diversion in NBA history, completing with 23 points, 21 bounce back and the amusement winning hop shot against the Atlanta Hawks. The Spurs proceeded to finish up the 2013– 14 customary season with a class best 62 wins. The Spurs vanquished Dallas in seven diversions in the first round of the playoffs, Portland in five recreations in the meeting elimination rounds, and Oklahoma City in six amusements, where diversion 6 went into additional time, as the Spurs won, 112– 107. They set up a Finals rematch against the Miami Heat, which they won, 4– 1, setting a record edge for a success in the NBA Finals, for diversions 3 and 4. En route, the Duncan-Ginóbili-Parker trio broke the record for most successes in NBA Playoffs history. In the wake of winning the Finals in five amusements, Duncan joined John Salley as the main players to win a title in three unique decades. 

On June 23, 2014, Duncan practiced his $10.3 million player alternative for the 2014– 15 season. On November 14, 2014, Duncan scored his 25,000th point in the principal half of the Spurs' 93– 80 prevail upon the Los Angeles Lakers, turning into the nineteenth player in NBA history to achieve the achievement. On February 19, 2015, he passed Alex English to move into sixteenth spot on the NBA's unsurpassed scoring list with 30 points against the Los Angeles Clippers. On March 4, he recorded six bounce back against the Sacramento Kings, breaking his tie with Nate Thurmond for ninth in vocation bouncing back. After two days, he recorded three squares against the Denver Nuggets to outperform Patrick Ewing for 6th in general in profession squares. On April 12, he played his 1,330th profession diversion against the Phoenix Suns, which passed Moses Malone for eleventh unequaled. He likewise scored 22 and passed Kevin Garnett to move into fourteenth spot on the NBA's record-breaking scoring list. The Spurs completed 6th in the Western Conference after 82 amusements and confronted the Los Angeles Clippers in the first round of the playoffs. Their mission for consecutive titles was finished May 2 as they lost to the Clippers in seven diversions. Duncan was later named to the All-Defensive second group on May 20 for the seventh time in his vocation. 

On July 9, 2015, Duncan re-marked with the Spurs to a two-year bargain. On November 2, 2015, in a success over the New York Knicks, Duncan recorded 16, 10 bounce back and six aids his NBA-record 954th triumph with one group, outperforming John Stockton's 953 successes with the Utah Jazz. On November 11, he pulled down bounce back number 14,716 for his profession against the Portland Trail Blazers to pass Robert Parish for seventh spot on the NBA's unequaled bouncing back rundown. On November 14, in a success over the Philadelphia 76ers, Duncan had five blocked shots to turn into the Spurs' establishment head with 2,955 squares, outperforming previous partner David Robinson's profession aggregate of 2,954. Duncan likewise moved into fifth unsurpassed on the NBA's squares list. Subsequent to missing the Spurs' last three rounds of December because of rest and right knee soreness, Duncan came back to activity on January 2, 2016, against the Houston Rockets. In his arrival diversion, Duncan was held scoreless without precedent for his 19-year profession; giving him the most continuous amusements with somewhere around one point, at 1,359. After four days, Duncan scored a then season-high 18 of every a 123– 98 prevail upon the Utah Jazz, helping the Spurs expand its establishment record home series of wins to 30 straight standard season recreations dating to 2014– 15. On February 10, he came back to the beginning lineup subsequent to missing eight amusements with a sore knee. On February 27, in a success over the Houston Rockets, he turned into the fifth player in NBA history to achieve 3,000 squares. Also, with six bounce back in the amusement, Duncan achieved 14,971 for his profession, passing Karl Malone (14,968) for 6th spot allied history. On March 10, Duncan turned into the 6th player allied history with 15,000 bounce back, finishing the accomplishment halfway through the main quarter of the Spurs' 109– 101 success over the Chicago Bulls. On March 19, he fell off the seat for just the third time in his profession to counter the littler lineup of the Golden State Warriors. With a success over the Warriors, the Spurs recorded their 35th straight home win of the period and their 44th directly at home dating to 2014– 15, tied for the second-longest streak in NBA history with the 1995– 96 Chicago Bulls. On April 5, in a success over the Utah Jazz, he turned into the third player with 1,000 triumphs in the customary season, following Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Robert Parish. Duncan expanded his imprint as the NBA's profession head in triumphs with one group. On April 8, he scored a season-high 21 points in a losing exertion to the Denver Nuggets. Having just secured up second seed in the West with an establishment best record (65– 13 before Nuggets amusement), each of the four of Duncan's beginning colleagues were refreshed. The Spurs proceeded to lose to the Oklahoma City Thunder in the second round of the playoffs. 

On June 28, 2016, Duncan picked into his $5.6 million contract for the 2016– 17 season. In any case, on July 11, 2016, he declared his retirement from the NBA after 19 seasons with San Antonio. In September 2016, mentor Gregg Popovich showed that Duncan would have an instructing job with the group in the 2016– 17 season. 

On December 18, 2016, the Spurs resigned Duncan's No. 21 pullover in a postgame service. 

In 1998, Duncan was chosen as one of the last two players for the United States national group for the World Basketball Championship. Nonetheless, this group was later supplanted with CBA and school players due to the NBA lockout. Duncan's first possibility at playing for the national group came in 1999 when he was called up to the Olympic Qualifying Team. He found the middle value of 12.7 ppg, 9.1 rpg and 2.4 bpg and drove the group to a 10– 0 complete on the way to a passing billet for the 2000 Sydney Olympics, however knee damage constrained him to avoid the Olympic Games themselves. 

In 2003, Duncan was likewise an individual from the USA group that recorded ten successes and met all requirements for the 2004 Summer Olympics. He began every one of the recreations he played in and arrived at the midpoint of group bests of 15.6 ppg, 8.0 rpg, 1.56 bpg, while shooting 60.7 percent from the field. At the Olympics itself, the group lost three diversions on its way to a bronze award. The record spoke to a bigger number of misfortunes in a solitary year than in the 68 earlier years joined. It was likewise the first run through since NBA players ended up qualified that the U.S. men's b-ball crew returned home without gold decorations at the Olympics. After the competition, Duncan remarked, "I am around 95 percent beyond any doubt my FIBA profession is finished. I'll make an effort not to impart my encounters to anybody." In complete, Duncan was an individual from five USA Basketball groups and played in 40 diversions. 

Remaining at 6 feet 11 inches tall (2.11 m) and weighing 250 pounds (113 kg), Duncan was a power forward who could likewise play focus. With a twofold vocation normal in focuses and bounce back, he was viewed as a standout amongst the most steady players in the NBA all through his profession. Viewed as one of the alliance's best inside protectors, Duncan likewise positioned reliably as one of the top scorers, rebounders and shot-blockers in the class. Toward the finish of his last season in 2015– 16, he was positioned first in customary season point-bounce back twofold pairs among dynamic players, while he drove the graphs in post-season point-bounce back twofold duplicates (158 as of 2013– 14). His fundamental soft spot for quite a bit of his profession was his free toss shooting, with a lifelong normal of under 70%. 

Aside from his noteworthy insights, Duncan has picked up a notoriety for being a decent grip player, as prove by his three NBA Finals MVP grants and his playoff profession midpoints being higher than his standard season measurements. Eleven-time NBA champion Bill Russell further compliments Duncan on his passing capacity, and rates him as a standout amongst the most effective players of his age, a view shared by 19-time NBA All-Star Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. In light of his adaptability and achievement, ball specialists broadly believe Duncan to be the best power forward in NBA history, while mentor Popovich and colleagues Parker and Ginóbili have likewise attributed a lot of San Antonio's prosperity to him. Duncan's depreciators, be that as it may, name him as "exhausting" in view of his basic yet powerful style of play (in this way winning him the moniker "The Big Fundamental"). Following his first title ring in 1999, "Sports Illustrated" portrayed him as a "tranquil, exhausting MVP", a portrayal which continues today. 

Duncan himself remarked on his "exhausting" picture, expressing: "In the event that you show energy, at that point you additionally may demonstrate disillusionment or disappointment. On the off chance that your adversary grabs on this disappointment, you are off guard." Sports writer Kevin Kernan remarked on his capacity to unwind and remain centered, expressing that having a degree in brain research, Duncan regularly beats, yet out-psychs his rivals. Duncan has additionally expressed that he particularly loves his bank shot, saying: "It is only simple for me. It just feels better." Additionally, Duncan's nearby and longstanding association with Spurs mentor Gregg Popovich has been portrayed as "the best romantic tale in games". 

In his b-ball profession, Duncan gathered various individual and group respects, including being a two-time MVP (2002, 2003), five-time NBA champion (1999, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2014) and three-time NBA Finals MVP (1999, 2003, 2005). As a school player, he was regarded by the House of Representatives, named the ACC Male Athlete of the Year, won the John R. Wooden Award and Adolph Rupp Trophy, and was chosen as the Naismith College Player of the Year notwithstanding player of the year respects from the United States Basketball Writers Association (USBWA), National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC) and "Wearing News" (every one of the 1997). In 2002, Duncan was named to the ACC 50th Anniversary men's ball crew regarding the 50 biggest players in ACC history. In his presentation year in the NBA (1998), he was casted a ballot Rookie of the Year and chose into the All-Rookie Team. He has been named to 15 NBA All-Star Teams (1997– 98; 1999– 2000 to 2010– 11; 2012– 13 and 2014– 15), 15 All-NBA Teams (1997– 98 to 2009– 10, 2012– 13, 2014– 15; ten First Team designations), and 15 All-Defensive Teams (1997– 98 to 2009– 10; 2012– 13, 2014– 15; eight First Team selections). With these great exhibitions, Duncan is one of just four players to get All-NBA First Team respects in every one of his initial eight seasons (1998– 2005), alongside Hall of Famers Bob Pettit (ten seasons), Larry Bird (nine seasons), and Oscar Robertson (nine seasons), and is the main player in NBA history to get All-NBA and All-Defensive distinctions in his initial 13 seasons (1997– 98 to 2009– 10). 

Duncan was additionally named by the Association for Professional Basketball Research as one of "100 Greatest Professional Basketball Players of The twentieth Century", the most youthful player on that rundown. In the 2001– 02 season, he won the IBM Player Award and "The Sporting News" (TSN) MVP Award, turning into the third player to ever win the NBA MVP, IBM Player and TSN Player Awards in a similar season. On February 18, 2006, he was named one of the "Following 10 Greatest Players" on the tenth commemoration of the arrival of the NBA's 50th Anniversary All-Time Team by the TNT broadcasting group. In 2009, Duncan was positioned eighth by "Hammer Magazine" in their rundown of the Top 50 NBA players of All Time, while "Sports Illustrated" named him its NBA Player of the Decade. 

In 2013, Duncan opened BlackJack Speed Shop in San Antonio, Texas, situated close to the San Antonio Spurs practice office. 

A public statement noticed that BlackJack is "a vehicle and truck customization shop highlighting a 4,000 square foot showroom and a 8,000 square foot shop with 10 coves. The business is a one-stop shop that gives everything from haggles to execution moves up to lift units to finish modifies." The shop has allegedly dealt with the vehicles of numerous Spurs players and representatives. A second area was opened north of San Antonio, in Schertz, Texas. 

In August 2017, BlackJack Speed Shop, in organization with The Tim Duncan Foundation, sorted out desperately required supplies for casualties of Hurricane Harvey. 

Duncan has two more seasoned sisters, Cheryl and Tricia, and one more established sibling, Scott. Like their more youthful sibling, they were gifted competitors: Cheryl was a hero swimmer before she turned into a medical attendant, and Tricia swam for the U.S. Virgin Islands at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. 

In school, Duncan co-composed a section in the social brain research book "Aversive Interpersonal Behaviors". 

Duncan wedded Amy Sherrill in July 2001 and the couple had their first tyke, little girl Sydney, in the late spring of 2005. They had a second tyke, child Draven, in the late spring of 2007. It was accounted for that the Duncans were separating in May 2013, yet the separation was not concluded until November 23, 2013. In 2017, Duncan and long-lasting sweetheart Vanessa Macias respected a youngster, Quill Duncan. 

The Tim Duncan Foundation was set up to serve the territories of wellbeing mindfulness and research, instruction, and youth sports and diversion in San Antonio, Winston-Salem, and the United States Virgin Islands. The establishment's significant occasions have incorporated the Tim Duncan Bowling for Dollar$ Charity Bowl-A-Thon and the Slam Duncan Charity Golf Classic. Somewhere in the range of 2001 and 2002, the establishment raised more than $350,000 for bosom and prostate disease inquire about. In those two years, Duncan was named by "Brandishing News" as one of the "Heroes" in games. The Spurs chief likewise bolsters the Children's Bereavement Center, the Children's Center of San Antonio and the Cancer Therapy and Research Center. 

Duncan refers to his late mother as his primary motivation. In addition to other things, she showed him and his sisters the nursery rhyme "Great, Better, Best. Never given it a chance to rest/Until your Good is Better, and your Better is your Best," which he received as his own maxim. On and off the court, he trusts that the three most essential qualities are commitment, cooperation and fellowship. The Spurs skipper has likewise expressed that he picked #21 for his shirt since that was his brother by marriage school number, since he was Duncan's primary b-ball motivation, and refers to Hall-of-Fame Los Angeles Lakers point monitor Magic Johnson as his youth icon. 

Duncan was regarded with the Virgin Islands Medal of Honor, the most elevated honor presented by the Virgin Islands regional government, and has been commended in a few "Tim Duncan Day" functions. In 2000, Legislature of the Virgin Islands President Vargrave Richards stated, "He is a calm mammoth. His laid-back demeanor is the exemplification of the general population of St. Croix, getting things done without display and ruckus." 

Duncan appreciates Renaissance fairs and the dream pretending diversion "Cells and Dragons". An ardent computer game player, he recognizes a specific delight of playing "himself" in b-ball computer games. 

In 2015, Duncan sued his previous venture counsel, guaranteeing over $20 million in misfortunes. In September 2016, a government fabulous jury prosecuted the consultant on two checks of wire extortion identified with the case. In April 2017, the counselor conceded to wire misrepresentation for the situation; in June 2018, he achieved a settlement and got $7.5 million.