Joseph W. Tkach 

Joseph W. Tkach (; March 16, 1927 – September 23, 1995) was the designated successor of Herbert W. Armstrong, organizer of the Worldwide Church of God. Tkach moved toward becoming President and Pastor General of the congregation upon the demise of Armstrong in 1986. Tkach led a noteworthy doctrinal change of the Worldwide Church of God, forsaking Armstrong's whimsical teachings and bringing the congregation into accord with customary fervent Christianity. His child, Joseph Tkach Jr., proceeded with his work and in 1997 the Worldwide Church of God turned into an individual from the National Association of Evangelicals. 

Amid Tkach's residency, the progressions that he executed mixed much discussion and noteworthy dispute among the individuals who kept on following Armstrong's religious philosophy. The nonconformists named the progressions as apostasy and many left to shape new church associations. Inside the standard Christian people group, some have hailed Tkach's changes, which conveyed a congregation from the periphery to conventionality, as remarkable. 

He was conceived March 16, 1927, in Chicago, the most youthful of five kids and the main child of Vassil and Mary Tkach. The name Tkach is of Carpatho-Rusyn (Ukrainian) root, however his folks were initially from Czechoslovakia. The area where he grew up was made for the most part out of industrial working individuals of Russian beginning. He moved on from Tilden High School in southwest Chicago. He at that point served a present moment in the U.S. Naval force close to the finish of World War II and a short time later came back to his local Chicago. On March 31, 1951, Tkach wedded Elaine Apostolos; they had three kids: Joseph Jr., Tanya, and Jennifer. 

Tkach experienced childhood in the Russian Orthodox confidence, yet in the end his family, including his folks, wound up intrigued by the Radio Church of God through the radio communicate of Herbert W. Armstrong, the author of the congregation. The Radio Church of God would in the end change its name in 1968 to the Worldwide Church of God (WCG), the congregation that Tkach would lead. It was a congregation portrayed by the solid impact of its originator and his one of a kind regulations dependent on his own elucidation of the Bible. At first, Tkach was the main individual from his family who was not keen on tuning in to the radio communicates. Be that as it may, a purportedly phenomenal occasion was to transform him. At the time, Tkach experienced serious ulcers and was required to remain on an uncommon eating routine. His better half at that point recommended that God would mend him if he somehow happened to turn into a clergyman in Armstrong's congregation. Albeit wary, he acknowledged the proposal of turning into a pastor and he ended up relieved, never again to experience the ill effects of the ulcers. He was sanctified through water by Radio Church of God serve, Dean Blackwell, on March 1, 1957. On June 7, 1961, Blackwell appointed him an elder in the Chicago gathering, and on June 3, 1963, Roderick C. Meredith, who might in the long run lead a breakaway church from the WCG, appointed him as a senior. 

In 1966 Tkach moved his family to Pasadena, California, where he selected classes at Ambassador College, a state-affirmed, however not locally certify, school that was supported by the WCG. In 1974, he was appointed to the position of lecturing senior. Armstrong encouraged that the Bible supported "positions" in the service, and older folks could advance up the stepping stool from neighborhood senior to lecturing senior to minister to evangelist. The most elevated position, messenger, was held for the pioneer of the congregation. 

In the late 1970s a time of money related and initiative debate happened inside the congregation progression, with chapel treasurer, Stanley Rader, at the focal point of huge numbers of the question. The gravest episode was the congregation being put in money related receivership by the Attorney General of California, George Deukmejian, an activity that was later prohibited in court. Tkach played a functioning job in the protection of Armstrong, Rader, and the congregation home office's activities. He energized the WCG enrollment to make a move against the court procedures. Armstrong perceived his viability and along these lines appointed him to the position of evangelist on September 27, 1979. See Evangelists of the Worldwide Church of God. In March 1981 Armstrong named him to the WCG's warning board of older folks, and in the end, Armstrong named him Director of Church Administration, a standout amongst the most noticeable regulatory positions other than Armstrong himself. 

Armstrong had recouped from serious heart issues in the late 1970s, yet by the mid-1980s he was encountering quickly declining wellbeing. By 1985 this was basic information among chapel individuals as the 93-year-old evangelist had not been found out in the open for a while. As per "The Worldwide News", the official church pamphlet, Armstrong told his warning chamber on January 7, 1986, of his choice to choose Tkach to succeed him in case of his demise. It was likewise declared by Armstrong in a letter to individuals from the congregation. Armstrong kicked the bucket on January 16, 1986, just nine days subsequent to naming his successor. 

At first there were not many unmistakable changes inside the congregation. Tkach proceeded with Armstrong's convention of voyaging abroad, in spite of the fact that his accentuation was more on visiting church individuals and activities than on Armstrong's motivation of visiting world pioneers to endeavor to observer to them. The congregation entered a time of fast development amid the early long stretches of Tkach's organization. Truth be told, the enrollment topped amid his residency at 126,800 individuals in 1988. The accounts were steady, to a great extent because of the congregation's training that individuals should tithe, giving a tenth of their gross pay to the congregation. The congregation magazine, "The Plain Truth", kept on serializing the last and most dubious book by Armstrong, "Secret of the Ages". Tkach additionally proceeded, at any rate out in the open, to advance the congregation's exceptional teachings. 

Tkach did not have the charming identity of his ancestor. In contrast to Armstrong, who kept a solid hold of the reins, Tkach designated numerous undertakings, including the introduction of the congregation upheld transmission, "The World Tomorrow" and the writing of articles and booklets created by the congregation. In spite of the fact that Tkach was not known as a scholar, and made no cases in that capacity, in the end he was to have significant effect on the philosophical establishments of the WCG. 

The principal real change under Tkach's residency was the WCG's teaching on mending. Beforehand the congregation encouraged that genuine devotees were recuperated by confidence in God and not by specialists. Tkach requested that the congregation initiative investigation the inquiry. Once Tkach was happy with the aftereffects of the examination, he formally mollified the congregation's instructing on the issue, urging individuals to look for legitimate treatment while holding confidence in God as a healer. 

Another formally distributed doctrinal change was that ladies in the congregation would be permitted to wear cosmetics. In the most punctual long stretches of the group, Armstrong declared the forbiddance of cosmetics for ladies. During the 1970s that forbiddance was lifted, however in 1981 Armstrong reinstituted the instructing. In 1988 Tkach lifted the boycott for good. 

The primary significant indication of contradiction happened in 1989 when a WCG serve, Gerald Flurry, distributed a composition illustrating what he and others accepted were irritating patterns in the work, including the beginnings of the doctrinal takeoff from what had been built up by Armstrong. Whirlwind and another clergyman, John Amos, were disfellowshipped and proceeded to frame the Philadelphia Church of God (PCG). The PCG started an elective radio program and magazine, and throughout the following quite a long while a couple of thousand WCG individuals left to join the PCG. Notwithstanding this, Tkach kept on executing extra changes in speculation including:  the move in accentuation far from watching world occasions fundamentally through the viewpoint of prophetic translation; the evacuation of the disallowance of interracial marriage; the remittance of work on the Sabbath; the acknowledgment of the trinitarian principle; and the acknowledgment of the legitimacy of other Christian sections, among numerous different changes. More established Armstrong productions that upheld the congregation's once one of a kind tenets were permitted to leave print. 

As these changes were being completed, questions emerged regarding whether the choices were really made by Tkach himself or by others in the congregation authority. The congregation authority around then included Mike Feazell, official associate and publication consultant to Tkach, Greg Albrecht, proofreader of "The Plain Truth", and Joseph Tkach, Jr., the child of Joseph W. Tkach, and church organization chief. One paranoid notion expressed that the choices did not originate from Tkach himself but rather from the congregation initiative. Another expressed that the thoughts originated from Tkach yet he framed them right off the bat in his profession, kept them escaped Armstrong, and just enabled the plans to happen as expected after Armstrong's passing. Feazell claims that the changes were at first determined by a reconsideration of chapel writing that was for the most part prodded by inquiries presented by chapel clergymen and individuals. These examinations were finished by Tkach and Feazell, however a ultimate conclusions and endorsement of materials for production were made by Tkach. By 1990, Tkach approved the development of a "Doctrinal Manual Group", comprising of thirteen clergymen and Ambassador College employees with the mission of guaranteeing doctrinal consistency, refinement, and exhortation to the Pastor General. Tkach investigated and settled on an official choices on all proposals made by the gathering. 

The congregation's conventions of following the Sabbath, the Old Testament heavenly days, and tithing were at first held. However, some WCG priests and individuals kept on communicating alert over the doctrinal corrections Tkach had officially made, and every once in a while some would leave to make protester branches. They incorporated Tkach's one-time tutor, Roderick C. Meredith, who framed the Global Church of God in 1992. As different breakaway gatherings were built up, extra groups of chapel individuals pursued. 

The doctrinal changes in the congregation happened bit by bit, however by 1994, the vast majority of the ideas of Armstrongism had been to a great extent altered or stopped. In any case, the significant sensation was dropped amid what is currently called the Christmas Eve Sermon. Tapes of Tkach's message (dated January 7, 1995) were conveyed to nearby gatherings for review. In this lesson, he openly announced that the Worldwide Church of God was a New Covenant church and, hence, not bound by the terms of the Old Covenant. Christian religious philosophy characterizes the Old Covenant as the Mosaic Law epitomized in the Torah. Consequently, by owning this expression, Tkach authoritatively dropped all teachings dependent on Mosaic Law (i.e., the keeping of the Sabbath, the Holy Days, and the dietary laws), making recognition of such practices an individual decision. He additionally dropped the necessity of tithing, proclaiming that giving as instructed in the New Testament was deliberate. The last change had a critical and rather prompt effect on chapel accounts. 

These and other significant changes achieved real surrenders among priests and individuals, which thus added to a further drop in chapel income. So as to get the accounts request, significant changes in the congregation framework were actualized. "The World Tomorrow", which had seen record quantities of watchers in the early long stretches of the Tkach organization, was ceased. "The Plain Truth" production runs were diminished. Staff at the congregation base camp were laid off. The renowned, church-financed Ambassador Auditorium show arrangement was dropped and offers were looked for the buy of the Ambassador College Pasadena grounds. 

The Christmas Eve lesson just quickened the takeoff of chapel individuals. Another branch, the United Church of God, was made in 1995 by a gathering of withdrawing pastors and named Tkach's one-time partner and previous "The World Tomorrow" moderator, David Hulme, as president. It inevitably turned into the biggest of the gatherings to split far from the WCG amid this period. In spite of the fact that incomes kept on dropping, Tkach remained undauntedly dedicated to the progressions that he had actualized. 

On May 12, 1995 Tkach had medical procedure to expel his nerve bladder. Presently, he was readmitted to the emergency clinic on account of extreme digestive system and back torment. Specialists at that point expelled a grapefruit-measure tumor from his digestion tracts and found he had colon malignant growth. In a letter to priests, dated September 6, Tkach declared that he was likewise determined to have bone malignant growth. He chose not to embrace radiation medications. As Armstrong had done before him, Tkach named a successor to progress toward becoming minister general in case of his passing. All things considered, it was Tkach's child, Joseph Tkach Jr. 

Tkach passed on September 23, 1995. 

The effect of Tkach's residency as the leader of the WCG was eminent. Church salary dropped from a high of over $200 million out of 1990 to $50 million by 1996. By then the congregation could just consider 49,000 individuals, not exactly half from its pinnacle. The flow of "The Plain Truth", disseminated free by membership and by means of newspaper kiosk appropriation around the world, tumbled from a pinnacle of 8,000,000 to under 100,000 preceding it changed to a paid membership status. In the long run the magazine was spun off into a different, autonomous, outreaching service. The quantity of workers at the congregation home office tumbled from 1,000 to around 50. Represetative University, as the school had turned out to be subsequent to winning local accreditation in Texas, stopped activities in 1997 as the congregation could never again give its yearly working sponsorship. The Pasadena grounds was at long last sold in 2004. 

In evaluating crafted by Tkach, there are two points of view. The commentators of Tkach, particularly the individuals who shaped the fragment chapels, consider Tkach to be the key individual in charge of the breakdown of the WCG. They trust that the progressions he brought were a betray God and state his dismissal of Armstrong's novel principles were, best case scenario, without scriptural establishment. 

Tkach's supporters, incorporating those in the authority of the WCG, see occasions in an unexpected way. The WCG depicts Tkach's residency as "A Decade of Painful Change" and that the final product of his work was the compromise of the congregation with standard Christianity. Ruth Tucker, an outreaching pioneer and an early supporter of the progressions which happened in the WCG, wrote in an article in "Christianity Today" that 

The "changes"— as they are alluded to by insiders—are really memorable. At no other time in the historical backdrop of Christianity has there been such a total move to universal Christianity by an irregular periphery church. 

Vern Bullough, a common humanist and senior editorial manager of "Free Inquiry", remarked on the hugeness of the progressions noticing: 

The shedding of pretty much every teaching the Worldwide Church of God once clung to is a story nearly without parallel in American religious history. 

After his demise, the WCG emphasized its full acknowledgment of the doctrinal changes actualized by Tkach and distributed a statement of regret to present and previous individuals from the congregation for the effect past conventions had on individuals. As proof that Tkach's work was instrumental in the push toward standard Christianity, the WCG was acknowledged into the enrollment of the National Association of Evangelicals inside two years of his passing.