Indian Head penny 

The Indian Head penny, otherwise called an Indian Head penny, was a one-penny coin ($0.01) delivered by the United States Bureau of the Mint from 1859 to 1909. It was structured by James Barton Longacre, the Chief Engraver at the Philadelphia Mint. 

From 1793 to 1857, the penny was a copper coin about the measure of a half dollar. The disclosure of gold in California caused a vast expansion in costs. As gold turned out to be increasingly copious, the cost of copper rose. Penny and half-penny make was one of the main benefit places for the Mint and by 1850 the Mint started searching for choices. In 1857 the Mint diminished the span of the penny and changed the organization to 12% nickel and 88% (copper-nickel), issuing another plan, the Flying Eagle penny. The new pieces were indistinguishable in breadth to present day pennies, however thicker. This was the main utilization of copper-nickel by the United States. The copper-nickel made them look more splendid and they started to be designated "White penny" or "Scratches". 

In 1858 the Flying Eagle was supplanted with the Indian head structure. The Flying Eagle configuration caused creation challenges and the Mint before long hoped to supplant it. Mint Director James Ross Snowden chose the Indian Head plan and picked a tree wreath for the turn around that was supplanted in 1860 by an oak wreath with a shield. Pennies were accumulated amid the financial bedlam of the American Civil War when the metal nickel was hard to come by. As Mint authorities saw that secretly issued bronze tokens were coursing, they instigated Congress to pass the Coinage Act of 1864, approving a slimmer penny of bronze amalgam. 

In the after war time frame, the penny turned out to be exceptionally well known and was struck in extensive numbers in many years. A special case was 1877 when a poor economy and little interest for pennies made one of the rarest dates in the arrangement. With the approach of coin-worked machines in the late nineteenth and mid twentieth hundreds of years, considerably more pennies were created, achieving 100 million without precedent for 1907. In 1909, the Indian Head penny was supplanted by the Lincoln penny, planned by Victor D. Brenner. 

The half-dollar-sized expansive penny was struck from 1793 to 1857. That coin was proposed to contain near a penny of copper, as individuals anticipated that coins should contain near their assumed estimations in metal. All things considered, as a result of the established proviso making just gold and silver lawful delicate, the legislature would not acknowledge copper pennies for assessments or different installments. By the mid 1850s, changes in the cost of copper drove the Mint of the United States to look for options, including decreasing the measure of the penny and trying different things with creations other than unadulterated copper. The outcome was the Flying Eagle penny, a similar distance across as the later Lincoln penny however to some degree thicker and heavier, made out of 88% copper and 12% nickel. The Flying Eagle penny was struck in constrained numbers as an example coin in 1856, at that point for dissemination in 1857 and 1858. 

The Flying Eagle penny was issued in return for worn Spanish pilgrim silver coins, which up to that point had circled broadly in the United States. These "little pennies" were likewise issued in return for the copper coins they had supplanted. By 1858, Mint experts found the piece unacceptable underway. The high focuses on the two sides of the coin (the bird's head and the wreath) restricted one another, and it was hard to persuade the structure to be brought out completely in the intense copper-nickel amalgam. Mint Engraver James B. Longacre, planner of the Flying Eagle penny, was told to create elective structures. He delivered one, appearing slimmer falcon, which would not conflict as much with the turn around wreath. In spite of the fact that this would have restored the creation issue, the structure was not preferred. Mint Director James Ross Snowden recommended a head of Columbus as a front-side structure, yet Longacre felt the open would not affirm of a notable figure on an American coin. 

In 1858, the Mint tried new plans for the penny. Somewhere in the range of 60 and 100 arrangements of twelve example coins were struck, comprising of the standard Flying Eagle front-side, a "lean hawk" design, and the Indian Head configuration, mated with four unique wreaths for the switch. Snowden would settle on his decision of what configuration would be struck in 1859 from these examples; the sets were likewise sold to gatherers. The Indian Head configuration was clearly arranged by April, as on the twelfth of that month, a Mr. Howard wrote to Snowden that "I have discovered that another example piece for the penny has been struck off at the Mint [with] a head looking like that of the five dollar piece and on the invert a shield at the highest point of the olive and oak wreath", and requesting to buy an example. Different numismatists likewise looked for pieces: R. Coulton Davis, a Philadelphia pharmacist with connections to the Mint, wrote to Snowden in June educating him of a great story in a Boston paper, and Augustus B. Sage kept in touch with the Mint Director that month, requesting an example for himself, and one for the recently established American Numismatic Society. 

As per Walter Breen, Snowden in all probability picked the mix of the Indian Head and the tree wreath as it was the most reduced help of any of the alternatives, and could be required to strike well. On November 4, 1858, Snowden kept in touch with Treasury Secretary Howell Cobb about the Indian Head structure, and after two days wrote to Longacre, advising him that it was endorsed. Longacre was to set up the fundamental kicks the bucket for generation, which was to start on January 1, 1859. 

Longacre pushed his Indian Head structure in an August 21, 1858, letter to Snowden: 

By numismatic legend, the facial highlights of the goddess Liberty on the front-side of the Indian Head penny depended on the highlights of Longacre's little girl Sarah; the story runs that she was at the mint one day when she attempted on the hood of one of various Native Americans who were visiting, and her dad portrayed her. In any case, Sarah Longacre was 30 years of age and wedded in 1858, not 12 as in the story, and Longacre himself expressed that the face depended on a statue of "Hunching Venus" in Philadelphia on credit from the Vatican. He did regularly outline his senior little girl, and there are likenesses between the delineations of Sarah and the different portrayals of Liberty on his coins of the 1850s. These stories were clearly surviving at the time, as Snowden, keeping in touch with Treasury Secretary Howell Cobb in November 1858, denied that the coin was based "on any human highlights in the Longacre family". Lee F. McKenzie, in his 1991 article on Longacre, noticed that any craftsman can be affected by numerous things, yet calls the story "basically false". 

Notwithstanding who modeled for Longacre, the facial highlights of the "Indian" are basically Caucasian, implying that a Caucasian lady wears the hat of a Native American man. Longacre had, in 1854, structured the three-dollar piece with a female with comparable highlights (additionally apparently dependent on the gallery form) however a progressively whimsical crown, and adjusted that plan for the gold dollar. Authorities knew about this masterful permit at the season of issue; Snowden, in his November 1858 letter to Cobb, describes the two prior coins as "the craftsmen at the Mint obviously not understanding the foolish ambiguity of setting this most manly property of the warrior fearless on the leader of a lady". Longacre would not be the last to compare the highlights of a White lady with an Indian hat saved for men; Augustus Saint-Gaudens, for the Indian Head bird (1907), delivered a comparative plan. Later issues delineate increasingly precise Indians, including Bela Lyon Pratt's Indian Head gold pieces (1908), the Buffalo nickel (1913) by James Earle Fraser, who worked from Native American models, and the Oregon Trail Memorial half dollar (1926), planned by Fraser and his significant other Laura. 

Craftsmanship history specialist Cornelius Vermeule had blended feelings about the Indian Head penny: "Longacre advanced the folklore of American coinage in a charming if honest style. Given his example half-dollar structures of 1859 as a measuring stick, he could have done more terrible." In another correlation, Vermeule proposed, "a long way from a noteworthy creation tastefully or iconographically, and far less alluring to the eye than the [flying eagle], the Indian head penny was at any rate to accomplish the gift of prominent intrigue. The coin turned out to be maybe the most dearest and normally American of any piece incredible or little in the American arrangement. Extraordinary craftsmanship the coin was not, however it was one of the main results of the United States mints to accomplish the basic touch." 

Generation of the Indian Head penny for business started toward the beginning of 1859. As issued for dissemination, the pieces vary in certain points of interest from the example 1858 penny of comparative plan; Longacre honed a few subtleties. The example coin had the tree leaves in the turn around wreath in bundles of five leaves; the issued 1859 penny has them in packs of six. Pennies dated 1858 with the received turn around (with six-leaf bundles) are known, were no doubt struck in 1859, and are amazingly uncommon. 

In 1860, the invert of the penny was changed to include an oak wreath and a limited shield; such switches are additionally referred to on 1859-dated pieces struck as examples. As indicated by Richard Snow in his manual to Flying Eagle and Indian Head pennies, this was not because of issues with the "Tree Wreath" turn around configuration utilized in 1859, as full subtleties get by on numerous surviving pieces. Walter Breen, in any case, proposed that the plumes and twists on the front did not strike just as they would later, and that "this may represent Snowden's choice to change the structure once more". David Lange, in his history of the Mint, expresses that it was to give the coin, citing Snowden, "increasingly National character". Each of the 1859 pennies and some from 1860 have the cutoff of Liberty's bust on the front-side end with a point; most 1860 pennies and every single later issue have it adjusted. 

A huge number of Flying Eagle pennies had been issued in return for the old American coppers and little Spanish silver. The Spanish silver was all the while streaming into the Mint in mid 1859 and, at Snowden's encouraging, Congress on March 3 of that year broadened the reclamation of these remote coins, lawful delicate in the US until 1857, for an additional two years. Neil Carothers, in his work on little category cash, tested this choice as pointless—denied of legitimate delicate status, the staying Spanish silver would have been dispensed with through deals to banks for their bullion. The individuals who conveyed the old coins to the Mint got pennies for them, at first Flying Eagle, and after that Indian Head. In the year following the reestablishment, somewhere in the range of forty million Indian Head pennies were issued, which means about a hundred million copper-nickel pennies had entered business since 1857. As the coin did not flow in the South and West because of bias against base-metal cash, they gagged business. Nobody needed to take them; no law made them legitimate delicate. At Snowden's encouraging Congress in June 1860 finished the trade. By the by, as Snowden conceded in his yearly report that year, there were such a large number of pennies available for use. In October 1860, "The Bankers' Magazine and Statistical Register" revealed that there were ten million pennies in business in New York City above what was required, and in the event that anybody wished to arrange in mass, they could be obtained at a rebate. 

The excess of pennies was calmed by the monetary disorder incited by the American Civil War, which started in 1861. Toward the finish of that year, the banks quit paying out gold, which from that point instructed a premium over paper cash. These greenbacks, starting in the next year, were issued in extensive amounts by the government. Silver disappeared from trade in June 1862, as the cost of that metal rose, leaving the penny the sole government coin that had not by any stretch of the imagination evaporated from business through storing. The overabundance of pennies had by then subsided, as dealers had put away them away in amount—one New York City floor crumbled underneath the heap. There were different methods for making change which go in the crisis, from postage stamps to secretly issued tokens, yet the open interest was for the penny—the Philadelphia Mint struck record numbers, and put aside part of the creation to be transmitted to different urban communities. In any case, by July 1862, the penny, in amount, must be acquired including some hidden costs of 4% in paper cash in real urban areas in the East. The copper-nickel pieces were nicknamed "nickels", or "scratches". Introduction of coins in installment conveyed with it no commitment to make change in the equivalent. Appropriately, with a little amount of "scratches", a customer could make buys with precise change, without getting such alternatives as vendors' credit slips, that others probably won't acknowledge at the expressed esteem. 

By 1863, "The Bankers' Magazine" announced that the premium for pennies in Philadelphia had ascended to 20%. From that point, the premium diminished as there was a surge of metal tokens issued by vendors, which were generally acknowledged. Other war catalysts, for example, partial cash, diminished the interest for the penny by replacing missing silver coinage. Little amounts of pennies circled among them, however many were still stored. 

Government authorities saw that the open promptly acknowledged the vendor tokens. A significant number of these tokens were made of bronze, and when, in 1863, they endeavored to reestablish coins to course, the utilization of bronze coins, which would not contain their presumptive estimations in metal, was considered. In his yearly report submitted October 1, 1863, Lincoln Administration Mint Director James Pollock noticed that "while individuals anticipate a full an incentive in their gold and silver coins, they simply need the mediocre [base metal] cash for comfort in making precise installments". He saw that the private penny tokens had here and there contained as meager as a fifth of a penny in metal, yet had still circled. He recommended that the copper-nickel penny be supplanted with a bronze bit of a similar size. Pollock likewise needed to wipe out nickel as a coinage metal; its hard composites obliterated bites the dust and hardware. On December 8, Pollock kept in touch with Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Pursue, proposing a bronze penny and two-penny piece. 

On March 2, 1864, Pollock composed direly to Chase, cautioning him that the Mint was coming up short on nickel and that interest for pennies was at an unsurpassed high. He likewise educated the Secretary that the United States Assay Commission, made out of residents and authorities who had met the earlier month to test the country's silver and gold coinage, had prescribed the utilization of French bronze (95% copper with the rest of and zinc) as a coinage metal for the penny and another two-penny piece. After three days, Chase sent Pollock's December letter and draft enactment for bronze one-and two-penny pieces to Maine Senator William P. Fessenden, executive of the Senate Finance Committee. Fessenden made no prompt move, and on March 16, Pollock composed again to Chase, cautioning that the Mint was going to come up short on nickel, quite a bit of which was imported. Pursue sent his letter to Fessenden. Enactment was at long last presented by New Hampshire Senator Daniel Clark on March 22; Pollock's letters were perused and evidently impacted procedures as the Senate passed the bill without discussion. 

The household supply of nickel was around then created by a mine at Gap, Pennsylvania, possessed by industrialist Joseph Wharton. On March 19, Pollock wrote to Chase that they had no more nickel, nor was any accessible from abroad; "we are along these lines quiet down to the home supply; from crafted by Mr. Wharton". Contradicted to the expulsion of nickel from the penny, Wharton distributed a handout in April 1864 proposing coinage of one-, two-, three-, five-, and ten-penny bits of a combination of one section nickel to three of copper, multiplying the level of nickel utilized in the penny. Notwithstanding Wharton's endeavors, on April 20, a select council of the House of Representatives embraced the bill. It was contradicted by Pennsylvania's Thaddeus Stevens, who spoke to the mining region from which Wharton separated his nickel. Wharton had burned through $200,000 to build up his mine and mineral refinement hardware, Stevens related, and it was unjustifiable to deny him of the real utilization of his metal. "Will we pulverize this property in light of the fact that by instituting with another metal more cash might be spared to the administration?" Besides, he contended, the copper-nickel compound for the penny had been endorsed by Congress, and the new metal, which he named "metal", would demonstrate rust. He was refuted by Iowa Congressman John A. Kasson, executive of the House Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures, who expressed that the bronze amalgam did not look like metal, and he couldn't bolster the recommendation that the legislature will undoubtedly buy from a provider since he has burned through cash fully expecting deals. 

The enactment passed the House, and the Coinage Act of 1864 was marked by President Abraham Lincoln on April 22, 1864. The enactment made base metal coins lawful delicate out of the blue: the two pennies and two-penny pieces were adequate in amounts of up to ten. The administration would not, be that as it may, recover them in mass. The demonstration additionally banned the private one-and two-penny tokens, and soon thereafter Congress annulled every single such issue. The enactment did not take into consideration the reclamation of the old copper-nickel pennies; it had been drafted by Pollock, who was trusting that the seignorage salary from issuing the new coins would help fund Mint tasks, and he didn't need it diminished by the review of the old pieces. Wharton and his interests were assuaged by the section of a bill for a three-penny piece in 1865 and a five-penny piece in 1866, both of his proposed amalgam, out of which the "nickel", as the last coin has come to be known, is as yet struck. In spite of this, Wharton and his nickel advantages made rehashed endeavors to return nickel to the penny, each time coming up short, both as a major aspect of the thoughts over what turned into the Coinage Act of 1873, and in the mid 1880s. 

The copper-nickel pennies from right off the bat in 1864 were by and large purchased up by examiners and did not flow in substantial numbers. The Mint started delivering bronze pennies on May 13, three weeks after the section of the Coinage Act, and they were discharged into dissemination on May 20. Kicks the bucket arranged for copper-nickel pieces were utilized to strike bronze. At some point amid 1864, Longacre honed his structure for use in striking the gentler bronze pieces, and furthermore included his underlying "L". It isn't known when this was done; it might have been as ahead of schedule as May, with the new kicks the bucket utilized close by the old. These bronze pieces are frequently alluded to as "1864-L" and "1864 No L". The "L" is known on 1863-dated pieces, in the two metals, and on 1864-dated copper-nickel pieces—a portion of these issues, all amazingly uncommon, were likely struck sometime in the future. The bronze penny was quickly acknowledged by people in general, and substantial creation of the issue before long lightened the deficiency of pennies. 

In the after war years, the overwhelming creation of pennies was downsized, as accumulating stopped and a portion of the slack was taken up by other base-metal coins. By the by, the different issues of little coins, around then not reclaimed by the administration, caused another overabundance in business, which was not totally broken until the Act of March 3, 1871, permitted reclamation of pennies and other minor coins in loads of $20 or more. In accordance with this demonstration, more than thirty million copper-nickel pennies, of both the Indian Head and Flying Eagle plans, were recovered; the Mint liquefied these for recoinage. Fifty-five million bronze pennies were additionally sold to the administration; starting in 1874, the Mint re-issued these because of business demands for pennies, bringing down the interest for new coins. Drops in the cost of silver brought coins of that metal, accumulated for 10 years or increasingly, once more into business, additionally diminishing interest. Somewhere in the range of 1866 and 1878, creation just every so often surpassed ten million; the 1877 coin, with a flow mintage of 852,500, is an uncommon date for the arrangement. After 1881, there were not many recoveries of bronze pennies, because of extreme interest for the section, however copper-nickel pennies kept on being reclaimed and dissolved. 

With the discontinuance of the two-penny piece and three-penny silver in 1873, the penny and the three-penny nickel were the sole overcomers of the coins esteemed at under five pennies. The three-penny nickel, at this point, was disliked in light of its odd group and (with the arrival of silver coinage) its closeness in size to the dime. A three-penny postage rate had been one reason why that division had started, during the 1850s; in the mid 1880s, the Post Office diminished the essential rate for letters to two pennies. This change both expanded interest for pennies, and diminished the interest for the three-penny nickel, which was abrogated in 1890. In many long periods of the 1880s, there were vast issues of Indian Head pennies. The exemption was in the mid-1880s when poor monetary occasions prompted less interest for minor coins. No pennies or five-penny nickels were printed after February 1885 until close to the finish of 1886. Generation of undated bites the dust into which the time of issue could be punched did proceed, and amid the break in coin creation, Chief Engraver Charles E. Hairdresser adjusted the structure, evacuating light frameworks between the lettering on the front and the remainder of the plan, and rolling out different improvements. This prompted two sorts for the 1886 Indian Head penny, which might be recognized: on the Type I, the least quill on the front-side focuses between the I and the C in "AMERICA", while on the Type II it focuses between the C and the last A. Snow appraises that 14 million of the mintage of 17,654,290 were Type I, just like a larger part of the 4,290 proof strikings. 

The financial Panic of 1893 again caused a diminishing in the quantity of pennies delivered, as coins aggregated in private hands were spent, making an overflow. Beside that, the last long stretches of the arrangement before its end in 1909 were set apart by huge mintages, with 1907 garnish the hundred million imprint. A sound economy in many years energized request, as did the expanding prevalence of coin-worked machines, some of which could be found at penny arcades. By the mid twentieth century, the penny was acknowledged the country over, however by law creation of the penny was restricted to the Philadelphia Mint. Treasury authorities looked for evacuation of this limitation, and for an expansion in the yearly assignment to buy base metals for creation of the penny and nickel—the sum used had continued as before since 1873, despite the fact that interest for pennies had enormously expanded. By the Act of April 24, 1906, the Mint got authorization to strike base metal coins at any mint, and the allotment was quadrupled to $200,000. Little amounts of pennies were struck at the San Francisco Mint in 1908 and 1909. 

Congress passed enactment in 1890 enabling the Mint to modify plans that had been being used for a long time without the requirement for authoritative approval. In 1904, President Theodore Roosevelt kept in touch with his Secretary of the Treasury, Leslie Mortier Shaw, whining that U.S. coinage needed creative legitimacy, and enquiring on the off chance that it is conceivable to connect with a private craftsman, for example, stone worker Augustus Saint-Gaudens, to get ready new coin structures. At Roosevelt's directions, the Mint enlisted Saint-Gaudens to overhaul the penny and the four gold pieces: the twofold hawk ($20), bird ($10), half falcon ($5), and quarter hawk ($2.50). As the plans of those pieces had continued as before for 25 years, they could be changed without a demonstration of Congress, as could the Indian Head penny. 

Holy person Gaudens initially imagined a flying bird plan for the penny, yet at Roosevelt's solicitation, created it for the $20 piece in the wake of discovering that under the 1873 demonstration, a hawk couldn't show up on the penny. Author and companion Witter Bynner reviewed that in January 1907, Saint-Gaudens was truly sick with malignant growth, and was conveyed to his studio for ten minutes per day to study crafted by his associates on current undertakings, including the penny. Holy person Gaudens kicked the bucket on August 3, 1907, without having presented another structure for the penny. 

With the upgrade of the four gold divisions finished by 1908, Roosevelt directed his concentration toward the penny. The century of the introduction of killed president Abraham Lincoln would happen in February 1909, and substantial quantities of secretly fabricated gifts were at that point being issued. Numerous residents had kept in touch with the Treasury Department, proposing a Lincoln coin, and Roosevelt was keen on respecting his kindred Republican. This was a break with past American numismatic custom; before the Lincoln penny, no routinely coursing U.S. coin had included a genuine individual (instead of romanticized exemplifications, as of "freedom"). 

In late 1908, Roosevelt sat for artist Victor David Brenner, who was structuring a decoration for the Panama Canal Commission. It is questionable how Brenner was chosen to plan the coin, however in January 1909, Mint Director Frank A. Drain enlisted him to structure a Lincoln penny. This went into dissemination later in 1909, putting a conclusion to the Indian Head penny arrangement. 

Indian Head pennies were prevalent among currency gatherers even in the 50 years when they were delivered; from that point forward, with the development of the pastime, intrigue has expanded. The 1930s acquaintance of economical currency collections with house the arrangement and urge authorities to look for a total set came when the bronze form of the Indian Head penny was as yet regular in pocket change. They were not generally considered until the 1960s; numismatic essayist Tom DeLorey, in first experience with Snow's book, credits this to bias among numismatists who grew up with the Indian Head penny as a typical dissemination piece. He takes note of that the 1960 release of R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins" (normally, the "Red Book") recorded just four dates for which there were assortments, one of which, the overdate 1869/68 was in mistake, as the last digit was in reality over another 9. The 2018 version of the "Red Book" records assortments for 12 dates. 

Like most different groups of U.S. coins, the 1873 might be found in two assortments, contingent upon the presence of the last digit of the date: the "Nearby 3" or "Shut 3" is from early bites the dust, yet after Chief Coiner A. Loudon Snowden griped that the "3" looked an excessive amount of like a "8", Chief Engraver William Barber adjusted his work to make the "Open 3". Nearly 1875 pieces have a speck showing up on the letter "N" in "ONE" on the switch. This may have been a mystery mark, added to get a cheat inside the Philadelphia Mint. 

The Indian Head penny was struck in vast amounts and most dates stay cheap: Yeoman records all dates from 1900 to 1908 from Philadelphia at $2 in Good-4 condition. The record holder for the category is a proof example of the 1864-L, of which there were an expected 20 struck; it sold for $161,000 in 2012. 

Illustrative notes 

References 

Book reference