Odyssey Number Five 

Odyssey Number Five is the fourth studio collection by the Australian musical crew Powderfinger, created by Nick DiDia and discharged on 4 September 2000 by Universal Music. It won the 2001 ARIA Music Award for Highest Selling Album, Best Group and Best Rock Album. The collection was the band's most limited yet, concentrating on social, political, and intense subject matters that had showed up in earlier works, particularly "Internationalist". 

The collection delivered four singles. The best, "My Happiness", came to #4 on the ARIA Singles Chart, won the 2001 ARIA Music Award for "Single of the Year", and topped Triple J's Hottest 100 out of 2000. The collection likewise included "Nowadays", which topped Triple J's Hottest 100 of every 1999. The collection was likewise positioned at number 1 in Triple J's Hottest 100 Australian Albums of All Time survey in 2011. 

Numerous faultfinders praised the collection as Powderfinger's best work; one expressed that the collection was "the Finger's Crowning Glory", in any case, others were reproachful of the "impersonation" contained in the collection. By and large, the collection won five ARIA Music Awards in 2001 and was confirmed platinum multiple times, and earned an eighth in 2004. "Odyssey Number Five" was Powderfinger's first collection to diagram in the United States, and the band visited widely around North America to advance its discharge. 

In a 1997 meeting, Powderfinger bassist John Collins implied that the gathering's next collection would be like their past collection, "Internationalist", while frontman Bernard Fanning said in September 2000 that the verses on the collection, similar to those on "Sitting tight for the Sun", were his "most close to home and direct yet". Fanning said his verses depended on the "deterrents in the method for being seeing someone, in our work circumstance". 

Powderfinger worked with maker Nick DiDia on "Odyssey Number Five", as they had done on "Internationalist", completing the collection in August 2000 following a month and a half of chronicle. The band invested this energy guaranteeing higher quality melodies than on "Internationalist", which had highlighted off key guitars on "Traveler". 

"Odyssey Number Five" was Powderfinger's briefest collection when recorded, running for roughly 45 minutes. The focal point of the collection was on limitation, with more shortsighted verses than beforehand, and with a plain and straightforward message expected. Fanning said of his songwriting ethic: "You attempt and make it something that is got some substance, yet additionally, you can never do that at its expense having pertinence to what you're singing." Powderfinger administrator Paul Piticco remarked that "their ethos is to push the cutoff points of their songwriting capacity". 

Like Powderfinger's past collection "Internationalist", "Odyssey Number Five" remarked on social and political issues vigorously, with the essential purpose of center being Aboriginal issues. The verses of "Like a Dog" assaulted previous Prime Minister of Australia John Howard's Liberal government for its treatment of Indigenous Australians, and for breaking the "loose and agreeable" guarantee he made in the Australian bureaucratic decision, 1996. Lead artist Bernard Fanning related this to the band's other moral positions—declining to show up on "Hello Hey it's Saturday", for its enemy of gay critique, or not permitting Powderfinger tunes to be utilized in jingles, among others—expressing, "We're not here to set a model. We simply need to be content with ourselves and not finish up with a feeling of remorse." Fanning said that regardless of "Like a Dog" being about a political issue, it was anything but a political tune, rather just Powderfinger "voicing our assessments". The band worked with fighter Anthony Mundine on the tune's music video, whom Fanning commended as "the ideal lead, as far as what the melody is about and the way that he's set up to talk up for what he puts stock in." 

Just as giving social analysis, "Odyssey Number Five" additionally examined love, a repetitive theme in Fanning's songwriting. Fanning noticed that one of the reasons for this was his obsession for soul and gospel music, expressing that he "listen[s] to a ton of soul music that is unashamedly about affection and how great it makes you feel". Lead guitarist Ian Haug concurred, and furthermore noticed that the band all in all were completely dedicated to Fanning's verses, expressing "It's extremely vital for us to concur with what Bernard is singing." 

"Odyssey Number Five" denoted Powderfinger's first fruitful endeavor to enter the United States advertise. Fanning told "Bulletin" in a 2001 meeting that the band were not underestimating anything, be that as it may, expressing, "In America, we haven't generally done any work yet to merit any real notoriety", with the "vibes" on past collections neglecting to achieve the American standard. Powderfinger visited broadly around the nation, performing in 22 urban areas. Because of these endeavors, "My Happiness" was quickly set on pivot on KROQ-FM and a few other radio stations. The melody at last topped at #23 on the Modern Rock Tracks outline. This achievement was helped by the band showing up on the "Late Show with David Letterman", and by supporting Coldplay on visit. Guitarist Darren Middleton abridged their work in the United States by expressing "This year has been somewhat of a haze." 

"Odyssey Number Five" was discharged on 4 September 2000, on the Grudge/Universal record marks. The collection was discharged in the United Kingdom on Polydor, with 15 minutes of video and an extra track "Nature Boy", sometime in the not too distant future. A sampler form was discharged in the United States in 2001, containing five tracks. 

Four singles were discharged from the collection. "My Kind of Scene" was the first; discharged as a limited time single in June 2000. The track was composed for the 2000 film "", and showed up on its . Collins and Middleton reviewed that the melody was composed and delivered with photographs of Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman on the mass of the band's studio "as motivation". They noticed that the band made three tunes in light of the "Mission: Impossible 2" demand, and that "My Kind of Scene" was picked over "Up and Down and Back Again" and "Whatever Makes You Happy". 

The second single from the collection was "My Happiness", discharged on 14 August 2000 in Australia. "My Happiness" entered the ARIA Singles Chart at #4, and went through 24 weeks on the graph, making it Powderfinger's most elevated outlining single in Australia. It topped at #7 on the New Zealand singles graph, and went through 23 weeks in the main 50. Besides, "My Happiness" was Powderfinger's first single to diagram in the USA, coming to #23 on the Modern Rock Tracks graph. 

"Like a Dog" was discharged as the third single on 15 January 2001. The tune was overwhelming in political supposition, similar to "The Day You Come" on "Internationalist". The riff for the melody was composed by Ian Haug, and the tune's music video highlighted Australian Aboriginal fighter Anthony Mundine, and depended on the 1980 Martin Scorsese film "Seething Bull". Drummer Jon Coghill said the melody spun around the subject of "why the damnation won't John Howard express sorry to learn Aboriginal individuals!" "Like a Dog" went through multi week on the ARIA Singles Chart, at #40. 

Two tunes from the collection, "The Meter" and "Sitting tight for the Sun", were discharged as a twofold A-side to frame the last single. The single was discharged on 21 August 2001, and incorporated a front of Iron Maiden's "Number of the Beast". "Sitting tight for the Sun" was composed by Fanning as a reverential, gospel style tune. He said of the melody; "It's tied in with being seeing someone being actually vigorously content with it." "The Meter" went through multi week on the ARIA Singles Chart, at #31. 

"Odyssey Number Five" generally increased positive surveys, and was more fruitful than its antecedent, "Internationalist". "Stimulation Weekly" commentator Marc Weingarten gave the collection a B+. He expressed that collection entered new "territory" in guitar shake, complimenting the "scratching and ripping at guitars", attracting correlations with Travis ("demure") and Oasis ("mock-self important"). 

Allmusic commentator Dean Carlson detested the collection, giving it a rating of one and a half stars. He portrayed it as "minimal in excess of a somewhat misguided point of view into the universe of mid-90s American grunge", and depicted it as exceedingly like Neil Young. In spite of this current, Carlson's praised the melodies "Odyssey #5" and "My Happiness", expressing that "[t]oo regularly, Powderfinger is excessively sincere, a bit excessively watchful in their profession". Carlson noticed that regardless of his evaluate, the collection made some progress in the American market. 

Devon Powers of "PopMatters" complimented Fanning's vocals, and said the focal point of the collection was "substantial, moving numbers". Forces said that a significant number of the melodies on the collection were "the sort of tunes you put on rehash for a considerable length of time, or days". The primary study was for the "quicker numbers", expressing that "Like a Dog" "sounds for the most part somewhat exhausted". The survey finished up by taking note of that the best melodies on "Odyssey" were those not accessible as "transient radio singles and ambient sounds". 

"Odyssey Number Five" won the 2001 ARIA Awards for "Collection of the Year", "Most elevated Selling Album", "Best Rock Album", "Best Cover Art", and "Best Group". "My Happiness" won the honor for "Single of the Year", while "Like a Dog" was assigned for "Most astounding Selling Single" and "Best Video". At the 2002 ARIA Awards, "The Meter" was assigned for "Best Group". The collection was named "Collection of the Year" by "Moving Stone Australia" perusers, with "My Happiness" taking out "Tune of the Year" and Powderfinger accepting "Band of the Year". 

All tunes composed by Powderfinger: 

Powderfinger 

Creation 

Extra artists