M249 light automatic rifle 

The M249 light assault rifle (LMG), once in the past assigned the M249 Squad Automatic Weapon (SAW) and formally composed as Light Machine Gun, 5.56 mm, M249, is the American adjustment of the Belgian FN Minimi, a light automatic rifle produced by the Belgian organization FN Herstal (FN). The M249 is made in the United States by the neighborhood backup FN Manufacturing LLC in Columbia, South Carolina and is broadly utilized in the U.S. Military. The weapon was presented in 1984 in the wake of being judged the best of various hopeful weapons to address the absence of programmed capability in little units. The M249 gives infantry squads the high rate of discharge of an automatic weapon joined with exactness and versatility moving toward that of a rifle. 

The M249 is gas worked and air-cooled. It has a brisk change barrel, enabling the heavy weapons specialist to quickly supplant an overheated or stuck barrel. A collapsing bipod is joined close to the front of the firearm, however a M192 LGM tripod is accessible. It very well may be sustained from both connected ammo and STANAG magazines, similar to those utilized in the M16 and M4. This enables the SAW heavy armament specialist to utilize rifle magazines as a crisis wellspring of ammo if the person comes up short on connected rounds. 

M249s have seen activity in each real clash including the United States since the U.S. intrusion of Panama in 1989. Because of the weight and age of the weapon, the United States Marine Corps is handling the M27 Infantry Automatic Rifle with designs to mostly supplant the M249 in Marine Corps administration. 

The M249 is frequently alluded to as a "Squad Assault Weapon". 

In 1965, the U.S. Armed force and U.S. Marine Corps' essential automatic weapons were the M2 Browning and M60. The M2 was a huge bore substantial automatic weapon, generally mounted on vehicles or in fixed emplacements. The M60 was an increasingly portable medium assault rifle proposed to be conveyed with the troops to give substantial programmed discharge. Both were exceptionally overwhelming weapons and typically required a team of something like two to work effectively. The Browning programmed rifle, the military's fundamental individual assault rifle since its presentation in World War I, was eliminated in 1957 with the presentation of the M14 rifle, which had a completely programmed mode. "Assigned sharpshooters" in each squad were requested to utilize their weapons on the completely programmed setting, while different troops were required to utilize their rifle's self-loader mode on most events to expand exactness and monitor ammo. Since the M14 and M16 rifles had not been structured in light of continued programmed shoot, they regularly overheated or stuck. The 20-round and 30-round magazines of these weapons constrained their continued programmed adequacy when contrasted with belt-sustained weapons. 

The Army chose that an individual assault rifle, lighter than the M60, yet with more capability than the M16, would be beneficial; troops would never again need to depend on rifles for programmed shoot. Through the 1960s, the presentation of an automatic weapon into the infantry squad was analyzed in different examinations. While there was a short tease with the idea of a flechette-or dart-shooting Universal Machine Gun amid one investigation, most light automatic rifle tests focused on the Stoner 63 light assault rifle, a measured weapon that could be effectively changed for various purposes. The Stoner 63 LMG saw battle for a concise period in Vietnam with the Marine Corps, and later on a more extensive scale with the U.S. Naval force SEALs. 

In 1968, the Army Small Arms Program created plans for another 5.56 mm bore LMG, however no assets were allotted (5.56 mm ammo was seen as underpowered by numerous individuals in the military). Investigations of improved 5.56 mm ammo, with better execution attributes, started. The most punctual reference to investigations of other gauge cartridges for the LMG did not show up until 1969. In July 1970, the U.S. Armed force at long last affirmed improvement of a LMG, with no predefined bore. As of now, the terminology "Squad Automatic Weapon" (SAW) was presented. Real structure of elective cartridges for the LMG did not start until July 1971. After a month, Frankford Arsenal settled on two cartridge structures for the new LMG: a 6 mm cartridge and another 5.56 mm cartridge with an a lot bigger case. Neither one of the designs was settled by March 1972, when the Army distributed the details record for the arranged SAW. The 6 mm cartridge configuration was in the long run endorsed in May that year. Preceding July 1972, SAW advancement contracts were granted to Maremont, Philco Ford, and the Rodman Laboratory at Rock Island Arsenal. These organizations delivered structures with Army assignments XM233, XM234 and XM235 separately—X signifying "test". Structures were required to have a weight of under 9.07 kg (20 lb) including 200 rounds of ammo, and a scope of in any event 800 meters (2,600 ft). 

At the point when the time sought formative and operational testing of the SAW hopefuls, three 5.56 mm applicant weapons were incorporated with the 6 mm competitors: the M16 HBAR, an overwhelming barrel variation of the M16 intended for delayed discharging; the Fabrique Nationale de Herstal (FN) Minimi; and the HK 23A1. The underlying round of tests finished in December 1974. In February 1976, the Minimi and Rodman XM235 SAW were chosen for further improvement. As of now, sentiments of the 6 mm cartridge were starting to acrid because of the strategic ramifications of giving one more ammo type to the infantry. In June, it was mentioned that the SAW determinations archive be modified to underline standard 5.56 mm ammo. In October, the mentioned modifications were endorsed, and offers were requested for the transformation of the Rodman XM235 to 5.56 mm. Generation of the changed over XM235 was granted to Ford Aerospace, and its assignment was changed to XM248. Another M16 HBAR variation, the XM106, was created in 1978, and before long, Heckler and Koch campaigned to incorporate a 5.56 mm transformation of its HK 21A1 (rather than the standard 7.62 mm NATO ammo it was worked for) in future SAW testing. The last model was assigned the XM262. Right now, the Minimi got the assignment XM249. Testing of the four competitors continued in April 1979. 

In May 1980, the FN XM249 was chosen as the best decision for future advancement on the grounds of execution and cost, while the HK XM262 apparently came a nearby second. In September, FN was granted a "development stage" contract for further improvement of the XM249, and testing of the new weapon started in June 1981. The official appropriation occurred in February 1982. 

The new weapon entered U.S. Armed force administration as the M249 squad programmed weapon in 1984, and was received by the U.S. Marine Corps a year later. The U.S. creation show has an alternate butt from that of the standard Minimi. It is made in the FN industrial facility in Columbia, South Carolina. 

Albeit observed to be solid and exact, the M249 was considered to exhibit inadmissible perils as an uncovered hot barrel and sharp edges. There were objections that the front sight required unique modification devices. On August 23, 1985, at that point U.S. Under Secretary of the Army James R. Ambrose suspended M249 creation pending the advancement of the item improvement program (PIP) proposed to fix these issues. Congress erased assets for the M249 from the Fiscal Year 1986 protection spending plan, at that point retroactively put aside the program's earlier year's assets from the M249 program for different purposes, including retirement and salary increases. More than 1,100 M249s as of now issued were to stay being used, yet be retrofitted with the PIP unit when it wound up accessible. More than 7,000 remaining M249s were to remain away at terminals until remedial changes could be made. The PIP pack was inevitably created and executed, and generation of the M249 continued. In 1994 the M249 squad programmed weapon was re-assigned the M249 light automatic rifle. 

The M249 is a belt-bolstered light automatic rifle. It fires the 5.56×45mm NATO cartridge, ordinarily a blend of one M856 tracer and four M855 ball cartridges encouraged from M27 connected belts. Belts are ordinarily held in a hard plastic or delicate canvas box appended to the underside of the weapon. 

It fires from an open jolt and is gas worked. At the point when the trigger is pulled, the jolt and jolt transporter push ahead under the intensity of the backlash spring. A cartridge is taken from the belt, loaded, and released, sending a slug down the drag. Growing charge gases are redirected through a gap in the barrel into a chamber. This weight moves a cylinder giving the vitality to separate and launch the spent packaging just as development the belt and pack the backlash spring, along these lines getting ready for resulting shots. At long and in weight ( including a 200-round belt and plastic ammunition box), the M249 is an unwieldy weapon. 

The barrel has a rifling turn rate of one turn in . Since terminating warms up the drag, the air-cooled barrel is furnished with a system to evacuate and supplant the barrel gathering with an extra. A collapsing bipod with flexible legs is appended close to the front of the weapon, however there are arrangements for hard-mounting to a M192 Lightweight Ground Mount tripod or vehicle mount. The M249 gives precision moving toward that of a rifle, joined with the supported volume of shoot of an automatic weapon. Its unique gas controller offered two distinct gas port sizes, permitting cyclic rates of flame of 725-rounds every moment (r/min) or 1,000 r/min. The last setting was planned for unfriendly conditions, for example, an exorbitantly grimy gun or chilly climate. The two-position gas controller was disposed of as a major aspect of an item improvement program. The supported rate of discharge, the rate at which the heavy weapons specialist can shoot persistently without overheating, is recorded as 50 r/min. It has a cyclic, or most extreme, rate of flame of somewhere in the range of 650 and 850 r/min. 

The M249 LMG entered administration in 1984 as the M249 SAW. Introductory responses to the firearm were blended: it satisfied the light automatic weapon job well when discharged starting from the earliest stage, was not as powerful when shot from the shoulder or hip. It was commended for its extraordinary toughness and enormous capability, however various territories for development were featured: the clear terminating connection fitted ineffectively, the bipod was feeble and broke effectively, the sling connection was cumbersome, and there were numerous spaces and holes that amassed earth. Some guaranteed that the substantial barrelled adaptation of the M16 rifle was an increasingly compelling light assault rifle. 

The M249 SAW was not utilized intensely before the 1991 Gulf War, however it has been utilized in each major U.S. strife since. American staff in Somalia in 1993, Bosnia in 1994, Kosovo in 1999, Afghanistan in 2001 and Iraq since 2003 have been issued M249s. Surplus weapons were given to Bolivia, Colombia and Tunisia. 

Strategically, SAWs are either conveyed with a moving unit and terminated while handheld, or situated to stay stationary and give covering flame to different units. Upon presentation, the essential heap of ammo was 600 rounds, conveyed in three 200-round boxes. These crates were conveyed in delicate pockets named "Case, Small Arms, Ammunition, 200-Round Magazine". The cutting edge heap of ammo conveyed for the weapon is 1,000 adjusts in five 200-round belts, despite the fact that up to 500 additional rounds by and large gets stacked into 100-round delicate pockets. 

A supply of 929 M249 SAWs was issued to work force from the U.S. Armed force and Marine Corps amid the Persian Gulf War. In spite of the fact that introduction to battle was rare, M249 heavy armament specialists who were engaged with battling for the most part utilized their weapons to give spread shoot to inviting moving troops from fixed positions, instead of moving with them. There were numerous grievances about the weapons stopping up with sand after delayed use in the desert condition. 

The standard squad programmed weapon in Afghanistan is the M249 with PIP unit, which serves close by its heavier partner, the M240 automatic rifle. Most M249s were given a collapsible buttstock promptly preceding the intrusion to decrease its length and make the weapons progressively down to earth for parachuting and lacking elbow room battle. Extraordinary Operations troops ordinarily support the shorter Para rendition of the weapon, which gauges substantially less. 

A report entitled "Exercises Learned in Afghanistan" was discharged by Lieutenant Colonel Charlie Dean and SFC Sam Newland of the U.S. Armed force Natick Soldier Center in 2002. They found that 54% of SAW heavy weapons specialists had issues keeping up their weapons, and 30% detailed that the firearm rusted effectively. Warriors detailed ammo boxes rattling and tumbling off. 80% percent of troopers overviewed were satisfied with the weapon's exactness and lethality, yet just 64% guaranteed they were "certain about their weapon". Weapons stopping up with sand in the desert is by all accounts the primary protest. 

The PIP and Para adaptations of the M249 have been utilized in the Iraq war since the intrusion. By 2004, numerous M249s had been in administration for right around 20 years and were ending up progressively questionable. Officers were mentioning substitutions and new highlights, and there are reports of warriors holding their weapons together with channel tape. The lethality of the 5.56 mm ammo has been raised doubt about by reports of aggressors as yet terminating in the wake of being hit on different occasions. As in past clashes, the sandy condition makes the M249s and different weapons stop up and jam on the off chance that they are not cleaned as often as possible. 

"Activity Iraqi Freedom PEO Soldier Lessons Learned", a report on the execution of weapons in the Iraq War, was distributed by Lieutenant Colonel Jim Smith of the U.S. Armed force on May 15, 2003. Smith talked emphatically of the M249, guaranteeing that it "gave the imperative capability at the squad level as proposed". He lauded the SPW variation, taking note of that its "short barrel and forward single handed grip took into account exceptionally viable utilization of the SAW in urban territory". At the National Defense Industrial Association in 2007, LTC Al Kelly of the first Battalion, seventeenth Infantry gave an introduction portraying the M249 as having "great range, magnificent unwavering quality" and an "amazing tracer". He said that a fabric pocket was favored over the plastic box for holding connected ammo, and that "thump down power is poor yet is remunerated by rate of flame". 

In December 2006, the Center for Naval Analyses discharged a report on U.S. little arms in battle. The CNA led studies on 2,608 troops coming back from battle in Iraq and Afghanistan in the course of recent months. Just troops who discharged their weapons at foe targets were permitted to take an interest. 341 troops were furnished with M249 SAWs, making up 13 percent of the study. 71 percent of M249 clients (242 troops) revealed that they were happy with the weapon. 40 percent of clients favored bolstering the SAW with the delicate 100-round pocket, while 21 percent picked the delicate and hard 200-round pockets each. 60 percent (205 troops) were happy with taking care of characteristics, for example, handguards, size, and weight - of those disappointed, simply under half felt that it was excessively overwhelming. M249 clients had the least dimensions of fulfillment with weapon viability at 70 percent (239 troops), most because of the trouble in expelling and getting little parts and poor erosion obstruction. The SAW had the most elevated amounts of stoppages at 30 percent (102 troops), and 41 percent of those that accomplished a stoppage said it largy affected their capacity to clear the stoppage and reconnect their objective. 65 percent (222 troops) did not require their automatic rifles fixed while in theater. 65 percent (222 troops) were certain about the M249's unwavering quality, characterized as dimension of officer certainty their weapon will shoot without glitch, and 64 percent (218 troops) were positive about its sturdiness, characterized as dimension of trooper certainty their weapon won't break or need fix. The two elements were credited to large amounts of officers playing out their own support. 60 percent of M249 clients offered proposals for upgrades. 17 percent of solicitations were for making the weapon lighter, and another 17 percent were for increasingly strong belt connections and drums, just as different changes, for example, a collapsible stock. 

A broad upkeep program proposed to expand the administration lives of M249s has been done to renovate rifles, particularly units that experienced wear because of overwhelming use. Specifically the distorting of the collector rails on the early-models was a deformity that happened in vigorously utilized original M249s. This deformity anyway has been totally wiped out on later models and is never again present on the current-issue M249, which has fortified rails and full-length welding as opposed to spot welding. Additionally being taken a shot at is supplanting of the M249's buttstock with an overhauled movable stock. 

The U.S. Marine Corps tried the M27 Infantry Automatic Rifle, a lighter, magazine-encouraged rifle to enhance and halfway supplant the M249. With designs to purchase up to 4,100 IARs to supplement and in part supplant its 10,000 M249s (of which 8,000 will stay in administration) held at unit level, it gained 450 of the Heckler and Koch HK416– based weapons for testing. The Marines began handling the M27 in 2010, yet kept the two weapons in the stock because of the M249's more prominent ammo limit and higher supported discharge rate; rifle organizations are commonly issued 27 IARs and six SAWs. The U.S. Armed force does not plan to present the IAR. Colonel Robert Radcliffe of the U.S. Armed force Infantry Research and Development Center expressed that a programmed rifle with a magazine would bring down the adequacy and capability of a squad. While the Marine Corps has 13-man squads, the Army sorts out its fighters into squads of nine and needs extensively more capability from the squad heavy weapons specialists to compensate for any shortfall. The U.S. Armed force does, be that as it may, need to supplant maturing M249s with more current weapons. 

In mid 2017, the U.S. Armed force posted a notice requesting offers for the Next Generation Squad Weapon-Automatic Rifle (NGSW-AR or NGSAR) to supplant the M249. In July 2018, the Army granted contracts to six organizations including Textron, leader of the former LSAT program where they made improvement jumps with cased extended (CT) ammo, for NGSW-AR and ammo models. These first models will be conveyed to the Army for assessment in June 2019. The expressed prerequisites include: 

Nations utilizing the M249 light assault rifle include: