John F. Jolt 

John Franklin Bolt (19 May 1921 – 8 September 2004) was a maritime pilot in the United States Marine Corps and a finished flying pro who served amid World War II and the Korean War. He remains the main U.S. Marine to accomplish pro status in two wars and was likewise the main Marine fly warrior expert. He rose to the position of lieutenant colonel amid his military profession. 

Destined to a poor family in Laurens, South Carolina, Bolt was a self-depicted "obsessive worker" and was associated with various gatherings and social exercises for a mind-blowing duration. In the wake of dropping out of the University of Florida for money related reasons in 1941, he joined the US Navy and prepared as a Marine Corps pilot. Sent to the Pacific Theater of Operations, he flew a F4U Corsair amid the crusades in the Marshall Islands and New Guinea, asserting six triumphs against Japanese A6M Zeros. 

Jolt proceeded with his administration through the Korean War, entering battle through a trade program with the United States Air Force (USAF) in late 1952. Over a time of a little while in mid-1953, he drove flights of F-86 Sabers into battle with MiG-15s of the Chinese Air Force, scoring six triumphs amid battles along the northern outskirt of North Korea, ordinarily known as "MiG Alley," giving him an aggregate of 12 triumphs over his profession. 

Jolt remained in the Marine Corps until 1962, filling in as an investigator and educator in his later profession, before resigning and acquiring a Juris Doctor certificate from the University of Florida. He in this way settled down in Florida and started a private land law practice; he kept on being dynamic in law until 1991. He kicked the bucket from leukemia in 2004. 

John Bolt was conceived on 19 May 1921 in Laurens, South Carolina, to Thomas Crews Bolt and Brucie Bolt (née Bagwell). John had a more youthful sibling, Bruce. In 1924 the family moved to Sanford, Florida. In his childhood, John Bolt picked up the moniker "Jack" from his loved ones. His family was poor and he was generally in charge of giving his own garments and social costs from the time he was ten years of age. He worked a few low maintenance employments, at one point working 30 to 40 hours per week at a nearby creamery notwithstanding going to class. He likewise took on the Boy Scouts, in the long run accomplishing the position of Star Scout. 

In June 1939, Bolt started going to Seminole High School. Portrayed as humble and dedicated by his secondary school colleagues, he was chosen class president in his last two years in school. 

Jolt went to the University of Florida, studying bookkeeping and meeting the greater part of the costs himself utilizing cash that he had spared while working through secondary school. He joined Phi Eta Sigma, a respect society and expert organization, and Alpha Tau Omega, a social brotherhood. In 1941, his sibling Bruce additionally enlisted at Florida, stressing the family's costs; John dropped out after his second year with the goal that his sibling could total his degree. Jolt enrolled in the Marine Corps Reserve in April 1941 to prepare as a pilot, however conceded his preparation when the Marine Corps offered him the opportunity to complete school and go to graduate school, paying him 500 every year to do as such. 

Jolt left for essential preparing in June 1941. In spite of the fact that he planned to join the US Marine Corps, he agreed to accept the US Navy Flight Training Program, which would enable him to fly for the Marines. On finishing of his essential preparing in November 1941, he was chosen as a pilot, and moved to Naval Air Station Atlanta, Georgia in February 1942. He was put on dynamic obligation just before the assault on Pearl Harbor and the United States' entrance into World War II. Finishing his underlying pilot preparing and exchanging to Naval Air Station Jacksonville, Florida for the following stage, he began flight preparing in the SNJ Texan. He additionally met all requirements to fly in the N3N Canary mentor flying machine. His last period of flight exercises happened in Naval Air Station Miami in Miami, Florida, where he flew the Grumman F3F, a biplane which was the Navy's most developed mentor at the time. Jolt finished this preparation on 18 July 1942, and was authorized as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps, accepting his pilot wings that day also. 

Around this time, Bolt started dating Dorothy E. Wiggins, whom he knew from Sanford. The two wedded following two years of dating, and they in the end had two kids together, Robert and Barbara. A long time later, amid the Korean War, Bolt had the words "Sweetheart Dottie" stenciled in favor of his North American F-86 Saber stream as a tribute to this spouse. 

Subsequent to charging, Bolt was relegated as a cadet preparing educator, preparing flying cadets at Naval Air Station Jacksonville and at Naval Auxiliary Air Station Green Cove Springs, Florida, until December 1942, when the unit was deactivated. Until May 1943 he was prepared on the F4F Wildcat, a transporter based flying machine, in anticipation of development to a forefront battle unit. Throughout the following couple of months, Bolt was positioned at Naval Air Station Glenview in Glenview, Illinois, where he prepared for 60 hours on board the paddlewheel plane carrying warship USS "Wolverine". In the wake of meeting all requirements to work transporter based flying machine, he was relegated to Marine Corps Air Station Miramar in San Diego, California, until June 1943, when he and his class left for the Pacific Theater on board the USS "Rochambeau". 

On his way to the cutting edges, Bolt made a trip to various islands as the "Rochambeau" ceased at New Caledonia and New Hebrides to maintain a strategic distance from Japanese submarines. Upon landing in Espiritu Santo, Bolt was put in a pool of new officers who were planned to supplant losses in a few squadrons. Setbacks right now turned out to be not exactly expected, so the substitution pool was utilized to shape another squadron. The new unit was assigned VMF-214, and ended up known as the "Odd one out" in light of the fact that its pilots had initially not been appointed to a squadron. Under the direction of Major Pappy Boyington, the unit was furnished with F4U Corsairs. Moved following a while to the Russell Islands, they were prepared for battle by 13 September. Jolt flew the flying machine each opportunity he got, and albeit new to the war in the Pacific, Bolt had more than 700 hours flying in the F4U Corsair by September, more than many battle pilots collected in two battle visits. 

On 14 September, the squadron started flying missions to escort B-24 Liberator planes. The Japanese had 200 airplane at Kahili Airfield and Balalae Island, contradicted by just 50 flying machine from the U.S. squadrons in the zone. The main couple of missions that the squadron embraced were generally peaceful be that as it may, on 16 September, VMF-214 was assaulted by a gathering of 35 Japanese A6M Zeros. The squadron repulsed the strike, obliterating 11 Japanese flying machine for the loss of just their very own single. A few expensive commitment with the solid Japanese powers in the zone pursued. Jolt did not score any triumphs amid this time, yet was elevated to first lieutenant that month. 

Jolt got his first triumphs of the organization on 23 September when he was with a trip of 15 VMF-214 air ship escorting B-24 Liberators over from a strike on Kahili. The aircraft had been trailed by 20 to 30 Zeros, and a dogfight immediately resulted. Throughout the commitment over Bougainville, Bolt scored two triumphs. His wingman, Ed Harper, additionally guaranteed a triumph. For the following a little while, the squadron worked out of Munda in the Solomon Islands. 

A self-portrayed "obsessive worker" Bolt was considered by different pilots to be the most vivacious individual from the squadron. He took to gathering and sending home remembrances from day by day life on the bleeding edges; he and two different pilots were known as the "Officer Kids" since they gathered such a significant number of trinkets and sent them home. He could regularly be found in the harbor close to their airstrip dynamiting fish and was known to compose a considerable lot of the squadron's pig meals and lager parties. Jolt additionally willingly volunteered to try out a wide range of ammo arrangements for the .50 bore weapons on the F4U amid his extra time. His exploration was directed by terminating rounds into 50-gallon drums mostly loaded up with gas and at surrendered flying machine in the Espiritu Santo boneyard. He found that flammable rounds were increasingly viable, and persuaded his squadron, and in the long run the greater part of the air ship squadrons in the Pacific Theater, to start terminating six combustible rounds for each one protection penetrating or tracer round, as opposed to terminating one for one. 

Jolt turned out to be outstanding—yet in addition got under the skin of his squadron's boss—amid what started as an escort mission for B-24 Liberators. The planes were lost in the mists and the flight kept running into poor climate, compelling them to turn back. Amid the flight home, the U.S. pilots saw much Japanese surface traffic yet did not connect with due to the climate. On their way back to Munda one of the airplane had a mechanical issue, and a gathering including Bolt needed to arrive at Barakoma Airfield on Vella Lavella. He endeavored to persuade others to run with him to assault the boats they had seen, however they cannot. He refueled and took off, against Boyington's requests, and crushed four adversary freight ships and strafed a few ground focuses in the region of Tonolei Harbor before coming back to Munda. Defying an immediate request drew Boyington's fierceness until the following day, when a wire was gotten from Admiral William "Bull" Halsey: "That one man war ... directed by Lieut Bolt against Jap stuff in Tonolei, warm heart (stop) Halsey." 

On 17 October, amid a mission over Kahili Airfield, Bolt's squadron was trapped by Japanese warriors. Jolt brought down one of the Japanese flying machine in his last mission before a planned rest and recovery (R&R) in Sydney, Australia. 

At the point when the squadron came back from its R&R, Bolt had been elevated to commander and the squadron had been moved to Vella Lavella. The new base was inside of Rabaul, which was the focal point of Japanese action on New Britain, and was the squadron's next essential target. Shielded by 98,000 Japanese troops, the island was of incredible key significance as it had a harbor and a few runways and was inside striking separation of the Marshall Islands, safeguarded by 400 Japanese air ship. 

On 23 December, 16 Corsairs from VMF-214 shaped piece of a power of 120 U.S. contenders and planes that embraced a mission over Rabaul. The strike against the city and harbor territories was countered by an expansive power of Japanese air ship. While guarding the planes, Bolt shot down two increasingly Japanese air ship, making him the squadron's 6th flying expert. After two days, he participated in another mission amid which his squadron mates guaranteed four triumphs, presenting to VMF-214's count of affirmed airborne triumphs to 76. 

On 3 January 1944, VMF-214 was among 75 U.S. air ship assaulting close Rabaul when they were astonished by 300 Japanese airplane. Boyington was shot down and parachuted into the St. George's Channel. The following day, Bolt drove a trip of four Corsairs from VMF-214 looking for Boyington. In spite of dim climate and the need to take an aberrant course to maintain a strategic distance from Japanese radar, Bolt figured out how to lead the trip to the zone where the fight had occurred the day preceding. In spite of the fact that they didn't spot Boyington, they found and connected with a flotilla of Japanese freight ships, wrecking six of them. Jolt additionally guaranteed his 6th triumph against a Japanese airplane endeavoring to protect the flatboats. 

Jolt's visit, alongside the remainder of VMF-214, arrived at an end on 8 January 1944, five days after Boyington was shot down and caught by the Japanese. VMF-214 was disbanded and its pilots doled out to different units. In his time with VMF-214, Bolt built up a notoriety among his friends as a pioneer and a practiced pilot. He was granted the Distinguished Flying Cross twice, and scored a sum of six affirmed triumphs and one likely triumph and two air ship harmed in his 92 missions with the squadron. 

Jolt was reassigned to VMF-211, at a landing strip on Nissan Island in the Green Islands, north of Bougainville and west of Rabaul. The airplane there were essentially worried about the annihilation of escorts and ships. The missions, nicknamed "Truck Busters", were fruitful, yet at the expense of harmed air ship and injured crew members, including Bolt's wingman. This visit kept going until May 1944 when Bolt came back to Marine Corps Air Station Santa Barbara with his squadron. 

Reassigned, Bolt traveled to Hawaii, at that point to Long Beach, California. He rejoined with Dorothy Wiggins in San Francisco, and the two wedded on 23 May 1944 in Oakland, before going on a one-month special first night. His next task was with the recently framed VMF-471 at Marine Corps Air Station El Toro. While presented on VMF-471, he went to the Aviation Ground Officer's School at Marine Corps Air Station Quantico, Virginia, from November 1944 through February 1945. He saw no battle for the remainder of the war, yet managed to break the Corsair perseverance record by keeping an air ship up high for 14 hours and 9 seconds. After quickly coming back to VMF-471, Bolt was reassigned to VMF-215 in March 1945, entrusted with preparing pilots for new bearer based airplane. He stayed in this job until V-J Day, the finish of threats. 

Following the war, Bolt served in different units around El Toro. He was at different occasions relegated to MASG-46, VMF-512, VMF-323, VMF-312, VMF-452, and Marine Aircraft Group 12 (MAG-12), preceding exchanging to Quantico again in November 1949 to go to the Aircraft Maintenance Course. Making a plunge Florida's Tampa Bay on leave, Bolt (at that point a commander) set a world spearfishing record when he got an Atlantic goliath grouper gauging several pounds. 

In May 1950, Bolt was reassigned to VMF-224 at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, North Carolina, and he stayed there until May 1951. The squadron flew the F2H Banshee and inside three months of joining the unit he had flown a greater number of hours on the air ship than some other pilot in the squadron. This was trailed by a speedy four-month visit on the staff at the second Marine Aircraft Wing. Amid this time, the US Air Force was working its first squadron of F-86 Saber airplane. The Sabers were the main U.S. flying machine which performed well against the MiG-15s worked by China and North Korea in the Korean War. Jolt utilized his associations with enter a trade program with the USAF in September 1951, turning into a trade officer with the 318th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron at McChord Air Force Base in Washington flying the F-94 Starfire. Before long, he started directing the F-86F Saber which had been exchanged to the squadron. He kept preparing with the squadron and was elevated to study December 1951. 

In November 1952, Bolt exchanged to squadron VMF-115, a component of the first Marine Aircraft Wing flying F9F Panther warrior plane air ship in South Korea. He flew 94 battle missions with the squadron, every one of them in shelling runs and close air backing and air strike missions against ground targets. He didn't appreciate this obligation, leaning toward rather to fly the Saber in aerial battle. As his squadron made a beeline for Japan for R&R, he made a trip to Seoul to visit the fourth Fighter-Interceptor Wing at Kimpo Airfield. 

At the fourth Wing, Bolt met with its officer, Colonel Royal N. Bread cook, who denied his solicitation to fly in battle units. He at that point went to the 51st Fighter-Interceptor Wing at Suwon Air Base to watch its tasks, where he met with George I. Ruddell, a colleague from El Toro, who was instructing the 39th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron. Ruddell consented to give Bolt a chance to join his unit as a component of another officer trade. This evidently enraged a portion of his commandants in VMF-115, and Bolt just finished an essential a month and a half of obligation with the wing before its next R&R. 

A month and a half later, Bolt again turned down his R&R and joined the 39th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron, flying the F-86 Saber. Ruddell doled out him to First Lieutenant Joseph C. McConnell, who might be the top expert in the war. Jolt and McConnell immediately settled a dear kinship regardless of Bolt's unrivaled position, and he ascribed his accomplishment in Korea to McConnell's direction. Ruddell sent a solicitation to Lieutenant General Glenn O. Barcus, authority of the Fifth United States Air Force, that Bolt's visit with the squadron be broadened. The solicitation was in truth, and McConnell and Bolt started going on battle missions together as wingmen in MiG Alley, the zone in northwestern Korea where aerial battle was generally visit. Jolt's Saber, tail number 52-2582, was named "Sweetheart Dottie." 

By May, McConnell was turned back to the United States and Bolt was given charge of the flight; in 16 battle missions and 27 battle hours, his flight had never connected any MiG contenders. This changed on 16 May, when the flight was assaulted by a gathering of MiG warriors at . He was immediately followed by one of the air ship, yet figured out how to keep away from its flame and tail another MiG himself. With a few very much set shots, Bolt constrained its pilot to safeguard. After six days on 22 May, MiG airplane assaulted once more, and he figured out how to outflank a warrior which had been assaulting his wingman and shoot it down at . On 24 June, he flew his 31st battle mission, amid which he drew in a solitary MiG and shot it down after a brisk fight in the region of the Yalu River. After seven days on 30 June, he was flying another mission in a similar territory when he spotted and rapidly shot down another MiG. Before the month's over, he had credit for four triumphs and two airplane "harmed". 

On 11 July, Bolt driven another trip of four warriors in a surveillance mission above Sinuiju, his 37th battle mission of the arrangement. Two of the air ship left after their fuel tanks were drained, abandoning him with one wingman to proceed with the watch. Before long, the two pilots recognized a development of four MiGs taking off from Antung runway on the Chinese side of the Yalu River. In spite of being low on fuel, Bolt requested an assault. He made a head-on plunge toward the arrangement, which was endeavoring to pick up height, and brought down the main plane with four automatic weapon blasts. He at that point banked his flying machine and went for the second air ship in the development, proceeding with the assault and scoring hits on its fuselage. The pilot salvaged, and the staying two MiGs fled. Inside the initial five minutes of the commitment, Bolt shot down two of the MiGs. This brought his count of affirmed triumphs amid the war to six. For these activities he turned into the last Marine pilot to be granted the Navy Cross amid the war. Jolt is the main non-USAF pilot to turn into an expert in the F-86 and the main maritime pilot to turn into a pro in two wars. Not long after this last mission, his voyage through obligation finished and he was pivoted back to the United States for an all-encompassing rest and excursion, which he went through with his family. 

Following his arrival from Korea, Bolt was doled out to the U.S. Naval force Bureau of Aeronautics in Washington, D.C. as an air ship configuration engineer. In this obligation, he was nitty gritty to The Pentagon and a board which wrote about airplane execution and strategies. A question and answer session was held in September 1953 to invite him to the position, and amid this he described stories from his administration in Korea out of the blue to nearby papers. Jolt's encounters in World War II and the Korean War were utilized to help shape air battle principle. He worked in this task for around a year, until 1954 when he was elevated to lieutenant colonel and moved to the Naval Pilot Test Center at Naval Air Station Patuxent River, in St. Mary's County, Maryland. Amid this time, he took evening classes at the University of Maryland, in the long run procuring a Bachelor of Science in Military History. 

In 1957, Bolt was arranged to Marine Corps Base Quantico to go to a one-year course at the Senior School of Amphibious Warfare as a major aspect of a program which would later be consolidated into the licensed educational modules of the Marine Corps University. On 5 November, after this one-year stretch, he was alloted to direction VMF-214, his World War II squadron, at Marine Corps Air Station Kaneohe Bay on the Hawaiian Islands. The squadron, which was a piece of Marine Aircraft Group 13, flew the FJ-4 Fury; Bolt stayed in order of it until 14 August 1959. His last task as a teacher was at the Senior School of Amphibious Warfare at Quantico. He educated at this school for the last three years of his vocation, before resigning from the Marine Corps on 31 March 1962. 

In the wake of resigning from the Marine Corps, Bolt, at that point 40 years of age, started another profession in agribusiness. He and his significant other moved back to Sanford, Florida, where he worked for Chase and Co. He stayed in that situation for a long time, until 1967. That year, he chose to pursue his unique profession desires to be an attorney. He took a crack at the College of Law at the University of Florida, where his child Robert was likewise in participation. The two shaped an American handball crew amid their extra time, and won a few competitions. Jolt's program had a three-year educational modules, yet he finished the degree in 27 months, graduating with a Juris Doctor certificate in December 1969. For a long time after graduation, he remained with the college to instruct, and from 1969 to 1971 he was a law teacher just as the leader of the Board of Trustees of Alpha Tau Omega, the clique he had joined while an undergrad at the college. 

After this stretch as a teacher, Bolt and his better half moved to New Smyrna Beach, a spot them two had delighted in their childhoods. He started a private law practice and turned into a neighborhood property proprietor. Amid this time he was portrayed as a "mild-mannered, kind, delicate individual who might make a special effort to support a companion or a more bizarre." He had practical experience in land law and was the lawyer for the city's utilities bonus for a long time. He resigned from law in 1991. 

Jolt hence carried on with a tranquil life and kept incessant contact with his youngsters. Robert turned into an attorney in Tampa, Florida, and Barbara composed for "Peruser's Digest". In May 1993, Bolt went to the 50th get-together of the first "Odd one out" or the eighth Fighter Squadron in New Orleans, Louisiana, and gave the toast toward the start of the celebrations. In 2003, he was enlisted into the American Combat Airman Hall of Fame at the American Airpower Heritage Museum in Midland, Texas. 

Jolt passed on of intense leukemia in Tampa on 8 September 2004 in the wake of escaping the moving toward Hurricane Frances. At the season of his demise, he was the last making due of the seven Americans to progress toward becoming experts in both World War II and Korea. He was made due by his significant other and youngsters, just as two grandkids. 

Jolt scored a sum of 12 affirmed flying triumphs amid his vocation, with an extra "plausible" triumph and two flying machine harmed. He was the main U.S. Marine Corps pilot to turn into an expert in the Korean War, and remains the main U.S. Marine Corps pilot to be a pro in two wars. Jolt was one of 1,297 World War II experts from the United States with six affirmed triumphs amid that war. He later wound up one of 40 Korean War pros from the United States with six increasingly affirmed triumphs amid that war. 

Jolt is one of seven U.S. pilots who accomplished pro status as both a cylinder engined pilot in World War II and as a stream pilot in Korea. The others are all USAF pilots: Francis S. Gabreski, James P. Hagerstrom, William T. Whisner, Vermont Garrison and Harrison Thyng, just as George A. Davis, Jr. 

Jolt was adorned amid World War II and the Korean War. His military adornments and grants include: