South Park (season 13) 

The thirteenth period of "South Park", an American enlivened TV satire arrangement, initially publicized in the United States on Comedy Central between March 11 and November 18, 2009. The season was going by the arrangement makers Trey Parker and Matt Stone, who filled in as official makers alongside Anne Garefino. The season kept on concentrating on the endeavors of heroes Stan, Kyle, Cartman, Kenny and Butters in the anecdotal Colorado mountain town of South Park. 

The season was the first of three new seasons Parker and Stone consented to deliver for the system under a recharging bargain. It comprised of fourteen 22-minute scenes, which broadcast in two gatherings of seven scenes isolated by a six-month hole. Preceding the season's debut, all "South Park" scenes were made accessible with the expectation of complimentary survey on the official arrangement site, "South Park Studios". The thirteenth season was the first to be communicated in top notch and in widescreen. Proceeding with their training from past seasons, Parker and Stone composed and delivered every scene inside the week prior to its communicate date. 

The thirteenth season ridiculed such themes as the ACORN outrage, Japanese whaling, robbery in Somalia and the showcasing strategies of The Walt Disney Company. Big names were satirize all through the season, including the Jonas Brothers, Kanye West, Carlos Mencia, Paul Watson and Glenn Beck, every one of whom openly reacted to their depictions. The scene "Fishsticks" pulled specifically media consideration because of rapper Kanye West's revelation that its jokes about his egotism were interesting however offended him. "The F Word", in which the focal characters endeavor to change the meaning of "fag", was particularly disputable and provoked grievances from the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. A communicate of "Pinewood Derby" in Mexico was pulled, purportedly because of its portrayal of President Felipe Calderón. "Fatbeard" was adulated by the group of the USS "Bainbridge", which was associated with the 2009 salvage of the MV "Maersk Alabama" from Somali privateers. 

The thirteenth season got blended audits: a few faultfinders called it one of "South Park"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s most grounded seasons, while others asserted the arrangement was beginning to decrease in quality. The season kept up the normal Nielsen rating viewership for the arrangement, around 3 million watchers per scene. The scene "Margaritaville", which parodied the worldwide retreat at that point influencing a significant part of the industrialized world, won the 2009 Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour). 

<onlyinclude></onlyinclude> 

Arrangement makers Trey Parker and Matt Stone were the official makers of the thirteenth period of "South Park", alongside Anne Garefino. The season was conveyed by Comedy Central, where the arrangement has broadcast since its initiation in 1997. Straight to the point C. Agnone II filled in as managing maker, while Eric Stough, Adrien Beard, Vernon Chatman, Bruce Howell and Erica Rivinoja functioned as makers. Parker likewise filled in as chief and author for the thirteenth season. "Saturday Night Live" cast part Bill Hader, who had recently filled in as a specialist on the show, was credited as a maker beginning in season 13. Hader said of his job with the show, "It's truly Trey and Matt who sort of compose everything, and you're simply in the room sort of helping them. Essentially, I'm companions with them and they're sufficiently pleasant to welcome me into the room and let me mess about." Ryan Quincy filled in as executive of liveliness amid the thirteenth season. 

"South Park" was set to lapse in 2008, however in August 2007 it was reported the arrangement would be recharged for something like three additional seasons, expanding it through 2011. The new seasons, 13, 14 and 15, were each to comprise of 14 scenes. Stone said of the declaration, "Three additional long periods of "South Park" will offer us the chance to annoy that a lot more individuals." Parker and Stone likewise reported they would join forces with Comedy Central to make a Los Angeles– based computerized movement studio called South Park Digital Studios, which would fill in as the inside for every single advanced expansion of the "South Park" establishment and other enlivened undertakings. 

Preceding the communicate of the thirteenth season, Parker and Stone made each scene from the past 12 periods of "South Park" accessible with the expectation of complimentary survey on the official arrangement site, "South Park Studios". New scenes from the thirteenth season were made accessible for multi week after the first airdate, at that point evacuated for 30 days, after which they were come back to the site forever. The scenes were uncensored and advertisement bolstered, so no participation expenses were required to see the shows. In an announcement, Parker and Stone stated, "We became actually ill of downloading our own show unlawfully constantly. So we gave ourselves a legitimate option." 

Two months before the thirteenth season debuted, "South Park Studios" declared that it would be the main season to be communicated in top quality and exhibited in widescreen. Scenes from past seasons were likewise changed over to top notch. The season's scenes initially circulated in the United States on Wednesdays at 10 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on Comedy Central, and were rehashed Wednesdays at 12 a.m., Thursdays at 10 p.m. also, 12 a.m., and Sundays at 11 p.m. what's more, 2 a.m., all EST. The initial seven scenes of the period publicized from March 11, 2009, debuting with "The Ring", and finished on April 22 with the mid-season finale "Fatbeard". The season came back with seven additional scenes, continuing on October 7 with "Dead Celebrities", and completion on November 18 with the season finale, "Pee". 

Proceeding with their training from past seasons, Parker and Stone composed and created every scene inside the week prior to its communicate date, despite the fact that as in past seasons, just Parker was recorded as author at last credits. The team considered a rundown of scene thoughts toward the beginning of the period, however said they wanted to hold up until the last moment to begin working. Due date weight, they clarified, stimulated them as though they were completing a live show. Stone said of the training, "We sort of need that [chaos] to work. We're, similar to, 'We need to accomplish something at this moment. It's going reporting in real time in only a couple of minutes.'" For instance, three days before the communicate of the period debut, "The Ring", the content was just half-completed and the movement was fragmented. In like manner, they didn't begin take a shot at "Whale Whores" until five days before the scene publicized, and the contents for "Margaritaville" and "Pee" were both as yet being done the day preceding the scenes were first communicated. Parker and Stone said "Dead Celebrities" was an especially provoking scene to make—they were up throughout the night taking a shot at it the day preceding it publicized, and did not complete until 11 a.m. on its communicate date. A few faultfinders have said that this short turnaround process enables "South Park" to remain new and enables the show to address recent developments in a convenient manner. 

The thirteenth season presented the characters Katie and Katherine, stars of a network show, "The Queef Sisters", that comprises generally of vaginal fart jokes. They are female reciprocals of long-term characters Terrance and Phillip, who are at first incensed at the challenge from Katie and Katherine, yet end up impractically included with them. Season 13 likewise denoted the last appearance of long-term supporting character Gordon Stoltski, the third grade understudy who read the morning declarations for South Park Elementary. In the scene "Hits the dance floor with Smurfs", Gordon is killed while perusing the declarations by a shooter who botches him for a truck driver who laid down with his significant other. A few pundits found the scene aggravating and unseemly in the light of ongoing acts of mass violence in the United States. 

The running muffle of killing hero Kenny McCormick proceeded, however he was killed just multiple times amid the season: in the scene "The Ring", he contracts syphilis subsequent to taking part in oral sex; in "W.T.F.", he is shot by a rocket launcher amid an expert wrestling match; and in "Pee", he suffocates in the pee that immerses the water park. Amid the last 50% of the period, outsiders were covered up in pictures all through the scenes as a feature of a challenge offered by "South Park Studios". Watchers ready to locate the outsider in the scene could participate in a challenge, with the fabulous champ getting an energized rendition of oneself set in the "South Park" opening credits beginning the following season. In December 2009, Matthew Klinner was declared victor of the challenge. 

The thirteenth season likewise proceeded a "South Park" custom of ridiculing VIPs and auspicious issues. The scene "Margaritaville" mocked the worldwide subsidence influencing a great part of the industrialized world at the season of the scene's communicated. Parker and Stone said they had since quite a while ago intended to complete a scene about the subsidence, however did not have any desire to surge it since they needed to ensure the content was solid. "Fatbeard" depended on genuine theft in Somalia, which started getting expanding worldwide media consideration in 2008; the Somali privateers are depicted in a thoughtful light in the scene. "Hits the dance floor with Smurfs" spoofed the political critique of Glenn Beck, a broadly syndicated radio show host and Fox News Channel political savant. In the scene, Cartman makes crazy cases with no premise in truth under the pretense that he is basically making logical inquiries and looking for further discourse, a training for which Beck has been condemned. 

The scene "Whale Whores" tended to the debates encompassing Japanese whaling, censuring not just the whalers who occupied with the training, however indicates like "Whale Wars" and activists like TV VIP Paul Watson who benefit from battling whaling. "Spreads' Bottom Bitch" highlighted a scene in which Butters visits an ACORN office looking for advantages for whores working for him, a reference to a comparable 2009 outrage. The scene "Eat, Pray, Queef" exhibited a twofold standard between privileges of people by appearing South Park men, who have no issue with flatulating, emphatically questioning vaginal fart from ladies. The season finale, "Pee", caricaturized the calamity film sort, particularly the motion picture "2012", which was discharged five days before the scene broadcast. Cartman translates the vast number of minorities at his most loved water park as an indication of the 2012 wonder, the expectation that disastrous occasions will happen in the year 2012, which is said to be the finish of the Mayan Long Count logbook. 

"The Ring" highlighted farces of the pop-shake kid band Jonas Brothers and an indecent, covetous, physically rough Mickey Mouse, caricaturizing the Walt Disney Company's misuse of family-accommodating ethics to mask its benefit rationale. "The Coon" filled in as a farce of dim conditioned comic book motion pictures, similar to "The Dark Knight" (2008), "The Spirit" (2008) and "Gatekeepers" (2009). "Dead Celebrities" derided various as of late expired famous people, including Michael Jackson, Billy Mays and David Carradine, just as the show "Apparition Hunters". "Hits the dance floor with Smurfs" derided the 2009 James Cameron film "Symbol", recommending the plot gets vigorously from the film "Hits the dance floor with Wolves" and contrasting Avatar's blue outsiders with the animation Smurfs. The scene "W.T.F." spoofed proficient wrestling as a rule and World Wrestling Entertainment specifically, featuring the cleanser musical drama parts of wrestling storylines and fans who trust the tales are genuine. 

A few unique melodies composed by Parker and Stone were included in the thirteenth season. The scene "Fatbeard" highlights a melody, "Somalian Pirates, We", in which Cartman and his team of privateers sing in the style of the Golden Age of Piracy. In light of fan demands, the full 90-second form of the melody was made accessible for download on "South Park Studios" the week the scene publicized. The season finale, "Pee", includes a tune sung via Cartman, "(Too Many Minorities) Not My Water Park", in which he loses hope over the extensive number of African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-American benefactors at his water park. Among different themes, Cartman communicates his annoyance about long queues loaded with minorities and park workers communicating in Spanish instead of English. The scene "Eat, Pray, Queef" highlights "Queef Free", a philanthropy single recorded by the men of "South Park" after they understand ladies ought to be allowed to queef similarly as men are allowed to flatulate. The tune has been portrayed as a farce of such famous people for-philanthropy melodies as "We Are The World". 

The thirteenth season likewise included or parodied genuine melodies and groups. The scene "Fishsticks", which noticeably highlighted rapper Kanye West, incorporates a more than two moment melody, "Gay Fish", that spoofs West's "Wanton". "Gay Fish" ridicules the rapper's propensity to depend on sound handling to address his mix-ups in pitch. After "Fishsticks" circulated, the full tune was made accessible for download on "South Park Studios". A few phony Jonas Brothers tunes, with verses about the band individuals' physical appeal, were composed for "The Ring". A few melodies additionally stress the band's confidence in sexual restraint, with verses like, "Who needs sex and sedates and celebrating when we can prepare a dinner and lounge around and watch Netflix?" The emphatically suggestive responses of the young ladies at their show spoof the excited female fan responses the Jonas Brothers will in general evoke, despite the fact that their picture ventures healthiness and celibacy. In the scene "Whale Wars", Cartman plays the computer game "Musical crew" and plays out an interpretation, adulated by faultfinders, of the Lady Gaga melody "Poker Face". On March 16, 2010, "Musical crew" engineer Harmonix discharged this form of the tune (alongside the first form) as downloadable substance for the amusement. In "W.T.F.", amid a tryout for the young men's expert wrestling alliance, one of the members sings a Broadway-style number—spoofing the melody "Nothing" from "A Chorus Line"— concerning why he needs to be a wrestler. The scene "Fatbeard" got impressive press consideration after Ike expressed in a letter he would "upchuck his balls out through his mouth" in the event that he needed to hear much else about Susan Boyle, the Scottish novice artist who had as of late increased overall consideration for her execution of "I Dreamed a Dream" on "England's Got Talent". 

Ramsey Isler of IGN said "South Park" kept on being the "best vivified parody appear on TV" amid its thirteenth season. He said the season had some depressed spots, especially "Eat, Pray Queef", however that scenes like "The F Word" and "Hits the dance floor with Smurfs" conveyed huge social analysis. Isler depicted "Fishsticks" as an all around coordinated, humorous scene that turned into a "wonder". Ben Flanagan of "The Tuscaloosa News" said the thirteenth season was one of the most grounded yet for "South Park", and that the arrangement proceeded with its custom of entertainingly consolidating gross-out parody with social parody. He stated, "Regardless of whether they handle the Jonas Brothers, Somali privateers, Kanye West, "The Dark Knight", the current financial burdens or simply the regular eagerness and absurdity of humankind, the show keeps on setting itself as the most clever show on TV, yet the best." 

Not all surveys of the period were certain. A.V. Club essayist Sean O'Neal called it "one of the more hit-or-miss periods of "South Park" in the show's history", however said he was sure the arrangement could improve and that it had yet not entered the "amazing creature asking to be put out of its hopelessness phase of a show's lifetime". He portrayed the season as a "week after week practice in "South Park" schizophrenia", with certain scenes faring superior to other people, despite the fact that he said the main portion of the period was commonly solid. Josh Modell, additionally of the A.V. Club, concurred that the season was uneven, with a few scenes "you kinda shrugged your shoulders at", however others like "Spreads' Bottom Bitch" that he found "entirely damn clever". 

"Fishsticks" especially pulled in media consideration, and a few pundits proclaimed it a standout amongst the best scenes of the period. In the scene, Jimmy composes a joke that turns into a national sensation, while Cartman endeavors to take the credit. A fictionalized variant of rapper Kanye West neglects to comprehend the joke. He can't concede that he doesn't get it in light of the fact that, in reference to an apparent self image issue with respect to the genuine West, he sees himself as a virtuoso. On September 13, 2009, amid the MTV Video Music Awards, West intruded on an acknowledgment discourse by nation vocalist Taylor Swift, strolling in front of an audience, snatching the receiver and lauding her rival Beyoncé Knowles. The occurrence got significant press inclusion and, accordingly, Comedy Central rebroadcast "Fishsticks" for two straight hours on September 15. 

"The F Word" was particularly disputable, even by "South Park" norms. In the scene, the South Park young men endeavor to change the official meaning of "fag" from an enemy of gay slur to a term portraying boisterous and disagreeable Harley bikers. The uncensored word is voiced coolly and all around as often as possible all through the scene. A.V. Club pundit Genevieve Koski contended that "The F Word" advocates a reasoning that language is regularly changing and that unthinkable words get their shame absolutely because of social condition. Albeit some LGBT activists acknowledged that the scene had honorable expectations, the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation in any case protested it, guaranteeing that despite everything it utilized "fag" as a methods for offending others and could be inadvertently hurtful to the gay network. A few faultfinders adulated the scene and said it tended to an imperative and troublesome issue, though others felt the parody was incapable and unfunny. 

A few VIPs who were parodied in thirteenth season scenes reacted to their depictions. The following day "Fishsticks" disclosed, West composed on his blog, "South Park killed me the previous evening and it's truly damn amusing. It offends me however what would you be able to anticipate from South Park!" West expressed gratitude toward the "South Park" journalists in his blog passage and recognized he has an issue with his inner self, yet said he was endeavoring to change. The blog entry drew significant media consideration; Daniel Kreps of "Moving Stone" stated: "Many have attempted, all have bombed, yet at last it just took four vivified kids from Colorado to topple Kanye West's sense of self." Carlos Mencia, host of the Comedy Central show "Brain of Mencia", was additionally mock in "Fishsticks". He is depicted as purposely taking credit for a joke he didn't compose, which is a reference to allegations different comics have made that Mencia copies jokes from other individuals. After the scene circulated, Mencia composed on his Twitter channel, "They simply ridiculed me on South Park. I thought it was insane. Catch the rerun." 

In "The Coon", Butters presumes chunky entertainer Bruce Vilanch is Cartman's hero modify conscience dependent on his physical make-up. After the scene publicized, Vilanch sent a card to Parker and Stone expressing gratitude toward them for alluding to him. Soon after "Whale Whores" disclosed, Paul Watson said he was not annoyed by his depiction in the scene, and was happy "South Park" brought the issue of dolphin and whale butcher, and the Japanese job in it, to a vast crowd. After Billy Mays showed up in "Dead Celebrities", his child Billy Mays III said he cherished the scene and discovered its depiction of his dad elegant and conscious. Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson, the stars of "Apparition Hunters" who were additionally derided in "Dead Celebrities", said they adored the farce and urged fans to watch the show on their Twitter accounts. The following day "Hits the dance floor with Smurfs" initially disclosed, Glenn Beck examined the scene on his radio program and said he accepting the farce as a compliment. The Jonas Brothers' marketing specialist explicitly restricted columnists from getting some information about their depiction in "The Ring". In any case, Nick Jonas stated, "We are constantly open to ridicule ourselves." 

"Pinewood Derby" drew significant media consideration in Mexico when it originally broadcast because of its delineation of Mexican President Felipe Calderón. The scene was because of air in Spanish on MTV Latin America on February 8, 2010, yet it was pulled a couple of hours before the booked time. Media reports demonstrated the choice originated from the scene's portrayal of Calderón disturbing the global network and pointlessly spending outsider gave "space money" on water parks. MTV said the "South Park" makers did not get an exceptional license expected to communicate a picture of Mexico's banner, yet the clarification was met with suspicion by Mexican "South Park" fans, some of whom blamed MTV for oversight. 

"Fatbeard" included conspicuous references to the April 2009 seizing of the MV "Maersk Alabama" by Somalian privateers. The team of the USS "Bainbridge", the "Arleigh Burke"– class guided-rocket destroyer that took an interest in the salvage of Richard Phillips from "Maersk Alabama", reached the "South Park" makers to compliment them on the scene. Ensign Jonathan Sieg, the "Bainbridge" advertising officer, stated, "Practically everybody installed our ship—from Captain to sailor—is a gigantic devotee of "South Park", and when we caught wind of the scene 'Fatbeard', as you can envision, we were excited and intrigued to watch." 

The thirteenth period of "South Park" for the most part kept up the normal Nielsen rating viewership for the arrangement, around 3 million watchers per scene. The season debut, "The Ring", was found in 3.41 million families. That would turn out to be the biggest individual viewership for any Comedy Central demonstrate that season, beating even an exceedingly foreseen and promoted scene of "The Daily Show" including Jon Stewart's continuous quarrel with CNBC and savant Jim Cramer. The thirteenth period of "South Park" got its most reduced viewership in the scenes "Hits the dance floor with Smurfs", found in 1.47 million family units; "W.T.F.", found in 1.37 million families; and "The F Word", found in 1.99 million family units. In any case, "The F Word" was the most elevated evaluated show of the period among watchers between ages 18 and 49, and beat "The Jay Leno Show", NBC's primetime syndicated program. The season finale, "Pee", was found in 2.87 million family units, which made it the most watched link show of the night. Similarly, "The Coon", found in 3.27 million family units, was the most watched link program among ages 18 to 49 the week it broadcast. A few scenes from the thirteenth period of "South Park" were the most watched Comedy Central demonstrates the week they publicized, including "Margaritaville" (2.77 million families), "Fatbeard" (2.59 million families), "Eat, Pray, Queef" (3 million family units) and "Fishsticks" (3.1 million families). The last two scenes were viewed by over 1 million a larger number of watchers than the system's second-most noteworthy evaluated appears in their individual weeks. 

Parker and Stone chose to submit "Margaritaville" for an Emmy Award since they had gotten a lot of positive input about the scene from grown-up watchers. Since most Emmy voters are more seasoned, they chose "Margaritaville" stood the most obvious opportunity with regards to winning. Stone kidded, "If an Emmy voter were to watch this, they may think the show was more astute than it was, so they may be tricked into voting in favor of us." "Margaritaville" eventually won the 2009 Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program for Programming Less Than One Hour against contending chosen people "Robot Chicken", "The Simpsons" and "American Dad!". The triumph denoted the third back to back Emmy win for "South Park", which won in a similar classification in 2007 for the tenth season scene "Have intercourse, Not Warcraft", and won the honor for Outstanding Animated Program for Programming One Hour or More for the eleventh season scene "Imaginationland". Parker, Stone, Agnone, Stough, Beard, Howell, Rivinoja, Chatman, Hader and Quincy were all beneficiaries of the Emmy. 

In February 2010, "Whale Whores" was designated for a Genesis Award in the TV parody class. The Genesis Awards respect news and amusement media for exceptional work that raises open comprehension of creature issues. "Whale Whores" at last lost to the "Family Guy" scene "Pooch Gone." 

The season was discharged by Paramount Home Entertainment in the United States on March 16, 2010, on both DVD (as a three-circle set) and Blu-beam (as a two-plate set). Each set incorporated every one of the 14 uncensored scenes in 1080p video and Dolby TrueHD sound, just as brief sound discourses by Parker and Stone for every scene, seven erased scenes, codes for opening a character and challenge levels in "South Park Let's Go Tower Defense Play!" on Xbox Live Arcade, and a unique smaller than normal element, "Inside Xbox: A Behind-the-Scenes Tour of South Park Studios", depicting the show's liveliness procedure.