Mycena haematopus 

Mycena haematopus, usually known as the draining pixie head protector, the burgundydrop cap, or the draining Mycena, is a types of organism in the Mycenaceae family, of the request Agaricales. It is across the board and normal in Europe and North America, and has likewise been gathered in Japan and Venezuela. It is saprotrophic—implying that it gets supplements by expending deteriorating natural issue—and the organic product bodies show up in little gatherings or groups on the rotting logs, trunks, and stumps of deciduous trees, especially beech. The organism, first portrayed logically in 1799, is grouped in the segment "Lactipedes" of the sort "Mycena", alongside different species that produce a smooth or shaded latex. 

The natural product assemblages of "M. haematopus" have tops that are up to wide, whitish gills, and a dainty, delicate ruddy dark colored stem with thick coarse hairs at the base. They are portrayed by their rosy shading, the scalloped top edges, and the dim red latex they "drain" when cut or broken. Both the organic product bodies and the mycelia are feebly bioluminescent. "M. haematopus" produces different alkaloid colors one of a kind to this animal types. The edibility of the organic product bodies isn't known completely. 

The species was at first named "Agaricus haematopus" by Christian Hendrik Persoon in 1799, and later endorsed under this name by Elias Magnus Fries in his 1821 "Systema Mycologicum". In the arrangement of Fries, just a couple of genera were named, and most agaric mushrooms were assembled in "Agaricus", which was sorted out into countless. "Mycena haematopus" picked up its present name in 1871 when the German contagious taxonomist Paul Kummer raised a large number of Fries' "Agaricus" clans to the dimension of sort, including "Mycena". In 1909 Franklin Sumner Earle set the species in "Galactopus", a variety that is never again thought to be independent from "Mycena". "Mycena haematopus" is set in the area "Lactipedes", a gathering of Mycenas portrayed by the nearness of a smooth or hued latex in the stem and tissue of the top. The particular sobriquet is gotten from Ancient Greek roots signifying "blood" (αἱματο-, "haimato-") and "foot" (πους, "pous"). It is generally known as the blood-foot mushroom, the draining pixie protective cap, the burgundydrop hat, or the draining Mycena. 

In 1914, Jakob Emanuel Lange portrayed the assortment "M. haematopus" var. "marginata", portrayed by the rosy shading on the edge of the gills; "Mycena" authority Rudolph Arnold Maas Geesteranus considered the hue of the gill edge too factor to even think about having taxonomical noteworthiness. "Mycena haematopus" var. "cuspidata" was at first found in Colorado in 1976, and depicted as another assortment by American mycologists Duane Mitchel and Alexander H. Smith two years after the fact. The organic product bodies are described by a "bill" on the top that regularly parts or falls as the top develops. It was treated as "Mycena sanguinolenta" var. "cuspidata" by Maas Geesteranus in 1988. 

The organic product collections of "Mycena haematopus" are the regenerative structures created by cell strings or hyphae which develop in decaying wood. The state of the top of the natural product body will change contingent upon its development. Youthful tops, or "catches", are ovoid (egg-molded) to funnel shaped; later they are campanulate (ringer formed), and as the organic product body develops, the edges (top edge) lift upward so the top turns out to be fairly level with an umbo (a focal areola formed knock). The completely developed top can reach up to in measurement. The outside of the top at first seems dry and secured with what has all the earmarks of being an extremely fine whitish powder, yet it before long winds up cleaned and sodden. Develop tops show up to some degree translucent, and create outspread notches reflecting the situation of the gills underneath. The shade of the top is rosy or pinkish-dark colored, frequently tinged with violet, and paler towards the edge. The edge is wavy like the edge of a scallop, and may seem worn out in light of waiting remainders of the incomplete cover. 

The mushroom tissue can run from pale to the shade of red wine (vinaceous), and has no unmistakable smell. It overflows a red latex when cut. The gills have an adnate connection to the stem, which means they are pretty much legitimately appended to it. They are at first whitish or "grayish vinaceous" in shading, and can create rosy darker stains. Somewhere in the range of 20 and 30 gills reach from the top edge to the stem, bringing about a gill dividing that is portrayed as "near subdistant"— holes are unmistakable between neighboring gills. There are extra gills, called lamellulae, that don't stretch out straightforwardly from the edge to the stem; these are orchestrated in a few arrangement (levels) of equivalent length. The stem is up to tall and thick, empty and weak, and a dim rosy dark colored shading. In youthful organic product bodies, the upper piece of the stem is thickly secured with a pale cinnamon-hued powder which wears off with age. The stem has a mass of coarse hairs at the base. Like the top, the stem likewise drains a red latex when it is cut or broken. 

"Mycena haematopus" can be parasitized by "Spinellus fusiger", another contagious species which gives the mushroom a strikingly bushy appearance. 

The spore print is white. The spores are circular, smooth, with measurements of 8– 11 by 5– 7 µm. They are amyloid, which means they will ingest iodine when recolored with Melzer's reagent. The spore-bearing cells (basidia) are 4-spored. Sterile cells called cystidia are various on the edges on the gills; they measure 33– 60 µm (some of the time up to 80) by 9– 12 µm. Cystidia that are available on the stipe (caulocystidia) show up in groups, and clublike to unpredictable fit as a fiddle, estimating 20– 55 by 3.5– 12.5 µm. The gill tissue contains various lactifers, cells that produce the latex that is emitted when it is cut. 

The surface mycelium of "M. haematopus" is whitish and cushy. Swelling at the terminal tips of hyphae (distance across up to 12 µm) is available, yet not exceptionally plenteous, and moniliform hyphae are extremely uncommon. Bioluminescence is available, yet feeble. Extracellular oxidase catalysts are available, predictable with its environmental job as a saprobe. 

Albeit a few sources guarantee that "M. haematopus" is eatable, it is "not really worth gathering as a result of its little size." Other sources consider the species unappetizing, or prescribe staying away from utilization, "since the vast majority of them have not yet been tried for poisons." The flavor of the mushroom is mellow to somewhat severe. 

Another "Mycena" that creates a rosy latex is "Mycena sanguinolenta", the "earthly draining Mycena". It might be recognized from "M. haematopus" in a few different ways: it is littler, with top measurements between wide; develops in gatherings instead of groups; is found on leaves, dead branches, greenery beds and pine needle beds as opposed to rotting wood; and the edges of its gills are reliably dull earthy red. Moreover, scope of top shading in "M. sanguinolenta" is unique in relation to in "M. haematopus", fluctuating from rosy to orange-dark colored, and it comes up short on a band of fractional cover remainders swinging from the edge. 

"Mycena haematopus" gets supplements from disintegrating natural issue (saprobic) and the organic product bodies can normally be discovered developing on stumps and very much rotted logs, for the most part in gatherings that are consolidated by a typical base. The decay of woody garbage on the backwoods floor is the aftereffect of the joined action of a network of parasitic animal categories. In the consecutive progression of mushrooms species, "M. haematopus" is a "late colonizer" parasite: its natural product bodies show up after the wood has first been rotted by white spoil species. The underlying phase of wood rot by white spoil parasites includes the breakdown of "corrosive unhydrolyzable buildup" and holocellulose (a blend of cellulose and hemicellulose). 

In North America, "Mycena haematopus" is known to be circulated from Alaska southward. As per "Mycena" pro Alexander H. Smith, it is "the commonest and the most effectively remembered one in the class." The species is regular in Europe, and it has additionally been gathered from Japan, and Mérida, Venezuela, as the assortment "M. haematopus" var. "marginata". In the Netherlands, "M. haematopus" is one of numerous mushrooms that can normally be discovered fruiting on antiquated timber wharves. The natural product bodies can be discovered all year in gentle climate. 

Both the mycelia and the natural product assemblages of "M. haematopus" (both youthful and develop examples) are accounted for to be bioluminescent. Notwithstanding, the iridescence is very powerless, and not noticeable to the dull adjusted eye; in one investigation, light discharge was discernible simply after 20 hours of presentation to X-beam film. In spite of the fact that the biochemical premise of bioluminescence in "M. haematopus" has not been deductively researched, all in all, bioluminescence is brought about by the activity of luciferases, chemicals that produce light by the oxidation of a luciferin (a shade). The organic reason for bioluminescence in parasites isn't authoritatively known, albeit a few theories have been recommended: it might help draw in creepy crawlies to help with spore dispersal, it might be a side-effect of other biochemical capacities, or it might help discourage heterotrophs that may devour the growth. 

A few remarkable synthetic substances are delivered by "Mycena haematopus". The essential color is haematopodin B, which is so synthetically delicate (separating upon presentation to air and light) that its increasingly steady breakdown item, haematopodin, was known before its inevitable revelation and portrayal in 2008. A compound combination for haematopodin was accounted for in 1996. Haematopodins are the first pyrroloquinoline alkaloids found in parasites; pyrroloquinolines consolidate the structures of pyrrole and quinoline, both heterocyclic fragrant natural mixes. Mixes of this sort likewise happen in marine wipes and are drawing in research enthusiasm because of different natural properties, for example, cytotoxicity against tumor cell lines, and both antifungal and antimicrobial exercises. Extra alkaloid mixes in "M. haematopus" incorporate the red colors mycenarubins D, E and F. Preceding the disclosure of these mixes, pyrroloquinoline alkaloids were viewed as uncommon in earthbound sources.