The Political Cesspool 

The Political Cesspool is a week after week far-right talk radio show established by Tennessean political extremist James Edwards and syndicated by the associations Liberty News Radio Network and Accent Radio Network in the United States. First communicate in October 2004 two times per week from radio station WMQM, per Edwards it has been simulcast on Stormfront Radio, an administration of the white patriot Stormfront site and starting at 2011 is communicated on Saturday evenings on WLRM, a Christian radio station in Millington, Tennessee. Its supporters incorporate the white dissident Council of Conservative Citizens and the Institute for Historical Review, a Holocaust refusal gathering. 

As per its announcement of standards, the show represents the "Confiscated Majority" and speaks to "a logic that is ace White." It has pulled in analysis—including from "The Nation", "The New Republic", the Stephen Roth Institute, the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), and the Anti-Defamation League—for its advancement of hostile to semitic, white patriot and racial oppressor sees. As indicated by the SPLC, the show has highlighted a's "Who of the extreme right", including individuals from the Ku Klux Klan; they state Edwards has most likely accomplished more than anybody in America to advance neo-Nazis, Holocaust deniers and different radicals. 

The show highlights Edwards and his co-has Keith Alexander, Bill Rolen, Winston Smith, and Eddie Miller, just as maker Art Frith. Previous staff members incorporate Geoff Melton, Jess Bonds and prime supporter Austin Farley. Its visitors have included creator Jerome Corsi, Minuteman Project pioneer Jim Gilchrist, previous Constitution Party presidential applicant Michael Peroutka, performing artist Sonny Landham, British National Party pioneer Nick Griffin, Vermont secessionist Thomas Naylor, and paleoconservative dissident Pat Buchanan. It is conveyed by something like three authorized earthly radio stations in the United States and on system benefits from the Galaxy 19 correspondences satellite. 

Edwards is a far-right political dissident from Memphis, Tennessee, portrayed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a rising star of the advanced white-patriot development. They compose that he is understandable, beguiling, and quiet before general society, just as in TV and radio studios. He went to Briarcrest Christian School, a non-public school in Memphis, and in ninth grade moved into a Christian-patriot self-teaching program, a choice that he said drove him into political activism. In 2000 he volunteered for Pat Buchanan's presidential crusade, and in 2002 ran fruitlessly for the Tennessee House of Representatives. It was amid this battle he met individual lobbyist Austin Farley, who was on the vote against him. In October of that year, he and Farley built up "The Political Cesspool". 

In 2007, Edwards was a piece of a board that showed up on CNN's "Paula Zahn Now", alongside Roland S. Martin and Jesse Lee Peterson. The design was to talk about racial isolation in American urban communities. He disclosed to Zahn that white kids should search out the individuals who share "similar qualities and customs and saints," and that "constrained coordination" was a "walk toward authoritarianism." He stated: "Wrongdoing and savagery pursue African-Americans wherever they go, and on the off chance that you believe that is supremacist, at that point invest some energy in the mean boulevards of south Memphis." Martin portrayed his comments as unfit for national TV. Edwards showed up on "Paula Zahn Now" in 2009, amid which he stated: "Whites are in for the battle of their lives. America is getting to be balkanized. We are being victimized of having a future in the very country our precursors cut from the wild." 

In 2010, he ended up included with another gathering, the American Freedom Party, which advocates white patriotism and a type of monetary patriotism known as the Third Position. Additionally in 2010 he independently published a book, "Bigotry, Schmacism: How Liberals utilize the "R" Word to Push the Obama Agenda", appropriated by CreateSpace, an independently publishing printer. 

Other staff at "The Political Cesspool" incorporate Bill Rolen, Eddie "The Bombardier" Miller, Keith Alexander, and Winston Smith. As per the show's site, the vast majority of the staff guarantee plunge from Confederate troopers. The show was at first communicated on AM 1600 WMQM, a Memphis-based radio station, on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Edwards and Farley welcomed companions Bill Rolen, a board individual from the Council of Conservative Citizens, and Jess Bonds as visitor has, just as radio specialist Art Frith. Frith had recently worked for various other radio stations including American Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) (in Keflavik, Iceland; Anchorage, Alaska; and Nea Makri, Greece), KFQD (in Anchorage), and WBCK (in Battle Creek, Michigan). 

In 2005 the gathering moved to WMQM's Millington-based sister station, AM 1380 WLRM, and changed to a daily timetable, Monday through Friday. Farley left the program in November of that year. After two years, Geoff Melton, a previous co-have, joined to help set up the show's site and the show entered syndication with Dixie Broadcasting Radio Network. The program went on rest on February 15, 2008, in light of the fact that staff individuals said they required a break, however came back to the wireless transmissions in June 2008 on WLRM on Saturday evenings. After one year, it changed from Republic Broadcasting Network to Liberty News Radio Network. As of August 2009, Bonds and Melton are never again subsidiary with the program. Frith now lives in Nashville, Michigan, however remains a piece of the show's staff. Since WLRM isn't reviewed by Arbitron, the show's appraisals are obscure. The show is audience upheld and, as indicated by Edwards, gets a larger number of gifts from Florida than from some other state. 

"The Political Cesspool" portrays its logic as "ace White" and "against political centralization". Its announcement of standards, with material obtained from the Council of Conservative Citizens, peruses: 

"The Political Cesspool" has throughout the years highlighted numerous visitor appearances, including political activists, Holocaust deniers, business analysts, and artists. Previous Tennessee gubernatorial hopeful Carl "Twofeathers" Whitaker, who claims fractional Native-American lineage and is known for his solid help of the Minuteman development, has showed up on the show, as has moderate Native-American dissident David Yeagley. Movie producers Merlin Miller ("A Place to Grow", "Jericho"), who is the 2012 presidential chosen one of the American Freedom Party, and Craig Bodeker ("A Conversation about Race") have highlighted. 

Creator Jerome Corsi was met in July 2008. Amid the talk he talked about his monetary pamphlet, and advanced his book "The Obama Nation", which incorporates a few proclamations that have been generally portrayed as supremacist; for instance, he opined that US President Barack Obama distinguishes more with his "African blood" than his American roots and that the President "rejects everybody white, including his mom and his grandparents". Corsi planned another special appearance on "The Political Cesspool", however after one month he dropped this appearance, refering to "sightseeing plans that changed". Edwards said that he trusted the occurrence "just demonstrates what fantastic weight everybody in open life is under to never have anything to do with any individual who talks up for the interests of white individuals." Fellow creators John Derbyshire and Steve Sailer have likewise been visitors. In July 2011, WorldNetDaily writer Ilana Mercer showed up on the show. 

Constitution Party chosen one Michael Peroutka utilized his appearance in 2004 to advance his presidential battle. Gathering part Michael Goza portrayed the show as "Christian/Constitutionalist", and "an incredible gift to our motivation". Thomas Naylor, of the Vermont secessionist association Second Vermont Republic, showed up on the show to observe Confederate History Month in April 2007, while American Freedom Party Chairman Bill Johnson seemed to advance his gathering. 

On May 8, 2006, Minuteman Project pioneer Jim Gilchrist talked on the program. Co-have Bill Rolen concurred with Gilchrist's view that unlawful's migrants will likely "simply squat here and loot whatever social advantages our projects give them". In any case, Rolen couldn't help contradicting Gilchrist's case that unlawful migration was "the 21st century slave exchange". Gilchrist's associate in the Minuteman development, Chris Simcox, has additionally been a visitor of the show. 

Paul Babeu, the sheriff of Pinal County, Arizona, showed up on "The Political Cesspool" on July 10, 2010 to talk about illicit migration; amid the meeting, he alluded to James Edwards as an "extraordinary American". Under about fourteen days after the fact, Babeu's representative issued a statement of regret, saying that he had not explored the show altogether enough before booking the meeting and that Babeu has an arrangement of not directing meetings with loathe gatherings. Babeu himself said that he was "tricked" into showing up on the show and that he rejects "any abhor or dogmatism". Before the meeting, cohost Eddie Miller said that "Of the considerable number of individuals we've met on this radio show, I would state the main individuals that verged on getting me this energized was Dr. David Duke." Following Babeu's representative's conciliatory sentiment, Edwards affirmed that Babeu knew about the show's actual belief system preceding showing up on the show, saying: "For Sheriff Babeu to alter his opinion and now lament going ahead our show, for reasons unknown, is his right. For him to go about just as he had no clue about our belief system is a lie." because of the discussion encompassing Babeu's appearance on the show, Arizona U.S. Senate competitor J. D. Hayworth asked his essential adversary, John McCain, to drop a few crusade advertisements highlighting McCain and Babeu. In 2011, another sheriff, Dennis Spruell of Montezuma County, Colorado, likewise apologized subsequent to showing up on the show without knowing its real plan. 

Paleoconservative lobbyist and previous presidential applicant Pat Buchanan has seemed twice starting at 2011. In a June 2008 meeting started and orchestrated by his marketing expert, he advanced his book "Churchill, Hitler and the Unnecessary War". Amid the communicate, Buchanan protected Charles Lindbergh against charges of discrimination against Jews, expressing that his notoriety "has been darkened in light of a solitary discourse he gave and a few sections in it where he said that ... the Jewish people group is thumping the drums for war but to be honest, nobody has said what he said was discernably false." At the finish of the meeting, James Edwards stated, "Mr. Buchanan, thank you such a great amount for returning on our program, for battling for our kin." Previously, in September 2006, Buchanan had shown up to advance his book "Highly sensitive situation"; amid this meeting, he said that "we are being attacked by individuals of various societies" and contended that Americans "can't endure a bifurcated culture or an intensely Hispanicized culture, tilted towards Mexico ... I feel that is the start of the finish of the United States." 

Self-broadcasted "racial pragmatist" Jared Taylor, whom James Edwards considers to be a dear companion, has showed up on somewhere around ten events. In an article he composed for "VDARE", Taylor portrayed the program as "racially situated". In spite of the fact that portraying itself as "America First", the show has additionally facilitated remote visitors, including Croatian white patriot Tomislav Sunić, Australian white patriot Drew Fraser, Russian Austrian School market analyst Yuri N. Maltsev, British legal advisor Adrian Davies, Canadian racial oppressor Paul Fromm, Canadian traditionalist blogger Kathy Shaidle, and British National Party (BNP) pioneers Simon Darby and Nick Griffin; Griffin showed up as a visitor when his race to the European Parliament. Amid his post-race appearance, Griffin credited the BNP's constituent victories to a dread of "crawling procedure of Islamification". 

On-screen character Mel Gibson's dad, Hutton Gibson, has additionally showed up on the show. Amid his appearance, he alluded to Pope Benedict XVI as a "gay" and asserted that "a large portion of the general population in the Vatican are strange." 

The show has as often as possible been scrutinized by against bigot gatherings and people, (for example, the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), Anti-Defamation League (ADL), Stephen Roth Institute, and columnist Max Blumenthal) over its expressed belief system. "The Political Cesspool" was added toward the Southern Poverty Law Center's loathe amass watch list in 2006. James Edwards was "elated", saying "I don't think you've touched base in the moderate development until you've made it toward the Southern Poverty Law Center's Hate Watch". Edwards portrays the SPLC as a gathering made out of "socialists and social liberties hawkers". The SPLC's Hatewatch has alluded to "The Political Cesspool" as "a plainly bigot, hostile to Semitic radio show facilitated by [a] self-admitted white patriot" and as "the nexus of loathe in America". The Anti-Defamation League has additionally censured the show; Edwards has assaulted the ADL as "America's most dominant detest gathering" and has asserted that its meaning of a "neo-Nazi [is] any white individual who can't help contradicting a Jew". 

Writer John Avlon, a previous speech specialist for Rudy Giuliani, has portrayed "The Political Cesspool" as "avowedly racial oppressor". 

Analytical writer Max Blumenthal, who gave an account of an endeavor by one of the show's staff to promote at a rally for Republican bad habit presidential competitor Sarah Palin, depicted "The Political Cesspool" as having a "bigot philosophy", and featured enemy of Semitic, supremacist, and homophobic remarks that Edwards had made on his blog. The Stephen Roth Institute has likewise remarked on the show, taking note of that "[James] Edwards transparently embraced a significant number of his visitors' perspectives and amid discourses to fanatic gatherings of people, including individuals from the racial oppressor Council of Conservative Citizens and the supremacist League of the South, he picked up the help of a wide cluster of radicals." In an article about discrimination against Jews in Belgium, the Institute remarked on the show's meeting with Filip Dewinter, an individual from the Belgian Parliament and a pioneer of the radical Vlaams Belang development. 

"Newsweek" utilized one of Winston Smith's announcements to contend that the ascent in prevalence of white patriotism and matchless quality is because of the mix of the late-2000s subsidence and the decision of a dark president. Numerous such gatherings have been endeavoring to increase newcomers and increment their political impact by rebranding themselves as safeguards of "white legacy" while de-underlining their aversion of minorities and Jews. Smith states, "[t]he accentuation is distinctive at this point. We don't speak as much about what blacks have done to us; we're progressively centered around ourselves and our own way of life." 

In 2005, the staff of "The Political Cesspool" sorted out a rally at the Tennessee zone known as Confederate Park, which, alongside two other Confederacy-themed stops in downtown Memphis, has been the subject of a long-lasting debate for respecting Confederate fighters and goals. The recreation center had been condemned before by a dark Shelby County official, which pulled in the notice of New York-based extremist Al Sharpton, who was welcomed by the Reverend LaSimba Gray to hold a show in Memphis. Sharpton arranged a walk called the Rally for Dignity from downtown Memphis to another park regarding Confederate Lieutenant General Nathan Bedford Forrest who was included right off the bat in the association of the Ku Klux Klan. Sharpton dropped the walk after Edwards and "The Political Cesspool" staff got a license to exhibit in Confederate Park, situated along Sharpton's arranged walk course. 

Sharpton agreed to a dissent at Forrest Park. At the exhibition, he contended that "We have to demonstrate the remainder of the world that the day for regarding individuals like this is finished", and said in a meeting that his complaints were not identified with race but rather to Forrest's Civil War-time (1861– 1865) activities against the United States. Assessments of participation at the revives fluctuate; as indicated by the Southern Poverty Law Center, James Edwards pulled in around 200 white counter-demonstrators to the Confederate Park vigil, while Sharpton's dissent at Forrest Park pulled in a couple of dozen dark demonstrators, whom Edwards alluded to as "riffraff". The "Memphis Flyer" assessed that Sharpton pulled in about 250 supporters. In the fallout of the city park debate, show partners Edwards, Farley, Bonds, and Rolen got the "Dixie Defender Award" from the Sons of Confederate Veterans. 

Soon thereafter, Memphis city councilman E. C. Jones granted Edwards and Farley with an endorsement "in valuation for exceptional commitments to the network". Edwards and Farley additionally got a privileged city committee enrollment from Jones, who had recently showed up on "The Political Cesspool". As indicated by "The Commercial Appeal", Jones had not tuned in to the show before the occurrence, and was unconscious of its philosophy. After a correspondent educated him of the program's motivation, Jones at first would not apologize. Notwithstanding, after another correspondent went up against him with more insights concerning the show's belief system, he changed his view, saying that he presumably would not show up once more. Song Chumney, another individual from the Memphis City Council, was likewise welcomed to show up on "The Political Cesspool", at the end of the day declined the welcome in the wake of tuning in to a scene of the show; Chumney stated, "what I heard was tied in with pushing for prostitution ... So I revealed to them I had different duties." 

In a meeting with the French paper "Le Journal du Dimanche", cohost Eddie "Bombardier" Miller depicted the United Nations as "Satan on Earth". 

In 2016, Edwards co-facilitated a Super Tuesday communicate that talked with Donald Trump Jr., the child of Republican gathering presidential hopeful Donald Trump. Edwards adulated the senior Trump and urged his supporters to vote in favor of him. 

Starting at 2011, "The Political Cesspool" pretense on WLRM in Memphis, Tennessee, KHQN in Spanish Fork, Utah; and the Florida-based Accent Radio Network. The Accent Radio Network and KHQN air an abbreviated two-hour form of the show, as opposed to the three-hour Liberty News Radio Network (WLRM) variant. 

ARN and Liberty News Radio Network communicates their channels on discrete stations on the Galaxy 19 interchanges satellite.