Infant Boy (Beyoncé melody) 

"Infant Boy" is a melody by American artist Beyoncé including Jamaican dancehall vocalist Sean Paul from Beyoncé's introduction solo studio collection "Perilously in Love" (2003). The two specialists co-composed the melody with Scott Storch, Robert Waller and Shawn "Jay-Z" Carter; the previous likewise co-created the tune. Containing an expressive introduction of "No Fear" by hip bounce aggregate O.G.C, "Infant Boy" is a R&B and dancehall tune with reggae and Arabic music impacts; its verses detail a lady's dreams. 

Columbia Records and Music World Entertainment discharged "Child Boy" as the second single from "Hazardously in Love" on August 3, 2003. "Infant Boy" bested the US "Board" Hot 100 for nine back to back weeks and was Beyoncé's longest-running solo number-one single until 2007, when it was outperformed by "Essential". It achieved the best ten in numerous nations and was ensured platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) and the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). It likewise achieved the main 10 in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Scotland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 

The melody's music video was coordinated by Jake Nava and generally indicates Beyoncé moving in different areas. "Infant Boy" has remained a staple of Beyoncé's show set records. The American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP) remembered it as a standout amongst the most performed melodies of 2004. In 2005, American vocalist lyricist Jennifer Armor recorded a copyright encroachment claim asserting that the melody had utilized the essential melodic snare from her tune "Got a Little Bit of Love for You". The suit was later expelled. 

In 2002, Beyoncé went to Miami, Florida, in the United States, to work with American record maker Scott Storch for her presentation solo studio collection "Perilously in Love". She and Storch expressed "Infant Boy", with commitments from American musician Robert Waller and Beyoncé's currently spouse, hip bounce craftsman Jay-Z. The melody additionally contains a melodious interjection of "No Fear" by hip bounce bunch O.G.C. utilized towards the consummation of the tune: "We steppin' in more smoking this year". 

When the track was as far as anyone knows done, Beyoncé had the possibility that it would be "immaculate" if Jamaican reggae craftsman Sean Paul contributed a vocal track. Beyoncé reached Paul about a conceivable joint effort for "Infant Boy". Sean Paul concurred, and flew in from Jamaica to join the chronicle sessions of the melody. He contributed a toast section, and they got done with chronicle "Infant Boy" in March 2003, amid the later phases of the collection's account. 

"Child Boy" is a midtempo contemporary R&B and dancehall melody with reggae, house and Arabic music impacts. It was made utilizing basic time in the key of C minor, and set in moderate section of 92 beats for each moment. Storch's information on Indian and Middle Eastern music adds to its Eastern impacts. Neil Drumming of "Excitement Weekly" noticed that "'Baby Boy' goes maximum capacity Bollywood 'n da hood, with Sean Paul tearing a beating tabla raga". Beyoncé's vocals are joined by clicky and castanet-sounding beats, integrated handclaps and slaps. As per Roger Friedman of Fox News Channel, "Child Boy" depends on the reggae melody "Here Comes the Hotstepper" (1995), performed by Jamaican vocalist Ini Kamoze. 

"Infant Boy" is viewed as a spin-off of Jay-Z's tune "'03 Bonnie and Clyde" (2002) highlighting Beyoncé. The verses detail a lady's dreams, and with regards to the collection's general subject, Beyoncé's considered them as close to home to her. Paul commented: "She's educating me regarding her dreams and imagining me and her going all over, everywhere throughout the world ... I'm replying back, similar to, 'I'm mind it'." The verses are developed in the toast– chorus– stanza structure; Sean Paul plays out the toasting while Beyoncé sings every other section and themes. The example is rehashed twice; a further tune and section pursue, settling at the toasting and last refrain. 

"Child Boy" was discharged as the second single from Beyoncé's presentation studio collection, "Hazardously in Love" (2003). It was adjusted to contemporary hit and musical contemporary radio in the United States on August 3, 2003. It was discharged as a CD single and 12-inch single in the United Kingdom on October 6, 2003. The melody was discharged for maxi single in Canada the next day, and in Germany on October 13. It was discharged in the United States as a 12-inch and CD single on October 14 and 28, 2003, individually. "Infant Boy" was incorporated into the patched up version of Sean Paul's second studio collection "Dutty Rock" (2003). 

In 2005, American singer– musician Jennifer Armor recorded a copyright encroachment claim, asserting that Beyoncé had utilized a few verses and the melodic snare from her tune "Got a Little Bit of Love for You". In 2003, Armor's previous name administrator had submitted demo accounts to record marks, including Beyoncé's Columbia Records and Sean Paul's Atlantic Records. As indicated by the area court, a specialist witness (Chair, Department of Music Theory and Composition, Shepherd School of Music, Rice University) decided the melodies to be "considerably comparable" (a necessity for an encroachment finding). As to the melodic snare, the master observer expressed in his report: "When the aural correlations of the two tunes are displayed in the key of C minor (for simple examination) and exhibited consecutive, in A– B– A– B style, even the least musically slanted audience ought to promptly verify that the two tunes are strikingly comparative; I daresay that numerous audience members may even see them similar to a similar tune! Also, once more, transposing a tune for this reason does not adjust any essential characteristics or attributes of the tune however only helps the capacity of those new to the details of music in making a correlation." The area court judge in any case decided that she, herself, couldn't hear the likenesses between the two tunes and expelled the case, denying the movement for the melodies or case to be heard by a jury. On bid, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit certified the region court's decision, yet administered with various thinking. It held that there was no encroachment dependent on Beyoncé's case that Armor's demo tape was gotten not long after the composition of Beyoncé's tune had been generously finished. Be that as it may, the court did not address the issue of considerable closeness. 

"Moving Stone" magazine commentator Anthony DeCurtis composed that Beyoncé seemed as though she was "having a great time" on the tune, while Stephen Thomas Erlewine of the online music manage administration AllMusic portrayed Beyoncé's vocals as "guaranteed and attractive". Imprint Anthony Neal of the global webzine PopMatters, respected "Child Boy" as one of the "prominent joint efforts" on "Hazardously in Love". Lisa Verrico of the every day British paper "The Times" portrayed the tune a "Latino-tinged joint effort ... Paul completes a reggae rap in the center, however it's the point at which he visits while Beyoncé half raps that the pair have genuine science". Yancey Strickler of the "Fire" magazine composed that "'Baby Boy'<nowiki>'</nowiki>s diwali falter is upgraded via Sean Paul's dancehall monotone". 

James Anthony of the British paper "The Guardian" remarked that the track "overcomes any issues between the class of R&B and dancehall". "Los Angeles Times" author Natalie Nichols composed that "the ... house-spiced 'Child Boy' effectively meld[s] [Beyoncé's] hoarse cooing with hip, fascinating generation." 

English record name EMI was respected by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) at the 2005 ASCAP Pop Music Awards as Publisher of the Year for distributing "Child Boy", among different tunes. Scott Storch earned Songwriter of the Year grant at a similar occasion. 

"Child Boy" accomplished a situating on the business diagrams before its physical discharge in the United States. The track prompted a higher "Board" 200 outline setting for "Perilously in Love", and helped the collection to achieve multi-platinum affirmation in the United States. The single appeared on the "Board" Hot 100, at number fifty-seven, while its forerunner "Insane in Love" was still on the top spot. "Child Boy" ruled the airplays in the United States, eventually achieving the highest point of the "Announcement" Hot 100. It achieved the graph's top spot two months after its presentation, and remained there for nine back to back weeks. The single remained number one for seven days longer than "Insane in Love" had, turning into Beyoncé's longest-graphing number-one single. The accomplishment was not broken until her single "Essential" (2006), from her second collection "B'Day" (2006), went through ten weeks at the top spot from late 2006 until mid 2007 because of overwhelming airplay. "Infant Boy" remained on the Hot 100 for twenty-nine weeks, and was confirmed platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on June 6, 2006. "Infant Boy" made progress on "Bulletin" hybrid and standard radio diagrams, showing up on the Top 40 Tracks, Rhythmic and Mainstream Top 40, just as cresting on the Radio Songs and Dance/Mix Show Airplay, and at number two on Dance Club Songs. As of October 6, 2010, "Infant Boy" had sold 600,000 physical units in the United States. 

Globally, "Infant Boy" performed similarly also, cresting inside the best ten on the majority of the diagrams it showed up on, barring the Ö3 Austria Top 40, Ultratop 50 Wallonia and Italian Singles Chart, 

on which it achieved the best twenty. The single appeared at number two in the United Kingdom, turning into the diagram's most astounding introduction of the week and "Infant Boy's" most noteworthy passage globally. Despite the fact that it went through eleven weeks on the graph, it neglected to achieve the top, being held off by "Where Is the Love?" by The Black Eyed Peas. In Australia and New Zealand, "Infant Boy" topped at numbers three and two, individually. It was ensured platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments more than 70,000 units. 

The music video for "Infant Boy" was recorded by English chief Jake Nava, who additionally shot Beyoncé's "Insane in Love" video. It was recorded in Miami, Florida on August 7– 8, 2003. Portions of the video were caught in a house with various style rooms: one of every a Japanese style and one out of an early English style. 

Scenes including Beyoncé and Paul are appeared. The video starts with Paul sitting on a position of royalty while toasting; Beyoncé is inclining toward a divider and moving. In the accompanying scene, Beyoncé is seen on a bed. Paul is appeared a few ladies who are lying on the floor stroking one another. Beyoncé strolls towards the shoreline; she recognizes a man, and the two touch and tease. As the second section of the starts, Beyoncé is at a gathering. At the gathering Beyoncé chooses to hit the dance floor with a similar man that she collaborated with before. At that point, water floods the floor of the gathering as she sings "the move floor turns into the ocean". As the second melody of the tune starts, the video is cut with scenes of Beyoncé and four back-up artists moving on a stage in the sand on the shoreline. The first track is hindered towards the end with an Arabic instrumental, intended for the music video. This segment features Beyoncé vivaciously moving on the sand. 

Sal Cinquemani of the online distribution Slant Magazine, depicted the video as a "child oil-logged development" to "Insane in Love's" "bootylicous video". In 2013, John Boone and Jennifer Cady of E! Online put the video at number nine on their rundown of Beyoncé's ten best music recordings, lauding the all-encompassing hip twirling breakdown. "Child Boy" debuted on MTV's program "Complete Request Live" on August 25, 2003 at number ten and achieved the top spot. It remained on the show for forty-one days, a similar diagram run "Me, Myself and I" earned. 

Beyoncé first performed "Infant Boy" live at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards; she sang it in a variety with the pre-recorded vocals of Paul. Beyoncé later sang "Infant Boy" with Paul at the 2003 MTV Europe Music Awards. "Infant Boy" has been incorporated on the set rundown for a large portion of Beyoncé's show visits. It filled in as opening melody of her Dangerously in Love Tour (2003). Amid her execution of the tune on the visit, she was at first suspended from the roof of the field that was bit by bit brought down to a red lounger—a prop she additionally utilized amid the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. The recording taken at Wembley Arena in London, England was incorporated on Beyoncé's first live collection "" (2004). Beyoncé additionally performed "Infant Boy" with her previous gathering Destiny's Child amid their last visit Destiny Fulfilled... also, Lovin' It (2005), and it was incorporated on their second live collection "" (2006). 

"Child Boy" was a piece of Beyoncé's set rundown on The Beyoncé Experience (2007) in Los Angeles, California, and on I Am... World Tour (2009– 10). On August 5, 2007, Beyoncé played out the melody at the Madison Square Garden in Manhattan, New York City, New York; wearing a midsection artist type outfit, she plunged the staircase holding an umbrella and was met by three men wearing uniform. A short segment of Chaka Demus and Pliers' tune "Murder She Wrote" (1993) was fused into "Infant Boy". Jon Pareles of "The New York Times" applauded the execution, composing that Beyoncé "needs no diversions from her singing, which can be breezy or brazen, sorrowful or awful, quick flame with staccato syllables or continued in curlicued melismas. In any case, she was in consistent movement, swaggering in outfits". She performed in a comparable game plan at the Los Angeles' Staples Center on September 2, 2007. She was wearing a hip twirling outfit, and the execution was executed with a few male reinforcement artists and live instrumentation. Beyoncé re-created the move she executed in the melody's music video. At the point when Beyoncé performed "Child Boy" in Sunrise, Florida on June 29, 2009, she was wearing a glittery gold leotard. At the point when her execution started, she was suspended noticeable all around, and afterward brought down to the B-stage to where she sang "Child Boy" with a portion from Dawn Penn's "You Don't Love Me (No, No, No)". Enlivened designs of turntables, faders and other club hardware were anticipated behind the artists and artists. Beyoncé was joined by her sponsorship band Suga Mama, which comprised of two drummers, two keyboardists, a percussionist, a horn area, three forcing reinforcement vocalists and the lead guitarist Bibi McGill. "Infant Boy" was incorporated on her live collection "The Beyoncé Experience Live" (2007), and the luxurious release of "I Am... World Tour" (2010). At the 2005 ASCAP Pop Music Awards, "Child Boy", alongside Beyoncé's two different singles from "Perilously in Love" – "Me, Myself and I" and "Insidious Girl" – was perceived as a standout amongst the most performed melodies of 2004. 

"Child Boy" was performed by Beyoncé in a pink periphery dress at a show at Palais Nikaïa in Nice, France, on June 20, 2011, and at the Glastonbury Festival on June 26, 2011, where she brought out British outing bounce artist Tricky to visitor on the tune. Between May 25– 28, 2012, Beyoncé played out the melody amid her "" revue at stimulation resort, inn, gambling club and spa Revel in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Jim Farber of the "Day by day News" stated: "The first, and last pieces of the show focused on the steeliest Beyoncé, told in striking melodies... [like] dancehall-arched 'Child Boy.'" On February 3, 2013, Beyoncé played out the melody amid the Super Bowl XLVII halftime appear. In 2013, Beyoncé performed "Infant Boy" as a mixture with "Get Me Bodied" amid her The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour (2013– 14), while the tunes were performed independently in 2014. The tune was likewise performed amid The Formation World Tour (2016). 

!scope="col" colspan="3"| Mastertone