Rogožarski IK-3 

The Rogožarski IK-3 was a 1930s Yugoslav monoplane single-situate contender, structured by Ljubomir Ilić, Kosta Sivčev and Slobodan Zrnić as a successor to the Ikarus IK-2 warrior. Its deadly implement comprised of a center point shooting autocannon and two fuselage-mounted synchronized automatic weapons. It was viewed as practically identical to remote air ship, for example, the Messerschmitt Bf 109E and came into administration in 1940. The model slammed amid testing; a sum of twelve generation air ship had been conveyed by July 1940. 

Six IK-3s were workable when the Axis attack of Yugoslavia started on 6 April 1941. Every one of the six were in administration with the 51st Independent Fighter Group at Zemun close Belgrade. Pilots flying the IK-3 guaranteed 11 flying machine shot down amid the 11-day struggle. As indicated by one record, to keep them from falling into German hands, the enduring flying machine and inadequate airframes were devastated by their teams and plant staff. Another record proposes that one air ship endure the intrusion and was later devastated by harm. The IK-3 configuration was the reason for the post-war Yugoslav-manufactured Ikarus S-49 contender. 

In the late 1920s, the Royal Yugoslav Air Force (, VVKJ) and the Royal Aero Club of Yugoslavia sent seeking aeronautical architects to France to pick up learning. It was planned that after this propelled preparing, they would come back to Yugoslavia and be offered expert jobs in the VVKJ or in the aeronautical business. Ljubomir Ilić and Kosta Sivčev experienced this program in any case, when they came back to Yugoslavia, both were utilized in managerial work. Disappointed by this, they chose in 1931 to plan a trade for the Czechoslovakian-manufactured Avia BH-33E biplane warrior in administration with the VVKJ. Working in a storm cellar in Belgrade, and later in Ilić's condo in Novi Sad, they subtly gave their extra time to take a shot at their plan. They initially arranged a low-wing monoplane with retractable landing gear. Contemporary reasoning inside the VVKJ drove them to advance their underlying thoughts into a swagger propped gull-wing monoplane outfitted with a center shooting autocannon and fuselage-mounted synchronized automatic weapons. The structure idea for what turned into the Ikarus IK-2 was submitted to the VVKJ on 22 September 1933. With this work finished, Ilić and Sivčev had room schedule-wise to begin primer advancement of an extraordinary failure wing monoplane that could all the more likely meet and annihilation the elite plane models then being developed by potential foes. 

Ilić and Sivčev's new streamlined low-wing monoplane configuration had a retractable undercarriage. Like the IK-2 it was at first grown secretly by the two men. A scale display was tried in the Eiffel-manufactured breeze burrow in Paris, yet the pair before long understood that they required a third specialist to help assess the plan and decide the basic subtleties. Slobodan Zrnić, the head of development at the Yugoslav State Aircraft Factory in Kraljevo, was enrolled, as he had functioned as an authority air ship engineer in France. The undertaking name for the IK-2 was changed from IK, representing (Ljubomir) Ilić and Kosta (Sivčev), to IKZ, to incorporate Zrnić. This name was changed, conceivably because of the likenesses between the Cyrillic "З" (Z) and the Arabic numeral "3", and the flying machine ended up known as the IK-3. The air ship was to be fueled by a Hispano-Suiza 12Y29 motor, producing at an elevation of . The planners favored mobility over speed, endeavoring to discover a trade off between the German and British ideas of an advanced monoplane warrior. The structure had a littler wing zone than the Hawker Hurricane and the Supermarine Spitfire, to accomplish a higher speed for the motor power. In contrast with the Messerschmitt Bf 109, the Yugoslav structure had a shorter fuselage and littler turning span. It varied from British and German structure ideas in that its proposed weapon was amassed in the fuselage. 

The structures were conveyed to the VVKJ in time for endorsement by mid-1936, yet a general hesitance to embrace new ideas deferred the IK-3, and an agreement for the creation of the model was not marked until March 1937. The organization chose for development was Rogožarski A.D. in Belgrade. The principal trip of the model was completed by the VVKJ Test Group towards the finish of May 1938 and the flying machine was then flown by a gathering of VVKJ officers who were to decide the best work for it inside the VVKJ, alongside strategies to be utilized in Yugoslav conditions. These pilots saw that the controls were profoundly touchy; the main genuine reactions identified with the visual bending brought about by the bended boards of the shade. A few pilots trusted that the fuselage-mounted deadly implement ought to be enhanced by two wing-mounted automatic weapons. The aircraft testers likewise needed to look at the execution of the IK-3 with the Hawker Fury, Heinkel He 112, Morane-Saulnier M.S. 405 and Hawker Hurricane. They presumed that the IK-3 most firmly coordinated the Morane-Saulnier; the Yugoslav airplane was quicker. In November 1938, the VVKJ submitted a request with Rogožarski for 12 air ship. 

On 19 January 1939, aircraft tester "Kapetan" Milan Pokorni put the model into a precarious jump. When he came to , the windscreen isolates from the flying machine; Pokorni pulled up hard and the strain severed portion of the starboard wing. The air ship slammed, and Pokorni was slaughtered. A request established that adjustments to the windscreen had added to the mishap. Specialists recalculated the pressure factors on the airframe and they were observed to be protected, and the primary factor had been the pilot's treatment of the exceedingly delicate controls. 

The loss of the model and a few changes in the development of the creation show deferred the satisfaction of the agreement. Further tests were directed on the wing and it was found to withstand a g-power of 14. Changes were made for the generation demonstrate, including the utilization of level plexiglass boards in the windscreen and the shade to give better perceivability. The instrument design was improved and the upper back fuselage behind the pilot's seat was re-molded. The collapsing undercarriage leg covers were supplanted by single plates. The primary changes were the supplanting of the motor with an adjusted rendition of the Hispano-Suiza 12Y motor made under permit by the Czechoslovak organization Avia and the substitution of the Hispano-Suiza HS.404 gun by a Swiss-made Oerlikon FF 20 mm gun. The substitution motor was less amazing, producing at . German-made Telefunken radios were to be introduced yet delays implied that just the main flying machine was conveyed with a radio. The creation flying machine were numbered 2– 13; the model was number 1. The air ship were worked at the Rogožarski plant in Belgrade and collected at the organization overhang at Zemun. The initial six air ship were conveyed by late March 1940; conveyance of the remainder of the request was deferred until July due to delays by remote providers. The main creation flying machine was conveyed to the VVKJ Test Group, where it was affirmed that the generation air ship were free of the shortcomings in the model. The Test Group verified that the greatest speed, recently evaluated at , was , at an elevation of . By July 1940, a further arrangement of 25 IK-3s had started development at the Rogožarski processing plant. 

A lack of motors was a noteworthy impediment to large scale manufacturing and advancement of the IK-3, so tests were led with all the more dominant motors, including the Daimler-Benz DB 601, Rolls-Royce Merlin II and Hispano-Suiza 12Y51. The tests were inadequate at the season of the Axis intrusion, and the main model to be fitted with a non-generation motor was purposely decimated by manufacturing plant work force amid the attack, alongside the deficient creation air ship. Improvement of a double control two-situate coach variation of the IK-3 had started however weight on the plan group had deferred the fruition of the venture when the intrusion interceded. 

The advancement of the IK-3 urged the three architects to seek after the possibility of a twin-engined contender, prepared to do long-extend observation, photographic surveillance and task as a "destroyer" or substantial warrior like the Messerschmitt Bf 110. The idea included both one-seater and two-seater adaptations. Improvement of this new airplane, assigned IK-5, was initiated on the back of the achievement of the IK-3. The VVKJ requested a one-seater model toward the beginning of July 1939, with its first flight planned for late 1941. At the season of the attack, the creation of the IK-5 model was all around cutting edge, yet it was not sought after either amid or after the war. The propelled Yugoslav Ikarus S-49 contender, created after World War II, depended on the IK-3. 

When they entered administration, the IK-3 experienced minor hardware and instrument issues, to a great extent brought about by inadequacies in the Yugoslav aeronautical industry which had brought about a blend of remote and Yugoslav-made instruments being fitted to the airplane. The Yugoslav Minister of War endorsed the obtaining of a further 48 IK-3s to be conveyed in 1941– 42. The operational flying machine were designated to the 51st Independent Fighter Group at Zemun, six each to the 161st Fighter Squadron ("Kapetan" Savo Poljanec) and the 162nd Fighter Squadron ("Kapetan" Todor Gogić). The IK-3 was then tried against Yugoslav Messerschmitt Bf 109Es in false dogfights. The assessment presumed that the IK-3 had a few points of interest over the Bf 109E; the Yugoslav airplane was progressively flexibility in level flight, empowering it to rapidly get behind a seeking after Bf 109E by making tight flat turns. 

In its first year of administration, an IK-3 was lost when one of the squadron administrators, "Kapetan" Anton Ercigoj, was making a counterfeit assault on a Potez 25 over the conjunction of the Sava and Danube waterways. In the wake of going beneath the Potez, he went into a move with the aim of playing out a circle. His rate of ascension was excessively steep and the air ship fell into a turn at low height and hit the water. Before the Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia toward the beginning of April 1941, the 51st Fighter Group was set under the sixth Fighter Regiment, which was in charge of the resistance of Belgrade. The 51st Fighter Group was additionally strengthened the day preceding the intrusion started, with the 102nd Fighter Squadron furnished with Bf 109Es. At the point when the intrusion started on 6 April, the two IK-3 squadrons had just three workable air ship each. 

The intrusion initiated with a rush of 234 German jump planes and medium aircraft assaulting Belgrade. Escorted by 120 warriors, the planes achieved Belgrade at 07:00; they were met by the 51st Fighter Group, short an IK-3 from the 161st Fighter Squadron that had created motor inconvenience after departure and was unfit to lock in. The other five IK-3s were the first to meet the underlying aircraft wave yet they were very quickly assaulted by Bf 109Es of "Jagdgeschwader" 77. The pilots of the IK-3s asserted five German flying machine, and one airplane from every Yugoslav squadron was lost. Poljanec had asserted a twin-engined plane and a Bf 109E; when he came back to Zemun in his seriously harmed air ship, he was strafed by a Messerschmitt 110, which further harmed his airplane and injured him. After this experience, just three IK-3s were useful, including the one that had created motor troubles before the main German wave. 

A second influx of German flying machine touched base over Belgrade at 10:00 and the remaining IK-3s were mixed with the remainder of the 51st Fighter Group yet the IK-3 pilots guaranteed no triumphs. A joint case was made amid the third German assault at 14:00, a twin-engined plane by Gogić and another pilot from the 162nd Fighter Squadron. The next day, the IK-3 pilots made five or six forays against German plane developments and their warrior escorts, and asserted three aircraft between them. At 17:00, Milislav Semiz assaulted a tight arrangement of three planes; his air ship got 56 hits from return fire, 20 of which were in the motor and propeller, yet he figured out how to arrive the airplane. The arrival of another IK-3 from the workshops implied that the quantity of functional IK-3s stayed at three. 

It wound up hard to proceed with movement from the 51st Fighter Group runway at Zemun because of air assaults, so on 8 April the remaining IK-3s and Bf 109Es traveled to an assistant landing strip at Veliki Radinci, north-west of Belgrade, where the enduring air ship of the sixth Fighter Regiment were concentrated. Poor climate made activities outlandish until 11 April, when Semiz shot down a Bf 110 that had strafed the runway. Soon thereafter, Gogić and another IK-3 pilot guaranteed one Ju 87 each amid a watch. That night, German troops drew closer inside of the landing strip at Veliki Radinci and the next day all residual air ship of the sixth Fighter Regiment, including the remaining IK-3s, were singed by their teams. As per flying scholars Dragan Savić and Boris Ciglić, one workable IK-3 was caught by the Germans in April 1941 and it was joined by another before the finish of June. Both airplane were situated at Zemun, alongside 23 other previous VVKJ flying machine in working condition that were bound for administration with the aviation based armed forces of the Axis manikin express, the Independent State of Croatia. The Germans had utilized a fence to isolate the useful air ship from other air ship that had been reserved for rejecting. In late June, while the German gatekeepers were diverted tuning in to updates on the intrusion of the Soviet Union, neighborhood socialists, including previous VVKJ mechanics, moved the fence. Therefore, all the workable flying machine were rejected, including the two IK-3s. 

"The IK-3s set up a valiant obstruction against the Luftwaffe," composed William Green, "scoring various 'murders' before they were at last demolished in battle." Aviation authors Šime Oštrić and Čedomir Janić credit the IK-3 pilots with 11 triumphs, Semiz being the best, with four triumphs. 

Source: