Ozzie Smith 

Osborne Earl Smith (conceived December 26, 1954) is an American previous baseball shortstop who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Diego Padres and St. Louis Cardinals from 1978 to 1996. Nicknamed "The Wizard" for his protective splendor, Smith set real association records for profession helps (8,375) and twofold plays (1,590) by a shortstop (the last since broken by Omar Vizquel), just as the National League (NL) record with 2,511 vocation amusements at the position; Smith won the NL Gold Glove Award for play at shortstop for 13 successive seasons (1980– 92). A 15-time All-Star, he aggregated 2,460 hits and 580 stolen bases amid his profession, and won the NL Silver Slugger Award as the best-hitting shortstop in 1987. He was chosen to the Baseball Hall of Fame in his first year of qualification in 2002. He was additionally chosen to the St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame in the debut class of 2014. 

Smith was conceived in Mobile, Alabama, yet his family moved to Watts, Los Angeles, when he was six years of age. While taking an interest in youth athletic exercises, Smith grew fast reflexes; he proceeded to play baseball in secondary school and school, at Los Angeles' Locke High School and Cal Poly-San Luis Obispo separately. Drafted as a novice player by the Padres, Smith made his real association debut in 1978. He immediately settled himself as an exceptional defender, and later wound up known for performing reverse somersaults on unique events while taking his situation toward the start of an amusement. Smith won his first Gold Glove Award in 1980, and made his first All-Star Game appearance in 1981. At the point when strife with Padres' possession created, he was exchanged to the Cardinals for shortstop Garry Templeton in 1982. 

After joining the Cardinals, Smith helped the group win the 1982 World Series. After three years, his diversion winning grand slam amid Game 5 of the 1985 National League Championship Series provoked telecaster Jack Buck's "Go insane, people!" play-by-play call. In spite of a rotator sleeve damage amid the 1985 season, Smith posted profession highs in different hostile classifications in 1987. Smith kept on winning Gold Gloves and All-Star appearances on a yearly premise until 1993. Amid 1995 season, Smith had bear medical procedure and was out about three months. After strain with his new director Tony La Russa created in 1996, Smith resigned at season's end, and his uniform number (No. 1) was hence resigned by the Cardinals. Smith likewise filled in as host of the TV program "This Week in Baseball" from 1997 to 1998. 

Smith was conceived in Mobile, Alabama, the second of Clovi and Marvella Smith's six youngsters (five young men and one young lady). While the family lived in Mobile, his dad filled in as a sandblaster at Brookley Air Force Base. At the point when Smith was six his family moved to the Watts segment of Los Angeles. His dad turned into a conveyance truck driver for Safeway stores, while his mom turned into a helper at a nursing home. His mom was a powerful piece of his life who focused on the significance of training and urged him to seek after his fantasies. 

Smith played an assortment of games in his childhood, however believed baseball to be his top pick. He grew snappy reflexes through different athletic and relaxation action, for example, ricocheting a ball off the solid strides before his home, moving in nearer to decrease response time with each toss. At the point when not at the nearby YMCA or playing sports, Smith here and there ran with companions to the area lumberyard, springboarding off inward cylinders and doing flips into sawdust heaps (an antecedent to his well known reverse somersaults). In 1965, at age ten, he persevered through the Watts Riots with his family, reviewing that, "We needed to rest on the floor due to all the killing and plundering going on." 

While Smith was going to middle school, his folks separated. Proceeding to seek after his enthusiasm for baseball, he would ride the transport for almost an hour to achieve Dodger Stadium, cheering for the Los Angeles Dodgers at around 25 recreations per year. After turning into an understudy at Locke High School, Smith played on the b-ball and baseball crews. Smith was a partner of future National Basketball Association player Marques Johnson on the ball crew, and a colleague of future individual Hall-of-Fame player Eddie Murray on the baseball side. After secondary school Smith went to Cal Poly San Luis Obispo in 1974 on a halfway scholastic grant, and figured out how to stroll on to the baseball crew. Notwithstanding his scholastic instruction, he figured out how to change hit from Cal Poly mentor Berdy Harr. At the point when Cal Poly's beginning shortstop broke his leg halfway through the 1974 season, Smith in this way assumed control over the beginning job. Later named an All-American competitor, he built up school records in profession at bats (754) and vocation stolen bases (110) preceding graduating in 1977. 

Smith was playing semi-proficient baseball in Clarinda, Iowa, when in June 1976 he was chosen in the seventh round of the beginner passage draft by the Detroit Tigers. The gatherings couldn't concur on an agreement; Smith needed a $10,000 ($ today) marking reward, while the Tigers offered $8,500 ($ today). Smith came back to Cal Poly for his senior year, at that point in the 1977 draft was chosen in the fourth round by the San Diego Padres, at last consenting to an agreement that incorporated a $5,000 marking reward ($ today). Smith went through his first year of expert baseball amid 1977 with the Class A Walla Padres of the Northwest League. 

Smith started 1978 as a non-program invitee to the San Diego Padres' spring preparing camp in Yuma, Arizona. Smith credited Padres chief Alvin Dark for giving him certainty by telling journalists the shortstop work was Smith's until he demonstrated he can't deal with it. Despite the fact that Dark was terminated highly involved with preparing camp, Smith made his Major League Baseball (MLB) debut on April 7, 1978. 

It didn't take long for Smith to procure acknowledgment in the real associations, making what some consider his most prominent handling play just ten diversions into his youngster season. The Padres played host to the Atlanta Braves on April 20, 1978, and with two out in the highest point of the fourth inning, Atlanta's Jeff Burroughs hit a ground ball up the center. Smith portrayed the play by saying, "He hit a ball back up the center that everyone thought was going into focus field. I intuitively broke to one side and bird behind second. As I was noticeable all around, the ball took an awful bounce and caromed behind me, yet I had the capacity to get it with my uncovered hand. I hit the ground, ricocheted back up, and tossed Burroughs out at first." 

Amid an excursion to Houston, later in the season, Smith met low maintenance usherette at the Astrodome named Denise while advancing toward the group transport outside the arena. The couple built up a relationship that was some of the time long-remove in nature, and in the end chose to wed. It was likewise amid the 1978 season that Smith presented a mark move. Padres advancement chief Andy Strasberg realized Smith could perform reverse somersaults, yet that he just did them amid training before fans entered the arena. Strasberg approached Smith to complete a reverse somersault for fans amid Fan Appreciation Day on October 1, the Padres' last home round of the period. In the wake of deliberating with veteran partner Gene Tenace, Smith proceeded with the reverse somersault, and it ended up being uncontrollably prevalent. Smith completed the 1978 season with a .258 batting normal and .970 handling rate, setting second in National League Rookie of the Year casting a ballot to Bob Horner. 

Subsequent to working with a hitting educator amid the offseason, Smith neglected to record a fair hit in his initial 32 at-bats of the 1979 season. Among players with enough at-bats to fit the bill for the 1979 National League Triple Crown, Smith completed the season rearward in batting normal (.211), grand slams (0), and RBI (27). Off the field, strife created between Padres' possession and the mix of Smith and his operator, Ed Gottlieb. The gatherings went into an agreement debate before the 1980 season, and when arrangements kept going into spring preparing, the Padres recharged Smith's agreement at his 1979 compensation of $72,500 Smith's operator told the Padres the shortstop would renounce the season to race in the Tour de France, regardless of the reality Smith admitted to The Break Room on 96.5 WCMF in Rochester, New York he had never known about the Tour. Maddened by the Padres' mentality amid those agreement talks, Gottlieb took out an assistance needed promotion in the "San Diego Union", some portion of which read, "Padre baseball player needs low maintenance work to enhance pay." When Joan Kroc, spouse of Padres proprietor Ray Kroc, openly offered Smith an occupation as an associate plant specialist on her bequest, Smith and Gottlieb's association with the association disintegrated further. 

In the interim, Smith was winning acknowledgment for his achievements on the field. In 1980, he set the single-season record for most helps by a shortstop (621), and started his string of 13 continuous Gold Glove grants. Smith's handling play incited the "Yuma Daily Sun" to utilize the moniker "The Wizard of Oz" in a March 1981 component article about Smith. While "The Wizard of Oz" moniker was an implication to the 1939 movie of a similar name, Smith likewise came to be known as essentially "The Wizard" amid his playing profession, as Smith's Baseball Hall of Fame plaque would later bear witness to. In 1981, Smith made his first All-Star Game appearance as a save player. 

While Smith was having issues with the Padres' proprietors, the St. Louis Cardinals additionally gotten themselves discontent with their shortstop, Garry Templeton. Templeton's association with Cardinal Nation had turned out to be progressively stressed lastly reached a crucial stage amid an amusement at Busch Stadium on August 26, 1981, when (in the wake of being pestered for not running out a ground ball) he made revolting signals at fans, and must be physically pulled off the field by administrator Whitey Herzog. 

Given the errand of upgrading the Cardinals by proprietor Gussie Busch (and explicitly to empty Templeton), Herzog was hoping to exchange Templeton when he was drawn nearer by Padres General Manager Jack McKeon at the 1981 baseball winter gatherings. While McKeon had recently revealed to Herzog that Smith was distant in any exchange, the Padres were presently so irate at Smith's specialist Gottlieb that McKeon was eager to bargain. McKeon and Herzog concurred on a basic level to a six-player exchange, with Templeton for Smith as the highlight. It was then that Padres director Dick Williams educated Herzog that a no-exchange condition had been incorporated into Smith's 1981 contract. After learning of the exchange, Smith's underlying response was to conjure the provision and remain in San Diego, yet he was as yet intrigued to hear what the Cardinals needed to state. While the arrangement for the players close to Templeton and Smith experienced, Herzog traveled to San Diego to meet with Smith and Gottlieb over the Christmas occasion. Smith later reviewed that, "Whitey disclosed to me that with me playing shortstop for the St. Louis Cardinals, we could win the flag. He made me feel needed, which was an inclination I was rapidly losing from the Padres. The insignificant reality that Whitey would come such a distance out there to converse with us was all that could possibly be needed to persuade me that St. Louis was the spot I needed to be." 

On December 10, 1981, the Padres exchanged him (alongside a player to be named later and Steve Mura to the Cardinals for a player to be named later, Sixto Lezcano and Garry Templeton. The groups finished the exchange on February 19, 1982, with the Padres sending Al Olmsted to the Cardinals, with St. Louis sending Luis DeLeon to the Padres. Herzog trusted Smith could improve his hostile generation by hitting more ground balls, and in this way made an inspirational apparatus intended to enable Smith to focus on that task. Moving toward Smith one day amid spring preparing, Herzog stated, "Each time you hit a fly ball, you owe me a buck. Each time you hit a ground ball, I owe you a buck. We'll prop that up all year." Smith consented to the bet, and before the finish of the period had won near $300 from Herzog. As the 1982 season got in progress, Herzog's recently amassed group won 12 diversions in succession amid the long stretch of April, and completed the season on the National League East division. Herzog would later say of Smith's commitments that, "On the off chance that he spared two runs an amusement on safeguard, which he did numerous a night, I couldn't help suspecting that was similarly as profitable to the group as a player who drove in two runs a diversion on offense." 

Smith turned into a dad out of the blue amid the 1982 season with the introduction of his child O.J., today known as Nikko, on April 28. Smith likewise built up an enduring fellowship with partner Willie McGee amid the season, and Smith said he jumps at the chance to think he "helped Willie get over a portion of the unpleasant spots of acclimating to the real associations". Smith later took an interest in the postseason out of the blue when the Cardinals confronted the Atlanta Braves in the best-of-five 1982 National League Championship Series (NLCS). Smith drove in the arrangement's previously kept running by hitting a fielder's choice that scored McGee in Game 1, at last going five for nine in St. Louis' three-diversion arrangement clear. 

Similarly as Herzog had anticipated when he disclosed to Smith the Cardinals would win the flag with him in the group, Smith ended up as the group's beginning shortstop in the best-of-seven 1982 World Series against the Milwaukee Brewers. Amid the challenge Smith scored three runs, had five hits, and did not submit a blunder in the field. Whenever St. Louis was trailing 3– 1 with one out in the 6th inning of Game 7, Smith began a rally with a fair hit to left field, in the end scoring the first of the group's three runs that inning. The Cardinals scored two additional keeps running in the eighth inning for a 6-3 win and the title. 

After the World Series title, Smith and the Cardinals conceded to another agreement in January 1983 that paid Smith $1 million every year. Smith was casted a ballot in as the National League's beginning shortstop in the All-Star Game without precedent for 1983, and at season's end won a fourth sequential Gold Glove Award. Amid July of the 1984 season, Smith went on the handicapped rundown with a broken wrist in the wake of being hit by a pitch amid an amusement against the Padres. Smith's arrival to the lineup a month later was insufficient to impel the Cardinals to a postseason billet. 

In 1985, Smith amassed a .276 batting normal, 31 stolen bases, and 591 aids the field. The Cardinals as a group won 101 diversions amid the season and earned another postseason compartment. Confronting the Los Angeles Dodgers in the now best-of-seven NLCS, a split of the initial four diversions set the phase for Game 5 at Busch Stadium. With the score tied at two runs each in the base of the ninth inning, Dodgers supervisor Tommy Lasorda called upon nearer Tom Niedenfuer to pitch. Smith batted left-gave against Niedenfuer with one out. Smith, who had never hit a grand slam in his past 3,009 remaining gave real class at-bats, pulled an inside fastball down the right-field line for a stroll off homer, finishing Game 5 out of a 3– 2 Cardinals triumph. Smith stated, "I was endeavoring to get an additional fair hit and get into scoring position. Luckily, I had the capacity to take care of business the ball up." The grand slam not just incited telecaster Jack Buck's "Go insane people" play-by-play call, but on the other hand was later casted a ballot the best crossroads in Busch Stadium history via Cardinals fans. 

After Smith's partner Jack Clark hit a late-inning grand slam of his own in Game 6 to thrashing the Dodgers, the Cardinals proceeded onward to confront the Kansas City Royals in the 1985 World Series. By and by sportswriters rushed to attract consideration regarding Smith's exceptional cautious play rather than his 2 for 23 exertion at the plate. After the Cardinals took a three-recreations to-two favorable position, a disputable Game 6 call by umpire Don Denkinger dominated the rest of the Series (which the Royals won in seven amusements). 

What was not openly known amid the customary season and playoffs was that Smith had torn his rotator sleeve subsequent to enduring an impingement in his correct shoulder amid the July 11– 14 homestand against the Padres. In the wake of enduring the impingement plunging once again into a respectable starting point on a pickoff toss, Smith adjusted his tossing movement to such an extent, that the rotator sleeve tear hence created. The 5'10" (1.78 m), 180-pound (82 kg) Smith selected to renounce medical procedure and rather developed his arm quality by means of weightlifting, playing through whatever torment he experienced. Said Smith, "I didn't enlighten anyone concerning the damage, since I needed to continue playing and didn't need anyone supposing they could keep running on me or exploit the damage. I attempted to do nearly everything, with the exception of toss a baseball, left-gave: opening an entryway, turning on the radio—everything. It didn't beat that, however it was adequate that I didn't must have medical procedure." 

In light of his damage, Smith let his then four-year-old child Nikko play out his conventional Opening Day reverse somersault before the Cardinals' first home round of the 1986 season. Smith made an "eye-popping" play later that season on August 5, amid an amusement against the Philadelphia Phillies at Busch Stadium. In the highest point of the ninth inning, Phillies first baseman Von Hayes hit a short fly ball to left handle, which was sought after by both Smith and left defender Curt Ford. Running with his back to home plate, Smith dove forward, all the while getting the ball while parallel to the ground and flying over the plunging Ford, keeping away from a crash by inches. 

Subsequent to hitting in either the second or eighth spot in the batting request for a large portion of his time in St. Louis, Herzog made Smith the number-two hitter full-time amid the 1987 season. Through the span of the year, Smith accumulated a .303 batting normal, 43 stolen bases, 75 RBIs, 104 runs scored, and 40 copies, adequate to procure him the Silver Slugger Award at shortstop. Notwithstanding winning the Gold Glove Award at shortstop for the eighth back to back time, Smith posted a vocation high on-base level of .392. Smith was likewise the main vote-getter in the 1987 All-Star Game. The Cardinals earned a postseason billet with 95 wins, and in this way confronted the San Francisco Giants in the 1987 National League Championship Series. Smith contributed a triple amid the arrangement, and the Cardinals won the challenge in seven amusements. 

The 1987 World Series coordinated the Cardinals against the American League champion Minnesota Twins. The home group won each round of the challenge, as Minnesota won the arrangement. In 28 at-bats amid the Series, Smith scored three runs and had two RBIs. Smith completed second in MVP balloting to Andre Dawson, who had played on the last-place Chicago Cubs, to a great extent since Smith and partner Jack Clark split the primary spot vote. Following the 1987 season, Smith was granted the biggest contract in the National League at $2,340,000. 

While the group did not see the postseason for the rest of the decade, Smith kept on racking up All-Star appearances and Gold Gloves. Joined with the consideration he got from his agreement, Smith kept on being a national figure. Known as an adroit dresser, he made the April 1988 front of "GQ" magazine. Smith was observer to change inside the Cardinal association when proprietor Gussie Busch passed on in 1989 and Herzog quit as chief amid the 1990 season. 

Joe Torre turned into Smith's new chief in 1990, however the group did not come to the postseason amid Torre's about five-year residency. While the Cardinals praised their 100th commemoration in 1992, Smith checked achievements of his own, taking his 500th vocation base on April 26, at that point scoring a triple on May 26 before the home group for his 2,000th hit. St. Louis had a one-diversion lead in the National League East division on June 1, 1992, yet wounds negatively affected the group, including Smith's fourteen day ailment in late July in the wake of contracting chicken pox out of the blue. As a demonstration of his national perceivability amid this time, Smith showed up in a 1992 scene of "The Simpsons" titled "Homer at the Bat". Smith turned into a free specialist without precedent for his vocation on November 2, 1992, just to sign another agreement with the Cardinals on December 6. 

Smith won his last Gold Glove in 1992, and his 13 sequential Gold Gloves at shortstop in the National League still can't seem to be coordinated. The 1993 season denoted the main time somewhere in the range of 1981 and 1996 that Smith neglected to make the All-Star group, and Smith completed the 1993 season with a .288 batting normal and .974 handling rate. He showed up in 98 diversions amid the strike-abbreviated 1994 season, and later missed almost three months of the 1995 season after shoulder medical procedure on May 31. Smith was perceived for his locale administration endeavors with the 1994 Branch Rickey Award and the 1995 Roberto Clemente Award. In February 1994, Smith assumed the job of privileged director and authority representative for the Missouri Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Health. 

As Smith entered the 1996 season, he concluded a separation from his better half Denise amid the principal half of the year. In the mean time, supervisor Tony La Russa started his first season with the Cardinals pair with another proprietorship gathering. After General Manager Walt Jocketty obtained shortstop Royce Clayton amid the offseason, La Russa underlined an open challenge for the recognize that would give the Cardinals the most obvious opportunity to win. When spring preparing finished up, Smith had amassed a .288 batting normal and zero mistakes in the field, and Clayton batted .190 with eight blunders. Smith trusted he had earned the situation with his spring preparing execution, however La Russa dissented, and granted Clayton most of playing time in the unit circumstance that created, where Smith regularly observed activity each third amusement. La Russa stated, "I believe any reasonable person would agree he misconstrued how he contrasted with Royce in spring preparing ... When I and the mentors assessed the play in spring preparing—the entire diversion—Royce began all around gradually unpleasantly and you could see him begin to show signs of improvement. By what he had the capacity to do protectively and on the bases, Royce had the right to play most of the recreations." 

Smith missed the principal month of the period with hamstring damage, and kept on harboring sick emotions toward La Russa that had created in the wake of spring preparing finished. In a shut entryway meeting in mid-May, La Russa inquired as to whether he might want to be exchanged. Rather, Smith and his operator arranged a trade off with Cardinals the board, consenting to a buyout of extraordinary arrangements in his agreement related to Smith reporting his retirement. The understanding provoked a question and answer session at Busch Stadium on June 19, 1996, amid which Smith reported he would resign from baseball at season's end. 

As Smith made his last voyage through the National League, he was respected by numerous groups, and got an overwhelming applause at the 1996 All-Star Game in Philadelphia. Between June 19 and September 1, Smith's batting normal expanded from .239 to .286. On September 2 Smith tied a lifelong high by scoring four runs, one of which was a grand slam, and another on a nearby play at home plate in the base of the tenth inning against division pioneer Houston. The triumph moved the Cardinals to inside a half round of Houston in the National League Central Division, and the Cardinals proceeded to win the division by six diversions. The Cardinals held an exceptional service at Busch Stadium on September 28, 1996, preceding a diversion against the Cincinnati Reds, respecting Smith by resigning his uniform number. Noted for his custom reverse somersault before Opening Days, All-Star Games, and postseason recreations, Smith picked this event to perform it for one of the last occasions. 

In the postseason, the Cardinals originally confronted the San Diego Padres in the 1996 National League Division Series. In the wake of sitting out Game 1, Smith got the begin in Game 2 at Busch Stadium, helping his group go up two amusements in the arrangement by scoring a run, a hit and two strolls at the plate, alongside a help and a putout in the field. The Cardinals at that point cleared the arrangement by winning Game 3 in San Diego. 

The Cardinals confronted the Atlanta Braves in the 1996 National League Championship Series. Smith began Game 1 and accordingly enrolled three putouts and one aid the field, however went hitless in four at-bats in the Cardinals' 4– 2 misfortune. The Cardinals at that point won Games 2, 3, and 4, challenges in which Smith did not show up. After accepting the begin in Game 5, Smith almost copied his Game 1 execution with four putouts, one help, and zero hits in four at-bats as a component of another Cardinals rout. The Cardinals likewise neglected to win Game 6 or Game 7 in Atlanta, finishing their season. At the point when the Cardinals were trailing by ten keeps running amid Game 7 on October 17, Smith flied out to right field while substituting in the 6th inning, denoting the finish of his playing vocation. Smith completed his profession with refinements extending from the gathering of more than 27.5 million votes altogether Star balloting, to holding the record for the most MLB at-bats without hitting a terrific hammer. 

Upon retirement, Smith took over for Mel Allen as the host of the TV arrangement "This Week in Baseball" ("TWIB") in 1997. Smith likewise moved toward becoming shading observer for the neighborhood communicate of Cardinals amusements on KPLR-TV from 1997 to 1999. At the point when his stretch on "This Week in Baseball" closed, Smith at that point proceeded onward to do work for CNN-SI starting in 1999. After La Russa resigned as supervisor of the Cardinals in 2011, Smith wound up dynamic in the association once more, beginning with his spell as a unique educator for the group's 2012 spring preparing camp. 

On January 8, 2002 Smith learned by means of a telephone call he had been chosen to the Baseball Hall of Fame on his first vote by getting 91.7% of the votes cast. As it occurred, the Olympic light was going through St. Louis on its approach to Salt Lake City for the 2002 Winter Olympics, and Smith filled in as a torchbearer in a service with St. Louis Rams' quarterback Kurt Warner that night. Smith was accepted into the Hall of Fame amid functions on July 28, 2002. Amid his discourse, he contrasted his baseball encounters and the characters from the novel "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz", after which his child Dustin introduced his Hall of Fame plaque. Days after the fact on August 11, Smith was back at Busch Memorial Stadium for the uncovering of a statue in his resemblance made by stone worker Harry Weber. Weber accentuated Smith's guarded aptitudes by appearing extended even to the ground while handling a baseball. At the service Weber told Smith, "You spent portion of your vocation open to question. That makes it troublesome for a stone carver to accomplish something with it." 

Smith has likewise been a business person in an assortment of business adventures. Smith opened "Ozzie's" eatery and sports bar in 1988, began a young games foundation in 1990, turned into a speculator in a supermarket chain in 1999, and banded together with David Slay to open an eatery in the mid 2000s. Of those organizations the adolescent foundation stays in activity, with the eatery having shut in 2010 in the wake of changing possession and areas once. Beside showing up in various radio and TV plugs in the St. Louis region since resigning from baseball, Smith created a kids' book in 2006 and propelled his very own image of plate of mixed greens dressing in 2008. 

Other than the National Baseball Hall of Fame, Smith has been additionally drafted or respected in different corridors of acclaim and acknowledgments. In 1999, he positioned number 87 on "The Sporting News"' rundown of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players, and completed third in casting a ballot at shortstop for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. He was respected with acceptance into the Missouri Sports Hall of Fame, Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and the St. Louis Walk of Fame, and got a privileged Doctor of Humane Letters degree from Cal Poly. In January 2014, the Cardinals reported Smith among 22 previous players and work force to be drafted into the St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame Museum for the debut class of 2014. 

Smith is the dad to three kids from his marriage to previous spouse Denise; children Nikko and Dustin, and little girl Taryn. Smith remains an obvious figure around the St. Louis territory, showing up like assuming the job of the Wizard in the St. Louis Municipal Opera's late spring 2001 generation of "The Wizard of Oz". Smith supported his child Nikko as he split the best ten finalists of the 2005 release of "American Idol". In 2012, Smith stood out as truly newsworthy once more, when he sold the majority of his Gold Gloves at sale together for more than $500,000.