Cry Me a River (Justin Timberlake melody) 

"Cry Me a River" is a melody recorded by American artist and musician Justin Timberlake for his presentation studio collection, "Advocated" (2002). It was composed by Timberlake and Scott Storch with maker Timbaland and was roused by Timberlake's previous association with artist Britney Spears. Jive Records discharged the melody to contemporary hit and cadenced radio in the United States on November 26, 2002, as the collection's second single. Joined by an electric piano, beatbox, guitars, synthesizers, Arabian-roused riffs and Gregorian serenades, "Cry Me a River" is a R&B tune about a down and out man who proceeds onward from his last sweetheart, who had gone behind his back with another man. 

"Cry Me a River" got approval from music pundits, who thought of it as an emerge track on "Legitimized" and adulated Timbaland's generation. The melody earned a few arrangements of best of the year and the decade (2000s), while "Moving Stone" included it on their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time at 484. It won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance at the 2004 function. The melody crested at number three on the US "Bulletin" Hot 100 and Pop Songs graphs and outlined in the main ten in different nations. It was guaranteed twofold platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) and platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). 

Producer Francis Lawrence coordinated the music video for "Cry Me a River" in Malibu, California. In the questionable video, Timberlake's character attacks the home of his ex-darling and movies himself having sexual relations with another lady. Lances affirmed that the video was an attention stunt, however Timberlake kept up that she didn't move the creation. The clasp won the honors for Best Male Video and Best Pop Video at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. Timberlake performed "Cry Me a River" on his four noteworthy show visits: The Justified World Tour (2003– 04), Justified and Stripped Tour (2003), FutureSex/LoveShow (2007), and The 20/20 Experience World Tour (2013– 15). The melody has been secured by different chronicle specialists, including Kelly Clarkson and Taylor Swift. 

Timberlake and Scott Storch stated "Cry Me a River" with Timbaland, who delivered the melody. Storch discovered working with Timberlake simple due to the tune's significance. Journalists trusted its verses were propelled by Timberlake's sentimental association with American account craftsman Britney Spears, which finished in 2002. Timberlake disclosed to MTV News, "I'm not going to explicitly say if any tune is about anyone. I will say composing two or three tunes on the record helped me manage two or three things. To me melodies are tunes. They can originate from things that totally transpired by and by or they can come from thoughts that you think could transpire." In December 2011, Timberlake conceded that he had expressed "Cry Me a River" after a contention with Spears: "I was on a telephone call that was not the most agreeable telephone call. I strolled into the studio and he [Timbaland] could tell I was noticeably irate." Timbaland reviewed, "I resembled, 'Man, don't stress over it' and he resembled, 'I can't trust she did that to me' and he resembled, 'You were my sun, you were my earth.'" 

"Cry Me a River" was recorded at Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles by Senator Jimmy D, while Carlos "Tempest" Martinez filled in as the associate architect. Jimmy Douglass and Timbaland blended the melody at Manhattan Center Studios in New York City. Timberlake orchestrated the vocals and was a reinforcement artist nearby Timbaland, Marsha Ambrosius, Tye Tribbett and Greater Anointing. Storch thought about Timberlake's vocals on "Cry Me a River" to R&B and shake artist Daryl Hall. Larry Gold gave the string course of action and leading, while Storch and Bill Pettaway played the clavinet and guitar, separately. 

"Cry Me a River" was discharged as the second single from "Legitimized". Jive Records overhauled the tune to contemporary and cadenced radio in the United States on November 25, 2002. On December 23, three remixes were discharged as a 12-inch single in Canada and France. On January 5, 2003, the melody was sent to urban contemporary radio stations in the US. It was discharged as a CD single in Germany on January 23. The single contains the collection rendition of the tune and the remixes on its 12-inch single discharge. A CD single, which included Johnny Fiasco's remix of the tune and two extra remixes of "Like I Love You", was discharged on February 3 and 6 in the United Kingdom and Canada, individually. "Cry Me a River" was discharged as a CD single in the US on February 18. The single highlights the collection form of the tune, its instrumental and four remixes. 

Following its discharge, there was media theory that Spears had composed a tune as a reaction to "Cry Me a River"; she denied the gossipy tidbits, clarifying, "You know, it's clever. I read that I composed this tune and I composed these verses and that is not my style. I could never do that." Annet Artani, who co-composed Spears' 2003 tune "Everytime", expressed that the tune was composed as a reaction to "Cry Me a River". At the point when asked amid a meeting with Diane Sawyer on "PrimeTime" in 2003, if "Everytime" was about Timberlake, Spears reacted, "I'll let the melody justify itself with real evidence." 

"Cry Me a River" is a R&B melody with an instrumentation that highlights clavinet, guitars, beatboxing, synthesizers, Arabian-roused riffs and Gregorian serenades. The instruments are organized into what commentators portrayed as an agile and baffling song. Jane Stevenson of "Jam!" said the single consolidates gospel and musical drama. Tyler Martin of Stylus Magazine appreciated the manner in which that the melody unpredictably blended a scope of test sounds. As indicated by Martin, the wave synth influences the genuine strings to make a bizarre cacophony. The melody's tune regresses into a choral perusing in which Timberlake argues over the gathering. "Cry Me a River" completes with a Timbaland vocal example. 

"Cry Me a River" is written in the key of G minor, in "alla breve", with a rhythm of 74 beats every moment. The melody's vocal range ranges from C to B. "Board" magazine pundits called "Cry Me a River" a self-contradicting tune, in which Timberlake's "natural tenor belting" is tempered with a profound falsetto and a "convincingly forceful shake spiked baritone" scratch. David Browne of "Diversion Weekly" marked the melody "a spooky, tormented goodbye". 

Expressively, the tune is about a down and out man who proceeds onward from quite a while ago. A "Moving Stone" analyst considered the tune a "separation aria". As indicated by Caroline Sullivan of "The Guardian", "Cry Me a River" emerges for its "moderate structure feeling of dramatization", which features Timberlake at his "imposing best". The tune starts with the expression "You were my sun, you were my earth", which as per Timbaland was Timberlake's motivation to compose the tune. Tanya L. Edwards of MTV News saw that Timberlake was wronged and said this is exhibited by the verses: "You don't need to state whatcha did/I definitely know, I discovered from him/Now there's simply no possibility." The chorale contains the lines: "Revealed to me you cherished me, for what reason did you disregard me all/Now you disclose to me you need me when you call me on the telephone." "Inclination Magazine's" Sal Cinquemani called Timberlake's 2007 single "What Goes Around... Comes Around" an apparent continuation of "Cry Me a River" both melodiously and musically. Jason Lipshutz of "Board" expressed that beside the nearness of Timbaland's "fabulously jumbled creation", the distinction between "Cry Me a River" and Timberlake's 2013 single "Mirrors" is clear: "10 years back, Timberlake was broken, and now he is entirety". 

"Cry Me a River" got praise from commentators. Jane Stevenson of Jam! also, Sal Cinquemani of "Inclination Magazine" viewed it as an emerge track from "Advocated". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic chose the tune as a feature in his audit of "Legitimized". Diminish Robinson of "NME" considered it a "curved epic" and "an acidic, grimy little tune abounding with dislike and reprisal, with Timbaland's beating." "Moving Stone"s Ben Ratliff saw his generation of "Cry Me a River" as remarkable. Denise Boyd of BBC Music felt that the tune's verses assume as substantial a job as Timbaland's creation, not normal for different melodies on "Defended". David Browne of "Excitement Weekly" inferred that the tune is "an authentic shocker" that should leave Timberlake's individual 'N Syncers worried that he really may not require them any more. John Mitchell of MTV News called "Cry Me a River" and "What Goes Around... Comes Around" "kiss-off melodies", with Timberlake's vengeance on Spears present all through the verses. Idolator staff opined it is the sound of a craftsman who is "savoring tearing up individuals' impression of him as a sweet-natured high schooler heartthrob." VH1's Emily Exton expressed, "By extending the limits of pop– and intertwining it with notes of R&B, loads of electric goodness, and frequenting choral vocals– Timberlake's kiss-off tune immediately turns out to be progressively powerful, a directed response toward the hurt he's accomplished by somebody he once cherished." According to "Complex", the melody "made individuals totally disregard 'N Sync and begin asking what Timberlake would do straightaway." The single won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance at the 2004 honor service. It was selected for Song of the Year at the 2003 MTV Europe Music Awards. 

For "Pitchfork Media" it was the third best melody of 2003. "Moving Stone" positioned "Cry Me a River" at number 20 on their rundown of the 100 Best Songs of the 2000s; an editorialist for the magazine composed that the genuine motivation behind the melody was the arrangement of the Timberlake– Timbaland group, "a match made in pop paradise". In 2012, the magazine set it at number 484 on their rundown of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time". VH1 positioned "Cry Me a River" at number 59 on their rundown of the 100 Greatest Songs of the 2000s. "The Daily Telegraph" recorded the tune at number 40 on the "100 tunes that characterized the Noughties." In 2015, Spotify re-positioned "Moving Stone's" 500 Greatest Songs in two unique records. "Cry Me a River" positioned at number 14 on "by all Spotify clients" and 10 on "streams from millennial clients". In 2018, "Moving Stone" positioned the melody 46 on their rundown "The 100 Greatest Songs of the Century – So Far". 

"Cry Me a River" appeared at number 44 on the US "Announcement" Hot 100 in the issue dated December 21, 2002, gaining the Hot Shot Debut respect with 29.6 million group of onlookers impressions. On February 1, 2003, the single achieved a pinnacle of number three, turning into Timberlake's first solo single to achieve that position. The melody appeared on the US Pop Songs diagram at number 37 in the issue dated December 14, 2002 and achieved a pinnacle of three on February 1, 2003. For the issue dated December 28, 2002, "Cry Me a River" appeared at number 75 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs graph. It achieved a pinnacle of 11 on March 8, 2003. It likewise topped at number two on the US Hot Dance Club Songs, turning into Timberlake's second top-three tune, after his presentation single "Like I Love You" achieved number one. As of August 2003, remixes of the single have sold in excess of 61,000 units in the United States. Starting at 2018, the tune has sold 1.2 million duplicates in the nation. 

The melody appeared at number two on the Australian Singles Chart on March 9, 2003. It tumbled to number six in the next week. "Cry Me a River" turned into Timberlake's first top-three solo single on the diagram. The melody stayed on the graph for 12 back to back weeks. It was ensured gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 35,000 units. The single appeared at number 44 in New Zealand on March 9, 2003. Following two weeks on the diagram, it achieved a pinnacle of 11. It stayed on the outline for 11 weeks. 

In the United Kingdom, "Cry Me a River", appeared at number two on February 15, 2003. The following week it tumbled to number three, preceding coming back to its unique crest on March 1, 2003; it remained on the outline for 13 weeks. The tune has sold more than 365,000 duplicates in the nation starting at 2015. It appeared at number 14 on the French Singles Chart on April 5, 2003. Following three weeks, "Cry Me a River" topped at number six, and it remained on the graph for 21 weeks. It was less effective on the Italian Singles Chart, where it crested at number 14 and remained on the diagram for about a month. "Cry Me a River" additionally topped at number five in Belgium (Wallonia), at number six in the Republic of Ireland and the Netherlands, at number seven in Belgium (Flanders), and at number 10 in Germany, Norway, and Sweden. 

The music video for "Cry Me a River" was coordinated by Francis Lawrence, and shot in Malibu, California, amid the seven day stretch of October 29, 2002. Lawrence made the video's idea and revealed to MTV News, "[Justin and I] had a discussion on the telephone and all he said was he needed to make them move in it, however to do my thing. He disclosed to me what the tune was about, yet in a [general way] also. He just said it was a kiss-off tune thus I thought of this thought and he put it all on the line". Lawrence included that he additionally incorporated a few subtleties in the video, including a reference to Spears' tattoo, which Timberlake delighted in. He clarified that he and Timberlake did not specify names while making the video, just talking about the tune's general beats. Lawrence additionally uncovered that administrators of Jive Records were anxious about certain parts of the video, for example, Timberlake's portrayal of a voyeur and the tone of certain scenes he was depicting with a young lady. "That is the thing I enjoyed most about this venture, was that he was coming into it with a very perfect cut picture with 'N Sync and he's such a decent person thus attractive and what I was into doing was influencing him to be somewhat alarming. Sneaking around the house in the downpour, tossing a stone through her window, being a peeping Tom, getting vengeance and doing stuff that is not so much what a decent person does." The music video for "Cry Me a River" was discharged onto the iTunes Store on April 28, 2003. 

The video starts with a blonde lady, played by model and on-screen character Lauren Hastings (purportedly depicting Britney Spears), leaving her home connected at the hip with a unidentified man. The couple leaves in the lady's vehicle (a silver Porsche) as Timberlake moves down the window of a dark Mercedes 500 W220, from which he and his companion have been viewing the lady. Timberlake breaks into the house by tossing a stone through a window and continues through the lady's home, with repulsive force hops and slides, not causing some other unmistakable harm, aside from kicking an image casing of the lady over the family room. At that point he looks through certain drawers and finds a camcorder, while the driver of the vehicle, Timbaland, signals for his female associate in the back of the vehicle, played by model Kiana Bessa, to go in. She goes into the house and runs with Timberlake to a room, where she begins to strip and kiss him while being shot. They remain in the room for a minute; at that point the assistant leaves the house yet Timberlake remains. As the blonde lady returns, he pursues her around the house and covers up in a storage room as she showers. He draws nearer to her and contacts the glass encompassing the shower. The blonde lady detects somebody in the room and pivots, however Timberlake is gone. She leaves the washroom and goes into her room, where the video he made with his new sweetheart plays on the TV. 

Diminish Robinson of "NME" composed that the video indicates "what Justin looks like after he's engaged in sexual relations. Hint: he looks entirely great." According to Virginia Heffernan of "The New York Times", Timberlake channels the character Neo from "The Matrix" film arrangement, "pacing restlessly around wet and metallic insides". At the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards, the video for "Cry Me a River" won in the classes of Best Male Video and Best Pop Video. It had additionally been assigned for Video of the Year, Best Direction in a Video and Viewer's Choice. 

Following the arrival of the music video, "Us Weekly" ran a main story titled "Britney Vs. Justin: The War Is On". Timberlake denied that Spears motivated the video, saying, "The video isn't about her. The video is about me." However, Spears told "Moving Stone" in October 2003 that she got a call from Timberlake saying there would be a clone of her future in a music video with him. She expresses that he consoled her by saying, "Don't stress over it. It is anything but a major ordeal". Lances, who had not seen the video, says she enabled him to do as such yet progressed toward becoming incensed in the wake of watching it. She reviewed that when she inquired as to why he had made a video about her, he answered, "Well, I got a questionable video." She expressed that it was an extraordinary exposure stunt, remarking, "So he got what he needed. I think it would seem that such a frantic endeavor, by and by." After the arrival of Spears' video for "Lethal" (2003), Jennifer Vineyard of MTV News said her video "[made] "Cry Me a River" resemble a piece of cake". 

In 2013, "Bulletin" manager Jason Lipshutz opined the clasp was "one of the more splendid melodic minutes in popular music since the beginning of the century. The visual is JT's most disputable music video to date." He included, "The "Cry Me a River" video filled a double need for Timberlake: to court discussion, and to influence its star to appear to be increasingly experienced childhood." In 2018, "Board" pundits named it the 24th "most noteworthy music video of the 21st century." 

Timberlake performed "Cry Me a River" out of the blue at the thirteenth yearly "Bulletin" Music Awards, hung on December 9, 2002, at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. He was joined by a string segment and a 20-part choir. He likewise played out the melody on the Justified World Tour (2003– 04), his first overall visit. The tune was eighth on the set rundown of Justified/Stripped Tour (2003), his joint North American visit with Christina Aguilera. Timberlake performed "Cry Me a River" on a limited time show held at House of Blues in West Hollywood, California on June 17, 2003. He played out a stone motivated rendition of the melody on "Saturday Night Live" on October 11, 2003; and it was fourteenth on the set rundown of his second overall visit, FutureSex/LoveShow (2007). 

On October 23, 2010, while performing at the yearly philanthropy gig "Justin Timberlake and Friends" in Las Vegas, Timberlake started the show with a moderate and "sultry" execution of "Cry Me a River" and segued into a front of Bill Withers' 1971 single "Ain't No Sunshine". He later continued "Cry Me a River" before segueing into a front of Drake's 2010 melody "Over". Jillian Mapes of "Bulletin" depicted the execution as "totally flawless in an easy kind of way." Timberlake performed "Cry Me a River" at show he held amid the 2013 Super Bowl weekend in New Orleans. Timberlake performed "Cry Me a River" in a mixture with other of his melodies at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards. After the execution he acknowledged a Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the function. Timberlake incorporated the single on the set rundown of his fifth overall show visit, The 20/20 Experience World Tour (2013– 15). 

The melody was first secured by Welsh elective metal band Lostprophets, recorded in a BBC Radio One session. It shows up as a b-side of the single Last Train Home, discharged in 2004. American artist lyricist Taylor Swift played out a front of "Cry Me a River" in Memphis, Tennessee, amid the Speak Now World Tour (2011– 12). Justin Bieber recorded a front of the melody together with Kanye West's 2007 single "More grounded", which he posted on his YouTube account. Canadian musical crew The Cliks additionally secured the tune for their 2007 collection "Snakehouse". English vocalist Leona Lewis secured "Cry Me a River" amid her introduction show visit The Labyrinth (2010). The "Sheffield Star" portrayed the rendition as a "delightfully, sitting unobtrusively, right around a capella". American outside the box pop couple Jack and White secured the melody on their 2012 expanded play "Covert". Recording craftsman Kelly Clarkson secured the melody on September 1, 2012, as a fan demand amid her 2012 Summer Tour with The Fray. In January 2013, American vocalist Selena Gomez played out an acoustic adaptation of "Cry Me a River" at the UNICEF philanthropy show in New York City. In February 2015, Scottish synthpop band Chvrches played out a front of "Cry Me a River" on BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge. The New Jersey elective metal band 40 Below Summer played out a front of the melody in their 2015 collection "Transmission Infrared". 

Rosalía tests the tune from "Cry Me a River" for her melody "Bagdad" on her collection "El mal querer" (2018), highlighting a Barcelona kids' choir. "Board" regarded the track "a transcultural re-translation" of "Cry Me a River." Halsey's tune "Without Me" contains an interjection of the pre-theme of "Cry Me a River". 

"Cry Me a River" denoted the primary coordinated effort among Timberlake and Timbaland, and its basic and business achievement began "a standout amongst the most ground breaking star-maker pairs in popular music", as depicted by "Variety"s creator Andrew Barker. Elective musical crew Coldplay uncovered that the single was a motivation for the drumbeat of their melody "Lost!". Shake vocalist Marilyn Manson refered to it as one of the primary tunes that affected him. So as to utilize the tune in the 2017 movie "Woman Bird" set in 2003, chief Greta Gerwig sent a letter to Timberlake, "Your collection "Advocated" was that year, and it claimed that year." 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Legitimized", Jive Records.