John Lerew 

John Margrave Lerew, DFC (20 August 1912 – 24 February 1996) was an officer and pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) amid World War II, and later a ranking director in the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). As authority of No. 24 Squadron, situated in New Britain, he wound up popular in the records of Air Force history for his contemptuous reaction to orders by home office in Australia amid the Battle of Rabaul in January 1942. After his squadron was coordinated to help with repulsing the attacking Japanese armada with its one useful plane, and to keep its harmed runway open, Lerew flagged home office with the antiquated Latin expression as far as anyone knows utilized by fighters regarding their Emperor: ""Morituri vos salutamus"" ("We who are going to bite the dust salute you"). He additionally resisted a request to forsake his staff, and sorted out their departure from Rabaul. 

In February 1942, Lerew drove a low-level besieging attack on foe transporting in New Guinea that set two vessels ablaze. He was shot down however figured out how to dodge catch, and came back to security nine days in the wake of being accounted for missing. Granted the Distinguished Flying Cross, he hence told the RAAF's first flying security directorate. In the wake of leaving the Air Force in 1946 as a gathering commander, Lerew took up a situation with the recently framed ICAO in Canada. He was in charge of a few of its authoritative and specialized changes, and rose to Chief of Flight Branch in 1969. Resigning from ICAO in 1972, he voyaged widely before settling in Vancouver, where he kicked the bucket in 1996 at the age of eighty-three. 

Conceived in Hamilton, Victoria, Lerew was the child of William Margrave Lerew, a scientific expert and veterinary specialist who had emigrated from England with his two siblings. The family was of French "Huguenot" extraction, the first name being "Le Roux". John Lerew was instructed at Scotch College, Melbourne, where he was an individual from the cadets. He examined low maintenance for a four year college education in structural designing at the University of Melbourne, simultaneously serving roughly two years in the civilian army with different units including the 39th Battalion, 3rd Division Artillery Survey Unit, and Melbourne University Regiment. He additionally built up an affection for quick autos, joining a dashing group and putting third in the 1930 Australian Grand Prix. 

On 19 November 1932, Lerew enrolled as an air cadet in the RAAF dynamic hold, known as the Citizen Air Force (CAF). He had walked into Victoria Barracks spontaneously and requested to see the individual responsible for Air Force selecting. He was appeared to the workplace of Squadron Leader Raymond Brownell, additionally a previous Scotch College kid, who conceded him. Lerew attempted flying guidance on the 1933 'B' course directed by No. 1 Squadron at RAAF Station Laverton, and was charged a pilot officer on 1 April. He exchanged from the CAF to the Permanent Air Force on 20 May 1935, after graduation from college, and was advanced flying officer on 1 July. Presented on No. 1 Aircraft Depot, he was raised to trial flight lieutenant in 1936. The rank ended up substantive the next year, when he was delegated Staff Officer Directorate of Works and Buildings at RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne, in charge of determination and improvement of landing strip destinations. 

Lerwe was as yet situated in Melbourne when World War II broke out in September 1939. He was advanced squadron pioneer in June 1940, and that month assumed responsibility for No. 1 Aircraft Park in Geelong. One of his underlying undertakings was to test fly the first Fairey Battle single-engined light aircraft amassed in Australia. He was presented on No. 2 Aircraft Depot at RAAF Station Richmond, New South Wales, in September 1940, and in the blink of an eye a short time later attempted a study of the Solomon Islands and the island of New Britain, including its capital Rabaul. Lerew was given direction of No. 24 Squadron in May 1941, and raised to impermanent wing authority in October. 

No. 24 Squadron's supplement in November 1941 comprised of one Fairey Battle, three De Havilland Moth Minor biplane coaches, five Lockheed Hudson twin-engined light planes, and eleven CAC Wirraway monoplane mentors. The two-situate Wirraways were relied upon to be utilized in activities as warriors, however were reasonable for such a job "just in the psyches of the Air Board", in the expressions of RAAF student of history Alan Stephens. On 1 December, RAAF Headquarters in Melbourne put Lerew's squadron on notice for sending to Rabaul as a development battalion in the barrier of northern Australia. 

No. 24 Squadron's Hudsons started moving to Vunakanau landing strip, Rabaul, from RAAF Station Townsville in far-north Queensland on 5 December 1941. By the center of the month they had been joined by the unit's Wirraways. Vunakanau managed little safe house for staff or flying machine, and Japanese observation planes were at that point dynamic in the region, recommending an assault was inescapable. No. 24 Squadron started doing surveillance missions with its Hudsons, and on one event endeavored to bomb an adversary deliver without progress. RAAF Headquarters took steps to diminish Lerew for his clear absence of results and deferrals in interchanges, and requested to know his reasons. Had of what the official history of the RAAF in World War II depicted as a "wicked flippancy", Lerew recorded among his reasons "disillusionment in the absence of help rendered by the Almighty". He later announced that he was being caused "more stress" by his own central station in "the south than from the adversary arranged in the north". 

No. 24 Squadron's quality toward the start of 1942 was four Hudsons, six Wirraways, and 130 staff. On New Year's Day, Lerew drove the Hudsons on an assault against Kapingamarangi Island, touching off a fuel dump that was all the while consuming when the squadron came back to catch up the assault two days after the fact. Amid 4– 7 January, Vunakanau landing strip endured four strikes by unescorted Japanese planes, decimating everything except one of the Hudsons. Despite the fact that the Wirraways were mixed to block aggressors on a few events, their rate of trip was poor to the point that just once completed one of them figure out how to draw in an adversary seaplane, without result; this activity, on 6 January, was the principal aerial battle among RAAF and Japanese powers. Now, Lerew flagged central station for six "present day warriors" with which to protect his landing strip; none were inevitable. 

Squadron Leader Arch Tindal, Northern Area Command Armaments Officer, added his weight to Lerew's requests for present day air ship. Tindal had touched base to investigate No. 24 Squadron amidst a foe assault on 3 January, and promptly jumped into the closest Wirraway to endeavor a block attempt. He later presented a report to home office at Townsville, resounding Lerew's worries in regards to the Wirraway's abilities and cautioning that "Rabaul is currently wide open to besieging assault". Notwithstanding this, resolve stayed high in the unit; Lerew commented on the reckless frame of mind of his staff, who as often as possible held up until the last minute to hide amid air strikes. On 17 January, Lerew had the capacity to increase adequate tallness in his Wirraway to stand up to a Japanese seaplane in a head-on assault, yet his .303 automatic weapon ammo was not adequate to cut it down. In 1956, while at a meeting in Tokyo, he unintentionally met the Japanese plane's pilot, who educated him that his solitary strike had harmed a motor and slaughtered two crew members, including that Lerew was "the most intrepid adversary I at any point confronted". 

On 20 January, a power of over 100 Japanese flying machine, containing aircraft, jump planes and warrior escort, joined on Rabaul. It was driven by Commander Mitsuo Fuchida, who had controlled the assault on Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941. Two watching Wirraways of No. 24 Squadron assaulted the main rush of Japanese bandits. Lerew's six remaining Wirraways then mixed, one slamming on take-off. Of the seven that were airborne, three were shot down into the ocean by Mitsubishi Zero warriors, two others crash arrived with serious harm, one got away with minor harm, and one stayed solid. The ten-minute activity killed six RAAF aircrew and injured five. An Australian fighter on the ground later reviewed, "We sat at our weapons, stunned by the slaughter we had recently watched". The Japanese warriors intensified the embarrassment by executing aerobatics over the shelled runway. Lerew flagged base camp, "Two Wirraways pointless safeguard. Will you presently please send a few contenders?", accepting the answer, "Lament powerlessness to supply warriors. In the event that we had them you would get them." The following day he was requested to assault the moving toward Japanese armada with "all accessible air ship". As his two workable Wirraways had no bomb racks, this left just the one residual Hudson with which to execute the request; it properly took off to scan for the foe delivers yet was unfit to find them by sunset, and came back to base. 

It was following a further mandate from central station on 21 January 1942 to keep his landing strip "open", that Lerew, after discourse with his insight staff, sent the flag that made him acclaimed: ""Morituri vos salutamus"". The message flummoxed home office, until an officer acquainted with Latin decoded it as the incredible expression utilized by antiquated warriors to respect their Emperor: "We who are going to pass on salute you!" Lerew additionally disregarded two different requests got from base camp, right off the bat to transform his outstanding ground staff and aircrew into infantrymen to help with the military's guard and also to leave Rabaul in his residual Hudson to assume responsibility for another squadron in Port Moresby, New Guinea. To the primary request he answered that prepared RAAF groups would be more important in future activities than in a final desperate attempt to repulse the trespasser at Rabaul; to the second he essentially turned a "visually impaired eye", declining to escape alone in the main airplane left that could clear his faculty. On 22 January, he sent off ninety-six staff in the Hudson and in flying vessels brought in from Port Moresby. Others got away overland or in water crafts; Lerew's watchful arranging guaranteed that just three of his men were caught by the Japanese. 

Following the clearing of Rabaul, Lerew took direction of a composite squadron in Port Moresby which later moved toward becoming No. 32 (General Reconnaissance) Squadron. On 11 February 1942, he drove a trip of three Hudsons in a strike on Gasmata harbor, making what the official history of the RAAF in World War II depicted as "the principal pole tallness assault on foe delivering in the New Guinea battle". Having set two ships ablaze, the Hudsons were assaulted by foe contenders and two were shot down, including Lerew's. With his flying machine on fire, he requested his team to ransom of the back bring forth while he parachuted from the front window. Lerew arrived in the wilderness and barely maintained a strategic distance from catch before advancing toward a Coastwatcher post and coming back to Port Moresby in a clipper, nine days in the wake of having been posted missing; his group individuals had kicked the bucket. On 7 April, Lerew was granted the Distinguished Flying Cross for "extraordinary mettle, assurance, aptitude and constancy over the span of bombarding attacks on foe positions in New Britain". The accomplishment of the Gasmata task provoked the Chief of the Air Staff to laud Lerew's squadron for the "exertion required by the two groups and ground work force inferable from our little numbers and general condition". 

Coming back to Australia, Lerew held different base directions including RAAF Station Townsville, RAAF Station Nowra in New South Wales, and Batchelor Airfield close Darwin, Northern Territory. He drove No. 7 Squadron, working Bristol Beauforts out of first Nowra and after that Townsville, from August to December 1942. He at that point came back to RAAF Station Laverton to assume responsibility for No. 1 Aircraft Depot (No. 1 AD). Lerew's biographer, Lex McAulay, estimated of this snappy progression of postings the nation over: "...it is anything but difficult to accept that this Wing Commander whose basic reports were seen by the War Cabinet, and who had twice gotten away from the adversary around other people, was not to be permitted individual contact with the media of the day until his encounters were never again topical and were surpassed by later earth shattering occasions". Despite the fact that degree-qualified in structural designing, Lerew trusted he was underused in the specialized condition of No. 1 AD, and looked for another abroad posting. By and by, his residency at Laverton set him up for his later flying wellbeing work. In September 1943, he examined the accident of a Vultee Vengeance flown by an accomplished pilot, and found that when rolling the flying machine to the correct it was feasible for the pilot's developments to discharge his wellbeing bridle, making it unimaginable for him to stay in his seat and control the air ship. Lerew structured and built up a clasp to keep a repeat of this setback, which was later received worldwide for every single such bridle. 

Lerew was presented on RAAF Overseas Headquarters, London, in December 1943. He voyaged through the United States, meeting film stars Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, and Dorothy Lamour on the arrangement of "Street to Utopia" at Los Angeles in February 1944. In London, he embraced investigation of RAF and USAAF techniques for activities, just as strategic obligations. Of the intrusion of France on 6 June 1944, he expressed: "There has been no cheering. A quieted quietness has plummeted over London and all of England. The vast majority have relatives in it, and there is just a single wish: that will be, that it will end rapidly. It is discouraging to have no impact in it." Later in the year, Lerew was contributed with his Distinguished Flying Cross by King George VI at Buckingham Palace. He came back to Australia in mid 1945, and wedded Laurie Steele, the Australian-conceived widow of a Royal Air Force night-military pilot, having met her when he was positioned in England. The couple had two little girls, however in the long run separated. In March, Lerew participated in the examination concerning the accident of a Hudson conveying Major General George Vasey; he confirmed that the pilot's absence of involvement in instrument flying had been a factor, and prescribed further such preparing for RAAF flight team. Advanced gathering chief, he shaped the Directorate of Flying Safety in June 1945 and filled in as its debut Director. Trusting that the advancement of flying wellbeing in the RAAF cut crosswise over both authoritative and operational circles, and mindful of the famous quarrel between the administration's two senior officers, Air Vice Marshals George Jones and Bill Bostock, Lerew had suggested that the new directorate be set soundly under the support of Jones as Chief of the Air Staff, with power to request free access to data from every single other directorate. 

Questionable about the prospects for progression in the post-war military, Lerew connected for a job in the as of late settled Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization (PICAO) in March 1946, while still Director of Flying Safety in the RAAF. He had quite recently been selected Air Officer Commanding North-Western Area in Darwin on 7 October 1946 when PICAO offered him the situation of Technical Officer, which he acknowledged. He left the RAAF on 8 November 1946, emigrating to Montreal, Quebec, Canada, to take up his new work with PICAO, which moved toward becoming ICAO in 1947. Named Chief of Aerodromes, Air Routes and Ground Aids Section in January 1951, he led evaluations of runways all through the world, and drove the group that prescribed Hellinikon be created as Athens' universal air terminal. Lerew got credit for a few of ICAO's achievements throughout the following decade, including different regulatory changes inside the association and concluding a standard runway approach lighting framework in 1953 after five years of difference among individuals. A partner recollected that him as having "that extremely blessed duality of identity, being not kidding, effective and proficient in his official limit, with a similarly inalienable twin capacity to truly liven things up on holiday". 

In Mexico on 20 August 1966, Lerew wedded Josephine Henriette Oude Reimerink, a Dutch national he had met three years sooner. He was advanced ICAO's Chief of Flight Branch in April 1969, in which limit he served until resigning from the association in 1972. In retirement, Lerew and his significant other reestablished houses and voyaged broadly. Their campaigns brought about two near disasters, in December 1974 when they felt sick of the onerously damp climate in Darwin and left just before Cyclone Tracy struck on Christmas Day, and in February 1976 when they chose to camp well far from Lake Atitlan, Guatemala, which was crushed not long after by a seismic tremor that left more than 22,000 individuals dead. The couple in the long run settled in Vancouver, where John Lerew passed on of malignant growth on 24 February 1996, matured eighty-three. He was made due by Josephine and the offspring of his first marriage.