Dark Cup 

The Gray Cup () is the name of both the title round of the Canadian Football League (CFL) and the trophy granted to the successful group playing in the namesake title of expert Canadian football. It is challenged between the champs of the CFL's East and West Divisional playoffs and is one of Canadian TV's biggest yearly games. The Toronto Argonauts have the most Gray Cup wins (17) since its presentation in 1909, while the Edmonton Eskimos have the most Gray Cup wins (11) since the production of the expert CFL in 1958. The most recent, the 106th Gray Cup, occurred in Edmonton, Alberta, on November 25, 2018, when the Calgary Stampeders vanquished the Ottawa Redblacks 27– 16. 

The trophy was charged in 1909 by the Earl Gray, at that point Canada's representative general, who initially would have liked to give it for the nation's senior beginner hockey title. After the Allan Cup was later given for that reason, Gray rather made his trophy accessible as the "Canadian Dominion Football Championship" (national title) of Canadian football. The trophy has a silver cup appended to a substantial base on which the names of every single winning group, players and officials are engraved. The Gray Cup has been broken on a few events, stolen twice and held for payment. It endure a 1947 flame that wrecked various ancient rarities housed in a similar structure. 

The Gray Cup was first won by the University of Toronto Varsity Blues. Play was suspended from 1916 to 1918 because of the First World War and in 1919 because of a guidelines question. The amusement has commonly been challenged in an east versus west organization since the 1920s. The diversion was constantly played on a Saturdays until 1968, however since 1969 (aside from 1970) has dependably been on a Sunday. Held in late November (in certain years, yet not since 1972, the diversion was played toward the beginning of December), and for the most part in outside arenas, the Gray Cup has been played in nasty climate now and again, including the 1950 "Mud Bowl", in which a player purportedly verged on suffocating in a puddle, at that point the 1962 "Mist Bowl", when the last minutes of the amusement must be delayed to the next day because of a substantial mist, and the 1977 "Ice Bowl", challenged on the solidified over counterfeit turf at Montreal's Olympic Stadium. Most as of late, in the 2017 amusement snow fell, now and again intensely, all through the diversion. 

The Edmonton Eskimos shaped the Gray Cup's longest tradition, winning five back to back titles from 1978 to 1982. Rivalry for the trophy has been only between Canadian groups, aside from a three-year term from 1993 to 1995, when a development of the CFL south into the United States brought about the Baltimore Stallions winning the 1995 title and taking the Gray Cup south of the outskirt for the main time in its history. 

While the Stanley Cup was made in 1893 as the Canadian novice hockey title, proficient groups were straightforwardly seeking the trophy by 1907. Albert Gray, fourth Earl Gray, the Governor General of Canada, intended to give another trophy to fill in as the senior novice title; be that as it may, Sir Montague Allan gave the Allan Cup before he could conclude his arrangements. Dark rather offered an honor to the Dominion novice rugby football title starting in 1909. He at first neglected to finish on his offer; the trophy was not requested until about fourteen days preceding the principal title diversion. 

The primary Gray Cup amusement was hung on December 4, 1909, between two Toronto clubs: the University of Toronto Varsity Blues vanquished the Parkdale Canoe Club 26– 6 preceding 3,800 fans. The trophy was not prepared for introduction following the amusement, and the Varsity Blues did not get it until March 1910. They held the trophy in the accompanying two years, overcoming the Hamilton Tigers in 1910 and the Toronto Argonauts in 1911. The University of Toronto neglected to achieve the 1912 Gray Cup, which was won by the Hamilton Alerts over the Argonauts. The Varsity Blues would not hand over the trophy on the conviction they could keep it until they were crushed in a title amusement. They kept the trophy until 1914 when they were crushed by the Argonauts, who made the trophy accessible to resulting champions. 

Canada's interest in the First World War brought about the crossing out of the title from 1916 to 1918, amid which time the Cup was overlooked. "Montreal Gazette" author Bob Dunn asserted that the trophy was later rediscovered as "one of the family treasures" of a worker of the Toronto trust organization where it had been sent for capacity. The Gray Cup amusement was additionally dropped in 1919 because of an absence of enthusiasm from the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union (IRFU) and the intercollegiate associations, alongside tenets clashes between the Canadian Rugby Union (CRU) and the western association. Rivalry at long last continued in 1920 with the eighth Gray Cup amusement, won 16– 3 by the Varsity Blues over the Argonauts. It was the University of Toronto's fourth, and last, title. 

Rivalry for the Gray Cup was constrained to part associations of the CRU, the heroes of which requested of the alliance body for the privilege to challenge for the national title. The Western Canada Rugby Football Union (WCRFU) was shaped in 1911, however the CRU did not go to an investment concurrence with it until 1921, permitting the Edmonton Eskimos (no heredity to the comparably named group working since 1949) of the WCRFU to challenge. Confronting the Argonauts in the ninth Gray Cup, the Eskimos turned into the main western group – and the first from outside Toronto or Hamilton – to vie for the trophy. The Argonauts entered the amusement with an undefeated record, having outscored their restriction 226 to 55 amid the season. They overwhelmed Edmonton, recording the primary shutout in Gray Cup history with a 23– 0 triumph. Multi-sport star Lionel Conacher was Toronto's top player, scoring 15 of his group's focuses before leaving the amusement after the second from last quarter to join his hockey group for their diversion. A similar Edmonton group (renamed as Edmonton Elks) tested for the trophy again in 1922, however lost 13– 1 to their eastern resistance, the Queen's University Golden Gaels. For Queen's, it was the first of three back to back titles. 

Western groups kept on vieing for the trophy, yet were reliably dominated for quite a while. Eastern groups and faultfinders felt the nature of the western diversion was sub-par compared to theirs, and when Queen's crushed the Regina Rugby Club 54– 0 in the 1923 last, the commentators felt they purposely kept running up the score to demonstrate that point. Regina was western Canada's overwhelming group, showing up in the Gray Cup on six events somewhere in the range of 1928 and 1934, yet lost to their eastern rivals each time. Regina altered Canadian football in 1929, in any case, as they endeavored the first forward go in Gray Cup history. The Winnipeg 'Pegs (presently the Blue Bombers) turned into the main western Gray Cup champion in 1935 when they crushed the Hamilton Tigers, 18– 12. While the Gray Cup was moderate to accomplish national prevalence, the appearance of the east versus west organization helped make the diversion the country's biggest game. 

As the nature of senior football improved, college groups acknowledged they were never again ready to contend on equivalent balance and pulled back from rivalry for the Gray Cup in 1933. By 1938, just three associations kept on contending under the pennant of the CRU: the IRFU and the Ontario Rugby Football Union (ORFU) in the east, and the Western Interprovincial Football Union (WIFU) in the west. The CRU explored different avenues regarding a two-diversion, all out focuses arrangement to decide the boss in 1940. The Ottawa Rough Riders won the two diversions against Toronto's Balmy Beach, 8– 2 and 12– 5. The Gray Cup came back to its one-diversion group the next year. 

Both the IRFU and WIFU suspended activities in 1942 because of the Second World War. Dark Cup play was relied upon to be suspended alongside the associations; be that as it may, the military felt the diversion and game would fill in as a resolve promoter and sorted out groups at bases the nation over. For the accompanying three years, Gray Cup rivalry was restricted to military groups, and in the 1942 Gray Cup, the Toronto RCAF Hurricanes vanquished the Winnipeg RCAF Bombers 8– 5 to turn into the first non-non military personnel group to win the national title. After two years, the St. Hyacinthe– Donnacona Navy crushed the Hamilton Flying Wildcats, 7– 6; no Gray Cup title from that point forward has included two eastern groups. The finish of the war prompted the reconstruction of regular citizen groups; the IRFU continued play in 1945, and the WIFU the next year. 

A push by the game's coordinators to embrace an inexorably proficient frame of mind overwhelmed the post-war period: poor field conditions, recently acknowledged as a component of the amusement, brought about various protests against the CRU following the 1949 and 1950 Gray Cups. Field conditions at Toronto's Varsity Stadium were so poor in 1950 that the amusement has since picked up ignominy as the "Mud Bowl". Profound grooves in the field and poor climate in the days paving the way to the diversion brought about a messy field shrouded in substantial puddles of water. The amusement additionally picked up reputation for the close suffocating of Winnipeg's Buddy Tinsley, who was discovered face down in an expansive puddle, clearly oblivious. Tinsley later said that he had not lost cognizance, however his leg had gone numb from a hard hit to prior damage. Toronto won 13– 0, the last time a group has been closed out in a Gray Cup diversion. 

The ORFU, the last simply novice association seeking the Gray Cup, pulled back from Cup rivalry in 1954. In spite of the fact that the IRFU and WIFU champions had confronted each other in the Gray Cup last since 1945, the ORFU's withdrawal left the IRFU and WIFU unchallenged as Canada's top football associations. The Eskimos confronted the Montreal Alouettes in three back to back Gray Cups in the mid-1950s, winning every one of the three. Edmonton's first title in 1954 finished in unusual style after Jackie Parker scored a touchdown (changed over by Bob Dean) from a bungle recuperation late in the diversion that gave Edmonton a 26-25 lead. At the time in Canadian football, touchdowns were just worth 5. Parker's 90-yard bobble return was the longest allied history until Toronto's Cassius Vaughn restored a Calgary mishandle 109 yards in the 2017 Gray Cup amusement which was won by Toronto. The 1954 diversion additionally denoted the finish of the beginner time as the top groups finished their change to proficient associations. 

As the 1950s wore on, the IRFU and WIFU separated themselves from the CRU, framing the Canadian Football Council in 1956 to oversee the amusement at the expert dimension. After two years, on January 18, 1958, the CFC pulled back from the CRU and rearranged as the Canadian Football League (CFL). The new association formally accepted control of the Gray Cup from the CRU. 

In the CFL's underlying seasons, the Hamilton Tiger-Cats were the association's overwhelming group, showing up in nine Gray Cups and winning four titles somewhere in the range of 1957 and 1967. The Winnipeg Blue Bombers contradicted Hamilton on six of those events, winning four titles. The two groups were associated with a progression of peculiar occurrences, the first happening amid the 1957 Gray Cup. Toronto-based legal counselor and fan David Humphrey had talked his way past arena security and had been permitted to watch the diversion from the sidelines. Ten minutes into the final quarter, Hamilton's Ray Bawel captured a pass and it showed up he would restore the ball for a touchdown when Humphrey stuck his leg out and stumbled Bawel as he kept running up the sideline. Uncertain how to deal with the circumstance as there was no standard intended to cover it, official Paul Dojack imagined one on the spot. He put the ball a large portion of the separation to the Winnipeg objective line from the point Bawel was stumbled. The occurrence did not influence the last score, as Hamilton won 32– 7. The association likewise made another standard amid the 1961 Gray Cup as it was the first in history to end guideline time in a tie: CFL Commissioner Sid Halter decided the groups would play an extra time period that comprised of two five-minute parts. That standard remained the CFL standard into the 2000s. Winnipeg scored the solitary touchdown in additional time to overcome Hamilton 21– 14. 

Winnipeg and Hamilton met again in 1962, the 50th Gray Cup, deified as the "Mist Bowl". The amusement was held at Toronto's Exhibition Stadium, and started on Saturday, December 1, 1962. The mist came in right off the bat in the second quarter and turned out to be progressively thick as the diversion advanced. By the final quarter, the players were unfit to see the sideline markers and the fans unfit to see the play. The players were unfit to see the ball noticeable all around – kick returners tuned in for the sound of the ball hitting the ground – and the activity was to a great extent undetectable to the TV crowd. With nine minutes and twenty-nine seconds staying in the amusement and Winnipeg clutching a 28– 27 lead, authorities settled on the exceptional choice to suspend play until the following day. In spite of the fact that the class expected that proceeding with haze on the morning of December 2 would power the total relinquishment of the diversion, it lifted in time for the challenge to continue. Around 15,000 of the first 32,655 observers watched Winnipeg win the Gray Cup moving along without any more scoring by either group. It was the main title amusement finished on a Sunday; the Gray Cup moved from its customary Saturday begin to Sunday in 1969; in any case, the diversion was played on a Saturday once and for all in 1970. 

The Montreal Alouettes' 1970 Gray Cup title, a resentful success over the favored Calgary Stampeders, filled in as a spirit promoter for the city of Montreal, which was reeling in the repercussions of the October Crisis. The 1970s had a place with the Edmonton Eskimos, in any case, as they finished the decade as a standout amongst the most prevailing groups in CFL history, achieving the Gray Cup multiple times somewhere in the range of 1973 and 1982. The group contended in three back to back finals right off the bat in the decade, losing to Ottawa in 1973 and Montreal in 1974, preceding winning the establishment's fourth title in 1975. The 1975 title was held in Calgary and was the primary Gray Cup played on the Canadian Prairies. A young lady notoriously streaked over the field amid the national song of praise in spite of cold temperatures well beneath solidifying. The main time the Eskimos did not achieve the Gray Cup last amid this range was in 1976, when the Saskatchewan Roughriders met the Ottawa Rough Riders, in what might be the last all-"Roughriders" Gray Cup amusement. The two groups would battle a see-saw fight, which was chosen in the diminishing seconds of the amusement when Ottawa quarterback Tom Clements tossed to Tony Gabriel, which emerged as the triumphant touchdown, 23-20. The 1977 Gray Cup was the primary held at Olympic Stadium in Montreal, challenged by the main residence Alouettes and the Eskimos before a record horde of 68,318. The amusement wound up known as the "Ice Bowl", as low temperatures solidified snow on the field that had been softened by maintenance men with salt, making the counterfeit turf amazingly dangerous. The Alouettes adjusted to the field conditions by attaching staples to the soles of their shoes, improving their footing, and won by a 41– 6 score. 

Steamed at losing the 1977 amusement under poor climate conditions, the Eskimos sought after a rematch with Montreal in 1978. The two groups achieved the last amusement, which Edmonton won 20– 13. It was the first of five back to back titles, a streak that remaining parts unmatched ever of Gray Cup. The Eskimos' line ruled the group, losing a sum of just six amusements amid the three seasons from 1979 to 1981. The 1981 Gray Cup was required to be one more simple win for Edmonton, who posted a 14– 1– 1 record amid the season and were viewed as overpowering top picks against the 5– 11 Ottawa Rough Riders. The main half did not go as Edmonton trusted, however, as Ottawa rose with a 20– 1 lead. Quarterback Warren Moon drove the Eskimos back in the second half, and with the amusement tied at 23, Dave Cutler kicked the diversion winning field objective with only three seconds remaining. 

Edmonton's title run arrived at an end in 1983 when they lost in the West Semi-Final amusement; the Argonauts vanquished the BC Lions to win the title that year, finishing the group's 31-year Gray Cup title dry season. Regardless of Toronto's success, the CFL felt that the general nature of play in the East Division had decayed contrasted with that of the West. In 1986, it changed the playoff configuration to permit the first non-playoff group in one division to take the last playoff spot, yet remain in their division in the event that they had a superior record. The outcomes of the new guidelines were felt promptly, as the class gave a playoff spot to the Stampeders having a superior record than the Alouettes, and chose the East Division Final would be a 2-diversion absolute point Final between the Toronto Argonauts and the Hamilton Tiger-Cats, who completed first and second, individually. The hybrid, if important, would start in 1987. In money related trouble, the loss of the playoff spot was shocking for Montreal, which stopped tasks one year later. The hybrid guideline was dispensed with and not returned to until 10 years after the fact because of Montreal's collapsing. Diminished to eight groups, the CFL moved Winnipeg toward the East Division, making the 1988 Gray Cup between the Blue Bombers and Lions the primary title diversion between two western Canadian groups. 

The 1989 Gray Cup is viewed as one of the best recreations in Canadian football history: The Saskatchewan Roughriders vanquished the Hamilton Tiger-Cats 43– 40 in the most noteworthy scoring Gray Cup round ever. Saskatchewan kicker Dave Ridgway's very late field objective won and made him a legend in the prairie region. 

Declining enthusiasm for the CFL amid the 1990s left the association in budgetary trouble. Wanting to reestablish the association's believability with fans, another possession bunch including Bruce McNall, hockey player Wayne Gretzky and on-screen character John Candy obtained the Toronto Argonauts in 1991 and tricked American school champion Rocket Ismail to Canada with a four-year, $26.2 million contract which made him the most generously compensated player in football history around then. The Argonauts achieved the 1991 Gray Cup and crushed the Calgary Stampeders 36– 21. With 261 generally useful yards on the diversion, including a then-Gray Cup record 87-yard kickoff return for a touchdown, Ismail was named Gray Cup Most Valuable Player. 

The potential for the group to enter the American market was examined in 1987 when administrators of the outdated United States Football League moved toward the CFL about blending the two classes. The alliance demonstrated little enthusiasm at the time, however as it proceeded with its decay, the CFL reconsidered its position. In 1992, the CFL reported that it would venture into the United States. The Sacramento Gold Miners joined the association and turned into the principal American group qualified to win the Gray Cup. The group included three extra American groups in 1994 and two of every 1995 (with one group collapsing), yet the activity bombed in many markets, and by 1996, the CFL again worked only inside Canada. 

The solitary effective American market was in Baltimore, home to the Stallions. The group arrived at the midpoint of more than 35,000 fans for each diversion in its debut season, about twofold that of Toronto or Hamilton. They coordinated that accomplishment on the field by turning into the primary American group to play in the Gray Cup. The BC Lions kept the Gray Cup in Canada with a 26– 23 triumph in the 1994 last. Baltimore came back to the title amusement one year later and turned into the main American group to win the trophy by vanquishing the Calgary Stampeders, 37– 20. The migration of the National Football League's Cleveland Browns to Baltimore in 1996 made the Stallions look for another city to stay away from direct challenge with a NFL group. The group moved to Montreal, shaping the present manifestation of the Alouettes establishment and completion the CFL's outing into the United States. 

The class moved toward the 1996 Gray Cup in critical monetary straits: the American development had been a disappointment, the 120-year-old Ottawa Rough Riders establishment stopped activities at the finish of the ordinary season, and out of the eight residual groups, seven had lost cash and two required direct help from the association to remain above water. The Edmonton Eskimos couldn't stand to convey their players' families to the title amusement. The "Toronto Star" reverberated fears spoken by fans and media the nation over when it inquired as to whether the 1996 title, won by Toronto over Edmonton, would be the last Gray Cup. 

While the alliance battled, the Gray Cup amusement itself held its prominence and remained a national foundation. The quality of the challenge enabled the association to bear its difficulties. The CFL made due into 1997 and was floated by an intrigue free advance from the NFL, another TV manage The Sports Network which, alongside the dispatch of its mainstream "Friday Night Football" program, has been credited with sparing the group. That year's Gray Cup, held in Edmonton and won by Toronto, moved about 22,000 a bigger number of fans than the earlier year. The CFL reestablished its notoriety after some time, getting a charge out of new prevalence into the 2000s with the end goal that it never again needed to depend on an energizing Gray Cup last to accomplish security for the following season. 

In 2000, the 8– 10 BC Lions left a mark on the world when they vanquished the Montreal Alouettes, 28– 26, turning into the main group in history to win the Gray Cup with a losing record in the normal season. In the amusement, 25-year veteran Lui Passaglia finished the longest profession in CFL history by kicking what was eventually the diversion winning field objective. The Calgary Stampeders coordinated the Lions' accomplishment the following year by turning into the second 8– 10 group to win the Gray Cup, crushing the Winnipeg Blue Bombers by a 27– 19 score before 65,255 fans, the second biggest group in the amusement's history. 

The 2005 Gray Cup was the second additional time diversion in Gray Cup history, and the first utilizing the group's shootout extra time design (presented in 2000). Both the Eskimos and Alouettes scored touchdowns on their first belongings, while Edmonton scored a field objective in its second and held Montreal scoreless to win by a 38– 35 score. The amusement was played amidst a stretch of eight Gray Cup appearances by the Alouettes somewhere in the range of 2000 and 2010. In 2009, they crushed the Roughriders in sensational design: placekicker Damon Duval missed a very late field objective endeavor that seemed to give Saskatchewan the triumph. Be that as it may, the Riders were punished for having an excessive number of men on the field, permitting Duval a second chance. His second endeavor was fruitful, giving Montreal a 28– 27 triumph. 

The 100th Gray Cup amusement was played on November 25, 2012 at the Rogers Center in Toronto between the Toronto Argonauts and the Calgary Stampeders. The Toronto Argonauts won the Gray Cup with a score of 35– 22. 

According to another title sponsorship manage Shaw Communications reported in May 2015, the occasion will from now on be known as the Gray Cup exhibited by Shaw. 

The 104th Gray Cup diversion was played at BMO Field in Toronto, which turned into the new home of the Argonauts starting in the 2016 season. In the wake of being guaranteed the 102nd Gray Cup amusement as a motivation to rejoin the alliance, the 105th Gray Cup diversion was played at TD Place Stadium in Ottawa in 2017, as a major aspect of festivities to check 150 years of Confederation. The 55th Gray Cup, played toward the finish of the 1967 CFL season, was additionally held in Ottawa as a major aspect of festivities to check 100 years of Confederation. 

The trophy was appointed in 1909 at an expense of $48. The vessel is made of sterling silver and stands tall. Its unique base was made of wood, with silver shields posting every title year and winning group's name, starting with the University of Toronto Varsity Blues. The players of the 1915 title Hamilton group, obviously as vengeance for Toronto's refusal to give up the trophy in 1912 and 1913, included a shield for the 1908 Tigers group to give the appearance that their association had won the primary Gray Cup. 

A 1947 flame annihilated the clubhouse of the Toronto Argonaut Rowing Club and harmed the Gray Cup. Numerous different trophies and antiques in the clubhouse softened or were harmed destroyed however the Gray Cup made due by getting onto a nail connected to an enduring divider when the rack whereupon it sat crumbled. The trophy has been broken on six different events: in 1978, when it was dropped by observing Edmonton Eskimos players; in 1987, when an Eskimos' player sat on it; in 1993, when Edmonton's Blake Dermott head-butted it; in 2006, when the cup split far from its base as the BC Lions praised their triumph; in 2012 when one of the handles severed as the Toronto Argonauts celebrated; lastly in 2014 when the cup split far from its base again as the Calgary Stampeders commended their success. The CFL authorized a copy of the trophy in 2008. 

The Gray Cup has been stolen on two events: it vanished for three days in 1967 when it was taken from the Hamilton Tiger-Cats as a trick, and in December 1969 it was stolen from the workplaces of the Ottawa Rough Riders at Lansdowne Park. The hoodlums endeavored to deliver the trophy, yet the CFL wouldn't pay and made arrangements to supplant it with a copy. An unknown telephone call prompted the trophy's recuperation two months after the fact in a storage at Toronto's Royal York Hotel. The criminals were never found. 

The present plan of the Gray Cup's base was presented in 1987. The base stands high and is made of dark lacquered aluminum with silver plates engraved with the names of each triumphant group's players and administrators since 1909. The trophy, a standout amongst Canada's best known images, came up short on space for new increases following the 2012 Gray Cup. The association declared that the base will be updated yet will stay comparative fit as a fiddle to its present plan. 

Like the more acclaimed Stanley Cup utilized solely today by the NHL, individuals from the triumphant groups are enabled time to celebrate with the trophy in their own style, regularly taking it to the places where they grew up or visits in areas crosswise over Canada. The top managerial staff for the Canadian Football Hall of Fame go about as the Gray Cup's trustees and control its rental for occasions. The trophy is joined by an assigned delegate of the Hall of Fame consistently. Like the Stanley Cup, yet not at all like the Vince Lombardi Trophy for the NFL's Super Bowl, another trophy isn't made each year; rather, the Gray Cup is advanced to the triumphant group for a year. 

Every year, the host city sorts out various occasions as a feature of the yearly Gray Cup celebration. Occasion shows, gatherings, and fan celebrations are held in the days paving the way to the title amusement. The CFL distributes its yearly honors amid the celebration, and a yearly Gray Cup march is held. Verifiably, the celebration likewise highlighted the "Miss Gray Cup" magnificence event; this was ceased in 1992. The diversion itself incorporates an exhibition of the Canadian national song of devotion (normally sung in both English and French) and a halftime appear, regularly highlighting exhibitions by understood Canadian melodic acts, for example, Nickelback, who performed at the 2011 amusement. 

Nicknamed Canada's "Excellent National Drunk", the Gray Cup party started in the 1948 title when several Calgary Stampeders fans dropped on Toronto for their group's first appearance in the amusement. Bringing chuckwagons and ponies, the fans composed a hotcake breakfast – a staple of the Calgary Stampede – for baffled Torontonians. As per history specialist Hugh Dempsey, "The Gray Cup was simply one more amusement until Calgary ran down to Toronto with chuckwagons and everything and transformed it into an occasion." The Stampeders won on the quality of the "sleeper play", a touchdown scored by Norm Hill after he concealed himself from the Ottawa safeguard by resting on the sidelines, as though snoozing. He got the go from quarterback Keith Spaith while still on his back. The triumph finished the main undefeated season ever of expert football. The rowdy festivals that pursued the success offered ascend to the legend of Calgary councilman and future city hall leader Don Mackay riding his pony into the anteroom of the Royal York Hotel. This occasion was rehashed in the 2012 Gray Cup diversion in Toronto to a great part of the enjoyment of the devotees of the two groups. The Calgary Gray Cup Committee keeps up the custom of sorting out a flapjack breakfast at every year's title. 

A 2012 overview found that Canadians believe the Gray Cup to be the most critical yearly occasion to visit. Devotees of all groups merge at the diversion scene, including some who have gone to at least 60 Gray Cups. The convergence of individuals from the nation over is assessed to have a monetary effect of over $120 million for the district facilitating the title amusement. 

The Toronto Argonauts have won the most Gray Cup titles (17), trailed by the Edmonton Eskimos (14) and Winnipeg Blue Bombers (10). The Winnipeg Blue Bombers have shown up (24). Since the Canadian Football League started in 1958, the Eskimos have won the most Gray Cup Championships (11) and have shown up (19). The Saskatchewan Roughriders have the most misfortunes in Gray Cup play (15), including five sequential misfortunes somewhere in the range of 1928 and 1932. The guarding champions are the Calgary Stampeders who won the 106th Gray Cup in 2018. Six groups in CFL history have won the Gray Cup at home, the 2013 Saskatchewan Roughriders, the 2012 Toronto Argonauts, the 2011 BC Lions, the 1994 BC Lions, the 1977 Montreal Alouettes, and 1972 Hamilton Tiger-Cats. The Blue Bombers were the losing group in 2011, broadening Winnipeg's title dry season at the opportunity to 21 seasons, and at 28 seasons (1991– 2018) is the longest dynamic streak in the CFL. 

Exclusively, three players have won seven Gray Cups: Jack Wedley (Toronto, Montreal Navy), Bill Stevenson (Edmonton) and Hank Ilesic (Edmonton, Toronto). Ilesic is one of seven players to show up in nine Gray Cup diversions. Among quarterbacks, Anthony Calvillo showed up in a record eight diversions, winning three. Five mentors share the record for Gray Cup titles at five: Wally Buono (the CFL's unsurpassed pioneer in complete diversions won), Don Matthews, Frank Clair, Hugh Campbell and Lew Hayman. 

Two individual honors are distributed after each diversion. The Most Valuable Player grant is given to the top entertainer in the Gray Cup. Somewhere in the range of 1974 and 1990, the group named both hostile and guarded most important players. Three individuals have been named MVP on three events: Doug Flutie, Damon Allen and Sonny Wade. The Dick Suderman Trophy is given to the most profitable Canadian. It is named out of appreciation for Dick Suderman, who kicked the bucket of a cerebrum discharge in 1972 while a functioning player for the Edmonton Eskimos. Dave Sapunjis and Don Sweet have each won the honor multiple times (nonetheless, Sapunjis is the main player to win the honor in consecutive years). 

The city of Toronto has facilitated the most Gray Cup amusements with 47, including 30 of the initial 45 recreations played. The main amusement was hung on December 4, 1909, at Rosedale Field. Hamilton and Ottawa facilitated a few early amusements while Sarnia and Kingston each facilitated one as the diversion's initial years were commanded by groups in southern Ontario. The Gray Cup amusement and champion previously left the area in 1931, when Montreal facilitated the occasion and the Montreal AAA Winged Wheelers won the nineteenth Gray Cup. The amusement did not leave focal Canada until 1955 when the 43rd Gray Cup was played in Vancouver. That challenge accomplished what was at the time an unequaled Canadian football participation record of 39,491. It was the first of 16 diversions facilitated by the British Columbia city, second among all host urban communities. 

The four most noteworthy went to Gray Cup recreations have been held at the Olympic Stadium in Montreal, with an unsurpassed record of 68,318 set in 1977. 

The 1940 Gray Cup was a two-amusement arrangement, Toronto and Ottawa each facilitated a diversion. 

The Gray Cup amusement was first communicated on radio in 1928. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) conveyed radio inclusion of the amusement for a long time until 1986, when a system of private telecasters dominated. 

Canadian TV was in its early stages in 1952 when Toronto's CBLT paid $7,500 for the rights to convey the first broadcast communicate of a Gray Cup diversion. Inside two years, it was evaluated that 80 percent of the country's 900,000 TVs were tuned into the amusement, despite the fact that the primary national broadcast did not happen until 1957. The Gray Cup keeps on being a standout amongst Canada's most-saw games. The 1962 "Mist Bowl" diversion was the main Gray Cup to be communicated on American TV. 

The CBC conveyed the primary national broadcasts only, yet the CTV Television Network bought rights to the 1962 amusement. The move started worry crosswise over Canada as the recently shaped system was not yet accessible in numerous pieces of the nation. The discussion about whether an "occasion of national intrigue" ought to be communicated by the openly financed CBC or private supporters achieved the floor of Parliament as individuals from the central government said something. It was chosen that the two systems would convey the diversion. The two systems proceeded with the simulcast course of action until 1986 when CTV stopped its inclusion. 

The CFL worked the Canadian Football Network, an alliance of private telecasters that common group amusements and the Gray Cup with the CBC, from 1987 to 1990. CBC at that point communicate the title amusement alone until 2007, when the CFL sold selective rights to all recreations, including the Gray Cup, to claim to fame station The Sports Network (TSN) and its French-language sister station Réseau des sports (RDS), an arrangement that was scrutinized by Canadians without link get to. In any case, TSN and RDS accomplished a record group of onlookers for the 2009 Gray Cup, with 6.1 million Canadians watching the diversion completely, and more than 14 million review in any event part of the challenge. Viewership has declined as of late, and in 2014, about 33%, of Canadians viewed probably a portion of the diversion, topping at 5.1 million watchers in the final quarter. 

List of sources