Stories of Monkey Island 

Stories of Monkey Island is a 2009 realistic experience computer game created by Telltale Games under permit from LucasArts. It is the fifth amusement in the "Monkey Island" arrangement, discharged almost 10 years after the past portion, "Departure from Monkey Island". Produced for Windows and the Wii comfort, the amusement was discharged in five roundabout sections, among July and December 2009. Rather than Telltale's past wordy experience recreations, whose sections recounted to discrete stories, every part of "Stories of Monkey Island" is a piece of a continuous account. The diversion was carefully disseminated through WiiWare and Telltale's very own site, and later through Steam and Amazon.com. Ports for OS X, the PlayStation Network, and iOS were discharged a while after the arrangement finished. 

Players expect the job of privateer Guybrush Threepwood, who—while endeavoring to crush his foe, the undead privateer LeChuck—inadvertently discharges a voodoo pox over the Gulf of Melange. With the help of his significant other, Elaine, Guybrush searches out a fix. The amusement was considered in late 2008, because of recharged enthusiasm for experience diversion improvement inside LucasArts. It was grown simultaneously with LucasArts' extraordinary version of the 1990 title "The Secret of Monkey Island"; LucasArts administered creation of "Stories of Monkey Island", and guaranteed that it coordinated the redo in specific regions, for example, craftsmanship bearing. Generation started in mid 2009; establishment maker Ron Gilbert was associated with undertaking arranging, while advancement was driven by Dave Grossman, who co-structured the initial two "Monkey Island" diversions. The amusement's music was created by Michael Land, and the center cast of "The Curse of Monkey Island" repeated their voice jobs. 

"Stories of Monkey Island" got commonly positive surveys. Faultfinders applauded the amusement's story, composing, humor, voice acting and portrayal; 1UP.com depicted Guybrush as Telltale's most grounded and most expressive character yet. The amusement's music and designs were likewise commended. Objections concentrated principally on the apparent sporadic nature of the diversion's riddle plan, a feeble supporting cast in the early sections, and the amusement's control framework. "Stories of Monkey Island" gathered a few industry grants, and was Telltale's most financially fruitful undertaking until "". 

Like its antecedents, "Stories of Monkey Island" is a realistic experience amusement; the player accept the job of the hero in an intuitive story, which is driven by the investigation of the diversion's three-dimensional (3D) situations and by illuminating riddles. These riddles are customary experience diversion problems that require the player to utilize the earth, or things that have been found and put away inside the amusement's stock, to achieve objectives. With regards to past "Monkey Island" recreations, "Stories of Monkey Island" enables players to consolidate certain things to make new things; for example, the player can join various voodoo fixings with a cutlass to deliver an otherworldly cutlass. 

The diversion world is investigated with a PC console and mouse, or the Wii Nunchuk's simple stick. As opposed to past Telltale experience recreations, the player holds and hauls the mouse to move Guybrush, instead of point and clicking. The WASD keys or the bolt keys may rather be utilized to move Guybrush. Like other "Monkey Island" amusements, "Stories of Monkey Island" is intended to keep the player from meeting an impasse, for example, the demise of the player character. Every one of the amusement's parts is an expected two to four hours long, contingent upon the player's capacity to unravel the riddles. An insight framework can help battling players. 

The principal part of the diversion incorporates a "treasure chase" mode, where the player coordinates Guybrush through a labyrinth like wilderness in quest for concealed fortune. Discovered fortunes convert into prizes and limits on Telltale's site. To get to this mode, the player must find maps on the Internet, covered up on the official Telltale site and three partaking "Monkey Island" fansites. 

"Stories of Monkey Island" is set quite a long while after the occasions of "Getaway from Monkey Island". The architects disposed of the Tri-Island Area—the setting of the diversion's ancestors—for another region: the Gulf of Melange. The amusement pursues Guybrush Threepwood (voiced by Dominic Armato), a privateer who is credulous and hapless, yet effective. Prior to the amusement's start, Guybrush invests years finding the components expected to make the Cursed Cutlass of Kaflu, a voodoo weapon equipped for decimating his adversary, the evil presence privateer LeChuck (voiced by Adam Harrington, Kevin Blackton and later Earl Boen). Similarly as with other "Monkey Island" diversions, LeChuck competes for the love of Elaine Marley-Threepwood (voiced by Alexandra Boyd), the spouse of Guybrush Threepwood and previous legislative leader of the Tri-Island Area. In the occasions preceding the diversion, LeChuck grabs Elaine. Guybrush seeks after LeChuck with the voodoo cutlass. 

A few subordinate characters from prior recreations in the arrangement return in "Stories of Monkey Island", including the Voodoo Lady (voiced by Alison Ewing), a perplexing voodoo priestess who exhorts Guybrush in his journeys; Stan (voiced by Gavin Hammon), a cliché sales rep and business pioneer; and Murray (voiced by Denny Delk), a talking skull with daydreams of greatness. The amusement acquaints new characters with the arrangement, for example, Morgan LeFlay (voiced by Nicki Rapp), a skilled and athletic female abundance seeker who adores Guybrush. Different augmentations to the cast incorporate Coronado DeCava, a pilgrim and previous admirer of the Voodoo Lady (voiced by Andrew Chaikin), and the Marquis de Singe (voiced by Jared Emerson-Johnson), an opposing French aristocrat and specialist. 

Having gained the parts of the Cutlass of Kaflu, Guybrush races to the Rock of Gelato to spare his significant other from LeChuck; nonetheless, he neglects to appropriately make the sword. At the point when Guybrush cuts LeChuck, the imperfect cutlass changes LeChuck into a human, and contaminates Guybrush's hand with the "Pox of LeChuck", which gives the hand its very own psyche. A blast on the ship heaves Guybrush into the sea, and he later appears on Flotsam Island. There, Guybrush experiences the Voodoo Lady, who clarifies that the pox will attack the Caribbean, except if it is consumed by a voodoo ocean wipe called ""La Esponja Grande"" (The Big Sponge). Guybrush is encouraged to look for Coronado DeCava, a conquistador who is on an undertaking to discover "La Esponja Grande"; notwithstanding, to leave the island, Guybrush must kill a machine that is drawing the breezes internal, and in this way keeping boats from departing. It is uncovered that the Marquis de Singe is utilizing the machine to convey privateers to the island for his therapeutic tests. De Singe winds up fixated on Guybrush's hand, as he trusts it to be critical to endless life. Guybrush returns the breeze examples to ordinary—accidentally making the pox spread over the ocean — and withdraws in his recently obtained ship, the "Shouting Narwhal". De Singe contracts a privateer seeker by the name of Morgan LeFlay to catch Guybrush; in transit to the Jerkbait Islands, she sheets the "Shouting Narwhal" and cuts off Guybrush's pox-tainted turn in a duel. A while later, she returns it to de Singe. 

On the Jerkbait Islands, Guybrush discovers Elaine safe, and discovers that the now-human LeChuck is endeavoring to compensate for the malicious deeds of his past. The three help to protect the inhabitant merfolk city from pox-contaminated privateers; consequently, the merfolk gather ocean animals to help Guybrush in finding "La Esponja Grande". Elaine remains behind to screen LeChuck's activities. As Guybrush pursues the animals on the "Shouting Narwhal", Morgan again sheets the ship; de Singe had educated her that Guybrush's "whole body" was required. Diverted by their duel, neither can respond in time when the "Shouting Narwhal" is gulped down by a goliath manatee. Inside the manatee, Guybrush and LeFlay find the crazed DeCava and his team; Guybrush recuperates the manatee's wounds, and escapes with DeCava to the area of "La Esponja Grande" (which ends up being a lot littler than promoted). In the wake of recovering "La Esponja Grande", Morgan thumps Guybrush oblivious and sets cruise for Flotsam Island with her abundance. 

As Morgan reluctantly conveys Guybrush to de Singe, Guybrush is seized by the townspeople and put on preliminary for numerous wrongdoings boss among them having discharged the pox over the Gulf of Melange. LeChuck excuses Guybrush by embroiling himself in the formation of the pox, and produces proof that every single past encounter among Guybrush and LeChuck had been coordinated by the Voodoo Lady; the two are detained, and Guybrush is discharged. As Guybrush gets ready to fix the pox with "La Esponja Grande", he discovers Morgan killed in de Singe's research facility. At the breeze machine, de Singe traps Guybrush and Elaine, and trusts that his analyses with Guybrush's hand are very nearly conceding him eternality. Be that as it may, de Singe falls into the breeze machine and is deteriorated; Guybrush then uses "La Esponja Grande" to assimilate the pox. LeChuck lands to free the two, however as Guybrush expresses gratitude toward him, LeChuck spears him on the Cutlass of Kaflu, and utilizations "La Esponja Grande" to exchange the pox's strength to himself. 

Presently perished, Guybrush discovers his profound self at the Crossroads: where the living and dead domains meet. With the help of Morgan's soul, he finds a spell that epitomizes mettle, grapple, bearing and penance, and comes back to the place where there is the living as an apparition. Notwithstanding, LeChuck ingests the monstrous measure of vitality created by a dimensional fracture Guybrush opens; the pox was designed by LeChuck to accomplish this objective. Elaine, in an obvious demonstration of disloyalty, turns into LeChuck's evil spirit lady. Guybrush repossesses his dead body and psychologists "La Esponja Grande", turning around LeChuck's hold over Elaine. LeChuck assaults Guybrush, who draws the evil spirit privateer into the crack. There, LeChuck is at the same time cut by Elaine and Morgan, which wrecks his physical and profound structures. Stranded alone at the junction, Guybrush understands that he has one all the more thing that meets the spell's criteria for his arrival: Elaine's wedding band. He utilizes it to reestablish himself to life and come back to his significant other. The soul of Morgan conveys a container containing the substance of LeChuck to the Voodoo Lady, in return for her arrival to the place that is known for the living. 

Created by Telltale Games, under permit from LucasArts, "Stories of Monkey Island" denoted a first joint effort between the two organizations. Obvious Games had been established by previous LucasArts workers in the wake of the 2004 undoing of "". Following that occasion, LucasArts seemed to have deserted the experience amusement classification. While Telltale Games had considered building up a "Monkey Island" amusement since their origin, the organization's structure executive, Dave Grossman, credited the greenlighting of "Stories of Monkey Island" to the right arrangement of invested individuals. This incorporated the then-new leader of LucasArts, Darrell Rodriguez, who helped push for experience diversion advancement inside his organization. Imprint Darin, co-fashioner and author for "Stories of Monkey Island", credited the recovery important to the ascent of computerized appropriation inside the computer game industry, which—by diminishing monetary hazard—permitted organizations, for example, Telltale to create "something else from the unlimited clones of well known recreations". Obvious began planning "Stories of Monkey Island" in late 2008; creation initiated right off the bat in 2009. 

Following clues by Telltale Games that they would before long report a noteworthy new arrangement, "Stories of Monkey Island" was revealed at the June 2009 Electronic Entertainment Expo. Its approximately 50 man improvement group was going by Dave Grossman, who co-planned the initial two "Monkey Island" diversions. "Getaway from Monkey Island" and "Sam and Max Hit the Road" co-planner Michael Stemmle contributed structure and story composing, in a joint effort with Mark Darin and Sean Vanaman. Arrangement maker Ron Gilbert was associated with meetings to generate new ideas for the diversion, yet did not have an expansive job in its advancement; notwithstanding, the improvement group stated that Gilbert's "thumbprints are all over [the game]". "Stories of Monkey Island" partners a LucasArts-created upgraded change of "The Secret of Monkey Island". On his blog, Gilbert composed that he was "energized" for both Telltale's adjustment and LucasArts' rethinking of the first diversion, and expressed that "it's bizarre and lowering to see something you made 20 years back interpretation of its very own real existence". 

While Gilbert and Grossman were occupied with the improvement of "Stories of Monkey Island", the third co-planner of the first two recreations, Tim Schafer, was not related with the undertaking. Grossman said that Gilbert's influential position at Hothead Games had made obtaining his help "lawful wrangling", and that including Schafer too would have been an excessive amount of inconvenience. Schafer later said that he was "extremely upbeat" for the new amusement, and that the undertaking was in great hands under Grossman's lead. The amusement's constrained version slipcover craftsmanship was painted by "Sam and Max" maker Steve Purcell, who was in charge of the container specialty of both "The Secret of Monkey Island" and "". Purcell made three diverse unpleasant spreads to present to Telltale Games, however the organization esteemed Purcell's own sentiment on which was ideal. Having not been happy with Elaine's appearance on the front of "The Secret of Monkey Island", Purcell was quick to have another endeavor to depict the character in his work of art. The last work of art, appearing and Elaine shaking cutlasses on a ship rising up out of mist, was supported as Purcell felt it was properly ghostly. 

Grossman said that the amusement's synchronous discharge on Windows and WiiWare was because of Telltale's plan of action; the organization exchanges its diversion discharges among WiiWare and Xbox Live Arcade, as they need to "give the Wii a little love also". The simultaneous advancement of the Wii adaptation made issues; a minute ago changes to the PC rendition could put a scene over as far as possible for WiiWare recreations. The primary scene was discharged for Windows on July 7, 2009, with the Wii form following twenty days after the fact. Obvious dispersed the diversion through their own site, and later made it accessible for download from Steam and Amazon.com. Xbox Live was overlooked from the underlying discharge, as both Telltale's "Wallace and Gromit's Grand Adventures", and LucasArts' unique release of "The Secret of Monkey Island", were appearing on the framework. 

While Telltale had not reported designs to port "Stories of Monkey Island" to Mac OS, they did as such on February 11, 2010; it was among the principal diversions accessible for the recently discharged Mac OS Steam customer. A PlayStation Network form was discharged in June 2010, because of purchaser request created by the amusement's unique declaration. A PlayStation 3 discharge had not been conceivable at dispatch, as Telltale's amusement motor was not worked to keep running on the stage. An iPad-upgraded iOS port was being created in 2010; the main scene was discharged on the App Store in December 2010, and the remainder of the scenes pursued on June 23, 2011. As a little something extra, players were offered the opportunity to download the main scene for nothing until July 22, 2011. Obvious Games has not precluded the alternative of porting the diversion to Xbox Live and Linux. Nonetheless, a port for the iPhone-improved iOS adaptation was created, and the principal scene was discharged in November 2011, with the four residual scenes that took action accordingly in a couple of months, finishing with the arrival of Chapter 5 on February 23, 2012. 

Similarly as with Telltale's different items, "Stories of Monkey Island" was created and discharged in five rambling sections; Grossman disclosed that Telltale likes to recount stories along these lines, instead of as constant accounts that are unreasonably long for individuals to play easily. Be that as it may, in contrast to their past diversions, every scene isn't an independent story; it is a solitary part in a bigger plot. This enabled Telltale to propel the story like that of a TV arrangement, in which character connections create in the brains of the group of onlookers more than a while. Every scene is intended to delight without anyone else, with a wonderful end; be that as it may, it at that point gives a cliffhanger to "entice the player somewhat more". As per Grossman, "Stories of Monkey Island" is set after a "nonexistent" "Monkey Island 5", which he sees as "a blockbuster, epic 40-hour colossal experience like the prior amusements". Its story would have pursued Guybrush's activities in the time between "Departure from Monkey Island" and "Stories of Monkey Island"; the start of "Stories of Monkey Island" would have denoted its decision. Grossman kept up that both the story and ongoing interaction of "Stories of Monkey Island" were intended to be available for newcomers to the arrangement, and remarked that "learning of the characters and their history will add a nostalgic layer to the guileful references, however is in no way, shape or form vital". 

Stemmle compared the diversion's wordy advancement to a multi stage sprint, and the improvement of a full amusement, for example, "Break from Monkey Island", to a "long distance race". This creation strategy implied that specific angles, for example, the amusement's illustrations, were taken a shot at until the discharge due date. Every scene took around four months to finish. Just a couple of ecological assets were reused between scenes; while Telltale Games had fabricated past recreations, for example, "Sam and Max Save the World" and "Wallace and Gromit's Grand Adventures" around one lot of areas, utilizing the heroes' homes and close-by lanes reliably in every scene, the designers did without such focal center points and "safe places" in "Stories of Monkey Island", rather having every scene get off to another essential area, just once in a while returning to past areas. In any case, reusable skeletons and livelinesss were produced for the supporting cast, including conventional body types that could be outwardly changed to suit each character. While four of these were made, estimate limitations brought about just two being incorporated into the last diversion. By the amusement's third scene, Telltale ended up unsatisfied with this framework, and started differentiating facial highlights, and furnishing supporting characters with interesting outlines and livelinesss. 

The amusement's masterful heading was created by previous LucasArts individuals Derek Sakai and Dave Bogan; them two had chipped away at "The Curse of Monkey Island", "Break from Monkey Island", and a few prior LucasArts experience diversions. The diversion's last workmanship course was an endeavor to join the reasonable look of the initial two "Monkey Island" amusements with the capricious, adapted illustrations of the third. While those diversions include altogether two-dimensional illustrations, and their successor, "Getaway from Monkey Island", is to a great extent pre-rendered, "Stories of Monkey Island" is rendered in full 3D. Grossman clarified that both Telltale's craft division and amusement motor are arranged toward 3D illustrations advancement, and that the organization appreciates the advantages 3D offers in the zones of activity and cinematography. Improved limit with respect to the last brought about the arrangement of a "true to life executive": somebody to enable the fashioners to find scenes requiring increasingly emotional movement, and to help the artists and choreographers in making it. Amid advancement, the need of this position was featured by a ship fight scene in "Dispatch of the "Shouting Narwhal"", which was at first static and unexciting. This was helped by changing the season of day from nightfall to night, including precipitation and other climate impacts, and utilizing camera development to recreate unpleasant waters. 

As to perplex structure in "Stories of Monkey Island", Stemmle said that he and his kindred creators—when they were more youthful—trusted that they expected to "stump the player"; be that as it may, Stemmle now thinks of it as "a "great deal" better to make the players feel keen". In this manner, the creators incorporated an indication framework to keep players from getting to be trapped. Grossman clarified that Telltale's originators would remember how players would rationally advance through the riddles, and consider "what acknowledge we anticipated that them should have and whether those desires are sensible". Because of a tight improvement plan, confounds in the primary scene were not streamlined for the amusement's control framework, which was re-planned late being developed. At first, the amusement was to highlight point-and-snap controls, as had been utilized in most of Telltale's past diversions. In any case, an "immediate control" technique—like the one found in "Wallace and Gromit's Grand Adventures"— was chosen after a significant part of the main scene had been arranged. As the immediate control in that amusement had been intended for a Xbox controller, the engineers adjusted the thought into a "tick and-drag" mouse framework for "Stories of Monkey Island". Obvious trusted that this control technique made for a not so much inactive but rather more captivating player experience, and gave more opportunity to artistic camera work than was conceivable with point-and-snap. 

Beside giving the "Monkey Island" permit to Telltale, LucasArts' job in the amusement's advancement included joint effort and endorsement of the diversion's content, character idea workmanship and baffle structure. As the revamp of "The Secret of Monkey Island" had started advancement before "Stories of Monkey Island", LucasArts shared their specialty style manage with Telltale, so the two items' craft bearing would be comparable. Specifically, LucasArts wanted that the character of Guybrush would be practically identical to the presence of the character in the extraordinary release. LucasArts to a great extent based their vision for Guybrush's new visuals in "Stories of Monkey Island" on how the character showed up in "The Curse of Monkey Island", coordinating different viewpoints from "LeChuck's Revenge" that usually resounded through fan workmanship, for example, the character's blue coat and whiskers, notwithstanding utilizing their own adapted craftsmanship bearing. Obvious idea craftsman Ryan Jones worked intimately with LucasArts' Jeff Sengalli on building up the presence of Guybrush and different characters, Sengalli giving input and refinement in such zones as character outlines, facial highlights and garments. Vanaman noticed that LucasArts was available to Telltale's innovative heading for the diversion, and did not "put their foot down" over any parts of their vision. 

Michael Land, the arranger behind going before "Monkey Island" diversions, came back to score "Stories of Monkey Island". In-house Telltale arranger Jared Emerson-Johnson said that his own job in the diversion's music was "specialized and authoritative", and that, while he had been happy to help Land, "the sound of the "Monkey Island" universe is about Mike's vision, so he was disregarded to 'do his thing' as no one but he can". The soundtrack was recorded in MIDI configuration to lessen the information estimate for the Wii form; for the Windows form, the documents were changed over to WAV for expanded quality. In every scene's generation, music was among the last components to be settled, as it couldn't be done until all cutscenes were appropriately planned. 

Dominic Armato, the voice on-screen character of Guybrush from "The Curse of Monkey Island" forward, repeats his job as that character. LucasArts urged Telltale to hold however much of the first give a role as could be expected—especially Armato, who was portrayed by LucasArts' David Collins as "a definitive "Monkey Island" fanboy". Armato making the most of his chance to voice Guybrush again; he had trusted that the arrangement could never be proceeded, because of the time span since "Getaway from Monkey Island"s discharge. Armato voiced the character in both "Stories of Monkey Island" and the extraordinary release of "The Secret of Monkey Island"; in the previous diversion, he endeavored to make Guybrush sound more develop and experienced than his more youthful manifestation in the last mentioned. On account of Armato's comprehension of the character, the voice chiefs gave him impressive adaptability in his execution. 

Elaine Marley's voice on-screen character in "The Curse of Monkey Island", Alexandra Boyd, was additionally brought back for her job. Boyd was unfit to head out to Telltale's studio in California; rather, she recorded her lines in London, while speaking with the voice chief through Skype. Be that as it may, Earl Boen—the first voice on-screen character for LeChuck—had resigned from acting, and was not at first accessible to repeat his job. The character was rather voiced by Adam Harrington in the primary scene, and supplanted by Kevin Blackton as the human LeChuck in sections two to four. Boen came back to voice the evil presence LeChuck toward the finish of the fourth scene, and remained on for the amusement's fifth and last section. Obvious later had Boen re-record the lines for LeChuck's evil presence manifestation in the principal scene for the DVD discharge. To make the on-screen characters' depictions progressively strong, Telltale executed a lip synchronize framework equipped for showing a huge scope of outward appearances on character models. 

To advance "Stories of Monkey Island", Telltale Games posted a progression of fan-made Flash short movies on their site. Entitled "I Wonder What Happens in Tales of Monkey Island", the arrangement was made by German illustrator Marius Fietzek, who co-composed it with Andrei Constantinescu. The arrangement's fine art was created by Martin Koehler. Displayed as an animation rendition of "Stories of Monkey Island", the shorts hypothesized on the diversion's story and content, and delineated theoretical occasions for the up and coming sections. The principal scene appeared on July 5, 2009, two days before the arrival of "Dispatch of the "Shouting Narwhal"". The second and third scenes pursued on August 6 and September 16, separately; the penultimate scene was discharged on October 22. For the last portion, discharged on December 4, Fietzek enrolled Smudo of the German hip jump band Die Fantastischen Vier to complete a melodic number. Emerson-Johnson portrayed the arrangement as "totally fabulous", and said that "it truly appears as though these diversions bid to individuals such that goads gigantic measures of incredible imaginative vitality". He noticed that Telltale "was passing [the videos] around for a decent week" after they were posted. 

Seven days after the arrival of the main scene, Telltale held a challenge called "Diversion Designer for a Day", which allowed fans the chance to submit and vote in favor of a line of discourse to be utilized as an allegation against Guybrush. The triumphant line, "He uncovered my impeccably great X!", was presented by Liz Johnston of Okanagan, British Columbia, Canada, and was therefore added to the preliminary scene in the fourth part while Johnston's name was incorporated into the section's credits. 

Obvious created "Stories of Monkey Island" stock, which they sold from their online store. These incorporated a notice print of Steve Purcell's spread fine art for the diversion, and a lot of limited time identifications; the last had recently been accessible at traditions, for example, E3. Further stock—including a mug, a lot of tarot cards, and a special version DVD—was made accessible toward the beginning of March 2010. For the September 19, 2009 International Talk Like a Pirate Day, Telltale Games made the amusement's first scene accessible for nothing on their site. Clients who had just obtained every one of the five scenes were rather qualified for a free scene from one of Telltale's different arrangement. 

"Stories of Monkey Island" was a business achievement, and it surpassed Telltale's business projections. While no figures for the amusement have been discharged, the diversion was the organization's best undertaking, until it was overwhelmed by "", which was discharged eighteen months after the fact. Obvious CEO Dan Conners noticed that the amusement had been the top selling item on Steam for "a couple of days". As per Telltale's advertising division, the amusement was predominately acquired as a full season, as opposed to as individual scenes. This was credited to the solid account between scenes, rather than Telltale's past work. 

Commentators trusted that the principal section, "Dispatch of the "Shouting Narwhal"", was a decent begin to the amusement. Ryan Scott of GameSpy composed that the riddles "for the most part challenge [the player] "only" enough without winding up excessively disappointing", while Eurogamer's Kristan Reed expressed that their quality was "strike against over and over". Be that as it may, analysis was coordinated toward specific riddles' structures—especially toward that of one labyrinth baffle. The composition and story were praised, with a few audits recognizing the exchange's silliness. Experience Gamers staff essayist Evan Dickens felt that composing did not coordinate to the nature of "LeChuck's Revenge", in any case. In spite of the fact that the section's supporting cast was viewed as feeble, pundits delighted in the acquaintance of de Singe with the arrangement. The voicework for the primary characters was lauded, just like Land's soundtrack. Faultfinders were generally complimentary toward the scene's designs, with "New Straits Times" Bruno Chan and "The Sunday Times" David Phelan commending the refreshed translation of "The Curse of Monkey Island"s workmanship style while 1UP.com's Bob Mackey called Guybrush "the most convincingly expressive Telltale character yet"; in any case, concerns were voiced over unpredictable graphical quality between characters. The amusement's controls were liable to upbraiding by various surveys; a few favored the console powers over Telltale's new "snap and drag" framework. 

Reaction to "The Siege of Spinner Cay" was like that of the first scene. Commentators were isolated over the nature of the section's riddles: Destructoid analyst Brad Nicholson censured their structure as "tight and tightened", and Dickens felt that they differed uncontrollably in quality. Conversely, they were adulated as "wonderfully non-straight" by Reed, and called consistent and reasonable by PALGN's Adam Ghiggino. The requirement for expanded travel between areas, so as to finish everyday undertakings, was scrutinized. The scene's composing was commended by analysts; specific acclaim was offered on the part's opening scene, which presents Morgan LeFlay. All things considered, the story was demonized by Reuben Lees of the "Messenger Sun" for inclination "progressively like a scaffold to open up further plotlines in the later scenes", a point reverberated by different commentators. While the supporting cast was again scrutinized, analysts delighted in the advancement of the primary characters' jobs. Pundits respected the part's sound work, with Dickens calling Kevin Blackton's version of the human LeChuck a "genuine champion". Graphical changes over "The Launch of the "Shouting Narwhal"" were additionally valued. 

Pundits considered "Sanctuary of the Leviathan" to be more grounded than the past parts; on the survey aggregator destinations GameRankings and Metacritic, its Windows rendition holds the most noteworthy rating out of all "Stories of Monkey Island" scenes. The scene's riddles were recognized; IGN's Steve Butts opined that Telltale's riddle configuration had "pushed ahead a considerable amount", contrasted with both going before sections and their prior "Sam and Max" recreations. One riddle specifically, including privateers holding a face-pulling challenge, was applauded by analysts. Dickens depicted the section's story as "solid [and] progressing", and Ghiggino felt that it "proceeded with the fine "Monkey Island" convention of being strange, diverting and entirely intriguing". A few audits attracted correlations with the 1883 book "The Adventures of Pinocchio", because of the amusement's setting inside a monster manatee. The scene's composition got close consistent acclaim, and reaction to the supporting cast was greatly improved over the previous scenes; acclaim revolved especially around Murray, a satanic, immaterial skull. Analysis of "Sanctuary of the Leviathan" essentially centered around the part's curtness and absence of shifted areas. 

Commentators were progressively undecided toward the fourth scene, "The Trial and Execution of Guybrush Threepwood". Gathering of its riddles was blended; Ghiggino depicted numerous as "baffling for the wrong reasons", and Dickens, while applauding a few as "trying and innovative", trusted that there were "distinct discharge failures". Butts scrutinized the "self-assertive structure" of a few riddles, however noticed that they were "precisely what we've generally expected from the arrangement". By and by, the scene's main preliminary arrangement was praised. Response to the part's plot was for the most part positive, with Eduardo Reboucas of Game Revolution remarking that it "moves along at a consistent pace, and finishes with a sensational blast", and "The Sun"s Nick Francis commending the "passionate storylines weaving between a portion of the characters". A few audits commended the turns in the story, in spite of the fact that Adventure Classic Gaming's Mark Newheiser opined that the darker turn late in the scene was impeding to the generally cheerful arrangement. The scene's composing was applauded, similar to the utilization of returning "Monkey Island" character Stan as the preliminary's investigator. Faultfinders were separated over the adequacy of reusing the setting of "Dispatch of the "Shouting Narwhal"". 

The last scene, "Ascent of the Pirate God", was thought by faultfinders to be a fitting end to the arrangement. Reaction to the part's riddles was generally positive, however a few analysts kept up second thoughts about the trouble and advancement of a considerable lot of them. The dimension structure, which expects players to backtrack between areas, was not generally welcomed. The part's climactic fight was believed to be adequate, however timing issues made GameCritics' Tera Kirk portray it as "nearly as baffling as it is shrewd". By and by, the story got solid applause, especially for the job inversion among Guybrush and LeChuck; Destructoid's Anthony Burch noticed that the section "totally and purposefully upsets ["Monkey Island"s] possess buzzwords". Also, the composition and discourse were lauded, just like the voice acting, with faultfinders commending Earl Boen's retaliation of the devil LeChuck and Armato's work as Guybrush. Commentators complimented the designs for both the spooky "Junction" and the flame assaulted genuine world; Butts communicated that "the dimensions all profit by incredible shading decisions and phenomenal lighting impacts that truly bolster the temperament". 

"Stories of Monkey Island" got grants and grant designations from computer game industry productions. Following the diversion's declaration at E3 2009, IGN named it the "Greatest Surprise" for the PC at the tradition, and it was a finalist for GameSpot's Best Adventure Game of E3 grant. IGN later named the first and third sections as the best Wii and PC experience rounds of the year, individually. Gamasutra gave the amusement a good notice on its rundown of the year's best PC diversions; on their rundown of the top engineers of the year, the site additionally given Telltale Games a decent notice. "Nintendo Power" designated "Stories of Monkey Island" for their honors for in general round of the year, best WiiWare amusement and best experience diversion; the production gave Morgan LeFlay the honor for the year's best character. Posting the best and most exceedingly awful computer games of 2009, "OC Weekly" named "Stories of Monkey Island" the "Best Series Revival" of the year. About.com believed the diversion to be the second best Wii round of the year, and "PC Gamer US" granted it "Experience Game of the Year".