Bernard Fanning 

Bernard Fanning (brought into the world 15 August 1969) is an Australian artist and vocalist lyricist. He is best known as the lead artist and frontman of Queensland elective musical crew Powderfinger from its arrangement in 1989 to its disintegration in 2010. 

Brought up in Toowong, Brisbane, Fanning was shown the piano by his mom at an early age. At 12 years old, while going to St Joseph's College, Gregory Terrace, he started composing music, and after moving on from St. Joseph's, proceeded onward to the University of Queensland, where he contemplated news-casting for a brief timeframe. He dropped out to seek after a music vocation, subsequent to meeting Ian Haug in a financial matters class. Fanning joined Haug, John Collins, and Steven Bishop, who had as of late shaped Powderfinger, and played the job of lead artist. After Bishop left and guitarist Darren Middleton joined, the band discharged five studio collections in fifteen years and made standard progress in Australia. Amid Powderfinger's rest in 2005, Fanning started his performance music profession with the studio collection "Tea and Sympathy". Powderfinger then rejoined in 2007 and discharged two additional collections before disbanding in late 2010. 

While Powderfinger's style centers around elective shake, Fanning's performance music is commonly portrayed as a blend of blues and acoustic people. Fanning plays guitar, piano, consoles and harmonica, both when performing solo and furthermore with Powderfinger. Regularly taking a stand in opposition to Australian political figures, Fanning has given quite a bit of his opportunity to humanitarian causes. He is a promoter for Aboriginal equity in Australia. 

Fanning was conceived in Brisbane on 15 August 1969. He was raised, close by two siblings and a sister, in an Irish Catholic family in the inward Brisbane suburb of Toowong. The passing of one of Fanning's siblings to malignancy would be the motivation for "Vulture Street's" "Since You've Been Gone". Fanning's mom started instructing him to play piano as a youthful youngster, in spite of the fact that his kin were not inspired by music. 

Fanning went to St. Joseph's College, Gregory Terrace and started composing his very own music at 15 years old. Fanning has depicted these early fills in as "horrendous", yet noticed that he delighted recorded as a hard copy and masterminding them. In the wake of moving on from St Joseph's, Fanning entered the University of Queensland to examine news coverage; in any case, he was similarly keen on seeking after a music profession. He left college at 19 years old to seek after a music vocation. 

Fanning initially met Powderfinger guitarist Ian Haug in a University of Queensland financial matters class in 1989. At the season of the gathering, Haug had as of late shaped Powderfinger with secondary school companions John Collins and Steven Bishop, who might turn into the band's fundamental bass guitarist and drummer, separately. Haug was the lead guitarist and lead artist. On finding Fanning's singing capacities, Haug supplanted himself with Fanning as lead vocalist and frontman. Haug expressed that "It was a major thing to persuade the others that we required an artist. They resembled, 'You're OK,' and I resembled, 'No I'm most certainly not. We can show improvement over that.'" 

In 1992, current guitarist Darren Middleton was welcome to join Powderfinger by Fanning and Haug, after they were inspired by his work in Brisbane band Pirate. Middleton acknowledged the offer and turned into the fifth part, joining Jon Coghill who had supplanted Bishop as drummer. The line-up of Fanning, Middleton, Haug, Collins, and Coghill then stayed unaltered. 

All through the late 1990s, Powderfinger rose to conspicuousness all through Australia, accepting a few awards and accomplishing profoundly fruitful record and show ticket deals. As the most vocal and conspicuous individual from the band, the fame for the gathering raised Fanning as an influential individual in the general visibility of the Australian music industry. Fanning was called upon by movie producer Gregor Jordan in 2003 to play out the people tune "Moreton Bay" (named after the narrows of a similar name in the Brisbane region) and his very own unique piece "Sanctuary for My Soul" in Jordan's film "Ned Kelly". Fanning then enrolled Jordan to film Powderfinger's first live DVD, "". 

On 31 October 2005, Fanning discharged his presentation solo collection entitled "Tea and Sympathy". The collection appeared at No. 1 on the Australian ARIA Albums diagram, and burned through 58 weeks in the top 50. It topped at No. 11 amid its 18-week remain on the New Zealand collections diagram. 

"Tea and Sympathy" involved tunes Fanning had written in his time with Powderfinger, just as new substance composed after the band went on rest. The greater part of the composing was done in what Fanning depicted as an "innovative burst" among March and May 2005. A significant part of the motivation for the work on the collection originated from Fanning's response to the demise of his sibling in 2002, and to the closure of a 12-year association with his sweetheart, Philippa Sison. Most of the collection was recorded at Real World Studios with Tchad Blake in June 2005, aside from "Not Finished Just Yet", "Trust", "Wash Me Clean", and "Expectation and Validation", which were recorded at Fanning's Brisbane home. Fanning was bolstered by artists Jerry Marotta, Keith Duffy, and John Bedggood, who additionally shaped piece of his live band. The collection was created in a casual way, with Fanning expressing, "We had a great time assembling the tunes." 

Three singles were discharged from the collection. The best of these was the lead single, "Wish You Well", without further ado pursued by "Lark". These discharges were just sold as advanced download singles. The third single from the collection, "Watch Over Me", was the main to be discharged as a CD single and made minor progress on the Australian singles graph. It entered the outline on 9 July 2006 at No. 16, and went through about two months in the main 50. On 26 January 2006, "Wish You Well" was casted a ballot No. 1 for the Triple J Hottest 100, 2005. Following "Watch Over Me", Fanning carefully discharged a fourth single "Few days of Mystery", which was not formally on the collection, with the exception of the individuals who bought the collection from the iTunes Store. Fanning additionally brought home the honor for Best Music Video at the 2006 ARIA Awards for the famous 'Wish You Well' cut. 

On 2 December 2005, Fanning declared an across the nation Which Way Home Concert Tour, named after the melody on the collection of a similar name. Fanning played seven shows between 25 February and 10 March 2006, in the majority of Australia's real capital urban areas. He was upheld by Perth band The Panics and Brisbane artist Andrew Morris. He pursued this with the "Yesterday's Gone" visit, reported on 11 August 2006, and finishing up with Powderfinger re-joining together and coming back to the chronicle studio—Fanning later expressed that while he delighted in making "Tea and Sympathy", "Powderfinger is my genuine activity". 

All through 2006, Fanning had indicated towards Powderfinger stopping their rest to discharge a 6th studio collection. Recorded in Los Angeles, "Dream Days at the Hotel Existence" was discharged on 2 June 2007. The title of the collection originated from a part of "Brooklyn Follies" by Paul Auster, a book that Fanning had perused amid chronicle. The collection appeared at No. 1 on the Australian ARIA Albums outline. 

Powderfinger visited around Australia and New Zealand with Silverchair on the Across the Great Divide visit in 2007. The visit's point was to advance the endeavors of Reconciliation Australia to decrease the 17-year future hole among Indigenous and Non-Indigenous Australians. Fanning said of the visit, "The thought is to indicate the two groups are behind the possibility of compromise." 

After the disbanding of Powderfinger, Fanning moved to Spain with his family where he started composing and recording demos for his next solo collection. In January 2013 Fanning declared on his site blog that he had been recording the follow up to 2005's "Tea and Sympathy" in Los Angeles. In March 2013 he reported by means of his blog that recording had been finished and he had come back to Australia. The collection "Flights" was discharged on 7 June 2013, with the principal single "War vessels" discharged on 22 April. 

Fanning discharged his third studio collection "Common Dusk" on 5 August 2016. It was gone before by the single "Dawdling". 

Fanning has been depicted as having a solid vocal range when singing, yet has expressed that he isn't exceptionally sure about his voice. In a 1998 meeting, Fanning stated, "I don't think I have the ideal voice or anything", and expressed that conveying the message of the melody could easily compare to "flaunting [his] slashes". He noted he was not keen on singing to sing alone, yet rather on the grounds that he delighted in getting the motivation behind the melody over. Fanning has expressed: "For me, composing tunes originates from anyplace", drawing motivation from his encounters. 

In his work on "Tea and Sympathy", Fanning noted to a lesser degree a cooperative melody style, alluding to his failure to play guitar performances as making distinctive components become a focal point of the tunes. In a meeting, he stated, "I wasn't depending on performances to be enormous highlights since I basically can't play them." Fanning clarified that the shorter length of tunes was because of him not having "four other individuals" to back him up while creating autonomously. 

Fanning has expressed his most loved band is The Beatles. 

Fanning has expressed that albeit political messages might be regular all through his and Powderfinger's music, it isn't the focal center when composing tunes: "An equalization must be struck from multiple points of view, as in fundamentally I'm an artist. I'm not a political reporter. So in the event that I compose a tune that has political substance, at that point ideally that melody is an adequate tune to make it onto my record. What's more, in the event that it's not, at that point that is only a melody that I've composed. So I don't think it essentially should be that you're conclusively endeavoring to own a political expression." He has expressed that he has no enthusiasm for "completing a 'Diminish Garrett'", who entered governmental issues after a fruitful Midnight Oil profession. 

On 8 July 2007, Fanning composed a piece for Adelaide's "Sunday Mail", recounting his ongoing outing to Uluru. In the piece, he condemned the individuals who climbed the stone, expressing that he was "dismayed that kids were being educated to disregard the desires of Aboriginal individuals all alone land". After coming back from Uluru, Fanning stated "Dark Tears", which planned to "report a relationship turned out badly". In his piece, Fanning additionally reprimanded the 17-year future hole among Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians, and urged all to join a discussion on compromise. 

Fanning takes a left-inclining political position, in spite of the fact that he guarantees he isn't enamored with examining the issue. Or maybe, he endeavors to talk about the issues through his tunes; "I approach composing a tune about something like [Aboriginal affairs] a similar way I would approach composing a melody about a relationship, since it's something that I feel firmly about." However, he has at times expressed his perspectives on social and political issues, giving "The Dominion Post" his position on Aboriginal issues in light of the Across the Great Divide visit; 

Fanning has played out various magnanimous assignments autonomously and with Powderfinger. The band played at the 2005 WaveAid show to fund-raise for casualties of the 2004 Indian Ocean seismic tremor, and the Across the Great Divide visit in 2007 to advance the endeavors of Reconciliation Australia. Fanning has added to foundations including "A Just Australia" and Youngcare Australia, and gives his opportunity to youth confinement focuses in Brisbane by running songwriting workshops. In a unique upheaval, Fanning once alluded to individual Australian craftsman Ben Lee as "a gifted little cunt", after Lee alluded to himself as "the friend in need of Australian music". Fanning later apologized for the remark. 

Fanning wedded Andrea Moreno in February 2007 in Brisbane, Australia. Moreno is from Spain, where the two met while Fanning was composing and recording "Tea and Sympathy" in Europe. This relationship pursued a twelve-year association Fanning had with his past sweetheart, and it was this separation (alongside the then-late demise of his more seasoned sibling) which impacted a great part of the expressive substance and grave barometrical mind-set of "Tea and Sympathy". Through Moreno, Fanning has figured out how to talk a portion of the Spanish language. Fanning and Moreno have performed together while Powderfinger was on rest and Fanning was visiting as a performance craftsman. 

Fanning is a supporter of cricket and National Rugby League (NRL) club the Brisbane Broncos. 

The APRA Awards are introduced yearly from 1982 by the Australasian Performing Right Association (APRA).