Sacred Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death) 

Sacred Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death) is the fourth studio collection by American musical crew Marilyn Manson. It was discharged on November 11, 2000 by Nothing and Interscope Records. A stone musical drama idea collection, it is the last portion of a triptych that additionally included "Antichrist Superstar" (1996), and denoted an arrival to the modern metal style of the band's prior work, after the glitz shake impacted generation of "Mechanical Animals" (1998). After its discharge, the band's eponymous vocalist said that the general story inside the set of three is exhibited backward sequential request: "Blessed Wood", in this way, starts the account. 

In the fallout of the Columbine High School slaughter on April 20, 1999, national news media detailed that the culprits were wearing the band's T-shirts amid the frenzy, and had been impacted by their music. As their first discharge after the slaughter, the record was Manson's rejoinder to the allegations leveled against him and the gathering, and was depicted by the vocalist as a "presentation of war". It was written in the vocalist's previous home in the Hollywood Hills and recorded in a few undisclosed areas, including Death Valley and Laurel Canyon. His desire for "Sacred Wood" at first incorporated an eponymous film investigating its backstory—a venture which has since been relinquished and was altered into the so far unreleased "Blessed Wood" novel. 

The collection was discharged to commonly positive audits. A few essayists lauded it as the band's best work, and various distributions positioned it as a standout amongst the best collections of 2000. English shake magazine "Kerrang!" proceeded to incorporate it on its rundown of the best collections of the decade. In the US, "Heavenly Wood" was not as industrially effective as the band's former records, appearing at number 13 on the "Bulletin" 200. Be that as it may, it turned into their best collection globally, appearing in the best twenty of various national diagrams. It was affirmed gold in a few nations, including Canada, Japan, Switzerland and the UK. 

Three singles were discharged from the record: "Expendable Teens", "The Fight Song" and "The Nobodies", and the band left on the overall Guns, God and Government Tour. In 2010, "Kerrang!" distributed a tenth commemoration memorial piece in which they called the collection "Manson's best hour ... 10 years on, there has still not been as expressive and savage a melodic assault on the media and standard culture ... [It is] still blisteringly important [and] an a good representative for a man who wouldn't sit and take it, however rather emerged cocked and locked." 

In the late 1990s, Marilyn Manson and his eponymous band built up themselves as a commonly recognized name, and as a standout amongst the most dubious shake acts in music history. Their collections "Antichrist Superstar" (1996) and "Mechanical Animals" (1998) were both basic and business victories, and when of their Rock Is Dead Tour in 1999, the frontman had turned into a culture war maverick and a mobilizing symbol for estranged youth. As their ubiquity expanded, the fierce idea of the gathering's music and symbolism offended social moderates. Various legislators campaigned to have their exhibitions prohibited, refering to false and misrepresented cases that they contained creature penances, inhumanity and assault. Their shows were routinely picketed by religious promoters and parent gatherings, who affirmed that their music affected youth culture by impelling "assault, murder, profanation and suicide". 

On April 20, 1999, Columbine High School understudies Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold shot dead 12 understudies and an educator and injured 21 others, before ending it all. In the consequence of the school shooting, the band were broadly answered to have impacted the killings; early media reports asserted that the shooters were fans, and were wearing the gathering's T-shirts amid the slaughter. In spite of the fact that these cases were later turned out to be false, hypothesis in national media and among the open kept on accusing Manson's music and symbolism for affecting Harris and Klebold. Later reports uncovered that the two were not fans—and, despite what might be expected, had disdained the band's music. In spite of this, Marilyn Manson (just as different groups and types of amusement, for example, films and computer games) were generally scrutinized by religious, political, and media outlet figures. 

Under mounting weight in the days after Columbine, the gathering delayed their last five North American visit dates keeping in mind the people in question and their families. On April 29, ten US representatives (driven by Sam Brownback of Kansas) sent a letter to Edgar Bronfman Jr. – the leader of Seagram (the proprietor of Interscope) – mentioning a deliberate stop to his organization's dissemination to offspring of "music that lauds savagery". The letter named Marilyn Manson for creating melodies which "shockingly mirror" the activities of Harris and Klebold. Soon thereafter, the band dropped their staying North American shows. After two days, Manson distributed his reaction to these allegations in a commentary piece for "Moving Stone", titled "Columbine: Whose Fault Is It?", where he reprimanded America's weapon culture, the political impact of the National Rifle Association, and the media's flippant inclusion, which he said encouraged the setting of fault on a substitute, rather than discussing increasingly significant societal issues. 

On May 4, a consultation on the advertising and circulation of brutal substance to minors by the TV, music, film and computer game enterprises was held by the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. The council heard declaration from previous Secretary of Education and Empower America prime supporter William Bennett, the Archbishop of Denver Charles J. Chaput, educators and emotional well-being experts. Speakers censured the band, its name mate Nine Inch Nails, and the 1999 film "The Matrix" for their supposed commitment to a social situation empowering viciousness, for example, the Columbine shootings. The panel mentioned that the Federal Trade Commission and the United States Department of Justice research media outlets' showcasing practices to minors. 

In the wake of finishing up the European and Japanese legs of their visit on August 8, the band pulled back from general visibility. The early improvement of "Sacred Wood" agreed with Manson's three-month confinement at his home in the Hollywood Hills, amid which he thought about how to react to the discussion. Manson said the whirlwind influenced him re-to assess his profession: "There was a touch of anxiety, [in] choosing: 'Is it justified, despite all the trouble? Are individuals understanding what I'm endeavoring to state? Am I even going to be permitted to state it?' Because I unquestionably had each and every entryway closed in my face ... there were not many individuals who remained behind me." He told "Elective Press" that he felt his security was threatened to the point that he "could be shot Mark David Chapman-style." He started deal with the collection as a counterattack. 

A few of the tracks that show up on "Blessed Wood" go back to 1995, preceding the arrival of "Antichrist Superstar", albeit a lot of this material comprised of "dissipated thoughts". Manson, the band's vocalist, formed this material into progressively considerable arrangements amid his three-month time of withdrawal. Following this, the full band labored for a year on re-composing and building up the material. The record is the gathering's most community oriented exertion to date; all individuals added to the songwriting procedure. The vast majority of the compositional work was finished by Manson close by guitarists Twiggy Ramirez and John 5. The vocalist differentiated his songwriting sessions between the two, calling sessions with the last "extremely engaged", saying that the greater part of their arrangements would be finished before being taken to the remainder of the band for thought. Conversely, his sessions with Ramirez were less requesting, and the pair much of the time explored different avenues regarding absinthe. Drummer Ginger Fish worked continually on new material, and is credited with performing consoles and programming, while keyboardist Madonna Wayne Gacy gave contribution on "President Dead" and "Cruci-Fiction in Space". Out and out, the band composed 100 melodic pieces, of which somewhere in the range of 25 and 30 progressed toward becoming tunes. 

Band individuals kept up a position of safety amid the collection's chronicle. Manson showed that their site would be their "exclusive contact with humankind" amid this period. The collection was recorded at a few areas, including Death Valley, Manson's home in the Hollywood Hills, and Rick Rubin's Mansion Studio in Laurel Canyon. Areas were picked for the climate they were planned to bestow to the music, and the band visited Death Valley various occasions to "engrave the sentiment of the desert into [their] minds", and to abstain from making fake sounding tunes. Manson co-delivered the collection close by blending engineer Dave Sardy, while Bon Harris of electronic body music aggregate Nitzer Ebb is credited with programming and pre-generation altering. Trial audio cues and acoustic tunes were recorded utilizing live instrumentation. Harris' modifying abilities would demonstrate significant amid the chronicle procedure, as he would take the normal sounds the band had been recording and remake them into prepared foundation impacts. Manson additionally clarified that the acoustic tunes were "acoustic" as in they were not recorded with electronic instruments, yet he said the collection's sonic scene would be "inherently electronic". 

Manson reported on December 16, 1999, that the collection was advancing under the working title "In the Shadow of the Valley of Death", and that its logo would be the catalytic image for mercury. Developing the image's relationship to the collection's idea, Manson said "It speaks to both the androgyne and the prima materia, which has been related with Adam, the primary man." The band invested extensive energy at the Mansion Studio, where the heft of Ginger Fish's live drumming would be recorded, with its huge rooms especially reasonable for account percussion. On February 23, 2000, Manson conveyed a 20-minute address by means of satellite to a recent developments tradition, "DisinfoCon 2000", went for uncovering disinformation where he suggested the conversation starter, "White adolescents, for what reason would they say they are frantic? They're white. They're ruined. Is it since they realize that America's a lie? ... Is grown-up stimulation murdering our kids? Or on the other hand is killing our kids engaging grown-ups?" after six days, it was reported that their up and coming collection had been re-titled "Sacred Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death)". By April, the collection was in the last phases of account, and Manson started posting film of the band from the studio. 

Manson's aspirations for the venture at first incorporated an eponymous film investigating the collection's backstory. In July 1999, he had purportedly started consulting with New Line Cinema to deliver and circulate the film and its soundtrack. At the 1999 MTV Europe Music Awards in Dublin (where the band performed on November 11), he revealed the film's title and his generation plans. Manson met Chilean vanguard movie producer Alejandro Jodorowsky at the occasion to talk about work on the film, albeit no official conclusion was made. By February 29, 2000, the arrangement fell through when Manson had reservations that New Line Cinema would take the movie toward a path which would not have "held his imaginative vision". 

Surrendering his endeavor to bring "Sacred Wood" to the screen, Manson reported designs to distribute two books going with the collection. The first was a "realistic and phantasmagoric" novel proposed for discharge soon after the collection by ReganBooks (a division of HarperCollins). The epic's style was enlivened by William S. Burroughs, Kurt Vonnegut, Aldous Huxley and Philip K. Dick, and would be trailed by a foot stool book of pictures made for the undertaking. In a December 2000 meeting with Manson, writer Chuck Palahniuk referenced the "Sacred Wood" novel (due for discharge in spring 2001) and complimented its style. Neither one of the books has been discharged, purportedly because of a distributing debate. 

Manson depicted "Sacred Wood" as an "affirmation of war." The collection's plot is a story, which he told "Moving Stone" was semi-personal. While it very well may be seen on a few dimensions, he said its least difficult understanding is to consider it to be an anecdote around a hopeful man whose transformation is popularized, driving him to "pulverize the thing he has made, which is himself." It happens in a not so subtle parody of present day America called "Sacred Wood", which Manson portrayed as a Disneyesque, city-sized event congregation where the fundamental attractions are passing and savagery, and where industrialism is taken to hyperbolic extraordinary. Its scholarly foil is "Passing Valley", which is utilized as an "analogy for the outsider and the defective of the world." 

The focal character is the hero Adam Kadmon—a name got from the Kabbalah which signifies "unique man". The story tails him as he goes looking for a superior life out of Death Valley and into Holy Wood. Disappointed by what he discovers, he forms a counterculture transformation, just to have it usurped and co-picked by Holy Wood's customer culture, and he ends up appropriated as a figure of Holy Wood's belief system of "Celebritarianism": a philosophy in which distinction is the essential good estimation of a religion profoundly established in VIP love and suffering; where dead famous people are worshipped as holy people, and John F. Kennedy is revered as the contemporary Jesus Christ. Heavenly Wood's religion parallels Christianity, in that it compares the dead-big name wonder in American culture with the torturous killing of Jesus. 

The expression "weapons, god and government" is rehashed on various occasions all through the collection. It is recommended that these are the main driver of viciousness, and the collection analyzes the job moderate American culture played in the Columbine slaughter: explicitly its promotion of weapon culture, the deficiencies of customary family esteems, the American tendency toward war-mongering exclusively for benefit, and the Christian right's proclivity for sentimental frenzy. This glorification of viciousness inside standard American culture is the focal topic of the record. A substantive segment of the record breaks down the social job of Jesus Christ, explicitly Manson's view that the picture of his torturous killing was the birthplace of big name. Manson said that while his past work contended against the Bible's substance, with the end goal of "Heavenly Wood", he rather searched for things in the Bible to which he could relate. He built up an assessment that Christ was a progressive figure—an individual who was executed for having risky conclusions, and whose picture was later abused and promoted for monetary profit for the sake of free market private enterprise. 

Christ's demise is additionally contrasted with Abraham Zapruder's film of the death of John F. Kennedy, which Manson called "the main thing that is occurred in current occasions to rise to the torturous killing." He watched the clasp commonly as a tyke, and said it was the most savage thing he had ever observed. John Lennon is likewise alluded to on the collection as a killed symbol killed by a conceived again Christian, Mark David Chapman, who was exasperated by Lennon's "more well known than Jesus" comment. While recording "Blessed Wood", Manson was attracted to The Beatles' 1968 "White Album", because of its supposed job in moving the Charles Manson "Family" murders, and the parallels he saw between that occurrence and Columbine, saying: "as far as anyone is concerned, it's the principal shake n' move record that has been accused and connected to brutality. When you have "Higgledy piggledy" [taken from the Beatles melody of the equivalent name] written in blood on somebody's divider, it's somewhat more condemning than anything I've been accused for." 

The record is fundamentally a modern metal collection, in spite of the fact that it has additionally been depicted as hard shake, and gothic shake. The vocalist asserted in a pre-discharge meet with "Kerrang!" that the collection would contain probably the heaviest material the band had recorded to date. "Heavenly Wood" joins the glitz shake affected creation of "Mechanical Animals" with the modern shake soundscape of the band's prior work. He additionally called the record "haughty, in a craftsmanship shake sense" and said that, because of the melodious substance, the vast majority of the tunes contained three or four unmistakable parts, in spite of the fact that the band took incredible consideration to abstain from acting naturally "liberal". He additionally said that the record was expected to be the "mechanical "White Album"", and that he stated "Sacred Wood" in a similar house where The Rolling Stones composed their 1970 single "Let It Bleed"— another wellspring of motivation. 

Like "Antichrist Superstar" before it, "Heavenly Wood" utilizes a melody cycle structure, isolating the collection into four developments. These developments are titled An: In the Shadow, D: The Androgyne, An: Of Red Earth, and M: The Fallen. Manson portrayed the record as "the last bit of a triptych that I started with "Antichrist Superstar"." Despite being the remainder of the three collections to be discharged, Manson clarified that the triptych's storyline happens backward sequential request; "Blessed Wood" started the story, and "Mechanical Animals" and "Antichrist Superstar" were spin-offs. The storyline unfurls in a multi-layered arrangement of similitudes and references; for instance, the collection's title alludes not exclusively to the Hollywood Sign, yet additionally to "the tree of information that Adam took the primary organic product from when he dropped out of heaven, the wood that Christ was killed on, the wood that [Lee Harvey] Oswald's rifle is produced using, and the wood that such a large number of caskets are made of." 

"GodEatGod" is the primary tune on the record. It opens with the sound of a mechanical screen in moderate movement catching shots ringing out of sight while spectators shout and after that pursues Adam as he contemplates in the desert. The melody is driven by consoles, synthesizers and a synth bass. "The Love Song" was portrayed by Manson as about "America's sentiment with firearms", and its title started from his perception that "Adoration Song" is a standout amongst the most well-known titles in music. The verses are formed around an intricate representation about weapons. Manson clarified: "I was proposing with the verses that the dad is the hand, the mother is the weapon, and the youngsters are the projectiles. Where you shoot them is your duty as guardians." The tune is an expository interpretation of a mainstream American guard sticker: "Do you cherish your God, firearm, government?" "Kerrang!" portrayed "The Fight Song" as a "play area punk hymn", and Manson uncovered that its topic is Adam's longing to be a piece of Holy Wood, saying that it is around "an individual who's adult for his entire life suspecting that the grass is greener on the opposite side, yet when he at last [gets there], he understands that it's more terrible than where he originated from." "Expendable Teens" is a "signature Marilyn Manson melody" with a skipping guitar riff made out of staccato verbalization. Its verses compare the disappointment of contemporary millenial youth with the progressive optimism of their child of post war America guardians' age. The Beatles' impact is apparent in this tune; the tune echoes the dissatisfaction of the "White Album" "Insurgency 1". 

Manson singled out "Target Audience (Narcissus Narcosis)" as his main tune on the collection and said that it depicts each individual's longing for self-completion. The tune's flanged arpeggiated harmonies incorporates with overwhelming guitar chugs and string twisting amid the chorale and highlights an optigan. Suffocated In Sound depicted the tune as "a sparkling minute" in the collection. "President Dead" is a guitar-driven tune exhibiting John 5's specialized abilities. It opens with an example of Don Gardiner's "ABC News Radio" communicate declaring the passing of John F. Kennedy and accents both the principal stanza and guitar solo with a mellotron. The tune is 3:13 long, which is an intentional numerological reference to outline 313 of the Zapruder film—the edge showing the snapshot of effect of the deadly head shot which murdered Kennedy. "In the Shadow of the Valley of Death" is a contemplative melody with Adam at his most candidly powerless. The tune is separated into two sections. The principal divide comprises of tests and a 'passing circle' on a straightforward strum from a 1952 Gibson acoustic guitar. In the second part the examples and 'demise circle' are supplanted by a low register guitar and drums over culled harmonies. "Cruci-Fiction in Space" further investigates the Kennedy death, proposing that people have advanced from monkeys to men to weapons. It's organization is moderate and substantial; dispossessed of "speed or multifaceted design." Its center 8 has a blended meter drum beat in 4/4 time with two extra eighth notes toward the end; "it doesn't begin in 4/4, it doesn't finish in 4/4, so it's confounding." "A Place in the Dirt" is another individual tune, portrayed by Adam's self-investigation of his place in Holy Wood. 

"The Nobodies" is a melancholy, elegiac lament over a clavecin électrique and integrated drums. Its title is taken from a statement by Mark David Chapman. The refrain "Today I am filthy and I need to be pretty, tomorrow I'll realize that I'm simply soil" has an Iggy Pop-style vocal conveyance, working to the "adrenaline-energized" tune. "CMJ" noticed that the tune could be translated as a tribute to the Columbine shooters, however its point was not to commend viciousness; rather, it was to delineate a general public doused in its youngsters' blood. "The Death Song" is the defining moment for Adam; he never again minds. Manson portrayed it as wry and skeptical: "it resembles 'We have no future and we don't give a fuck'." "Kerrang!" depicted it as one of the collection's heaviest tunes. The extension of "Sheep of God" summarizes the chorale of "Over the Universe" (from 1970's "Let It Be"), whose verse "Nothing's going to change my reality" motivated the tune. Manson expounded that: "Imprint David Chapman went along and refuted him very. That was continually something growing up that was dismal and grievous to me". The melody utilizes the deaths of JFK and John Lennon to reprimand media melodrama, and for transforming catastrophe into broadcast exhibition. The tune is console substantial including different instrumentation, for example, a piano, a minipiano, a leslie speaker, and various synthesizers. John 5's mood and acoustic guitar work were recorded in an uncommon manner. "Conceived Again" is the second melody in the record to utilize the synth bass. It is fundamentally determined by Ramirez and John 5's guitars and is the main other melody in the record, aside from "The Nobodies", to utilize the drum machine. "Consuming Flag" is an overwhelming metal tune reminiscent of American modern metal band Ministry. 

"Unconsciousness Black" is made utilizing a "twisted guitar" played by Ramirez and a phaze guitar played by John 5. The collection closes with an interlocking gathering of tunes: "Valentine's Day", "The Fall of Adam", "Ruler Kill 33°" and "Tally to Six and Die (The Vacuum of Infinite Space Encompassing)" each end unexpectedly before being promptly trailed by the introduction of the procedure track. The mellotron makes an arrival in the tune "Valentine's Day." Guitar parts for "The Fall of Adam" were recorded in the pouring precipitation with an end goal to remove a one of a kind sound. John 5 deliberately mistuned his Gibson for the's first experience with "produce a better solid." The last tune "Check to Six and Die (The Vacuum of Infinite Space Encompassing)" has piano work from Bon Harris and utilizes a string synthesizer. It finishes up on a cliffhanger; it closes with the sound of a lone shot being stacked into a pistol against a foundation of inaccessible firecrackers pursued by the chamber being spun over and over. Its mallet is positioned multiple times, in spite of the fact that its trigger is pulled just multiple times. The aftereffect of the 6th and last chamber is left for the audience to decide. 

Manson posted a four-minute video cut on the band's site on December 16, 1999, including clasps of two already unreleased tunes. The principal cut was of a stone melody which later progressed toward becoming "Dispensable Teens", while the second was a harsh demo of a front of Frankie Laine and Jimmy Boyd's 1953 single "The Little Boy and the Old Man" (created by Wayne Shanklin a year sooner as "Little Child"; it was most prevalently performed under the title "Mom Dear" in the 1964 film "The Naked Kiss"). As a Valentine's Day present for fans, Manson posted a download of the band's front of Charles Manson's "Debilitated City", from his 1970 collection "". In August, he declared an October 24 discharge date for the record, and posted an incomplete track posting containing 13 melody titles, while likewise demonstrating that their site would be refreshed week after week. Inside three weeks, the collection's full track posting had been uncovered, and sound documents of "Consuming Flag", "Cruci-Fiction in Space" and "The Love Song" had been discharged for nothing download, alongside the front of the "Heavenly Wood" novel. 

On September 18, Manson reported that the collection's US discharge would be delayed until November 14 (to tweak the last blend), and that its first single would be "Dispensable Teens". The collection was discharged on three arrangements on November 13 in the UK by Nothing and Interscope Records. Variants of the improved CD release discharged in the UK highlighted an acoustic adaptation of "The Nobodies" as a little something extra track, while Japanese releases additionally incorporated a live form of "Mechanical Animals". The collection was discharged on twofold LP and tape. General Music Japan discharged a remastered rendition of the collection on Super High Material CD (SHM-CD) on March 23, 2013. 

Work of art for the collection was structured by Manson and P. R. Dark colored. Manson started conceptualizing it as he composed the tunes, and Brown and Manson worked pair to understand the symbolism in the wake of choosing to take the necessary steps themselves. The spread craftsmanship, which depicts Manson as an executed Christ with his jawbone detached, is planned as an analysis of oversight and America's fixation on saints. It is an edited reinterpretation of The Hanged Man Tarot card. Underneath is a clouded bit of John F. Kennedy's coroner report, showing the words "clinical record" and "post-mortem examination". The typeface utilized on the band's name is a similar text style utilized on the Disney World logo during the 1960s. 

The spread was dubious; versions of the collection sold at Circuit City came housed in a cardboard sleeve including an elective spread, while Walmart and Kmart would not stock the collection by any means. A minister in Memphis, Tennessee took steps to go on a yearning strike except if the collection was pulled from racks. Manson depicted these activities as endeavors at oversight: "The incongruity is that my purpose of the photograph on the collection was to demonstrate individuals that the torturous killing of Christ is, surely, a brutal picture. My jaw is absent as an image of this sort of oversight. This doesn't annoy me as much however it sees fit, in light of the fact that those insulted by my collection spread have effectively demonstrated my point." In 2008, Gigwise positioned it at number ten on their rundown of "The 50 Most Controversial Album Covers of All Time". 

A lot of fourteen updated Major Arcana tarot cards, in view of the Rider-Waite deck, were appointed by the artist for the collection's work of art. The cards portray band individuals in surrealistic scene. Each card was reinterpreted to mirror the iconography of the collection's melodious substance: The Fool is venturing off a precipice, with grainy pictures of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and a JFK crusade publication out of sight; The Emperor, with prosthetic legs, is sitting in a wheelchair gripping a rifle before an American banner; Justice gauges the Bible against the cerebrum on his equalization scale. The collection's inward sleeve contains these three pictures, alongside a further nine: The Magician, The High Priestess, The Hierophant, The Hermit, Death, The Devil, The Tower, The Star and The World. The spread itself speaks to The Hanged Man. 

Three singles were discharged to advance the collection, with "Dispensable Teens" being discharged as its lead single. The band showed up on BBC One's "Top of the Pops" to play out the melody. Its music video was coordinated by Samuel Bayer, which appeared on MTV's "All out Request Live" on October 25. The single was discharged in the UK on November 6, and highlighted a few B-sides, including fronts of Lennon's "Average workers Hero" and The Doors' "Five to One", just as unique tracks "Jewels and Pollen" and "Shocking Panorama of the Endtimes". The last had been discharged the earlier year on the soundtrack to "VIP Deathmatch". The band performed "Dispensable Teens" on the "MTV New Year's" Eve festivity in 2000, alongside a front of Cheap Trick's "Surrender". It was additionally performed at the 2001 "American Music Awards". 

From November 1, the UK division of Interscope held a challenge to advance the collection. The challenge welcomed fans to sign onto the band's site every day to get a progression of coded pieces of information which prompted a shrouded message. Fans who comprehended the enigma got a select download, and were participated in into an illustration for a one-week trip for two to meet the band in Hollywood. On November 14, the band enjoyed a reprieve from the Guns, God and Government Tour to praise the collection's US discharge date with a concise, welcome just acoustic set at the Saci dance club in New York City. Tickets for the show were given out by means of their site, in radio challenges, and to the initial 100 collection purchasers at Tower Records on Broadway in New York. The set comprised of four tunes, including their spread "Suicide Is Painless" – the subject of the film (and TV arrangement) "M*A*S*H" – which they had as of late added to the of "". The next day, the vocalist showed up on "All out Request Live" in a fragment entitled "Moms Against Marilyn Manson". 

"The Fight Song" was discharged as the collection's second single on February 19, 2001 in the UK. A remix of the tune by Joey Jordison of Slipknot showed up as its B-side. Its music video was coordinated by Manson and W.I.Z. also, started discussion for its brutal delineation of an American football match-up among muscle heads and goths, with "NME" blaming it for being exploitative of the Columbine disaster. Manson expelled the cases as promotion, and stated: "I'm attempting to demonstrate that sports just as music can be viewed as brutal, so I picked a customary dark versus white, great versus fiendish subject for the video." Manson showed up on an April 2001 scene of "The O'Reilly Factor", where he by and by denied that the band's music was in charge of Columbine. Bill O'Reilly contended that "irritated children" without bearing from capable guardians could confound the message of his music as underwriting the conviction that "when I'm dead [then] everyone's going to know me." Manson reacted: 

In mid-2001, Universal Music Group was censured for airing advertisements advancing the collection amid scenes of "All out Request Live". Manson speculated that previous Democratic bad habit presidential applicant Joseph Lieberman assumed a job in the analysis. Lieberman and Hillary Clinton had as of late presented the Media Marketing Accountability Act of 2001 preceding the 107th United States Congress. This enactment proposed to forbid media outlets from advertising speculated rough or unequivocal material to minors. 

Manson declared before the arrival of "The Fight Song" that "The Nobodies" would be issued as the collection's third single, while demonstrating a craving to film its video in Russia in light of the fact that "the climate, the destruction, the chilliness and the engineering would truly suit the tune." Another early arrangement was to fuse the MTV arrangement "Ass", as the melody was incorporated into the show's soundtrack. The thought was later relinquished, be that as it may, when the show got under the skin of Lieberman. The music video was coordinated by Paul Fedor and debuted on MTV in June, and the single was discharged in the UK on September 3. Its discharge was planned to agree with the band's appearance at the Reading Festival, and was joined by another challenge on the band's site—the victor was granted two entire end of the week goes to the celebration, just as unhindered behind the stage get to and a private dozing zone. A remix of the tune later showed up in the 2001 Johnny Depp film "From Hell". 

The collection was advanced by the overall Guns, God and Government Tour, which started in North America in 3– 6,000-limit settings on October 27, 2000 at the Orpheum Theater in Minneapolis. Normally for the band, the shows were exceedingly dramatic. The visit's symbolism was primarily gotten from the idea and topics found on the collection; its logo was a rifle, with handguns masterminded to look like the Christian cross. Sets were structured with socialist, religious and "celebritarian" symbolism. Manson had various ensemble changes amid each show: a diocesan's dalmatic and miter (regularly mistook for ecclesiastical formal attire); an outfit produced using creatures (counting epaulets produced using a pony's tail and a shirt produced using cleaned goat heads and ostrich spines); his mark dark calfskin undergarment, g-string and tie leggings; a detailed Roman legionary-style majestic galea; an Allgemeine SS-style topped police top; a highly contrasting fur garment, and a huge funnel shaped skirt which lifted him noticeable all around. 

The Ozzfest leg of the visit denoted the band's first execution in Denver, Colorado (on June 22, 2001 at Mile High Stadium) after the Columbine High School slaughter in Littleton. After at first dropping because of a planning strife, the band changed their arrangements to play the Denver date. The collective choice's met obstruction from traditionalist gatherings; Manson got demise dangers and requests to drop the band's execution. A gathering of chapel pioneers, organizations and families identified with Columbine framed a specially appointed association restricting the show. Residents for Peace and Respect, which was bolstered by Colorado senator Bill Owens and delegate Tom Tancredo, guaranteed on their site that the band "advances loathe, brutality, demise, suicide, sedate use, and the mentalities and activities of the Columbine executioners". Accordingly, Manson issued an announcement: 

Two movies of the show visit were made. The "Firearms, God and Government" DVD was discharged on October 29, 2002 by Eagle Rock Entertainment, and included live film taken from a few unique exhibitions in Los Angeles, Russia, Japan, and all through Europe. It additionally incorporated a 30-minute in the background featurette, "The Death Parade", with visitor appearances from Ozzy Osbourne and Eminem. This was pursued seven years after the fact by a Blu-beam titled "Weapons, God and Government – Live in L.A." Released by Eagle Rock on November 17, 2009, it delineates the band's whole sixteen-melody set from their January 13, 2001 execution at the Grand Olympic Auditorium—the last featuring show of the North American leg of the visit. 

"Heavenly Wood" got commonly positive surveys from music pundits at the season of its discharge. At Metacritic, which doles out a standardized rating out of 100 to audits from standard commentators, the collection got a normal score of 72 dependent on 14 surveys, specifying "by and large ideal audits", and is the 88th best-checked on collection of the year. The record was commended by a few distributions just like the band's best work: Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic portrayed it as their authoritative record; an essayist for "Excitement Weekly" considered it their "most powerful exertion yet", and April Long of "NME" said it was "by a long shot the best thing Manson has ever set his twisted personality to, [it] at last rouses something unmistakably more strong than dread or disdain—regard." 

The band got praise for the nature of their songwriting. Daniel Durchholz of Wall of Sound called "Heavenly Wood" their most aggressive and musically achieved record to date. "LA Weekly" said that "practically all [of the songs] contain a twofold take harmony change or a textural overdose or a marvelous scaffold, and they'll be terroristic in show." "Hot Press" lauded the band for their innovative melodic game plans, and said that ""Holy Wood" is a far superior record than many would have set out to anticipate." Drowned in Sound appraised the collection 10 out of 10 and adulated the band's execution, saying that they "play more tightly than [ever] previously (taking a gander at the credits show it to be considerably more of a group effort) ... furthermore, musically, it has much more variety and degree than the Limp Bizkits of the world." The band's vocalist was additionally cheered for his lyricism; Barry Walters of "Moving Stone" lauded him for "tending to genuine issues with a dramatic verve and certifiable nastiness that no other standard act can coordinate." "Bulletin" magazine was likewise inspired, calling Manson a standout amongst the most gifted lyricists of his age. "Pistol" editorial manager Christopher Scapelliti contrasted his verses with those of John Lennon's, stating: "What goes over most intense on the collection isn't the music, yet the feeling of damage communicated in Manson's verses. Like "Plastic Ono Band", "Heavenly Wood" shouts with a basic anger that is apparent even in its calmest minutes." 

The collection likewise gotten some blended surveys. A few distributions censured its length, just as the band for forsaking the glitz shake impacted creation of "Mechanical Animals". PopMatters contended that the collection was excessively long, and asserted it would have been an increasingly steady record if topic was tended to truly, rather than through an 'idea collection' design. Joshua Klein of "The A.V. Club" appraised "Heavenly Wood" a B−, however was generally speaking disparaging of the absence of glitz shake affected melodies on the collection. Robert Hilburn, in a survey for the "Los Angeles Times", was likewise baffled that the collection did not satisfy "the guarantee of "Mechanical Animals"". He saw the melodic cross-fertilization of "Antichrist Superstar" and "Mechanical Animals" as disarray on the band's part regarding which of the two collections bid most to easygoing audience members. 

The collection showed up in various production's arrangements of best collections of 2000. It showed up at number nine on "Kerrang!"s rundown of collections of the year, and proceeded to rate it the eleventh best collection of the 2000– multi decade, while "NME" positioned it at number 34 in their pundit's pick of the 50 best collections of 2000 in their "Decade in Music" arrangement. German magazine "Musik Express/Sounds" recorded the collection at number 30 in their pundits' best 50, and at number nine in the prevalent survey of their "Collections of 2000" list. The French release of British magazine "Shake Sound" positioned "Heavenly Wood" fifteenth in their "Le choix de la rédaction" (editors decision) and fifth in "Le choix des lecteurs" (perusers decision) of their 2000 "Collections de l'année" (collections of the year). "Record Collector" likewise included it on their "Best of 2000" list. It proceeded to win the "Best Album" honor at the 2001 "Kerrang!" Awards. 

Review discourse on the collection has been profoundly positive. In November 2010, "Kerrang!" distributed a tenth-commemoration dedicatory issue devoted to "Blessed Wood" titled "Shouting For Vengeance", calling it "Manson's best hour". In 2014, "Metal Hammer" distinguished the collection as an advanced exemplary, considering it the band's "imaginative apex". Manson said in a June 2015 Reddit AMA that he believed the record to be his best work, and, that equivalent month, "NME" alluded to it as the band's best collection. A 2016 component in "Houston Press" called "Sacred Wood" "the collection that truly solidified the band as something other than stun rockers, however evident melodic nonconformists with a smart point of view on social issues." "Metal Hammer" alluded to the record as "impeccable", saying: "Manson still can't seem to better "Blessed Wood" and that is fine—no one's truly bettered it. The stream of the record, the conveyance of its idea, the lucidity with which it strikes its adversaries. An immense imaginative accomplishment that will stand out forever as Manson's characterizing proclamation." 

Preceding the record's discharge, a few pundits and retailers straightforwardly addressed whether the band still had noteworthy business advance with standard buyers, with rap shake rising as the transcendent shake kind of the mid 2000s. Moreover, as per "Metal Hammer", "By the turn of the century, Manson was never again America's evil spirit hound. White junk hotshot Eminem had timed his position and displaced him." A perfect adaptation of the collection was never made. This brought about "Blessed Wood" being prohibited from deal at real retailers, for example, Walmart and Kmart, who authorize an exacting approach on not stocking collections named with a Parental Advisory sticker. Best Buy's business projections assessed its first-week deals at around 150,000 units broadly, altogether not exactly the 223,000 duplicates sold by "Mechanical Animals" amid its first week. 

"Sacred Wood" appeared and crested at number 13 on the "Announcement" 200 with first-week offers of 117,279—an underlying business disillusionment. It burned through 13 back to back a long time on the outline before dropping off – far shy of the 52 and 33 weeks "Antichrist Superstar" and "Mechanical Animals" spent on the graph, separately – making it the briefest diagramming full-length LP by the band until "The High End of Low" (2009). It took more than two years to be guaranteed gold by the RIAA (in March 2003), meaning shipments more than 500,000 units. The collection sold more than 573,000 duplicates in the US by 2010, as per Nielsen SoundScan. Manson credited its absence of business offer to the melodic atmosphere of the time, and contended that, at the tallness of the band's prominence, their US collection deals crested somewhere in the range of one and two million units, so "it's not such a catastrophe as though we were descending from seven or eight million records." He additionally said that the drop in US deals was off-set by expanding universal achievement. 

The record achieved the main 20 of various global markets, including Canada, where it topped at number 13 and was confirmed gold by the CRIA for shipments of more than 50,000 units. The record was more fruitful in mainland Europe than going before collections, cresting at number nine on "Billboard"s Eurochart. It entered the best 10 of the national graphs in Austria, Italy, and Sweden, and the best 20 of every a further six nations: France, Norway, Poland, and Spain. It appeared at number 11 on the German Albums Chart and went through more than five months on the diagram—their second-longest outline keep running there, behind "The Golden Age of Grotesque" (2003). It likewise achieved the main 20 in Switzerland, where it was ensured gold by the IFPI just about five years after its discharge for shipments more than 25,000 units. Likewise, regardless of topping at number 23 and going through only a month on the UK Albums Chart, it would be affirmed gold by the BPI in July 2013 for deals more than 100,000 duplicates. 

In Australasia, "Heavenly Wood" crested at number eight on the Australian Albums Chart, and achieved the main twenty in New Zealand, topping at number 18. The collection likewise crested at number 13 on the Japanese Oricon outline, where it was affirmed gold by the Recording Industry Association of Japan for shipments of more than 100,000 units. 

All verses composed by Marilyn Manson. 

Notes 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of the vinyl version of "Heavenly Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death)". 

Marilyn Manson 

Generation 

Notes 

References 

Book reference