Kalidas (film) 

Kalidas () is a 1931 Indian Tamil-language historical movie coordinated by H. M. Reddy and created by Ardeshir Irani. It is eminent for being the primary Tamil language sound film, and the principal sound film to be made in South India. It depended on the life of the Sanskrit artist Kālidāsa; it included P. G. Venkatesan in the title job and T. P. Rajalakshmi as the female lead, with L. V. Prasad, Thevaram Rajambal, T. Susheela Devi, J. Sushila, and M. S. Santhanalakshmi in supporting jobs. 

"Kalidas", primarily in Tamil, contained extra discourse in Telugu and Hindi. While Rajalakshmi communicated in Tamil, Venkatesan talked just Telugu because of his absence of familiarity with Tamil, and Prasad talked just Hindi. Notwithstanding its fanciful subject, the film highlighted melodies from a lot later timeframes, for example, the arrangements of carnatic artist Tyagaraja, exposure tunes of the Indian National Congress, and tunes about Mahatma Gandhi and the Indian autonomy development. The sound was recorded utilizing German-made innovation. "Kalidas" was shot in Bombay on the arrangements of India's first stable film "Alam Ara" (1931) and was finished in eight days. 

"Kalidas" was discharged with exclusive standards on 31 October 1931, agreeing with Diwali day. It was the main Tamil film to be delivered and discharged that year. In spite of various specialized blemishes, it got basic recognition, with commendation for Rajalakshmi's singing execution, and it turned into a noteworthy business achievement. The achievement of "Kalidas" brought forth different movies dependent on Kālidāsa, including "Mahakavi Kalidasa" (1955), "Mahakavi Kalidasu" (1960) and "Mahakavi Kalidas" (1966). 

Notwithstanding its business achievement, "Kalidas" was a noteworthy leap forward for Rajalakshmi's profession, and made her a bankable singing star. Since no print, gramophone record, or songbook of the film is known to endure, it is a lost film. 

Vidhyadhari is the girl of Vijayavarman, the lord of Thejavathi. His clergyman needs the princess to wed his child however she cannot. Irritated, the priest embarks to locate another potential spouse for Vidhyadhari. In the woods, the priest finds an unskilled cowman sitting on a tree and cutting into the branch on which he is sitting. The priest induces the cowman to go to the royal residence and has Vidhyadhari wed him. At the point when Vidhyadhari acknowledges she has been tricked, and is hitched to a farmhand, she goes to the goddess Kali for a cure. Kali shows up before her, names her better half "Kalidas" and enriches him with marvelous abstract gifts. 

Other supporting jobs were played by: Thevaram Rajambal, T. Susheela Devi, J. Sushila and, M. S. Santhanalakshmi. 

"Kalidas" is the primary sound film to be delivered in South Indian film, and the first in Tamil. It depended on the life of the Sanskrit artist and dramatist Kālidāsa. The movie was delivered by Ardeshir Irani, who coordinated India's first stable movie "Alam Ara", and was coordinated by his previous associate, H. M. Reddy, for the studio Imperial Movietone. P. G. Venkatesan was picked to assume the title job. L. V. Prasad—who later established Prasad Studios—showed up in a comic job as a sanctuary minister. Theater artiste T. P. Rajalakshmi was picked to play the female hero; as per film student of history Randor Guy, she was the "programmed decision to play the courageous woman." Before this, Rajalakshmi had acted in numerous quiet movies, and "Kalidas" was her first stable film. Supporting jobs were played by Thevaram Rajambal, T. Susheela Devi, J. Sushila, and M. S. Santhanalakshmi. The sound was recorded by German professionals utilizing German-made hardware. "Kalidas" was shot in Bombay (presently Mumbai) on the arrangements of "Alam Ara"; it was finished in eight days, utilizing either or of film, as sources contrast. Film student of history Film News Anandan expressed that "Kalidas" "was delivered in a rush, and was in fact imperfect." 

While "Kalidas" essential language was Tamil, the film's performing artists talked an assortment of dialects, including Tamil (Rajalakshmi), Telugu (Venkatesan) and Hindi (Prasad). Since Venkatesan's first language was Telugu, and he couldn't effectively articulate Tamil words, his exchange was in Telugu. As indicated by Guy, Irani was at first uncertain if the German sound account gear would record the Tamil language; to mitigate his questions, he had a few performers talk and sing in Tamil, Venkatesan in Telugu, and, in light of the fact that the hardware had officially recorded Hindi previously, he had different on-screen characters communicate in Hindi; the hardware recorded every language unmistakably. Inferable from the utilization of various dialects, sources including Film News Anandan, Birgit Meyer, and Guy have would not call "Kalidas" the primary Tamil sound film; Guy rather called it India's first multilingual film. In the 2010 book "Films of South India: Culture, Resistance, Ideology", Sowmya Dechamma states that Telugu exchanges were incorporated into the film, clearly to "increment its market potential in the two vital language markets of southern India." 

"Kalidas" included fifty melodies created and composed by Bhaskara Das. Film student of history S. Theodore Baskaran makes reference to in his 1996 book, "The Eye of the Serpent: An Introduction to Tamil Cinema", that the majority of the tunes were in Tamil. Birgit Meyer negated Baskaran in her 2009 book "Tasteful Formations", expressing that the film had Telugu tunes, a view that was bolstered by Sowmya Dechamma in "Films of South India: Culture, Resistance, Ideology". 

Despite the fact that the film depended on folklore, it included arrangements from a lot later timeframes, for example, those by the carnatic artist Tyagaraja, and Indian National Congress exposure tunes. Film News Anandan expressed Reddy was "most likely satisfied to add on anything masterful that came his direction. Pertinence was not really an issue." The 2008 book "Tamil Cinema: The Cultural Politics of India's Other Film Industry" by Selvaraj Velayutham and "Tasteful Formations" by Birgit Meyer stipulate that the nationalistic melodies included in the film had nothing to do with the primary plot, while Randor Guy states amid that period, "Verifiable exactness wasn't as vital as the music. It wasn't unprecedented for the divinities to sing current lyrics or patriot tunes." Baskaran noticed this denoted the "start of film being utilized as an instrument of political purposeful publicity." 

The devoted tune "Gandhiyin Kai Rattiname" ("The Charkha that [Mahatma] Gandhi handles"), otherwise called "Raattinamam ... Gandhi Kai Bhanamaam ...", was sung by T. P. Rajalakshmi, and was disconnected to the narrative of Kalidas; the tune praised the charkha (turning wheel), a Gandhian image of patriotism. Rajalakshmi additionally performed two of Tyagaraja's structures, "Enta Nerchina" and "Suraragadhara", the last of which depended on the "Shankarabharanam" raga, for the film. Another tune which Rajalakshmi performed, "Manmada Baanamadaa", turned out to be enormously famous, and was portrayed by Guy as "the enthusiastic upheaval of adoration by the courageous woman". Another tune, "Indhiyargal Nammavarkkul Eno Veen Sandai", talked about the Indian freedom development and the requirement for solidarity among Indians. Fellow depicted "Manmada Baanamadaa" as the "principal hit melody of Tamil Cinema". No songbook of the film is known to endure. 

A notice declaring the arrival of "Kalidas" was distributed on 30 October 1931 in "The Hindu", where it was announced that the film was the "primary talkie to be screened in the city with Tamil and Telugu tunes". "Kalidas" was first discharged dramatically at the Madras (presently Chennai) based theater Kinema Central (presently known as the Murugan Theater) on 31 October 1931, amid the bubbly event of Diwali and concurred with the Civil Disobedience Movement. 

At the point when the film reels were taken to Madras, a large number of individuals accumulated at the city's focal railroad station and pursued the reel box along Wall Tax Road to Kinema Central, tossing flower petals, tearing open coconuts, and consuming incense. The notices of the film read, "Tamil Telugu pesi paadu padam" (). A prior endeavor at creating a Tamil sound film, a four-reel short (recognized by S. Theodore Baskaran as "Korathi Dance and Songs"), was screened close by "Kalidas" as a side fascination. It featured Rajalakshmi, and the vagabond artist Jhansi Bai. In a 2015 meeting with "The Times of India", Rajalakshmi's little girl Kamala expressed that amid the film's discharge, "individuals in Madras used to remain outside venues for a separation of around 4-5km to witness [Rajalakshmi] acting in her first "pesum padam". She was invited with a thunder here. Her name was reported from speakers introduced on streets and autorickshaws, as a talkie was something new for the general population." 

"Kalidas" was economically fruitful, earning more than 75,000 (about US$25,252 in 1931) and effectively covering its financial plan of 8,000 (about US$2,693 in 1931) as per a 2013 gauge by "The Hindu Tamil". Film maker and author G. Dhananjayan said the film succeeded in light of the fact that it was a "curiosity for the crowd to observe a broad media with discoursed and melodies of their language". 

In his 1997 book "Starlight, Starbright: The Early Tamil Cinema", Randor Guy portrayed "Kalidas" as a "rough analysis" that had poor lip synchronize; when characters opened their mouths there was no stable, and when exchange or tune was heard, artistes stayed quiet. He said the open did not think about specialized amenities and rushed to see the film. Film pundit and columnist Kalki Krishnamurthy, in his survey of the film for "Ananda Vikatan", noticed that he was awestruck by the ensembles utilized. He applauded Rajalakshmi's execution and her moving however reprimanded her singing, saying that she needed to go see a specialist to get her vocal harmonies fixed. The Tamil paper "Swadesamitran" printed a good audit for "Kalidas" on 29 October 1931, two days preceding its dramatic discharge, where the analyst, as opposed to Krishnamurthy's remarks, valued Rajalakshmi's singing. 

The entry of sound in South Indian film, with the arrival of "Kalidas", set off a relocation of theater specialists into film. "Kalidas" was the main Tamil film to be created and discharged in 1931. No print or gramophone record of the film is known to endure, making it a lost film. "The Indian Express" expressed in 2014 that the film had "swung to clean" some time before the National Film Archive of India was built up in 1964. The main outstanding antiques incorporate a couple of stills, ads, and a picture of the front of the songbook. As of December 2002, Film News Anandan had safeguarded a few photos identified with the film. 

"Kalidas" was a noteworthy leap forward in Rajalakshmi's profession, and made her a "bankable singing star". Different movies dependent on the life of Kālidāsa incorporate the Kannada film "Mahakavi Kalidasa" (1955), which won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Kannada, the Hindi film "Kavi Kalidas" (1959), the Telugu film "Mahakavi Kalidasu" (1960), the Tamil film "Mahakavi Kalidas" (1966), and the Kannada film "Kaviratna Kalidasa" (1983).