Activity of 1 January 1800 

The Action of 1 January 1800 was a maritime skirmish of the Quasi-War that occurred off the bank of present-day Haiti, close to the island of Gonâve in the Bight of Léogâne. The fight was battled between an American guard of four trader vessels escorted by the United States maritime yacht , and a squadron of furnished canal boats kept an eye on by Haitians known as picaroons. 

A French-adjusted Haitian general, André Rigaud, had trained his powers to assault all outside transportation inside their scope of activities. In like manner, once "Investigation" and her guard of shipper ships neared Gonâve, the picaroons assaulted them, catching two of the American trader dispatches before pulling back. "Investigation" figured out how to spare the other two ships in her caravan, and escorted them to a well disposed port. On the American side, just the commander of the clipper "Mary" was executed. In spite of the fact that the picaroons took substantial misfortunes amid this commitment, they stayed sufficiently able to keep unleashing destruction among American dispatching in the area. Simply after Rigaud was constrained out of intensity by the powers of Toussaint L'Ouverture, pioneer of the 1791 Haitian Revolution, did the picaroon assaults stop. 

With the beginning of the Haitian Revolution in 1791, a fruitful slave disobedience on the French province, at that point known as Saint-Domingue, enabled the nearby populace to oversee the legislature. In spite of their accomplishment in expelling the French pilgrim experts, the different political groups that had caught control of the province were touchy, and battling before long broke out among them. By 1800, the War of Knives between the expert French André Rigaud and the master independence Toussaint L'Ouverture was going all out and Saint-Domingue was partitioned in two. Rigaud controlled piece of the southern bit of Saint-Domingue while L'Ouverture controlled the remainder of the French province. Needing supplies and materiel, Rigaud's powers assaulted any non-French ship that passed them. 

Simultaneously with the War of Knives, the United States and France were occupied with an episode of constrained maritime fighting in the Caribbean as a component of the Quasi-War. In late December 1799 the American outfitted yacht "Investigation" was escorting under caravan the brig "Daniel and Mary" and the boats "Ocean Flower", "Mary", and "Washington" to keep their catch by French privateers. On 1 January 1800, the escort was gotten in a dead quiet off the north side of the present-day Haitian island of Gonâve, in the Bight of Leogane. Seeing the guard soothed, Rigaud sent eleven equipped scows out to assault and catch the American vessels. 

The groups of the American trader vessels had just little arms, yet their escort, "Examination", was a significantly more dominant vessel. Directed by William Maley, the 135-ton "Investigation" was furnished with 12 six-pounder weapons and had a supplement of 70 men. In correlation, Rigaud's underlying assault constrain comprised of eleven scows manned by 40 to 50 men each in the littler ones, and 60 or 70 in the bigger vessels. These scows were fundamentally moved by paddles, with 26 for each vessel. The Haitian specialty were each outfitted with a blend of swivel weapons and four-pounder gun, with most vessels equipped with a few firearms just as little arms. Notwithstanding the vessels that set out to assault the guard, there were more freight ships and men close-by that the Haitians could call upon if fortifications were required. In all out exactly 37 freight ships and 1500 men were at Rigaud's prompt transfer, however the Americans did not know this amid the assault. Independently the Haitian canal boats exhibited just a little risk to the guard, however while assaulting "all at once" they could without much of a stretch overpower and catch the American boats on the off chance that they figured out how to board them. 

"Investigation" kept her gunports shut and passed herself off as a ship, while the Haitians cruised nearer to the guard with the aim of boarding and catching every one of the five vessels. When the Haitians were in black powder gun scope of the American vessels they opened shoot on them, and "Test" restored the discharge. Grapeshot from the Americans unleashed devastation among the Haitian freight boats and they were compelled to pull back. They remained off the American escort for thirty minutes before grounding at the close-by island of Gonâve to arrive their injured and assemble fortifications. With three additional flatboats and new teams, the picaroons set off to attack the American guard yet again. They partitioned themselves into three squadrons of four flatboats each and set course to assault "Trial". The lead and centermost divisions assaulted the sides of the American warship while the back division ambushed the stern. Amid the respite in battling "Analysis" had prepared herself for the picaroons' next ambush by situating musketeers in guarded positions, stacking her fundamental firearms, and raising boarding nets. Subsequently, when the Haitians assaulted the American warship again she was very much arranged to rebuff any endeavor at boarding her. 

For three hours, "Examination" combat the freight boats, sinking two and killing a large number of the picaroons. Amid this time two of the freight boats left the warship and assaulted the shipper ships. These flatboats figured out how to shield themselves from "Trial" by cruising behind the clipper "Mary", which was between the two canal boats and the warship. The Haitians boarded "Mary" and slaughtered her chief. A large number of the team hopped into the ocean, and the rest stowed away in the hold. The second canal boat endeavored to take "Daniel and Mary" yet was sunk by flame from "Investigation". When the Haitians had boarded "Mary", "Trial" opened shoot upon her with grapeshot, driving the picaroons off. 

The whole flotilla of Haitians yet again resigned to Gonâve and supplanted their injured crewmembers with crisp ones. Seeing that "Daniel and Mary" and "Washington" had floated away from the escort, the Haitians set out to assault them. The two non military personnel vessels, having floated excessively a long way from the insurance of "Investigation" weapons, were surrendered by their teams and travelers who fled to the American warship. The Haitians boarded and ravaged these two vessels, diverting them further from "Analysis". "Test" figured out how to draw sufficiently near to the canal boats to assault them with her gun however couldn't seek after them, as two freight boats had split far from the principle flotilla and were situated to take "Mary" and "Ocean Flower" if "Examination" left them. In the long run the leftovers of the caravan figured out how to make it to Léogâne, where they were taken care of by the American emissary. 

USS "Examination" had prevailing with regards to securing two of the guard, however the other two boats were taken by the picaroons. On the American side, just the commander of the boat "Mary" had been executed. The Americans additionally endured two injured: one regular citizen, and "Investigation" second in order David Porter, who had been shot in the arm amid the activity. In return the Haitians had lost two of their canal boats and a considerable number of losses. Rigaud's picaroons assaulted another American caravan later in the year and kept on bothering American transportation until Rigaud was expelled from Saint-Domingue toward the finish of the War of Knives. In the wake of escaping to Guadeloupe, he left for France on the boat "Diane", yet was caught and taken to Saint Kitts when "Examination" captured her on 1 October 1800. 

The activity would demonstrate disputable in the United States as a few officers' reports proposed that Lieutenant Maley, leader of "Investigation", had appeared amid the commitment. Lieutenant Porter expressed that Maley had attempted to demand surrendering to the picaroons quickly upon their landing. It was affirmed that Maley thought the circumstance was miserable because of the sheer number of expert French Haitians who were assaulting the caravan, and he had endeavored to strike the hues. 

The officers' reports likewise complimented Porter, expressing that he had spared "Analysis" and her caravan by following up on his own drive to disregard Maley's cynicism, encouraging the team to battle. Other American authorities, for example, the American emissary at Leonge who was on board the Experiment amid the activity, couldn't help contradicting Porter's allegations and rather commended Maley for his valiance. Dangers of court-military were made against Maley, yet no formal charges in regards to the episode were ever brought. On 16 July 1800 he was supplanted as authority of "Examination" by Charles Stewart. The occurrence frequented his profession until his retirement.