Rejoined 

"Rejoined" is the 78th scene of the American sci-fi TV arrangement "", the 6th of the . It initially disclosed on October 30, 1995, in communicate syndication. The scene got a record volume of input from watchers for the arrangement, both positive and negative, as it checked one of the first broadcast lesbian kisses. 

Set in the 24th century, the arrangement pursues the undertakings on Deep Space Nine, a space station situated almost a steady wormhole between the Alpha and Gamma quadrants of the Milky Way Galaxy. The plot of "Rejoined" develops the Trill species, of which Jadzia Dax is a part. They are shaped of a host and a symbiont, with the symbiont go from host to have as the past one bites the dust. In the scene, Dax is brought together with Lenara Kahn, the ex of one of its previous hosts. The two battle with their affections for each other in view of the forbidden in their species against rejoining with friends and family of previous has as they cooperate to probe wormholes. 

The scene was the primary that essayists Ronald D. Moore and René Echevarria composed together, and it was coordinated by primary cast part Avery Brooks. In the principal draft, Dax's previous accomplice was composed as male, however after this was changed, the story was cleared through studio officials. The Trill unthinkable was planned to be a moral story for homosexuality and homophobia. "Rejoined" got a Nielsen rating of seven percent on the principal communicate in syndication. Audits have been for the most part positive towards the scene in light of its message, yet there was analysis that the plot was not energizing enough and there was a negative response from certain watchers. 

Chief Benjamin Sisko (Avery Brooks) informs Lieutenant Commander Jadzia Dax (Terry Farrell) that a gathering of Trill researchers will arrive soon at Deep Space Nine to perform tests identified with wormhole material science. The Trill are an animal categories shaped of both a humanoid have and a symbiont, which are embedded into them. The symbionts live far longer than the hosts, and are moved into another host when the former one passes on. Jadzia is the eighth host of the Dax symbiont. Sisko reveals to Dax that the head researcher is Lenara Kahn (Susanna Thompson), and offers to allow Dax a time away while the Trill researchers are on board, however she turns it down. Upon Dax and Kahn's first gathering, Major Kira Nerys (Nana Visitor) sees that they are extremely acquainted with one another; Dax reveals to her that Kahn used to be her better half. Dr. Julian Bashir (Alexander Siddig) later advises Kira about the non-affiliation decides that Trill pursue with respect to the family and companions of previous has, and says that hosts of the Dax and Kahn symbionts have recently been hitched to one another. 

A gathering is held for the group, and Dax and Kahn warm to each other's organization again. A while later, they start to associate as they cooperate on Kahn's wormhole explore on board USS "Resistant". They consent to eat, yet to likewise bring Bashir along as a chaperone. At the supper, Bashir feels strange and is successfully disregarded by the two Trills. Coming back to the tests, Kahn makes the primary fake wormhole in history and Dax embraces her in festivity. Kahn's sibling Bejal (Tim Ryan), who is on the science group, addresses her independently and features his worries in regards to her contact with Dax. Notwithstanding this, Kahn goes to Dax's quarters and a talk between the two prompts a kiss; Kahn leaves before it goes any further. 

Dax trusts in Sisko that she realizes she is infatuated with her previous spouse. He reveals to her that Trill traditions imply that on the off chance that they continued their relationship, at that point they would be ousted from their homeworld and their symbionts could never be united with another host, yet that she will have his help in any case. Kahn and Dax keep on chipping away at the trial, however it turns out badly and "Rebellious" is seriously harmed. Kahn is harmed in the blast, however Dax rigs a power field over a plasma fire that enables her to achieve Kahn, going to the acknowledgment that the relationship is worth outcast. In the wake of coming back to the station, Kahn recovers from her wounds. She rules against continuing her association with Dax, and—with the examinations complete—withdraws with the science group, leaving Dax devastated. 

"Rejoined" denoted the first occasion when that long-lasting "Star Trek" journalists Ronald D. Moore and René Echevarria composed a content together. They had been enlisted by official maker Michael Piller following separate spontaneous compositions submitted amid the of "", and had stayed on the staff of the establishment since. In Echevarria's first draft of the story, there was no lesbian component as Dax's previous darling was male. The Trill unthinkable against rejoining connections from past hosts was proposed by Piller at an opportune time in the formation of "Profound Space Nine", all together for the general public to keep a "nobility of the joined", where joined has never met anybody that they didn't definitely know. 

It was Moore's recommendation to make Dax's previous accomplice a lady so as to handle the unthinkable against homosexuality by method for the on-screen forbidden against re-affiliation. At that organize, they planned to make no reference in the content to any characters having a worry about Dax's association with a lady in order to center the story. Leeway was looked for the plot, first from showrunner Ira Steven Behr, at that point official maker Rick Berman, lastly from the studio administrators. Moore later disclosed that they consented to the thought, saying that "Star Trek" represented making explanations like those in "Rejoined". 

Terry Farrell was content with the story line, saying that it appeared well and good for Dax to have this issue on the grounds that the symbiont had been in both male and female hosts, including that "Sexual orientation wasn't the issue. For the worm/symbiont, it involved the being it was encapsulated in." She was satisfied to have the capacity to "stand up" for the LGBT people group. A comparable story had been drawn closer amid the main appearance of the Trill in "The Next Generation" scene "". In this story, in any case, when the symbiont is exchanged from a male to a female host, the Trill is dismissed by the character who was the Trill's female accomplice, Beverly Crusher. The subplot highlighting Kahn's counterfeit wormhole was portrayed as a "macguffin" by Moore, and essentially an approach to get the character into "Rejoined". This was not the first subplot to be considered for the scene, with the principle plot from "" initially thought of as being appropriate to show up in either "Rejoined" or "". Rather, the plot, which included Rom shaping a worker's guild, was ventured into the primary plot of its own scene. 

The scene was coordinated by fundamental cast part Avery Brooks, who played Benjamin Sisko in the arrangement, who later said that "Rejoined" was his most loved of the scenes he coordinated. He said that the scene was about adoration, and the decisions that outcome from that, and that it was an unprecedented tale about losing somebody you cherish and having that individual reestablished to you some time a while later. Following the demise of Jadzia in the finale, "Tears of the Prophets", Farrell proposed that the symbiont could be moved to a male character bringing about a comparable circumstance as "Rejoined" between the new Dax host and Worf, as the two were seeing someone that point. Rather, the symbiont was put in another female host called Ezri, as the makers did not need Kira Nerys to be the main female primary character. The preference against re-affiliation previously featured in "Rejoined" was referenced in the scenes, for example, "". 

Special visualization managers Gary Hutzel and Glenn Neufeld were caught up with finishing after creation chip away at the opening scene of the fourth season, "". In their place, enhanced visualizations organizer David Takemura drove on the special visualizations deal with both "Rejoined" and "". For this scene, his two principle assignments were the formation of the fake wormhole and the grouping where Dax utilizes a forcefield as a walkway to achieve a caught Kahn. Takemura was mitigated that the wormhole was expected to be fake in nature, as it implied that he didn't need to endeavor to re-make the detail previously found in the Bajoran wormhole on the arrangement. When he thought of the essential plan, special visualizations organization VisionArt finished it. 

For the forcefield scene, Farrell was shot "skating" down a board painted blue against a blue screen. A blend of fluid nitrogen and high temp water was utilized to make a haze around the ground. VisionArt joined these shots with the power field and film of the designing set on board the "Disobedient", while a staff artist included a "plasma shine" around her feet as she reached the field. 

Before showing up in "Rejoined", Susanna Thompson had recently showed up in two "The Next Generation" scenes; "The Next Phase" and "". She later showed up in "" as the Borg Queen, recently depicted by Alice Krige in the film "". Farrell adulated Thompson's part in "Rejoined", considering her an "awesome on-screen character and a delight to work with". 

Journalists on "Profound Space Nine" had recently indicated a potential same-sex relationship in the scene "", when Jadzia Dax bids a fond farewell to Enina Tandro, a previous admirer of Dax's past male host, Curzon. The primary take of the scene brought about a circumstance in which it was hazy whether Dax and Enina were going to kiss. It was chosen at the time that it was not suitable, in spite of the fact that the scholars had trusted that there would be the point at which the watchers would acknowledge such a relationship. This topic was in the long run acknowledged in "Rejoined". Allen Kwan has contended that "Profound Space Nine" is the main arrangement of "Star Trek" that opposes the heteronormativity commonplace of the establishment, refering to both "Rejoined" and the Mirror Universe scenes as models, regardless of whether the displayed promiscuity is problematized. 

Amid that 1995/96 TV season there had been an expansion in the quantity of gay characters showing up in significant TV arrangement, thus the equivalent sex kiss in "Rejoined" was looked into in this unique circumstance. An article distributed by the Associated Press recommended that the kiss in "Profound Space Nine" was not genuinely an equivalent sex kiss because of "uncontrollable issues at hand"; in particular, one of the characters was an "outsider who used to take care of business". A comparable assessment was offered by Jan Johnson-Smith, creator of "American Science Fiction TV", who said that the circumstance was "vague" as, regardless of introducing an equivalent sex kiss, the scene was certain that Jadzia was "really kissing the symbiont who has the recollections of the previous host, her male darling, not the present female host". 

For film considers researcher Jean Bruce, the vagueness of the kiss is foreshadowed in an early scene rotating around an enchantment trap. From one perspective, the enchantment trap creates a "pleasurable shock", while, on the other, this mirrors the misleading fundamental, because of Trill standards, in the reacquaintance of the characters. In the meantime, the juxtaposition of altogether different shots serves to "pass on physical separation and the longing to connect it", which reflects the way that the Trills' affection for each other rises above sex, character and demise. In spite of the fact that the kiss is "educated by the way that Dax was a man in her previous existence", when it happens, it can "never be reclaimed", and remains the eccentric picture of two ladies kissing. 

In any case, "Rejoined" was still viewed as questionable due to its topic, which portrays two ladies who participate in an equivalent sex sentimental relationship, and included one of the first broadcast lesbian kisses. Over the span of the scene, no characters register worry about Dax being included with a lady, just that she was an ex-companion. David Greven, scholarly pundit and creator of "Sex and Sexuality in Star Trek", said that "Rejoined" was one of the better-got scenes of "Star Trek" that managed homosexuality as a topic, however that the establishment generally had ordinarily stayed away from LGBT issues. Bryan Fuller, who additionally composed for "Profound Space Nine", said that the establishment had for the most part maintained a strategic distance from those story lines as a result of the suspicion of the studio with respect to homosexuality. Dale Palmer, in an article on sex and sexual governmental issues, recommended that the decision was made to have a female same-sex kiss on screen in light of the fact that a male one would have distanced the primary watcher statistic for the arrangement. 

"Rejoined" was first communicated on October 30, 1995, in communicate syndication. It got Nielsen evaluations of 7 percent, putting it in eighth spot in its timeslot. This was lower than the offer gotten by "Tactlessness", communicate in the week earlier with a 7.2 percent offer and "" in the week a short time later with 7.7 percent. 

At the point when the scene was initially communicated, there was a solid negative response from certain watchers. As "Profound Space Nine" was appeared in syndication, one direct in the Southern United States made the stride of altering out the kiss from the underlying communicate. Echevarria's mom revealed to him that they ought to have issued a parental direction cautioning before communicating it. More reactions were gotten at the creation office from watchers than for some other scene of the arrangement, bringing about a few staff individuals alternating on the telephones so as to cover the heap. The staff found that in spite of the fact that most of the telephone calls were negative about "Rejoined", the letters were generally positive. Terry Farrell said in a 2015 meeting that "Rejoined" was her most loved scene ever and that regardless she had individuals saying thanks to her for the scene, since "it gave them quality, and that it made them feel like they weren't the only one, it roused them to act naturally—every one of the things I was trusting it would do." 

Zack Handlen looked into the scene for "The A.V. Club" in 2013, commending the normal way in which the sentiment was advanced, saying this was "reviving" to see. He felt that the relationship did not seem, by all accounts, to be manipulative for male watchers, yet included that the consummation was normal and that the scene never conveyed to the gathering of people the need to think about the team. Handlen composed that the general story itself was "shallow", as the scene experienced an "enervating absence of fun" which was just spared from "complete repetitiveness" through "solid acting and an excellent absence of disgrace". Jordon Hoffman, auditing the scene on his site, remarked that Farrell's acting "truly ventures up to the plate" for this scene, and gave "Rejoined" a rating of five out of five. 

Keith DeCandido, in 2014 audit on Tor.com, looked at "Rejoined" fundamentally to "The Next Generation" scene "", which additionally had an "adoration enthusiasm for threat peak". He commended the scene, saying that at the season of communicate it was considered "radical" and said that both Farrell and Thompson figured out how to get over the sentimental message. He considered it a ""Trek" message" scene, yet said that it was one of the better ones as it "sparkles a light on an insufficiency in our very own way of life through an outsider culture, however for this situation it muddies the waters a bit on the grounds that the forbidden really bodes well on its essence". He gave "Rejoined" a rating of eight out of ten. 

Dara Gellman, an autonomous Canadian video craftsman, utilized the kiss succession in "Rejoined" as the premise of her 3-minute 1999 task "outsider kisses". In this piece, the kiss scene is controlled—the video is moderated, the picture developed and digitized—and daze music is included. New media researcher Carolyn Guertin contends that this serves to make the recording "considerably progressively outsider", introducing eccentricity as "ridiculous". Jean Bruce contends that, regardless of the natural vagueness of the scene in the scene, "the picture is as yet one of two ladies kissing, which opens up the conceivable outcomes of strange want alone terms". Likewise, Guertin contends that Gellman interprets the (not really strange) scene into a "declaration of gay love that is outsider and separated, yet no less suggestive for being so". In utilizing the scene in confinement, "outsider kisses", Bruce contends, "strips away the sex evasion by forcing another eccentric vision". She proposes that "outsider kisses" fills in as an "antitoxin" to the "at last manageable treatment" "Star Trek" has offered of strange subjects, and as a "recommendation" that "Star Trek" recognize the wants of eccentric watchers and fans "past the intermittent titillating scene". 

The primary home media arrival of "Rejoined" was on a VHS tape nearby "Tactlessness" on March 25, 1996, in the United Kingdom. The primary discharge inside the United States was on a solitary scene VHS discharge on August 1, 2000. It was discharged on DVD as a major aspect of the period four box set on August 5, 2003.