Neil Brooks 

Neil Brooks (brought into the world 27 July 1962) is an Australian previous dash free-form swimmer best known for winning the 4 × 100 m variety transfer at the 1980 Olympics in Moscow as a component of the "Discreetly Confident Quartet". Rivulets was as much referred to for his swimming accomplishments as he was for disciplinary occurrences. He regularly ended up in struggle with officialdom and undermined with authorizations. His global profession finished when he was suspended for drinking 46 jars of brew on the arrival trip to Australia after the 1986 Commonwealth Games. In retirement, he turned into a news moderator and sports pundit, yet was terminated in the midst of liquor issues. 

Conceived in England, Brooks emigrated to Australia as a little child and began swimming exercises after about suffocating in a youth mishap. After at first being known for his absence of strategy, Brooks rapidly ascended through the young positions. Streams made his introduction at the Australian Championships in 1976, however it was not until 1979 that he medalled at national dimension and made his presentation for Australia at a FINA (Fédération Internationale de Natation) Swimming World Cup meet. In 1980, he picked up unmistakable quality by breaking the Australian record in the 100 m free-form and being welcome to a national group camp. There he had his first conflict with officialdom, exiting in the wake of blaming the authorities for ignoring him. He at that point met all requirements for the Australian group for the 1980 Moscow Olympics, opposing political strain to blacklist the Games in the wake of the Soviet intrusion of Afghanistan. Touching base in Moscow, Brooks' involvement in the 100 m free-form was an undesirable one, enduring an asthma assault and missing the last. The pinnacle of his swimming vocation came in the 4 × 100 m variety hand-off, when he got and passed the Soviet Union's Sergey Kopliakov amid the stay leg to seal a tight triumph for Australia. This triumph remains the main time that the United States did not win the occasion at Olympic dimension. 

Following the Olympics, Brooks was ousted from the Australian Institute of Sport by Don Talbot for disciplinary reasons. He acknowledged a swimming grant at the University of Arkansas, where he delighted in the more liberal disciplinary benchmarks. He came back to Australia for the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane and again got under the skin of authorities amid a preliminary preparing camp. In the wake of campaigning for improved settlement conditions, Brooks was associated with a physical fight with the group director. Subsequently, he was given a suspension that was to produce results after the Commonwealth Games. Notwithstanding, his colleagues dissented and took steps to exit, bringing about the boycott being repealed. Regardless of the violent readiness, Brooks had a fruitful meet, winning the 100 m free-form and tying down the 4 × 100 m free-form and variety transfers to gold awards. Creeks contended at his second Olympics in Los Angeles in 1984 Games, where he won silver in the 4 × 100 m free-form hand-off and bronze for swimming the warms of the variety transfer. Rivulets' global vocation finished at the 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh with silver in the 100 m free-form and gold in the free-form transfer. Rivulets resigned in the wake of being suspended for his drinking glut amid the arrival trip. He later turned into a swimming observer however was sacked in 1998 after a disciplinary episode. 

A single tyke, Brooks was conceived in Crewe, England, before moving to Western Australia when he was four, alongside his average workers guardians Mick and Norah. His first sea-going experience was nearly his last. Matured seven, he was playing with a companion on the shore of the Swan River when they moved into a watercraft that floated further into water and upset. Rivulets was compelled to stick to the vessel as his companion swam aground to look for help. His folks quickly selected him in swimming exercises at the Marylands Swim Club. Not long after, he changed to the tutelage of Kevin Duff, who trained him for the following fifteen years. After only a month and a half under Duff, Brooks came third in the 50 m breaststroke at the State Age Championships. In spite of training any semblance of Olympic medallists Kevin O'Halloran, Lyn McClements, David Dickson and Lynne Watson, Duff was for all intents and purposes obscure outside Western Australia. Rivulets was known for his insubordinate nature, and had a sparkling evaluation of his mentor, opining that "He's not pushy like numerous other Australian mentors and he's not in the governmental issues of Australian swimming". 

Streams went to Hale Primary School and prepared at Beatty Park Pool, routinely ruling the State Age Championships. He won bronze in the 100 m and 200 m backstroke, and silver in the 200 m free-form at the 1974 Australian Age Championships. Inferable from an absence of style, he was referred to amid his elementary school a very long time as "Basher Brooks", however when he entered Churchlands Senior High School, his stroke had turned out to be all the more in fact refined. By the by, he was constantly positive about his psychological capacity, expressing "before I just swam on guts, presently I had the stroke just as the guts. I was dependably the hardest child in the race." 

At 13 years old, Brooks endured lost certainty. In the wake of being champion in each of the four strokes for the past four years, he was presently much of the time losing. Different youngsters had developed more toward the beginning of their youthfulness and he was attempting to coordinate them. Inside a year, Brooks' physical development started to get up to speed and he began to recover the predominant position. He additionally changed from separation to run occasions. 

In 1976, at 13 years old, Brooks contended at his first open Australian Championships, however did not increase any platform completes and in that capacity missed choice in the group for the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal. Around the same time, the Australian group came to Perth for its pre-Olympic preparing camp and were billeted in the homes of individuals from the nearby swimming network. Streams' family took his future hand-off colleague Mark Tonelli, who had a notoriety for indiscipline. Streams, be that as it may, was propelled by Tonelli and refered to him as a key inspiring element in him needing to turn into an Olympian. 

Amid the 1976– 77 season, Brooks came to noticeable quality as a conceivable Australian agent sprinter. He broke six records in winning two occasions at the 1977 Western Australian Championships. He swam the 100 m free-form in 56.56 s, breaking the state records for 14-, 15-, and 16-year-olds, before rehashing the accomplishment in the 200 m backstroke. Still matured 14, he contended at his second Australian Championships and came fourth in the 100 m free-form. In 1978, he came third in the 100 m free-form and missed choice for the 1978 Commonwealth Games in Edmonton, Canada by 0.03 s. He spent the remainder of the year preparing and contemplating bookkeeping at Leederville Technical College. Amid the year, Brooks set Australian age aggregate records in the 200 m individual variety, the 200 m backstroke and the 100 m free-form. At the debut Australian Short Course Championships in Launceston, Tasmania in 1979, he won silver in the 200 m individual variety and bronze in the 100 m free-form. His exhibitions earned him choice in the Australian group out of the blue, contending in the FINA Swimming World Cup occasion in Tokyo in April 1979, matured 16 years and nine months. 

Matured 17, Brooks swam 51.91 s in Perth in January 1980, breaking Tonelli's Australian record in the 100 m free-form. Subsequently, he was welcome to his first national preparing camp under Bill Sweetenham for forthcoming Olympic swimmers. He had the first of his numerous conflicts with brandishing overseers, first guaranteeing that the authorities did not need him to load up with Tonelli's family and afterward expressing that Sweetenham had just instructed him a few times, which he felt was deficient. Creeks left the camp and came back to Perth to prepare under Duff. At the Australian Championships, the 100 m was viewed as a conflict among Tonelli and Brooks. The last came next in the 100 m free-form, outsprinted in the diminishing stages by Tonelli, who recovered his national record in a period of 51.80 s. Thus, Brooks was chosen in both the individual occasion and the 4 × 100 m variety hand-off. 

In any case, another obstruction emerged with the Soviet attack of Afghanistan, which brought about a blacklist of the Games by a substantial piece of the Western World, driven by the United States. The Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser was likewise the benefactor of the Australian Olympic Committee, and huge political weight came to endure on the competitors to blacklist the Games. Tonelli, nonetheless, understood that just the sportspeople would experience the ill effects of a blacklist and that exchange relations would proceed with unabated. He played a position of authority among the competitors to battle for their entitlement to contend. 

The 4 × 100 m mixture transfer was the point of convergence of Brooks' Moscow battle and it came just two days before his eighteenth birthday celebration. The occasion had dependably been won by the United States since its origin at Olympic dimension in 1960, and their blacklist had opened up the field in the occasion. In the multiple times the occasion had been challenged, Australia's best outcome was a silver in the debut race. A bronze in 1964 was the main other award achievement and the 1976 version of the mixture transfer had seen Australia disposed of in the warms. This time, Australia were viewed as a decoration shot, however were not seen as the principle dangers; Sweden, Great Britain and the Soviet Union were the most vigorously liked groups. The hosts flaunted the silver medallists in the 100 m backstroke and breaststroke, and their butterflyer had come fifth; their freestyler would put fourth a couple of days after the fact. The British had Duncan Goodhew, the breaststroke gold medallist, while Sweden's butterflyer and backstroker had won their individual occasions and their free-form swimmer would come next in the 100 m. On paper, Australia's group failed to measure up. Dwindle Evans was the main individual medallist over a 100 m race, asserting bronze in the breaststroke. Imprint Kerry had been disposed of in the backstroke elimination rounds, while Tonelli was swimming as a temporary butterflyer, notwithstanding having performed superior to Kerry in the 100 m backstroke. Adding to the weight was the way that Australia won no gold awards at the 1976 Olympics in any game, and were yet to win in Moscow, so the open were all the while anticipating their first triumph since Munich in 1972. Coming into the Olympics, Australia were positioned seventh out of the thirteen contending nations. Australia's prospects improved after the morning warms in which Sweden was excluded. Tonelli, the oldest swimmer in the group of four at 23 years old, met the group as its "accepted" pioneer. He asked his colleagues to focus on swimming their legs in a specific time; Kerry pledged to swim the backstroke in 57 s, Evans the breaststroke in 63 s level, Tonelli the butterfly in 54 s and Brooks guaranteed to stay the group in 49.8 s, despite the fact that he had never gone quicker than 51 s. Tonelli named the foursome as the "Unobtrusively Confident Quartet", and they displayed a tranquil certainty as they arranged for the race. 

Kerry begun in a quicker time than he had checked in the individual occasion, however it was as yet two seconds slower than his own best time of 57.87 s. This left Australia in fourth spot toward the finish of the primary leg. Evans at that point swam an individual best of 63.01 s, leaving the group practically level with the host country at the midway imprint. Tonelli then swam his leg in 54.94 s, just about two seconds quicker than his past best. He did as such with an uneven arm procedure because of the dissimilarity in the quality of his arms. He started to lose ground in the last 50 m and was a bodylength behind until a late flood brought him to inside a meter of the lead before the finish of his leg. Rivulets at that point made an amazing, all around planned plunge and surfaced practically even with his Soviet partner. At the midway imprint, he had drawn dimension and made a better turn than lead the pack. The Soviet freestyler Kopliakov pulled level at the 25 m imprint before Brooks again dashed away to seal an Australian triumph by 0.22 s. He didn't take in the last ten meters, and professed to snicker for the last five meters, sure that his adversary couldn't pass him. The Australian freestyler had completed his leg in 49.86 s as he had pledged to his partners. The season of 3 m 45.70 s fixed Australia's first historically speaking success in a mixture hand-off at the Olympics, for men or ladies. Streams committed the group's success to his mom, who had kicked the bucket from disease the past Christmas. After coming back to Australia, he was welcomed as a legend, however he considered resigning because of fading want for progress after his triumph in Moscow. In 2000, Brooks and different individuals from the group of four were each granted the Australian Sports Medal for their triumph in Moscow. 

In the individual occasion, which happened after the transfer, Brooks had come measure up to first in his warmth with inevitable bronze medallist Per Johansson from Sweden in a period of 52.11 s. This made him the seventh quickest qualifier for the semi-finals, yet he endured an extreme asthma assault and must be hospitalized. He swam the semi-last in any case, in spite of showing at least a bit of kindness rate before the beginning of race of 120, contrasted with his standard 72. He completed seventh in a period of 52.70 s, which saw him place fourteenth, missing the last by 0.83 s. 

Rivulets experienced an absence of inspiration after the Olympics. He was selected to the Australian Institute of Sport by swimming mentors Bill Sweetenham and Dennis Pursley, yet his stay was brief. The debut executive Don Talbot, a previous head mentor of the Australian swimming group, ousted him for indiscipline. He at that point won the 1981 Australian title in the 100 m free-form without preparing, however his season of 52.61 s was significantly slower than his own best. Creeks at that point acknowledged a grant to go to the University of Arkansas to prepare under Sam Freas. He appreciated the more liberal culture in the American university framework, especially the connection among swimmers and their mentors. He delighted in the less paternalistic treatment that the mentors concurred to their swimmers, saying that "In Australia, after a race they need to secure you your room. In America, you can impart a brew after the meet to the mentor." The shortcourse pools utilized in the United States played under the control of Brooks, as his solid legs gave him favorable position in pushing far from the turns, which came twice as regularly in contrast with longcourse (50 m) pools. He had at first intended to remain in the United States for just a year, yet chose to broaden his stay by a year, having delighted in the high recurrence of hustling and the acknowledgment concurred to college competitors in the United States. In the two years, he won the 50 m and 100 m free-form twofold in the Southwest Conference, and was fourth in the 100 m free-form at the 1981 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Championships. He additionally came next in the 100 m free-form at the AACC Championships to Rowdy Gaines, who proceeded to win the occasion at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics. 

In spite of his accomplishments in America, the Australian Swimming Union did not offer to finance an arrival home for Brooks for the 1982 Australian Championships, yet the University of Arkansas paid his toll as a reward for his exhibitions in university rivalry. Notwithstanding neglecting to protect his 100 m title, he fit the bill for the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane. The group at that point went into a five-week preparing camp in the shoreline Sydney suburb of South Coogee. The group dwelled at a transient inn, which at the time was basically involved by Vietnamese outcasts from the Vietnam War. Creeks stood up about the nature of the settlement, driving authorities to make enhancements. 

Rivulets' dissents against the settlement was dominated by a much-promoted physical encounter with a group official. He called his mentor in the United States to make return travel game plans for the finish of the Commonwealth Games. Because of the distinction in time zones, he made his call after the group check in time, provoking group administrator Jeff Hare to endeavor to separate the line. After Hare took steps to remove him from the group, Brooks lost his temper and stuck the supervisor against the divider. The swimmer was brought to a gathering with ASU authorities the next day, where he stayed unrepentant. He got a one-month boycott, compelling after the finish of the Commonwealth Games. Creeks requested that if the ASU were to suspend him, they ought to do as such promptly for the Commonwealth Games, as opposed to giving him a chance to contend and win decorations before rebuffing him. His grumblings about the preparation conditions had picked up the consideration of his partners, and a few senior swimmers took steps to leave on the off chance that he was restricted. At last, the ASU revoked the suspension. Rivulets has remained firmly condemning of the frame of mind of swimming administration, asserting that "such a large number of authorities anticipate unquestioning dutifulness", requiring the arrangement of a swimmers' panel. 

Touching base in Brisbane for the Commonwealth Games, Brooks and a portion of his kindred sprinters shaved their heads, something that got much consideration from the Australian open. He won his warmth of the 100 m free-form in a Commonwealth and Commonwealth Games record of 51.09 s. He swam slower in the last, however his season of 51.14 s was sufficient to verify the gold award in a nearby challenge. Simply 0.43 s isolated him and the bronze and silver medallists Greg Fasala and Michael Delany, both of Australia. 

Rivulets at that point won gold as a component of the triumphant 4 × 100 m free-form hand-off, tying down the group of Fasala, Delany and Graeme Brewer to a triumph by just about three seconds, putting in a split of 50.56 s. The shaven-headed group of four was named the "Mean Machine". He gathered another gold in the variety transfer, consolidating with David Orbell, Evans and Jon Sieben, this time finishing his free-form grapple leg in 50.44 s. Canada had completed the race a long ways in front of the Australians, yet were precluded for an early changeover. After the amusements, Brooks finished the American school season before coming back to Australia. He was named as Western Australia's Sportsman of the Year. 

Streams came into the 1984 Australian Championships as the top choice, however this time he was forced to bear a nearby outcome. He set third in the 100 m free-form behind Mark Stockwell and Delany, missing individual determination by 0.05 s. The trio was isolated by an aggregate of just 0.15 s. Chosen as a transfer swimmer just, he went to Los Angeles planning to win the 4 × 100 m free-form hand-off, an occasion that the United States had constantly won. 

Amid the warms, the Australian group of Brooks, Fasala, Delany and Stockwell demonstrated their goal to deny the Americans the gold out of the blue at Olympic dimension. Drawn nearby the Americans in the third and last warmth, the Australians set another Olympic record of 3 m 19.94 s. Creeks begun in the warmth, setting a period of 50.36 s, before Stockwell made up a shortfall of 0.41 s amid the grapple leg to beat the hosts by 0.20 s. Australia and the United States had stepped their position on the occasion, qualifying just about four seconds quicker than third-set Sweden. In any case, the Americans had more speed for possible later use, having rested 200 m free-form silver medalist Mike Heath and 100 m free-form gold medallist Rowdy Gaines, though Australia utilized its full-quality group. 

In the last, Australian mentor Terry Buck exchanged the swimming request, putting Fasala as the leadoff leg, while the Americans got Heath and Gaines. Fasala's season of 51.00 s put the Australians second at the primary change, behind the Americans, for whom Chris Cavanaugh had assembled a 0.17 s lead. After the main leg, the race was still close—0.90 s isolated every one of the groups. Streams finished his leg in 49.36 s, the fourth quickest in the race, 0.24 s quicker than his American partner Heath, giving the Australians a thin 0.07 s lead at the midpoint. Australia and the United States had split far from the field, which was presently the best piece of two seconds financially past due. In any case, the Australian lead was brief. Matt Biondi took 0.59 s from Delany and Gaines took another 0.13 s from Stockwell, as the United States won in a world record time of 3 m 19.03 s. Australia were 0.65 s behind with Sweden a further 2.99 s financially past due. Creeks stayed determined that it is possible that he or Stockwell ought to have opened, expressing that "the gold was ready for whoever gets there first". 

Creeks gathered a bronze in the mixture hand-off in the wake of swimming the free-form leg in the warms before being supplanted by first-decision Stockwell in the last. Contending in the third and last warmth, Australia and the United States were equivalent at the last change before Brooks posted the quickest free-form leg in the warms, hauling out a 0.40 s edge over Tom Jager. Australia again qualified quickest, yet the Americans again had more available for later, having rested the majority of their first-decision group of four in the warms. Stockwell joined with Kerry, Evans and Glenn Buchanan to complete behind the United States and Canada in the last, missing silver by simply 0.02 s. Australia enhanced their passing time by just 0.68 s, while the Americans accelerated by 5.03 s. 

In 1985, Brooks dead-warmed with Stockwell in the 100 m free-form at the Australian Championships, timing a period of 51.12 s. He at that point joined with Tom Stachewicz, Paul Lee and Barry Armstrong, as Western Australia won the 4 × 100 m free-form hand-off out of the blue. Rivulets kept up his structure and notwithstanding not shielding his Australian 100 m title, was chosen for the 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, where he came next to Fasala in the 100 m free-form in a period of 51.01 s. He guaranteed gold in the 4 × 100 m free-form hand-off alongside Fasala, Stockwell and Matthew Renshaw, mooring the group of four in setting a Commonwealth Games record. On the arrival flight, he devoured 46 jars of brew and was restricted for a half year after he discussed the occurrence amid a TV meet. In his diaries, Talbot, a non-consumer, refered to Brooks and his Mean Machine colleagues as being one of the greatest defenders of a hard-drinking society that had pervaded the Australian swimming scene at the time. Specifically, he singled out Brooks just like a point of convergence of troublesome action amid his time at the Australian Institute of Sport. Talbot considers liquor to be the principle explanation for the breakdown of Australia's remaining in the swimming scene during the 1970s and the ensuing delayed time of universal uncompetitiveness during the 1980s. 

Streams resigned from that point, moving to Nambour, Queensland and beginning a musical gang called "The Union". He played the electric guitar, and furthermore composed his very own music and melodies. He additionally spoken to Western Australia in water polo and indoor cricket and played Australian tenets football at region level. 

Having moved on from the University of Arkansas with a degree in reporting in 1985, Brooks entered the media. Prior to his graduation, he had been a cadet with the Seven Network in Perth for a long time, perusing the games fragment on the weekday nightly news. He was a correspondent at the 1988, 1992 and 1996 Summer Olympics. Beside covering the swimming and water polo, he additionally commentated on volleyball and in 1998, he called different downhill skiing occasions at the Nagano Winter Olympics. Locally, Brooks called Australian Football League matches and read the games section on the weekday nightly news for the Seven Network. For a long time, he facilitated "Brooksy's Footy Show", a Western Australian travel/occasion show called "Wild West", and in the number one spot up to the Sydney Olympics, co-facilitated "The Games" with Tracey Holmes. 

Be that as it may, Brooks' vocation started to disentangle in the late-1990s. He ended up dependent on liquor, prompting a progression of on-screen occurrences. He once read the games news section while intoxicated, and was then engaged with an inebriated contention with the Nine Network's Australian standards football intellectual Sam Newman. In mid 1999, Seven suspended Brooks from on-screen obligations for about a month and a half after he made remarks that they considered to be "bland and hostile". In a meeting with a magazine that had not been approved by Seven, Brooks was asked what occasion he was anticipating most at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, and answered "The after-Olympics piss-up". He was in the long run sacked, denying him the chance to commentate on the swimming occasions and costing him a yearly compensation of AUD700,000. 

In late 2000, Brooks was pronounced bankrupt by the Federal Court in Perth subsequent to neglecting to reimburse a 14,941.64 obligation to BankWest. In May 2001, the police attacked Brooks' Perth home and found a meter-high cannabis plant. Creeks guaranteed that the plant had a place with a companion, and after that declared that he would leave the state. Having moved to South Australia in 2003, Brooks began "Nearby", which he charged as the state's driving way of life magazine. The endeavor was run exclusively by him and his better half, and was ruled by promoting. Columnist Peter FitzSimons reprimanded the absence of syntax checking and copyediting, refering to a statement from Kieren Perkins, which was rendered in this manner in the production: "I was elated. Winning is something you endeavor to do yet when I consider every one of the variables being hitched two kids twenty seven years old contending in my third Games and I broke fifteen minutes twice in two days it truly was very extraordinary and however you cut it Grant Hackett was only the up and coming age of swimmer [sic]." Brooks stood 200 cm and weighed 95 kg amid his vocation, yet in the early piece of the 21st century battled a fight with corpulence, in the wake of swelling to 150 kg. Starting at 2007, he had lost generous weight and warded off his liquor issues. 

Rivulets later turned into an accomplice in Nitro Energy Drink Company, which was associated with motorsport sponsorship. In any case, the firm experienced money related inconvenience and he had a dropping out with his colleague. In 2009, Brooks was expelled from the board and the organization was put into organization, and both he and his previous accomplice have begun legitimate procedures. 

Rivulets' first marriage was to Lynette Quinlivan in January 1985. Their child Luke is an individual from the Australian water polo group, playing as a goalkeeper. In 2000, he wedded his third spouse Elle. 

On 13 October 2017 Linda Brooks was captured in Perth in the wake of returning there from Bali. A removal solicitation to Queensland was allowed. Police there wish to scrutinize her over a supposed extortion in 2008 identifying with a games garments organization which she was an executive of. They additionally wish to scrutinize her better half Neil. On 13 November she is expected to show up under the watchful eye of a Brisbane judge's court.