Marjorie Cameron 

Marjorie Cameron Parsons Kimmel (April 23, 1922 – June 24, 1995), who expertly utilized the mononym Cameron, was an American craftsman, writer, performing artist, and medium. A devotee of Thelema, the new religious development set up by the English medium Aleister Crowley, she was hitched to rocket pioneer and individual Thelemite Jack Parsons. 

Conceived in Belle Plaine, Iowa, Cameron volunteered for administrations in the United States Navy amid the Second World War, after which she settled in Pasadena, California. There she met Parsons, who trusted her to be the "essential" lady that he had conjured in the beginning periods of a progression of sex enchantment customs called the Babalon Working. They went into a relationship and were hitched in 1946. Their relationship was regularly stressed, in spite of the fact that Parsons started her association in Thelema and mystery. After Parsons' demise in a blast at their home in 1952, Cameron came to speculate that her significant other had been killed and started customs to speak with his soul. Moving to Beaumont, she built up a multi-racial mysterious gathering called The Children, which committed itself to sex supernatural ceremonies with the purpose of delivering blended race "moon kids" who might be dedicated to the god Horus. The gathering before long broke down, to a great extent in light of the fact that a significant number of its individuals ended up worried by Cameron's inexorably whole-world destroying forecasts. 

Coming back to Los Angeles, Cameron become a close acquaintence with the socialite Samson De Brier and built up herself inside the city's vanguard aesthetic network. Among her companions were the movie producers Curtis Harrington and Kenneth Anger. She showed up in two of Harrington's movies, "The Wormwood Star" and "Night Tide", just as in Anger's film "Introduction of the Pleasure Dome". In later years, she showed up in craftsmanship house films made by John Chamberlain and Chick Strand. Once in a while staying in one spot for long, amid the 1960s she lived in Joshua Tree, San Francisco, and Santa Fe. In 1955, she brought forth a girl, Crystal Eve Kimmel. Albeit discontinuous medical issues kept her from working, her craft and verse brought about a few shows. From the late 1970s until her demise from disease in 1995, Cameron lived in a cabin in West Hollywood, where she brought up her girl and grandkids, sought after her interests in obscurity, and created craftsmanship and verse. 

Cameron's acknowledgment as a craftsman expanded after her demise, when her artistic creations showed up in displays over the U.S. Because of expanded consideration on Parsons, Cameron's life likewise increased more noteworthy inclusion in the mid 2000s. In 2006, the Cameron– Parsons Foundation was made to save and advance her work, and in 2011 a life story of Cameron composed by Spencer Kansa was distributed. 

Cameron was conceived in Belle Plaine, Iowa, on April 23, 1922. Her dad, railroad specialist Hill Leslie Cameron, was the embraced offspring of a Scots-Irish family; her mom, Carrie Cameron ("née" Ridenour), was of Dutch parentage. She was their first tyke, and was trailed by three kin: James (b. 1923), Mary (b. 1927), and Robert (b. 1929). They lived on the wealthier north part of town, in spite of the fact that life was by and by hard because of the Great Depression. Cameron went to Whittier Elementary School and Belle Plaine High School, where she excelled at craftsmanship, English, and show however fizzled polynomial math, Latin, and civics exercises. She additionally took part in sports, joy club, and chorale. Relating that one of her beloved companions had ended it all and that she also had considered it, she portrayed herself as an insubordinate tyke, asserting that "I turned into the town pariah ... No one would let their child close me". She had sexual associations with different men; after Cameron wound up pregnant, her mom played out an unlawful home premature birth. In 1940, the Cameron family moved to Davenport so Hill could work at the Rock Island Arsenal weapons processing plant. Cameron finished her last year of secondary school training at Davenport High School. Leaving school, she functioned as a showcase craftsman in a neighborhood retail establishment. 

Following the United States' entrance into the Second World War, Cameron agreed to accept the Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service, a piece of the United States Navy, in February 1943. At first sent to a preparation camp at Iowa State Teachers College in Cedar Falls, she was hence presented on Washington D.C., where she filled in as a cartographer for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Over the span of these obligations, she met U.K. PM Winston Churchill in May 1943. She was reassigned to the Naval Photographic Unit in Anacostia, where she functioned as a closet fancy woman for publicity documentaries, and amid this period met different Hollywood stars. At the point when her sibling James came back to the U.S. harmed from administration abroad, she went AWOL and came back to Iowa to consider him, to be an aftereffect of which she was court– martialed and kept to dormitory for the remainder of the war. For no good reason to her, she got a decent release from the military in 1945. To join her family, she went to Pasadena, California, where her dad and siblings had looked for some kind of employment at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). 

In Pasadena, Cameron kept running into a previous associate, who welcomed her to visit the huge American Craftsman-style house where he was at present cabin, 1003 Orange Grove Avenue, otherwise called "The Parsonage". The house was supposed in light of the fact that its rent was claimed by Jack Parsons, a scientific genius who had been an establishing individual from the JPL and who was additionally a passionate adherent of Thelema, another religious development established by English soothsayer Aleister Crowley in 1904. Parsons was the leader of the Agape Lodge, a part of the Thelemite Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO). Unbeknownst to Cameron, Parsons had quite recently completed a progression of customs utilizing Enochian enchantment with his companion and guest L. Ron Hubbard, all with the goal of pulling in a "basic" lady to be his darling. After experiencing Cameron with her particular red hair and blue eyes, Parsons believed her to be the person whom he had summoned. After they met at The Parsonage on January 18, 1946, they were immediately pulled in to one another and went through the following two weeks in Parsons' room together. In spite of the fact that Cameron was unconscious of it, Parsons considered this to be a type of sex enchantment that established piece of the Babalon Working, a ceremony to conjure the introduction of Thelemite goddess Babalon onto Earth in human structure. 

Amid a short visit to New York City to see a companion, Cameron found that she was pregnant and chosen to have a premature birth. Parsons in the interim had established an organization with Hubbard and Hubbard's better half Sara Northrup, Allied Enterprises, into which he contributed his life reserve funds. It ended up clear that Hubbard was a certainty cheat, who attempted to escape with Parsons' cash, bringing about the finish of their companionship. Coming back to Pasadena, Cameron comforted Parsons, illustrating Northrup with her legs disjoined underneath the knee. Parsons chose to sell The Parsonage, which was then annihilated for redevelopment, and the couple moved to Manhattan Beach. On October 19, 1946, he and Cameron wedded at the San Juan Capistrano town hall in Orange County, in an administration seen by his closest companion Edward Forman. Having an abhorrence for all religion, Cameron at first checked out Parsons' Thelemite convictions and mysterious practices, in spite of the fact that he kept up that she had a vital predetermination, giving her the mystical name of "Candida", frequently abbreviated to "Treats", which turned into her moniker. 

In the winter of 1947, Cameron ventured out from New York to Paris on board the "SS America" with the expectation of considering workmanship at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière, which she trusted would concede her with a letter of suggestion from Pasadena's Art Center School. She additionally needed to visit England and meet with Crowley and disclose to him Parsons' Babalon Working. Cameron learned upon her entry in Paris that Crowley had kicked the bucket and that she had not been admitted to the school. She discovered post-war Paris "outrageous and somber", got to know Juliette Gréco, and went through three weeks in Switzerland before returning home. At the point when Cameron created catalepsy, Parsons proposed that she read Sylvan Muldoon's books on astral projection and urged her to peruse James Frazer's "The Golden Bough", Heinrich Zimmer's "The King and the Corpse", and Joseph Campbell's "The Hero with a Thousand Faces". Despite the fact that regardless she didn't acknowledge Thelema, she turned out to be progressively keen on the mysterious, and specifically the utilization of the tarot. 

Parsons' and Cameron's relationship was weakening and they thought about separation. While Cameron visited the creative cooperative at San Miguel de Allende in Mexico and become a close acquaintence with the craftsman Renate Druks, Parsons moved into a house in Redondo Beach and was engaged with a short association with an Irishwoman named Gladis Gohan before Cameron returned. By March 1951, Parsons and Cameron had moved to the mentor house at 1071 South Orange Grove, while he started work at the Bermite Powder Company, developing explosives for the film business. They began holding parties yet again that were gone to generally by bohemians and individuals from the beat age, and Cameron went to the jazz clubs of Central Avenue with her companion, the artist Julie Macdonald. Cameron delivered outlines for style magazines and sold a portion of her compositions, including some acquired by a companion, the craftsman Jirayr Zorthian. Parsons and Cameron had chosen to go to Mexico for a couple of months. On the day preceding they intended to leave—June 17, 1952—he got a surge request of explosives for a film set, and started take a shot at the request at his home. Amidst this undertaking, a blast annihilated the structure, lethally injuring Parsons. He was hurried to medical clinic, however was pronounced dead. Cameron did not have any desire to see his body and withdrew to San Miguel, asking her companion George Frey to manage the incineration. 

While in Mexico, Cameron started performing blood ceremonies in the desire for speaking with Parsons' soul; amid these, she slit her very own wrists. As a feature of these customs, she professed to have gotten another mysterious character, Hilarion. When she discovered that a unidentified flying article had been seen over Washington D.C's. Capitol Building she thought of it as a reaction to Parsons' demise. Following two months, she came back to California and endeavored suicide. Progressively intrigued by mystery, she read through her better half's papers. Grasping his Thelemic convictions, she came to comprehend his motivation in completing the Babalon Working and furthermore came to trust that the soul of Babalon had been manifested into herself. She came to trust that Parsons had been killed by the police or enemies of zionists, and proceeded with her endeavors at astral projection to cooperative with his soul. 

Her psychological soundness was disintegrating, and she ended up persuaded that an atomic test on Eniwetok Atoll would result in the demolition of the California coast. There is uncertain proof that she was regulated in a mental ward amid this period, before having a concise illicit relationship with African-American jazz player Leroy Booth, a relationship that would have been unlawful at the time. Sooner or later in this period, she remained with the Thelemite Wilfred Talbot Smith and his significant other, in spite of the fact that he suspected that she had "bats in the spire" and disregarded what he depicted as her "Frantic Mental Meanderings". 

In December 1952 Cameron moved to an abandoned farm in Beaumont. With the guide of Druks and Paul Mathison, she accumulated a free coterie of otherworldly experts around herself which she called "The Children". Purposefully involving individuals from different races, she directed a scope of sex enchantment customs with the goal of making a type of blended race "moonchildren" who might be given to Horus. She ended up pregnant because of these rituals, and named her anticipated kid "the Wormwood Star", in spite of the fact that the pregnancy finished in premature delivery. After some time, a large number of Cameron's partners inside The Children removed themselves from her, specifically on account of her undeniably prophetically catastrophic proclamations; she guaranteed that Mexico was going to vanquish the U.S., that a race war was going to break out in the Old World, and that a comet would hit the Earth, and that a flying saucer would save her and her supporters and take them to Mars. Amid her otherworldly customs she utilized a scope of medications, including pot, peyote, and enchantment mushrooms, and in June 1953 she visited Los Angeles to go to a Gerald Heard address on the brain extending employments of stimulants. Maybe due to her medication use, Cameron was experiencing sound-related mental trips, visit episodes of melancholy, and emotional episodes. Amid this period, she compared with the Thelemite Jane Wolfe, albeit different Thelemites and Crowley partners, for example, Karl Germer and Gerald Yorke considered her crazy. 

Subsequent to utilizing the Chinese divination message the "I Ching", Cameron came back to Los Angeles, moving in with Booth until the team were captured for illicit medication ownership. Discharged on safeguard, she moved into Druks' Malibu home, and through her joined the cutting edge masterful circle encompassing the socialite Samson De Brier. It was through this circle Cameron met the Thelemite movie producer Kenneth Anger, and after a gathering titled "Come As Your Madness" which was sorted out by Mathison and Druks, he chose to create a film highlighting Cameron and others in the gathering. The subsequent film was "Initiation of the Pleasure Dome". Subsequent to seeing the film, the English Thelemite Kenneth Grant wrote to Cameron trusting that she may move to England and join his London-based gathering, the New Isis Lodge; Cameron never reacted. 

Through normal companions Cameron met Sheridan "Sherry" Kimmel, and the two entered a relationship. A veteran of the Second World War from Florida, Kimmel experienced posttraumatic stress issue, frequently causing him extreme emotional episodes. He built up an enthusiasm for otherworldliness and turned out to be strongly desirous of Parsons' proceeding with impact over Cameron, wrecking Parsons' notes on the Babalon Working that she had kept. Cameron again wound up pregnant, in spite of the fact that was uncertain who the dad was; she brought forth a girl, Crystal Eve Kimmel, on Christmas Eve 1955. She enabled her little girl to carry on how she satisfied, trusting that that was the most ideal route for to learn. With her companion, the producer Curtis Harrington, Cameron then delivered a short film, "The Wormwood Star", which was shot at the home of multi-mogul workmanship authority Edward James; the film highlights pictures of Cameron's artworks, and recitations of her lyrics. 

In fall 1956 Cameron's first display was held, at Walter Hopp's studio in Brentwood; a few artistic creations were demolished when the exhibition burst into flames. Around this time, Cameron was acquainted with the on-screen character Dean Stockwell at an open presentation of her verse; he at that point acquainted her with his companion and individual performing artist Dennis Hopper. She was additionally a partner of the craftsman Wallace Berman, who utilized a photo of her on the facade of the principal volume of his specialty diary, "Semina". The volume additionally incorporated Cameron's illustration, "Peyote Vision". This fine art was highlighted in Berman's 1957 presentation at Los Angeles' Feris Gallery, which was attacked and shut somewhere around the police. Examining officers guaranteed that "Peyote Vision", which highlighted two having sexual intercourse figures, was obscene and revolting, therefore legitimizing their activities. 

In late 1957, Cameron moved to San Francisco with her companions Norman Rose and David Metzer. There she blended inside indistinguishable bohemian groups of friends from a considerable lot of the beat age of craftsmen and essayists, and was a customary at cutting edge verse readings. She started an association with the craftsman Burt Shonberg, and with him moved into a farm outside of Joshua Tree. Together they started investigating the subject of Ufology, and progressed toward becoming companions with the ufologist George Van Tassel. After Kimmel was discharged from a mental ward, Cameron restored her association with him, and in 1959 they were hitched in a common service at Santa Monica City Hall; their relationship was stressed and they isolated before long. 

In 1960, Cameron showed up close by Hopper in Harrington's first full-length film, "Night Tide". The film was a basic achievement and—regardless of not accepting a wide appropriation—turned into a religion great. She was welcome to show up in Harrington's next film, "Recreations", albeit at last never did as such. After Cameron moved to Venice, Los Angeles, a nearby expressions shop showed her work in August 1961. On his arrival to the U.S. from Europe, Anger moved in with Cameron for a period, before the team moved into a level on Silverlake Boulevard in mid 1964; Anger stayed there before withdrawing for New York City. As per Anger biographer Bill Landis, Cameron had turned into "a somewhat imposing maternal figure" in Anger's life. In October 1964, the Cinema Theater in Los Angeles held an occasion known as The Transcendental Art of Cameron, which showed her craft and verse and screened a portion of her movies; Anger arrived and upset the occasion by questioning the screening of "Introduction of the Pleasure Dome" without his authorization. He at that point propelled a blurb battle, "The Cameron File", against his previous companion, naming her "Typhoid Mary of the Occult World". The pair later accommodated, Cameron visiting Anger in San Francisco, where he acquainted her with Anton LaVey, the originator of the Church of Satan. LaVey was charmed to meet her, having been an aficionado of "Night Tide". 

In the last piece of the 1960s, Cameron and her little girl moved to the pueblos of Santa Fe, New Mexico, where she built up a companionship with the stone carver John Chamberlain and showed up in his specialty motion picture, "Thumb Suck", which was never discharged. It was additionally while in New Mexico that she endured a crumbled lung and required hospitalization. Her wellbeing was poor, as she experienced interminable bronchitis and emphysema (the two of which were exacerbated by her chain smoking), while hand tremors kept her from having the capacity to paint for a long time. 

Coming back to California, by 1969 she was living in the Pioneertown segment of Joshua Tree. From that point she and her girl moved to a little cottage on North Genesee Avenue in the West Hollywood region of Los Angeles, which at the time had turned out to be devastated and connected with wrongdoing, sex stores, and grown-up cinemas; she stayed there for an amazing remainder. 

By the mid-1980s, Cameron was concentrating to a more noteworthy degree on her family life, especially in caring for her grandkids, who were known to go joyriding in her jeep. Neighbors review her playing a Celtic harp in her greenery enclosure and gradually strolling her canine around the square while smoking a joint of pot. At a certain point, she was captured for developing cannabis in her home. Cameron turned into a standard specialist of Tai chi, partook in gathering sessions in Bronson Park under the tutelage of Marshall Ho'o, and earned a showing testament in the subject. She turned out to be keen on José Argüelles' "The Mayan Factor" and Charles Musès' "The Lion Path", and attempted the Neo-shamanic rehearses embraced in the last mentioned. She was additionally affected by cases made in the works of classicist Marija Gimbutas about an ancient matriarchal society committed to a goddess. Cameron was extremely intrigued by A. S. Raleigh's "Lady and Superwoman", taped her very own perusing of it, and sent duplicates to her companions and neighborhood open radio for communicate. All through these different profound interests, she held confidence in the Thelemic thoughts of Crowley. 

Just as engaging old companions who came to visit her in her home, Cameron additionally met with more youthful mediums, for example, the Thelemite William Breeze and the mechanical artist Genesis P-Orridge. Cameron supported Breeze in co-altering a gathering of Parsons' mysterious and libertarian compositions, which were distributed as "Opportunity is a Two-Edged Sword" in 1989. Cameron was familiar with the test producer Chick Strand and showed up in the last's 1979 task "Remaining details", amid which she portrayed the narrative of an expulsion. In 1989, a display of her work titled "The Pearl of Reprisal" was held at the Los Angeles Municipal Art Gallery. It incorporated a determination of her works of art and a screening of "Introduction of the Pleasure Dome" and "The Wormwood Star", while Cameron took care of give a flame lit perusing of her verse. In the mid-1990s, Cameron was determined to have a mind tumor and experienced radiotherapy treatment, which she enhanced with elective medications. The tumor was dangerous and metastasized to her lungs. She kicked the bucket at 73 years old in the VA Medical Center on July 24, 1995, and experienced the Thelemic last ceremonies, did by a high priestess of the Ordo Templi Orientis. Her body was incinerated and its powder were dispersed in the Mojave Desert. A remembrance occasion was held at Venice's Beyond Baroque Literary Arts Center in August. 

Cameron liked to be referred to by her surname as a mononym. As per student of history of Thelema Martin P. Starr, Cameron's "commanding identity couldn't stream opponents of any sort". The style author Tim Blanks noticed that Cameron was "an appealling lady" dynamic in the mid-twentieth century "macho craftsmanship world", and that it was not astounding how "charming and hazardous" she more likely than not appeared to Hopper and Stockwell. 

Stockwell portrayed Cameron as "an, exceptionally extreme identity, yet extremely entrancing". Believing her to be "an unmitigated witch", Hopper depicted her as having an "irresistible identity" through her essence; she was somebody "that you knew [was] unique and [she] had an attractive quality that you needed to be nearer to". 

The picture taker Charles Brittin, who knew Cameron on Los Angeles' imaginative circuit, called her "a sweet individual with an extraordinary identity, not the path a portion of her companions needed to picture her to be". Her companion Shirley Berman depicted her as having "a wide range of hordes of companions, and I think she was an alternate identity with each crowd ... She wasn't an even identity by any means, however she was dependably a generous individual." 

The advanced media scholar Peter Lunenfeld depicted Cameron as "one of those individuals for whom craftsmanship was life and life was workmanship", and in this manner a comprehension of her life is expected to value her work. Cameron's mysterious convictions firmly influenced her fine arts. As per Priscilla Frank, composing for "The Huffington Post", Cameron's craftsmanship blends "Crowley's mysterious with the surrealism and imagery of French writers, yielding dim yet eccentric delineations humming with extraordinary power". The craftsmanship custodian Philippe Vergne depicted her work as being on "the edge of surrealism and psychedelia", encapsulating "a part of advancement that profoundly questions and resists cartesian rationale at a crossroads in history when these qualities have appeared claim confinements". 

Lunenfeld thought about Cameron's highly contrasting pen-and-ink illustrations to those of the English craftsman Aubrey Beardsley, taking note of that she was fit for a "savage, dumbfounding line work—all the while exact and enticingly over the top—that capacities as both allegorical portrayal and audacious passionate charm". He trusted that both "enthusiasm and art" could be found in her draftsmanship, however that it likewise showed "a straightforwardness that is difficult to identify with in our post-amusing minute". He likewise examined her lost multi-shaded watercolor works of art that were included in Harrington's "The Wormwood Star", recommending that they were likened to a storyboard for an unrealised movie by the executive Alejandro Jodorowsky. 

Cameron's biographer Spencer Kansa was of the sentiment that Cameron displayed parallels with the Australian craftsman and soothsayer Rosaleen Norton, both regarding her physical appearance and the similitudes between their creative styles. Harrington additionally observed similitudes in crafted by Cameron and the craftsmen Leonora Carrington and Leonor Fini. On the site of the Cameron– Parsons Foundation, Michael Duncan communicated the view that Cameron's work equals that of "individual surrealists" like Carrington, Fini, Remedios Varo, and Ithell Colquhoun, while likewise showing up "fascinatingly judicious" of the works by later specialists Kiki Smith, Amy Cutler, Karen Kilimmck, and Hernan Bas. 

In later years, Cameron would regularly be incorrectly marked a Beat craftsman since she occupied huge numbers of indistinguishable groups of friends from unmistakable Beat artists and journalists. Dismissing this mark, Kansa rather portrayed Cameron as "a pre-Beat bohemian, whose heart lay in Romanticism". 

Cameron's notoriety for being a craftsman developed after her passing. In 2006, her companion Scott Hobbs set up the Cameron– Parsons Foundation to fill in as a chronicle putting away and advancing her work. In 1995, her work of art "Peyote Vision" was incorporated as a feature of a presentation on "Beat Culture and the New American" held at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City. A portion of her works of art were then displayed close by those of Crowley and different Thelemites for the 2001 show "Impressions of a New Eon", held at the Eleven Seven Gallery in California's Long Beach. In 2007 a review of Cameron's work was held at the Nicole Klagsbrun Gallery in New York City's Chelsea locale, while that equivalent year a portion of her works showed up in the voyaging display "Semina Culture", which was given to the majority of the craftsmen who added to Wallace Berman's diary. In 2008, her artwork "Dull Angel" was included in the "Follows du Sacré" display at the Center Georges Pompidou in Paris. In 2014, another review, titled "Cameron: Songs for the Witch Woman", was held at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. That year, the U.K.- based distributer Fulgur Esoterica discharged a book including pictures of Cameron's works of art and Parsons' sonnets. In 2015, a review of her work titled "Cameron: Cinderella of the Wastelands" was held at the Deitch Projects in Soho, New York City, which incorporated a night in which companions of Cameron's gathered to freely talk about her heritage. Cameron's tasteful likewise affected the style world, fashioners Pamela Skaist-Levy and Gela Nash-Taylor recognizing Cameron as a fractional motivation for their Skaist-Taylor name. 

Cameron's life was brought to more extensive consideration through the distribution of two memoirs about Parsons: John Carter's "Sex and Rockets" and George Pendle's "Bizarre Angel". A sensation of Parsons' life was portrayed in the play "Moonchild", performed at The Access Theater on Broadway in 2004. Cameron was depicted by Heather Tom. In 2011, "Wormwood Star", a life story of Cameron composed by the Briton Spencer Kansa, was distributed, however it was not approved by the Cameron– Parsons Foundation. Kansa had gone through right around three years in the U.S. investigating the book, talking with a considerable lot of the individuals who knew Cameron, including a few who passed on not long after. Kansa expressed that the majority of those whom he met "were gigantically liberal with their time and memories" yet that "one of Cameron's kookier companions" had started making claims that Kansa was not a biographer but rather was extremely an operator of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Writing in the "Los Angeles Review of Books", Steffie Nelson noticed that Kansa did "his due steadiness finding Cameron's youth associates and companions" and yet was reproachful of the absence of sources or commentaries.