Byzantine common war of 1341– 1347 

The Byzantine common war of 1341– 1347, some of the time alluded to as the Second Palaiologan Civil War, was a contention that broke out in the Byzantine Empire after the passing of Andronikos III Palaiologos over the guardianship of his nine-year-old child and beneficiary, John V Palaiologos. It set from one perspective Andronikos III's central pastor, John VI Kantakouzenos, and on the other a rule headed by the Empress-Dowager Anna of Savoy, the Patriarch of Constantinople John XIV Kalekas, and the "megas doux" Alexios Apokaukos. The war energized Byzantine society along class lines, with the privileged sponsorship Kantakouzenos and the lower and white collar classes supporting the rule. To a lesser degree, the contention gained religious hints; Byzantium was entangled in the Hesychast discussion, and adherence to the mysterious convention of Hesychasm was frequently compared with help for Kantakouzenos. 

As the central assistant and dearest companion of Emperor Andronikos III, Kantakouzenos wound up official for the underage John V upon Andronikos' passing in June 1341. While Kantakouzenos was missing from Constantinople in September that year, an "overthrow" driven by Alexios Apokaukos and the Patriarch John XIV verified the help of Empress Anna and built up another rule. Accordingly, Kantakouzenos' military and supporters declared him co-ruler in October, solidifying the fracture among himself and the new regime. The split promptly swelled into outfitted clash. 

Amid the primary long stretches of the war, powers of the regime won. In the wake of a few enemy of distinguished uprisings, most remarkably that of the Zealots in Thessalonica, a larger part of the urban areas in Thrace and Macedonia went under regime control. With help from Stefan Dušan of Serbia and Umur Beg of Aydin, Kantakouzenos effectively turned around these additions. By 1345, regardless of Dušan's surrender to the restriction and the withdrawal of Umur, Kantakouzenos held the high ground through the help of Orhan, leader of the Ottoman emirate. The June 1345 homicide of "megas doux" Apokaukos, the regime's central manager, managed the rule a serious blow. Formally delegated as sovereign in Adrianople in 1346, Kantakouzenos entered Constantinople on 3 February 1347. By understanding, he was to run for a long time as the senior sovereign and official for John V, until the kid grew up and administered close by him. In spite of this obvious triumph, resulting resumption of the common war constrained John VI Kantakouzenos to surrender and resign to turn into a priest in 1354. 

The outcomes of the drawn out clash demonstrated shocking for the Empire, which had recaptured a proportion of strength under Andronikos III. Seven years of fighting, the nearness of ravaging militaries, social unrest, and the appearance of the Black Death crushed Byzantium and diminished it to a rear end state. The contention additionally permitted Dušan to vanquish Albania, Epirus and the greater part of Macedonia, where he built up the Serbian Empire. The Bulgarian Empire additionally procured region north of the Evros stream. 

In 1341, the Byzantine Empire was in a condition of strife, and regardless of the rebuilding of the Empire's money to Constantinople and the recuperation of a proportion of its previous influence by Michael VIII Palaiologos (r. 1259– 1282), the arrangements executed amid his rule had depleted the state's assets, and the Empire's quality melted away under his successor, Andronikos II Palaiologos (r. 1282– 1328). Amid Andronikos II's long rule, the staying Byzantine belongings in Asia Minor gradually tumbled to the propelling Turks, most remarkably the recently settled Ottoman emirate. This caused a surge of displaced people into Byzantium's European territories, while in the meantime the Catalan Company fashioned ruin in the royal spaces. Charges additionally climbed drastically to fund tributes to the Empire's foes. A mix of these disappointments and individual desire moved the Emperor's grandson and beneficiary, the youthful Andronikos III Palaiologos, to revolt. Upheld by a gathering of youthful privileged people driven by John Kantakouzenos and Syrgiannes Palaiologos, Andronikos III removed his granddad after a progression of contentions amid the 1320s. Albeit effective in expelling the old Emperor from power, the war did not forecast well for the future, as the Empire's neighbors—the Serbs, Bulgarians, Turks, Genoese and Venetians—exploited Byzantine infighting to pick up an area or grow their impact inside the Empire. 

The main child of a previous legislative head of the Byzantine possessions in the Morea, John Kantakouzenos was identified with the Palaiologoi through his mom. He acquired tremendous homes in Macedonia, Thrace and Thessaly, and turned into a cherished companion and the nearest and most confided in consultant of Andronikos III. Amid Andronikos III's rule (1328– 1341), John Kantakouzenos went about as his central clergyman, holding the workplace of "megas domestikos", president of the Byzantine armed force. The connection between the two stayed close, and in 1330, when the heirless Andronikos III (John V was conceived in 1332) became sick he demanded that Kantakouzenos be broadcasted Emperor or official after his passing. Their ties were additionally reinforced in the spring of 1341, when the last's oldest child, Matthew Kantakouzenos, marry Irene Palaiologina, a cousin of the Emperor. 

Not at all like Andronikos II, who had disbanded the Byzantine armed force and naval force, and who favored priests and educated people, Andronikos III was a fiery ruler who actually driven his powers in military crusades. In 1329, his first crusade against the Ottomans brought about a tragic annihilation at the Battle of Pelekanos, after which the Byzantine position in Bithynia quickly crumbled. Ensuing forays into the Balkans were by and by fruitful in shoring up Andronikos' tottering domain. Thessaly and the Despotate of Epirus, two regions isolated from the Empire after the Fourth Crusade, were reestablished to supreme standard, nearly without carnage in 1328 and 1337 separately. Andronikos III likewise reconstructed an unobtrusive armada, which enabled him to recuperate the rich and deliberately set island of Chios from the Genoese Zaccaria family in 1329 just as to guarantee the loyalty of Andreolo Cattaneo, the Genoese legislative leader of Phocaea on the Anatolian territory. In 1335, be that as it may, Andreolo's child Domenico caught the island of Lesbos with Genoese help. The Emperor drove an armada to recuperate it and Phocaea, and mentioned the guide of the Turkish emirs of Saruhan and Aydin. Saruhan sent troops and supplies, however Aydin's ruler Umur Beg came to meet the Emperor face to face. It was amid this experience Kantakouzenos and Umur built up an enduring dear kinship and partnership. 

A war with Serbia in 1331– 1334 demonstrated less effective for the Emperor when a few towns in Macedonia were caught by the Serbs, driven by the maverick Syrgiannes Palaiologos. These increases were possibly shortened when the death of Syrgiannes and the risk of a Hungarian intrusion constrained the Serbian ruler, Stefan Dušan, to look for an arranged settlement. The resulting harmony bargain finished up between Andronikos III and Dušan was imperative for the eventual fate of Byzantine-Serbian relations. Out of the blue, the Byzantines perceived the broad picks up the Serbs had made at the Empire's cost in the focal Balkans amid Andronikos II's rule. In the repercussions of the settlement, Dušan likewise moved his seat, and with it his domain's focal point of gravity, south to Prilep. 

In spite of the fact that the loss of Asia Minor demonstrated irreversible, accomplishments in Epirus and Thessaly prompted a union of the Empire in the Greek-talking terrains of the southern Balkans. Andronikos III and Kantakouzenos arranged further battles to recuperate the Latin territories of southern Greece, an undertaking of major long haul significance, for, as the student of history Donald Nicol expresses, "in the event that the entire landmass of Greece could be joined under Byzantine government, at that point the Empire would by and by be a homogeneous structure, ready to confront the Serbians, the Italians and its different adversaries. It would be little, yet it would be a minimized and sensible monetary and managerial unit running from Cape Matapan to Thessalonica and Constantinople". 

Following a short sickness, the evening of 14– 15 June 1341 the ruler Andronikos III passed on at the generally early age of 45, perhaps because of perpetual jungle fever. His nine-year-old child (John V) was the conspicuous successor, yet he had not been authoritatively announced or delegated as co-head. This left a lawful vacuum, and brought up the issue of who might lead the Empire's legislature. 

As per Byzantine custom, the sovereign lady consequently headed any regime. All things considered, regardless of the absence of any formal arrangement, Kantakouzenos set Andronikos III's children and the Empress-widow Anna of Savoy under furnished gatekeeper in the castle, and in a gathering of the Byzantine Senate asserted for himself the rule and administration of the state by ideals of his nearby relationship with the perished Emperor. He likewise requested that John V wed forthwith his very own little girl Helena Kantakouzene. This case was debated by Patriarch John XIV of Constantinople, who exhibited a report from Andronikos dating from 1334, doling out to him the consideration of the royal family on account of his passing. Simply after an exhibition of the capital's troops on 20 June did Kantakouzenos secure acknowledgment as official and control of the reins of government, just as keeping up power over the military as its "megas domestikos". 

In any case, restriction to Kantakouzenos started to combine around three figures: the Patriarch, a mighty man resolved to have a voice in the administration of the Empire, the Empress-official, who expected that Kantakouzenos would seize her child, and to wrap things up Alexios Apokaukos, the eager "megas doux" (president of the naval force) and leader of the organization. "Another man" elevated to high office as the protégé of Andronikos III and perhaps the most extravagant man in the Empire by 1341, Apokaukos was questioned by the inherited nobility. The main enduring story of the period, Kantakouzenos' journals and the historical backdrop of Nikephoros Gregoras, with their star nobility predisposition, illustrate the man. As indicated by Kantakouzenos, Apokaukos' adherence to the Patriarch's camp came about because of his aspiration: Apokaukos looked for further progression by endeavoring to persuade Kantakouzenos to proclaim himself Emperor. At the point when the last can't, Apokaukos subtly exchanged his faithfulness. 

In Donald Nicol's feeling, had Kantakouzenos stayed at Constantinople, his position may have stayed secure. As the "megas domestikos" and official nonetheless, he had the obligation of managing the Empire's different foes, who looked to exploit Andronikos' demise. Dušan had attacked Macedonia, the Emir of Saruhan struck the banks of Thrace, and Tsar Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria undermined war. In July Kantakouzenos left the capital at the leader of the military, leaving control of the legislature to Apokaukos, whom despite everything he trusted faithful to him. Kantakouzenos' battle demonstrated fruitful. He induced Dušan to pull back and rebuffed the Turkish marauders, while Ivan Alexander, undermined by an armada from the Emirate of Aydin, reestablished his tranquility arrangement with Byzantium. To crown this achievement, Kantakouzenos got an international safe haven of the Latin noblemen of the Principality of Achaea in the Morea. They communicated availability to surrender the nation in return for a certification of their property and rights. It was a special chance, as Kantakouzenos himself perceived in his journals, since if effective, the Catalan-controlled Duchy of Athens will undoubtedly pursue, combining Byzantine power over Greece. 

Now Kantakouzenos got grave news from Constantinople. In late August Apokaukos endeavored an upset and attempted to hijack John V. Having fizzled, he fled to his braced house at Epibatai, where he was barricaded by troops. Kantakouzenos came back to Constantinople toward the beginning of September, where he remained for half a month counseling with the Empress. On his way back to Thrace to plan for a battle into the Morea, he went to Epibatai, where he acquitted Apokaukos and reestablished him to his previous workplaces. 

Kantakouzenos' second takeoff demonstrated an incredible blunder. Back in the capital, his adversaries moved in his nonappearance. Apokaukos assembled a gathering of high-positioning privileged people around him, including men, for example, the "megas droungarios" John Gabalas or George Choumnos, whom he fixing to himself by marriage collusions. The Patriarch, sponsored by Apokaukos' gathering and the expert of the Empress, rejected Kantakouzenos from his workplaces and proclaimed him an open adversary. Kalekas himself was declared official and Apokaukos named Eparch of Constantinople. Kantakouzenos' relatives and supporters were detained or compelled to escape the city, and their properties seized. Despite the fact that Kantakouzenos' better half and kids were sheltered in his base camp at Demotika (Didymoteicho), the rule set his mom, Theodora, under house capture. The privations she endured amid her detainment were to cause her possible demise. 

As the main gatherings of his partisans escaping the capital landed at Demotika, Kantakouzenos, by his very own record, endeavored to consult with the new regime, yet his methodology was rebuked. At long last compelled to make conclusive move, on 26 October 1341, the military (2,000 mounted force and 4,000 infantry, as per Gregoras) and his supporters, to a great extent drawn from the land-holding nobility, declared Kantakouzenos Emperor. Despite the fact that regardless he introduced himself formally as a lesser partner to John V, and professed to be just acting in the kid's name, having asserted some authority on the position of royalty, he had adequately begun a common war. Kantakouzenos still trusted that exchange may resolve the circumstance, yet all his emissaries were detained and he and his supporters suspended by Patriarch John XIV. On 19 November 1341, the rule reacted to Kantakouzenos' declaration as Emperor with the formal crowning ceremony of John V. 

Response to Kantakouzenos' declaration caused a fracture in Byzantine society, with the rich and incredible land-holding magnates (generally called the "dynatoi", the "amazing ones") who ruled the wide open rapidly encouraging to help him, while the standard populace, frequently living in miserable conditions and enduring under onerous tax assessment, upheld the Empress-lady and the Patriarch. Apokaukos rushed to underwrite upon this division and incite famous abhorrence for the gentry, by generally publicizing the enormous riches appropriated from Kantakouzenos' and his supporters' homes and domains. In the expressions of Donald Nicol, "it was against him [Kantakouzenos] and everything that he represented as a mogul and landowning blue-blood that the general population ascended. 'Kantakouzenism' turned into their battle cry, the trademark of their discontent". 

In this way the fight lines of the common war were drawn up among urban and country groups. The urban areas, commanded by the white collar class common organization and shipper class (the "general population of the market"), supported an increasingly trade economy and close relations with the Italian oceanic republics, while the farmland stayed under the control of the preservationist landed nobility, which got its riches from its bequests and customarily avoided business and pioneering exercises as dishonorable of its status. The lower social strata would in general help the particular prevailing group, the white collar classes in the urban communities and the landholding magnates in the farmland. 

Polarization of this nature was not new in the Byzantine Empire. Proof of rivalry between the landed privileged and the city-based white collar classes in the political, monetary and social circles has been bore witness to since the eleventh century, yet the size of the contention that ejected in 1341 was extraordinary. This class struggle was reflected in the breakaway Byzantine Empire of Trebizond also, where an expert supreme and genius Constantinopolitan urban group stood up to the common landholding nobility somewhere in the range of 1340 and 1349 (cf. Trapezuntine Civil War). The more traditionalist and hostile to Western inclinations of the nobles, and their connections to the staunchly Orthodox and against Catholic religious communities, additionally disclose their expanded connection to the otherworldly Hesychasm development supported by Gregory Palamas, whose sees were for the most part restricted in the urban communities. Albeit a few noteworthy special cases leave the issue open to address among present day researchers, in the contemporary prevalent personality (and in conventional historiography), the supporters of "Palamism" and of "Kantakouzenism" were normally compared. Kantakouzenos' inevitable triumph additionally implied the triumph of Hesychasm, affirmed in a synod in Constantinople in 1351. Hesychasm in the long run turned into a sign of the Orthodox church convention, in spite of the fact that it was dismissed by the Catholics as a sin. 

The principal sign of this social division showed up in Adrianople where, on 27 October, the people ousted the city's nobles, verifying it for the regime. This occasion was rehashed over the course of the following a long time around the local area after town all through Thrace and Macedonia, as the general population proclaimed their help for the regime and against the disdained powers of "Kantakouzenism". In this unfriendly environment, a significant number of Kantakouzenos' fighters relinquished him and came back to Constantinople. In Demotika alone the prominent uprising was controlled, and the town remained Kantakouzenos' primary fortress in Thrace all through the war. 

At the point when substantial snowfall rendered battling inconceivable amid the accompanying winter, Kantakouzenos rather sent emissaries, including a government office of priests from Mount Athos to Constantinople. Be that as it may, they also were rejected by the Patriarch. By at that point, practically the majority of the Byzantine territories and their governors had announced themselves for the regime. Just Theodore Synadenos, an old partner of Kantakouzenos who was the legislative leader of the Empire's second city, Thessalonica, demonstrated his help. Synadenos had kept his loyalty to Kantakouzenos mystery from the city's masses, and planned to surrender Thessalonica in agreement with the neighborhood privileged. Besides, Hrelja, the Serbian head honcho and essentially autonomous leader of Strumica and the Strymon River valley, appeared to lean towards Kantakouzenos. Thusly, when the climate improved, on 2 March 1342, Kantakouzenos left his better half Irene Asanina, his brother by marriage Manuel Asen and his little girls to hold Demotika and walked west with his military toward Thessalonica. In transit, he initially assaulted Peritheorion yet was repulsed and proceeded with westbound. Kantakouzenos was anyway ready to take fortification Melnik, where he met with Hrelja to manufacture a union. Their two armed forces walked toward Thessalonica, however arrived past the point where it is possible to take control. As they moved toward the city, they were met by Synadenos and different privileged people, who had fled after an uprising driven by a radical famous gathering, the Zealots. Before long a short time later an armada of 70 ships driven by Apokaukos fortified the city. Synadenos, whose family had stayed behind in Thessalonica, surrendered to the rule. Apokaukos' child John was named legislative head of Thessalonica, albeit successful power rested with the Zealots, who for the following seven years drove a self-governing routine unparalleled in Byzantine history. 

In the meantime, the rule's military crusaded in Thrace, formally claiming towns verified by famous revolt. With Thessalonica banned against him, his supply lines to Thrace cut, and departures having diminished his military to 2,000 men, of whom half had a place with Hrelja, Kantakouzenos was compelled to pull back north to Serbia, where he planned to verify the guide of Stefan Dušan. Before long, Hrelja likewise abandoned Kantakouzenos and joined the rule, planning to deal with Melnik for himself. In July 1342, Kantakouzenos met Dušan close Pristina. The Serbian ruler showed up at first hesitant to shape a coalition. By and by, under strain from his nobles, particularly the incredible Jovan Oliver, he couldn't bear to pass up on this one of a kind chance to grow south. Frantically needing Serbian guide, Kantakouzenos evidently concurred that the Serbs could keep any town they took, in spite of his own later record despite what might be expected. As indicated by Nikephoros Gregoras, the Serbs asserted all of Macedonia west of Christopolis (Kavala), aside from Thessalonica and its environs. The main concession Kantakouzenos verified was that a special case be made for those towns that surrendered to him face to face. To seal the agreement, Kantakouzenos' more youthful child, Manuel, was to be marry to the little girl of Jovan Oliver, albeit after Dušan later broke the coalition, the marriage did not happen. Hrelja too agreed to the settlement, in return for the surrender of Melnik by Kantakouzenos' army. After Hrelja's passing soon thereafter, Melnik was seized by Dušan. 

In pre-fall 1342, Kantakouzenos, joined by a few Serbian magnates, walked into Macedonia at the leader of a Greek and Serbian power, expecting to get through to his significant other, who still held out at Demotika. His development was halted very quickly before Serres when the city wouldn't surrender, and the consequent attack must be deserted after a pestilence murdered a large portion of his men, constraining him to withdraw into Serbia with a backside power of scarcely 500 warriors. Dušan drove an increasingly effective parallel crusade, catching Vodena (Edessa). Serbian powers caught Florina and Kastoria quickly a short time later, in this manner broadening their hold over western Macedonia. The Serbs additionally extended their power over Albania, so that by the late spring of 1343, except for Angevin-controlled Dyrrhachium, the majority of the area seems to have fallen under Serbian principle. Resolve among Kantakouzenos' supporters fell drastically. Gossipy tidbits coursed in Constantinople that a crestfallen Kantakouzenos wanted to resign to Mount Athos as a priest, and mobs broke out in the city in which a few rich men were slaughtered and their homes plundered by the masses. 

In pre-winter, Empress Anna twice sent international safe havens to Dušan endeavoring to persuade him to surrender Kantakouzenos, yet the Serbian ruler, trying to separate more benefit from their coalition, cannot. Kantakouzenos' fortunes started to improve when an appointment of the nobles of Thessaly contacted him and offered to acknowledge his position. Kantakouzenos designated his relative John Angelos as the area's senator. In spite of the fact that as a result a semi-autonomous ruler, Angelos was both faithful and powerful. He before long brought Epirus — which he had administered in Andronikos III's name in 1340 — into the Kantakouzenist camp, and even made gains in Thessaly to the detriment of the Catalans of Athens. Another exertion by Kantakouzenos to part from Serbia into Macedonia bombed before Serres. Meanwhile, Kantakouzenos' significant other Irene called upon the guide of the Bulgarians to help assuage the bar of Demotika by the regime's military. Ivan Alexander dispatched troops, however in spite of the fact that they conflicted with the regime's powers, they endeavored in helping the city, rather plundering the field. 

Now, Kantakouzenos' position was enormously fortified by the mediation of his old companion, Umur Bey, who in late 1342 or mid 1343 cruised up the Evros stream with an armada of 300 boats and 29,000 (as per Kantakouzenos) or 15,000 (as indicated by Turkish sources) men-in-arms and mitigated Demotika both from the attack by the rule's powers and from the thefts of the Bulgarians. Subsequent to plundering Thrace for a couple of months, Umur was compelled to withdraw to Asia at the beginning of winter, to which the Turks were unfamiliar. This unforeseen development disappointed Dušan, for Kantakouzenos now had a free power base and was less dependent on the Serbian ruler's generosity. The last break among Kantakouzenos and Dušan happened in April 1343, when Kantakouzenos induced the town of Berroia, attacked by the Serbs, to surrender to him rather than Dušan. This was trailed by the surrender of a few different posts in the region to Kantakouzenos, including Servia and Platamon. These moves reinforced Kantakouzenos' position and autonomy from Dušan, in this way defeating the last's arrangements for extension. Understanding that he had little to pick up by proceeding to help Kantakouzenos, Dušan opened dealings with the regime and closed a formal coalition with them in the late spring of 1343. 

In the mean time, Kantakouzenos and his military stayed outdoors outside Thessalonica, planning to take the city through the guide of his supporters inside the dividers. Apokaukos touched base at the leader of the Byzantine armada to help the Zealots, binding Kantakouzenos in Macedonia among Thessalonica and Dušan's assets. By and by Umur of Aydin provided to Kantakouzenos' with some much needed help with an armada conveying somewhere in the range of 6,000 men, whereupon Apokaukos and his boats fled from the unrivaled Turkish naval force. By and by, a fortified Thessalonica had the capacity to hold out against an attack by Kantakouzenos and Umur. In spite of the fact that he had neglected to take Thessalonica, the nearness of his Turkish partners permitted Kantakouzenos to turn his consideration towards Thrace. In late 1343 he left his child Manuel as legislative head of Berroia and western Macedonia and walked towards Demotika, easing the city and seeing his significant other without precedent for just about two years. On his approach to Demotika, Kantakouzenos had caught various fortifications in Thrace, albeit another attack of Peritheorion fizzled. He caught up with a fruitful crusade that took Komotini and different strongholds in the Rhodope zone. Throughout the following couple of years, the towns and posts of Thrace approached Kantakouzenos' camp one by one, yet at extraordinary expense, as his for the most part Turkish troops over and again ravaged the farmland. The moving tide of the war did not go unnoticed in the contradicting camp. In late 1344, a few noticeable identities surrendered to Kantakouzenos, including John Vatatzes, a general and relative by marriage to both the Patriarch and Apokaukos, the Patriarch of Jerusalem Lazaros, and, above all, Manuel Apokaukos, child of the "megas doux" and legislative leader of Adrianople. 

In the meantime, the regime's collusion with Dušan was paying profits for the Serbian ruler alone, as he had free rein to loot and involve all of Macedonia and Epirus. Before the finish of 1345, just Thessalonica, held by the Zealots, Serres and the encompassing area, which stayed faithful to the rule, alongside Berroia, which still held out under Manuel Kantakouzenos, stayed outside Serbian control. 

These advancements put the rule in impressive challenges. Despite Apokaukos' gifted administration of the state's funds, the decimation brought about by the drawn out wars had discharged the treasury. In August 1343, Empress Anna was compelled to pawn the royal gems to Venice for 30,000 ducats. Also, Turkish assaults in Thrace prompted a shortage of nourishment in Constantinople. Seeking after Western guide, Anna engaged the Pope, promising the accommodation of herself, John V, Apokaukos and even the Patriarch to his power, and started aggrieving the expert Kantakouzenists and hostile to Western Palamists. 

In 1344, the regime finished up a further partnership with Bulgaria, which required the surrender of Philippopolis (Plovdiv) and nine different towns in northern Thrace along the waterway Evros. By the by, after their occupation, Ivan Alexander ceased from direct activity against Kantakouzenos' powers working in southern and eastern Thrace. In the meantime, Momchil, a previous scoundrel whom Kantakouzenos had endowed with command over the locale of Merope in the Rhodope mountains, changed over to the regime. In mid 1344, Kantakouzenos was denied of Umur and the heft of his military, who had cruised home to repulse a Latin assault on his fundamental harbor, Smyrna. On their way, the Turkish power was assaulted by the Serbs under Gregory Preljub, however won at the Battle of Stephaniana. All things considered, Kantakouzenos had the capacity to avoid joint assaults by Dušan and Apokaukos until Umur came back to his guide the following spring at the leader of a multitude of 20,000 men. 

Kantakouzenos and Umur struck Bulgaria, and after that betrayed Momchil. The last had misused the power vacuum in the Rhodope, a viable a dead zone between the Serbs, Bulgarians and Byzantines, to set himself up as a semi free ruler, upheld by a considerable power of around 5,000 men. On 7 July 1345, the two armed forces conflicted at Peritheorion. Momchil's military was pounded, and he himself fell in the field. Before long thereafter, Dušan landed before Serres and laid attack to the city. Dismissing requests by Kantakouzenos to pull back, a conflict seemed inescapable until the homicide of Alexios Apokaukos in Constantinople constrained Kantakouzenos to coordinate his consideration there. 

In mid 1345, Kantakouzenos sent Franciscan ministers to the regime to make an idea of placation, however it was rejected. In spite of this show of certainty, the regime's position stayed uncertain. The rebellions of the past winter had debilitated their control of the capital, and accordingly Apokaukos propelled a progression of banishments. He likewise requested the development of another jail to house political detainees. On 11 June 1345, while undertaking an assessment of the jail unaccompanied by his protector, Apokaukos was lynched by the detainees. 

At the point when Kantakouzenos heard the news he walked towards Constantinople, asked by his supporters, who expected that the passing of Apokaukos would result in the breakdown of the rule. Kantakouzenos was progressively suspicious, and for sure the Patriarch and Empress Anna rapidly brought the circumstance leveled out. In the meantime, Kantakouzenos endured a progression of turns around. These started when John Apokaukos, the ostensible legislative leader of Thessalonica, transparently reported his faithfulness to Kantakouzenos and his arrangements to surrender the city. He was promptly upset by the Zealots who ascended again and executed Apokaukos and the other Kantakouzenist sympathizers in the city. At that point John Vatatzes, who had deserted to Kantakouzenos the prior year, yet again exchanged sides. He endeavored to take a portion of Kantakouzenos' Turkish partners and a couple of Thracian urban communities with him, however was killed soon a short time later. At long last, Kantakouzenos lost the help of his most critical partner, Umur of Aydin, who left with his military to go up against the crusaders in Smyrna. Kantakouzenos supplanted him by aligning himself with the Emir of Saruhan and, all the more critically, Orhan of the rising Ottoman emirate in Bithynia. 

In September 1345, after a long attack, Serres tumbled to Dušan. The Serbian ruler, who at this point controlled about portion of the pre-1341 Byzantine domain, was prodded by this accomplishment to lay his own case on the Byzantine position of authority. Therefore, on Easter Sunday, 16 April 1346, he was delegated "Ruler of the Serbs and the Romans" in Skopje, in this manner establishing the Serbian Empire. This improvement incited Kantakouzenos, who had just been acclaimed Emperor in 1341, to have himself formally delegated in a function held at Adrianople on 21 May, directed by the Patriarch of Jerusalem, Lazaros. Lazaros then met a synod of religious administrators to ban the Patriarch of Constantinople, John Kalekas. Not long a while later, Kantakouzenos' ties with his new partner Orhan were solidified through the marriage of his little girl Theodora Kantakouzene to the Ottoman emir at an intricate function in Selymbria. 

For the rule, the circumstance had turned out to be urgent. Sovereign Anna's solicitations for help from remote forces demonstrated ineffective, as both Orhan and the beylik of Karasi rebuked her suggestions for help. Just Balik, the leader of Dobruja, sent a first class power of 1,000 men under his siblings Theodore and Dobrotitsa, yet they were steered by a Kantakouzenist armed force under "protostrator" George Phakrases. The emirate of Saruhan offered a progressively significant power of 6,000 men in the mid year of 1346, however as opposed to battling, they pillaged Thrace and after that surrendered to join Kantakouzenos' military. Income stayed rare for the regime, the Genoese indeed caught the royal assets of Chios and Phocaea, and on 19 May 1346, a piece of the Hagia Sophia house of prayer fallen, a horrendous sign according to the capital's occupants. 

By the late spring of 1346, Kantakouzenos remained very nearly triumph. He left Thrace under the control of his child Matthew and proceeded onward to Selymbria, near Constantinople. He didn't assault the capital, however sat tight for right around a year for the city to surrender. In his diaries, he clarifies that he would not like to turn his Turks on the city, despite the fact that counterparts, for example, Gregoras blamed him for hesitation and of unnecessarily dragging out the war. 

As the months passed, and the privations in Constantinople expanded, the expert Kantakouzenos group in the capital developed as the Empress declined even to think about dealings. Twice operators were sent to kill Kantakouzenos, yet they fizzled. The Empress in the long run dropped out with Patriarch John Kalekas, who was dismissed in a synod on 2 February 1347. On that night, supporters of Kantakouzenos opened the neglected Golden Gate, and Kantakouzenos entered the city with 1,000 men. Meeting no opposition, his troops encompassed the Palace of Blachernae, the royal habitation, the following morning, yet the Empress would not surrender for a few days, still dreadful of the destiny that anticipated her. Kantakouzenos' men became fretful and raged some portion of the castle complex, and John V influenced his mom to acknowledge a settlement. 

On 8 February 1347, the war formally finished with an understanding making Kantakouzenos senior head for a long time, after which he and John V would rule as equivalents. Kantakouzenos additionally guaranteed to excuse any individual who had battled against him. To seal the settlement, John V wedded Kantakouzenos' little girl Helena, and in May, Kantakouzenos was delegated again in the Church of St. Mary of Blachernae. At last, as Donald Nicol remarked, the long clash had been pointless, with terms that "could have been concurred five years prior and spared the Empire so much sharpness, contempt and annihilation." 

In spite of the control and pardon appeared by Kantakouzenos in this settlement, it didn't increase all inclusive acknowledgment. Supporters of the Palaiologoi still questioned him, while his very own partisans would have liked to remove the Palaiologoi out and out and introduce the Kantakouzenoi as the dominant line. Kantakouzenos' oldest child, Matthew, likewise detested being ignored for John V, and must be appeased with the production of a semi-self-ruling appanage covering a lot of western Thrace, which served as a walk against Dušan's Serbia. Of the staying Byzantine domains, just the Zealots in Thessalonica, presently a separated exclave encompassed by the Serbs, wouldn't recognize the new course of action, rather driving a "true" free presence until Kantakouzenos vanquished them in 1350. 

After 1347, John VI Kantakouzenos attempted to restore the Empire, however met with restricted achievement. Helped by the eradication achieved by the Black Death, Dušan and his general Preljub accepting Kantakouzenos' Macedonian fortresses just as Epirus and Thessaly in 1347– 1348, in this manner finishing their triumph of the staying Byzantine terrains in territory Greece. An endeavor to break Byzantium's reliance for sustenance and oceanic trade on the Genoese vendors of Galata prompted a Byzantine– Genoese war, which finished in 1352 with a trade off harmony. In 1350, Kantakouzenos exploited Dušan's distraction with a war against Bosnia to recuperate Thessalonica from the Zealots just as Berroia, Vodena and other Macedonian urban communities from the Serbs, however the Serbian head immediately turned around the Byzantine increases, leaving just Thessalonica in Byzantine hands. 

Consistently breaking down relations between Matthew Kantakouzenos, who currently governed eastern Thrace, and John V Palaiologos, who had assumed control over Matthew's previous space in western Thrace, prompted one more interior clash. Open fighting broke out in 1352, when John V, upheld by Venetian and Turkish troops, propelled an assault on Matthew Kantakouzenos. John Kantakouzenos went to his child's guide with 10,000 Ottoman troops who retook the urban communities of Thrace, generously looting them all the while. In October 1352, at Demotika, the Ottoman power met and crushed 4,000 Serbs gave to John V by Stefan Dušan. This was the Ottomans' first triumph in Europe and an unfavorable omen. After two years their catch of Gallipoli denoted the start of the Ottoman victory of the Balkans, which finished a century later in the Fall of Constantinople. In the mean time, John V fled to the island of Tenedos, from where he made an ineffective endeavor to catch Constantinople in March 1353. John VI Kantakouzenos reacted by having Matthew delegated as co-sovereign, however John V Palaiologos, enrolling Genoese help and depending on the declining ubiquity of Kantakouzenos, prevailing with regards to entering the capital in November 1354. John VI surrendered and resigned to a religious community. Matthew held out in Thrace until 1357, when he also surrendered, leaving John V Palaiologos as the sole ace of a back end state. 

The common war demonstrated a basic defining moment ever of Byzantine Empire. In the expressions of the Byzantinist Angeliki Laiou, "after the second's end common war, Byzantium was a realm in name just", while as per Eva de Vries-Van der Velden, it denotes "the purpose of break between the 'decrease' and 'the fall' of the Byzantine Empire". 

The Byzantines' division and dependence on remote troops, particularly the Serbs and Turks, empowered the last's expansionism. Stefan Dušan specifically demonstrated capable in abusing the common war to extend his state to Byzantium's detriment. Beside tremendous regional misfortunes, the drawn out clash depleted the Byzantine state's assets, as it brought "disorder to the urban communities and annihilation to the field" (Alice-Mary Talbot). Thrace, the biggest touching domain staying in the Empire, endured such devastation that, alongside Constantinople, it wound up subject to grain imported from Bulgaria and the Crimea. Exchange had ceased, and the treasury contained, in the expressions of Gregoras, "only the iotas of Epicurus". Kantakouzenos had depleted his very own fortune, and Empress Anne had left the Empire intensely obliged to the Venetians. The war additionally prompted the breakdown of the unified royal organization in the regions, making control of the Thracian wide open move to a manorial framework kept running by the neighborhood magnates. Regardless of their extensive riches, the magnates, through exceptions or out and out avoidance, figured out how to abstain from covering regulatory expenses to the royal government. What's more, the landing in 1347 of the Black Death and its repetitive flare-ups additionally decreased the Empire's duty and enrollment base, diminishing its capacity to switch the Serbian regional increases. 

Alongside the recharging of the common war in 1352, these variables wrecked any opportunity of even an unassuming recuperation like that accomplished under Andronikos III. From that point, Byzantium stayed under the threatening risk of more grounded neighbors, unfit to seek after an autonomous outside arrangement, impeded by a deficiency of assets and riven by inner difficulty. By the by, through a mix of random outside conditions and talented discretion, it made due for one more century, until at long last vanquished by the Ottomans in 1453. Just the Byzantine exclave in the Morea stayed prosperous, having been saved the assaults of the common war due to its relative confinement. The arrangement of Manuel Kantakouzenos as its "despotes" in 1349 proclaimed the formation of the semi-autonomous Despotate of the Morea, which encountered the last financial and social blooming of the Byzantine world before it excessively tumbled to the Ottomans in 1460.