Alexander Cameron Rutherford 

Alexander Cameron Rutherford, (February 2, 1857 – June 11, 1941) was a Canadian legal advisor and legislator who filled in as the primary head of Alberta from 1905 to 1910. Conceived in Ormond, Ontario, he examined and provided legal counsel in Ottawa before moving with his family toward the North-West Territories in 1895. Here he started his political vocation, winning in his third endeavor a seat in the North-West Legislative Assembly. With regards to the regional custom Rutherford kept running as an autonomous, however he by and large bolstered the regional organization of Premier Frederick W. A. G. Haultain. At the government level, be that as it may, Rutherford was a Liberal. 

In 1905, Alberta Lieutenant Governor George Bulyea requested that Rutherford structure the new region's first government. As head, his first assignment was to win a functional larger part in the Legislative Assembly of Alberta, which he did in the 1905 common decision. His second was to give the contraption of common government: his administration set up everything from speed points of confinement to a commonplace court framework. The lawmaking body additionally disputably, and with Rutherford's help, chose Edmonton over opponent Calgary as the common capital. Calgarians' wounded emotions were not salved when the legislature found the University of Alberta, a task dear to the Premier's heart, in the place where he grew up of Strathcona, right over the North Saskatchewan River from Edmonton. 

The administration was looked with work turmoil in the coal mining industry, which it settled by building up a commission to inspect the issue. It likewise set up a common government phone arrange—Alberta Government Telephones—at extraordinary cost, and attempted to empower the advancement of new railroads. It was in quest for this last target the Rutherford government ended up entangled in outrage. Right off the bat in 1910, William Henry Cushing's renunciation as Minister of Public Works encouraged the Alberta and Great Waterways Railway outrage, which turned a considerable lot of Rutherford's Liberals against his legislature. In the long run, weight from many gathering figures constrained Rutherford to leave. He kept his seat in the governing body subsequent to leaving as chief, however was crushed in the 1913 decision by Conservative Herbert Crawford. 

In the wake of leaving governmental issues, Rutherford proceeded with his law practice and his association with a wide scope of local gatherings. In particular, he progressed toward becoming chancellor of the University of Alberta, whose prior establishing had been an individual venture. He kicked the bucket of a heart assault June 11, 1941. A University of Alberta library, an Edmonton grade school, and Jasper National Park's Mount Rutherford are named in his respect. Moreover, his home, Rutherford House, was opened as a historical center in 1973. 

Alexander Rutherford was conceived February 2, 1857, close Ormond, Ontario on his family's dairy ranch. His folks, James (1817– 1891) and Elspet "Elizabeth" (1818– 1901) Cameron Rutherford, had moved from Scotland two years past. They joined the Baptist Church, and his dad joined the Liberal Party of Canada and served for a period on the Osgoode town board. Rutherford went to government funded school locally and, in the wake of dismissing dairy cultivating as a work, joined up with a Metcalfe secondary school. Subsequent to graduating in 1874, he went to the Canadian Literary Institute, a Baptist school in Woodstock. He moved on from that point in 1876, and educated for a year in Osgoode. 

Next he moved to Montreal to ponder expressions and law at McGill University. He was granted degrees in both in 1881, and joined the Ottawa law office of Scott, McTavish and McCracken where he was articled for a long time under the tutelage of Richard William Scott. Called to the Ontario bar in 1885, he turned into a lesser accomplice in the firm of Hodgins, Kidd and Rutherford with duty regarding its Kemptville office for a long time. He likewise settled a moneylending business there. 

Amid this time, his group of friends developed to incorporate William Cameron Edwards. Through Edwards, Rutherford was acquainted with the Birkett family, which included previous Member of Parliament Thomas Birkett. Rutherford wedded Birkett's niece, Mattie Birkett, in December 1888. The couple had three youngsters: Cecil (conceived in 1890), Hazel (conceived in 1893), and Marjorie (conceived in 1903, however kicked the bucket sixteen months after the fact). Rutherford had a customary perspective on sexual orientation jobs, and was glad to leave most tyke raising obligations to his better half. 

In November 1886 Rutherford visited the Canadian West out of the blue when he headed out to British Columbia to explore the vanishing of his cousin. The Rocky Mountains left an incredible impact on him, as did the beach front atmosphere which he found "truly pleasant". He visited again in the mid year of 1894, when he took the Canadian Pacific Railway over the prairies. After touching base in South Edmonton, he was energized by its development potential and satisfied to find that the dry air mitigated his bronchitis. He set out to settle there, and did as such one year later, bringing his hesitant spouse and his youngsters, who landed via train June 10, 1895. Inside ten days of their entry, Rutherford had opened a law office, bought four heaps of land, and contracted nearby developer Hugh McCurdy to fabricate him a house. In July the family moved into their new four-room house, based on a solitary story. In 1896 Rutherford turned into the town's solitary attorney, as his opposition, Mervyn Mackenzie, had moved to Toronto. 

Rutherford rapidly turned out to be profoundly engaged with the network. Among the jobs he gained amid his initial three years in the District of Alberta were President of the recently framed South Edmonton Football Club, secretary-treasurer of the South Edmonton School Board, leader of the South Edmonton Athletic Association, VP of the South Edmonton Literary Institute, examiner of the South Edmonton Agricultural Society, and commendable ace of the Acacia Lodge, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons. He later added to this the title of secretary of the Edmonton District Butter and Cheese Manufacturing Association. He was an early supporter for the joining of South Edmonton, up to this point a unincorporated network. At the point when consolidation came in 1899—as the Town of Strathcona—Rutherford turned into the new town's secretary-treasurer (in the wake of going about as returning officer in its first race). 

All through this period, he provided legal counsel, from 1899 with Frederick C. Jamieson as his accomplice, who later was chosen as a Conservative individual from the MLA. He utilized single ladies as secretaries in a time when administrative laborers were overwhelmingly male, and safeguarded a First Nations individual blamed for homicide, when most legal advisors rejected such cases. As their training developed, he and Jamieson additionally occupied with moneylending. Other than his law practice, Rutherford was a fruitful land financial specialist, and furthermore possessed an enthusiasm for gold mining hardware arranged on the North Saskatchewan River. 

In 1896, Frank Oliver, who had spoken to Edmonton in the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories since 1888, surrendered to seek after a profession in government governmental issues. A few Strathcona occupants encouraged Rutherford to keep running for Oliver's old seat in the resulting by-race. In spite of the fact that he was initially hesitant, he consented to remain after a 300-signature appeal asking his nomination was exhibited to him. His solitary adversary was previous Edmonton city hall leader Matthew McCauley who, similar to Rutherford, kept running as a free. Rutherford battled on a stage of improved streets, asset advancement, disentanglement of regional laws, and—in what might turn into a subject of his political vocation—expanded instructive financing. McCauley won the race, however Rutherford got in excess of 40% of the vote. 

Amid the 1898 regional race, Rutherford again tested the now-occupant McCauley. His thrashing of two years past still crisp in his brain, his stage this time incorporated a require a redrawing of the region's appointive limits; he trusted that the present Edmonton riding was gerrymandered to support McCauley. He additionally rehashed his past calls for improved streets and upheld expanded tax collection on the railways. He promised "autonomous help" for the non-fanatic organization of Premier Frederick Haultain, and bolstered that organization's require the making of a solitary area from the regions following the 1901 registration. Rutherford censured McCauley's past record, blaming him for quietness on issues that were of worry to his constituents. In spite of this, McCauley won once more, yet by a decreased edge. 

Rutherford was finally fruitful in the 1902 decision, when he kept running in the recently made riding of Strathcona. His 1902 stage was like his 1898 stage and upheld Haultain, however this time he bolstered a two-region coordination of the Northwest Territories into Confederation, instead of Haultain's favored one-territory approach, in light of the fact that a solitary area would be so vast as to be ungovernable. It at first looked as if he would run unopposed; be that as it may, ultimately nearby attorney Nelson D. Plants freely blamed Rutherford for being not a genuine autonomous, however a colored in-the-fleece Haultain supporter, and declared that he would keep running against him. Rutherford was bolstered by the greater part of Strathcona's most unmistakable occupants, including his law accomplice Jamieson and his future adversary John R. Boyle, and won a simple triumph. 

Rutherford served in the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories until Alberta turned into an area in 1905. Amid his residency, he was chosen representative speaker and sat on standing boards of trustees for libraries, metropolitan law, and training. His authoritative endeavors included fruitful endeavors to expand the limits of the Town of Strathcona and to enable it to obtain for development of open works. He was viewed as a conceivable individual from Haultain's official gathering, likely in the post of Commissioner of Public Works, however the post rather went to George Bulyea. He joined a considerable lot of his individual MLAs in proceeding to advocate for commonplace status, finding that the confinements on a region's way to raise income kept the Northwest Territories from meeting its commitments. 

Despite the fact that Rutherford upheld Haultain's vision of non-fanatic regional organization, governmentally he was a declared Liberal. In 1900, he was chosen leader of the Strathcona Liberal affiliation, and was a representative to the tradition that selected Oliver as the gathering's applicant in Alberta for the 1900 government race. He in this manner crusaded for Oliver in his effective re-appointment endeavor. At the point when the new government supporters of Strathcona was framed ahead of time of the 1904 decision, Rutherford was asked to acknowledge the Liberal selection, yet challenged. Dwindle Talbot was chosen rather and, upheld by Rutherford, was chosen. 

In February 1905, the government of Prime Minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier acquainted enactment with make two new regions—Alberta and Saskatchewan—from the Northwest Territories. In spite of the fact that Haultain needed the new regions to be administered on the equivalent non-factional premise as the Territories had been, it was normal that the Liberal Laurier would prescribe a Liberal to fill in as Lieutenant-Governor, and it was additionally expected that the Lieutenant-Governor would approach a Liberal to frame the new area's first government. Oliver was the area's most unmistakable Liberal, however had quite recently been named government Minister of the Interior, and was not keen on leaving Ottawa. Talbot was Laurier's favored competitor, yet he expected to be delegated to the Senate and found the prospect more friendly than filling in as Premier of Alberta. The two men bolstered Rutherford, however nor was energetic about doing as such. In August, Bulyea was designated Alberta's first Lieutenant-Governor and soon thereafter the Alberta Liberals chose Rutherford as their first head. A last obstruction was evacuated a couple of days after the fact when Haultain, who was a Conservative governmentally yet who was believed to be a potential chief of an alliance government, reported that he would remain in Regina to lead the Saskatchewan Conservatives. On September 2, Bulyea requested that Rutherford structure the principal legislature of Alberta. 

Subsequent to tolerating the situation of chief, Rutherford chose a topographically assorted bureau on September 6: Edmonton's Charles Wilson Cross as Attorney-General, Calgary's William Henry Cushing as Minister of Public Works, Medicine Hat's William Finlay as Minister of Agriculture and Provincial Secretary, and Lethbridge's George DeVeber as Minister without Portfolio. Rutherford kept for himself the places of Provincial Treasurer and Minister of Education. 

Rutherford was Premier, yet had not yet confronted the general population in a decision and did not yet have a lawmaking body to which he could propose enactment. Races for the primary Legislative Assembly of Alberta were likewise fixed for November 9. The Conservatives, the youthful region's solitary other ideological group, had effectively chosen R. B. Bennett as their pioneer. Bennett assaulted the terms under which Alberta had been made a region, particularly the provisos that left control of its territories and normal assets in the hands of the government and required the proceeded with commonplace financing of independent schools. He called attention to that Canada's more seasoned regions had control of their own normal assets and that training was a common duty under the British North America Act. The Liberals reacted to these reactions by featuring the money related pay the area got from the central government in return for control of its regular assets, which added up to $375,000 every year. They further proposed that Conservative worry for control of grounds was because of their longing to make great land concessions to the disliked Canadian Pacific Railway, which had truly been inviting with the Conservatives, and for whom Bennett had gone about as specialist. 

Other than the Conservatives' connections to the CPR, Rutherford's Liberals appreciated the occupant's leverage of controlling the switches of support, and the race's outcome was never truly in uncertainty. Prior to the decision, Talbot anticipated that the administration would win 18 of the territory's 25 seats. Following the race it gave the idea that the Liberals had won 21; when every one of the votes had been checked they had won 23 seats to the Conservatives' two. Bennett himself was vanquished in his Calgary riding. At the point when the result was clear, the general population of Strathcona feted Rutherford with a torchlight parade and campfire. 

A standout amongst the most petulant issues confronting the recently chosen government was the choice of the area's capital city. The government enactment making the region had fixed Edmonton as the temporary capital, a lot to the shame of Calgary. Neither one of the parties had taken a situation on the disruptive inquiry amid the battle, yet choosing a lasting capital was high on the rundown of the new council's requests of business. Calgary's case was made most excitedly by Minister of Public Works Cushing, Edmonton's by Attorney-General Cross. Banff and Red Deer were likewise potential outcomes, however movements to choose each neglected to discover seconders. At last, Edmonton was assigned by a vote of sixteen individuals—including Rutherford—to eight. 

An individual need of Rutherford had been the foundation of a college. In spite of the fact that the "Edmonton Bulletin" opined that it would be uncalled for "that the general population of the Province ought to be saddled for the unique advantage of four percent that they might most likely append the surname of B.A. or on the other hand M.A. to their names and parade the vanity of such over the citizen, who needs to pay for it", Rutherford continued rapidly. He was worried that deferral may result in the making of denominational schools, striking a hit to his fantasy of a fantastic non-partisan arrangement of post-optional instruction. A bill setting up the University was passed by the lawmaking body, however left the legislature to choose the area. Calgary felt that, having lost the battle to be commonplace capital, it could anticipate that the college should be set up there, and was not satisfied a year later when the legislature declared the establishing of the University of Alberta in Rutherford's main residence of Strathcona. 

While these provincially charged issues pulled in much consideration, they were a long way from the administration's solitary activities amid the governing body's first session. In 1906 it passed a progression of acts managing the association and organization of the new common government and joined the urban areas of Lethbridge, Medicine Hat, and Wetaskiwin. It additionally settled a speed farthest point of for mechanized vehicles and set up a routine for mine investigation. Maybe most essentially, it set up a court framework, with Arthur Lewis Sifton as the area's first Chief Justice. 

In spite of the fact that the establishing of the University of Alberta was the highlight of Rutherford's instructive arrangement, his action as Minister of Education expanded well past it. In the primary year of Alberta's presence, 140 new schools were set up, and a typical school was set up in Calgary to prepare educators. Rutherford put extraordinary accentuation on the making of English-language schools in the extensive segments of the territory involved essentially by focal and eastern-European workers. The workers themselves were frequently unfit to communicate in English, and the arrangement of these schools for their youngsters was a central point in their fast osmosis into Albertan culture. They were likewise in lieu of isolated religious schools for gatherings, for example, Mennonites; while the proceeded with presence of Roman Catholic separate schools was ordered by the terms of Alberta's induction into Confederation, the administration's strategy was generally to empower a bound together and common government funded educational system. Rutherford likewise presented free school messages in the area, however he was condemned for dispatching the writings from a Toronto distributer (which printed them in New York) instead of locally. 

The winter of 1906– 07 was the coldest in Alberta history; this was exacerbated by a lack of coal. One reason for this lack was the stressed connection between coal diggers and mine administrators in the territory. Toward the start of April 1907 the Canada West Coal and Coke Company bolted out the diggers from its mine close Taber. A similar organization was additionally confronting a work stoppage at its mine in the Crow's Nest Pass, where excavators were declining to sign another agreement. The issue spread, until by April 22 every one of the 3,400 diggers working for part organizations of the Western Coal Operators' Association were off work. Diggers' requests included expanded wages, a decrease in working hours to eight every day (from ten), the posting of mine investigation reports, the segregated stockpiling of explosives, the utilization of non-solidifying explosives, and semi-month to month as opposed to regularly scheduled pay; the mine administrators protested this keep going point on the premise that numerous excavators did not answer to work the day after payday, and it was accordingly alluring to keep paydays to a base. 

Rutherford's legislature selected a commission in February, however it was not until May that it met. It comprised of Chief Justice Arthur Sifton, mining official Lewis Stockett, and excavators' association official William Haysom. It started taking proof in July. Meanwhile, a May understanding saw most excavators come back to work at expanded rates of pay; coal supply immediately expanded, as did its cost. In August, the commission discharged its suggestions, which incorporated a preclusion on kids under 16 working in mines, the posting of investigators' reports, compulsory shower houses at mine destinations, and improved ventilation review. It additionally suggested that Albertans keep a supply of coal available amid the mid year for winter use. The commission was quiet on wages (other than to state that these ought not be fixed by enactment), the task of organization stores (a sore point among the diggers), and the joining of excavators' associations, which was prescribed by mine administration however contradicted by the associations. 

The board of trustees likewise made no suggestion about working hours, yet Rutherford's administration administered an eight-hour day at any rate. Too, Rutherford's legislature likewise passed specialists' pay enactment intended to make such remuneration programmed, as opposed to requiring the harmed laborer to sue his manager. Work agents condemned the bill for neglecting to force fines on careless businesses and for constraining development specialists' qualification under the program to wounds supported while dealing with structures more than in stature, just as for its exception of easygoing workers. It likewise saw the most extreme payout of $1,500 as lacking. Because of these worries, the most extreme was expanded to $1,800 and the base structure tallness diminished to . Because of ranchers' worries, ranch workers were made absolved from the bill altogether. 

Rutherford's association with sorted out work was never simple. Student of history L.G. Thomas contended that there was little sign that Rutherford had any enthusiasm for pursuing the work vote. In 1908, Labor hopeful Donald McNabb was chosen in a Lethbridge by-race; the riding had recently been held by a Liberal. McNabb was the main Labor MLA chosen in Alberta (he was crushed in his 1909 re-appointment offer). 

Rutherford's Liberals self-distinguished as the gathering of free venture, as opposed to the open possession supporting Conservatives. In spite of this, they made a predetermined number of extensive scale raids into government task of utilities, the most prominent of which was the making of Alberta Government Telephones. In 1906, Alberta's districts enactment was passed and incorporated an arrangement approving regions to work phone organizations. A few, including Edmonton, did as such, close by privately owned businesses. The biggest of this last gathering was the Bell Telephone Company, which held an imposing business model over administration in Calgary. Such syndications and the private firms' refusal to expand their administrations into inadequately populated and unbeneficial rustic regions excited interest for commonplace section into the market, which was affected in 1907. The administration built various lines, starting with one among Calgary and Banff, and furthermore acquired Bell's lines for $675,000. 

Alberta's open phone framework was financed by obligation, which was surprising for an administration like Rutherford's that was commonly dedicated to the standard of "pay as you go". Rutherford's expressed justification was that the expense of such a vast capital task shouldn't be borne by a solitary age and that bringing about obligation to fund a comparing resource was, rather than working shortfalls, adequate. Despite the fact that the move was well known at the time, it would turn out to be a monetarily insightful one: by concentrating on regions ignored by existing organizations, the administration was going into the most costly and least beneficial fields of media transmission. These issues would not happen as intended until Rutherford had left office, in any case; for the time being, the administration's contribution in the phone business helped it to a general triumph in the 1909 decision, in which the Liberals won 37 of 41 situates in the recently extended assembly. 

Of equivalent profile was Rutherford's administration of the region's railroads. Alberta's initial years were idealistic ones, which showed itself in an articulated eagerness for the development of new railroad lines. Each town needed to be a railroad focus, and the legislature had extraordinary trust in the capacity of the free market to give low cargo rates to the territory's ranchers gave adequate sanctions were issued to contending organizations. The lawmaking body passed government-supported enactment setting out a system for new railroads in 1907, however enthusiasm from private firms in really constructing the lines was constrained. Even with open interest and backing by administrators of all gatherings for as quick as conceivable a development of the region's lines, the legislature offered advance assurances to a few organizations in return for duties to fabricate lines. Rutherford legitimized this to a limited extent by his conviction that railroads expected to extend alongside populace, as opposed to having railroad development pursue populace development as would be the situation without government intercession. The Conservatives contended that this procedure turned out poorly enough, and called for direct government proprietorship. 

While most open works issues were dealt with by Public Works Minister Cushing, following the 1909 decision Rutherford named himself as the region's first Minister of Railways. 

At the point when the lawmaking body met out of the blue after the 1909 race, things appeared to go well for Rutherford and his legislature. He controlled a tremendous larger part, though somewhat decreased from the 1905 decision, and appreciated across the board prominence. His administration had made huge progress in setting up another territory, and this achievement looked ready to proceed. Right off the bat in this new administrative session, be that as it may, two indications of inconvenience showed up: Liberal backbencher John R. Boyle started to make inquiries about the understanding between the legislature and the Alberta and Great Waterways Railway Company, and Cushing left bureau over his perspectives on this equivalent understanding. 

The Alberta and Great Waterways Railway was one of a few organizations that had been allowed sanctions and help by the council to manufacture new railroads in the territory. The administration bolster that it got was more liberal than that gotten by progressively settled railroads, for example, the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway and the Canadian Northern Railway. Boyle, Cushing, and Bennett affirmed partiality or awkwardness by Rutherford and his administration, and indicated the clearance of government-ensured bonds in help of the organization as additional proof. Due to the high financing cost they paid, the bonds were sold at better than expected esteem, yet the legislature just gotten standard for them, leaving the organization to stash the distinction. 

Boyle supported a movement of non-certainty against the administration. Regardless of getting a charge out of the help of twelve Liberals, including Cushing, the movement was crushed and the legislature maintained. Rutherford endeavored to suppress the debate by calling a regal commission, however weight from numerous Liberals, including Bulyea, drove him to leave May 26, 1910; he was supplanted by Arthur Sifton, heretofore the region's main judge. In November, the imperial commission issued its report. It found that the proof did not demonstrate an irreconcilable circumstance on Rutherford's part, yet the dominant part report was all things considered very reproachful of the previous Premier. A minority report was a lot kinder, admitting ideal fulfillment with Rutherford's variant of occasions. 

Prior to the 1911 government race, a few nearby Liberals restricted to Frank Oliver requested that Rutherford keep running against him in Strathcona. Relations among Oliver and Rutherford had dependably been cold—Oliver was relentlessly contradicted to Cross, who he saw as an opponent for predominance of the Liberal party in Alberta, and his Edmonton Bulletin had taken the side of the nonconformists amid the railroad outrage. A choosing meeting collectively named Rutherford as Liberal hopeful, however Oliver wouldn't acknowledge its authenticity and anticipated a later gathering. Before this gathering happened, be that as it may, Rutherford unexpectedly pulled back. Student of history Douglas Babcock recommended this was because of the Conservatives' selection of William Antrobus Griesbach, dashing Rutherford's expectations that his prominence among Conservatives would block their contradicting him. Bits of gossip at the time affirmed that Rutherford had been solicited to make an individual commitment from $15,000 to his battle support, and had shied away. Rutherford himself refered to a longing to abstain from part the vote on correspondence, which he and Oliver both supported however Griesbach contradicted. Whatever the reason, for Rutherford's standing unapproachable from the race, Oliver was designated as Liberal hopeful and was re-chosen. 

In the wake of leaving as Premier, Rutherford kept on sitting as a Liberal MLA. He told the dedication of numerous Liberals who had bolstered his administration through the Alberta and Great Waterways issue, however this group started progressively to consider Cross to be its genuine pioneer. Rutherford restricted the Sifton government's choice to appropriate the Alberta and Great Waterways security cash and repudiate its contract, and in 1913 was one of just two Liberals to help a non-certainty movement against the administration (Cross had at this point joined the Sifton bureau, which mollified most individuals from the Cross-Rutherford group). In the 1913 race, Rutherford was again named as the Liberal competitor in Edmonton South (Strathcona had been amalgamated into Edmonton in 1912), regardless of promising resistance to the Sifton government and offering to battle around the area for the Conservatives on the off chance that they made a deal to avoid running an applicant against him. At the designation meeting, he expressed that he was "not running as a Sifton competitor" and was "a great free candidate ... also, a great Liberal as well". Notwithstanding his restriction to the administration, the Conservatives declined his idea of help and designated Herbert Crawford to keep running against him. After a lively crusade, Crawford crushed Rutherford by less than 250 votes. Cross campaigned Prime Minister Laurier for Rutherford to be named to the Senate. This was ineffective, yet Rutherford was made King's Counsel not long after his appointive thrashing. 

Rutherford took a solid line against the Sifton government and was designated as Conservative contender for the 1917 common race yet remained down in the wake of being named as Alberta executive of the National Service (enrollment). (EB, Nov. 6, 1916) 

In that year's commonplace race, he battled effectively for the Conservatives, including for Crawford, the man who had crushed him eight years sooner. Rutherford kept on considering himself a Liberal, yet censured the occupant organization for the development of the common obligation and for giving the gathering a chance to fall into chaos. Calling the Charles Stewart-drove government "spoiled" and holding resentment against bureau serve John R. Boyle specifically, he offered voters the motto "dispose of the barnacles and the Boyles", a homonymic reference to the parasitic development in favor of a ship. He may have been excited to see the Liberal government fall in the race, yet most likely less so when he saw that the triumphant United Farmers of Alberta had additionally trimmed the Conservatives down to just a single seat. 

Once out of legislative issues, Rutherford came back to his law practice. His association with Jamieson saw accomplices go back and forth. Rutherford partitioned his time between the first Strathcona office and the Edmonton office he opened in 1910; his training focussed on contracts, land, wills and bequests, and consolidations. In 1923, Rutherford's child Cecil joined the firm alongside Stanley Harwood McCuaig, who in 1919 would wed Rutherford's little girl Hazel. In 1925, Jamieson left the organization to set up his own firm. In 1939, McCuaig did likewise. Cecil's association with his dad proceeded until the last's demise. 

Other than his work as an attorney, Alexander Rutherford was engaged with various business ventures. He was President of the Edmonton Mortgage Corporation, and Vice President and specialist of the Great Western Garment Company. This last undertaking, which Rutherford helped to establish, was an incredible achievement: set up in 1911 with eight sewers, it had quadrupled in size inside a year. Amid the Second World War, the Great Western Garment Company made military garbs and was presumed to be the biggest article of clothing task in the British Empire. It was obtained by Levi Strauss and Co. in 1961, yet kept on assembling pieces of clothing in Edmonton until 2004. 

Rutherford likewise went about as executive of the Canada National Fire Insurance Company, the Imperial Canadian Trust Company, the Great West Permanent Loan Company, and the Monarch Life Assurance Company. 

Training was an individual need of Rutherford's, as confirm by his maintenance of the workplace of Education Minister for his whole time as Premier and by his excited work in establishing the University of Alberta. In 1911 he was chosen by Alberta's college graduates to the University of Alberta Senate, in charge of the organization's scholastic undertakings. In 1912 he set up the Rutherford Gold Medal in English for the senior year respects English understudy with the most noteworthy standing; the prize still exists today as the Rutherford Memorial Medal in English. In 1912, with the University's initially graduating class, Rutherford founded a convention of welcoming convocating understudies to his home for tea; this custom would keep going for twenty-six years. 

Meeting was by all account not the only reason that understudies visited Rutherford's home: he had an abundance of both learning and books on Canadian subjects, and invited understudies to counsel his private library. This library in the end extended past the room in his chateau committed to it, to envelop the house's nook, servant's living room, and carport too. After his demise, the gathering was given and sold to the University's library framework; it was depicted in 1967 as "still the most vital uncommon accumulation in the library". 

Rutherford stayed on the college senate until 1927, when he was chosen Chancellor. The position was the main leader of the college, and its essential obligation was managing meetings. As indicated by Rutherford biographer Douglas Babcock, this was the respect that Rutherford prized most. He was acclaimed to the position at regular intervals until his demise. It has been evaluated that he granted degrees to in excess of five thousand understudies. His last assembly, in any case, was damaged by discussion: in 1941, a board of the college senate prescribed granting a privileged degree to Premier William Aberhart. Aberhart was satisfied, and joyfully acknowledged University President William Alexander Robb Kerr's welcome to convey the initiation address at conference. Be that as it may, seven days preceding assembly the full senate—in charge of all college scholarly issues—met, and casted a ballot against granting Aberhart a degree. Aberhart revoked his acknowledgment of Kerr's welcome (and later evacuated the senate's position—aside from, amusingly, the specialist to grant privileged degrees) and Kerr surrendered in challenge. Rutherford was humiliated, yet directed conference in any case. 

Rutherford stayed dynamic in a wide scope of network associations well after his takeoff from legislative issues. He was a minister in his congregation until a ways into his dotage, was an individual from the Young Women's Christian Association warning board from 1913 until his demise, was Edmonton's originally magnified leader of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks and went through three years as the fabulous lifted up leader of the Elk Order of Canada. Amid World War I he was Alberta chief of the National Service Commission, which regulated enrollment from 1916 until 1918, and in 1916 was designated Honorary Colonel of the 194th Highland Battalion of the Canadian Expeditionary Force. Rutherford served on the Loan Advisory Committee of the Soldier Settlement Board after the war, was President of the Alberta Historical Society (which had been made by his administration) from 1919 until his passing, was chosen President of the McGill University Alumni Association of Alberta in 1922, and spent the most recent long periods of his life as privileged leader of the Canadian Authors Association. He was additionally an individual from the Northern Alberta Pioneers and Old-Timers Association, the British Association for the Advancement of Science, the Royal Colonial Institute of London, and the Masons. He kept on twisting and played tennis into his late fifties, and took up golf at the age of sixty-four, turning into a contract individual from the Mayfair Golf and Country Club. He got privileged doctorates of laws from four colleges: McGill, the University of Alberta, McMaster University, and the University of Toronto. 

In 1911, the Rutherfords manufactured another house nearby the University of Alberta grounds. Rutherford named it "Archnacarry", after his tribal country. It is currently known as Rutherford House, and fills in as a historical center. He made a few outings to the United Kingdom, and was welcome to go to the crowning liturgy of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth, yet needed to come back to Canada before the occasion. On December 19, 1938, the Rutherfords commended their fiftieth wedding commemoration; tributes and well-wishes touched base from crosswise over Canada. 

Other than his bronchitis, Rutherford created diabetes in later years. His better half observed his sugar admission, however when they were separated Rutherford now and then took less consideration than she would have enjoyed him to. In 1938, perhaps because of diabetes, he endured a stroke that left him deadened and quiet. He figured out how to walk again and with the assistance of an evaluation one peruser recovered his discourse. September 13, 1940, Mattie Rutherford kicked the bucket of disease. Not exactly a year later, June 11, 1941, Rutherford endured a deadly heart assault while in medical clinic for insulin treatment. He was 84 years of age. Alexander Rutherford was covered in Mount Pleasant Cemetery in Edmonton, close by his family. His name was connected to numerous organizations both amid his life and after: Rutherford Elementary School in Edmonton was built up in 1911 and the University of Alberta's Rutherford Library in 1951. In 1954, a mountain in Jasper National Park was named Mount Rutherford. In 1980, the administration of Alberta made the Alexander Rutherford Scholarship, which grants more than $20 million every year to secondary school understudies chose based on at least a 75% normal. The best ten understudies accepting Alexander Rutherford grants are perceived as 'Rutherford Scholars', and are given an extra grant and plaque. 

Rutherford's approach heritage is blended. L. G. Thomas reasons that he was a frail head, unfit to overwhelm the desire of his lieutenants and with next to no expertise at discussion. Notwithstanding this, he perceives the Rutherford government's inheritance of area building. Douglas Babcock proposes that Rutherford, while himself respectable, left himself helpless before deceitful men who eventually destroyed his political profession. Bennett, Rutherford's adversary and later Prime Minister, agreed with this appraisal, calling Rutherford "a man of his word of the old school ... not prepared by involvement or personality for the harsh and tumble of western legislative issues". There is general understanding that Rutherford's most noteworthy inheritance, and the one in which he took the most pride, lies in his commitments to Alberta's training. As Mount Royal College antiquarian Patricia Roome finished up her part on Rutherford in a book about Alberta's initial twelve premiers, "Rutherford's instructive commitment remains his definitive heritage to Albertans."