Louis Leblanc 

Louis Jean Joseph Leblanc (conceived January 26, 1991) is a Canadian resigned proficient ice hockey focus. Leblanc played minor hockey in the Montreal district before he moved to the United States in 2008, playing one season with the Omaha Lancers of the United States Hockey League (USHL) and getting to be Rookie of the Year. Qualified for the 2009 NHL Entry Draft, he was chosen eighteenth generally speaking by the Montreal Canadiens. He at that point enlisted at Harvard University and went through one season with the Crimson, being named Ivy League new kid on the block of the, prior year he marked an agreement with the Canadiens in 2010. Soon thereafter Leblanc joined the Montreal Juniors, who had prior procured his Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) playing rights. 

Leblanc went through three seasons with the Canadiens, for the most part playing for their American Hockey League (AHL) associates, before being exchanged 2014 to the Anaheim Ducks, who kept him in the AHL. In 2015, Leblanc moved to Europe, joining HC Slovan Bratislava of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL), however he just played seven diversions for them before being discharged. In the wake of showing up in four recreations for Lausanne HC of the Swiss National League A, he resigned from hockey. Universally, Leblanc played in the 2008 Ivan Hlinka Memorial Tournament, where Canada won the gold decoration, and in the 2011 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, where he helped Canada win a silver award. Leblanc was viewed as a draft bust, having neglected to achieve his potential and resigning from hockey at an early age. 

Leblanc was destined to Yves and Marie Leblanc in Pointe-Claire, a suburb of Montreal, on January 26, 1991. Yves Leblanc was utilized as a scientific expert by Merck Frosst, one of the world's biggest pharmaceutical organizations, in Montreal before exchanging to their office at Cambridge, Massachusetts in 2009; he worked four-day weeks and came back to Montreal on ends of the week. Marie was a piano instructor. His more youthful sibling Jean likewise plays hockey. Experiencing childhood with the West Island town of Kirkland, Quebec, Leblanc skated from the age of three and entered composed hockey two years after the fact. As a young, he played in the 2004 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with the Lakeshore Minor Hockey Association. In the wake of playing with Lakeshore, it ended up evident that he had the capacity to seek after the game at a more elevated amount; at 15 years old, he joined the Lac St. Louis Lions, a dwarf group situated in Montreal. He played two seasons for the Lions and drove the triple-A class in scoring the multiple times. 

Leblanc was chosen eighteenth in general by the Val-d'Or Foreurs in the 2007 Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) draft. Be that as it may, as he wished to go to an American college, he went rather to the Omaha Lancers of the United States Hockey League (USHL) where he spent the 2008– 09 season, playing in 60 recreations and completing with 28 objectives and 31 helps for 59 points. He drove the group in focuses scored and tied for tenth generally in the USHL; his objective all out was tied for eighth by and large, and the six amusement winning objectives Leblanc scored were tied for second in general. In acknowledgment of his execution that season, the USHL named him the association's new kid on the block of the year. 

Toward the finish of the period, Leblanc was positioned by the National Hockey League (NHL) Central Scouting Bureau as a top prospect for the 2009 NHL Entry Draft; their last rundown had him thirteenth by and large among North American skaters, and he was eventually chosen eighteenth in general by the Montreal Canadiens, who were hosts of the Draft. 

The past francophone chose in the first round of the Entry Draft by the Canadiens had been Eric Chouinard in 1998. Mentors and scouts for the Canadiens adulated Leblanc for his speed, assurance, objective scoring capacity and his ability to go to the corners for the puck. Canadiens General Manager Bob Gainey felt that Leblanc's choice to move to the United States to play in the USHL—as opposed to remain in his local Quebec with the QMJHL, which would have been the simpler decision—would help his advancement as a player and showed the sort of character that the group looked for. Leblanc selected at Harvard University in September 2009, and started playing for the college's hockey group, the Crimson. In his one year at Harvard, he drove the group in objectives (11), helps (12) and focuses (23). Named the Ivy League new kid on the block of the year, he was additionally a finalist for the ECAC freshman of the year. 

In mid-2010, Leblanc's QMJHL rights were possessed by Montreal Junior Hockey Club (Montreal Juniors)— his rights having been exchanged from Val-d'Or to the Chicoutimi Saguenéens in 2009, at that point to the Juniors in June 2010. On July 30, Leblanc marked a three-year contract with the Canadiens, and he went to a preparation camp with the group in September. By marking an expert contract, he relinquished his National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) qualification and needed to leave Harvard, being viewed as an expert as indicated by NCAA norms. Following the camp, the Canadiens reported on September 27 that they were returning him to the Juniors for the 2010– 11 season. He completed 2010– 11 with 58 out of 51 recreations for the Juniors. In the off-season, the group moved to Boisbriand, a suburb of Montreal, and were renamed the Blainville-Boisbriand Armada; the group exchanged Leblanc's significant junior rights to the Shawinigan Cataractes. Before he got an opportunity to play for the Cataractes, the Canadiens practiced their agreement rights to him, placing him in the Hamilton Bulldogs of the American Hockey League (AHL), the Canadiens' small time associate. 

Leblanc made his expert introduction on October 27, 2011 with the Bulldogs, and scored three points, including the diversion winning objective in extra time, to give his group a 3– 2 triumph over the Rochester Americans. After 14 amusements with the Bulldogs, in which he recorded 10, Leblanc was reviewed by the Canadiens and made his NHL debut on November 30 against the Anaheim Ducks. His first point, a help on an objective by Andrei Kostitsyn, went ahead December 3, against the Los Angeles Kings, while his first NHL objective was against Sergei Bobrovsky in a 4– 3 misfortune against the Philadelphia Flyers on December 15. Leblanc split the rest of the period among Montreal and Hamilton. He played 42 diversions for the Canadiens, with whom he had 5 objectives and 5 helps, and 31 amusements with the Bulldogs, scoring 11 objectives and 11 helps; he was the main Canadien objective scorer among tenderfoots, and was second in the two helps and focuses. The accompanying season was deferred by the 2012– 13 NHL lockout; when the NHL continued play in January 2013, Leblanc remained in the AHL with Hamilton, where he recorded 18 points in 62 amusements, minor wounds confining his playing time and constraining his creation. Preceding the 2013– 14 NHL season, Leblanc was by and by alloted to Hamilton, one of the principal players the Canadiens cut from their program; with his initial downgrade to the AHL, it was guessed in the media whether Leblanc, who had one year staying on his agreement with the Canadiens, had a future with the group. He was reviewed to the Canadiens right off the bat in the season and played eight recreations for them, going inconsequential before being sent back to the AHL, his NHL profession was by and by addressed. In the 70 diversions he played for Hamilton, Leblanc scored 13 objectives and 15 helps. As Leblanc had neglected to set up himself on the Canadiens program, he was exchanged, on June 14, 2014, to the Anaheim Ducks in return for a restrictive fifth-round pick in the 2015 NHL Entry Draft. A confined free specialist, Leblanc marked a one-year expansion with the Ducks, however he went through the season with their AHL member, the Norfolk Admirals, scoring 29 out of 71 amusements. 

On July 17, 2015, Leblanc marked as a free operator to a one-year contract with the New York Islanders. Subsequent to neglecting to verify a spot in New York's lineup and being appointed to New York's AHL member, Bridgeport Sound Tigers, the group consented to discharge him from his agreement and he immediately marked with HC Slovan Bratislava of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). Visa issues at first kept Leblanc from joining the group, so he was credited to MsHK Žilina of the Slovak Extraliga. When cleared to join Slovan, Leblanc just played seven diversions, neglecting to record a point, before being discharged. He was censured by the mentor, Miloš Říha, for playing "un-Canadian" (not sufficiently physical). As the KHL had a point of confinement on remote players, Leblanc should have been among the best players to hold his place; the mentor did not judge Leblanc to fulfill that guideline. Rather, he marked with Lausanne HC of the Swiss National League A (NLA). He completed the season with them, scoring one objective in four diversions, and chose to resign in June. He was viewed as one of the Canadiens' greatest draft busts in the period somewhere in the range of 2000 and 2009, having neglected to achieve the potential expected at the season of his determination. 

Leblanc first took part in a worldwide competition when he played for the Canadian national junior group at the 2008 Ivan Hlinka Memorial Tournament in the Czech Republic and Slovakia in August 2008. He drove the group with three objectives and included two helps for five as Canada won the gold decoration. Leblanc was then welcome to go for the national junior group preceding the 2010 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, however was one of the last players cut from the group. There was hypothesis that his investment in the NCAA instead of the Canadian Hockey League (CHL) frustrated his odds of making the group, as CHL players had played significantly a bigger number of amusements than those in the NCAA. Leblanc additionally had college tests planned around the season of the camp. He was welcome to the late spring camp the next year in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, and was one of the top scorers at the camp. After the pre-competition camp in December 2010, Leblanc was named to the last program for the 2011 World Juniors. 

In Canada's first diversion against Russia, Leblanc earned his first point, a help. He scored his first objective, in need of help (Canada's first in the competition), and included an aid the second amusement, versus the Czech Republic. He later recorded an aid the gold award diversion, where Canada lost to Russia 5– 3. He completed the competition with three objectives and seven points more than seven amusements and fourth by and large in the group in scoring. 

Leblanc was involved with tennis player Aleksandra Wozniak, who is additionally from the Montreal locale. At the point when Leblanc was alloted to the AHL preceding the 2013– 14 season, Wozniak investigated the proceed onward Twitter, saying Leblanc had not been given "a reasonable shot". While at Harvard, Leblanc studied financial aspects, and trusted in the long run to procure his degree. In lieu of this, he took a business class at McGill University in Montreal when he moved back to the city in 2010. When he declared his retirement in 2016, it was accounted for he intended to come back to Harvard soon thereafter.