Mother India 

Mother India is a 1957 Indian epic dramatization movie, coordinated by Mehboob Khan and featuring Nargis, Sunil Dutt, Rajendra Kumar, and Raaj Kumar. A revamp of Khan's prior film "Aurat" (1940), it is the narrative of a destitution stricken town lady named Radha (Nargis), who without her significant other, battles to bring up her children and get by against a cleverness cash bank in the midst of numerous inconveniences. Notwithstanding her hardships, she sets a goddess-like good case of a perfect Indian lady. 

The title of the film was picked to counter American writer Katherine Mayo's 1927 polemical book "Mother India", which criticized Indian culture. References to Hindu folklore are bounteous in the film, and its lead character has been viewed as a metonymic portrayal of a Hindu lady who reflects high good qualities and the idea of being a mother to society through benevolence. "Mother India" figuratively speaks to India as a country in the result of freedom, and suggests a solid feeling of patriotism and country building. While a few creators treat Radha as the image of ladies strengthening, others see her cast in female generalizations. The film was shot in Mumbai's Mehboob Studios and in the towns of Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Uttar Pradesh states. The music by Naushad presented Western established music and Hollywood-style ensemble to Hindi film. 

The film was the most costly Hindi film (Bollywood) generation and earned the most noteworthy income for any Indian film around then. Balanced for swelling, "Mother India" still positions among the unequaled Indian film industry hits. It was discharged in India in the midst of pomp in October or November 1957, and had a few prominent screenings, including one at the capital, New Delhi, gone to by the nation's leader and head administrator. "Mother India" turned into a conclusive social great and is viewed as a standout amongst the best movies in Indian and world film. It was India's first accommodation for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1958, where it got the selection and lost the honor by only one vote. The movie won the All India Certificate of Merit for Best Feature Film, the Filmfare Best Film Award for 1957, and Nargis and Khan won the Best Actress and Best Director grants individually. 

The film is set in 1957, the present day at the season of the shooting. At the point when development of a water system channel to the town is finished, Radha (Nargis), viewed as the "mother" of the town, is approached to introduce the trench. She recalls her past when she was recently hitched. 

The wedding among Radha and Shamu (Raaj Kumar) is paid for by Radha's relative, who obtains the cash from the moneylender Sukhilala (Kanhaiyalal). The states of the advance are questioned, yet the town older folks rule for the moneylender, after which Shamu and Radha are compelled to pay seventy five percent of their yield as enthusiasm on the advance of 500 (esteemed at about US$105 in 1957). While Shamu attempts to bring a greater amount of their rough land into utilization, his arms are pulverized by a stone. Embarrassed about his defenselessness (being without arms), and mortified by Sukhilala for living on the profit of his significant other, Shamu concludes that he is of no utilization to his family and for all time leaves Radha and their three children, strolling to his very own likely passing by starvation. Before long, Radha's most youthful child and her relative passed on. An extreme tempest and the subsequent flood wrecks houses in the town and vestiges the reap. Sukhilala offers to spare Radha and her children in the event that she exchanges her body to him for nourishment. Radha energetically rejected his offer yet needed to likewise lose her newborn child (her fourth child) to the monstrosities of the tempest. In spite of the fact that the residents start at first to empty the town, they choose to remain and modify it, induced by Radha. 

Quite a while later, Radha's two enduring youngsters, Birju (Sunil Dutt) and Ramu (Rajendra Kumar), are young fellows. Birju, disenthralled since youth by the requests of Sukhilala, takes out his dissatisfactions by irritating the town young ladies, particularly Sukhilala's girl, Rupa. Ramu, on the other hand, has a more settled personality and is hitched before long. Birju's indignation at long last ends up unsafe and, in the wake of being incited, he assaults Sukhilala and his girl and takes Radha's "kangan" (marriage arm ornaments) that were pawned with Sukhilala. He is pursued out of the town and turns into a desperado. Radha guarantees Sukhilala that she won't let Birju cause damage to Sukhilala's family. On Rupa's big day, Birju comes back with his group of brigands to get his vengeance. He executes Sukhilala and grabs Rupa. When he attempts to escape the town on his steed, Radha, his mom, shoots him. He passes on in her arms. The film comes back to 1957; Radha opens the door of the waterway and its rosy water streams into the fields. 

The title "Mother India" was roused by American writer Katherine Mayo's 1927 polemical book of a similar name, in which she assaulted Indian culture, religion and culture. Composed against the Indian requests for self-standard and freedom from British principle, the book indicated the treatment of India's ladies, the untouchables, creatures, earth, and the character of its nationalistic legislators. Mayo singled out the widespread and lethally debilitating sexuality of its guys to be at the center everything being equal, prompting masturbation, assault, homosexuality, prostitution, venereal infections, and, above all, untimely sex and maternity. The book made a shock crosswise over India, and it was singed alongside her model. It was scrutinized by Mahatma Gandhi as a "report of a channel investigator conveyed with the one reason for opening and looking at the channels of the nation to be accounted for upon". The book provoked more than fifty irate books and handouts to be distributed to feature Mayo's mistakes and bogus impression of Indian culture, which had turned into an incredible impact on the American individuals' perspective on India. 

Mehboob Khan had the thought for the film and the title as ahead of schedule as 1952, five years after India's autonomy; in October that year, he moved toward the import specialists of the Indian government to look for authorization for bringing in crude stocks for the film. In 1955, the services of External Affairs and Information-and-Broadcasting educated of the title of the expected movie and requested that the executive send them the content for survey, suspicious that it depended on the book and consequently a conceivable danger to national intrigue. The film group dispatched the content alongside a two-page letter on 17 September 1955 saying: 

Khan was enlivened by American creator Pearl S. Buck and her books "The Good Earth" (1931) and "The Mother" (1934); he likewise observed the movie "The Good Earth" (1937), coordinated by Sidney Franklin. "The Mother" chronicled the life of a Chinese lady, including her wedded life and desolate battle in the wake of being deserted by her significant other. Parts of "Mother India, for example, moneylenders, worked ashore, and raising kids through hardship were a piece of the story. Khan initially drew upon these impacts in making his 1940 film "Aurat", the first form of "Mother India". Khan purchased the privileges of "Aurat" from the generation organization National Studios for 35,000 (esteemed at about US$7,350 in 1957). Complex components of "Mother India" show similitudes with Vsevolod Pudovkin's Soviet quiet movie "Mother" (1926); "Our Daily Bread" (1934), coordinated by King Vidor; and movies of Alexander Dovzhenko. Certain symbolism in the film, for example, "upbeat ranchers, sickles in their grasp, grinning from behind aging harvests", look like blurbs by Soviet constructivist specialists. 

The content of "Aurat" was contrived by Wajahat Mirza, in light of a story by Babubhai Mehta. For "Mother India", it was revamped by Mirza and the youthful screenwriter S. Ali Raza. Aside from Mehboob Khan, Mirza and Raza, unmistakable screenwriters Aghajani Kashmeri, Zia Sarhadi, Akhtar Mirza, music executive Naushad, colleague chief Chimankant Desai and numerous others were counseled. The exchange, revised by Mirza and Raza, is a mix of Urdu, vernacular Hindi, and its artistic partner. As Mirza and Raza were from the Urdu artistic custom, they composed the exchanges in Urdu content. 

The content was deliberately written in a way that advanced the strengthening of ladies in Indian culture (counting the ability to oppose lewd gestures) and the support of a feeling of good poise and reason as people; this was in opposition to what Mayo had guaranteed in her book. These subjects, present in "Aurat", were additionally created with a solid feeling of patriotism and country building, utilizing characters exemplifying theoretical characteristics, for example, "magnificence and goodness, riches and influence, neediness and abuse, and network soul". 

Nargis was the chief's first decision for the job of Radha, and regardless of just being matured 26 at the time, she assumed the job of the new spouse, youthful single parent and a matured mother of two children. Nargis—the authoritative ruler of Hindi film at the time—had begun her vocation in a main job with Khan's "Taqdeer" (1943) and acted under his bearing in "Humayun" (1945) and "Andaz" (1949). "Mother India" is by and large viewed as Nargis' best execution and was her last significant film before retirement after marriage. 

Khan had needed to cast Sabu Dastagir, a Hollywood star of Indian source, as Birju. Dastagir made a trip to India from Los Angeles, remained in an inn in Mumbai (at that point known as Bombay) and got a retainer. Be that as it may, postponements and hindrances in starting shooting and getting a work grant for Dastagir prompted his rejection from the undertaking. Dilip Kumar, a set up on-screen character in the Hindi film industry, had initially communicated an enthusiasm for playing Birju, which Khan found pleasing; Dilip Kumar consented to play Shamu too. Notwithstanding, Nargis questioned that the open would not acknowledge their giving a role as mother and child since she had completed a few sentimental movies close by him. Sunil Dutt—with the experience of only one film—was at long last cast, after Mukri, an entertainer in the film, acquainted him with Khan. Sajid Khan, the performing artist who depicted the youthful Birju, was obscure at the time, and was from a poor family from the Mumbai ghettos. Sajid's compensation in the film was 750. He was later received by Mehboob Khan. In this way, Raaj Kumar was given a role as Shamu and Rajendra Kumar as Ramu. "Mother India" was the main fruitful film and a defining moment in the professions of Dutt, Raaj Kumar and Rajendra Kumar. 

Before primary photography started, Nargis and Raaj Kumar acquainted themselves with cultivating practices, for example, furrowing the fields, harvesting and sowing, and cotton picking. The additional items in the tune and move groupings of the film were from nearby move bunches in towns where the shooting occurred rather than the standard ones from Mumbai. 

The underlying taping for "Mother India" started out of the blue, even before the content and cast were finished. In 1955, portions of Uttar Pradesh experienced significant flooding. Cinematographer Faredoon Irani made a trip to flood-distressed locale to shoot conventional flood scenes. The booked central photography began in 1955 with a financial plan of 20– 25 lakh (roughly US$420,000– 525,000 out of 1957). Be that as it may, the financial backing expanded to 35– 40 lakh (around US$735,000– 840,000 of every 1957) before the finish of the recording in light of the open air sessions and cast and team's compensations. This financial plan, a record at the time, was outperformed by "Mughal-e-Azam" in 1960. 

A few indoor scenes for the film were shot in 1956 at Mehboob Studios in Bandra, Mumbai. Khan and Irani endeavored to shoot habitually on area to make the film as sensible as could be expected under the circumstances. Areas included different towns in Maharashtra, Gujarat (Maharashtra and Gujarat together shaped Bombay State at that point) and Uttar Pradesh. The film was shot in 35mm. Contemporary cinematographer Anil Mehta has noticed the dominance of Irani's artistic methods in shooting the film, including his "mind boggling tracks and dish, the nitty gritty mise en scène designs Irani imagined, notwithstanding for brief shots—in the studios just as on area". The film took around three years to make, from early association, arranging, and scripting to fulfillment of shooting. In a November 1956 meeting, Nargis depicted the film shoot and her job as the most requesting of her vocation. "Mother India" was shot in Gevacolor, later changed over to Technicolor. It was shot for the most part utilizing the match up sound procedure, which was basic at the time; a few scenes were named. 

For shooting the flood scene, a rancher consented to surge of his territory. In the mass migration scene following the flood, 300 bullock trucks, 200 farmers and numerous ponies, tractors and furrows were utilized. Gayatri Chatterjee expounds on the prevalent view that all these were made accessible by townspeople without repayment, in her book. In any case, account records of the creation uncovered that the townspeople were paid. There was an extended scene in the film in which Radha keeps running between consuming sheaves in scan for her child Birju, a rebel highwayman, who was stowing away there. The shoot scene was shot in the Umra region of Surat, Gujarat, by consuming parcels of feed. Nargis and Dutt acted in the flame scene without copies. On 1 March 1957, a mishap happened amid the flame scene when the breeze course changed and the flame became crazy, catching Nargis. She was spared by Dutt, who immediately snatched a cover, dove inside, and protected her. Shooting stopped incidentally as both had supported wounds. Dutt was hospitalized for the consumes and Nargis helped nurture him, at Khan's place in Billimora. Nargis—a prominent on-screen character at the time—experienced passionate feelings for Dutt, who was in beginning times of his movie vocation and played her child in the film; they wedded on 11 March 1958. Nargis wished to wed not long after the film, however Khan challenged that genuine marriage of the onscreen mother-child would be terrible for the film. Attributable to their relationship, Nargis additionally thought that it was hard to play out a scene where she beat Dutt with a lathi. 

Different creators distinguish the character of Radha with Hindu legendary goddesses and characters, for example, Radha (the admirer of the god Krishna, embodying adoration and sentiment), Sita (the awesome champion of the Hindu epic "Ramayana", exemplifying high good esteem), Savitri (speaking to extraordinary profound quality and faithfulness to spouse), Draupadi (representing obligation and ethical quality), Dharti-mata (earth-mother goddess) and Lakshmi (Hindu goddess of thriving). Other than these delicate goddesses, the character of Radha has shades of increasingly savage warrior goddesses, for example, Durga and Kali. Film researchers have thought about the unassuming, devoted child Ramu with the god Rama of the epic "Ramayana", and the sentimental fugitive Birju—a name of Krishna—with the god Krishna, known for his transgressions. Shamu (another name of Krishna), Radha's better half who abandons her, is additionally compared with Krishna, who left his sweetheart Radha in legendary records. The title "Mother India" and Radha's character are portrayed to be references not exclusively to the Hindu Mother Goddess, yet additionally to Bharat Mata (actually "Mother India"), the national exemplification of India, for the most part spoke to as a Hindu goddess. 

As indicated by educator Nalini Natarajan of the University of Puerto Rico, Nargis' Mother India is a metonymic portrayal of a Hindu lady, reflecting high Hindu qualities, with highminded ethical quality and protective selflessness. Film researcher Jyotika Virdi composed that "Mother India" could likewise be viewed as an allegory of the trinity of mother, God, and a dynamic country. Vijay Mishra, in his 2002 book "Bollywood Cinema: Temples of Desire", opined that the Mother India figure is a symbol in a few regards—being related with a goddess, her capacity as a spouse, as a darling, and notwithstanding trading off her gentility toward the finish of the film by assuming the job of Vishnu the Preserver and Shiva the Destroyer, manly divine beings. 

As indicated by Indian film researchers Gokulsing and Dissanayake, while trying to customary Hindu qualities, the character of Mother India additionally speaks to the changing job of the mother in Indian film and society in that the mother isn't constantly subservient or reliant on her better half, refining the relationship to the male sex or man centric social structures. The "New Internationalist" said in a 1999 audit that Radha changes from an agreeable spouse to a free mother, along these lines breaking female generalizations in Hindi film. Conversely, in a 2012 article in the paper "The Hindu", writer Tarini Sridharan has called attention to topics, for example, maintaining female celibacy, wifely commitment and righteous parenthood that fortify sexual orientation generalizations. While the activity of giving up parenthood to maintain a lady's pride is named as women's activist by a few, different creators consider it to be an endeavor of a network lady to ensure the male centric town structure, that regards "izzat" (respect) of ladies. A limited time leaflet to present the social setting of the film to western crowds portrayed Indian ladies as being "a special stepped area in India", and that Indians "measure the prudence of their race by the modesty of their ladies", and that "Indian moms are the core around which spin the custom and culture of ages." 

In a 2002 survey in "The New York Times", film faultfinder Dave Kehr contrasts the film and "Stella Dallas" (1937) for the topical comparability of the arrangement of penances made by the female lead, and with "Run with the Wind" (1939) as an epic reflecting social changes. Film faultfinder Mark Cousins and creator Tejaswini Ganti concur that the film is the "Run with the Wind" of Indian film. 

The expression "Mother India" has been characterized as "a typical symbol for the new Indian country in the mid 20th century in both colonialist and patriot talk". Numerous creators, including Gayatri Chatterjee, creator of "Mother India" (2002), translate the film as a purposeful anecdote meaning nationalism and the changing circumstance in the recently autonomous country, and how India was working without British specialist. It echoes the story of a cutting edge India, freeing itself from "primitive and pilgrim persecution". The film, a prototype nationalistic picture, is emblematic in that it exhibited the rapture of "Mother India" in a country that had just been free for 10 years, and it had a dependable social effect upon the Indian individuals. Film researcher Saibal Chatterjee considers "Mother India" a "reflection of free India", featuring issues of an early country, including provincial misuse of ranchers by cash loan specialists, in an emotional design justifiable to the normal watcher. It additionally speaks to the agrarian neediness and hardship of the general population at the time. The red water that streams from the waterway flooding the green fields toward the finish of the film is seen by Chatterjee as a similitude to speak to the blood of Indians in the battle for autonomy, streaming to support another free India. The channel is portrayed by Virdi to flag the up and coming end of the medieval request. Notwithstanding, regardless of Radha's battle against medieval persecution portrayed in the film, her activity of ceasing the defiant Birju and maintaining the norm—the primitive and man centric request—is viewed as "backward" by different creators. 

In an investigation of media and pop culture in South Asia, creator Mahasveta Barua draws a parallel between the film's figurative portrayal of the mother as country, and the metonymic recognizable proof with India that Indira Gandhi, India's solitary lady leader, looked for and strove for amid her residency (1966– 77, and 1980– 84). In his book "Psychological warfare, Media, Liberation", John David Slocum contends that like Satyajit Ray's great perfect work of art "Pather Panchali" (1955), Khan's "Mom India" has "competed for elective meanings of Indianness". In any case, he accentuates that the film is an unmistakable mythologising and feminizing of the country in which Indian groups of onlookers have utilized their creative ability to characterize it in the nationalistic setting, given that in all actuality the storyline is about a neediness stricken worker from northern India, as opposed to a genuine perfect of a modernizing, amazing country. 

The Radha– Birju relationship is portrayed to have "Oedipal components" by numerous creators; Virdi has contended that in her purity, Radha channels her sexual wants into maternal love for her children who adequately become "substitute sensual subjects". Mishra opines that the devastating of the arms of Radha's better half and the smoothness of the more seasoned child symbolize mutilation, which is interestingly with the resistance of Birju, related to sexual intensity. Birju's fixation on his mom's wrist trinkets is a declaration of his oedipal longings, as indicated by Chakravarty. Rachel Dwyer, Professor of Indian Cultures and Cinema at SOAS, depicts how "suspiciously easily" the Oedipal components fit into the film and the off-screen sentiment among Nargis and Dutt, playing mother and child in the film. Radha's activities toward the finish of the film in shooting her own child was a breaking of customary mother– child relationship to defend profound quality, as per creator William Van der Heide. Virdi brings up this conveyed uncertainty to the mother figure who goes about as a giving up supplier and furthermore as a destroyer, demolishing her very own child, something uncommon in Hindi film. She deciphers Birju's lewd gestures on a town young lady (which is interbreeding in north Indian town culture) similar to a substitute in the plot for the depraved mother– child relationship and his passing toward the end as a discipline for infringement of the forbidden. 

Creators, for example, Eshun and Woods express that Radha and Ramu are the model victors of temperance in fighting hardship and shamefulness, while Birju is a devilish tyke who turns into the revolutionary whose wild defiance demolishes request. Mishra has noticed that in spite of the fact that Radha maintains "Dharma" (the regular law or request) in the film, it is Birju who accomplishes distinguishing proof from the onlookers; in his defiance lies the plan of political activity that will usher social change. Mishra noticed that because of such clashing thoughts, the film is especially adjusting, but then "rebelliously incendiary". 

Film researcher Vijay Mishra has brought up the nearness of the "profoundly syncretic hyphenated Hindu– Muslim nature" of Bollywood in the film. Parama Roy has translated that Nargis' incredible status as the main "Mother India" is because of Hinduisation of the job and her genuine marriage with a Hindu; she is, as indicated by Roy, scripted as a renouncer of Muslim rebellion in the film. Mishra has found metacritical esteem in Salman Rushdie's editorial on the film in his novel "The Moor's Last Sigh" (1995) in which Rushdie depicts: 

The creation group had wanted to discharge "Mother India" to celebrate the tenth commemoration of India's autonomy on 15 August 1957, yet the film was discharged more than two months after the fact. It debuted at the Liberty Cinema in Mumbai on 25 October 1957, amid Diwali; it ran constantly at Liberty for over a year. It was discharged in Kolkata (at that point called Calcutta) that day and in Delhi seven days after the fact. It had achieved all areas of India before the finish of November. Government priests and different authorities were welcome to the debuts, and an uncommon screening was held in Rashtrapati Bhavan (the presidential quarter) in New Delhi on 23 October 1957; the occasion was gone to by President Rajendra Prasad, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and his little girl Indira Gandhi. Boss Minister of West Bengal Bidhan Chandra Roy and Governor Padmaja Naidu went to a screening in Kolkata. Awed with the film's nationalistic message, Chief Minister of Bombay State Morarji Desai conceded it exclusion from the excitement charge in the state. 

No solid information is accessible on the movies income of "Mother India". It was in consistent dissemination in theaters in India until the mid-1990s. There was a recharged enthusiasm for the film during the 1970s causing an upsurge in ticket deals. As indicated by Chatterjee, it did outstandingly great business in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka (at that point called Mysore State) and Maharashtra. Film exchange sites give appraisals of its business. Film industry India gave the film's net gathering as and its gross as , the most elevated for an Indian film up until "Mughal-e-Azam" (1960), while assessing that "Mother India"s expansion balanced net would be comparable to in January 2008. Film industry India later evaluated in 2017 that "Mother India" had over 100million footfalls at the household film industry, making it one of the most elevated netting Indian movies ever when balanced for expansion. The film's prosperity drove Khan to name his next film "Child of India". Discharged in 1962, it was not generally welcomed. 

"Mother India" was named in a few European dialects including Spanish, French and Russian; it did generous business in Greece, Spain and Russia and was discharged in the Eastern Bloc nations. Technicolor orchestrated one screening of the film in Paris on 30 June 1958, under the name "Les arm ornaments d'or" ("The Gold Bracelets"). It did negligible business in Paris, yet fared better in French settlements. It was effective in the Latin American nations of Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador. "Mother India" was additionally acclaimed over the Arab world, in the Middle East, portions of Southeast Asia, and North Africa and kept on being appeared in nations, for example, Algeria something like ten years after its discharge. It was discharged in the US on 9 July 1959 to tepid reaction, and the UK discharge in 1961 was likewise a business disappointment. The underlying worldwide form with English captions was 40 minutes shorter than the Indian discharge. 

Starting at 2013, "Mother India" is accessible on DVD in all locales NTSC group, circulated by the Eros Entertainment. 

Baburao Patel of the film magazine "Filmindia" (December 1957) portrayed "Mother India" after its discharge as "the best picture created in India" and composed that no different on-screen character would have had the capacity to play out the job just as Nargis. A survey in "Month to month Film Bulletin" in 1958 commented that groups of onlookers in UK should be appreciative that the worldwide adaptation was abbreviated by 40 minutes, and named it a "cloth pack emulate". After its US discharge in 1959, Irene Thirer investigated the film in the "New York Post" in which she commended its "striking sensational intrigue", however dreaded it probably won't be acknowledged by American groups of onlookers because of social contrasts. In a 1976 article in the diary "Studies: An Irish Quarterly Review", writer Michael Gallagher found the film "an astounding blend of political moral story and shabby melodic, a cross between the greatness of Eisenstein and the platitude of "Show Boat"". The "New Internationalist" in 1999 discovered Nargis' acting "commendable", and noticed "a cunning transaction—imaginatively and politically—between the customary and the radical" clear in "Mother India". 

In a 2002 article in "The Village Voice", film pundit J. Hoberman depicted the film as "an unbelievable "masala" of evidently harsh components." He described it as a blend of "indigenous adaptations of Soviet-style tractor-musical drama, Italian neo-authenticity, Hollywood kiddie-charm, twelve Technicolor melodic numbers, and, most altogether, an allegorical overlay of pop Hinduism." Hoberman censured the going about as "wide", and furthermore expounded on the "enigmatically left-wing" patriot suggestion of the film. Writer Phill Hall, composing for "Film Threat" in 2002, depicted the film as astoundingly drowsy and one-dimensional, and parodied it saying "it takes the most grounded of constitutions to bear this film without engaging ideas of matricide." Jonathan Romney in his 2002 report in "The Independent" watched the earth-mother Radha as "India's response to Anna Magnani" and the film as "a hard and fast exercise in ideological fantasy making." "Ladies' Feature Service", in a 2007 article, noted "Mother India" as "a standout amongst the most remarkable movies of the post-Independence period." Ziya Us Salam of "The Hindu" wrote in her 2010 report: "Mehboob had the capacity to mix the person with the widespread, in this manner improving the film's intrigue without settling on its affectability." 

"Mother India", its star Nargis, and the chief Khan got numerous honors and selections. Nargis won the Filmfare Best Actress Award in 1958 and turned into the main Indian to get the Best Actress grant at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival in present-day Czech Republic. "Mother India" won the Filmfare Award for Best Film and scooped a few other Filmfare grants including Best Director for Khan, Best Cinematographer for Faredoon Irani, and Best Sound for R. Kaushik. In 1958, the film turned into India's first accommodation for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film and was picked as one of the five selections for the classification. The worldwide form, 120 minutes in length, was sent for the Oscars. Moreover, this variant had English captions, and dropped Mehboob Productions' logo, which included the Communist mallet and sickle, to conciliate the Academy. The 120-minute adaptation was later conveyed in the US and UK by Columbia Pictures. The film verged on winning the Academy Award, yet lost to Federico Fellini's "Evenings of Cabiria" by a solitary vote. Khan was totally disillusioned at not winning the honor. "He had seen different movies in the brawl and trusted "Mother India" was far better than them" reviewed Sunil Dutt years after the fact. It likewise won two honors at the fifth National Film Awards in 1957: an All India Certificate of Merit for Best Feature Film and Certificate of Merit for Best Feature Film in Hindi. 

The score and soundtrack for "Mother India" was made by Naushad. Mehboob Khan had chipped away at eight films with Naushad and built up a compatibility with him. The verses were by Shakeel Badayuni. The soundtrack comprises of 12 songs and highlights vocals by Mohammed Rafi, Shamshad Begum, Lata Mangeshkar, and Manna Dey. It was not especially generally welcomed upon discharge, and pundits said it didn't coordinate the high pitch and nature of the film. Be that as it may, its later gathering has been increasingly positive: the soundtrack made Planet Bollywood's rundown of "100 Greatest Bollywood Soundtracks Ever", arranged during the 2000s. The audit gave the collection 7.5 stars out of 10. 

"Mother India" is the most punctual case of a Hindi film containing Western traditional music and Hollywood-style symphony. A precedent is a coda amid the scene in which Birju flees from his mom and rejects her. It includes an incredible symphonic symphony with strings, woodwinds and trumpets. This symphonic music contains broad chromaticism, decreased sevenths, and expanded scales. It likewise includes violin tremolos. Anne Morcom writes in "Hindi Film Songs and the Cinema" that the piece is unmelodic and "significantly aggravating". This utilization of a western-style symphony in Indian film affected numerous later movies, for example, "Mughal-e-Azam" (1960), which highlights comparable cacophonous instrumental music to make environment at tense minutes. The melody "Holi Aayi Re Kanhai", sung by Shamshad Begum, has been refered to as a common Hindi film tune which is composed for and sung by a female vocalist, with an enthusiastic charge that interests to a mass crowd. 

"Mother India" has been depicted as "maybe India's most respected film", a "true to life epic", a "banner conveyor of Hindi film and a legend in its very own right", Mehboob Khan's "masterpiece" and a "record-breaking blockbuster", which positions exceptionally among India's best movies. It was in ceaseless dissemination, being played in theaters for over three decades; the record finished in the mid-1990s with the approach of satellite TV and an adjustment in Indian film-seeing propensities. "Mother India" has a place with just a little accumulation of movies, including "Kismet" (1943), "Mughal-e-Azam" (1960), "Sholay" (1975) "Murmur Aapke Hain Koun..!" (1994), and "Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge" (1995) which are over and again viewed all through India and are seen as conclusive Hindi movies with social centrality. It is additionally among the main three Indian movies to be named for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film (the others being "Salaam Bombay!" and "Lagaan"). The "Hindustan Times" (in 2007) recognizes the "film's impactful social references" which are "too brutal to ever be sold at a benefit today. However, this lamentable story filled Indians with expectation and pride at that point." The film was revamped in the Telugu language as "Bangaru Talli" in 1971, and in Tamil as "Punniya Boomi" in 1978. 

"Mother India" is positioned No. 80 in "Domain" magazine's "The 100 Best Films of World Cinema" in 2010. It is recorded among the main three Hindi movies in the book "1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die" (the others being "Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge" and "Deewaar"). Film pundit Anupama Chopra included it in her rundown of top 100 movies in world film. In 2005, Indiatimes Movies positioned the film among the "Top 25 Must See Bollywood Films". It was positioned third in the British Film Institute's 2002 survey of "Top 10 Indian Films". It was likewise incorporated into "TIME"s rundown of the best Bollywood works of art in 2010, and in CNN-IBN's rundown of the "100 biggest Indian movies ever" in 2013. The film was debuted in the "Cannes Classics" area of the 2004 Cannes Film Festival. 

Rajeev Masand of CNN-IBN takes note of that "Mother India" "didn't simply put India on the world guide, it additionally characterized Hindi film for a considerable length of time that pursued." Film faultfinder Dave Kehr concurs that it impacted Indian movies for the following 50 years. A 1983 Channel 4 narrative on Hindi film portrays the film as setting a benchmark in Indian film. The shooting position of Nargis toward the finish of the film is one of the unsurpassed famous pictures of Hindi film. Other notorious scenes incorporate Radha pulling the push through the field (see film notice at the top) and nourishing chapatis to her two children as they pull the furrow. The "Hindustan Times" expresses that Nargis symbolized moms in "which every one of the moms [in later films] had the equivalent prosaic tasks to carry out. Speaking to both parenthood and Mother Earth, who likewise supports and at times rebuffs, Nargis deified the Indian mother on celluloid." The film spearheaded the depiction of two ethically restricted siblings exemplifying great and abhorrence, which turned into a rehashed theme in Hindi movies, including "Gunga Jumna" (1961) and "Deewaar" (1975). The insubordinate Birju likewise roused the "furious young fellow" stock character that emerged in 1970s Hindi film. As indicated by researcher Brigitte Schulze, "Mother India" assumed a key job in forming the youthful Republic of India's national personality in its initial years following autonomy from the British Raj, because of how the film had the capacity to effectively pass on a feeling of Indian patriotism to the urban and provincial masses.