Tytan (band) 

Tytan is a British musical gang that kept going around two years amid the mid 1980s by previous Angel Witch bassist Kev Riddles. The collection "Harsh Justice" was discharged after their split. They framed out of the new flood of British overwhelming metal development and are best known for their solid tunes. The band transformed in 2012 to play Keep It True in Germany and have been visiting since. In 2016 the band recorded a subsequent collection "Equity Served" with Chris Tsangarides for High Roller Records. It was discharged in May 2017. 

Tytan was a British overwhelming metal band framed at the tallness of the new influx of British substantial metal in the harvest time of 1981 by the previous Angel Witch cadence segment, bassist Kevin Riddles and drummer Dave Dufort (ex-E. F. Band), Scottish vocalist Norman 'Kal' Swan, and guitarists Steve Gibbs. Stuart Adams left and Gary Owens (ex-An II Z, Aurora) had a concise remain before Steve Mann (ex-Liar, Lionheart) joined. 

Marked to Kamaflage Records, a backup of DJM, Tytan recorded their solitary collection at Ramport Studios in Battersea with Will Reid-Dick keeping an eye on the sheets. Previous Judas Priest and Lionheart drummer Les Binks joined the band in the nick of time for the chronicle instead of Dave Dufort. Jody Turner of Rock Goddess showed up on the tune 'Ladies On The Frontline.' Binks would be supplanted by Tony Boden on the band's October 1982 UK visit with the Tygers Of Pan Tang who was gone presently, supplanted by Simon Wright (ex Tora, An II Z, Aurora). 

Kamaflage collapsed before the collection was discharged however figured out how to discharge the single 'Daze Men and Fools' in both 7" and 12" designs in September 1982 preceding the band split up the accompanying summer. Wright would join AC/DC and in this way work with Dio, Rhino Bucket, and UFO. Vocalist Kal Swan moved to Los Angeles, California, where he shaped the band Lion with previous Lone Star guitarist Tony Smith whose substitution was future Dio and Whitesnake axeman Doug Aldrich. Swan and Aldrich proceeded to record a further 3 collections during the 1990s under the name Bad Moon Rising. Steve Mann came back to Lionheart and recorded the 1984 "Hot Tonight" collection with the band before joining the McAuley Schenker Group, Sweet, and German prog shake foundation Eloy. 

In 1985, London-based name Metal Masters discharged the racked Tytan tapes as the "Harsh Justice" LP. A Japanese CD contraband followed in the mid 1990s, before Majestic Rock Records gave the collection an official CD re-issue in 2004 and again in 2006, with 4 BBC 'Friday Rock Show' session live tracks ('Cold Bitch', 'The Watcher', 'Far Side of Destiny' and 'Visually impaired Men and Fools') and a live DVD included as reward the second release. 

In 2012, a challenge to perform at Keep It True XV Festival in Germany, saw Tytan change with an amended line-up. Joining unique bandmembers Kevin Riddles, Steve Gibbs and Steve Mann were vocalist Tom Barna (from the band Diamond Faith), Andrew Thompson on consoles, and Angel Witch drummer Andrew Prestidge. 

Steve Gibbs left the band in mid 2014. Drummer's Chris Benton and afterward Mikey Ciancio joined amid 2012 and 2013 and in 2015-17 saw James Wise assume control over the job, trailed by current drummer Seth Markes. In the interim, Dave Strange (Midnight Messiah) joined the band in Nov 2014 when Steve Mann left. 

Tom Barna's substitution, Tony Coldham, played out his last show with the band on thirteenth October 2018, as he chose to focus on his other outfit, 'The Deep.' 

In December 2018, the band enrolled vocalist Grant Foster (ex Black Bone Fever) and are hoping to record another, third collection in 2019.