Tytan (band)

Tytan is a British rock band that lasted about two years during the early 1980s by former Angel Witch bassist Kev Riddles. The album "Rough Justice" was released after their split. They formed out of the new wave of British heavy metal movement and are best known for their strong melodies. The band reformed in 2012 to play Keep It True in Germany and have been touring since. In 2016 the band recorded a follow-up album "Justice Served" with Chris Tsangarides for High Roller Records. It was released in May 2017.

Tytan was a British heavy metal band formed at the height of the new wave of British heavy metal in the autumn of 1981 by the former Angel Witch rhythm section, bassist Kevin Riddles and drummer Dave Dufort (ex-E. F. Band), Scottish vocalist Norman 'Kal' Swan, and guitarists Steve Gibbs. Stuart Adams left and Gary Owens (ex-A II Z, Aurora) had a brief stay before Steve Mann (ex-Liar, Lionheart) joined.

Signed to Kamaflage Records, a subsidiary of DJM, Tytan recorded their lone album at Ramport Studios in Battersea with Will Reid-Dick manning the boards. Former Judas Priest and Lionheart drummer Les Binks joined the band just in time for the recording in place of Dave Dufort. Jody Turner of Rock Goddess made a guest vocal appearance on the song 'Women On The Frontline.' Binks would be replaced by Tony Boden on the band's October 1982 UK tour with the Tygers Of Pan Tang who was gone shortly thereafter, replaced by Simon Wright (ex-Tora Tora, A II Z, Aurora).

Kamaflage folded before the album was released but managed to release the single 'Blind Men and Fools' in both 7" and 12" formats in September 1982 before the band split up the following summer. Wright would join AC/DC and subsequently work with Dio, Rhino Bucket, and UFO. Vocalist Kal Swan moved to Los Angeles, California, where he formed the band Lion with former Lone Star guitarist Tony Smith whose replacement was future Dio and Whitesnake axeman Doug Aldrich. Swan and Aldrich went on to record a further 3 albums in the 1990s under the name Bad Moon Rising. Steve Mann returned to Lionheart and recorded the 1984 "Hot Tonight" album with the band before joining the McAuley Schenker Group, Sweet, and German prog rock institution Eloy.

In 1985, London-based label Metal Masters released the shelved Tytan tapes as the "Rough Justice" LP. A Japanese CD bootleg followed in the early 1990s, before Majestic Rock Records gave the album an official CD re-issue in 2004 and again in 2006, with 4 BBC 'Friday Rock Show' session live tracks ('Cold Bitch', 'The Watcher', 'Far Side of Destiny' & 'Blind Men and Fools') and a live DVD added as bonus on the second edition.

In 2012, an invitation to perform at Keep It True XV Festival in Germany, saw Tytan reform with a revised line-up. Joining original bandmembers Kevin Riddles, Steve Gibbs and Steve Mann were vocalist Tom Barna (from the band Diamond Faith), Andrew Thompson on keyboards, and Angel Witch drummer Andrew Prestidge.
Steve Gibbs left the band in early 2014. Drummer's Chris Benton and then Mikey Ciancio joined during 2012 and 2013 and in 2015-17 saw James Wise take over the role, followed by current drummer Seth Markes. Meanwhile, Dave Strange (Midnight Messiah) joined the band in Nov 2014 when Steve Mann departed. 

Tom Barna's replacement, Tony Coldham, performed his last show with the band on 13th October 2018, as he decided to concentrate on his other outfit, 'The Deep.' 

In December 2018, the band recruited vocalist Grant Foster (ex Black Bone Fever) and are looking to record a new, third album in 2019. 





