Escort GP55 

Escort GP55 was a caravan of Allied boats that headed out from Sydney to Brisbane in June 1943 amid World War II. It contained ten load ships, three landing ships, tank (LSTs) and an escort of five corvettes. The Japanese submarine "I-174" assaulted the caravan on 16 June, sinking the United States Army transport dispatch and harming USS "LST-469". Two of the corvettes counter-assaulted "I-174", however just daintily harmed her. 

The Australian military directed an escalated scan for "I-174" in the days after the assault in the mixed up conviction that she had been altogether harmed. This pursuit was not effective and featured the inadmissible interchanges between the Royal Australian Navy (RAN) and Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Nonetheless, another Japanese submarine going through the territory may have been sunk by RAAF airplane. As a result of Japan's breaking down key circumstance, "I-174" was the last Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) submarine to work off the Australian east coast. 

Amid 1942 and 1943, Japanese submarines occasionally worked in the waters encompassing Australia. A power of dwarf submarines struck Sydney Harbor the evening of 31 May – 1 June 1942 and assaults on shipper shipping going off the east coast started a few days after the fact. These assaults proceeded until August 1942, when the Japanese submarine power was redeployed. The "I-174" made a 24-day watch off Australia in July and August 1942, however did not assault any boats. Because of the Japanese assaults, the Australian maritime specialists requested that all boats with a relocation of in excess of 1,200 tons and a most extreme speed of under 12 hitches travel in escorted guards from 8 June. These caravans were effective in limiting misfortunes, and no escorted boats were sunk off Australia amid 1942. 

Japanese submarines continued tasks in Australian waters in January 1943. "I-21" made an exceptionally effective watch in January and February, amid which she sank five boats, and two different submarines worked off Sydney and Brisbane in March. A power of five water crafts from the IJN's third Submarine Squadron accordingly assaulted transporting along the full length of the Australian east coast amid April and May trying to disturb the Allied supply line to New Guinea. This denoted the pinnacle of the Japanese submarine hostile against Australia and nine boats were sunk off the east coast inside a month. Conversely with 1942, a few fruitful assaults were made against boats going in escorts. 

The expansive number of Japanese assaults in 1943 put extraordinary strain on the Allied powers in charge of securing shipping off eastern Australia. The Australian maritime experts were constrained in April to decrease the quantity of guards that cruised so their escort could be expanded to something like four warships. The RAAF additionally enormously expanded the quantity of air ship apportioned to escort guards and ships cruising autonomously. Further ships and air ship fitted for against submarine fighting (ASW) wound up accessible in May, yet were as yet not sufficient to counter the Japanese assaults. 

The sinking of the emergency clinic deliver AHS "Centaur" on 14 May 1943 with substantial death toll drove the Advisory War Council to look for data from the RAN and RAAF on the moves being made to secure delivery. While the RAN recognized that the "Bathurst"- class corvettes that made up the greater part of its escort compel were excessively moderate, it contended that the misfortunes endured by escorted guards were no more awful than those in different pieces of the world. In spite of the Navy's confirmations, Australia's enemy of submarine powers were compelled by a deficiency of preparing openings and poor coordination between the RAN, RAAF and the United States Navy. The Australian military had likewise not kept pace with enhancements to British and United States ASW tenet by completely executing the strategies that had demonstrated best in different auditoriums of the war. 

"I-174" left from the significant Japanese maritime base at Truk on 16 May 1943 under the order of Lieutenant Nobukiyo Nanbu and touched base off Sandy Cape, Queensland on 27 May. She was the main Japanese watercraft working off Australia at the time, as all other accessible submarines were sent to counter Allied advances in the Solomon Islands. She made a fruitless torpedo assault on the American ship "Point San Pedro" on 1 June, traded gunfire with U.S. Army transport "Edward Chambers" after three days, and on 5 June was driven off by caravan PG 53's escorts. On 7 June, "I-174" terminated four torpedoes at the American Liberty deliver "John Bartram", all of which missed. She located another escort on 13 June, excessively far away to assault. Amid this period, she was over and again assaulted by Allied air ship and warships, yet did not continue any harm. 

Convoy GP55 was gathered in mid-June 1943 as one of somewhere around 69 guards that cruised from Sydney to Brisbane amid 1943. It included ten payload boats and three U.S. Naval force Landing Ships, Tank (LST), and was escorted by the "Bathurst"- class corvettes (which left the guard's senior officer), , and . Subsequent to withdrawing Sydney at 8.45 am on 15 June the escort moved into five segments, with three ships in every one of the middle sections and two in those at the edges. The escorts encompassed the guard, with four cruising in front of it and "Deloraine" to the stern. RAAF Anson and Beaufort flying machine likewise watched over the guard consistently. U.S. Armed force transport "Portmar", which had been severely harmed in the Bombing of Darwin on 19 February 1942, experienced issues keeping up her situation in the escort and on occasion straggled behind different boats. 

"I-174" located Convoy GP55 about east of Smoky Cape at 4.37 pm on 16 June. The submarine promptly started arrangements to assault the Allied boats and effectively entered the escort screen. As of now "Portmar" was attempting to come back to her station and was going to the port of USS "LST-469". This made the boats a perfect focus for Nanbu as they covered from the perspective of his periscope. As needs be, he terminated two torpedoes at them at 5.20 pm. A solitary torpedo struck the LST close to her stern two minutes after the fact, bringing about extreme harm and the loss of 26 lives and 17 injured. "Portmar" detected the second torpedo and endeavored to dodge it but on the other hand was struck on her starboard side. The vehicle's load of petroleum and ammo rapidly burst into flames and she sank inside ten minutes. One of her team and a traveler were murdered, and 71 survivors, including four who were harmed, were safeguarded by "Deloraine". Regardless of losing steerage "LST-469" stayed above water and was taken under tow by the corvette. "I-174's" assault on Convoy GP55 was presumably the best made by a Japanese submarine off Australia. 

While "Deloraine" took care of the torpedoed boats, the other four escorts endeavored to find the Japanese submarine. "I-174" had not been identified moving toward the escort, and after the assault the Australian corvettes turned around their courses to direct a sonar compass of the zone from where she was ventured to have assaulted. This was as per strategies that had as of late been received by the RAN after they demonstrated fruitful in the Battle of the Atlantic. "Warrnambool" identified the submarine 23 minutes after the assault, and she and "Kalgoorlie" oppressed "I-174" to four profundity charge assaults more than two hours until contact was lost. An Anson from No. 71 Squadron was escorting the guard at the time the two boats were torpedoed however was low on fuel and come back to base soon after the assault. While the corvettes trusted that they had sunk "I-174", she was just delicately harmed and pulled back toward the east. The Australian inability to sink the submarine was because of an absence of training and excessively few boats being accessible to make a satisfactory pursuit conspire. 

In the wake of severing their assault "Warrnambool" rejoined the escort while "Kalgoorlie" helped "Deloraine" in ensuring the harmed LST. Falling apart climate broke the tow-line among "Deloraine" and "LST-469", and rather the corvette continued to the adjacent town of Coffs Harbor with "Portmar's" survivors and the LST's injured faculty. The tugboat was dispatched from Brisbane on 16 June to recoup the LST and towed her to Sydney, where they touched base on 20 June. "LST-469" had been conveying troops and supplies for Operation Chronicle, a land and/or water capable arriving at Woodlark and Kiriwina islands on 30 June, and this task was obstructed by her inaccessibility. 

Following the assault, the Australian Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Sir Guy Royle, made a decision about that the submarine had been harmed and requested that "extraordinary measures" be taken to look for it. The RAAF initiated air ventures of a container south-east of Coffs Harbor the evening of 16/17 June, while "Deloraine", "Kalgoorlie" and the as of late arrived destroyer watched the zone. On 17 June, Anson airplane were allocated to watch the submarine's undoubtedly escape courses with the expectation this would drive her to stay submerged amid the day and surface during the evening. Radar-prepared Beauforts assuaged the Ansons after sunset and proceeded with the hunt. 

In the early morning of 18 June, two No. 32 Squadron Beauforts assaulted with bombs and gunfire what they took to be a submarine. "Deloraine" was not exactly from the zone of the RAAF assault, yet did not recognize rehashed endeavors by the air ship to speak with her. The Beauforts announced that they had harmed the submarine and escalated endeavors were made on 19 June to find and sink her, with twelve Ansons persistently clearing the region while six Vengeance jump aircraft were held in preparation adjacent. No further sightings were made and it was accepted that the submarine had been harmed by a No. 32 Squadron flying machine yet got away. Maritime student of history David Stevens has composed that the locating made on 18 June was most likely mixed up, as "I-174" was at any rate toward the east of where the RAAF assault occurred and the occurrence was not recorded in her war journal. Notwithstanding, different history specialists trust that the Beauforts may have sunk "I-178", which was watching off the east shore of Australia at the time; this submarine vanished some time after 17 June 1943, and the reason for her misfortune has never been affirmed. "I-174" was requested to withdraw from Australian waters on 20 June, and came back to Truk on 1 July. She didn't reach any Allied boats or airplane in the wake of assaulting GP55. 

The appearing disappointment of the RAAF and RAN to coordinate to complete off a harmed submarine drove Royle to arrange an investigation into the assault. This found a breakdown in correspondence between the two administrations was the primary driver of the disappointment, with both the flying machine and the maritime flag room in Sydney making procedural mistakes. Back Admiral Gerard Muirhead-Gould, the maritime officer in direction of the Sydney locale, additionally noticed that interchanges between the RAN and RAAF were inadmissible at larger amounts, and that the correspondence systems to be utilized in against submarine activities were not outstanding or comprehended. Accordingly, he proposed that the RAN build up the situation of Commander Escort Vessels Group to arrange and direction escorts and facilitate their strategies. 

The assault on Convoy GP55 was the last assault made by a Japanese submarine on the east shore of Australia. Two submarines were dispatched to work off Australia in July 1943, however were occupied to the Solomon Islands in a matter of seconds before achieving the east coast. Following this, the Japanese submarines were completely involved reacting to Allied offensives and transporting supplies to secluded battalions. As the danger to transportation declined, the RAN stopped running escorts in waters south of Newcastle on 7 December 1943 and Sydney– Brisbane caravans finished on 10 February 1944.