Henry Edwards (entomologist) 

Henry Edwards (27 August 1827 – 9 June 1891), known as "Harry", was an English stage on-screen character, author and entomologist who picked up popularity in Australia, San Francisco and New York City for his performance center work. 

Edwards was attracted to the performance center from the get-go throughout everyday life, and he showed up in beginner preparations in London. Subsequent to cruising to Australia, Edwards showed up expertly in Shakespearean plays and light comedies basically in Melbourne and Sydney. All through his youth in England and his acting vocation in Australia, he was extraordinarily keen on gathering creepy crawlies, and the National Museum of Victoria utilized the consequences of his Australian hands on work as a component of the beginning of their accumulation. 

In San Francisco, Edwards was an establishing individual from the Bohemian Club, and a get-together in Edwards' respect was the flash which started the club's customary summer settlement at the Bohemian Grove. Too, Edwards established his notoriety for being a prevalent stage on-screen character and theater supervisor. Subsequent to composing a progression of powerful examinations on Pacific Coast butterflies and moths he was chosen life individual from the California Academy of Sciences. Migrating toward the East Coast, Edwards invested a short energy in Boston theater. This prompted an association with Wallack's Theater and further prestige in New York City. There, Edwards altered three volumes of the diary "Papilio" and distributed a noteworthy work about the life of the butterfly. His extensive accumulation of creepy crawly examples filled in as the establishment of the American Museum of Natural History's butterfly and moth thinks about. 

Edwards' wide-running investigations and perceptions of creepy crawlies carried him into contact with examples not yet grouped. After finding beforehand obscure bugs he would give them names, which prompted various butterfly, moth and creepy crawly species bearing "Hy. Edw." (for Henry Edwards) as an attribution. From his auditorium advantages to entomology, Edwards conveyed forward an energy about Shakespeare—in the assignment of new creepy crawly species he supported female character names from Shakespeare's plays. 

Henry Edwards was destined to Hannah and Thomas Edwards (c. 1794 – 1857) at Brook House in Ross-on-Wye, Herefordshire, England, on 27 August 1827, and was dedicated on 14 September. From his more established sibling William, he grabbed an enthusiasm for looking at creepy crawlies. He gathered butterflies as a diversion, and contemplated them under the tutelage of Edward Doubleday. His specialist father proposed a law vocation for his child, yet after a short time of ineffective examination, Edwards took a situation at an including house in London, and started acting in novice theater. He at that point traveled to join his sibling William who had settled in Australia, nine miles (14 km) north-west of Melbourne along the bank of Merri Creek, an area at that point called Merrivale. On board the cruising ship "Ganges" from March to June 1853, he composed depictions of animals, for example, the gooney bird that he experienced out of the blue. Subsequent to touching base in Melbourne, Edwards started gathering and listing the bugs he found on his sibling's territory, and further away from home. Inside two years, he had assembled 1,676 types of creepy crawlies, shot and mounted 200 winged animals, and squeezed around 200 natural examples. This accumulation and that of William Kershaw were acquired by Frederick McCoy to shape the core of the new National Museum of Victoria. 

The principal Australian stage appearance by Edwards was with George Selth Coppin's organization at the Queen's Theater in Melbourne. Afterward, he joined Gustavus Vaughan Brooke's showy gathering. The piece of Petruchio, the male lead in Shakespeare's "The Taming of the Shrew", was filled by Edwards at the Princess' Theater in Sydney in November 1859, playing inverse tragedian Avonia Jones as Katharine. In December that year Brooke resigned from the board, yielding the reins of his organization to the group of Edwards and George Fawcett Rowe, English performer and writer. Brooke kept on acting under Edwards and Rowe: his featuring execution in April 1860 as Louis XI in Dion Boucicault's play of a similar name was a blending depiction that Edwards, playing Jacques d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours, reviewed clearly for a mind-blowing remainder. Sharing the stage again in August, Brooke and Edwards were generally welcomed in their depiction of twin siblings in a creation of Shakespeare's "The Comedy of Errors" in Melbourne, the primary Australian mounting of that work. As a turn to arouse open intrigue, Edwards and Brooke traded jobs following two weeks' run. Be that as it may, not the majority of Edwards' exhibitions were fruitful: his turn at Angelo in Shakespeare's "Measure for Measure" was designated "invertebrate" by dramatization faultfinder William John Lawrence; in Lawrence's estimation, Edwards and his kindred on-screen characters withered against the incredible execution of Avonia Jones as Isabella. 

The famous entomologist and authority William Sharp Macleay was searched out by Edwards at whatever point his stage appearances took him to Sydney. Starting in 1858, Macleay tutored Edwards and urged him to scan for more bug examples when his theater commitments permitted. Hearty and gutsy, Edwards infrequently trekked out into the wilds of Australia on the chase for creepy crawlies. While in Sydney, Edwards went up multiple times in a sight-seeing balloon out of consideration for George Coppin, barely maintaining a strategic distance from serious damage or passing in the primary rising. Edwards' further ventures included New Zealand, Peru, Panama and Mexico in quest for creepy crawlies and emotional jobs. 

In 1865, Edwards started a 12-year habitation in San Francisco, California. At the 1870 United States Census, Edwards revealed himself as a non-casting a ballot remote brought into the world occupant, a comic in terms of professional career, living in a home worth $1,000. Edwards lived in San Francisco with a white lady recorded in the statistics as "Mariana", conceived in England, age 40, and a 16-year-old Chinese hireling named Heng Gim. The lady Mariana was likely Edwards' better half, the previous Marianne Elizabeth Woolcott Bray who was brought into the world about 1822– 1823 in New Street, Birmingham. In 1851 at 28 years old, Bray wedded Gustavus Vaughan Brooke, and the two went to Australia to deal with Brooke's then-new performance center organization. It was there that Edwards met Brooke and his better half, yet following quite a long while of the two men cooperating, Brooke remarried in February 1863, taking Avonia Jones (1836– 1867) as his second spouse. Brooke passed on in a mishap adrift in January 1866, and Avonia Jones Brooke kicked the bucket in New York City the following year. Later reports talked about Edwards wedding Brooke's widow, without naming her. 

In 1868– 1869 Edwards rented and dealt with the Metropolitan Theater, and he was an establishing individual from the acting organization of the California Theater, which opened in January 1869. The venue was coordinated and overseen by performing artist John McCullough, and among the more remarkable preparations was "As You Like It" in May 1872, with McCullough playing Orlando and Edwards the exiled Duke Senior. Walter M. Leman, who conveyed the piece of Adam, opined in 1886 that "never since "time was" has Shakespeare's enchanting idyl been exceptional put upon the stage." 

Edwards was one of the organizers and the primary VP of the Bohemian Club, and served two terms as president, 1873– 1875. He facilitated Shakespeare festivities at the club in April 1873, 1875 and 1877, and a Bohemian Christmas festivity in December 1877: "The Feast of Reason and Flow of Soul". Edwards turned into a chief of the San Francisco Art Association, and represented Lotta Crabtree at the commitment of Lotta's Fountain in September 1875. 

Still particularly keen on bugs, Edwards invested his extra energy at the California Academy of Sciences contemplating butterflies under Hans Hermann Behr, the institute's keeper for Lepidoptera, the logical request of moths and butterflies. Chosen an individual from the foundation in 1867, he focused on portraying the structure and propensities for moths and butterflies on the Pacific coast from British Columbia to Baja California. He went to visit John Muir in Yosemite Valley in June 1871, with a letter of presentation from Jeanne Carr, the spouse of California's central geologist Ezra S. Carr. The letter portrayed Edwards as "one of Nature's most genuine and most dedicated devotees", a sojourner who "has the keys to the Kingdom". After the visit, Muir every so often sent examples from the Sierras to add to Edwards' accumulation, conveyed to San Francisco by men, for example, geologist and craftsman Clarence King who were coming back from Yosemite field ponder. Edwards exhibited a progression of papers to the institute entitled "Pacific Coast Lepidoptera", and grouped two species as new to science. He named one "Gyros muiri" for Muir, with "Hy. Edw." as the attribution. In 1872, Muir sent Edwards a letter, stating "You are currently in steady recognition, on the grounds that each flying blossom is marked with your name." In 1873, Edwards turned into the caretaker of entomology at the institute, and started to serve on the Publications Committee which created the diary "Procedures of the California Academy of Sciences". Starting early that year, he become a close acquaintence with George Robert Crotch. In spite of the fact that it is here and there guaranteed that he went with Crotch on his bug gathering voyage through California, Oregon and British Columbia, Edwards was just mindful of Crotch's movements as a reporter. Edwards autonomously visited British Columbia in 1873, missing Crotch by a few days at Vancouver Island. In 1874, Edwards started to fill in as one of the institute's VPs, and for the foundation in late 1874 after Crotch's passing from tuberculosis, he distributed a commemoration tribute to the man. Edwards likewise kept in touch with one of numerous tributes to academician Louis Agassiz at his demise in late 1873. At the foundation on 2 January 1877, Edwards was chosen part forever. 

In spite of the fact that fruitful in San Francisco, Edwards chose to set out toward Boston and New York City to check whether his vocation as a performing artist could profit by appearances in the eastern United States. On 29 June 1878, to some degree less than 100 of his Bohemian companions accumulated in the forested areas close Taylorville, California (present-day Samuel P. Taylor State Park), for an evening time send-off gathering in Edwards' respect. Bohemian Club student of history Porter Garnett later composed that the men at the "nighttime excursion" were "furnished with covers to keep them warm and a liberal supply of alcohol for a similar reason". Japanese lights were utilized for brightening and beautification. This bubbly assembling was rehashed without Edwards by club individuals the following year, and consistently from that point, in the long run advancing and venturing into the club's yearly summer place to stay at the Bohemian Grove, well known (or scandalous) for the easygoing coexisting of top lawmakers and ground-breaking commanders of industry in participation. 

In late 1878, Edwards joined a performance center organization in Boston, supplanting another on-screen character as "Schelm, Chief of Police" at a restoration of the exhibition "The Exiles" at the Boston Theater on Washington Street. Following a four-week run, he performed in different creations at the venue through the 1879– 1880 season. In June, Edwards addressed the 1880 statistics to report himself an England-conceived performing artist living with his English spouse "Marian" and his Chinese worker, Gim Hing. 

From Boston, Edwards moved to New York to remain for around ten years, performing in front of an audience and taking part in creepy crawly considers. He was dynamic in the Brooklyn and New York Entomological Societies. In 1881, he helped to establish and altered a butterfly aficionado's periodical entitled "Papilio", named for the variety "Papilio" in the swallowtail butterfly family, Papilionidae. Edwards filled in as editorial manager until January 1884 when he gave the reins to his companion Eugene Murray-Aaron of Philadelphia. "Papilio" was distributed until 1885 when its membership base was converged into the more broad "Entomologia Americana", distributed by the Brooklyn Entomological Society. 

Starting in December 1880 under Lester Wallack, the alluring child of the performance center's originator, Edwards was related with Wallack's Theater in New York, called the "best auditorium organization in America". Presently in his 50s, the entomologist and performer showed up in such delegate British sensational jobs as Prince Malleotti in "Overlook Me Not", Max Harkaway in "London Assurance", Baron Stein in "Discretion", and Master Walter in "The Hunchback", repeating James Sheridan Knowles' prior depiction. Edwards utilized Wallack's Theater as his expert postage information, and oversaw it upon event. Wallack, as of now head "Shepherd" of the Lambs Club, a humble meetinghouse of expert stage performers, welcomed Edwards to join. When a Lamb, Edwards tossed his energies in with those of Wallack and other club individuals to help paper editorial manager Harrison Gray Fiske in the association of a magnanimous reserve to help dejected performing artists or their widows. Wallack was made leader of the subsequent Actors' Fund. A year after its first gathering on 15 July 1882 at Wallack's Theater, Edwards was made secretary, a position he held for one year. His significant other joined the Women's Executive Committee of the Fund. 

Edwards showed up in mid 1882 at Palmer's Theater on Broadway and West 30th Street in a generation of the English satire "The School for Scandal". Wallack stalwart John Gibbs Gilbert achieved the stature of his popularity in the generation, playing Sir Peter Teazle. As Sir Oliver Surface, Edwards, as well, was commended—Gilbert and Edwards imparted the phase to Stella Boniface, Osmond Tearle, Gerald Eyre, Madame Ponisi and Rose Coghlan. 

Assembling under one spread his different short subjects, expositions, and requiems to fallen companions, Edwards distributed in 1883 a wryly hilarious book entitled "A Mingled Yarn", including stories of movements and accounts of his time in the Bohemian Club. Devoted to the Bohemians, "with appreciative recollections, and sentiments of tender respect," the book was positively inspected in the "New York Tribune". This audit was republished in the "Artistic News": "Mr. Edwards—exceptional for fulfillments in science no not exactly for adaptable capability in the specialty of acting—shows an uncommon sort of the association of abilities enormously dissimilar and only here and there found in one and a similar individual." 

In 1886, Edwards was met for "The Theater", a week by week magazine distributed in New York. Edwards was portrayed as "surprisingly prominent and pleasant", with an "enchanting English" spouse and a Chinese hireling named Charlie who "worships his managers" and had served them for a long time. The Edwards' house was seen to be agreeable yet brightened with a shocking gathering of miracles from around the world. Shown in the midst of the organic examples, floor coverings, china, furniture, and profitable photos were depictions executed by different performers, including ones by Edward Askew Sothern and Joseph Jefferson. Edwards demonstrated letters he had gotten from a wide cluster of notables, for example, journalists William Makepeace Thackeray, Charles Dickens, Anthony Trollope and naturalists Charles Darwin, Louis Agassiz and John Lubbock, first Baron Avebury. One story of the habitation apparently was entirely committed to the entomologist's accumulation of examples, which Edwards said was protected for $17,000, $ in current esteem. Encompassed by his colorful belongings and "in the absolute best congeniality with his better half", Edwards was accounted for to be the host of a "developed home". 

Two years after Alfred, Lord Tennyson, finished his "Idylls of the King", a wonderful recounting the King Arthur legend, Edwards and George Parsons Lathrop adjusted it to the phase as a show in four acts. The outcome was "Elaine", an account of youthful love between Elaine of Astolat and Lancelot, molded with "bloom like delicacy" and "winning contacts of delicacy". Its first open introduction was an organized "writer's perusing" at Madison Square Theater on 28 April 1887, at which Edwards filled the role of Elaine's dad, Lord Astolat. Months after the fact it was displayed by the organization of A. M. Palmer, without Edwards in the cast, opening on 6 December 1887, at a similar scene. The creation demonstrated both prominent and gainful for Lathrop and Edwards. Annie Russell's Elaine was respected for her "sweet effortlessness and tenderness which caught about each heart". Following an effective six-week New York run, Palmer took "Elaine" out and about. 

On-screen characters related with Wallack's Theater declared to the open that start in February 1888 a last arrangement of old comedies would be restored, after which the organization would be disbanded. Edwards filled in as stage chief for the run, and repeated a few of his prior jobs including those of Max Harkaway in "London Assurance" and Colonel Rockett in "Old Heads and Young Hearts". Partaking indeed in "The School for Scandal", the 6th and last play of the nostalgic arrangement, Edwards got high applause for his delineation of a well off Englishman as of late came back from India: "there is most likely no better Sir Oliver on our phase than Mr. Edwards." "Fairly regarded" in the job, he was known as a "sterling player", delegate "of a school which is quick vanishing". 

A tribute creation of "Hamlet" was mounted at the Metropolitan Opera House on 21 May 1888, to commend the life and achievements of a maturing Lester Wallack, and to fund-raise to facilitate the constant sciatica that captured his vocation. "One of the best throws at any point gathered" was framed into an organization made out of Edwards as the minister, Edwin Booth as Hamlet, Lawrence Barrett as the phantom, Frank Mayo as the ruler, John Gibbs Gilbert as Polonius, Rose Coghlan as the player ruler and Helena Modjeska as Ophelia. Different stars showed up, and Wallack was helped up onto the phase to address the standing room swarm at interlude. Notables, for example, Mayor Hewitt and General Sherman were in participation. More than $10,000 was raised for Wallack's consideration. In the next months, Edwards cooperated with different performing artists and Wallack's significant other to enable him to compose his diary; Wallack passed on in September. 

The following year, Edwards distributed a noteworthy treatise entitled "Bibliographic Catalog of the Described Transformation of North American Lepidoptera". In light of a welcome and in the wake of masterminding a business contract, he went back to Australia to acknowledge a situation as stage director of a dramatic organization in Melbourne. Disappointed with the experience, Edwards cruised back to New York the following year with the goal of coming back to acting, yet weakness kept him from full delight in the spotlight. In March, Edwards showed up as Holofernes in "Adoration's Labor's Lost" at Augustin's Daly Theater, however was regularly shy of breath and unfit to keep pace with the run—his part was given to a youthful Tyrone Power who likewise secured Edwards' old job of Sir Oliver Surface for Daly's street show of "The School for Scandal". 

To recapture his quality, Edwards and his better half took a carriage to a natural bungalow shelter in Arkville in the Catskill Mountains yet disengagement, plain sustenance and rest yielded little improvement. A doctor was called and he educated Mrs. Edwards that there would be no recuperation for her better half from the propelled Bright's sickness with difficulties from perpetual pneumonia so she took him back to New York City. Edwards passed on at home at 185 East 116th Street in East Harlem late on 9 June 1891, only hours in the wake of returning. 

After his demise, Edwards' accumulation of 300,000 bug examples, one of the biggest in the United States, was purchased by his companions for $15,000 for the money related advantage of his widow, and gave to the American Museum of Natural History (AMNH) as the foundation of their gathering. Mrs. Harry Edwards additionally given a portion of his different examples, including two eggs of the request Rajiformes, the genuine beams. Historical center trustees acquired the 500 volumes of entomology writings and 1,200 handouts possessed by Edwards to shape the "Harry Edwards Entomological Library", one of the bunch of imperative book acquisitions made by the AMNH to grow their library in its initial years. William Schaus, an understudy that Edwards guided and energized, yet never met face to face, proceeded to additionally characterize moth and butterfly qualities in a huge assortment of distributed work. 

The "Hy. Edw." assignment added to some butterfly species names demonstrates first portrayal by Henry Edwards. This isn't to be mistaken for the "Edw." assignment which represents William Henry Edwards, a random contemporary and reporter of Edwards'. No less than two examples were assigned "Mrs. Hy. Edwards." since they were gathered and distinguished by his significant other. Edwards named numerous butterflies in the families Theclinae, Nymphalidae, Papilionidae and Lycaenidae, however his biggest commitment was in the portrayal of moth species in North America including Mexico: Arctiidae, Bombycidae, Hepialidae, Sesiidae, Noctuidae, Sphingidae, Lasiocampidae, Dalceridae, Dysderidae, Geometridae, Pyralidae, Saturniidae, Thyatiridae, Urodidae and Zygaenidae. In picking names, Edwards favored female characters from the plays of William Shakespeare, for example, Ophelia from "Hamlet", Hermia from "A Midsummer Night's Dream", and Desdemona from "Othello". For instance, Edwards gathered, grouped and named the moth species "Catocala ophelia" and "Catocala hermia" in 1880, and "Catocala desdemona" in 1882. 

The birth date that Edwards gave as his own differed relying upon the time and spot he was inquired. Ward records show he was dedicated in England on 14 September 1827, and proving this date he gave his age as 25 in June 1853 when he previously touched base in Australia. Notwithstanding, when addressed in San Francisco for the 1870 United States Census, he gave his introduction to the world year as 1830. After ten years in Boston, he revealed his age as 45, inferring a birth year of 1835, yet he came back to providing the year 1830 alongside the date 27 August for the short anecdotal representations utilized by theater and entomological productions. Two years before he kicked the bucket, he told a journalist from the "Lorgnette" that he was conceived in 1832. A conspicuous eulogy in "The New York Times" announced that his family gave his birthday as 23 September 1830, however that some distributed arrangements of performers' ages, "not constantly reliable", put his introduction to the world year at 1824.