Johann von Klenau 

Johann von Klenau (13 April 1758 – 6 October 1819), likewise called Johann Josef Cajetan von Klenau und Janowitz, was a field marshal in the Habsburg armed force. Klenau, the child of a Bohemian respectable, joined the Habsburg military as a youngster and battled in the War of Bavarian Succession against Prussia, Austria's wars with the Ottoman Empire, the French Revolutionary Wars, and the Napoleonic Wars, in which he instructed a corps in a few essential fights. 

In the early long stretches of the French Revolutionary Wars, Klenau separated himself at the Wissembourg lines, and drove a fight winning charge at Handschuhsheim in 1795. As officer of the Coalition's left flank in the Adige battle in northern Italy in 1799, he was instrumental in disconnecting the French-held strongholds on the Po River by sorting out and supporting a worker uprising in the wide open. A while later, Klenau turned into the most youthful lieutenant field marshal in the historical backdrop of the Habsburg military. 

As a corps authority, Klenau drove key components of the Austrian armed force in its triumph at Aspern-Esslingen and its annihilation at Wagram, where his troops secured the retreat of the principle Austrian power. He directed the IV Corps at the 1813 Battle of Dresden and again at the Battle of Nations at Leipzig, where he kept the French from defeating the principle Austrian power on the primary day of the commitment. After the Battle of Nations, Klenau sorted out and executed the fruitful Dresden bar and arranged the French capitulation there. In the 1814– 15 battle, he directed the "Corps Klenau" of the Army of Italy. After the war in 1815, Klenau was designated directing general in Moravia and Silesia. He kicked the bucket in 1819. 

Johann von Klenau was naturally introduced to an old Bohemian nobile family at Benatek Castle in the Austrian territory of Bohemia on 13 April 1758. The group of Klenau dates to the fifteenth century, and the group of Janowitz to the fourteenth. The family name of Klenau routinely shows up in records after the sixteenth century. The Klenau family was one of the most established administrations in Bohemia, and a significant number of the honorable groups of Bohemia have sprung from relational unions into the Klenau line. The first name of the family was Przibik, with the predicate "von Klenowa". The family was brought to the baronetcy up in 1623 with the authentication conceded to one Johann von Klenowa and, in 1629, to his child, Wilhelm. The Imperial councilor and judge in Regensburg, Wilhelm von Klenau, was brought to comital status up in 1630, and to the status of "Reichsgraf", or majestic check, in 1633. 

Johann Klenau entered the 47th Infantry Regiment "Ellrichshausen" in 1774, at 17 years old, and turned into a second lieutenant in 1775. Subsequent to exchanging to a "Chevauleger" regiment as a "Rittmeister", or skipper of mounted force, Klenau battled in the short War of the Bavarian Succession, otherwise called the Potato War. The vast majority of this contention happened in Bohemia (some portion of the cutting edge Czech Republic) from 1778 to 1779, between the Habsburg Monarchy, Saxony, Bavaria and Prussia. The war had no fights, however was rather a progression of conflicts and strikes, making it the perfect circumstance for a commander of light rangers. In their assaults, powers from the two sides looked to reallocate or devastate different's arrangements, feed, and materiel. 

In the Austro– Turkish War (1787– 1791), one of the House of Habsburg's numerous eighteenth century wars with the Ottoman Empire, Klenau served in the 26th Dragoon Regiment "Toscana", and later exchanged to the first Dragoon Regiment "Kaiser". His regiment repelled an assault of predominant quantities of Ottoman powers on 28 September 1788, at Zemun, close Belgrade, for which he got an individual recognition and earned his advancement to major. In his initial military profession Klenau illustrated, at Zemun as well as in the prior skirmishing and strikes of 1778 and 1779, the qualities expected of a fruitful mounted force officer: the military sharpness to assess a circumstance, the adaptability to alter his arrangements on a minute's notice, and the individual bravery to go out on a limb he requested of his men. 

At first, the leaders of Europe thought about the 1789 upset in France as an issue between the French lord and his subjects, and not an issue in which they ought to meddle. Be that as it may, as the talk developed increasingly strident after 1790, the European rulers started to see the French changes with caution. Among the concerned rulers were the Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, who dreaded for the life and prosperity of his sister, the Queen of France, Marie Antoinette. In August 1791, in interview with French "émigré" nobles and Frederick William II of Prussia, he issued the Declaration of Pillnitz, in which they announced the enthusiasm of the rulers of Europe as one with the interests of Louis XVI and his family. They undermined uncertain, yet very genuine, results in the event that anything ought to happen to the illustrious family. 

The French Republican position turned out to be progressively troublesome. Intensifying issues in universal relations, French "émigrés" fomented for help of a counter-insurgency. From their base in Koblenz, contiguous the French– German fringe, they looked for direct help for military intercession from the illustrious places of Europe, and raised a military. On 20 April 1792, the French National Convention proclaimed war on Austria and its partners. In this War of the First Coalition (1792– 1798), France went itself against a large portion of the European states sharing area or water outskirts with her. Portugal and the Ottoman Empire additionally joined the collusion against France. 

On 12 February 1793, Klenau got his advancement to lieutenant colonel in a Lancer regiment, and joined the Austrian power in the Rhineland, serving under General of Cavalry Count Dagobert Sigmund von Wurmser. He was caught later in the spring close to the town of Offenbach, however was liberated out of the blue by two Austrian Hussars from the seventeenth Regiment "Archduke Alexander Leopold", who happened upon him and his captors. At the primary Battle of Wissembourg, Klenau directed a detachment in Friedrich, Baron von Hotze's third Column on 13 October 1793, amid which the Habsburg drive raged the earthen defenses held by the French. 

By the terms of the Peace of Basel (22 July 1795), the Prussian armed force was to leave the Rhine and Main stream valleys; as it did as such, the French rapidly overran these domains. On 20 September, the post at Mannheim surrendered to the French without discharging a shot. Mannheim had been garrisoned by a Bavarian administrator, Lieutenant General Baron von Belderbusch, and a few contingents of Bavarian grenadiers, fusiliers, and watchman regiments, in addition to six organizations of ordnance. A little Austrian power increased the Bavarian unforeseen. In the meantime, further north, the strengthened town of Düsseldorf, additionally garrisoned by Bavarians, abdicated to the French. With these capitulations, the French controlled the Rhine intersections at Düsseldorf and at the intersection of the Rhine and the Main streams. To keep up contact with the powers on their flanks, the Austrian administrators, insulted at this "fait accompli", needed to pull back over the Main stream. 

The close-by city of Heidelberg, further south of the Main on the Neckar River, gave off an impression of being the following French target. Lieutenant Field Marshal Peter Quasdanovich, who had stayed in the locale among Mannheim and Heidelberg, utilized a hurriedly improved abatis to set up a guarded line at the lethargic nation town of Handschuhsheim, east of the city of Heidelberg. The French power of two divisions—around 12,000 men—dwarfed the 8,000 safeguards, and the position appeared to be indefensible. 

At Handschuhsheim, Klenau told a mounted detachment that incorporated the six squadrons of the fourth Cuirassiers Regiment "Hohenzollern", two squadrons of the third Dragoon Regiment "Kaiser", six squadrons of the 44th Hussar regiment "Szeckler", and four squadrons of the French "émigré" regiment "Allemand". On 24 September 1795, seeing the French, with five units and a regiment of Chasseurs overpowering the troops of General Adam Bajalics von Bajahaza, Klenau immediately composed his own detachment into three segments and assaulted. In a fight winning charge, Klenau's detachment (around 4,000 men) scattered the French divisions of Charles Pichegru's Army of the Upper Rhine, under the direction of General of Division Georges Joseph Dufour. His mounted force got Dufour's whole division in the open, scattered Dufour's six squadrons of Chasseurs, and chop down Dufour's infantry. With lost 193 men and 54 steeds, the Austrians perpetrated more than 1,500 French setbacks, including 1,000 slaughtered; they additionally caught eight firearms, nine ammo caissons and their groups, and General Dufour himself. In the activity, General of Brigade Dusirat was injured, as was Dufour before his catch. Extra Austrian misfortunes included 35 men and 58 ponies murdered, six officers, 144 men and 78 steeds injured, and two men and three steeds missing. For his job in this adventure, Klenau was elevated to colonel and granted the Knight's Cross of the Military Order of Maria Theresa. At Handschuhsheim, as he had prior at Zemon, Klenau showed his "higher military calling," setting up himself as a fearless, steady, and snappy reasoning field officer. 

In 1796, Klenau instructed the development gatekeeper of Peter Quasdanovich's correct section in northern Italy. As the segment slid from the Alps at the city of Brescia, observation found the nearby French battalion ill-equipped. At midnight, Klenau drove two squadrons of the eighth Hussar Regiment "Wurmser" (named for its Colonel-Proprietor Dagobert von Wurmser), a force of the 37th Infantry Regiment "De Vins", and one organization of the Mahony Jäger. With their methodology conceal by haze and murkiness, the little power shocked the Brescia battalion on the morning of 30 July, catching not just the 600– 700 French troopers positioned there, yet in addition three authorities of the French Directory: Jean Lannes, Joachim Murat, and François Étienne de Kellermann. In any case, inside two days, Klenau's power needed to confront Napoleon Bonaparte and 12,000 Frenchmen; his little development protect was immediately pushed out of Brescia on 1 August. At the ensuing Battle of Lonato of 2– 3 August 1796, the French constrained Quasdanovich's section to pull back into the mountains. This confined Quasdanovich's power from Wurmser's primary armed force by Lake Garda, and liberated the French to focus on the principle drive at Castiglione delle Stiviere, further south; Bonaparte's triumph at the Battle of Castiglione constrained Wurmser over the Mincio River, and enabled the French to come back to the attack of Mantua. 

By early September, Klenau's power had rejoined Wurmser's segment and battled at the Battle of Bassano on 8 September. Here, the Austrians were dwarfed just about two to one by the French. As the Austrian armed force withdrew, Bonaparte requested an interest that made the Austrians relinquish their cannons and stuff. The greater part of the third contingent of the 59th "Jordis", and the main force of the Border Infantry Banat were caught and these units stopped to exist after this fight. The Austrians lost 600 slaughtered and injured, and 2,000 caught, in addition to lost 30 weapons, eight hues, and 200 limbers and ammo wagons. Klenau was with Wurmser's segment again as it battled its approach to blockaded Mantua and he took an interest in the battle at La Favorita close there on 15 September. This was the second endeavor to ease the post; as the Austrians pulled back from the fight, they withdrew into Mantua itself, and from 15 September until 2 February 1797, Klenau was caught in the fortification while the city was blockaded. Following the Austrian misfortune at the Battle of Rivoli, north of Mantua, on 14– 15 January 1797, when obviously there would be no Austrian help for Mantua, Klenau arranged states of surrender with French General Jean Sérurier, albeit extra proof proposes that Bonaparte was available and directed definitely more liberal terms than Klenau anticipated. At the point when the army gave in February, Klenau co-marked the archive with Wurmser. 

In spite of the fact that the Coalition powers—Austria, Russia, Prussia, Great Britain, Sardinia, among others—had accomplished a few triumphs at Verdun, Kaiserslautern, Neerwinden, Mainz, Amberg and Würzburg, in Italy the Coalition's accomplishments were progressively restricted. In northern Italy, regardless of the nearness of the most experienced of the Austrian officers—Dagobert Wurmser—the Austrians couldn't lift the attack at Mantua, and the endeavors of Napoleon in northern Italy pushed Austrian powers to the fringe of Habsburg lands. Napoleon managed a truce at Leoben on 17 April 1797, which prompted the formal harmony bargain, the Treaty of Campo Formio, which became effective on 17 October 1797. 

The arrangement assembled for conferences between the included gatherings to work out the careful regional and profitable subtleties. These were to be assembled at a community in the upper Rhine valley, Rastatt, near the French fringe. The essential warriors of the First Coalition, France and Austria, were very suspicious of one another's intentions, and the Congress immediately wrecked in a soil of interest and discretionary posing. The French requested a more area than initially concurred. The Austrians were hesitant to surrender the assigned regions. The Rastatt agents proved unable, or would not, coordinate the exchange of settled upon regions to repay the German sovereigns for their misfortunes. Aggravating the Congress' issues, pressures developed among France and the vast majority of the First Coalition partners, either independently or together. Ferdinand of Naples wouldn't pay settled upon tribute to France, and his subjects pursued this refusal with a defiance. The French attacked Naples and built up the Parthenopean Republic. A republican uprising in the Swiss cantons, empowered by the French Republic which offered military help, prompted the oust of the Swiss Confederation and the foundation of the Helvetic Republic. 

Different elements added to the rising pressures. On his approach to Egypt in 1798, Napoleon had ceased on the Island of Malta and coercively expelled the Hospitallers from their assets. This infuriated Paul, Tsar of Russia, who was the privileged leader of the Order. The French Directory was persuaded that the Austrians were scheming to begin another war. To be sure, the more fragile the French Republic appeared, the more truly the Austrians, the Neapolitans, the Russians, and the English really talked about this probability. 

Archduke Charles of Austria, apparently among the best leaders of the House of Habsburg in the late eighteenth and mid nineteenth hundreds of years, had assumed responsibility for the Austrian armed force in late January. Despite the fact that Charles was discontent with the system set by his sibling, the Holy Roman Emperor Francis II, he had assented to the less goal-oriented arrangement to which Francis and his counsels, the Aulic Council, had concurred: Austria would battle a guarded war and would keep up a ceaseless protective line from the southern bank of the Danube, over the Swiss Cantons and into northern Italy. The archduke had positioned himself at Friedberg for the winter, east-south-east of Augsburg. His military subsided into cantonments in the environs of Augsburg, expanding south along the Lech stream. 

As winter broke in 1799, on 1 March, General Jean-Baptiste Jourdan and his military of 25,000, the Army of the Danube, crossed the Rhine at Kehl. Taught to obstruct the Austrians from access to the Swiss snow capped passes, Jourdan intended to disconnect the militaries of the Coalition in Germany from partners in northern Italy, and keep them from helping each other. By intersection the Rhine toward the beginning of March, Jourdan acted before Charles' military could be fortified by Austria's Russian partners, who had consented to send 60,000 prepared warriors and their progressively prepared authority, Generalissimo Alexander Suvorov. Besides, if the French held the inside goes in Switzerland, they could keep the Austrians from exchanging troops between northern Italy and southwestern Germany, and utilize the courses to move their very own powers between the two theaters. 

The Army of the Danube progressed through the Black Forest and in the long run built up a line from Lake Constance toward the south bank of the Danube, focused at the Imperial City of Pfullendorf in Upper Swabia. In the meantime, the Army of Switzerland, under order of André Masséna, pushed toward the Grisons, planning to cut the Austrian lines of correspondence and alleviation at the mountain goes by Luziensteig and Feldkirch. The Army of Italy, directed by Louis Joseph Schérer, had officially progressed into northern Italy, to manage Ferdinand and the unmanageable Neapolitans. 

At the beginning of the 1799 battle in Italy, Klenau and his 4,500 troops induced and after that helped an uprising of at least 4,000 workers in the Italian farmland, adjoining the Po River, and the resulting general revolt bound the French on the stream's east bank. Klenau's troops, particularly a portion of his Italian-talking officers, instigated workers against French specialist, gave arms and recommended military focuses of chance, and fused the Austrian-furnished laborers into their military activities. 

The Ferrara post had been developed in the sixteenth century by Pope Paul V, worked in the style of the Trace italienne, or a star, and it straddled the southwest corner of the town's fortresses. The fortification offered whoever had it a key point in the area: it was the lynch-stick of the French barrier. In spring 1799, it was directed by Chef-de-detachment Lapointe with an army of near 2,500. On 15 April, Klenau moved toward the post and mentioned its capitulation. The administrator cannot. Klenau barred the city, leaving a little gathering of mounted guns and troops to proceed with the attack. For the following three days, Klenau watched the field, catching the encompassing vital purposes of Lagoscuro, Borgoforte and the Mirandola fortification. The blockaded army made a few forays from the Saint Paul's Gate, which were spurned by the guerilla laborers. The French endeavored two salvages of the ambushed post: In the first, on 24 April, a power of 400 Modenese was repelled at Mirandola. In the second, General Montrichard attempted to raise the city barricade by progressing with a power of 4,000. At long last, toward the month's end, a segment of Pierre-Augustin Hulin came to and resupplied the fortification. 

Klenau claimed the town on 21 May, and garrisoned it with a light brigade. The Jewish inhabitants of Ferrara paid 30,000 ducats to keep the loot of the city by Klenau's powers; this was utilized to pay the wages of Gardani's troops. Despite the fact that Klenau held the town, the French still had the town's post. In the wake of making the standard solicitation for surrender at 0800, which was cannot, Klenau requested a torrent from his mortars and howitzers. After two magazines burst into flames, the commandant was gathered again to surrender; there was some deferral, yet a banner of ceasefire was sent at 2100, and the capitulation was finished up at 0100 the following day. After claiming the post, Klenau discovered 75 new big guns pieces, in addition to ammo and a half year of arrangements. The worker uprisings bound the French and, by catching Ferrara, Klenau secluded the other French-held fortifications from watches, observation, and alleviation and supply powers. This made the fortifications and their battalions helpless against Suvorov's principle compel, working in the Po River valley. Over the span of the mid year, Suvorov's powers took a key position on the Tidone River on 17 June 1799, west of Piacenza, another at the intersection of the Trebbia River and the Po, in northern Italy, on 17– 20 June 1799, and the town of Novi Ligure on 15 August 1799, southeast of Alessandria on the Tanaro waterway. 

In mid 1800, Klenau exchanged to the "K(aiserlich) und K(oeniglich)" (Imperial and Royal) armed force of Germany, in Swabia, under the order of Feldzeugmeister Paul, Baron von Kray. The 1800 crusade in southwest Germany started on 1 May 1800, at the town of Büsingen, east of Schaffhausen (Switzerland); there a little power of 6,000 men under order of General of Brigade François Goullus vanquished 4,000 men, three forces of the seventh Infantry Regiment "Schröder", instructed by Lieutenant Field Marshal Karl Eugen, Prince von Lothringen-Lambesc. Following this conflict, the invulnerable Württemberg fortification, Hohentwiel, surrendered to the French, in what the Duke of Württemberg thought about a shocking absence of military mettle. 

After these experiences, the French armed force pushed toward Stockach, not exactly northwest of Hohentwiel, where they connected with the Austrian power, under Kray, in the clashes of Engen and Stockach and Messkirch against the troops of the French Army of the Rhine, under Jean Victor Moreau. Stockach, at the western tip of Lake Constance, secured east-west and north-south intersection; it and close by Engen, just west, had been the site of a French misfortune 14 months sooner. In 1800, an alternate general, Moreau, brought 84,000 troops against Kray's 72,000 men; this convergence of French power pushed the Austrian armed force eastbound. After two days, at Messkirch upper east of Stockach, Moreau brought 52,000 men, including Claude Lecourbe's and Dominique Vandamme's divisions, which had encountered the baffling French misfortune in 1799, and Étienne Marie Antoine Champion de Nansouty's accomplished mounted force against Kray's power of 48,000. In spite of the fact that the French lost more men, by and by they drove the Austrians from the field. 

In spite of the Imperial misfortunes at these fights, Klenau's strong field administration prompted his advancement to lieutenant field marshal. That year he likewise wedded the bereft Maria Josephina Somsich de Sard, little girl of Tallian de Viseck. They had one girl, Maria, conceived toward the year's end. From 1801 to 1805, amid which Austria stayed unapproachable from the continuous grating among Britain and Napoleon's France, Klenau instructed a division in Prague, and was named as Colonel and Inhaber of the fifth Dragoon Regiment. 

In a progression of contentions from 1803 to 1815, known as the Napoleonic Wars, the unions of the forces of Europe framed five alliances against the First French Empire of Napoleon. Like the wars started by the French Revolution of 1789, these wars changed the development, association, and preparing of European militaries and prompted a phenomenal militarization, primarily because of mass induction. French power climbed rapidly, vanquishing a large portion of Europe, yet fallen quickly after France's tragic attack of Russia in 1812. Napoleon's realm at last endured total military annihilation in the 1813– 1814 battles, bringing about the reclamation of the Bourbon government in France. Despite the fact that Napoleon made a staggering return in 1815, known as the Hundred Days, his annihilation at the Battle of Waterloo, the quest for his military and himself, his relinquishment, and his expulsion to the Island of Saint Helena, finished up the Napoleonic wars. 

In the War of the Third Coalition, 1803– 1806, a partnership of Austria, Portugal, Russia, and others battled the First French Empire and its customer states. Albeit a few maritime fights decided control of the oceans, the result of the war was resolved on the landmass, prevalently in two noteworthy land tasks. In the Ulm crusade, Klenau's power accomplished the single Austrian triumph before the surrender of the Austrian armed force in Swabia. In the second deciding occasion, the unequivocal French triumph at the Battle of Austerlitz over the consolidated Russian and Austrian power constrained a last capitulation of the Austrian powers and removed the Habsburgs from the Coalition. This did not set up an enduring tranquility on the mainland. Prussian stresses over developing French impact in Central Europe started the War of the Fourth Coalition in 1806, in which Austria did not take an interest. 

Upon Austria's passage into the war in summer 1805, Klenau joined the Habsburg armed force in southern Germany and wound up buried in a short crusade that uncovered the most exceedingly terrible of the Habsburg military association. Archduke Charles was wiped out, and had resigned to recover. Archduke Ferdinand, the brother by marriage of the Emperor Francis, was hypothetically in order, yet Ferdinand was a poor decision of substitution, having neither experience, development, nor bent. Despite the fact that Ferdinand held ostensible order, choices were set in the hands of Karl Mack, who was bashful, ambivalent, and illsuited for such a critical task. Besides, Mack had been injured before in the battle, and was unfit to take full charge of the military. Thus, order additionally declined to Lieutenant Field Marshal Karl Philipp, Prince of Schwarzenberg, a capable military officer, however so far unpracticed in the direction of such a substantial armed force. 

The crusade started in October, with a few conflicts in Swabia. At the first, close to the Bavarian town of Wertingen, northwest of Augsburg, on 8 October, Murat's Cavalry Corps and grenadiers of Lannes' V Corps astonished an Austrian power a large portion of their size. The Austrians had gathered in line, and the mounted force and grenadiers chop them down before the Austrians could shape their guarded squares. Almost 3,000 were caught. Multi day later, at Günzburg promptly south of the Danube, the French again met an Austrian power; General Mack couldn't settle on an arrangement, and the French 59th Regiment of the Line raged a scaffold over the Danube, and, in an embarrassing scene, pursued two vast Austrian segments toward Ulm. In this activity, the French verified an essential bridgehead on the Danube River. 

With the string of French triumphs, Lieutenant Field Marshal Klenau gave the main beam of expectation in a crusade full of misfortunes. At Ulm-Jungingen, Klenau had masterminded his 25,000 infantry and mounted force in a prime protective position and, on 11 October, a careless General of Division Dupon de l'étang assaulted Klenau's power with less than 8,000 men. The French lost 1,500 dead and injured, 900 caught, 11 firearms and 18 ammo wagons caught, yet perhaps of more prominent essentialness, the Imperial Eagles and guidons of the fifteenth and seventeenth Dragoons were taken by the Austrians. 

In spite of Klenau's prosperity at the Battle of Haslach-Jungingen, the Austrians couldn't continue their situations around him, and the whole line withdrew toward Ulm. Napoleon's lightning effort uncovered the Austrian shortcomings, especially of ambivalent direction structure and poor supply device. The Austrians were low on ammo and outgunned. The segments of the military, division by division, were being isolated from each other. Assurance sank, "sapped by Mack's clamorous requests and their [the troops] developing absence of trust in their ostensible administrator," Ferdinand. Following the Austrian capitulation at Memmingen, south of Ulm, the French accomplished a resolve support over the Austrians at the Battle of Elchingen, outside of Biberach, on 14 October. Here, upper east of Ulm, and marginally north of the Danube, Ney's VI Corps (20,000 men) caught half of the Austrian Reserve Artillery park at Thalfingen. In a further blow, Field Marshal Riesch was unfit to decimate the Danube spans, which Ney verified for the French. Ney got the triumph title, Duke of Elchingen. 

Now, the whole Austrian power, including Klenau's segment, pulled back into Ulm and its environs and Napoleon himself touched base to assume responsibility for the II, V, VI Corps, Ney's Cavalry and the Imperial Guard, numbering near 80,000 men. Archduke Ferdinand and twelve mounted force squadrons broke out through the French armed force and got away into Bohemia. Once more, as he had been at Mantua, Klenau was gotten in an attack from which there was no departure, and once more, he arranged the terms, when, on 21 October, Karl Mack surrendered the circled armed force of 20,000 infantry and 3,273 mounted force. Klenau and different officers were discharged depending on the prerequisite that they not serve against France until traded, a consent to which they held. 

The Austrians kept away from the battling in 1806– 1808, and occupied with a military rearrangement, coordinated by Archduke Charles. When they were prepared to join the battle against France, in the spring and summer of 1809, it was a redesigned Austrian armed force that took the field. Regardless of their interior military revamping, nonetheless, in the War of the Fifth Coalition, the military held quite a bit of its bulky direction structure, which entangled the issuance of requests and the auspicious dissemination of troops. At the point when the Austrian armed force took the field in 1809, it struggled for the "survival of the [Habsburg] tradition," as Archduke Charles, the military's incomparable authority, portrayed the circumstance to his sibling John. 

On the Danubian fields north of Vienna, the mid year skirmishes of Aspern-Essling and Wagram molded the result of the 1809 crusade. Klenau's powers assumed a basic job at both. At Aspern-Essling, Napoleon's military was conclusively crushed without precedent for northern Europe, exhibiting that the ace of Europe could himself be aced. After their thrashing at Wagram, the Austrians pulled back into Moravia, leaving the French responsible for that piece of the Danube valley; Wagram was the biggest European land-fight to date, drawing in 262 forces and 202 squadrons—153,000 men—for France and her partners, and 160 units and 150 squadrons—135,000 men—on the Austrian side. 

For Klenau, the crusade began gravely at the Battle of Eckmühl (here and there called Eggmühl), in southeastern Germany on 22 April 1809. Klenau instructed the Advance Guard, which incorporated the second "Archduke Charles" Legion, the Merveldt "Uhlanen" and a mounted force battery. Archduke Charles misread Napoleon's expectations and lost the preferred standpoint in the fight. Klenau's division endured intensely and the "Archduke Charles" Legion was about cleared out in a charge by Louis Friant's mounted force. Rosenberg's division on Klenau's flank was likewise severely destroyed and endured overwhelming setbacks: 534 murdered, 637 injured, 865 missing, and 773 caught. 

The fiasco at Eckmühl was trailed by another at Regensburg (additionally called the Battle of Ratisbon) on 23 April, where Klenau, at the head of six squadrons of Merveldt's Uhlanen (lancers), was pulverized and dispersed by Étienne Marie Antoine Champion de Nansouty's substantial mounted force. Klenau and Major General Peter Vécsey raged back at Nansouty's power with the "Klenau" chevauxlegers. Despite the fact that their assault tossed back the main French squadrons, the French substantial mounted force returned, joined by Hussars and "Chasseurs". In the mêlee, it was hard to recognize French from Austrian, yet in the long run the French steed overpowered the Austrian flank and drove them to the doors of Regensburg. 

By May 1809, the Austrians were pushed to inside visual separation of Vienna, and in a basic commitment on the banks of the Danube waterway, the French and their partners hooked for control of the Marchfeld plain with the Austrians. The French held Lobau island, a crucial stream crossing, and the Austrians held the statures further toward the east. Between them lay a few towns, two of which were focal in the commitment and gave the fight its name: They lay so near Vienna that the fight could be seen and got notification from the city bulwarks and Aspern and Essling (likewise spelled in German as Eßling) are today part of the Donaustadt, an area of Austrian capital. At the Battle of Aspern-Essling, Klenau directed a detached power of near 6,000, including a contingent of the first "Jäger", three units of the third Infantry Regiment "Archduke Charles", eight squadrons each of the "Stipcisc" Hussars and "Schwarzenburg" Uhlans, and a steed mounted guns battery of 64 firearms. Run of the mill perplexity in the Austrian direction structure implied he got his requests late, and Klenau's postponement in organization implied that his men moved toward the French III Corps at Essling in sunlight and in close request; a two-firearm French battery on the plain past the Essling, "cut wrinkles" of enfilade fire in the Austrian positions. 

In spite of the shrinking fire, Klenau's power achieved Essling's edge, where his men set up 64 big guns pieces and shelled the French for almost 60 minutes. Overwhelming the town, Austrian mounted force filled the town from the north, and the French were pushed out in a precise development. Klenau's batteries had the capacity to flame on the French-held extensions south of the town, over which the French needed to withdraw. In harsh house-to-house battling, the Austrians entered the town. Battle at the storehouse was particularly fierce, as Hungarian grenadiers fought fruitlessly to remove the French from their situations in the second and third floors. The fight continued at day break of 22 April. Masséna cleared Aspern of Austrians, yet while he did as such, Rosenberg's power raged Jean Lannes' situation at Essling. Lannes, fortified by Vincent Saint-Hilaire's division, in this way drove Rosenberg out of Essling. At Aspern, Masséna was driven out by Hiller and Bellegarde's counter-assaults. 

In the interim, Napoleon had propelled an assault on the fundamental armed force at the Austrian focus. Klenau's power remained on the quick right flank of the inside, inverse the assaulting power of Lannes. The French rangers, for possible later use, arranged to move at either flank, or to the middle, contingent upon where the Austrian line broke first. The French about got through at the inside yet, finally, Charles touched base with his last hold, driving his troopers with a shading in his grasp. Lannes was checked, and the impulse of the assault ceased to exist up and down the line. In the last hours of the fight, Lannes himself was chopped somewhere around a cannonball from Klenau's big guns. Aspern was lost to the French. The Danube spans whereupon the French depended had been cut again by substantial flatboats, which the Austrians had discharged on the stream. When he lost his course over the stream, Napoleon immediately suspended the assault. For his initiative at Essling, Klenau got the Commander's Cross of the Military Order of Maria Theresa. 

The two sides lost near 28,000 men, to wounds and passing. For Napoleon, whose compel was littler, the misfortunes were all the more expensive. For Charles, the triumph, which happened inside visual scope of the Vienna defenses, won him support from the falcons, or the star war party, in the Hofburg. The Austrian triumph at Aspern-Essling demonstrated that Napoleon could be beaten. His power had been partitioned (Davout's corps had never made it over the Danube), and Napoleon had disparaged the Austrian quality of power and, all the more essentially, the perseverance the Austrians appeared in circumstances like that of Essling, when Klenau walked his power crosswise over open nation under foe fire. After Aspern-Essling, Napoleon reexamined his assessment of the Austrian fighter. 

In the respite between the Battle of Aspern-Essling and the Battle of Wagram (5– 6 July) Charles requested the development of a few mile-long entrenchment, yet did little else to shore up his power. On the other hand, on the opposite side of the Danube, Napoleon acquired extra troops from Italy and Hungary. The day preceding the fight at Wagram, Klenau supplanted General Johann von Hiller, who had become sick, to direction the 13,740 troopers of VI Corps, and Armand von Nordmann supplanted him as leader of the Advance Guard. Klenau's Corps remained about in front of the fundamental Austrian power. The Corps, around 8,000 men, were requested to restrict any French development on the Marchfeld plain. By mid-evening, Klenau could see Napoleon's gigantic power progressing toward them through the cornfields. Klenau dealt with a vivacious, and slow withdrawal to a situation behind the Austrian line at the Russbach, or more the Wagram slope; this uncovered a few of the towns on the western edge of the Marchfield Plain, including Aspern and Essling, to French catch. 

On the following day of fight, Klenau was requested to a forward position, to finish a twofold envelopment of Napoleon's power, imagined by Charles as the best methods for instigating alarm among the French troops. At first light, or thereabouts, at 0400, his bombardment sprinkled ruin on Boudet's division of Massena's IV Corps; Massena sent another division under Claude Legrand to help Boudet. Klenau's corps figured out how to retake both Essling and Aspern, without the equivalent overwhelming challenge that had happened two months sooner. A large portion of the pincer development was well in progress, despite the fact that Klenau's power couldn't advance further: The weapons on the Island of Lobau avoided further development. There was no help from Kollorat's powers on his flank, and for the end prong of the pincer development, Archduke John was not a single where to be found; he had not relinquished his things, and was trudging gradually, with his military, close to the front line, yet at the same time a decent day's walk away. In spite of the mile-long hole in the French line, and the development of Austrian rangers, Klenau's men couldn't hold them against André Masséna's drawn out late morning strike. Charles viewed from his order post at Wagram as Klenau's powers determinedly clung to their positions, however were overpowered by the unyielding advancement of Masséna's troops, what Klenau later called "Masséna's Infernal Column". Klenau sorted out the back gatekeeper for the Army's retreat into Moravia, and lost 15 percent of his power. General René Savary, who coordinated piece of the French interest, composed that the Klenau's fighters had "battled in a way determined to ingrain a wary direct into any man arranged to deeds of imprudence." 

As a result, Austria pulled back from the Coalition. In spite of the fact that France had not totally crushed them, the Treaty of Schönbrunn, marked on 14 October 1809, forced a substantial political, regional, and financial cost. France got Carinthia, Carniola, and the Adriatic ports, while Galicia was given to France's partner Poland. The Salzburg territory went to the French partner, Bavaria. Austria lost more than three million subjects, around 20 percent of her all out populace, which significantly decreased the military power that Austria could field. Francis likewise consented to pay a reimbursement proportionate to very nearly 85 million francs, offered acknowledgment to Joseph Bonaparte as the King of Spain, and asserted Habsburg investment in Napoleon's Continental System. Francis reluctantly consented to Napoleon's marriage with his girl, Marie Louise, which Napoleon accepted, inaccurately, would dispense with Austria as a future risk. 

Napoleon occupied with his sad Russian crusade in 1812; by 1813, the military scene was significantly extraordinary. Prussia was the first to abandon from Napoleon's motivation; conceivably the entry of the leftovers of the Grande Armée in Berlin persuaded the Prussian initiative that it was protected, however convenient. The remaining parts of Napoleon's intrusion compel lurched once more from Russia in mid 1813 in shocking condition. Of the I Corps, just 2,281 men of the first 70,000 could be summoned. The Imperial Guard quality tumbled from 50,000 to 1,533, and 200 of those were incapacitated by removal, frostbite, or wounds. A few antiquarians propose that the idea of the resistance to Napoleon changed in these couple of months, from restriction by traditions to resistance by entire people groups, giving the War of the Sixth Coalition its patriot character. 

Before the finish of April, French powers dealt with Leipzig. At Lützen, on 2 May Napoleon baited a joined Prussian and Russian power into a device. The Russian officer, Peter Wittgenstein, overlooked the essential mandate of the Trachenberg plan, endeavoring to fix Napoleon's catch of Leipzig. Following multi day of overwhelming battling, the joined powers withdrew. Half a month later, at the Battle of Bautzen, 20– 21 May 1813, the joined Russian and Prussian power astonished Ney's corps in a confounded attack, which barely gotten away demolition when Napoleon showed up with fortifications. The outsmarted Blücher and Wittgenstein got away in light of the fact that Michel Ney neglected to hinder the retreat. Regardless of his series of triumphs, Napoleon looked for a peace negotiation toward the beginning of June, to permit a progression of exchanges, to happen in Prague. The Armistice of Poischwitz, marked 4 June 1813, built up a truce all through focal and eastern Europe that was proposed to last until mid-July; the warriors needed to give six days' notice of its end. The different invested individuals—Russian, Prussian, Austrian, Saxon, Swedish, Bavarian, British and others—investigated the potential outcomes of new coalitions. 

While delegates quarreled in Prague, like the circumstance in Rastatt in 1799, the ambassadors consulted all through the battle region and in the capitals of Europe, to make another arrangement of unions. The ensuing Sixth Coalition (Russia, Prussia, Britain, Sweden and, in the end, Austria), contrasted essentially from the before alliances. Not at all like past alliances in which the members had composed their militaries freely of each other, the Allies of the Sixth Coalition made worldwide armed forces. This hypothetically cultivated two objectives: Napoleon couldn't vanquish them piecemeal, and the nearness of officers from a few states inside a solitary furnished power restricted "politically spurred demonstrations of national personal responsibility." Klenau, elevated to "General der Kavallerie" (full broad) on 26 July 1813, held order of an autonomous corps in the Army of Bohemia. This Army of Bohemia outlined one of the greatest contrasts in the Sixth Coalition's hierarchical pattern: it included 127,435 Austrians, 78,200 Russians, and 44,907 Prussians. 

The Coalition likewise sought after an alternate operational arrangement. The Coalition's operational system brought its distinctive powers consistently nearer together in concentric circles, to a solitary point in Saxony. Known as the Trachenberg Plan, the Sixth Coalition's working arrangement built up clear, succinct and explicit rules for commandants, from the Army through the fundamental organization level: act obnoxiously against a mediocre adversary; act protectively against a predominant enemy, underscoring to administrators at all dimensions the danger of thinking little of the risk of Napoleon and his military. The new arrangement partitioned the Allied power into three armed forces: Silesia, Bohemia, and Northern Germany. The Silesian armed force, made out of Prussians and Russians, left 50,000 men in the Province of Silesia and moved the staying 100,000 to unite with 120,000 Austrians in Saxony. The Crown Prince of Sweden, Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte, a previous Marshal of France and a most loved of Napoleon's, set up a multitude of perception at Hamburg and Lübeck, and another 70,000 thought southwest of Berlin. Utilizing this arrangement, the Coalition pushed Napoleon and his partners into an inexorably littler hover of activity. In principle, while this thought Napoleon's power, it likewise constrained his moving choices. Moreover, it thought the Coalition powers around the French and Allied armed forces, at last at the Saxon urban areas of Dresden, and after that Leipzig. 

Deliberately, the Battle of Dresden showed the issues of the Coalition's technique. On 25 August, the three rulers—Alexander II of Russia, Francis II of Austria, and Frederick William III of Prussia—and their staffs amassed on a neglect of the city to talk about their technique. The city's feeble safeguards were obvious from this vantage point: the French and Saxon army of 20,000 men under Marshal Saint-Cyr couldn't would like to hold a city of that measure. The Tsar and General Jean Victor Moreau, previously a General of France and by 1813 a consultant to the Coalition, needed to assault without a moment's delay; Schwarzenberg needed to hold up until extra powers arrived. 

By holding up one day, the Coalition lost the preferred standpoint. As the Coalition struck the southern rural areas of the city, Napoleon touched base from the north and west with the Guard and Marmont's VI Corps, covering in constrained walks more than three days. The main components of Klenau's corps were put on the military's left flank, isolated from the fundamental body by the Weißeritz, overwhelmed after very nearly seven days of downpour. Marshal Joachim Murat exploited this disconnection and dispensed substantial misfortunes on the Austrians. A French member watched, isolating Klenau's corps from the Austrian armed force, Murat "hurl[ed] himself upon it at the leader of the carabineers and cuirassiers. His development was unequivocal; Klenau couldn't avoid that horrible charge. About the entirety of his brigades were constrained to set out their arms, and two different divisions of infantry shared their destiny." Murat caught flawless a division of five infantry regiments (15,000 men) under order of Lieutenant Field Marshal Joseph, Baron von Mesko de Felsö-Kubiny, in addition to 15 of their regimental and friends hues. As the left wing broke down, the French swarmed over the flank; the conservative was likewise determined back, and the whole power needed to pull back. 

After the prompt resistance of Dresden, however, Napoleon's circumstance weakened. Vandamme sought after the withdrawing Army of Bohemia, hoping to be bolstered by St. Cyr and General Marmont, who were as yet occupied in Dresden. Vandamme moved toward the Russian corps directed by Ostermann-Tolstoy, yet left a valley behind him unprotected as he slipped out of the mountain into Bohemia. As he connected with Ostermann-Tolstoy, he saw a few troops behind him, which before long assaulted him; along these lines plague from opposite sides, his young troops were unfit to guard themselves; at the Battle of Kulm, Vandamme lost his whole big guns, and the Austrians obtained around 7,500 detainees, including the general himself. 

Toward the north of Dresden, as Napoleon gave off an impression of being locked in, looking somewhere else, Blücher brought his troops south, at the city. Understanding the threat, Napoleon coordinated his fundamental armed force north once more, to repulse the Prussians; as he did as such, the wiley Blücher pulled back. Different segments of the French armed force had tantamount troubles. Marshal Oudinot was repulsed by Bernadotte at the Battle of Großbeeren, and MacDonald, close to the Bober stream. Moreover, Napoleon started to experience the ill effects of sickness, alluded to differently as a colic or exhaustion. 

From 12 to 15 October, the times of skirmishing starter to the Battle of Leipzig (16– 19 October), Klenau's power took the intensely safeguarded town Liebertwolkwitz, however were constrained out in a French counter-assault. A contemporary observer later portrayed discovering dead Austrians at the congregation graveyard, stuck to the dividers with blades. Klenau's essential target was the town of Liebertwolkwitz. He took the Kolmberg, an adjacent stature otherwise called the "Schwedenschanze" (Swedish fortress), a guarded leftover of the Thirty Years' War about east of the town, and set up a battery there, yet did not convey enough troops to help it. An assault by 4,000 of Jacques MacDonald's infantry verified the slope; in spite of the fact that Klenau's mounted force figured out how to drive the French back, they couldn't retake the slope. In the activity, Klenau's own pony was shot and executed, and he was almost caught, however he battled back to his line, and rearranged his men. 

In the long run, Klenau's corps took the town and the Kolmberg a few times, to be pushed out by the French, to counter-assault, retreat, counter-assault and retreat and this see-sawing forward and backward, the assaults, counter-assaults experienced by Klenau's power, were normal for the fight. On the basic first day of the fight, 16 October, a French 100-weapon mounted guns flood constrained a gap in the line between the Russian and Prussian powers on Klenau's flank. At the point when Murat's rangers charged the opening, Klenau's corps, in addition to hold mounted force, inevitably constrained the Murat's troops back to the front of the French gunnery. Klenau's power made a short retreat, leaving a separation at the Kolmberg. By mid-evening, the Allied segments had been headed to their beginning positions, however had kept up their line; as one piece of the line was constrained back, its flanks dropped back with it, keeping up a ceaseless line and keeping a French flanking task. In this first-day activity, Klenau's power assumed an essential job in keeping MacDonald from flanking Prince Schwarzenberg's principle armed force. The evening of the sixteenth, the French controlled the Kolmberg that Klenau had battled about throughout the day, and a Hessian warrior stated: "it was the most exceedingly terrible bivouac we had encountered on this crusade. The climate was wet and windy ... we needed to utilize water from puddles in which lay the blood of men and horses ... also, a large portion of the men stayed under arms consistently." 

After the fight, the associated central leadership doled out Klenau to barricade the expansive French battalion at Dresden. His IV Austrian Corps of the Army of Bohemia incorporated the division of Lt. General Alexander Ivanovich, Count Ostermann-Tolstoy, and the local army of Major General Alexey Nikolayevich Titov, an aggregate of around 41,000 troops. Klenau in the long run arranged a capitulation in which the French troops would come back to France with their distinctions, on condition that they would not battle against the Allies for a half year. Marshal Laurent de Gouvion Saint-Cyr surrendered to Klenau on 11 November, yet Schwarzenburg would not consent to the capitulation and the French troops walked into imprisonment into Austria. The victors took 94 French field weapons and 151 Saxon post firearms, and wrested from the French full oversight over the Kingdom of Saxony. 

Amid the 1814 battles, Klenau stayed with the Army of Bohemia as it moved toward Paris gradually, from the south-east, by means of the Seine stream valley. The militaries would be the same number of as separated. Their interchanges would be led through Wittgenstein's mounted force and some sporadic cossacks, which was straightforwardly inverse to the Trachenberg plan. Schwarzenberg realized it was actually what Napoleon would need them to do, however reluctantly consented to it. 

A short time later, Klenau told a corps in Italy, known as the "Korps Klenau". After the war finished again in 1815, Klenau was delegated directing general in Moravia and Silesia. He held this office until his passing on 6 October 1819 at Brno, in the cutting edge Czech Republic.