Mensa (group of stars) 

Mensa is a group of stars in the Southern Celestial Hemisphere close to the south heavenly post, one of twelve heavenly bodies attracted up the 18th century by French stargazer Nicolas-Louis de Lacaille. Its name is Latin for table, however it initially honored Table Mountain and was known as Mons Mensae. One of the eighty-eight groups of stars assigned by the International Astronomical Union (IAU), it covers a cornerstone molded wedge of sky 153.5 square degrees in zone. Other than the south polar group of stars of Octans, it is the most southerly of heavenly bodies and is perceptible just south of the fifth parallel of the Northern Hemisphere. 

One of the faintest heavenly bodies in the night sky, Mensa contains no obviously brilliant stars—the most brilliant, Alpha Mensae, is scarcely unmistakable in rural skies. Something like three of its star frameworks have been found to have exoplanets, and part of the Large Magellanic Cloud, a few star bunches and a quasar lie in the zone secured by the heavenly body. 

At first known as Mons Mensae, Mensa was made by Nicolas-Louis de Lacaille out of diminish Southern Hemisphere stars to pay tribute to Table Mountain, a South African mountain sitting above Cape Town, close to the area of Lacaille's observatory. He reviewed that the Magellanic Clouds were now and again known as Cape mists, and that Table Mountain was regularly shrouded in mists when a southeasterly stormy breeze blew. Henceforth he made a "table" in the sky under the mists. Lacaille had watched and recorded 10,000 southern stars amid a two-year remain at the Cape of Good Hope. He formulated 14 new star groupings in strange districts of the Southern Celestial Hemisphere not unmistakable from Europe. Mensa was the main group of stars that did not respect an instrument representative of the Age of Enlightenment. Sir John Herschel proposed contracting the name to single word in 1844, taking note of that Lacaille himself had truncated a portion of his star groupings hence. 

In spite of the fact that the stars of Mensa don't include in any old folklore, the mountain it is named after has a rich folklore. Called "Tafelberg" in Dutch and German, it has two neighboring mountains called "Fiend's Peak" and "Lion's Head". Table Mountain includes in the folklore of the Cape of Good Hope, famous for its tempests. Traveler Bartolomeu Dias saw the mountain as a legendary blacksmith's iron for tempests. 

Mensa is flanked by Dorado toward the north, Hydrus toward the northwest and west, Octans toward the south, Chamaeleon toward the east and Volans toward the upper east. Covering 153.5 square degrees and 0.372% of the night sky, it positions 75th of the 88 star groupings in size. The three-letter shortening for the star grouping, as embraced by the IAU in 1922, is 'Men'. The official heavenly body limits, as set by Eugène Delporte in 1930, are characterized by a polygon of eight fragments. In the tropical facilitate framework, the correct rising directions of these outskirts lie between and , while the declination arranges are somewhere in the range of −69.75° and −85.26°. The entire group of stars is noticeable to spectators south of scope 5°N. 

Lacaille gave eleven stars in the group of stars Bayer assignments, utilizing the Greek letter set to mark them Alpha through to Lambda Mensae (barring Kappa). Gould later included Kappa, Mu, Nu, Xi and Pi Mensae. Stars as diminish as these were not commonly given assignments; notwithstanding, Gould felt their closeness toward the South Celestial Pole justified their naming. Alpha Mensae is the most brilliant star with a scarcely unmistakable clear extent of 5.09, making it the main heavenly body with no star above greatness 5.0. By and large, there are 22 stars inside the group of stars' fringes more splendid than or equivalent to clear size 6.5. 

The Large Magellanic Cloud lies halfway inside Mensa's limits, albeit its majority lies in neighboring Dorado. It is a satellite universe of the Milky Way, situated at a separation of 163,000 light-years. Among its stars inside Mensa are W Mensae, an uncommon yellow-white supergiant that has a place with an uncommon class of star known as a R Coronae Borealis variable, HD 268835, a blue hypergiant that is braced by a tremendous circumstellar circle of residue, and R71, a brilliant blue variable star that lit up in 2012 to over a million times as radiant as the Sun. Additionally inside the world is NGC 1987, a globular group assessed to be around 600 million years of age that has a noteworthy number of red maturing stars, and NGC 1848, a 27 multi year old open bunch. Mensa contains a few portrayed open groups, the greater part of which can be just be unmistakably seen from substantial telescopes. 

PKS 0637-752 is a removed quasar with a determined redshift of z = 0.651. It was picked as the main focus of the then recently operational Chandra X-Ray Observatory in 1999. The subsequent pictures uncovered a gas fly roughly 330,000 light-years long. It is unmistakable at radio, optical and x-beam wavelengths.