Anna Anderson 

Anna Anderson (16 December 1896 – 12 February 1984) was the best known about a few impostors who professed to be Grand Duchess Anastasia of Russia. Anastasia, the most youthful little girl of the last Tsar and Tsarina of Russia, Nicholas II and Alexandra, was slaughtered alongside her folks and kin on 17 July 1918 by socialist progressives in Yekaterinburg, Russia, yet the area of her body was obscure until 2007. 

In 1920, Anderson was organized in a psychological medical clinic after a suicide endeavor in Berlin. At first, she passed by the name "Fräulein Unbekannt" (German for Miss Unknown) as she would not uncover her personality. Later she utilized the name Tschaikovsky and after that Anderson. In March 1922, claims that Anderson was a Russian fantastic duchess previously gotten open consideration. Most individuals from Grand Duchess Anastasia's family and the individuals who had known her, including court guide Pierre Gilliard, said Anderson was an impostor yet others were persuaded she was Anastasia. In 1927, a private examination subsidized by the Tsarina's sibling, Ernest Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse, distinguished Anderson as Franziska Schanzkowska, a Polish assembly line laborer with a past filled with psychological sickness. Following a claim enduring numerous years, the German courts decided that Anderson had neglected to demonstrate she was Anastasia, yet through media inclusion, her case picked up reputation. 

Somewhere in the range of 1922 and 1968, Anderson lived in Germany and the United States with different supporters and in nursing homes and sanatoria, including something like one refuge. She emigrated to the United States in 1968. In the blink of an eye before the termination of her visa she wedded history teacher Jack Manahan, who was later described as "most likely Charlottesville's best-cherished offbeat". Upon her demise in 1984, Anderson's body was incinerated, and her fiery remains were covered in the churchyard at Castle Seeon, Germany. 

After the breakdown of socialism in the Soviet Union, the areas of the assortments of the Tsar, Tsarina, and every one of the five of their kids were uncovered. Various research facilities in various nations affirmed their personality through DNA testing. DNA tests on a lock of Anderson's hair and enduring medicinal examples of her tissue demonstrated that her DNA did not coordinate that of the Romanov remains or that of living relatives of the Romanovs. Rather, Anderson's mitochondrial DNA coordinated that of Karl Maucher, an extraordinary nephew of Franziska Schanzkowska. Most researchers, students of history and writers who have examined the case acknowledge that Anderson and Schanzkowska were a similar individual. 

On 27 February 1920, a young lady endeavored to take her own life in Berlin by hopping off a scaffold called the Bendlerbrücke into the Landwehrkanal. She was safeguarded by a police sergeant and was admitted to the on Lützowstrasse. As she was without papers and would not recognize herself, she was conceded as "Fräulein Unbekannt" ("Miss Unknown") to a psychological clinic in Dalldorf (presently Wittenau, in Reinickendorf), where she stayed for the following two years. The obscure patient had scars on her head and body and communicated in German with a highlight depicted as "Russian" by medicinal staff. 

In mid 1922, Clara Peuthert, an individual mental patient, asserted that the obscure lady was Grand Duchess Tatiana of Russia, one of the four little girls of Tsar Nicholas II. On her discharge, Peuthert told Russian émigré Captain Nicholas von Schwabe that she had seen Tatiana at Dalldorf. Schwabe visited the haven and acknowledged the lady as Tatiana. Schwabe induced different émigrés to visit the obscure lady, including Zinaida Tolstoy, a companion of Tsarina Alexandra. In the long run Baroness Sophie Buxhoeveden, a previous woman in-holding up to the Tsarina, visited the refuge with Tolstoy. On observing the lady, Buxhoeveden proclaimed "She's unreasonably short for Tatiana," and left persuaded the lady was not a Russian fabulous duchess. A couple of days after the fact, the obscure lady noted, "I didn't state I was Tatiana." 

A medical caretaker at Dalldorf, Thea Malinovsky, asserted a very long time after the patient's discharge from the refuge that the lady had disclosed to her she was another girl of the Tsar, Anastasia, in the pre-winter of 1921. In any case, the patient herself couldn't review the occurrence. Her biographers either overlook Malinovsky's case, or mesh it into their account. 

By May 1922, the lady was accepted by Peuthert, Schwabe, and Tolstoy to be Anastasia, despite the fact that Buxhoeveden said there was no similarity. By the by, the lady was removed from the refuge and given a room in the Berlin home of Baron Arthur von Kleist, a Russian émigré who had been a police boss in Russian Poland before the fall of the Tsar. The Berlin policeman who took care of the case, Detective Inspector Franz Grünberg, suspected that Kleist "may have had ulterior intentions, as was alluded to in émigré circles: if the old conditions ought to ever be reestablished in Russia, he sought after incredible headway from having taken care of the young lady." 

She started calling herself Anna Tschaikovsky, picking "Anna" as a short type of "Anastasia", in spite of the fact that Peuthert "portrayed her wherever as Anastasia". Tschaikovsky remained in the places of colleagues, including Kleist, Peuthert, a poor average workers family called Bachmann, and at Inspector Grünberg's home at Funkenmühle, close Zossen. At Funkenmühle, Grünberg masterminded the Tsarina's sister, Princess Irene of Hesse and by Rhine, to meet Tschaikovsky, yet Irene did not perceive her. Grünberg additionally orchestrated a visit from Crown Princess Cecilie of Prussia, yet Tschaikovsky would not address her, and Cecilie was left confused by the experience. Afterward, during the 1950s, Cecilie marked an announcement that Tschaikovsky was Anastasia, however Cecilie's family questioned her announcement and inferred that she was experiencing dementia. 

By 1925, Tschaikovsky had built up a tuberculous disease of her arm, and she was set in a progression of clinics for treatment. Wiped out and close passing, she endured huge loss of weight. She was visited by the Tsarina's man of the hour of the chamber Alexei Volkov; Anastasia's coach Pierre Gilliard; his significant other, Shura, who had been Anastasia's nursemaid; and the Tsar's sister, Grand Duchess Olga. Despite the fact that they communicated compassion, if just for Tschaikovsky's sickness, and made no prompt open presentations, in the end they all denied she was Anastasia. In March 1926, she convalesced in Lugano with Harriet von Rathlef to the detriment of Grand Duchess Anastasia's extraordinary uncle, Prince Valdemar of Denmark. Valdemar was eager to offer Tschaikovsky material help, through the Danish diplomat to Germany, Herluf Zahle, while her character was researched. To enable her to travel, the Berlin Aliens Office issued her with a transitory declaration of way of life as "Anastasia Tschaikovsky", with Grand Duchess Anastasia's own subtleties. After a squabble with Rathlef, Tschaikovsky was moved to the Stillachhaus Sanatorium at Oberstdorf in the Bavarian Alps in June 1926, and Rathlef came back to Berlin. 

At Oberstdorf, Tschaikovsky was visited by Tatiana Melnik, "née" Botkin. Melnik was the niece of Serge Botkin, the leader of the Russian displaced person office in Berlin, and the little girl of the magnificent family's close to home doctor, Dr. Eugene Botkin, who had been killed by the socialists close by the Tsar's family in 1918. Tatiana Melnik had met Grand Duchess Anastasia as a kid and had last addressed her in February 1917. To Melnik, Tschaikovsky looked like Anastasia, despite the fact that "the mouth has changed and coarsened detectably, and in light of the fact that the face is so lean, her nose looks greater than it was." In a letter, Melnik stated: "Her frame of mind is innocent, and inside and out she can't be figured with as a dependable grown-up, yet should be driven and coordinated like a tyke. She has overlooked dialects, yet has when all is said in done lost the intensity of exact narration ... indeed, even the least complex stories she tells incongruously and erroneously; they are actually just words hung together in outlandishly ungrammatical German ... Her deformity is clearly in her memory and visual perception." Melnik announced that Tschaikovsky was Anastasia, and assumed that any powerlessness on her part to recall occasions and her refusal to communicate in Russian was brought about by her hindered physical and mental state. Either incidentally through a true want to "help the patient's powerless memory" or as a major aspect of an intentional act, Melnik instructed Tschaikovsky with subtleties of life in the royal family. 

In 1927, under strain from his family, Valdemar ruled against furnishing Tschaikovsky with any further money related help, and the assets from Denmark were cut off. Duke George of Leuchtenberg, a far off relative of the Tsar, gave her a home at Castle Seeon. The Tsarina's sibling, Ernest Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse, employed a private criminologist, Martin Knopf, to examine the cases that Tschaikovsky was Anastasia. 

Amid her stay at Castle Seeon, Knopf detailed that Tschaikovsky was really a Polish assembly line laborer called Franziska Schanzkowska. Schanzkowska had worked in a weapons manufacturing plant amid World War I when, not long after her life partner had been slaughtered at the front, a projectile dropped out of her hand and detonated. She had been harmed in the head, and a foreman was executed before her. She ended up aloof and discouraged, was proclaimed crazy on 19 September 1916, and invested energy in two insane person havens. In mid 1920, she was accounted for missing from her Berlin lodgings, and from that point forward had not been seen or gotten notification from by her family. In May 1927, Franziska's sibling Felix Schanzkowski was acquainted with Tschaikovsky at a nearby motel in Wasserburg close Castle Seeon. Leuchtenberg's child, Dmitri, was totally sure that Tschaikovsky was an impostor and that she was perceived by Felix as his sister, yet Leuchtenberg's girl, Natalie, stayed persuaded of Tschaikovsky's validness. Leuchtenberg himself was undecided. As indicated by one record, at first Felix announced that Tschaikovsky was his sister Franziska, however the sworn statement he marked talked just of a "solid likeness", featured physical contrasts, and said she didn't remember him. A long time later, Felix's family said that he knew Tschaikovsky was his sister, yet he had abandoned her to her new life, which was unquestionably more agreeable than any option. 

Guests to Seeon included Prince Felix Yusupov, spouse of Princess Irina Alexandrovna of Russia, who composed, ""I guarantee completely that she isn't Anastasia Nicolaievna, yet only an adventuress, a wiped out hysteric and a ghastly playactress." I basically can't see how anybody can be in uncertainty of this. In the event that you had seen her, I am "persuaded" that you would draw back with sickening dread at the possibility that this horrible animal could be a little girl of our Tsar." Other guests, be that as it may, for example, Felix Dassel, an officer whom Anastasia had visited in medical clinic amid 1916, and Gleb Botkin, who had referred to Anastasia as a youngster and was Tatiana Melnik's sibling, were persuaded that Tschaikovsky was certified. 

By 1928, Tschaikovsky's case had gotten intrigue and consideration in the United States, where Gleb Botkin had distributed articles in help of her motivation. Botkin's exposure grabbed the eye of an inaccessible cousin of Anastasia's, Xenia Leeds, a previous Russian princess who had hitched a well off American industrialist. Botkin and Leeds masterminded Tschaikovsky to head out to the United States on board the liner "Berengaria" to Leeds' detriment. On the adventure from Seeon to the States, Tschaikovsky ceased at Paris, where she met Grand Duke Andrei Vladimirovich of Russia, the Tsar's cousin, who trusted her to be Anastasia. For a half year Tschaikovsky inhabited the domain of the Leeds family in Oyster Bay, New York. 

As the tenth commemoration of the Tsar's execution drew nearer in July 1928, Botkin held a legal advisor, Edward Fallows, to regulate lawful moves to acquire any of the Tsar's bequest outside of the Soviet Union. As the demise of the Tsar had never been demonstrated, the home must be discharged to relatives ten years after the alleged date of his passing. Fallows set up an organization, called the Grandanor Corporation (an abbreviation of Grand Duchess Anastasia of Russia), which tried to raise assets by selling partakes in any imminent domain. Tschaikovsky guaranteed that the Tsar had stored cash abroad, which sustained unconfirmed gossipy tidbits about a substantial Romanov fortune in England. The enduring relatives of the Romanovs blamed Botkin and Fallows for fortune chasing, and Botkin blamed them for attempting to dupe "Anastasia" out of her legacy. Aside from a moderately little store in Germany, appropriated to the Tsar's perceived relations, no cash was ever found. After a squabble, perhaps over Tschaikovsky's case to the bequest (yet not over her case to be Anastasia), Tschaikovsky moved out of the Leeds' house, and the musician Sergei Rachmaninoff organized her to inhabit the Garden City Hotel in Hempstead, New York, and later in a little cabin. To keep away from the press, she was reserved in as Mrs. Anderson, the name by which she was in this manner known. In October 1928, after the passing of the Tsar's mom, the Dowager Empress Marie, the 12 closest relations of the Tsar met at Marie's memorial service and marked an assertion that condemned Anderson as an impostor. The Copenhagen Statement, as it would come to be known, clarified: "Our feeling of obligation constrains us to express that the story is just a fantasy. The memory of our dear left would be discolored in the event that we enabled this awesome story to spread and increase any belief." Gleb Botkin replied with an open letter to Grand Duchess Xenia Alexandrovna of Russia, which alluded to the family as "avaricious and deceitful" and guaranteed they were just condemning Anderson for cash. 

From mid 1929 Anderson lived with Annie Burr Jennings, a rich Park Avenue old maid upbeat to have somebody she expected to be a little girl of the Tsar. For eighteen months, Anderson was the toast of New York City society. At that point an example of foolish conduct started that finished in her pitching fits, executing her pet parakeet, and on one event going around exposed on the rooftop. On 24 July 1930, Judge Peter Schmuck of the New York Supreme Court marked a request submitting her to a psychological medical clinic. Before she could be removed, Anderson secured herself her room, and the entryway was broken in with a hatchet. She was persuasively taken to the Four Winds Sanatorium in Westchester County, New York, where she stayed for somewhat over a year. In August 1932, Anderson came back to Germany joined by a private attendant in a bolted lodge on the liner "Deutschland". Jennings paid for the voyage, the stay at the Westchester sanatorium, and an extra a half year's consideration in the mental wing of a nursing home at Ilten close Hanover. On landing in Ilten, Anderson was evaluated as rational, yet as the room was paid ahead of time, and she had no place else to go, she remained on in a suite in the sanatorium grounds. 

Anderson's arrival to Germany created press intrigue, and drew more individuals from the German nobility to her motivation. She again lived temporarily as a visitor of her well-wishers. In 1932, the British newspaper "Updates on the World" distributed a shocking story blaming her for being a Romanian performing artist who was executing a cheat. Her legal advisor, Fallows, recorded suit for criticism, yet the extensive case proceeded until the flare-up of World War II, at which time the case was rejected on the grounds that Anderson was living in Germany, and German inhabitants couldn't sue in adversary nations. From 1938, legal advisors representing Anderson in Germany challenged the circulation of the Tsar's bequest to his perceived relations, and they thusly challenged her personality. The suit proceeded discontinuously without goals for a considerable length of time; Lord Mountbatten footed a portion of his German relations' lawful bills against Anderson. The extended procedures turned into the longest-running claim in German history. 

Anderson had a last gathering with the Schanzkowski family in 1938. Gertrude Schanzkowska was tenacious that Anderson was her sister, Franziska, however the Nazi government had masterminded the gathering to decide Anderson's character, and whenever acknowledged as Schanzkowska she would be detained. The Schanzkowski family would not sign sworn statements against her, and no further move was made. In 1939, World War II started with Germany's assault on the western portion of Poland. In 1940, Edward Fallows kicked the bucket basically dejected subsequent to squandering all his very own cash on attempting to acquire the Tsar's non-existent fortune for the Grandanor Corporation. Towards the finish of the war, Anderson inhabited Schloss Winterstein with Louise of Saxe-Meiningen, in what turned into the Soviet occupation zone. In 1946, Prince Frederick of Saxe-Altenburg helped her over the fringe to Bad Liebenzell in the French occupation zone. 

Sovereign Frederick settled Anderson in a previous armed force military enclosure in the little town of Unterlengenhardt, on the edge of the Black Forest, where she turned into a kind of vacation spot. Lili Dehn, a companion of Tsarina Alexandra, visited her and recognized her as Anastasia, yet when Charles Sydney Gibbes, English mentor to the royal youngsters, met Anderson he reviled her as a fake. In a sworn statement, he swore "She not the slightest bit takes after the genuine Grand Duchess Anastasia that I had known ... I am very fulfilled that she is an impostor." She turned into a hermit, encompassed by felines, and her home started to rot. In May 1968, Anderson was taken to an emergency clinic at Neuenbürg in the wake of being found semi-cognizant in her cabin. In her nonappearance, Prince Frederick tidied up the property by request of the neighborhood leading body of wellbeing. Her Irish Wolfhound and 60 felines were killed. Astonished by this, Anderson acknowledged her long haul supporter Gleb Botkin's idea to move to the United States. 

Botkin was living in the college town of Charlottesville, Virginia, and a neighborhood companion of his, history teacher and genealogist John Eacott "Jack" Manahan, paid for Anderson's adventure to the United States. She entered the nation on a six-month guest's visa, and right away before it was expected to terminate, Anderson wedded Manahan, who was 20 years her lesser, in a common function on 23 December 1968. Botkin was best man. Jack Manahan delighted in this marriage of accommodation, and portrayed himself as "Terrific Duke-in-Waiting" or "child in-law to the Tsar". The couple lived in independent rooms in a house on University Circle in Charlottesville, and furthermore claimed a homestead close Scottsville. Botkin kicked the bucket in December 1969. In February of the next year, 1970, the claims at long last arrived at an end, with neither side ready to set up Anderson's character. 

Manahan and Anderson, presently lawfully called Anastasia Manahan, turned out to be outstanding in the Charlottesville territory as erraticisms. In spite of the fact that Jack Manahan was well off, they lived in lack of sanitization with vast quantities of canines and felines, and heaps of trash. On 20 August 1979, Anderson was taken to Charlottesville's Martha Jefferson Hospital with an intestinal deterrent. A gangrenous tumor and a length of digestive tract were expelled by Dr. Richard Shrum. 

With both Manahan and Anderson in coming up short wellbeing, in November 1983, Anderson was regulated, and a lawyer, William Preston, was selected as her gatekeeper by the nearby circuit court. A couple of days after the fact, Manahan "captured" Anderson from the clinic, and for three days they drove around Virginia eating out of comfort stores. After a 13-state police alert, they were found and Anderson was come back to a consideration office. In January she may have had a stroke, and on 12 February 1984, she passed on of pneumonia. She was incinerated that day, and her fiery remains were covered in the churchyard at Castle Seeon on 18 June 1984. Manahan kicked the bucket on 22 March 1990. 

In 1991, the collections of Tsar Nicholas II, Tsarina Alexandra, and three of their little girls were unearthed from a mass grave close Yekaterinburg. They were recognized based on both skeletal investigation and DNA testing. For instance, mitochondrial DNA was utilized to coordinate maternal relations, and mitochondrial DNA from the female bones coordinated that of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, whose maternal grandma Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine was a sister of Alexandra. The collections of Tsarevich Alexei and the rest of the girl were found in 2007. Rehashed and free DNA tests affirmed that the remaining parts were the seven individuals from the Romanov family, and demonstrated that none of the Tsar's four little girls endure the shooting of the Romanov family. 

An example of Anderson's tissue, some portion of her digestive tract evacuated amid her activity in 1979, had been put away at Martha Jefferson Hospital, Charlottesville, Virginia. Anderson's mitochondrial DNA was separated from the example and contrasted and that of the Romanovs and their relatives. It didn't coordinate that of the Duke of Edinburgh or that of the bones, affirming that Anderson was not identified with the Romanovs. Nonetheless, the example coordinated DNA given by Karl Maucher, a grandson of Franziska Schanzkowska's sister, Gertrude (Schanzkowska) Ellerik, demonstrating that Karl Maucher and Anna Anderson were maternally related and that Anderson was Schanzkowska. Five years after the first testing was done, Dr. Terry Melton of the Department of Anthropology, Pennsylvania State University, expressed that the DNA arrangement binds Anderson to the Schanzkowski family was "still special", however the database of DNA designs at the Armed Forces DNA Identification Laboratory had developed a lot bigger, prompting "expanded certainty that Anderson was in reality Franziska Schanzkowska". 

Essentially, a few strands of Anderson's hair, found inside an envelope in a book that had a place with Anderson's better half, Jack Manahan, were additionally tried. Mitochondrial DNA from the hair coordinated Anderson's clinic test and that of Schanzkowska's relative Karl Maucher, however not the Romanov remains or living relatives of the Romanovs. 

Despite the fact that socialists had murdered the whole majestic Romanov family in July 1918, including 17-year-old Grand Duchess Anastasia, for a considerable length of time a short time later socialist disinformation sustained bits of gossip that individuals from the Tsar's family had endure. The clashing gossipy tidbits about the destiny of the family enabled impostors to make fake cases that they were an enduring Romanov. 

A large portion of the impostors were expelled; be that as it may, Anna Anderson's case endured. Books and leaflets supporting her cases included Harriet von Rathlef's book "Anastasia, ein Frauenschicksal als Spiegel der Weltkatastrophe" ("Anastasia, a Woman's Fate as Mirror of the World Catastrophe"), which was distributed in Germany and Switzerland in 1928, however it was serialized by the newspaper paper "Berliner Nachtausgabe" in 1927. This was countered by works, for example, "La Fausse Anastasie" ("The False Anastasia") by Pierre Gilliard and Constantin Savitch, distributed by Payot of Paris in 1929. Clashing declarations and physical proof, for example, examinations of facial attributes, which on the other hand upheld and negated Anderson's case, were utilized either to reinforce or to counter the conviction that she was Anastasia. Without any immediate narrative confirmation or strong physical proof, the topic of whether Anderson was Anastasia was for some a matter of individual conviction. As Anderson herself said in her own informal English, "You either trust it or you don't trust it. It doesn't make a difference. In no in any case at all." The German courts were unfit to choose her case somehow, and in the long run, following 40 years of consultation, decided that her case was "neither built up nor discredited". Dr. Günter von Berenberg-Gossler, lawyer for Anderson's adversaries in the later long stretches of the lawful case, said that amid the German preliminaries "the press were in every case increasingly keen on revealing her side of the story than the contradicting seat's less impressive viewpoint; editors frequently pulled writers in the wake of announcing declaration conveyed close by and overlooked the rejoinder, bringing about the open only occasionally getting a total picture." 

In 1957, a form of Anderson's story, sorted out by her supporters and mixed with discourse by , was distributed in Germany under the title "Ich, Anastasia, Erzähle" ("I, Anastasia, a self-portrayal"). The book incorporated the "fabulous story" that Anastasia got away from Russia on a homestead truck with a man called Alexander Tschaikovsky, whom she wedded and had a kid by, before he was shot dead on a Bucharest road, and that the youngster, Alexei, vanished into a shelter. Indeed, even Anderson's supporters conceded that the subtleties of the alleged departure "may appear to be striking innovations notwithstanding for a producer", while her spoilers considered "this scarcely dependable story as a bit of fantastical sentiment". Different works dependent on the reason that Anderson was Anastasia, composed before the DNA tests, incorporate life stories by Peter Kurth and James Blair Lovell. Later histories by John Klier, Robert Massie, and Greg King that portray her as an impostor were composed after the DNA tests demonstrated that she was not Anastasia. 

Appraisals shift about whether Anderson was an intentional impostor, whimsical, damaged into receiving another personality, or somebody utilized by her supporters for their own closures. Pierre Gilliard impugned Anderson as "a guile insane person". The condition of Anderson with individuals from the majestic family started with Clara Peuthert in the Dalldorf Asylum, as opposed to with Anderson herself. Anderson seemed to oblige it a while later. Author Michael Thornton thought, "Incidentally she lost and rejected Schanzkowska. She lost that individual absolutely and acknowledged totally she was this new individual. I think it occurred coincidentally and she was cleared along on a rush of rapture." Lord Mountbatten, a first cousin of the Romanov youngsters, thought her supporters "just get rich on the eminences of further books, magazine articles, plays and so on." Prince Michael Romanov, a grandson of Grand Duchess Xenia Alexandrovna of Russia, expressed the Romanov family dependably realized Anderson was a cheat, and that the family viewed her and "the three-ringed carnival which moved around her, making books and motion pictures, as an obscene affront to the memory of the Imperial Family." 

Since the 1920s, numerous anecdotal works have been propelled by Anderson's case to be Anastasia. In 1928, the quiet film "Garments Make the Woman" was put together all around freely with respect to her story. In 1953, Marcelle Maurette composed a play dependent on Rathlef's and Gilliard's books called "Anastasia", which visited Europe and America with Viveca Lindfors in the title job. The play was successful to the point that in 1956 an English adjustment by Guy Bolton was made into a film, "Anastasia". The plot spins around a gathering of swindlers who endeavor to fund-raise among Russian émigrés by imagining that Grand Duchess Anastasia is as yet alive. A reasonable amnesiac, "Anna", is prepped by the swindlers to imitate Anastasia. Anna's sources are obscure and as the play advances indications are dropped that she could be the genuine Anastasia, who has lost her memory. The watcher is left to choose whether Anna truly is Anastasia. Another film was discharged in the meantime, "Is Anna Anderson Anastasia?" featuring Lilli Palmer, which makes much a similar progress, yet the focal character is "maybe significantly progressively lost, distraught and terrible, however she, as well, has minutes when she is a lady of quality and nobility". 

Dramatist Royce Ryton expressed "I Am Who I Am" about Anna Anderson in 1978. Like the prior plays, it delineates Anderson as "an individual of inherent worth deceived by the ravenousness and fears of others" and did not endeavor to choose her genuine character. 

In 1965, the melodic "Anya", in view of Guy Bolton's play and utilizing the music of Sergei Rachmaninoff, opened on Broadway featuring Constance Towers as Anya and Lillian Gish as the Dowager Empress—it was not effective. 

Sir Kenneth MacMillan's expressive dance "Anastasia", first performed in 1967, utilized "I, Anastasia, a life account" as motivation and "is a sensational dream about Anna Anderson, the lady who trusts herself to be Anastasia ... Either in memory or creative ability, she encounters scenes from Anastasia's past ... The structure is a sort of free-wheeling bad dream, held together by the focal figure of the courageous woman, played by Lynn Seymour". A contemporary analyst thought Seymour's "strained, tormented representation of the edgy Anna Anderson is very remarkable and extremely noteworthy". Anna Anderson was additionally utilized as a story gadget in Youri Vámos' 1992 artful dance for Theater Basel, "Resting Beauty – Last Daughter of the Czar", in light of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's "Dozing Beauty". 

In December 1986, NBC ran a two-section fictionalized little arrangement titled "" which featured Amy Irving and won her a Golden Globe selection. In the expressions of Hal Erickson, "Irving plays the main character in a woman or-the-tiger design, with the goal that we can't be sure whether she genuinely swallows her own story or if she's just a sharp con artist." 

The focal character ("Anastasia" or "Anya") of the 1997 enlivened dream "Anastasia" is depicted as the genuine Grand Duchess Anastasia, despite the fact that the film was discharged after DNA tests demonstrated that Anna Anderson was not Anastasia. The film is an altogether anecdotal melodic excitement, and in the expressions of one commentator, "verifiable certainties are treated with specific disdain".