Scott Zolak 

Scott David Zolak (conceived December 13, 1967) is a supporter and resigned American football quarterback who played in the National Football League (NFL) for nine seasons. Through the span of his profession, he played in 55 diversions for the New England Patriots and Miami Dolphins, finished 124 of 248 goes for 1,314 yards, tossed eight touchdowns and seven block attempts, and completed his vocation with a passer rating of 64.8. 

An alum of Ringgold High School and the University of Maryland, Zolak was chosen 84th in the 1991 NFL Draft by the New England Patriots. He didn't play in 1991, yet begun four amusements in 1992 and had his most beneficial season factually. At the point when Drew Bledsoe was drafted in 1993, Zolak turned into his reinforcement for the following six seasons. He showed up as a swap for Bledsoe when he was harmed, yet just begun three recreations amid this time. He was discharged toward the finish of the 1998 season, and marked with the New York Jets and Miami Dolphins in 1999, playing in one amusement for Miami before resigning. After his retirement, he turned into a sportscaster and football investigator in the New England region. 

Zolak was conceived on December 13, 1967 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. As a kid, he went about as the waterboy for the football crew at Ringgold High School in Monongahela, Pennsylvania, where his dad, Paul, filled in as head mentor and athletic chief. Future NFL quarterback Joe Montana played for Ringgold amid this time and gave Zolak a football, which he later scoured for good karma before each diversion. At the point when Zolak went to Ringgold High School himself, he was the group's beginning quarterback and punter, and lettered multiple times. Zolak additionally played on the Ringgold b-ball crew as a forward, and was a four-time letterman in that sport also. Because of his football execution, he was welcome to take an interest in the Big 33 Football Classic, which highlighted the top secondary school football players in Pennsylvania. 

In the wake of moving on from secondary school, Zolak played school football at the University of Maryland. He sat out his first year recruits year, and turned into the third-string quarterback behind Dan Henning and Neil O'Donnell after two quarterbacks exchanged. Before the finish of his sophomore season, Zolak was testing O'Donnell for the beginning occupation subsequent to Henning graduated. As his lesser year started, in the late spring of 1988, hostile organizer Bob Valesente said that Zolak was making colossal walks as a quarterback, however O'Donnell was the beginning quarterback that year. Zolak's first university appearance came against West Virginia. He finished four of six goes for 28 yards, yet had a block attempt returned for a touchdown by Bo Orlando in a 55– 24 misfortune. He showed up in four diversions for Maryland that season. 

Zolak was again the reinforcement behind O'Donnell in 1989. He played in eight amusements, finishing 33 of 69 goes for 407 yards and two touchdowns. In 1990, after O'Donnell graduated and started his NFL profession, Zolak turned into the starter for Maryland, and head mentor Joe Krivak had high trusts in him heading into the season. In his first begin as a senior, Zolak finished a school record 28 goes in 46 endeavors for 303 yards and two touchdowns, including a 51-yard go to Gene Thomas with 61 seconds left that gave Maryland the success against Virginia Tech, 20– 13. The next week, he yet again included in a sensational decision, tossing a 59-yard touchdown go to Gene Thomas with 2:27 left to beat 25th positioned West Virginia, 14– 10. Nonetheless, he was battling in different parts of his diversion. In an October diversion against Georgia Tech, Zolak was sacked multiple times. In four diversions, he had been sacked multiple times and had a pass blocked multiple times. Before the finish of the period, as Maryland was getting ready to confront Louisiana Tech in the 1990 Independence Bowl, he had tossed 225 finished goes in 418 endeavors for 2,589 yards and 10 touchdowns. The groups tied, 34– 34, in Zolak's last university appearance. At the season of his graduation, he positioned fifth in school history with 270 pass consummations, seventh with 3,124 profession passing yards, and second with 2,589 passing yards in a season. He was likewise named Atlantic Coast Conference Offensive Player of the Week multiple times. 

"Source": 

The New England Patriots chose Zolak with the 84th pick in the fourth round of the 1991 NFL Draft. Exploring reports noticed that his size and arm quality were incredible for the NFL, however there were worries about his precision. After drafting him, Patriots Vice President of Player Operations Joe Mendes concurred that his size and arm would mean the NFL, and he was not stressed over any exactness issues. His drafting prompted a shakeup with the Patriots' present quarterbacks, as Marc Wilson declared his retirement and long-lasting beginning quarterback Steve Grogan was discharged. Zolak conceded to an agreement with the Patriots in July, and was the second-to-last individual to hold out after Leonard Russell. Zolak spent the 1991 season as the third-string quarterback, behind Hugh Millen and Tommy Hodson, and did not take the field. 

Toward the beginning of the 1992 season, Zolak likewise looked far-fetched to show up, being behind Hodson and Millen on the profundity outline. Millen began the initial five amusements before being harmed, and after that Hodson turned into the starter. Toward the beginning of November, Zolak made his expert introduction in the final quarter against the New Orleans Saints. Soothing Hodson, he finished five of nine passes and tossed a capture attempt as the Patriots lost, 31– 14. The following week, Zolak made his first profession begin when the still winless Patriots confronted the Indianapolis Colts. He finished 20 of 29 goes for 261 yards, two touchdowns, and a capture in the Patriots' first win of the period, 37– 34. Because of his execution, he was named the American Football Conference (AFC) Player of the Week. The following week, Zolak drove his group to their second triumph of the period against the New York Jets. He finished seven of 16 goes for 102 yards, getting assistance from Jon Vaughn who had 110 hurrying yards, and the Patriots won, 24– 3. Be that as it may, the next week's execution against the Atlanta Falcons was less amazing. He finished nine of 16 goes for 58 yards and two interferences in the Patriots' losing exertion, and he said it felt like he was "on a desert island without anyone else." After Zolak's execution against Atlanta, he lost the beginning employment, and Millen again filled that job. Notwithstanding, Millen endured shoulder damage against the Colts, and after Zolak had impact of the amusement against Indianapolis, he again turned into the starter for the diversion against the Kansas City Chiefs. Zolak harmed his lower leg toward the finish of the second from last quarter, showing up against Kansas City his keep going for the season as Jeff Carlson took over quarterbacking obligations. Zolak completed the season with 52 pass consummations in 100 endeavors, 561 yards, two touchdowns, four block attempts, and a quarterback rating of 58.8. 

In 1993, the Patriots and new head mentor Bill Parcells were hoping to improve the quarterback spot on their program. They marked Scott Secules, and endeavored to sign Steve Beuerlein, however the last arrangement did not occur. They likewise gave Hugh Millen authorization to look for an exchange. In April, Millen was exchanged to the Dallas Cowboys, and the Patriots picked Drew Bledsoe with the principal pick in the 1993 NFL Draft. Amid the offseason, Carlson was discharged, leaving Secules, Zolak, Bledsoe, and Hodson to go after the three spots on the list. Before the finish of the preseason, Bledsoe had won the beginning employment and Hodson had been cut, with Secules as the reinforcement and Zolak as the third-string quarterback. Zolak saw playing time in three amusements in 1993, and tossed two deficient passes. He turned into a confined free operator in the offseason, however re-marked with the Patriots for a long time. As Secules was discharged amid preseason, Zolak was set as Bledsoe's reinforcement as the 1994 season started. Just like the case in the 1993 season, he didn't show up, as Bledsoe played the full 16 amusements, anyway Zolak saw activity in each diversion, essentially as the holder for additional point and field objective endeavors. Through the span of the period, he finished five of eight goes for 28 yards in the two amusements in which he saw time at quarterback. The 1995 season was comparative, with Bledsoe beginning and Zolak backing him up. In September, Bledsoe isolated his left shoulder in an amusement and sat out seven days to mend, permitting Zolak to make his first begin since 1992. On October 1, 1995, Zolak ventured out to challenge the Atlanta Falcons, and finished 24 of 45 goes for 252 yards and a touchdown, however the Patriots lost the diversion, 30– 17. Despite the fact that Bledsoe's specialists needed him to sit out one more week, he won't and played the following week's amusement against the Denver Broncos. This again consigned Zolak to the reinforcement position, where he stayed for the remainder of the period. He completed the season with 28 finished goes in 49 endeavors for 282 yards, a touchdown, and a quarterback rating of 80.5. 

The 1996 season started well for Zolak, whose agreement was stretched out through 1998. In any case, to stay with the Patriots, Zolak accepted a $250,000 decrease in salary to work around the pay top. While he seemed set to keep his reinforcement work heading into preparing camp, he confronted extreme challenge from Jay Barker. While Zolak respected the test, his status as the reinforcement quarterback appeared to be questionable half a month into preparing camp. Before the finish of preparing camp, Barker had been cut, and Zolak's quarterback work was protected. He played the job of crisis quarterback all through the 1996 season, with Bledsoe taking about every one of the snaps and Tom Tupa filling in as the reinforcement upon his marking. Zolak played in three recreations, finishing one go for five yards. He saw some playing time in the playoffs against the Pittsburgh Steelers, yet did not play in Super Bowl XXXI. Parcells requested Zolak to get more fit, which Zolak did all through a significant part of the period. The 1997 season was business as usual for Zolak, backing up Bledsoe, however the Patriots had another mentor in Pete Carroll. As preparing camp finished, Zolak picked up essentially all the more playing time amid drills and the preseason matchups then he had under Parcells. As the customary season went back and forth, notwithstanding, he had negligible playing time. Zolak saw activity in four amusements, finishing six of nine goes for 67 yards and two touchdowns, giving him a quarterback rating of 128.2. 

With Zolak going to the last year of his agreement in 1998, he sat in his typical spot on the profundity outline, in the middle of starter Bledsoe and third stringer Tupa. He saw playing time in three amusements amid the initial three months of the period in help of Bledsoe. His most huge appearance amid this time came against the Atlanta Falcons on November 8, 1998, where he finished three of ten goes for 33 yards and an interference in a 41– 10 misfortune. Close to the month's end, Bledsoe was sidelined with damage and was sketchy for the last November amusement. Bledsoe played in three additional diversions, however his damage shielded him from playing in the last two, giving Zolak his first beginning appearance since 1995. Zolak's first begin came against the San Francisco 49ers on December 20. He finished 14 of 30 goes for 205 yards, two touchdowns and two capture attempts and won, 24– 21. He confronted the New York Jets the next week, finishing 14 of 31 goes for 127 yards and a touchdown, yet lost the diversion 31– 10. Zolak completed the season with his most profitable aggregates since 1992. He played in six amusements and began two, finished 32 of 75 goes for 371 yards, three touchdowns, three captures, and had a passer rating of 61.8. Zolak's last appearance for the Patriots happened in the playoffs, as Bledsoe was as yet harmed, against the Jacksonville Jaguars. He finished 21 of 44 goes as the Jaguars dispensed with the Patriots from playoff conflict in a 25– 10 misfortune. He turned into an unlimited free operator after the season finished, yet was not asked back by the Patriots, finishing his residency there. 

Subsequent to leaving the Patriots, Zolak was marked to a one-year contract by the New York Jets. With Vinny Testaverde thought about the starter, Zolak was going up against Ray Lucas for a reinforcement work. He was the second-string quarterback as preparing camp started, however his opposition expanded when the Jets marked Rick Mirer and left three quarterbacks to fight for two open spots in the group. Two days in the wake of securing Mirer from the Green Bay Packers, the Jets discharged Zolak. In October, Zolak was marked to a one-year bargain by the Miami Dolphins to fill in as the reinforcement quarterback behind Damon Huard and Jim Druckenmiller. He was later made the reinforcement behind Huard, and showed up of the period on November 21, neglecting to finish a go in four endeavors against the Patriots. As the 1999 season wrapped up, the Dolphins marked Zolak to an agreement augmentation, keeping him in the group for one more year. In spite of the retirement of Dan Marino, the Dolphins cut Zolak in May 2000. Zolak prepared for the Detroit Lions amid the mid year after they lost Mike Tomczak for the season, yet rather he marked on as a host for Patriots Gameday close by Bob Lobel in August, finishing his expert football vocation. 

"Source": 

Zolak lives in Massachusetts with his better half Amy and his three kids (Hadley, Samantha, and Brody). His little girl, Samantha, was determined to have Type 1 diabetes, and Zolak has since been researching reasons for the illness. 

After retirement, Zolak turned into a co-host of a morning sports radio television show on Rhode Island sportstalk station "The Score" (WSKO/790 and WSKO-FM/99.7) until the show was dropped in 2008. He was additionally a football examiner for the CBS College Sports Network, just as on the New England sports program "Too far out" on the Comcast channel facilitated by Gregg Murphy. What's more, Scott was a regular visitor have on "The Big Show" on WEEI in Boston before joining Gary Tanguay for the early afternoon space on "The Sports Hub" 98.5FM WBZ-FM, which covers the Boston region. Zolak is presently co-host of "Zolak and Bertrand" on "The Sports Hub" with Marc "Creepy crawly" Bertrand. 

For the 2008 NFL season, Zolak joined WCVB-TV (ABC Boston) as the station's Patriots expert and furthermore showed up on "SportsCenter 5 OT" on Sundays with Mike Lynch. The earlier year, he had worked with Lynch covering secondary school amusements. In September 2010, the United Football League declared that Zolak would do shading editorial amid live recreations on the New England Sports Network. Zolak additionally adds to "Nationalists All Access", some portion of the New England Patriots' site. On August 8, 2012, Zolak was named the new shading investigator for Patriots radio communicates joining Gil Santos and supplanting Gino Cappelletti. Preceding the 2013 NFL season, Santos resigned and was supplanted by Bob Socci. 

Amid a diversion versus the New Orleans Saints on October 13, 2013, Zolak's unbridled response to a rebound amusement winning Patriots touchdown go from Tom Brady to Kenbrell Thompkins close by play-by-play broadcaster and communicate accomplice Socci turned into a web sensation. He and Socci were the Patriots' radio telecom group for the group's fourth and fifth Super Bowl wins in Super Bowl XLIX and Super Bowl LI. 

Scott Zolak began a private company on June 3, 2018 structuring planner eye patches for men such as himself with unusual warped eyes. Zolak endured his eye damage in an unusual group enduring occurrence in 1997 at an Everclear show in Boston. The organization just kept going 3 months and broke down. Zolak then chose to simply wear shades so individuals wouldn't gaze at his peculiar right eye