Execution by elephant 

Execution by elephant was a typical technique for the death penalty in South and Southeast Asia, especially in India, where Asian elephants were utilized to smash, dismantle or torment prisoners in open executions. The creatures were prepared and flexible, ready to murder unfortunate casualties promptly or to torment them gradually over a delayed period. Most ordinarily utilized by eminence, the elephants were utilized to mean both the ruler's total power and his capacity to control wild creatures. 

Seeing elephants executing prisoners both sickened and pulled in light of a legitimate concern for European voyagers and was recorded in various contemporary diaries and records of life in Asia. The training was in the end smothered by the European domains that colonized the locale in the eighteenth and nineteenth hundreds of years. While basically restricted to Asia, the training was once in a while received by Western forces, for example, Ancient Rome and Carthage, especially to manage mutinous warriors. 

The knowledge, domesticability and flexibility of the elephant gave it extensive points of interest over other wild creatures, for example, lions and bears utilized as killers by the Romans. Elephants are more tractable than steeds: while a steed can be prepared to rush into fight, it won't readily stomp an aggressor, and will rather venture over him. Elephants will stomp their adversaries, thus the fame of war elephants with officers, for example, Hannibal. Elephants can be prepared to execute detainees in an assortment of ways, and can be educated to drag out the anguish of the injured individual by delivering a moderate demise by torment or to murder the denounced rapidly by venturing on the head. 

Truly, the elephants were under the steady control of a driver or "mahout", in this way empowering a ruler to allow a very late respite and show kind characteristics. A few such activities of leniency are recorded in different Asian kingdoms. The rulers of Siam prepared their elephants to roll the sentenced individual "about the ground rather gradually with the goal that he isn't seriously stung". The Mughal Emperor Akbar the Great is said to have "utilized this procedure to berate 'revolutionaries' and after that at last the detainees, apparently much reprimanded, were given their lives". On one event, Akbar was recorded to have had a man tossed to the elephants to endure five days of such treatment before exonerating him. Elephants were once in a while utilized in preliminary by difficulty in which the censured detainee was discharged in the event that he figured out how to battle off the elephant. 

The utilization of elephants in such style went past the basic illustrious capacity to administer life and demise. Elephants have for some time been utilized as images of imperial expert (and still are in certain spots, for example, Thailand, where white elephants are held in respect). Their utilization as instruments of state control sent the message that the ruler had the capacity to manage extremely ground-breaking animals who were under absolute direction. The ruler was in this manner seen as keeping up a good and profound control over wild monsters, adding to their position and persona among subjects. 

Execution by elephant has been done in numerous pieces of the world, by both Western and Eastern realms. The most punctual records of such executions go back to the traditional period. In any case, the training was at that point settled at that point and proceeded with well into the nineteenth century. While African elephants are essentially bigger than Asian elephants, African forces were not referred to utilize the creatures in fighting or formal issues contrasted with their Asian partners. 

Elephants are generally answered to have been utilized to complete executions in Southeast Asia, and were utilized in Burma and Malaysia from the most punctual chronicled times just as in the kingdom of Champa on the opposite side of the Indochinese Peninsula. In Siam, elephants were prepared to toss the denounced into the air before trampling them to death. Alexander Hamilton gives the accompanying record from Siam: 

The diary of John Crawfurd records another technique for execution by elephant in the kingdom of Cochinchina (present day south Vietnam), where he filled in as a British agent in 1821. Crawfurd reviews an occasion where "the criminal is fixing to a stake, and [Excellency's favourite] elephant keeps running downward on him and pounds him to death." 

Elephants were utilized as killers of decision in India for a long time. Hindu and Muslim rulers executed expense dodgers, renegades and aggressors alike "under the feet of elephants". The Hindu "Manu Smriti" or Laws of Manu, recorded around AD 200, endorsed execution by elephants for various offenses. On the off chance that property was stolen, for example, "the lord ought to have any criminals gotten regarding its vanishing executed by an elephant." For instance, in 1305, the sultan of Delhi transformed the passings of Mongol detainees into open amusement by having them pulverized by elephants. 

Amid the Mughal time, "it was a typical method of execution in those days to have the wrongdoer stomped all over by an elephant." Captain Alexander Hamilton, writing in 1727, portrayed how the Mughal ruler Shah Jahan requested a culpable military leader to be conveyed "to the Elephant Garden, and there to be executed by an Elephant, which is figured to be a disgraceful and awful Death". The Mughal Emperor Humayun requested the devastating by elephant of an imam he erroneously accepted to be incredulous of his rule. Some rulers additionally embraced this type of execution for their very own excitement. Another Mughal ruler, the sovereign Jahangir, is said to have requested an immense number of crooks to be pounded for his entertainment. The French voyager François Bernier, who saw such executions, recorded his frighten at the joy that the head got from this coldblooded discipline. Nor was pounding the main strategy utilized by the Mughals' execution elephants; in the Mughal sultanate of Delhi, elephants were prepared to cut detainees to pieces "with directed edges fitted toward their tusks". 

The Muslim voyager Ibn Battuta, visiting Delhi during the 1330s, has left the accompanying observer record of this specific sort of execution by elephants: 

Other Indian countries additionally completed executions by elephant. The Maratha Chatrapati Sambhaji requested this type of death for various backstabbers, including the Maratha official Anaji Datto in the late seventeenth century. Another Maratha chief, the general Santaji, incurred the discipline for ruptures in military order. The contemporary student of history Khafi Khan announced that "for a silly offense he [Santaji] would cast a man under the feet of an elephant." 

The mid nineteenth century author Robert Kerr relates how the ruler of Goa "keeps certain elephants for the execution of criminals. When one of these is delivered to dispatch a criminal, if his attendant wants that the wrongdoer be pulverized rapidly, this immense animal will immediately pound him to particles under his foot; yet whenever wanted to torment him, will break his appendages progressively, as men are broken on the wheel." The naturalist Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon refered to this adaptability of direction as proof that elephants were equipped for "human thinking, [rather] than a basic, common sense". 

Such executions were frequently held in broad daylight as a notice to any who may transgress. With that in mind, a significant number of the elephants were particularly huge, frequently saying something overabundance of nine tons. The executions were proposed to be grisly and regularly were. They were now and again gone before by torment freely exacted by a similar elephant utilized for the execution. A record of one such torment and-execution at Baroda in 1814 has been protected in "The Percy Anecdotes": 

The utilization of elephants as killers proceeded with well into the last 50% of the nineteenth century. Amid an endeavor to focal India in 1868, Louis Rousselet depicted the execution of a criminal by an elephant. A sketch portraying the execution demonstrated the sentenced being compelled to put his head upon a platform, and afterward being held there while an elephant pulverized his head underneath. The sketch was made into a woodcut and imprinted in "Le Tour du Monde", a broadly coursed French diary of movement and experience, just as outside diaries, for example, "Harper's Weekly". 

The developing intensity of the British Empire prompted the decay and inevitable end of elephant executions in India. Writing in 1914, Eleanor Maddock noticed that in Kashmir, since the landing of Europeans, "a considerable lot of the old traditions are vanishing – and one of these is the horrendous custom of the execution of culprits by an elephant prepared for the reason and which was known by the genetic name of 'Gunga Rao'." 

Elephants were broadly utilized over the Indian subcontinent and South Asia as a technique for execution. The English mariner Robert Knox, writing in 1681, depicted a strategy for execution by elephant which he had seen while being held hostage in Sri Lanka. Knox says the elephants he saw had their tusks fitted with "sharp Iron with an attachment with three edges". In the wake of skewering the unfortunate casualty's body with its tusks, the elephant would "then tear it in pieces, and toss it appendage from appendage". 

The nineteenth century explorer James Emerson Tennent remarks that "a Kandyan [Sri Lankan] boss, who was observer to such scenes, has guaranteed us that the elephant not even once connected his tusks, at the same time, setting his foot on the prostrate injured individual, culled off his appendages in progression by an unexpected development of his trunk." Knox's book portrays precisely this strategy for execution in a popular illustration, "An Execution by an Eliphant". 

Writing in 1850, the British ambassador Henry Charles Sirr depicted a visit to one of the elephants that had been utilized by Sri Vikrama Rajasinha, the last lord of Kandy, to execute crooks. Smashing by elephant had been annulled by the British after they ousted the Kandyan kingdom in 1815 yet the ruler's execution elephant was as yet alive and clearly recalled its previous obligations. Sirr remarks: 

Amid the medieval period, executions by elephants were utilized by a few West Asian magnificent forces, including the Byzantine, Sassanid, Seljuq and Timurid realms. At the point when the Sassanid ruler Khosrau II, who had an array of mistresses of 3,000 spouses and 12,000 female slaves, requested as a wife Hadiqah, the little girl of the Christian Arab Na'aman, Na'aman would not allow his Christian little girl to enter the group of concubines of a Zoroastrian; for this refusal, he was trampled to death by an elephant. 

The training seems to have been embraced in parts of the Muslim Middle East. Rabbi Petachiah of Ratisbon, a twelfth-century Jewish explorer, announced an execution by this implies amid his stay in Seljuk-ruled northern Mesopotamia (present day Iraq): 

The Romans, Carthaginians and antiquated Macedonians incidentally utilized elephants for executions while likewise utilizing war elephants for military purposes, most broadly on account of Hannibal. Traitors, detainees of war and military offenders are recorded by antiquated writers to have been executed under the foot of an elephant. Perdiccas, who ended up official of Macedon on the demise of Alexander the Great in 323 BC, had rebels from the group of Meleager tossed to the elephants to be smashed in the city of Babylon. The Roman author Quintus Curtius Rufus relates the story in his Historiae Alexandri Magni: "Perdiccas saw that they [the mutineers] were incapacitated and at his benevolence. He pulled back from the principle body somewhere in the range of 300 men who had pursued Meleager when he erupted from the primary gathering held after Alexander's passing, and before the eyes of the whole armed force he tossed them to the elephants. All were trampled to death underneath the feet of the beasts...". 

Additionally, the Roman essayist Valerius Maximus records how the general Lucius Aemilius Paulus Macedonicus "subsequent to King Perseus was vanquished [in 167 BC], for a similar blame (renunciation) tossed men under elephants to be trampled ... What's more, in fact military order needs this sort of serious and unexpected discipline, since this is the manner by which quality of arms stands firm, which, when it falls from the correct course, will be subverted." 

There are less records of elephants being utilized as clear killers for the common populace. One such precedent is referenced by Josephus and the deuterocanonical book of 3 Maccabees regarding the Egyptian Jews, however the story is likely spurious. 3 Maccabees depicts an endeavor by Ptolemy IV Philopator (ruled 221– 204 BC) to subjugate and mark Egypt's Jews with the image of Dionysus. At the point when most of the Jews opposed, the ruler is said to have gathered them together and requested them to be stomped on by elephants. The mass execution was at last ruined, as far as anyone knows by the intercession of heavenly attendants, following which Ptolemy took an inside and out all the more lenient frame of mind towards his Jewish subjects.