Okęcie Airport episode 

The Okęcie Airport episode () was a debate among players and specialized staff of the Poland national football crew on 29 November 1980, beginning at the group lodging in Warsaw and peaking at Okęcie Airport. An episode of footballing rebellion when strike activity and different types of common opposition were escalating in socialist Poland, it caused a local press storm, which drove first to the suspension of a few unmistakable players, at that point the abdication of the group chief, Ryszard Kulesza. 

Józef Młynarczyk, the group's goalkeeper, was hungover when the time came to leave the inn for the air terminal, having not been to rest following a night on the town with a companion. Kulesza and one of his collaborators, Bernard Blaut, chose to desert Młynarczyk, a lot to the resentment of certain players, including Stanisław Terlecki, Zbigniew Boniek, Włodzimierz Smolarek and Władysław Żmuda. Terlecki, a stridently ace Western scholarly with a notoriety for taunting the socialist foundation, was especially maddened, and himself drove Młynarczyk to the air terminal, where the players proceeded with their challenges. Kulesza in the end yielded and permitted Młynarczyk to go with the group. 

The Polish media grabbed hold of the story and vociferously assaulted the insubordinate players over the next days. In the mean time, Terlecki again challenged the socialist experts by masterminding the players to meet Pope John Paul II. The Polish Football Association sent Terlecki, Młynarczyk, Boniek and Żmuda home and forced different bans keeping them from playing at the worldwide and club level throughout the following year. Terlecki and Boniek specifically were denounced by the relationship as defiant "riffraff rousers". Smolarek got an increasingly unassuming, suspended boycott. Kulesza surrendered in dissent at the assents forced on the players, saying they were excessively cruel. A large portion of the restricted players were reestablished amid 1981, however Terlecki was not—he emigrated to the United States in June that year and in spite of the fact that he returned home five years after the fact, he never played for Poland again. 

In June 1976, a progression of challenges occurred crosswise over socialist Poland not long after the legislature declared designs to increment forcefully the fixed costs charged across the country for some fundamental wares. Vicious occurrences happened in Płock, Radom and Ursus as the challenges were coercively put down, and the arranged value climbs were dropped. These exhibitions and the occasions encompassing them brought the Polish workforce and scholarly political restriction together, and by 1980, a battle of common opposition for political change was escalating unequivocally. Mechanical strike activity in Lublin in July 1980—the purported Lublin July—went before the arrangement of Solidarity ("Solidarność") in the port city of Gdańsk amid the next months. This was the first non-socialist worker's guild in an Eastern alliance nation. The administration found a way to discourage Solidarity's development, authorizing press oversight and cutting off phone associations between the coast and the hinterland, however in spite of these endeavors four out of each five Polish specialists were individuals from the association by late 1980. 

Poland's national football crew, overseen by Ryszard Kulesza, was then viewed as one of the world's ideal, having completed third at the 1974 World Cup. In November 1980 it was positioned 6th on the planet by the Elo rating framework. Late that month, the group was getting ready for a 1982 World Cup qualifying match away against Malta on 7 December. The squad's takeoff was booked for 29 November, 10 days before the diversion, so the players could go to a preparation camp in Italy, at that point challenge a warm-up match against a group speaking to the Italian alliance. 

One of Poland's key players at the time was Stanisław Terlecki, a forward whose club was ŁKS Łódź. The child of college teachers, Terlecki held a degree in history from the University of Łódź, just as intense enemy of socialist political perspectives and a strident mentality with respect to their showcase. He was known for straightforwardly ridiculing the foundation with incendiary desert, and normally made jokes in broad daylight about socialist specialist figures and associations, inciting the anger of the Polish Football Association (PZPN) and the Warsaw police constrain. The principal Polish worldwide player with a college degree in something besides physical instruction, he shunned the Polish games magazines perused by numerous individuals of his partners on excursions for Western news diaries, for example, "Newsweek" and "Time". In the same way as other Polish scholarly people, he felt for developments, for example, Solidarity; following their precedent, he twice endeavored to unionize Polish footballers amid the late 1970s. The PZPN blocked the two endeavors, restricting Terlecki from all composed football each time; first for a half year, at that point for a year. 

Late on 28 November 1980, the night prior to the group's takeoff for Italy, goalkeeper Józef Młynarczyk and forward Włodzimierz Smolarek, both of Widzew Łódź, left the group inn in Warsaw, the Hotel Vera, without consent. As indicated by Smolarek they did this to get some supper since they didn't care for the nourishment at the lodging. They met a companion of Młynarczyk's, sports columnist Wojciech Zieliński, at the Adria dance club. As indicated by Andrzej Iwan, another individual from the group, the principle subject of discussion was Zieliński's irritated spouse, who had been found undermining herself around Warsaw, and had since moved to Italy. A few Poland players knew her, and Młynarczyk had quite recently been to Italy to play for Widzew Łódź against Juventus. As indicated by Iwan, the writer urged Młynarczyk to drink as they talked, trusting the goalkeeper may have updates on her. Smolarek left the club around 02:00, however Młynarczyk and Zieliński remained until around three hours after the fact. 

A senior national group official, Colonel Roman Lisiewicz of the Polish Army, said he saw the goalkeeper and the columnist achieve the lodging in a taxi not long after 05:00—yet rather than heading off to his room, Młynarczyk then left again with Zieliński before returning again around 07:00. Tired and hungover, Młynarczyk joined the remainder of the players for breakfast, and as indicated by Terlecki burned through the majority of the supper getting worked up about conceivable administrative requital. Młynarczyk was in a bad way that he was unfit to convey his very own packs; Smolarek took them for him. Beside the group transport, one of Kulesza's aides, Bernard Blaut, went up against Smolarek and revealed to him that Młynarczyk was to remain behind. 

Smolarek, Terlecki and two other Polish players—Zbigniew Boniek and Władysław Żmuda, both of Widzew Łódź—irately questioned and almost got into a fight with Blaut. Grzegorz Lato, one of the group's advances, did not join the challenge but rather later said that he had not thought Młynarczyk tanked enough to warrant prohibition. The group in the long run left without Terlecki or Młynarczyk. Terlecki, whose claim vehicle was to hand, drove himself and Młynarczyk to the air terminal, where the showdown proceeded. 

Terlecki endeavored to stop the numerous pressmen at the air terminal from capturing Młynarczyk by going around, shouting, and grabbing cameras and receivers from their hands. In the interim, different players endeavored to talk Kulesza around, revealing to him that Młynarczyk had genuine individual issues. Kulesza in the long run yielded and enabled the goalkeeper to go with the group. 

Among the writers at the air terminal were Jacek Gucwa of Polish Television, Bogdan Chruścicki of Polish Radio, and Remigiusz Hetman of the week after week football diary "Piłka Nożna". News about the episode rapidly spread the nation over, somewhat as a result of Terlecki's stunning activities in the journalists' quality—Iwan later mirrored that Terlecki had "made so much confusion it was difficult to hide everything where no one will think to look". Boniek verifies this variant of occasions: "Terlecki was hugely to fault. He conveyed Młynarczyk to the air terminal in his own vehicle, at that point pulled the fitting fueling a TV camera out of the divider." Grzegorz Majchrzak, a student of history of the Polish Institute of National Remembrance, questions Boniek's words, setting that he may have misshaped occasions trying to remove himself from Terlecki. 

The administration endeavored to utilize the outrage as a prominent diversion, expecting to avoid consideration from the strikes and other mechanical activity. Various writers assaulted the players who had upheld Młynarczyk; the "Przegląd Sportowy" sports magazine ran the feature "No Mercy for Those Guilty of the Scandal at the Airport" while "Rhythm", another diary, was comparatively extreme, announcing "This Cannot Be Tolerated". "Piłka Nożna" denounced the "heavenly men ... who figure they can do what they need", and yet scrutinized the lead of the group's non-playing staff. 

In the Italian capital, Terlecki kept on challenging the foundation. The players were under severe directions not to connect with the Vatican while in Rome, yet Terlecki orchestrated them to meet Pope John Paul II, who was himself Polish. Considering this to be a second demonstration of resistance, the PZPN speedily sent Terlecki, Młynarczyk, Boniek and Żmuda home, escorted by General Marian Ryba of the Polish Army, who was likewise the football affiliation president. Lech Poznań's Piotr Mowlik traded Młynarczyk for the match against Malta, which Poland won 2– 0. 

Ryba reported on 1 December 1980 that he expected to ban the disagreeing players from the Poland squad. At the point when the remainder of the group came back to Poland, Terlecki by and by endeavored to frame a footballers' association. Verifying the help of 16 other Poland universal players, he composed a letter to the PZPN proclaiming their aim to do as such, driving the experts to arrange them to confront a council. Just Terlecki, Boniek, Żmuda and Młynarczyk kept on underwriting the letter when tested in court. 

On 15 December, PZPN authorities endeavored to remake the night's occasions, asking different players and staff to give records of what had occurred. A few writers were available. The tales told repudiated each other in a few spots, outstandingly in regards to the amount Młynarczyk had needed to drink. The group's specialized staff said that he had been clearly inebriated when they had seen him, while the goalkeeper demanded he had taken just "three glasses of champagne and a taste of lager" with his companion. Another purpose of conflict respected the discussion at the air terminal, which had caused Kulesza to yield. It was commonly concurred that the players had talked the chief around by disclosing to him that Młynarczyk had individual issues, however the non-playing staff presently blamed them for passionate coercion. The players said their aim had been to clarify the goalkeeper's off-field issues to enable the administrator to settle on an increasingly educated choice. 

Terlecki's answers at this gathering under the scrutinizing of General Ryba, a previous military investigator, were ordinarily provocative; when the general asked what time Terlecki had left the inn on 29 November, the ŁKS forward said 08:00. "Are you certain it was 08:00?" Ryba squeezed—"Are you certain it wasn't 08:02?" The player answered that he wasn't: "No. Perhaps it was even 08:03. I don't have the foggiest idea about this time precisely, in light of the fact that I have one of your Russian watches." 

After seven days, the PZPN declared its last decision. The main forms of occasions acknowledged for thought were those related by Kulesza and Blaut; those of the considerable number of players and of the group physiotherapist and game clinician were expelled. Żmuda and Młynarczyk were banished from playing for either Poland or their clubs for eight months, and Terlecki and Boniek for twelve. Smolarek got a two-month boycott, which was suspended for a half year. Refering to their past records of rebellion and unfortunate behavior, the PZPN called Terlecki and Boniek "riffraff rousers". 

Kulesza left his activity soon a while later; as indicated by Majchrzak, he surrendered in challenge at the players' disciplines, which he thought were excessively cruel. Authorities at Widzew Łódź blamed the PZPN for inclination, saying the affiliation had not regulated the players legitimately and should bear a portion of the fault. Chiefs at Widzew and ŁKS Łódź quickly considered leaving their PZPN enrollments and sorting out their own group title, however did not. The national cooperative people's chamber, around then involving Marek Dziuba, Paweł Janas and Wojciech Rudy, composed an open letter communicating shock at what they saw as exorbitant approvals against Terlecki, Boniek, Żmuda and Młynarczyk. They conceded the goalkeeper's direct had been a long way from model, however fought that the episode was just minor, and had been exacerbated by excessively noticeable and negative press inclusion. 

Regardless of being without a portion of their top players, Widzew Łódź were delegated victors of Poland toward the finish of the 1980– 81 season. Ryba left his post in April 1981, alongside some of his counterparts, depicted by Stefan Szczepłek, a games columnist and football antiquarian, as "fair authorities, together with some football-accommodating Polish Army officers". In their place came various socialist authorities, most conspicuously Włodzimierz Reczek, a past Politburo part, who took over as leader of the football relationship in spite of a notoriety disliking the game. 

Młynarczyk, Boniek and Żmuda had their bans dropped early. Żmuda and Młynarczyk returned in the 1– 0 home success over East Germany on 2 May 1981, and Boniek was restored four months after the fact. The players' review was halfway because of the endeavors of Kulesza's substitution, Antoni Piechniczek, to verify their arrival. As indicated by Majchrzak, Boniek and Żmuda apologized for their activities before the General Committee for Physical Culture and Sport of the Polish People's Republic, the PZPN's overseeing body, however kept this from Terlecki, who engaged have his boycott lifted a few times, yet without much of any result. 

Terlecki transparently took an interest in understudies' strikes at his old college in Łódź and crosswise over Poland throughout the following couple of months, giving nourishment to the understudies by the vehicle load. ŁKS dropped his enrollment in mid 1981. Majchrzak stresses that Terlecki was the main player associated with the episode not to recapture his place in the Poland group, and claims this was down to a serious resentment held against him by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Secret Police (SB). Terlecki built up his very own hypothesis that the media bazaar following the air terminal occurrence had been purposely designed by the SB to take the players off framing their own worker's organization. There were a few different occurrences of tipsiness including Młynarczyk, Majchrzak composes, yet this was the main event when any player was rebuffed for it. In October 1981, when the group ventured out to Argentina, Młynarczyk landed at Okęcie "totally alcoholic", as indicated by Iwan, yet a long way from impugning him, group staff gave him considerably more liquor amid the trip to help facilitate the agony of his broken finger. 

Poland fit the bill for the 1982 World Cup with an ideal record, and performed firmly in the challenge, losing to Italy in the semi-finals yet beating France in a play-off to guarantee third place. Kulesza turned into the administrator of Tunisia, and later established a training school in Warsaw. 

Saying he was "being dealt with like a pariah", Terlecki emigrated to the United States in June 1981, and joined the Pittsburgh Spirit of the Major Indoor Soccer League. He sought after another life in America with incredible energy. Terlecki's on-field shows in the U.S. were generally lauded—in three seasons with Pittsburgh he turned into the club's untouched top goalscorer—however administrators apparently experienced difficulty "harness[ing] Terlecki's red hot temper", and his better half Ewa turned out to be seriously pining to go home. Terlecki declared his expectation to move back to Poland in 1985, saying that he trusted the political circumstance had improved and that he wished to rejoin his family. He returned home the next year, and continued his profession in Polish club football. He communicated a craving to play for the national group again, however was never chosen.