Khan Noonien Singh 

Khan Noonien Singh, regularly abbreviated to Khan, is an anecdotal character in the "Star Trek" sci-fi establishment. The character previously showed up in the "" scene "Space Seed" (1967), and was depicted by Ricardo Montalbán, who repeated his job in the 1982 film "". In the 2013 film "Star Trek Into Darkness", he is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. 

The character once controlled in excess of a fourth of the Earth amid the Eugenics Wars of the 1990s. Subsequent to being resuscitated from suspended movement in 2267 by the team of the Starship "Venture", Khan endeavors to catch the starship, yet is upset by James T. Kirk and banished on Ceti Alpha V to make another general public with his kin. In "Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan", set fifteen years after "Space Seed", Khan gets away from his outcast and embarks to get retribution upon Kirk. 

In "Star Trek Into Darkness", set in the substitute coherence built up in "Star Trek" (2009), Khan is stirred right around 10 years before the occasions of "Room Seed". Khan is given the bogus character "John Harrison" and constrained by Admiral Marcus into structure weapons for Starfleet in return for the lives of Khan's group. He eventually radicals and collides with the team of "Big business". 

Khan shows up in the scene "Space Seed", first communicate on February 16, 1967. As indicated by the backstory uncovered in the scene, Khan is one of a gathering of hereditarily designed superhumans, reared to be free of the typical human mental and physical restrictions, who were expelled from power after the Eugenics Wars of the 1990s. Khan had been both the best victor and the most kindhearted leader of the gathering, controlling in excess of a fourth of the Earth's zone crosswise over Asia to the Middle East from 1992 to 1996 with a firm however commonly tranquil hand until he was dismissed. While a large portion of the supermen were slaughtered or condemned to death, Khan and 84 others got away Earth by method for the sleeper transport SS "Natural science Bay". "Herbal science Bay" is found by the team of the Starship "Undertaking" in 2267, with Khan and 72 of the 84 group individuals from "Organic science Bay" still alive, cryogenically solidified in suspended movement. 

At the point when Khan's rest chamber breakdowns, he is transported to "Big business," where he stirs and learns he is in the 23rd century. Given open quarters while "Organic science Bay" is towed to a starbase, Khan entrances and charms the ship's history specialist, Marla McGivers (Madlyn Rhue), while utilizing his entrance to the ship's specialized manuals to figure out how to dominate and work "Undertaking". McGivers consents to enable Khan to restore the other supermen, enabling him to arrange an endeavored takeover. To constrain the "Undertaking" team to collaborate with him, Khan places Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner) in the ship's decompression chamber and takes steps to slaughter Kirk except if the group submits. McGivers can't remain by as her Captain kicks the bucket and liberates Kirk, who kills Khan's men by utilizing a neural gas. Khan heads to designing and sets the ship's motors to self-destruct, whereupon he is debilitated by Kirk. Chief Kirk leads a meeting, condemning Khan and his adherents to oust on an uncolonized world, Ceti Alpha V. Khan acknowledges Kirk's test—summoning the fall of Lucifer in Milton's "Heaven Lost"— and McGivers joins Khan as opposed to confront court-military. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) ponders what the "seed" Kirk has planted will bear in a hundred years. 

Khan returns in the 1982 component film "". Skipper Clark Terrell (Paul Winfield) and First Officer Pavel Chekov (Walter Koenig) of USS "Dependent" are scanning for a uninhabited world to test the Genesis gadget, an amazing terraforming device. They shaft down to what they accept is Ceti Alpha VI. Khan's supporters catch Terrell and Chekov, and Khan clarifies that the fruitless world is Ceti Alpha V; the 6th planet of the framework detonated not long after Khan and his adherents were marooned. The calamity caused gigantic atmosphere aggravations, rendering the planet into a desert, and a significant number of the survivors—including Khan's better half—were slaughtered by the main enduring types of creature, the Ceti eel. Just twenty of Khan's devotees endure. Swearing retribution on Kirk, Khan inserts Ceti eels in Terrell and Chekov's minds, rendering them powerless against recommendation. Khan at that point catches control of "Dependent", plan on catching the Genesis gadget. 

Khan draws "Venture" to the space station "Regula I", and he dispatches an unexpected assault that handicaps Kirk's ship. Kirk traps Khan by utilizing an exceptional code to remotely bring down "Reliant"s shields, permitting "Venture" to cause noteworthy harm. Khan is compelled to pull back to make fixes. Utilizing the mind-controlled Terrell and Chekov as government agents, Khan catches the Genesis gadget and leaves Kirk marooned on "Regula I". Spock bamboozles Khan into imagining that "Venture" is disabled, amazing Khan when "Endeavor" salvages Kirk and breaks to the close-by Mutara Nebula. Spurred into following Kirk, Khan pilots "Dependent" into the cloud, where shields and sensors are inoperable. Because of Khan's freshness with three-dimensional space battle, "Venture" routs "Dependent" and Khan is lethally injured. Declining to acknowledge rout, Khan enacts the Genesis gadget, aim on executing his enemy alongside himself. Khan cites Ahab's expressions of retaliation from "Moby-Dick" as he watches "Venture" attempt to get away, which it in the end does. 

Khan shows up in the 2013 film "Star Trek Into Darkness", occurring in the substitute coherence set up in "Star Trek" (2009). While the character's backstory continues as before, Khan is resuscitated by Starfleet Admiral Alexander Marcus instead of the group of "Big business". Marcus envisions a war with the Klingons, and powers Khan to create warships and weapons for Starfleet under the spread personality of "Authority John Harrison", holding Khan's shipmates prisoner. These improvements incorporate progressed long-go torpedoes and the warship USS "Retribution". 

Trusting Marcus executed his team, Khan engineers assaults on a Starfleet document and Starfleet administration, before escaping to the Klingon homeworld Qo'noS. Marcus arms "Undertaking" with 72 progressed torpedoes and sends Kirk and "Venture" to Qo'noS to execute Harrison. Against requests, Kirk endeavors to catch him alive. After learning the quantity of torpedoes on board "Venture", Khan surrenders, uncovering his personality, the nearness of his adherents in the torpedoes, and the explanations behind his assaults. 

At the point when Marcus lands on board "Retribution" and assaults "Endeavor", Kirk and Khan cooperate to assume responsibility for "Vengeance"s connect. Once responsible for "Retaliation", Khan murders Admiral Marcus and requests that Spock return his group. Spock, having expelled Khan's kin from the torpedoes, brings down the "Endeavor's" shields and enables Khan to shaft the initiated weapons' warheads on board "Retribution." Before Khan can assault the "Venture" Spock remotely explodes the torpedoes devastating the "Retaliation." Khan crashes "Retribution" in San Francisco trying to demolish Starfleet Headquarters and break, yet is sought after and caught by Spock and Uhura. Khan is put over into cryogenic rest alongside his group. 

Khan has been portrayed in different books and comic book distributions. Similarly as with all non-TV and non-film "Star Trek" material, the productions are outside of "Star Trek" standard. 

Writer Greg Cox wrote three "Star Trek" books including Khan, distributed by licensee Pocket Books. In the two-volume "", Khan is portrayed as a North Indian from a group of Sikhs. "Khan" is a title; his new parents are from Chandigarh, Punjab, India and are both eugenic researchers. Toward the second's end novel, Khan and his adherents are put on board the "Plant science Bay" by Gary Seven as a major aspect of an arrangement to stop Khan's plots on Earth. The 2005 development, "", relates the end result for Khan and his individual outcasts between the occasions of "Room Seed" and "The Wrath of Khan". An alternate rendition of Khan's outcast on Ceti Alpha V is delineated in IDW Publishing's 2010 comic miniseries "Khan: Ruling in Hell". 

From 2013 to 2014, IDW distributed a five-section arrangement of comic books recounting to the account of the "Into Darkness" manifestation of Khan. The main issue in the arrangement recognizes the inconsistency of Khan's physical appearance contrasted with that of the past manifestation. With regards to the prime course of events' backstory, Khan's beginnings, ascend to power, and association in the Eugenics War are delineated. It is likewise uncovered his original name was Noonien Singh and that he embraced the title "Khan" out of esteem for Genghis Khan. The arrangement proceeds to specify that Khan's life structures and recollections were modified per Marcus' requests, with the goal that Khan would at first trust himself to be the created Harrison. 

Essayist Carey Wilber pitched "Space Seed" to "Star Trek" makers Roddenberry, Gene Coon, and Robert Justman with a 18-page diagram dated August 29, 1966. In the framework, Wilber imagined the group of "Herbal science Bay" as lawbreakers sent on a 1,500-year voyage to make room on Earth for other people. Khan was spoken to as a Nordic criminal with an "eminent" body, Harald Ericsson. The makers recommended changes to the framework in a progression of reminders; in updates dated September 7 and 9, Coon proposed critical changes to Ericsson. "I need to preferably accomplish more with him over you have demonstrated in the story layout," he composed. Trusting that Ericsson (incorrectly spelled as Erickson in the update) could be a commendable foe for Kirk, Coon recommended that the character be "in truth fundamentally the same as James Kirk, our chief, then again, actually our skipper has made an acclimation to this world and this culture [...] as it were, Carey, manufacture us a monster of a man." 

The main draft of the content presented the character as John Ericssen—who is uncovered to take care of business engaged with "The First World Tyranny", named Ragnar Thorwald. The character of Thorwald was more ruthless than Khan in the last form, murdering protects utilizing a phaser. In the first content, Kirk excuses Ericssen and offers him and his kin a shot at a new beginning—something that stayed in the last scene—yet the character submitting murder would have blocked such a closure, as NBC controls would have required the "trouble maker" be rebuffed for his activities. 

By the last draft, Khan is Indian; a character surmises that Khan is from Northern India, and "most likely a Sikh." Khan's full name depended on that of Kim Noonien Singh, a pilot Gene Roddenberry presented with amid the Second World War. Roddenberry put some distance between his companion and had trusted that Khan's comparative name may draw in his consideration and recharge his old associate. 

In "Space Seed", Khan is exhibited as having a few positive attributes: he is benevolent, grinning, valiant and liberal. He isn't undermined by the accomplishment of others, and energizes their confidence. He is likewise goal-oriented, wanting a test similar with his capacities, however this desire isn't tempered by any thought of the privileges of others. Creator Paul Cantor declares that Khan is a perfect representation of Kirk, sharing his forcefulness, aspiration, and even his womanizing inclinations, however having them in far more prominent degree. Amid the scene, a few of the characters express their profound respect for the man even as they restrict him, with Kirk alluding to him as "the best of the dictators, and the most perilous." The character's Spanish inflection and superhuman appearance unequivocally separate him from most "Star Trek" characters. 

After the frustrating reaction to the principal "Star Trek" include film, "", Paramount administrators named Harve Bennett, a TV maker who had never watched "Star Trek", to be official maker for the continuation. Bennett observed all the first arrangement scenes and picked Khan from "Space Seed" as a conceivable scoundrel for the film. Early drafts of the content had Khan as a shadowy dictator driving a planet in rebellion; later drafts included the "Beginning gadget" which Khan would take. 

Ensemble planner Robert Fletcher needed to underline the impacts of their cruel condition on Khan and his adherents. "My expectation with Khan was to express the way that they had been marooned on that planet with no specialized foundation, so they needed to rip apart from the spaceship whatever they utilized or wore. Consequently, I attempted to make it look as though they had dressed themselves out of bits of upholstery and electrical gear that made the ship," he said. Chief Nicholas Meyer advised Montalbán to keep Khan's correct glove on consistently, so as to give watchers a riddle they could frame their own conclusions about and add puzzle to the character. Meyer has been more than once inquired as to whether Montalbán wore a prosthetic chest for his scenes, as his uniform was deliberately structured with an open front. Meyer answered in sound analysis for the film that Montalbán (who was 61 amid recording) is "one in number treat," and that no prosthetics were connected to the performing artist's sizeable edge. 

At no time amid "The Wrath of Khan" will be Khan and Kirk in a similar area; they address each other just over correspondence connections, for example, see screens. This was expected to some degree to the way that the arrangement of the "Dependent" was a review of the "Endeavor" connect, and the two performing artists' scenes were recorded four months separated. Montalbán presented his lines with a content right hand rather than to William Shatner. 

Montalbán said in limited time interviews for the film he understood at an early stage in his profession that a decent lowlife does not consider himself to be disgusting. The lowlife may do disgusting things, however he feels that he is doing them for upright reasons. Montalbán further expressed he constantly attempted to discover a defect in the character, as nobody is totally great or totally abhorrent; while Khan had a fairly contorted perspective on the real world and in this manner performed demonstrations of malice, despite everything he felt that his retaliation was an honorable purpose due to the passing of his better half. Khan cites the character of Ahab from "Moby-Dick" all through the film, driving home his desire to make Kirk pay for the wrongs he has caused upon him. 

Following the movies accomplishment of J. J. Abrams' "Star Trek" reboot and the declaration that performing artists Chris Pine and Zachary Quinto had probably consented to show up in two continuations, Internet bits of gossip started circling about the plot of the second film. Abrams indicated that in view of the substitute timetable made in the principal film, reintroducing Khan into "Star Trek" legend remained a plausibility. Abrams told MTV, "[Khan and Kirk] exist—and keeping in mind that their history may not be actually as individuals know about, I would contend that an individual's character is the thing that it is," Abrams said of the thought that his Khan could be similarly as insidious, regardless of whether Kirk never stranded him on Ceti Alpha V. "Certain individuals are bound to run into each other and meet up, and Khan is out there... regardless of whether he doesn't have similar issues." Writer Damon Lindelof announced that Khan's "serious gravity," especially with respect to the character's conveyance of monologs, made him a required character to utilize, regardless of whether its notorious status made the group scared of the fan response. Lindelof tongue in cheek expressed that "it was never extremely a 'Should we or shouldn't we?' as much as it might have been 'We truly need to do this yet on the off chance that we don't hit the nail on the head individuals are going to execute us.'" 

As a component of the mystery crusade, Benedict Cumberbatch denied that he was playing Khan amid meetings, depicting Harrison as just a fear monger with his very own motivations, just as "somebody that is actuated and produced in a path by Starfleet, and it's a scene that has caused issues down the road for him." He talked about the character's ethical vagueness saying it fit the proverb "small time's psychological militant is another man's opportunity contender," adding parallels to the present world request "whether it's U.S. remote strategy or the activities of certain fear mongers." "Into Darkness" scholars Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman included that they utilized the character of Khan not only for his notoriety with the being a fan—"It's so natural to fall into the device of accomplishing something since you think individuals are going to adore it. You should think of what the motion picture can be alone and afterward, on the off chance that it turns out the scoundrel possibly can be Khan, at that point you can do it. However, you can't begin there."— yet to fit the spin-off's subject of "how far will we go to correct retribution and equity on a foe that alarms us." 

Some challenged Cumberbatch's giving a role as Khan, trusting that an individual of Indian plummet ought to have been given the job. 

Externally, Khan has been contrasted with Friedrich Nietzsche's idea of the "Übermensch" (superman or overman). Khan is rationally and physically better than any ordinary human. In the "" scene "", Malik, the pioneer of a gathering of "supermen" made from the equivalent hereditary designing task as Khan, cites Nietzsche, disclosing to Archer that "Humanity is something to be outperformed". Teacher William J. Devlin and coauthor Shai Biderman analyzed Khan's character contrasted with the Übermensch and found that Khan's visually impaired quest for vengeance is against Nietzsche's beliefs of amazing quality and self-formation of an important life. Rather, the creators offer Spock's altruism in "The Wrath of Khan" as a superior case of the Übermensch. 

Montalbán's execution as Khan was positively gotten by pundits. Talking about the "Star Trek" movies, the Associated Press noticed that "Star Trek" films were estimated by how threatening their adversary was, and that Khan was among the best in the arrangement; a 2002 survey of the "Star Trek" films positioned Khan as the best foe found in any of the movies. Analysts of "The Wrath of Khan, for example, Roger Ebert, evaluated Khan as one of the most grounded parts of the film. New Yorker pundit Pauline Kael said Montalbán's execution "was the main approval he has had of his capacity to direction the wide screen." 

Faultfinder Christopher Null notes that "it is about gospel now among Trekkies that... "Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan" is the undisputed best of the arrangement, and will probably never meet its equivalent," and considers Khan the "best job of <nowiki>[Montalbán's]</nowiki> vocation". Despite the fact that he felt that the antagonist of "Star Trek: The Motion Picture", V'ger, was increasingly cerebral and fascinating, creator James Iaccino noticed that most fans and moviegoers favored the original great versus-underhanded battle that the battle among Khan and Kirk speaks to. Miscreants in ensuing "Star Trek" films have been estimated by the standard of Khan, with Paramount promising fans that the antagonist of "Star Trek Generations" would be equivalent to the hereditary superman. IGN positioned Khan as the best "Star Trek" scoundrel, taking note of that he set the example for vengeance looking for reprobates in the arrangement; in the decades since the film's discharge, "even those with a passing interest [in "Trek"] know the name." 

"Star Trek" maker Rick Berman called the scoundrel "undermining and significant." 

Khan is additionally perceived as an extraordinary reprobate outside of the "Star Trek" arrangement. The Associated Press called the character "one of science fiction's extraordinary scoundrels". In 2002, the Online Film Critics Society's 132 individuals casted a ballot Khan as the tenth Greatest Screen Villain ever, the main "Star Trek" character to show up in the posting. In 2006, "Emmy Magazine" casted a ballot Khan "television's Most Out-of-This-World Character", prevailing over other sci-fi characters, for example, The Doctor and Commander Adama. Editors composed that "Khan was so cool we would've purchased a Chrysler Cordoba on the off chance that he'd instructed us to," alluding to an advertisement crusade Montalbán showed up in for Chrysler. The character additionally had a social effect outside of "Star Trek" being a fan; a clasp from "The Wrath of Khan" highlighting Kirk shouting "Khaaan!" was one pop culture appointment that turned into a "well known prevailing fashion" driving the accomplishment of the site YTMND. 

In 2004, the "Star Trek" establishment came back to Khan's backstory in a three-scene story circular segment on "". In "", "Cold Station 12" and "The Augments", a 22nd-century researcher is depicted as having restored hereditarily designed developing lives from Khan's time and raised them as "Enlarges". "Undertaking" maker Manny Coto depicted these characters as "smaller than normal Khan Noonien Singhs". 

Benedict Cumberbatch's execution in "Star Trek Into Darkness" drew acclaim from commentators with Peter Travers of "Moving Stone" magazine considering it a "visit de-power to be figured with" and his character "a lowlife for the ages". Joe Neumaier of New York's "Every day News" composed that Cumberbatch conveyed "a standout amongst the best blockbuster scoundrels in late memory". Jonathan Romney of "The Independent" explicitly noticed Cumberbatch's voice saying it was "So sepulchrally resounding that it could have been orchestrated from the consolidated timbres of Ian McKellen, Patrick Stewart and Alan Rickman holding an address challenge down a well." "The New York Times" commended his screen nearness saying "He melds Byronic magnetism with an eager, imperious insight that appears to raise the encompassing I.Q. at whatever point he's on screen." 

Christian Blauvelt from site Hollywood.com condemned the throwing of Khan in "Star Trek Into Darkness" as being "whitewashed into blankness". "" on-screen character Garrett Wang tweeting, "The throwing of Cumberbatch was an oversight with respect to the makers. I am not being disparaging of the on-screen character or his ability, simply the throwing." Co-maker and co-screenwriter Roberto Orci tended to the issue of the throwing saying, "Essentially, as we experienced the throwing procedure and we started focusing on the subjects of the motion picture, it wound up awkward for me to help trashing anybody of shading, especially any of Middle Eastern plunge or anybody bringing out that. One of the purposes of the motion picture is that we should be cautious about the reprobate inside "us", not some other race." 

In 2016, ScreenRant evaluated Khan as the sixth best character in "Star Trek" generally speaking.