Old English Saxon Chronicle 

The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle is an accumulation of archives in Old English chronicling the historical backdrop of the Anglo-Saxons. The first composition of the "Narrative" was made late in the ninth century, most likely in Wessex, amid the rule of Alfred the Great (r. 871– 899). Different duplicates were made of that one unique and afterward conveyed to religious communities crosswise over England, where they were freely refreshed. In one case, the "Account" was all the while being effectively refreshed in 1154. 

Nine compositions make due in entire or to a limited extent, however not all are of equivalent verifiable esteem and none of them is the first form. The most seasoned appears to have been begun towards the finish of Alfred's rule, while the latest was composed at Peterborough Abbey after a discharge at that religious community in 1116. Practically the majority of the material in the "Account" is as archives, by year; the soonest are dated at 60 BC (the archives' date for Caesar's attacks of Britain), and authentic material follows up to the year in which the narrative was composed, so, all in all contemporary records start. These compositions on the whole are known as the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle". 

The "Narrative" isn't impartial: there are events when correlation with other medieval sources clarifies that the recorders who composed it excluded occasions or recounted to uneven renditions of stories; there are additionally puts where the distinctive forms repudiate one another. Taken all in all, be that as it may, the "Account" is the absolute most imperative recorded hotspot for the period in England between the takeoff of the Romans and the decades following the Norman success. A great part of the data given in the Chronicle isn't recorded somewhere else. Also, the original copies are critical hotspots for the historical backdrop of the English language; specifically, the later Peterborough content is one of the most punctual instances of Middle English in presence. 

Seven of the nine enduring original copies and pieces currently dwell in the British Library. The staying two are in the Bodleian Library at Oxford and the Parker Library of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. 

The majority of the enduring compositions are duplicates, so it isn't known for certain where or when the primary rendition of the "Account" was created. It is commonly concurred that the first form – now and again known as the "Early English Annals" – was written in the late ninth century by a copyist in Wessex. Straight to the point Stenton contended from inward proof that it was first arranged for a common, however not illustrious, benefactor; and that "its birthplace is in one of the south-western shires...at some point not a long way from the limit among Somerset and Dorset". After the first "Annal" was accumulated, duplicates were made and disseminated to different cloisters. Extra duplicates were made, for further circulation or to supplant lost original copies, and a few duplicates were refreshed freely of one another. A portion of these later duplicates are those that have endure. 

The soonest surviving original copy, the "Parker Chronicle", was composed by a solitary recorder up to the year 891. The recorder composed the year number, DCCCXCII, in the edge of the following line; ensuing material was composed by different copyists. This seems to put the organization of the narrative at no later than 892; additional proof is given by Bishop Asser's utilization of a form of the Chronicle in his work "Life of King Alfred", known to have been created in 893. It is realized that the Winchester composition is somewhere around two expels from the first "Annal"; therefore, there is no evidence that the "Annal" was accumulated at Winchester. It is additionally hard to fix the date of piece, yet it is for the most part imagined that the narratives were made amid the rule out of Alfred the Great (871– 99), as Alfred purposely attempted to resuscitate learning and culture amid his rule, and empowered the utilization of English as a composed language. The "Account", just as the dispersion of duplicates to different focuses of learning, might be a result of the progressions Alfred presented. 

Of the nine enduring compositions, seven are composed totally in Old English (otherwise called Anglo-Saxon). One, known as the "Bilingual Canterbury Epitome", is in Old English with an interpretation of each record into Latin. Another, the "Peterborough Chronicle", is in Old English with the exception of the last section, which is in early Middle English. The most seasoned (Corp. Chris. MS 173) is known as the "Winchester Chronicle" or the "Parker Chronicle" (after Matthew Parker, an Archbishop of Canterbury, who once possessed it), and is written in the Mercian lingo until 1070, at that point Latin to 1075. Six of the compositions were imprinted in a 1861 release for the Rolls Series by Benjamin Thorpe with the content spread out in sections marked A to F. He additionally incorporated the couple of intelligible leftovers of a consumed seventh original copy, which he alluded to as [G], mostly crushed in a flame at Ashburnham House in 1731. Following this tradition, the two extra original copies are frequently called [H] and [I]. The realized enduring compositions are recorded beneath. 

The compositions are altogether thought to get from a typical unique, yet the associations between the writings are more unpredictable than straightforward legacy by means of replicating. The outline at right gives a review of the connections between the original copies. Coming up next is a rundown of the connections that are known. 

Every one of the original copies depicted above offer a sequential blunder between the years 756 and 845, however it is obvious that the writer of the "Chronicles of St Neots" was utilizing a duplicate that did not have this mistake and which more likely than not went before them. Æthelweard's duplicate had the sequential mistake however it had not lost an entire sentence from record 885; all the enduring compositions have lost this sentence. Henceforth the mistake and the missing sentence probably been presented in independent duplicating steps, suggesting that none of the enduring compositions are nearer than two expels from the first form. 

[A]: The "Winchester" (or "Parker") Chronicle is the most seasoned original copy of the "Account" that endures. It was started at Old Minster, Winchester, towards the finish of Alfred's rule. The original copy starts with an ancestry of Alfred, and the main account passage is for the year 60 BC. The area containing the "Narrative" takes up folios 1– 32. In contrast to different original copies, [A] is of sufficiently early structure to indicate sections going back to the late ninth century in the hands of various copyists as the passages were made. The principal recorder's hand is dateable to the late ninth or in all respects mid tenth century; his entrances stop in late 891, and the accompanying sections were made at interims all through the tenth century by a few copyists. The eighth recorder composed the archives for the years 925– 955, and was plainly at Winchester when he kept in touch with them since he adds some material identified with occasions there; he likewise utilizes "ceaster", or "city", to mean Winchester. The original copy winds up free of the different recensions after the passage for 975. The book, which likewise had a duplicate of the Laws of Alfred and Ine bound in after the section for 924, was exchanged to Canterbury some time in the mid eleventh century, as confirm by a rundown of books that Archbishop Parker provided for Corpus Christi. While at Canterbury, a few insertions were made; this required a few eradications in the original copy. The extra passages seem to have been taken from a form of the original copy from which [E] plummets. The last section in the vernacular is for 1070. After this comes the Latin "Acta Lanfranci", which covers church occasions from 1070– 1093. This is trailed by a rundown of popes and the Archbishops of Canterbury to whom they sent the pallium. The composition was procured by Matthew Parker, Archbishop of Canterbury (1559– 1575) and ace of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, following the disintegration of the religious communities, and passed on to the school on his demise. It currently frames some portion of the Parker Library. 

[B] "The Abingdon Chronicle I" was composed by a solitary recorder in the second 50% of the tenth century. The "Account" takes up folios 1– 34. It starts with a section for 60 BC and closes with the passage for 977. An original copy that is currently discrete (British Library MS. Cotton Tiberius Aiii, f. 178) was initially the prologue to this account; it contains a lineage, as does [A], yet extends it to the late tenth century. [B] was at Abingdon in the mid-eleventh century, since it was utilized in the arrangement of [C]. Not long after this it went to Canterbury, where interjections and revisions were made. As with [A], it closes with a rundown of popes and the ecclesiastical overseers of Canterbury to whom they sent the pallium. 

[C] incorporates extra material from neighborhood archives at Abingdon, where it was made. The area containing the "Account" (folios 115– 64) is gone before by King Alfred's Old English interpretation of Orosius' reality history, trailed by a menologium and some gnomic refrains of the laws of the normal world and of mankind. At that point pursues a duplicate of the annal, starting with 60 BC; the primary recorder replicated up to the passage for 490, and a second copyist took over up to the section for 1048. [B] and [C] are indistinguishable somewhere in the range of 491 and 652, however contrasts from there on clarify that the second recorder was likewise utilizing another duplicate of the "Account". This recorder likewise embedded, after the chronicle for 915, the "Mercian Register", which covers the years 902– 924, and which centers around Æthelflæd. The original copy proceeds to 1066 and stops amidst the depiction of the Battle of Stamford Bridge. In the twelfth century a couple of lines were added to finish the record. 

[D] The Worcester Chronicle seems to have been written amidst the eleventh century. After 1033 it incorporates a few records from Worcester, so it is by and large idea to have been formed there. Five distinct recorders can be distinguished for the passages up to 1054, after which it seems to have been dealt with at interims. The content incorporates material from Bede's "Clerical History" and from a lot of eighth century Northumbrian archives. It is suspected that a portion of the passages may have been formed by Archbishop Wulfstan. [D] contains more data than different original copies on northern and Scottish issues, and it has been hypothesized that it was a duplicate expected for the Anglicized Scottish court. From 972 to 1016, the sees of York and Worcester were both held by a similar individual—Oswald from 972, Ealdwulf from 992, and Wulfstan from 1003, and this may clarify why a northern recension was to be found at Worcester. By the sixteenth century, portions of the original copy were lost; eighteen pages were embedded containing substitute sections from different sources, including [A], [B], [C] and [E]. These pages were composed by John Joscelyn, who was secretary to Matthew Parker. 

[E] "The Peterborough Chronicle": In 1116, a flame at the religious community at Peterborough demolished the vast majority of the structures. The duplicate of the "Account" kept there may have been lost around then or later, however in either case presently a crisp duplicate was made, evidently replicated from a Kentish adaptation—well on the way to have been from Canterbury. The original copy was composed at one time and by a solitary recorder, down to the archive for 1121. The recorder added material identifying with Peterborough Abbey which isn't in different renditions. The Canterbury unique which he replicated was comparable, yet not indistinguishable, to [D]: the Mercian Register does not show up, and a sonnet about the Battle of Brunanburh in 937, which shows up in a large portion of the other enduring duplicates of the Chronicle, isn't recorded. A similar recorder then proceeded with the chronicles through to 1131; these sections were made at interims, and in this manner are apparently contemporary records. At long last, a second copyist, in 1154, composed a record of the years 1132– 1154; however his dating is known to be temperamental. This last passage is in Middle English, as opposed to Old English. [E] was once possessed by William Laud, Archbishop of Canterbury 1633– 1654, so is otherwise called the "Commend Chronicle". The composition contains intermittent gleams in Latin, and is alluded to (as "the Saxon storye of Peterborowe church") in a collector book from 1566. As indicated by Joscelyn, Nowell had a transcript of the original copy. Past proprietors incorporate William Camden and William L'Isle; the last most likely passed the original copy on to Laud. 

[F] The Canterbury Bilingual Epitome: In around 1100, a duplicate of the "Annal" was composed at Christ Church, Canterbury, most likely by one of the copyists who made notes in [A]. This rendition is written in both Old English and Latin; every section in Old English was trailed by the Latin adaptation. The rendition the recorder replicated (on folios 30– 70) is like the adaptation utilized by the copyist in Peterborough who composed [E], however it appears to have been abbreviated. It incorporates a similar early on material as [D] and, alongside [E], is one of the two annals that does exclude the "Clash of Brunanburh" sonnet. The composition has numerous comments and interlineations, some made by the first copyist and some by later recorders, including Robert Talbot. 

[A]/[G] Copy of "the Winchester Chronicle": [A] was replicated from [A] at Winchester in the eleventh century and pursues a tenth century duplicate of an Old English interpretation of Bede's "Ministerial History". The last archive duplicated was 1001, so the duplicate was made no sooner than that; an episcopal rundown annexed to [A] proposes that the duplicate was made by 1013. This original copy was totally crushed in the 1731 flame at Ashburnham House, where the Cotton Library was housed. Of the first 34 leaves, seven remain, ff. 39– 47 in the composition. In any case, a transcript had been made by Laurence Nowell, a sixteenth century collector, which was utilized by Abraham Wheelocke in a version of the "Narrative" imprinted in 1643. Along these lines, it is additionally now and again known as [W], after Wheelocke. Nowell's transcript replicated the genealogical presentation disconnected from [B] (the page now British Library MS. Cotton Tiberius Aiii, f. 178), as opposed to that initially part of this report. The first [A] presentation would later be expelled before the flame and makes due as British Library Add MS 34652, f. 2. The nicknames [A], [A] and [G] get from Plummer, Smith and Thorpe, separately. 

The "Cottonian Fragment" [H] comprises of a solitary leaf, containing chronicles for 1113 and 1114. In the passage for 1113 it incorporates the expression "he came to Winchester"; henceforth almost certainly, the original copy was composed at Winchester. There isn't sufficient of this original copy for solid connections to different compositions to be set up. Ker takes note of that the passages may have been composed contemporarily. 

[I] "Easter Table Chronicle": A rundown of "Annal" sections goes with a table of years, found on folios 133-37 out of a severely consumed original copy containing various notes on charms, the figuring of dates for faith gatherings, and archives relating to Christ Church, Canterbury. A large portion of the Chronicle's entrances relate to Christ Church, Canterbury. Until 1109 (the demise of Anselm of Canterbury) they are in English; everything except one of the accompanying sections are in Latin. Some portion of [I] was composed by a copyist not long after 1073, in a similar hand and ink as the remainder of the Caligula MS. After 1085, the chronicles are in different contemporary hands. The first annalist's entrance for the Norman victory is constrained to "Her forðferde eadward kyng"; a later hand included the happening to William the Conqueror, "7 her com willelm." At one point this original copy was at St Augustine's Abbey, Canterbury. 

Two original copies are recorded in an old list of the library of Durham; they are portrayed as "cronica pair Anglica". What's more, Parker incorporated a composition called "Hist. Angliae Saxonica" in his blessings however the original copy that incorporated this, presently Cambridge University Library MS. Hh.1.10, has lost 52 of its leaves, including the majority of this duplicate of the account. 

The "Annal" consolidates material from various sources. The section for 755, portraying how Cynewulf took the sovereignty of Wessex from Sigebehrt, is far longer than the encompassing passages, and incorporates direct discourse citations from the members in those occasions. It appears to be likely this was taken by the recorder from existing adventure material. Early sections, up to the year 110, presumably originated from one of the little comprehensive volumes of world history available for use at the time the Chronicle was first composed. The sequential synopsis to Bede's "Clerical History" was utilized as a source. The Chronicle gives dates and lineages for Northumbrian and Mercian rulers, and gives a rundown of Wessex religious administrators; these are probably going to have had separate sources. The section for 661 records a fight battled by Cenwalh that is said to have been battled "at Easter"; this accuracy suggests a contemporary record, which endure and was re-utilized by the Chronicle copyist. 

Contemporary archives started to be kept in Wessex amid the seventh century. The material aggregated in Alfred's rule included chronicles identifying with Kentish, South Saxon, Mercian and, especially, West Saxon history, however, except for the Cynewulf section, does not assemble energy until it goes to the Nordic attacks of the late eighth century onwards. The "Annal" became out of the convention of the Easter Tables, attracted up to enable the church to decide the dates of banquets in future years: a page comprised of an arrangement of flat lines pursued by galactic information, with a space for short notes of occasions to recognize one year from another. As the Chronicle created, it lost its rundown like appearance, and such notes occupied more room, winding up increasingly like authentic records. Numerous later passages, particularly those composed by counterparts, contained a lot of verifiable story under the year headings. 

Likewise with any verifiable source, the "Annal" must be treated with some alert. For instance, somewhere in the range of 514 and 544 the "Account" makes reference to Wihtgar, who is apparently covered on the Isle of Wight at "Wihtgar's fortress" (which is "Wihtgaræsbyrg" in the first) and purportedly gave his name to the island. Be that as it may, the name of the "Isle of Wight" gets from the Latin "Vectis", not from Wihtgar. The real name of the post was most likely "Wihtwarabyrg", "the fortification of the occupants of Wight", and either the recorder or a prior source misconstrued this as alluding to Wihtgar. 

The dating of the occasions recorded likewise requires care. Notwithstanding dates that are just erroneous, copyists every so often committed errors that brought on additional mistakes. For instance, in the [D] composition, the recorder discards the year 1044 from the rundown on the left hand side. The archives replicated down are in this manner off base from 1045 to 1052, which has two passages. A progressively troublesome issue is the subject of the date at which another year started, since the cutting edge custom of beginning the year on 1 January was not all inclusive around then. The passage for 1091 in [E] starts at Christmas and proceeds consistently; plainly this section pursues the old custom of beginning the year at Christmas. Some different sections seem to start the year on 25 March, for example, the year 1044 in the [C] original copy, which closes with Edward the Confessor's marriage on 23 January, while the passage for 22 April is recorded under 1045. There are likewise years which seem to begin in September. 

The compositions were created in better places, and every original copy mirrors the inclinations of its recorders. It has been contended that the "Account" ought to be viewed as promulgation, delivered by Alfred's court and composed with the purpose of extolling Alfred and making steadfastness. This isn't generally acknowledged, yet the birthplaces of the compositions unmistakably shading both the portrayal of connections among Wessex and different kingdoms, and the depictions of the Vikings' thefts. A precedent can be found in the section for 829, which depicts Egbert's intrusion of Northumbria. As indicated by the Chronicle, after Egbert vanquished Mercia and Essex, he turned into a "bretwalda", suggesting overlordship of all of England. At that point when he walked into Northumbria, the Northumbrians offered him "accommodation and harmony". The Northumbrian accounts fused into Roger of Wendover's thirteenth century history give an alternate picture: "When Egbert had gotten all the southern kingdoms, he drove a vast armed force into Northumbria, and ruined that region with extreme ravaging, and made King Eanred pay tribute." 

Every so often the copyists' predispositions can be seen by looking at changed adaptations of the composition they made. For instance, Ælfgar, lord of East Anglia, and child of Leofric, the baron of Mercia, was ousted quickly in 1055. The [C], [D] and [E] compositions state the accompanying: 

Another precedent that makes reference to Ælfgar demonstrates an alternate sort of lack of quality in the "Account": that of oversight. Ælfgar was Earl of Mercia by 1058, and in that year was banished once more. This time just [D] has anything to state: "Here Earl Ælfgar was ousted, yet he before long returned once more, with brutality, through the assistance of Gruffydd. Furthermore, here came an assaulting ship-armed force from Norway; it is monotonous to tell how everything occurred." For this situation different sources exist to clear up the image: a noteworthy Norwegian endeavor was made on England, yet [E] says nothing by any means, and [D] hardly makes reference to it. It has once in a while been contended that when the "Narrative" is quiet, different sources that report real occasions must be mixed up, yet this precedent shows that the" Chronicle" omits essential occasions. 

The three fundamental Anglo-Norman history specialists, John of Worcester, William of Malmesbury and Henry of Huntingdon, each had a duplicate of the "Narrative", which they adjusted for their very own motivations. Symeon of Durham additionally had a duplicate of the "Account". Some later medieval antiquarians additionally utilized the "Account", and others took their material from the individuals who had utilized it, thus the "Narrative" moved toward becoming "vital to the standard of English verifiable custom". 

Henry of Huntingdon utilized a duplicate of the "Narrative" that was fundamentally the same as [E]. There is no proof in his work of any of the sections in [E] after 1121, so despite the fact that his original copy may really have been [E], it might likewise have been a duplicate—it is possible that one taken of [E] before the passages he utilizes, or a composition from which [E] was replicated, with the duplicating occurring preceding the date of the last chronicle he employments. Henry additionally utilized the [C] original copy. 

The Waverley Annals utilized an original copy that was like [E], however it gives the idea that it didn't contain the passages concentrated on Peterborough. The original copy of the narrative interpreted by Geoffrey Gaimar can't be distinguished precisely, however as indicated by history specialist Dorothy Whitelock it was "a preferably better content over 'E' or 'F'". Gaimar infers that there was a duplicate at Winchester in his day (the center of the twelfth century); Whitelock recommends that there is proof that an original copy that has not made due to the present day was at Winchester in the mid-tenth century. In the event that it made due to Gaimar's time that would clarify why [A] was not stayed up with the latest, and why [A] could be given to the religious community at Canterbury. 

John of Worcester's "Chronicon ex chronicis" seems to have had an original copy that was either [A] or like it; he utilizes records that don't show up in different forms, for example, passages concerning Edward the Elder's battles and data about Winchester towards the finish of the annal. His record is regularly like that of [D], however there is less consideration paid to Margaret of Scotland, a distinguishing normal for [D]. He had the Mercian register, which seems just in [C] and [D]; and he incorporates material from records 979– 982 which just shows up in [C]. It is conceivable he had a composition that was a predecessor of [D]. He additionally had sources which have not been recognized, and a portion of his announcements have no prior enduring source. 

A composition like [E] was accessible to William of Malmesbury, however it is probably not going to have been [E] as that original copy is known to have still been in Peterborough after the time William was working, and he doesn't utilize any of the sections in [E] that are explicitly identified with Peterborough. It is likely he had either the first from which [E] was replicated, or a duplicate of that unique. He makes reference to that the accounts don't give any data on the homicide of Alfred Aetheling, however since this is shrouded in both [C] and [D] it is obvious he had no entrance to those original copies. Every so often he seems to demonstrate some learning of [D], however it is conceivable that his data was taken from John of Worcester's record. He likewise excludes any reference to a fight battled by Cenwealh in 652; this fight is referenced in [A], [B] and [C], yet not in [E]. He mentions a fight battled by Cenwealh at Wirtgernesburg, which isn't in any of the surviving compositions, so it is conceivable he had a duplicate currently lost. 

The "Old English Saxon Chronicle" is the absolute most imperative hotspot for the historical backdrop of England in Anglo-Saxon occasions. Without the "Annal" and Bede's "Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum" (the "Religious History of the English People"), it is difficult to compose the historical backdrop of the English from the Romans to the Norman victory; Nicholas Howe called them "the two incredible Anglo-Saxon works of history". Obviously records and archives or some likeness thereof started to be kept in England at the season of the most punctual spread of Christianity, yet no such records get by in their unique structure. Rather they were joined in later works, and all things considered, the "Narrative" contains a large number of these. The history it tells isn't just that seen by its compilers, yet additionally that recorded by before annalists, whose work is by and large safeguarded no place else. 

Its significance isn't constrained to the verifiable data it gives, nonetheless. It is similarly as critical a hotspot for the early advancement of English. The "Peterborough Chronicle" changes from the standard Old English abstract language to early Middle English after 1131, giving the absolute most punctual Middle English content known. Howe notes, in "Rome: Capitol of Anglo-Saxon England", that a large number of the passages show that Rome was viewed as a profound home for the Anglo-Saxons, Rome and Roman history being of central significance in a considerable lot of the sections; he refers to the one for AD 1, for example, which records the rule of Octavian Augustus before it makes reference to the introduction of Christ. 

The "Account" isn't without artistic intrigue. Embedded at different focuses since the tenth century are Old English ballads in festivity of imperial figures and their accomplishments: "The Battle of Brunanburh" (937), on King Æthelstan's triumph over the joined powers of Vikings, Scots and the Strathclyde Britons, and five shorter lyrics, "Catch of the Five Boroughs" (942), "The Coronation of King Edgar" (973), "The Death of King Edgar" (975), "The Death of Prince Alfred" (1036), and "The Death of King Edward the Confessor" (1065). 

An imperative early printed release of the "Annal" showed up in 1692, by Edmund Gibson, an English legal adviser and perfect who later (1716) progressed toward becoming Bishop of Lincoln. Titled "Chronicon Saxonicum", it printed the Old English content in parallel sections with Gibson's very own Latin form and turned into the standard release until the nineteenth century. Gibson utilized three compositions of which the boss was the Peterborough Chronicle. It was supplanted in 1861 by Benjamin Thorpe's Rolls release, which printed six forms in segments, marked A to F, in this way giving the original copies the letters which are presently used to allude to them. 

John Earle stated "Two of the Saxon Chronicles Parallel" (1865). Charles Plummer altered this book, creating a "Modified Text" with notes, reference sections, and glossary in two volumes in 1892 and 1899. This release of the An and E writings, with material from different adaptations, was broadly utilized; it was republished in 1952. 

Starting during the 1980s, another arrangement of insightful releases have been printed under the arrangement title "The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle: A Collaborative Edition". A few volumes are as yet anticipated, for example, a volume concentrating on the northern recension, however existing volumes, for example, Janet Bately's version of [A] are presently standard references. An ongoing interpretation of the Chronicle is Michael Swanton's "The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle", which presents interpretations of [A] and [E] on inverse pages, with sprinkled material from different compositions where they contrast. 

A copy release of [A], "The Parker Chronicle and Laws", showed up in 1941 from the Oxford University Press, altered by Robin Flower and Hugh Smith. An ongoing insightful release of the [B] content is "The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle: A Collaborative Edition, 4, MS B" by S. Taylor (Cambridge, 1983). The [C] original copy was altered by H.A. Rositzke; "The C-Text of the Old English Chronicles", in "Beitrage z. engl. Phil.", XXXIV, Bochum-Langendreer, 1940; and the [D] original copy in "An Anglo-Saxon Chronicle from British Museum Cotton MS., Tiberius B. iv", altered by E. Classen and F.E. Harmer, Manchester, 1926. Rositzke additionally distributed an interpretation of the [E] message in "The Peterborough Chronicle" (New York, 1951). The [F] content was imprinted in F.P. Magoun, Jr., "Annales Domitiani Latini: an Edition" in "Medieval Studies of the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies", IX, 1947, pp. 235– 295. The main release of [G] was Abraham Whelock's 1644 "Venerabilis Bedae Historia Ecclesiastica", imprinted in Cambridge; there is additionally a release by Angelica Lutz, "Pass on Version G der angelsächsischen Chronik: Rekonstruktion und Edition" (Munich, 1981).