Dendrocollybia 

Dendrocollybia is a contagious class in the family Tricholomataceae of the request Agaricales. It is a monotypic class, containing the single species Dendrocollybia racemosa, generally known as the expanded Collybia or the extended shanklet. The to some degree uncommon species is found in the Northern Hemisphere, including the Pacific Northwest area of western North America, and Europe, where it is incorporated into a few Regional Red Lists. It normally develops on the rotting organic product assortments of different agarics, for example, "Lactarius" and "Russula"— despite the fact that the host mushrooms might be rotted to the point of being hard to perceive. 

"Dendrocollybia racemosa" organic product bodies have little pale grayish-white or grayish-darker tops up to wide, and slight stems up to long. The species is portrayed by its irregular stem, which is secured with short sidelong branches. The branches frequently produce round slimeheads of translucent conidiophores on their swollen tips. The conidiophores produce conidia (abiogenetic spores) by mitosis. Since the organism can depend on either sexual or agamic methods of propagation, natural product bodies in some cases have diminished or notwithstanding missing tops. The irregular stems start from dark pea-sized structures called sclerotia. The anamorphic type of the parasite, known as "Tilachlidiopsis racemosa", is feeling the loss of the sexual phase of its life cycle. It can repeat at moderately low temperatures, an adjustment accepted to improve its capacity to develop rapidly and organic product on breaking down mushrooms. 

The sort "Dendrocollybia" was first portrayed in 2001, to suit the species recently known as "Collybia racemosa". Prior to at that point, the so-named taxon was viewed as one of four types of "Collybia", a sort which had itself been reclassified and diminished in 1997, when a large portion of its species were exchanged to "Gymnopus" and "Rhodocollybia". "C. racemosa" was initially depicted and named "Agaricus racemosus" by Christian Hendrik Persoon in 1797, and authorized under that name by Elias Magnus Fries in 1821. In his "Systema Mycologicum", Fries arranged it in his "clan" "Collybia" alongside all other comparable little, white-spored species with a raised top and a delicate stem. In 1873 Lucien Quélet raised Fries' clan "Collybia" to nonexclusive position. Samuel Frederick Gray called the species "Mycena racemosa" in his 1821 "Characteristic Arrangement of British Plants"; both this name and Joanne Lennox's 1979 "Microcollybia racemosa" are viewed as equivalent words. 

Rolf Singer's fourth release (1986) of his exhaustive "Agaricales in Modern Taxonomy" included "Collybia racemosa" in segment "Collybia", notwithstanding the three species that right now involve the variety "Collybia": "C. tuberosa", "C. cirrhata" and "C. cookei". A phylogenetic examination of the inner interpreted spacer groupings of ribosomal DNA by Karen Hughes and partners demonstrated that "C. tuberosa", "C. cirrhata" and "C. cookei" structure a monophyletic amass inside a bigger "Lyophyllum"– "Tricholoma"– "Collybia" clade that incorporates a few types of "Lyophyllum", "Tricholoma", "Lepista", "Hypsizygus" and the species "C. racemosa". Hughes and partners couldn't recognize a clade that incorporated each of the four types of "Collybia". Confinement piece length polymorphism investigation of the ribosomal DNA from the four species supported the outcomes acquired from phylogenetic examination. In light of these outcomes, just as contrasts in qualities, for example, the nearness of interesting stem projections, organic product body pigmentation, and macrochemical responses, they encompassed the new class "Dendrocollybia" to contain "C. racemosa". 

The growth is ordinarily known as the extended Collybia, or the stretched shanklet; Samuel Gray alluded to it as the "racemelike high-stool". The sort name "Dendrocollybia" is a mix of the Ancient Greek words "dendro"- , signifying "tree", and "collybia", signifying "little coin". The particular designation "racemosa" is from the Latin word "racemus"— "a group of grapes". 

The top of "Dendrocollybia racemosa" is commonly between in distance across, and relying upon its phase of improvement, might be conic to raised, or in development, to some degree leveled with a slight adjusted focal rise (an umbo). The top surface is dry and obscure, with a sleek surface; its shading in the inside is fuscous (a dim caramel dim shading), yet the shading blurs consistently towards the edge. The edge is generally bended toward the gills at first; as the natural product body develops the edge may take off to some degree, yet it likewise tends to shred or part with age. There might be shallow notches on the top that compare to the situation of the gills underneath, which may give the top edge a crenate (scalloped) appearance. The tissue is exceptionally slight (under 1 mm thick) and delicate, ailing in shading, and has no particular scent or taste. The gills are generally expansive, barely joined to the stem (adnexed), divided firmly together, and hued dim to grayish-tan, to some degree darker than the top. There are extra gills, called "lamellulae", that don't stretch out right to the stem; they are blended between the gills and masterminded in up to three arrangement (levels) of equivalent length. Every so often, the organism produces stems with prematurely ended tops, or with the tops missing altogether. 

The stem is long by 1 mm thick, generally measure up to in width all through, and decreases to a long "root" which ends in a dull dark, generally circular sclerotium. The stem might be covered profoundly in its substrate. The stem surface is generally a similar shading as the top, with a fine whitish powder on the upper surface. In the lower divide, the stem is tanish, and has fine depressions that run the long way all over the surface. The lower half is secured with unpredictably masterminded short branch-like projections at right points to the stem that measure 2– 3 by 0.5 mm. These projections are tube shaped and decreasing, with finishes that are secured with an ooze head of conidia (parasitic spores created abiogenetically). "D. racemosa" is the main mushroom species realized that shapes conidia on side parts of the stem. The sclerotium from which the stem emerges is watery grayish and homogeneous in cross area (not isolated into inner chambers), with a dainty dull dark external coat, and measures in width. American mycologist Alexander H. Smith advised that learner gatherers will normally miss the sclerotium the first occasion when they discover the species. The edibility of "D. racemosa" is obscure, however as David Arora says, the organic product bodies are "excessively diminutive and uncommon to be of significant worth." 

The spores are barely ellipsoid to ovoid, meager walled, hyaline (translucent), with measurements of 4– 5.5 by 2– 3 µm. At the point when recolored with Melzer's reagent, the spores turn a light blue shading. The basidia (the spore-bearing cells) are four-spored, measure 16– 20 by 3.5– 4 µm, and decrease progressively towards the base. Cystidia are not separated in this species. The top surface is made of a fingernail skin of outspread, to some degree agglutinated, rather coarse hyphae that vary mainly in size from the fundamental tissue—at first 1– 3 µm in breadth, getting to be 5– 7 µm wide in the hidden tissue. The hyphae are clipped, and encrusted with shallow unpredictably formed masses that are most obvious in the surface cells. The gill tissue is made of hyphae that venture descending from the top and orchestrated in a subparallel style, implying that the hyphae are for the most part parallel to each other and are somewhat interlaced. The hyphae are braced, with a restricted, spread minimal subhymenium (a limited zone of little, short hyphae promptly underneath the hymenium) made out of hyphae 2– 3 µm in distance across. The conidia are 8.5– 12 by 4– 5 µm, shelled nut molded, non-amyloid (not changing shading when recolored with Melzer's reagent), cinched, and delivered by discontinuity of the coarse mycelium. Cinch associations are available in the hyphae. Abiogenetic spores are 10.0– 15.5 by 3– 4 µm, ellipsoid to elongated, non-amyloid, and contain granular substance. The grayish shade of the organic product bodies is brought about by encrusted colors (crystalline totals of color atoms, conceivably melanin) that happen all through the tissue of the stem and top, including the gills; these colors are missing in "Collybia" species. 

As opposed to the three types of "Collybia", "D. racemosa" demonstrates irrelevant reactivity to regular compound tests utilized in mushroom distinguishing proof, including aniline, alpha-napthol, guaiacol, sulfoformol, phenol, and phenol-aniline. 

The cortex (external tissue layer) of the sclerotium can be utilized as an analytic character to recognize "D. racemosa" and little white examples of "Collybia". The hyphae of the cortex of "D. racemosa" are "particularly precise", in examination with "C. cookei" (adjusted hyphae) and "C. tuberosa" (extended hyphae). The cortical layer in "D. racemosa" has a course of action that is known as "textura epidermoidea"— with the hyphae orchestrated like a jigsaw confuse. Overwhelming stores of dull rosy dark colored shade are clear all through the cortical tissue in or on the dividers and the tips of hyphae. The remaining "Collybia" species, "C. cirrhata", does not shape sclerotia. 

The anamorphic or blemished organisms are those that appear to come up short on a sexual stage in their life cycle, and normally duplicate by the procedure of mitosis in conidia. Sometimes, the sexual stage—or teleomorph organize—is later recognized, and a teleomorph-anamorph relationship is set up between the species. The International Code of Botanical Nomenclature allows the acknowledgment of (at least two) names for one and a similar living being, one dependent on the teleomorph, the other(s) limited to the anamorph. "Tilachlidiopsis racemosa" (some time ago known as "Sclerostilbum septentrionale", portrayed by Alfred Povah in 1932) was appeared to be the anamorphic type of "Dendrocollybia racemosa". The synnemata (regenerative structures made of minimal gatherings of erect conidiophores) created by "T. racemosa" dependably develop on the stem of "Dendrocollybia racemosa". The anamorph has a bizarrely low ideal development temperature, between , inside a bigger development scope of . It is thought this is an adjustment that enables the mycelium to develop rapidly and upgrade its odds of fruiting on agaric mushrooms, which are commonly fleeting. 

"Dendrocollybia racemosa" is a saprobic species, which means it infers supplements by separating dead or passing on tissue. Its natural product bodies develop on the all around rotted survives from agarics, frequently suspected to be "Lactarius" or "Russula", in spite of the fact that the hosts' characters are regularly indistinct because of a propelled condition of rot. A recent report utilized sub-atomic investigation to affirm "Russula crassotunicata" as a host for "D. racemosa". This "Russula" has a long and constant rot period, and, in the Pacific Northwest district of the United States where the examination was led, gives an "about all year substrate for mycosaprobic species". "Dendrocollybia" is one of four agaric genera obligately connected with development on the natural product groups of other organisms, the others being "Squamanita", "Asterophora", and "Collybia". "Dendrocollybia" is likewise discovered less generally in profound coniferous duff, in gatherings or little bunches. The organism can shape sclerotia in the embalmed host natural product bodies, and may likewise grow legitimately from their sclerotia in soil. The organism is broadly conveyed in mild areas of the Northern Hemisphere, yet once in a while gathered "most likely because of its little size, disguise shading, and propensity to be inundated in its substrate." In North America, where the appropriation is confined to the Pacific Northwest, natural product bodies are found in the pre-fall to harvest time, frequently after an overwhelming fruiting period for different mushrooms is finished. In Europe, it is known from the United Kingdom, Scandinavia, and Belgium. "Dendrocollybia racemosa" is in the Danish, Norwegian, and British Red Lists. 

The saprobic practices of "Collybia" and "Dendrocollybia" are somewhat extraordinary. In the harvest time, natural product assortments of "C. cirrhata", "C. cookei" and "C. tuberosa", can be found on darkened, weathered, embalmed organic product collections of their hosts. Now and again, these species give off an impression of being developing in the dirt (or from their sclerotium in soil or greenery), yet as a rule not in gigantic groups. In these cases it is accepted that the hosts are leftovers of organic product bodies from a past season. In every watched instance of "D. racemosa", nonetheless, the hosts have not been promptly watched, recommending that quick absorption of the host (as opposed to preservation) may have occurred. Hughes and associates propose this may show the nearness of an alternate enzymatic framework, and a varying capacity to contend with other organisms or microscopic organisms.