Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg 

Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg (26 June 1760 – 25 March 1799) was an Austrian military leader. He accomplished the position of Field Marshal and kicked the bucket at the Battle of Stockach. 

The third child of a cadet part of the House of Fürstenberg, at his introduction to the world his odds of acquiring the family title of "Fürst zu Fürstenberg" were slight; he was set up rather for a military vocation, and a mentor was contracted to show him the military sciences. He entered the Habsburg military in 1777, at seventeen years old years, and was an individual from the field armed force in the short War of the Bavarian Succession (1778– 79). His vocation advanced consistently amid the Habsburg War with the Ottoman Empire. Specifically he separated himself at Šabac in 1790, when he drove his troops in raging the fortification on the Sava stream. 

Amid the French Revolutionary Wars, he battled with unique excellence again for the First Coalition, especially at Ketsch and Frœschwiller, and in 1796 at Emmendingen, Schliengen and Kehl. He was positioned at key focuses to secure the developments of the Austrian armed force. With a power of 10,000, he protected the German Rhineland at Kehl, and turned around a knife ambush by French troops at Bellheim; his troops likewise overran Speyer with no misfortunes. Before the finish of the War of the First Coalition, at 35 years old, he had accomplished the position of Field Marshal. Amid the War of the Second Coalition, he battled in the initial two clashes of the German crusade, at Ostrach on 21 March 1799, and at Stockach on 25 March 1799. At the last activity while driving a regiment of grenadiers, he was hit by French case shot and knocked off his pony. He kicked the bucket in no time a while later. 

As the third child of a cadet (junior) part of the Fürstenberg royal family, Karl Aloys was set up for a military vocation. His mentor, Lieutenant Ernst, was in dynamic administration in the Habsburg military, and took six-year-old Karl Aloys on moves with him. Along these lines, he learned as a youngster the Habsburg military manual, and came into contact with imperative military men who later promoted his instruction and vocation; he additionally procured a privileged position as "Kreis-Obristen", or Colonel of the Imperial Circle, when he was ten years of age. As an adolescent, in 1776, he met the Habsburg war serve Count Franz Moritz von Lacy and Baron Ernst Gideon von Laudon; he was additionally welcomed to eat with Emperor Joseph II. He began his administration in 1777 as a "Fähnrich" (ensign) in the Habsburg military association. He saw his first field administration amid the War of the Bavarian Succession (1777– 78), despite the fact that he was not associated with any fights. 

In 1780, at twenty years old years, he was elevated to chief, and alloted to the 34th Infantry Regiment, otherwise called the "Anton Esterházy", named for Paul II Anton Esterházy, the general of mounted force, field marshal of the Seven Years' War, and envoy to Britain. While he was doled out to this unit, he took an interest in the outskirt clashes between the Ottoman Empire and the Habsburgs, 1787– 92, and raged the stronghold at Šabac (German: "Schabatz") on the Sava River in Serbia on 27 April 1788. For his activity at Šabac, he was by and by praised by the Emperor; on the next day, he was elevated to major and given order of a grenadier force. 

On 1 January 1790, at Laudon's unequivocal solicitation, Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg was elevated to significant general; toward the finish of June of that year, he got the desired position of second colonel of the 34th Infantry Regiment "Anton Esterhazy", where he filled in as the official officer for Antal, Prince Esterházy de Galántha, the 34th Hungarian Regiment's Colonel and Proprietor. This was a standard arrangement in which a less noticeable officer finished the everyday managerial obligations of the Colonel and Proprietor, who was normally a respectable and was frequently posted in an alternate task, here and there an alternate staff area. Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg likewise got the confraternal Order of Saint Hubert from the Duke of Bavaria and wedded the "rich" Princess Elisabeth of Thurn und Taxis (1767– 1822), that year. 

While Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg battled for the Habsburg cause in Serbia, in France, an alliance of the church and the expert and common class—the First and Third homes—drove a call for change of the French government and the formation of a composed constitution. At first, the leaders of Europe saw the French Revolution as an occasion between the French lord and his subjects, and not something in which they ought to meddle. In 1790, Leopold succeeded his sibling Joseph as ruler and by 1791, he considered the circumstance encompassing his sister, Marie Antoinette, and her kids, with more prominent alert. In August 1791, in meeting with French "émigré" nobles and Frederick William II of Prussia, he issued the Declaration of Pillnitz, in which they pronounced the enthusiasm of the rulers of Europe as one with the interests of Louis XVI and his family. They compromised questionable, however very genuine, results in the event that anything ought to happen to the regal family. The French émigrés kept on unsettling for help of a counter-unrest. On 20 April 1792, the French National Convention proclaimed war on Austria. In the War of the First Coalition (1792– 1797), France contradicted the greater part of the European states sharing area or water fringes with her, in addition to Portugal and the Ottoman Empire. 

In the beginning of the French Revolutionary Wars, Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg stayed as unit leader of a little Austrian corps, roughly 10,000 men, under the general direction of Anton, Prince Esterházy. He was positioned in the Breisgau, a Habsburg domain between the Black Forest and the Rhine. This area between the forested mountains and the stream included two imperative bridgeheads over the waterway which offered access to southwestern Germany, the Swiss Cantons, or north-focal Germany. His unit safeguarded Kehl, a little town quickly over the Rhine from Strasbourg, yet the vast majority of the activity in 1792 happened further north, in present-day Belgium, close to the urban communities of Speyer and Trier, and at Frankfurt on the Main River. 

In the second year of the war, Fürstenberg was exchanged to the mounted force of Dagobert Sigmund von Wurmser, in the Army of the Upper Rhine, and set responsible for the development watch close Speyer, which was as yet held by the French. On 30 March, he crossed the Rhine by Ketsch at the leader of the development watch, which included 9,000 men. He took the city of Speyer on 1 April, without the officer of the city, Adam-Philippe de Custine, who was away with a large portion of his troops; those that stayed behind essentially deserted the city. On the next day, Fürstenberg involved the town of Germersheim. His first battle activity of the war happened on 3 April, when Custine's infantry assaulted him in a blade charge close to the towns of Bellheim, Hördt and Leimersheim, and subsequently at Landau and Lauterburg. Amid these assaults, he lost all the ground he had picked up in the prior days. After these occasions, he was again exchanged, this opportunity to the order of the Regiment "Tally von Kavanagh", where he kept on separating himself amid the French counter-hostile of October– November 1793. In the activity around Geidertheim, on the Zorn River, he helped Lieutenant Field Marshal Gabriel Anton, Baron Splény de Miháldy, in repulsing a French counter-assault. In no time a while later, he turned out to be sick and, in December 1793, was sent to the Hagenau to recuperate. On 22 December, he rejoined Wurmser's Corps for the Battle of Froeschwiller against Lazare Hoche and Charles Pichegru. After the French withdrew over the Rhine at Hüningen, close Basel, he coordinated the development of its new strongholds. 

In June 1796, Fürstenberg told a division of four infantry brigades, 13 mounted guns pieces, and the "Freikorps" (Volunteers) "Gyulay" and verified the Rhine passage among Kehl and Rastatt. On 26 June 1796, the French troops of the Army of the Rhine-and-Moselle crossed the Rhine and pursued the Swabian Circle's military unexpected out of Kehl. In June 1796, Archduke Charles added the unforeseen to Fürstenberg's order, making him the Swabian's "Feldzeugmeister", or General of Infantry. Fürstenberg's troops guarded the royal line at the town of Rastatt until help troops arrived, and they could make an organized withdrawal into the Upper Danube Valley. The Swabian unforeseen was grounded in July, and Fürstenberg came back to the direction of Austrian regulars amid the Austrian counter-hostile. At the Battle of Emmendingen on 19 October 1796, his initiative was again instrumental in an Austrian triumph. General Jean Victor Marie Moreau's Army of the Rhine-and-Moselle looked to hold a decent footing on the eastern side of the Rhine, following his retreat from southwestern Germany west of the Black Forest. Fürstenberg held Kenzingen, north of Riegel on the Elz River. Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg was requested to bluff against Riegel, to secure the essential Austrian positions at Rust and Kappel. 

In the Battle of Schliengen (24 October 1796), Fürstenberg directed the second section of the Austrian power, which included nine contingents of infantry and 30 squadrons of rangers; with these, he overpowered the power of General of Division Gouvion Saint-Cyr, holding his situation to keep the French power from withdrawing north on the Rhine. While Maximilian Anton Karl, Count Baillet de Latour, connected with the primary Austrian power at Kehl, Archduke Charles endowed to Lieutenant Field Marshal Fürstenberg the order of the powers blockading Hüningen, which included two divisions with 20 units of infantry and 40 squadrons of rangers. Charles' trust in his young field marshal was all around put. On 27 November, Fürstenberg's central specialist opened and depleted the water-filled channel securing the French fortresses. Fürstenberg offered the officer of the bridgehead, General of Brigade Jean Charles Abbatucci, the chance to surrender, which he declined. In the evening of 30 November to 1 December, Fürstenberg's power raged the bridgehead twice, however was twice repelled. In one of these assaults, the French authority was mortally injured and kicked the bucket on 3 December. Fürstenberg kept up the Siege of Kehl while Archduke Charles connected with the more grounded French power toward the north of Kehl. 

After the French capitulation at Kehl (10 January 1797), Fürstenberg got extra powers with which he could end the attack at Hüningen. He requested the support of the ring of troopers encompassing Hüningen and, on 2 February 1797, the Austrians arranged to storm the bridgehead. General of Division Georges Joseph Dufour, the new French officer, pre-empted what might have been an expensive assault, by offering to surrender the extension. On 5 February, Fürstenberg at long last claimed the bridgehead. Francis II, the Holy Roman Emperor, delegated him as Colonel and Proprietor of the 36th Infantry Regiment, which bore his name until his demise fighting in 1799. 

The Coalition powers—Austria, Russia, Prussia, Great Britain, Sardinia, among others—accomplished a few triumphs at Verdun, Kaiserslautern, Neerwinden, Mainz, Amberg and Würzburg, yet in northern Italy, they could neither lift nor get away from the attack at Mantua. The endeavors of Napoleon Bonaparte in northern Italy pushed Austrian powers to the outskirt of Habsburg lands. Napoleon managed a truce at Leoben on 17 April 1797, prompting the formal Treaty of Campo Formio, which became effective on 17 October 1797. Austria pulled back from the domains the military had contended so energetically to procure, including the vital waterway intersections at Hüningen and Kehl, just as key urban communities further north. 

At the point when the war finished, Fürstenberg remained at the Donaueschingen bequest of his cousin, Karl Joachim Aloys, who had as of late acquired the family title as "Fürst zu Fürstenberg". Later in 1797, he headed out to Prague and stayed with his family until May 1798, when he got a presenting on another division in Linz. His girl, Maria Anna, was brought into the world after he left, on 17 September 1798. 

Regardless of the ached for harmony, pressures developed among France and the greater part of the First Coalition partners, either independently or together. Ferdinand IV of Naples would not pay settled upon tribute to France, and his subjects pursued this refusal with a disobedience. The French attacked Naples and built up the Parthenopaean Republic. A republican uprising in the Swiss cantons, empowered by the French Republic which offered military help, prompted the oust of the Swiss Confederation and the foundation of the Helvetic Republic. On his approach to Egypt in Spring 1798, Napoleon had ceased on the Island of Malta and expelled the Hospitallers from their assets. This irritated Paul, Tsar of Russia, who was the privileged leader of the Order. The progressing French control of Malta rankled the British, who devoted themselves to launching the French army at Valletta. The French Directory was persuaded that the Austrians were scheming to begin another war. In fact, the more fragile the French Republic appeared, the more truly the Austrians, the Neapolitans, the Russians, and the British really examined this plausibility. 

As winter broke on 1 March 1799, General Jean Baptiste Jourdan and his 25,000-man Army of the Danube crossed the Rhine at Kehl. The Army of the Danube met little opposition as it progressed through the Black Forest and in the long run took a flanking position on the north shore of Lake Constance. Educated to hinder the Austrians from access to the Swiss snow capped passes, Jourdan wanted to detach the militaries of the Coalition in Germany from partners in northern Italy, and keep them from helping each other. His was a preemptive strike. By intersection the Rhine toward the beginning of March, Jourdan acted before Archduke Charles' military could be strengthened by Austria's Russian partners, who had consented to send 60,000 prepared fighters and their progressively prepared authority, Generalissimo Alexander Suvorov. Moreover, if the French held the inside goes in Switzerland, they couldn't just keep the Austrians from exchanging troops between northern Italy and southwestern Germany, however could utilize the courses to move their own powers between the two theaters. 

At the episode of threats in March 1799, Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg was with his troops in A bavarian area, only north of the free and Imperial city of Augsburg. At the point when news achieved the Austrian camp that the French had crossed the Rhine, Charles requested the magnificent armed force to propel west. Fürstenberg pushed his troops toward Augsburg, crossing the Lech River. 

The French propelled protect touched base in Ostrach on 8– 9 March, and throughout the following week skirmished with the Austrian forward posts, while the remainder of the French armed force arrived. Jourdan arranged his 25,000 troops along a line from Salem Abbey and Lake Constance to the Danube stream, focused in Ostrach. He built up his order base camp at the majestic city of Pfullendorf, ignoring the whole Ostrach valley. Jourdan was expecting Dominique Vandamme's troops to touch base so as to help his far north flank close to the stream, yet Vandamme had gone to Stuttgart to research a supposed nearness of Austrian troops there and had not rejoined the fundamental armed force. Subsequently, the French left flank, under order of Gouvion Saint-Cyr, was meagerly kept an eye on. Jourdan thought he had additional time, expecting Charles would require still three or four days to move his troops over the Lech, and walk to Ostrach, however by the center of Holy Week in 1799, in excess of 33% of Charles' military, 48,000 blended troops, was situated in a development parallel to Jourdan's, and his 72,000 outstanding troops were displayed with the left wing at Kempten, the inside close Memmingen, and the correct flank reached out to Ulm. 

By 21 March, the French and Austrian stations covered, and skirmishing strengthened. Charles had partitioned his power into four segments. Fürstenberg secured the northern flank of the Archduke's fundamental power. Fürstenberg's power drove the French out of Davidsweiler, and after that best in class on Ruppersweiler and Einhard, 5 kilometers (3 mi) toward the northwest of Ostrach. Holy person Cyr did not have the labor to guard the position, and the whole line fell back to Ostrach, with Fürstenberg's troops compelling their withdrawal. Fürstenberg's persevering weight on the French left flank was instrumental in the breakdown of the northern piece of the French line. After their accomplishment in driving the French again from Ostrach, and after that from the statures of Pfullendorf, the Austrian powers kept on squeezing the French back to Stockach, and afterward another five miles or so to Engen. 

On the morning of what they suspected would be the general commitment, Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg searched out the field cleric, and mentioned the holy observances in light of the fact that, as he told his associate, anything can occur amid a fight. Despite the fact that Ostrach had been a hard-battled fight, at Engen and Stockach, the Austrian and French powers were unquestionably increasingly thought—more men in a littler space—than they had been at Ostrach, where the French powers specifically had been extended meagerly on a long queue from Lake Constance to north of the Danube. At Stockach, besides, Jourdan had every one of his troops under his immediate control, with the conceivable exemption of Dominique Vandamme, who was moving his little power of mounted force and light infantry into position to endeavor a flanking activity on the extreme right Austrian flank. 

Throughout the fight, Jourdan's powers should participate in synchronous assaults on the left, focus and right of the Austrian line. On the French right, Souham's and Ferino's Corps met with solid obstruction and were ceased; on the French left, Lefebvre's troops accused of such power that the Austrians were pushed back. Having halted Souham's and Ferino's attack, Charles had troops accessible to counter Lefebvre's power. By then, Vandamme's men moved vigorously. Since Souham's attack at the inside had been slowed down, Charles still had enough men to turn some portion of his power to battle this new danger, yet the Austrians were hard squeezed and the activity incensed. At a certain point, Charles endeavored to lead his eight units of Hungarian grenadiers without hesitation, to the frighten of the old fighters. Fürstenberg apparently said that while he lived, he would not leave this post (at the leader of the grenadiers) and the Archduke ought not descent and battle. As Fürstenberg drove the Hungarian grenadiers into the fight, he was chopped somewhere near a canister and case shot utilized by the French. In spite of the fact that he was taken alive away the field, he kicked the bucket very quickly. Charles at last led his grenadiers into fight, and supposedly his own dauntlessness mobilized his troops to push back the French. After the fight, somebody evacuated Fürstenberg's wedding band and returned it to his better half in Prague, with updates on his passing; Fürstenberg was covered at the combat zone burial ground in Stockach, and his cousin raised a little landmark there, however in 1857, his body was moved to the family graveyard, "Maria Hof" at Neudingen, close Donaueschingen. 

Upon the demise of Prosper Ferdinand, Count Fürstenberg, in the War of the Spanish Succession, in 1704 the Fürstenberg legacy was separated between the tally's two most youthful children, Joseph Wilhelm Ernst and Wilhelm Egon; the oldest child was a minister. The group of Fürstenberg was raised to regal status 2 February 1716, with the height of Joseph Wilhelm Ernst, as the main Prince ("Fürst") of Fürstenberg (German: "Fürst zu Fürstenberg"). The main ruler had three children, Joseph Wenzel Johann Nepomuk (1728– 1783), Karl Borromäus Egon (1729– 1787), and Prosper Maria, who kicked the bucket in early stages. The title went through the line of the primary child, Joseph Wenzel Johann Nepomuk (as second sovereign), to his child Joseph Maria Benedikt Karl (third ruler, who passed on in 1796) and after that to another child of the second ruler, Karl Joachim Aloys (fourth sovereign). The last child of Joseph Wilhelm Ernst passed on in 1803 without male issue. Therefore, the title go to the male line of first sovereign's second child. This child, Karl Borromäus Egon, had kicked the bucket in 1787. 

Karl Borromäus Egon's most established child, Joseph Maria Wenzel (16 August 1754 – 14 July 1759), passed on as a little youngster. The second child, Philipp Nerius Maria (Prague, 21 October 1755 – 5 June 1790), wedded in 1779 to his first cousin, Josepha Johanna Benedikta von Fürstenberg (sister of the third and fourth sovereigns), at Donaueschingen. Just a single of their children endure adolescence, yet passed on at 15 years old years. Different offspring of this second child were all little girls, and subsequently not qualified to acquire the title Prince of Fürstenberg. Thusly, the title decayed to the agnatic male relatives of Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg. 

In 1803, two of Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg's youngsters were all the while living. Karl Egon, as the enduring child, acquired the title Prince of Fürstenberg; he and his oldest sister lived into adulthood and created families. 

Offspring of Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg and Elizabeth, Princess of Thurn und Taxis, were: 

<br>