John Treloar (historical center manager) 

John Linton Treloar, OBE (10 December 1894 – 28 January 1952) was an Australian chronicler and the second chief of the Australian War Memorial (AWM). Amid World War I he served in a few staff jobs and later headed the First Australian Imperial Force's (AIF) record-keeping unit. From 1920 Treloar assumed a critical job in setting up the AWM as its chief. He headed an Australian Government division amid the main long periods of World War II, and spent the rest of the war responsible for the Australian military's history segment. Treloar came back to the AWM in 1946, and proceeded as its executive until his demise. 

Treloar's vocation was focussed on the Australian military and its history. Before World War I he filled in as an agent in the Department of Defense and, subsequent to volunteering for the AIF in 1914, framed piece of the Australian Army officer Brudenell White's staff for the majority of the war's first years. He was selected authority of the Australian War Records Section (AWRS) in 1917. In this position, he improved the AIF's records and gathered a substantial number of ancient rarities for later presentation in Australia. Treloar was designated the chief of what in the long run turned into the AWM in 1920, and was a key figure in setting up the Memorial and raising assets for its lasting structure in Canberra. He left the AWM at the episode of World War II to lead the Australian Government's Department of Information, however was adequately sidelined for quite a bit of 1940. In mid 1941 he was selected to direction the Australian's Military History and Information Section with comparative duties to those he had held amid World War I. He endeavored to mediate in the administration of the AWM amid his nonattendance, be that as it may, to the expanding dissatisfaction of its acting chief. Treloar worked seriously in the entirety of his jobs and endured times of sick wellbeing accordingly. Following the war, he came back to the Memorial in 1946 yet his execution weakened after some time, perhaps because of depletion. He kicked the bucket in January 1952. 

Treloar keeps on being viewed as a critical figure in Australian military history. His key accomplishments are viewed as social affair and characterizing Australia's records of the world wars and effectively setting up the AWM. The road behind the Memorial and its primary stockpiling attach were named in Treloar's respect following his demise. 

Treloar was conceived in Melbourne on 10 December 1894. His dad was a business agent for Carlton and United Breweries and his mom was an exacting Methodist. Treloar was taught at Albert Park State School and turned into a prepared Sunday teacher. He was not ready to go to college, yet looked for self-instruction in Melbourne's historical centers and libraries. Treloar likewise took an interest in his school's cadet unit, and trusted that the military offered a way to pursue his aspiration for a vocation in a field other than private venture. He was additionally a skilled footballer, cricket player, and competitor and was welcome to prepare with the South Melbourne Football Club. He accepted his dad's recommendation to hold up until he was 21 preceding playing senior diversions, in any case, and rather accepted a position with the Department of Defense after he left school in 1911. In this position he filled in as a representative for Brudenell White, who was later a main Australian staff officer of World War I and the authority of the Australian Army amid the early long stretches of World War II. 

On 16 August 1914, not long after the flare-up of World War I, Treloar enrolled in the First Australian Imperial Force (AIF) and turned into a staff sergeant working for White in the home office of the 1st Division. He arrived at Anzac Cove with the remainder of the 1st Division's Headquarters amid the morning of 25 April 1915, and along these lines took an interest in the Gallipoli Campaign. Treloar's obligations were primarily administrative, and included composing reports, requests and dispatches from senior officers. He as often as possible worked from 7 am to midnight, and this negatively affected his wellbeing. He contracted typhoid in late August, and was cleared to Egypt on 4 September. Treloar verged on kicking the bucket from this sickness, and was come back to Australia to recover. He touched base in Melbourne on 4 December 1915. Amid his recuperation, Treloar continued a pre-war kinship with Clarissa Aldridge and the couple ended up connected. Treloar's more seasoned sibling William likewise enrolled in the AIF amid April 1915, and was one of only a handful couple of individuals from the Mesopotamian Half Flight to endure bondage subsequent to being caught by Turkish powers. 

When he recuperated his wellbeing, Treloar came back to the military. An endeavor to rejoin Brudenell White's staff was fruitless, and he rather was presented on the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) with the position of lieutenant. In February 1916, Treloar was doled out to No. 1 Squadron AFC in Egypt and filled in as its hardware officer until July 1916, when he was exchanged to France to turn into White's private assistant in the home office of I Anzac Corps. At the season of the Battle of Pozières in late July Treloar was accountable for the corps base camp's Central Registry, which was in charge of correspondences inside the home office just as circulating requests to its subordinate units. Amid his staff jobs Treloar picked up a decent comprehension of military record-keeping. In May 1917, he was chosen by White to order the recently settled Australian War Records Section (AWRS), and was elevated to the position of commander. At the time he knew nothing of the Section's job, and was unfit to discover any data about it. 

Treloar accepted order of the AWRS on 16 May 1917. As of now the Section contained four enrolled warriors and consumed two rooms in the British Public Record Office's (PRO) working in London. Set up upon the encouraging of the official Australian war journalist Charles Bean, the unit was in charge of social event records to fill in as source material for the official chronicles that should have been composed after the war. At this stage Australia did not have a national file or open records office, and the AWRS was the principal association set up to safeguard any Commonwealth Government records. 

Treloar's first test was to improve the nature of the war journals kept by AIF units. These journals were intended to be kept up by every component of the AIF as a record of its exercises for later use by history specialists, yet at the time most units recorded couple of subtleties. To this end, Treloar met with a large number of the officers in charge of units' war journals and habitually given composed counsel and criticism on the nature of the records submitted to the Section; these strategies had recently been utilized by the Canadian military. Treloar additionally looked to persuade significant work force by exhibiting that the journals were esteemed and would be vital in guaranteeing that their unit got acknowledgment for its accomplishments after the war. In August 1917 the AWRS extended its exercises to incorporate gathering ancient rarities from the French front lines. Its errands expanded further in September when it took over duty regarding managing the official war craftsmen just as creating and tracking non-official productions, for example, regimental magazines. Singular officers were urged to contribute antiquities and records, and the AWRS gave historical center names to battle units to urge them to record the criticalness and inceptions of things they submitted. The AWRS built up field workplaces in France and Egypt, and achieved a quality of around 600 officers and regular folks in November 1918. From November 1917 until August 1918 the war journalist Henry Gullett instructed the AWRS subsection in Cairo; in this job he revealed legitimately to Treloar. Because of the AWRS' development, in March 1918 its central command moved from the PRO structure to a bigger office on Horseferry Road inverse the fundamental workplaces of the AIF Administrative Headquarters. 

As leader of the AWRS, Treloar worked energetically and now and again must be requested to take occasions. He revealed to Bean that he was inspired "to accomplish something extremely advantageous for Australia" by uniting the records covering Australia's job in the war. He effectively sought after records and antiquities covering a wide scope of the AIF's exercises. While Bean was inspired by Treloar's accomplishments, he trusted that the young fellow was propelling himself excessively hard and was in risk of a breakdown. In spite of the fact that they shared facilities in London for a period in 1918, the two men were not close. Treloar was named a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) on 3 June 1918 for "administrations regarding the war" and was elevated to study December 1918. While this advancement perceived his accomplishments as authority of the AWRS, it was for the most part planned to improve his status when he went to gatherings of the War Trophies Commission; the British agent on this commission was a noteworthy general. Treloar organized Clarissa Aldridge to go to Britain in 1918, and they were hitched in London on 5 November. The couple in the end had two little girls and two children. 

Following the war, Treloar kept on sorting out the records the AWRS had gathered. In the months after the war the Section was doled out a substantial number of troopers to help with this assignment. The AWRS likewise kept on social occasion antiquities, and by February 1919 it had a gathering of more than 25,000 things; Treloar viewed this as "a great accumulation" yet at the same time not adequate. He looked to gather records and memorabilia significant to all parts of Australia's involvement in World War I, including material concerning the most exceedingly awful parts of the Australian military. In doing as such, Treloar intentionally did not make decisions on the authentic estimation of the records and things submitted to the AWRS as he trusted that this undertaking ought to be left to other people. On 3 June 1919 he was delegated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE), for "significant administrations rendered regarding the war". Treloar touched base back in Australia on 18 July 1919. 

The substantial amount of relics and records which the AWRS had assembled were likewise come back to Australia in 1919, however chip away at sorting out them into a chronicle was not finished until 1932. The Australian War Museum was shaped in 1919 based on the Section's accumulation, and Treloar joined the Museum at some phase amid the year. Henry Gullett was selected the War Museum's first executive on 11 August 1919 after Bean turned down the position with the goal that he could concentrate on altering and composing the "Official History of Australia in the War of 1914– 1918". Treloar was delegated the Museum's agent chief on a similar date. Bean, Gullet and Treloar were along these lines the key figures in the foundation of the AWM. 

Treloar turned into the acting executive of the Australian War Museum in 1920 after Gullett left the position and moved toward becoming leader of the Australian Immigration Bureau. Neck later composed the official history of Australia's contribution in the Sinai and Palestine Campaign. Treloar was 26 years old at the time he moved toward becoming executive of the Museum and was in charge of the troublesome errand of setting up the foundation. Somewhere in the range of 1920 and 1922 he by and by attempted a significant part of the work related with building up the Museum's first real show, which opened in Melbourne's Royal Exhibition Building on Anzac Day 1922. Amid this period the staff of the Australian War Museum were likewise in charge of giving regulatory help to a program to appropriate caught German gear as war trophies to the Australian states. Treloar was an individual from the board of trustees directing this exertion, and the related authoritative burden verged on overpowering him. 

Treloar kept on growing the Australian War Museum's accumulations amid the 1920s. For example, in 1921 he kept in touch with all the Australian Victoria Cross beneficiaries of World War I or their families to ask that they give their wartime journals or other individual things. The Museum likewise effectively looked for the wartime journals and letters composed by different individuals from the AIF; Treloar trusted that these records would enable a mental report to be directed on the men who had joined the AIF. Taking up a thought of Bean's, Treloar administered the advancement of a few dioramas delineating key Australian skirmishes of the war and connected with expert specialists to make the models. A few of the dioramas delivered during the 1920s stay in plain view in the AWM and are among its most well known shows. Treloar likewise directed the finish of the craftsmanships which had been authorized from the official war specialists amid World War I and, in a joint effort with Bean, requested extra works. The foundation was renamed the "Australian War Memorial Museum" in 1923, probably on the recommendation of Treloar. 

Amid its initial years the AWM existed in a parlous state, and Treloar raised assets and pushed development of a lasting structure to house its records and accumulation of ancient rarities. Treloar and Bean persuaded the Museum's administering board of trustees that it expected to raise reserves so the Museum was not by any stretch of the imagination reliant on Government subsidizing for its perpetual structure. To this end, Treloar set up a business segment in the Museum in 1921 and enlisted sales reps to sell books, proliferations of works of art and photos just as surplus things from the accumulation, for example, German head protectors and rifle cartridges. The Government was moderate to focus on structure a perpetual home for the Museum's accumulation, be that as it may, and Treloar considered leaving in July 1922 to take up a situation in the Department of Immigration. He at last ruled against doing as such, in any case. In mid-1923 he was incidentally discharged from the Museum and headed out to London as the secretary of Australia's commitment to the British Empire Exhibition. He came back to Australia in mid 1925. Amid Treloar's nonattendance the Museum moved to Sydney, where its gathering was housed in the Sydney Exhibition Building from April 1925. The foundation's title was likewise disentangled to the "Australian War Memorial" amid this year, and following the section of the "Australian War Memorial Act" by the Parliament of Australia in September was formally settled as the national remembrance to the Australians executed amid World War I. This demonstration indicated that the Memorial would be directed by a twelve-man Board of Management whose individuals were named by the Governor General of Australia. Treolar answered to this board, yet it by and large enabled him to run the Memorial as he saw fit. Treloar headed out to London again in 1927 to chip away at the British Empire Exhibition planned for that year, however returned following a couple of months when it was dropped. On 8 December 1927 Treloar and the remainder of the War Memorial's staff were designated forever to their situations; before this date they had been utilized under brief game plans and Treloar had actually been an individual from the Army's central station. Treloar took a concise time away in 1931 to help sort out the Empire Exhibition that was gotten ready for Sydney. 

The development of a changeless structure for the Memorial was postponed by the Great Depression. In January 1924 the Commonwealth Government's Cabinet endorsed a proposition to develop the War Memorial at the foot of Mount Ainslie in Canberra. A compositional challenge was along these lines held, and Treloar was in charge of choosing the last plans to be considered after the passing judgment on board had decreased the quantity of sections from 69 to 29. None of these structures met all the fundamental criteria, however two of the engineers in charge of very put plans consented to team up to deliver a last plan. Plans for the Memorial building were endorsed by the Commonwealth Parliament in 1928, however assets for development work were not accessible because of the effect of the Great Depression. Work at long last started on the structure in 1933, and it was finished in 1941. Until 1935, Treloar and the Memorial's regulatory staff were situated in Melbourne while the gathering was part among Sydney and Melbourne. In that year, Treloar, alongside 24 other Memorial staff, moved into the uncompleted structure in Canberra and the Memorial in Sydney was shut to empower the accumulation to be migrated. 

Treloar kept on looking for business chances to raise assets for the Memorial amid the 1930s. Just as selling manuals, proliferations of works of art and surplus things, the Memorial collected generous measures of cash from setting an affirmation charge on Will Longstaff's artwork "Menin Gate at Midnight" when it went in plain view in 1929. This sketch demonstrated so well known that Treloar connected with ex-servicemen to pitch proliferations of it way to entryway. In 1931 Treloar guaranteed that the Memorial took over duty regarding the production and dispersion of the "Official History of Australia in the War of 1914– 1918" when the undertaking endured money related challenges because of poor deals. As deals kept on being moderate, Treloar effectively elevated the arrangement to RSL branches and individuals from the Australian Public Service; a plan he created in which local officials obtained the books through customary pay conclusions demonstrated especially fruitful. Treloar likewise connected more sales reps to pitch the arrangement to family units. These endeavors prompted a substantial increment in deals, and Bean commented that not just had Treloar been more effective in selling the books than Angus and Robertson, its unique distributer, however that "he would show improvement over [the office store] David Jones selling shirts". This business work was notwithstanding Treloar's ordinary obligations as the Memorial's executive, and he got an honorarium for it. 

Treloar would ordinarily labor for six days every week, and regularly remained until late during the evening. As per his Methodist convictions, he didn't deal with Sundays. He kept on growing the Memorial's accumulations by urging people to give letters and journals to enhance the official records. Treloar likewise set an accentuation on protecting the accumulation; in 1933 he by and by researched the burglary of the German cruiser "Emden's" chime from the Memorial in Sydney after the New South Wales Police severed its examination. With Treloar's help the ringer was recouped soon thereafter. In May 1937 Treloar was among the senior community workers who were granted a Coronation Medal to stamp King George VI's promotion to the royal position. In spite of his eagerness, Treloar wound up disappointed by the rehashed postponements in opening the Memorial amid the 1930s and trusted that it would not be as effective as he had trusted. Therefore, he started effectively searching for another profession toward the finish of 1938, beginning by applying to be the secretary of the Melbourne Cricket Club. 

In the blink of an eye before the episode of World War II Treloar kept in touch with the individuals from the AWM's board to with recommendations for how the Memorial ought to react to another significant war. This letter proposed that if threats happened, the Memorial ought to suspend the vast majority of its exercises and reorient its concentration to turn into a remembrance to every one of the wars in which Australia had partaken as opposed to simply World War I. He further suggested that the Memorial building be utilized as a store and for government workplaces amid the war, and that its staff set up a war records area like the AWRS. These proposition "ran counter to the sum total of what that had been arranged in the former years" and were dismissed by the AWM board in October 1939. The board decided, be that as it may, to offer the Department of Defense help with gathering records and relics. In like manner, work proceeded on the Memorial all through World War II, however in February 1941 the board chose to stretch out its degree to incorporate the new war. 

Treloar left his situation at the Memorial for the span of World War II. In September 1939 Treloar's dear companion Henry Gullett, who at the time was the Minister for Information, selected him the debut secretary of the Department of Information (DOI). The DOI was the first of 17 new Australian Government offices to be set up amid the war, and was in charge of both restriction and scattering government promulgation. Treloar ran the office in accordance with customary Australian Public Service rehearses and found a way to keep the its work from being politicized. To accomplish this, he actualized tight inward powers over the DOI's methodology and data scattering capacities and educated subordinates to not safeguard the administration from analysis. He remained the departmental secretary after Gullett was moved to an alternate service in March 1940, however lost status when Keith Murdoch was selected to the new position of Director-General of Information in June that year. Murdoch's arrangement was a piece of an administration crusade to create open help for expanded weapons creation following the fall of France, and he put a more grounded accentuation on producing publicity. Treloar was harried by the utilization of the DOI's picture takers to deliver exposure photos rather than pictures with recorded esteem. Neck was executed in the Canberra air debacle on 13 August 1940. Treloar recovered full control of the DOI in December that year when Murdoch surrendered, however its picture takers were still chiefly entrusted with taking exposure photographs. 

Sooner or later in 1940 or mid 1941, Treloar mentioned that he be selected to direction the War Records Section, which shaped piece of the Second Australian Imperial Force's authoritative home office. The Cabinet consented to this amid February 1941. Treloar's obligations in this job were to arrange and control the accumulation of material to be incorporated into the AWM just as to oversee the official war specialists and picture takers; these obligations were like those he and Bean had attempted amid World War I. While Treloar was delegated to the position of lieutenant colonel, he essentially worked for the AWM, which repaid the Army for his pay and remittances. This game plan gave Treloar less impact with the Army than he had delighted in as leader of the AWRS amid World War I. General Thomas Blamey, the administrator of the AIF, hence redesignated the War Records Section the Military History and Information Section (MHIS) in light of the fact that its unique name had not enough depicted the unit's job. As opposed to the DOI's purposeful publicity exercises, the MHIS concentrated on gathering records, pictures and things that would be valuable to students of history. 

In the wake of accepting his new position, Treloar was sent to AIF Headquarters in the Middle East where Australian powers were occupied with the North African Campaign. While on the way to the Middle East he visited Malaya. Conditions in North Africa demonstrated more testing than those in World War I, be that as it may, as the battle was quick moving and the Australian troops felt less inspiration to gather curios than those of the First AIF. Treloar was upheld by a little staff, however dropped out with his second in direction who addressed both how he controlled the unit and his own effectiveness. He additionally came up short on a supporter in the AIF and was incapacitated by his generally junior position. Because of his nonappearance from the Memorial, Treloar had just constrained contribution to the plan of its displays and he was unfit to go to its official opening in November 1941. 

Following the episode of the Pacific War in December 1941, most components of the AIF were come back to Australia. While MHIS groups went with the sixth and seventh Divisions when they withdrew the Middle East in mid 1942, Treloar stayed in Egypt until May that year as he was at first unfit to verify space on board dispatches for the Section's broad accumulations. He in the long run achieved Australia in mid-1942 and was situated in Melbourne for the rest of the war. At the time, the bleeding edge of the Pacific War was in the islands just toward the north of Australia. As Treloar contended in a letter to Blamey, Australia had the "opportunity and duty to give the world the most almost total and legitimate 'source' record" of the battling. Blamey acknowledged this view, and in July 1942, the MHIS was renamed the Military History Section (MHS) in acknowledgment of its accentuation on military history as opposed to purposeful publicity. On 26 June 1942 Treloar got a Mention in Despatches for his administration in October 1941. 

The MHS proceeded with the MHIS' job of encouraging the generation of superb paper records and photos of the war and gathering the subsequent archives and pictures. The segment had two field groups in April 1943 (one in Australia and the other in New Guinea), and was extended to nine groups before the finish of 1944. Treloar likewise centered around the official war craftsman program, and prevailing with regards to encouraging a fantastic gathering from a scope of aesthetic styles. He put a generally low accentuation on gathering ancient rarities, be that as it may, and did not visit New Guinea despite the fact that it was the principle Australian war zone for the vast majority of the Pacific War. This concerned Bean, who composed an unanswered letter to Treloar in July 1943 offering to help sort out the accumulation of more things. In August 1943 Treloar's child Ian was accounted for missing while at the same time filling in as a Royal Australian Air Force warrant officer joined to the Royal Air Force. It was resolved after the war that he had been murdered in real life. Treloar's other child, Alan, served in the Second AIF and won a Rhodes Scholarship after the war. 

By mid 1944 Treloar was exhausted and miserable to be in Melbourne rather than at the Memorial. He was likewise awkward with the manner by which Bean and the AWM's acting chief Arthur Bazley were running the Memorial in his nonappearance, and tried to mediate in its administration. This level of mediation baffled Bazley, and prompted expanding strife between the two men who had cooperated since 1917. Their relationship intensified in 1945, and the Memorial's board was in the long run compelled to make a decision on what Bazley and Treloar's duties were. In 1946, Bazley left the Memorial to take a vocation in the Department of Immigration because of proceeding with strains with Treloar. 

One of Treloar's obligations all through a significant part of the war was to gather and alter administration yearly books, which were assemblages of articles composed by military work force and distributed by the AWM. He initially proposed this in mid-1941 as a likeness "The Anzac Book", which was a gathering of stories composed by Australian fighters amid the Gallipoli Campaign. The first of these books, entitled "Dynamic Service", was printed amid late 1941 and mid 1942 and in the end sold 138,208 duplicates. Seventeen administration yearly books were created amid and after the war, with consolidated offers of 1,907,446 duplicates. These books were sold at a benefit and earned the Memorial a lot of cash. Treloar's publication job went ahead top of his full-time obligations as leader of the MHS and was one of the primary driver of his depletion and tension in the last long periods of the war. 

Treloar came back to the AWM on 2 September 1946 and was formally released from the Army in 1947. At the time he trusted he was experiencing terrible wellbeing, yet needed to continue his work at the Memorial instead of enter medical clinic. While Clarissa Treloar stayed in Melbourne, their little girl Dawn moved to Canberra and took up a situation in the Memorial's library. Treloar kept on working extended periods of time in the years after the war. He lived in a cubby opening alongside his office and marked the participation book while strolling from bed to his work area. Bean later asserted that Treloar had by and by dealt with all zones of the Memorial other than its library. While Dawn furnished him with organization, relatives and AWM staff trusted that Treloar was forlorn and did not have a public activity. His letters to the official specialists connected by the AWM were as often as possible loose, be that as it may, and he moved toward becoming companions with Leslie Bowles and William Dargie. While Treloar was a nondrinker and non-smoker, he periodically imparted wine and cigarettes to Dargie. 

The fundamental difficulties for the Memorial in the post-war years were incorporating the World War II accumulations with those from World War I and verifying subsidizing to extend its structure. Treloar did not look to expand the Memorial's possessions of World War II ancient rarities past supporting the fruition of works charged from the official war craftsmen. Therefore, the Memorial's gathering of World War II memorabilia was mediocre compared to that amassed amid and after World War I, and a considerable lot of its best-referred to things, for example, the plane G for George were procured as gifts from the Government instead of through Treloar's endeavors. It was not until October 1948 that the Government consented to support an extension of the AWM in the wake of campaigning by Treloar and the Memorial's board. 

Treloar experienced troubles dealing with the Memorial and its staff in the years after World War II. While the AWM had couple of troubles selecting staff, it attempted to hold them because of lodging deficiencies in Canberra and the manner by which the Memorial was run. Treloar's working style added to these issues; in spite of the fact that he was actually cordial and checked out the prosperity of his representatives, he didn't assign errands and it was troublesome for AWM staff to meet with him face to face to examine their duties. This made it troublesome for staff to finish dire errands, and added to delays in key undertakings, for example, the development of the Memorial's Hall of Memory. Tom Hungerford, who worked for the AWM somewhere in the range of 1948 and 1949, wrote in his journals that Treloar was "most devoted, most fantastically dedicated, most unfailingly kind and generally inadequate". Treloar progressively fixated on moderately minor subtleties and picked up a notoriety for hesitation. 

Treloar's work designs negatively affected his wellbeing, and the weakening in his execution after 1946 was conceivably the consequence of depletion. Regardless of this, the Memorial's board did not intercede in the establishment's administration and permitted Treloar to stay in his position. In January 1952, Dawn discovered him sick in bed subsequent to seeing that he had not marked the participation book. Treloar was in this way admitted to the Canberra Community Hospital where he passed on 28 January because of an intestinal discharge. His memorial service was held two days after the fact at Reid Methodist Church in Canberra, and he was thusly covered in the returned warriors area of Woden Cemetery. 

Treloar's passing left the AWM in a condition of emergency. Because of his nearby command over the Memorial, none of its staff realized what his arrangements had been and it was hazy how to proceed with key assignments, for example, finishing the Roll of Honor, ordering and showing things gathered amid World War II and dealing with the Memorial's funds. Also, two fifths of the AWM's staff positions were empty as Treloar had postponed filling these opportunities. Jim McGrath, who had been the Memorial's Assistant Director (Administration) since May 1951, ended up acting chief when Treloar was hospitalized and was affirmed in this situation on 15 May 1952; Bazley had additionally connected for this employment yet lost to McGrath notwithstanding having Bean's help. Under the heading of Bean, who had been delegated the Chairman of the Memorial's Board in June 1951, McGrath set up a council to create procedures for both finishing and further building up the Memorial. Bean likewise by and by checked on the Memorial's gathering of World War I antiques amid 1952 and 1953, and found that the register of these things was insufficient and it was impractical to find a large number of them. He credited this to the development of the gathering between Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra and the progressions of directorship amid periods in which Treloar was missing. 

Following his passing, Treloar was commended for the individual penances he had made to build up the AWM, just as for the high caliber of the Memorial. The Memorial's stockpiling and show attach at Mitchell, Australian Capital Territory, was in this manner named the Treloar Resource Center in Treloar's respect and a dedicatory plaque was situated outside the AWM's documented research focus until 1985. In 1956 the road behind the Memorial's principle building was named Treloar Crescent. What's more, the AWM named an allow it gave to scientists the 'John Treloar Grant'. 

Treloar keeps on being viewed as an imperative figure in Australian military history. "The Oxford Companion to Australian Military History" expresses that "there is little uncertainty that the Australian War Memorial would have foundered had it not been for Treloar's enthusiastic and caring works, which in all likelihood abbreviated his life" and that he was "Australia's first extraordinary gallery proficient". The accumulation of World War I records he sorted out is as yet utilized by students of history and scientists, and is named a "chronicled record of astounding point of interest and availability" in his Australian Dictionary of Biography passage. In 1993 Alan Treloar distributed the journal his dad had continued amid World War I.