Lightning (Final Fantasy) 

Claire Farron, better known by the codename , is an anecdotal character from Square Enix's "Last Fantasy" arrangement. She originally showed up as a playable character and hero in the pretending computer game "Last Fantasy XIII", in which she includes as an inhabitant of the counterfeit universe of Cocoon. After her sister Serah is announced a foe of Cocoon, Lightning endeavors to spare her. She and others are then picked by the fal'Cie, a separated race of mythical beings who rule the universes of Gran Pulse and Cocoon, to demolish Cocoon. Lightning returns as a supporting character in "Definite Fantasy XIII-2", going about as defender of the Goddess Etro. She is the sole playable character in "", wherein she embarks to spare her reality, which is bound to finish in thirteen days. Outside the "XIII" arrangement, Lightning has been included in different "Last Fantasy" recreations and had appearance appearances in other computer games. 

Lightning was made by Motomu Toriyama, the executive and situation author of "XIII", and planned by Tetsuya Nomura, a customary character craftsman for the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. Their thought was to make a solid female hero who was proficient at battle and less ladylike than past "Definite Fantasy" courageous women. Parts of her initial plan and identity were later changed, or exchanged to different characters. After "XIII", Lightning's structure was changed a few times to mirror her job and advancement in each diversion, especially in "Lightning Returns". Her name in Japanese, , was initially a placeholder. Due to its similitude to the name of a cake, her first name was changed to "Claire" in different nations. 

Lightning has gotten blended analysis from pundits—quite a bit of it identifying with her chilly identity, which was contrasted with that of "Conclusive Fantasy VII's" hero Cloud Strife. She was scrutinized for her relative nonattendance in "XIII-2". Her job in "Lightning Returns" met with blended gathering: a few pundits considered her to be immature and unlikable, while others discovered her preferable created and increasingly human over in past amusements. Lightning later showed up on records, assembled by computer game productions, of the best characters in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement and in computer games overall. She has been gotten positively in surveys of general assessment by "Famitsu", Square Enix, and different associations. 

Lightning was made by Motomu Toriyama, the executive of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII". Her character configuration was by normal "Last Fantasy" craftsman Tetsuya Nomura, who had recently filled in as the character architect for "Definite Fantasy VIII" and "X". Nomura has said that various plans—including some by staff individuals other than himself—were considered for Lightning, while Toriyama has guaranteed that Nomura's first draft "looked so cool and solid that there was no requirement for any retakes." Because of the graphical limits of "Definite Fantasy XIII"s planned stages, Nomura had the capacity to incorporate unquestionably more detail in Lightning's structure than in his past character structures, for example, her cape and facial highlights. This required undeniably more exertion on his part. Remarking on an early type of her plan, Nomura clarified that she is basically a "cool character", in that she is not kidding and unforgiving. Be that as it may, he couldn't make the character unreasonably manly because of a paranoid fear of losing player sympathy. Attributes from prior variants of the plan included light or silver hair and Asian-looking facial highlights. Her last workmanship was made less Asian-looking than these early drafts and her hair shading changed to pink, while Hope Estheim was given silver hair. Lightning's last hair shading and hairdo were expected to mirror her womanliness, and to offset her athletic body. Making her limited time CG render was genuinely simple because of the quantity of subtleties accessible concerning her. 

Lightning's genuine name is Claire Farron in English and in Japanese. Amid the beginning periods of generation, Lightning's genuine name was Averia: "Eclair" was utilized to keep this name mystery, yet it was in the end picked as her official name. Her English name, Claire, was picked on the grounds that the name "Eclair" is intently connected with a kind of cake. The name "Lightning" was not picked by Nomura but rather by different individuals from the improvement group: Nomura had needed to desert the convention of naming "Last Fantasy" heroes after climate occasions, and was shocked by the decision. A few models of Lightning's home were built for "XIII" yet were expelled because of space issues. Her weapon in "XIII", the Blazefire Saber (known as in the Japanese form) was intended to reflect the capacity of the diversion's brought beasts, the Eidolons, to change into creature , human-and vehicle-like shapes. The diversion's form of Odin, Lightning's Eidolon and a common gathered beast in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement, was proposed to introduce Lightning as a knight on horseback. He was composed as a dad figure for Lightning. In later recreations in the "XIII" arrangement, Odin was formed into a companion to whom Lightning could demonstrate her more profound emotions. Daisuke Watanabe, while composing the content for "XIII", gave specific consideration to fleshing out Lightning's non-sentimental association with Snow Villiers and to demonstrating her advancement as an individual while ensuring Hope. 

Because of worldwide interest and the advancement staff's craving to encourage Lightning's character, improvement started for a continuation of "XIII". The amusement handles the subject of in the case of Lightning is cheerful after the occasions of "XIII". Indeed, even before a spin-off was greenlit, Toriyama had needed to make a really upbeat consummation for the character. Lightning's outfit in "XIII-2" was planned by Isamu Kamikokuryo. He worked from an unpleasant sketch by Nomura of how Lightning ought to show up. Nomura "contended energetically" to make the draft structure. The outfit was revamped a few times by Kamikokuryo: a qipao and a sci-fi enlivened structure were both disposed of in light of the fact that they conflicted with the amusement's climate. The last plan was motivated by the valkyries of Norse folklore. The outfit was intended to mirror nature around Lightning. It includes a quill theme to speak to Lightning's light, sensitive side and her developing forces. She was delineated as having risen above her human cutoff points, making it hard to portray her as an ordinary individual. 

Her outfit in "Lightning Returns" was structured by Nomura. He was advised by Toriyama to make something illustrative of her last fight, with "quality" as the primary rule. The resultant outfit, which looks like a cowhide bodysuit, has spinal section designs on its sleeves and is essentially hued red and white. Nomura later remarked that he felt "a solid response inside [himself]" while making Lightning's last look. Nomura's structure was Kamikokuryo's most loved out of the numerous outfits made for the character. Her different outfits for the diversion were structured by Kamikokuryo, Toshiyuki Itahana, and Toshitaka Matsuda: huge numbers of them drew motivation from the character plans of standard "Last Fantasy" craftsman Yoshitaka Amano. Notwithstanding the new ensembles, Lightning's in-amusement demonstrate was modified starting from the earliest stage. Her bosoms were developed and a few of her outfits were intended to introduce her in a progressively ladylike manner. For the diversion's epilog, Toriyama wanted for Lightning to show up in an ordinary setting and typical garments. The group thought about completion the amusement with Lightning either meeting or talking with her partners, however Toriyama wished the story to start and finish with her alone. He has guaranteed that Lightning, with her performance job in "Lightning Returns", was the "Last Fantasy" arrangement's "first female hero". 

Toriyama needed Lightning to be a sort of female character already concealed in "Definite Fantasy" diversions, one with a competitor's body and a less ladylike nature. His rule to Nomura was to make her solid, delightful, and "like a female variant of Cloud Strife from "Conclusive Fantasy VII"". Remarking on the likeness, Toriyama expressed that the similitudes between the characters just stretch out to their chilly identities and their military foundations, and that something else "Lightning truly [is] her very own individual." Nomura looked at the two without further ado before the Japanese arrival of "Lightning Returns", saying that he had "wanted for her to be deliberately created and adored for quite a while, similar to Cloud." Toriyama has said that, among the characters he had been associated with making, Lightning was his most loved female character from a computer game, close by Yuna from "Conclusive Fantasy X" and Yoyo from "Bahamut Lagoon". 

As opposed to different characters in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement, whose identity characteristics were formed to fit a story, Toriyama imagined Lightning's essential identity before "XIII"s account had been settled. She has a cool mien, which was intended to conflict in an engaging route with Snow's bluntness. Nomura remarked that Lightning has "a solid component of secret about her character". She initially had a coy viewpoint to her identity, which was exchanged to Oerba Yun Fang when Fang was changed from male to female. For "Lightning Returns", the engineers needed to depict Lightning in a few distinct lights, rather than her static identities in earlier appearances. One of their most noteworthy needs was to make Lightning a character who had lost much in her life and become profoundly powerless therefore. Fashioner Yuji Abe expounded that, due to her misfortunes and freshly discovered defenselessness, Lightning appeared to be darker, marginally desensitized to her environment, and "like a manikin, similar to somebody who doesn't exactly have her genuine self inside." He explained that this impact indicates "the sort of powerlessness she has, and it's the point from which she begins to change a short time later." The choice to extend her identity thusly was initially recommended by Yoshinori Kitase, who was worried that Lightning's coolness in past diversions had made it troublesome for players to bond with her. 

Over her talking appearances, Lightning is voiced by Ali Hillis in English and Maaya Sakamoto in Japanese. Sakamoto was awed by Lightning, whom she called "cold" and "solid". She was approached to depict Lightning's quality and to sell out the character's concealed vulnerabilities. She at first thought that it was weird to voice Lightning, as she was utilized to gentler jobs, for example, Aerith Gainsborough, a focal character in "Definite Fantasy VII" and its partner media. Remarking on the trouble of adjusting Lightning's portrayal as a lady and an expertly prepared warrior, Kitase noticed that Sakamoto's acting drew out Lightning's gentility. Hillis was given the job of Lightning subsequent to talking a couple of the character's lines amid tryout, and was then given a book about the "Last Fantasy XIII" universe, which she found a touch of "overpowering" when she read it. One of the difficulties Hillis confronted was recovering the feeling and vitality of Sakamoto's Japanese execution in the character's English interpretation. She endeavored to help the staff of the "XIII" amusements depict Lightning as a genuine individual: "I feel that was my fundamental need, to ensure that Lightning had each and every layer of her identity as an individual, a diversion character, however a genuine individual with layers and history and connections to each and every character in the game...even the Chocobo!" Over the course of the "XIII" set of three, Hillis felt that Lightning turns into "somewhat more snide ... somewhat more solidified to everything that is going on around her and ... [evolves] into a genuine warrior". 

Lightning, alongside her sister Serah, is an occupant of Cocoon, a counterfeit world floating over the planet Gran Pulse. Every one of these districts is constrained by a group of the fal'Cie, a race of diving beings whose two groups, the "Sanctum" populace on Cocoon and the "Beat" fal'Cie from Gran Pulse, are antagonistic toward each other. In "Definite Fantasy XIII: Episode Zero: Promise", a novel set before the occasions of "XIII", it is uncovered that Lightning and Serah's folks kicked the bucket when their youngsters were youthful, and that Lightning made plans to turn into her sister's defender yet wound up disregarding her all the while. She develops to dislike Snow's sentimental association with Serah and the counter government exercises of his gathering NORA. Lightning finds past the point of no return that Serah has been marked as a l'Cie—a human reviled with enchanted forces and an errand to finish—by the Gran Pulse fal'Cie Anima: Lightning at first imagines that Serah is blaming her condition so as to wed Snow and pushes her away. At the point when Serah is taken prisoner by Anima, Lightning leaves from the administration as an individual from the Guardian Corps and volunteers herself for the Purge, a constrained movement of natives accepted to have come into contact with Anima, to spare her sister. 

In "Conclusive Fantasy XIII", Lightning, joined by Sazh Katzroy, achieves Anima alongside Snow, Hope and Oerba Dia Vanille, two enduring Purge ousts. When they discover Serah, she swings to gem. At that point Lightning and the gathering battle Anima and are set apart as l'Cie when PSICOM, Cocoon's primary military power, crushes Anima. Suspicious of Snow's purpose to spare her sister, Lightning relinquishes him and Serah, both of whom are then safeguarded by Oerba Yun Fang and a maverick Cocoon military power called the Cavalry. Part up from Sazh and Vanille, Lightning winds up going with Hope. Amid their time together, Lightning coincidentally brings Odin and unconsciously bolsters Hope's arrangement to kill Snow as she secures and tutors him. All through the diversion, Lightning battles to manage her temperament as a l'Cie, her annoyance at being made Cocoon's foe, and her blame at doubting Serah's story. In the wake of defeating these issues, she recognizes Snow's association with Serah and his confidence that they will reestablish her. When they execute the Sanctum fal'Cie Orphan to spare Cocoon, Lightning, Serah and the gathering aside from Vanille and Fang are permitted to come back to their ordinary lives as Vanille and Fang structure a precious stone column to prevent Cocoon from slamming into Gran Pulse. 

"Last Fantasy XIII: Episode I", a short novel set following "XIII", indicates Lightning uneasy about whether her fight is finished or not. She leaves to spare Fang and Vanille, however first gives her approval to Snow and Serah's marriage. In the long run, Lightning winds up got in a dead space, yet she chooses to continue pushing ahead. 

In "Conclusive Fantasy XIII-2", Lightning has vanished, and everything except Serah trust that she passed on with Vanille and Fang to spare Cocoon. In actuality, Lightning was conveyed to Valhalla, capital of the Unseen Realm controlled by the Goddess Etro, as an immediate consequence of Etro discharging her and the others from their destiny as l'Cie. These occasions had twisted time and deleted Lightning from history after Cocoon's fall. Planning to give penance for the passings she caused as a l'Cie, Lightning remains in Valhalla and shield the diminishing Etro from Caius Ballad, an interminable man with resentment against the goddess. Lightning in the end asks Noel Kreiss and Serah to help her prevent Caius from terminating time, which he intends to do by discharging "Disarray", an extraordinary vitality constrained by Etro, into the human world. Serah and Noel make a trip forward so as to fix twists in history brought about by Caius' impedance, and Serah in the long run bites the dust when history is reestablished. In the DLC scene "Memorial of the Goddess", Lightning is vanquished by Caius and loses trust subsequent to learning of her job in Serah's passing. Lightning is ameliorated by Serah's soul, who asks not to be overlooked. Vowing to save Serah's memory, Lightning swings to precious stone, which keeps her from being influenced when Etro's passing discharges tumult and consolidations the human and concealed domains together. 

In "", Lightning is resuscitated following 500 years by the god Bhunivelze. The world is set to finish in thirteen days, and Lightning is picked as the Savior, an otherworldly guide for humankind, which has stopped to age because of the impact of mayhem. As an end-result of Lightning's assistance, Serah will be restored. Supported by Hope, Lightning liberates her previous partners of their passionate weights, reunites with Odin as a white Chocobo, and every now and again runs into Lumina, the physical appearance of Lightning's stifled vulnerabilities. Lightning starts to question her humankind, and, when she discovers that Bhunivelze stole Serah's spirit and controlled Lightning's recollections, she intends to deceive him after he has wrapped up the new world. At the point when the apocalypse arrives, Lightning battles Bhunivelze, who needs to change mankind into his optimal picture and has been forming Lightning to turn into Etro's substitution. In spite of the fact that she is set up to satisfy her new job and surrender her human life, Lightning rather calls for help and acknowledge Lumina as a piece of herself. Everybody she has spared, including Serah, joins with her and thrashings Bhunivelze. Lightning at that point observers the formation of another universe, into which she runs with her partners and the spirits of humankind. In the epilog, she is seen heading out to rejoin with one of her companions. 

Past the "XIII" recreations, Lightning has showed up in a few turn offs inside the "Last Fantasy" establishment. In the battling diversion "Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy", Lightning is one of the warriors brought by the goddess Cosmos. She was intended to make a big appearance in "Dissidia Final Fantasy", yet the thought was rejected as "Definite Fantasy XIII" still couldn't seem to be discharged and Square Enix did not have any desire to uncover her capacities early. Amid "Dissidia 012", Lightning's gathering is faced by creatures called Manikins, which dispense lasting passing on those they rout, along these lines undermining the world's cycle of resurrection. She drives a campaign to the gateway from which the Manikins are developing, and the gathering penance their lives to close it. Lightning has three interchange furnishes in the amusement. She again showed up as a playable character in the 2015 arcade title, and its home comfort variant "Dissidia Final Fantasy NT". 

The character was included in a progression of extraordinary in "": Lightning and beasts from her reality showed up in the place where there is Eorzea while she was in precious stone stasis between "XIII-2" and "Lightning Returns". It is indicated that she was sent to Eorzea by Bhunivelze to sharpen her aptitudes in anticipation of future fights in her reality. After the occasions were finished, Lightning got together with the player one final time, saying that she was grateful for the time spent in Eorzea. As she was brought back to her reality, she requested that the player recall her time there. Players who took an interest in the occasions got rigging and outfits displayed after things, weapons and attire from the "XIII" diversions. Lightning additionally assumes a job as a partner in "Universe of Final Fantasy", showing up in her "Lightning Returns" outfit. Lightning was additionally included in both Japanese and worldwide variants of the versatile title "Mobius Final Fantasy" as a feature of a unique story occasion titled ""Lightning Resurrection"". 

In the beat diversion "Theatrhythm Final Fantasy" and its continuation "", Lightning is a playable character speaking to the "Last Fantasy XIII" recreations. She is highlighted, brandishing her "XIII-2" structure, in "Definite Fantasy Airborne Brigade". Lightning is a playable character in the versatile hybrid amusements "" and "Last Fantasy: Record Keeper", a fueled up character structure in "Definite Fantasy Explorers", a chibi figure in "Conclusive Fantasy in Itadaki Street Mobile", and a character card in "Definite Fantasy Artniks". Because of theory about her proceeded with job in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement in the wake of "Lightning Returns" discharge, Kitase elucidated in 2013 that she would show up in turn off titles, however that her job in the primary arrangement had finished. 

Outside the "Last Fantasy" establishment, Lightning highlights in a minigame in "Kingdom Hearts Re:coded", was a piece of a joint effort between the "Last Fantasy" arrangement and "Bewilder and Dragons" close by other built up arrangement characters, and forms of her outfit from "XIII" might be worn by hero Aya Brea in "The third Birthday" and a character from arcade shooter "Gunman Stratos 2". Maaya Sakamoto, who depicts both Aya and Lightning, voiced Aya to seem like Lightning when the outfit is prepared. 

Lightning has been highlighted in "Conclusive Fantasy XIII"- themed stock delivered by Square Enix. The two pieces straightforwardly enlivened by the character are accessories and a mellow scent called "Lightning eau de toilette". Activity figures of Lightning in her three fundamental emphasess were delivered by Play Arts Kai, an organization regularly enlisted to make puppets of characters and animals from the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. Cards delineating the character are accessible in the "Last Fantasy" Trading Card Game. Lightning shows up in a real life PlayStation business titled "Michael", close by characters, for example, Nathan Drake, Kratos and Cole McGrath. A performing artist depicted the character at the "Last Fantasy 25th Anniversary Event" amid Asia Game Show 2013. She was depicted again in a Japanese real life/CGI TV ad for "Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII". In April 2012, Lightning and different characters from "XIII-2" were utilized to exhibit Prada plans in a 12-page area in the male style magazine "Field Homme +". To advance "Lightning Returns", Lightning was included on the bundling of bites delivered by Ezaki Glico. In 2015, she was utilized in a CGI promoting video by French style house Louis Vuitton. The video was vivified by Visual Works, planned by Nomura and coordinated by Louis Vuttion's Nicolas Ghesquière. 

While "Last Fantasy XIII" was being developed, Todd Ciolek of Anime News Network was neutral by Lightning, whom he called an "efficient clear". Assessing the completed diversion, Ciolek opined that Lightning is at first "excessively inaccessible and cold, as if the scholars were so expectation on making an extreme, equipped courageous woman that they neglected to make her at all convincing". In any case, he conceded that Lightning turns into an all the more engaging lead character by the diversion's end. Wesley Yin-Poole of VideoGamer.com essentially alluded to Lightning as a female adaptation of Cloud. 1UP.com's Jeremy Parrish remarked that, notwithstanding scenes in which Lightning demonstrates an attentive side, she is "your common, bleak [Square Enix] hero". Then again, GameSpot's Kevin VanOrd considered Lightning an "affable, solid willed magnificence". Martin Robinson of IGN UK said that Lightning "in a split second charms herself" in examination with Hope or Snow, however he found that, when Lightning's backstory "gets hindered in conventional swash", Sazh turns into the all the more engaging character. GamesRadar's Carolyin Gudmundson was apathetic: she opined that, while Lightning's story has its benefits, it "absolutely isn't well beyond what we'd regularly anticipate". She remarked that this absence of creativity makes Lightning "one-dimensional and exhausting". Gamasutra author Christian Nutt trusted that Lightning's associations with the cast add mankind to the story. 

For "XIII-2", "Diversion Informer"s Joe Juba was baffled that Lightning had been exchanged to a supporting job for Serah and Hope, whom he saw as more fragile characters than Lightning. Simon Parkin of Eurogamer found that the story endures without the main impetus of Lightning's resolute assurance. VanOrd was disillusioned that Lightning and Caius Ballad have generally restricted screen-time, since they put on a show of being more grounded characters than the heroes. 

In "Lightning Returns", Juba condemned Lightning's absence of self-awareness amid the story, and IGN's Marty Silva felt that her expanded frigidity makes her "out and out unlikable." VanOrd contended that Lightning isn't "intriguing all by herself" and that she had transformed into "a vessel for holding and pouring plot gadgets", whose unemotionalness makes it troublesome for the player to associate with her. Parrish, composing for USGamer, expressed that Lightning had moved toward becoming "out and out unresponsive", demonstrating "no identity at all", and this conflicted with the capacity to dress her in ensembles. On the other hand, Parkin remarked that specific side missions, for example, grouping sheep or recovering a young lady's doll, acculturated Lightning and make her agreeable. Additionally, Destructoid's Dale North discovered that the ensembles and discourse help her character: he contended that these components make her less "level and dormant now, which is a major improvement." Dave Riley of Anime News Network felt that Lightning's aloof disposition, albeit strange in "XIII" and "XIII-2", fit her job as a divine being's worker in "Lightning Returns". Tech Reviewer, in a component about the depiction of female characters in computer games, was awed with the character's profundity and depiction. 

In a VideoGamer.com rundown of the ten best "Last Fantasy" characters, Lightning was put 6th; author Yin-Poole discovered her intriguing in her own privilege regardless of her similitudes to Cloud. In 2011, IGN positioned Lightning among the best characters in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement, saying that she showed that "a fragile equalization can exist among quality and delicacy, even amidst ... mind boggling gymnastic accomplishments." Lightning was positioned eighth in a comparable rundown by GameZone's Heath Hooker: purposes of applause were her visual appearance and assurance, which made her "one of the most grounded female pioneers of the "Last Fantasy" arrangement" as Hooker would like to think. Cheat Code Central recorded her as one of the best ten "boss" ladies of computer games for her autonomy, which the author felt removed her from past "Definite Fantasy" courageous women. Lightning positioned second in AfterEllen's rundown of the "most blazing" computer game characters. In "Amusement Informer"s rundown of top ten legends of 2010, Lightning was positioned eighth and commended as the main hero in "Definite Fantasy XIII" who "appeared to be equipped for assuming the degenerate legislature of Cocoon": another remark was that her "simple way to deal with her central goal makes her the diversion's champion saint". She was incorporated into two records by "Complex", which positioned her as the nineteenth most prominent "Last Fantasy" character and the 39th most prominent courageous woman in computer game history. 

In 2010, Lightning put 34th in a "Famitsu" survey with respect to the most well known computer game character in Japan. She was casted a ballot the best-preferred female "Last Fantasy" character in a 2013 survey by Square Enix, and, in that year's "Dengeki PlayStation" Awards, she was casted a ballot best computer game character of the year for her appearance in "Lightning Returns". She started things out in a Microsoft survey to decide the most prominent character of the "Last Fantasy XIII" recreations. In 2014, perusers of IGN casted a ballot her the best character in "XIII". At PAX Prime 2013, she took third spot in a rundown, assembled by columnists and amusement engineers, of the top female characters in western and Japanese pretending computer games. In a "Famitsu" survey from 2017, Lightning was casted a ballot as the second most needed character fans hope to be highlighted in another Square Enix's establishment, "Kingdom Hearts", being outperformed just by Noctis Lucis Caelum from "Definite Fantasy XV".