The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II 

The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II is an ongoing system computer game created and distributed by Electronic Arts. It depends on the dream books "The Lord of the Rings" and "The Hobbit" by J. R. R. Tolkien and its no frills film set of three adjustment. It is the spin-off of Electronic Arts' 2004 title "". The Windows variant of the diversion was discharged on March 2, 2006 and the Xbox 360 form was discharged on July 5, 2006. Alongside the standard version, a Collector's Edition of the diversion was discharged, containing reward material and a narrative about the amusement's advancement. The official diversion servers were closed down for Windows in 2010 and Xbox 360 out of 2011, anyway Windows clients may at present play internet utilizing informal amusement servers. 

The story for "The Battle for Middle-earth II" is partitioned into Good and Evil Campaigns. The Good Campaign centers around Glorfindel, an Elf who is alarmed to an arranged assault on the Elven haven of Rivendell. With assistance from the Dwarves and other Good powers, the Elves endeavor to take out Sauron and his military to reestablish harmony in Middle-earth. In the Evil Campaign, Sauron sends the Mouth of Sauron and the Nazgûl to assemble wild Goblins. With his military, Sauron pushes ahead with his arrangement to devastate the staying Good powers in the North. 

"The Battle for Middle-earth II" got commonly positive audits from computer game commentators. Surveys commended the amusement's coordination of the "Master of the Rings" universe into a constant procedure title, while analysis focused on the diversion's unequal multiplayer mode. "The Battle for Middle-earth II" got various honors, including the Editors' Choice Award from IGN. Toward the finish of March 2006, "The Battle for Middle-earth II" achieved fourth in a rundown of the month's top of the line PC diversions. A Windows extension pack for the amusement was discharged on November 28, 2006, called "", which includes another group known as Angmar, new units, and a few ongoing interaction enhancements. 

"The Battle for Middle-earth II" is a constant methodology amusement. Like , the amusement necessitates that the player manufacture a base with structures to deliver units, accumulate assets, look into redesigns, and give barriers. Units are utilized to assault the adversary and shield the player's base. Players win coordinates by taking out all foe unit creating structures. In contrast to the principal amusement, the player can assemble a boundless number of structures anyplace on the guide, taking into consideration more opportunity in base structure and unit creation. Players can assemble dividers to safeguard their base; in any case, the dividers must be built inside a specific vicinity to the players post. They can likewise develop bolt and sling towers on structure plots around a fortification to give guarded help and essential insurance. Alongside this, every group's stronghold is exceptionally outfitted with an uncommon power achieved just by acquiring vital overhauls. The diversion's HUD, called the Palantír, demonstrates the player's legend units and their capacities, a scaled down guide, and destinations. 

Units are grouped into one of a few classes: infantry, ran, pikemen, rangers, or attack. Every unit class has one of a kind qualities and shortcomings, underlining the significance of appropriately coordinating up units fighting to expand their viability. Saint units are one of a kind in that just a single of each can be made; they comprise of characters from the novel, for example, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Saruman, Nazgûl, Mouth of Sauron, Arwen and Shelob, or are made through the diversion's Hero Creator (just available by means of the PC form). On the off chance that the player executes Gollum, a non-player character, they are compensated with the One Ring. The thing can be utilized to bring one of two ring saints at a cost of 10,000 assets, Galadriel and Sauron, contingent upon the player's group. Ring saints have amazingly solid shield and ground-breaking assaults, making them among the diversion's most over-controlled units. 

The War of the Ring mode continued from the primary amusement in the arrangement consolidates turn-based methodology components with constant clashes. Center earth is partitioned into regions; players can develop structures to create troops just in an asserted domain. Amid each turn, the player can move their armed forces into impartial and adversary regions to assume responsibility for them. While unbiased regions are vanquished by basically entering them, adversary regions must be wrested from the other player by crushing them in a conflict. Troops can be garrisoned in vanquished regions to guard against adversary assaults. At the point when the player assaults another domain, or one of their regions is being attacked by an adversary, they can either reproduce the match and let the PC decide the result, or play the match by telling the units progressively. The champ of the engagement picks up the region, and every single enduring unit gain experience focuses. To win, players should either control the foe's capital domain, or assume control over a given number of regions in Middle-earth. 

"The Battle for Middle-earth II" presents three new groups with one of a kind units and saints: Goblins, Dwarves, and Elves. Rohan and Gondor are joined into one group called Men of the West. Alongside Mordor and Isengard from , there are six playable groups. The troops of Gondor furnish a strong offense and safeguard with standard infantry and bowmen, and the Rohirrim of Rohan go about as tip top rangers. The Elven bowmen are compelling at incurring harm from a separation, and their help units, the Ents, can play out a mix of skirmish and attack assaults, they are regularly viewed as the most grounded protective group because of their solid rocket units and amazing 'silverthorn bolts'. Albeit moderate and costly, Dwarven infantry, pikemen, and hatchet hurlers are extremely incredible and very much reinforced enabling them to win in even the longest conflicts with adversary troops. A gathering of wild animals and monsters of Middle-earth make up the Goblin group, this incorporates trolls, trolls, bugs, and mythical beasts, which are compelling in vast numbers. Their solitary favorable position is that the troll bowman and officer units are modest to make at just 75 assets and assemble quicker than other fundamental infantry. Isengard troops are profoundly prepared Uruk-hai under Saruman's direction. Berserkers are utilized by Isengard as limited armed forces that move amazingly quick and arrangement huge harm (especially to foe structures and legends). Furthermore, Isengard is the main Evil group that can assemble dividers. Mordor powers are a blend of Orcs, Men, Trolls, Mumakil, and Sauron's lieutenants. Mordor Orcs have extreme covering, making them valuable for retaining adversary harm while more grounded units assault foes. Trolls contribute extraordinarily to the Mordor offensives, having solid skirmish assaults and the capacity to toss stones or employ trees like swords. 

Set in the districts of northern Middle-earth, the diversion centers around the occasions of the War in the North. For interactivity, the amusement mistreats Tolkien's works and the film set of three. A few characters were adjusted in their appearances, capacities, and jobs; for example, a battle job in the amusement is given to Tom Bombadil, a joyful and secretive loner who shows up in "The Lord of the Rings" however does not partake in the war. Furthermore, Tolkien's prior novel "The Hobbit" loans a few components to the amusement, including characters, for example, the Giant Spiders from Mirkwood. The story for "The Battle for Middle-earth II" is partitioned into Good and Evil Campaigns. The two crusades center around the fights battled by the recently presented groups: the Elves, Dwarves, and Goblins. The player experiences nine fixed missions in either simple, medium, or hard trouble mode. Described cut scenes give plot composition between missions. 

The Evil Campaign pursues an elective adaptation of the War in the North. Sauron sends the Mouth of Sauron and the Nazgûl toward the North to assemble wild Goblins. His lieutenants lead the Goblin armed force and dispatch an ambush on the Elven timberland of Lórien. In spite of overwhelming opposition, the backwoods is invade, with Celeborn killed and Galadriel having fled to Rivendell; even Caras Galadhon falls under the sheer power of the enormous intrusion. The Mouth peers anxiously into the caught Mirror of Galadriel for his next assault, as his Goblins praise their triumph over the Elves in the midst of the remains of the once-relentless old fortress. Another gathering of Goblins, driven by the Goblin King Gorkil, assaults the Gray Havens via land and ocean. The Elven port is crushed and caught, and the walk crosswise over Eriador starts; Hobbits of the Shire are picked as the following target. Gorkil's crowd figures out how to pulverize the Hobbits and consume their nation to the ground, however Saruman's hireling Gríma Wormtongue, all of a sudden shows up with a huge armed force of Isengard Uruks and cases the land for his lord. The Goblins obliterate the very much prepared armed force and murder Wormtongue, taking the Shire for themselves. 

Gorkil keeps walking west and attacks Fornost, the strengthened vestiges of the old legislative hall of Arnor. The safeguards, comprising of the Dúnedain and Dwarves driven by Glóin, disintegrate under the persevering Goblin assaults, and Eriador falls under Goblin control. Sauron dispatches a simultaneous crusade east of the Misty Mountains. The orcs from Dol Guldur take out the Elves and the Ents that monitor the Forest Road in Mirkwood, overcoming the Elven ruler Thranduil. After the fall of Mirkwood, the Mouth of Sauron drives his crowd to Withered Heath to enlist the Dragon Lord Drogoth, in the wake of devastating the Dwarves in the zone. To at long last freed Sauron and Middle Earth of the Dwarves, The Mouth of Sauron assaults the human city of Dale and the Dwarven fortification of Erebor, driven by King Dain. For the last fight against the Good groups in the North, the Goblin crowd and Sauron's powers from Mordor merge at Rivendell, the last enduring fortress against Sauron in Middle-earth. Hawks, the Dead Men of Dunharrow, Galadriel and her enduring Elves, and the remainders of the Fellowship of the Ring touch base to help Arwen and Elrond, however Sauron (having accomplished full power through recuperating the One Ring from the dead Frodo) and all his accumulated powers enter the fight and totally crush the staying Good powers in the North. 

The Good Campaign opens after the Fellowship of the Ring has set out on their central goal to unmake the One Ring of Power, with Elrond and Glóin arranging the War in the North. The Elven saint Glorfindel finds an approaching assault on the Elven asylum of Rivendell. Because of the early cautioning, Elrond's powers in Rivendell figure out how to repulse the Goblins' assaults. Following the fight, Elrond understands that the Elves and Dwarves must unite to cleanse the risk of Sauron's powers in the North. The following fight happens in the Goblin capital of Ettenmoors, where the Goblin fortification is pulverized, and Gorkil the Goblin King is slaughtered. After their triumph, the legends are educated that the Goblins, on Sauron's direction, enrolled the administration of a Dragon named Drogoth who is devastating to the Dwarves of the Blue Mountains. The saints advance toward the Blue Mountains and help the Dwarven armed force rout Drogoth and his Goblins. 

The Gray Havens, an Elven port on the western shores, is assaulted by the Corsairs of Umbar, partners of Sauron. The Dwarves, who have been hesitant to align with the Elves, in the end choose to go to the guide of the Gray Havens. With the Goblins vanquished and all of Eriador conciliated, the Dwarven-Elven union is tried by Sauron's powers. Mordor's staggering powers assault the Lake Town of Esgaroth and the Dwarven city of Erebor. The Dwarven lord Dáin drives a little gathering of Dwarves and men of Dale to safeguard their country and figure out how to take out the Mordor nearness in Esgaroth however are compelled to withdraw back to Erebor to protect themselves against a mind-boggling armed force driven by the Mouth of Sauron. After a long fight against the Mouth of Sauron's military, Elven fortifications from Mirkwood driven by the Elven ruler Thranduil arrive and spare the Dwarves, vanquishing the Mouth of Sauron and his military. Elrond drives the principal assault, however later, Thranduil, Glorfindel, Glóin, Arwen, and King Dáin all join under the Dwarven-Elven collusion for a last fight in Dol Guldur, the fortification of Sauron in Mirkwood, supported by the Ents and Eagles. The Good powers and its three consolidated militaries beat the barriers and devastate the post, dispensing with the last danger in the North. 

Tolkien Enterprises allowed the distributer of "The Battle for Middle-earth II", Electronic Arts, the rights to build up "The Lord of the Games" computer games dependent on "The Lord of the Rings" books on July 22, 2005. This understanding was reciprocal to a different plan made between the two organizations in 2001. That understanding gave Electronic Arts the rights to manufacture computer games dependent on "The Lord of the Rings" film set of three. The new arrangement offers Electronic Arts the chance to make computer games with unique stories tied intimately with the "Ruler of the Rings" universe. In a similar declaration, Electronic Arts uncovered two diversions that its EA Los Angeles division would create with the permit: "The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II" for Windows—a spin-off of ""— and "" for the PlayStation Portable. 

On November 10, 2005, Electronic Arts declared that Hugo Weaving, who played Elrond in the "Ruler of the Rings" film set of three, would repeat his job as Elrond and be the lead voiceover ability in "The Battle for Middle-earth II". Amid his voiceover session, he noted, "I generally discover voice work truly interesting in light of the fact that you are taking a shot at one component of your make up as a performing artist—concentrating all the more eagerly on one piece of your tool stash on the off chance that you like—in a way so everything appears to go into creating that vocal impact. It truly isn't only an impact, since it really originates from a source which is a genuine continuation of that character." 

On January 13, 2006, Electronic Arts announced that a Xbox 360 rendition of "The Battle for Middle-earth II" was a work in progress, and it was guaranteed to include a "novel and instinctive control plot" created by computer game creator Louis Castle, fellow benefactor of the continuous technique designer Westwood Studios. Players would almost certainly play online through the Xbox Live administration. Mansion was eager to port the amusement to a support, expressing, "Living these realistic fights in superior quality with shocking encompass sound, all from the solace of your front room sofa on the Xbox 360, is an uncommon encounter. [...] Adding the capacity to fight it out with companions through Xbox Live is likewise truly energizing." 

The diversion's water impacts got considerable redesigns due to the substantial job maritime fights play in "The Battle for Middle-earth II". The designers attempted to make the outside of seas and lakes look sensible by utilizing procedures like those connected in movies while making PC created sea water. The advanced water mimics profound sea water by mirroring its surroundings superficially, and wave innovation was utilized to make substantial waves along coastlines to inundate the player in the amusement experience. Lost towns, corals, and fish were added submerged to add with the impact. Water was picked as the primary graphical part of "The Battle for Middle-earth II" to exploit DirectX 9 programmable shaders. These augmentations were a piece of a by and large Electronic Arts system to proceed the "Ruler of the Rings" experience that started with the set of three film arrangement. 

As realistic executive of "The Battle for Middle-earth II", Richard Taylor was in charge of structuring the amusement's opening and shutting arrangements, just as crusade and mission presentations and endings. As the main Electronic Arts computer game to be without given rein on material from "The Lord of the Rings" universe, a few grounds, characters, and animals from the books show up outwardly without precedent for the amusement's cut scenes. Taylor thought of it as basic to utilize great graphical and sound mixes when recounting to a story, and he was satisfied to have Weaving on the venture as the essential storyteller. 

The diversion was discharged by Electronic Arts on March 2, 2006 for Windows and July 5, 2006 for Xbox 360. Electronic Arts discharged a Collector's Edition that incorporates a reward DVD with supplemental top notch media, for example, the full unique music score; in-amusement cinematics and trailers; the narrative "The Making of The Battle for Middle-earth II"; and "The Art of the Game", an exhibition including several true to life works of art and idea workmanship made for the diversion. 

It was given commonly ideal surveys, accepting an amassed score of 84% at Metacritic for its Windows variant. Acclaim concentrated on its fruitful incorporation of the "Master of the Rings" establishment with the continuous system classification, while analysis focused on the amusement's uneven multiplayer mode. "The Battle for Middle-earth II" was given the Editor's Choice Award from IGN. Toward the finish of its presentation month of March 2006, "The Battle for Middle-earth II" achieved fourth in a rundown of the month's top of the line PC diversions, while the Collector's Edition crested at eighth spot. In the second month after the diversion's discharge, "The Battle for Middle-earth II" was the twelfth top of the line PC amusement, in spite of a 10% droop in general diversion deals for that month. The diversion's PC rendition got a "Silver" deals grant from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), showing offers of something like 100,000 duplicates in the United Kingdom. 

In the wake of playing the diversion, "PC Gamer" discovered little blame with it, considering it a great adjusted amusement generally. The magazine additionally was satisfied that the diversion's "generation esteems [were] out of this world", with which GamesRadar concurred, clarifying, "Rarely do you run over a RTS with creation esteems this high; every part is by all accounts cleaned till it sparkles." When contrasted with its antecedent, "", "GamePro" was persuaded "The Battle for Middle-earth II" had enhanced the first in a few crucial ways. GameSpot trusted that "The Battle for Middle-earth II" offered better interactivity and an a lot more extensive degree that incorporated a greater amount of Middle-earth. 

A few pundits commended the amusement's ongoing procedure components and designs. IGN considered the high caliber of "The Battle for Middle-earth II" evidence that Electronic Arts was genuinely keen on structure extraordinary ongoing methodology amusements. Regardless of a couple of minor issues, GameZone was content with the ongoing interaction of "The Battle for Middle-earth II", trusting that the amusement worked admirably of empowering the player to encounter the strife of the dreamland. They additionally appreciated the amusement's change for the Xbox 360 form, calling it "a standout amongst the best PC-to-comfort transformations" and applauding the engineers for a "praiseworthy employment of appointing activities to the 360 controller's eight catches". The illustrations were valued by ActionTrip, which discovered it "actually hard not to slobber over this amusement", recognizing the diversion's plan and workmanship group for completing a fantastic activity on each area that showed up in the single-player battle. 

Playing inside the universe of "The Lord of the Rings" was engaging various analysts, which found that it for the most part expanded the diversion's excitement esteem. "PC Gamer" shared this supposition, calling "Ruler of the Rings" "seemingly the best dream universe ever", and GameZone made the inquiry, "What self-regarding Tolkien fan can be without this title?" The outcomes additionally satisfied 1UP.com, which was persuaded that devotees of "The Lord of the Rings" couldn't stand to miss buying the amusement. Diversion Revolution complimented the amusement's converge with the "Master of the Rings" universe, seeing that the establishment's folklore and the amusement's frantic fights met up in a delightful group. The mix of "The Lord of the Rings" into a computer game fulfilled "Amusement Informer", and the magazine anticipated the diversion would be "another champ for Electronic Arts". 

In spite of positive responses, analysts raised a few issues with the diversion. The British computer game distribution "PC Gamer UK" was discontent with the diversion, asserting that Electronic Arts discharged an equation based amusement since it was a more secure decision than taking "The Battle for Middle-earth II" toward another path. "PC Zone" concurred with this view, asserting that in spite of the fact that the diversion looked noteworthy, it adopted a by-the-numbers strategy towards the continuous procedure type in a "careless kind of way", inferring that "not the slightest bit is it anyplace close to the amusement we sought after." The amusement's multiplayer parcel frustrated GameSpy, which discovered it too lopsided contrasted with the saints, whom they viewed as excessively solid. Eurogamer believed the amusement to be of normal quality, taking note of that there were no genuinely saving graces. 

The editors of "PC Games Magazine" named "The Battle for Middle-earth 2" the third-best PC round of 2006, and called it "certainly a work of adoration, an amazing gem and methodology." 

The Smithsonian American Art Museum chose "The Battle for Middle-earth 2" as one of 80 amusements spreading over the previous 40 years to be a piece of "The Art of Video Games" show that kept running from March, 2012 to September 2012 in Washington, DC. 

Electronic Arts declared on July 27, 2006 that its EA Los Angeles studio would discharge a development pack to "The Battle for Middle-earth II" titled "". It was slated for discharge amid the 2006 Christmas season. The diversion, created by Amir Rahimi, guaranteed players the chance to battle in wars that goes before the occasions of the "Ruler of the Rings" books. "The Rise of the Witch-ruler" includes another single-player crusade, new units, another group, and improved highlights. Its story pursues the Witch-ruler of Angmar's "rising to control, his mastery of Angmar, and possible intrusion of Arnor, Aragorn's tribal home". The diversion was sent to producers on November 15, 2006, and was discharged on November 28. 

On January 9, 2011, Electronic Arts reported that the internet amusement servers would be closed down on January 11, 2011 for the Xbox 360 organization of the diversion. The PC variant of the diversion was closed down on December 31, 2010. Electronic Arts noticed that their stopping of help for the amusement was incompletely on the grounds that the authorizing manage New Line Cinema (holders of the "Ruler of the Rings" permit) had terminated, which drove them to no other choice than to close down every single online administration for the diversion.