A Rugrats Chanukah 

"A Rugrats Chanukah", titled onscreen as basically "Chanukah" and at times called the "Rugrats Chanukah Special", is an exceptional scene of Nickelodeon's vivified TV arrangement "Rugrats". The primary scene of the show's fourth season and the sixty-6th generally, it recounts to the account of the Jewish occasion Chanukah through the eyes of the Rugrats, who envision themselves as the principle characters. In the interim, Grandpa Boris and his long-term rival, Shlomo, fight over who will play the lead in the nearby synagogue's Chanukah play. Since most American kids' TV programs have Christmas specials, this is the main Chanukah scene of a youngsters' TV arrangement. 

Raymie Muzquiz coordinated "A Rugrats Chanukah" from a content by J. David Stem and David N. Weiss. In 1992, Nickelodeon officials had pitched the possibility of a Chanukah unique to the generation group, however the idea was updated and turned into the 1995 exceptional, "A Rugrats Passover". After creation of the Passover scene wrapped, the team came back to the Chanukah thought. Nickelodeon communicate "A Rugrats Chanukah" on December 4, 1996; the scene got a Nielsen rating of 7.9 and positive surveys from TV faultfinders. Alongside other "Rugrats" scenes including Boris and his better half, the extraordinary pulled in debate when the Anti-Defamation League contrasted the character plans with hostile to Semitic illustrations from a 1930s Nazi paper. 

On Chanukah, Grandma Minka peruses a book about the significance of the occasion to the children Tommy, Chuckie, Phil, and Lil. The infants envision that they are the story's characters; Judah (Tommy) is shocked by King "Antonica", who has assumed control over the Jewish kingdom and constrained Greek culture on its occupants. Judah drives a multitude of Jewish Maccabees to war against Antonica's Seleucid Empire, developing successful. The story is left incomplete as Minka stops to help make latkes in the kitchen with her girl Didi. 

In the interim, Grandpa Boris is enraged that Shlomo, an opponent from his childhood in Russia, is imagined in the nearby paper for playing the Greek lord in the neighborhood synagogue's Chanukah play, where Boris is depicting Judah. The children get some answers concerning Shlomo and structure the feeling that he really is the Greek lord, whom they name the "Bully of Chanukah". At the play that night, they endeavor to storm in front of an audience to overcome the "Rascal of Chanukah", however are ceased and taken into the synagogue's nursery. Angelica is in the nursery as of now and, heartfelt in her craving to watch a Christmas unique that is airing that night, persuades the infants to enable her break to out and take a TV from the overseer's office. 

Boris and Shlomo start battling in front of an audience amid the play, interfering with the generation and actuating a recess. Behind the stage, Shlomo, and Boris contend afresh, with Boris referencing Shlomo's devotion to his business interests over familial qualities. Shlomo illuminates Boris that he and his late spouse were unfit to hold up under kids, making Boris feel compassion toward his opponent. Angelica runs behind the stage, chancing upon Shlomo and accidentally annihilating the TV. Shlomo ineffectively endeavors to reassure her, yet in the long run lets Boris dominate. Tommy hands Shlomo the Chanukah story book Minka read to the infants before; Boris persuades Shlomo to peruse it to the youngsters. In the finish of the story, the Maccabees rededicate the Holy Temple, and find that there is sufficiently just oil to light the Temple's endless fire for one day; marvelously, it stays lit for eight. Shlomo's presenting breaks down both the infants' affirmation of him as the "Rascal of Chanukah" and his and Boris' contention. 

Nickelodeon officials previously pitched making a Chanukah uncommon to the "Rugrats" generation group in 1992. Paul Germain, the show's co-maker, reacted with the idea of a Passover extraordinary rather, as he believed it to be an "amusing thought" and of "authentic intrigue". "A Rugrats Passover" was finished in 1995; the show was one of the primary enlivened TV arrangement to create an exceptional for a Jewish occasion. After generation wrapped on "A Rugrats Passover", the team considered making the Chanukah extraordinary that Nickelodeon had initially pitched. The scene was composed by , and coordinated by Raymie Muzquiz. When Weiss came to compose the teleplay, he had relinquished Christianity and changed over to Judaism. 

Vital Home Video completed creation of the home media form in July 1997; initially booking a discharge date of October that year, Paramount rather pushed the authority VHS discharge into 1998 . In time for Christmas 1997, Paramount discharged the video "Nickelodeon Holiday", which included "A Rugrats Chanukah" and other occasion specials, for example, "Hello Arnold's! Christmas" for . On August 31, 2004, Paramount additionally discharged a DVD aggregation titled "Rugrats Holiday Celebration", which highlighted a few occasion themed scenes of "Rugrats", including "A Rugrats Chanukah". Sarah Willson adjusted the scene into the book, "The Rugrats' Book of Chanukah", shown by Barry Goldberg and distributed by Simon and Schuster in 1997. 

"A Rugrats Chanukah" was initially communicated on December 4, 1996, on Nickelodeon. It was rehashed twice that equivalent night, the scene got a Nielsen rating of 7.9 in the show's objective statistic of youngsters matured 2– 11. On December 1, 2001, CBS communicate the scene out of the blue on its system, at 8:30 p.m. Eastern Time. Conveying a TV-Y parental rating, it pursued the "Rugrats" Christmas extraordinary, "The Santa Experience". Nickelodeon has broadcast the scene all through ensuing special seasons. 

"A Rugrats Chanukah" got overwhelmingly positive audits from TV commentators, and is a standout amongst the most well known scenes of "Rugrats." Delia O'Hera of the "Chicago Sun-Times" considered it a "multigenerational story". Judith Pearl, in her book "The Chosen Image: Television's Portrayal of Jewish Themes and Characters", depicted the scene as a "fun [treatment] of Chanukah". Throw Barney of Knight Ridder and the Tribune News Service considered the scene a "divertingly inventive interpretation of the Chanukah legend". 

In a 1999 issue of "television Guide", "A Rugrats Chanukah" was recorded at number 5 in their "10 Best Classic Family Holiday Specials". "Television Guide" later composed that "Nickelodeon's "Rugrats" verified its place in TV history" with the scene, opining that it could "engage an offspring of any religious group". Ted Cox of the "Day by day Herald" said that despite the fact that the scene was not in the same class as the show's Passover unique—which he considered "among the best occasion TV specials at any point created"— it was "still vital". DVD Talk commentator Francis Rizzo III composed that the exceptional "has an incredible recorded opening". In "Flickipedia: Perfect Films for Every Occasion, Holiday, Mood, Ordeal, and Whim", Michael Atkinson and Laurel Shifrin said that the exceptional was "... a more extravagant dinner, even, for guardians than for tykes". 

"A Rugrats Chanukah", alongside other "Rugrats" scenes highlighting Boris and his better half, Minka, pulled in contention when the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) charged that the two characters took after enemy of Semitic illustrations that were included in a 1930s Nazi paper. Nickelodeon's then-president, Albie Hecht (himself Jewish), maintained bewilderment and called the allegation ridiculous. The debate reemerged in 1998 after the ADL made similar cases about Boris' appearance in a "Rugrats" funny cartoon that kept running in papers amid the Jewish New Year. The association was additionally outraged by the character's recitation of the Mourner's Kaddish in the strip. In contrast to Hecht, Nickelodeon's new president, Herb Scannell, concurred with the analysis and apologized, promising never to run the character or the strip again.