Charles Atangana 

Charles Atangana (c. 1880 – 1 September 1943), additionally known by his original name, Ntsama, and his German name, Karl, was the foremost head of the Ewondo and Bane ethnic gatherings amid a significant part of the provincial time frame in Cameroon. Despite the fact that from an unremarkable foundation, Atangana's dependability and kinship with pioneer clerics and heads verified him progressively increasingly noticeable posts in the provincial government. He substantiated himself an astute and strategic manager and an enthusiastic partner, and he was in the long run named foremost head of two Beti-Pahuin subgroups, the Ewondo and Bane people groups. His steadfastness and quiet submission to the German Empire was unquestioning, and he even went with the Germans on their break from Africa in World War I. 

After a concise remain in Europe, Atangana came back to his country in Cameroon, which by then was a League of Nations command an area under the organization of the French Third Republic. The French questioned his loyalties at first, yet Atangana served them with a similar enthusiasm he had demonstrated the Germans and recovered his post as foremost boss. Amid an amazing rest, he managed the Westernization of his subjects and the improvement of his areas in spite of the disintegration of his forces because of French strategies and agitation among his kin. He never pushed protection from the European forces, liking to hold onto the Europeans as a methods for individual enhancement and in the administration of African interests. After his passing in 1943, Atangana was to a great extent overlooked. In any case, since Cameroon's autonomy in 1960, Cameroonian researchers have rediscovered his story. 

Atangana was conceived at some point somewhere in the range of 1876 and 1885 in Mvolyé, a little town in what is today Yaoundé, Cameroon. His folks gave him the drum name "He who is known by the countries". He was the eleventh of twelve youngsters destined to Essomba Atangana, a headman of the Mvog Atemenge sublineage of the Ewondo ethnic gathering. Essomba Atangana was one of thousands of minor Beti pioneers living between the Sanaga and Nyong waterways, each accused of accommodating his compound and the more distant family and slaves who lived there. His dad kicked the bucket when Ntsama Atangana was around six years of age. 

Little is thought about Atangana's adolescence. Like other Beti young men, he would have figured out how to fish, chase, and trap, and would have remembered his family's lineage and society knowledge. Pilgrims from the German Empire showed up close to his town in 1887 looking for an immediate course to the ivory exchange the savannas toward the north. They had guaranteed Beti arrives as a major aspect of their Kamerun province in 1884, and by February 1889 they had set up a lasting base in the territory, which they named Jaunde after the nearby individuals. The Ewondo restricted the outsiders at first, in spite of the fact that Atangana was likely not yet mature enough to take an interest in the battling. After the annihilation of Omgba Bissogo in 1895 and others like it, Ewondo obstruction melted away. The Germans arbitrarily selected boss and city hall leaders to serve under them, and took neighborhood young people to perform humble errands; Atangana was among them, sent by his uncle to be a houseboy. 

Ewondo who learned were exceptionally supported in the beginning of the frontier routine. Station officer Hans Dominik sent four such people to go to the mission school of the German Pallottine Fathers in Kribi, a settlement on the coast. There, Atangana learned German language, history, and geology; arithmetic; and Roman Catholicism. Father Heinrich Vieter particularly enjoyed the kid, and Atangana turned into the first Ewondo sanctified through water a Roman Catholic; he took the Christian name Karl. Atangana's tutoring had quite recently finished when individuals from the Bulu ethnic gathering, one firmly identified with the Ewondo, attacked Kribi and sacked the school and church in 1899. Atangana held up out the revolt in Douala with the Fathers until the provincial civilian army vanquished the renegades the next year. 

In August 1900, the authority of German powers at Victoria (present-day Limbe) delegated Atangana translator for 500 Bulu prisoners, who were being squeezed in the process of childbirth. Atangana kept the post for a half year and took up additional obligations as an attendant. The colonizers next sent Atangana to Buea to fill in as an office agent. Sooner or later between the finish of his tutoring in Kribi and the finish of his administration in Victoria, Atangana met Marie Biloa, a lady from a town called Mekumba. In spite of the fact that she was somewhat more established and living as a kept lady by a German functionary, Atangana wedded her. She would in the long run bear him two kids: Jean Ndengue and Katerina (or Catherine) Edzimbi. 

Atangana was a dedicated Christian, and he bolstered the congregation for an incredible duration with land and endowments. He contradicted famous Beti syncretist practices, and he was a rival of an Ewondo commencement ceremony called the "Sso"; his endeavors prompted its inevitable annihilation from Beti society. In 1901 he verified land for the Pallottine Fathers to assemble a mission in Jaunde, in this way opening East and South Kamerun to Catholic proselytisation. In any case, Atangana bolstered conventional Ewondo traditions on marriage. On widows, he said,My partners and I . . . can just answer in requesting the maintaining of custom, which requires the widow to be the property of the beneficiary until her freedom, which can just produce results after the arrival of her bridewealth. She should stay with him as long as this arrival isn't made. 

From the get-go in 1902, the pioneer government designated him their delegate to the Ewondo individuals, and translator and agent for the Germans posted in Jaunde. He was entrusted with sorting out a registration and expense accumulation framework. He picked 300 headmen to be charge authorities, of whom the Germans affirmed 233. Atangana arranged a cut of 5% for the authorities, a lot to their enjoyment. 

Hans Dominik turned into the Jaunde post authority in 1904. For the following six years, Atangana went with him on no less than fifteen regulatory watches and probative journeys. Atangana demonstrated an insightful representative, in one case consulting with a gathering of insubordinate Manguissa and in this manner turning away an encounter between the tribesmen and the Germans. Atangana helped open posts in such wide-extending places as Bafia, Abong-Mbang, Mouloudou, Ngaoundéré, Garoua, and Maroua. The Germans generally kept themselves isolated from their African subjects, however Dominik and Atangana opposed these principles and developed close, notwithstanding eating together in a similar tent every so often. Back in Jaunde, Atangana picked up obligations esteemed by the routine, for example, administering a survey charge in October 1908. 

In 1907, individuals from the Mvog Ada sublineage rebelled against the pioneer government over Atangana's arrangement as their official mediator. The plot incorporated a trick to harm Atangana, however word spilled to him. He educated his lords, and on 11 April, six plotters were executed and two others detained. 

Dominik passed on 16 November 1910. That equivalent year, Atangana came back to Jaunde and got a managerial post, maybe as leader of the Ewondo-Bane court, which directed common debate and little cases and was the course through which the Germans transmitted reports (and checked the reaction to them). Be that as it may, he surrendered the post when the leader of his sublineage passed on; Atangana took over as headman of the sublineage and Mvolyé town. 

In late 1911, Atangana voyaged to Germany to educate Ewondo at the Colonial Institute of the University of Hamburg. He remained there for around one year and deciphered Ewondo history and old stories for interpretation into German. His works in the end turned into the "Jaunde-Texte", a critical source report on Ewondo history and culture. In 1913, he met Kaiser Wilhelm II in Germany and Pope Pius X in Rome. He came back to Kamerun the next year. 

The Germans had seen some accomplishment in joining different gatherings under single people called "central boss" ("Oberhäuptlinge"). Atangana was picked for this situation among the Ewondo and Bane either before his trek to Germany or before long. This was actually just a transitory arrangement; his subjects would need to favor it a year later to make it perpetual. They had minimal option; Atangana was at that point the essential conductor of data to and from the Germans. 

Some imitating of European habits and dress was anticipated from all boss, however Atangana appears to have truly favored European styles to African ones. He attempted to fit himself into the German form of a perfect manager. He stated, "To set out to approach the Germans it is important to relinquish the attributes which disappoint them, to turn into their companion and after that be esteemed by them." Accordingly, Atangana ate German sustenance; framed an European-style, 20-piece ensemble; and requested a vast, Germanic house to be constructed. This last task requiring development of a brickyard and sawmill and earned Atangana another designation, Mindili Ebulu, "the man whose house is large to the point that it had a rooftop partitioned into nine segments rather than the two segments of a standard abiding." The number nine has extraordinary centrality in Beti legends. 

Atangana was suspicious of any individual who may supersede him as the Germans' top choice. He composed, 

Various people who related themselves with Europeans and substantiated themselves valuable to white individuals accomplished positions in the local society through misrepresentation and coercion. Be that as it may, the Europeans, having seen it, ceased it. They could observe locals of the honorable class by their reliability and genuineness. 

Atangana prevailed upon different boss and headmen through endowments, tax breaks, sweet talk, and mediation on their benefit. He pampered consideration on guests from away, giving them a chance to remain at his royal residence and utilize his ponies, and getting them feasts. Notwithstanding complimenting them, this enabled him to screen their exercises and dealings with the frontier specialists. His representative nominees in Jaunde educated him of the doings of both the Germans and his subjects. Atangana picked up a generous measure of riches. He claimed workshops and sold produce from five estates to arrangement awed railroad development specialists. 

The central boss kept up some devotion for his subjects. He convinced the Germans to do foundation upgrades, for example, the structure of streets, schools, wellbeing centers, and holy places; and he shielded his subjects from pilgrim responses. In one occasion, an Ewondo mediator shot a firearm amid a debate with a German, an offense culpable with a firm jail sentence. Atangana intervened, and the man's discipline was diminished to doorman obligation. In any case, the vital boss remained totally faithful to the governors. In 1914, for instance, delegates of Duala pioneer Rudolf Duala Manga Bell attempted to verify Atangana's sponsorship for a skillet Kamerun revolt. Atangana held the plot hush-hush, yet he taught the emissary to encourage Manga Bell to reevaluate. 

Atangana's arrangement aggravated individuals from the Bulu ethnic gathering. They dreaded they may one day lose German support, or more regrettable yet, fall under the territory of the Ewondo. This finished in the 1912 Bulu uprising driven by Martin-Paul Samba, a German-prepared man much like Atangana. The disobedience was pulverized and Samba executed. 

The Allied West African Campaign of World War I came to Kamerun in 1914. Douala fell on 17 September, and the Germans regrouped at Jaunde. Beti witnesses cautioned Atangana with regards to the Allies' advancement, and as the loss of Jaunde appeared to be inescapable, Atangana arranged to escape with his lords. He and the boss under him gave their presents on more fragile relatives so they could all the more effectively take them back should the Germans return. They held out in Jaunde until 1 January 1916, when troops of the British Army caught the town, and the German warriors and ministers fled into the timberland. Atangana and 72 Ewondo and Bane boss, alongside 14– 20,000 townspeople (generally fighters and their families), drove them through. A Beti society tune, "Atangana Ntsama, the War Is Over", recounts the retreat and demonstrates the contention between those Beti who upheld Atangana and the individuals who contradicted him: 

They achieved Spanish Guinea in February and surrendered to the unaligned delegates of Spain under the Restoration. The Spanish legislature of Álvaro Figueroa Torres gave the Beti land to settle and consented to transport the Germans to the close-by island of Fernando Po. Atangana and individuals from his family went with them. In 1918, the Germans sent Atangana and six different boss to Spain, where they would observer if important that the Germans had treated their African subjects empathetically. In September 1919, Atangana had a group of people with King Alfonso XIII of Spain and asked him to help the Germans in these procedures. Atangana stayed in Madrid for a long time and remained a month in Barcelona to recover cash he had kept through the Basel Mission. 

In the interim, Ewondo lands went under the organization of the French Third Republic under a League of Nations order. Atangana, presently known by the French adaptation of his name, Charles, composed the French government to swear his devotion and request readmittance to his country. He got his desire in June 1920 and touched base in Douala on 28 November 1920. 

Atangana's unfailing unwaveringness and subservience to Germany kept the French from ever completely confiding in him. His first errand under the new pioneer routine was to oversee groups of constrained street development workers in the town of Dschang. In Atangana's nonattendance, the French had designated a Beti headman named Joseph Atemengue as their nearby delegate in Jaunde (presently known by the French spelling, Yaoundé). Notwithstanding, Atemengue never appreciated the fame Atangana had among the Beti. Atangana attempted to verify a coalition with him by sending his 20-year-old, German-instructed little girl, Katerina, to wed him, yet she in the long run fled from the a lot more seasoned Atemengue and back to her dad. Atangana's work execution persuaded the French to give him a chance to come back to Yaoundé in late 1921 or mid 1922. 

Before long, Atemengue was made head of the nearby court, and Atangana was again named foremost boss ("culinary specialist supérieur"). He got a seat on the Council of Notables, a body the French had acquainted with go about as contacts to their subjects and counselors to the organization. Atangana set up a bureau dependent on those he had seen in Spain, however he never enabled it to do much, and its individuals were not familiar with European-style organization. It disbanded in 1925. 

The French allowed the boss altogether less power than had their German forerunners. Atangana's significant job was basic: to authorize the dictats of French principle. Senator General Van Vollenhoven wrote in 1917 that, "the boss have no intensity of their own of any sort on the grounds that there are not two experts in the circle: French specialist and indigenous expert; there is just one. Just the leader of the hover directions." As a pioneer director, Atangana was relied upon to gather charges, help the French present cocoa and espresso manors, and prepare boss to verify the work to work these homes. In 1924, the French acquainted an order framework with secure nourishment for the Yaoundé urban network and for rail workers; Atangana was in charge of arousing the boss to accumulate the fundamental arrangements from provincial ranchers; the careful techniques utilized by the boss was left to them. Cocoa generation in the South and Center regions expanded notwithstanding amid the Great Depression, somewhat because of these endeavors. He rearranged the boss and their obligations and attempted to Westernize his subjects by urging them to wear European-style apparel, utilize new structure strategies and house styles, and work to improve streets. 

The greater part of the boss regarded Atangana as their representative and pioneer, and the Beti everywhere conceded to him eminence and power. Another arrangement of status had advanced under his standard: a unit of minor civil servants, agents, translators, and office staff worked for Atangana and different boss free of the French government and were totally reliant on the boss. Atangana set up a private police compel, for instance, known as the "fulus" in Ewondo. The whole class perceived its dependence on the boss and gave them unwaveringness in return for insurance and pay, and the boss depended on these functionaries to quickly satisfy their obligations to the French routine. 

All things considered, the Beti everywhere disdained French constrained work rehearses and charges. A few people fled to the shrubbery before the duty gatherer arrived; others evaded imposes by excluding spouses as of-town guests or holding up until the last moment to pay and in this way diminishing the authority's cut of the assessment cash. On the off chance that the charges were not gathered as per the general inclination of the pilgrim heads, Atangana himself was relied upon to have up a portion of the effect. To counter these minor uprisings, boss could rebuff their subjects with 15 days in prison or 100 franc fines without fair treatment of law. This was intended to be held for just certain infractions, yet Atangana and different boss deciphered it comprehensively to incorporate a wide range of troublesome conduct. Atangana and his sub-boss were relied upon to train such troublesome subjects. He applied persistent weight on the sub-boss, who thusly put consistent weight on the townspeople to settle government expenses and supply workers. 

In any case, his riches kept on developing. In 1922, his pay was 6,000 francs for each year, and in 1938, it had ascended to 24,000 francs for each year. Atangana additionally got 2% of all expenses gathered by lower boss, pay for his lawful job, and stipends for sorting out street development. Oral sources have announced that as right on time as 1924, he possessed tremendous ranches with as much as 1 km of cocoa, 1.1 km of palms, 5 km of nourishment harvests, and 500 head of animals. The sums might be overstated, however Atangana was apparently a rich man. He possessed two lorries and a vehicle by 1926, which he used to pull produce from his estates. By the 1930s, critical boss, for example, Atangana could gain more than 400,000 francs every year on assessment gathering alone. 

The 278 Beti boss under Atangana's control started to restrict his power by the mid-1920s. His control fell particularly among the Bane. In 1924, the Bane recorded a grumbling against Atangana in court, guaranteeing, "We work dependably and it is Atangana who gets the cash. For every one of the things that we have sent to the Europeans, for example, chickens and eggs, through Atangana, we have gotten nothing." They plotted to raise their own principal boss and to rustle up assumption against Atangana among the average folks. The French captured the plotters for declining to settle their government obligations and give workers. This left Atangana still leader of the Bane, however his impact had been seriously reduced. 

In 1925, the French diminished the quantity of Beti boss to 40 and expelled the head of Yaoundé from Atangana's immediate control. Be that as it may, in 1928 the Yaoundé boss were esteemed contentious and clumsy, and Atangana was by and by put over them. In 1929, he composed a work on customary Beti society in which he endeavored to conceal his unremarkable adolescence by taking the title of "Lord" and guaranteeing plunge from an imaginary line of Ewondo eminence. Before the decade's over, he was the head of maybe 130,000 individuals, the head of Mvolyé town, and the manager of eight sectional boss and 72 town boss. As a general rule, his position was one of distinction however minimal real power. 

Gathering charges and discovering work became progressively troublesome as the decade advanced, on account of more prominent access to paying work in Yaoundé and on the manors. Atangana's 1938 proposition for the redesign of Yaoundé's organization demonstrates the dissatisfaction he encountered around then: 

the nearby individuals don't have the foggiest idea what perseverance implies . . . [and] work with malevolence for the organization or for private concerns, where they look for asylum as a shield when the organization gives the boss a request in the open intrigue or to their benefit. 

He further griped, "Notables, with their decreased impact, are practically inactive in connection to the developing number of their headstrong subjects" and recommended that a boss could barely control in excess of 5,000 individuals. Atangana isn't referenced in a French report on their African heads from 1939. Notwithstanding, he held the privilege to report the arrangement of new boss and to guarantee that both he and the French had chosen them. 

Atangana voyaged as often as possible in the French pioneer time frame. He tried going to his subjects' weddings and memorial services, for instance. He had more chances to visit Europe, including the Paris Colonial Exposition in 1931 and the French Colonial Conference in 1935. In 1938, his significant other kicked the bucket. Atangana was an attractive man by Ewondo measures: solid, all around prepped, with a notoriety for being a decent contender, artist, and spouse. He remarried on 6 January 1940 to Julienne or Yuliana Ngonoa, a youthful Beti lady of the Mvog Manga sublineage from the town Nkolafamba. She bore him two youngsters: Marie-Thérèse and René Grégoire. Atangana appears to have clung to Catholic strictures against polygamy, in spite of the way that other Beti boss at the time had a few hundred spouses. 

Atangana campaigned in his later life for general wellbeing causes, for example, the destruction of resting infection. He never bolstered the development of Cameroun's state funded educational system, since he trusted that informed subjects may one day challenge his standard. Atangana's wellbeing started to come up short him starting in August 1943. On 1 September, he kicked the bucket in Mvolyé, Yaoundé. 

Nobody took over as fundamental boss upon Atangana's demise. His lavish royal residence went empty and fell into remnants. Nonetheless, conventional Cameroonian chieftaincies were restored on 11 July 1977 by Decree #77/609, and by the 1990s, Cameroonian ethnic gatherings had revived these lethargic customs. Atangana's little girl Marie-Thérèse turned into the new Ewondo principal boss. In December 2000, she started the redesign of his castle at Efoulan, Yaoundé, a task that would cost an expected 150,000,000 francs CFA. 

The imperialism that Atangana had upheld was ruinous in Cameroon. Creation fixated on enhancing the boss, charming of outside venture, and the contraption of pioneer organization, and building just that foundation that would help in the vehicle and fare of money crops. All things considered, Atangana's story turned out to be a piece of Beti old stories. For instance, Beti storytellers related his story in oral lyrics and tunes that took up to an entire night to present. His inheritance was to a great extent overlooked by the country everywhere between his demise and Cameroonian freedom. Nonetheless, the patriot grant that bloomed after Cameroon's freedom in 1960 revived his story. Charles Atangana Avenue in downtown Yaoundé is named for him. A statue in his similarity best a slope close-by, which had fallen into dilapidation by 2000.