Jack Crawford (cricketer) 

John Neville "Jack" Crawford (1 December 1886 – 2 May 1963) was an English top of the line cricketer who played mostly for Surrey and South Australia. A novice, he played as an all-rounder. As a right-gave batsman, Crawford had a notoriety for scoring rapidly and hitting incredible shots. He bowled medium-paced off turn and was noted for his exactness and his capacity to make the ball divert strongly from the pitch. Abnormally for a five star cricketer, Crawford wore displays while playing. 

Crawford built up a notoriety for being a remarkable cricketer while still a student. He played Test cricket for England before he was 21 years of age, and effectively visited Australia with the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) in 1907– 08. He played just 12 matches for England, in spite of the fact that pundits trusted he had an extraordinary future in the game and was a potential future England commander. In two progressive English seasons, he finished the twofold of 1,000 runs and 100 wickets in top notch diversions. 

A disagreement regarding the organization of a Surrey side picked to play a prominent diversion in 1909, after a few expert players were precluded for disciplinary reasons, prompted an undeniably harsh contention among Crawford and the Surrey specialists. Crawford was told he had no future with the club, and moved to Australia. There, he filled in as an instructor and proceeded with his cricket profession with South Australia. This course of action had a dubious end, when he conflicted with the South Australian Cricket Association over cash and moved to New Zealand to play for Otago. 

That relationship additionally finished severely, and he left Otago before being recruited into the New Zealand military close to the finish of the First World War. When he was deactivated, he came back to England and came to terms with Surrey. He played a bunch of recreations somewhere in the range of 1919 and 1921 however became dim of top of the line cricket to seek after a vocation in industry. In all top of the line cricket, Crawford scored 9,488 keeps running at a normal of 32.60 and took 815 wickets at a normal of 20.66. Despite the fact that he kept on playing cricket at a lower level, an amazing rest go in relative indefinite quality. 

Jack Crawford was conceived on 1 December 1886 at Cane Hill, Coulsdon, Surrey, the most youthful of three children of the Rev John Charles Crawford and his significant other Alice; the couple likewise had three girls. Crawford senior was the pastor at the as of late opened Cane Hill Asylum, in the grounds of which Crawford was conceived. He experienced childhood in a cricketing domain. His dad and uncle, Frank Crawford, played top notch cricket for Kent; his siblings Vivian and Reginald were additionally top of the line cricketers. The entire family played cricket and energized Crawford since early on, and from the age of eleven he consistently played with grown-ups. 

In the wake of going to Glengrove School in Eastbourne, Crawford went to St Winifred's School in Henley-on-Thames where, in his two years in the cricket group, he scored 2,093 runs and took 366 wickets. In 1902, Crawford moved to Repton School. Achieving the cricket group in his first year, he stayed in the eleven until he left the school in 1905. His effect was impressive. A 1906 report in "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac" appraised him as a standout amongst the best three student cricketers in the past 40 years, just coordinated by A. G. Steel and Stanley Jackson. Cricket history specialists comparably adulated his cricket at Repton. Benny Green notes that his productive accomplishments "created ... confusion among student cricketers." Gerald Brodribb depicts him as "presumably the best ever" student cricketer. 

By 1904, Crawford ruled the Repton group. He scored 759 runs and his 75 wickets were more than the joined aggregate of the various bowlers in the group. He was especially compelling in the school's most essential installations. The report in "Wisden" portrayed him as conceivably the best beginner bowler in England that year: he bowled medium-paced off turn, despite the fact that he differed the speed of his conveyance from moderate to quick. Surrey County Cricket Club checked out Crawford very quickly, calling him to a preliminary in 1903. Following his accomplishments in 1904, he was welcome to play for the area. The district club was amidst a spell of vulnerability; a few men captained the group, yet just for a bunch of matches each. The organization of the side ceaselessly changed, and the group performed inadequately, causing turmoil among supporters acquainted with progress. Crawford was only one of numerous players acquired as a trial, though a standout amongst the best. He made his top notch debut against Kent. Taking three wickets and top-scoring in Surrey's first innings with 54, Crawford did alright to hold his place for another seven diversions, and was adulated in the press for his exhibitions. Against Gloucestershire, he took seven wickets for 43 keeps running in the second innings, and a sum of ten wickets in the match. In the season all in all he took 44 top of the line wickets at a normal of 16.93 to top the region's bowling midpoints, and scored 229 keeps running at a normal of 16.35. 

Despite the fact that hampered by wounds amid the 1905 season for Repton, his last at the school, Crawford scored 766 keeps running with a batting normal of 85. In the five matches in which he was fit to bowl he took 55 wickets at a normal under 13. In the August occasions, he came back to play for Surrey. In his second diversion, he took seven for 90 against Yorkshire and in his third, he scored his lady five star century—119 not out against Derbyshire—to turn into the most youthful centurion for the district, a record that was not broken until 2013. Afterward, he took eight for 24 against Northamptonshire and scored 142 not out against Leicestershire. Toward the finish of the period, he played in the Hastings Festival, showing up in a few delegate amusements for groups speaking to the South of England and played for the Rest of England against the County Champions Yorkshire. Crawford completed second in Surrey's batting midpoints for 1905; in all five star amusements he scored 543 keeps running at a normal of 33.93 and took 47 wickets at a normal of 18.46. As the season finished, he was welcomed by the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) to join their voyage through South Africa that winter. 

Having completed his school vocation, Crawford joined the first MCC voyage through South Africa in the 1905– 06 season. The group was not especially solid—under the steady gaze of the visit, faultfinders made a decision about it to have the proportional quality of a moderate district side. The MCC was censured by the press in both England and South Africa for overlooking a large number of the most grounded players. As the most youthful individual from the group, Crawford was given the conventional job of composing press reports to be sent back home amid the visit. At the point when the group played in Worcester amid the visit, the neighborhood press conveyed a report that Crawford intended to stay in South Africa. The 1906 "Wisden" conveyed a similar story; in a remark on his accomplishment in 1905, it proposed that it was dubious for to what extent he would play, and addressed whether, in the event that he played Test cricket, he would do as such for England or South Africa. The cricket antiquarian Nigel Hart questions why "Wisden" referenced South Africa; Crawford's solitary realized association got through his uncle, who had left South Africa five years prior. 

In all top of the line coordinates on the visit, Crawford scored 531 keeps running at a normal of 31.23, coming third in the visit batting midpoints, and took 34 wickets at a normal of 18.44, putting him fifth among the standard bowlers in the group. In the early visit matches, Crawford recorded two five wicket pulls and scored 98. He made his Test coordinate introduction for England against South Africa in the main Test at 19 years old years and 32 days to turn into England's most youthful Test cricketer, a record he held until Brian Close made his presentation in 1949. Batting at number six, Crawford scored 44 keeps running in the primary innings and 43 in the second; he took a wicket with his first conveyance, bowling Bert Vogler. He was wicketless in the second innings, and bowled erroneously as the home side recorded a one-wicket win. "Wisden" noticed that Crawford batted well in the two innings. Following a month of cricket in the middle of the Tests, amid which Crawford scored 212 out of a minor diversion, the English group were experiencing exhaustion when the rest of the matches were played. In the second Test, Crawford was elevated to open the batting, a position he held for the vast majority of the arrangement. In the last match, he scored 74, his first Test fifty and the most noteworthy score of his Test profession. His best bowling likewise came in the last match, where he took three for 69. 

In the Test arrangement, Crawford scored 281 keeps running at a normal of 31.22 and took nine wickets at 35.77. Britain lost the arrangement 4– 1, thinking that its hard to bat against the South African googly bowlers. "Wisden's" visit report depicted Crawford's batting as one of only a handful couple of positives for his side. Thinking of home amid the visit, the MCC chief Pelham Warner as often as possible lauded Crawford and the degree of his capacity at a youthful age. The English press even mocked what Crawford's biographer, Michael Burns, portrays as Warner's "close fixation" with Crawford. Different commentators trusted that Crawford ought to have been increasingly fruitful as a bowler yet was occupied by the tangling surfaces utilized in South Africa; since he had the capacity to make the ball bob and divert luxuriously from the surface, he endeavored to turn the ball excessively and lost exactness therefore. 

Coming back to England for the 1906 season, Crawford finished the twofold of 1,000 runs and 100 wickets in five star cricket, the most youthful player at an opportunity to achieve this accomplishment. Against Gloucestershire, he scored 148 and after that took seven for 85 and four for 63 with the ball; he additionally took ten wickets in his next diversion. Altogether, he assembled 1,174 keeps running at a normal of 30.10, and took 118 wickets at a normal of 20.28. These exhibitions earned him choice for the agent Gentlemen versus Players matches at both Lord's and The Oval, in which he played for the beginner Gentlemen. Toward the finish of the period, he was picked as one of "Wisden's" Cricketers of the Year. The reference stated: "Couple of cricketers have won equivalent acclaim at so early an age", and noticed the strange simplicity with which he had moved into top of the line cricket. Crawford's amazing batting and straight hitting were lauded, similar to his precise bowling. The report additionally expressed: "That he ought to have done this is the all the more shocking from the way that he constantly plays in glasses. Nobody incapacitated along these lines has ever been so reliably effective both as batsman and bowler." 

Crawford had a notoriety by this phase as a batsman who favored forceful, amazing shots and his exhibitions attracted swarms. In 1907, in about a couple of days, he hit conveyances in two distinct matches through the windows of both the home and the guests' changing areas at The Oval. Towards the finish of the period, he scored 103 keeps running in an hour and a half against Kent, his solitary century that year, hitting a few conveyances into the group; "The Times" portrayed the ball in this innings as "taking off away like a winged animal". Crawford's general batting record was like the past season: he scored 1,158 keeps running at a normal of 30.47. With the ball, he took 124 wickets at 16.95, finishing his second twofold. By and by, he was chosen in both Gentlemen v Players matches, taking six for 54 in the second, and was picked to play two of the three Test matches against South Africa. These were his solitary Test coordinates in England; he scored 26 keeps running in three innings and was wicketless in the wake of bowling 29 overs. He missed England's triumph in the second match, the main match in the arrangement not to be a draw, yet "Wisden's" journalist trusted that the pitch conditions for that diversion committed it an error to forget Crawford. Notwithstanding his absence of accomplishment in the Tests, Crawford was welcome to visit Australia that winter even before the South African arrangement was finished; he proposed to the press that he may stay in Australia after the visit. 

The MCC group which visited Australia in 1907—08, similar to that which visited South Africa, confronted inquiries regarding its quality. Since something like four first-decision players decided not to visit, and another was not chosen in spite of solid cases, the group was less delegate than expected for an Ashes arrangement. The voyagers lost the Tests 4– 1, despite the fact that "Wisden" proposed that the arrangement was more focused than recommended by the outcomes. 

Crawford started the visit well, taking seven wickets in the opening top notch coordinate against Western Australia. In the second diversion, he scored 114 keeps running in 58 minutes against South Australia, the quickest five star century scored in Australia up to that point, trailed by bowling figures of five for 40 in the second innings. Crawford contributed minimal more with bat or ball in the number one spot up to the Test arrangement; in England, the cricketer Gilbert Jessop composed an article recommending that Crawford had turned into an "unsound" batsman. He hardly bowled in the primary Test, won by Australia, and both the English and Australian press were condemning of his bowling. Frederick Fane, the acting-skipper of England, appeared to share this view in the second Test, denying Crawford of the assault for quite a while. Nonetheless, Crawford took five for 79 in the primary innings confined Australia on a decent batting contribute and took eight wickets the match as England leveled the arrangement. 

Australia won the rest of the recreations to win the arrangement. In the third match, Crawford scored his solitary 50 years of the arrangement, hitting 62 out of England's 363 to enable his group to develop a first innings lead. In any case, Australia scored 506 at the second endeavor, amid which Crawford bowled almost 46 overs to take three for 113. The arrangement was settled in the fourth Test; Australia recorded a major triumph after downpour influenced the pitch and made troublesome batting conditions amid England's first innings. On the principal day, Crawford took five for 48, his best Test figures, as Australia were bowled out for 214 on a decent pitch. "Wisden" noted Crawford "[mixed] up his pace with surprising ability". By this phase of the visit, the press looked on him considerably more positively, and he got acclaim for his exhibitions. Nonetheless, his overwhelming outstanding task at hand with the ball influenced his wellbeing; he lost a stone in weight amid the visit, and before the last Test a Melbourne specialist analyzed that he had "stressed the correct side of his heart" and prompted that he see a master. Crawford played in that diversion, won by Australia, notwithstanding his evil wellbeing, with a few different players unfit, and the visit director later composed that he looked ineffectively all through and ought not have played. By and by, he bowled 54 overs and took eight wickets in the match. 

"Wisden" believed Crawford's bowling to be a standout amongst the best highlights of the visit and lauded his capacity to turn the ball, detailing: "It was said of Crawford that even on the absolute best wickets he could on occasion make the ball crush spirit." He drove the English Test bowling midpoints with 30 wickets at a normal of 24.73. His batting was less profitable than anticipated; in five Tests, he scored 162 keeps running at a normal of 18.00, batting as a rule at number eight. In all top of the line coordinates on the visit, he scored 610 keeps running at 26.52 and took 66 wickets at 25.19. Crawford's commitments improved his developing notoriety and commentators anticipated that his cricket should go from solidarity to quality. Australian batsman Clem Hill remarked: "There are stupendous cricketers in this diversion, and after that there is Jack Crawford." The last amusement in the arrangement ended up being Crawford's last Test. In 12 Test matches, he had scored 469 keeps running at a normal of 22.33 and took 39 wickets at 29.48. 

As the visit neared its fulfillment, the Australian press detailed that Crawford intended to stay in Australia, that he had pulled in the consideration of a few "society" ladies, and had turned out to be locked in. All things considered, he came back to England when the visit finished. In May 1909, he distributed a book about the visit, "JN Crawford's Trip to "Kangaroo" land". 

Amid the 1908 season, Crawford barely neglected to finish his third twofold. He scored 1,371 keeps running at a normal of 37.05 and took 98 wickets at 21.48. His season started with a likely disagreement about the Surrey captaincy. H. D. G. Leveson Gower had been delegated chief for 1908 yet the blend of damage and his marriage left him inaccessible for four matches close to the start of the period. Crawford likewise missed the start of the period; a paper article by Albert Trott, a previous Australian Test all-rounder currently playing for Middlesex, proposed that Crawford pulled back from the group since he was not designated skipper in Leveson Gower's nonattendance. Rather Harry Bush, who had not played top of the line cricket for a long time, drove the group. Trott was thoughtful to Crawford, expressing that the Surrey advisory group made a special effort "to exact a most undeserved slight" on Crawford. 

In the rest of the period, Crawford scored 232 against Somerset, his most elevated five star score, just as hundreds of years against Derbyshire and Hampshire. The expanded quality and assortment of Surrey's bowling assault confined his chances; he was utilized less as a strike bowler and bowled less overs than in the past season. Contemporary reports recommended that his exhibitions followed off as the season advanced, potentially through tiredness from having played an excessive amount of cricket, and that he turned into a less precise bowler through making a decent attempt to turn the ball. The Surrey captaincy stayed disrupted; Crawford drove the group on a few events, including Surrey's last round of the period, when his sibling Vivian captained Leicestershire, their adversaries. 

Crawford, who played as a beginner however was not freely well off, got an expanded costs stipend amid 1908, yet other budgetary dealings with the board of trustees were less fruitful: they paid his clothing bills in 1905, yet wouldn't do as such a short time later; furthermore, they denied his solicitation in 1907 to have some portion of his costs paid for matches that he missed, as occurred with the wages of experts. His monetary issues were intensified by his failure to get a reasonable line of work, and the Surrey advisory group undermined that he "should not to be played on similar terms" except if he "[commenced] to win his business". 

Crawford's exhibitions in the 1909 season were less successful than in earlier years. He started well, however was later hampered by damage which kept him from bowling. His batting normal likewise fell. Surrey experienced disciplinary issues with a few of their expert players amid the season. The club president, Lord Alverstone, favored novices, contending that a losing beginner group was desirable over an expert side that won; a few experts were forgotten for novices. Aside from antagonistically influencing a few players' vocations, this inclination had destabilized the group more than a few seasons. Crawford couldn't help contradicting Alverstone, yet in any case oftentimes expected the initiative without the ordinary chief Leveson Gower for a great part of the period. He captained Surrey to a success over the visiting Australian group right off the bat in 1909 after a solid act by the expert bowler Tom Rushby. Notwithstanding, his captaincy was emphatically scrutinized in the press, especially over his administration of the bowling. Around this time, Crawford's structure declined. With the bat, he was regularly expelled endeavoring forceful shots, and he lost his viability as a bowler. Therefore, he was not picked for the Gentlemen and missed determination in the Ashes arrangement. The press kept on reprimanding his captaincy, notwithstanding Surrey's great outcomes under his authority. Consumes notes: "For a young fellow with no experience of delayed disappointment on the cricket field, this was very likely a horrible time." 

Surrey had different issues right now. At the point when the group landed in Chesterfield to play Derbyshire, eight of the experts were captured following an episode in the road; the issue was cleared up and the press recommended that the police had been over-enthusiastic. The district in this way crushed Derbyshire by an innings toward the beginning of July; Rushby and his kindred experts Walter Lees and W. C. Smith were extremely fruitful with the ball. Not long after this, Rushby and Lees were engaged with an occurrence or something to that affect—the definite subtleties are obscure. Leveson Gower suspended them, making them inaccessible for Surrey's second match against the Australians. Crawford was approached to lead the group for that amusement, however with Rushby and Lees overlooked, another bowler missing and himself unfit to bowl attributable to shoulder damage, he considered the assault excessively powerless. Therefore, he declined the captaincy, and apologized to the Australians for the choice of what he thought an inadequate side. In Crawford's nonappearance, Surrey were driven by the expert Tom Hayward; the match, influenced by downpour, was drawn. 

The cricket press saw the nonappearance of Crawford and the experts from Surrey's group over the accompanying amusements, and noticed that Crawford was presently playing club cricket. In the mean time, Alverstone kept in touch with Crawford that the Surrey board of trustees completely upheld Leveson Gower's choice to overlook Rushby and Lees, and disclosed to him that Surrey would not choose him again except if he was sorry to Leveson Gower. Crawford can't, writing to Alverstone: "I don't have a clue who was in charge of the determination of the second eleven kind of group outfitted up for such a vital match ... There is by all accounts some impression among a couple of the Surrey panel that I am some youthful expert as opposed to being a youthful individual who has had an encounter of cricket that has only from time to time tumbled to the parcel of anybody, and my solicitation for a change of the group ought to have had some weight". In his "History of Cricket", Benny Green portrays the letter as proof of a "proficient and unobtrusively self-assured young fellow who won't effectively be controlled." 

Alverstone answered that he "lamented" Crawford's perspectives; the council regarded Crawford as a "splendid beginner with extraordinary experience", yet Crawford had not bolstered his skipper—a prime obligation for a novice. Crawford answered that he had been unconscious of the explanation behind the suspensions of Rushby and Lees—which Alverstone and the council questioned—and would have bolstered Leveson Gower, however recommended it was out of line to request that he commander a frail bowling group and afterward request he apologize for favoring not to. He likewise seen that the players overlooked from the group against the Australians had since been reestablished to the region side, making their rejection harder to comprehend in any case. 

Now Leveson Gower pulled back his welcome for Crawford to show up at the Scarborough Festival; Leveson Gower additionally kept Crawford's determination for the MCC winter voyage through South Africa. Crawford's dad kept in touch with the Surrey board of trustees in help of his child. By the start of August 1909, two weeks after the match against the Australians, the Surrey advisory group disjoined their association with Crawford; Leveson Gower felt that he had appeared "most profound thanklessness". "Wisden" detailed: "The advisory group were abundantly angered and passed a goals that Crawford be not again approached to play for the area." Informed of his ejection by letter, Crawford answered to the board of trustees a last time: "I neglect to perceive any reason why I ought to for all intents and purposes be marked as a criminal in light of the fact that, as acting chief, I declined the duty of skippering a group which did exclude three basic players, a freedom which I believe will stay disregarding the terrible model made of me to each beginner in the United Kingdom." 

The Surrey advisory group at first endeavored to keep the question private, yet Crawford sent duplicates of the letters to the papers, clarifying in a letter that he wished to end hypothesis about his nonattendance from the Surrey group. Consumes takes note of that this "[generated] a solid reaction from general society, mostly unsympathetic to the youthful novice" in the letters pages of numerous papers. Numerous reporters felt that the contention could have been settled effectively had either side made concessions. Green remarks that the board of trustees most likely either anticipated that Crawford should down, or were glad to forfeit him to set up their position. One more of the players included, Rushby, left Surrey toward the finish of the period to play alliance cricket, yet later came back to the group. Crawford's dad made a further endeavor to end the debate among Surrey and his child in 1910, requesting that the board of trustees turn around their choice. "Wisden" revealed that Alverstone declined because it would recommend an absence of trust in the board, yet that if Crawford "approached sportsmanliky [Alverstone] would be pleased to give his own help to the progression proposed. This obviously implied a conciliatory sentiment was normal." 

In his "History of Cricket", Green fought that the "Surrey panel must be considered responsible for a level of ineptitude once in a while met with even in the domains of cricket organization" for the manner in which they managed Crawford, "one of the world's most huge all-rounders." Hart sees that Crawford was testing figures high up in the cricket foundation on the Surrey board of trustees; he likewise recommends that Crawford's activities in his later profession, and the objections made against him by other cricket specialists, uncover a tenacity in his character and propose he was not only a casualty of the Surrey advisory group. "The Times" guessed that factors other than the question may have added to Surrey's choice. Consumes trusts that Crawford was feeling weight from a few bearings: his failure to verify an occupation, conceivable dissatisfaction at the controlling impact of his dad, a craving to be autonomous, his poor keep running of structure and analysis of his captaincy. Despite the fact that, as per Burns, it was an "unwinnable fight", he proposes just: "Youthful Jack was in the inclination for a battle." 

Toward the finish of the period, Crawford played his last matches in England for a long time, showing up for an "England XI" against the Australians and for the Gentlemen of the South. He had recently talked about emigrating to Australia with the Australian Test player Victor Trumper, who had asked Clem Hill to research a potential showing post at St Peter's College, Adelaide. Initially, accepting that he would be a piece of the MCC visit to South Africa, he wanted to take up his situation in March 1910. At the point when the debate emerged, Crawford sent a message to educate the school he would take up the post of "Inhabitant Master" right off the bat in 1910, for a compensation of £160 every year. Consumes recommends that this learning he had the idea of work may have provoked him to stand firm against the Surrey board of trustees. In October 1910 he was offered the situation of "Common Master" at the school, and £50 towards his movement costs on the off chance that he withdrew right away. He left England by pontoon two days after the fact, seen off by his family. No cricket figures saw his takeoff, however there was impressive enthusiasm from the press. 

At St Peter's School, Crawford joined his instructing job with supervision of games, including going about as mentor for the cricket group. On a few events, he needed to demand leave from the director to play top of the line cricket. In the wake of touching base in Australia in December 1909, he was playing area cricket for East Torrens inside seven days, and played in South Australia's last three matches in the Sheffield Shield rivalry; the group proceeded to win the trophy out of the blue since 1893– 94. Crawford had an extensive influence in this achievement. There was some discussion over his qualification to play; New South Wales at first dissented, however there was a point of reference for disregarding the prerequisite of a three-month capability period, and the New South Wales Cricket Association (NSWCA) Executive Committee acknowledged this on account of Crawford, to the dismay of the full NSWCA. More than four seasons, Crawford played 22 matches for South Australia, scoring 1,512 keeps running at a normal of 40.86 and taking 120 wickets at 23.86. Green recommends that such an exhibition would have earned him Test choice in the event that he had been Australian, and "Wisden" noticed that his record in Australia was great. 

In the 1910– 11 Australian season, Crawford scored 50 years in each top notch diversion he played yet was less fruitful with the ball. His prosperity against the visiting South Africans, maybe helped by his experience confronting their googly bowlers on past events, conveyed him near choice for the Australian Test group that year. The Australian Board of Control in the end chose that, as he had just showed up for England, they couldn't pick him; rather they picked Charlie Kelleway as the all-rounder. Crawford left his situation as St Peter's in March 1911, proposing to the press that he may move into cultivating. He may have thought about leaving South Australia, yet the Cricket Association named him as an agent at the Adelaide Oval, a position which earned £200 per annum, with extra obligation regarding training and youth exploring. In the interim, in England, after fruitless endeavors by his dad to change the psyche of the Surrey board of trustees, including a fizzled offer to verify his own decision to the advisory group, Crawford sent a composed conciliatory sentiment to Surrey sooner or later in 1910. Thusly, the advisory group passed a movement in March 1911 which finished the prohibition on Crawford playing for the province. 

Press bits of gossip over the accompanying a year give occasion to feel qualms about Crawford's future, proposals including an arrival to England for the 1912 season. Rather, he stayed with South Australia in the 1911– 12 season. Albeit less effective for the most part, he played for a non-agent Australian XI against the MCC visiting group which challenged the Ashes that season and scored 110 in the same number of minutes against bowlers including Sydney Barnes, at the time viewed as the best bowler on the planet. The accompanying season, in which South Australia again won the Shield, Crawford took seven for 31 against Western Australia, including a cap trap, and scored 163 of every 177 minutes against Victoria before taking eight for 66 in their first innings. 

In 1913, Crawford was incorporated into an Australian group which visited North America. The group was composed by Edgar Mayne, a South Australian batsman who attempted to verify backing from the Australian Board of Control to make it an official agent group, yet the Board wouldn't do as such. In all matches, Crawford scored more than 1,000 runs and took more than 200 wickets, and he was especially powerful as a bowler in the matches assigned top of the line. He later expressed this was the best visit he had been on; more press bits of gossip recommended that he would come back to England at the finish of the visit, however he came back to Australia with the remainder of the group. 

In December 1913, Crawford kept in touch with the South Australian Cricket Association (SACA) requesting a six-month time away and an ensured reestablishment of his agreement. The SACA depicted his letter as "egotistical" before in the end allowing his solicitation and offering him a three-year contract worth around £300 every year, including instructing expenses. As a result, he needed to twofold his pay or leave to look for a situation in New Zealand. Portraying these occasions, Hart remarks: "Crawford's money related dealings with the SACA uncover him both as hired soldier and as a clumsy 'cuss'. The last part of his identity should be considered in case he be considered simply a foundation unfortunate casualty in his separating with Surrey". On the field, Crawford was fruitful in 1913– 14. He took 34 wickets, and against New South Wales he hit 91 out of 89 minutes before taking 10 wickets; against Victoria he took eleven wickets. This last match was his keep going for South Australia. Later in 1914, Crawford visited New Zealand with an Australian group—collected without the endorsement of the Australian Board of Control—which contained many driving players, under the captaincy of the previous Canterbury batsman Arthur Sims. In top notch diversions on this visit Crawford took 21 wickets and scored a century, yet his most striking innings arrived in a minor match. Against the "XV of South Canterbury", he scored 354 of every five-and-a-quarter hours, striking 14 sixes and 45 fours. He and Victor Trumper shared an association of 298 out of 69 minutes, and Monty Noble helped him to score 50 keeps running in 9 minutes as the Australian group scored 922 for nine. 

In March 1914, the Otago Cricket Association (OCA) offered Crawford a three-year contract worth £350 every year, and an offer in the administration of a games store, to play for them. Quickly coming back to Adelaide after the visit, he left his South Australia contract before moving to Dunedin in June 1914. The South Australian Cricket Association were generally scrutinized for neglecting to hold Crawford; with all due respect, the board of trustees freely expressed that Crawford had been offered an expanded arrangement and had guaranteed to turn down any offers made to him in New Zealand, yet backpedaled on his oath. Later students of history—Nigel Hart in his life story of Crawford, and Chris Harte in his "A History of Australian Cricket" (1993)— denounced Crawford as egotistical and hired fighter for his conduct towards South Australia. Harte likewise proposes that Crawford left Australia with numerous obligations. Consumes, notwithstanding, recommends that Crawford may have needed to expand his income to help his up and coming marriage, and notes that his South Australian partners held no feelings of spite and even composed a goodbye introduction. Once in his new position, Crawford quickly sorted out a Colts group which created a few future Otago players. While meeting all requirements to play for Otago, he played club cricket in Dunedin, scoring 559 runs and taking 88 wickets. Amid the 1914– 15 season he showed up in four five star amusements for Otago, in which he scored 337 runs and took 30 wickets. He quickly came back to Australia in 1915 to wed Anita Schmidt in Melbourne in April. Schmidt—from Adelaide and portrayed in the general public press as a "marvel"— and Crawford met in 1912 when the previous was 18 years of age and turned out to be notable as a couple at stylish occasions in Adelaide. Consumes proposes that the wedding occurred in Melbourne instead of Adelaide since Crawford may have been keeping away from his leasers. Two days after the wedding, the couple came back to New Zealand. 

Crawford's wages caused the OCA some monetary trouble and were the reason for expanded exchanges in 1915. Some portion of the settlement included Crawford accepting a lower pay as a byproduct of opportunity to offer his administrations to different clubs on an independent premise. As an outcome, he spoke to various groups all through the season in nearby cricket. He was additionally paid to mentor at Otago Boys High School. There were different troubles; the affiliation grumbled about the delay of Crawford's report on the Otago group, and were despondent that he likewise trained golf. Crawford thus told the affiliation that few Otago players were late for training. After further grumblings about Crawford's instructing in 1916, the OCA chose to end his agreement. Crawford at first offered to proceed for less cash—£245. The OCA bartered, recommending an installment of £200, whereupon Crawford demanded that he ought to be paid £300. The OCA at that point proposed to end his agreement quickly for an installment of £150 however he can't. He was in the long run paid £200 in June to leave Otago. That November, with the First World War into its third year, New Zealand acquired enrollment. Crawford was called up in July 1917, and was presented on a preparation camp close Wellington in late 1917. Amid this time, he played twice for Wellington's cricket group in top notch matches amid mid 1918. At the point when given end of the week passes, he visited his better half who was disregarded in Dunedin. He headed out to England preceding a presenting on the Western Front, despite the fact that he arrived past the point where it is possible to join the battling. He was a piece of the New Zealand Rifle Brigade however it is indistinct what his rank was. The Repton School War Register expresses that he was a sharpshooter yet New Zealand press accounts named him as an officer sergeant. As indicated by a 1992 article in "Wisden Cricket Monthly" by Jim Sullivan, Crawford was downgraded while he was in the military. The reasons are obscure, however Burns conjectures that his "autonomous and tenacious nature" made it troublesome for him to acknowledge military order. While Crawford was in the military, his significant other moved to Adelaide. As indicated by Anita, the marriage wound up miserable in 1916 and Crawford left her in November of that year. She guaranteed that he had not upheld her monetarily starting there. At the point when the war finished, she came back to live in Australia with her folks. Her ensuing vocation as a dress architect and style purchaser required a move to London, where Crawford was living, in 1921 however the couple never accommodated. They were separated, with some exposure in Australia, in 1923; in court, she gave proof that he had an unsanctioned romance with an "outsider". She proceeded to remarry and to have a fruitful profession as a planner and instrumental conductor. 

After the First World War, Crawford came back to live in England, and was deactivated from the New Zealand Army in April 1919. Searching for work, he kept in touch with Surrey offering to play for them on the off chance that they discovered him some work thus, yet the board of trustees, while composing that they would be satisfied on the off chance that he played for the district once more, proved unable "see [their] approach to discover him business". Crawford may have been mulling over playing proficient cricket—incomprehensible for a previous Public School cricketer—however rather looked for some kind of employment at Repton, his old school. It is hazy what his situation at Repton was as of now; he appears to have had no authority cricketing job and it is conceivable he filled in as an instructor basically to keep up his beginner status. Regardless, Crawford just stayed at Repton until the finish of the scholastic year; his short stay may have been the consequence of poor outcomes by the cricket group. In any case, Burns proposes: "Another sign that the school was not so much cheerful to be related with the Surrey rebel, whose things additionally incorporated a uninterested war record, was that when the Old Boys cricket group, the Repton Pilgrims, was framed in 1921, Crawford was separated from everyone else among the school's previous recognized players not to be made a part. He was not welcome to join the club until 1952." 

Having settled his conflict with Surrey, Crawford continued his English top of the line cricket profession in 1919. In the wake of showing up for the Gentlemen against the Players, Crawford came back to play for Surrey against the Australian Imperial Forces. He scored 144 not out, which was later depicted by "Wisden" as an amazing innings. Surrey were 26 for five in answer to the travelers' innings of 436 when Crawford came in to bat. Neville Cardus announced: "[Crawford] fell upon the propelling Australian assault, and by driving only from time to time equalled, tossed it back." He dramatically increased his score after the ninth wicket had fallen, hitting 73 out of the last 80 runs scored in 35 minutes to take Surrey past the objective required to maintain a strategic distance from the pursue on. Among his different victories, he scored 92 against Yorkshire. Playing against Kent, he hit 48 not out as Jack Hobbs and he scored 96 out of 32 minutes; this association accepting Surrey to triumph as they pursued a clearly incomprehensible pursue in the brief span staying in the match. 

Altogether, Crawford played in eight recreations in 1919, scoring 488 runs and taking 20 wickets. "Wisden" remarked that his batting was in the same class as it had ever been, however his bowling needed turn and exactness. He played just four additional occasions in top of the line cricket. Some portion of the clarification was that he joined Dunlop Rubber as an administrator at one of its plants in Rochdale. He played as a beginner for Rochdale Cricket Club in 1920, yet by 1921 he had left the club—the "Manchester Guardian" estimated that he had come back to Surrey. He came back to live with his family in Merton Park, and played for the nearby cricket club. Of his five star matches, one was for Surrey against the Australian visiting group of 1921 and the others were for groups speaking to the Gentlemen. In his whole top of the line profession, Crawford scored 9,488 keeps running at a normal of 32.60 and took 815 wickets at 20.66. 

From the mid-1920s until his retirement in 1952, Crawford worked for the shippers Elders and Fyffes. He played cricket and hockey for the firm until the Second World War, yet kept a far lower profile than in his prior cricketing life. He wedded his second spouse, Hilda May Beman, in December 1925, however he never had youngsters. He kept up a free association with cricket; he showed up at a birthday supper for Pelham Warner, at a century festivity for the Free Foresters Cricket Club and in a radio communicate for Jack Hobbs' 80th birthday celebration. Crawford had a stroke in mid 1962 and stayed sick for the remainder of the year; he passed on, matured 76, in a Surrey medical clinic on 2 May 1963. 

Crawford's tribute in "The Times" depicted him as a standout amongst the best youthful players to play cricket in England and stated: "In spite of the fact that he perpetually played in glasses, he was a most appealing player to watch, a forceful hitter of the ball and a hazardous medium-paced bowler". "Wisden" portrayed him as a "hard-hitting batsman", and said he played for the most part from the front foot. He had a conventional batting method, moved his feet well to take care of business to the ball, and played extremely straight. Herbie Collins, who played with Crawford in Australia, portrayed one of his innings as "a storm innings, brimming with established shots accused of explosive." 

As a bowler, Crawford's procedure was likewise standard, in spite of the fact that he was bizarre in utilizing his second and third fingers to turn the ball—most bowlers utilized their first and second. His bowling pace differed from quick to medium, and he spun the ball so much that his fingers snapped perceptibly as he discharged it. A precise bowler, it was troublesome for batsmen to score keeps running against him. Crawford could swing the ball far from the bat, yet his best conveyance was his off break: Clem Hill expressed that Crawford could make the ball turn a few inches, regardless of the hard contributes predominant Australia when he played there. John Arlott depicted him as "the student virtuoso who turned on Australian pitches where nobody else veered off from straight". In 1937, Herbie Collins composed, when Wally Hammond was viewed as the world's driving all-rounder, that "individuals who have seen the two men consider [Crawford] a superior all-rounder". 

Remarking on the intrusion of Crawford's vocation by his question with Surrey, Neville Cardus stated: "His break with Surrey must be viewed as a tragic hardship of distinction and delight to himself, and a terrible misfortune to the archives of English cricket. It is as sure as anything in a man's life can be certainly proposed, that had he kept on playing in English district cricket ... he would have had his spot among the select organization of England's commanders." "The Times" remarked: "It was one of the extraordinary disillusionments of English cricket in the primary quarter of this century that his exceptional guarantee was never completely figured it out." Hart sees that Crawford's on-field triumphs were numerous up to 1909 however from that point onward, his vocation viably slowed down amid his nonattendance from English cricket. Hart takes note of Crawford's "ability to jump on the scoreboard and up foundation noses. He could turn diversions around and understandings over, threaten the ground-breaking, charm himself to the youthful and those sufficiently youthful on a fundamental level to want to describe extraordinary individual exhibitions as 'courageous'". He presumes that Crawford went through the most recent 40 years of his life "in similar donning lack of definition". Nobody on the Surrey council at any point communicated lament at what had occurred, and Leveson Gower did not make reference to the undertaking in his personal history.