Laura Secord 

Laura Secord ( Ingersoll; 13 September 1775 – 17 October 1868) was a Canadian champion of the War of 1812. She is known for having left American-involved domain in 1813 to caution British powers of an approaching American assault. Her commitment to the war was minimal known amid her lifetime, however since her demise she has been habitually regarded in Canada. Despite the fact that Laura Secord had no connection to it, most Canadians partner her with the Laura Secord Chocolates organization, named after her on the centennial of her walk. 

Laura Secord's dad, Thomas Ingersoll, lived in Massachusetts and battled in favor of the Patriots amid the Revolutionary War (1775– 1783). In 1795 he moved his family to the Niagara locale of Upper Canada after he had connected for and gotten a land concede. Not long after, Laura wedded Loyalist James Secord, who was later genuinely injured at the Battle of Queenston Heights right off the bat in the War of 1812. While he was all the while recuperating in 1813, the Americans attacked the Niagara Peninsula, including Queenston. Amid the occupation, Secord obtained data about an arranged American assault, and stole away on the morning of 22 June to illuminate Lieutenant James FitzGibbon in the domain still constrained by the British. The data helped the British and their Mohawk warrior partners repulse the attacking Americans at the Battle of Beaver Dams. Her exertion was overlooked until 1860, when Edward, Prince of Wales granted the ruined widow £100 for her administration on his visit to Canada. 

The narrative of Laura Secord has taken on mythic hints in Canada. Her story has been the subject of books, plays, and verse, regularly with numerous embellishments. Since her demise, Canada has gave respects on her, including schools named after her, landmarks, an exhibition hall, a remembrance stamp and coin, and a statue at the Valiants Memorial in the Canadian capital. 

Thomas Ingersoll (1749– 1812) wedded the seventeen-year-old Elizabeth Dewey on 28 February 1775. Their first youngster, Laura, was conceived in Great Barrington in the provincial Province of Massachusetts Bay on 13 September 1775. Thomas' family had lived in Massachusetts for five ages. His fatherly foreigner precursor was Richard Ingersoll, who had touched base in Salem, Massachusetts, from Bedfordshire, England, in 1629. Thomas was conceived in 1749 in Westfield, Massachusetts. Elizabeth, girl of Israel Dewey and his better half, was likewise conceived in Westfield, on 28 January 1758. Thomas moved to Great Barrington in 1774, where he sunk into a house on a little land parcel by the Housatonic River. Throughout the following quite a while, his prosperity as a hatmaker enabled him to wed, increment his landholdings, and grow his home as his family developed. He invested much energy far from home, as he ascended through the positions in the military in favor of the American progressives amid the American Revolutionary War. Upon his arrival to Great Barrington, he was made an officer. 

Elizabeth brought forth three additional young ladies: Elizabeth Franks on 17 October 1779; Mira (or Myra) in 1781; and Abigail in September 1783. They surrendered Abigail for reception in 1784 to an auntie with the surname Nash. Elizabeth Ingersoll kicked the bucket 20 February 1784. Thomas remarried the next year to Mercy Smith, widow of Josiah Smith, on 26 May 1785. Kindness had no youngsters. She has been attributed with showing her stepdaughters to peruse and do embroidery before her passing from tuberculosis in 1789. By youthfulness, the oldest little girl Laura was thinking about her sisters and taking care of the family unit undertakings. 

Thomas remarried four months after Mercy's passing, on 20 September 1789, to Sarah "Sally" Backus, a widow with a little girl, Harriet. The couple had an extra four young ladies and three young men. The primary kid, Charles Fortescue, was conceived on 27 September 1791. Charlotte (brought into the world 1793) and Appolonia (brought into the world 1794) were the last individuals from this part of the Ingersoll family to be conceived in Massachusetts. 

Thomas smothered Shays' Rebellion in 1786, which earned him the position of major. In the years following, he saw and was insulted by the proceeding with mistreatment of Loyalists in Massachusetts. He understood that in the discouraged financial conditions that pursued the Revolutionary War, and with his own profound obligations, he was probably not going to see his previous thriving once more. In 1793, Thomas met in New York City with Mohawk pioneer Joseph Brant, who offered to demonstrate to him the best land for settlement in Upper Canada, where the Crown was empowering advancement. He and four partners made a trip to Upper Canada to request of Lieutenant Governor John Simcoe for a land give. They got in the Thames Valley, and established Oxford-on-the-Thames (later known as Ingersoll, Ontario), on condition that they populate it with forty different families inside seven years. Subsequent to wrapping up their undertakings in Great Barrington, the Ingersoll family moved to Upper Canada in 1795. 

Thomas Ingersoll upheld his family in their initial a very long time in Upper Canada by running a bar in Queenston while land was being cleared and streets worked in the settlement. The family remained in Queenston until a log lodge was finished on the settlement in 1796. After Governor Simcoe came back to England in 1796, resistance developed in Upper Canada to the "Late Loyalists, for example, Thomas, who had come to Canada for the land stipends. The stipends were extraordinarily diminished, and Thomas' agreement was dropped for not having the majority of its conditions satisfied. Feeling conned, in 1805 he moved the family to Credit River, near York (present-day Toronto), where he effectively ran a motel until his 1812 passing after a stroke. Sally kept on running it until her own demise in 1833. 

Laura Ingersoll stayed in Queenston when the family moved. She wedded the rich James Secord, likely in June 1797. The Secord family started in France, where the name was spelled "D'Secor" or "Sicar". Five Secord siblings, who were Protestant Huguenots, fled from oppression in France and established New Rochelle, New York in 1688. At the season of the American Revolution, Loyalist individuals from the family anglicized their surname to "Secord". 

The Secord couple lived in a house worked in , the principal floor of which was a shop. Secord brought forth her first youngster, Mary, in St. in 1799. Mary was trailed by Charlotte (1801), Harriet (10 February 1803), Charles Badeau (1809—the main male youngster) and Appolonia (1810). 

James Secord served in the first Lincoln Militia under Isaac Brock when the War of 1812 broke out. He was among the individuals who helped divert Brock's body after Brock was executed in the main assault of the Battle of Queenston Heights in October 1812. James himself was seriously injured in the leg and shoulder amid the fight. Laura knew about his situation and hurried to his side. A few sources propose that she discovered three American fighters getting ready to pound the life out of him with their gunstocks. She beseeched them to spare her significant other's life, purportedly offering her own consequently, when American Captain John E. Fleece stumbled over the circumstance and impugned the warriors. This story may have been a later adornment and may have begun with her grandson, James B. Secord. At the point when the Secords arrived home, they found that the house had been plundered in Laura's nonappearance. Spending the winter in St. , Laura went through the following a while nursing her injured spouse back to wellbeing. 

On 27 May 1813, the American armed force propelled an assault over the Niagara River, and caught Fort George. Queenston and the Niagara zone tumbled to the Americans. Men of military age were sent as detainees to the U.S., however the as yet recovering James Secord was not among them. That June, various U.S. troopers were billeted at the Secords' home. 

On the night of 21 June, Laura Secord knew about designs for an unexpected American assault on Lieutenant James FitzGibbon's British troops at Beaver Dams, which would have facilitated American control in the Niagara Peninsula. It is hazy how she ended up mindful of these plans. As indicated by custom she caught a discussion among the billeted Americans as they had supper. 

As her better half was all the while recuperating from his October wounds, Secord set out promptly the following morning to caution the Lieutenant. She purportedly strolled from present-day Queenston through St. , Homer, Shipman's Corners and Short Hills at the Niagara Escarpment before she touched base at the camp of partnered Mohawk warriors, who drove her the remainder of the route to FitzGibbon's central command at the DeCew House. In light of her notice, a little British power and a bigger unforeseen of Mohawk warriors were prepared for the American assault. They vanquished the Americans, a large portion of whom were setbacks or taken prisoner in the Battle of Beaver Dams on 24 June. No notice of Secord was made in reports that quickly pursued the fight. 

After the war, with the Secords' Queenston store in remains, the family was ruined. Just James' little war benefits and the lease from 200 sections of land of land they had in Grantham Township upheld them. 

The Secords' 6th kid, Laura Anne, was conceived in October 1815, and their last youngster, Hannah, was conceived in 1817. The Secords' oldest little girl Mary married a specialist, William Trumball, on 18 April 1816. On 27 March 1817, Mary conceived an offspring in Ireland to Elizabeth Trumball, the first of Laura and James' grandkids. Mary had another little girl, additionally named Mary, in Jamaica. Following her better half's passing, Mary came back to Queenston with her youngsters in 1821. 

The battling James requested of the administration in 1827 for some kind of work. Lieutenant-Governor Peregrine Maitland did not offer him a position, however offered something to Laura. He solicited her to be in control from the yet-to-be-finished Brock's Monument. At first, she turned it down, yet then reluctantly acknowledged it. At the point when Brock's Monument opened in 1831, Secord took in the new Lieutenant-Governor, John Colborne, proposed to give the keys to the widow of an individual from the landmark board of trustees who had kicked the bucket in a mishap. On 17 July 1831, Secord appealed to Colborne to respect Maitland's guarantee, and incorporated another declaration from FitzGibbon authenticating her commitment to the war. She composed that Colonel Thomas Clarke had been told by Maitland, "it was past the point where it is possible to consider [the board of trustees part's widow] Mrs. Nichol as I have swore my statement to Mrs. Secord that at the earliest opportunity she ought to have the key." Despite her supplications, Secord did not get the keys to the landmark. 

In 1828, the Secords' little girl, Appolonia, kicked the bucket at 18 of typhus, and James was designated recorder of the Niagara Surrogate Court. He was elevated to make a decision in 1833, and his child Charles Badeau Secord assumed control over the enlistment center position. Charles Badeau Secord's first child, Charles Forsyth Secord, was brought into the world 9 May 1833. His is the main line of Secords that made due into the 21st century. 

James turned into a traditions authority in 1835 at the port of Chippawa. The position accompanied a home in Chippawa, into which the family moved. Charles Badeau Secord assumed control over the Queenston home. Little girl Laura Ann and her child moved into the home in 1837 after her significant other's demise. 

James Secord kicked the bucket of a stroke on 22 February 1841. He was covered, as per his desires, at Drummond Hill (presently in Niagara Falls). James' demise left Laura dejected. At the point when his war annuity finished, , she was unfit to keep up her property as beneficial and sold off quite a bit of it. Senator General Sydenham denied a 27 February 1841 appeal which she sent, looking to have her child to assume control over James' traditions position. Sydenham likewise denied an appeal she sent that May for a benefits for herself, as James had gotten an annuity for quite a long time. 

Potentially with assistance from happier individuals from the family, Secord moved to a red block bungalow on Water Street in November 1841. Little girl Harriet and her own two girls joined her in May 1842, after Harriet's significant other kicked the bucket of liquor harming. The three imparted quarters to Secord for a mind-blowing remainder. Most youthful girl Hannah likewise moved in when she was bereaved in 1844, and carried two little girls with her. In spite of the fact that she needed preparing, for a brief timeframe Laura Secord ran a little school out of the home with an end goal to help herself. This endeavor reached an end when the open basic educational system was presented during the 1840s. 

Throughout the years, the Secords ineffectively requested of the administration for some sort of affirmation. In 1860, when Secord was 85, the Prince of Wales knew about her story while going in Canada. At Chippawa, close Niagara Falls, he learned of Laura Secord's situation as a maturing widow and sent an honor of £100. It was the main authority acknowledgment that she got amid her lifetime. 

Laura Secord kicked the bucket in 1868 at 93 years old. She was buried alongside her better half in the Drummond Hill Cemetery in Niagara Falls. Her grave is set apart by a landmark with a bust on top, and is near a landmark denoting the Battle of Lundy's Lane. 

The engraving on her grave marker peruses: 

Her granddaughter depicted Secord as being with dark colored eyes and a reasonable composition. James FitzGibbon composed she was "of slight edge and sensitive appearance". She was talented at embroidery, dressmaking and cooking. As per biographer Peggy Dymond Leavey, her numerous grandkids appreciated hearing their grandma recount accounts of her initial life, and her Anglican confidence expanded with age. 

In his report of the fight, FitzGibbon expressed just that he "got data" about the risk; it is conceivable he overlooked notice of Secord to secure her family amid wartime. He initially composed of Secord in an authentication dated 26 February 1820, in help of an appeal by her significant other for a permit to work a stone quarry in Queenston. In 1827 FitzGibbon composed: 

FitzGibbon wrote in an endorsement dated 23 February 1837 that Secord acquainted him with the Americans' aims, yet does not state whether he utilized the data. A journal passage of Mohawk boss John Norton discusses "a devoted Inhabitant conveyed data that the Enemy expected to assault", however does not name the "Occupant". Dominique Ducharme, pioneer of the Caughnawaga Mohawk in the Battle of Beaver Dams, made no notice of Secord in his reports, nor of accepting data from either Secord or FitzGibbon about the looming American assault. 

Secord composed two records of her walk, the first in 1853, and the second in 1861. Neither one of the accounts contains subtleties that can be certified with military records of the fight, for example, explicit dates or insights regarding troops. Her record changed for an incredible duration. Student of history Pierre Berton noticed that she never expressed plainly how she learned of the looming assault. She revealed to FitzGibbon that her better half had found out about it from an American officer, however years after the fact disclosed to her granddaughter that she had caught the plans straightforwardly from the American fighters billeted in her home. Berton proposed that Secord's witness could have been an American as yet dwelling in the United States, who might have been accused of treachery had Secord uncovered her source. During the 1860s, as Secord's story picked up conspicuousness, student of history William Foster Coffin included new subtleties, which incorporated the case that Laura had carried a dairy animals with her as a reason to abandon her home in the event that the American watches scrutinized her. 

Various students of history have scrutinized Secord's record. W. Stewart Wallace, in his 1932 book, "The Story of Laura Secord: A Study in Historical Evidence", closed her story was for the most part fantasy, and that she assumed no noteworthy job in the result of the Battle of Beaver Dams. History specialist George Ingram fought in his 1965 book "The Story of Laura Secord Revisited" that Secord's exposing had been taken excessively far. Ruth MacKenzie likewise polished Secord's notoriety with "Laura Secord: The Legend and the Lady" in 1971. 

The subject of Secord's real commitment to the British achievement has been challenged. In the mid 1920s, students of history recommended that Native scouts had officially educated FitzGibbon of the coming assault a long time before Secord had landed on 23 June. History specialist Ernest Cruikshank wrote in 1895 that "Hardly had Mrs Secord finished up her story, when [Ducharme's] scouts came in ... they had experienced the development gatekeeper of the foe." Later, two tributes were discovered which FitzGibbon wrote in 1820 and 1827, which upheld Secord's case. FitzGibbon declared that Laura Secord had landed on 22 June (not 23 June), and that "in outcome of this data", he had the capacity to block the American troops. 

Antiquarian Cecilia Morgan contends that the Secord story ended up celebrated during the 1880s when privileged ladies tried to reinforce the passionate ties between Canadian ladies and the British Empire. She composes that they required a female courageous woman to approve their cases for ladies' suffrage. The principal result of their crusade was Sarah Anne Curzon's refrain dramatization "Laura Secord: The Heroine of 1812" in 1887. The play was an impetus for "a downpour of articles and sections on Secord that filled Canadian chronicles and school course readings at the turn of the twentieth century". In spite of the fact that pundits gave the play negative audits, it was the principal full work committed to Secord's story and advanced her picture. 

Secord has been contrasted with French-Canadian champion Madeleine de Verchères and to American Revolution legend Paul Revere. Her story has been retold and honored by ages of biographers, writers, artists, authors and columnists. 

In the wake of finding a news cut-out of the occasions, early women's activist Emma Currie started a long lasting enthusiasm for Secord's life. She found data from Laura's relatives as far away as Great Barrington, and distributed a true to life account in 1900 called "The Story of Laura Secord". She later effectively requested of to have a Secord commemoration raised in Queenston Heights. The cut stone rock landmark stands and was committed in 1901. In 1905, Secord's representation was hung in Parliament. Writer Merrill Denison composed a radio play of her story in 1931 which blended genuine history with satire. 

On the centennial of Secord's stroll in 1913, and to profit by Canadian enthusiastic emotions, Frank O'Connor established Laura Secord Chocolates. The chain's first area opened on Yonge and Elm lanes in Toronto. The chocolates were bundled in secret elements embellished with an appearance of Secord. By the 1970s, the organization had turned into the biggest treat retailer in Canada. Among most Canadians, the name Laura Secord is more unequivocally connected with the chocolate organization than with the recorded figure. 

Amid the War of 1812, the Secords' Queenston estate was terminated upon and plundered. It was reestablished in the late twentieth century and given to the Niagara Parks Commission in 1971. It is currently worked as an exhibition hall and blessing shop at Partition and Queen avenues in Queenston. Thomas Ingersoll's old home on Main Street in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, Laura Secord's origin, was utilized as the town's Free Library from 1896 until 1913. The Mason Library supplanted it and was based on the site. The Great Barrington Historic District Commission made 18 October 1997 Laura Secord Day, and devoted a plaque in her respect at the site of the Mason Library. 

Laura Secord is the namesake of various schools, including Laura Secord Public School (otherwise called Laura Secord Memorial School, 1914– 2010) in Queenston, École Laura Secord School in Winnipeg, Manitoba (constructed 1912), Laura Secord Secondary School in St. Catharines, Ontario and Laura Secord Elementary School in Vancouver, British Columbia. Beaver Dams Battlefield Park has a plaque committed to Secord. In 1992, Canada Post issued a Laura Secord dedicatory stamp. In 2003, the Minister of Canadian Heritage announced Secord an "Individual of National Historical Significance", and in 2006 Secord's was one of fourteen statues committed at the Valiants Memorial in Ottawa. To honor the 200th commemoration of her walk, Secord's picture enhanced a dissemination quarter issued by the Royal Canadian Mint and a postage stamp from Canada Post.