Katsudō Shashin 

, now and then called the Matsumoto section, is a 1907 Japanese energized filmstrip that is the most seasoned known work of liveliness from Japan. Its maker is obscure. Proof recommends it was made before 1912, so it might originate before the most punctual showcases of Western energized films in Japan. It was found in an accumulation of movies and projectors in Kyoto in 2005. 

The three-second filmstrip portrays a kid who composes "", evacuates his cap, and retires from. The edges were stenciled in red and dark utilizing a gadget for making enchantment light slides, and the filmstrip was secured in a circle for constant play. 

"Katsudō Shashin" comprises of a progression of animation pictures on fifty edges of a celluloid strip and keeps going three seconds at sixteen edges for each second. It portrays a young man in a mariner suit who composes the kanji characters "" ("katsudō shashin", "moving picture") from appropriate to left, at that point swings to the watcher, expels his cap, and withdraws from. "Katsudō Shashin" is a temporary title for the film, whose genuine title is obscure. 

Not at all like in customary movement, the casings were not created by capturing the pictures, yet rather were inspired onto film utilizing a stencil. This was finished with a "kappa-boycott", a gadget for stenciling enchantment lamp slides. The pictures were in red and dark on a portion of 35 mm film whose closes were affixed in a circle for ceaseless review. 

Early printed movement films for optical toys, for example, the zoetrope originated before anticipated film liveliness. German toy maker Gebrüder Bing introduced a cinematograph at a toy celebration in Nuremberg in 1898; soon other toy makers sold comparable gadgets. Live-activity films for these gadgets were costly to make; perhaps as ahead of schedule as 1898 vivified films for these gadgets were marked down, and could be secured in circles for ceaseless survey. Imports of these German gadgets showed up in Japan at any rate as ahead of schedule as 1904; films for them likely included movement circles. 

Anticipated film innovation landed in Japan from the West in 1896– 97. The most punctual showcase of remote activity in Japanese venues that can be dated with assurance is of the French illustrator Émile Cohl's "The Nipper's Transformations" (1911), which premièred in Tokyo on 15 April 1912. Works by Ōten Shimokawa, Seitarō Kitayama, and Jun'ichi Kōuchi in 1917 were the principal Japanese enlivened movies to achieve theater screens. The movies are lost, yet a couple have been found in "toy motion picture" variants for survey at home available turned projectors; the most seasoned to endure is "Hanawa Hekonai meitō no maki" (1917), titled "Namakura-gatana" in its home form. 

In December 2004, a used seller in Kyoto reached Natsuki Matsumoto, a specialist in iconography at the Osaka University of Arts. The vendor had gotten a gathering of movies and projectors from an old Kyoto family, and Matsumoto arrived the following month to get them. The accumulation included three projectors, eleven 35mm movies, and thirteen glass enchantment lamp slides. 

At the point when Matsumoto discovered "Katsudō Shashin" in the gathering, the filmstrip was in poor condition. The gathering included three Western energized filmstrips; "Katsudō Shashin" may have been made in impersonation of such instances of German or other Western liveliness. In light of proof, for example, the presumable assembling dates of the projectors in the accumulation, Matsumoto and activity history specialist decided the film was doubtlessly made in the late Meiji period, which finished in 1912; antiquarian Frederick S. Litten has recommended as a feasible date, and that "a generation date before 1905 or after 1912 is improbable". At the time, cinemas were uncommon in Japan; proof recommends "Katsudō Shashin" was mass-delivered to be sold to affluent proprietors of home projectors. The maker of the filmstrip stays obscure; to Matsumoto, the moderately low quality and low-tech printing method demonstrate it was likely from a littler organization. 

The disclosure was generally shrouded in Japanese media. Given its theorized date of creation, the film would have been contemporary to—or even have originated before—early energized works by Cohl and the American illustrators J. Stuart Blackton and Winsor McCay. The paper "Asahi Shimbun" recognized the significance of the revelation of Meiji-period activity, however communicated second thoughts about setting the film in the family history of Japanese movement, composing that it is "disputable that ought to try and be called liveliness in the contemporary sense".