John Edward Brownlee as Attorney-General of Alberta 

John Edward Brownlee filled in as Attorney-General of the area of Alberta in western Canada from 1921 until 1926, in the United Farmers of Alberta (UFA) administration of Herbert Greenfield. As Brownlee was the main legal counselor in a council shaped primarily of ranchers, his job reached out past the conventional desires for a lawyer general, and extended from giving legitimate guidance to disclosing how to compose a business letter; he additionally turned into the administration's accepted pioneer in the Legislative Assembly of Alberta. 

UFA individuals held broadly different political perspectives, and Brownlee rapidly ended up related to the administration's moderate group. He restricted radical changes to the structure of government and asked thrift in open spending. As a feature of the administration's endeavors to adjust its financial plan, Brownlee favored selling its cash losing railroads and finishing up a concurrence with the government to give Alberta power over its common assets; he was fruitless at both while Attorney-General. As an individual from a ranchers' administration, he was additionally associated with endeavors to mitigate dry spell initiated neediness in southern Alberta and in examinations concerning the foundation of a common wheat pool. 

UFA Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) started to consider Brownlee to be a superior chief than the ambivalent Greenfield. A gathering of them endeavored to drive Greenfield to leave to support Brownlee. Despite the fact that Brownlee restricted these endeavors, at first taking steps to leave if Greenfield did, he was in the long run induced to acknowledge the prevalence if Greenfield eagerly surrendered it. Brownlee wound up chief November 23, 1925. 

Brownlee started his legitimate vocation in Calgary, and the UFA was one of his company's significant customers. One of the activities he attempted for it was the production of the United Grain Growers (UGG), of whose securities division he ended up general supervisor in 1919. He likewise went around Alberta with UFA president Henry Wise Wood addressing UFA individuals' lawful inquiries while Wood addressed them about governmental issues and the ranchers' development. Despite the fact that Brownlee was not at first keen on the UFA's political exercises, this changed through his relationship with Wood and Progressive Party of Canada pioneer Thomas Crerar. 

Until 1919, the UFA's political exercises were restricted to backing, yet that year it chose to run applicants in the 1921 common decision. In spite of Brownlee's thriving enthusiasm for legislative issues, he didn't see himself as a component of the UFA's political branch, and did not keep running as a hopeful; to be sure, he was out of town in Victoria, British Columbia, for a large portion of the crusade. 

The UFA challenged the race without a pioneer, so when it won 38 of the 61 situates in the Legislative Assembly of Alberta it didn't have even an inkling who it would prescribe to frame an administration as Premier of Alberta. Wood was not intrigued and proposed that Brownlee should take the situation, to the last's bewilderment. Brownlee did not trust that, as a urbanite and attorney, he would be worthy to the country UFA council, and declined; the position went to Herbert Greenfield. 

Despite the fact that the UFA MLAs were not willing to acknowledge a non-rancher as chief, a large number of them understood that the post of Attorney-General ought to go to a legal advisor. Others were less persuaded, and Brownlee was welcome to address the UFA assembly. He recognized that there was no sacred prerequisite on the inquiry, yet exhorted that a non-legal advisor lawyer general would be entirely dependent on the counsel of the legal counselors on his staff. With the council persuaded, Greenfield asked Brownlee to acknowledge the position. Brownlee challenged, hesitant to take the subsequent cut in salary, not anxious to leave his family in Calgary to work in Edmonton (the commonplace capital), and uncertain of the exclusive requirements put resources into the new government by the region's ranchers. Eventually, a blend of obligation, faithfulness, and desire persuaded him to acknowledge the position. Despite the fact that the decision of bureau priests is customarily the right of the chief, as a feature of the UFA's plan of vote based change Greenfield consented to show his decisions to the assembly to vet. Brownlee was endorsed August 11, 1921, and was confirmed two days after the fact. 

Neither he nor Greenfield had kept running as a competitor in the race, nor was an individual from the governing body. Percival Baker, the UFA part chose for Ponoka, had kicked the bucket on race day, opening up a seat for one of them. A second seat, Peace River, ended up accessible when occupant Donald MacBeth Kennedy surrendered to keep running in the 1921 government race. Greenfield appeared a progressively sensible possibility for that tough northern riding than the urban legal advisor Brownlee, thus Brownlee was acclaimed as Ponoka's MLA December 9, 1921. 

Brownlee was the main legal counselor in a legislature made basically out of ranchers, and the remainder of the bureau drew vigorously on his skill. Its dependence on him reached out past lawful issues to such issues as how to compose a business letter. Greenfield was among the most needy, and sent most questionable issues to his lawyer general for a draft reaction; Greenfield regularly marked the draft and sent it out unaltered. The chief in the long run depended on Brownlee so intensely that Brownlee set the motivation for bureau gatherings. The administration additionally depended on Brownlee in the council, where it ended up under determined assault from the John R. Boyle-drove Liberals. Brownlee had the vastest discussing knowledge of the UFA individuals, and he was progressively called upon to counter these assaults. His lady discourse was ordinary of him: "I came into this House with significant anxiety, since I realized that sitting inverse would be the previous goliaths of this House, men with capacity, experience, and aptitude. Since coming in I've tuned in to every one of these men—putting forth a valiant effort—and now I become flushed at my very own humility." 

At the point when Greenfield was made a troublesome inquiry in the council, he frequently hung over to Brownlee, his seatmate, who provided him with an answer in full perspective on the governing body. Numerous UFA individuals discovered this work on embarrassing. Brownlee's significance to the administration in the governing body was outlined by an occurrence in 1922. Brownlee was in the midst of a furlough in Victoria amid an exceptional sitting of the assembly. While his quality was generally viewed as essential, the main thing of business planned for the session was uncontroversial, and gone by a vast edge. In any case, when this thing was shed, a few individuals whined that the C$100 installment that they were to get for the unique session was excessively low. Greenfield conveyed a movement to twofold it; the sum was expanded to $250 in board. When numerous ranchers earned under $250 every year, the move cost the UFA beyond all doubt according to its supporters. Numerous UFA MLAs secretly proposed that the occurrence would have been stayed away from had Brownlee been available. On another event, in 1924, Brownlee was missing from the assembly because of ailment. Boyle considered him to guarantee him that he could breathe a sigh of relief, since the Liberals would not bring any troublesome issues up in his nonattendance. While Brownlee valued the motion, all included remembered it as an affirmation that the administration was vulnerable in the lawmaking body without its strongman. 

Brownlee's work as a MLA stretched out past the lawmaking body. He gave close regard for correspondence from his constituents, particularly those claiming ill-advised treatment at Ponoka's mental medical clinic. He arranged altogether to talk commitment in his riding, endeavoring to foresee every single imaginable inquiry. These measures were reflected in his help in the to a great extent country riding, where the Calgary legal counselor turned into a mainstream and very much regarded MLA. 

A significant number of the chosen UFA individuals upheld radical political principles determined to change the common government. Brownlee rapidly ended up related to the assembly's moderate group. At the assembly meeting that affirmed his arrangement, he put a conclusion to talk of whether selections for judges of the harmony should originate from UFA local people or its focal political board of trustees by stating that they would keep on being taken care of by the workplace of the Attorney-General. Afterward, numerous UFA MLAs contended that just movements unequivocally proclaiming an absence of trust in the legislature ought to be treated as movements of non-certainty. They were worried that supporters of the administration who in any case couldn't help contradicting it on a particular issue may be influenced to avoid casting a ballot their inner voices on movements, for example, cash charges, that were expectedly viewed as trial of the administration's certainty. Brownlee cautioned these MLAs that paying little mind to their convictions, the Lieutenant-Governor of Alberta was allowed to demand the administration's acquiescence whenever he thought about that it needed or did not justify the lawmaking body's certainty. In spite of this notice, UFA MLAs John Russell Love and Alex Moore proposed a goals in the assembly changing the tradition. The proposition pulled in notice from crosswise over Canada; R. B. Bennett prompted Brownlee, his previous assistant, to caution Moore and Love that it was unlawful and request that they pull back it. Brownlee was hesitant to do as such, since a comparative proposition had been a piece of the UFA's race stage, and rather moved fruitful corrections debilitating the movement to an ambiguous "explanation of plan". 

Brownlee conflicted again with the UFA's extreme components on the topic of a common bank. The works of C. H. Douglas upholding a financial framework that he called social credit were drawing in notice in Alberta, and his disciples included numerous UFA individuals. Driven by George Bevington, they supported a goals at the UFA tradition in January 1923 requiring the formation of an administration claimed bank. After Bevington's presentation, support for the goals was running high; Brownlee cooled eagerness with his very own discourse cautioning delegates that Alberta's obligation burden couldn't deal with the projects that Bevington suggested that a commonplace bank ought to embrace. All things being equal, the tradition passed a goals approaching the common government to apply for a bank contract from the government, which was in charge of banking under the British North America Act, 1867. At Brownlee's suggestion, the Greenfield government struck a commission under the administration of University of Alberta financial specialist D. A. MacGibbon, which firmly suggested against the foundation of a commonplace bank. This reflected Brownlee's very own decision, came to subsequent to researching state-run banks in New Zealand and New South Wales. At the 1924 UFA tradition, Bevington and his devotees reaffirmed their requests; Brownlee reacted by indicating the discoveries of the MacGibbon commission and to his dispute that the proposition was unlawful and would bankrupt the territory. In this he was upheld by Henry Wise Wood, whom Bevington was trying for the UFA administration. Brownlee proposed rather that the administration's treasury branches should start to acknowledge stores. 

Brownlee likewise upheld a preservationist approach on budgetary issues. The UFA government acquired an extensive spending deficiency, and Brownlee was disappointed with Greenfield's initial endeavors at lessening it. In 1922, he cautioned the head that except if the administration forcefully cut uses, he would think that its hard to safeguard its financial arrangement in that year's session of the governing body. In 1924, unsatisfied with Greenfield's reaction, he made his very own case division, cutting staff and adopting a severe strategy to spending. In 1923, he found a partner for his situation in new common treasurer Richard Gavin Reid, who urged his bureau associates the requirement for thrift and suggested the formation of an obtaining office for organizing government consumptions. 

The region's poor money related circumstance was expected to a limited extent to its $5 million yearly consumption on railroads, involving 37 percent of the 1922 spending plan. These uses came about because of the breakdown of four little railroad syndicates, which left the administration to fund the rail development. Brownlee trusted that these lines, the biggest of which was the Edmonton, Dunvegan and British Columbia (ED&BC) line, ought to be sold to either the Canadian National Railway or the Canadian Pacific Railway. Despite the fact that nor was keen on buying the lines, in 1925 both communicated an enthusiasm for renting the ED&BC. Notwithstanding, the Royal Bank of Canada, which held the home loan on the ED&BC, would not agree to any rent course of action except if the Alberta government recovered its stock in the railroad as security for the home loan. Brownlee was slanted to concur with Minister of Railways Vernor Smith that the administration should purchase the home loan from the Royal Bank and become the proprietor and administrator of the line, yet Greenfield was impervious to this methodology and goals of the railroads question needed to hold up until Brownlee was chief. 

Brownlee was likewise dynamic on normal asset issues. Alberta, alongside Saskatchewan and Manitoba, had been conceded into Confederation without being allowed the power over its regular assets that the more established territories appreciated over theirs. While the national government provided a compensatory concede in lieu of asset rights, Alberta looked for authority over the assets not just in light of the fact that it trusted this would yield higher incomes than the allow, yet out of sheer pride. In 1920, Prime Minister Arthur Meighen submitted the central government on a basic level to exchanging asset rights; all that stayed to examine were the terms. Alberta, while willing to do without the yearly appropriation, needed remuneration for a portion of the land and assets recently granted by the government to private interests, including of land conceded to eastern railroad organizations, mineral rents that denied the administration of sovereignties for the greater part of the of coal removed from Alberta every year, and grouped regions with hydroelectric potential that had been respected privately owned businesses. 

Brownlee turned into the area's main moderator on asset inquiries in October 1921. In spite of the fact that early endeavors at achieving understanding were hampered by the reluctance of the Maritime territories to consent to the important protected changes except if their own yearly sponsorships were expanded, dealings between the common and government proceeded irregularly all through the 1920s. Liberal Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King once in a while seemed open to Alberta's requests, yet never completely consented to them. A conceivable clarification for this is found in a 1924 letter from Alberta Liberal Party pioneer John R. Boyle to King, clarifying that the UFA was probably going to lose the following commonplace decision to Boyle's Liberals "except if something remarkable occurs. That uncommon thing which Greenfield needs to happen presently is acquiring from you the regular assets on the double." Despite this letter, the sides appeared to be near understanding in mid 1925: at a January gathering Alberta acknowledged on a basic level a government offer of three years of proceeding with endowment after the exchange of asset rights. After a comprehensive arrangement of gatherings among Brownlee and the bureaucratic advice, the understanding returned to the legislatures for endorsement. As Greenfield and Brownlee communicated their fretfulness with bureaucratic inaction, an intergovernmental meeting was met in May. The gathering continued at a relaxed pace into June, after which King reported that his bureau might want the mid year to think about the understanding in more noteworthy detail. The Albertans returned home in nauseate. 

The results of proceeded with control of Alberta's assets by the central government reached out past the only money related. As Alberta's littler towns and country zones were being associated with the electrical framework, Calgary Power made an application to the government for hydroelectric rights on the upper Bow River. Not needing these rights to fall into private hands, Brownlee made his very own use for the Alberta government. It was denied by Charles Stewart, government Minister of the Interior and the Premier of Alberta whom the UFA had vanquished in 1921. 

In 1924, the UFA government passed the "Mineral Tax Act", which burdened mineral rightsholders at a rate of three pennies for each section of land. The two biggest such rightsholders, the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Hudson's Bay Company, asked the national government to utilize its capacity of preclusion to put a stop to the enactment. At the point when the government went along, Brownlee challenged its activity on three grounds: first, as an immediate duty the proposed toll was inside Alberta's rights under segment 92 of the British North America Act, 1867, and it was protected tradition for the central government to practice denial just when the upbraided enactment was unmistakably illegal. Second, prohibition permitted the area no plan of action to the courts, where the lawfulness of the enactment could be tried. Third, the national government's expressed purposes behind denying the enactment, which were discharged belatedly by equity serve Ernest Lapointe, were (as indicated by Brownlee) incorrect and drove Brownlee to propose that Lapointe, a Québécois legal counselor prepared in the common law convention of his home territory as opposed to the precedent-based law framework utilized in the remainder of Canada, must be new to the land-holding framework outside of Quebec. Brownlee's assaults were rejected, and the preclusion stood. 

The UFA got to work during a period of dry season in the southern locales of the region. At Brownlee's prompting, the legislature named a three-man board, driven by Charles Alexander Magrath, to explore the issue. In 1922 the administration passed the "Dry season Relief Act". The Act, a Brownlee brainchild, made a Drought Relief Commissioner to whom ranchers in influenced zones could turn for budgetary advising and resource organization. It approved the alteration of ranchers' obligations to levels that were inside the indebted individuals' methods, yet at the same time adequately worthy to banks that their eagerness to make credits would not vanish out and out. Brownlee trusted that this framework would furnish influenced ranchers with sound money related guidance and encourage the reasonable division of ranchers' benefits among contending loan bosses without constraining ranchers to pay high lawful charges. In 1923 this was supplanted by the "Obligation Adjustment Act", which reinforced the chief's forces and was proposed to expand his locale over the whole region; because of resistance from banks, the segments of the demonstration managing other than dry spell stricken zones were never announced. 

The name change of the enactment mirrored Brownlee's developing conviction that ranchers' monetary inconveniences were because of components more fundamental than absence of downpour. Furious over the government's choice to permit the principal manifestation of the Canadian Wheat Board (CWB) to slip by, numerous Albertan ranchers started to advocate the "pooling" of their wheat, which would render singular ranchers less powerless to the maneuvers of grain examiners by presenting aggregate showcasing, with every rancher getting a found the middle value of, indistinguishable cost. Ranchers in Saskatchewan and Manitoba were progressively determined about the arrival of the CWB; Prime Minister King in the end consented to its re-creation, gave that no less than two of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba passed empowering enactment and found the work force important to sit on the Board. By June 1923, the territories had not discovered anyone reasonable. Enthusiasm for pooling encountered a resurgence. In July, a UFA meeting, which Brownlee went to as the administration's delegate, supported the formation of a wheat pool when practicable. Brownlee and his bureau associate Richard Gavin Reid embraced an examination of how soon this may be, which incorporated an excursion to San Francisco to meet with Aaron Sapiro, an American farming agreeable pioneer. Sapiro declared that a wheat pool could be sorted out in half a month, however both Brownlee and Reid differ and came back to Canada resolved to alert. Be that as it may, in their nonattendance the "Edmonton Journal" and "Calgary Herald" had welcomed Sapiro to visit Alberta, and his talks worked up lavish desires among UFA individuals for quick activity, in time for the new association to advertise the 1923 harvest. 

Looked with the energy of its enrollment, the UFA administration delegated a 17-man board of trustees, including Brownlee, to make the Alberta Cooperative Wheat Producers Limited. The participation expense was to be three dollars, and the association was to work with comparative associations in Saskatchewan and Manitoba. The common government—at Brownlee's request—and the UGG both gave startup credits. The UGG additionally led the pack in consenting to give its grain lifts a chance to be utilized by the pool, which permitted Brownlee to crush those board individuals who figured the new organization ought to secure its own lifts. 

Before the finish of August clearly the associations in Saskatchewan and Manitoba were not going to be prepared in time for the 1923 yield, and the advisory group chose to continue alone. It confirmed that if ranchers speaking to half of Alberta's absolute wheat land consented to pool their harvest by September 15, the pool would continue. Brownlee trusted this was an unthinkable goal. In spite of the test and problematic nature of the model and the so far nonexistent association that was to execute it, this goal was met. The Alberta Wheat Pool was conceived. By the next year's collect, practically identical associations had framed in Saskatchewan and Manitoba, and a Central Selling Agency (CSA) was shaped to sell every one of the three territories' wheat. The CSA's first president, Alexander James McPhail (whom Brownlee chose), offered Brownlee the situation of CSA general administrator, at the appealing compensation of $20,000 every year (an assume that Brownlee had helped set). At the encouraging of his administration partners and the UFA authority, both of who felt his proceeded with nearness in Edmonton was indispensable to the UFA government's hang on power, he declined; he was rather made the CSA's general guidance. Brownlee was likewise intensely engaged with the production of a domesticated animals pool and three dairy pools, as a kind of "poolmania" hit Alberta ranchers. 

As Attorney-General, Brownlee acquired the denial actualized by the past Liberal government. While the UFA base and popular sentiment both favored preclusion, the current law was brimming with provisos and unevenly authorized. A few judges, adversaries of disallowance, would not convict litigants accused of alcohol offenses. The UFA had swore amid the decision battle to present restriction in actuality just as in law, and the assignment tumbled to Brownlee. He at first cooled desires by declaring that he had no enthusiasm for making "any hurried or not well thought about move", either in changing the law or modifying authorization of the current one. 

On September 21, 1922, Constable Steve Lawson of the Alberta Provincial Police was killed at his Blairmore home by racketeer Emil Picariello and his friend Florence Lassandra. He was the third policeman murdered in Alberta in alcohol related occurrences in 1922. The homicide opened up a crack between Albertans of British plummet, who considered bootlegging to be an attack against the standard of law regardless of whether they didn't bolster forbiddance, and Albertans of southern and eastern European drop, who observed restriction to be something of a joke and acknowledged bootlegging. Brownlee approved the organization of uncommon constables to catch Picariello and Lassandra. When they were captured, he showed up actually at the indictment's seat close by A. A. McGillivray, supposedly Alberta's best court legal advisor, whose administrations he verified explicitly for the case. Picariello and Lassandra were indicted and condemned to death by hanging. 

When of their executions in May 1923, popular sentiment was betraying preclusion. The assessment that crimes, for example, Picariello's were the unavoidable aftereffect of preclusion laws turned into a prevalent one, as did the view that the legislature ought to sanction and direct alcohol deals. Brownlee, ethically steady of preclusion, started to by and by help this course, trusting forbiddance was unenforceable despite far reaching open resistance. A 1923 choice settled on the finish of restriction. In 1924 Brownlee guided the "Administration Liquor Control Act"— drafted with the help of R. B. Bennett, who got $1,000 for his administrations—through the governing body. 

As Attorney-General, Brownlee was in charge of organization of the "Master's Day Act", which denied most business on Sundays. Charles Huestis of the Lord's Day Alliance disagreed with the Edmonton Orchestra's Sunday shows, in light of the fact that by opening them just to its membership holders it was "true" charging confirmation, and that by paying its performers honoraria it was beneficially utilizing them in their standard callings on Sundays. Brownlee declined to indict, since courts had recently held that the shows were lawful. Huestis countered that as Attorney-General Brownlee should make them unlawful, to which Brownlee reacted that he completely valued the significance of the Sabbath and did not should be addressed regarding the matter by Huestis. There were additionally objections about ranchers disregarding the demonstration by working Sundays; Brownlee felt that such protests were frequently more about clashes between neighbors than protection of the Sabbath, and arraigned just the most unwarranted and outrageous cases. 

In the 1921 government decision, 65 of the House of Commons of Canada' 235 seats were won by Progressives and partnered groups, including the UFA, which won the two seats it challenged. Liberal Prime Minister-assign William Lyon MacKenzie King had just a minority, and expected to depend on the help of these Progressives to administer. Dynamic pioneer Thomas Crerar imagined shaping an alliance government with the Liberals, and realized that he would be required to give bureau individuals from Alberta, which had been cleared by Progressives and associated parties. Seeing no "bureau material" among the chosen individuals, he sent an emissary to Edmonton to persuade Greenfield or Brownlee to enter government legislative issues. Brownlee cannot and exhorted Greenfield to do likewise, in light of the fact that their surrender of common governmental issues not long after the UFA's race would be viewed as a selling out. 

As Greenfield's weaknesses wound up self-evident, Brownlee ended up handling recommendations closer to home: in 1924 a gathering of UFA MLAs disappointed with Greenfield—including George Johnston, George MacLachlan, William Shield, Donald Cameron, Oran McPherson, and Austin Claypool—drew closer Brownlee to prompt him that they wanted to request that the chief leave for his lawyer general. Shockingly, Brownlee promptly disclosed to them that if Greenfield surrendered, so would he. Looked with Brownlee's refusal to participate with their overthrow, the dissenters yielded. They made another endeavor in 1925; Brownlee again took steps to leave, yet this time was influenced by Henry Wise Wood to acknowledge the crown if Greenfield surrendered it enthusiastically. Greenfield guaranteed Brownlee that he had not needed the activity of head in any case and would joyfully observe Brownlee take it from him. Looked with these affirmations, Brownlee consented to shape an administration, and wound up Premier of Alberta November 23, 1925. He remained Attorney-General until after the 1926 race, when he delegated the recently chosen John Lymburn to supplant him.