My Belarusy 

My Biełarusy (; "We Belarusians") is the informal title of the national song of devotion of Belarus and the main line of its verses. It is authoritatively titled as the "State Anthem of the Republic of Belarus" (, "Dziaržawny himn Respubliki Biełaruś"). The song of devotion was initially composed and received in 1955 for use in the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. The music of the Byelorussian SSR hymn was made by Niescier Sakałoŭski and the verses were composed by Mikhas Klimkovich. After the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the music formed by Sakałoŭski was kept and the verses were disposed of. New verses, which were composed by Klimkovich and Uladzimir Karyzny, were embraced by a presidential pronouncement issued on 2 July 2002. The verses of the hymn currently sing of a well disposed Belarus, respecting past military fights and anticipating what's to come. The music was kept because of the verifiable associations it needs to Belarus. 

"My Biełarusy" was initially utilized as the song of devotion of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic beginning from 24 February 1955. The first song of praise was made by Sakałoŭski and the verses were composed by Maxim Klimkovich. It was displayed before a jury in 1944, yet it took 11 years of alterations before it was authoritatively received. Not long after Belarus turned into an autonomous nation, the national song of praise was altered to drop the Communist-period verses. An endeavor was made in 1995 to receive Natallia Arsiennieva's lyric "O God Almighty" as the national song of praise, yet the recommendation was not followed up on despite the fact that it was upheld by a parliamentary board of trustees. 

The main lawful notice of the national song of praise before 2002 is in the Constitution of the Republic of Belarus. Segment One, Article 19 of the constitution expresses that "The images of the Republic of Belarus as a sovereign state will be its national banner, national token and national song of devotion." While the constitution just referenced the utilization of the banner, hymn and arms as national images, every image must be characterized by law. A law presenting a song of praise was not authorized until Presidential Decree 350 produced results, on 18 July 2002, the day preceding Belarus' autonomy day. The pronouncement's fundamental goal was to set up verses for the song of devotion and present melodic documentation alongside the new verses. Also, the declaration assigned when, where, and how the song of devotion was to be performed. 

As per the paper "Soviet Byelorussia", President Lukashenko settled on the song of praise on 12 June 2002 and had its first execution on 3 July—Belarusian freedom day, the commemoration of the date in 1944 when the Wehrmacht was headed out from Minsk by the Red Army. Notwithstanding, the primary execution really occurred on 2 July at a show sorted out by the administration as a feature of the Belarusian freedom celebrations. 

At the point when Lukashenko issued his declaration choosing another national song of devotion, just slight changes were made to the Soviet-period psalm. While the references to Russia, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and Vladimir Lenin were supplanted; the general topic of "kinship of people groups" and the first music made by Sakałoŭski were saved. The administration chose to maintain Sakałoŭski's music in control to keep up authentic progression, and furthermore by virtue of its ubiquity and melodic quality. After the national song of praise was received, the way toward embracing national images was finished. 

The association Freedom House remarked on the appropriation of the song of devotion in a report about the nation, distributed in 2003. On page 125 of the "Nation Report of Belarus", Freedom House says that President Lukashenko has "reintroduced the state images utilized by the old Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. In 2002, the president endorsed a streamlined adaptation of the Soviet-time hymn "My Belarusy" ("We Belarusians"), as the nation's new national song of devotion." The report additionally referenced President Lukashenko's boycott of the images that were utilized since Belarus' freedom in 1991, for example, the Pahonia arms and the white, red, white banner, which Lukashenko claims are related with autocracy (in light of the fact that the master Nazi Belarusian Central Rada in World War II utilized these images). In 2003, Dr. Taras Kuzio wrote in Radio Free Europe that President Lukashenko "is the quintessential Soviet Belarusian nationalist who directs a routine saturated with Soviet sentimentality." Kuzio said that the thought processes of Russia and Belarus in re-receiving Soviet-time images are a piece of reestablishing that wistfulness. 

The song of praise must be performed as per the verses and sheet music set up by law. Consistently, state-possessed Belarusian TV and radio stations are required to play the national hymn after marking on at 6 a.m. also, again after closing down (typically around midnight). The song of devotion can likewise be performed on specific events, for example, at government gatherings, before games and presidential introductions. While the song of praise is being performed, natives are required to prepare for action and those in military or police uniform must salute. 

"Vajacki Marš" ("March of the Warriors") was the official hymn of the Belarusian Democratic Republic, a Belarusian express that was made in 1918 yet endured just 10 months, amid the German control of Belarus in World War I. 

Since 1919, the tune has been utilized as a song of praise of Belarus by Belarusian migrant networks in Western Europe and North America. It is as yet considered the official song of praise utilized by the administration in a state of banishment of the Belarusian Democratic Republic. 

"Mahutny Boža", a religious song, is additionally effectively utilized by the individuals who contradict the Lukashenko Government. 

A most loved in the hymn rivalry was the lyric called "Youthful Belarus" (Маладая Беларусь) by Janka Kupala. In any case, the lyric was never set to a melodic piece so Young Belarus couldn't be chosen as the song of praise. 

The routines of Belarus and Russia have been progressing in the direction of a closer association with one another, subsequent in the proposed Union of Russia and Belarus. While Belarus and Russia will most likely keep their very own images, a tune called "Sovereign Union of Nations" has been proposed as the Union's informal song of praise. The melody, which was altered from the National Anthem of the Soviet Union, alludes to a more extensive association of the two countries. 

Close by Belarusian, Russian is a state official language of Belarus.