Richard Barre 

Richard Barre (c. 1130 – c. 1202) was a medieval English equity, pastor and researcher. He was instructed at the graduate school of Bologna and entered imperial administration under King Henry II of England, later working for Henry's child and successor Richard I. He was additionally quickly in the family of Henry's child Henry the Young King. Barre served the senior Henry as a representative and was associated with a minor path with the ruler's squabble with Thomas Becket, which earned Barre a judgment from Becket. In the wake of King Henry's demise, Barre turned into an illustrious equity amid Richard's reign and was one of the primary judges in the period from 1194 to 1199. In the wake of contradicting him prior in his vocation, Barre was released from his judgeship amid John's rule as lord. Barre was additionally archdeacon of Ely and the creator of a work of scriptural concentrates devoted to one of his benefactors, William Longchamp, the Bishop of Ely and Chancellor of England. 

Regardless of whether Barre was a local of England or of Normandy is obscure, yet his surname seems to get from the Norman town of La Barre, close Bernay, in the present-day branch of Eure. He was likely conceived around 1130 and was identified with Normandy's Sifrewast family, knights in Berkshire. Barre had a relative, Hugh Barre, who was Archdeacon of Leicester during the 1150s. Barre contemplated law at Bologna in Italy before 1150 and was an understudy there with Stephen of Tournai, who progressed toward becoming Bishop of Tournai in 1192. Another kindred understudy composed a short stanza routed to Barre: ""Pontificum causas regumque negocia tractes, Qui tibi divicias deliciasque parant"", which means "May you deal with the reasons for religious administrators and the undertakings of lords, Who give wealth and joys to you." After completing his tutoring, Barre appears to have worked for either Robert de Chesney, the Bishop of Lincoln, or Nicholas, Archdeacon of Huntingdon; the principle proof for this is Barre seen sanctions for the two men from 1160 to 1164. By 1165, Barre had joined the family of King Henry II of England. 

Barre served King Henry amid the ruler's squabble with Thomas Becket, the Archbishop of Canterbury, who had gone into outcast in 1164 over the debate about the points of confinement of regal expert over the English Church. As a result of Barre's nearby connections to King Henry, Becket thought of him as one of the lord's "abhorrent advocates", and Barre was the subject of condemnations by the diocese supervisor. In late August 1169, Barre was in Normandy with Henry, where Barre was a piece of a gathering of ministers exhorting the ruler on the most proficient method to determine the Becket question. In September 1169, Barre was sent alongside two different assistants to Rome to gripe about the conduct of ecclesiastical emissaries amid arrangements with Becket held toward the start of September. The ecclesiastical arbitrators at first consented to a trade off, yet the following day asserted that the proposition was inadmissible. With the disappointment of the arrangements, Becket reestablished the sentences of banishment on various regal authorities, however Barre was excluded among those explicitly named despite the fact that a large number of his partners were. The history specialist Frank Barlow contends that Barre was not explicitly named in the rebuilding of expulsions, as Becket thought of him as of now expelled as a result of his relationship with those under the congregation's boycott. 

Amid January and February 1170 the ruler sent Barre on a strategic mission to the pope in Rome, on an issue identified with the lord's question with Becket. The mission endeavored to verify the repealing of the banning of those whom Becket had set under administrative boycott, yet it was ineffective; bits of gossip coursed that the mission looked for and verified ecclesiastical consent for the crowning celebration of King Henry's oldest living child by somebody other than Becket. At the point when Becket challenged to Pope Alexander III over this usurpation of the privilege of the ecclesiastical overseer to crown English rulers, Alexander not just expressed that no such authorization had been allowed yet taken steps to suspend or oust any minister who delegated Henry's beneficiary. Barlow supposes it conceivable that Barre got a verbal understanding from the pope in January to permit the crowning ritual, however there is no composed proof that Alexander consented to permit the royal celebration in 1170. 

After Becket's homicide in December 1170 King Henry sent Barre to Rome, joined by the Archbishop of Rouen, the ministers of Évreux and Worcester, and other imperial agents, to argue the illustrious case with the papacy. The mission's goal was to make it obvious to Alexander that Henry had nothing to do with Becket's homicide and that the ruler was sickened that it had occurred. Barre was at first denied a gathering with Alexander, yet in the end the agents were permitted to meet with the pope. Despite the fact that the mission was not a total achievement, the regal commission managed to influence the papacy not to force a prohibit, or restriction on administrative ceremonies, on England or to banish the lord. In no time thereafter Barre was conceded the workplace of Archdeacon of Lisieux, presumably as a reward for his endeavors in Rome in 1171. In September he was named a regal equity. He was named chancellor to King Henry's oldest living child Henry for a concise period in 1172 and 1173, yet when the more youthful Henry defied his dad and looked for asylum at the French regal court, Barre would not go along with him estranged abroad and came back to the lord's administration. Barre took with him the more youthful Henry's seal. 

Notwithstanding the Lisieux archdeaconry, Barre held the prebend of Hurstborne and Burbage in the Diocese of Salisbury from 1177 and the prebend of Moreton and Whaddon in the Diocese of Hereford from 1180 through 1184. He kept on holding the archdeaconry at Lisieux until 1188, and was at Lisieux for the vast majority of the late 1180s. In 1179 he was at Rouen for the presentation of the collection of Saint Romanus and was one of the observers to the occasion. While holding his Norman archdeaconry, he offered land to the convent of St-Pierre-sur-Dives alongside Ralph, Bishop of Lisieux. In February or March 1198, King Henry sent Barre on a political mission to the landmass with letters to Frederick Barbarossa, the German Emperor, Bela II, the King of Hungary, and Isaac II Angelos, the Emperor at Constantinople, looking for help for his anticipated campaign. Barre conveyed letters to the three rulers mentioning entry through their properties and the privilege to get supplies. Nothing happened to this mission, as Henry kicked the bucket in 1189 preceding the campaign could set off. 

After the demise of King Henry, Barre joined the administration of William Longchamp, the Bishop of Ely, who was justiciar and Lord Chancellor. Longchamp named Barre as Archdeacon of Ely, with the arrangement happening before 4 July 1190. Longchamp sent Barre as an illustrious equity to the districts close Ely in 1190. Be that as it may, Longchamp was crashed into outcast in late 1191 attributable to the threatening vibe of the English respectability and Richard's sibling Prince John amid Richard's nonappearance on the Third Crusade. Longchamp's outcast implied that Barre did not fill in as an illustrious equity again until King Richard I came back to England in 1194. In spite of the fact that Longchamp in the end came back to England, he didn't come back to his see, and a significant part of the organization of Ely would have regressed on Barre amid Longchamp's nonappearance. 

Barre was one of the primary regal judges somewhere in the range of 1194 and 1199. He additionally filled in as a legal advisor for the new Bishop of Ely, Eustace, who was chosen in August 1197. Be that as it may, Barre had caused the threatening vibe of the ruler's more youthful sibling Prince John, and when John succeeded Richard as lord in 1199, Barre stopped to be utilized as an imperial equity, rather coming back to Ely and business in his administrative office. His last beyond any doubt notice in the authentic record is on 9 August 1202, when he was filling in as a judge-delegate for Pope Innocent III, yet he may have been alive as late as 1213, as he was a piece of an ecclesiastical board choosing a case that must be safely dated to somewhere in the range of 1198 and 1213. Barre kept up his fellowship with Stephen of Tournai, who compared with him later in their lives. 

Barre composed a work on the Bible entitled "Abridgment de veteri et novo testamento", which he committed to Longchamp. The work organized entries from the Bible under subjects, and afterward explained the sections with minimal documentations, for example, were finished with gleams on Roman law. It is as yet surviving in two original copy (MS) duplicates, MS British Library Harley 3255, and Lambeth Palace MS 105. The Harley original copy is shorter than the Lambeth composition. Richard Sharpe, a cutting edge student of history who considered the two works, expressed that the Harley original copy "gives [a] all around organized and methodical (however not finish) inclusion of the entire Bible." Because of the commitment to William Longchamp as "diocesan, legate, and chancellor", all things considered, the work was made between January 1190 and October 1191, as Longchamp just held those three workplaces together amid that period. The preface to the work portrays it as something to be utilized secretly, and in this manner Sharpe feels that it was not planned to be an openly distributed work; rather Barre may have proposed it for Longchamp's private use in getting ready messages. 

A third duplicate of Barre's "Abstract" may have existed at Leicester Abbey, where a late fifteenth century library index records a work by Barre on the Bible that the inventory titles "Abridgment Ricardi Barre super utroque testamento". The title and substance make this composition prone to be a duplicate of the "Summary". A similar inventory additionally records five books once claimed by Barre – duplicates of Gratian's "Decretum", Justinian's "Codex", gleams duplicates of the Psalter and a portion of the "Epistles" of Paul, just as Peter Lombard's "Sentences". Likewise, another Leicester Abbey original copy records some humorous refrains that were said to have been composed by Barre.