Yet again, with Feeling (Buffy the Vampire Slayer) 

"Again, with Feeling" is the seventh scene of the 6th period of the heavenly dramatization TV arrangement "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" (1997– 2003) and the just a single in the arrangement executed as a melodic. It was composed and coordinated by the show's maker, Joss Whedon, and initially circulated on UPN in the United States on November 6, 2001. 

"Yet again, with Feeling" investigates changes in the connections of the principle characters, utilizing the plot gadget that an evil spirit—credited as "Sweet" yet anonymous in the scene—propels the general population of Sunnydale to break into melody at arbitrary minutes to express concealed facts. The title of the scene originates from a line sung by Sweet; when the characters have uncovered their facts and face the outcomes of hearing each other's privileged insights, he moves them to "state you're cheerful now, yet again, with inclination". 

The majority of the ordinary cast played out their own vocals, albeit two performing artists were given insignificant singing at their solicitation. "Afresh, with Feeling" is the most actually complex scene in the arrangement, as additional voice and move preparing for the cast was mixed with the creation of four other "Buffy" scenes. It was Joss Whedon's first endeavor at composing music, and diverse styles—from 1950s sitcom signature music to shake musical drama—express the characters' insider facts in explicit ways. The scene was generally welcomed fundamentally after airing, explicitly to contain the funniness and mind to which fans had turned out to be acclimated. The melodic organization enabled characters to remain consistent with their inclinations while they attempted to beat duplicity and miscommunication, fitting with the 6th season's topics of growing up and confronting grown-up obligations. It is viewed as a standout amongst the best and prominent scenes of the arrangement, and—preceding a monetary question in 2007—was appeared in theaters with the crowd welcomed to chime in. 

All through the arrangement Buffy Summers (Sarah Michelle Gellar), in her job as the Vampire Slayer, is helped by her dear companions, who allude to themselves as the "Scooby Gang". These incorporate Xander Harris (Nicholas Brendon), a young fellow without specific qualities or abilities, however gave to Buffy and her calling, and Willow Rosenberg (Alyson Hannigan), a young lady who has developed from a timid yet skilled understudy into a resilient lady and incredible client of enchantment. They are coached by Buffy's "Watcher", Rupert Giles (Anthony Stewart Head), a fatherly figure since the principal season, when Buffy moved to Sunnydale after her folks' separation. Xander is locked in to Anya Jenkins (Emma Caulfield), a previous retribution evil presence who has turned out to be human. They have battled with revealing their commitment to the remainder of the gathering and independently question their approaching marriage. 

Buffy kicked the bucket toward the finish of the fifth season ("The Gift"), yielding herself instead of her more youthful sister Dawn (Michelle Trachtenberg) so as to spare the world. In the main scene of the 6th season, Willow, trusting Buffy to be in Hell, utilized enchantment to bring her over from the grave. Buffy was in reality settled, in what she supposes was paradise, however she has kept this a mystery from her companions. Since her restoration, Buffy has been lost and without motivation to play out her obligations as a Slayer. Willow is impractically included with Tara Maclay (Amber Benson), an incredible yet moral witch. Tara has recently communicated worry at Willow's utilization of her developing mysterious forces for unimportant or individual issues. In the first scene ("All the Way"), Willow do magic to influence Tara to overlook a contention about her maltreatment of enchantment. In a similar scene, Dawn, who has been taking from stores, including Anya's enchantment shop, deceives Buffy and goes on a secret and practically fatal date. Left to deal with Dawn after the demise of their mom Joyce Summers (Kristine Sutherland) in the fifth season ("The Body"), Buffy has come to depend all the more intensely on Giles. Following Dawn's date, Buffy approaches Giles to bear duty regarding teaching her, a lot to his distress. 

Buffy's previous foe is Spike (James Marsters), a vampire. In the fourth season The Initiative, a mystery military association whose mission is to assess and dispense with satanic creatures, rendered Spike innocuous by embedding a microchip in his mind that causes him extraordinary agony when he assaults people. Be that as it may, the chip does not influence him when he hurts devils and he presently frequently battles on Buffy's side, after at first battling only for the joy of fighting. His inspirations changed when, in the fifth season, Spike acknowledged he had begun to look all starry eyed at Buffy. She at first rejected him, yet just before her passing they had started to shape a kinship of sorts. She has been trusting in him; preceding this scene, he is the just a single to whom Buffy has uncovered that she was in paradise. 

All through "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", music fills in as a story device, fundamental to character advancement and activity. The state of mind is set by music, characters examine it, and essayists use it to accentuate contrasts between ages. In an article on the utilization of music in the arrangement, Jacqueline Bach composes that related to the 6th season subjects of growing up, "Again, with Feeling" gives music a focal job as opposed to keeping it out of sight. 

At the point when Buffy is on watch, she regrets in melody about how deadened her life has moved toward becoming ("Going Through the Motions"). The following morning at the Magic Box, the pack uncover that they likewise sang that night. Driven by Giles, the pack estimates about the reason for the singing; they sense no impending threat however concurring that by cooperating they can conquer anything ("I've Got a Theory/Bunnies/If We're Together"). Buffy discovers that the entire town is influenced when she looks outside the shop to see a huge gathering (driven by arrangement author and maker David Fury) singing and moving about how a dry-cleaning administration got their stains out ("The Mustard"). 

Tara and Willow leave to "explore" at home, yet hesitate en route while Tara muses about the amount Willow has improved her life ("Under Your Spell"). The following morning, Xander and Anya play out a two part harmony about their mystery irritations with one another and their individual questions about their looming marriage ("I'll Never Tell"). They understand that the tunes are bringing out concealed privileged insights, and later demand to Giles that something insidious is to be faulted. As they contend, they stroll past a lady (arrangement author and maker Marti Noxon) challenging a stopping ticket ("The Parking Ticket"). That night, Buffy visits Spike, who irately advises Buffy to disregard him on the off chance that she won't love him ("Rest in Peace"). 

Day break reveals to Tara she is happy that Tara and Willow have made up after their contention. Since Tara has no memory of a contention, she presumes that Willow has utilized enchantment to adjust her memory. She goes to the Magic Box to counsel a book, disregarding Dawn. Day break begins to wail over that nobody appears to see her ("Dawn's Lament"), however is before long seized by flunkies of Sweet (Hinton Battle), a zoot suit-wearing, tap-moving, singing devil. They take Dawn to The Bronze, where her endeavor to escape changes into an interpretive hit the dance floor with the cronies ("Dawn's Ballet") before she meets Sweet. He reveals to Dawn that he has come to Sunnydale in light of her "summon", and he will take her to his measurement to make her his lady of the hour ("What You Feel") when his visit is finished. 

At the Magic Box, Giles perceives that he should stand aside if Buffy is to confront her obligations in thinking about Dawn as opposed to depending on him ("Standing") and Tara finds an image of the overlook me-not bloom Willow used to do magic on her in a book of enchantment. Giles and Tara independently resolve to leave their loved ones, separately Buffy and Willow — Giles needs to leave Buffy to her benefit, while Tara needs to leave Willow since she has turned out to be sickened by Willow's mysterious control of their relationship ("Under Your Spell/Standing—Reprise"). Caught by Spike outside the store, one of Sweet's flunkies passes on a test from Sweet for Buffy to protect Dawn from The Bronze. Giles denies the posse to help Buffy, so she goes alone, notwithstanding having no will to do as such; in the long run Giles and the Scoobies alter their opinions and leave to make up for lost time. Despite the fact that Spike at first conceives that things would be better for him if Buffy was dead, he likewise alters his opinion and chooses to help Buffy; Sweet opines that Buffy is attracted to peril ("Walk Through the Fire"). 

Meeting Sweet at The Bronze, Buffy offers an arrangement to Sweet: she will replace her sister in the event that she can't slaughter him. At the point when asked by Sweet what she supposes about existence, Buffy gives her skeptical interpretation of its importance ("Something to Sing About"). At the point when the others arrive, she reveals that Willow took her from paradise, and Willow responds with ghastliness at discovering what she's finished. After unveiling this fact, Buffy abandons singing and moves so excitedly that she starts to smoke — very nearly combusting as Sweet's different unfortunate casualties have been appeared to do — until Spike stops her, revealing to her that the best way to go ahead is to simply continue carrying on with her life. Xander then uncovers that he, not Dawn, called Sweet, trusting he would be appeared upbeat completion for his marriage plans. Sweet, in the wake of discharging Xander from the commitment to be Sweet's "lady of the hour", tells the gathering how much fun they have been ("What You Feel—Reprise") and vanishes. The Scoobies understand that their connections have been changed irreversibly by the mysteries uncovered in their melodies ("Where Do We Go from Here?"). Spike leaves The Bronze, yet Buffy tails him out, and they kiss ("Coda"). 

Joss Whedon had needed to make a melodic scene since the beginning of the arrangement. This was increased amid the fifth season when he facilitated a Shakespeare perusing at his home, to which the cast was welcomed. They started drinking and singing, exhibiting to Whedon that specific cast individuals had melodic gifts. Whedon realized he would need to compose a whole score, which would take weeks or months. Amid the initial three periods of "Buffy", he was unfit to take over about fourteen days off at once, and the limitations of composing and coordinating the show blocked him from advancing the exertion of setting up a melodic. Whedon addressed the show's maker, Gareth Davies, about his thought; they concurred that a melodic scene would be composed. 

Whedon went through a half year composing the music for "Yet again, with Feeling". When he returned after the finish of the fifth season, he gave Davies a content and CD, complete with recorded and organized music, which Davies discovered "marvelous". The on-screen characters were at first stupefied; in 2012, James Marsters remarked that "it's conspicuous since they were great tunes yet the thing was Joss and his better half Kai, they don't sing great. What's more, they don't play piano great. The melodies sounded extremely gooey and repulsive... We were stating, 'Joss, you're destroying our professions.'" 

Getting ready for the scene was physically troublesome for a portion of the cast individuals, the majority of whom had little experience singing and moving. They went through three months in voice preparing. Two choreographers worked with Whedon and the cast on move arrangements. Michelle Trachtenberg (Dawn), who is prepared in artful dance, mentioned a move succession in lieu of a huge singing part, and Alyson Hannigan (Willow), as per Whedon, beseeched him not to give her numerous lines. Sarah Michelle Gellar (Buffy) told the BBC that "It took something like 19 hours of singing and 17 hours of moving in the middle of shooting four different scenes" and she was so on edge about singing that she "abhorred each snapshot of it". At the point when Whedon proposed utilizing a voice twofold for her, be that as it may, she stated, "I fundamentally began to cry and stated, 'You mean another person will do my enormous enthusiastic defining moment for the season?' In the end, it was an inconceivable encounter and I'm happy I did it. What's more, I never need to do it again." Davies was so awed with Hinton Battle's execution on Broadway in "The Wiz" that he requested that Battle play the evil spirit Sweet. Fight, a three-time Tony-victor, wore prosthetic compensate out of the blue to give him a wicked red face. Sweet was depicted as "smooth", smooth and a la mode; conversely, most evil spirits on the arrangement were intended to be rough and terrible. The set for The Bronze was utilized oftentimes all through the arrangement, however stairs were worked from the phase to boost floor space for Battle's move. 

Running eight minutes longer than any in the arrangement, the scene was likewise the most specialized and complex. Whedon, who has expressed this is one of his top pick "Buffy" scenes, utilized a widescreen letterbox position for recording (the main scene in the arrangement to get this treatment), distinctive lighting to draw out the sets all the more energetically, and long takes for shooting—incorporating a confused shot with a full discussion, a tune, and two arranged moves that took 21 endeavors to get right. These were intended to give watchers every one of the pieces of information they expected to build up every one of the subtleties of the connections between characters. Davies remarked that the complexities of recording this scene were "limitlessly more convoluted than a standard "Buffy"" scene, and Whedon expressed in the DVD analysis that he was goal-oriented to demonstrate what TV is able to do, saying "it just depends the amount you give it a second thought". UPN, the TV station that publicized "Buffy"s last two seasons, advanced the scene by showing Gellar's face on boards with music notes over her eyes, and held an uncommon debut occasion. System president Dean Valentine commented he thought it was "a standout amongst the best scenes of TV I at any point found in my life". 

Pundits hailed the scene as fruitful in recounting to a mind boggling tale pretty much every one of the characters exceptionally, while holding the arrangement's powerful components of composing and character advancement. All through the show—as in the remainder of the arrangement—the characters hesitantly address their very own exchange and activities. Anya depicts her own two part harmony "I'll Never Tell" as "a retro pastiche that is never going to be a breakaway pop hit". With a trademark dry air, Giles clarifies that he caught the data about Sunnydale inhabitants suddenly combusting as he was listening in upon the police taking "witness arias". In her opening number, "Making a halfhearted effort", Buffy sings that she feels as if she is having an impact: "nothing here is genuine, nothing here is correct". The melody presents the character's passionate state yet in addition evacuates the boundary between the performing artist and the group of onlookers, as Gellar the on-screen character depicts Buffy, who feels she is simply filling the role of the Slayer. This insights to the group of onlookers that the scene's melodic arrangement is weird to the performers and characters. As per "Buffy" writer Richard Albright, the absence of clean among cast individuals' performing voices added to the genuineness of their breaking out into melody without precedent for the arrangement. Whedon included hesitant discourse and references about the characters being in a melodic and demonstrated their hesitance toward tune and move, so the crowd would feel increasingly good with the unlikelihood of a wonder such as this occurrence on the show. 

The dynamic idea of the characters was a one of a kind component of writing in the arrangement at the time. When they were set up in the twelve scenes of the primary season, characters started to change and connections were created in the second. This proceeded through the arrangement to the point of unconventionality that occasionally progressed toward becoming agitating to fans. "Buffy" writer Marguerite Krause states that the beasts and evil presences looked by the Scoobies are slender imagery for the show's actual center: connections and how to keep up or ruin them. Basic among the vast majority of these connections—sentimental, non-romantic, and familial—is, as indicated by Krause, an "inability to convey, absence of trust, [and the] powerlessness to imagine or make a reasonable future". Miscommunication is exacerbated or continued through numerous scenes and seasons, prompting overpowering misconception and basic defining moments for the characters, some of whom don't recuperate. 

"Again, with Feeling" impelled the story bend for season six by enabling characters to admit beforehand unthinkable issues to themselves and one another. Whedon remarked that he was "fanatical about advancing a plot in a tune, about saying things we haven't said", contrasting the melodic performance center configuration with the fourth-season scene "Quiet", in which characters start imparting when they quit talking. As indicated by "Buffy" writer Zoe-Jane Playdon, prior scenes' "false saccharine conduct" blocks the characters so urgently that it brings an evil presence to constrain them to be completely forthright. The outcomes in the scene of disguising truth, sudden ignition, is an implication to "Distressing House" by Charles Dickens—of whom Whedon is—where characters likewise face immolation for being misleading. For Buffy, nonetheless, truth is moderate in coming, as she keeps on misleading the Scoobies, professing to overlook what she sang about in the memorial park amid "Making a cursory effort". Buffy proceeds with her act in the ensemble number "In case We're Together", starting the melody by influencing others to participate in one by one, as though each is persuaded that she is still put and in control, and their quality as a gathering is dependable. In spite of the fact that she asks in stanza "End of the world/We've all been there/a similar old excursions/Why should we give it a second thought?", all the Scoobies join her, including Giles notwithstanding his doubts that Buffy is never again keen on her life. 

Mysteries uncover themselves relentlessly all through the scene. Xander fears that his future marriage will transform him into a contentious alcoholic like his dad. He endeavors to keep away from his feelings of dread through the tune "I'll Never Tell", singing "'coz there's nothing to tell", in the wake of bringing Sweet to Sunnydale to demonstrate to him that he and Anya will be glad. In the midst of the different disturbances Xander and Anya express through this tune, a few refrains are discerning perceptions of conduct, for example, Anya's allegation that Xander—once infatuated with Buffy—utilizes Buffy as a mother figure to take cover behind. Anya likewise stays away from reality by covering herself in wedding plans without pondering what being hitched will involve; rather she considers Xander an assistant to her ideal way of life. Of the considerable number of characters, Anya is the most distracted with the style of singing and tunes, requesting to know whether Spike sang "a breakaway pop hit, or a book number", and inquiring as to whether the pterodactyl she wryly says she brought forth additionally broke into melody. Anya and Xander's two part harmony is the main melody in the scene to address the group of onlookers straightforwardly. Amid the long single-shot scene when she and Xander talk over one another demanding to Giles that fiendish must be having an effect on everything, Anya alludes to the gathering of people, saying "It resembled we were being watched ... Like there was a divider missing ... in our apartment ... Like there were just three dividers and not a fourth divider." Albright declares that Anya's steady distraction with her and others' exhibitions demonstrates that she has genuine questions about her future supporting job as Xander's significant other. 

Giles' fact, as indicated by Whedon, is that he understands he should not "battle my child's fights or my child will never grow up", which he sings in "Standing" while he tosses blades at Buffy as a major aspect of her preparation. Whedon commented that this touch "is the sort of total turnaround that is a staple of the "Buffy" universe". Tara's genuine love melody additionally has an amusing subtext; in spite of the fact that she seems to imply that she is satisfied by her association with Willow, the verses incorporate numerous references to Willow working her manipulative will over Tara, overlaid with Tara's euphoric singing about her pleasure in their association. In "", Lorna Jowett considers the tune among Willow and Tara the transformational occasion in their relationship, from Tara's subservient bearing towards Willow, into a relationship of equivalents. Two "Buffy" writers note that Willow and Giles sing together toward the beginning of the scene, yet later Tara and Giles share a two part harmony to express the lessened part each plays in their individual connections. 

Albeit "Yet again, with Feeling" enables every one of the characters to admit honestly, except for Willow, it doesn't resolve the conduct that requested admission in any case. Toward the finish of the scene, Buffy kisses Spike, starting a sentiment that she avoids her companions. Their relationship endures until the finish of the arrangement, set apart for a period by Buffy's hating of him since he has no spirit. Her association with Spike, in any case, enables her to feel desire and fascination, which she longs for subsequent to being pulled once again from a radiant measurement. In "The Psychology of Joss Whedon", Mikhail Lubyansky composes that, in spite of the fact that Buffy's initial move toward reconnecting with her life is telling the Scoobies reality in the melody "Something to Sing About", she doesn't discover meaning again until the finish of the period. In his article "A Kantian Analysis of Moral Judgment in "Buffy the Vampire Slayer"", Scott Stroud clarifies that Buffy, as the focal character all through the arrangement, is torn between her wants and her obligation, in a Kantian delineation of unrestrained choice versus predeterminism, symbolized by her obligation as a Slayer and her immature driving forces. In prior seasons, this appears as less complex delights, for example, dating and mingling, blended with overcoming malicious powers. It achieves a peak in a definitive penance when Buffy offers to bite the dust to spare the world. Be that as it may, "Again, with Feeling", as per Stroud, is the defining moment at which she starts to confront her duty to the network, her companions and her family. In addition to the fact that she continues her Slaying in spite of an absence of motivation, however for the remainder of the period she works at an embarrassing activity to accommodate her sister and companions. 

"Yet again, with Feeling" was Joss Whedon's first endeavor at composing music, which he had for the longest time been itching to do. He figured out how to play guitar to compose a few tunes. Christophe Beck, an ordinary author for the arrangement, filled in the suggestion and coda and made "Day break's Ballet". Whedon is an aficionado of Stephen Sondheim, and utilized him as the motivation for a great part of the music, especially with the scene's questionable closure. Cast part James Marsters (Spike) stated, "A portion of Joss' music is shockingly confused. Perhaps it's a Beatles thing. He doesn't realize enough to recognize what he can't do and he's crushing principles." 

The scene's melodic style changes essentially. Buffy's opening number, "Making an insincere effort", was impacted intensely by the Disney melody "Part of Your World" sung by Ariel in "The Little Mermaid". Whedon needed to utilize a comparable opening in which the courageous woman clarifies her longing. While singing her melody, Buffy battles three vampires and an evil spirit who themselves break into an arranged move; Whedon needed this to be fun yet not diverting. The melody closes with harmony impacts from Stephen Schwartz's "Pippin" and a visual tribute to Disney: as Buffy stakes a vampire, it swings to tidy that twirls around her face. 

Whedon picked the most confused scene, with the most artists and movement in the great style of melodic theater, to go with a 18-second tune ("The Mustard") "to get it off the beaten path" for progressively close to home numbers later in the scene. Stephanie Zacharek of Salon.com considers this "splendid in light of the fact that it liberates even individuals who loathe musicals to sink into the story without getting hung up on the class' traditions". The melodic styles length from a jolly 1950s sitcom game plan of the Buffy topic in the opening credits—the main scene in the arrangement to start without the ordinary variant of the signature tune and full cast roll, connoting a class move—to Anya's hard-shake adaptation of "Bunnies". Whedon doled out Emma Caulfield the stone musical drama group in light of the fact that Caulfield regularly sang in such an approach to him on the set. Spike's "Rest in Peace" is additionally a stone melody, which Whedon composed in the wake of finishing the scene's first tune, Tara's "Completely devoted to you", a contemporary pop tune with radio-play potential. Xander and Anya's two part harmony—the most amusing to shoot however hard to compose, as indicated by Whedon—is enlivened by Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers comedies as prove by the luxurious pajama outfits and workmanship deco condo setting. Musically, the melody utilizes impacts from Ira Gershwin, a Charleston mood, and jazz-like harmony slides. Giles' "Standing" is a number to Buffy that she doesn't hear, dissimilar to the melodies uncovering certainties somewhere else in the scene. Whedon shot the scene so that Giles moves progressively while Buffy works out in moderate movement, to highlight Giles' separation from her. Buffy's not hearing his melody was deliberate; Whedon clarified, "You can sing to somebody in musicals and they can never know how you feel or the amount you cherish them, regardless of whether they're standing directly before you". 

"Completely devoted to you" got consideration from Buffy thinks about journalists since it displays a straight to the point and courageous articulation of lesbian sentiment. "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" was the primary show in U.S. TV history to depict a long haul lesbian relationship among the center cast of characters. Past broadcast portrayals of lesbian relations were fundamentally constrained to single "turning out" or "lesbian kiss" scenes, appearing recognized characters as loving yet not suggestive. Tara and Willow exhibit all through the arrangement, and explicitly in "Yet again, with Feeling", that they are "seriously sexual", as per "Buffy" writer Justine Larbalestier. Close to the finish of Tara's melody, she sings, "Lost in delight/Spread underneath my Willow tree/You make me/Com — plete", as Tara suspends off the bed while Willow implicitly performs cunnilingus on her. Lorna Jowett called the melody "the most sensual scene" of the arrangement. Whedon conceded on the DVD editorial for the scene that the melody is "sex entertainment" and "likely the dirtiest verse I've at any point composed, yet additionally, extremely excellent". 

"Buffy" writer Ian Shuttleworth composes that Amber Benson (Tara) has "the best performing voice of all the lead players", alluding to "Completely devoted to you" as "magnificent and lascivious"; writer Nikki Stafford agrees, composing that Benson "has the most dazzling voice, appearing astonishing reach". Whedon recognized that the "expressive, eminent quality" of Benson's voice drove him to dole out her the scene's affection melody. Alyson Hannigan (Willow) was reluctant to sing much and her execution is "troubled", as indicated by Shuttleworth. He thinks about this for instance of Tara's calmer quality turning out before Willow's flashy exhibitions of ground-breaking enchantment. Buffy thinks about researcher Rhonda Wilcox translates Willow's reduced job speaking to the show's quiet about Willow's plunge into enslavement and dimness through the remainder of the period. Benson commented that Tara's story circular segment is noteworthy inside the scene, beginning with rapture however before long perceiving the deceptive conditions encompassing her ecstasy and that "life can't be impeccable constantly". 

The most convoluted tune, "Stroll Through the Fire", drives every one of the characters to the peak from various areas for various reasons, reminiscent of the "Today around evening time Quintet" from "West Side Story". When they all sing the theme without a moment's delay to the line "We will stroll through the flame/And let it — consume", two fire engines race behind the Scoobies as they continue to the Bronze. Whedon considered the shot the "single most noteworthy thing we at any point did". Every one of the artists in this melody, which "weds delicate shake to the capacity of a requiem", interfaces musically to prior tunes while hinting Buffy's next number and the last theme, giving a foreboding tension. 

Buffy's numbers are the most mind boggling, changing key and beat when she starts to uncover the mysteries she swore she never would. This shows up explicitly in "Something to Sing About", which begins with uptempo axioms: "We'll sing a cheerful tune/And you can chime in:/Where there's life, there's expectation/Every day's a blessing/Wishes can materialize/Whistle while you work ..." While singing, she kills Sweet's cronies with a pool signal. Whedon endeavored to make the tune tuneful yet disorganized to express the central matter of the scene. It advances abruptly into her longing to resemble typical young ladies, at that point changes once more, abating the rhythm as she challenges Sweet not to give her a tune, however "something to sing about". Musicologist Amy Bauer orders the rhythm moves as "shake ditty to punk polka to psalm" that demonstrates Buffy's unrest. The key and beat moderate once more, as Buffy at long last uncovers "I live in damnation/'Cause I've been ousted from paradise/I think I was in paradise" with the harmony changing from B minor to B decreased, each time she rehashes "paradise". When answering to her, Spike has a similar move from minor to lessened each time he rehashes "living." 

The scene nears the end with "What would be an ideal next step?", as the Scoobies stand entranced and perplexed, confronting diverse bearings. As they sing "Comprehend we'll go connected at the hip/But we'll walk alone in dread", they line up, clasp hands, at that point hurl each other's hands away in a bit of what Whedon calls "exacting movement". Every one of the eight characters in this line wears a shading in the noticeable range, a cognizant choice by the outfit planner. The couples in the gathering wear inverse hues (Giles in green and Buffy in red, Anya in blue and Xander in orange, Tara in yellow and Willow in purple), and Rhonda Wilcox deciphers the shading coding and movement to speak to the "strain between the individual and the gathering". The characters as a chorale sing "The drapes close on a kiss, God knows/We can tell the end is close", minutes before Buffy heads out to kiss Spike and the show closes with real window ornaments. As Spike and Buffy kiss, a swell of music goes with them, like the closure of "Run with the Wind". Verses sung minutes prior, be that as it may, estimate the vulnerability of the connection among Spike and Buffy, just as their differentiating purposes behind starting any sentiment; Spike needs to feel love from Buffy, while she essentially needs to feel. 

At the point when the scene was initially communicated in the United States on UPN on November 6, 2001, it got a Nielsen rating of 3.4 and an offer of 5. This put the scene in 6th spot in its timeslot, and 88th among communicate TV for the seven day stretch of November 5– 11, 2001. It was the most watched program on UPN that night, and the third most watched program that week, trailing scenes of "" and "WWF SmackDown". This was a decline from the 3.7 rating gotten by the past scene seven days earlier. 

"Yet again, with Feeling" got far reaching basic recognition from media and faultfinders when it circulated, amid abroad syndication, and in memories of the best scenes of "Buffy" after the arrangement finished. Despite the fact that Salon.com essayist Stephanie Zacharek states "(t)he melodies were just half-essential, best case scenario, and the singing capacity of the show's normal cast went just from the genuinely great to the not very good", she likewise attests that it works "flawlessly", paces itself smoothly, and is "smart and influencing". Zacharek's apathetic appraisals of the music and cast's singing capacities were not shared by different journalists. Debi Enker in Australia's "The Age" expresses, "Giles (Anthony Stewart Head) and Tara (Amber Benson) are awesome, Xander (Nicholas Brendon) and Dawn (Michelle Trachtenberg) battle valiantly, and Willow (Alyson Hannigan) scarcely sings a note". Tony Johnston in "The Sunday Herald Sun" composes that Gellar "battles on a portion of her higher notes, yet her move schedules are wonderful, Michelle Trachtenberg's Dawn uncovers arousing move moves path past her delicate years, and James Marsters' Spike brings out a kind of Billy Idol shout to camouflage his absence of vocal proficiency [...] The remainder of the cast blend and match like instant Broadway troupers." Johnston checks "I'll Never Tell" as one of the scene's "champion minutes". Connie Ogle in "The Miami Herald" calls the melodies "preferable and unquestionably progressively shrewd over the greater part of the ones you'll hear on Broadway nowadays". 

Scholars concur that the scene was dangerous and could have bombed breathtakingly. Jonathan Bernstein in the British paper "The Observer" expresses "What could have been, best case scenario, a whimsical redirection and, even from a pessimistic standpoint, a shivering shame, prevailing on each level [...] It gave a frightening exhibit that maker Joss Whedon has an office with verses and tune equivalent to the one he's shown for as far back as six seasons with exchange, character and plot turns. As opposed to receive the 'Hello, wouldn't it be wacky on the off chance that we all of a sudden burst into tune?' approach drilled by "Partner McBeal", the "Buffy" melodic was altogether natural to the arrangement's complex movement." Johnston in the "Sunday Herald Sun" says, "There is simply such a great amount to this gloriously saucy scene that recommends the show can take any course it satisfies and pull it off", while Debi Enker in "The Age" remarks, "Whedon exhibits once more what "Buffy" devotees have known and acknowledged for quite a long time: that his mind, fun loving nature and status to go for broke endeavor his TV endeavors rise route over the pack." Steve Murray in "The Atlanta Journal-Constitution" portrays the scene as "unnerving in a pristine manner", saying "Yet again, with Feeling" is "as amazing as Whedon's achievement scenes 'Quiet' and 'The Body; the scene is "regularly amusing", as indicated by Murray, and goes about as "(b)oth satire and respect, [parodying] the hokiness of musicals while additionally catching the extravagance and floods of inclination the class rouses". 

Writing in the "Toronto Star", Vinay Menon calls "Yet again, with Feeling" "stunning" and composes of "Joss Whedon's matchless virtuoso"; he proceeds to state "(f)or a demonstrate that as of now abuses traditions and transforms between classes, its metaphorical account zigging and zooming flawlessly crosswise over effusive parody, dramatization and over-the-top ghastliness, 'Yet again, with Feeling' is a transcending achievement [...] The show might be secured by existential profundity, it might be painted with expansive, otherworldly brushstrokes, however at last, this story about growing up, loaded up with tension and estrangement, is more genuine than some other purported youngster drama [...] So how about we include a different line of spouting applause: 'Afresh, with Feeling' is melodic, unique, profoundly influencing, and eventually, supernatural. Simply, TV getting it done." 

The scene was assigned for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Musical Direction, however the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (NATAS) fail to incorporate the title on the tallies for Emmy selections in 2002. NATAS endeavored to cure this via mailing a postcard illuminating its voters that it ought to be incorporated, yet the scene did not win. NATAS' oversight, as indicated by the "Washington Post", was "another case of the absence of industry regard managed a standout amongst TV's most reliably astute shows". Stare at in "The Miami Herald" overwhelmingly challenges this exclusion, stating, "[T]he most amazing, engaging (hour besides, really) of TV in the previous year sneaks past basically unnoticed. Nothing here is genuine; nothing here is correct. "Buffy the Vampire Slayer's" melodic scene, 'Yet again, with Feeling', enrolls a negligible exceptional music course assignment. Decent for the melodic executives. A stake through the goals of essayist/executive Joss Whedon, the thumping imaginative heart of "Buffy", the main TV author valiant and sharp enough to utilize frightfulness as one extraordinary huge awesome similitude for developing up [...] 'Yet again, with Feeling' is TV of an alternate sort, something that goes along rare and ought not be covered but rather celebrated and compensated." The scene was likewise named for a Best Dramatic Presentation Hugo Award and a Best Script Nebula Award, both given for greatness in sci-fi and dream composing. In 2009 "television Guide" positioned the scene #14 on its rundown of "television's Top 100 Episodes of All Time". For its 65th commemoration, "television Guide" picked it as the fifth best scene of the 21st century. 

A collection incorporating every one of the 14 melodies in the scene, with Christophe Beck's scores for three other "Buffy" scenes, was discharged by Rounder Records in September 2002 as season seven debuted. John Virant, president and CEO of Rounder Records, told the "Los Angeles Times", "I viewed the scene when it publicized last October, and after it was finished, I said to my significant other, 'That is the greatest hour of TV I've at any point seen. Somebody should put that [soundtrack] out.' I asked at Fox, simply following up, and they stated, 'Well, we attempted, it didn't occur. On the off chance that you need to take a keep running at it, feel free. AllMusic gives the collection five out of five stars, expressing that the music is "just as fun as the scene itself", adulating the voices of Benson, Marsters and Head. Analyst Melinda Hill states it is "an unquestionable requirement have for "Buffy" fans, yet it wouldn't be strange in anybody's gathering". 

Notwithstanding highlighting on the 6th season box set, "Afresh, with Feeling" was separately discharged on DVD in Region 2 group on April 14, 2003, the main scene to be independently discharged. In Region 1, the scene was discharged on the 6th season box set on May 25, 2004, over a year later than the Region 2 discharge. 

Since the melodic scene of "Buffy" disclosed, a few different arrangement have worked melodic organization into scenes, including "Cleans", ("My Musical") in 2007, a scene of "Dark's Anatomy" entitled "Tune Beneath the Song" in 2011 and "", ("Mayhem of the Music Meister!") in 2009. The melodic TV scene was announced a classification, a trick, as indicated by Mary Williams at Salon.com, for arrangement that had come up short on intriguing story lines and characters. Both Williams and Margaret Lyons at "New York" magazine, be that as it may, announced "Again, with Feeling" the "highest quality level" for melodic scenes. Notwithstanding this, Joss Whedon perceived the impact "Afresh, with Feeling" has had on different shows, yet denied that it was basically in charge of the ascent in melodic TV scenes or arrangement, for example, "Happiness", refering to the ubiquity of "Secondary School Musical." 

"Buffy the Vampire Slayer" built up an energetic fan following while it broadcast. Following its arrangement finale, fans proceeded with their gratefulness in theater showings of "Afresh, with Feeling" where participants are urged to dress like the show's characters, chime in to the melodic numbers, and generally connect in the style of "The Rocky Horror Picture Show". Clinton McClung, a New York-based film developer, got the thought for a chime in from group of onlookers investment showings of "The Sound of Music" in 2003. The following year, he started putting on sing-alongs to "Yet again, with Feeling" in Boston's Coolidge Corner Theater, which turned out to be popular to the point that it went out and about. Crowd individuals got props to use amid key scenes, just as bearings (for instance, to holler "Shut up, Dawn!" at Buffy's more youthful sister), and a live cast played out the scene close by the screen. 

"Buffy" sing-alongs got developing media consideration as they spread. At the 2007 Los Angeles Film Festival, an extraordinary screening and chime in was held that highlighted both Marti Noxon and Joss Whedon giving brief talks to the gathering of people. In October 2007, after a question with the Screen Actors Guild over unpaid residuals, twentieth Century Fox pulled the permitting for open screenings of "Yet again, with Feeling", viably finishing authority "Buffy" sing-alongs. Whedon called the retraction "tremendously discouraging" and endeavored to impact the studio to permit future showings.