Skirmish of Goodenough Island 

The Battle of Goodenough Island (22– 27 October 1942), otherwise called Operation Drake, was a skirmish of the Pacific crusade of World War II. The Allies assaulted the "Kaigun Rikusentai" (Special Naval Landing Force) to deny the Japanese the capacity to utilize the island before the Buna battle. The Japanese troops had been stranded on Goodenough Island, Papua, amid the Battle of Milne Bay. "Drake Force", comprising of the Australian 2/twelfth Battalion and connections, arrived on the southern tip of Goodenough Island at Mud Bay and Taleba Bay on 22 October and, following a short however overwhelming battle, the Japanese powers pulled back to Fergusson Island on 27 October. After the fight, Goodenough Island was created by the Allies and turned into a noteworthy base for tasks later in the war. 

Goodenough Island is the northernmost of the D'Entrecasteaux Islands toward the north-east of Papua, isolated by the wide Ward Hunt Strait. The island is via ocean from Milne Bay and from Port Moresby. Its situation along the ocean course among Buna and Milne Bay made it deliberately vital amid late 1942. The island is generally oval formed, estimating long and over. The beach front belt is up to wide, canvassed in meadows and analyzed by streams and waterfront swamps. The island rises pointedly to the focal summit of Mount Vineuo, above ocean level. 

While the western side of the island was canvassed in downpour woods and wilderness, there were verdant fields on the north-eastern side shrouded in kunai and kangaroo grass. These were reasonable locales for landing strip improvement, however the best safe havens were at Mud Bay on the south-eastern side, Taleba Bay on the south-western, and Beli Bay on the eastern side. Different destinations were blocked by coral reefs or presented to the climate, or could just suit shallow-draft vessels drawing or less, making them unsatisfactory for improvement. The island had no streets, and there was no engine or creature transport. Neither the inside of the island nor the encompassing waters were satisfactorily outlined in 1942. Imperative highlights were regularly absent from maps, and the spellings of the names of certain highlights varied starting with one guide then onto the next. 

Flying machine and ships headed from Milne Bay to Buna and the other way around needed to pass near Goodenough Island. An Allied nearness on the island could give cautioning of Japanese activities while denying the Japanese that chance. Goodenough Island additionally had level zones reasonable for the development of crisis airstrips. 

Toward the beginning of August 1942, a little separation of an American warrior control squadron had been positioned on Goodenough Island to give preemptive guidance to the Australian contenders based at Milne Bay. On 7 August, five Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) P-40 Kittyhawks of No. 76 Squadron made constrained arrivals on the green fields. One smashed on landing and must be discounted, however after stopgap airstrips were sliced through the grass, the staying four had the capacity to fly out once more. 

On 24 August, seven landing make conveying 353 Japanese Special Naval Landing Forces troops of the fifth Sasebo Special Naval Landing Force, enhanced by a couple of architects of the fourteenth and fifteenth Pioneer Units (Setsueitai), set out from Cape Nelson in obscurity to take an interest in the assault on the Allied powers at Milne Bay. After coming to Goodenough Island they were unfit to find an appropriate concealing spot amid the day for their arrival create, which must be left on the shoreline, where the Allies found them. A coastwatcher at Cape Nelson detailed the Japanese developments, and Milne Bay got a report around noontime on 25 August that Japanese were on the west shore of Goodenough Island. Nine Kittyhawks from No. 75 Squadron RAAF were despatched to research. They found the arrival make and crushed each of the seven, alongside the Japanese power's radio and the vast majority of its stores. The air attack executed eight Japanese; the survivors, lacking transport, were stranded. In the interim, the American separation on Goodenough Island demolished its very own radios and pulled back from the island. 

Updates on what had happened on Goodenough Island achieved the Japanese direction on 9 September by means of an organized who had advanced back to Buna in a kayak. The destroyers and set out from Rabaul to protect the men on 10 September. Associated air ship located them the following day. The destroyers , and , under Captain Cornelius W. Flynn, USN, were segregated from Task Force 44 to capture. They didn't find the Japanese destroyers, yet five Boeing B-17 Flying Fortresses did. "Isokaze" got away, regardless of a close miss, however "Yayoi" sank subsequent to enduring an immediate shot on the stern that set her ablaze. Her survivors came to Normanby Island, where they wound up in a comparative problem to their comrades on Goodenough Island. After the assault, "Isokaze" came back to the region where "Yayoi" had gone down, finding an oil spill, yet no survivors. On 22 September, "Isokaze" returned once more, this time with the destroyer , and together they found 10 survivors in a dispatch. The two destroyers at that point looked through the shoreline of Normanby Island without progress. The following day a watch plane recognized another 10 survivors, who were saved on 26 September. 

The nearness of wrecked Japanese mariners on Normanby Island introduced no military danger to the Allied powers at Milne Bay, who had rebuffed the Japanese arrival there prior, yet Captain A. T. Timperley, the Australian New Guinea Administrative Unit (ANGAU) officer in charge of the D'Entrecasteaux and Trobriand Islands, contended that they represented a danger to the local populace and Australia's notoriety for being its defender. C Company, 2/tenth Infantry Battalion, under the order of Captain J. Brocksopp, was requested to arrive on Normanby Island. Leaving Gili on the destroyer on 21 September, Brocksopp's organization arrived at Nadi on 22 September, and encountered no resistance. It accepting eight Japanese as detainees before coming back to Milne Bay on "Stuart" on 23 September. 

Then, messages and nourishment supplies had been air dropped by the Japanese to their troops on Goodenough on 10 and 12 September. On 3 October, the submarine touched base at Goodenough Island, and dropped off apportions, ammo, therapeutic supplies, a radio, and an arrival make. It took 71 wiped out or injured men, everything it could convey, back to Rabaul, alongside the groups of 13 dead. This left 285 Japanese troops on the island, the greater part of whom were experiencing intestinal sickness. "I-1" returned on 13 October with more apportions and therapeutic supplies and a second arrival create, yet an Allied airplane that dropped a flare drove her off. On 15 October, the Japanese got a radio message cautioning that the Allies were demonstrating significant enthusiasm for Goodenough Island and were probably going to attack. 

The Allied Supreme Commander of the South West Pacific Area, General Douglas MacArthur, issued new requests on 1 October: 

As a major aspect of a task codenamed "Drake", the 2/twelfth Infantry Battalion, a Second Australian Imperial Force unit from the eighteenth Infantry Brigade, which was made mostly out of men from Queensland and Tasmania, was chosen to attack Goodenough Island, having partaken in the battling around Milne Bay in August and September. Its boss, Lieutenant Colonel Arthur Arnold, as the leader of Drake Force, was requested to annihilate the Japanese power there, restore the coastwatching and radar cautioning posts, and observe the island for landing strip locales. Insight reports demonstrated that there were around 300 Japanese troops on the island, for the most part gathered in the Galaiwau Bay– Kilia Mission territory in the south-east. The Japanese were accepted to be shy of nourishment and ammo, and experiencing ailing health and infection. 

Boarding the destroyers HMAS "Stuart" and in Milne Bay on 22 October, the Australian troops were transported to Goodenough Island escorted by Task Force 44. Arriving that night, the regiment landed on the two sides of the island's southern tip. Arnold wanted to trap the Japanese between the primary power of 520 men instructed independent from anyone else that arrived at Mud Bay, and a littler one of 120 men, for the most part from C Company, told by Major Keith Gategood, which arrived at Taleba Bay, about away. Australian landing create were inaccessible, yet the 2/twelfth Infantry Battalion had three ketches, the "Matoma", "Maclaren King" and "Tieryo", three Japanese landing make that had been caught in the Battle of Milne Bay, and two fueled whaleboats. Seven days' apportions were carried on these art, and an additional seven days' on the two destroyers. Each man conveyed three days' proportions. 

Drake Force had two AWA 3B Wireless Sets for keeping up correspondence with Milne Force. One was taken to Mud Bay while the other stayed on "Arunta". Two Army No. 101 Wireless Sets empowered regiment home office to speak with Mud Bay. Each organization had an Army No. 108 Wireless Set to converse with regiment home office. 

The Mud Bay power went in "Arunta" and came shorewards at 23:00 in the "Maclaren King", two of the ship's dispatches, the three Japanese landing create and the two controlled whaleboats. A base was set up at Mud Bay, where a dressing station was readied and substantial gear, including everything except one 2-inch mortar per organization, was reserved. The Australians at that point set out on a tiring walk to Kilia, guided by Papuan policemen. As they got off, a brutal rainstorm broke, and it began to rain intensely. The power pushed on toward Kilia, however gained moderate ground that night because of the lofty landscape and substantial downpour. They were still a large portion of a mile from Kilia at 08:30 on 23 October, when they experienced the Japanese. 

The Australians were crossing a river that was before a precarious slope. The Japanese authority held up until the Australians were nearly at his situation before starting to shoot with automatic weapons and mortars. The troops who had crossed the spring discovered hand explosives were being moved down the slope at them; those behind it were bound by substantial and precise flame. Arnold chose to pull back. That night, he framed a guarded position, and beat off a little Japanese assault. 

In the interim, the Taleba Bay power on "Stuart" exchanged to "Tieryo", a ship's dispatch and a ship's whaleboat, and was shorewards by 03:30 on 23 October. They caught a Japanese automatic rifle position at about 06:00. Two companies went south where they were locked in by Japanese powers. The Japanese were driven past Niubulu Creek, yet an overwhelming Japanese counterattack from the north at 09:00 delivered setbacks on the Australians and constrained them to pull back from the zone. Gategood ended radio quiet and endeavored to contact Arnold on the 108 set, however was unfit to contact him. After this, they went under substantial mortar and assault rifle shoot, which incurred overwhelming losses. Having lost six men slaughtered and ten injured, with three progressively posted as missing, the Australians were compelled to fall back under strain from the seeking after Japanese. Lieutenant Clifford Hoskings would later get the Military Cross for hushing a Japanese assault rifle in the following battling. Looked with being overwhelm, Gategood pulled back his power considerably further, at first back to Taleba Bay, and after that to Mud Bay on board "Stuart", landing on 24 October. 

Gategood couldn't overcome on the radio in light of the fact that the oil generator that provided capacity to the radios at Mud Bay had separated, in this way cutting Arnold's connection with Mud Bay, Milne Force and Taleba Bay. Arnold propelled an assault on Kilia at 09:10, upheld by two 3-inch mortars and 100 rounds that had been raised from Mud Bay. A guaranteed air strike neglected to arrive. Rather, Japanese air ship strafed the Australian positions, just as the ketch "Maclaren King" in Mud Bay with injured men ready, bringing about further setbacks. Arnold endeavored a flanking development with A Company, yet it ended up lost in the wilderness. The assault at that point turned into a frontal one against the principle Japanese protections, which Arnold decided not to press. 

With the Australian powers unfit to propel, the Japanese pulled back amid the night. They were transported, alongside their gear and supplies, by their two arrival art to Fergusson Island, where they touched base at day break on 25 October. From that point, 261 men were gathered by the light cruiser the next day. The 2/twelfth Infantry Battalion at that point proceeded from Kilia to Galaiwai Bay, meeting no obstruction and discovering very much arranged however unmanned resistances. 

The bombarding and strafing of local towns by the Allied Air Forces caused around 600 Goodenough Islanders to escape to Fergusson Island, where Timperley's ANGAU separation had set up a displaced person camp and was thinking about them until the battling was finished and they could securely return. Australian misfortunes on Goodenough Island were 13 murdered in real life or kicked the bucket of wounds, and 19 injured. The Japanese endured 20 executed and 15 injured amid the fight, yet the 2/twelfth tallied 39 dead. Be that as it may, this was just a gauge as the Japanese had the capacity to recover and cover their dead, which had made it troublesome for the Australians to precisely decide their setbacks. Notwithstanding the departure, some Japanese were abandoned. One was caught by islanders on 30 October and gave over to Timperley. Two kicked the bucket from intestinal sickness in November 1942, and another, Shigeki Yokota, dodged catch until he was taken prisoner in July 1943. 

Two American officers, one each from the Air Corps and the Corps of Engineers, had went with the 2/twelfth Infantry Battalion's arrival on Goodenough Island with the mission of finding reasonable locales for airbases and air cautioning offices. They discovered great destinations around Vivigani and Wataluma. The Vivigani site was cleared by nearby workers who built up a by crisis contender runway. The first Battalion, 91st Engineer General Service Regiment, was alloted the undertaking of forming Vivigani Airfield into a noteworthy airbase fit for dealing with substantial planes. The 2/twelfth Infantry Battalion stayed on the island until the finish of December, inevitably being transported to Oro Bay the evening of 28– 29 December to join the assault on Buna on 31 December, abandoning 75 men. The American designers were pulled back to Port Moresby. 

Without the specialists, the designs to create Goodenough Island must be delayed. Because of the key significance of the island for the anticipated activities against the Imperial Japanese powers in the South West Pacific Area, the little Australian occupation drive utilized double dealing and cover to influence the Japanese to trust that a detachment measured power involved the island. They manufactured sham structures, including an emergency clinic, hostile to airplane firearms built of straightforward logs pointed at the sky, and blockades of wilderness vines which resembled spiked metal. They additionally lit flames to show up as cooking fires for huge quantities of fighters, and sent messages in effectively broken codes reliable with a detachment. 

Another army, the Australian 47th Infantry Battalion, a Militia unit under the direction of Lieutenant Colonel Henry Tasker, landed from Milne Bay on 4 March 1943. This turned into the significant segment of Drake Force, which additionally incorporated an organization of the fourth Field Ambulance, C Troop of the 2/tenth Field Battery, B Troop of the 2/seventeenth Light Anti-Aircraft Battery, an area of the eleventh Field Company, and separations of signs, workshop and disguise units. Taking all things together, Drake Force had a complete quality of around 720 men. On 5 and 6 March, Japanese planes assaulted transports in the mooring, and the airstrip and town at Vivigani. They injured two men, however caused no harm. 

In the fallout of the Battle of the Bismarck Sea, Japanese troops and mariners were again wrecked on Goodenough Island. Reacting to reports from ANGAU, the police and regular citizen sources, watches hunt the island down Japanese survivors. In seven days of lively watching somewhere in the range of 8 and 14 March 1943, the 47th Infantry Battalion found and killed 72 Japanese, caught 42, and found another nine dead on a pontoon. A noteworthy overthrow was accomplished by a watch under Captain Joseph Pascoe that executed eight Japanese who had arrived in two level bottomed vessels. In the water crafts they discovered records in fixed tins. On interpretation by the Allied Translator and Interpreter Section, one archive ended up being a duplicate of the Japanese Army List, with the names and postings of each officer. It in this way gave a total request of clash of the Japanese Army, including numerous units never recently detailed. In addition, a notice of any Japanese officer could now be associated with his unit. Duplicates were made accessible to knowledge units in each battlefield against Japan. 

A four-man review party from No. 5 Mobile Works Squadron RAAF landed on Goodenough Island on 3 January 1943. They chose Beli Bay as a reasonable site for a mooring. Here, a 5,000 ton (14,000 m) ship could grapple a large portion of a mile (0.8 km) seaward with some level of safe house from the south-east and north-west. An individual from the review group and 100 neighborhood laborers enrolled by ANGAU started building a pier at Beli Bay and improving the foot track to Vivigani. A development gathering of 54 men from No. 5 Mobile Works Squadron landed on 27 February 1943. 

Plans for Operation Chronicle, the attack of Woodlark and Kiriwina Islands, called for warrior spread from Goodenough Island. The task was booked for June 1943, so the pace of development work was quickened. The remainder of No. 5 Mobile Works Squadron touched base in late March, trailed by No. 7 Mobile Works Squadron in April. A contender strip was finished and fixed with a blend of rock and bitumen. P-40 Kittyhawks of No. 77 Squadron RAAF touched base on 12 June. It was joined by Nos. 76 and 79 Squadrons RAAF on 16 June, and No. 73 Wing RAAF accepted control of the three warrior squadrons on the island. A by aircraft strip was finished on 20 October, albeit No. 30 Squadron RAAF had just started activities from the strip on 10 October. Work on the airbase at Vivigani proceeded until November, by which time there were runways and dispersal regions for 24 overwhelming and 60 medium planes, and 115 warriors. No. 7 Mobile Works Squadron likewise fabricated two wharves for Liberty ships. 

The island, presently codenamed "Single adaptable cell", turned into an arranging point and supply base for activities in New Guinea and New Britain, and USASOS Sub Base C was set up on the island on 27 April 1943. Sub Base C was annulled in July when duty regarding Goodenough Island go to Alamo Force, whose base camp opened on Goodenough Island on 15 August. From that point, it coordinated activities in the Battles of Arawae and Cape Gloucester, and the arrival at Saidor. 

In August 1943, Goodenough Island was picked as the site for various clinics to treat setbacks brought about as Allied powers progressed through the Pacific. Work on the 750-bed 360th Station Hospital initiated on 15 September 1943, trailed by the 1,000-bed ninth General Hospital on 4 November. An organizing territory for 60,000 troops was likewise settled on the island. A huge number of American troops later gone through Goodenough Island before the base was shut toward the finish of 1944.