Thomas Baker (pilot) 

Thomas Charles Richmond Baker, (2 May 1897 – 4 November 1918) was an Australian officer, pilot, and flying pro of the First World War. Conceived in Smithfield, South Australia, he was a functioning sportsman in his childhood and built up an unmistakable fascination for flying. He was utilized as an assistant with the Bank of New South Wales, before he enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force in July 1915, for administration in World War I. Presented on a cannons unit on the Western Front, he was granted the Military Medal for doing various fixes on an interchanges line while subject to serious ordnance fire. In June 1917, Baker was granted a bar to his enrichment as far as concerns him in subduing a shoot in one of the cannons firearm pits that was jeopardizing roughly 300 rounds of shrapnel and high touchy. 

In September 1917, Baker connected for a situation as a specialist in the Australian Flying Corps. He was rather chosen for flight preparing, and was presented on courses in the United Kingdom. He graduated as a pilot and was authorized a second lieutenant in March 1918. Posted for dynamic obligation in France that June, Baker joined the positions of No. 4 Squadron AFC. Throughout the following four months, he rose to the position of chief and was credited with cutting down 12 German airplane. He was shot down and slaughtered on 4 November 1918. In February 1919, he was after death granted the Distinguished Flying Cross. 

Thomas Charles Richmond Baker was conceived in Smithfield, South Australia, on 2 May 1897, the oldest child of Richmond Baker, a schoolmaster and rancher, and his better half Annie Martha (née Gardner). He was taught at St Peter's College in Adelaide. Amid his school years Baker was a functioning sportsman, participating in paddling, tennis and football, notwithstanding being an individual from the cadet corps. In his childhood, he gained an energetic enthusiasm for flight, and the development of model planes turned into "his main pastime". Moving on from auxiliary school in 1914, he picked up work as an assistant with the Adelaide part of the Bank of New South Wales. Amid this time, he joined the eleventh Royal Australian Engineers of the Citizens Military Force. 

On 29 July 1915, Baker enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force for administration amid the First World War. Dispensed as a support to the sixth Field Artillery Brigade with the position of heavy weapons specialist, he left from Melbourne on board HMAT "Persic" on 22 November, headed for Egypt. On entry, Baker was presented on the sixteenth Battery before moving to France for administration on the Western Front. Landing in France on 1 July 1916, Baker participated in the Somme hostile. 

On 11 December 1916, Baker was occupied with fight with his unit close Gueudecourt. Amid the activity, he was posted as a telephonist with the forward perception group sent to record the fall of the ordnance and secure the range for a siege. Their situation amid this time was on a forward incline of the Australian cutting edge, which was liable to consistent perception and the consideration of German expert riflemen. Endeavoring to look after interchanges, Baker wandered out on four events amid the commitment, each time subject to the substantial ordnance torrent from the German powers, and fixed the phone line in thirty separate spots. As an outcome, the sixteenth Battery had the capacity to adjust its cannons blast and obliterate the Germans' forward channel. Complimented for his "extraordinary heroism" just as "great administration and ... incredible commitment to obligation", Baker was granted the Military Medal. The declaration for the enhancement was distributed in an enhancement to the "London Gazette" on 19 February 1917. 

In 1917, the sixteenth Battery was moved to the Messines area of the cutting edge in Belgium. On 16 March, Baker was admitted to emergency clinic experiencing an ailment; he came back to his unit six days after the fact. Amid the evening of 21 June, the unit's position was liable to a serious siege of ordnance shelling, bringing about a request for all men to empty the weapon pits and look for spread. As an outcome of the torrent, the disguise covering one of the firearm pits burst into flames, imperiling roughly 300 rounds of shrapnel and high explosives. The battery sergeant major promptly called for men to help him in suppressing the burst; Baker and three others volunteered. In spite of the consistent shellfire, the four men expeditiously started recovering water from an adjacent well and shellholes with cans "at incredible individual hazard", soaking the discharge. The cover had been totally decimated, a few sand packs had burst into flames, and a couple of rounds of ammo were burned. Because of their activities, Baker's three allies were suggested for the Military Medal, and Baker for a bar to his. The declaration of the improvements was promogulated in an enhancement to the "London Gazette" on 21 August 1917. 

In September 1917, Baker pursued his aspiration of joining the Australian Flying Corps and connected for an exchange to turn into an air technician when the open door emerged. His application demonstrated effective, however he was rather chosen to turn into a pilot and was posted for flight preparing. Leaving for the United Kingdom the next month, he was presented on No. 5 Training Squadron as a cadet pilot for his underlying flying guidance. On 27 March, Baker graduated as a pilot in the Australian Flying Corps and was dispatched as a second lieutenant; he had finished his first solo flight prior that month. In May, he was posted for a course at No. 2 School of Aerial Fighting and Gunnery. 

Cook continued abroad to France on 15 June 1918 and, on entry the next day, was presented on No. 4 Squadron AFC directing Sopwith Camels. On 23 June, he flew his first operational fight over the German lines; he was elevated to lieutenant four days after the fact. On 31 July, Baker was among a development of seven Camels entrusted with completing a watch over German-held domain. The gathering traversed into German lines close Nieppe Forrest, and flew towards Estaires. The Camels before long caught an arrangement of seven Fokker D.VIIs, and the whole watch promptly jumped at the German airplane. In the resulting skirmish, Baker figured out how to constrain one of the air ship to the cold earth, in this way scoring his first aeronautical triumph. 

All through August 1918, No. 4 Squadron "kept up a high operational rhythm" as the Allies propelled another hostile on the Western Front. On 7 August, Baker and two others took off from their squadron aerodrome at Reclinghem; every one of the three machines were conveying a substantial heap of bombs. Airborne over Pont-du-Hem, the trio discharged their bombs over German billets in the zone, before spotting two Albatros D.Vs. The three Australians surrounded the two airplane. Dough puncher drew in an Albatros, his flame separating the left wing of the air ship, adequately obliterating the machine. After nine days, an arrangement of 65 flying machine was gathered from No. 88 Squadron RAF, No. 92 Squadron RAF, No. 2 Squadron AFC and Baker's No. 4 Squadron AFC to execute a mass attack on the German aerodrome at Haubourdin. The armada of air ship was outfitted with a scope of ignitable and hazardous bombs, notwithstanding automatic weapon ammo. Driven by Captain Harry Cobby, the flying machine from No. 4 Squadron were the first to clear down and ambush the objective. At a certain point, Baker sought after a staff vehicle until the vehicle kept running up a bank and flipped over. He later detailed that "Nobody left the vehicle". The assault, which was the biggest aeronautical assault by Allied powers to that date, was profoundly fruitful; British evaluations inferred that 37 German planes had been demolished. 

On 19 August, Baker drove a watch of six flying machine over Lys. After five days, he shot down a German inflatable while on a solitary mission in poor climate, scoring his third aeronautical triumph. At day break on 30 August, Baker took off on a foray with Lieutenants Roy King and Oscar Ramsay. Over Laventie, the trio experienced three DFW C.Vs; Baker and King each discarded one of the flying machine. Bread cook was allowed two weeks' leave to the United Kingdom toward the beginning of September. Towards the finish of that month, No. 4 Squadron moved to Serny and was not long after re-outfitted with the Sopwith Snipe. When of the transformation, Baker had accomplished flying pro status on the Sopwith Camel, having been credited with shooting down six German flying machine by early October. 

Pastry specialist was elevated to transitory chief and made a flight administrator in No. 4 Squadron on 24 October. After two days, Baker and Lieutenant Thomas Barkell drove an arrangement of nine Snipes. As the watch gravitated toward Tournai toward the evening, they caught a gathering of 15 Fokker D.VIIs. The Snipes cleared towards the German flying machine, and Baker endeavored to connect with the development chief, yet the assault rifles on his Snipe stuck. He got his air ship for a second endeavor, and figured out how to shoot the Fokker down crazy. On the whole, the Australians annihilated five of the Fokkers before the commitment finished. 

On 28 October, Baker was credited with the demolition of a further three German flying machine from two separate watches into Belgium that day. Amid the second journey, he brought one Fokker down crazy, before shooting the other down over Ath. He was airborne again on a hostile watch the following day. Fifteen Snipes from No. 4 Squadron were nitty gritty for the watch, and as the gathering gravitated toward Tournai they experienced roughly 60 Fokker planes effectively connected with a few British air ship. Bread cook drove five of the Snipes into the strike, however perplexity ruled for a few minutes before the men could pick up their heading in the battle. Pastry specialist assaulted two Fokkers that had been seeking after another Snipe, and had the capacity to crush one of the flying machine. On 30 October, "impressive action" was seen at the German aerodrome in Rebaix, and an arrangement of flying machine from No. 2 Squadron were definite to bomb the region; an escort of eleven Snipes—including Baker—from No. 4 Squadron was given. As the bombarding was occurring, a few Fokker airplane showed up and were caught by the Snipes. In the following fight, Baker fundamentally harmed one of the Fokkers, bringing about the air ship dropping towards the ground tail-first on its back. The Fokker turned out to be Baker's twelfth, and last, elevated triumph of the war; he had scored his last five triumphs in a time of three days. 

On 4 November 1918, the entire of No. 80 Wing RAF—of which No. 4 Squadron was part—required to the sky with an end goal to "bug the German retreat on the Leuze-Ath street" and to bomb the aerodrome toward the east of Leuze. A development of Sopwith Snipes from No. 4 Squadron had been used as an escort when the underlying strike was done, and after that to secure the planes as they came back to the Allied lines. In any case, when the Australians had executed the last obligation, they were followed by a watch of twelve Fokkers. Subsequent to seeing the planes off, the Snipes wheeled around to defy the German air ship. The fight seethed for a few minutes before ceasing to exist. As the Snipes re-assembled, they found that three pilots were missing; Baker was among the three. Bread cook and individual expert Lieutenant Arthur Palliser were at first recorded as absent, yet were later found to have succumbed to "Rittmeister" Karl Bolle amid the fight. 

Portrayed as "the most heroic airman ... and ... a pilot far over the normal" by one of the men in his squadron, Baker was covered in Escanaffles Communal Cemetery, Belgium. His ethereal triumphs were separated as seven air ship and one inflatable annihilated with an extra four planes driven down wild, making him No. 4 Squadron's fourth most astounding scoring ace after Harry Cobby, Roy King and Edgar McCloughry. A recolored glass window at St John's Church of England in Adelaide is devoted to his memory. On 8 February 1919, the "London Gazette" conveyed the after death declaration of the honor of the Distinguished Flying Cross to Thomas Baker, perusing: