The Mummy (1999 film) 

The Mummy is a 1999 American activity blood and guts movie composed and coordinated by Stephen Sommers. The film stars Brendan Fraser, Rachel Weisz, John Hannah, and Kevin J. O'Connor, with Arnold Vosloo in the main job as the restored mummy. It is a free redo of the 1932 film "The Mummy". In this film, swashbuckler Rick O'Connell goes to Hamunaptra, the city of the dead, with an administrator and her sibling. There, they incidentally stir Imhotep, a reviled esteemed minister from the rule of the pharaoh Seti I. 

Recording started in Marrakech, Morocco, on May 4, 1998, and kept going seventeen weeks; the group needed to suffer parchedness, dust storms, and snakes while taping in the Sahara. The enhanced visualizations were given by Industrial Light and Magic, who mixed film and PC produced symbolism to make the mummy. Jerry Goldsmith gave the symphonic score. 

"The Mummy" opened on May 7, 1999, and earned $43 million in 3,210 venues amid its opening end of the week in the United States. The film proceeded to net $416 million around the world. The movies achievement prompted two continuations—"The Mummy Returns" and ""— just as an enlivened arrangement, and the prequel/turn off film "The Scorpion King". All inclusive Pictures likewise opened a crazy ride, "Vengeance of the Mummy", in 2004. 

In Thebes, Egypt, 1290 BC, devout minister Imhotep has an affection illicit relationship with Anck-su-Namun, the escort of Pharaoh Seti I. At the point when the Pharaoh finds the undertaking, Imhotep and Anck-su-Namun kill him. Imhotep escapes, while Anck-su-Namun slaughters herself, meaning for Imhotep to restore her. Imhotep and his ministers take her body and travel to Hamunaptra, the city of the dead, yet the restoration custom is ceased by Seti's guardians, the Medjai. Imhotep's ministers are altogether preserved alive, while Imhotep himself is condemned to endure the Hom Dai, the most exceedingly awful of Egyptian condemnations; he is covered bursting at the seams with tissue eating scarab creepy crawlies. Imhotep is fixed away in a stone casket at the feet of a statue of the Egyptian god Anubis and held under severe reconnaissance by the Medjai to keep Imhotep's arrival. 

In 1926, Jonathan Carnahan presents his sister, Evelyn, an administrator and yearning Egyptologist, with an unpredictable box and guide that lead to Hamunaptra. Jonathan uncovers he stole the container from an American traveler, Rick O'Connell, who found the city three years sooner while in the French Foreign Legion. Rick makes an arrangement with Evelyn to lead them there in the event that they discharge him from jail. 

Rick drives Evelyn and her gathering to the city, where the gathering experiences a band of American fortune seekers guided by Rick's fainthearted associate Beni Gabor. The endeavors are assaulted by the Medjai, driven by the warrior Ardeth Bay. Against Ardeth's recommendation to leave the city, the two undertakings keep on unearthing. Evelyn looks for the popular Book of the Living, a book made of unadulterated gold. Rather than finding the book, she, Rick, and Jonathan unearth the statue of Anubis and the remaining parts of Imhotep covered underneath. The group of Americans, in the mean time, find the dark Book of the Dead, joined by canopic containers conveying Anck-su-Namun's safeguarded organs. 

Around evening time, Evelyn takes the Book of the Dead and peruses a page out loud, unintentionally arousing Imhotep. The endeavors come back to Cairo, however Imhotep tails them with the assistance of Beni. Imhotep comes back to full quality by murdering the individuals from the American undertaking, and takes the ten torment back to Egypt. Looking for an approach to stop Imhotep, Rick, Evelyn and Jonathan meet Ardeth at an exhibition hall. Ardeth theorizes that Imhotep needs to revive Anck-su-Namun again and plans to do as such by giving up Evelyn. Evelyn trusts that if the Book of the Dead breathed life into Imhotep back, the Book of the Living can slaughter him once more, and concludes the book's whereabouts. Imhotep corners the gathering with a multitude of slaves. Evelyn consents to go with Imhotep on the off chance that he saves the remainder of the gathering. 

Imhotep, Evelyn, and Beni come back to Hamunaptra, sought after by Rick, Jonathan, and Ardeth. Imhotep gets ready to forfeit Evelyn, yet she is safeguarded after a serious fight with Imhotep's embalmed clerics. At the point when Evelyn peruses from the Book of Amun-Ra, Imhotep ends up mortal once more, and Rick drives him into the River of Death. Imhotep leaves the universe of the living, however not before vowing vengeance. While plundering fortune from the pyramid, Beni inadvertently sets off an antiquated booby trap and is caught by a swarm of substance eating scarabs as Hamunaptra falls into the sand. Ardeth rides away as Rick and Evelyn kiss and ride off into the dusk on a couple of camels loaded down with Beni's fortune. 

Brendan Fraser plays Rick O'Connell, an American explorer who served in the French Foreign Legion. Maker James Jacks offered the job of Rick O'Connell to Tom Cruise (who was later cast in the reboot film), Brad Pitt, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck yet the performers were not intrigued or couldn't fit the job into their individual calendars. Jacks and executive Stephen Sommers were awed with the cash that "George of the Jungle" was making in the cinematic world and give Brendan Fraser a role thus; Sommers likewise remarked that he felt Fraser fit the Errol Flynn swashbuckling character he had imagined flawlessly. The on-screen character comprehended that his character "doesn't pay attention to himself as well, generally the group of onlookers can't go on that venture with him". 

Rachel Weisz depicts Evelyn Carnahan, an ungainly yet splendid Egyptologist. Evelyn attempts the endeavor to Hamunaptra to find an old book, substantiating herself to her companions. The character was named in tribute to Lady Evelyn Carnarvon, the little girl of novice Egyptologist Lord Carnarvon, both present at the opening of the tomb of Tutankhamen in 1922. Rachel Weisz was not a major fanatic of blood and guts movies but rather did not see this film in that capacity. As she said in a meeting, "It's hokum, a comic book world." 

South African stage performing artist Arnold Vosloo plays Imhotep. Vosloo comprehended the methodology that Sommers was going for in his screenplay, however just consented to assume the job of Imhotep "in the event that I could do it completely straight. From Imhotep's perspective, this is a skewed rendition of 'Romeo and Juliet'." 

Other real jobs incorporate John Hannah as Jonathan Carnahan, Evelyn's blundering more established sibling; Kevin J. O'Connor as Jonathan's fearful previous countryman in the French Foreign Legion, Beni Gabor. Oded Fehr plays the Medjai Ardeth Bay, Erick Avari historical center guardian Dr. Terence Bey, and Patricia Velásquez Imhotep's darling Anck-Su-Namun. Minor jobs incorporate Bernard Fox as Captain Winston Havelock, a pilot and companion of Rick's, Omid Djalili as an Egyptian jail superintendent, and Jonathan Hyde, Stephen Dunham, Corey Johnson, and Tuc Watkins as individuals from the American undertaking to Hamunaptra. 

In 1992, makers James Jacks and Sean Daniel chose to refresh the first 1932 "Mummy" film for the 1990s. Widespread Studios gave them the thumbs up, yet just on the off chance that they kept the financial plan around $10 million. Jacks recollects that the studio "basically needed a low-spending frightfulness establishment"; accordingly, Jacks and Daniel enlisted awfulness producer/author Clive Barker on board to coordinate. Barker's vision for the film was vicious, with the story rotating around the leader of a contemporary workmanship exhibition hall who ends up being a cultist endeavoring to restore mummies. Jacks reviews that Barker's take was "dim, sexual and loaded up with enchantment", and that, "it would have been an incredible low-spending motion picture". After a few gatherings, Barker and Universal lost intrigue and went separate ways. 

Executive Joe Dante was the following decision, expanding the financial plan for his concept of Daniel Day-Lewis as an agonizing Mummy. This present form's draft was composed by Alan Ormsby, and was later re-composed by John Sayles. It was set in contemporary occasions and concentrated on resurrection with components of a romantic tale. It verged on being made with certain components, similar to the tissue eating scarabs, making it to the last item. In any case, by then, the studio needed a film with a financial plan of $15 million and rejected Dante's rendition. 

Movie producer George A. Romero was gotten with a dream of a zombie-style blood and gore movie like "Night of the Living Dead", yet which additionally depended heaps of shocking sentiment and indecision of personality. Romero finished a draft in October 1994, co-composed with Ormsby and Sayles, that spun around female paleologist Helen Grover and her revelation in Abydos of the tomb of Imhotep, an Egyptian general who lived in the season of Ramesses II. Unfurling in an anonymous American city in present day times, occasions are set into movement when Imhotep accidentally stirs because of his saved body having been presented to beams from a MRI examine in a cutting edge criminological paleohistory lab. The content advances to a fish-out-of-water story when Imhotep, having recovered his energetic appearance, perceives the need to adjust to a contemporary society that is three thousand years expelled from the one he originated from. Expecting at first that he is an agent from the Bureau of Antiquities, Helen ends up drawn into a speculative association with Imhotep while additionally encountering extrasensory flashbacks to a past life in Nineteenth Dynasty Egypt as a priestess of Isis. Bringing mysterious powers through mantra, Imhotep later revives the mummy of Karis, a faithful slave whose body had been resting nearby his lord's in a similar tomb yet is presently held in the neighborhood historical center. In the wake of getting away into the city sewer framework, Karis leaves on a wrathful frenzy against the different criminal wall and high society savants who had procured stolen relics from his tomb. Romero's content was viewed as excessively dim and fierce by Jacks and the studio, who needed an increasingly available picture. Exacerbating the issue was the way that Romero was unfit to remove from an agreement for an alternate film venture he had in arrangement at the time with MGM, thus his association with the film was separated and the advancement of an altogether new content was dispatched to different authors. 

Mick Garris was connected to coordinate however in the end left the task, and Wes Craven was offered the film yet turned it down. Stephen Sommers called Jacks and Daniel in 1997 with his vision of "The Mummy" "as a sort of Indiana Jones or "Jason and the Argonauts" with the mummy as the animal giving the legend trouble". Sommers had seen the first film when he was eight, and needed to reproduce the things he preferred about it on a greater scale. He had needed to make a "Mummy" movie since 1993, yet different authors or chiefs were constantly joined. At long last, Sommers got his fateful opening and pitched his plan to Universal with a 18-page treatment. At the time, Universal's administration had changed in light of the movies disappointment of "", and the misfortune drove the studio to need to return to its fruitful establishments from the 1930s. All inclusive enjoyed this thought so much that they affirmed the idea and expanded the financial plan from $15 million to $80 million. 

Shooting started in Marrakech, Morocco on May 4, 1998 and kept going 17 weeks. Photography moved to the Sahara desert outside the community of Erfoud, and to the United Kingdom before fulfillment of shooting on August 29, 1998. The group couldn't shoot in Egypt in light of the unsteady political conditions. To maintain a strategic distance from parchedness in the burning warmth of the Sahara, the generation's restorative group made a beverage that the cast and team needed to devour at regular intervals. Dust storms were every day bothers. Snakes, bugs and scorpions were a noteworthy issue, with many team individuals being transported out subsequent to being nibbled. 

Brendan Fraser almost passed on amid a scene where his character is hanged. Weisz recollected that, "He [Fraser] quit breathing and must be revived." The generation had the official help of the Moroccan armed force, and the cast individuals had abducting protection taken out on them, a reality Sommers revealed to the cast simply in the wake of shooting had wrapped up. 

Creation originator Allan Cameron found a lethargic well of lava close Erfoud where the whole set for Hamunaptra could be built. Sommers preferred the area in light of the fact that, "A city covered up in the cavity of a wiped out spring of gushing lava seemed well and good. Out amidst the desert you could never observe it. You could never consider entering the hole except if you comprehended what was inside that fountain of liquid magma." A study of the spring of gushing lava was directed with the goal that a precise model and scale models of the segments and statues could be duplicated back at Shepperton Studios, where the majority of the scenes including the underground ways of the City of the Dead were shot. These sets took four months to construct, and included fiberglass segments fixed with embellishments for the film's last scenes. Another vast set was built in the United Kingdom on the dockyard at Chatham which multiplied for the Giza Port on the River Nile. This set was long and included "a steam train, an Ajax footing motor, three cranes, an open two-horse carriage, four pony drawn trucks, five dressing steeds and grooms, nine pack jackasses and donkeys, just as market slows down, Arab-clad sellers and space for 300 costumed additional items". 

The producers apparently burned through $15 million of the $80 million spending plan on embellishments, given by Industrial Light and Magic; the makers needed another search for the Mummy with the goal that they would maintain a strategic distance from correlations with past motion pictures. John Andrew Berton, Jr., Industrial Light and Magic's Visual Effects Supervisor on "The Mummy", began building up the look three months before taping began. He said that he needed the Mummy "to be mean, extreme, frightful, something that had never been seen by gatherings of people". Berton utilized movement catch so as to accomplish "a threatening and extremely sensible Mummy". Explicit photography was led on performing artist Arnold Vosloo so the enhancements team could see precisely how he moved and reproduce it. 

To make the Mummy, Berton utilized a blend of real life and PC designs. He coordinated the advanced prosthetic make-up pieces all over amid recording. Berton stated, "When you see his film picture, that is him. When he turns his head and half of his face is missing and you can oversee directly on to his teeth, that is extremely his face. Furthermore, that is the reason it was so difficult to do." Vosloo portrayed the taping "in general new thing" for him; "They needed to put these little red following lights everywhere all over so they could outline the enhancements. A ton of the time I was strolling around the set resembling a Christmas tree." Make-Up Effects Supervisor Nick Dudman delivered the physical animal impacts in the film, including three-dimensional make-up and prosthetics. He additionally structured the majority of the animatronic impacts. While the film utilized PC produced symbolism, numerous scenes, including ones where Rachel Weisz's character is secured with rodents and insects, were genuine, utilizing live creatures. 

The Mummy: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack was created and led by Jerry Goldsmith, with arrangements given by Alexander Courage. The soundtrack was discharged by Decca Records on May 4, 1999. In the same way as other Goldsmith scores, the fundamental topic utilizes broad metal and percussion components; Goldsmith additionally utilized saving measures of vocals, exceptionally abnormal for the vast majority of his work. 

Generally speaking, Goldsmith's score was generally welcomed. AllMusic depicted it as an "amazing, sensational score" which conveyed the normal features. Different surveys decidedly noticed the dull, percussive sound fit well with the plot, just as the crude intensity of the music. The constrained however breathtaking utilization of the tune was likewise praised, and most commentators found the last track on the CD to be the best generally speaking. Then again, a few faultfinders found the score needed attachment, and that the consistent substantial activity fit irritating reiteration. Roderick Scott off CineMusic.net summed up the score as "agent of both Goldsmith's closest to perfect and his generally unremarkable. Fortunately [...] his ideal work on this discharge wins out." 

"The Mummy" opened on May 7, 1999, and earned $43 million out of 3,210 performance centers in the United States on its opening end of the week. The film proceeded to net $415 million around the world (household: $155 million; outside: $260 million). 

"The Mummy" got blended audits from pundits. On Rotten Tomatoes the film holds a 58% rating, in light of 89 surveys, with a normal rating of 5.8/10. The site's basic accord peruses, "It's hard to make an enticing contention for "The Mummy" as any sort of important realistic accomplishment, yet it's evidently enjoyable to watch." On Metacritic the film has a score of 48 out of 100, in view of 34 pundits, designating "blended or normal surveys". Groups of onlookers surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a normal evaluation of "B" on an A+ to F scale. 

Roger Ebert, of the "Chicago Sun-Times", gave the film 3 out of 4 stars, expressing "There is not really a thing I can say to support its, then again, actually I was cheered by about each moment of it. I can't contend for the content, the bearing, the acting or even the mummy, however I can say that I was not exhausted and some of the time I was nonsensically satisfied." Likewise, Owen Gleiberman of "Amusement Weekly" gave the film a "B−" grade and stated, ""The Mummy" might want to make you shiver, yet it attempts to do as such while never relinquishing its funny unimportance." Bob Graham of the "San Francisco Chronicle" gave the film high checks for the going about just as the embellishments. 

Stephen Holden from "The New York Times" expressed, "This rendition of "The Mummy" has no misrepresentations to be something besides a bombastic comic computer game sprinkled onto the screen. Think "Pillagers of the Lost Ark" with animation characters, no intelligible story line and sumptuous however mushy enhancements. Think "Night of the Living Dead" deprived of certifiable ghastliness and restaged as an Egyptian-topic Halloween expo. Think "Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy" joined onto a Bing Crosby-Bob Hope street picture ("The Road to Hamunaptra"?) and siphoned up into an epic-estimate classification parody." Publications like "The Austin Chronicle" and "Dallas Observer" reached the resolution that in spite of good acting and enhancements, the motion picture needed attachment; discussing the embellishments, the "Onlooker" mourned "If just creating a spirit for the film itself were so natural." Other distributions, for example, "Bounce Cut" felt that Industrial Light and Magic's lock on embellishments demonstrated adverse to "The Mummy"; "The mummy", Ernest Larson composed for the "Hop Cut", "is standard-issue I.L.&M.". Kim Newman of the British Film Institute made a decision about the image mediocre compared to the first, as all the time was spent on enhancements, rather than making the climate which made the first film such a work of art. "USA Today" gave the film two out of four stars and felt that it was "not free of generalizations", an assessment with which the BFI agreed. "On the off chance that somebody whines of a foul smell, you can make certain an Arab chump is going to enter a scene. Fraser, similarly snappy with weapon, clench hand or jest, may spare the day, yet even he can't spare the image", "USA Today" composed. 

"The Mummy"s film industry execution prompted various continuations and spinoffs. In 2001, the spin-off "The Mummy Returns" was discharged; the film includes a large portion of the enduring important characters, as a wedded couple, Rick and Evelyn stand up to Imhotep and the Scorpion King. The film likewise presents the saints' child, Alex. The two movies roused both an energized arrangement which kept going two seasons, and a turn off prequel, "The Scorpion King" (2002), recounting to the narrative of the Akkadian warrior as he was delegated lord. It additionally incorporates three spin-offs and one prequel. 

A second continuation, called "", was discharged on August 1, 2008. The story happens in China with the "Earthenware Emperor" rousing the lowlife, while Rachel Weisz was supplanted with Maria Bello. 

The film additionally motivated a crazy ride, "Retribution of the Mummy" in three Universal Studios Theme Parks: Hollywood, California; Orlando, Florida; and Sentosa, Singapore. 

Two computer game adjustments of "The Mummy" were distributed by Konami under permit from Universal Interactive Studios in 2000: an Action Adventure for the PlayStation and PC created by Rebellion Developments, just as a Game Boy Color perplex diversion created by Konami Nagoya. 

On April 4, 2012, Universal reported their arrangements to reboot the establishment. The film is planned to be the principal portion in the Dark Universe, titled "The Mummy", and was discharged in June 2017.