Rugby World Cup 

The Rugby World Cup is a men's rugby association competition challenged at regular intervals between the top worldwide groups. The competition was first held in 1987, when the competition was co-facilitated by New Zealand and Australia. 

The victors are granted the Webb Ellis Cup, named after William Webb Ellis, the Rugby School student who, as per a mainstream legend, designed rugby by getting the ball amid a football match-up. Four nations have won the trophy; New Zealand multiple times, Australia and South Africa every twice, and England once. New Zealand are the present victors, having crushed Australia in the last of the 2015 competition in England. 

The competition is directed by World Rugby, the game's worldwide overseeing body. Sixteen groups were welcome to take an interest in the debut competition in 1987, anyway since 1999 twenty groups have partaken. Japan will have the 2019 Rugby World Cup and France will have in 2023. 

Qualifying competitions were presented for the second competition, where eight of the sixteen spots were challenged in a twenty-four-country competition. The debut World Cup in 1987, did not include any passing procedure; rather, the 16 places were consequently filled by seven qualified International Rugby Football Board (IRFB, presently World Rugby) part countries, and the rest by welcome. 

In 2003 and 2007, the passing arrangement took into consideration eight of the twenty accessible positions to be filled via programmed capability, as the eight quarter finalists of the past competition enter its successor. The staying twelve positions were filled by mainland qualifying competitions. Positions were filled by three groups from the Americas, one from Asia, one from Africa, three from Europe and two from Oceania. Another two spots were designated for repechage. The main repechage place was dictated by a match between the sprinters up from the Africa and Europe qualifying competitions, with that victor at that point playing the Americas sprinter up to decide the spot. The second repechage position was resolved between the sprinters up from the Asia and Oceania qualifiers. 

The present organization considers 12 of the 20 accessible positions to be filled via programmed capability, as the groups who complete third or better in the gathering (pool) phases of the past competition enter its successor (where they will be seeded). The capability framework for the staying eight spots is district based, with an absolute eight groups distributed for Europe, five for Oceania, three for the Americas, two for Africa, and one for Asia. The last spot is controlled by an intercontinental play-off. 

The 2015 competition included twenty countries contending more than about a month and a half. There were two phases, a pool and a knockout. Countries were isolated into four pools, A through to D, of five countries each. The groups were seeded before the beginning of the competition, with the seedings taken from the World Rankings in December 2012. The four most astounding positioned groups were attracted into pools A to D. The following four most elevated positioned groups were then attracted into pools A to D, trailed by the following four. The rest of the situations in each pool were filled by the qualifiers. 

Countries play four pool recreations, playing their individual pool individuals once each. An extra focuses framework is utilized amid pool play. On the off chance that at least two groups are level on focuses, an arrangement of criteria is utilized to decide the higher positioned; the 6th and last foundation chooses the higher position through the official World Rankings. 

The champ and sprinter up of each pool enter the knockout stage. The knockout stage comprises of quarter-and semi-finals, and after that the last. The champ of each pool is set against a sprinter up of an alternate pool in a quarter-last. The victor of each quarter-last goes on to the semi-finals, and the individual champs continue to the last. Failures of the semi-finals challenge for third spot, called the 'Bronze Final'. In the event that a match in the knockout stages finishes in a draw, the champ is resolved through additional time. In the event that that falls flat, the match goes into abrupt passing and the following group to score any focuses is the champ. If all else fails, a kicking rivalry is utilized. 

Preceding the Rugby World Cup, there was no genuinely worldwide rugby association rivalry, however there were various different competitions. One of the most established is the yearly Six Nations Championship, which began in 1883 as the Home Nations Championship, a competition between England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. It extended to the Five Nations in 1910, when France joined the competition. France did not take an interest from 1931 to 1939, amid which period it returned to a Home Nations title. In 2000, Italy joined the challenge, which turned into the Six Nations. 

Rugby association was additionally played at the Summer Olympic Games, first showing up at the 1900 Paris diversions and in this way at London in 1908, Antwerp in 1920, and Paris again in 1924. France won the main gold award, at that point Australasia, with the last two being won by the United States. Anyway rugby association stopped to be on Olympic program after 1924. 

The possibility of a Rugby World Cup had been proposed on various events returning to the 1950s, yet met with restriction from most associations in the IRFB. The thought restored a few times in the mid 1980s, with the Australian Rugby Union (ARU) in 1983, and the New Zealand Rugby Union (NZRU) in 1984 autonomously proposing the foundation of a world glass. A proposition was again put to the IRFB in 1985 and this time effectively passed 10– 6. The representatives from Australia, France, New Zealand and South Africa all voted in favor of the proposition, and the agents from Ireland and Scotland against; the English and Welsh agents were part, with one from every nation for and one against. 

The debut competition, together facilitated by Australia and New Zealand, was held in May and June 1987, with sixteen countries participating. New Zealand turned into the first since forever champions, vanquishing France 29– 9 in the last. The resulting 1991 competition was facilitated by England, with matches played all through Britain, Ireland and France. This competition saw the presentation of a passing competition; eight spots were dispensed to the quarter-finalists from 1987, and the staying eight chosen by a thirty-five country qualifying competition. Australia won the second competition, overcoming England 12– 6 in the last. 

In 1992, eight years after their last official arrangement, South Africa facilitated New Zealand in an irregular test coordinate. The resumption of worldwide rugby in South Africa came after the disassembling of the politically-sanctioned racial segregation framework, and was just finished with consent of the African National Congress. With their arrival to test rugby, South Africa were chosen to have the 1995 Rugby World Cup. Subsequent to annoying Australia in the opening match, South Africa kept on progressing through the competition until they met New Zealand in the last. After a strained last that went into additional time, South Africa rose 15– 12 champs, with then President Nelson Mandela, wearing a Springbok pullover, displaying the trophy to South Africa's skipper, Francois Pienaar. 

The competition in 1999 was facilitated by Wales with matches additionally being held all through the remainder of the United Kingdom, Ireland and France. The competition incorporated a repechage framework, close by explicit local qualifying places, and an expansion from sixteen to twenty taking an interest countries. Australia guaranteed their second title, overcoming France in the last. 

The 2003 occasion was facilitated by Australia, despite the fact that it was initially proposed to be held together with New Zealand. Britain developed as victors overcoming Australia in additional time. Britain's success was one of a kind in that it broke the southern side of the equator's predominance in the occasion. Such was the festival of England's triumph, that an expected 750,000 individuals assembled in focal London to welcome the group, making the day the biggest brandishing festivity of its sort ever in the United Kingdom. 

The 2007 challenge was facilitated by France, with matches likewise being held in Wales and Scotland. South Africa asserted their second title by vanquishing guarding champions England 15– 6. The 2011 competition was granted to New Zealand in November 2005, in front of offers from Japan and South Africa. The All Blacks recovered their place on the rugby world with a thin 8– 7 success over France in the 2011 last. 

In the 2015 version of competition, facilitated by England, New Zealand indeed won the last, this time against built up adversaries, Australia. In doing as such, they turned into the main group in World Cup history to win three titles, just as the first to effectively safeguard a title. It was likewise New Zealand's first title triumph on remote soil. 

The Webb Ellis Cup is the prize introduced to champs of the Rugby World Cup, named after William Webb Ellis. The trophy is additionally alluded to just as the "Rugby World Cup". The trophy was picked in 1987 as a proper glass for use in the challenge, and was made in 1906 by Garrard's Crown Jewelers. The trophy is reestablished after each amusement by individual Royal Warrant holder Thomas Lyte. The words 'The International Rugby Football Board' and 'The Webb Ellis Cup' are engraved on the substance of the container. It stands thirty-eight centimeters high and is silver plated in gold, and bolstered by two cast scroll handles, one with the leader of a satyr, and the other a leader of a sprite. In Australia the trophy is informally known as "Bill" — a reference to William Webb Ellis. 

Competitions are composed by Rugby World Cup Ltd (RWCL), which is itself possessed by World Rugby. The choice of host is chosen by a vote of World Rugby Council individuals. The casting a ballot methodology is overseen by a group of autonomous inspectors, and the casting a ballot stayed quiet. The portion of a competition to a host country is presently made five or six years before the initiation of the occasion, for instance New Zealand were granted the 2011 occasion in late 2005. 

The competition has been facilitated by different countries. For instance, the 1987 competition was co-facilitated by Australia and New Zealand. World Rugby necessitates that the hosts must have a scene with a limit of somewhere around 60,000 observers for the last. Host countries some of the time develop or overhaul stadia in anticipation of the World Cup, for example, Millennium Stadium – reason worked for the 1999 competition – and Eden Park, updated for 2011. The main nation outside of the customary rugby countries of SANZAAR or the Six Nations to be granted the facilitating rights was Japan, who will have the 2019 competition. France will have the 2023 competition. 

Coordinators of the Rugby World Cup, just as the Global Sports Impact, express that the Rugby World Cup is the third biggest game in the World, behind just the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics, albeit different sources question whether this is precise. 

Reports radiating from World Rugby and its colleagues have much of the time touted the competition's media development, with combined overall TV gatherings of people of 300 million for the debut 1987 competition, 1.75 billion out of 1991, 2.67 billion out of 1995, 3 billion of every 1999, 3.5 billion out of 2003, and 4 billion out of 2007. The 4 billion figure was broadly expelled as the worldwide group of onlookers for TV is assessed to be about 4.2 billion. 

In any case, free audits have raised doubt about the approach of those development gauges, indicating truthful irregularities. The occasion's alleged illustration control outside of a bunch of rugby fortifications was additionally made light of essentially, with an expected 97 percent of the 33 million normal gathering of people delivered by the 2007 last originating from Australasia, South Africa, the British Isles and France. Different games have been blamed for overstating their TV reach throughout the years; such cases are not elite to the Rugby World Cup. 

While the occasion's worldwide prevalence remains a matter of question, high enthusiasm for customary rugby countries is very much recorded. The 2003 last, among Australia and England, turned into the most watched rugby association coordinate ever of TV. 

Notes: 

Twenty-five countries have taken part at the Rugby World Cup (barring qualifying competitions). Of the eight competitions that have been held, everything except one have been won by a national group from the southern half of the globe. The southern side of the equator's predominance has been broken just in 2003, when England beat Australia in the last. 

Up to this point the main countries to host and win a competition are New Zealand (1987 and 2011) and South Africa (1995). The execution of other host countries incorporates England (1991 last has) and Australia (2003 hosts) wrapping sprinters up. France (2007 hosts) completed fourth, while Wales (1999 hosts) neglected to achieve the semi-finals. Grains turned into the primary host country to be wiped out at the pool organizes in 1991, while, England turned into the principal solo host country to be dispensed with at the pool arranges in 2015. Of the twenty-five countries that have ever taken an interest in no less than one competition, eleven of them have never missed a competition. 

The record for most focuses in general is held by English player Jonny Wilkinson, who scored 277 over his World Cup vocation. Concede Fox of New Zealand holds the record for most focuses in one challenge, with 126 out of 1987; Jason Leonard of England holds the record for most World Cup matches: 22 somewhere in the range of 1991 and 2003. Simon Culhane holds the record for most focuses in a match by one player, 45, just as the record for most transformations in a match, 20. Marc Ellis holds the record for most attempts in a match, six, which he scored against Japan in 1995. 

All Black Jonah Lomu is the most youthful player to show up in a last – matured 20 years and 43 days at the 1995 Final. Lomu shares 2 records with South African Bryan Habana. Most attempts in a competition (8): Lomu in 1999 and Habana in 2007 and absolute world container competition attempts, both scored 15. The record for most punishments in a match is 8, held by Matt Burke, Gonzalo Quesada, Gavin Hastings and Thierry Lacroix, and the record for most punishments in a competition, 31, is held by Gonzalo Quesada. South Africa's Jannie de Beer kicked five drop-objectives against England in 1999 – an individual record for a solitary World Cup coordinate. 

The most focuses scored in a diversion is 145 — by the All Blacks against Japan in 1995, while the amplest winning edge is 142, held by Australia in a match against Namibia in 2003. 

An aggregate of 16 players have been sent off (red checked) in the competition. Welsh lock Huw Richards was the first, while playing against New Zealand in 1987. No player has been red checked more than once.