Green Park tube station 

Green Park is a London Underground station situated on the north side of Green Park, with doorways on the two sides of Piccadilly. It is served by the Jubilee, Piccadilly and Victoria lines. On the Jubilee line it is between Bond Street and Westminster; on the Piccadilly line it is between Piccadilly Circus and Hyde Park Corner and on the Victoria line it is among Victoria and Oxford Circus. It is in charge zone 1. 

The station was opened in 1906 by the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway (GNP&BR) and was initially named "Dover Street" because of its area in that road. It was modernized during the 1930s when lifts were supplanted with elevators and stretched out during the 1970s when the Victoria and Jubilee lines were built. 

The station is close to The Ritz Hotel, the Royal Academy of Arts, St James' Palace, Berkeley Square, Bond Street, the Burlington Arcade and Fortnum and Mason, and is one of two serving Buckingham Palace (the other being St James' Park). 

Amid the last long stretches of the nineteenth century and the early long periods of the twentieth century various contending plans for underground railroads through focal London were proposed. Some of the plans submitted to parliament for endorsement as private bills included proposition for lines running under Piccadilly with stations in the territory of the present Green Park station. 

The initial two proposition preceded parliament in 1897. The Brompton and Piccadilly Circus Railway (B&PCR) proposed a line between South Kensington and Piccadilly Circus and the City and West End Railway (C&WER) proposed a line among Hammersmith and Cannon Street. The B&PCR proposed a station on the north side at Dover Street and the C&WER proposed a station on the south side at Arlington Street. Following audit by parliament, the C&WER bill was rejected and the B&PCR bill was affirmed and got illustrious consent in August 1897. 

In 1902, the Charing Cross, Hammersmith and District Railway (CCH&DR) proposed a line between Charing Cross and Barnes with a parallel transport line running between Hyde Park Corner and Charing Cross. A station was arranged at Walsingham House on the north-east corner of Green Park. This plan was dismissed by parliament. 

That year, the Central London Railway (CLR, presently the focal area of the Central line) presented a bill that meant to turn its line running between Shepherd's Bush and Bank into a circle by building a second generally parallel line toward the south. This would have kept running along Piccadilly with a station at St James' Street just toward the east of Dover Street. Postponed while a regal commission considered general standards of underground railroads in London, the plan was never completely considered and in spite of the fact that it was re-introduced in 1903, it was dropped two years after the fact. 

A third plan for 1902 was the Piccadilly, City and North East London Railway (PC&NELR) which proposed a course among Hammersmith and Southgate. It arranged a station at Albermarle Street, just toward the east of Dover Street. Albeit supported in parliament and liable to be affirmed, this plan bombed because of a dropping out between the benefactors and the closeout of part of the proposition to an opponent. 

In 1905, a portion of the advertisers of the PC&NELR regrouped and presented a proposition for the Hammersmith, City and North East London Railway. As the CLR had done already, the organization proposed a station at St James' Street. Because of disappointments in the application procedure, this plan was additionally dismissed. 

While the different adversary plans were fruitless in acquiring parliamentary endorsement, the B&PCR was ineffective in raising the assets expected to build its line. It was not until after the B&PCR had been taken over by Charles Yerkes' Metropolitan District Electric Traction Company that the cash wound up accessible. Burrowing started in 1902 right away before the B&PCR was converged with the Great Northern and Strand Railway to make the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway (GNP&BR, the ancestor of the Piccadilly line). 

The GNP&BR opened the station on 15 December 1906 as "Dover Street". Similarly as with the greater part of the other GNP&BR stations, the station working, on the east side of Dover Street, was structured by Leslie Green. It highlighted the organization's standard red coated earthenware exterior with wide semi-roundabout curves at first-floor level. Stage and way dividers were beautified in coated cream tiles in Green's standard plan with edges, designing and station names in mid-blue. When it opened, the station toward the west was Down Street. The station was furnished with four Otis electric lifts matched in two breadth shafts and a winding stair in a littler shaft. The stages are beneath the dimension of Piccadilly. 

The station was occupied and fruitless endeavors to control swarms with doors at stage level were made in 1918. During the 1930s, the station was incorporated among those modernized related to the northern and western expansions of the Piccadilly line. Another sub-surface ticket corridor was opened on 18 September 1933 with a couple of Otis elevators gave to supplant the lifts. The new ticket corridor was gotten to from tram passages in Piccadilly. On the north side, a passageway was given in Devonshire House on the corner with Stratton Street; on the south side a passage was built on a land parcel taken from the recreation center. The safe house for the southern passage was planned by Charles Holden. The first station assembling, the lifts and the excess subterranean entries were shut. Some portion of the ground floor was utilized as a coffee bar until the 1960s. In 1955, a third elevator was added to help manage expanded traveler numbers. 

Recommendations for an underground line connecting Victoria to Finsbury Park date from 1937 when arranging by the London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB) for future administrations thought about an assortment of new courses and augmentations to existing lines. Parliament endorsed the line in 1955, yet a deficiency of assets implied that work did not begin until after government advances were affirmed in 1962. 

Development works started in 1962. The 1930s ticket lobby under the roadway of Piccadilly was broadened to give space to new Victoria line elevators and a long exchange way was given between the Victoria line and Piccadilly line stages. In 1965 a breakdown of delicate ground amid the exhuming of one of the passages close Green Park station implied that the ground must be artificially settled before work could proceed. The neglected station working in Dover Street was annihilated the next year related to the works for the new line. A vent shaft was developed and an electrical sub-station was worked in the storm cellar of the new structure. The 1930s passage on the south side of Piccadilly was additionally reproduced. 

The broadened ticket lobby, new stages and ways were brightened in dark tiles. Stages are around beneath road level. Stage roundel signs were on illuminated lit up boards. Seat breaks on the Victoria line stages were tiled in a dynamic example by Hans Unger of shaded circles speaking to a bird's-eye perspective on trees in Green Park. 

After preliminary running of void trains from 24 February 1969, the Victoria line stages opened on 7 March 1969 with the opening of the third phase of the line between Warren Street and Victoria. That day, the Queen authoritatively opened the line by riding a train from Green Park to Oxford Circus. 

The roots of the Jubilee line are less obviously characterized than those of the Victoria line. Amid World War II and all through the 1950s and mid 1960s thought was given to different courses associating north-west and south-east London by means of the West End and the City of London. Arranging of the Victoria line had the more prominent need and it was not until after development of that line began that point by point arranging started for the new line, first called the Fleet line in 1965 as it was intended to keep running in an east-west heading along Fleet Street. Absence of financing implied that just the main phase of the proposed line, from Baker Street to Charing Cross, got imperial consent in July 1969; subsidizing was concurred in August 1971. 

Burrowing started in February 1972 and was finished before the finish of 1974. In 1977, amid development of the stations, the name of the line was changed to the Jubilee line, to check the Queen's Silver Jubilee that year. A development shaft in Hays Mews north of the station was utilized for an electrical substation and ventilation shaft. At Green Park, the ticket lobby was expanded somewhat to give space to lifts for the new line which interface with a middle of the road concourse giving exchange between the Jubilee and Victoria lines. A second trip of elevators slips to the Jubilee line stages, which are beneath road level, the most profound of the three sets. Trade between the Jubilee and Piccadilly lines was through the ticket lobby. Stage dividers were tiled in a dark red with dark leaf designs by June Fraser. Preliminary running of trains started in August 1978 and the Jubilee line opened on 1 May the following year. The line had been authoritatively opened by Prince Charles the earlier day, beginning with a train venture from Green Park to Charing Cross. In 1993, to ease blockage, a third lift was introduced in the lower trip to supplant a fixed staircase. 

Work on the Fleet line's stages 2 and 3 did not continue and it was not until 1992 that an elective course was endorsed. The Jubilee line expansion took the line south of the River Thames by means of Waterloo, which was unfeasible to reach from the line's current end at Charing Cross. New passages fanning from the first course south of Green Park were to be developed, and the line to Charing Cross was to be shut. Burrowing started in May 1994, and upgrades were done at Green Park to give an immediate path association between the Jubilee and Piccadilly lines, including lifts to the stages at each end. Another ventilation shaft and a crisis exit to Arlington Street were assembled. The new expansion opened in stages beginning at Stratford in the east, with administrations to Charing Cross completion on 19 November 1999 and the last segment between Green Park and Waterloo opening the next day. 

In 2008, Transport for London (TfL) declared a task to give sans step access to every one of the three lines ahead of time of the 2012 London Olympics. The undertaking likewise incorporated the development of another passage on the south side of Piccadilly with inclined access legitimately from Green Park. Work started in May 2009 to introduce two lifts from the ticket lobby to the Victoria line stages and the trade way to the Piccadilly line. This work and a third lift in the new park-side passageway between the road level and the ticket corridor were finished in front of plan for 2011. In the meantime, Green Park station experienced a noteworthy improvement program which saw the tiling on the Victoria and Piccadilly line stages and the exchange paths supplanted. At the point when the Jubilee line opened, the Hans Unger tiling in the seat openings of the Victoria line stages was supplanted with a structure utilizing the utilized on the Jubilee line stages; the Unger configuration was reestablished amid the rebuilding. 

The new park passage and road level sanctuary highlight work of art inside the Portland stone cladding titled "Ocean Strata" structured by John Maine RA. The "Diana Fountain" was moved from its unique site in the focal point of the recreation center to shape the focal point of the new passage. 

To help moderate temperatures in the station, a framework utilizing cool ground water extricated from boreholes sunk into the chalk aquifer beneath London was introduced. The extricated water goes through a warmth exchanger associated with the cast-iron passage lining and the warmed water is come back to the aquifer during a time set of boreholes away. 

In July 2005, a report, "DLR Horizon 2020 Study", for the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) analyzed "businesslike advancement plans" to extend and improve the DLR organize somewhere in the range of 2012 and 2020. One of the proposition was an augmentation of the DLR from Bank to Charing Cross. Unused passages under Strand built as a major aspect of Stage 1 of the Fleet line would be extended to suit the bigger DLR trains. In 2011, the DLR distributed a proposition to proceed with the expansion to Victoria by means of Green Park. No further work has been done on these recommendations. 

At around 9.00 pm on 9 October 1975, individuals from the Provisional IRA's Balcombe Street Gang exploded a bomb at a transport stop outside Green Park station, slaughtering 23-year-old Graham Ronald Tuck and harming 20 others. The assault was a piece of a shelling effort did by the posse and notwithstanding the passing and wounds made harm the Ritz Hotel and neighboring structures. 

The station is in Travelcard Zone 1, between Bond Street and Westminster on the Jubilee line, Hyde Park Corner and Piccadilly Circus on the Piccadilly line and Victoria and Oxford Circus on the Victoria line. On weekdays Jubilee line prepares commonly run each 2– 2½ minutes somewhere in the range of 05:38 and 00:34 northbound and 05:26 and 00:45 southbound; on the Piccadilly line prepares regularly run each 2½– 3½ minutes somewhere in the range of 05:48 and 00:34 westward and 00:32 eastward, and on the Victoria line prepares normally run each 100– 135 seconds somewhere in the range of 05:36 and 00:37 northbound and 05:36 and 00:31 southbound. 

As of it is the station on the London Underground with million travelers utilizing it. 

London Busses highways 6, 9, 14, 19, 22 and 38 and night courses N9, N19, N22, N38 and N97 serve the station. 

The opening scene of the 1997 film rendition of Henry James' "The Wings of the Dove" was determined to the eastward stages at both Dover Street and Knightsbridge stations, both spoken to by a similar studio mock-up, total with a working diversion of a 1906 Stock train.