Half-Life 2: Lost Coast 

Half-Life 2: Lost Coast (adapted as HλLF-LIFE: LOST COAST) is an extra dimension for the 2004 first-individual shooter computer game "Half-Life 2". Created by Valve Corporation, it was discharged on October 27, 2005, through the Steam content conveyance administration as a free download to proprietors of the Microsoft Windows variant of "Half-Life 2". "Lost Coast" fills in as an innovation exhibit, explicitly displaying the high-dynamic-run rendering executed in the Source motor. The dimension was structured with an assortment of proper conditions to underline these impacts. Furthermore, "Lost Coast" was the main computer game created by Valve to enable engineers to clarify different components of structure as the player advances through the dimension. 

"Lost Coast" pursues "Half-Life" hero Gordon Freeman as he goes up a beach front bluff to devastate a Combine headcrab big guns launcher in a religious community, which is shooting on a close-by town, Saint Olga. The "Lost Coast" level was initially made for "Half-Life 2", however was eventually expelled from the amusement. Subsequently, it has a few minor story subtleties that were excluded "Down the middle Life 2". The dimension got a for the most part positive gathering, and there was agreement among analysts that the new highlights incorporated into "Lost Coast" ought to be coordinated into future recreations discharged by Valve. 

"Lost Coast" utilizes a similar first-individual shooter ongoing interaction mechanics as "Half-Life 2". The amusement is seen from the point of view of the player character, and plot data is granted through scripted successions as opposed to cutscenes. A heads-up presentation at the base of the screen demonstrates the player's wellbeing, vitality check, and ammo status, while accessible weapons are appeared at the top. Wellbeing and defensive layer vitality can be recharged by grabbing medicinal supplies and vitality cells individually, or by utilizing divider mounted charging gadgets. The player character is outfitted with a little ordnance of weapons from "Half-Life 2" toward the start of the dimension, including a gun, shotgun, crossbow, and gravity firearm. The gravity firearm enables the player to control physical items on the planet; it very well may be utilized to get adjacent articles and toss them at adversaries or make spread from adversary fire. The gravity firearm can likewise be utilized to play out a few non-battle capacities, for example, snatching distant supply containers. 

"Half-Life 2: Lost Coast" opens with the hero, Gordon Freeman, winding up close to a gathering of rotting wharfs, underneath a religious community set up on rocks and disregarding the community of St. Olga. An angler perceives Gordon and guides him to the cloister, which the adversary Combine are utilizing as a stage to dispatch cannons shells loaded up with headcrabs into the town. The angler opens an entryway, enabling the player to continue, and anticipates Gordon's arrival. 

As Gordon continues up the cliffside to the Byzantine Christian religious community, he experiences substantial obstruction from Combine warriors who rappel down the precipice to attempt to stop him. Gordon battles his way up, enters the congregation's nave, and handicaps the big guns launcher. This alarms close-by officers, who strike the haven in power, while a Combine assault helicopter touches base to help the fighters. In the wake of vanquishing the troopers in the yard, Gordon moves to platform over the side of the bluff and wrecks the helicopter with RPGs. The helicopter collides with the framework, opening up a way to a rough lift which lets Gordon withdraw to the dock. The angler praises Freeman on his prosperity, welcomes him to a blowout in St. Olga, and the screen becomes dull. As the dimension closes, the angler shouts that Gordon is "getting all fluffy 'round the edges". 

"Lost Coast" was considered as a piece of the Highway 17 part "Into equal parts Life 2" (Highway 17's advancement name was "Coast", subsequently the name "Lost Coast"), yet was later disposed of amid improvement. Therefore, "Lost Coast" highlights minor storyline subtleties that were expelled from "Half-Life 2, for example, the headcrab gunnery launchers. Every region of the dimension was structured with a particular reason. An Eastern Orthodox design style was purposely picked for the religious community, as structures of this sort "are exceptionally brilliant and have an extensive assortment of materials" and are "regularly lit normally, with boundaries of haziness and splendor," giving a perfect feature to the HDR lighting impacts. Valve likewise felt that the utilization of a cloister would help give a starker difference between old human engineering and modern Combine innovation found inside it. The cliffside that prompts the religious community had an ongoing interaction arranged reason, and was intended to imitate a comparable cliffside battle scene "Fifty-fifty Life". The cliffside additionally powers the player to be attentive of dangers from above and underneath, parting from ordinary flat battle. The cloister's patio was planned as a territory where the player recuperates from the cliffside battle, while likewise showing a contained battle field later in the dimension in which the player must hold their ground while they are assaulted from different bearings. 

The objective of "Lost Coast" was to exhibit the new high-dynamic-run rendering actualized into the Source diversion motor. Valve previously endeavored to execute high-dynamic-go rendering in Source in late 2003. The principal technique put away surfaces in RGBA shading space, taking into account multisample hostile to associating and pixel shaders to be utilized, yet this anticipated alpha mapping and haze impacts from working legitimately, just as influencing surfaces to seem sharp and rough. The second strategy included sparing two forms of a surface: one with customary information, and the other with overbrightening information. Notwithstanding, this method did not consider multisample against associating and devoured twice as much video card memory, making it infeasible. The third technique, appeared at the E3 tradition in 2005, utilized gliding guide information toward characterize the RGB shading space, taking into account sensibly proficient capacity of the high-dynamic-extend information. Be that as it may, this technique likewise did not take into account multisample against associating, and was just good with Nvidia video cards, departing ATI cards unfit to run high unique range. The fourth and last technique bargained between the second and third strategies, utilizing overbrightening surfaces sparingly and permitting ATI cards to render HDR distinctively to the Nvidia ones while about creating a similar final product. 

The last form of Valve's high-dynamic-run innovation includes countless impacts to the motor, went for influencing the diversion to seem increasingly sensible. Sprout shading was presented, obscuring splendid edges in the diversion world and imitating a camera's overexposure to light. This is joined with presentation control to tailor the impact to speak to the human eye. For instance, as the player leaves a dim region into a light territory, the new region is at first extremely splendid, however rapidly obscures, speaking to the change of the player character's eyes to the light. New 3D shape mapping methods permit the reflection thrown by an item to compare with the splendor of the light source, and lightmaps empower light ricocheting and worldwide enlightenment to be considered in the rendering. Refraction impacts were added to make light record for the physical qualities of an article and to copy the manner in which light is reflected by water. The "Lost Coast" level is explicitly intended to exhibit these impacts. It utilizes the ocean and shoreline as chances to exhibit water-based impacts, the religious community to show sprout from its whitewash dividers, and the haven to give the way to indicate refraction through recolored glass windows and 3D shape maps on brilliant urns and candles. 

As an innovation grandstand, Valve considered "Lost Coast" to have extremely requesting framework prerequisites. The diversion keeps running on PCs with details lower than what is suggested, yet without some key highlights, for example, high unique range. On the off chance that a non-high-dynamic-extend proficient card is utilized, the engineer analysis is changed marginally to mirror this. For instance, Valve president Gabe Newell would depict the impacts that are found in an alternate way. 

Notwithstanding a grandstand for visual upgrades, "Lost Coast" went about as a testbed for Valve's analysis framework. At the point when the component is empowered, extra things show up in the diversion that can be collaborated with to play a sound analysis. Every sound piece ranges from ten seconds to a moment of editorial. Players hear the designers talk about what the player is seeing, what's going on, why they settled on specific choices, and what sorts of difficulties they confronted. Editorial tracks are spoken to by skimming discourse bubbles called analysis hubs. Valve proposed for players to initially play the dimension with analysis incapacitated, and subsequent to finishing the dimension, play it again with discourse empowered, finding out about each new stage as they advance. The organization has since made the discourse framework standard in the majority of its later computer games. 

"Lost Coast" was discharged on October 27, 2005, as a free download from Valve's Steam content conveyance administration to any individual who obtained "Half-Life 2". Individuals who got "Half-Life 2" as a blessing from Valve's online store were not qualified to download the dimension. Valve declared on May 30, 2007 that "Lost Coast", alongside "", would be made accessible for nothing to proprietors of ATI Radeon cards. It was later discharged without charge to Nvidia designs card proprietors alongside "Half-Life 2: Deathmatch", "Peggle Extreme", and the initial eleven dimensions of "Entry". 

"Lost Coast" was commonly generally welcomed by computer game faultfinders. 1UP.com appreciated the measure of detail, including the designs, baffles, and smart adversaries, saying, "Valve simply pressed more air into a little scrap than most shooters summon, period." The survey additionally lauded the dimension's critique framework, calling it an enlightening option, and delighted in the fascinating and clever remarks made by a portion of its makers. The dimension fulfilled UGO in light of the fact that "it would be more earnestly not to appreciate this dimension in the entirety of its wonderfully rendered greatness—even after you've broken every one of the windows and scattered the dividers with Combine blood," and GameSpot remarked that "the surfaces in Lost Coast are recognizably more point by point and various than in the retail diversion." The survey finished up trusting that the highlights presented in "Lost Coast" would be incorporated into Valve's future discharges. 

Negative response to the amusement concentrated on its length and interactivity. 1UP.com and UGO both thought of it as short; Shawn Elliott of 1UP.com depicted it as "a lickety-split go through postcard-beautiful tide pools, up precipices, and into a congregation turned Combine station". UGO's Nigel Grammer expressed that "Lost Coast"s ongoing interaction appeared to be optional to the dimension's designs. "Lost Coast"s interactivity frustrated Brad Shoemaker of GameSpot, who contrasted it with that of "Half-Life 2" and believed them to be fundamentally the same as, saying that it "won't set the world ablaze".