Murder of Leigh 

The homicide of Leigh, conceived Leigh Rennea Mears, happened on 3 November 1989 while she was going to a 16-year-old kid's birthday party at Stockton Beach, New South Wales, on the east bank of Australia. The 14-year-old young lady from Fern Bay was struck by a gathering of young men after she returned bothered from a sexual experience on the shoreline that an investigating judge later called non-consensual. In the wake of being kicked and spat on by the gathering, Leigh left the gathering. Her bare body was found in the sand hills close-by the next morning, with extreme genital harm and a pulverized skull. 

Matthew Grant Webster, a 18-year-old who went about as a bouncer at the occasion, confessed to her homicide and was condemned to 20 years in jail with a 14-year non-parole period. He was discharged on parole in June 2004, in the wake of serving 14½ years. Fellow Charles Wilson, the other bouncer and just other individual matured more than 18 at the gathering, conceded to ambush; a third male (matured 15) confessed to engaging in sexual relations with a minor. The examination of Leigh's homicide demonstrated disputable, in any case, as a few people who admitted to different violations, including attacking Leigh, were never charged; nor was anybody at any point accused of her rape. Webster's admission did not coordinate the scientific proof. The homicide examination was looked into by the New South Wales Crime Commission in 1996, and by the Police Integrity Commission in 1998, with the last prescribing the expulsion of the analyst accountable for the examination. 

Leigh's homicide got significant consideration in the media. At first concentrating on her rape and murder, media consideration later focused more on the absence of parental supervision and the medications and liquor at the gathering, and on Leigh's sexuality. The media inclusion of the homicide has been refered to for instance of accusing the person in question. Leigh's homicide roused a dramatic play entitled "A Property of the Clan", which was later changed and renamed "Blackrock", just as an element film of a similar name. 

Leigh, conceived Leigh Rennea Mears on 24 July 1975, was the girl of Robyn Lynne Maunsell and Robert William Mears. Leigh's grandma said that Leigh lived with her between the times of around four and seven, however she didn't unveil explanations behind this living course of action. Leigh's folks separated from when she was around seven years of age. She moved back to live with her mom after her sister Jessie was conceived in 1983; her surname was along these lines changed to Leigh as this was the surname of her sister's dad. At the season of her passing she lived with her sister, mother and stepfather Brad Shearman on Fullerton Road, Fern Bay, having moved there nine months sooner from a lodging commission level close to the Stockton ship terminal. Leigh was a Year Eight understudy at Newcastle High School who delighted in school, as indicated by her grandma. She had gone to three grade schools progressively: St Patrick's in Swansea, Hamilton North Public School, and St Peter's in Stockton. Leigh went through the vast majority of her ends of the week and school occasions with her grandma at her home in Kilaben Bay. Her cousin and closest companion Tracey expressed she and Leigh appreciated setting off to the film together, just as roller-skating and "simply hanging about". As indicated by her auntie, Leigh had needed to be a veterinarian. Both Leigh's mom and her grandma depicted her as a "normal youngster". 

Newcastle High School understudy Jason Robertson's sixteenth birthday celebration party was hung on 3 November 1989 at the North Stockton Surf Club, an in the past deserted structure which the Stockton Lions Club had assumed control more than four years earlier, renting it for different capacities. Police assessed that 60 individuals hosted went to the get-together, however figures as high as 100 were accounted for in the media. A large portion of the participants were Year Ten understudies from Newcastle High School, however two 10-year-olds were seen at the gathering at a certain point. Many were drinking liquor and smoking pot, and some were having intercourse. 

Fourteen-year-old Leigh had a composed welcome to go to the gathering and authorization from her mom to remain there until 11 pm; Leigh's mom had been guaranteed that dependable grown-ups would be available at the gathering. Matthew Webster and Guy Wilson, who went about as bouncers, were the main individuals matured more than 18 at the gathering. Leigh was said to be energized, as it was the principal high school party she had visited. As indicated by police observer reports, Leigh was one of a few under-age young ladies who were welcome to the gathering to get them inebriated and engaging in sexual relations with them. As per a police report, Webster moved toward someone else at the gathering and stated, "Hello buddy, we will get Leigh pissed and all experience her." Leigh was additionally one of a few under-age individuals for whom a grown-up bought liquor before the gathering; she and her companion were given a container of Jim Beam bourbon, which they at that point blended with Coca-Cola. She was accounted for to have gotten vigorously inebriated all around rapidly. A 15-year-old kid, who for lawful reasons couldn't be named and was alluded to in authority documentation as 'NC1', is cited to have stated, "I will proceed to fuck [Leigh]." Shortly a while later Leigh went to the shoreline with NC1; witnesses expressed Leigh was intoxicated to the point that he "needed to nearly convey her". 

At the point when Leigh came back from the shoreline, she was seeping between her legs, troubled, crying and looking for help. A few people at the gathering announced endeavoring to comfort Leigh and discover what had happened to her; Leigh "stated she had been assaulted", answering "[NC1] screwed me" and "I detest him". In the wake of seeing Leigh's grievances, Webster is cited as saying to a gathering of young men "she's somewhat of a skank and for what reason don't we all have a go". Nineteen-year-old Guy Wilson at that point moved toward Leigh, put his arm around her and approached her for sex. Wilson pushed Leigh to the ground when she won't, and was joined by Webster and around ten different young men who encompassed Leigh. They shouted maltreatment, kicked her, poured brew on her and spat both lager and spit on her. A few people saw the attack, yet no one came to support her or endeavored to contact the police, her folks or different grown-ups. The attacks proceeded for around five minutes; Leigh stood up when they ceased and amazed away before getting a vacant brew bottle and tossing it at the gathering of young men, missing them. Fellow Wilson tossed a lager bottle back at her as she left, which either hit her in the leg or missed, as indicated by various observer accounts. The gathering of young men pursued her inside the packed clubhouse where she looked for shelter, and comparable strikes proceeded. Leigh was seen leaving the club and strolling towards the shoreline at about 10:30pm. Leigh's stepfather landed at the gathering to get her at 10:50pm. He and a few of the gathering goers looked for Leigh, yet she couldn't be found. After rehashed look endeavors, Leigh's mom and stepfather chose to sit tight for her to return home, expecting she had gone to a companion's home through the evening. Leigh's stepfather recommenced the look for Leigh the next morning, supported by a few adolescents from the gathering. Her body was found in the sand rises about north of the surf club. Leigh's welcome to go to the gathering was still in her pocket. 

Leigh was discovered exposed aside from her socks and shoes, with her pants and shorts around her correct lower leg. She was on her back with her legs separated. Her bra, which had its verifying snare bowed, was discovered close-by, similar to her shirt and jumper, which were interwoven, back to front and recolored with alcohol. Saltbushes adjacent had been straightened. As indicated by the police legal sciences report, a blood-recolored shake weighing was found beside her, and blood stains were found up to from her body. 

The after death report expressed Leigh's reason for death to be a broken skull and damage to the cerebrum. Leigh had been hit with incredible power a few times, including no less than multiple times in the head. The after death likewise discovered that Leigh had asphyxial hemorrhages, and numerous wounds to the jaw, ribs, liver and right kidney. Leigh had neck fingertip weight wounds, demonstrating she had been gagged before she passed on, however this was not the reason for death. Leigh's blood liquor perusing was 0.128, a dimension which, as indicated by the University of Notre Dame, would have caused "huge weakness of engine coordination and loss of decision making ability". There was no uncertainty that Leigh was fiercely explicitly ambushed before she was killed, and the proof showed that preceding the evening of her homicide she had not had sex. Leigh had profound wounding to one side mass of her vagina, broad wounding to her hymen and two tears, one long, to her vulva. An investigation of the after death by Dr Johan Duflou, representative executive of the New South Wales Institute of Forensic Medicine, expressed that an unbendable item, conceivably a lager bottle, was probably going to have caused the majority of her genital wounds. No semen was found in her body. 

Twenty investigators, driven by Detective Sergeant Lance Chaffey, were appointed to the case however the squad was decreased to less than ten individuals half a month later. Wrongdoing correspondent Mark Riley composed that police were experiencing the "thorough procedure" of cross-checking the narratives of a few dozen youngsters; by 5 November police had met around 40 adolescents, expressing they expected to meet around 20 more. The three presumes who developed from the get-go in the examination were Matthew Webster, Guy Wilson and NC1. In meetings on 5 November, NC1 confessed to engaging in sexual relations with Leigh, yet said it was consensual. Wilson at first denied any bad behavior, however in a later meeting he confessed to pushing Leigh, pouring lager over her, spitting on her and tossing a vacant brew bottle at her. Webster confessed to pouring lager on Leigh, yet denied explicitly attacking or slaughtering her. He initially advised police he went to a bar after the gathering, yet in a meeting eight days after the fact changed his story to express that he had taken a walk. Webster additionally expressed that two 14-year-old young ladies had moved toward him and NC1 at the gathering, requesting some "hash", and that both of them had acquired a little sack of sap and traded it with the young ladies for $20. Blood tests were taken from two suspects; "The Newcastle Herald" revealed this as most likely the main utilization of DNA tests in a Hunter Valley murder examination. Garments tests were likewise taken from a few suspects. 

In her book "Who Killed Leigh?", Kerry Carrington, a criminologist and conspicuous specialist of the homicide, portrayed the examination as being "fuelled by shared doubt and by gossip and counter-talk". Individuals who went to the gathering grumbled of living in dread of being the following reputed executioner; Matthew Webster, Jason Robertson and two different young men showed up on the first page of "The Newcastle Herald" on 8 November with such grumblings. For a period the most well known talk was that Leigh had been killed by her stepfather, and that he had been engaging in sexual relations with her for a considerable length of time. In November 1990 Detective Chaffey told writer Mark Riley that police had heard this gossip so often that they considered Shearman to be a suspect. Riley's article expressed that the network of Stockton harbored doubts about Shearman directly until Webster was accused of homicide. On 16 November Webster conceded to attacking Leigh and to providing cannabis tar to a minor. He was discharged on safeguard, with his condemning planned for 21 February 1990. On 19 January Wilson conceded to attacking Leigh; he was discharged on safeguard pending condemning. On 28 January, after being provoked by four young men with respect to the homicide, Webster ambushed one of them. On 31 January, Brad Shearman moved toward Guy Wilson out in the open, and punched him in the head multiple times after Wilson supposedly revealed to him he would get Leigh's more youthful sister next. Shearman was charged and confessed to attack. 

While he was still on abandon 16 February 1990, amid his third meeting with police, Webster confessed to murdering Leigh. In the meeting transcript, Webster at first denied slaughtering Leigh, at that point "without being made a further inquiry" he expressed, "Well, I did it. Be that as it may, I can't accept ... it occurred. It's simply amazing." Webster proceeded to express that he saw Leigh while he was searching for his reserve of brews. As indicated by Webster, they strolled to the saltbushes together, where he pulled off her garments and put a finger in her vagina. Webster expressed he lost his temper when Leigh repelled him, stifling her for some time before killing her with a stone, explicitly saying he killed Leigh since he "figured she would screech on [him] for attempting to assault her". Subsequent to going through the end of the week in a police cell, Webster showed up in court on 19 February where he was denied safeguard. On 21 March, while in authority, Webster was sentenced and fined $250 for hostile conduct in the 28 January ambush. On 17 July Shearman was allowed a year decent conduct bond for the 31 January strike; the judge did not record a conviction, thinking about that he had been incited into assaulting Wilson. 

NC1 was the first to be condemned, on 28 February 1990, subsequent to confessing to engaging in sexual relations with somebody under the time of assent. He was given a half year's care in a confinement focus, the most extreme conceivable sentence for a young accused of that offense. Kerry Carrington and Andrew Johnson, writing in "The Australian Feminist Law Journal", said all things considered, examiners did not accuse NC1 of assault, as a conviction on such a charge would have been far-fetched because of an absence of proof; Leigh's grievances about the episode as detailed by observers were noise and hence unacceptable in court. On 11 May the sentence was decreased on bid to 100 hours' locale administration. In decreasing his sentence the judge expressed the proof obliged him to find that the sex was consensual, and that it was better for NC1 to accomplish something positive for the network instead of perhaps being driven further adrift in authority. Various sources express the judge achieved the end that the sex had been consensual as a result of the deficient way the proof was exhibited to the court. 

On 19 March 1990 Wilson was condemned to a half year's detainment for attacking Leigh. 

Charges were at first laid against Webster for rape, however when the case went to preliminary they had been dropped without open clarification. Hillary Byrne-Armstrong, writing in "The Australian Feminist Law Journal", expressed all things considered, Webster was offered a request deal that would drop the lesser allegations in return for his blameworthy supplication for homicide. Webster conceded to Leigh's homicide on 24 October 1990. The liable supplication implied that no observers were required the preliminary; Detective Chaffey rather read a rundown of realities to the court. Equity James Roland Wood condemned Webster to at least 14 years in jail, with an extra six years amid which he would be qualified for parole, saying that a lifelong incarceration was improper in perspective on Webster's capability to be restored. Wood found that Webster's inspiration for slaughtering Leigh was his dread she would report his rape. Five Stockton residents volunteered to give character proof at his preliminary, depicting the young person as a calm "delicate goliath" from a decent family. Others communicated wonder at this depiction of Webster, who was otherwise called "fat Matt, the hooligan of Stockton". Webster served his sentence at Parklea Correctional Center. 

While recognizing that request deals, for example, the one Webster was most likely offered are normal and help keep away from costly and tedious preliminaries, Byrne-Armstrong expressed that tolerating Webster's admission made a lawful fiction that he irrefutably acted alone in both explicitly striking and killing Leigh. The genuine dimension of sexual viciousness that Leigh continued was as needs be, she stated, "everything except deleted" from the condemning, and it showed up Justice Wood had just been given the constrained data from the after death report that would have authenticated Webster's admission. 

Webster was the main individual in New South Wales to be condemned under "reality in condemning" enactment, which implied he couldn't be discharged under any conditions before the finish of his 14-year non-parole period; under the past enactment an individual of Webster's age would most likely have been discharged after just nine years. Webster offered the length of his jail term to the New South Wales Court of Criminal Appeal, where Justices Gleeson, Lee and Allen rejected his allure in July 1992. In their view the wrongdoing was "gross to the point that nothing to a lesser extent a serious sentence would accord with the general good feeling of the network". 

Webster's first application for parole in February 2004 was denied as he had not yet attempted work discharge. In the wake of finishing a couple of months of this program, Webster was discharged on parole on 10 June 2004 in the wake of serving 14½ years. The states of his parole determined that he would just be permitted to visit Newcastle or Stockton with consent from his probation and probation officer. Webster's parole was examined in the Parliament of New South Wales, with Minister John Hatzistergos reacting to questions and inferring that the choice to regulate Webster's re-reconciliation into society was superior to the option of discharging him without supervision toward the finish of his sentence. Following his discharge, Leigh's family expressed they harbored "no evil considerations" towards Webster and wished him well in the "re-foundation of his life". Webster's parole was disavowed in November 2004 after he was captured for strike; he argued not liable, refering to self-protection. He was discharged from jail in May 2005 after the charges were dropped because of inadequate proof. 

Leigh's passing gotten across the board and progressing inclusion in both the Sydney and Newcastle media, perhaps because of an interest with her reduplicated name. Somewhere in the range of 1989 and 1994, "The Newcastle Herald" kept running something like 39 stories on Leigh, 23 of them highlighted on the first page. Somewhere around ten articles looking into it were distributed in "The Sydney Morning Herald" amid a similar period. Both the all-inclusive media inclusion and the dramatic plays and film the homicide enlivened have prompted it being named a "VIP wrongdoing", and to Leigh being alluded to as a "big name injured individual". In 1996 Psychologist Roger Peters ascribed the media interest to the feeling of network in Stockton, and because of the wrongdoings being perpetrated by individuals not viewed as run of the mill lawbreakers, expressing "I think one about the primary things is that individuals can relate to individuals included. Had it of been a criminal from outside who stalked her and slaughtered I figure it would be for quite some time overlooked." 

Different sources considered the media inclusion before Webster's capture to be centered around discovering something to accuse other than her killer. After Webster's capture the media kept on hunting down any outside office that may have been in charge of the occasion. From the earliest starting point, media reports featured the absence of parental supervision at the gathering, and in condemning Webster, Justice Wood made remarks scrutinizing the absence of parental supervision. Analysts Jonathan Morrow and Mehera San Roque in the "Sydney Law Review" composed that Wood's remarks "should have been cited from the very papers that were covering the wrongdoing"; his remarks, thus, were intensely announced in the media. Webster's condemning additionally gotten impressive media inclusion, perhaps because of his childhood and the length of his sentence, just as interest about the recently settled "truth-in-condemning" standards. His intrigue with respect to the length of his sentence got comparative inclusion. 

As indicated by perceptions by Kerry Carrington and Andrew Johnson, media references to Leigh being explicitly attacked "totally vanished" in under a year, as did the references to her being struck by the gathering of young men. They expressed that the way that NC1 was not accused of assaulting Leigh had made the legitimate fiction that his sex with her was consensual. The "unsustainable presumption" that Leigh agreed to sex was the defining moment in her being accused for her very own strike and murder in light of the fact that, since she was as far as anyone knows explicitly indiscriminate, Leigh had some way or another "requested [the attack]". Notwithstanding sexual indiscrimination and the absence of parental supervision, Carrington states that media consideration likewise moved to the nearness of medications and liquor at the gathering; Morrow and San Roque credit media thoughtfulness regarding these elements as removing consideration from the maltreatment that Leigh endured before she kicked the bucket. The designation "skank" in a pretrial mental report additionally turned into a subject of center for the media: 

Carrington blamed the media for totally overlooking what's really important that the report was not expressing the perspectives on the specialist, rather it was the therapist's understanding of Webster's emotions. She likewise considered Mark Riley's all-inclusive inclusion of the case, which she depicted at one point as "journalistic voyeurism", to be the most significant instance of moving the fault from the aggressors to Leigh herself. One of Riley's articles specifically was considered by her to have proposed that Leigh's discourses with her mom about sex and Leigh's looks and physical improvement had added to her homicide. Morrow and San Roque likewise condemned Riley's article, expressing it "exasperatingly ... hitched parental fault with the very much recorded idea that the assault unfortunate casualty herself is apparently to fault for her assault". A few journalists, including Eva Cox and Adele Horin, rejected the idea that Leigh was in any capacity in charge of her rape and murder. The media inclusion of the homicide has been considered by different sources to be a piece of a more extensive culture of injured individual accusing. 

Police were censured over their treatment of the examination, including their inability to recognize culprits in an opportune way. It took police more than three months to squeeze charges against Webster despite the fact that they included set up inside ten days that he had lied about his whereabouts, had freely expressed his expectation to assault Leigh, and had the chance to carry out the wrongdoing. 

Analysis was likewise raised in regards to the generally couple of feelings. In spite of a few people's admissions to police that they physically assaulted Leigh at the gathering, just Wilson was accused of attack, and the grown-up who confessed to providing her with liquor before the gathering was never charged. NC1 confessed to engaging in sexual relations with another under-age young lady at the gathering, however he was not accused of that offense. Except for the charges against Webster that were dropped without clarification, no one was ever accused of assaulting or explicitly attacking Leigh regardless of the nearness of realistic criminological proof of genital wounds. Amid a report on "Radio National", Leigh's mom said that when she asked Detective Chaffey for what valid reason others were not being charged, he inquired as to whether she knew "the amount it expenses to run an examination". 

Police took blood and apparel tests from suspects, including the shirt Wilson was wearing the evening of the homicide, which he conceded had a bloodstain on it, however it isn't known whether any DNA tests were done. Kerry Carrington estimated that the reports of proof being sent for testing may have been a creation to acquire an admission. Leigh's grandma revealed to Carrington that she called Scotland Yard to enquire about the outcomes, as a criminologist working on this issue had educated Leigh's family this was the place the presumes' dress had been sent. Scotland Yard educated her that they had not gotten anything from Australia for legal testing in the applicable timespan. 

The main record of measurable testing that has been revealed is an affirmation by a scientific researcher of four things being gotten for testing on 6 November 1989: three things of Leigh's apparel, and the blood-recolored shake found close to her body. The affirmation, be that as it may, demonstrates that different things were not sent for testing. Results from the alleged tests were never made accessible, nor was data on why different things were not sent. As indicated by Carrington, four years after the examination an analyst associated with the case revealed to her that none of the examples taken from suspects were tried. Tests taken from Webster were not utilized in his arraignment. Teacher Harry Boettcher, a measurable researcher, said that if police did not really test the examples it would be "proficient carelessness – faulty". In 2009 a specialist who followed up for Leigh's family expressed that given the advances in DNA testing innovation, the time had come to rethink the proof. 

A few components have prompted hypothesis that Webster was not the only one when he murdered Leigh. As indicated by the transcript of Webster's admission, he was never inquired as to whether he acted alone. Carrington blamed police for tolerating Webster's admission without needing any proof, overlooking both scientific and witness proof. Her examinations featured a few inconsistencies in Webster's admission, and in the measurable proof. For instance, Webster expressed in his admission that he had stifled Leigh with his left hand as he bowed alongside her albeit, as per the post-mortem report, the wounds on Leigh's neck were reliable with being gagged with a correct hand. Carrington likewise scrutinized Webster's explanation that he strolled along lit boulevards to the opposite side of the Stockton landmass to wash his bloodstained hands, when he could have washed his hands in all out murkiness at the shoreline not exactly away. She additionally questioned his case that he had blood staring him in the face however none on his garments, regardless of Leigh having been struck so hard blood was splattered 2.8 meters one route from her body and 1.3 meters the other way. Webster expressed that he strolled to the shoreline with Leigh, however as indicated by police reports four observers said she strolled to the shoreline alone; two observers expressed they saw Webster and Wilson leave the surf club together. Neither NC1 nor Wilson had a dependable plausible excuse for their whereabouts at the season of the homicide; Wilson told police he was distant from everyone else on the shoreline when Leigh strolled past him as she left the club, minutes before she was killed. Webster's explanation that he just entered Leigh with his finger has been considered by different sources to be conflicting with the post-mortem examination discoveries of genital injury, and the injury is additionally conflicting with NC1's record that his sex with her was consensual. In checking on the examination, Boettcher said that the various blows which slaughtered Leigh originated from numerous bearings, and were likely incurred with various things, showing the likelihood of more than one culprit. 

Carrington and Johnson guessed that Leigh was attacked by the gathering of young men in the wake of coming back from the shoreline, as discipline for griping about being assaulted, and was killed by Webster and two others since they were apprehensive she would tell other individuals. They declined to explicitly name the two different suspects because of a paranoid fear of legitimate repercussions, however cleared up that one had explicitly ambushed Leigh before in the night, and the other likely explicitly struck her with a brew bottle before she kicked the bucket, as discipline for openly declining to have intercourse with him. Webster conversed with the media about the homicide without precedent for 1997, and demanded that he acted alone in murdering Leigh. 

Subsequent to being informed that no one would have been accused of Leigh's rape, in 1990 Leigh's mom started a crusade for the case to be authoritatively re-explored. In August 1994, Kerry Carrington sent a 17,000-word record and 300 pages of proof to the Royal Commission into the New South Wales Police Service, requesting the case to be examined. The commission was going by Judge James Roland Wood, however an agent for the commission expressed that Wood's inclusion in Webster's preliminary would not influence the result of any examination. In December 1994, a delegate for the commission said that after careful thought, they would not be examining the issue. 

In May 1993 an injured individual's remuneration case had granted Leigh's mom and sister a consolidated aggregate of $29,214. An intrigue, helped via Carrington's exploration, was held up against the first unfortunate casualty's pay payout. In May 1995, in a milestone lawful choice, Judge Joseph Moore endorsed the intrigue, granting Leigh's mom and sister an extra $134,048. Moore said the proof showed that Leigh dismissed NC1's lewd gestures, and that "his intercourse with her was without her assent." He likewise recognized that whoever explicitly struck Leigh had never been conveyed to equity, and the absence of feelings for ambush, explicitly naming Jason Robertson and three different young men as the individuals who attacked her notwithstanding Webster and Wilson. Leigh's mom surrendered her endeavors to have the case re-opened in 1997, refering to "fatigue and survival". 

In October 1996, Police Minister Paul Whelan made a declaration in the Parliament of New South Wales, expressing that the homicide would be checked on by the New South Wales Crime Commission. Recognizing that no one had ever been accused of Leigh's rape, Whelan expressed the up and coming audit was "our one chance to right the awful wrongs that happened on the night that Leigh kicked the bucket". 

In March 1998 the Crime Commission discharged its discoveries, expressing that the wrongdoings that brought about feelings happened generously in the route depicted to the courts, that no further charges would be laid as Webster had acted alone in both the homicide and the strike that quickly gone before it, and that police had not acted improperly in their choice not to charge different people. It did, be that as it may, censure some police systems and practices. The survey did not remark on the inconsistencies between Webster's admission and the legal proof, and it didn't illuminate whether scientific proof was ever sent for testing. An agent for the Commission would not remark on whether Wilson's blood-recolored shirt was ever tried. One master assessment gotten by the Commission composed that it was "likely [Webster] occupied with sexual conduct which belittled Leigh and to which he will never concede in light of the fact that he is embarrassed and humiliated", and Dr Johan Duflou said that a finger or penis was probably not going to have caused Leigh's extreme genital harm. Hillary Byrne-Armstrong expressed that these master assessments, which negate Webster's admission, brought up issues on how the Commission reasoned that Leigh's rape happened in the way to which he had admitted, additionally raising questions around a few of the Commission's different discoveries. The Crime Commission discharged one of their two reports on the issue; their second unpublished report was given over to the Police Integrity Commission (PIC) for examination. 

Twenty-six individuals, chiefly cops, were met in 1998 as a major aspect of the resulting PIC request. A few observers from the gathering, just as Webster, Wilson and NC1 were likewise addressed. The request heard charges that police attacked four individuals amid meetings: Webster, Wilson, NC1 and another anonymous suspect alluded to as NC5, a relative of Webster who was 17 at the season of the homicide. Admitting to the request that he slaughtered Leigh and demanding that he was separated from everyone else in doing as such, Webster expressed that police over and again punched and kicked him when he wouldn't admit to her homicide. As indicated by Scott Tucker writing in "The Newcastle Herald", police were additionally blamed for compromising savagery, misrepresenting reports and retaining proof; one of the officers being researched had his police storage attacked by interior issues, who found a few records on the homicide that had recently been recorded as absent. Carrington was additionally gathered to give proof, however she was not educated why; her book, "Who Killed Leigh", which scrutinized police over their treatment of the examination, had been discharged prior that year. Carrington was interrogated for three days, longer than any of the cops who were addressed, in what was depicted by Hillary Byrne-Armstrong as "an examination on pretty much every word she had verbally expressed [or] stated" in connection to Leigh's homicide". Byrne-Armstrong blamed the PIC for calling Carrington for the sole motivation behind assaulting her validity on issues they had no expectation of researching, and to dishonor somebody who had pulled in significant media consideration for scrutinizing police. 

The PIC discharged their survey in October 2000. The audit suggested the expulsion of Detective Sergeant Chaffey for "net abandonment" of obligation, likewise prescribing criminal allegations against five other analytical officers. The survey expressed that Webster was erroneously captured, as police captured him to question, something for which they didn't have the power, and that he was most likely struck by police while he was in care. Police got further analysis after it was revealed that they had talked with NC1 without reaching his folks, and did not interrogate him concerning Leigh's homicide, just about his intercourse with her. Following the audit, Chaffey resigned "somewhat sooner than [he] proposed", however rejected the survey's discoveries, expressing he was glad for his group's execution. In October 2001, the Director of Public Prosecutions declined to squeeze criminal accusations against any of the officers, on the grounds they had endured passionate hardship and their vocations had just been pulverized. The case, which was depicted on "PM" as "one of the longest ever examinations concerning police lead in New South Wales", incited changes in the New South Wales Police Force, including the change of record-keeping methods. 

Newcastle's Freewheels Theater appointed Nick Enright to create a play that investigated subjects around the assault and murder. Titled "A Property of the Clan", it debuted at the Freewheels Theater in Newcastle in 1992, and was performed at the National Institute of Dramatic Art in 1993. The title was taken from the dubious statement in the mental report on Webster made in anticipation of his preliminary. Enright excluded the criminal demonstrations and the homicide from the play, rather concentrating on the show, its members and the result of the homicide. The play was appeared different secondary schools in the Newcastle territory, and following its positive gathering was appeared secondary schools broadly, winning a few honors. Be that as it may, Newcastle High School, where both Leigh and Webster had been understudies, declined to indicate it. The play is set in the anecdotal town of Blackrock, and the assault and murder injured individual is named Tracy. Leigh's family mentioned that the name be changed, as 'Tracey' was the name of Leigh's cousin and closest companion. The name stayed, in spite of different modifications to the content; the play was retitled "Blackrock". It was performed by the Sydney Theater Company in 1995 and 1996. 

"Blackrock" was formed into a film of a similar name, which was incompletely recorded in Stockton and discharged in 1997. The people group of Stockton contradicted shooting in the zone, expressing the recollections of the occasions were still crisp and the subtleties of the content were "far too close". At the point when movie producers landed in Stockton the neighborhood media treated them with threatening vibe, and areas that had recently been held were never again accessible. The circumstance was exacerbated by the producers' disavowal that the film was explicitly about Leigh, in spite of the decision of Stockton for taping. Leigh's family were against the film, saying the movie producers were "devouring a grievous circumstance" and depicting Leigh contrarily. Partner educator Donna Lee Brien of Central Queensland University expressed that some anecdotal angles in the film depicted Leigh in a negative way, however the book "Reel Tracks" by Rebecca Doyle acknowledged the film for amending falsehood revealed in the media in regards to the homicide, just as with giving a discussion to reflection on the occasions. The film got a blended to-positive gathering in Australia, yet performed ineffectively when appeared; Brien expressed that in light of the fact that the film did not have the "impactful and amazing account backing of Leigh's catastrophe", it was esteemed by faultfinders to be "shallow and prosaic".