Hurricane Brenda (1960) 

Typhoon Brenda was the second named tempest of the 1960 Atlantic sea tempest season. It created in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico on July 28, and in the wake of moving shorewards over the Florida Peninsula, it achieved hurricane status. Brenda quickened upper east along the U.S. East Coast, eventually topping as a moderate tempest with winds of before intersection the Mid-Atlantic states and New England; it scattered on July 31 over southern Canada. The tempest incurred moderate harm in Florida, the most noticeably bad since Hurricane Easy of 1950, and dropped overwhelming precipitation as far north as New York City. Absolute harm is evaluated at US$5 million, and just roundabout passings are accused on the typhoon. 

A frail low-weight zone that sorted out in the upper east Gulf of Mexico started to increase on July 28, while found west of the Tampa Bay. From the get-go in its life, the framework had a wide flow with fundamentally light breezes, like that of a subtropical tempest. The tempest is assessed to have turned into a tropical wretchedness prior the earlier day as it advanced toward the upper east. It made landfall along the Florida coast close Cross City and proceeded with inland, progressively quickening. It likely accomplished typhoon status at around 1200 UTC on July 28 while its middle was arranged west of Tampa. The typhoon was named Brenda after observation flying machine affirmed that it had achieved hurricane quality. 

Brenda followed northward, embracing the Georgia and South Carolina drifts before moving inland over North Carolina on July 29. It accomplished its pinnacle winds recently that night, while arranged south of Wilmington. The following morning, the tempest rose over the Chesapeake Bay moving upper east at about . Brenda crossed the Delmarva Peninsula and quickly followed into southern New Jersey. The tempest crossed the state and in the end made another landfall in Brooklyn, New York before making one more landfall in seaside Connecticut. 

At around 0000 UTC on July 31, Brenda moved into Massachusetts. Presently, it lost its tropical qualities and progressed into an extratropical twister. It disseminated by August 1 over southern Canada. Since Brenda was in the region of land for a large portion of its course, it was not ready to increase past typhoon status. 

Ahead of time of the tempest, hurricane warnings and wind admonitions were issued from Florida to Maine. 

Precipitation from Tropical Storm Brenda influenced somewhere around 16 states. The heaviest precipitation fell in western Florida close Tampa, east of the tempest's inside; the Tampa International Airport recorded of precipitation. Broad flooding happened in the west-focal Florida Peninsula. Wind blasts surpassed , and the tempest created high waves along the coast, prompting significant disintegration. In any case, storm tides were not extreme. Around the Naples territory, Brenda's belongings were basically light, albeit little pontoon and dock offices and streets continued some harm. A private seawall at Clearwater was broken in two places by the twister. 

Brenda was viewed as the most noticeably bad tempest to strike the territory since Hurricane Easy in 1950. While no setbacks are legitimately accused on the tempest, something like one traffic-related demise occurred. As indicated by an American Red Cross Disaster Service report including eight Florida regions, 11 houses continued noteworthy harm, while 567 endured increasingly minor harm. Around 590 families were influenced generally speaking. Complete money related harm is put at close $5 million. 

Tides along the Outer Banks of North Carolina were commonly revealed at better than average. In and around Wilmington, the tempest made minor harm rooftops and windows of some beachfront structures. Power was briefly hindered because of fallen tree appendages. Substantial precipitation caused flooding on streams and waterways, and in certain territories the precipitation finished a genuine dry spell. A few vessels were overwhelmed, and the breezes ripped the rooftop off a bungalow at Long Beach. The substantial downpour and high tides overflowed tobacco fields. 

Moderate downpours expanded northward into the Mid-Atlantic states, with lighter aggregates detailed more distant north in New York. At New York City, of precipitation fell, beating the one-day July record of set in 1872. The substantial downpours overflowed portions of LaGuardia Airport. Somewhere else, reports of were normal all through New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia. High breezes additionally influenced segments of the northeastern United States, blasting to crosswise over southern New England. Tides frequently kept running better than average all through the area. The tempest caused travel delays and steered a few boats into the rocks, however generally incurred minimal genuine harm. The tempest constrained the abrogation of two American League ball games and the deferment of a few other games.