Agaricus deserticola 

Agaricus deserticola, generally known as the gasteroid agaricus, is a types of growth in the family Agaricaceae. Discovered just in southwestern and western North America, "A. deserticola" is adjusted for development in dry or semi-parched living spaces. The natural product bodies are secotioid, which means the spores are not persuasively released, and the top does not completely grow. Not at all like other "Agaricus" species, "A. deserticola" does not grow genuine gills, yet rather a tangled and arranged arrangement of spore-delivering tissue called a gleba. At the point when the halfway cloak splits or pulls from the stem or the top parts radially, the blackish-darker gleba is uncovered, which enables the spores to be scattered. 

The organic product bodies can achieve statures of tall with tops that are up to wide. The intense woody stems are wide, thickening towards the base. Organic product bodies develop separately or dissipated on the ground in fields, meadows, or bone-dry biological systems. Different mushrooms with which "A. deserticola" may be befuddled incorporate the desert organism species "Podaxis pistillaris" and "Montagnea arenaria". The edibility of "Agaricus deserticola" mushrooms isn't known authoritatively. Once in the past named "Longula texensis" (among a few different equivalent words), the growth was exchanged to the sort "Agaricus" in 2004 after atomic investigation indicated it to be firmly identified with species in that class. In 2010, its particular appellation was changed to "deserticola" after it was found that the name "Agaricus texensis" was ill-conceived, having been recently distributed for an alternate animal groups. 

The species was first portrayed experimentally as "Secotium texense" by Miles Joseph Berkeley and Moses Ashley Curtis in 1873, in light of examples sent to them from western Texas. George Edward Massee exchanged it to the class "Gyrophragmium" in 1891, due to its likeness to the species "Gyrophragmium delilei", and on the grounds that he felt that the structure of the volva just as the inward morphology of the gleba prohibited it from "Secotium". In 1916, William Murrill recorded the species in "Gymnopus", yet did not clarify the purpose behind the nonexclusive exchange. In a 1943 production, Sanford Zeller thought about various comparable secotioid genera: "Galeropsis", "Gyrophragmium" and "Montagnea". He presumed that the species did not fit in the breaking points set for the class "Gyrophragmium" thus made the new family "Longia" with "Longia texensis" as the sort species. The nonexclusive name was to respect William Henry Long, an American mycologist noted for his work in depicting Gasteromycetes. Zeller likewise referenced two extra equivalent words: "Secotium decipiens" (Peck, 1895), and "Podaxon strobilaceous" (Copeland, 1904). 

After two years in 1945, Zeller brought up that the utilization of the name "Longia" was indefensible, as it had just been utilized for a class of rusts portrayed by Hans Sydow in 1921, so he proposed the name "Longula" and presented the new blend "Longula texensis" notwithstanding "L. texensis" var. "major". The species was known by this name for around 60 years, until a 2004 phylogenetic investigation uncovered the taxon's nearby developmental association with "Agaricus", a plausibility hinted by Curtis Gates Lloyd a century prior. This brought about another name in that variety, yet it before long became visible that the name "Agaricus texensis" had just been utilized, amusingly enough, by Berkeley and Curtis themselves in 1853, for a taxon currently treated as an equivalent word of "Flammulina velutipes". Since this made the new "Agaricus texensis" an unusable homonym, Gabriel Moreno and associates distributed the new name "Agaricus deserticola" in 2010. The mushroom is generally known as the gasteroid Agaricus. 

The characterization of "Agaricus deserticola" has been under discussion since the taxon was first depicted. It was thought by certain mycologists to be an individual from the Gasteromycetes, a gathering of parasites in the basidiomycota that don't effectively release their spores. The Gasteromycetes are currently known to be a counterfeit gathering of morphologically comparative growths with no binding together developmental relationship. At the point when the species was known as a "Gyrophragmium", Fischer believed it to be near "Montagnites", a variety he thought about an individual from the family Agaricaceae. Conrad proposed an association with "Secotium", which he accepted to be near "Agaricus". Curtis Gates Lloyd said of "Gyrophragmium": "[it] has no spot in the Gasteromycetes. Its relations are all the more near the Agarics. It is the interfacing join between the two passing on one hand through "Secotium" to the genuine Gasteromycetes." Elizabeth Eaton Morse trusted that "Gyrophragmium" and the secotioid class "Endoptychum" framed a change between the Gasteromycetes and the Hymenomycetes (the gilled organisms). 

The species is presently thought to have developed from an "Agaricus" progenitor, and adjusted for survival in dry living spaces. These adjustments include: a top that does not grow (hence saving dampness); dim hued gills that don't coercively launch spores (an instrument known to rely upon turgor weight reachable just in adequately hydrated situations); and an incomplete shroud that remaining parts on the natural product body long after it has developed. This type of development is called secotioid advancement, and is average of other desert-staying growths like "Battarrea phalloides", "Podaxis pistillaris", and "Montagnea arenaria". Atomic investigation dependent on the arrangements of the incomplete huge subunit of ribosomal DNA and of the inner deciphered spacers demonstrates that "A. deserticola" is firmly identified with yet particular from "A. aridicola". A different examination demonstrated "A. deserticola" to be firmly identified with "A. arvensis" and "A. abruptibulbus". 

The natural product assemblage of "Agaricus deserticola" can grow up to in tallness. New examples are typically white, however will age to a pale tan; dried natural product bodies are light dark or tan blended with some yellow. The top is in measurement, at first conic, later getting to be arched to extensively curved as it develops. The top is made out of three unmistakable tissue layers: an external volval layer, a center cuticular layer (cutis), and an internal (tramal) layer which underpins the gleba. The outside of the top is white with yellow-darker to dark colored tipped raised little scales; these scales result from the separation of the volva and the cutis. 

At first, the tops are secured by a peridium—an external covering layer of tissue. After the natural product body develops and starts to dry out, the lower some portion of the peridium begins to tear, normally beginning from little longitudinal cuts close where the peridium appends to the highest point of the stem. Be that as it may, the example of tearing is variable; in certain occurrences, the cuts may seem higher up on the peridium, in others, the peridium tears all the more sporadically. The peridium may likewise tear so that it shows up as though there is a ring at the highest point of the stem. The torn peridium uncovered the interior gleba. The gleba is partitioned into wavy plates or lamellae, some of which are combined to frame unpredictable chambers. The gleba is a dull dark colored to blackish-darker shading, and it ends up intense and fragile as it dries out. The substance is firm when youthful, white, and will recolor light to brilliant yellow when it is wounded. 

The stem is round and hollow, long and thick. It is molded like a thin club, and the base may achieve widths up to . It is ordinarily white, recoloring yellow to orange-yellow or pink when wounded, and ends up woody with age. Develop examples create longitudinal notches in development. Various white rhizoids are available at the base of the stem; these root-like outgrowths of parasitic mycelium help the mushroom connect to its substrate. The pinnacle of the stem stretches out into the gleba to frame a "columella" that achieves the highest point of the top. The inner gills are free from connection to the stem, however are appended full-length to within the top. The fractional cloak is thick, white, and frequently quagmires off as the top grows. 

A bigger assortment of the mushroom has been portrayed by Zeller, "A. deserticola" var. "major" (initially "Longula texensis" var. "significant"), whose go covers that of the run of the mill assortment. Its tops are scalier than the run of the mill assortment, and range from or more in distance across, with a stem and up to thick. 

In store, for example, with a spore print, the spores show up practically dark, tinged with purple. The spores are circular fit as a fiddle or almost in this way, smooth, thick-walled, and do not have a germ pore. They are nonamyloid (not retaining iodine when recolored with Melzer's reagent), dark brown, and have measurements of 4.5– 7.5 by 5.5– 6.5 µm. There is a conspicuous scar where the spore was once connected to the basidium (the spore-bearing cell) through the sterigma. The basidia are comprehensively club-molded, and for the most part four-spored, with long, thin sterigmata. Not at all like other "Agaricus" species, the spores of "A. deserticola" are not shot off, however are rather scattered when they filter out of the dried, develop natural product bodies after the peridium tears open. 

Schaeffer's compound test is regularly used to help recognize and separate "Agaricus" species. In this test, aniline in addition to nitric corrosive are connected to the outside of the organic product body, and if positive, a red or orange shading shapes. "Agaricus deserticola" has a positive Schaeffer's response, like species in area "Arvensis" in the sort "Agaricus". 

Species that look like "A. deserticola" incorporate the desert growths "Montagnea arenaria" and "Podaxis pistillaris". "Montagnea arenaria" is a whitish stalked puffball with an empty, woody stalk and a free sac-like volva at the base of the stem. It is bested by a slim circle like top with blackish gill plates suspended around the edge. "Podaxis pistillaris" has a barrel shaped to oval white to caramel top with a paper-flimsy divider on a thin stem. Whenever develop, the top contains fine, dull darker spores. 

The edibility of the natural product assemblages of "Agaricus deserticola" isn't known authoritatively, and there are clashing conclusions in the writing, with certain sources guaranteeing that the edibility is obscure, and utilization ought to be kept away from. Be that as it may, one prominent field manual for North American mushrooms recommends they are palatable when they are youthful, and have a charming scent and mellow taste. 

In one early investigation of the mushroom's improvement, the natural product bodies showed up over the outside of the ground a few days after precipitation or a water system, and required somewhere in the range of five and eight days to develop. Slim and delicate rhizomorphs—thick masses of hyphae that structure root-like structures—develop on a level plane underneath the dirt surface. Natural product bodies begin as expanded tips on the rhizomorphs, and show as various little, nearly circular bulges just underneath the outside of the dirt. At the point when the organic product bodies achieve a breadth of about , the stem and peridial locales start to be recognizable; the peridial district initially shows up as a little swelling at the pinnacle of the a lot bigger stem areas. 

The organic product bodies push upward through the dirt when they are about tall. As development advances, the stem stretches and the peridium turns out to be progressively adjusted, expanding in size until development. At about the time the peridium comes to or somewhat more in distance across, the columella applies an upward strain on the tissue of the fractional cloak, and it starts to pull far from the stem. Regularly, the shroud tissue is weakest close to the connection to the stem, as opposed to the connection at the edge of the peridium, and the cloak isolates from the stem. The lower edge of the peridium is additionally extended as it is pulled upward and outward. For the most part, the bone-dry condition makes the gleba dry out quickly. On the off chance that the cloak tissue at the base of the stem is more grounded than that connected to the edge of the peridium, the cover can tear so it stays joined to the stem as a ring. Scales start to show up on the outside of the peridium of certain examples at about this time. 

Like other "Agaricus" species, "A. deserticola" is saprobic—sustaining off dead or rotting natural issue. The organic product bodies are discovered developing independently to now and again increasingly various, at low rises, and regularly in sandy soil. 

The species' standard living spaces incorporate drylands, beach front sage scour, and desert environments. It additionally develops in yards and fields. The scope of the growth is confined to southwestern and western North America, where it organic products consistently, ordinarily amid or following chilly, wet climate. Zeller gives a range that incorporates as its eastern fringe focal Texas, and stretches out westbound to San Diego County, California, and north to Josephine County, Oregon. The mushroom used to be basic in the San Francisco Bay territory before land improvement diminished its favored living spaces. "A. deserticola" has been gathered in a few states in northwestern Mexico, including Sonora, Chihuahua, and Baja California.