21st Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry 

The 21st Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry was an infantry regiment in the Union Army amid the American Civil War. It was composed in Worcester, Massachusetts and summoned into administration on August 23, 1861. 

After army obligation at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, the regiment presented with the Coast Division told by Maj. Gen. Ambrose Burnside. The Coast Division was sent in January 1862 for tasks on the shoreline of North Carolina, and took an interest in the Battle of Roanoke Island and the Battle of New Bern among different commitment. Burnside's division was reviewed to Virginia in July 1862. The 21st Massachusetts was then connected to the Army of the Potomac and took an interest in a few of the biggest skirmishes of the Civil War, including the Second Battle of Bull Run, the Battle of Antietam, and the Battle of Fredericksburg. The most obliterating commitment of the war for the 21st was the Battle of Chantilly, battled on September 1, 1862, amid which the unit endured 35 percent setbacks. From March 1863 to January 1864, the 21st presented with Burnside in the Department of the Ohio, seeing activity in Kentucky and eastern Tennessee. In May 1864, the regiment rejoined the Army of the Potomac, partaking in Lt. Gen. Ulysses Grant's Overland Campaign and the Siege of Petersburg. The regiment was a most loved of Clara Barton, the acclaimed front line nurture, who was additionally from Worcester County, Massachusetts. 

Before the finish of its three years of administration, the 21st Massachusetts had been diminished from 1,000 men to less than 100. Of these misfortunes, 152 were slaughtered in real life or passed on from wounds got in real life, around 400 were released because of wounds, 69 were taken prisoner, and roughly 300 were released because of infection, abdication, or renunciation. Those of the 21st who decided to re-enroll toward the finish of their underlying three-year responsibility were in the long run combined with the 36th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry on October 21, 1864. 

Following the First Battle of Bull Run on July 21, 1861 (the principal real commitment of the war and a heartbreaking thrashing for the untested Union armed force), residents of the northern states started to understand that the Civil War would not end rapidly. Extra troops would be required past the 75,000 volunteers that had been gotten out for 90 days of administration. Subsequently, over the mid year of 1861, volunteers hurried to enroll for a term of three years. The 21st Massachusetts was among the "multi year regiments" sorted out after the First Battle of Bull Run. 

The regiment was shaped amid July and August 1861. The assigned camp of get together was the Agricultural Fair Grounds in Worcester. Most of the organizations were from Worcester County with almost every town in that district spoke to on the regiment's rolls. Hampden, Hampshire, and Franklin Counties were likewise spoken to. 

The main leader of the 21st was Col. Augustus Morse, who was associated with the brush making industry in Leominster, Massachusetts and had been a noteworthy general in the Massachusetts Volunteer Militia preceding the war. As indicated by Charles Walcott, the regimental student of history, regardless of Morse's times of involvement with the State Militia, he was, "altogether dejected of soldierly excitement or soul, superbly uninformed of military drill and maneuvres, and a pathetic slave driver." 

The regiment, initially numbering somewhat in excess of 1,000 men, withdrew Worcester on August 23, 1861. They were equipped with sub-par smoothbore black powder guns that had been changed over from flintlock to percussion lock. After a brief, however tense, three-day place to stay in Baltimore, the regiment moved to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, touching base on August 30. The regiment garrisoned the Naval Academy for four months. It was an agreeable post. Maj. William S. Clark of the 21st composed that the regiment was "magnificently arranged, getting a charge out of the sentiment of war." 

Amid their stay in Annapolis, the men of 21st aided the departure of a slave having a place with Maryland Governor Thomas Holliday Hicks. While the slave was covered up in a stack in one of the Naval Academy sleeping quarters, Governor Hicks' rehashed requests for his arrival were declined by the officers of the regiment. 

On December 20, 1861, the 21st was appointed to the Coast Division instructed by Maj. Gen. Ambrose Burnside for activities in North Carolina. The 21st was the primary regiment chosen by Brig. Gen. Jesse Reno for his unit. The 21st Massachusetts would pick up an extraordinary regard and warmth for Reno, who originally drove their unit and later the IX Corps of which the 21st was a section. 

As the regiment arranged for takeoff, Colonel Augustus Morse chose to stay at the Naval Academy, feeling that army obligation was, as indicated by student of history James Bowen, "more to his taste." Lt. Col. Albert Maggi, an Italian by birth who had served under Giuseppe Garibaldi, took order of the regiment on January 2, 1862. Maggi had been straightforwardly rebellious to Morse because of the last's absence of military order. His supposition of order, just as the issue of new Enfield rifled flintlocks, improved the assurance of the regiment. 

The 21st, around 960 in number, boarded the steamer "Northerner" on January 6, 1862. The armada transporting Burnside's North Carolina Expedition experienced unforgiving climate off the shore of Cape Hatteras. Drawn out poor climate and the shallowness of Hatteras Inlet brought about long stretches of postponement as the armada attempted to enter Pamlico Sound. At last, similarly as a large portion of the vessels started to run low on consumable water, the armada entered the sound and made for Roanoke Island on February 5, 1862. 

Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan had requested Burnside to make Roanoke Island his first target. Catch of the island would permit control of both Pamlico and Albemarle Sounds, opening up a conceivable southern attack course to Richmond. Organizing with a maritime flotilla directed by Admiral Louis M. Goldsborough, Burnside propelled a land and/or water capable ambush (one of the first of the Civil War) bringing about the Battle of Roanoke Island on February 7 and 8, 1862. In the wake of getting, the 21st spent a cool, wet night on picket obligation. On February 8, it participated in the ambush on the Confederate post at the focal point of the island. Traveling through bogs and knee-profound water, Reno's unit, including the 21st, progressed around the Union left flank on the west side of the fortification. In the wake of terminating relentlessly on the fortress for quite a while and taking moderate losses, the 21st was requested by Brig. Gen. Reno to storm the fortification. As indicated by the regimental student of history, the 21st Massachusetts was the primary regiment to mount the earthworks of the stronghold; notwithstanding, the respect was likewise guaranteed by the ninth New York. The Union powers were successful in catching the Confederate fortress on Roanoke Island and took roughly 2,500 Confederate officers prisoner. The 21st endured 13 executed and 44 injured, or eight percent losses, amid the commitment. 

After the fight, the 21st took up camp in the previous Confederate fortification, staying there for almost a month. Amid that time, Lt. Col. Maggi, resolved to make the 21st as trained as a regiment of Regulars, authorized stern benchmarks for drill and dress motorcades. After the close uprising of one organization, Maggi presented his renunciation. Maj. William S. Clark, a teacher of science at Amherst College, was elevated to lieutenant colonel and accepted order of the regiment on February 28, 1862. 

Burnside's next focus, as indicated by McClellan's requests, was the city of New Bern, North Carolina. The Coast Division boarded their vehicles on March 4, advanced up the Neuse River, and landed about down waterway of New Bern on March 12. The 21st, numbering 675 men, drove their unit in the walk on New Bern, finding many deserted strongholds. On March 14, the division partook in the Battle of New Bern. The Confederate barriers were generally focused on a block yard changed over into an alternative post. The 21st, moving toward the foe position, was before long arranged to attack the block yard and the battery in that. Lt. Col. Clark drove four organizations of the 21st and incidentally involved the block yard. As they caught the battery, Clark remained on one of the weapons, encouraging his men forward. In their propelled position, the 21st endured huge losses and was before long compelled to forsake the brickyard. Nonetheless, the Union powers were in the long run successful, and the city of New Bern was caught. After the fight, Maj. Gen. Burnside introduced the primary gun caught by the 21st to Amherst College out of appreciation for first Lt. Frazar Stearns, child of the President of Amherst College, and assistant of the 21st, who was slaughtered amid the commitment. Lt. Col. Clark got an advancement to colonel for his lead amid the Battle of New Bern. The regiment endured 58 losses, or eight percent (23 executed, 35 injured). 

Following the commitment at New Bern, the 21st was among the regiments chosen for a campaign to annihilate the Dismal Swamp Canal which would handicap the Confederacy's shipbuilding exercises at Norfolk, Virginia. A bit of Reno's unit was transported by steamers to Camden County and occupied with the moderately minor Battle of Camden on April 19, 1862. The 21st, at this stage, numbered 500 men, having lost various troopers to malady while in an unsanitary camp at New Bern. After the Battle of Camden, Reno inevitably surrendered the campaign against the waterway and the unit came back to New Bern on April 22. Over the span of the mission, the 21st Massachusetts had light losses of three percent (four executed, 11 injured, and one missing). 

The Coast Division's next task should be the catch of Wilmington, North Carolina. Be that as it may, the disappointment of McClellan's Peninsular Campaign required the review of the Coast Division to Virginia. The 21st broke their camp in New Bern and boarded clippers on July 2, 1862, while hearing clashing bits of gossip about McClellan's prosperity or annihilation. They touched base in Newport News, Virginia, on July 9. 

Amid July, two extra divisions were combined under Maj. Gen. Burnside's direction to shape the IX Corps. Toward the start of August, Brig. Gen Jesse Reno expected the direction of the Corps and was requested to help the development of Maj. Gen. John Pope's Army of Virginia towards Richmond. The 21st, alongside the remainder of the Corps, was immediately transported to Fredericksburg and afterward walked overland to join Pope's powers on August 14, 1862, in the region of Culpeper Court House, Virginia. 

As Gen. Robert E. Lee progressed on Pope's situation along the Rapidan River, Pope rapidly pulled back his military north. The unit to which the 21st had a place, presently directed by Col. Edward Ferrero, as often as possible wound up in the situation of back gatekeeper amid this development, skirmishing with the propelling Confederate mounted force. When the 21st came to Warrenton, Virginia, on August 27, it was obvious to the men that something wasn't right. Pope was seen riding by the regiment, "looking warm and energized", and the men discovered that Lt. Gen. Thomas Jackson had flanked the Union armed force and was currently in their back. 

The 21st, presently numbering 425 men, crossed Bull Run on August 29 and found that Union powers had officially connected with Jackson's men in the Second Battle of Bull Run. Soon after early afternoon, the 21st's detachment took up a situation close to the focal point of the Union lines. Through the span of the evening they saw a few units advance into the forested areas in their front just to see them beaten back by the Confederates. At long last, the request wanted Ferrero's detachment, including the 21st, to progress, unsupported, into the forested areas. As the unit ventured off, Brig. Gen. Reno requested it to end and actually dissented the request to Maj. Gen. Pope. The request was revoked and, as indicated by Capt. Walcott of the 21st, "we expressed gratitude toward God that General Reno remained among us and General Pope." 

In the wake of laying on their arms as the night progressed, the 21st got up to light battling in their front. Through the span of the morning, Union powers bit by bit moved to one side, including the 21st, and it ended up obvious that the Union right flank had crumpled. Then, Lee's powers had joined Jackson's and were squeezing the Union left flank with a huge and fast ambush. Pope's whole armed force was soon in retreat. Ferrero's unit was moved by Brig. Gen. Reno to a situation on Henry House Hill to cover the Union retreat along the Centreville Turnpike. The unit, with the 21st in the middle, effectively held off Confederate advances from 7 to , purchasing basic time for the Union armed force. At last, under the front of obscurity, the detachment unobtrusively resigned crosswise over Bull Run. Amid this annihilation for the Union armed force, the 21st endured light setbacks of seven injured, or two percent. 

As the Union armed force withdrew towards Washington, it delayed to re-aggregate at Centreville, Virginia. On August 31, 1862, Gen. Lee arranged Lt. Gen. Jackson to flank the Union right and to cut the Union armed force off from Washington. This flanking exertion brought about the Battle of Chantilly which would turn out to be the most grievous commitment of the whole war for the 21st Massachusetts. 

On September 1, the regiment, presently numbering 400, walked northwest from Centreville with the remainder of Ferrero's unit. In spite of the fact that the men did not know it, they were among the bunch of detachments picked by Pope to avoid Jackson's flanking development. Framing fight lines in a field not a long way from Chantilly Plantation, the 21st viewed the 51st New York advance into thick woods to test the adversary lines. Requests were before long given to Col. Clark to lead the 21st into the forested areas to help the 51st. The forested areas were thick and the development was muddled. Exacerbating the situation, an amazing tempest burst out as the 21st entered the forest. Unconsciously, the regiment obliqued far to one side and lost contact with the 51st New York. Experiencing an assemblage of troops in their front and unfit to distinguish them through the exuberant downpour, Col. Clark assumed he had discovered the 51st, requested the 21st to rest set up and sent officer Lt. Colonel Joseph Parker Rice forward to reach. The troops were, indeed, men of Jubal Early's unit and, before this could be learned, the Confederates released an overwhelming volley on the clueless 21st. "In the abrupt anguish and give up all hope existing apart from everything else," composed Capt. Walcott, "the entire regiment appeared to lie seeping on the ground." Col. Clark quickly requested a withdrawal and the 21st left in excess of 100 dead or injured in the forested areas. 

Achieving the open fields once more, the 21st was requested by Maj. Gen. Philip Kearny to fill a gap in the focal point of the Union line. As the 21st progressed, Kearny rode out before the regiment, strenuously encouraging them to rush, and disproving alerts that Confederates were close by. Kearny was slaughtered by a volley from a power of Confederates covered simply inside a close-by tree line. Presently in short proximity to the foe, a strained standoff followed with leveled black powder guns as the 21st and the Confederate regiment each requested the surrender of the other. At long last, the Confederate regiment charged on the 21st. It was the first run through and last time, as per the regimental student of history, that the 21st gave wounds with the blade. The hand-to-hand battling was extreme and incredible disarray come about. Col. Clark was isolated from the unit when the greater part of the men around him were killed and he wound up lost in the Virginia wide open for four days before finding the unit once more. This brought about the mixed up printing of his eulogy in Amherst. 

Jackson's flanking move was effectively diverted and the Battle of Chantilly was battled to a stalemate. Be that as it may, the 21st had endured seriously with 35 percent setbacks (38 executed, 76 injured, 26 missing). 

Right off the bat in September 1862, the IX Corps, Reno instructing, came back to the Army of the Potomac. Gen. Lee, encouraged by his triumphs, attacked Maryland and McClellan moved the Army of the Potomac northwest from Washington to meet the Confederates. Bits of the armed forces conflicted amid the Battle of South Mountain, amid which the 21st had just a little impact. Mentally, in any case, it was an overwhelming battle in that it saw the passing of Maj. Gen. Reno, who had been the 21st's unit authority toward the beginning of the war. "There was not a man in the 21st who did not cherish him," Capt. Walcott of the 21st expressed, "he generally remained "with" his men in fight." 

As McClellan's Army gradually propelled, Lee took up a cautious position in Sharpsburg, Maryland, along Antietam Creek. The 21st, deserting two organizations at South Mountain for watchman detail, presently numbered just 150 men. On September 16, the IX Corps took up a situation on the left flank of the Union armed force, close to a stone scaffold destined to be known as Burnside's Bridge. 

The following day, McClellan started his assault with a few advances by the Union right flank, a long way from the situation of the 21st. For a great part of the day, the IX Corps could hear the battling and anticipated requests to take the scaffold in their front. The 21st even was sufficiently blessed to have a mail call that morning, and the men sat down to peruse letters from home while battling seethed around the Dunker Church two miles (3 km) away. At long last, orders came around early afternoon and Ferrero's detachment was drawn nearer to the extension. It was a troublesome target. On the contrary bank, a lush feign transcended the stream. Covered there was a little power of 400 Confederates who might effectively hold a huge number of Union troops under control for a considerable length of time. The men of the 21st viewed a few progressive charges on the scaffold by detachments of the IX Corps, which were all shocked. At last, Ferrero's unit was requested forward. Achieving the extension at a run, the 21st was requested to take up a situation beside the left projection, providing covering fire, while the 51st New York Infantry and the 51st Pennsylvania Infantry at last conveyed the position. As the Confederates withdrew, Ferrero's detachment was before long positioned at the highest point of the feign. Later toward the evening, around dusk, a Confederate counterattack almost drove the IX Corps back crosswise over Antietam Creek. Ferrero's unit held the feign, be that as it may, assuming a key job in checking the counterattack, and taking serious losses all the while. The 21st recorded 10 executed and 35 injured, losses of 30 percent. 

On November 7, 1862, Maj. Gen. McClellan was expelled from direction of the Army of the Potomac and supplanted with Maj. Gen. Burnside. Through the span of November, Burnside moved the military south to Falmouth, Virginia, inverse the Rappahannock River from Fredericksburg. The 21st touched base in Falmouth on November 19. About a month go before Burnside could arrange an intersection of the waterway and an ambush on the city and the statures past. The Battle of Fredericksburg occurred on December 13, 1862. 

The 21st crossed the Rappahannock on December 12 by means of the barge connects that had been built by the Union armed force and went through the night along the west bank of the stream. On the morning of the thirteenth, the regiment was requested toward the west piece of the city, close to the base of the statures. Here they evacuated the dark jackets that had been issued to them inspired by a paranoid fear of being confused with Confederates. From this position, the 21st watched a strike by a segment of the II Corps over the open plain prompting statures and were stunned by the gore that came about because of the fizzled assault. Soon after this ambush, Ferrero's unit was requested to assault the statures and the 21st shaped a line of fight on the open ground somewhat evening. The 21st progressed, as indicated by Walcott, "under the best coordinated mounted guns shoot we had ever endured or seen." Color bearers were over and again shot down. One, Sgt. Thomas Plunkett, was hit by a gunnery shell that removed his correct arm and left hand. Regardless of his injuries, he figured out how to shield the hues from falling. The banner is today in the accumulation at the Massachusetts State House and still bears the stains from Plunkett's injuries. Plunkett was granted the Medal of Honor for his dauntlessness at Fredericksburg. 

The 21st did not achieve the stone divider on Marye's Heights but rather took asylum in a slight gloom in the landscape, remaining stuck in that situation until night. Under the front of murkiness, the regiment resigned, just to be requested to a similar recognize the following morning, expecting a Confederate counterattack which never came. The regiment lost 33% of its numbers at Frederickburg. 

Following his disappointment at Fredericksburg, Burnside was reassigned to the Department of the Ohio. The IX Corps, which he had some time ago instructed, was reassigned with him. The 21st Massachusetts boarded trains for Cincinnati on March 28, 1863. They were then transported to Mount Sterling, Kentucky, to battle Confederate guerrillas. In April, because of the diminished quantities of the regiment (presently around 200) a few officers, being successfully without directions, surrendered their bonuses, including Col. William S. Clark. Direction of the regiment go to Lt. Col. George P. Hawkes. 

The regiment saw light obligation around Lexington, Kentucky, amid the mid year of 1863. In September, Burnside propelled his push to catch eastern Tennessee from Confederate hands. The 21st walked for Knoxville, Tennessee, on September 12, 1863. Amid the Knoxville Campaign, the 21st saw minor activity, acting essentially in help of ordnance because of their little numbers. 

After around a month's leave of absence back in Massachusetts amid February and March 1864, the 21st came back to the Army of the Potomac as a feature of a recently rearranged IX Corps, rejoining the military daily before the Battle of the Wilderness on May 4, 1864. Lt. Gen. Ulysses Grant had turned out to be general-in-head of the Union armed force and expected to pursue the Army of the Potomac in the field, tenaciously pushing Lee's Confederate armed force through the span of the mid year of 1864. Walcott of the 21st expressed, "There was to be little of the sentiment or methodology of war in that frightfully grisly work of that mid year's crusade in Virginia." 

Amid this crusade, the 21st endured substantial losses amid the Battle of Spotsylvania and the Battle of Bethesda Church. In the last commitment, the 21st went about as back watchman and endured the worst part of a savage assault yet held their position. Concede's Overland Campaign finished up with a few strikes on Petersburg, Virginia, on June 15– 18, 1864. The 21st again took extensive losses amid these assaults, especially amid the ambush on June 17. Maj. Henry Richardson, instructing the 21st, was injured in the thigh amid the commitment and was presently sent home. Presently numbering under 100 men, the regiment had been diminished to a tenth of its unique size. Organization An, at this point, had just three men on its dynamic list. 

Following these fizzled ambushes, the two militaries subsided into channel fighting around Petersburg. There were various endeavors, amid the late spring of 1864, with respect to the Union armed force, to unstick the Confederates from their lines. A standout amongst the most sad for the Union armed force was the Battle of the Crater amid which explosives were exploded in an expansive mine burrowed underneath the Confederate entrenchments, incidentally making a hole in their lines. Components of the IX Corps, under the direction of Maj. Gen. Burnside, were to charge through the hole, however rather ended up caught in the colossal cavity. Brig. Gen. James Ledlie's division, of which the 21st was a section, drove the assault. The division had been chosen at last over the United States Colored Troops who had really prepared for the task. Ill-equipped, Ledlie's division deferred in their assault, permitting the Confederates time to regroup. The 21st figured out how to progress, blended with different regiments, to the uttermost point entered by Union troops yet by the evening they made the retreat "higgledy piggledy" with the remainder of Burnside's IX Corps. 

On August 18, 1864, the 21st's three-year selection arrived at an end. More than seventy five percent of the rest of the men decided to re-enroll. These men were merged into a force of three organizations instructed by Capt. Orange S. Sampson. The day after their combination, the regiment took part in the Battle of Globe Tavern. The last commitment in which the rest of the organizations of the 21st took an interest as a free unit was the Battle of Poplar Springs Church on September 30, 1864, amid which the Union armed force endeavored to broaden its lines westbound, further enclosing Petersburg. Capt. Orange Sampson, telling the 21st, was slaughtered in this commitment. 

On October 21, 1864, the unit was solidified with the 36th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry. At the point when the 36th was summoned out in June 1865, the three organizations that had a place with the 21st were solidified with the 56th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry. They were at long last summoned out of administration on July 8, 1865. 

The Civil War nurture Clara Barton was brought up in Oxford, Worcester County, Massachusetts, and knew a significant number of the men in the 21st Massachusetts. More than 40 of them had been her understudies when she was an instructor before the war. She hence took an intense enthusiasm for their welfare. Amid the Maryland Campaign, she visited as often as possible with the regiment and thought about its injured amid the Battle of Antietam. Sgt. Plunkett, the shading carrier of the 21st who endured such egregious injuries amid the Battle of Fredericksburg, acknowledged Barton for sparing his life. She was next to him when he was first treated, by and by masterminded his vehicle home, and carried on correspondence with him after the war. Barton proclaimed the 21st her most loved regiment and, thus, the men of the 21st casted a ballot her a "little girl" of the regiment. 

After the war, Col. William S. Clark turned into a conspicuous figure in early American/Japanese relations. In the wake of setting up the Massachusetts Agricultural College (presently the University of Massachusetts Amherst), Clark was welcomed by the legislature of Japan to build up a comparable organization, the Sapporo Agricultural College (presently the University of Hokkaido). Clark's notoriety perseveres in Japan where he is an easily recognized name because of the progressive western thoughts he conveyed to Hokkaido and the impact he had on the improvement of the island. His military experience amid the Civil War was an essential factor in acquiring the regard of his Japanese bosses. 

Today, the historical backdrop of the 21st Massachusetts is deciphered by the Southern Piedmont Historical Reenactment Society (SPHRS), a reenacting bunch situated in North Carolina. While committed principally to the historical backdrop of the 49th North Carolina Infantry, the SPHRS represents the 21st at living history occasions and reenactments consistently.