Wintjiya Napaltjarri 

Wintjiya Napaltjarri (conceived between ca. 1923 to 1934) (additionally spelt Wentjiya, Wintjia or Wentja), and furthermore known as Wintjia Napaltjarri No. 1, is a Pintupi-speaking Indigenous craftsman from Australia's Western Desert area. She is the sister of craftsman Tjunkiya Napaltjarri; both were spouses of Toba Tjakamarra, with whom Wintjiya had five youngsters. 

Wintjiya's contribution in contemporary Indigenous Australian craftsmanship started in 1994 at Haasts Bluff, when she took an interest in a gathering painting venture and in the making of batik textures. She has likewise been a printmaker, utilizing drypoint scratching. Her sketches commonly utilize an iconography that speaks to the eggs of the flying insect ("waturnuma") and hair-string skirts ("nyimparra"). Her palette for the most part includes solid red or dark against a white foundation. 

A finalist in the 2007 and 2008 National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Art Awards, Wintjiya's work is held in a few of Australia's open accumulations including the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory, the National Gallery of Australia and the National Gallery of Victoria. Her work is additionally held in the Kluge-Ruhe Aboriginal Art Collection of the University of Virginia. 

A 2004 reference take a shot at Western Desert painters proposes Wintjiya was conceived in around 1923; the Art Gallery of New South Wales recommends 1932; master Vivien Johnson reports two conceivable years: 1932 or 1934. The uncertainty around the time of birth is to some degree on the grounds that Indigenous Australians have an alternate origination of time, regularly assessing dates by correlations with the event of different occasions. 

Napaljarri (in Warlpiri) or Napaltjarri (in Western Desert tongues) is a skin name, one of sixteen used to indicate the subsections or subgroups in the family relationship arrangement of focal Australian Indigenous individuals. These names characterize connection connections that impact favored marriage accomplices and might be related with specific totems. Albeit regularly utilized as terms of location, they are not surnames in the sense utilized by Europeans. Along these lines Wintjiya is the component of the craftsman's name that is explicitly hers. She is in some cases alluded to as Wintjia Napaltjarri No. 1; there is another craftsman from a similar area, Wintjiya Morgan Napaljarri (additionally called Wintjiya Reid Napaltjarri), who is known as Wintjiya No. 2. 

Wintjiya originated from a zone north-west or north-east of Walungurru (the Pintupi-language name for Kintore, Northern Territory). Johnson reports that Wintjiya was conceived at Mulparingya, "a bog and spring toward the upper east of Kintore", west of Alice Springs. Similar to the case for various craftsmen from the locale, Wintjiya's family strolled into the Haasts Bluff settlement during the 1950s, moving to Papunya during the 1960s. In 1981, Kintore was built up and the family moved there. Her local language is Pintupi, and she talks no English. She is the sister of craftsman Tjunkiya Napaltjarri, the two ladies being the second and third spouses of Toba Tjakamarra, father (by his first wife, Nganyima Napaltjarri) of one of the conspicuous organizers of the Papunya Tula workmanship development, Turkey Tolson Tjupurrula. Wintjiya and Toba had five kids: children Bundy (brought into the world 1953) and Lindsay (brought into the world 1961 and now expired); and little girls Rubilee (brought into the world 1955), Claire (brought into the world 1958) and Eileen (brought into the world 1960). Externally fragile by 2008, she in any case had the stamina and readiness to show her granddaughter the aptitudes of pursuing and catching goannas. 

Contemporary Indigenous specialty of the western desert started in 1971 when Indigenous men at Papunya made wall paintings and canvases utilizing western craftsmanship materials, helped by instructor Geoffrey Bardon. Their work, which utilized acrylic paints to make structures speaking to body painting and ground models, quickly spread crosswise over Indigenous people group of focal Australia, especially after the presentation of a legislature endorsed craftsmanship program in focal Australia in 1983. By the 1980s and '90s, such work was being displayed universally. The main specialists, including the majority of the organizers of the Papunya Tula craftsmen's organization, were men, and there was obstruction among the Pintupi men of focal Australia to ladies likewise painting. Notwithstanding, a considerable lot of the ladies wished to take an interest, and during the 1990s huge numbers of them started to paint. In the western desert networks, for example, Kintore, Yuendumu, Balgo, and on the outstations, individuals were starting to make works of art explicitly for display and deal. 

Since the 1970s Wintjiya had made ancient rarities, for example, "ininti" seed pieces of jewelry, mats and crates, utilizing conventional imaginative methods including weaving of spinifex grass. At the point when the ladies of Kintore, including sisters Wintjiya and Tjunkiya, began making solicits, their works looked to some extent like those of their male companions (who had been painting for certain years). Wintjiya's first endeavors were community oriented, as one of a gathering of ladies who made paintings on the Kintore Women's Center dividers in 1992. She at that point joined a composition camp with other ladies from Kintore and Haasts Bluff to create "a progression of extremely extensive cooperative canvases of the gathering's shared Dreamings" (dreamings are stories used to pass "essential information, social qualities and conviction frameworks" from age to age). Twenty-five ladies were engaged with arranging the works, which included three canvases that were square, just as two that were ; Tjunkiya and Wintjiya played out a stylized move as a component of the arrangements. Wintjiya and her sister were resolved to take an interest in the task regardless of waterfalls meddling with their vision. Similar to the case for Makinti Napanangka, an activity to evacuate waterfalls brought about another brilliance to Wintjiya's organizations. Sources contrast on when Wintjiya and her sister Tjunkiya had their waterfalls evacuated: Johnson proposes 1999, yet workmanship focus organizer Marina Strocchi, who worked intimately with the ladies, expresses that it was 1994. In the mid 2000s Wintjiya and her sister painted at Kintore, however in 2008 they were working from their home: "the widows' camp outside her 'child' Turkey Tolson's previous living arrangement". 

Tjunkiya and her sister Wintjiya did not restrict their exercises to painting canvases. In 2001 the National Gallery of Victoria obtained a synergistic batik, made by the sisters in collaboration with a few different specialists, together with one finished by Wintjiya alone. These works were the result of a batik workshop keep running for the ladies of Haasts Bluff by Northern Territory Education Department staff Jill Squires and Therese Honan in the months following June 1994. The works, including a few by Wintjiya, were not finished until 1995. Round markings, utilized by Wintjiya in both these batiks and her ensuing works of art, speak to the eggs of the flying insect ("waturnuma"), one of the fundamental subjects of her specialty. She additionally depicts "tree-like natural themes" and portrayals of hair-string skirts ("nyimparra"). The sisters likewise picked up involvement with drypoint carving; works created by Wintjiya in 2004 – "Watiyawanu" and "Nyimpara" – are held by the National Gallery of Australia. 

Wintjiya's work was incorporated into an overview of the historical backdrop of Papunya Tula painting facilitated by Flinders University in the late 1990s. Looking into the presentation, Christine Nicholls commented of Wintjiya's "Watanuma" that it was a germinal painting, with fine utilization of quieted shading, and demonstrated affectability to the connections among items and spaces spoke to in the work. In like manner, Marina Strocchi has noticed the differentiation between a portion of the unobtrusive hues utilized in batik and Wintjiya's trademark painting palette, which is "only distinct white with dark or red". Hetti Perkins and Margie West have proposed that in artworks by Kintore ladies specialists, for example, Wintjiya and Tjunkiya, "the thickness of the canvas' surface appears to impersonate the liberal use of body paint in ladies' services". 

Wintjiya's composition "Shake gaps west of Kintore" was a finalist in the 2007 National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Art Award. Another of her works, "Nation west of Kintore", was acknowledged as a finalist in 2008. Works by Wintjiya have showed up in numerous huge displays including: "Papunya Women" aggregate presentation (Utopia Art Gallery, Sydney, 1996); "Raiki Wara: Long Cloth from Aboriginal Australia and the Torres Strait" (National Gallery of Victoria 1998– 99); "A quarter century and Beyond: Papunya Tula Painting" (Flinders University Art Museum, 1999); "Papunya Tula: Genesis and Genius" (Art Gallery of New South Wales, 2000) and "Land Marks" (National Gallery of Victoria, 2006). Her first solo show was at Wolloongabba Art Gallery in Brisbane in 2005, while in 2010 there was one at a Melbourne exhibition. Additionally in 2010, a print by Wintjiya was chosen for consideration in the yearly Fremantle Arts Center's Print Award. In 2013, she was one of sixteen finalists in the Western Australian Indigenous Art Awards. 

Works by Wintjiya are held in significant private accumulations, for example, Nangara (otherwise called the Ebes Collection). Her work has been procured by a few noteworthy open workmanship foundations including the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory, and the National Gallery of Victoria. Universally, her work is held in the Aboriginal Art Museum at Utrecht in the Netherlands, and the Kluge-Ruhe Aboriginal Art Collection at the University of Virginia. Works by Wintjiya and her sister Tjunkiya are exchanged the sale showcase, getting costs of a couple of thousand dollars. 

In 2018 Wintjiya's work was incorporated into the display "Denoting the Infinite: Contemporary Women Artists from Aboriginal Australia" at The Phillips Collection.