Psilocybe aztecorum 

Psilocybe aztecorum is a types of psilocybin mushroom in the family Hymenogastraceae. Known from Arizona, Colorado, focal Mexico, India and Costa Rica, the organism develops on decaying woody trash and is found in hilly zones at rises of , commonly in knolls or open, verdant conifer backwoods. The mushrooms have arched to ringer formed tops in distance across, on slim round and hollow stems that are up to long. The shade of the tops changes with varieties in hydration, running from dull chestnut dark colored to straw yellow or whitish when dry. The base of the stem is thickly secured with obvious white rhizomorphs, a trademark unprecedented among "Psilocybe" species. 

The species was first detailed by French mycologist Roger Heim in 1956 as an assortment of "Psilocybe mexicana" before he formally portrayed it under its present name a year later. Named for its relationship with the Nahua individuals additionally called Aztecs, "P. aztecorum" may have been one of the hallowed mushroom species, or "teonanácatl" (A Nahuatl word interpreted differently as "sacrosanct mushroom" or "substance of the divine beings"), announced in the codices of sixteenth century Spanish writer Bernardino de Sahagún. The mushrooms are as yet utilized for otherworldly functions by Nahua Indians in the Popocatépetl locale, despite the fact that this conventional use is disappearing. The assortment "P. aztecorum" var. "bonetii" has littler spores than the principle assortment, and is found at lower heights with Montezuma pine ("Pinus montezumae") and hallowed fir ("Abies religiosa"). "P. aztecorum" might be recognized from comparative mild species, for example, "P. baeocystis" and "P. quebecensis" by their reaches, and by contrasts in the morphology of minute structures like cystidia. 

The species was first referenced by French mycologist Roger Heim in 1956 dependent on material gathered by American ethnomycologist R. Gordon Wasson in Paso de Cortés, on the inclines of Popocatépetl mountain in Mexico. Heim initially named the species as an assortment of "Psilocybe mexicana"; constrained to dried mushroom material for examination, he just depicted the spores, which he clarified were "generally more and smaller than that of "Psilocybe mexicana"". After a year, Heim renamed the organism "Psilocybe aztecorum" and authoritatively depicted it, notwithstanding a few other Mexican "Psilocybe" taxa. A portion of these mushrooms, including "P. aztecorum", were outlined in the well known American week after week magazine "Life" ("Seeking the Magic Mushroom"), in which Wasson described the hallucinogenic dreams that he encountered amid the divinatory ceremonies of the Mazatec individuals, in this way acquainting psilocybin mushrooms with Western pop culture. 

In 1978, Mexican mycologist and "Psilocybe" authority Gastón Guzmán improved the portrayal of "P. aztecorum" to incorporate the shading variety of the top coming about because of its firmly hygrophanous nature, the mycenoid structure, the rhizoids at the base of the stem, the lignicolous territory, and the extent of the spores—all highlights that he thought were either confounded, or not adequately definite, in Heim's unique depiction. In a similar distribution, Guzmán likewise portrayed the assortment "P. aztecorum" var. "bonetii", recognized from the principle assortment by its littler spores. He had initially depicted this variation as a different animal categories, "Psilocybe bonetii", in 1970. Further, Guzmán later distributed "Psilocybe natarajanii", initially portrayed by him from Tamil Nadu in southern India, as an equivalent word of "P. aztecorum" var. "bonetii"; this putative synonymy, be that as it may, is affirmed by neither MycoBank nor Index Fungorum. Guzmán called the fundamental assortment "P. aztecorum" var. "aztecorum"; hence, the species specialist is regularly refered to as ""P. aztecorum" var. "aztecorum" R. Heim improve. Guzmán". 

"Psilocybe aztecorum" is the sort types of Guzmán's segment "Aztecorum", a gathering of dye (i.e., psilocybin-containing) "Psilocybe" mushrooms described by having an unequivocally hygrophanous top that dries to dark colored or caramel white when dry; spores that seem awry when found in side view; and pleurocystidia that, when present, are hyaline (translucent). Different species arranged in segment "Aztecorum" are "P. baeocystis" and "P. quebecensis". 

The particular designation "aztecorum" alludes to the Aztec Indians of focal Mexico, who utilized this mushroom in conventional services some time before the Spanish came to America. The assortment "P. aztecorum" var. "bonneti" is named after Dr. Federico Bonet (passed on 1980), emeritus educator of the Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas, who helped Guzmán with his doctoral examinations. The well known names of "P. aztecorum" are "niños" or "niñitos" (kids or little kids), or in the Nahuatl language "apipiltzin" which signifies "niños del agua" ("offspring of the water"), insinuating their territory along gorges. 

The top is arched to ringer molded, now and then building up a wide umbo before extending and smoothing in age; it achieves a distance across of . In development, the top in the long run structures a focal melancholy, and, in some old examples, opens into the empty stem. The top surface is foul to the touch, and has translucent striations along the edge when soggy. The top is emphatically hygrophanous, implying that it will change shading relying upon its dimension of hydration. The shading ranges from yellowish dark colored to brilliant yellow in youthful catch structures to caramel dim in age, with greenish-dim tints on the edge. The shading later changes to whitish from the inside to the edge, at last outstanding totally white; dried examples are straw-hued to pale earthy. As opposed to most psilocybin mushrooms, the top of "P. aztecorum" does not have a solid dye response upon damage—just the edge recolors somewhat green-blue. 

The gills are adnate (comprehensively connected to the stem marginally over the base of the gill) or adnexed (achieving the stem, however not joined to it), and are light violet dim to dull violet darker. They are either uniform in shading, or have whitish edges. The empty stem is by thick, measure up to in width all through or thicker at the top, cylindric or here and there straightened, and either straight or with turns and windings. Its surface is smooth, plush fibrillose, whitish to grayish, and stains blue-green sporadically when contacted or in age. The base of the stem is thickly secured with very much created white rhizomorphs. Youthful mushrooms have a white spider web like incomplete shroud that does not keep going some time before it vanishes, despite the fact that it some of the time stays as a non-perpetual ring on the upper piece of the stem. The substance is whitish to yellowish or ruddy yellow in the top, or ruddy dark colored in the stem, and shows next to zero dye response to damage. Like the majority of the dye "Psilocybe" mushrooms, the smell and taste of "P. aztecorum" is marginally farinaceous (like newly ground flour) in new examples; dried examples have an increasingly exceptional scent. A drop of weaken potassium hydroxide (KOH) stains the top, stem, and substance ruddy darker; here and there, the stem does not stain or stains marginally yellowish red. The spore print is blackish violet. 

The spores are stretched ellipsoid in face see, generally terete (pretty much round and hollow however typically decreasing at the two closures), marginally inequilateral or unbalanced in side view—the supposed "mango" structure. They commonly have measurements of 12– 14 by 6.6– 7.7 by 6– 7.5 μm, albeit a few spores have unpredictable shapes and are firmly extended, up to 23 μm. Spores are thick-walled (for the most part between 1– 1.5 μm), dull yellowish dark colored, and have a wide germ pore. The assortment "bonetii" has littler spores estimating 10– 13 by 6– 7.5 by 6– 7 μm. 

The basidia (spore-bearing cells) measure 24– 33 by 6.6– 8.8 μm, and might be connected to somewhere in the range of one to four spores, albeit four-spored basidia are generally normal. They are hyaline to some of the time to some degree yellowish, club-formed or generally tube shaped, and some have a slight choking around the center. The cheilocystidia (cystidia on the edge of a gill) are bottomless, framing a sterile band on the gill edge. They are hyaline, fusoid-ampullaceous (with a shape going from a shaft to a swollen container), with measurements of 20– 45 by 5– 8.2 μm, and have a filamentous neck estimating 6– 11 by 1.6– 2.5 μm. The pleurocystidia (cystidia on the gill face) are dispersed, like the cheilocystidia in structure and size, hyaline, and some have bifurcated or spread necks. 

The subhymenium (a layer of cells promptly underneath the hymenium) comprises of round cells that are intertwined with hyphae; this layer is hyaline to yellowish or caramel, and does not have shade crusted on the dividers of the hyphae. The epicutis (the upper of two layers of the top fingernail skin) is made of a slight thick layer of hyaline or earthy hyphae estimating 1.5– 2.5 μm in width. The hypodermium (the fingernail skin tissue layer under the epicutis) is hyaline, and has extended to generally circular hyphae that are 10– 18 μm in distance across. Cinch associations are available in the hyphae of "P. aztecorum". 

"Psilocybe pseudoaztecorum", found in India, varies from "P. aztecorum" in the morphology of the pleurocystidia and cheilocystidia. The trademark filamentous neck present in the cystidia of "P. aztecorum" is missing in "P. pseudoaztecorum". "P. pseudoaztecorum" had been recently depicted by K. Natarajan and N. Raman as "P. aztecorum", however they distributed the taxon with another name after counsel with Guzmán. New examples of "P. aztecorum" take after "P. pelliculosa", however this last species is discovered just in the Pacific Northwest locale of the United States and Canada. Like "P. aztecorum", the tops of the South African species "P. natalensis" additionally dye to almost white when dried. The firmly related "P. baeocystis" additionally fades in shading to white when dry. Found in northwest North America from British Columbia to Washington and Oregon, "P. baeocystis" has more slender cheilocystidia than "P. aztecorum" (commonly estimating 20– 32 by 4.4– 6 μm) and its pleurocystidia, when present, are discovered just close to the gill edge. "P. quebecensis", known just from Quebec, Canada, has pleurocystidia estimating 12– 25 by 5– 10 μm. Despite the fact that the phylogeny of the species including segment "Aztecorum" isn't known with conviction, Guzmán has recommended that "P. aztecorum" was the predecessor of "P. baeocystis" in northwestern North America and of "P. quebecensis" in northeastern North America. 

A lignicolous animal types, "Psilocybe aztecorum" lives in and rots dead wood, leaves, sticks, or other comparative natural flotsam and jetsam. Mushrooms regularly natural product in gatherings of 5 to 20, now and again in packs. Common substrates incorporate wood trash covered in soil, twigs or exceptionally spoiled logs, and, once in a while, pine cones. The mushroom is found in forests (a low-thickness timberland or lush territory that enables daylight to enter to the backwoods floor) containing Hartweg's pine ("Pinus hartwegii") notwithstanding grasses, for example, "Festuca tolucensis" and "Muhlenbergia quadridentata", and the herbaceous plant "Alchemilla procumbens", at heights of . Heim found the sort examples at an elevation of in a snow capped pine woods. "P. aztecorum" natural products from August to October. 

"Psilocybe aztecorum" is known just from the high piles of focal Mexico, for example, Sierra Nevada, Nevado de Toluca, and La Malinche in the States of Mexico, Puebla, and Tlaxcala. As per Guzmán, all things considered, the species likewise develops in different regions with high mountains, for example, the States of Nuevo Leon, Veracruz, Colima, and Chiapas, which have environmental conditions like those of the known regions. Assortment "bonetii" develops in the equivalent substrata as the sort assortment, basically on humus, yet just in woodlands with Montezuma pine ("Pinus montezumae") and hallowed fir ("Abies religiosa"), between height; it has not been recorded from Hartweg's pine timberlands. Likewise known just from Mexico, in the conditions of Mexico and Morelos, and in the Federal District, "P. aztecorum" var. "bonetii" for the most part natural products from August to November. As indicated by Guzmán, "P. aztecorum" ought to be of preservation concern inferable from loss of its characteristic territory. 

"Psilocybe aztecorum" contains the psychoactive compound psilocybin. In 1958, Swiss scientist Albert Hofmann revealed a moderately low centralization of 0.02% psilocybin, yet this examination was performed on two-year-old examples. Jonathan Ott and Guzmán showed the nearness of psilocybin in the assortment "bonartii". As far as psychoactive power, Paul Stamets rates "P. aztecorum" as "tolerably to very dynamic". 

The statue of the Aztec "divine force of blooms", Xochipilli, a sixteenth century stone model uncovered in favor of the spring of gushing lava Popocatépetl, portrays a solitary figure situated leg over leg upon a sanctuary like base; his body is shrouded in carvings of consecrated and psychoactive living beings. Round examples on his kneecaps, right lower arm, and crown have been deciphered by R. Gordon Wasson as adapted natural product groups of "Psilocybe aztecorum". Wasson says that the curved shape and incurved edges portrayed in these pictures demonstrate the mushroom tops just before development. "P. aztecorum" is, notwithstanding "P. caerulescens", one of two mushrooms thought to be the species portrayed by sixteenth century Spanish writer Bernardino de Sahagún as the "teonanácatl". "Teonanácatl" () has been differently deciphered as "consecrated or divine mushroom" or as "tissue of the divine beings". These mushrooms, thought about heavenly holy observances by the Aztecs, were devoured amid profound and divinatory customs to actuate dreamlike dreams. 

"Psilocybe aztecorum" is as yet utilized formally by the indigenous individuals of Oaxaca, and by Nahua individuals in the Popocatépetl area, despite the fact that this utilization is bit by bit reducing. Customary people healers, or "curanderos", keep up nature with psychoactive mushrooms (and other personality adjusting plants utilized in stately ceremonies), and analyze ailments by having the customer ingest the mushrooms. One Mixe "curandero" inception custom includes ingestion of mushrooms following a time of "forbearance from talking, sex, and all nourishments with the exception of nuts for three days, whereupon the individual goes up to a mountain, subsists on only somewhat nectar, and appeals to God for the ability to mend."