Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo 

"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" is the ninth scene of the main period of the American vivified TV arrangement "South Park". It initially circulated on Comedy Central in the United States on December 17, 1997. In the scene, the Jewish character Kyle feels barred from the town's festivals amid Christmas, and is ameliorated by Mr. Hankey, a talking and singing chunk of defecation wearing a red cap. Mr. Hankey does not wake up within the sight of different characters, so they believe that Kyle is whimsical. In another plot strand, the townspeople evacuate every single religious part of Christmas from South Park to remain politically right and tame. 

The scene was composed and coordinated by the arrangement's co-makers Trey Parker and Matt Stone. The Mr. Hankey character depended on a thought from Parker's adolescence; when Parker and Stone considered the "South Park" arrangement, they needed to make Mr. Hankey the lead character. Vigorously affected by the "Peanuts" Christmas uncommon "A Charlie Brown Christmas" from 1965, "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" was the primary Christmas-themed "South Park" scene, the principal melodic scene, and the main scene in season one (and accordingly the first run through in the arrangement) in which Kenny does not kick the bucket. It was a parody of political accuracy and religious affectability. 

The scene got commonly positive audits and has been depicted as one of the great "South Park" scenes. It was seen in about 4.5 million family units amid its unique communicate, the most noteworthy Nielsen rating to that date for "South Park" and the fourth-most astounding generally speaking for a digital TV diversion program of 1997. Notwithstanding Mr. Hankey himself, the scene presented the well known "South Park" melodies "A Lonely Jew on Christmas" and "Kyle's Mom is a Big Fat Bitch". John Kricfalusi, the maker of "The Ren and Stimpy Show", blamed Parker and Stone for taking the thought for Mr. Hankey from him, which the team passionately denied. 

Kyle is playing Saint Joseph in the South Park Elementary School's Christmas nativity play, yet he is compelled to stop when his mom knows about the play and communicates shock that her Jewish child is being compelled to take part in a Christian generation. She requests that the religious components be removed from the government funded school, and takes steps to take her case to the city hall leader. Kyle recommends he could sing the "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" tune as a non-religious substitute, however his recommendation is rejected in light of the fact that no one else trusts in Mr. Hankey, a living and talking "Christmas crap". Kyle leaves the school feeling desolate and avoided on the grounds that he can't observe Christmas with every other person. 

City hall leader McDaniels concludes that anything hostile to anybody will be expelled from the Christmas festivities, including Santa Claus, Christmas trees, wreaths, pixie lights, sweet sticks, mistletoe and the Star of Bethlehem. Kyle by and by attempts to propose that they use Mr. Hankey as a non-religious Christmas symbol since he doesn't victimize anybody. At home, Kyle is chided by his folks for having confidence in Mr. Hankey. While Kyle is brushing his teeth, Mr. Hankey leaves the can, spreading defecation recolors wherever he goes, inciting Kyle's folks to fault Kyle for the chaos. Kyle chooses he will bring Mr. Hankey to class to demonstrate he is genuine, yet this just aims more issues as Mr. Hankey masks himself as an unadorned, dried-out bit of defecation when he is around individuals who don't have confidence in him, driving Cartman to inquire as to whether bearing boxes with excrement in them is some sort of Jewish custom. Mr. Hankey jumps at Cartman's face as he sings "Kyle's Mom is a Big Fat Bitch" in D Minor, and Kyle is accused. He is sent to converse with direction guide, Mr. Mackey, yet Kyle possibly gets into further inconvenience when Mr. Hankey washes up in Mr. Mackey's espresso. Cartman, Stan and Kenny trust Kyle is crazy and register him with a psychological establishment. 

Like the entire town, the school Christmas show is deprived of all images of Christmas, and the youngsters rather present a moderate melody and move made by author Philip Glass. The guardians, bewildered by how horrendous the show has turned out, start accusing each other for decimating Christmas and a battle breaks out. At the point when Chef discovers where Kyle is, he uncovers to the kids that Mr. Hankey does really exist. At the point when every one of the youngsters begin trusting, Mr. Hankey at long last uncovers himself to everybody and chides them for dismissing the beneficial things of Christmas and concentrating on the terrible. The townspeople discharge Kyle from the refuge and apologize, at that point they all sing Christmas tunes and watch Mr. Hankey fly away with Santa Claus. Cartman, Stan, and Kyle feel that something is as yet absent. "THE END" at that point shows up, and Kenny is energized and calmed that he has endure the whole scene without getting executed notwithstanding being engaged with risky and hazardous circumstances all through. (This would not occur again until "Rainforest Shmainforest.") 

Amid the end credits, Jesus dejectedly sings, "Cheerful Birthday" to himself alone in his TV studio. 

The Mr. Hankey character depended on a thought Trey Parker's dad made when he was latrine preparing Trey as a tyke. Parker said he wouldn't flush the latrine as a tyke, so his dad let him know whether he didn't flush down his stool, which he called "Mr. Hankey", it would become animated and slaughter him. The idea remained with Parker all through his youth; beginning in primary school and all through his whole training, he would regularly attract the character class, wearing a mariner's cap rather than the Santa Claus cap he would later wear in "South Park". Parker imparted the idea to future "South Park" co-maker Matt Stone when the two met at the University of Colorado at Boulder, and the team quickly realized they needed to make a film or generation including Mr. Hankey. The two examined shooting a three-minute short film including a kid who become a close acquaintence with the talking stool, however Mr. Hankey would not wake up for any other person, provoking others to trust the kid was insane. They made arrangements for the kid's folks to discover him holding a stool in the restroom and reprimand the kid for spreading excrement along the dividers when it was really Mr. Hankey's blame; they additionally intended to have him visit a school advisor, where Mr. Hankey would jump into the guide's espresso cup and the kid would be accused. Toward the end, it just so happens the kid was to be sure insane and Mr. Hankey was not genuine by any means, yet an illusion of the kid's creative ability. Parker and Stone never made the short film, however essentially the majority of its components were incorporated into the future "South Park" scene "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo", with the eminent special case of the closure. 

In spite of the fact that the Mr. Hankey short film was never made, Parker and Stone made two Christmas-related vivified short movies called "The Spirit of Christmas", which filled in as forerunners toward the "South Park" arrangement. At the point when the shorts started to create enthusiasm for a conceivable TV arrangement, Parker and Stone initially imagined the possibility of a "South Park"- like show with four kids characters, however with a talking stool named Mr. Hankey as the show's principle hero; they wanted to call it "The Mr. Hankey Show". They pitched the plan to companion Brian Graden, at that point a TV official with the Fox Broadcasting Company, yet he dismissed it and stated, as indicated by Matt Stone, "I'm not putting crap on my system". Parker and Stone adjusted their unique thought into a show rotating around the South Park town and four kids without Mr. Hankey as a hero, yet they intended to resuscitate the character as a minor supporting job in a future scene. Afterward, when Comedy Central communicated enthusiasm for the arrangement, Parker and Stone raised the possibility of a Mr. Hankey scene amid dealings with the system officials. Parker asserted amid a gathering, he stated, "One thing we need to know before we truly go any further: what is your opinion about talking crap?" The administrators were open to the thought, which Parker said was one of the principle reasons he and Stone chose to sign on with the channel. 

The components of the scene including Kyle's depression as a Jew amid Christmas were propelled by Parker and Stone's impression of Jews experiencing childhood in Colorado amid their youth. In spite of the fact that the two went to various schools, they both saw Jewish youngsters get beat up and tormented on the grounds that both of their schools had not very many Jewish understudies in any case; albeit Stone himself is Jewish, he was not raised as a rehearsing Jew thus he didn't encounter a great part of the harassing himself firsthand. The fruitless endeavors by the South Park Elementary School in the scene to incorporate individuals of non-Christian division were propelled by also fizzled endeavors Parker and Stone saw growing up. Parker refered to for instance a melody show in which the single Jewish understudy was approached to sing her very own Hanukkah tune while every other person sang Christmas tunes; despite the fact that the thought was to make the understudy feel unique, Parker said it just made her vibe all the more desolate and disconnected. 

"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" was composed and coordinated by Parker and Stone, and first disclosed in the United States on Comedy Central on December 17, 1997. It was the principal official "South Park" Christmas scene. TV columnists said the "Soul of Christmas" shorts were antecedents to Mr. Hankey and that they shared some regular attributes, yet that the TV scene was viewed as more manageable and progressively elegant. Parker and Stone initially imagined the scene "Damien", which includes a fight among Jesus and Satan, as the primary season's Christmas scene. Despite the fact that they had since quite a while ago wanted to include Mr. Hankey in the show, they didn't choose to make him a Christmas character until part of the way through the recording of "Damien". When they settled on the choice, they chose to make "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" the occasion scene rather; despite the fact that it would not air until after the "Mr. Hankey" scene, Parker and Stone completed creation of "Damien" before taking a shot at "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo". 

At the time they were composing the scene, Parker and Stone had seen an expansive number of news reports about government structures declining to permit the showcase of models of the nativity scene and other Christian occasion images, in an exertion not to affront different religions. Parker and Stone, as two rationalists who still valued the Christmas occasion, said they felt the thought was "ludicrous" and, as indicated by Stone, "We simply needed Mr. Hankey to state Christmas was about great and about presents, and it doesn't need to be this religious [controversy]." The two tried to compose a scene in the custom of old exemplary Christmas specials with their very own contemptuous "South Park" turn, thus they viewed the acclaimed 1965 "Peanuts" exceptional, "A Charlie Brown Christmas", over and over amid the creation procedure. Parker stated, "Now, we simply kind of needed to complete a Charlie Brown Christmas "South Park" variant. That [special] was certainly an enormous piece of my life growing up." 

The scene was viewed as the principal "South Park" melodic scene, and included such tunes as "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo", "A Lonely Jew on Christmas" and "Kyle's Mom is a Big Fat Bitch". Parker and Stone were at first worried about making a melodic in light of the fact that, Parker stated, "The general standard was individuals despised musicals". For the Mr. Hankey character, Parker and Stone adjusted the vast majority of the components from the Mr. Hankey short film they arranged in school, then again, actually Mr. Hankey would turn out to be genuine, not an invention of Kyle's creative energy. Parker said this was chosen in light of his disappointment with the character Mr. Snuffleupagus in the kids' show "Sesame Street"; for his initial 14 years on the show, Mr. Snuffleupagus was a fanciful character seen just by Big Bird, which Parker said "truly freeloaded me out". Parker and Stone felt Mr. Hankey should epitomize the healthiness and ethics of kid's shows from the 1930s, so they planned him to take after the adaptation of Mickey Mouse in the 1928 animation "Steamboat Willie", especially in his eyes. For the scenes in which Mr. Hankey spreads excrement wherever he strolls, the artists checked pictures of spread out chocolate and fudge and embedded those pictures into the scene. Parker and Stone experienced difficulty settling on a voice for Mr. Hankey, yet Stone said it came to him while eating a Sausage McMuffin at a McDonald's in New York City, while taking a break from advancing "South Park" to the press. 

In spite of the fact that Comedy Central did not article to most parts of the scene, they required some alters to material they regarded possibly hostile. Amid practice for a Nativity play, a child Jesus looking like an embryo flies out of Wendy, who is playing the Virgin Mary, and is gotten by Kyle, who is depicting Joseph of Nazareth. In spite of the fact that the scene was at last kept in the scene, Comedy Central officials had issues with it and Parker said they needed to deal with its movement "all around cautiously". Furthermore, amid recording of the real life Mr. Hankey business, the infant initially held the Mr. Hankey stool and whittled down it. Funny TV authorities would not permit the scene in the scene and it was changed to depict the possibility that the infant had just eaten the stool off-camera, which Parker said he felt was really more interesting. 

"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" is the primary scene in which Kenny was not executed. Parker and Stone intentionally incorporated a few scenes that seemed as though they may prompt Kenny's demise, however they chose on the grounds that it was Christmas that they would not murder him (however he would later proceed to be executed in a few ensuing Christmas scenes). The scene was likewise the first run through Mr. Battalion was depicted as an enemy of semite and bigot, especially when he inquires as to whether she can dispose of the considerable number of Mexicans in "South Park". Parker said this choice was made in light of the fact that, "Army by then had just appeared at be the most destroyed individual in the whole town, and there's clearly such a great amount of amiss with him rationally. An individual that bothered being a supremacist is clever to us." 

"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" was discharged, alongside 11 different scenes, in a three-DVD set in November 1998. It was incorporated into the third volume, which additionally incorporated the scenes "Starvin' Marvin", "Mecha-Streisand" and "Tom's Rhinoplasty". "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" was likewise one of six scenes included on a 1998 VHS called "South Park Festival Special", which included "Starvin' Marvin", "Cheerful Christmas, Charlie Manson!", "Mr. Hankey's Christmas Classics", "Korn's Groovy Pirate Ghost Mystery" and "Pinkeye". It was later discharged in the November 2007 DVD discharge "Christmas Time in South Park", which likewise incorporated the scenes, "Cheerful Christmas, Charlie Manson!", "Mr. Hankey's Christmas Classics", "A Very Crappy Christmas", "Red Sleigh Down", "It's Christmas in Canada" and "Forest Critter Christmas". The scene, alongside the other 12 from the primary season, was additionally incorporated into the DVD discharge "South Park: The Complete First Season", which was discharged on November 12, 2002. Parker and Stone recorded critique track for every scene, except they were excluded with the DVDs because of "models" issues with a portion of the announcements; Parker and Stone wouldn't enable the tracks to be altered and controlled, so they were discharged in a CD totally independently from the DVDs. 

Melodies from "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" were included in the October 2007 CD soundtrack discharge called "Mr. Hankey's Christmas Classics". "The Birmingham News" said the collection "joyously stomps on a standout amongst America's most treasured occasions [and] will probably make even critical audience members wheeze". 

"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" is a parody on political rightness and religious affectability, especially in its depiction of the characters sorting out "The Happy, Non-Offensive, Non-Denominational Christmas Play" to abstain from culpable anybody of any religious foundations. While numerous Christmas specials center around the religious, otherworldly and moral estimations of the Christmas occasion as opposed to the business viewpoints, "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" really grasps corporate greed in Christmas, recommending watchers ought to appreciate those components of the occasion without paying attention to religion as well. York University Professor Alison Halsall said of this part of the scene, "Once more, Parker and Stone haze the holy and the profane, in this case, to gut occasions of their customary implications." 

The scene has additionally been portrayed as at the same time grasping and mocking enlivened Christmas specials like "A Charlie Brown Christmas", "Cold the Snowman" and "It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown". It has likewise been depicted as a discourse in transit Jewish youngsters are neglected amid the Christmas occasion; this subject is obviously expressed by Stan, who says toward the finish of the scene that Jews and Hanukkah "can be cool" just as Christmas. M. Keith Booker, writer of "Attracted to Television: Prime-Time Animation from The Flintstones to Family Guy", said despite the fact that the scene is contemptuous in its treatment of Christmas, "regardless of whether initiated by a singing butt nugget, [it] is about as close as "South Park" ever comes to being wistful and nostalgic". Artistic faultfinder Mark Caldwell said the way that Kenny endure the scene exhibits the scene's "solid, yet obediently unexpected, inclination of ordinary occasion fairness." 

Alison Halsall said "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" is the most grounded case of a background marked by scatology, the investigation of fecal matter, all through the "South Park" arrangement. Halsall said the utilization of fecal issue as a character, and particularly its inclination to spread pieces of itself around as it moved, legitimately stands up to the watcher with "the innate squalor of the human body, regardless of the amount we attempt to aestheticize it, Mr. Hankey's stains methodicallly mess up the neatness of the social request. [...] "South Park" denies disinfection through the gross-out factor." 

A few scholars think about Mr. Hankey a standout amongst the most effectively unmistakable and prominent of the non-standard "South Park" characters. His sharp welcome, "Howdy-ho", was similarly conspicuous and wound up a standout amongst the most cited lines from the show's first season. A few fan sites were made about the character inside months of the scene's communicated. In January 1998, "Excitement Weekly" announced that Comedy Central administrators had plans to create a Mr. Hankey chocolate bar. Larry Lieberman, the channel's VP of vital arranging and new business improvement, said a sketch of a Mr. Hankey sweet treat was drawn and flowed, yet mostly as a joke; he said no genuine discourses were held about delivering such a thing. A stuffed Mr. Hankey wound up a standout amongst the most mainstream "South Park" tie-in results of the 1998 Christmas season. 

Notwithstanding the title character, "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" incorporated the principal appearances of characters Father Maxi and Mr. Mackey. The two characters showed up in "Damien", which was delivered before "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo", however the Christmas scene disclosed first. Mr. Mackey was motivated by Parker's genuine school direction instructor; Parker, who gives the voice to Mackey, said the genuine guide was also slight and wiry and that Parker's voice for Mr. Mackey is an accurate, unexaggerated adaptation of how his advocate talked. 

"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" incorporates a few references to the "Peanuts" occasion extraordinary, "A Charlie Brown Christmas". A Christmas exhibition includes the equivalent scriptural statement spoken by Linus in that exceptional; furthermore, the music highlighted in the event is fundamentally the same as the "Peanuts" unique's melodic score by Vince Guaraldi, and the South Park kids go outside to find falling snowflakes on their tongues similarly as in the extraordinary. 

A specialist recommends Prozac, a genuine upper, to Kyle for his obvious love for excrement, which he depicts as "fecalphilia", a condition maybe better known by the medicinal term coprophilia. Arranger Philip Glass creates the cutting edge melodic score for the non-denominational Christmas play. Stone and Parker both unequivocally disdain Glass; Parker, who was a music major in school, stated, "I truly figured you could essentially advise a third grader to take a seat at a console and chaos around and offer it as a Philip Glass collection, and nobody would know the distinction." The do-it-without anyone else's help unit in the real life business, in which families can make their own Mr. Hankey, is like the Mr. Potato Head toy set. 

Slack, the prominent informing programming, likewise utilizes "hankey" as an alternate way for the Pile of Poo emoticon. 

In spite of the fact that Parker and Stone credit "Huge Gay Al's Big Gay Boat Ride" as hoisting the arrangement, they felt "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" raised "South Park" to another dimension of fame and significance. Parker said of it, "This was the scene that simply vaulted everything." Following the accomplishment of "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo", an extensive number of famous people began reaching Comedy Central with the expectations of showing up in "South Park" scenes. This enabled Parker and Stone to for all intents and purposes take their pick of visitor stars, and prompted appearances by Natasha Henstridge in "Tom's Rhinoplasty" and Robert Smith in "Mecha-Streisand". Stone said in spite of the fact that "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" has turned out to be less stunning with time, watchers at the season of the scene's unique communicate were stunned, and some were appalled, at the possibility of a living and speaking Christmas stool. "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" was the fourth-most noteworthy generally speaking satellite TV stimulation program of 1997. In its unique American communicate, the scene got a Nielsen Rating of 5.4, which means the scene was seen by about 4.5 million family units. The rating was the most elevated yet for "South Park", and was in excess of multiple times the Comedy Central prime-time normal. The scene likewise earned a 51 offer of the male statistic matured somewhere in the range of 18 and 24; an offer speaks to the level of family units utilizing a TV at the time the program is airing. 

"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" has been depicted as one of the exemplary scenes of "South Park". Chris Vognar of "The Dallas Morning News" portrayed Mr. Hankey himself as "the most unbelievable character yet on TV's most ludicrous show". Charlie Patton of "The Florida Times-Union" said the scene was "rough, awful, disrespectful and by and large hostile—likewise amazingly clever". He likewise said of the Mr. Hankey character, "In case you're the kind of individual who couldn't have cared less for that scene in "Trainspotting" where the Ewan McGregor character dove down the can and into the sewer in quest for his lost suppository, the entire Mr. Hankey subplot will be profoundly irritating." Doug Pratt, a DVD commentator and "Moving Stone" donor, stated, "In fact, the Christmas scene likely could be the show's best exertion, creatively, on the grounds that it handles the PC-ification of Christmas head-on, and furthermore has a fascinating mental subtext: does the legend really observe Mr. Hankey, or does he have some genuine mental issues?" Diane Werts of "Newsday" said of the scene, "It's gross. It's yucky. It's most likely hostile. It's likewise potentially the most entertaining occasion scene anyone's airing this year." Werts especially applauded the melody "A Lonely Jew on Christmas". Jeffrey Andrew Weinstock, creator of "Paying attention to South Park", stated, "This scene ostensibly pushes the limits of what is adequate, both for Christmas specials and TV all in all, more remote than any past one." Weinstock said this was especially valid for the scene's phony real life business. 

Before the scene was discharged, Debbie Liebling, at that point Comedy Central VP of improvement and generation, herself portrayed the scene as "lovably hostile". Alan Sepinwall of "The Star-Ledger" called the scene "a splendid piercing" of political accuracy and over-affectability, and called it "on the double amusingly satiric and phenomenally foul." Sepinwall likewise included Mr. Hankey to his 1997 rundown of most vital TV minutes, portraying the character as the year's "most irritating animation picture" and as "a legendary occasion animal so odd and hostile it actually can't be depicted in a family paper". Matt Roush of "USA Today" adulated the scene, which he portrayed as "profane, ignoble and crazy". A.J. Jacobs of "Diversion Weekly" said in January 1998 that the scene was "at that point notorious". Jacobs likewise said Mr. Hankey was so prominent, he half-facetiously recommended Matt Stone and Trey Parker seek after a turn off spinning around the character. 

The music in "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" was additionally commended. "A Lonely Jew on Christmas" has been portrayed as an "exemplary melody", and "Kyle's Mom is a Big Fat Bitch", which analysts depicted as one of Cartman's trademarks, was incorporated into the 1999 "South Park" film, "". Not all surveys of "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" were sure. Rick Marin of "Newsweek" depicted the scene as "essentially one long potty joke". Virginia Rohan of "The Record" said he enjoyed Kyle's melody and a portion of Kenny's shenanigans, however said the scene was not as clever as "The Spirit of Christmas" shorts. Rohan said "South Park" "can be splendidly over the edge, however regularly today around evening time, it distressfully needs a comic bungee rope". 

In 2003, the Chicago-based "RedEye" positioned "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" the best "South Park" scene. In October 2004, the Comedy Central site held a survey to decide the main 27 "South Park" scenes for a TV long distance race; "Mr Hankey, the Christmas Poo" came third, simply behind "Great Times with Weapons" at #2 and "Fat Butt and Pancake Head" at #1. "South Park Studios", the official "South Park" site, recorded "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" at number four on its rundown of the Five Most Notorious Episodes. 

John Kricfalusi, the maker of "The Ren and Stimpy Show", asserted the Mr. Hankey idea was stolen from his animation short, "Nutty the Friendly Dump", which was a piece of an animation book arrangement visible on the web. Kricfalusi even affirmed that he pitched the thought for an enlivened arrangement of "Nutty the Friendly Dump" to Comedy Central, who turned it down. Kricfalusi said after the show broadcast, "I got nine or 10 messages from companions shouting, 'I can't trust this! They completely stole your story!' ... This thought of [feces] singing or moving and being companions, well, that is my thought." Kricfalusi said he felt different components of "South Park" were lifted from his work, and he told news sources his organization Spümcø was mulling over making lawful move against Parker and Stone. Good times TV representative Tony Fox said Stone and Parker were inexperienced with "Nutty the Friendly Dump" and that the case was "ridiculous". Parker said he had never observed the greater part a scene of "Ren and Stimpy", which he said he didn't appreciate on the grounds that the characters were too ludicrous and the voice acting was excessively irritating. Parker said Kricfalusi in the long run reached the "South Park" makers: "He composed a letter back saying, 'Goodness, OK, I perceive how it could simply be a happenstance, however you should simply admit to the press that no doubt about it "Ren and Stimpy" fan.' — I'm not a "Ren and Stimpy" fan."