Activity Retribution (1941) 

Task Retribution (), otherwise called Operation Punishment, was the April 1941 German shelling of Belgrade, the capital of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in striking back for the rebellion that toppled the legislature that had marked the Tripartite Pact. The bombarding happened in the main days of the German-drove Axis attack of Yugoslavia amid World War II. The Royal Yugoslav Army Air Force (VVKJ) had just 77 present day warrior airplane accessible to shield Belgrade against the several German contenders and aircraft that struck in the main wave at an opportune time 6 April. Three days earlier, VVKJ Major Vladimir Kren had abandoned to the Germans, revealing the areas of numerous military resources, just as clarifying the VVKJ's codes. 

Three additional rushes of planes assaulted Belgrade on 6 April, and more assaults followed in ensuing days. The assaults brought about the loss of motion of Yugoslav non military personnel and military order and control, the far reaching obliteration of Belgrade's framework, and numerous regular citizen setbacks. The besieging of Belgrade was gone before by the beginning of the ground intrusion a couple of hours sooner, and harmonized with air assaults on VVKJ runways and other key focuses crosswise over Yugoslavia. Among the non-military targets struck amid the besieging were the National Library of Serbia, which consumed to the ground with the loss of countless books and compositions, and the Belgrade Zoo. 

The Royal Air Force completed two bombarding assaults on Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria, in striking back for the assaults on Yugoslavia, which eventually surrendered on 17 April. The senior Luftwaffe officer in charge of the bombarding, "Generaloberst" Alexander Löhr, was caught by the Yugoslavs toward the finish of the war and was attempted and executed for atrocities, partially for his contribution in the besieging of Belgrade. Kren was captured in 1947 on inconsequential charges of war violations originating from his resulting administration as the leader of the Air Force of the Independent State of Croatia. He was removed to Yugoslavia to confront preliminary, found liable all in all and executed in 1948. A landmark raised in New Belgrade in 1997 honors the Yugoslav pilots who were executed with all due respect. The bombarding has been sensationalized in writing and film. 

Following Germany's 1938 "Anschluss" of Austria, Yugoslavia imparted an outskirt to the Third Reich and went under expanding professional Axis political weight as her neighbors fell into line with the Axis powers. In April 1939, Yugoslavia picked up a second outskirts with Italy when that nation attacked Albania. Among September and November 1940, Hungary joined the Tripartite Pact, Italy attacked Greece, and Romania additionally joined the Pact. From that time, Yugoslavia was nearly encompassed by Axis powers or their customer states, and her unbiased position toward the war was under colossal weight. On 14 February 1941, Adolf Hitler welcomed Prime Minister Dragiša Cvetković and Foreign Minister Aleksandar Cincar-Marković to Berchtesgaden, and mentioned that Yugoslavia additionally join the Pact. On 1 March, Bulgaria joined, and the following day, German troops entered Bulgaria from Romania, shutting the ring around Yugoslavia. 

Further weight was connected by Hitler on 4 March 1941, when the Yugoslav official, Prince Paul, visited Berchtesgaden, yet the ruler postponed a choice. On 6 March, the Royal Yugoslav Army Air Force (, VVKJ) was subtly assembled. The next day, British troops started arriving in Greece to reinforce the nation's barriers against the Italians. On 12 March, the VVKJ started scattering to helper runways. By 20 March, the VVKJ's dispersal had been finished. Hitler, wishing to verify his southern flank fully expecting Germany's approaching attack of the Soviet Union, requested that Yugoslavia sign the Pact. On 25 March, the Yugoslav government went along. After two days a military "rebellion" was done by a gathering of VVKJ and Yugoslav Royal Guard officers, driven by Brigadier General Borivoje Mirković. The sovereign was removed and supplanted by his 17-year-old nephew Peter, who was pronounced to be of age to agree to the position of authority. 

A similar day as the "rebellion", Hitler issued Directive 25, which expressed that the overthrow had changed the political circumstance in the Balkans. He requested that "regardless of whether Yugoslavia at first should give statements of unwaveringness, she should be considered as an enemy and accordingly should be obliterated as fast as could be allowed". German observation airplane as often as possible damaged Yugoslav airspace in the outcome of the upset. VVKJ contenders were set on consistent caution. The German invasions exhibited that the Yugoslav ground perception post system and supporting radio correspondences were lacking. Hitler chose that Belgrade would be besieged as discipline for the overthrow against the legislature that had marked the Pact, under the codename Operation Retribution ("Unternehmen Strafgericht"). On 27 and 28 March 1941, "Reichsmarschall" Hermann Göring exchanged around 500 warrior and plane air ship from France and northern Germany to landing strips close to the Yugoslav outskirt. The authority of "Luftflotte" IV, "Generaloberst" (General) Alexander Löhr, distributed these flying machine to assault the Yugoslav capital in waves by day and night. Löhr issued his requests for the bombarding on 31 March, yet the choice to bomb Belgrade would not be affirmed by Hitler until 5 April. In spite of the fact that Hitler requested the general obliteration of Belgrade, ultimately Löhr supplanted these general bearings with explicit military destinations inside the city. 

On 3 April, Major Vladimir Kren absconded to the Germans, flying a Potez 25 air ship to Graz in Austria, and unveiled the areas of a large number of Yugoslavia's dispersal landing strips, just as codes utilized by the VVKJ, which must be immediately changed. At the point when the intrusion started, he likewise called attention to which areas in Belgrade ought to be focused on. On the evening of 5 April, a British colonel visited Mirković at the VVKJ base in Zemun and educated him that the assault on Belgrade would start at 06:30 the next morning. The earlier day, the Yugoslav government had pronounced Belgrade an open city in case of threats. In spite of the fact that the German international safe haven had educated its legislature that Belgrade did not contain any enemy of flying machine barriers, with an end goal to legitimize the assault to the general population, German publicity marked the city "Stronghold Belgrade" after the primary bombs were dropped. Before the intrusion started, sources inside the Yugoslav Ministry of Army and Navy instructed the Germans with respect to the area of troop assembly focuses and air-strike shields in Belgrade. 

By 6 April, the VVKJ had been totally activated, and comprised of four air units with in excess of 423 flying machine of Yugoslav, German, Italian, French, Czech and British plan, including 107 present day warriors and 100 current medium aircraft. Other than few privately made Rogožarski IK-3 warriors, practically all the cutting edge flying machine accessible to the VVKJ were of German, Italian or British structure for which restricted extras and weapons were accessible. The accessible airplane were spread everywhere throughout the nation, and just the first Fighter Brigade was close enough to Belgrade to react to an assault on the capital. Altogether, the first Fighter Brigade handled 56 Messerschmitt Bf 109E-3a warriors, 15 Hawker Hurricane MkIs, and six Rogožarski IK-3s. 

German ground powers crossed the Yugoslav fringe at 05:15 on 6 April, and the Reich Minister of Propaganda, "Reichsleiter" Joseph Goebbels, reported Germany's assertion of war at 06:00. The attack and simultaneous shelling harmonized with Easter Sunday as seen by the Serbian Orthodox Church, which utilizes the Julian logbook. Yugoslav enemy of air ship safeguards caused a bogus alert when they announced the methodology of an air strike from the course of Romania at 03:00, however listening posts on the Romanian fringe had really heard the air ship motors of the Romanian-based "Fliegerführer" Arad heating up a long time before they took off. The VVKJ's 51st Fighter Group at Zemun had been alarmed before day break, and when reports started to be gotten about Luftwaffe assaults on VVKJ landing strips, the main watch was sent into the air. At first, no flying machine could be seen moving toward Belgrade. 

The main wave shut on Belgrade somewhere in the range of 06:30 and 06:45, and comprised of 74 Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" jump aircraft, and 160 Heinkel He 111 medium planes and Dornier Do 17 light aircraft at . They were escorted by Messerschmitt Bf 110 substantial warriors at and 100 Messerschmitt Bf 109E contenders at . The whole Yugoslav sixth Fighter Brigade, comprising of the 51st Fighter Group at Zemun and the 32nd Fighter Group at Prnjavor, totalling 29 Messerschmitt Bf 109Es and five Rogožarski IK-3s, were mixed to block the Germans. The Yugoslavs were immediately connected by escorting Messerschmitt Bf 109Es from "Jagdgeschwader" 77 (JG 77). Similarly as the main wave was leaving, Hawker Hurricane Mk1s of the 52nd Fighter Group of the second Fighter Regiment based at Knić touched base over Belgrade and connected some jump aircraft, asserting one "Stuka" shot down. Amid the principal assault, the Yugoslavs guaranteed fifteen German flying machine shot down and lost five of their own, with six all the more seriously harmed. The pilots of JG 77 guaranteed ten Yugoslav machines shot down and another six obliterated on the ground. On his arrival to base, the leader of the 51st Fighter Group was mitigated of his order for inability to make a move. The main wave hit the Belgrade control station, the mail station including broadcast and postal administrations, the central command of the Ministry of Army and Navy, the Yugoslav Supreme Command fabricating, the military institute, the regal royal residence at Dedinje, the regal gatekeeper garisson huts at Topčider, the gendarmerie order base camp, and the airplane terminal at Zemun, among different targets. 

Following the principal wave, King Peter, the Government of Yugoslavia and the Yugoslav Supreme Command left Belgrade and withdrew to Yugoslavia's bumpy inside with the goal of going into outcast. The second rush of German flying machine touched base over Belgrade about 10:00, comprising of 57 Ju 87 plunge aircraft and 30 Bf 109E contenders. They were met by 15 of the rest of the warriors from the sixth Fighter Brigade. This time the Yugoslavs asserted two plunge aircraft constrained down, and one Bf 109E shot down. A watch of Bf 109Es from the Yugoslav 31st Fighter Group based at Kragujevac, acting without requests from their gathering authority, pursued the Germans as they came back to their bases and asserted two jump planes shot down for the loss of both Yugoslav airplane. 

Belgrade was focused on two different events on the main day of the intrusion. The third wave struck at 14:00, comprising of 94 twin-engined planes flying from runways close Vienna, escorted by 60 warriors. This wave was met by eighteen warriors of the sixth Fighter Regiment, which guaranteed four German flying machine. The fourth assault of the day moved toward Belgrade at 16:00, containing 97 jump aircraft and 60 warriors. 

The Germans guaranteed nineteen Yugoslav Bf 109E warriors and four unidentified flying machine crushed on 6 April. Genuine Yugoslav air ship misfortunes on the main day were ten shot down and fifteen harmed. The Yugoslavs professed to have shot down twenty-two German airplane and constrained two others to arrive. The Germans lost twelve flying machine, altogether less than guaranteed by the Yugoslavs: two Do 17Z light planes, five Bf 110 substantial contenders, four Ju 87 plunge aircraft, and one Bf 109E warrior. One Luftwaffe pilot who asserted his first triumph over Belgrade on 6 April was "Oberleutnant" Gerhard Koall of "Jagdgeschwader" 54. He proceeded to be credited with 37 triumphs and was granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross in 1944. 

German aircraft and jump planes dropped of bombs and ignitables on the capital. The powerless VVKJ and lacking enemy of air ship barriers of Belgrade quickly endeavored to meet the staggering Luftwaffe strike, yet were disposed of as dangers amid the principal wave of the assault. Sources fluctuate with respect to the achievement accomplished by the safeguards. A US Army think about first distributed in 1953 states that the Luftwaffe lost two contender flying machine, brought down 20 Yugoslav air ship and crushed a further 44 on the ground. The military student of history Daniel L. Zajac composes that the Germans lost 40 airplane amid the two-day air fight. Another source shows the loss of 14 German air ship on 6 April. Jump planes in consequent waves had the capacity to work at housetop elevation. 

As indicated by the student of history Stevan K. Pavlowitch, the besieging of Belgrade kept going three days. Different sources express the air fight over Belgrade kept going just two days inferable from poor flying conditions on 8 April. The most vital social organization that was devastated was the National Library of Serbia, which was hit by bombs and gutted by flame. A huge number of uncommon books, maps, and medieval original copies were annihilated. Additionally struck was the Belgrade Zoo, sending alarmed creatures going through the avenues. 

No. 37 Squadron of the Royal Air Force (RAF) led two shelling strikes on Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria, in countering for the bombarding of Belgrade. Working Vickers Wellington aircraft from a landing strip in Greece, the squadron directed attacks on 6/7 April and 12/13 April, dropping an aggregate of high-touchy bombs on railroad targets and adjacent neighborhoods. These strikes were done notwithstanding the way that Britain was not at war with Bulgaria until 12 December 1941. The student of history Herman Knell calls the retaliatory support for these strikes "bizarre and impossible". The flying antiquarians Shores, Cull and Malizia show that these strikes were assaults on the lines of correspondence of German powers assaulting Greece and Yugoslavia, and note that the attack on 6/7 April focused on an ammo train and different establishments in Sofia, and the assault on 12/13 April shelled the railroad marshaling yards. Other comparative focuses in Bulgaria were assaulted by the RAF amid the Balkans Campaign. 

The bombarding of Belgrade incapacitated interchanges between the Yugoslav military and its home office, and contributed unequivocally to the fast breakdown of Yugoslav opposition. Non military personnel losses were critical, yet sources fluctuate broadly from 1,500 to 17,000 executed. They were compounded by the revelation of air-strike cover areas to the Germans in the days going before the assault. The official loss figure discharged by the occupation specialists not long after the shelling was 2,271 slaughtered. Different sources notice 5,000 to 10,000 fatalities, and later Yugoslav evaluations went much higher. The antiquarian Jozo Tomasevich composes that the higher appraisals were downsized following "cautious after war examinations", and shows that a figure somewhere in the range of 3,000 and 4,000 is progressively reasonable. 

Belgrade was involved on 13 April 1941 and, after four days, Yugoslavia abdicated. A short time later, Luftwaffe engineers directed a bomb harm evaluation in Belgrade. The report expressed that of bombs were dropped, 10 to 14 percent being combustibles. It recorded every one of the objectives of the besieging, including the regal castle, the war service, military home office, the focal mail station, the transmit office, traveler and products railroad stations, control stations and encampment. It likewise referenced that seven flying mines were dropped, and that regions in the inside and northwest of the city had been decimated, containing 20 to 25 percent of its complete zone. A few parts of the bombarding stay unexplained, especially the utilization of the aeronautical mines. Huge harm was done to Belgrade, especially to the water and electrical frameworks. Pavlowitch states that right around 50 percent of lodging in Belgrade was wrecked. After the attack, the Germans constrained somewhere in the range of 3,500 and 4,000 Jews to gather rubble that was brought about by the bombarding. Unexploded German bombs keep on being uncovered in the 21st century. 

Löhr was caught by the Yugoslav Partisans on 9 May 1945, got away, and was recovered on 13 May. He was seriously cross examined, after which he was attempted under the watchful eye of a Yugoslav military court on atrocities charges, one of which identified with his order of "Luftflotte" IV amid Operation Retribution. Löhr was indicted by the Yugoslav military court and condemned to death. He was executed on 26 February 1947. Following the intrusion, Kren was delegated leader of the Air Force of the Independent State of Croatia (, ZNDH). He was captured in Italy in March 1947 and removed to Yugoslavia, where he was attempted on inconsequential charges of war violations for his job in the focusing of regular folks by the ZNDH. He was discovered blameworthy generally speaking and executed in 1948. 

The shelling of Belgrade was portrayed in the 1980 Yugoslav component film "Who's Singin' Over There?" () and the 1995 element film "Underground" (). It is likewise the subject of Miodrag Pavlović's ballad "Belgrade 1941" (). The Serbian American artist Charles Simic, an overcomer of the bombarding, composed a ballad titled "Appearance" relating his encounters. A landmark recognizing the Yugoslav pilots slaughtered amid Operation Retribution was initiated in New Belgrade on 6 April 1997. It was structured by the artist Miodrag Živković. On 6 April 2016, the 75th commemoration of the besieging, a dedication administration was held for the people in question, gone to by the Serbian Minister for Labor, Employment, Veteran and Social Policy, Aleksandar Vulin. In June 2017, it was reported that the site containing the demolished establishments of the National Library of Serbia would be changed into a commemoration garden. 

Books 

Diaries 

News reports 

Papers