No. 1 Wing RAAF 

No. 1 Wing was an Australian Flying Corps (AFC) and Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) wing dynamic amid World War I and World War II. The wing was set up on 1 September 1917 as the first Training Wing and instructed the AFC's pilot preparing squadrons in England until April 1919, when it was disbanded. It was changed on 7 October 1942 as a warrior unit including two Australian and one British flying squadrons furnished with Supermarine Spitfire air ship, and a portable contender area home office. The wing gave air protection to Darwin and a few other key Allied bases in northern Australia until the finish of the war, and was again disbanded in October 1945. 

Amid its first months at Darwin, No. 1 Wing blocked a few of the air assaults led against Northern Australia by the Imperial Japanese Army Air Force and Imperial Japanese Navy. Despite the fact that the wing was hampered by mechanical issues with its Spitfires and endured substantial misfortunes in certain commitment, it in the end brought down a more noteworthy number of Japanese flying machine than it lost in battle. After the last Japanese air strike on northern Australia in November 1943, No. 1 Wing saw little battle, which prompted its faculty experiencing low spirit. The wing's two Australian flying squadrons were supplanted with British units in July 1944, and ensuing recommendations to move these squadrons to increasingly dynamic zones were not effective. 

The first Training Wing was framed at Minchinhampton, England on 1 September 1917. It told No. 5, No. 6, No. 7 and No. 8 Squadrons of the AFC. The wing's job was to prepare substitution pilots for the four operational AFC squadrons in Palestine and France. Every one of the preparation squadrons gave substitutions to a particular operational squadron; No. 5 prepared pilots for No.1 Squadron, No. 6 upheld No. 2 Squadron, No. 7 was lined up with No. 3 Squadron and No. 8 bolstered No. 4 Squadron. When Lieutenant-Colonel Oswald Watt was named to direction the wing in February 1918, its central command had moved to Tetbury. With regards to their changed obligations, the first Training Wing's squadrons worked a wide assortment of air ship and most were part between a few bases. From the spring of 1918 No. 5 and No. 6 Squadrons were positioned at Minchinhampton Airfield while No. 7 and No. 8 Squadrons were at Leighterton Airfield. The two offices had been reason worked for the AFC over the pre-winter and winter of 1917/1918. As of April 1918 the wing's units were kept an eye on by roughly 1000 work force, making it the biggest single assortment of Australian pilots anyplace on the planet around then. Watt proposed moving the first Training Wing to France, yet this did not eventuate. 

Following the war the first Training Wing kept on leading pilot instructional classes in England. This movement was attempted to reinforce the AFC and keep pilots and ground team involved until they were repatriated to Australia. A large portion of the wing's staff were given leave in April 1919 and a few of its pilots partook in a fly-past over London on Anzac Day. The four preparing squadrons were disbanded on 6 May 1919, the day the wing left Minchinhampton to start the adventure back to Australia. The last section in the first Training Wing's war journal had been made in April that year. Watt put a solid accentuation on wellbeing, however the first Training Wing's learner pilots unavoidably endured flying mishaps, bringing about something like 17 fatalities somewhere in the range of 1917 and 1919. Somewhere around 15 different individuals from the wing kicked the bucket from infection or were murdered in mishaps on the ground. 

In 1919 the AFC was disbanded and prevailing by the Australian Air Corps, which was thusly supplanted with an autonomous Australian Air Force on 31 March 1921 (the "Illustrious" prefix was included August). The principal proposition for the RAAF's power structure considered by the Australian Air Board included two contender wings, assigned No. 1 Wing and No. 2 Wing, each involving two warrior squadrons. In July 1920 the Air Council, which regulated the Air Board, endorsed the foundation of a base at Laverton, Victoria, to house No. 1 Wing and its segment squadrons (No. 1 and No. 2 Squadrons) just as No. 1 Aircraft Depot. No. 1 and No. 2 Squadrons were shaped in January 1922, however in July that year No. 2 Squadron was disbanded and No. 1 Squadron decreased to a framework. The RAAF's proposed power structure was thusly corrected in 1924 so as not to incorporate any contender squadrons or wing central command. 

On 20 September 1939 the Australian War Cabinet endorsed the arrangement of a RAAF Expeditionary Force for abroad administration which would have incorporated a wing assigned No. 1 Fighter Wing just as two wings of planes. Under the affirmed structure for the Expeditionary Force, No. 1 Fighter Wing was to direction No.7 and No. 15 Squadrons. This arrangement demonstrated fleeting as on 20 October the Government reported that the development of the Expeditionary Force would not continue, with the Empire Air Training Scheme rather being the RAAF's primary commitment to abroad crusades. 

At the episode of the Pacific War in December 1941 the RAAF did not have any cutting edge contenders in or close Australia. Following the Bombing of Darwin on 19 February 1942, which made overwhelming harm the army bases at the town and ships in its harbor, the Australian Government started to critically search for contender air ship. As the Australian flight industry was not fit for delivering warrior air ship at the time, the legislature looked for help from Britain and the United States. England was at first unfit to designate warriors to Australia because of its substantial responsibilities in the North African Campaign and somewhere else. The US Government reacted by giving the RAAF what turned into a consistent stream of P-40 Kittyhawk air ship. 

Japanese air units assaulted the Darwin territory on different occasions amid 1942. The P-40 prepared United States Army Air Forces' (USAAF) 49th Fighter Group was conveyed to Darwin following the 19 February strike, and its first squadron wound up operational there in mid-March. The gathering's three squadrons were prepared for tasks in late April, and therefore captured all Japanese sunlight strikes on the territory. The 49th Fighter Group started to pull back from Darwin in August 1942 and was supplanted by two Australian P-40 squadrons; No. 77 Squadron landed in August and No. 76 Squadron in October. Amid its time at Darwin the 49th Fighter Group shot down 79 Japanese flying machine and lost 21 P-40s. Just as shelling focuses close Darwin, Japanese air units additionally incidentally struck other little Australian towns, assaulted dispatching cruising off the north coast and flew observation fights over Allied bases. 

In May 1942 the Australian Minister for External Affairs H.V. "Doc" Evatt ventured out to the United States and Britain to look for extra air ship for the RAAF. Evatt first visited the United States, where the administration consented to build the quantity of airplane it would give to Australia. He at that point went to London and met with Prime Minister Winston Churchill. In this gathering, Evatt mentioned that Britain furnish a plane carrying warship to present with the Royal Australian Navy, and a portion of Spitfire warriors for the RAAF. Evatt had not gotten exhortation from the RAAF on the Spitfire's reasonableness for Australian conditions, and seems to have expected that it would execute too in Australia as it had in Europe. While Britain couldn't extra a plane carrying warship, following a few days of dialogs Churchill conceded to 28 May to send three completely prepared Spitfire squadrons to Australia. The squadrons chose were No. 452 Squadron RAAF, No. 457 Squadron RAAF and No. 54 Squadron RAF, all of which had seen battle over Europe against the Luftwaffe. Under the understanding every squadron would be at first outfitted with 16 Spitfires and a further 15 air ship would be sent to Australia every month as substitutions. Churchill's job in sending Spitfire units to Australia prompted No. 1 Wing regularly being alluded to as the "Churchill Wing". 

Deferrals in transportation Spitfires to Australia disturbed No. 1 Wing's arrangement. In late June 1942 the British Government occupied everything except six of the underlying 48 flying machine to Egypt to strengthen the three RAF Spitfire squadrons there after the German triumph in the Battle of Gazala; the greater part of these flying machine were assigned to No. 92 Squadron RAF with the rest of a save to supplant future misfortunes. The Australian Government challenged this activity, however reluctantly acknowledged it after Churchill would not balance the preoccupation. Amid a similar period, the men of the three Spitfire squadrons cruised from Liverpool on board the MV "Stirling Castle" on 21 June and landed at Melbourne with the six outstanding Spitfires on 13 August. A shipment of 43 Spitfires left England on 4 August and touched base in Australia in late October, and further conveyances kept on being made until June 1945. 

The arrangement of Spitfires to Australia was stayed discreet with the goal that the Japanese were not cautioned to their essence, and the Australian Government coordinated that the air ship be alluded to as Capstans (after the brand of cigarettes) and their Merlin motors as Marvels. General Douglas MacArthur, the officer of Allied powers in the South West Pacific Area, concurred that the Australian Government could pick when to report the nearness of the Spitfires, however cautioned against overstating the effect they were probably going to have. 

No. 1 Wing was framed at RAAF Station Richmond on 7 October 1942. Its underlying authority was Group Captain Allan Walters and the wing chief was Wing Commander Clive Caldwell, Australia's top-scoring flying pro of the war. As of now the RAAF had gotten 71 tropicalised variations of the Spitfire Vc and another 33 were in transit to Australia. These airplane contrasted from the standard Spitfire Vc in that they were improved for use in desert and tropical zones and had been fitted with a Vokes air channel underneath their nose to lessen the measure of sand and residue which entered the motor; Caldwell trusted that this change decreased the Spitfires' execution. Just as the three Spitfire squadrons, No. 1 Wing additionally incorporated No. 10 Mobile Fighter Sector Headquarters. A large number of the squadrons' most experienced pilots were presented on different units before they left Britain, and just 37 of the 95 pilots in the wing as at May 1943 had recently observed battle. 

Following its development the wing attempted preparing in the Richmond zone until late December 1942. Its execution amid these activities was upset by an absence of past contact between the Australian and British pilots which was exacerbated by the three squadrons being based at various airstrips in the Sydney district. A few mishaps happened, bringing about the passings of four pilots. Richmond's base officer, Group Captain Paddy Heffernan, found that the veterans of the European performance center of activities "would in general view themselves as invulnerable", and responded with despise when he cautioned them that the Japanese A6M Zero could outflank the Spitfire. On 29 December the wing held a formal supper at RAAF Station Richmond which was gone to by H.V. Evatt, Minister for Air Arthur Drakeford, Chief of the Air Staff Air Vice Marshal George Jones, and Group Captain Heffernan. 

The wing was prepared for battle tasks toward the finish of 1942 and was relegated obligation regarding protecting Darwin against Japanese air assaults. The greater part of the units left Richmond in air, land and ocean parties amid January 1943, after a development party that had set out on 31 December. No. 54 and No. 452 Squadrons' air parties touched base at RAAF Station Darwin and Batchelor Airfield separately on 17 January, and No. 457 Squadron started to work from Livingstone Airfield on 31 January. No. 452 Squadron accordingly moved to Strauss Airfield on 1 February. The Darwin territory had been assaulted multiple times when No. 1 Wing arrived. Conditions at Strauss and Livingstone were crude, with these landing strips including restricted earth runways and tree-lined runways. The pilots were curious about working from such immature landing strips, and the squadrons at Strauss and Livingstone endured a high mishap rate amid February and March 1943. The aviators additionally found the district's hot and moist atmosphere to be onerous. This was the first occasion when that Spitfires had worked in a tropical domain, and the airplane were found to have lesser execution than in other climatic conditions. The locale's remoteness additionally added to supply challenges, and No. 1 Wing ceaselessly experienced a deficiency of extra parts for its Spitfires. Regardless of these restrictions to Spitfire tasks, the wing's landing improved the resolve of Allied military units close Darwin and permitted No. 77 Squadron to be exchanged from Darwin to Milne Bay in New Guinea. No. 1 Wing originally observed battle on 6 February 1943 when a No. 54 Squadron Spitfire shot down a Mitsubishi Ki-46 "Dinah" observation airplane close Darwin. Another Dinah overflew Darwin the following day yet was not caught, and no further Japanese flying machine wandered into the zone amid the month. 

No. 1 Wing occupied with its first vast scale fights amid March 1943. On 2 March, No. 54 and No. 457 Squadrons caught 16 Japanese flying machine, which had assaulted Coomalie Creek Airfield. Four of the plunderers were shot down, two of them by Wing Commander Caldwell. This commitment drove Prime Minister John Curtin to report on 4 March that Spitfires were operational in Australia. His announcement in the House of Representatives was welcomed with cheers from the individuals from parliament present and No. 1 Wing got positive media inclusion. Winston Churchill additionally checked out the wing's tasks and sent a link communicating fulfillment with its battle debut. On 7 March four No. 457 Squadron air ship captured and shot down a Dinah about from Darwin. The whole wing caught a power of more than 40 Japanese aircraft and warriors that assaulted Darwin on 15 March, shooting down eight thieves yet losing four Spitfires and three pilots. No. 452 Squadron's administrator, Squadron Leader R.E. Thorold-Smith, was one of those slaughtered. Thorold-Smith was driving the wing at the time, and its assaults were awkward for the rest of the commitment as none of different pilots accepted his obligations. Nine military work force and five regular folks were likewise injured by around 100 bombs dropped on Darwin amid the assault. The Spitfires utilized dogfighting strategies amid the fight, making some run hazardously low on fuel; the USAAF units recently based at Darwin had found that these strategies were not compelling against the exceptionally flexibility Japanese contenders. No. 1 Wing did not see activity again amid March and April, and its flying was restricted to preparing practices which typically went on for not exactly 60 minutes. 

The wing's next fight on 2 May 1943 prompted contention. On that day, 33 Spitfires captured a power of 27 Japanese warriors and 25 aircraft after they assaulted Darwin. No. 54 Squadron connected with the contenders while different squadrons assaulted the aircraft. In the 25-minute commitment, the wing shot down somewhere in the range of six and ten Japanese flying machine for the loss of five Spitfires. Five additional Spitfires likewise made constrained arrivals because of fuel deficiencies and three severed subsequent to enduring motor disappointments; everything except two of these air ship were later fixed. Following the strike, General MacArthur's General Headquarters expressed in its customary report that the Allied misfortunes at Darwin had been "substantial", a term it had not recently connected to battling in the North Western Area. This prompted analysis of No. 1 Wing in the Australian media and the Advisory War Council mentioned that Air Vice Marshal Jones furnish it with a report clarifying the misfortunes brought about by mechanical issues and fuel deficiency. In his report, Jones expressed that the wing's gear was in great condition and credited its misfortunes to strategic blunders made by Caldwell, antagonistic climate conditions and the pilots' freshness with their air ship. Caldwell dismissed this analysis of his administration, and contended after the war that Jones had not legitimately explored the commitment. To keep away from further misfortunes from fuel deficiencies the Spitfires were fitted with drop tanks and prohibited from dogfighting. 

The assault of 2 May denoted the beginning of an upsurge in Japanese elevated action over northern Australia. A unit of six No. 457 Squadron airplane was sent to Milingimbi Island on 9 May after the runway there was assaulted. This separation blocked consequent strikes on 10 and 28 May, shooting down four Japanese for the loss of three Spitfires. On 20 June No. 1 Wing caught two Japanese strikes on Darwin. While the bandits bombarded the suburb of Winnellie and RAAF Station Darwin, the Allied warriors shot down nine planes and five contenders and harmed another ten flying machine for the loss of two Spitfires. This was the best commitment battled by the RAAF over Darwin up to that time, and General MacArthur sent a celebratory message to the protectors. The fight additionally gotten positive media inclusion which reestablished open trust in No. 1 Wing. The offices which housed No. 54 Squadron's photographic and parachute segments were severely harmed amid the attack, however the unit's ground team did not endure any losses. A few days after the commitment Group Captain Walters was presented on assume responsibility for No. 5 Service Flying Training School and Caldwell was named the wing's acting boss. On 22 June No. 1 Wing was mixed to catch two huge powers of approaching air ship, yet was in this way guided by ground control to not connect with them after it was resolved that the Japanese power was made up just of contenders. 

Air battle proceeded over Darwin in late June. The wing blocked a further attack on the town on 28 June when 42 Spitfires were mixed to catch nine aircraft escorted by nine warriors. In the resulting commitment four Japanese contenders and two planes were shot down; Allied misfortunes were constrained to a solitary Spitfire devastated amid a constrained landing. After two days, No. 1 Wing blocked a power of 27 Mitsubishi G4M "Betty" planes escorted by 23 Zeros which was in transit to assault the USAAF substantial aircraft base at Fenton airstrip and shot down six planes and two warriors. The wing lost six Spitfires amid this fight, including three to mechanical issues. Enough of the Japanese power endured the barriers to assault Fenton, and three USAAF B-24 Liberators were decimated and seven harmed. June had been the best month in No. 1 Wing's history, its quality declined impressively because of misfortunes from battle and mechanical issues. Toward the finish of June the leader of the North Western Area, Air Commodore Frank Bladin, mentioned 22 Spitfires from Vice Air Marshal Jones to convey the wing up to quality. Accordingly, RAAF Headquarters expressed that it would dispatch 17 Spitfires to Darwin amid the following week and was setting up an extra 33 air ship which had as of late landed in Australia. 

No. 1 Wing saw further activity in July 1943. On 3 and 4 July, Dinahs flew over the Darwin territory without being captured. These went before a noteworthy attack against Fenton on 6 July by 26 aircraft and 21 contenders. The wing mixed 33 air ship to meet this power, and shot down nine of the thieves, losing seven Spitfires because of air battle or mechanical issues; a B-24 was additionally annihilated on the ground. The wing's high misfortunes in this commitment were incompletely credited to the ragged condition of the Spitfires' motors, and Bladin again flagged RAAF Headquarters to look for the quick conveyance of new air ship. These started to land at No. 1 Wing's bases on 10 July. The assault on 6 July was the keep going significant attack on the Darwin region, and the Spitfires saw little activity amid the rest of the month and early August with flying tasks restricted to practices and false cautions. At this point, the wing had been credited with 63 affirmed 'slaughters' and a further 13 most likely obliterated. In return, it had lost 44 flying machine, however just 17 were because of Japanese activity. The Japanese authority history created after the war applauded the viability of No. 1 Wing and the radar stations around Darwin, expressing that from mid-1943 they were at "the most elevated amount on the planet". In any case, Air Vice Marshal Adrian Cole, who supplanted Bladin on 22 July, evaluated the warrior compel close Darwin as not being satisfactory to counter an intrusion, and noticed that the Spitfires had been compelled to sever a few commitment in the wake of running low on fuel. To counter these apparent deficiencies he mentioned units outfitted with since quite a while ago extended P-38 Lightning warriors. This solicitation was not met, as all Lightning-prepared units were focused on the battling in New Guinea and the Solomon Islands. 

In late July 1943, No. 1 Wing's central command was disbanded to make it simpler to send the Spitfire squadrons to various zones as the need emerged. Under the new order courses of action, the squadrons announced legitimately toward the North-Western Area's central command for authoritative purposes and No. 5 Fighter Sector Headquarters controlled all contender tasks. This change likewise planned to end the disarray which existed at the time between whether the wing chief or senior ground controller in the warrior segment central command was in charge of coordinating the Spitfires amid fight. No. 5 Fighter Sector Headquarters was redesignated No. 1 Wing on 25 September when Wing Commander Peter Jeffrey accepted direction from Caldwell, who had been selected No. 2 Operational Training Unit's head flying teacher. The central station's job stayed unaltered. 

Meanwhile, No. 1 Wing kept on reacting to Japanese ethereal action over northern Australia. The evening of 13/14 August 18 Japanese air ship struck Fenton and Coomalie Creek landing strips. No. 57 and No. 452 Squadrons mixed Spitfires however they were unfit to catch the pillagers. As of now the rest of the wing was holding a supper at Darwin to praise the commemoration of its arrival to Australia. No. 1 Wing had more prominent accomplishment on 17 August when it shot down each of the four of the Dinahs dispatched to the Darwin zone that day; three were obliterated by No. 457 Squadron and the fourth by Caldwell who was flying with No. 452 Squadron. This achievement prompted festivities inside the wing and Baldin sent the pilots a message saluting them for "100 percent de-lousing Fenton. Value the expo". One more night assault occurred on 20/21 August, yet the ten Spitfires mixed did not reach the 18 looters. From August the Japanese plane units for the most part led assaults on the Darwin region around evening time so their air ship were not caught by Spitfires. 

No. 1 Wing battled its last significant commitment amid September and November 1943. On 7 September, the Japanese dispatched a twin-engined observation air ship escorted by 20 contenders to the Darwin territory. The 48 Spitfires mixed in light of this power were driven by Flight Lieutenant Bob Foster. This was Foster's first involvement in driving the wing, and he misdeployed No. 54 and 452 squadrons' flying machine, prompting them being 'ricocheted' by Japanese contenders. In the consequent battle three Spitfires were shot down while the wing asserted one contender obliterated and two 'probables'. No. 457 Squadron had the capacity to pick up a tallness advantage on the Japanese and shot down four warriors without misfortune. A further two night assaults were made against Fenton on 15 and 27 September yet the Spitfires mixed accordingly were unfit to discover the planes on either event. No. 1 Wing encountered a noteworthy turnover of faculty amid September as pilots finished their nine-month voyages through obligation. This prompted lost experienced aviators, yet the new pilots were frequently preferred prepared over the men they supplanted. No assaults occurred amid October, and the wing did not reach the Japanese until 6 November when a trip of six Spitfires which been sent to Drysdale River Mission, Western Australia on the third of the month bombed trying to capture a surveillance flying machine close to the settlement. In the early long periods of 12 November nine Spitfires were mixed to block nine Japanese airplane which were destined for Darwin and Fenton. Two Betty planes were shot down over Darwin Harbor by Flying Officer John Smithson and no Allied flying machine were lost. Both these flying machine were instructed by senior officers, and their demises prompted the scratch-off of further Betty plane tasks in the Darwin territory. 

The strike on 12 November 1943 was the keep going Japanese assault on northern Australia. In December the Japanese exchanged a few of the air units situated in the islands north of Australia to New Guinea and the Solomon Islands to counter Allied offensives. Hardly any Japanese air ship were hence based inside of Darwin, and the focal point of the Allied powers in the North-Western Area moved from protecting northern Australia to assaulting Japanese positions in the Netherlands East Indies (NEI) and western New Guinea. Therefore, No. 1 Wing had little to do and spirit declined. Firecrackers were mixed in light of a few false alarms amid the most recent months of the year, however flying was vigorously diminished by the rainstorm from November. The vast majority of the wing's veteran pilots were presented on different units toward the finish of 1943 and were supplanted with less experienced aircrew. 

On 25 February 1944 Wing Commander Dick Cresswell, who had recently instructed No. 77 Squadron, was delegated No. 1 Wing's new wing pioneer. Cresswell's presenting on this job was made upon the solicitation of Jeffrey, who requested that him decrease the wing's rate of flying mishaps. Cresswell accomplished this through educating pilots to make 'control on' methodologies and arrivals and having the Spitfires' wheels adjusted. On 8 March, No. 1 Wing was requested to critically dispatch No. 452 and No. 457 Squadrons to the region of Perth, Western Australia in light of worries that a Japanese maritime power would strike the territory. The two squadrons touched base at RAAF Station Guildford on 12 March after a long trip in serious climate conditions amid which one Spitfire slammed at Carnarvon and another made a constrained arriving at Gingin. Upon the arrival of their landing the two squadrons accepted accountability for air resistance of the Perth-Fremantle region close by the CAC Boomerang-prepared No. 85 Squadron RAAF. No assault eventuated and the Spitfire squadrons were coordinated to profit to Darwin for 20 March. Amid this period the Kittyhawk-prepared No. 84 Squadron was exchanged from Horn Island to Livingstone Airfield to supplant the Spitfires while they were at Perth; this unit landed at Livingstone on 12 March and withdrew twelve days after the fact. On 18 April the wing made strafing assaults on Japanese positions in the Babar Islands. Soon thereafter No. 452 Squadron changed over to the further developed Mark VIII Spitfire. In May 1944, No. 1 Wing's central command and No. 57 and 457 Squadrons were conveyed to Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia to ensure the offices which had been built up to refuel the British Eastern Fleet before Operation Transom, amid which it assaulted Surabaya in Java. This sending was hampered by a deficiency of transport airplane and lacking offices at Exmouth Gulf and the airstrips on the way to the territory. Cresswell additionally left the wing in May to turn into the wing head of No. 81 Wing. On 12 June No. 452 Squadron flying machine shot down a Dinah. In spite of the constrained Japanese air action, Air Vice Marshal Cole kept on viewing No. 1 Wing as being "basic" to the barrier of the North Western Area and in May detailed that he couldn't discharge it for different obligations. 

No. 1 Wing was rebuilt from July 1944. On 1 July, No. 452 and No. 457 Squadrons were exchanged to No. 80 Wing RAAF, which had been framed to lead hostile activities in the NEI under the order of Clive Caldwell. They were supplanted by two British units; No. 548 and No. 549 Squadrons RAF. This put the wing in a remarkable position: the majority of its flying squadrons were currently British units. The new RAF squadrons had been framed in Australia, because of a further gathering between H.V. Evatt and Winston Churchill in July 1943, at which Evatt had mentioned extra RAF units. They were shaped from British pilots and Australian ground group at Lawnton, Queensland on 15 December 1943 however did not get their Mark VIII Spitfires until April the following year. No. 548 Squadron was at first positioned at Livingstone Airfield, and its air echelon touched base there on 10 June after a trip in which four Spitfires made constrained arrivals when they ran low on fuel. No. 549 Squadron's air echelon touched base at Strauss Airfield on 16 June and its back echelon finished its development from Queensland on 14 July. On 20 July, two No. 54 Squadron Spitfires working out of Truscott Airstrip shot down a Dinah. This was the last Japanese air ship to be wrecked over Northern Australia. 

After July 1944, No. 1 Wing's battle flying was restricted to intermittent assaults on Japanese positions. Flying machine from the wing strafed Selaroe in the Tanimbar Islands on 5 September. After the strike Jeffrey disclosed to Caldwell that it had been led just as a methods for boosting his pilots' resolve. Caldwell trusted that the peril of flying Spitfires to the edge of their range in such activities exceeded the advantages which could be picked up, and did not enable his pilots to take part in them. Gathering Captain Brian "Blackjack" Walker expected direction of No. 1 Wing in October; he had recently served at Darwin as No. 12 Squadron RAAF's leader. From 24 October the wing's three squadrons were altogether positioned at Darwin's affable landing strip, which was situated from RAAF Station Darwin. On 27 November seven Spitfires, five of which were drawn from No. 549 Squadron, escorted B-25 Mitchells to Cape Lore, Timor and strafed the zone before the aircraft made their assault. This was the longest operational flight made by Spitfire contenders amid the war. 

Fatigue kept on being a noteworthy issue for No. 1 Wing, and confidence declined pointedly in 1945 after No. 80 Wing left Darwin for the NEI and a large portion of the Spitfires were grounded because of cooling framework issues. Dissatisfactions brought about by an absence of chances for air battle were a typical issue over the RAAF's warrior squadrons in the SWPA, and added to the "Morotai Mutiny" of April 1945 when Caldwell and seven different officers endeavored to leave in dissent against their units being essentially entrusted with assaulting detached Japanese battalions. The Australian and British governments examined supplanting the RAF pilots with Australians or exchanging the squadrons to a progressively dynamic region, and in July 1945 Air Vice Marshal William Bostock, who drove RAAF Command, proposed exchanging two No. 1 Wing squadrons to Borneo to work in the ground assault job. This did not eventuate and the main activity attempted by the wing amid 1945 was an assault made by six Spitfires on Japanese positions at Cape Chater, Timor on 3 June. Following the finish of the war, No. 1 Wing's base camp shut at Darwin on 12 October 1945, and the three British squadrons were disbanded on 31 October.