2009 U.S. Open Cup Final 

The 2009 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Final was played on September 2, 2009, at Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium in Washington, D.C. The match decided the champ of the 2009 U.S. Open Cup, a competition open to beginner and expert soccer crews subsidiary with the United States Soccer Federation. This was the 96th version of the most established challenge in United States soccer. The match was won via Seattle Sounders FC, who vanquished D.C. Joined 2– 1. Clyde Simms scored D.C. Joined's solitary objective. Fredy Montero and Roger Levesque scored Seattle's two objectives as the club turned into the second development group in Major League Soccer (MLS) history to win the competition in their debut season. 

D.C. Joined entered the competition as the challenge's safeguarding champions. They had recently won the competition in 1996 also. The two Sounders FC and D.C. Joined needed to play through two capability rounds for MLS groups before entering the official competition. Before the last, there was an open debate between the proprietors of the two clubs with respect to the choice of D.C. Joined to have it at their home field, RFK Stadium. 

As the competition champions, Sounders FC earned a billet in the primer round of the 2010– 11 CONCACAF Champions League. The club additionally got a $100,000 money prize, while D.C. Joined got $50,000 as the sprinter up. 

The U.S. Open Cup is a yearly American soccer rivalry open to every United State Soccer Federation associated groups, from novice grown-up club groups to the expert clubs of Major League Soccer (MLS). In 2009, Major League Soccer, which has groups that play in both the United States and Canada, was permitted to enter eight of its U.S.- based groups in the competition. The best six MLS groups from the past season qualified naturally, and the staying two spots are controlled by starter capability matches. The eight MLS passages start play in the third round of the competition. 

In 2009, MLS ventured into the Seattle showcase adding another group to the association, Seattle Sounders FC. As a development group, they needed to play through the capability coordinates before entering the competition. Similarly, D.C. Joined did not complete among the main six 2008 MLS groups, and accordingly needed to play through capability adjusts before entering the official competition. 

Preceding their first capability coordinate against Real Salt Lake, Sounders FC mentor Sigi Schmid stated that the U.S. Open Cup was vital to the club and that they were playing to win. Sounders FC played U.S. Open Cup home amusements at the Starfire Sports Complex in Tukwila, Washington. The office is littler than the club's home arena for class matches, Qwest Field, however Sounders FC delegates favored the climate at Starfire for littler glass matches. 

On April 28, 2009, Sounders FC crushed Real Salt Lake 4– 1 in their first capability coordinate. Sebastian Le Toux scored two objectives, and Roger Levesque had three aids front of a sold-out group at Starfire. Sounders FC facilitated their second capability coordinate on May 26, 2009, likewise at Starfire, this time against the Colorado Rapids. Save player Kevin Forrest scored the main objective in the match as Seattle vanquished the Rapids 1– 0, verifying their entrance into the third round of the official glass rivalry as one of the eight groups speaking to MLS. 

On July 1, 2009, Sounders FC headed out to Portland and vanquished the Timbers of the USL First Division, the group's notable adversary, 2– 1 before a sold-out group. Roger Levesque and Nate Jaqua both scored for Seattle. The next week, in a quarterfinal coordinate at Starfire, Sounders FC crushed visiting Kansas City 1– 0 on an extra shot in the 89th moment scored by Sebastien Le Toux. After three weeks, on July 21, Sounders FC won their elimination round match 2– 1 over the Houston Dynamo at Starfire. Seattle led the pack for good when Stephen King scored an objective five minutes into additional time, sending Sounders FC to the glass last. 

MLS clubs were first incorporated into the U.S. Open Cup competition in 1996. D.C. Joined won the competition that year, and rehashed their accomplishment in 2008. In 2009, the club started its title barrier in the MLS capability rounds. This implied they needed to win six recreations rather than the four expected to acquire the container in 2008. 

In their first passing match on March 28, 2009, they facilitated FC Dallas at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C. They crushed Dallas 2– 0, with Fred and Brandon Barklage scoring in the 21st and 66th minutes, separately. D.C. Joined's second capability coordinate was additionally played at RFK Stadium, on May 20, 2009. In a high-scoring match against the New York Red Bulls, D.C. won 5– 3. Chris Pontius scored two of United's five objectives, qualifying D.C. for the third round of the official competition. 

On June 30, 2009, D.C. Joined started official glass rivalry against the Ocean City Barons of the USL Premier Development League. The match, facilitated by United at Maryland SoccerPlex in Boyds, Maryland, finished with D.C. on top 2– 0. As a fourth-level club, the Barons lineup had highlighted beginner players while United's incorporated just three normal starters. The match stayed scoreless for 74 minutes before D.C. led the pack on an extra shot by late substitution Christian Gomez. Multi week later, on July 7, D.C. Joined facilitated their quarterfinal coordinate at the SoccerPlex again and crushed the Harrisburg City Islanders of the USL Second Division 2– 1. On July 21, 2009, D.C. Joined facilitated another lower level group in their elimination round match at the SoccerPlex. This time they vanquished the Rochester Rhinos of the USL First Division 2– 1. The match was tied 1– 1 until the 82nd moment when Boyzzz Khumalo's objective pushed D.C. into the glass last. 

Both Seattle Sounders FC and D.C. Joined submitted offers to U.S. Soccer to have the last. D.C. Joined's offered incorporated a proposition to have the match at RFK Stadium, their home arena in Washington, D.C. with a limit of 45,596. Sounders FC's offered proposed to have the match at Qwest Field, their home arena in Seattle, with a limit of 32,400 for soccer matches. The methodology for choosing the triumphant offer was kept private. Whenever D.C. Joined's offered was picked, Sounders FC general director Adrian Hanauer communicated wariness that it had been exceptional than the Seattle offer. He further noticed that if Seattle had facilitated the match, it likely would have sold out. This incited an answer from D.C. Joined president Kevin Payne, who contended that D.C. Joined had won the offering procedure decently, and said that he was affronted by Hanauer's remarks. Following this open difference, D.C. Joined propelled a promoting effort to sell more match tickets, which incorporated another site, WeWinTrophies.com, which chronicled the club's history of titles as a unique MLS establishment. The battle additionally incorporated an open letter in neighborhood papers expressing that Sounders FC and its fans did not think D.C. had the right to have the match and announced D.C. fans as "the standard" for help in the association. Recordings from neighborhood big names were posted in the group's legitimate blog encouraging fans to go to the last. Ticket limits and uncommon evaluating on concessions for the match were additionally reported as a component of the extraordinary promoting exertion for the container last. 

Preceding gathering in the U.S. Open Cup last, Sounders FC and D.C. Joined had met just once, on June 17 at Qwest Field in Seattle. In that gathering, Sounders FC wasted a 3– 1 second half lead by permitting D.C. Joined to score two objectives late in the match. It finished in a 3– 3 tie. 

Since 1996, when MLS groups were first incorporated into the competition, the home group had won multiple times and lost just twice in the last match. Remarking on what his group conveys to the diversion, Sounders FC mentor Sigi Schmid expressed, "We bring a fresh start. We haven't had any negative encounters in title amusements, so we need to simply develop a positive inheritance for our group and we realize we get an opportunity to make some history for our group. Each player realizes that and that is something we need to attempt and do." D.C. Joined had recently won the U.S. Open Cup twice in 1996 and 2008 and this was their fourth appearance ever in the competition last. D.C. Joined president Kevin Payne essentially expressed, "We need to win anything we enter." 

Sounders FC general chief Adrian Hanauer remarked on his club's longing to win the container and a billet into the CONCACAF Champions League, "That is one stage towards our expressed objective of contending on the planet club titles, in light of the fact that the victor of the CONCACAF Champions League wins a spot in the World Club Championships." 

The 2009 U.S. Open Cup Final was played on September 2 at RFK Stadium in Washington D.C. An aggregate of 17,329 fans went to the match, 38% of the arena's accessible limit. Around 200 Sounders FC fans sat together in the upper deck. Both the movement separate and the mid-week booking made it troublesome for Seattle fans to visit. Live TV inclusion was given broadly by Fox Soccer Channel. 

The two clubs had utilized a blend of save players and beginning (first decision) players in past competition matches, however for the last neither one of the teams utilized save players in their beginning lineups. Seattle took the field in a 4-4-2 development while D.C United was in a 3-4-3 arrangement. The match commenced at 7:37 pm nearby time. 

Five minutes into the match, D.C. Joined first-year player Chris Pontius had the primary shot of the night as he pushed past Sounders FC protector Leonardo González to get an inclining go from Clyde Simms. In any case, because of the troublesome shooting point, Pontius' shot was wide of the far post. In the tenth moment, Sounders FC forward Fredy Montero had a short proximity shot on objective, yet D.C. goalkeeper Josh Wicks parried the shot away. After seven minutes, Christian Gomez had an objective scoring opportunity with an immediate free kick from , however his low kick twisted only wide of the objective. In the eighteenth moment, Seattle midfielder Sebastian Le Toux played a ball in to partner Freddie Ljungberg, whose shot on objective was scarcely spared by Wicks, who kicked out a foot to obstruct the shot. Just before halftime, Le Toux crossed to a plain Montero, whose immediate header on objective was simply in reach of Wicks, who again made the spare to keep the score level, 0– 0. Seattle outshot D.C. 9– 6 in the main half. 

As the players took the field for the second half, D.C. mentor Tom Soehn chose to supplant Fred, who had been a non-factor in the principal half, with Santino Quaranta. In the 60th moment, Gomez, Pontius and Luciano Emilio consolidated inside Seattle's 18-yard box for a United chance, yet Pontius mishit the shot, which brought about a simple put something aside for Seattle's goalkeeper, Kasey Keller. After seven minutes, another fizzled D.C. Joined open door brought about a Sounders FC counterattack, where Freddie Ljungberg's shot was spared by Wicks. The bounce back came before Fredy Montero, who dove feet first and kicked the ball into the objective, giving Sounders FC a 1– 0 lead. Following the objective, baffled D.C. Joined goalkeeper Josh Wicks stepped on Montero's leg while he was still on the ground. In the wake of counseling with the fourth official, arbitrator Alex Prus indicated Wicks a red card for his conduct, rejecting him from the match. Joined's reinforcement goalkeeper, Milos Kocic, was substituted for Christian Gomez after the occurrence, and D.C. played with 10 men for the rest of the match. 

In spite of being down a man, D.C. Joined controlled ownership of the ball as the match advanced towards full-time. Only four minutes before full-time, Seattle's Sebastian Le Toux pushed D.C. safeguard Dejan Jakovic off the ball, spilled in towards objective, and afterward gave a focusing go to partner Roger Levesque who scored, stretching out the Seattle lead to 2– 0. With time ticking ceaselessly, United urgently tossed each man forward and figured out how to limit the scoring distinction to one in the 89th moment when Simms kicked home a free ball after a Quaranta free kick. Amid the five minutes of stoppage time, D.C. proceeded with rehashed crosses and shots endeavoring to get an equalizer. 

At last, Sounders FC had the capacity to withstand D.C's. late push for a 2– 1 triumph, turning into the second MLS development group allied history (Chicago Fire was the first) to win the U.S. Open Cup in their debut season. Players and mentors pursued onto the field the last whistle, bounced around together and rushed to an edge of the field to recognize the Sounders FC fans cheering in the upper deck. 

In the post-diversion question and answer session, Josh Wicks examined his discharge, saying: "It was a misstep on my part and I must become familiar with my exercise. The fourth official made a call and the ref settled on a ultimate choice. That was it. I have no reasons for it. Massively, exceptionally disillusioning." One month after the stepping occurrence, U.S. Soccer reported that Wicks would be suspended from the U.S. Open Cup competition for five matches. 

After the triumph, numerous Sounders FC fans assembled at King County International Airport to welcome the group as they came back to Seattle. The trophy was put in plain view at a few occasions around Seattle in the weeks following Sounders FC's triumph. On September 19, the container was displayed to Sounders FC fans to convey in the March to the Match before a Sounders FC alliance amusement at Qwest Field against Chivas USA. 

By winning the U.S. Open Cup competition, Sounders FC earned a compartment in the starter round of the 2010– 11 CONCACAF Champions League. Seattle likewise got the champ's $100,000 money prize, while D.C. Joined got $50,000 as the competition sprinter up. Kevin Forrest, whose diversion winning objective against Colorado permitted Sounders FC to fit the bill for the competition, got an offer of the prize cash and a decoration, notwithstanding being discharged by the group before the last. 

In January 2010, the club's achievement in the U.S. Open Cup competition was recorded among the numerous reasons the Washington State Senate passed a goals respecting Sounders FC. 

On October 5, 2010, Seattle came back to the last and crushed the Columbus Crew 2– 1 to rehash as U.S. Open Cup champion. This time Sounders FC facilitated the last at Qwest Field, drawing a participation of 31,311 which broke the 81-year-old record for the occasion.