Roy Phillipps 

Roy Cecil Phillipps, MC and Bar, DFC (1 March 1892 – 21 May 1941) was an Australian warrior expert of World War I. He accomplished fifteen triumphs in flying battle, four of them in a solitary activity on 12 June 1918. A grazier between the wars, he joined the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) in 1940 and was executed in a plane accident the next year. 

Conceived in New South Wales yet brought up in Western Australia, Phillipps joined the Australian Imperial Force as an infantryman in April 1915, seeing activity at Gallipoli and on the Western Front. Injured twice in 1916, he exchanged to the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) and was acknowledged for pilot preparing in May 1917. As an individual from No. 2 Squadron in France, Phillipps flew predominantly S.E.5 contenders, and was granted two Military Crosses and the Distinguished Flying Cross for his activities. He completed the war a noteworthy, telling No. 6 (Training) Squadron in England. Coming back to Australia in 1919, he left the AFC and was dealing with a provincial property when he enrolled in the RAAF not long after the flare-up of World War II. At his demise he was positioned squadron pioneer, directing No. 2 Elementary Flying Training School at Archerfield, Queensland. 

Phillipps was conceived on 1 March 1892 in New South Wales; sources contrast on the precise area, which is differently recorded as country Moree and metropolitan North Sydney. He was the child of William Hargreaves Phillipps, initially of Northumberland, England, and his better half Cecil. After his dad kicked the bucket, Phillipps' mom took him to live in Perth, Western Australia. Instructed at Hale School, he concentrated to be a bookkeeper and was rehearsing on a peaceful property in the Kimberley when war broke out in 1914. 

Phillipps enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force in April 1915 and was doled out to the 28th Battalion, an infantry unit raised that month at Blackboy Camp, Western Australia. He effectively connected for a commission and left for Egypt on board HMAT "Ascanius" on 9 June as a second lieutenant. In the wake of preparing in Egypt, he withdrew with his unit for Gallipoli on board the vehicle "Ivernia" on 4 September. He was elevated to lieutenant on 25 October. The 28th Battalion, which had been sent to Gallipoli late in the battle as fortifications, was not intensely connected on the promontory, and endured generally couple of losses before the withdrawal in December 1915. 

In March 1916, Phillipps was conveyed to France with the 28th Battalion for administration on the Western Front. He partook in a strike against the fortifications of Armentières the evening of 6/7 June, and saw activity amid the Battle of Pozières in July. On 5 August, he was shot through the thigh, expecting departure to England for medical clinic treatment. He was elevated to commander on 12 August. Phillipps rejoined his unit in October yet endured another discharge twisted to the thigh the next month, close Gueudecourt. He came back to England yet again to recoup, and stayed in clinic until 2 March 1917. 

Unfit to take any further part in the war as an infantryman, Phillipps would ordinarily have been repatriated to Australia, however rather designed an exchange to the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) as aide of No. 2 Squadron. Subsequent to experiencing flying as a traveler, the quarter century old connected for pilot preparing, changing his birthdate from 1892 to 1896. The official age limit for pilots in the AFC was thirty, yet the favored age was under twenty-three. Phillipps' application was acknowledged in May 1917 and, subsequent to fitting the bill for his wings, his capability was viewed as with the end goal that in August he was appended to No. 32 Squadron of the Royal Flying Corps to increase operational involvement in France. Inside three days of arriving he crash-handled his Airco DH.5 after it was hit by hostile to flying machine fire close Ypres, yet he got away damage; when he finished his connection in September he was driving battle watches. 

Phillipps wedded Ellen Robinson, little girl of Western Australia's Attorney-General, at St Mary Abbots in Kensington, London, on 8 September 1917. Rejoining No. 2 Squadron inside the month as a flight officer, he was at first connected predominantly in low-level strafing and shelling missions in DH.5s as his unit, appended to the British Third Army, partook in the Battle of Passchendaele. Amid the consequent Battle of Cambrai, on 22 November he recorded his first aeronautical triumph when he turned the tables on a German warrior that had assaulted him from above, driving it to arrive. He was suggested for the Military Cross on 3 December, the honor being declared in "The London Gazette" on 4 February 1918, and the full reference showing up on 5 July: 

No. 2 Squadron changed over to Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5s in January 1918. The unit by and large led watches with flights of six airplane yet thought that it was hard to bait adversary warriors into battle, so after a respite in battling right off the bat in February it started flying two-plane missions, which yielded better outcomes. The next month, as the German Spring Offensive got going, Phillipps shot down three German warriors in the same number of days: a Fokker Triplane on 22 March, an Albatros the following morning, and a two-seater on 24 March; the official history of Australia in the war recorded that the last-referenced foe lost its wings to Phillipps' assault rifle shoot, and "fell like a stone". With the Allies holding clear prevalence over the German contenders, the primary peril to the Australians was from ground shoot as most battle occurred at low dimension, and "their machines returned loaded with shot openings". On 27 March, Phillipps accomplished two additional triumphs, a Triplane that he sent down on fire close Albert and another German contender over Méaulte. He was prescribed for a bar to his Military Cross on 31 March, and the honor was gazetted on 22 June: 

Amid April 1918, No. 2 Squadron started working in wide-extending hostile "bazaar" watches made up of expansive developments of contenders, frequently drawn from a few squadrons. Phillipps wrecked a Pfalz close Bapaume on 16 May, before making his most noteworthy progress on 12 June when he shot down four German contenders in a solitary watch over Ribécourt. His exploited people included two Fokker Triplanes, one of which he assaulted head-on, a LVG, and a Fokker D.VII flown by Fritz Loerzer, administrator of "Jasta" 26 and an eleven-triumph expert, who was caught. The accomplishment additionally gave Phillipps an aggregate of eleven triumphs, making him the equivalent most elevated scoring expert in No. 2 Squadron alongside Captain Henry Forrest. Phillipps was prescribed for the Distinguished Flying Cross on 16 June, and the honor was declared on 3 August: 

On 25 July, Phillipps was driving the escort for a strike on the Lille fortresses east of Armentières when he recognized a watch of seven Fokkers. Ejecting his bombs to ease his burden, he assaulted one of the German contenders and shot away its wing; the others withdrew. Amid the Allies' Hundred Days Offensive, on 12 August, he joined individual No. 2 Squadron pro Adrian Cole and No. 4 Squadron pros Harry Cobby and Roy King to lead their consolidated powers in help of the British Fourth Army, Phillipps representing a Fokker that separated in mid-air. He was credited with two different triumphs in August to convey his count to fifteen, making him No. 2 Squadron's second best pro after Captain Francis Smith, who completed the war with sixteen. Soon thereafter, Phillipps turned back to England as per Royal Air Force arrangement, which expected pilots to be refreshed and fill in as educators following nine to a year in battle. In October, he was elevated to major and presented on order No. 6 (Training) Squadron at Minchinhampton; the unit was principally in charge of preparing new pilots for administration with No. 2 Squadron. 

Phillipps surrendered order of No. 6 Squadron upon its disbandment in March 1919. He came back to Australia on 16 June on board the troopship "Kaiser-I-Hind", and was released from the Australian Flying Corps on 15 August. That month he was one of a few veteran pilots, including Lieutenant Colonel Oswald Watt and Major Bill Anderson, named to serve on a council looking at applications for a proposed Australian air administration to supplant the AFC; the Australian Air Corps, quick forerunner to the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), was appropriately shaped on 1 January 1920 under Anderson's direction. 

In the wake of leaving the military, Phillipps turned into a grazier in New South Wales. He obtained Courallie station at Moree in 1926, and was dealing with the property when Australia announced war in September 1939. In February 1940, he enrolled in the RAAF as a flying officer. Raised to flight lieutenant, he was posted as right hand boss ground educator to No. 2 Elementary Flying Training School (No. 2 EFTS) at Archerfield, Queensland, on 27 March. No. 2 EFTS was one of twelve fundamental flying schools set up by the RAAF as a feature of Australia's commitment to the Empire Air Training Scheme. Phillipps was delegated boss ground educator on 17 June. Having been elevated to squadron pioneer, he expected direction of No. 2 EFTS on 20 October 1940. 

Phillipps passed on 21 May 1941, after a mishap in a private plane. The air ship, guided by its proprietor, Flight Lieutenant J.W.F. Collins, was accounted for to have taken off from Archerfield around evening time without RAAF or Civil Aviation Department leeway, and crashed into trees. Made due by his better half, child and three little girls, Phillipps was incinerated at Mount Thompson Crematorium in Brisbane. He is recognized on the Queensland Cremation Memorial, Brisbane, and on panel 116 of the Australian War Memorial, Canberra.