Mana (arrangement) 

The Mana arrangement, referred to in Japan as , is a medieval-dream activity pretending amusement arrangement made by Koichi Ishii, with advancement earlier from Square, and is presently possessed by Square Enix. The arrangement started as a handheld side story to Square's leader establishment "Last Fantasy", however the "Last Fantasy" components were along these lines dropped beginning with the second portion, "Mystery of Mana", so as to turn into its very own arrangement. It has developed to incorporate rounds of different types inside the anecdotal universe of Mana, with repeating stories including a world tree, its related sacred sword, and the battle against powers that would take their capacity. A few character plans, animals, and melodic topics return every now and again. 

Four amusements were discharged in the arrangement somewhere in the range of 1991 and 1999: the first "Seiken Densetsu" (1991)— "Last Fantasy Adventure" in North America and "Spiritualist Quest" in Europe—for the Game Boy, "Mystery of Mana" (1993) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, "Seiken Densetsu 3" (1995) for the Super Famicom, and "Legend of Mana" for the PlayStation, however "Seiken Densetsu 3" was not discharged outside Japan. A change of the first amusement, "Sword of Mana" (2003), was distributed for the Game Boy Advance. The majority of the first amusements were activity pretending diversions, however they incorporated a wide assortment of interactivity mechanics, and the accounts of the recreations were associated just specifically. 

In 2006 and 2007, four additional diversions were discharged as a major aspect of the "Universe of Mana" subseries, an endeavor by Square Enix to discharge recreations in an arrangement over an assortment of kinds and consoles. These were "Offspring of Mana" (2006), an activity situated prison crawler diversion for the Nintendo DS; "Sunrise of Mana" (2006), a 3D activity experience amusement for the PlayStation 2; "Companions of Mana" (2006), a Japan-just multiplayer pretending amusement for cell phones; and "Legends of Mana" (2007), a continuous system diversion for the DS. "Kids" was created by Nex Entertainment and "Saints" by Brownie Brown, established by a few engineers of "Legends", however Ishii directed advancement of every one of the four recreations. Three additional diversions have been discharged since the "Universe of Mana" subseries finished: "Hover of Mana" (2013), a Japan-just card fight amusement for the GREE portable stage, "Ascent of Mana" (2014), a Japan-just allowed to-assume activity pretending diversion for iOS, Android, and PlayStation Vita, and "Experiences of Mana" (2016), a 3D redo of "Definite Fantasy Adventure" for the PlayStation Vita, iOS, and Android. Notwithstanding the diversions, four manga arrangement and one novelization have been discharged in the "Mana" establishment. 

The "Mana" arrangement gathering has been uneven, with early recreations evaluated higher by pundits than later titles. "Mystery of Mana" have been viewed as the absolute best 2D activity pretending amusements at any point made, and their music has propelled a few instrumental shows, while the recreations from the "Universe of Mana" arrangement have been evaluated significantly lower. As of March 2011, "Mana" arrangement titles have sold more than 6 million units. 

Square trademarked "Seiken Densetsu" in , planning to utilize it for an amusement venture subtitled "The Emergence of Excalibur", and driven by Kazuhiko Aoki for the Famicom Disk System. As indicated by early ads, the diversion would comprise of an extraordinary five floppy circles, making it one of the biggest titles created for the Famicom up until that point. Albeit Square requested pre-orders for the diversion, Kaoru Moriyama, a previous Square worker, insists that administration dropped the yearning venture before it progressed past the early arranging stages. In October 1987, clients who had set requests were sent a letter educating them of the undoing and had their buys discounted. The letter additionally proposed to consider submitting a request on another forthcoming Square pretending amusement in a comparative vein: "Last Fantasy". 

In , Square reused the "Seiken Densetsu" trademark for a random Game Boy activity pretending diversion coordinated by Koichi Ishii. Initially created under the title "Gemma Knights", the amusement was renamed "Seiken Densetsu: Final Fantasy Gaiden" (distributed in North America as "Conclusive Fantasy Adventure" and in Europe as "Spiritualist Quest"). Starting with the spin-off, "Mystery of Mana", "Seiken Densetsu" was along these lines "spun off" into its own arrangement of activity pretending recreations unmistakable from "Definite Fantasy", named the "Mana" arrangement outside Japan. Four titles in the arrangement were discharged somewhere in the range of 1993 and 2003. "Mystery of Mana" was initially proposed to be a dispatch title for the Super NES CD-ROM Adapter, yet when the extra was dropped it was chopped down into a standard Super NES cartridge, with a large number of the cut thoughts showing up in other Square titles. It was followed in 1995 by the Japan-just "Seiken Densetsu 3"; the amusement was initially intended to be discharged in English as "Mystery of Mana 2", however specialized issues and confinement costs restricted the discharge. The last new diversion in the arrangement's underlying run is the 1999 "Legend of Mana", produced for the PlayStation. "Legend" is a 2D diversion like its antecedents, in spite of the PlayStation's 3D center, on the grounds that the reassure couldn't deal with the full 3D world Ishii imagined where one could associate with normal molded items. 2003 saw the arrival of "Sword of Mana", a redo of the first "Seiken Densetsu" for the Game Boy Advance. The revamp was re-appropriated to Brownie Brown, which was made out of a considerable lot of the Square representatives who had taken a shot at "Legend". 

In 2003, Square, presently Square Enix, started a drive to start creating "polymorphic substance", an advertising and deals system to "[provide] surely understood properties on a few stages, enabling presentation of the items to as wide a crowd of people as would be prudent". The first of these was the "Gathering of Final Fantasy VII", and Square Enix expected to have crusades for different arrangement whereby various recreations in various classifications would be grown all the while. Albeit no such task for the "Mana" arrangement had been declared by this point, it was reported in late 2004 that an anonymous "Mana" amusement was being developed for the up and coming Nintendo DS stage. In mid 2005, Square Enix reported a ""World of Mana"" venture, the utilization of this "polymorphic substance" thought to the "Mana" establishment, which would incorporate a few recreations crosswise over various classifications and stages. These diversions, similarly as with the remainder of the arrangement, would not be immediate spin-offs or prequels to each other, regardless of whether showing up so at first look, however would rather share topical associations. The principal discharge in this undertaking and the 6th discharge in the "Mana" arrangement was declared in September 2005 as "Offspring of Mana" for the DS. Four amusements were discharged in 2006 and 2007 in the "Realm of Mana" subseries: "Offspring of Mana", "First light of Mana", and "Companions of Mana" in 2006, and "Legends of Mana" in 2007. 

Each amusement in the "Realm of Mana" arrangement was extraordinary, both from one another and from the past recreations in the arrangement. "Kids" is an activity situated cell crawler diversion for the DS, created by Nex Entertainment; "First light" is a 3D activity experience amusement for the PlayStation 2; "Companions" is a Japan-just multiplayer pretending diversion for cell phones; and "Legends" is an ongoing technique amusement for the DS, created by Brownie Brown. While Ishii was the originator for each of the four recreations, he filled in as the chief and maker for "First light", which was viewed as the fundamental round of the four and was discharged as "Seiken Densetsu 4" in Japan. The subject of the subseries for Ishii, particularly "Sunrise", was tied in with investigating how to include "the sentiment of touch" to a diversion. He had held off on structuring new "Mana" recreations after "Legend" was unfit to meet his wants, until he felt that innovation had sufficiently improved to give him a chance to make what he imagined. A fifth amusement for the subseries was considered for the Wii in 2006, however did not enter improvement. In April 2007, a month after the arrival of the last round of the "Universe of Mana", Ishii left Square Enix to lead his very own improvement organization, named Grezzo. 

No further amusements were made in the "Mana" arrangement until 2013, when Square Enix discharged "Hover of Mana", a Japan-just card fight diversion for the GREE versatile stage. It was followed in 2014 by "Ascent of Mana", a Japan-just allowed to-assume activity pretending amusement for iOS, Android, and PlayStation Vita, and in 2016 by "Undertakings of Mana", a 3D revamp of "Conclusive Fantasy Adventure" for the PlayStation Vita, iOS, and Android. In August 2017, a 3D redo of "Mystery of Mana" was declared for PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Microsoft Windows, for discharge on February 15, 2018. 

The "Mana" arrangement is the consequence of Koichi Ishii's craving to make an anecdotal world. As Ishii would like to think, "Mana" isn't a progression of computer games, but instead a world which is shown by and can be investigated through computer games. When chipping away at the arrangement, Koichi Ishii draws motivation from dynamic pictures from his recollections of youth, just as films and dream books that dazzled him as a kid. Ishii takes care to keep away from set traditions, and his persuasions are correspondingly wide and non-explicit. In any case, among his artistic impacts, he recognizes Tove Jansson's "Moomin", Lewis Carroll's "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland", and J. R. R. Tolkien's "Master of the Rings". 

While a few titles of the "Universe of Mana" arrangement do impart direct associations with different portions, the rounds of the arrangement have few solid connections. There is no generally unequivocal in-amusement sequential request. Further, as indicated by Koichi Ishii in 2006 the amusements don't happen in the very same world, and characters or components who show up in various titles are best viewed as exchange renditions of one another. Rather, the associations between each title are more conceptual than story-based, connected just on the karmic level. Repudiating this affirmation, Ishii has likewise said in a meeting that "Youngsters" is set ten years after "First light", while "Saints" is set one age before "Seiken Densetsu 3". 

A typical component of the arrangement is its consistent, constant fight framework. The framework was created by Koichi Ishii and enhanced by Hiromichi Tanaka, out of a craving to make a framework not quite the same as the one included in the initial couple of "Definite Fantasy" titles. While activity based, the "Mana" fight framework is planned to be playable even by newcomers just as veterans. The framework is combined with the unmistakable various leveled "Ring Command" menu framework, highlighted conspicuously "Covertly of Mana" and "Seiken Densetsu 3", and to a lesser degree in later portions. Each ring is a lot of symbols with a literary infobox clarification which, upon determination, enable the player to utilize a thing, do magic, gaze upward in-diversion insights, or change the amusement's settings. Route inside a menu is accomplished by turning the ring through the cursor left or right, while changing to an alternate menu is accomplished by squeezing the up or down catches. Despite the fact that not part of the arrangement, the turn off "Mystery of Evermore", created by the North American Square Soft, was likewise based upon the "Ring Command" framework. 

The "Mana" arrangement includes a few repeating characters and creatures, including "Last Fantasy" animals, for example, Chocobos in "Definite Fantasy Adventure" and "Legend of Mana", just as Moogles in "Mystery of Mana" and as a status affliction in "Seiken Densetsu 3" and "Sword of Mana". Watts is a diminutive person metal forger wearing a horned cap who overhauls the player's weaponry. Typically, a human feline shipper is found outside of town regions and enables a player to spare the amusement and purchase supplies at high costs. This job is played by Neko in "Mystery of Mana", and Niccolo in "Legend of Mana" and "Sword of Mana". In the Japanese recreations these dealers share the name Nikita. 

The Mana Tree and the Mana Sword, called Excalibur in "Definite Fantasy Adventure"s English rendition, are repeating plot gadgets which have been highlighted in each round of the arrangement. The mysterious Mana Tree is a wellspring of enchantment which continues the equalization and nature of the arrangement's reality. The Mana Sword is normally used to reestablish this equalization when it winds up lost in the amusements. "Last Fantasy Adventure" clarifies that if the Mana Tree kicks the bucket, an individual from the Mana Family will turn into the "seed" of another Tree. A grow of the Mana Tree is known as a Gemma, while defenders of the Tree, who use the Mana Sword, are called Gemma Knights. In "Seiken Densetsu 3", a Goddess is said to have transformed into the Mana Tree subsequent to making the world with the Mana Sword. The Mana Tree is wrecked close to the amusement finishing off with "Conclusive Fantasy Adventure" and "Mystery of Mana", however a character turns into the new Mana Tree in the previous diversion. 

Essential Spirits, likewise called Mana Spirits, are creatures who administer the enchantment components of the arrangement's reality, and are at the center of the diversions' enchantment framework as they are utilized to cast enchantment spells. Eight sorts of spirits have showed up in the arrangement since "Mystery of Mana", and each exemplifies an alternate component. Their names are homonyms of legendary creatures or wonders. In "Mystery of Mana" and "Seiken Densetsu 3", use of their capacity is empowered upon the primary characters' gathering with them. In "Legend of Mana", the spirits fill in as elements in the Land Creation System. In "Legend of Mana" and "Sword of Mana", various spirits of the equivalent basic sort show up. As far as storyline, in "Seiken Densetsu 3" and "Saints of Mana", the spirits are charged to ensure the Mana Stones in which the Mana Goddess fixed eight essential benevodons (God-Beasts in the fan-interpretation of "SD3"). In "First light of Mana"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s North American form, each soul talks with a specific European pronunciation, for example, French or Scottish. 

Rabites, known as in the Japanese variants of the diversions, are charming, anecdotal, rabbit-like animals showing up as a shared adversary in the arrangement since its start. The Rabite has turned into a kind of mascot for the "Mana" arrangement, similarly as the Chocobo speaks to "Definite Fantasy", and is a standout amongst its most unmistakable symbols. The Rabite looks like an incorporeal, one-toothed rabbit with substantial ears that bend upward and structure a point at the tip, and a round, puffy pink tail that moves by bouncing along the ground. It is most generally yellow hued, yet additionally pink, lilac, dark, and white, and are differently minor adversaries, "superboss" characters and even well disposed units and pets. Rabites are additionally referenced in "Definite Fantasy X-2" with an extra amusingly named "Rabite's Foot", which expands a character's karma measurement; just as "Conclusive Fantasy Tactics Advance", where they show up in the portrayal of one of the amusement's discretionary missions as an imperiled species due to being poached for lucky trinkets. Rabites have showed up pervasively in a few bits of "Mana" stock, including extravagant dolls, pads, lighters, mousepads, lashes, phone cards, and T-shirts. 

Flammie, at times spelled Flammy, is the name of an anecdotal types of flying mythical beasts, just as the best possible name of certain its individuals, highlighted in a few rounds of the arrangement. A Flammie's appearance is a blend of draconian, mammalian, and reptilian highlights, and its shading has fluctuated all through the arrangement. Flammies normally fill in as a methods for transportation in the diversion by enabling a player's characters to ride on a Flammie has returned to various areas in the amusement's reality. In "Mystery of Mana" and "Seiken Densetsu 3", the Super NES's Mode 7 realistic capacities enables the player to control a Flammie from either a "behind the back" third-individual or top-down point of view, and fly over the scene as it looks underneath them. Regarding story, the Flammies were made by the Moon Gods, and are a piece of an interminable cycle of obliteration and resurrection as the more grounded forms of Flammies—known as Mana Beasts, or in Japanese—demolish the world and the Mana Sword and Tree reestablish the world. 

The "Mana" arrangement has had a few unique writers. "Last Fantasy Adventure" was created by Kenji Ito; it was his second unique score. Ito's music is mostly propelled by pictures from the amusement instead of outside impacts. The scores for "Mystery of Mana" and "Seiken Densetsu 3" were both formed by Hiroki Kikuta. In spite of challenges in managing the equipment constraints, Kikuta endeavored to express, in the music of "Mystery of Mana", two "differentiating styles", to be specific himself and the diversion. This was to make a unique score which would be neither popular music nor standard diversion music. Kikuta took a shot at the music for the two amusements for the most part without anyone else's input, going through almost 24 hours every day in his office, switching back and forth among forming and altering to make a vivid three-dimensional sound. Kikuta considers the score for "Mystery of Mana" his most loved creation. His arrangements for "Mystery of Mana" and "Seiken Densetsu 3" were mostly enlivened by characteristic scenes. In 1995, Kikuta discharged a test collection of orchestrated music from the two portions, titled "Mystery of Mana +", which highlights one 50-minute-long track. 

"Legend of Mana's" score was formed by Yoko Shimomura, and of every one of her sytheses, she thinks of it as the one that best conveys what needs be. Kenji Ito came back to the arrangement with "Sword of Mana". He additionally made around 33% out of the "Offspring of Mana" soundtrack, while the rest was made by Masaharu Iwata and Takayuki Aihara. Ito was the fundamental author for "Day break of Mana", helped by Tsuyoshi Sekito, Masayoshi Soken, and Junya Nakano, just as primary subject writer Ryuichi Sakamoto. In North America, buyers of "First light of Mana" from taking part retailers were offered a sampler circle, titled "Breath of Mana", which includes a determination of tracks from the diversion. Shimomura has come back to the arrangement with "Legends of Mana", while likewise contributing one tune to "Ascent of Mana". 

A five-volume manga dependent on "Legend of Mana" was drawn by Shiro Amano and distributed in Japan by Enterbrain somewhere in the range of 2000 and 2002. It includes a comedic anecdote about the diversion's primary character, here named Toto. A German rendition was distributed by Egmont Manga and Anime in 2003. A gathering of four-board funny cartoons, drawn by different creators and titled "Sword of Mana Yonkoma Manga Theater", was distributed in Japan by Square Enix on January 16, 2004. It incorporated a survey that, whenever sent back, enabled members to win representations marked by Koichi Ishii and Shinichi Kameoka, just as extraordinary T-shirts. Enterbrain likewise distributed a "Sword of Mana" manga adjustment in Japan on February 25, 2004, drawn by a joint effort of creators driven by Shiro Amano. After two days, Square Enix distributed a two-volume novelization of "Sword of Mana" in Japan composed by Matsui Oohama. A unique manga, named "Seiken Densetsu: Princess of Mana", was drawn by Satsuki Yoshino and distributed in the Japanese magazine "Gangan Powered" on February 22, 2007. 

The "Mana" arrangement has been for the most part generally welcomed, however each title has seen shifted dimensions of progress. RPGFan called "Last Fantasy Adventure" a standout amongst the best things to happen to the Game Boy, while IGN thought of it as the best activity RPG on the comfort after "". GameSpot alluded to "Mystery of Mana" as "one of Square's artful culminations on the SNES". The amusement has showed up on a few rundown of top recreations, including positioned number 97 on "Famitsu's" main 100 rounds ever. "Seiken Densetsu 3" was designated "effectively a standout amongst the best RPGs to leave the 16-bit period" by Nintendo Life. "Famitsu" appraised "Legend of Mana" at 31/40 and "Saints of Mana" at 32/40. The NPD Group positioned "Legend of Mana" as the top dealer the seven day stretch of its discharge, and in 2006 was re-discharged as a feature of the Ultimate Hits arrangement. 

A significant number of the "Universe of Mana" titles have not been as basically fruitful as the first five amusements in the arrangement, and however the establishment has been adulated for their endeavors at attempting better approaches for encountering the diversions' anecdotal world, there have been different ongoing interaction configuration blemishes that have ruined the later recreations. 1UP.com remarked that notwithstanding the diversion's incredible introduction and narrating, "First light of Mana" did not coordinate the dimension of ongoing interaction of the early "Mana" recreations. Preceding the "Universe of Mana" diversions, RPGamer considered the arrangement a "cherished top choice". After the arrival of "Legends of Mana", they remarked that the "Universe of Mana" arrangement is "reviled", and the eventual fate of the arrangement looked "somber". 

The music of the "Mana" arrangement, particularly "Mystery of Mana", has gotten wide approval and fan excitement. The "Mystery of Mana" soundtrack was one of the principal official soundtracks of computer games music discharged in the United States and consequently before completely standard enthusiasm for RPGs. The "Mystery of Mana"s opening subject, "Holy messenger's Fear", was appraised at number 7 on IGN's Top Ten RPG Title tracks, considering it an "enchanted title tune that catches our hearts". It was likewise highlighted in the third Orchestral Game Concert. "Mystery of Mana" is additionally the number 6 most remixed soundtrack on the prominent computer game music site OverClocked ReMix, with "Seiken Densetsu 3" tied at 18. The music of different titles have additionally been generally welcomed. RPGFan called the music to "Definite Fantasy Adventure" "addictive", in spite of its low, MIDI-like quality. GameSpy called "Offspring of Mana"s music the absolute best Nintendo DS music yet and alluded to it as "excellent". "Amusement Informer" complimented "Day break of Mana"s music, calling it great. IGN alluded to "Legend of Mana"s music as "lovely" and expressed the ambient sounds brought "power", "anticipation", and "unobtrusive subtlety" to the diversion. Different analysts resounded comparative commendation with GameSpot calling it "fantastically organized" and RPGFan calling the music one of the amusement's great focuses. 

The "Mana" arrangement has sold well generally speaking, and as of March 2011, arrangement titles have sold more than 6 million units. The first "Seiken Densetsu" sold more than 700,000 units, and its change "Sword of Mana" sold more than 277,000 duplicates in Japan. "Mystery of Mana" has dispatched over 1.83 million duplicates around the world. "Legend of Mana" sold more than 400,000 units in its first week alone as the most astounding selling discharge that week in Japan, and more than 700,000 duplicates in Japan before the year's over. "Offspring of Mana" sold more than 281,000 duplicates in Japan, and "Sunrise of Mana" sold more than 410,000 duplicates around the world. "Legends of Mana" sold more than 178,000 duplicates around the world. The PlayStation Vita adaptation of "Ascent of Mana" downloaded more than multiple times.