Nodar Kumaritashvili 

Nodar Kumaritashvili (; ; 25 November 198812 February 2010) was a Georgian small time luger who endured a lethal accident amid a preparation keep running for the 2010 Winter Olympics rivalry in Whistler, British Columbia, Canada, upon the arrival of the opening service. He turned into the fourth competitor to bite the dust amid arrangements for a Winter Olympics, and the seventh competitor to kick the bucket in either a Summer or Winter Olympic Games. 

Kumaritashvili, who initially started to take part in luge when he was 13, originated from a group of prepared lugers: his granddad had acquainted the game with the Soviet republic of Georgia, and the two his dad and uncle had contended when they were more youthful, with his uncle later filling in as the leader of the Georgian Luge Federation. Kumaritashvili himself started contending in the 2008– 09 Luge World Cup. He had likewise been an understudy at the Georgian Technical University, where he earned a financial aspects degree in 2009. 

Kumaritashvili was conceived on 25 November 1988, in Borjomi, Georgian SSR, present-day Georgia, to David and Dodo Kumaritashvili. He had one sister, Mariam, who was four years more youthful. 

Kumaritashvili's family had a long relationship with luge. His granddad Aleko Kumaritashvili acquainted luge with Georgia after first preparing for it in East Germany. Aleko helped fabricate a crude luge keep running in Bakuriani in 1970; a progressively completed track, financed by the Soviet specialists, was worked in 1973. Kumaritashvili's uncle and mentor, Felix Kumaritashvili, filled in as the leader of the Georgian Luge Federation, and his dad, David, won a USSR Youth Championship when Georgia was a piece of the Soviet Union, and was a three-time champion at the Spartakiad, once in two-man sled and twice in luge. 

Kumaritashvili experienced childhood in adjacent Bakuriani, which is known for its many ski slants. He delighted in a few winter sports and began luge when he was 13 years of age. While going to the Georgian Technical University, where he graduated with a four year certification in financial matters in 2009, Kumaritashvili kept up a thorough preparing and rivalry plan. Despite the fact that his family persevered through monetary hardship, Kumaritashvili went to the same number of luge occasions as he could, regularly driving for quite a long time to achieve World Cup occasions. As a passionate individual from the Georgian Orthodox Church, he asked at chapel before each challenge. 

Amid his first period of rivalry, Kumaritashvili completed 55th out of 62 contenders at the 2008– 09 Luge World Cup, where he was entered in four races. He completed 28th out of 32 contenders at the 2009– 10 Luge World Cup occasion at Cesana Pariol in January, which was his fifth and last World Cup occasion. At the season of his demise, he was positioned 44th out of 65 rivals in the 2009– 10 World Cup season and was viewed as a standout amongst the best lugers to originate from Georgia. 

By 31 December 2009, the cut-off date for luge capabilities for the Olympics, Kumaritashvili was positioned 38th by and large. He fit the bill for the luge men's singles occasion at the 2010 Winter Olympics, his Olympic presentation, by hustling in five World Cup races more than two years. 

The scene for the Olympic luge rivalry, the Whistler Sliding Center, was structured by Udo Gurgel and his firm, Ingenieurburo Gurgel (IBG) of Leipzig, with the last form delivered on 23 October 2004. Utilizing the predetermined track measurements for an assortment of sled passage and leave directions, IBG determined the rates and G powers along each bend of the track. The new bend designs, instead of the speed, were relied upon to give the primary test. The greatest determined speed for men's luge was . 

In February 2005, concerns emerged in regards to the troubles presented by Cesana Pariol, the track worked for the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. A few genuine accidents happened, provoking calls for physical alterations to that track. The International Luge Federation (FIL) was worried that comparative alterations may be required at the Whistler track and conveyed these worries to the Vancouver Organizing Committee (VANOC) in March 2005. Vulnerability about the track configuration continued into 2006 until the planned beginning of track development, when it was resolved that development would be founded on the first structure. 

After development, amid the track homologation (accreditation) process, the track delivered speeds surpassing the plan figurings by in any event . Following the Olympic test occasion in February 2009, Josef Fendt, leader of FIL, sent a letter to IBG communicating shock that a record speed of had been achieved, inferring that the architect's computations were off base, and expressing that the rapid "makes me stress." 

The letter likewise said that "exceeding this point of confinement would be a flat out preposterous interest for the competitors." He asked IBG to react, specifically as to the future Sochi Olympic track. Fendt likewise educated VANOC that the Whistler track was not provided as requested. VANOC, be that as it may, presumed that no activity was required in regards to the Whistler track, since the focal point of Fendt's letter to IBG was the new Sochi track. 

In April 2009, IBG clarified that the contrasts between the determined and genuine watched speeds were brought about by new sled innovation that decreased drag coefficients and ice grating coefficients. As a result of the mystery innate in sled advancement, the IBG engineers experienced issues getting the most recent sled particulars required for their building figurings. In the perspective on the Games coordinators, the high speeds and specialized difficulties could be securely relieved by forcing extra practice and graduated preparing prerequisites on the competitors. 

On 12 February 2010, after 25 past endeavors, 15 of them from the men's begin, Kumaritashvili was lethally harmed in an accident amid his last preparing run, in the wake of losing control in the last turn of the course. He was lost his luge and over the sidewall of the track, striking an unprotected steel bolster shaft toward the finish of the run. He was going right now of effect. 

Surgeons were next to Kumaritashvili following the accident. Both cardio-aspiratory and mouth-to-mouth revival were performed. He was transported to a Whistler clinic, where he passed on of his wounds. It was luge's first casualty since 10 December 1975, when an Italian luger had been executed. Kumaritashvili turned into the fourth competitor to pass on amid arrangements for a Winter Olympics, after British luger Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski and Australian skier Ross Milne (both 1964 Innsbruck), and Swiss speed skier Nicolas Bochatay (1992 Albertville). He was additionally the sixteenth partaking competitor to kick the bucket amid or practically speaking for a Summer or Winter Olympic Games. 

After film of Kumaritashvili's passing was broadcast, there was stun and grieving in Georgia. In light of the mishap, the Georgian group reported that it would consider skirting the opening functions or pulling back from the amusements totally, yet Nika Rurua, the Georgian pastor for games and culture, later declared the group would remain in Vancouver and "devote their endeavors to their fallen companion". Amid the opening service, the seven residual individuals from the Georgian Olympic group wore dark armbands, bore the Georgian banner with a dark lace fixing to it, and left a space empty in the parade, as signs of regard. After entering BC Place Stadium, the Georgian group was welcomed with an overwhelming applause from the gathered group. The group left the arena following the parade. 

Afterward, amid the opening functions, a snapshot of quiet was held to respect Kumaritashvili's memory, and both the Canadian and Olympic banners were brought down to half-staff. Individual colleague and luger Levan Gureshidze, who was to contend with Kumaritashvili, pulled back after the accident, telling partners that he "couldn't go on", and returned home to go to the memorial service. The lugers who remained to contend all wore a dark stripe on their head protectors to pay tribute to Kumaritashvili. 

Promptly toward the beginning of the day of 17 February 2010, Kumaritashvili's body landed in Tbilisi. It achieved the place where he grew up of Bakuriani soon thereafter. A huge number of Georgians went to a memorial service feast for him on 19 February, and he was covered on Saturday, 20 February, at the congregation he had visited. Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili went to the burial service wearing a Georgian Olympic uniform. 

In Bakuriani, the road of Kumaritashvili's youth home was renamed in his respect. Felix Loch of Germany, who won the gold award in luge at the Vancouver Olympics, had his decoration liquefied down and refashioned into two circles, giving one, scratched with a picture of Kumaritashvili and the long stretches of his introduction to the world and passing, to Kumaritashvili's folks. Despite a few gifts of cash to the Kumaritashvili family, the catastrophe was difficult for them; twice in the years subsequently Dodo, who kept on fixing a dinner for Kumaritashvili consistently, attempted to slaughter herself, while David managed serious medical issues bringing about numerous clinic remains. 

The FIL expressed that Kumaritashvili's demise "was not brought about by a hazardous track", yet as a preventive measure, the dividers at the exit of curve16 were raised, and the ice profile was balanced. Cushioning was likewise added to uncovered metal pillars close to the end goal. Olympic authorities asserted the progressions were "not for wellbeing reasons but rather to suit the passionate condition of the lugers". What's more, the beginning of the men's luge was moved to the ladies' beginning stage, to lessen speed, while the beginning of the ladies' luge was additionally moved more remote down the track. 

Preparing keeps running on the track continued on 13 February, after the progressions to the track were done. Three lugers, including the withdrew Gureshidze, did not partake in any preparation keeps running on that day. 

On 19 April 2010, the FIL distributed its last report to the International Olympic Committee on Kumaritashvili's demise. The report found that the sled utilized by Kumaritashvili had fulfilled all FIL guidelines. It credited the mishap to "driving blunders beginning in bend 15/16 which as a collection finished in the effect that brought about him leaving the track and in this manner hitting a post... This is a terrible outcome that ought not have happened because of an underlying driving blunder". As the sled hit the stopping point at the bend 16 leave, it slung off the track, causing Kumaritashvili to lose control of it totally. This was a kind of mishap not seen previously, and hence "[w]ith the obscure and erratic elements of this accident, the count and development of the dividers in that area of the track did not serve to keep the catastrophe that occurred". Be that as it may, the report additionally confirmed that amid the homologation procedure and later sessions at the Whistler Sliding Center, the track was quicker than initially determined. Rather than the normal , the most elevated speed recorded was . The FIL felt that luge competitors had the capacity to adapt to this speed, however "this was not a bearing the FIL might want to see the game head [in]". FIL President Fendt kept in touch with the Sochi 2014 Olympic Organizing Committee that the FIL would homologize the proposed Sochi track just if speeds did not surpass . The FIL additionally said it was "resolved" to do what it could to keep such mishaps from happening once more. It would reconsider changes to the game, sled structure, and track innovation. FIL Secretary General Svein Romstad condensed: "The end result for Nodar has been an unforeseeable lethal mishap". 

The British Columbia coroner's office researched the episode. It was accounted for to consider, among different bits of proof, composed grievances about the security of the Whistler track by Venezuelan luger Werner Hoegerwho smashed on the track on 13 November 2009, enduring a serious concussionand data recommending that the track was built in such a thin and soak area, close to the Whistler and Blackcomb mountains, for business reasons. The track creator, Udo Gurgel, stated: "The track must be close Whistler, for use after the Olympics. You would prefer not to demolish a venture so the track is on territory that is somewhat steep." According to John Furlong, the CEO of the 2010 Winter Olympics sorting out council, recommendations to construct the sliding focus on Grouse Mountain close Vancouver were dismissed right off the bat in the offer stage because of reservations communicated by the worldwide luge, and the sled and skeleton, organizations. 

In a report dated 16 September 2010, the coroner controlled Kumaritashvili's demise a mishap expedited by a "cooperation of components", including the rapid of the track, its specialized trouble, and the competitor's relative newness to the track. He composed that amid Kumaritashvili's preparation runs, it was sensible to expect that "Mr.Kumaritashvili was sliding quicker than any time in recent memory in his life, and was endeavoring to go considerably quicker, while at the same time attempting to gain proficiency with the complexities of the track and the elements it made". The coroner acknowledged that luging would dependably convey a component of hazard and that the prescribed procedures known at the time had been followed in the development of the Whistler track. He additionally called upon the FIL to expect competitors to take part in increasingly obligatory instructional meetings before the Olympic Games and other real rivalries. 

The coroner likewise remarked, "The coordinators, administrative bodies and scene proprietors must guarantee that no exertion is saved to envision the unforeseeable to the extent security is concerned," and to "decide in favor of alert, demanding more, instead of less." 

Reacting to the report, Kumaritashvili's dad stated: "I don't acknowledge the announcement about Nodar's absence of experience. He wouldn't have won the privilege to partake in the Olympics on the off chance that he needed understanding." 

In 2013, Mont Hubbard, a University of California, Davis, mechanical and aviation educator, issued a report guaranteeing that Kumaritashvili's accident was presumably brought about by a "filet", a joint between the lower edge of the bend and a vertical divider. Hubbard recommended that the correct sprinter of Kumaritashvili's sled ascended the filet, propelling him into the air. Terry Gudzowsky, the leader of ISC/IBG Group, a consortium engaged with the development of the Whistler track, expelled Hubbard's hypothesis as "defective", expressing that the information to reproduce the ice surface at the site of the mishap in three measurements don't exist. The luge track worked for use at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, was structured with two tough areas to diminish speeds, and for keeps running about slower than the Whistler track.