Masako Katsura 

, nicknamed "Katsy" and here and there called the "Main Lady of Billiards", was a Japanese carom pool player who was most dynamic during the 1950s. Katsura pioneered a trail for ladies in the game by contending and putting among the best in the male-commanded universe of expert billiards. First taking in the amusement from her brother by marriage and after that under the tutelage of Japanese hero Kinrey Matsuyama, Katsura turned into Japan's solitary female expert player. In rivalry in Japan she came in just short of the leader in the nation's national three-pad billiards title multiple times. In display she was noted for 10,000 at the round of straight rail. 

In the wake of wedding a U.S. Armed force non-authorized officer in 1950, Katsura emigrated with him to the United States in 1951. There she was welcome to play in the 1952 U.S.- supported World Three-Cushion Championship, eventually taking seventh spot at that challenge. Katsura was the principal lady ever to be incorporated into any world billiards competition. Her popularity solidified, Katsura went on a display voyage through the United States with eight-time title holder Welker Cochran, and later with 51-time best on the planet Willie Hoppe. In 1953 and 1954 she again went after the world three-pad crown, taking fifth and fourth places individually. 

Little was seen of Katsura for the following couple of years. She showed up in 1958, and went on a one-week presentation commitment the next year with Harold Worst, yet did not contend in any expert competitions. In 1959, she showed up on ABC's "You Asked for It", and one on the CBS primetime TV hit "What's My Line?". Katsura came back to rivalry in 1961, playing a test coordinate for the World Three-Cushion title against Worst, at that point ruling best on the planet, and was vanquished by him. Katsura vanished from the game from that point, just showing up in 1976. She moved back to Japan in around 1990 and passed on in 1995. 

Little is thought about Katsura's adolescence in Japan. Katsura had three sisters and a sibling. Their dad kicked the bucket when Katsura was 12 years of age and she went to live with her more established sister and her sister's better half, Tomio Kobashi, who claimed a billiard parlor. By 13 she was investing energy in her brother by marriage pool room, and by 14 she was filling in as a billiard chaperon there. Kobashi was a fine player and educated Katsura the essentials of different carom billiards diversions. Katsura additionally had a billiard table at home, purchased by her family after she indicated extraordinary enthusiasm for the game. Katsura rehearsed tirelessly, and started going up against Japanese men and beating them. At only 15, Katsura won the ladies' title straight rail competition of Japan. "At that point I turned proficient and started visiting with a sister all over Japan, China and Formosa", said Katsura in a 1959 meeting. Katsura's two more youthful sisters, Noriko and Tadako, likewise won the ladies' straight rail title in different years. 

In 1937, Katsura met Kinrey Matsuyama, who had won Japan's national three-pad title on different occasions. Matsuyama was additionally U.S. national victor in 1934, sprinter up three different occasions and had four second-place completes in world challenge at 18.2 balkline preceding World War II. Matsuyama was inspired with Katsura and started showing her top dimension play. By 1947, Katsura was a since quite a while ago settled billiard star in Japan—the nation's solitary female expert player. 

Amid 1947 Katsura grabbed the attention of American serviceman Vernon Greenleaf (no connection to the pool and carom billiards champion Ralph Greenleaf), an ace sergeant in the U.S. Armed force's Quartermaster Corps who had been in the furnished administrations for a long time. Katsura and Greenleaf initially met in a Tokyo administration club where she was giving billiard displays. Greenleaf started taking exercises from Katsura and was immediately stricken with her. They were hitched on November 30, 1950, however never had any kids. 

At the season of their marriage Katsura as of now flaunted two second-place completes at Japan's national three-pad title; one from the year before their wedding. She asserted the sprinter up spot for a third time the time of her marriage. About that time she achieved the grandiose accomplishment of scoring 10,000 bordering focuses at straight rail in a display by the balls around the table multiple times over about  hours. She halted at 10,000 simply because it was a benchmark round number. In later years she said that her high keep running in three-pad billiards (number of focuses scored sequentially in a solitary inning) was 19. 

In 1951 Greenleaf was exchanged to a U.S. post from Haneda Air Base in Tokyo. He and Katsura, who talked minimal English, set sail for the United States on the USS Breckinridge, debarking in San Francisco toward the finish of December 1951, only a couple of months before the 1952 World Three-Cushion Billiards competition was planned to start in that city on March 6. Katsura had been restrictively welcome to play at the big showdown after Cochran, whose billiard parlor was facilitating the competition, had known about her brightness from Matsuyama. Cochran was a 8-time best on the planet having won the world crown at three-pad billiards in 1933, 1935, 1937, 1938, 1944 and 1945, and at 18.2 balkline, in 1927 and 1934. Cochran sent his child, W. R. (Dick) Cochran, a maritime officer positioned in Japan, to examine and got back a gleaming report that said (conceivably to Cochran's irritation), "this young lady is superior to anything you are!" Though the choice was at last in the hands of the Billiard Congress of America as competition support, they gave Cochran the choice to welcome her. 

After Katsura touched base in the U.S., she gave a private display for Cochran, who needed to ensure she was on a par with detailed before concluding the welcome. At that gathering she clicked off keeps running of 300 and 400 at straight rail, made in the expressions of Cochran "practically inconceivable shots" subsequent to changing to balkline, and demonstrated high fitness at three-pad, reliably scoring. Cochran made the welcome "last" and expressed: "She's the most sublime thing I at any point saw... She's at risk to beat anyone, even Willie Hoppe... I couldn't perceive any frail spots... She's going to give loads of those players fits." As a get ready for the challenge Katsura gave various billiard presentations amid February 1952. 

Katsura's investment in the 1952 World Three-Cushion Billiards title denoted the first occasion when that a lady had vied for any world billiards title. This was just ten years after Ruth McGinness turned into the main lady to have at any point been welcome to play in any men's expert billiard title (the New York State Championship of 1942). The guarding champion was the then 64-year-old globally eminent Willie Hoppe, who might resign soon thereafter with 51 world titles to his name somewhere in the range of 1906 and 1952 of every three types of carom billiards, three-pad, (four sub-orders of) balkline and pad caroms. Prior to the competition, theory had it that when Hoppe met Katsura in the title in the to 50 design, he would vanquish her with Katsura as yet requiring no less than 40. In the wake of seeing her play, Hoppe said "she has a fine stroke and can make shots with either hand. I anticipate playing with her." The open was intrigued by the oddity of a lady player. "Life" magazine revealed that "San Franciscans who did not know a signal from a cucumber packed in to see her... Katy ... stole the show." 

The 10 champions slated to play in the round robin group competition were Katsura, her tutor, Matsuyama, most loved and guarding champion Willie Hoppe, Mexican hero Joe Chamaco, Herb Hardt of Chicago, New York's Art Rubin, Los Angeles' Joe Procita, Ray Kilgore of San Francisco, Jay Bozeman of Vallejo and Binghamton's Irving Crane. The title between the invitees was to happen at Cochran's 924 Club, with 45 complete amusements to be played (every player to play each other once) over the 17-day competition finishing on March 22, 1952. The competition was accounted for to have "The best billiard field since before World War II". In front of the rest of the competition earned a $2,000 satchel (today $), in addition to thousands in presentation charges. Following behind to eight spots were prizes of $1,000, $700, $500, $350, $300, $250 and $250 individually. 

On the second day of the challenge, March 7, 1952, Katsura drew Irving Crane for her first match. They made a significant complexity as Crane was the tallest player at the competition, while Katsura was depicted by journalist Curley Grieve of the "San Francisco Examiner" as "so little and doll-like she resembles a puppet in her streaming, gold-glossy silk outfit." Crane's principle discipline was straight pool, at which he won various titles, including six world titles. The match was close, however Crane won 50 to 42 out of 57 . On March 10, Katsura vanquished Herb Hardt 50 to 42 out of 58 innings. Katsura was altogether behind at one point however included 15 of every five innings to lead the pack. On March 11, she lost to Chamaco, 50 to 35, yet the next day Katsura upset Procita 50– 43 of every 63 innings, with keeps running of six, five and four. "Observers shouted 'splendid' and 'thrilling' at a portion of her shots." 

On March 14, Katsura confronted the undefeated Hoppe, losing 50 to 31 of every 36 innings. In spite of the fact that Hoppe was a dear of people in general, the horde of in excess of 500 onlookers was plainly pulling for Katsura all through. The following day she confronted her tutor, Matsuyama, considered the contender with the absolute best at beating Hoppe. Matsuyama defeated his protégé with a nearby 50 to 48 complete in 51 innings. By the 21st inning Matsuyama held a 29– 21 lead. Katsura combat back, the score 43– 42 to support her by inning 33, yet Matsuyama ran three in the 46th inning, and Katsura couldn't close the hole. Coach and protégé alike posted high keeps running of six in the match 

On March 18 Katsura trounced Art Rubin 50– 28 out of 58 innings. in any case, was given a more regrettable annihilation in her next match on March 20, losing to Bozeman 50 to 18 of every 52 innings. In her keep going match on March 21, Katsura pulled off a 50– 46 win against Kilgore in 61 innings. This was the greatest vexed of the competition. Kilgore, the "Mammoth Killer", was the main player other than Matsuyama who was considered to have a battling chance at deposing Hoppe. Between this success and her prior success over Procita, Katsura had beaten the main two players in the competition that had won their matches against Hoppe. That night a different presentation coordinate among Katsura and Kilgore was highlighted on KRON-TV, with analysis given by Cochran. The following day the competition finished up with Hoppe rehashing as hero as he had so often previously. Katsura took seventh spot, in front of Procita at eighth spot, Chamaco at ninth and Rubin at tenth. Over her were Crane at 6th, Rubin at fifth, Kilgore at fourth, Bozeman at third and Matsuyama as sprinter up. 

Following the challenge, Jay Bozeman, said "We've thought that it was difficult to trust that a lady could really venture into the best billiard title on the planet and stand her ground. Miss Katsura is one of the best players I've looked in a world's competition, while Welker Cochran, five-time holder of the Billiards World Crown, anticipated: "Given another a few years of American challenge and she will be the title holder's... Masako has opened another field for ladies. Her quality has made the amusement alluring to ladies out of the blue. She has the intensity of a man and strokes perfectly. Her moves with the prompt ball are fabulous. All she needs is more understanding and she will be top notch." 

Not long after the 1952 title, Cochran declared he was leaving a seven-year retirement to play a display visit with Katsura. "A huge number of fans need to see this enchanting first woman of billiards" he stated, "presently some of them can." The team reviewed their visit with a three-day commitment at the Garden City Parlor in San Jose beginning on April 18, 1952. From that point, they arranged stops in Kansas City (May 2– 3); Chicago (May 5– 11); Detroit in mid-May; and on to provisional stops in Cleveland, Buffalo, Boston, Philadelphia, Dallas, San Diego, Los Angeles and Long Beach. The arrangement was to be a 100-point straight-rail coordinate, trailed by a 50-point three-pad diversion played under competition conditions with trap or "extravagant" shots to pursue. Katsura expressed before withdrawing: "I trust my visit will persuade ladies that billiards isn't just a man's amusement. Ladies can play similarly just as men." 

Billiards champion Tex Zimmerman (Cochran's accomplice in the 924 Club) and surely understood pool hawker Danny McGoorty took part in sorting out the visit. In planning, they played up Katsura's intrigue and her physical appeal. Tex Zimmerman's significant other sewed tight-fitting kimonos for Katsura, cut up the side, which she wore amid her presentations with high heels. Katsura was a modest lady, weighing somewhere in the range of 88 and 96 pounds. also, standing 5 feet tall—pretty much the stature of a standard prompt stick. McGoorty later considered: "Masako was adorable! She was thirty-nine years of age yet she looked twenty-nine. She bounced around that table on her high heels, giving the fans a little grin, and everyone cherished her." 

It was Katsura's playing capacity, however, as opposed to her different charms, that made her a marvel. At the point when Cochran came back from his visit with Katsura he told McGoorty, who was a world class player in his own right, "you will experience difficulty with her." When they at last got an opportunity to play, the match drew swarms. "They could have sold seats in the can!" McGoorty shouted. After the match, McGoorty affirmed Cochran's expectation: 

Various pre-booked stops on the visit experienced absence of participation. Cochran was mad about it. NEA sports editorial manager, Harry Grayson showed that the diversion was as a rule decay, and said that Cochran "follows the decrease of title and display pool to producers taking the stars off the finance amid the melancholy." In a past presentation visit by Cochran and Hoppe in 1945, they had sold out in 13 urban communities. Regardless of some dreary stops, upon her arrival to California, Katsura kept on playing presentation matches with the amusement's greats. Katsura and Kilgore put on seven days in length presentation in San Francisco in January 1953, where they wavered forward and backward. On January 12, Katsura beat Kilgore in their first match with keeps running of seven and ten, yet lost to him in their second. The absolute focuses scored by the two around then was 349 for Katsura to Kilgore's 379. 

Katsura began another presentation arrangement with Cochran at his club in February 1953 and, tuning up for the 1953 world competition, to begin on March 26, went on an across the nation visit with Willie Hoppe in the last piece of February 1953. The 30-day voyage through the northeastern U.S. included Chicago, Boston and different areas. Her significant other went with her to give interpretation. In their numerous day presentation coordinate in Chicago, it was accounted for in the middle that Katsura had obviously won just a single out of four matches against Hoppe, regularly pegged as the best player ever. 

With Hoppe resigned starting at 1952, there was energy over who might take the 1953 world three-pad crown, to be held in Chicago at the Chicago Town Club in the Sheraton Hotel. Eleven contenders were slated to play, numerous rehashes of the earlier year, including Chamaco, Katsura, Matsuyama, Bozeman, Kilgore, Procita and Rubin. New to the field were Harold Worst of Grand Rapids, Hollywood's John Fitzpatrick, Mel Lundberg of Minneapolis and Ezequiel Navarra of Argentina. Navarra was viewed as the most loved by specialists, having won titles that year in Cuba, Colombia, Peru and Argentina and having quite recently fallen off a presentation visit with Cochran in which Navarra found the middle value of a considerable 1.16, scoring 1,295 three-pads in 1,120 innings over the length of the visit. 

In Katsura's first match she crushed Lundberg 50– 44, in 71 innings. From there on she: lost to Matsuyama 50 to 37 out of 39 innings; lost to Rubin, 50– 37, in 52 innings; beat Fitzpatrick 50– 38 of every 50 innings, undefeated to that point; beat Chamaco 50 to 44, in 56 innings with a high keep running of eight; upset most loved Navarra 50 to 40 of every 43 innings; trailed by a misfortune to Kilgore, 50 to 41, in 42 innings; and a misfortune to Harold Worst 50 to 42, in 52 innings; yet then crushed Bozeman 50– 48 of every 60 innings in her last match. At the point when the residue had settled, Katsura imparted fifth spot to Matsuyama, each having won and lost five matches. The champ of the world crown was Kilgore with an eight-win, two-misfortune record. Navarra and Bozeman tied for second. 

After the 1953 title wrapped up, Katsura and Matsuyama gave a show together in Long Beach, California ("commercial at right"). The organization was 100 points at balkline, trailed by a race to 40 at three-pad and afterward a trap shot presentation. Katsura pounded her instructor, 100– 11 and 100– 3 at balkline, yet Matsuyama won both the three-pad matches, 40– 34 and 40– 39. This was Katsura and Matsuyama's last close association. Subsequent to coming back to Japan, Matsuyama endured a heart assault and kicked the bucket on December 20, 1953. He had plans to move to Honolulu with his family, become an American native, and buy a billiard parlor. His oldest child, Hideo, 18, was going to a San Francisco secondary school at the time. He was said to have shown the majority of Japan's top players, among which Katsura was the star understudy. 

Next, Katsura played a five-day, 600 point three-pad presentation arrangement with Ray Kilgore in San Francisco, March 12– 17, 1953. Toward the end Kilgore was the victor with a last score of 600 to 547. Kilgore stated: "She played extremely surprising billiards and I played a little over my head." The following week Katsura confronted Kilgore again in another display at Welker Cochran's room, beating him 50– 33 out of 45 innings. 

The 1954 World Three-Cushion competition was held in Buenos Aires with just 8 candidates: Katsura; Ray Miller of Jackson, Michigan; Harold Worst; Argentinian siblings Juan and Ezequiel Navarra; Welker Cochran, who had left retirement; Chamaco; and protecting boss, Kilgore. Of course, Katsura was the sole female contender. 

In her initially round she was triumphant over Miller, 60– 47 out of 76 innings, at that point beat Chamaco 60– 55, yet pursued with a misfortune to Ezequiel Navarra 60– 28 out of 48 innings. Katsura then beat his sibling, Juan Navarra, 60– 52 out of 77 innings in her last match to take fourth place generally speaking. On the most recent day Harold Worst and Ezequiel Navarra finished in an attach with a playoff to be held at first to 60, later raised to a 350 point group, even from a pessimistic standpoint at last won on October 25, 1954. 

Little was seen of Katsura for the following couple of years. She showed up in 1958 yet had been in "virtual retirement" for around five years. Amid this break the second of Katsura's two billiards guidance books turned out in Japan: 撞球上達法 (1956) ("Improve Your Billiards"). A prior groundwork, 撞球入門 ("Introduction to Billiards"), was distributed in 1952. In 1959 it was declared that Katsura and Harold Worst would contend in a multi week display match to 1,200 points, starting February 9 at Randolph Recreations in Chicago. Most exceedingly bad and Katsura moved their show to Philadelphia next where they played six matches at three-pad billiards to 50, and from that point went to display in New York. 

On March 1, 1959, Katsura showed up on CBS' mainstream primetime network show, "What's My Line?" The show was in the organization of a speculating diversion, in which a board endeavored to decide the line (occupation), or on account of an acclaimed "secret visitor", the personality of the challenger. After she marked in utilizing Japanese characters on a writing slate, show authorities recorded Katsura's occupation for the gathering of people as "Proficient Billiard Player (World's Women's Champion)". Specialist Arlene Francis was fruitful in speculating Katsura's occupation, however she conceded that she had found out about her yet said she had never observed her image. Soon thereafter Katsura showed up on ABC's "You Asked For It", going off camera of westerns to indicate how TV creations set up and taped a secured wagon moving over and smashing on prompt. She showed up again on "You Asked For It" in a November 25, 1960 communicate, this time working in her bailiwick, exhibiting trap shots for the camera. 

By 1961 and for a couple of years earlier, there was never again a sorted out world three-pad title. Likewise, Harold Worst, the dominant victor since 1954, issued a test match to Katsura to safeguard his title, with the match to happen March 13– 18 of that year at the Pantlind Hotel in Grand Rapids, Michigan, for a handbag of $2,000. The previous year Worst had issued a comparative title-guarding challenge to Joe Chamaco of Mexico, which likewise occurred in Grand Rapids at a similar scene. Most exceedingly bad even made fruitless lawful move to obstruct an Argentinian three-pad competition, charged as a "world title" occasion, that was planned to cover the dates of his title coordinate with Katsura. Most exceedingly terrible crushed Katsura in six out of seven matches, with all out three-pads scored between them, individually, of 350 and 276. In the interim, Chamaco asserted the world crown too, in the wake of winning the competition in Argentina. 

Little was gotten notification from Katsura for a long time after the 1961 big showdown. McGoorty mourned her retirement, expressing different speculations that he had heard bandied about in billiard circles, for example, that her significant other (who passed on in June 1967) shielded her from playing for different reasons. In 1976 Katsura showed up at Palace Billiards in San Francisco. She obtained a sign from somebody present and continued to run 100 at straight rail without issue. Productive pool and billiard creator Robert Byrne composed that after Katsura completed that 100-point run, "without a miss she grinned and bowed to the acclaiming swarm, venturing far from the spotlight, and vanished everlastingly from the American billiard stage." Katsura came back to Japan in or around 1990 to live with her sister, Noriko, where she said she wanted to experience her days. Katsura kicked the bucket in 1995. In September 2002 a commemoration competition for Katsura, charged as "Katsura Memorial: The First Ladies Three Cushion Grandprix", was held in Japan and circulated on SKY PerfecTV!