1867 Manhattan, Kansas seismic tremor 

The 1867 Manhattan seismic tremor struck Riley County, Kansas, in the United States on April 24, 1867 at 20:22 UTC, or about . The most grounded quake to start in the state, it quantified 5.1 on a seismic scale that depends on an isoseismal map or the occasion's felt zone. The quake's epicenter was close to the town of Manhattan. 

The tremor had a most extreme seen force of VII ("Very solid") on the Mercalli power scale. It caused minor harm, reports of which were bound to Kansas, Iowa, and Missouri, as indicated by the United States Geological Survey. Felt over a region of , the tremor achieved the conditions of Indiana, Illinois, and potentially Ohio, however the last reports have been addressed. 

Manhattan is close to the Nemaha Ridge, a long anticline structure that is limited by a few deficiencies. The close-by specifically represents a danger to the city. Kansas isn't known for tremor movement, yet a seismic tremor could happen whenever. A 2016 peril map from the United States Geological Survey evaluated a 1% or lower chance for a noteworthy seismic tremor in Kansas for the next year, however researchers from the office think a quake of size 7.0 stays conceivable. 

The tremor's epicenter was close Manhattan, Kansas, a town simply off the intersection of the Kansas River and the . Manhattan lies close to the Nemaha Ridge, an anticline and 300‑million-year-old Precambrian stone territory limited by deficiencies, which likely created the tremor. It has the , which, notwithstanding filling in as the range's easternmost limit, has created a huge segment of the state's tremors. A typical, or plunge slip blame, it is in charge of something like a few little tremors littler than extent 2.7 every year. The blame slices through Permian shake. Regardless of being recently thought to be a basic, Precambrian structure, as indicated by the Geological Society of America, it might be a perplexing deficiency. 

The Nemaha Range lies generally east of the Midcontinent crack, which shapes a layer of basaltic shake about 1.1 billion years old. This break stretches out northward to Lake Superior and the encompassing territory and southward to Kansas, at that point ends unexpectedly. Additionally present in the state is the Central Kansas Uplift, the issues of which created a few little seismic tremors amid the late 1980s. As per United States Geological Survey geophysicist Don Steeples, tremors at the Humboldt Zone have diminished, and action at the Uplift was expanding as of the 1980s. 

Felt over a region of , with different sources posting the felt territory as or , the 1867 quake pursued the Midcontinent seismic pattern: in contrast to seaside tremors in the United States, occasions in the focal and east-focal parts of the nation are spread out over broad zones. This happens because of the area's solid soil, and in light of the fact that seismic tremors in Kansas will in general happen at a shallow profundity. The 1867 Manhattan seismic tremor remains the biggest quake to start in the state, however something like 25 have occurred since, including another incredible tremor north of Manhattan in Pottawatomie County. In 2016, a size 5.1 seismic tremor with an epicenter in Oklahoma shook the Manhattan zone. As per a report in the "Notice of the Seismological Society of America", the recurrence of decently solid quakes inside the state is somewhere in the range of 40 and 45 years. One investigation found that between December 1977 and June 1989, in excess of 100 quakes were perceived by a seismograph organize. All were somewhere in the range of 4.0 and 0.8 on the Richter size scale. 

Starting at 20:22 UTC, or around 2:30 neighborhood time, the quake was doled out a greatest Mercalli force size of VII, considered "solid". Minor harm happened all through the geological area, incorporating 22 regions in Kansas, and wounds were accounted for too. The quake cracked dividers, brought down stacks, and generally harmed structures, notwithstanding releasing stones. Inside the epicentral zone close Manhattan, timekeepers ceased, individuals felt electrical stuns and occupants were terrified. The next day, a post-quake tremor happened somewhere in the range of 3 and 4 a.m. Harm inside Manhattan and various different networks may have been exacerbated by their area inside alluvial valleys. 

At a homestead south of the city of Wamego, the seismic tremor caused liquefaction of the ground. Toward the north of Wamego, in the city of Louisville, the quake thumped over steeds. In both Louisville and the city of Leavenworth, fireplaces fell; in Paola, the quake pulverized one mass of an extensive Republican paper place of business. Waves were seen on the Kansas River, coming to in stature. The city of Atchison felt two stuns, which felled lights and jugs at a medication store, shook structures, and disturbed water stream in waterways and brooks. In spite of the fact that no structures in the city supported harm, individuals fled into the roads. 

In Emporia, the quake was joined by a low thundering sound, windows shook, and little boxes were lost of racks as individuals fled structures. The city's block and stone houses continued more harm than encircled homes. The city of Fort Scott just experienced trembling, while Iola had houses and silverware shake. In Holton, things were knocked off racks, and structures shook. Inhabitants of Irving likewise heard thundering before the quake, encountering serious tremors that endured 30 seconds, while structures in Junction City shook savagely, moving a few inches. In Kansas City, tables moved, dividers split, water spilled from glasses, mortar broke, and the shaking caused general frenzy. 

The city of Lawrence felt three seismic tremors inside 30 seconds, with rough shaking of entryways and windows, broken mortar, a thundering clamor, stones knocked off a nearby church, rattling of flatware and crystal, and the upsetting of a stove in one home. Likewise, in the city of Leavenworth, three stuns were felt more than 30 seconds. In Leavenworth, a man was knocked off a hayload, a thundering commotion was heard, and timekeepers ceased. Additionally, saws inclining toward dividers were moved , mortar at one home broke for the whole length of the house's roof, and one lady encountered an electrical stun from spring water. In the city of Lecompton, one of the structures at Lane University shook, and a secondary school in the city of Marysville additionally shook brutally. 

Inside Montgomery County, individuals in moving vehicles did not feel the seismic tremor. Houses shook in Mound City, Ottawa, and Olathe, just as in the city of Oskaloosa, where the vault (a moderately little, regularly arch like, tall structure) of another school wobbled. In Paola, individuals standing were almost thumped over amid the tremor. A train on the Pacific Railroad in Solomon shook savagely, and was ceased and cleared out of dread that its evaporator would detonate. In Topeka, the capital city of Kansas, the roof of a Methodist church was twisted, and almost the majority of the windows in a single school building were decimated. Two stuns were felt in the city of White Cloud, and dozing individuals were stirred in . 

Reports from the conditions of Iowa and Missouri, including depictions of fallen mortar in Dubuque, shaking of structures and individuals in recliners in Des Moines, and fallen and split mortar in Chillicothe, compliment extra reports of fallen mortar and rooftop shingles, harmed wells, and broke dividers. Different occasions revealed in Dubuque included three stuns, which caused vibration of gas burners; general frenzy among inhabitants; rattling of windows; shaking of seats, cases holding papers, and windows; and openings in block dividers. In the city of St. Joseph in Missouri, the windows broke, ladies swooned, and a thundering clamor could be heard. Inside the city, another school building's block dividers split a few feet over the ground as individuals fled into the boulevards. In Warrensburg, Missouri, the dividers of a congregation shook, however there was no harm. The seismic tremor additionally reached out into the conditions of Indiana and Illinois, as indicated by the , and a flawed report originated from Carthage in Ohio that a fragment of the ground, in zone, sunk by , shaping an opposite divider profound on every one of its sides. 

A progression of articles distributed by the "Chicago Tribune" depicts the degree of the harm all through the province of Kansas. The article "At Kansas City" subtleties that the tremor shocked homes with an unexpected burst, radiating a reverberating thunder like thunder. The "Tribune" saw in its article "At Leavenworth, Kansas" that the tremor was totally unforeseen, depicting the occasion as "[...] unexpected in its coming and flight." It affirmed that quakes were not basic in prior occasions and expressed that "all were pretty much alarmed, and, to be sure, scared." 

In spite of the fact that Kansas isn't seismically dynamic, a solid quake could present huge dangers to the state. On the off chance that a quake were to happen, it would probably be along the Nemaha Ridge, which is as yet dynamic. The Humboldt Fault Zone, simply off the Ridge, lies only east of the close Manhattan. A seismic tremor there would probably crush the dam, discharging of water every second and flooding the adjacent region, which would compromise approximately 13,000 individuals and 5,900 homes. The United States Army Corps of Engineers reasoned that a moderate tremor "somewhere in the range of 5.7 and 6.6 would make sand underneath the dam condense into a sand trap, making the dam spread out and the top to drop up to three feet." A huge quake would bring forth holes, driving water to spill and in the long run reason the dam to crumple. Seismic tremors that could represent a danger to the dam happen on a cycle of about 1,800 years. To counter this danger, the Corps of Engineers has aroused a push to fortify the dam. Supplanting the sand (which could move amid a tremor) with in excess of 350 dividers, the gathering has outfitted the dam with sensors, which are associated with cautions that would alarm adjacent residents to the seismic tremor. 

In excess of 500 quakes have been estimated in the state since 2013, adding to the reactivation of old blame lines. In 2016, the United States Geological Survey made danger maps for the state, deciding a 1% or lower danger of a noteworthy tremor inside the following year. Since Sedgwick and Wichita provinces could both possibly experience shaking from seismic tremors that couldn't be withstood by existing construction standards, authorities in the territory proposed changing building regulations to meet apparent dangers. Researchers at the United States Geological Survey think a seismic tremor with a greatness of 7.0 stays conceivable, potentially beginning from the Nemaha Ridge where the Manhattan shake was created.