Xixiasaurus 

Xixiasaurus () is a class of troodontid dinosaur that lived amid the Late Cretaceous Period in what is presently China. The main realized example was found in Xixia County, Henan Province, in focal China, and turned into the holotype of the new class and species Xixiasaurus henanensis in 2010. The names allude to the regions of revelation, and can be deciphered as "Henan Xixia reptile". The example comprises of a practically total skull (with the exception of the rearmost segment), some portion of the lower jaw, and teeth, just as a fractional right forelimb. 

"Xixiasaurus" is assessed to have been long and to have weighed . As a troodontid, it would have been fledgling like and gently worked, with getting a handle on hands and a broadened sickle-molded paw on the second toe. Its skull was long, with a long, low nose that framed a decreasing U-shape when seen from beneath. The of the temple was arch like in side view, which shows it had an extended . It contrasted from different troodontids in that the front of the of the drop jaw was down-turned. Not at all like in many troodontids, the teeth of "Xixiasaurus" did not have ; rather, their (front and back edges) were smooth and sharp. It was unmistakable among troodontids in having 22 teeth in each (in other genera the maxillary tooth tally was either higher or lower). 

The exact connections of "Xixiasaurus" with different troodontids are unsure, yet it had a few likenesses with "Byronosaurus". Despite the fact that troodontids with unserrated teeth were once thought to shape a clade, the ordered noteworthiness of this component has been addressed. Troodontids had expansive cerebrums, sharp detects, and were most likely dexterous. There has been banter about their eating regimen, with certain specialists contending that they were meat eating, and others that they were omnivorous or herbivorous. The absence of serrated teeth in "Xixiasaurus" and some different troodontids demonstrates these were herbivorous, as they had lost the capacity to cut meat. "Xixiasaurus" is known from the Majiacun Formation, the precise period of which is unsure. These sedimentary rocks were kept by meshed streams and wandering streams, and are noted for containing plentiful dinosaur eggs. 

The holotype example (classified as HGM 41HIII−0201 in Henan Geological Museum, Zhengzhou) was found close Songgou Village, which is in the upper east district of Xixia County, in Henan Province of focal China. This territory of the Xixia Basin uncovered the Majiacun Formation. In 2010, the example was depicted as the new family and species "Xixiasaurus henanensis" by the scientist Lü Junchang and associates. The nonexclusive name alludes to Xixia County combined with "saurus", signifying "reptile", while the particular name alludes to Henan Province. The full name can be interpreted as "Henan Xixia reptile". Stays of troodontids are uncommon contrasted with those of other little theropod dinosaurs (just thirteen troodontid taxa were known at the time "Xixiasaurus" was named), and have mostly been found in Asia. 

The holotype example is the main known "Xixiasaurus" fossil, and comprises of a practically total skull aside from the rearmost segment, just as an incomplete right forelimb. The association between the (temple bone) and (bone running at the upper length of the nose) bones is uprooted, and part of the is missing. The greater part of the nose is saved, with the of the correct side being all around protected. Just the front piece of the left (tooth-bearing bone of the mandible) and a portion of its broken teeth are saved. In spite of the fact that few teeth are absent from the two jaws, their unique number can be resolved in the upper jaw, since their attachments there are safeguarded. The forelimb (of which every safeguarded part are ) comprises of the center piece of the and (bones of the lower arm), the furthest point of the second and third (hand bones), the total first finger, and the first of the second finger. In 2014, the scientist Takanobu Tsuihiji and associates expressed that a bone Lü and partners had initially distinguished as the (some portion of the ) of "Xixiasaurus" was rather part of the or (the primary bones of the upper jaw), in view of examination with the vomer of the more total troodontid "Gobivenator". 

"Xixiasaurus" is evaluated to have been around long, and to have weighed about . Since the nasal bones of the holotype example were not combined, it might not have been a develop person. As a troodontid maniraptoran, it would have been winged animal like, softly worked, with raptorial (getting a handle on) hands and an amplified sickle-formed paw on the hyper-extendible second toe. Fossils of different troodontids, for example, "Jianianhualong", demonstrate that individuals from the gathering were canvassed in pennaceous plumes, with long quills on the arms and legs, and frond-like feathering on the tail (like the avialan "Archaeopteryx"). 

The skull of "Xixiasaurus" was long, like that of "Byronosaurus" by and large, and the nose was particularly long and low. The premaxillae were not combined to one another, and bore a couple of little pits on their side surfaces. At the point when seen from beneath, the front edge of the upper jaw framed a decreasing U-shape, unmistakable from the shape in different troodontids; the U-shape decreased less in "Byronosaurus" and was prolonged in "Sinornithoides", for instance. Seen from over, the nasal procedures that all-encompassing hindwards from the premaxillae were wedged between the premaxillary procedures of the nasal bones, which broadened advances. The nasal procedure of the premaxilla finished at the dimension of the rear edge of the outside (hard nostril), and was quadrangular in cross-segment as opposed to triangular, as in "Byronosaurus". The nasal procedure of the premaxilla shaped the upper rear corner of the narial opening, and "Xixiasaurus" was unmistakable in having an opening as an afterthought surface at the base of the nasal procedure. The suture between the premaxilla and maxilla bended upwards from the front of the nose, and rectified under the narial opening when seen from the side. The maxillary procedure of the premaxilla decreased hindwards and wedged between a little advances broadened procedure of the maxilla and the primary piece of that bone. The maxilla was kept from being a piece of the edge of the narial opening by the maxillary procedure. The maxillary procedure of the premaxilla stretched out hindwards to a similar dimension as the nasal procedure. Due to not being melded, the premaxillae had a crevice along their lower midline. There were two little openings (associated with one another by a shallow section) close to the base of the third and fourth premaxillary teeth, however none close to the first and second. 

The maxilla was any longer than high, framing the vast majority of the skull's side surface, and to the front, a large portion of the lower edge of the narial opening. The narial opening was generally oval, with its long pivot (the longest stretch from its front to the back) being parallel with the lower edge of the maxilla. The side surface of the maxilla underneath the narial opening was secured with little pits and foramina (openings), as in "Byronosaurus", and the line of these was simply above and parallel to the edge of the tooth-push. The side surface of the maxilla had three huge, prolonged openings, called the foremost, maxillary, and . The foremost fenestra seems to have been totally encased by the maxilla, and there were two lines of little pits underneath it. The back of the maxillary fenestra had a hard divider called the interfenestral bar, which isolated it from the antorbital fenestra, as in "Byronosaurus". The antorbital fenestra (the biggest of the three openings, situated before the circle) was rectangular in side view, and the piece of the maxilla beneath it was low and did not have little foramina, in contrast to the front part. The maxillary teeth were set along the greater part of the lower edge of the antorbital fenestra. On the lower side, the maxilla framed a broad inside rack which added to a substantial (which isolated the nasal aviation routes from the mouth), broadening in reverse from the contact with the premaxilla. The front piece of the palatal rack had three little openings, and there was a line of (which enabled blood to supply the bone with supplements) in a section simply above and parallel to the tooth push edge. 

The nasal bones were extended, long and wide. They were not intertwined, and secured the highest point of the (nose) for the vast majority of their length. At the front, the nasal shaped the limit at the lower back of the narial opening. The nasal inclined downwards at the front, though it straightened hindwards. The frontal bones were long, and were not combined. Every frontal was triangular when seen from above, and as in different troodontids, the frontals were largest at the point where they reached the (bone behind the eye attachment). The frontal was covered by the nasal and (bone before the eye attachment) at the center front, and its frontmost part reached the rear end of the nasal. Seen from the side, the rear piece of the frontal was arch like, which shows that "Xixiasaurus" had a developed braincase. The edge of the (eye attachment) was raised, with frail scores along the edges. The lacrimal bone was T-molded in side view; its front procedure was extremely long and achieved the rear edge of the antorbital fenestra, shaping the majority of the last's upper rear fringe, as in "Byronosaurus". 

It varied from different troodontids in that the front end of the dentary of the lower jaw was downturned, like what is seen in therizinosaurian theropods. (The zone where the two parts of the mandible associated at the front) was short, and this locale was marginally bended towards the center. Two columns of foramina kept running along the external side of the dentary, just underneath the initial seven dentary teeth (just a single of the lines proceeded hindwards past the seventh of these teeth). The foramina lay in a score, which is an unmistakable element of troodontids, while the internal surface of the dentary was smooth. A limited, profound kept running at the inward side of the dentary, simply over its lower edge, towards the front of the mandibular symphysis. Simply behind the symphysis and underneath the Meckelian groove, an unmistakable foramen was available, like the condition in "Urbacodon". On the external side of the dentary, at the dimension of the Meckelian groove, there was a shallow score with stretched pits. 

Not at all like most troodontids, "Xixiasaurus" did not have on its teeth, and their (front and back edges) were rather smooth and sharp, as in "Byronosaurus". "Xixiasaurus" had four firmly pressed teeth in each premaxilla, as in most different theropods, with generally oval (tooth-attachments). The premaxillary teeth were littler than the rearmost teeth of the maxilla. There was an unmistakable choking between the crown and foundation of the premaxillary and frontmost ten maxillary teeth. The inward surfaces of the premaxillary tooth crowns were curved and the external surfaces were fairly sunken, which made a D-shape when seen in cross-area, an element imparted to a couple of different troodontids. It was unmistakable among troodontids in having 22 teeth in every maxilla (however not all teeth were saved in the holotype, their number can be resolved from the alveoli); other genera had either a higher or lower maxillary tooth check than "Xixiasaurus". The initial seven maxillary teeth were firmly pressed and a lot littler than those further back, and had particular choking influences between their crowns and roots. The external surfaces of the crowns had unmistakable furrows near the carinae, like "Urbacodon". The teeth bended in reverse and were compacted from side to side, and the bases of the crowns were less extended behind the tenth maxillary tooth. As in "Byronosaurus", the maxillary teeth were (separated), with the fifteenth tooth being biggest. 

The sweep bone of the lower arm was a lot more slender than the ulna. The third metacarpal was more slender than the second, and their peripheral edges were at a similar dimension, which demonstrates these two metacarpals were equivalent long. The paw of the main finger was sharp, and had a huge flexor tubercle (where a ligament was embedded). The principal phalanx of the primary finger was long, and the main phalanx of the second was . 

Lü and associates doled out "Xixiasaurus" to the family Troodontidae dependent on its high tooth-check, tightening between the crowns and underlying foundations of the teeth, close pressing of teeth close to the tip of the dentary, and unmistakable notch for the neurovascular foramina on the dentary. They discovered "Xixiasaurus" to be most firmly identified with "Byronosaurus" of Mongolia, and recommended the two may have shaped a clade with "Urbacodon" from Uzbekistan comprising of troodontids with unserrated teeth, which emanated crosswise over Asia (while taking note of that serrations had been lost autonomously in various gatherings of theropods). A 2012 phylogenetic examination by the scientist Alan H. Turner and partners rather discovered "Xixiasaurus" to have a place in a clade with "Sinovenator" and "Mei" (both likewise from China), because of sharing a maxillary procedure of the premaxilla that isolated the maxilla from the nasal behind the narial opening. In 2016, the scientistss Alexander Averianov and Hans-Dieter Sues did not recognize a clade framed of troodontids with unserrated teeth, however observed them to be progressive sister taxa to an increasingly inferred (or "propelled") clade of troodontids with serrated teeth. They recommended that the D-formed cross-segment of the premaxillary teeth could be one conceivable element joining "Xixiasaurus", "Byronosaurus", and "Urbacodon". 

The accompanying cladogram demonstrates the situation of "Xixiasaurus" inside Troodotidae as indicated by a 2017 investigation by the scientist Caizhi Shen and associates: 

Troodontids have mostly been found in the northern side of the equator, to a great extent limited to Asia and North America. They seem to have achieved their most noteworthy assorted variety amid the Campanian phase of the Late Cretaceous in Asia. Troodontids most likely began in Asia, and if genera, for example, "Anchiornis" are viewed as a component of the family, it would have developed by the Early Jurassic. Troodontids are gathered in the clade Paraves, alongside dromaeosaurids and feathered creatures. Troodontids and dromaeosaurids have likewise been assembled together in the clade Deinonychosauria, in view of the common sickle-paw on their hyper-extendible second toe, yet a few examinations have observed troodontids to be more firmly identified with feathered creatures than to dromaeosaurids. 

Troodontids had probably the most astounding encephalization remainders (a proportion of the proportion between real mind estimate and the cerebrum measure anticipated from body measure) among non-avian dinosaurs. As proposed by their extensive eye-attachments and all around created center ears, they seem to have had sharp detects. They additionally had proportionately long legs, which shows they were light-footed. Because of their extensive minds, conceivable stereoscopic vision, getting a handle on hands, and expanded sickle-hooks, troodontids were commonly accepted to have been savage. In 1998, the scientist Thomas R. Holtz and associates brought up that the serrations on the teeth of troodontids were not the same as those of run of the mill, savage theropods in their expansive size and wide separating, which is like the condition in herbivorous dinosaurs (counting therizinosaurid theropods) and reptiles instead of predatory dinosaurs. They proposed that this distinction in coarseness might be identified with the size and opposition of plant and meat filaments, and that troodontids may have been herbivorous or omnivorous. They additionally called attention to that a few highlights that had been translated as savage adjustments in troodontids were likewise found in herbivorous and omnivorous creatures, for example, primates and raccoons. 

In 2001, the scientistss Philip J. Currie and Dong Zhiming rejected that troodontids could have been herbivorous. They expressed that troodontid life systems was predictable with a meat eating way of life, and called attention to that the structure of their serrations was very little not quite the same as those of different theropods. They noticed that troodontid highlights, for example, forcefully pointed serrations that bended up towards the tip of the teeth, well sharpened sharp veneer between the serrations, and at the bases, were not seen in herbivorous dinosaurs, which had more straightforward, cone molded serrations. Lü and associates talked about the past investigations of troodontid diet, and proposed that the loss of serrations in the teeth of "Xixiasaurus" and some different troodontids was identified with an adjustment in their eating routine. Since the teeth would seem to have lost their ordinary capacity to cut meat, in any event these trodontids may in this manner have been either herbivorous or omnivorous. In 2015, the scientist Christophe Hendrickx and partners recommended that basal (or "crude") troodontids with unserrated teeth were herbivorous, while increasingly determined troodontids with serrated teeth were meat eating or omnivorous. 

"Xixiasaurus" is known from the mid-lower some portion of the Majiacun Formation of China, which dates to the Late Cretaceous time frame, yet there has been difference about the accurate topographical age of the development. Lü and partners recommended the development dated to the Campanian age, in view of the closeness among "Xixiasaurus" and the Campanian class "Byronosaurus". A Cenomanian to Turonian age for the development had before been proposed dependent on spores, dust, and dinosaur eggs; a Coniacian to Santonian age has been recommended also, and Coniacian to Campanian or Santonian to Maastrichtian ages have been recommended dependent on bivalve fossils. A few investigations have additionally proposed that the arrangement is as old as Early Cretaceous. The Majiacun Formation is spoken to by a thick layer of darker and red sandstones, with muddier interims of purple to green, or darker to red. The lower and center units of the arrangement are made out of sandstone, siltstone, and mudstone. Eggs and eggshells are regularly found in the sloppy siltstones. 

The arrangements of the Xixia Basin are believed to be of mainland starting point (because of the nonattendance of marine fossils), most likely saved by waterways and inside lakes. The Majiacun Formation itself is translated as speaking to stores of plaited streams and wandering streams. The arrangement was a piece of the Yunmeng Lake waste framework amid the Late Cretaceous. The palaeoclimate of the Xixia bowl is construed to have been subtropical, sub-sticky to sub-dry, in light of the prevalence of C3 plants recognized in the eating regimen of the dinosaurs there (decided through isotopic investigation of egg shells). Different dinosaurs from the development incorporate the alvarezsaurid "Xixianykus", the hadrosauroid "Zhanghenglong", an anonymous spinosaurid, ankylosaurid, and sauropods. The revelation of copious and assorted dinosaur eggs in Henan Province has been considered "one of the critical logical occasions" in China. Dinosaur ootaxa (taxa dependent on eggs) from the Formation incorporate "Ovaloolithus", "Paraspheroolithus", "Placoolithus", "Dendroolithus", "Prismatoolithus", "Youngoolithus", and "Nanhiungoolithus". Reptiles incorporate turtles and crocodilians. Spineless creatures incorporate the bivalves "Plicatounio" and "Sphaerium" and the shellfish shrimp "Tylestheria" (invertebrate follow fossils are likewise known). Spores of plants, for example, "Schizaeoisporites", "Cicatruicosisporites", "Lygodiumsporites", "Cyathidites", "Osmundacidites", and "Pagiophyllumpollenites" have likewise been recognized.