Rogers Hornsby 

Rogers Hornsby, Sr. (April 27, 1896 – January 5, 1963), nicknamed "The Rajah", was an American baseball infielder, chief, and mentor who played 23 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB). He played for the St. Louis Cardinals (1915– 1926, 1933), New York Giants (1927), Boston Braves (1928), Chicago Cubs (1929– 1932), and St. Louis Browns (1933– 1937). He was named the National League (NL's) Most Valuable Player (MVP) twice, and was an individual from one World Series title group. 

Brought up in Winters, Texas, Hornsby played for a few semi-expert and small time groups. In 1915, he started his significant class vocation with the St. Louis Cardinals and stayed with the group for 12 seasons. Amid this period, Hornsby won his first MVP Award and the Cardinals won the 1926 World Series. After that season, he went through one season with the New York Giants and another with the Boston Braves before being exchanged to the Chicago Cubs. He played with the Cubs for a long time and won his second MVP Award before the group discharged him in 1932. Hornsby re-marked with the Cardinals in 1933, yet was discharged halfway through the season and was grabbed by the St. Louis Browns. He stayed there until his last season in 1937. From 1925 to 1937, Hornsby was discontinuously his very own supervisor. In the wake of resigning as a player, he dealt with the Browns in 1952 and the Cincinnati Reds from 1952 to 1953. 

Hornsby is viewed as a standout amongst the best hitters ever. He had 2,930 hits and 301 home keeps running in his vocation; his profession batting normal of .358 is second just to Ty Cobb, at .367, in MLB history. He likewise won two Triple Crowns and batted .at least 400 three times amid his vocation. He is the main player to hit 40 homers and bat .400 around the same time (1922). His batting normal for the 1924 season was .424, an imprint that no player has coordinated since. He was chosen to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1942 and the St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame in 2014. 

Hornsby wedded multiple times, in 1918, 1924, and 1957, and had two kids. 

Known as somebody who was hard to coexist with, he was not all around enjoyed by his kindred players. He never smoked, drank, or headed out to the motion pictures, however every now and again bet on steed races amid his vocation. 

Hornsby was conceived in Winters, Texas, the remainder of Ed and Mary (Rogers) Hornsby's six kids. At the point when Hornsby was two years of age, his dad kicked the bucket of obscure causes. After four years, the enduring Hornsbys moved to Fort Worth, Texas, so Hornsby's siblings could land positions in the meat pressing industry to help the family. 

Hornsby began playing baseball at a youthful age; he once stated, "I can't recollect that anything that occurred before I had a baseball in my grasp." He accepted a position with the Swift and Company meat industry plant as a delegate kid when he was 10 years of age, and he additionally filled in as a substitute infielder on its baseball crew. By the age of 15, Hornsby was at that point playing for a few semi-proficient groups. He additionally played baseball for North Side High School until tenth grade, when he dropped out to take an all day work at Swift and Company. While he was in secondary school, Hornsby additionally played on the football crew, close by future College Football Hall of Famer Bo McMillin. 

In 1914, Hornsby's more seasoned sibling Everett, a small time baseball player for a long time, organized Rogers to get a tryout with the Texas League's Dallas Steers. He made the group, yet did not play in any amusements for the Steers; he was discharged after just two weeks. Following his rejection, he marked with the Hugo Scouts of the Class D Texas– Oklahoma League as their shortstop for $75 every month ($ today). The Scouts left business 33% of the path through the season, and Hornsby's agreement was sold to the Denison Champions of a similar class for $125 ($ today). With the two groups in 1914, Hornsby batted .232 and submitted 45 errors in 113 games. 

The Denison group changed its name to the Denison Railroaders and joined the Western Association in 1915. They raised Hornsby's pay to $90 every month ($ today). Hornsby's normal improved that season to .277 in 119 games, yet he made 58 errors. Regardless, his commitments helped the Railroaders win the Western Association flag. Toward the finish of the period, an author from "The Sporting News" said that Hornsby was one of around twelve Western Association players to demonstrate any real alliance potential. 

Hornsby went to the consideration of the St. Louis Cardinals amid a presentation arrangement between that group and the Railroaders in spring preparing in 1915. Cardinals' administrator Miller Huggins told his solitary scout, Bob Connery, to search for small time players to fill the list of their monetarily battling group. In September, the Cardinals bought Hornsby's agreement from Denison and added him to their significant association program, in spite of the fact that his solitary expert baseball experience had been in Class D. Hornsby's first amusement went ahead September 10, when he assuaged Art Butler at shortstop in a 7– 1 misfortune to the Cincinnati Reds. After three days he began an amusement, and he got his originally hit the following day against Rube Marquard of the Brooklyn Robins. Hornsby completed the season with a .246 average in 57 at-bats while the Cardinals completed in 6th spot in the National League (NL). At just 19 years of age, Hornsby was the fourth-most youthful player in the NL that year. 

The Cardinals got Roy Corhan from the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League to play at shortstop in 1916, making Hornsby one of three contender for the position. Hornsby's extraordinary execution in spring preparing, shoulder damage to Corhan, and poor hitting by Butler implied Hornsby was the beginning shortstop on Opening Day. He had the two runs batted in (RBIs) in the Cardinals' 2– 1 triumph over the Pittsburgh Pirates that day. On May 14, he hit his first significant class grand slam against Jeff Pfeffer of Brooklyn. He pivoted among infield positions before at long last settling in at third base for a great part of the second 50% of the year. Late in the season, he missed 11 games with a sprained lower leg. He completed 1916 with a .313 average, fourth in the NL, and he was one shy of the association lead in triples with 15. 

Hornsby came back to the shortstop position in 1917 after Corhan came back to San Francisco and Butler was discharged. In the wake of playing about each amusement all through the primary month of the period, Hornsby was summoned from the group on May 29 after his sibling William was shot and killed in a cantina. Rogers went to the memorial service on June 1 and came back to the Cardinals on June 3, completing the season without missing any all the more playing time. His batting measurements improved from the past season; his .327 batting normal was second in the class, and he drove the alliance in triples (17), all out bases (253), and slugging rate (.484). 

Numerous baseball players were drafted to battle in World War I in 1918, however Hornsby was given a draft delay since he was supporting his family. Amid the offseason, Miller Huggins, discontent with the Cardinals' administration, left the group to deal with the New York Yankees. He was supplanted by Jack Hendricks, who had dealt with the Indianapolis Indians to a flag in the American Association the earlier year. Hornsby needed trust in Hendricks' capacity to run the Cardinals, and the two men created ill will towards one another because of Hornsby's developing narcissism and affection for previous supervisor Huggins. Under Hendricks, Hornsby's batting normal plunged to .281. He had issues off the field as well; on June 17, Hornsby hit St. Louis inhabitant Frank G. Rowe with his Buick when Rowe ventured out before traffic to cross a convergence. Rowe sued Hornsby for $15,000 ($ today), yet Hornsby in the end made due with a littler, undisclosed sum, and the case was rejected. He was still among the association chiefs in triples and slugging rate in 1918, however after the season finished with the Cardinals in last spot, he reported that he could never play under Hendricks again. In part because of Hornsby's objections, Hendricks was terminated after the season and supplanted by Branch Rickey, at that point leader of the Cardinals. 

In 1919, after the Cardinals procured shortstop Doc Lavan, Rickey took a stab at changing over Hornsby into a second baseman in spring preparing. Hornsby played third base for the vast majority of the year. His batting normal was low toward the start of the period yet improved by June. At season's end, his normal of .318 was second-most noteworthy in the alliance, and he additionally completed second in absolute bases and runs batted in. 

In 1920, Rickey moved Hornsby to a respectable halfway point, where he stayed for the remainder of his vocation. He began the year with a 14-amusement hitting streak. On June 4, he had two triples and two RBIs as the Cardinals crushed the Chicago Cubs 5– 1, an amusement that finished future Hall of Famer Grover Cleveland Alexander's 11-diversion series of wins. Hornsby completed the season with the first of seven batting titles by hitting .370, and he additionally drove the alliance in on-base rate (.431), slugging rate (.559), hits (218), absolute bases (329), pairs (44), and RBIs (94). 

The start of the live-ball time prompted a spike in hitting profitability all through the majors, which encouraged Hornsby to hit with expanded power amid the 1921 season. He hit .397 of every 1921, and his 21 home runs were second in the class, more than twice his aggregate in any past season. He additionally drove the association in on-base rate (.458), slugging rate (.639), runs scored (131), RBIs (126), copies (44), and triples (18). The Cardinals held an exceptional day in Hornsby's respect on September 30 before a home amusement against the Pittsburgh Pirates, and they gave Hornsby different honors before the diversion, including a baseball signed by President of the United States Warren G. Harding. The Cardinals beat the Pirates 12– 4 that day as Hornsby hit a grand slam and had two copies. 

By the 1922 season, Hornsby was viewed as a major star, having driven the class in batting normal, hits, copies, and runs batted in various occasions. Thus, he looked for a three-year contract for $25,000 per season. In the wake of consulting with Cardinals the board, he made due with a three-year, $18,500 contract ($ today), which made him the most generously compensated player allied history to that point. On August 5, Hornsby set another NL record when he hit his 28th grand slam of the period off of Jimmy Ring of the Philadelphia Phillies. From August 13 through September 19, he had a 33-diversion hitting streak. Hornsby set National League records in 1922 with 42 home runs, 250 hits and a .722 slugging rate (still the most noteworthy ever for players with 600+ at-bats). His .401 batting normal was the most noteworthy in the National League since 1897. He won the first of his two Triple Crowns that year, and he drove the association in RBIs (152), on-base rate (.459), pairs (46), and runs scored (141). His 450 total bases in 1922 remain the National League single-season record. On resistance, Hornsby drove all second basemen in putouts, twofold plays, and handling rate. His batting execution that year was, and still is, one of the best in MLB history, and his 42 grand slams are as yet the most ever for a .400 hitter. 

On May 8, 1923, Hornsby endured damage to one side knee in a diversion against the Phillies when he swung to make a toss. He returned 10 days after the fact, yet the damage waited, and he was expelled from a diversion against the Pirates on May 26 to be inspected by Robert Hyland, the Cardinals' doctor. Hyland had Hornsby's knee set in a cast for about fourteen days, after which he came back to the Cardinals. Amid an amusement in August, Hornsby was on third base late in the diversion and hurled his hands in disturb in light of a sign flashed by Rickey; he had given the present hitter the take sign, and Hornsby felt the player ought to have hit the ball. After the diversion, he and Rickey battled in the clubhouse, however partners rapidly split it up. Hornsby missed a few diversions late in the year with wounds that the Cardinals (and Hyland) did not accept to be not kidding; thus he was fined $500 ($ today) and suspended for the last five rounds of the year. Nonetheless, Hornsby still won his fourth sequential NL batting title with a batting normal of .384. He additionally rehashed as the pioneer in on-base rate (.459) and slugging rate (.627). 

Hornsby raised his normal to .424 out of 1924, which is the fourth-most noteworthy batting normal in a solitary season in MLB history, and the live-ball time batting normal record. He drove the class with 89 walks, creating a .507 on-base rate, a national group record for more than 75 years. His slugging level of .696 again drove the alliance, as did his 121 runs scored, 227 hits, and 43 doubles; he hit 25 home keeps running too. That year, the NL reintroduced its Most Valuable Player (MVP) grant. Despite the fact that Hornsby was relied upon to win the honor, it went to Dazzy Vance. Cincinnati voter Jack Ryder left Hornsby's name off his tally inside and out on the grounds that he trusted Hornsby was a MVP on the detail sheet, yet was not a cooperative person. In 1962, the Baseball Writers' Association of America gave Hornsby an honor retroactively remembering him as the 1924 MVP. 

In 1925, Sam Breadon, the proprietor of the Cardinals, wished to supplant Rickey as director. Hornsby at first declined the activity. In the wake of finding that Rickey intended to sell his stock in the Cardinals in the event that he was supplanted as field chief, Hornsby consented to accept the position as long as Breadon would enable him to buy the stock. Breadon concurred, and Hornsby turned into the Cardinals' director. Hornsby completed the year with his second Triple Crown, when he consolidated a .403 batting normal with 39 home runs and 143 RBIs in 138 recreations. He bested colleague Jim Bottomley in the batting title race by about 40 points. His 1925 batting normal has not been coordinated by any National Leaguer since. That year, he won the MVP Award, getting 73 out of 80 conceivable votes. His .756 slugging rate and 1.245 on-base in addition to slugging set National League records that remained until broken by Barry Bonds in 2001. The Cardinals completed in fourth spot in 1925, completing one diversion more than .500, however the group won 64 games and lost 51 under Hornsby. Amid the year, his significant other Jeanette had a child, Billy. 

Hornsby had an off-year unpleasantly in 1926, as he hit just .317 with 11 home runs. In any case, St. Louis won its first NL flag. In the 1926 World Series, the Cardinals vanquished the Yankees in a seven-amusement arrangement; Hornsby labeled out Babe Ruth on a stolen base endeavor, finishing the Series and giving St. Louis its first undisputed big showdown. Amid post-season dealings for another agreement, Hornsby requested $50,000 every year for a long time. Breadon consented to a one-year contract for $50,000 ($ today). At the point when Hornsby would not give way, the Cardinals exchanged him to the New York Giants for Frankie Frisch and Jimmy Ring on December 20, 1926. The exchange was quickly delayed as NL president John Heydler expressed that Hornsby couldn't play for the Giants while he held stock in the Cardinals. Hornsby needed $105 per share for his stock, a value Breadon was reluctant to pay. In mid 1927, Hornsby had the capacity to sell his offers at $105 each, empowering him to formally turn into a Giant. 

Hornsby appreciated a superior season in 1927, as he hit .361 and drove the class in runs scored (133), strolls (86), and on-base rate (.448). He dealt with the Giants for part of the year also, as director John McGraw managed medical issues. Hornsby's execution helped direct the Giants to a 92– 62 win– misfortune record amid the season, which was sufficient for third spot in the NL. In any case, Hornsby's betting issues at the circuit and doubt of Giants' administration irritated group proprietor Charles Stoneham. Amid the offseason he was exchanged to the Boston Braves for Jimmy Welsh and Shanty Hogan. 

With the Boston Braves in 1928, Hornsby was again the group's most beneficial hitter; he won his seventh batting title with a .387 average, additionally driving the association in on-base rate (.498), slugging rate (.632), and strolls (107). One month into the season, chief Jack Slattery surrendered, and the Braves procured Hornsby to be his substitution. The Braves, be that as it may, lost 103 games and completed in seventh spot out of eight groups in the NL. They were battling monetarily too, and when the Chicago Cubs offered $200,000 ($ today) and five players for Hornsby, the Braves found the offer too great to even think about passing up. 

Hornsby hit .380 for Chicago in 1929 while recording 39 home runs and an association driving .679 slugging rate. His 156 runs scored drove the real associations is as yet the group record while his .380 batting normal remains the most elevated for a Cub since 1895. He likewise gathered another MVP grant, and the Cubs won the NL flag. Be that as it may, they lost in the 1929 World Series to the Philadelphia Athletics in five recreations, as Hornsby batted .238 with one RBI. He likewise set a World Series record for strikeouts with eight. 

After the initial two months of the 1930 season, Hornsby was batting .325 with two grand slams. In the principal round of a doubleheader against the Cardinals, Hornsby broke his lower leg while progressing to third base. He didn't return until August 19, and he was utilized generally as a substitute for the remainder of the period. At the point when Joe McCarthy was terminated with four diversions staying in the season Hornsby turned into the group's supervisor. Hornsby completed the year with a .308 batting normal and two grand slams. 

On April 24, 1931, Hornsby hit three grand slams and drove in eight keeps running in a 10– 6 triumph over Pittsburgh. Hornsby played in 44 of the primary 48 games, however after a frustrating act he just played himself about a fraction of the ideal opportunity for the remainder of the year. In 100 games, he had 90 RBIs, 37 doubles, and a batting normal of .331. He additionally drove the alliance in on-base rate (.421) for the ninth time in his profession. The group completed 84– 70, 17 games back of the flag winning Cardinals, and four recreations back of the Giants. 

The 1931 season was Hornsby's last as a full-time player. Bubbles on his feet irritated him amid the beginning of the 1932 season, and he didn't play his first amusement until May 29. Hornsby played right field from May 29 to June 10, showed up in two amusements as a substitute, played third base from July 14 through July 18, and played one final diversion as a Cub when he squeeze hit on July 31. 

William Veeck, Sr., who was running the group, was discontent with Hornsby's administration of the group. Hornsby kept up exacting tenets, and Veeck thought his overseeing style hurt camaraderie. Veeck trusted Hornsby defied a cardinal norm of baseball in one specific episode. Hornsby couldn't help contradicting a call made by the umpire. Rather than debating the call himself, similar to the supervisor's activity, Hornsby sent another player to contend with the umpire. That player was shot out from the diversion. On August 2, in spite of the fact that the Cubs were in second spot, Hornsby was discharged, and Charlie Grimm supplanted him as administrator. Hornsby had played 19 games, batting .224 with one grand slam and seven RBIs. Despite the fact that the Cubs progressed to the 1932 World Series, the players casted a ballot not to give Hornsby any of the World Series cash. 

Hornsby did not play for the remainder of 1932, however the Cardinals marked him as a player on October 24 for the 1933 season. He played normally at a respectable halfway point from April 25 through May 5, however he was utilized for the most part as a substitute with the Cardinals. On July 22, he had his last NL hit in a 9– 5 misfortune to the Braves. Through July 23, Hornsby was batting .325 with two homers and 21 RBIs. In any case, the Cardinals set him on waivers. 

Hornsby was asserted by the last-place St. Louis Browns of the American League (AL) on July 26 as player-director. Bill Killefer had quite recently surrendered as Browns director, and Browns proprietor Phil Ball needed Hornsby as a substitution. Hornsby showed up in 11 games for the Browns. He had three hits, including a grand slam, in nine at-bats. The Browns completed in last spot in the AL. That year, Hornsby started working a baseball school in Hot Springs, Arkansas, which he kept running on and off somewhere in the range of 1933 and 1951 with different partners. 

In 1934, Hornsby began just two amusements, one at third base, and the other in right field. In the majority of his different appearances, he was a substitute. For the season, he batted .304 with one grand slam and 11 RBIs. The Browns enhanced their past season, completing in 6th spot out of eight groups in the AL. 

Hornsby played in 10 recreations in the 1935 season, beginning in 4. From April 16 through April 21, he began at a respectable starting point, and he began at third base on May 22. He completed the year with five hits and a .208 average, while the Browns slipped to seventh spot. 

Hornsby just showed up in two amusements with the group amid the 1936 season. On May 31, his squeeze hit single in the ninth inning gave the Browns a 11– 10 prevail upon the Detroit Tigers. In his other appearance on June 9, he played a respectable starting point in a 5– 3 success over the Yankees. The Browns again completed in seventh spot. 

In 1937, Hornsby played in 20 games. On April 21, in his first round of the year, Hornsby hit the last grand slam of his profession in a 15– 10 triumph over the Chicago White Sox. On July 5, he had the last hit of his vocation in a 15– 4 misfortune in the second round of a doubleheader with the Cleveland Indians. 

On July 20, Hornsby showed up in what might be his last diversion, a 5– 4 misfortune to the Yankees. Multi day later, Hornsby was terminated as director and discharged as a player by the Browns, who were in last spot at the season of his discharge. His discharge was mostly because of an occurrence with Browns proprietor Donald Barnes. On July 15, Hornsby won $35,000 ($ today) from wagering on a pony race. When he endeavored to utilize $4,000 of this cash to satisfy an obligation to Barnes, Barnes rejected it, since it had originated from a bookmaker. Hornsby dissented to Barnes, "The cash is comparable to the cash you take from individuals in the credit shark business. It's superior to taking enthusiasm from widows and vagrants ..."; that made his discharge five days after the fact a simple choice for Barnes. Hornsby completed the 1937 season with a .321 batting normal and 18 hits in 20 games, and was the most seasoned player in the AL that season. 

Before opening his own baseball school, Hornsby was an educator at the "Roy Doan Baseball School", which worked from 1934-38 at Ban Johnson Park, Fogel Field and Majestic Park in Hot Springs, Arkansas, the site of numerous late-winter preparing offices. At that point, in 1939, Hornsby, began the "Rogers Hornsby Baseball College" in Hot Springs after Doan moved his School somewhere else. Hornsby ran the six-week occasion every year until 1952, more often than not drawing in 100-200 prospects. Cy Young, Jimmie Foxx, Tris Speaker and Schoolboy Rowe were among the educators for Hornsby's School. Held related to the baseball schools was "The George Barr Umpire School", the main umpire instructional school, with understudies under the heading of Barr, a Major League Umpire. 

Following his discharge from the Browns, Hornsby was unfit to resign in light of the fact that he had lost a lot of cash betting throughout the years. He marked as a player-mentor with the Baltimore Orioles of the International League in 1938 preceding abandoning them to play for and deal with the Chattanooga Lookouts of the Southern Association for the remainder of the period. Hornsby then came back to the Orioles to oversee them for 1939, yet he didn't come back to the club following the season. Part of the way through 1940, he marked to deal with the Oklahoma City Indians of the Texas League. He drove them from last spot to the Texas League playoffs, where they tumbled to the Houston Buffaloes in four amusements. Hornsby started 1941 dealing with the Indians by and by, however he surrendered amidst the season. In November, he turned into the general and field supervisor of the Fort Worth Cats, additionally of the Texas group. Fortress Worth completed in third spot and made the playoffs in 1942, however they were wiped out in the first round by the Shreveport Sports. 

Hornsby went unsigned by any group in 1943, however he marked as a player-administrator with the Veracruz Blues of "La Liga Mexicana" in Mexico in 1944. Subsequent to hitting an amusement winning fabulous pummel for the second win of an arrangement in March, he surrendered when the group proprietor griped that the success would reduce the group for the third round of the arrangement. Following his discharge, he did some analysis for radio station WTMV, helped the Cleveland Indians in spring preparing in 1947, and turned into a TV host for Chicago Cubs diversions in 1949. 

Hornsby did not turn into a director or mentor again until 1950, when he was enlisted to deal with the Texas League's Beaumont Roughnecks. Beaumont won the flag, yet they were cleared in the first round of the playoffs by the San Antonio Missions. The following year, in 1951, Hornsby dealt with the Seattle Rainiers of the Pacific Coast League. Under Hornsby's authority, the Rainiers won the flag. 

In 1952, Hornsby was again contracted to deal with the St. Louis Browns, his first real alliance work in 16 years. The Browns' proprietor, Bill Veeck, was the child of previous Cubs president and general supervisor William Veeck, Sr. Hornsby was not generally welcomed by the players, be that as it may. On June 9, he was terminated because of a conflict with Veeck over an episode against the Yankees the day preceding. Amid the diversion, a fan forestalled Gil McDougald of the Yankees from getting a fly ball, and the umpire decided that it was fan impedance. Hornsby did not at first contend the call, and a couple of minutes after the fact Veeck constrained him to do it (when it was at that point past the point where it is possible to take care of business). This prompted Hornsby and the Browns going separate ways. The Browns players were so glad about Hornsby's terminating that they gave Veeck an engraved trophy to say thanks to him. 

Barely a month later, on July 26, Hornsby was employed to supplant Luke Sewell as chief of the Cincinnati Reds. After Hornsby finished two average seasons with the club, the Reds reported that he would not return for 1954. He completed his MLB administrative profession with a record of 701– 812. Following his expulsion, Hornsby filled in as a mentor for the Chicago Cubs from 1958 to 1960 preceding turning into a scout and third base mentor for the New York Mets in 1962. In 1963, Hornsby kicked the bucket of a heart assault. He was covered in Hornsby Bend Cemetery close Austin, Texas. 

Baseball specialists and sportswriters consider Hornsby to be one of the best hitters ever. His lifetime batting normal of .358 is just surpassed by Ty Cobb's profession sign of .367. He won seven batting titles altogether, an accomplishment tied or surpassed by just five players (Cobb (11 or 12, contingent upon the source), Tony Gwynn (8), Honus Wagner (8), Rod Carew (7), and Stan Musial (7)). Hornsby drove the National League in slugging rate multiple times, a record that still stands. He likewise hit increasingly homers, drove in more runs, and had a higher batting normal than some other National League player amid the 1920s, which makes him one of four players in baseball history (alongside Honus Wagner, Ted Williams, and Albert Pujols) to win 10 years "triple crown". He hit a lifelong aggregate of 301 home runs and was the principal player to achieve 300 while playing generally in the National League. His 264 home keeps running as a second baseman was a noteworthy alliance record for that situation until Joe Morgan outperformed him in 1984. Hornsby was likewise a steady hitter whether he was playing at home or out and about. His lifetime home batting normal was .359, and his lifetime away batting normal was .358. Ted Williams, who had the most elevated profession batting normal since Hornsby, said that Hornsby was the best hitter for power and normal in baseball, and Frankie Frisch said of him, "He's the main person I realize who could hit .350 in obscurity." Hornsby likewise holds second spot on the informal significant class record rundown of "continuous amusements with at least two hits" with 13 games, in front of the rest of the competition praises going to Count Campau's 15-diversion streak. Hornsby is just the second right-gave player in history to hit more than .400 three times and is considered, as indicated by the "Los Angeles Times", to be the best right-gave hitter ever. He drove the National League in batting normal, on-base rate, slugging rate, and absolute bases each year from 1920 to 1925. He is one of just two players (the other being Ted Williams) to win the batting Triple Crown more than once, however just Hornsby batted .400 on the two events. 

Rogers Hornsby was so regarded as a hitter that once, when a tenderfoot pitcher whined to umpire Bill Klem that he thought he had tossed Rogers a strike, Klem answered, "Child, when you pitch a strike, Mr. Hornsby will tell you." 

Hornsby was additionally eminent for his speed, and was viewed as the quickest player in the National League in his prime. He didn't attempt to take frequently yet utilized his speed to take additional bases. Somewhere in the range of 1916 and 1927 Hornsby had 30 inside-the-recreation center homers, and he drove the class with 17 triples in 1917 and 18 triples in 1921; he had 20 triples in 1920. 

Hornsby never headed out to motion pictures or read books, persuaded that it would hurt a hitter's vision, and he never smoked or drank. Be that as it may, he was regularly difficult to coexist with, a noteworthy reason he changed groups so every now and again in the most recent decade of his vocation. He typically forgotten because of falling with the front office. The greater part of the players he oversaw disliked him because of his request that others pursue his way of life, albeit a few (like Woody English and Clint Courtney) did. Hornsby never played a game of cards, however he bet as often as possible on steed races, and he lost more than he won. His betting was frequently a factor in his expulsion from a group. By most contemporary records, he was in any event as mean and frightful as Cobb, who was known in his time for his forceful frame of mind and messy play. 

Hornsby was chosen into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1942. In 1999, Hornsby was positioned ninth on "The Sporting News" rundown of Baseball's Greatest Players. Soon thereafter, he was named to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. In 2001, author Bill James positioned him as the 22nd-most prominent player and the third-most prominent second baseman in baseball history, while in the meantime recording his disagreeability and his troublesome identity. He is additionally tied for eighth in general with Stan Musial in wins above trade for position players. Hornsby has additionally been perceived on the St. Louis Walk of Fame In January, 2014, the Cardinals reported Hornsby among 22 previous players and faculty to be drafted into the St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame Museum for the debut class of 2014. 

On September 23, 1918, Hornsby wedded Sarah Elizabeth Martin, whom he had known since he played for the Denison Railroaders, in Philadelphia. They had a child, Rogers Hornsby, Jr., on November 15, 1920. Rogers Jr. kicked the bucket in a plane accident on December 23, 1949 close Savannah, Georgia. 

Amid 1922 he started seeing Jeanette Pennington Hine, who was hitched to a car supply sales rep named John Hine. On June 12, 1923, Hornsby separated from Sarah, and Hine separated from her life partner in 1923 also; the two were hitched on February 28, 1924. Because of the separation, Sarah took guardianship of Rogers Jr. 

Hornsby and Jeanette had a child, Billy, on June 2, 1925. Billy played baseball for quite a while in the small time, yet never achieved the majors. Hornsby and Jeanette ended up repelled in December 1944, and Hornsby started seeing a lady named Bernadette Harris, whom he called his "own great companion and secretary", in 1945. They lived respectively after 1948, until Harris ended it all by hopping out of a third-story window on September 7, 1953. The suicide was credited to dejection. Following Jeanette's passing on June 1, 1956, Hornsby wedded Marjorie Bernice Frederick Porter on January 27, 1957. They stayed together until Hornsby's demise in 1963.