Les Holden 

Leslie Hubert (Les) Holden, MC, AFC (6 March 1895 – 18 September 1932) was an Australian warrior expert of World War I and later a business pilot. A South Australian, he joined the Light Horse in May 1915, serving in Egypt and France. In December 1916, he volunteered for the Australian Flying Corps and qualified as a pilot. As an individual from No. 2 Squadron on the Western Front, he picked up the sobriquets "Fortunate Les" and "the homing pigeon" after a progression of episodes that saw him limping back to base in shot perplexed flying machine. He was granted the Military Cross, and proceeded to accomplish five flying triumphs flying Airco DH.5s and Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5s. 

Elevated to chief, Holden completed the war as a teacher with No. 6 (Training) Squadron in England, where his work earned him the Air Force Cross. In the wake of leaving the Australian Flying Corps in 1919, he turned into a supervisor at the family firm of Holden's Motor Body Builders and joined the low maintenance Citizen Air Force, before setting up as a business pilot and setting up his very own air administration. In 1929, he found Charles Kingsford Smith and Charles Ulm in the north-west Australian desert after the pair was accounted for missing on a trip to England in the "Southern Cross". Holden started transport activities in New Guinea in 1931. He was murdered the next year in a traveler plane accident in Australia. 

Leslie Hubert Holden was conceived on 6 March 1895 in East Adelaide, South Australia, to voyaging agent Hubert William Holden and his better half Annie Maria. Les was the nephew of Henry Holden, who later established the Adelaide-based firm Holden's Motor Body Builders with his child Edward. Hubert Holden handled an organization with Nestlé in 1905, and the family moved to Turramurra, New South Wales. Les finished his instruction at Sydney Church of England Grammar School, and joined Nestlé in 1911 as a sales rep. When Australia entered World War I in August 1914, he was an associate chief. 

Holden enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force on 26 May 1915, and was presented on the fourth Light Horse Brigade as a private. He withdrew for Egypt on board the vehicle A29 "Suevic" on 13 June. Filling in as a driver first in the Middle East and afterward on the Western Front, his mechanical capacity and feeling of experience drove him to volunteer for the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) in December 1916. In the wake of qualifying as a pilot in England, he was appointed a lieutenant and presented on No. 2 Squadron. Directed by Major Oswald Watt, No. 2 Squadron's work force included numerous previous Lighthorsemen, just as mechanics from the AFC's first battle development, the Mesopotamian Half Flight. The power prepared widely in England beginning in January 1917, preceding sending toward the Western Front that September. Holden was associated with the AFC's first day of battle in France; soon after early afternoon on 2 October, in the region of Saint-Quentin, he and his wingman drew in a German two-seater that figured out how to get away. 

Since its Airco DH.5s were disabled as contenders by motor issues and low speed, No. 2 Squadron was utilized chiefly in ground bolster obligations. Amid the haze covered opening day of the Battle of Cambrai on 20 November, Holden bombarded and machine-gunned a German interchanges channel from elevations as low as . He came back to a forward landing strip close Havrincourt Wood with his plane "a flying wreck", in the expressions of the official history of Australia in the war. "All aspects of it was shot loaded with gaps, including petroleum tank, tail-plane, both longerons, and part of the undercarriage, while the lift control was shot clean away." after two days he rehashed the activity with comparable ramifications for his air ship—"clear proof of the perils of the work and of his own good karma", as the official history put it. This prop of narrow escapes picked up him the monikers "Fortunate Les" and "the homing pigeon". He was suggested for the Military Cross on 3 December for his activities of 20 November. The honor was declared in the "London Gazette" on 4 February 1918, and the reference showed up on 5 July: 

Holden guaranteed his first ethereal triumph while No. 2 Squadron was all the while flying DH.5s, before it started changing over to Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5s in December 1917. On 18 February 1918, he partook in one of the unit's initial two triumphs in the S.E.5, sending an Albatros down in a turn. He guaranteed another three airplane shot down over the next month, giving him a sum of five triumphs. Somewhere around one of these occurred amid the Spring Offensive, on 22 March, when all accessible Allied airplane were tossed into fight to stem the German development. 

Regal Air Force arrangement expected pilots to be turned to home foundation for rest and instructional obligations following nine to a year in battle. Elevated to skipper in March 1918, Holden was presented on England in May as a flying teacher with No. 6 (Training) Squadron at Minchinhampton. His unit was a piece of the first Training Wing, driven by Lieutenant Colonel Watt, the previous boss of No. 2 Squadron. Holden quickly took direction of No. 6 Squadron from 25 July to 11 August. He was granted the Air Force Cross, declared on 3 June 1919, for his ability as a teacher. 

No. 6 Squadron was disbanded in March 1919. Alongside numerous other Australian Flying Corps work force including Colonel Watt, Major Roy King, and Captain Garnet Malley, Holden withdrew for Australia on 6 May on board the troopship "Kaisar-I-Hind", landing in Sydney on 19 June. He was released from the AFC on 18 August 1919. In the wake of participating in the Commonwealth Government's Peace Loan flights, he joined Holden's Motor Body Builders as its Sydney administrator. In May 1921, he presented with Malley and other veteran pilots as a pall-carrier at Watt's memorial service in Randwick. Holden wedded Kathleen Packman at St Mark's Anglican Church in Darling Point on 3 June 1924; the couple had three little girls. On 19 June 1925, the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) built up the Citizen Air Force as low maintenance dynamic save, and Holden wound up one of its first enrolls. Positioned flight lieutenant, he filled in as a pilot with No. 3 Squadron, which worked Airco DH.9s and S.E.5s. Framed at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria, it exchanged to the recently opened RAAF Richmond, New South Wales, amid 29– 30 June; Holden and Malley contacted down at Richmond with the initial two S.E.5s on the 30th. 

As yet craving after a full-time profession in flying, Holden enrolled the assistance of companions to buy a de Havilland DH.61 Giant Moth in 1928. He named it "Canberra", and utilized it to begin a contract task out of Mascot Aerodrome in Sydney. Holden turned into a national VIP in April 1929 when he effectively embraced a flying hunt of the north-western Australian wild to find Charles Kingsford Smith and Charles Ulm, after the pair had disappeared on a departure from Sydney to England in the "Southern Cross". Two different searchers, Keith Anderson and Bob Hitchcock, were lost in their flying machine, the "Kookaburra". The media of the day turned on Smith and Ulm, blaming them for an exposure stunt, and the Sydney Citizens' Relief Committee, which had dispatched Holden to embrace the salvage activity, retained installment of his costs. He by the by kept flying industrially, and is credited with making—in September 1931—potentially the main departure from Sydney to New Guinea, where he began an airship cargo administration. Coming back to Sydney the next year, he built up Holden's Air Transport Services. He additionally gained two more airplane for his New Guinea activities, a Waco and a Moth, to enhance the "Canberra". 

On 18 September 1932, Holden was going as a traveler on board a New England Airways DH.80 Puss Moth from Sydney to Brisbane when it slammed at Byron Bay in northern New South Wales, slaughtering him in a split second. Different inhabitants, pilot Ralph Virtue and the joint proprietor of the "Canberra", Holden's schoolfriend Dr George Hamilton, likewise died. Examinations discovered that the Puss Moth, VH-UPM, had gone down because of wing disappointment brought about by aileron ripple. A jam-packed commemoration administration for Holden and Hamilton occurred at Sydney Church of England Grammar School on 20 September; they were incinerated that evening at Rookwood Cemetery, where eighteen air ship guided by companions and partners of the pair overflew the sanctuary. Holden was made due by his significant other and kids. His dad Hubert continued working Holden's Air Transport Services, drifting it as an open organization and filling in as director. Les Holden, George Hamilton, and one of their classmates who had additionally as of late kicked the bucket, Henry Braddon, were recognized with a commemoration recolored glass window at the Sydney Church of England Grammar School sanctuary in 1934. Holden was additionally respected by Holden Street, worked in the Sydney suburb of Maroubra in 1943.