1962 Tour de France 

The 1962 Tour de France was the 49th version of the Tour de France, one of cycling's Grand Tours. The race comprised of 22 phases, including two split stages, beginning in Nancy on 24 June and completing at the Parc des Princes in Paris on 15 July. There were four time preliminary stages and no rest days. After over 30 years, the Tour was again challenged by profession groups rather than national groups. Jacques Anquetil of the group won the general order, protecting his title to win his third Tour de France. Jef Planckaert () set second, 4 min and 59 s falling behind financially, and Raymond Poulidor () was third, more than ten minutes behind Anquetil. 

Anquetil's colleague Rudi Altig took the main general order pioneer's yellow pullover in the wake of winning the primary stage. He lost it the next day to André Darrigade of , who won stage 2a, before recapturing it in the wake of winning stage three. The lead was taken by Saint-Raphaël rider Albertus Geldermans after stage six. He held it for two phases, before Darrigade took it back for the following two. Flandria rider Willy Schroeders at that point drove the race between the finish of stage nine as far as possible of eleven, so, all things considered Schroeder's partner Rik Van Looy, a noteworthy pre-race top choice, relinquished the race with damage. The next day, British rider Tom Simpson (Gitane– Leroux) turned into the primary rider from outside territory Europe in history to wear the yellow pullover. He lost it to Planckaert after stage thirteen's individual time preliminary to Superbagnères in the Pyrenees. He held the lead for seven phases, which incorporated the Alps. Anquetil's triumph in the individual time preliminary of stage twenty place him in the yellow shirt, which he held until the finish of the race. 

In the other race orders, Altig won the focuses arrangement and Federico Bahamontes () won the mountains grouping. The group order was won by Saint-Raphaël, and Eddy Pauwels () won the honor for most confrontational rider. Altig and Emile Daems () won the most stages, with three each. 

From 1930 to 1961, the Tour de France was challenged by national groups, yet in 1962 financially supported universal exchange groups returned. From the late-1950s to 1962, the Tour had seen the nonappearance of top riders who had bowed to weight from their group's "additional sportif" (non-cycling industry) patrons to ride different races that more qualified their brands. This, and an interest for more extensive promoting from a declining bike industry, prompted the reintroduction of the exchange group design. 

Toward the beginning of February 1962, 22 groups submitted applications for the race, with the last rundown of 15 declared toward the month's end. The Spanish-based was the main decision hold group. Every one of the 15 groups comprised of 10 cyclists (150 aggregate), an expansion from the 1961 Tour, which had 11 groups of 12 cyclists (132 aggregate). Each group was required to have an overwhelming nationality; something like six cyclists ought to have a similar nationality, or just two nationalities ought to be available. Out of the blue, the French cyclists were dwarfed; the biggest quantities of riders from a country were Italians at 52, with the following biggest originating from France (50) and Belgium (28). Riders spoke to a further six countries, all European. 

Of the begin rundown of 150, 66 were riding the Tour de France out of the blue. The absolute number of riders who completed the race was 94, a record high to that point. The normal time of riders in the race was 27.5 years, running from 21-year-old Tiziano Galvanin () to 40-year-old Pino Cerami (). The cyclists had the most youthful normal age (25.2) while cyclists had the most established (30). The introduction of the teams – where the individuals from each group's list are presented before the media and nearby dignitaries – occurred outside the in Nancy before the beginning of the opening stage in the city. 

The groups entering the race were: 

Dominant part of French cyclists 

Dominant part of Italian cyclists 

Dominant part of Belgian cyclists 

The main contender for the general grouping before the Tour was the protecting victor Jacques Anquetil of the Saint-Raphaël group. His nearest equals were believed to be Rik Van Looy (Flandria) and Raymond Poulidor (Mercier). Different riders considered contenders for the general order were Rudi Altig (Saint-Raphaël), Charly Gaul (Gazzola), Federico Bahamontes (Margnat), Gastone Nencini (Ignis), Henry Anglade (Liberia), Guido Carlesi (Philco), Tom Simpson (Gitane– Leroux), Ercole Baldini (Ignis) and Hans Junkermann (). Of these, three were previous victors of the Tour: Gaul (1958), Bahamontes (1959) and Nencini (1960). 

Frenchman Anquetil, who additionally won the Tour in 1957, had overwhelmed the 1961 Tour, driving it from the principal day to the last, with a triumphant edge of more than twelve minutes. Under two months before the 1962 Tour, Anquetil had pulled back from the Vuelta an España, the past Grand Tour, before the last stage because of viral hepatitis. In spite of the fact that he was the group head, he was 32nd in the general arrangement at the season of his withdrawal, while his partner Altig won the race. Spectators expected some interior group battle in the Tour because of a conceivable competition between the pair over authority. Subsequent to recuperating for ten days, Anquetil conflicted with his specialist's requests and rode the week-long stage race Critérium du Dauphiné, completing seventh in general. Anquetil's previous unpleasant adversary Raphaël Géminiani was then chosen as the group supervisor of Saint-Raphaël for the Tour. Troubled, Anquetil requested that his backers supplant Géminiani; they declined his solicitation. 

Van Looy, the victor of the past two world street race titles, made his Tour debut in 1962. He had abstained from riding the Tour since he figured he didn't have the full help of the Belgium group, however with Flandria he had power over rider determination. He had an effective season paving the way to the Tour, winning the one-day works of art Paris– Roubaix, the Tour of Flanders and Gent– Wevelgem, and two phases of the Giro d'Italia Grand Tour. He smashed amid preparing four days before the Tour which caused a strong stretch in his left thigh. In spite of the fact that Van Looy was known as a one-day works of art pro, he was viewed as a risk to Anquetil, who himself named Van Looy as the main rider who concerned him, dreading the high number of "level" arrange wins could possibly indicate eight minutes because of the one moment rewards given to organize victors. A "duel" among him and Anquetil was charged by the press. 

Poulidor was in his third year as an expert, and was more well known in his nation of origin than his countryman Anquetil. In 1961, he won the national street race title and Milan– San Remo one-day great. It was his first appearance in the Tour; he didn't ride the 1961 race on the exhortation of his exchange group director, Antonin Magne, who did not need him riding as a domestique for Anquetil and undermining his 'business esteem'. Anquetil rejected the media's forecast that Poulidor was his adversary, saying: "All Poulidor does is pursue. He never steps up to the plate." In preparing in the number one spot up to the Tour, Poulidor broke his left little finger and started the race with a cast on his lower arm. 

The course for the 1962 Tour was declared on 14 December 1961. Remarkable highlights of the course were the nonappearance of rest days and four time preliminary occasions over a sum of , which was bizarrely high, more than in the past Tour. Anquetil said that he didn't fear the mountains and that in spite of the fact that the time preliminaries favored him, he would not protest in the event that they were excluded. Both Van Looy and Gaston Nencini whined about the quantity of time preliminaries. Van Looy compromised not to ride, feeling it was excessively hard, and the time preliminaries did not suit him, saying "Multiple times, you are insane. Why not a typical course? I won't begin this Tour. I don't mean to play for three weeks." 

The opening stage (known as the "Fantastic Départ") began in Nancy, in north-eastern France. The stage went through Luxembourg and finished in the Belgian town of Spa. Belgium facilitated stages 2a, and 2b, in Herentals, and the start of the third in Brussels. This stage carried the race into northern France with the completion in Amiens. Stage four made a beeline for the coast, westwards to Le Havre, with the accompanying two phases taking the Tour along a seaside course toward the western tip of the nation. Stages seven to ten framed a constant voyage along the west coast to the foot of the Pyrenees at Bayonne. The Pyrenees facilitated the following four phases, with the fourteenth completing in Carcassonne. Stages fifteen to seventeen took the race toward the south-east at Antibes. Stage eighteen traveled north to Briançon, in the Alps. The nineteenth stage moved the race out of the mountains and down to Aix-les-Bains. The last three phases returned the Tour toward the north through Lyon and Nevers to complete at the Parc des Princes arena in Paris. 

There were 22 organizes in the race, including two split stages, covering a complete separation of , shorter than the 1961 Tour. The longest mass-begin organize was the 22nd at , and stage 2a was the briefest at . Of the four time preliminary stages, three (8b, 13, and 20) were singular time preliminary occasions and one (2b) a group time preliminary. There was just a single summit complete, in stage 13's time preliminary to the Superbagnères ski resort. In front of an audience 18, the move to the summit of the Cime de la Bonette Alpine mountain, including the Col de Restefond and Col de la Bonette passes, was utilized without precedent for the Tour in 1962. At a height of , it is one of the most elevated cleared streets in Europe and the most astounding purpose of rise came to ever of Tour (starting at 2018). The Bonette was among six first-class evaluated moves in the race. The Tour included four new begin or completion areas: Spa, in stages 1 and 2; Herentals, in stages 2a and 2b; Luçon, in stages 8a and 8b; and Nevers, in stages 21 and 22. In 1962, the last of each phase of the Tour was communicated live on TV out of the blue. 

In the opening stage, a 23-man breakaway gathering of riders got away from the peloton (fundamental gathering) as they passed Luxembourg City with remaining. They remained away and went to the completion more than six minutes ahead, with Rudi Altig winning the run, and accepting the main yellow shirt as pioneer of the general arrangement. Rik Van Looy, third on the stage, was denied the chance to wear the yellow shirt in his very own nation and into the place where he grew up of Herentals toward the finish of the accompanying stage. Of the pre-race top picks, Raymond Poulidor, Charly Gaul and Federico Bahamontes were absent in the number one spot gathering. Altig likewise took the focuses arrangement's green pullover, and Liberia rider Jean Selic drove the mountains order. The principal half of the second stage finished with a cluster run won by André Darrigade of Gitane– Leroux. Van Looy got away near the end however messed up; he set fourth. Darrigade, second already, took the yellow and green pullovers, with Angelino Soler of Ghigi leading the pack of the mountains characterization. The group time preliminary that occurred in Herentals later in the day was won by Flandria; their triumphant edge over second-place Gitane– Leroux was 1 min 15 s, and moved four of their riders into the main ten. Altig retook the yellow pullover in stage three's dash from a breakaway comprising of 41 riders. Gaul and Bahamontes lost further time, completing in the peloton more than five minutes financially past due. 

In the fourth stage, Mercier's Willy Vanden Berghen won the dash complete between a gathering of six that ran clear with around to go. Altig recovered the green pullover. Stage five finished in a pack run won by Philco rider Emile Daems, with Gitane– Leroux's Rolf Wolfshohl leading the pack of the mountains order. In the 6th stage, a 16-man (15 toward the end) bunch got away in and clutched the completion at Brest, with Robert Cazala of Mercier winning the run. Altig and Anquetil were not there, yet they had sent their colleague Albertus Geldermans to ensure the group's advantages. Geldermans was the best-put man in the break, and their completing edge of more than five minutes was large to the point that Geldermans turned into the new generally speaking pioneer. Flandria's Huub Zilverberg won stage seven from a two-path dash with Gitane– Leroux's Bas Maliepaard; the pair assaulted from a breakaway of twenty riders in the last and completed five seconds ahead toward the completion in Saint-Nazaire. As the pursuing breakaway experienced a thin segment of the completing straight, Gastone Nencini hit a gendarme (French cop) and fell, likewise cutting down Darrigade. The majority of the phases in the primary week were surprisingly quick; organize seven was determined to be , the quickest recorded to that point over a separation of . 

In the initial segment of the eighth stage, another vast gathering got away, which in the last kilometers had converged with a further pursuing breakaway and finished with a run triumph for Ghigi rider Mario Minieri in Luçon's velodrome. Breakaway rider Darrigade turned into the new broad order pioneer for the second time in the race. The level individual time preliminary from Luçon to La Rochelle in the second piece of the stage was won by Anquetil, with Ercole Baldini second, 22 seconds behind. Darrigade quickly held the green shirt after stage 8a before it came back to Altig after 8b. As a result of an effective breakaway in stage nine, Darrigade lost the lead to Flandria rider Willy Schroeders; Carpano's Antonio Bailetti won the stage. Willy Vannitsen of won the tenth stage's pack dash. The accompanying stage was won by Vannitsen's partner Eddy Pauwels, who dropped his kindred breakaway riders and soloed to triumph with a four-minute favorable position at Pau's engine race road circuit. A collide with the stage including 22 riders was brought about by a motorbike conveying a picture taker. Van Looy, whose back was harmed by the motorbike's handlebars, was the most outstanding loss; he had the capacity to proceed for a further , before he was encouraged to resign from the race by the Tour's specialist, Pierre Dumas. 

Stage twelve, the principal mountain arrange in the Pyrenees, saw Cazala take his second win from a dash between a tip top gathering of climbers and generally speaking top picks that completed together after the plunge to Saint-Gaudens. Schroeders couldn't stay aware of this gathering, which included British rider Tom Simpson, and Simpson took the general lead, turning into the first non-territory European in history to wear the yellow pullover. Bahamontes drove over the principal class Col du Tourmalet, and the two other lower ordered ascensions, to lead the pack in the mountains characterization. The following stage, a mountain time preliminary, was won by Bahamontes with a period of 47 min 23 s. Simpson put 31st and lost the lead to Jef Planckaert of Flandria, who came in second spot, 1 min 25 s down. Anquetil completed a further three seconds behind in third and sat fourth in general. Planckaert had assumed control over the initiative of Flandria after the flight of Van Looy, with previous race pioneer Schroeders promising his help. He was viewed as a capable substitute because of his structure amid the season paving the way to the Tour, winning the stage races Paris– Nice and the Tour de Luxembourg and the one-day great Liège– Bastogne– Liège. The last Pyrenean organize, the fourteenth, saw Saint-Raphaël rider Jean Stablinski assault his 10-in number breakaway with remaining and solo to the completion in Carcassonne with an edge of twelve seconds. The first of the three transitional stages, fifteen, that crossed France's southern coastline finished in a group run won by Vannitsen. In stage sixteen, Daems and Bailetti got away from the peloton with to go, with Daems assaulting to win with an edge of three minutes; the pursuing gathering of seven came in eight minutes after the fact. Altig won the seventeenth stage in a run from a four-rider breakaway that completed more than six minutes in front of the peloton. 

In the first of the two Alpine stages, the eighteenth, assaults were normal. Rather, the riders went at a moderate pace; in the initial four hours, they had just hustled . Afterward, a few assaults occurred, yet they fizzled on account of punctured tires and the shielding strategies of the main riders; at last, Daems, who was a sprinter and not a climber, had the capacity to win this mountain arrange. Poulidor's harmed hand was better by stage nineteen, and his group director revealed to him that the time had come to assault. He was put ninth in the general order, ten minutes behind, so he would have not likely been viewed as a risk. Assaulting over the last ascensions, he soloed to the completion at Aix-les-Bains with favorable position of over three minutes over his opponents, moving him to third place generally, 5 min 43 s falling behind financially, with Planckaert as yet driving and Anquetil second, 1 min 8 s down. In stage twenty, an individual time preliminary completing in Lyon, Planckaert came in fourth spot, losing 5 min 19 s to the victor, Anquetil, who took the general lead. Anquetil was a period preliminary master and thought about great at the time. Baldini put second, 2 min 59 s off the time set by Anquetil, and third was Poulidor who came in 5 min 1 s down to keep his third spot by and large. Stage 21 finished in a cluster run won by Dino Bruni of Gazzola. 

In the last stage, Benedetti picked up his second triumph of the race from a pack run before an expected horde of 30,000 at Parc des Princes. Anquetil completed the race to guarantee his third Tour de France, equalling the record number of Tour wins by a rider with Belgian Philippe Thys and Frenchman Louison Bobet. It was uncovered later that Anquetil had ridden the race with tapeworm. He beat second-set Planckaert by 4 min 59 s, with Poulidor third, a further 5 min 25 s down. Altig won the focuses order with a sum of 173, which was 29 in front of Daems in second. Bahamontes won the mountains characterization with 137 points, 60 in front of second-set Imerio Massignan (). Holy person Raphaël won the group arrangement, which they drove from the opening stage, with Mercier coming next and Flandria third. The riders with the most stages wins were Altig and Daems, with three each. 

Amid the night after the thirteenth stage, pre-race outcast Hans Junkermann turned out to be sick. He was set seventh in the general characterization, and the next day, arrange fourteen, his group mentioned the begin be deferred, which the association permitted. He was dropped by the peloton on the principal move in, and relinquished the race, saying "terrible fish" was the reason. Fourteen riders pulled back from the Tour that day, all accusing nourishment harming from spoiled fish at a similar inn, including the previous general order pioneer Willy Schroeder and another pre-race contender Gastone Nencini. Writing in the French games paper "L'équipe", the Tour's race executive, Jacques Goddet, said he didn't trust their reason and trusted they had doped to recoup time lost in the past stage's time preliminary. Nothing was demonstrated, despite the fact that the lodging said they didn't serve fish that night. A report discharged by the Pierre Dumas cautioned that if riders and their "soigneurs" did not stop "certain types of arrangement," there would be every day post-organize lodging investigations. Steamed at this and doping allegations in the press, the riders compromised a fifteen-minute strike, yet the writer Jean Bobet, a previous cyclist, had the capacity to talk them into proceeding, despite the fact that he later gave the analysis to the narrative film about the 1962 Tour, "Vive le Tour" by Louis Malle, which scorned the riders and their "terrible fish" clarification. In the next days, Dumas started to compose the debut European Conference on Doping and the Biological Preparation of the Competitive Athlete, which occurred in January 1963. Since four of the riders included originated from , more than from some other group, the outrage is alluded to as the "Wiel's issue". 

There were three principle singular orders challenged in the 1962 Tour de France, two of which grant shirts to their pioneers, and furthermore a group rivalry. The most critical was the general arrangement, which was determined by including every rider's completing occasions each stage. Time rewards were granted to the main two positions toward the finish of each stage, including the individual time preliminaries, however not the group time preliminary; in front of the rest of the competition got 1 moment and second spot got 30 seconds. The rider with the most reduced combined time was the champ of the general grouping and was viewed as the general victor of the Tour. The rider driving the arrangement wore a yellow pullover. 

In the focuses order, riders were granted focuses for completing in the best fifteen places on each stage. The main rider at each stage complete was granted 25 points, the second 20, the third 16 points, the fourth 14, the fifth 12, the 6th 10, down to 1 point for the rider in fifteenth. The grouping chief was distinguished by a green shirt. 

The mountains order granted focuses to the riders who achieved summits first. Most phases of the race included at least one of these trips, sorted as fourth-, third-, second-or first-classification, with the more troublesome ascensions evaluated lower. The count for the mountains characterization was changed in 1962, and the fourth class was included. The pioneer of the grouping was not distinguished by a shirt. 

The characterization for the groups was determined by including the seasons of the initial three cyclists of a group on each stage; the group with the most reduced consolidated time on a phase won one in front of the pack point. To decide placings in the general group arrangement, second and third spot focuses were likewise granted. The split stages (two and eight) were each joined. The riders in the group who drove this characterization were related to yellow tops. 

What's more, there was a combativity grant given after each phase to the most forceful rider; the choice was made by a jury made out of columnists. The split stages each had a consolidated victor. At the finish of the Tour, Eddy Pauwels won the general super-combativity grant, additionally chosen by columnists. Like the honor for most aggressive rider, there was an honor for the unluckiest rider given after each stage. The honor for most misfortune amid the whole Tour went to Rik Van Looy. Two further individual honors were given toward the finish of the Tour, the Prix Alex Virot, granted to Raymond Poulidor for being the most faithful rider in the race, dictated by a jury, and the Prix René Dunan, granted to the 22-year-old Giorgo Zancanaro (Philco) for being the most youthful finisher. 

A sum of 3,000,000 French new francs (NF) was granted in real money prizes in the race, with the general victor of the general order getting 200,000 NF. The focuses and mountains grouping victors got 100,000 NF and 50,000 NF, individually. The group characterization victors were given 300,000 NF. The victor of the super-combativity grant champ was given 60,000 NF and a Renault R8 vehicle, and the unluckiest rider generally speaking got 20,000 NF. The Prix Alex Virot was given 25,000 NF and the Prix René Dunan got 20,000 NF. There was additionally an extraordinary honor with a prize of 3,000 NF, the Souvenir Henri Desgrange, given to the primary rider (Juan Campillo of Margnat) to pass the summit of the - high Col du Lautaret in front of an audience nineteen. 

Riders in the Tour contended separately for focuses that contributed towards the Super Prestige Pernod, a worldwide season-long street cycling rivalry, with the champ seen as the best all-round rider. The 90 accumulated by Jacques Anquetil moved him from outside the rankings to fourth place, while Jef Planckaert moved from third position to lead the pack from previous pioneer Rik Van Looy.