Rhys ap Gruffydd 

Rhys ap Gruffydd or ap Gruffudd (regularly anglicized to "Griffith") (1132 – 28 April 1197) was the leader of the kingdom of Deheubarth in south Wales from 1155 to 1197. Today, he is generally known as The Lord Rhys, in Welsh "Yr Arglwydd Rhys", despite the fact that this title may have not been utilized in his lifetime. He typically utilized the title "Exclusive Prince of Deheubarth" or "Ruler of South Wales", yet two archives have been found in which he utilizes the title "Sovereign of Wales" or "Ruler of the Welsh". Rhys was a standout amongst the best and amazing Welsh sovereigns, and, after the demise of Owain Gwynedd of Gwynedd in 1170, the predominant power in Wales. 

Rhys' granddad, Rhys ap Tewdwr, was ruler of Deheubarth, and was slaughtered at Brecon in 1093 by Bernard de Neufmarché. Following his demise, a large portion of Deheubarth was taken over by the Normans. Rhys' dad, Gruffydd ap Rhys, in the end had the capacity to move toward becoming leader of a little bit, and more domain was won back by Rhys' more established siblings after Gruffydd's passing. Rhys progressed toward becoming leader of Deheubarth in 1155. He was compelled to submit to King Henry II of England in 1158. Henry attacked Deheubarth in 1163, stripped Rhys of every one of his territories and took him prisoner. Half a month later he was discharged and given back a little piece of his property. Rhys made a collusion with Owain Gwynedd and, after the disappointment of another intrusion of Wales by Henry in 1165, had the capacity to win back the vast majority of his territories. 

In 1171 Rhys made harmony with King Henry and was affirmed possessing his ongoing successes just as being named Justiciar of South Wales. He kept up great relations with King Henry until the last's passing in 1189. Following Henry's passing Rhys rebelled against Richard I and assaulted the Norman lordships encompassing his domain, catching various strongholds. In his later years Rhys experienced difficulty keeping control of his children, especially Maelgwn and Gruffydd, who kept up a fight with one another. Rhys propelled his last battle against the Normans in 1196 and caught various palaces. The next year he kicked the bucket startlingly and was covered in St David's Cathedral. 

Rhys was the second child of Gruffydd ap Rhys, leader of part of Deheubarth, by his second spouse Gwenllian ferch Gruffydd, little girl of Gruffudd ap Cynan, ruler of Gwynedd. His senior sibling was Maredudd ap Gruffydd, and there were two more youthful siblings, Morgan and Maelgwn. He additionally had two more seasoned stepbrothers, Anarawd and Cadell, from his dad's first marriage. Rhys wedded Gwenllian ferch Madog, little girl of Madog ap Maredudd, the last Prince of all Powys. 

His granddad, Rhys ap Tewdwr, had been lord of all Deheubarth until his passing in 1093. Rhys ap Tewdwr was slaughtered in Brycheiniog, and a large portion of his kingdom was taken over by Norman rulers. Gruffydd ap Rhys was compelled to escape to Ireland. He later came back to Deheubarth and ruled a segment of the kingdom, yet was compelled to escape to Ireland again in 1127. At the point when Rhys was conceived in 1132, his dad held just the commote of Caeo in Cantref Mawr. 

The demise of King Henry I of England, and the resulting Anarchy emerging from the opponent cases of Stephen and Matilda to the English position of royalty, allowed the Welsh the chance to ascend against the Normans. A revolt spread through south Wales in 1136, and Gruffydd ap Rhys, supported by his two oldest children, Anarawd and Cadell, vanquished the Normans in a fight close Loughor, slaughtering more than five hundred. In the wake of driving Walter de Clifford out of Cantref Bychan, Gruffydd set off to Gwynedd to enroll the assistance of his dad in-law, Gruffudd ap Cynan. Without her better half, Gwenllian drove a military against the Norman lordship of Cydweli (Kidwelly), bringing her two most youthful children, Morgan and Maelgwn. She was vanquished and murdered by a military told by Maurice de Londres of Oystermouth Castle. Morgan was additionally murdered and Maelgwn caught. 

Gruffydd framed a collusion with Gwynedd, and later in 1136 the children of Gruffudd ap Cynan, Owain Gwynedd and Cadwaladr ap Gruffydd, drove a military to Ceredigion. Their joined powers prevailed upon a conclusive triumph the Normans at the Battle of Crug Mawr. Ceredigion was recovered from the Normans, however was added by Gwynedd as the senior accomplice in the collusion. Gruffydd ap Rhys proceeded with his crusade against the Normans in 1137, yet passed on soon thereafter. The initiative of the family currently go to Rhys' relative Anarawd ap Gruffydd. In 1143, when Rhys was eleven, Anarawd was killed by the guardian of Cadwaladr ap Gruffydd, sibling of Owain Gwynedd, ruler of Gwynedd. Owain rebuffed Cadwaladr by denying him of his territories in Ceredigion. 

Anarawd's sibling, Cadell ap Gruffydd, took over as leader of the family. Gilbert de Clare, Earl of Pembroke, remade Carmarthen palace in 1145 at that point started a crusade to recover Ceredigion. He constructed a stronghold in the commote of Mabudryd, yet Cadell, helped by Hywel abdominal muscle Owain Gwynedd who held Ceredigion for Gwynedd, annihilated it in 1146. Rhys shows up in the records without precedent for 1146, battling close by his siblings Cadell and Maredudd in the catch by strike of Llansteffan Castle. This was trailed by the catch of Wiston in 1147, Carmarthen in 1150 and Loughor in 1151. In 1151 Cadell was assaulted while out chasing by a gathering of Norman and Flemish knights from Tenby, and left for dead. He endure, however endured wounds which left him unfit to assume a functioning job, and in 1153 he left on a journey to Rome. 

Maredudd moved toward becoming leader of Deheubarth and proceeded with a battle, started in 1150, went for recuperating Ceredigion, which had been held by Gwynedd since 1136. Maredudd and Rhys had the capacity to drive Hywel stomach muscle Owain Gwynedd from Ceredigion by 1153. That year Rhys is recorded as a free leader out of the blue, driving a military to catch the Norman mansion of St Clears. Maredudd and Rhys additionally pulverized the manors at Tenby and Aberafan that year. Maredudd passed on in 1155 at the age of twenty-five and left Rhys as leader of Deheubarth. Around this time he wedded Gwenllian ferch Madog, little girl of Madog ap Maredudd, sovereign of Powys. 

Not long after getting to be leader of Deheubarth, Rhys heard bits of gossip that Owain Gwynedd was intending to attack Ceredigion so as to recover it for Gwynedd. Rhys reacted by structure a stronghold at Aberdyfi in 1156. The undermined attack did not happen, and Turvey claims that Owain's goal may have been to test the purpose of the new ruler. 

Ruler Stephen had passed on in October 1154, finishing the long question with the Empress Matilda which had helped Anarawd, Cadell and Maredudd to broaden their standard in Deheubarth. With disunity inside the domain no longer an issue, the new ruler of England, Henry II, before long directed his concentration toward Wales. He started with an attack of Gwynedd in 1157. This intrusion was not by any means effective, yet Owain Gwynedd was initiated to look for terms and to surrender some domain in the north-east of Wales. 

The next year, Henry arranged an attack of Deheubarth. Rhys made arrangements to oppose, however was convinced by his board to meet the lord to talk about harmony terms. The terms were a lot harsher than those offered to Owain: Rhys was deprived of every one of his assets separated from Cantref Mawr, however he was guaranteed one other cantref. Different regions were come back to their Norman rulers. 

Among the Normans who came back to their possessions was Walter de Clifford, who recovered Cantref Bychan, at that point attacked Rhys' properties in Cantref Mawr. An intrigue to the ruler delivered no reaction, and Rhys depended on arms, first catching Clifford's château at Llandovery then catching Ceredigion. Ruler Henry reacted by setting up another attack, and Rhys submitted without obstruction. He was obliged to give prisoners, likely including his child Hywel. 

The ruler was missing in France in 1159, and Rhys accepted the open door to assault Dyfed and afterward to lay attack to Carmarthen, which was spared by a help compel driven by Earl Reginald of Cornwall. Rhys withdrew to Cantref Mawr, where a military driven by five barons, the Earls of Cornwall, Gloucester, Hertford, Pembroke and Salisbury, walked against him. The dukes were helped by Cadwaladr, sibling of Owain Gwynedd, and Owain's children, Hywel and Cynan. Anyway they were compelled to pull back and a détente was orchestrated. In 1162, Rhys again endeavored to recoup a portion of his lost grounds, and caught Llandovery château. The next year Henry II came back to England following a nonattendance of four years and arranged for another intrusion of Deheubarth. Rhys met the lord to examine terms and was obliged to give more prisoners, including another child, Maredudd. He was then seized and taken to England as a prisoner. Henry seems to have been questionable how to manage Rhys, yet following half a month chose to free him and enable him to govern Cantref Mawr. Rhys was brought to show up before Henry at Woodstock to do praise together with Owain Gwynedd and Malcolm IV of Scotland. 

In 1164 all the Welsh rulers joined in an uprising. Warren proposes that when Rhys and Owain were obliged to do tribute to Henry in 1163 they were compelled to acknowledge a status of ward vassalage rather than their past customer status, and that this prompted the revolt. Rhys had different purposes behind disobedience, for he had come back to Deheubarth from England to find that the neighboring Norman rulers were undermining Cantref Mawr. His nephew, Einion abdominal muscle Anarawd, who was the skipper of his guardian, had been killed at the incitement of Roger de Clare, Earl of Hertford. The killer had been given the insurance of the Clares in Ceredigion. Rhys first spoke to the ruler to mediate; when this fizzled, he attacked Ceredigion and recovered every last bit of it separated from the town and château of Cardigan. The Welsh revolt prompted another attack of Wales by King Henry in 1165. Henry assaulted Gwynedd first, yet as opposed to following the typical intrusion course along the north coast he assaulted from the south, after a course over the Berwyn slopes. He was met by the unified powers of the Welsh sovereigns, driven by Owain Gwynedd and including Rhys. As indicated by "Brut y Tywysogion": 

Exuberant downpour constrained Henry's military to withdraw in turmoil without battling a noteworthy fight, and Henry expressed his anger on the prisoners, having Rhys' child Maredudd blinded. Rhys' other child, Hywel, was not among the people in question. Rhys came back to Deheubarth where he caught and consumed Cardigan Castle. He enabled the army to leave, however held the castellan, Robert Fitz-Stephen, as a detainee. In the blink of an eye a short time later Rhys caught Cilgerran château. 

In 1167 he joined Owain Gwynedd in an assault on Owain Cyfeiliog of southern Powys, and went through three weeks helping Owain blockade the Norman château of Rhuddlan. In 1168 he assaulted the Normans at Builth, crushing its stronghold. Rhys profited by the Norman intrusion of Ireland in 1169 and 1170, which was to a great extent driven by the Cambro-Norman rulers of south Wales. In 1167 the King of Leinster, Diarmait Mac Murchada, who had been driven out of his kingdom, had asked Rhys to discharge Robert Fitz-Stephen from imprisonment to partake in an endeavor to Ireland. Rhys did not oblige at the time, however discharged him the next year and in 1169 Fitz-Stephen drove the vanguard of a Norman armed force which arrived in Wexford. The pioneer of the Norman powers, Richard de Clare, second Earl of Pembroke, known as "Strongbow", followed in 1170. As indicated by Warren: 

The flight of the Norman rulers empowered Rhys to fortify his position, and the passing of Owain Gwynedd in late 1170 remaining him as the recognized pioneer of the Welsh sovereigns. 

In 1171 King Henry II landed in England from France, on his approach to Ireland. Henry wished to guarantee that Richard de Clare, who had hitched Diarmait's little girl and become beneficiary to Leinster, did not build up a free Norman kingdom in Ireland. His choice to attempt an alternate methodology in his dealings with the Welsh was impacted by the occasions in Ireland, in spite of the fact that Warren recommends that "it appears to be likely that Henry started reconsidering his frame of mind to the Welsh not long after the débâcle of 1165". Henry currently wished to make harmony with Rhys, who came to Newnham to meet him. Rhys was to pay a tribute of 300 ponies and 4,000 head of steers, however was affirmed possessing every one of the terrains he had taken from Norman masters, including the Clares. They met again in October that year at Pembroke as Henry hung tight to cross to Ireland. Rhys had gathered 86 of the 300 ponies, yet Henry consented to take just 36 of them and dispatched the rest of the tribute until after his arrival from Ireland. Rhys' child, Hywel, who had been held as a prisoner for a long time, was come back to him. Henry and Rhys met yet again at Laugharne as Henry came back from Ireland in 1172, and in a matter of seconds a while later Henry named Rhys "equity on his benefit in all Deheubarth". As indicated by A. D. Carr: 

The understanding among Henry and Rhys was to last until Henry's demise in 1189. At the point when Henry's children defied him in 1173 Rhys sent his child Hywel Sais to Normandy to help the lord, at that point in 1174 by and by drove a military to Tutbury in Staffordshire to help at the attack of the fortification of the revolutionary Earl William de Ferrers. At the point when Rhys came back to Wales after the fall of Tutbury, he left a thousand men with the ruler for administration in Normandy. Lord Henry held a committee at Gloucester in 1175 which was gone to by a huge social affair of Welsh rulers, driven by Rhys. It seems to have finished up with the swearing of a common help agreement for the safeguarding of harmony and request in Wales. In 1177 Rhys, Dafydd abdominal muscle Owain, who had risen as the primary power in Gwynedd, and Cadwallon ap Madog from Rhwng Gwy a Hafren swore fealty and lord reverence to Henry at a board held at Oxford. At this chamber the ruler gave Meirionnydd, some portion of the kingdom of Gwynedd, to Rhys. There was some battling in Meirionnydd the next year, yet Rhys evidently made no genuine endeavor to add it. 

Rhys fabricated various stone mansions, beginning with Cardigan palace, which was the most punctual recorded local constructed stone château in Wales. He additionally manufactured Carreg Cennen mansion close Llandeilo, a palace set in a stupendous position on a peak. He held a celebration of verse and melody at his court at Cardigan over Christmas 1176. This is by and large viewed as the main recorded Eisteddfod. The celebration was declared a year ahead of time all through Wales and in England, Scotland, Ireland and potentially France. Two seats were granted as prizes, one for the best ballad and the other for the best melodic execution. J. E. Caerwyn Williams proposes that this occasion might be an adjustment of the comparative French "puys". R.R. Davies proposes that the writings of Welsh law, generally classified by Hywel Dda at Whitland, were first gathered in book structure under the aegis of Rhys. 

Rhys established two religious houses amid this period. Talley Abbey was the first Premonstratensian convent in Wales, while Llanllyr was a Cistercian religious shelter, just the second cloister to be established in Wales and the first to thrive. He turned into the benefactor of the monasteries of Whitland and Strata Florida and made vast awards to the two houses. Giraldus Cambrensis, who was identified with Rhys, gives a record of his gatherings with Rhys in 1188 when Giraldus went with Archbishop Baldwin around Wales to raise men for the Third Crusade. Some Welsh ministers were troubled about this visit, yet Rhys was eager and gave the Archbishop a lot of help. Giraldus says that Rhys chose to go on campaign himself and went through a little while making arrangements, however was in the end influenced to alter his opinion by his better half Gwenllian, "by female stratagems". 

Henry II passed on in 1189 and was prevailing by Richard I. Rhys thought about that he was never again bound by the concurrence with King Henry and assaulted the Norman lordships encompassing his region. He desolated Pembroke, Haverfordwest, and Gower and caught the manors of St. Clear's, Laugharne, and Llansteffan. Richard's sibling, Prince John (later King John), came to Wales in September and attempted to make harmony. He influenced Rhys to raise the attack of Carmarthen and go with him to Oxford to meet Richard. Rhys touched base at Oxford to find that Richard was not set up to make a trip there to meet him, and threats proceeded. 

In his later years Rhys experienced difficulty keeping control of his children, especially Maelgwn and Gruffydd. In 1189 Gruffydd induced Rhys to detain Maelgwn, and he was surrendered to Gruffydd's keeping at Dinefwr. Gruffydd gave him over to his dad in-law, William de Braose. Gruffydd is likewise said to have convinced his dad to add the lordship of Cemais and its central stronghold of Nevern, held by William FitzMartin, in 1191. This activity was scrutinized by Giraldus Cambrensis, who portrays Gruffydd as "a craftiness and sly man". William FitzMartin was hitched to Rhys' little girl Angharad, and, as indicated by Giraldus, Rhys "had gravely sworn, by the most valuable relics, that his repayment and security ought to be steadfastly kept up". Rhys had additionally attached the Norman lordships of Cydweli and Carnwyllion in 1190. In 1192 Rhys verified Maelgwn's discharge, however at this point Maelgwn and Gruffydd were unpleasant foes. In 1194 Rhys was vanquished fighting by Maelgwn and Hywel, who detained him in Nevern stronghold, however Hywel later discharged his dad without Maelgwn's assent. Giraldus recommends that Rhys' imprisonment in Nevern château was divine retaliation for the dispossession of William FitzMartin. In 1195 two different children, Rhys Gryg and Maredudd, seized Llanymddyfri and Dinefwr, and Rhys reacted by detaining them. Rhys propelled his last battle against the Normans in 1196. He caught various manors, including Carmarthen, Colwyn, Radnor and Painscastle, and vanquished a military driven by Roger de Mortimer and Hugh de Say close Radnor, with forty knights among the dead. This was Rhys' last fight. William de Braose offered terms, and Painscastle was come back to him. 

In April 1197 Rhys kicked the bucket suddenly and was covered in St David's Cathedral. The recorder of "Brut y Tywysogion" records for 1197: 

Rhys kicked the bucket expel, having squabbled with the Bishop of St. David's, Peter de Leia, over the robbery of a portion of the priest's steeds a few years already. Before he could be covered in the house of prayer, the religious administrator had his body scourged in after death compensation. 

Rhys had selected his oldest real child, Gruffydd ap Rhys, as his successor, and not long after his dad's passing Gruffydd met the Justiciar, Archbishop Hubert Walter, on the outskirt and was affirmed as beneficiary. Maelgwn, the oldest child however ill-conceived, would not acknowledge this and was given military help by Gwenwynwyn abdominal muscle Owain of Powys. Maelgwn took the town and mansion of Aberystwyth and caught Gruffydd, whom he gave over to the care of Gwenwynwyn. Gwenwynwyn later given him over to the ruler, who detained him at Corfe Castle. Gruffydd was sans set the next year and recovered a large portion of Ceredigion. In 1201 Gruffydd kicked the bucket, however this did not end the battling between adversary petitioners. In 1216 Llywelyn the Great of Gwynedd held a board at Aberdyfi where he designated portions of Deheubarth to a few children and grandsons of Rhys. 

Giraldus Cambrensis much of the time makes reference to Rhys in his compositions and depicts him as "a man of incredible mind and brisk in repartee". Gerald recounts to the narrative of a meal at Hereford in 1186 where Rhys sat between two individuals from the Clare family. What could have been a strained illicit relationship, since Rhys had caught arrives in Ceredigion recently held by the Clare family, go off with a trade of polite compliments, trailed by some genial exchange among Rhys and Gerald about their family associations. Rhys gave Gerald and Archbishop Baldwin a lot of help when they visited Wales to raise troops for the campaign in 1188, and Gerald a few times alludes to his "thoughtfulness" and says that Rhys went with them right from Cardigan toward the northern fringe of Ceredigion "with a magnanimity particularly admirable in so distinguished a sovereign". 

Another contemporary essayist additionally composed of Rhys if Roger Turvey is right in expressing that Walter Map's piece "Of the King Appollonides" manages Rhys under a pen name. Guide was less positively arranged toward Rhys, depicting him as "This ruler I have seen and know, and abhor", however proceeds to state "I would not have my contempt darken his value; it isn't my desire ever to stifle any man's magnificence through jealousy". He recounts to the accompanying tale about Apollonides/Rhys: 

Davies gives the accompanying evaluation of Rhys: 

Davies likewise notes two defects in Rhys' accomplishment. One was the individual idea of his understanding with Henry II, which implied that it didn't endure Henry's demise. The other was his powerlessness to control his children and to constrain different children to acknowledge Gruffydd as his successor. 

Rhys had something like nine children and eight little girls. Confusingly, three of the children were named Maredudd and two of the girls were named Gwenllian.