Erschallet, ihr Lieder, erklinget, ihr Saiten! BWV 172 

Johann Sebastian Bach created the congregation cantata ' (), ', in Weimar for Pentecost Sunday in 1714. Bach drove the main execution on 20 May 1714 in the , the court house of prayer in the ducal "Schloss". "Erschallet, ihr Lieder" is an early work in a kind to which he later contributed total cantata cycles for all events of the ritualistic year. 

Bach was named in Weimar in the spring of 1714, a position that required the execution of a congregation cantata every month. He formed "Erschallet, ihr Lieder" as the third cantata in the arrangement, to a content most likely composed by court artist Salomon Franck. The content reflects distinctive parts of the Holy Spirit. The librettist incorporated a citation from the day's endorsed Gospel perusing in the main recitative, and for the end chorale he utilized a stanza from Philipp Nicolai's psalm "" (1599). 

The work is in six developments, and scored for four vocal soloists, four-section choir, three trumpets, timpani, oboe, bassoon and a string ensemble of two violins, two violas, and basso continuo. The ensemble for the occasion event is happy contrasted with the two works recently made in Weimar. The cantata opens with a tune, trailed by the recitative, in which words spoken by Jesus are sung by the bass as the (voice of Christ). A bass aria with trumpets tends to the Trinity, and a tenor aria at that point portrays the Spirit that was available at the Creation. This is trailed by a private two part harmony of the Soul (soprano) and the Spirit (alto), to which an oboe plays the ornamented song of Martin Luther's psalm "" and a performance cello gives the bass line. The topic of closeness among God and Man is grown further in the accompanying chorale, after which Bach indicated an unordinary rehash of the opening tune. 

While Bach filled in as "Thomaskantor" – chief of chapel music – in Leipzig from 1723, he played out the cantata a few times, here and there in an alternate key and with changes in the scoring. Musicologists concur that he cherished the cantata's Gospel content, "If ye love me ...", and the Pentecost psalm utilized in the two part harmony, setting both the content and the song a few times. John Eliot Gardiner composes that Bach "especially esteemed" this cantata. It contains highlights that he utilized again in later creations of cantatas, oratorios and his masses, for instance developments with three trumpets and timpani in a triple meter for happy events, and two part harmonies as an image of God and man. 

Bach is known as a productive author of cantatas. When he took on the situation as "Thomaskantor" (executive of chapel music) in Leipzig in 1723, he started the venture to compose church cantatas for the events of the ritualistic year – Sundays and dining experience days – an undertaking that he sought after for a long time. 

Bach was named organist and chamber artist in Weimar at the court of the co-reigning dukes in Saxe-Weimar, Wilhelm Ernst and his nephew Ernst August on 25 June 1708. He had created consecrated cantatas previously, some amid his residency in Mühlhausen from 1706 to 1708. Most were composed for unique events and depended fundamentally on scriptural messages and psalms. Precedents include: "Aus der Tiefen rufe ich, Herr, zu dir", BWV 131; the early chorale cantata "Christ slack in Todes Banden", BWV 4 for Easter; "Gott ist mein König", BWV 71, to praise the introduction of the new city chamber on 4 February 1708; and the "Actus Tragicus" for a memorial service. 

In Weimar, Bach originally focused on the organ, creating significant works for the instrument, including the , the Toccata and Fugue in D minor, BWV 565, and the Prelude and Fugue in E major, BWV 566. Christoph Wolff recommends that Bach may have contemplated melodic material having a place with the , ("court capelle" or court symphony), and that he duplicated and examined works by Johann Philipp Krieger, Christoph Graupner, Georg Philipp Telemann, Marco Giuseppe Peranda and Johann David Heinichen in the period from 1711 to 1713. In mid 1713 Bach formed his first cantatas in the new style that included recitatives and arias: the supposed "Chasing Cantata", BWV 208, as a reverence cantata for Christian, Duke of Saxe-Weissenfels, celebrated on 23 February, and potentially the congregation cantata for Sexagesima (the second Sunday before Lent) , on a content by Erdmann Neumeister. 

In 1713, he was approached to apply for the situation of music chief of the in Halle, succeeding Friedrich Wilhelm Zachow. Zachow had shown the youthful George Frideric Handel, and formed many church cantatas in the new style, receiving recitatives and arias from the Italian musical drama. Bach was effective in his application for the position, however declined after Duke Wilhelm Ernst expanded his compensation and offered him an advancement. 

Bach was elevated to on 2 March 1714, a respect that involved playing out a congregation cantata month to month in the : With the arrangement, he got the title "Konzertmeister" and new benefits: Circumstances were positive: Bach delighted in an "amiable and close" space in the court house of prayer, called (Heaven's Castle), and an expert gathering of artists in the court capelle. He was roused by a joint effort with the court artist Salomon Franck, who gave the writings to the greater part of his congregation cantatas, catching an "unadulterated, direct religious message" in "exquisite graceful language". The initial two cantatas Bach made in Weimar dependent on Franck's writings were , for Palm Sunday, which corresponded with the Annunciation that year, and for Jubilate Sunday. One month after "Erschallet, ihr Lieder", Bach performed "Ich hatte viel Bekümmernis", BWV 21, on the third Sunday after Trinity, again on a content by Franck. "Erschallet, ihr Lieder", the third cantata in this arrangement, is the main cantata for a gala day. 

is the third of the Weimar cantatas. It was the principal formed for a banquet day, Pentecost Sunday (Whit Sunday), Pentecost being a high occasion alongside Christmas and Easter. The recommended readings for the blowout day are taken from the Acts of the Apostles, on the Holy Spirit (), and from the Gospel of John, in which Jesus declares the Spirit who will instruct, in his Farewell talk (). As in many Bach cantatas, the lyrics is aggregated from Bible content, contemporary verse and chorale. The verse is credited to Salomon Franck, in spite of the fact that the stanzas are excluded in his printed releases. A few of Bach's initial expressive characteristics show up here, for example, a scriptural citation in a recitative second development as opposed to in a first choral development, arias following each other without a recitative in the middle of, and exchange in a two part harmony. 

Franck's content shows components of early Pietism: the outflow of outrageous emotions, for instance "O seligste Zeiten!" (O most honored occasions) in the opening tune, and a "mysterious manner", for instance in the two part harmony of the Soul and the Spirit joined together. In the center area of the principal development, Franck summarizes the Gospel content, which says in section 23 that God needs to stay with man, to "" (God Himself will set up our spirits for His sanctuary, all the more actually: "God needs to plan [our] spirits to turn into his sanctuaries"). The words for the recitative are the citation of section 23 from the Gospel of John, "" (Whoever adores Me will keep My Word, and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make Our residence with him). Development 3 tends to the Trinity and development 4 the Spirit that was available at the Creation. Development 5 is a two part harmony of the Soul and the Spirit, underlined by an instrumental statement from Martin Luther's Pentecost song "", which depends on the Latin psalm "Veni Sancte Spiritus, reple tuorum corda fidelium". Development 6 is a chorale, stanza four of Philipp Nicolai's song "". Nicolai's "Geistlich Brautlied" (Spiritual wedding tune) proceeds with the topic of solidarity among Soul and Spirit. 

With Bach's arrangement to show ace and his customary month to month cantata creations, he accomplished authorization to hold practices in the congregation, to guarantee elite benchmarks: "the practicing of the pieces at the home [of the capellmeister] has been changed, and it is requested that it should dependably happen at the [the music display in the castle church], and this is likewise to be seen by the ". The ensemble at his manner comprised of the individuals from the court cappelle, three pioneers, five artists and seven instrumentalists, increased on interest by military artists, town artists and choristers from an exercise room. 

Bach directed the main execution of on 20 May 1714. His child Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach recollected that he frequently led and played first violin: "he played the violin neatly and penetratingly, and consequently kept the symphony in preferred request over he could have finished with the harpsichord". The parts for the primary execution are lost, however the score and performing material for later exhibitions have endure. Bach played out the cantata once more, potentially in Köthen somewhere in the range of 1717 and 1722, and a few times as in Leipzig. For the execution on 28 May 1724, he changed the instrumentation marginally and transposed the work from C major to D major. He returned to C major for an act on 13 May 1731. An organ part for a later exhibition of development 5 is surviving. 

John Eliot Gardiner commented that Bach "especially esteemed" this cantata, and that it set "an example for his later ways to deal with the Pentecostal topic". Bach set the Gospel content of the recitative in a choral development in different cantatas for Pentecost – , and . 

In the Weimar variant, Bach scored the cantata four vocal soloists (soprano (S), alto (A), tenor (T) and bass) (B), a four-section choir, and a symphony of three trumpets (Tr), timpani (Ti), recorder (Fl) or flauto traverso (Ft), oboe d'amore (Oa), two violins (Vl), two violas (Va), bassoon (Fg), cello (Vc), and basso continuo (Bc). It is a happy, rich instrumentation for the occasion, though the past two cantatas in Weimar had not utilized metal instruments. Bach utilized the French string ensemble with two viola parts, as in many cantatas until 1715, when he began to favor the Italian scoring with one viola. In Weimar, a recorder or flauto traverso multiplied the main violin an octave higher; in the principal Leipzig execution it was a flauto traverso. A section for obbligato organ (Org) supplanting oboe and cello in development 5 was received in an even later act. The work is around 25 minutes in length. In the Weimar variant and the 1724 form, Bach mentioned a rehash of the opening melody, by including after the chorale . 

In the accompanying table of the developments, the scoring pursues the Weimar rendition of the Neue Bach-Ausgabe, and the contractions for voices and instruments the rundown of Bach cantatas. The keys are given for the Weimar rendition. The time mark is given utilizing the image to regular time (4/4). 

The cantata content does not recount to a story but rather reflects distinctive parts of the Holy Spirit, celebrated on Pentecost. It starts with general acclaim, at that point focuses on one line from the Gospel, addresses the Holy Trinity, alludes to the Spirit that was available at the Creation, demonstrates a discourse between the Soul and the Spirit, and finishes up with a stanza from Nicolai's song which gets the theme of solidarity between God (Spirit) and man, as appeared in the exchange. The content in this manner continues from general to increasingly close to home and personal reflection. 

John Eliot Gardiner, who led all Bach's congregation cantatas in 2000, put the Pentecostal cantatas amidst the venture, which he saw as a "year-long investigation of his cantatas in their occasional setting". He depicted Pentecost as "the summit of those 'extraordinary fifty days' which pursue the Resurrection, a watershed denoting the fulfillment of Jesus' work on earth and the happening to the Holy Spirit", and remarked that Bach "thinks of music of unalloyed confidence and abundance in festivity of ... the extraordinary start of the awesome Pentecostal sparkle which enables people to impart over the language boundary". As to the principal cantata composed for the event, he saw that Bach mirrors the "stages in the developing relationship of God with man", both by scoring and by his decision of keys. In the Weimar first form, the key of the primary developments is C major, brought down to A minor (a third lower) in the fourth, brought further down to F major (again a third lower) in the fifth and 6th. The scoring is magnificent, with three trumpets and timpani in development 1 and three trumpets again in development 3, diminished to strings in development 4 and to single instruments in development 5. 

"" (truly: stable, you melodies) is a merry concerto, set apart by Bach. Words and music are perhaps founded on a before lost mainstream (salutary cantata). A printing of Franck's works contains a cantata for New Year's Day, (Sound once more, saluting tunes) that may have filled in as a model. The development is in "da capo" structure: the main area is rehashed after a differentiating center segment. It is scored for three "choirs": one of trumpets, another of strings and bassoon, and a four-section theme. The number three, symbolizing the Trinity, shows up again in the 3/8 time mark and in the utilization of three trumpets. The initial segment opens with trumpet flourishes, exchanging with streaming coloraturas in the strings. The voices enter as a third homophonic choir. They rehash the primary proportion of the exhibit theme on "Erschallet" (resonate!), as the trumpets reverberation the theme. The voices rehash the theme from the second proportion of the ballyhoo on "ihr Lieder", and the trumpets reverberation it once more. The tune rehashes estimates 3 and 4 on "erklinget, ihr Saiten", directing the strings to play. As a summit, the primary syllable of "" (most honored occasions) is hung on a seventh harmony (first in measure 53), amid which the instruments play their themes. 

In the center area in A minor the trumpets rest while different instruments play with the voices. Polyphonic impersonation develops the possibility that God will set up the spirits to be his sanctuaries. The main grouping advances from the most reduced to the most noteworthy voice, with passages after a few measures. The most noteworthy voice starts the second grouping, and different voices enter in nearer progression, a couple of measures separated. Gardiner translates the polyphony as "conjuring before us the exquisite tracery of those 'sanctuaries' which God guarantees to make of our spirits". The initial segment is rehashed as da capo. 

The development is practically identical to the opening of "Tönet, ihr Pauken! Erschallet, Trompeten!" BWV 214 (Resound, ye drums! Ring out, ye trumpets!) made in 1733 on another content calling instruments to sound, which Bach later utilized with an alternate content to open his "Christmas Oratorio". Bach utilized a happy scoring with three trumpets in triple meter in his 1733 for the court in Dresden, in the "Gloria", rather than the first "Kyrie". 

The cantata's solitary recitative statements one line from the Gospel perusing of the day: "" (Whoever adores Me will keep My Word[, and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make Our residence with him]). Bach mirrors Jesus' guarantee to "make Our home with him" in melismatic lines in contradiction with themes in the cello like themes in development 5. He allocated the expressions of Jesus to the bass as the (voice of Christ). He shows the last rest in God by completion the performance line on an entire note low C, the most minimal note he requested of a soloist. The musicologist Julian Mincham depicts the vocal line: 

The underlying bars of tune are warm and unobtrusively definitive, however at the notice of abiding with Him the development assumes an altogether different personality. The bass line ends up animated with little jumps of delight ... The artist's last note is a base d (c in the transposed variant) a few notes lower than a bass' acknowledged range. ... at the point when accomplished it is a capturing sound, affirming the stone like assurance of the guarantee that we will inevitably live with God. 

The main aria, tending to the Trinity, "" (Holiest Trinity), is joined by a choir of three trumpets and basso continuo, an uncommon mix that communicates the possibility of the words. The trumpet is an image of a ruler. The three trumpets here and there play as one, to additionally represent the Trinity. The topic is made out of the three notes of the real harmony. The aria is in three segments. 

Bach composed an aria joined by just an obbligato metal instrument again in his (Kyrie and Gloria) in B minor, made in 1733 for the court in Dresden and a lot later coordinated into his Mass in B minor. The bass aria "Quoniam tu solus sanctus", mirroring God's blessedness and superbness, is set for corno da caccia, two bassoons and basso continuo. When he amassed the total mass, he utilized an aria with just woodwinds to mirror the Holy Spirit in "Et in Spiritum Sanctum", additionally a development with numerous images of the Trinity. 

The second aria, for tenor, "" (O heaven of the spirit), additionally contains three areas and a triple meter, however as opposed to the past development, depicts in consistent rushes of the harmony strings the Spirit that was available at the Creation, worded (O heaven of the spirit, fanned by the Spirit of God, which blew at creation). Alfred Dürr composed that the music "passes on the impression of discharge from all natural gravity". 

The last solo development, titled "Aria", "" (Come, don't keep me holding up longer), comprises of an exchange between the Soul and the Holy Spirit, and takes a structure near an adoration verse. The piece of the Spirit is alloted to the alto, while comparable two part harmonies of the Soul and Jesus in later cantatas are set for soprano and bass – for instance in "Ich hatte viel Bekümmernis", BWV 21 and "Wachet auf, ruft uns bite the dust Stimme", BWV 140. 

Bach set the content in a mind boggling structure joining two vocalists, a performance oboe and a performance cello. The soprano and alto sing of their solidarity in "neo-suggestive" or "obviously sensual/Pietistic" language: "I will bite the dust, on the off chance that I must be without you" the one; "I am yours, and you are mine!" the other. The cello gives an unpredictable contradiction all through, which Albert Schweitzer portrays as "a theme of cleansed satisfaction". The voices and the cello structure a trio, another image of the Trinity. The musicologist Anne Leahy of the Dublin Institute of Technology takes note of that Bach had potentially stanza 3 as a primary concern, which discusses love, and utilized the instrument which is named after affection. 

The oboe d'amore plays the lavishly ornamented tune of the Pentecost song "" ("Come, Holy Spirit, Lord God, load up with the integrity of Your effortlessness the hearts, wills, and psyches of Your unwavering. Touch off Your consuming affection in them".) Bach set this song, which appears to be near his heart, twice in his Great Eighteen Chorale Preludes, as BWV 651 and BWV 652. 

Bach utilized two part harmonies again when he formed in 1733 his (Kyrie and Gloria) in B minor for the court in Dresden, which he later coordinated into his Mass in B minor. He composed two part harmonies developments in the style of contemporary operatic love two part harmonies and put two of them in the focal point of each piece of the Missa: "Christe eleison" for two sopranos in the focal point of the Kyrie, in the focal point of the symmetrical structure of the Gloria. When he aggregated the Mass in B minor, he picked another two part harmony for the Credo, scored for soprano and alto, as in "Erschallet, ihr Lieder". 

The content of the closing chorale is taken from Nicolai's "Geistlich Brautlied" (Spiritual marriage tune) "Wie schön leuchtet der Morgenstern", proceeding with the subject of solidarity among Soul and Spirit. "" (A cheerful brilliance contacts me from God) is represented by a violin part added to the four-section choir. The content closures with the words: 

Until 1724 the opening ensemble was rehashed after the chorale, stamped "melody repetatur abdominal muscle initio" in the composition. 

Gardiner depicts the cantata as "evidently ... a work which he especially esteemed", including: "he concocts music of unalloyed hopefulness and extravagance in festivity of the principal blessings of recently stirred nature, just as the inexplicable start of the perfect Pentecostal sparkle which enables people to convey over the language boundary." Dürr remarks: 

The cantata was distributed by Breitkopf and Härtel in 1888 in volume 35 of the primary complete release of Bach's works by the Bach Gesellschaft, altered by Alfred Dörffel. In the Neue Bach-Ausgabe, the second total release of Bach's works, in the chronicled basic version, Dietrich Kilian altered both the recreated Weimar adaptation (1959) and the main Leipzig form (1960) in volume 13, including the basic report in 1960. 

The sections are taken from the posting on the Bach Cantatas Website. Outfits playing period instruments in truly educated practice are checked green. 

"Scores" 

"Books" 

"Online sources" 

The total chronicles of Bach's cantatas are joined by liner notes from artists and musicologists; John Eliot Gardiner remarked on his Bach Cantata Pilgrimage, Tadashi Isoyama composed for Masaaki Suzuki, and Christoph Wolff for Ton Koopman.