O. G. S. Crawford 

Osbert Guy Stanhope Crawford (28 October 1886 – 28 November 1957), otherwise called O. G. S. Crawford, was a British paleontologist who had practical experience in the investigation of ancient Britain and the antiquarianism of Sudan. For a large portion of his profession the archeological officer of the Ordnance Survey (OS), he composed a scope of books on archeological subjects and was a sharp defender of airborne antiquarianism. 

Conceived in Bombay, British India, to a rich white collar class Scottish family, Crawford moved to England as a newborn child and was brought by his aunties up in London and Hampshire. He contemplated geology at Keble College, Oxford, and worked quickly in that field before giving himself expertly to archaic exploration. Utilized by the donor Henry Wellcome, Crawford managed the uncovering of Abu Geili in Sudan before coming back to England without further ado before the First World War. Amid the contention he served in both the London Scottish Regiment and the Royal Flying Corps, where he was associated with ground and ethereal observation along the Western Front. After damage constrained a time of strengthening in England, he came back toward the Western Front, where he was caught by the German Army in 1918 and held as a POW until the finish of the contention. 

In 1920, Crawford was utilized by the Ordnance Survey, visiting Britain to plot the area of archeological destinations, and in the process recognizing a few beforehand obscure locales. Progressively keen on elevated paleontology, he utilized Royal Air Force photos to distinguish the degree of the Stonehenge Avenue, unearthing it in 1923. With the prehistorian Alexander Keiller, he led an aeronautical review of numerous provinces in southern England and raised the accounts to verify the land around Stonehenge for The National Trust. In 1927, he built up the academic diary "Relic", which contained commitments from a considerable lot of Britain's most conspicuous archeologists, and in 1939 he filled in as leader of The Prehistoric Society. An internationalist and communist, he went under the impact of Marxism and for a period turned into a Soviet sympathizer. Amid the Second World War he worked with the National Buildings Record, photographically reporting Southampton. In the wake of resigning in 1946, he refocused his consideration on Sudanese archaic exploration and composed a few further books preceding his passing. 

Companions and associates recollected Crawford as a grouchy and touchy person. His commitments to British prehistoric studies, incorporating into "Artifact" and ethereal paleontology, have been broadly acclaimed; some have alluded to him as one of the incredible spearheading figures in the field. His photographic document survived from use to archeologists into the 21st century. An account of Crawford by Kitty Hauser was distributed in 2008. 

O. G. S. Crawford was conceived on 28 October 1886 at Breach Candy, a suburb of Bombay in British India. His dad, Charles Edward Gordon Crawford, was a government employee who had been taught at Marlborough College and Wadham College, Oxford before moving to India, where he turned into a High Court judge at Thane. The Crawford family originated from Ayrshire in Scotland, and the tyke's extraordinary uncle was the legislator Robert Wigram Crawford. Crawford's mom, Alice Luscombe Mackenzie, was the little girl of a Scottish armed force specialist and his Devonshire spouse. Alice kicked the bucket a couple of days after her child's introduction to the world, thus when he was three months old, Crawford was sent to England on board the P&O liner "Bokhara". Amid the adventure he was depended to the consideration of his fatherly auntie Eleanor, an Anglican cloister adherent who was the leader of the Poona Convent of the Community of St Mary the Virgin. 

In Britain, he went through the following seven years with two fatherly aunties who lived respectively close to Portland Place in the Marylebone area of focal London. Like his dad, they were faithful Christians, having been the offspring of a Scottish priest. Under their guardianship Crawford had little contact with other kids or with men. Crawford saw his dad on the few events that the last visited England, before his demise in India in 1894. In 1895, Crawford and his two aunties moved to a rustic house in East Woodhay, Hampshire. At first taught at Park House School, which he delighted in, he was then moved to Marlborough College, his dad's "place of graduation". He was despondent there, whining about tormenting and authorized wearing exercises, and describing it as an "abominable place of torment". 

At the school, Crawford was impacted by his housemaster, F. B. Malim, who directed the archeological segment of the school's Natural History Society and empowered the kid's enthusiasm for the subject. It is conceivable that Malim given something of a dad figure for the youthful Crawford. With the general public, Crawford visited such archeological locales as Stonehenge, West Kennet Long Barrow, Avebury, and Martinsell. It was additionally through the general public that he got Ordnance Survey maps of the scene, enabling him to investigate the downs close to his aunties' home. He started unearthing of a pushcart close to Bull's Copse, hence pulling in the consideration of the savant Harold Peake, who was then associated with incorporating the "Victoria County History of Berkshire". Peake and his better half carried on with a Bohemian way of life, being veggie lovers and social reformers, and their thoughts strongly affected Crawford. Under the Peakes' impact, Crawford dismissed his religious childhood for a realist world-see situated in science. Crawford picked up a thankfulness from Peake for the comprehension of past social orders through an examination of the geological scene instead of basically through writings or relics. 

Following his tutoring, Crawford won a lesser grant to learn at Keble College, Oxford. There he started perusing "literae humaniores" in 1905 yet—in the wake of increasing just a second rate class score in his second year tests—he changed courses to examine geology in 1908. In 1910 he picked up a refinement for his recognition, for which he had led an investigation of the scene encompassing Andover. Mirroring his enthusiasm for the connection among topography and paleontology, amid a mobile voyage through Ireland he had likewise composed a paper on the geographic circulation of Bronze Age level bronze tomahawks and measuring utencils in the British Isles. It was exhibited to the Oxford University Anthropological Society before being distributed in "The Geographical Journal". The paleontologist Grahame Clark later related that the paper "denoted an achievement in British Archeology; it was the main genuine endeavor to derive ancient occasions from the land conveyance of archeological items". Crawford's kindred paleologist Mark Bowden expressed that while archeological dissemination maps had been recently created, "archeological information had at no other time been hitched with natural data" in the manner in which that Crawford did in this article. 

After Crawford graduated, Professor A. J. Herbertson offered him an occupation as a lesser demonstrator in the college's geology division. Crawford concurred, and served in the showing position over the following year. Through Herbertson, Crawford was acquainted with the geographer Patrick Geddes. Crawford at that point chose to concentrate his considerations on prehistoric studies as opposed to geology despite the fact that couple of expert positions in the field existed in Britain at the time. Searching somewhere else for archeological work, he ineffectively connected for a Craven Fellowship and for a post at Bombay Museum. 

At Herbertson's suggestion, in 1913 Crawford picked up work as a partner on William Scoresby Routledge and Katherine Routledge's endeavor to Easter Island. The campaign had the expectation of studying the island's first occupants and its Moai statues. After the group withdrew from Britain on board the clipper "Mana", Crawford started quarreling with the Routledges. Advising them that they had exhibited an "uncommon absence of graciousness" and "shocking parsimony" toward both him and other group individuals, he left the ship at Cape Verde and came back to Britain. He at that point picked up work from the affluent giver Henry Wellcome, who sent him to Egypt to increase further preparing in archeological unearthing from G. A. Reisner. Wellcome then sent him to Sudan, where Crawford was given charge of the uncovering of the Meroitic site at Abu Geili, staying there from January to June 1914. On his arrival to England—where he was anticipating dealing with the curios found in Sudan—he and his companion Earnest Hooton started exhuming of a long cart on Wexcombe Down in Wiltshire. 

It was while Crawford was occupied with this unearthing the United Kingdom entered the First World War. At Peake's consolation, Crawford enrolled in the British Army, joining the London Scottish Regiment and was sent to fortify the First Battalion on the Western Front. The force walked to Béthune to mitigate the British line, battling at Givenchy. Crawford was tormented with flu and intestinal sickness, and in February he was invalided back to England and positioned at Birmingham for his recovery. After he recouped, he connected to join the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) yet was considered excessively overwhelming. He was charged in May 1915. In July 1915 he joined the Royal Berkshire Regiment as a component of the Third Army, being positioned at Beauval and afterward St. Pol. Utilizing his current abilities, he filled in as the regiment's maps officer, and was in charge of mapping the territories around the cutting edge, including German Army positions. He likewise took photos which were utilized for British publicity purposes, and in 1916 he guided the essayist H. G. Wells around the channels on the last's visit to the Front. 

In January 1917, Crawford effectively connected to join the RFC as an eyewitness with the 23rd Squadron, which flew over foe lines to mention objective facts and draw maps. On his lady flight, the German Army opened discharge on his airplane, and his correct foot was penetrated by slugs and gravely harmed. To recover, he invested energy at different medical clinics in France and England before being sent to the RFC Auxiliary Hospital at the Heligan bequest in Cornwall. Amid this time in England he went through an end of the week at Wells' home in Dunmow, Essex, grasping the last's longing for a unified world government and the possibility that expounding on worldwide history was a commitment to that reason. While at Heligan, Crawford started take a shot at a book, "Man and his Past", in which he inspected a wide scope of mankind's history from an archeological and geological point of view. 

In September 1917, Crawford—who had been elevated to the situation of squadron knowledge officer—joined the 48th Squadron, for which he again took ethereal photos amid surveillance missions. While on one trip in February 1918, Crawford's flying machine was shot at and compelled to arrive in German-held region; he and his co-pilot were taken as detainees of war. He was at first detained at Landshut in Bavaria, from where he endeavored to escape by swimming down the River Isar; the waterway ebb and flow demonstrated excessively solid and he was before long recovered. He was then exchanged to Holzminden wartime captive camp, where he knew about a getaway plan including burrowing out of the camp, however did not participate. Rather he invested a lot of his energy taking a shot at "Man and his Past" and perusing works by Wells, Carl Jung, and Samuel Butler. Crawford stayed in the camp for seven months, until the statement of truce, at which he came back to Britain and was deactivated. 

Back in England, Crawford completed the process of expressing "Man and his Past", which was distributed by Oxford University Press in 1921. As indicated by the student of history of archaic exploration Adam Stout, the book was "a proclamation, a mobilizing sob for another age of archeologists who partook in the vision and the confidence in the capability of Progress". Bowden recommended that it could be viewed as a "statement for geoarchaeology, ecological paleohistory and financial archaic exploration. The bringing together topic is that every one of these themes ought to be drawn closer through the accumulation of maps". In talking about land strategies for portraying "societies", the work fit inside the hypothetical pattern of culture-chronicled archaic exploration, yet did not endeavor to apply the idea of culture in a precise manner. 

Crawford likewise came back to handle work, completing archeological unearthing for the Cambrian Archeological Association in both Wiltshire and Wales. In mid-1920, he uncovered at Roundwood, Hampshire and on the Isle of Wight for Sir William Portal. 

His mastery brought about his being welcomed by Charles Close, the Director-General of the Ordnance Survey (OS), to join that association as their first archeological officer. Tolerating the position, Crawford moved to Southampton and started work at the undertaking in October 1920. His landing in the OS created some disdain, with colleagues frequently observing his post as unnecessary and considering paleontology to be insignificant. His activity involved rectifying and refreshing data about archeological landmarks as the OS maps were reconsidered, and included him undertaking much hands on work, bridging the British scene to check the area of recently recorded locales and find new ones. He started in Gloucestershire in late 1920, visiting 208 locales around the Cotswolds and adding 81 beforehand obscure hand trucks to the guide. In view of his examination in this area, in 1925 he distributed his book "Long Barrows and the Stone Circles of the Cotswolds and the Welsh Marches". 

As an aspect of his responsibilities, he went around Britain, from Scotland in the north to the Scilly Isles in the south, regularly leading his hands on work by bike. At archeological destinations he took photos and put away them in his chronicle, and he additionally acquired airborne photos of archeological locales taken by the Royal Air Force. 

In this he was supported by local savant social orders and by his reporters, whom he called his "ferrets". In 1921, the Ordnance Survey distributed Crawford's work, "Notes on Archeology for Guidance in the Field", in which he clarified how novice archeologists could distinguish hints of old landmarks, streets, and horticultural movement in the scene. He likewise started creating "period maps" in which archeological destinations were denoted; the first of these was on Roman Britain, and highlighted Roman streets and settlements. First distributed in 1924, it before long sold out, bringing about a second version in 1928. He pursued this with a scope of further maps during the 1930s: "Britain in the Seventeenth Century", "Celtic Earthworks of Salisbury Plain", "Neolithic Wessex", and "England in the Dark Ages". In spite of the fact that his position had at first been unsafe, in 1926 it was made perpetual, regardless of the hesitance of the Treasury, which financed the OS at the time. By 1938, he had the capacity to induce the OS to utilize a colleague, W. F. Grimes, to help him in his work. 

Crawford turned out to be especially keen on the new procedure of flying paleohistory, asserting this new procedure was to archaic exploration what the telescope was to stargazing. His relationship with it was respected in Wells' 1939 novel "The Shape of Things to Come", which names a review plane that finds an antiquated archeological gadget "Crawford". He created two OS pamphlets containing different aeronautical photos, imprinted in 1924 and 1929 separately. Through these and different works he was quick to advance ethereal paleontology, coming to be solidly related to the method. Not a sharp flying picture taker himself, he didn't by and by take the photos, however gathered a large portion of them on visits to RAF bases or (during the 1930s) from individual flyers, for example, George Allen and Gilbert Insall. He utilized sources, for example, Anglo-Saxon limit sanctions, place-names and old stories to recognize conceivable areas of ancient and Roman locales. 

Utilizing RAF flying photos, Crawford decided the length of the Avenue at Stonehenge before leaving on an unearthing of the site with A. D. Passmore in late 1923. This venture pulled in press consideration, bringing about Crawford being reached by the preserves head honcho and paleologist Alexander Keiller. Keiller welcomed Crawford to go along with him in an aeronautical study, financed by Keiller himself, in which they flew over Berkshire, Dorset, Hampshire, Somerset, and Wiltshire in 1924, taking photos of archeological follows in the scene. A significant number of these pictures were distributed in Crawford and Keiller's "Wessex from the Air" in 1928. In 1927 Crawford and Keiller helped raise the funds to purchase the land around Stonehenge and present it to The National Trust to keep it from being harmed by further horticultural or urban improvement. Beforehand, in 1923, Crawford had helped Keiller in crusading to keep a radio pole being raised on the archeologically noteworthy Windmill Hill in Wiltshire, with Keiller later acquiring the slope and the encompassing Avebury zone. Regardless of this working relationship, the two never moved toward becoming companions, maybe a consequence of their very different feelings and interests outside of prehistoric studies. 

In 1927, Crawford established "Artifact; A Quarterly Review of Archeology", a quarterly diary intended to unite the exploration of archeologists working over the world to enhance the assortment of local savant periodicals that were then accessible. Specifically, Crawford considered "Vestige" to be an adversary to the "Antiquaries Journal" distributed by the Society of Antiquaries. Crawford was derisive of the Society, disdaining their disregard of ancient times and trusting that they did minimal important research. Albeit intended to have a global degree, "Vestige" showed an unmistakable predisposition towards the prehistoric studies of Britain, with its discharge corresponding with the blooming of British archaic exploration as a field of study. It contained commitments from an assortment of youthful archeologists who came to overwhelm the field of British prehistoric studies, among them V. Gordon Childe, Grahame Clark, Cyril Fox, Christopher Hawkes, T. D. Kendrick, Stuart Piggott, and Mortimer Wheeler. They shared Crawford's longing to professionalize the field, in this manner removing it from the mastery of classicist specialists and an increasingly logical way. To a portion of these people, Crawford himself was lovingly known as "Ogs" or "Uncle Ogs" 

The diary demonstrated compelling from the begin. In spite of the fact that not at first utilizing a procedure of companion survey, Crawford requested that his companions read through entries that he was uncertain about. Just as trying to shape and characterize the order, "Relic" looked to spread updates on archeological revelations to a more extensive open, subsequently being more available than previous insightful diaries. This brought about Crawford getting letters from defenders of different pseudo-archeological thoughts, for example, the ley line hypothesis of Alfred Watkins; he documented these letters under an area of his chronicle titled "Crankeries" and was irritated that informed individuals accepted such thoughts when they were verifiably erroneous. He would not distribute an advert in "Olden times" for "The Old Straight Track" by Watkins, who turned out to be harsh towards him. In 1938, Crawford filled in as President of the Prehistoric Society; in this position he actuated a progression of unearthings, welcoming the German paleologist Gerhard Bersu—oppressed in Germany by the Nazi specialists—to move to England to manage the removal of Little Woodbury. 

Crawford delighted in remote travel. In 1928 the OS sent him to the Middle East to gather flying photos that had been created amid the First World War and which were put away at Baghdad, Amman, and Heliopolis. In mid-1931 he visited Germany and Austria, advancing his enthusiasm for photography through the buy of a Voigtländer. He later visited Italy with the expectation of analyzing the likelihood of delivering OS maps pinpointing the nation's archeological destinations; in November 1932 he met with the Italian head Benito Mussolini, who was keen on Crawford's thoughts regarding making an OS guide of archeological locales in Rome. This was a piece of a more extensive undertaking to create a progression of maps covering the whole of the Roman Empire, for which Crawford visited different pieces of Europe amid the late 1930s. Occasion goals included Germany, Austria, Romania, Corsica, Malta, Algeria, and Tunisia, and in 1936 he acquired a plot of land in Cyprus on which he had a house assembled. Amid these get-aways, he visited archeological destinations and met with nearby archeologists, urging them to contribute articles to "Relic". 

Crawford trusted that society would advance with the development of internationalism and the expanded use of science. Politically, he had advanced toward communism affected by Childe, who had turned into a dear companion. He communicated the view that communism was "the characteristic result of science in the guideline of human issues". He endeavored to join Marxist thoughts into his archeological translations, thus creating articles, for example, "The Dialectical Process in the History of Science", which was distributed in "The Sociological Review". He wound up excited about the Soviet Union, a state represented by the Marxist Communist Party, seeing it as the precursor of a future world state. 

With his companion Neil Hunter, he went to the Soviet Union in May 1932, cruising to Leningrad on board the "Smolny". Once there, they pursued an endorsed visitor schedule, visiting Moscow, Nizhni Novgorod, Stalingrad, Rostov-on-Don, Tiflis, Armenia, Batum, and Sukhum. Crawford appreciated what he saw as the advancement that the Soviet Union had made since the fall of the Tsarist routine, the undeniably awkward and sexual orientation measure up to status of its populace, and the regard agreed to researchers in arranging its societal improvement. He portrayed his vacation with sparkling commendation in a book, "A Tour of Bolshevy", expressing that he did as such to "hurry the defeat of free enterprise" while in the meantime making "however much cash as could be expected" out of business people. The book was dismissed by the distributer Victor Gollancz, after which Crawford chose not to approach different distributers, rather giving composed duplicates of the work to his companions. Despite the fact that he wound up included with the Friends of the Soviet Union and composed a few articles for the "Day by day Worker" paper, he never joined the Communist Party of Great Britain, nor did he become engaged with sorted out legislative issues by any stretch of the imagination, maybe expecting that to do as such would endanger his work in the common administration. 

In Britain, he captured locales related with the conspicuous Marxists Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin. He likewise captured the signs raised via landowners and religious gatherings, trusting that in doing as such he was reporting the hints of entrepreneur society before they would be cleared away by communism. Both in Britain and on a visit to Germany he shot master fundamentalist and hostile to extremist promulgation and spray painting. In the same way as other radicals at the time, he trusted that one party rule was a brief, extraordinary articulation of industrialist society that would before long be overwhelmed by communism. He by and by communicated adoration for the German archeological foundation under the Nazi government, featuring that the British state falled a long ways behind regarding financing unearthings and empowering the investigation of antiquarianism in colleges; he abstained from remarking on the political plan that the Nazis had in advancing paleohistory. 

Notwithstanding his communist and genius Soviet convictions, Crawford trusted in working together with every single remote prehistorian, paying little mind to political or ideological contrasts. In mid 1938, he addressed on flying antiquarianism at the German Air Ministry; the Ministry distributed his address as "Luftbild und Vorgeschichte", and Crawford was baffled that the British government did not distribute his work with a similar eagerness. From that point, he visited Vienna to meet with his companion, the excavator Oswald Menghin; Menghin took Crawford to an occasion commending the Anschluss, at which he met the conspicuous Nazi Josef Bürckel. Not long after, he holidayed in Schleswig-Holstein, where German archeologists took him to see the Danevirke. 

In the late 1930s he started chip away at a book titled "Ridiculous Old Britain", which he portrayed as "an endeavor to apply archeological strategies to the investigation of contemporary society" and in which he was intensely disparaging of his country. It inspected 1930s Britain through its material culture, with Crawford achieving the judgment that it was a general public in which appearances were given more prominent significance than esteem, with garments, for example, accentuating middle class decency over solace. He credited quite a bit of this to the effect of private enterprise and industrialism on British culture. The work fitted inside a set up type of 1930s distributions which mourned the province of British society, specifically the nature of its nourishment and fabricated items just as its expanding suburbanisation. By the episode of the Second World War the work had turned out to be less attractive because of its unpatriotic nature, and when in 1943 Crawford proposed it to Methuen Publishing they turned it down; he offered duplicates to a couple of companions, yet never distributed it. 

Fully expecting the Second World War, Crawford communicated the view that he would "stay impartial" and not favor one side, not on the grounds that he supported totalitarianism over liberal popular government but rather in light of the fact that he saw both as hostile types of industrialist society which would at last be cleared away by a communist unrest; in his words the war would be "a conflict of colonialisms, a hoodlums' quarrel". After war broke out, he chose that in case of a German intrusion of Britain he would obliterate the majority of his liberal writing in case he be mistreated for having it. 

In November 1940, the German Luftwaffe started bombarding Southampton, where the OS workplaces were found. Crawford expelled a portion of the old OS maps and put away them in the carport of his home at Nursling, while additionally fruitlessly asking the Director-General to evacuate the OS' file of books, archives, maps and photos to a protected area. Accordingly, the OS central command were wrecked in the shelling, bringing about the loss of the greater part of their document. The refusal of the OS organization to pay attention to his alerts goaded Crawford, fueling his displeasure about the common administration's formality and administration. In his words, "endeavoring to go in the Civil Service resembled attempting to swim in a pool of paste". Leaving his participation in different British social orders, he fruitlessly endeavored to discover work abroad. 

With little for a prehistoric studies officer to do at the OS in wartime, in mid-1941 Crawford was favored to the Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England "for unique obligations amid wartime". They appointed him to complete a task of photographic documentation in Southampton for the National Buildings Record, creating pictures of numerous old structures or design includes that were undermined by the Luftwaffe's besieging effort. He valued the estimation of this work, taking 5,000 photos through the span of the war. In 1944, the Council for British Archeology was established, and keeping in mind that Crawford was welcome to serve on its first gathering, he declined the offer, being tepid about the task. 

In 1946, at the most punctual conceivable chance, Crawford surrendered his post at the OS, where he was supplanted by Charles Philips. He stayed in the Southampton zone and held his enthusiasm for the city's design, specifically that of the Middle Ages. In 1946 he was an establishing individual from an entryway gathering, Friends of Old Southampton, which looked to shield the city's notable engineering from pulverization in the midst of post-war advancement. Amid the post-war period he likewise came to be engrossed and unnerved by the possibility of an atomic war, encouraging archeological experts to make duplicates of all their data and scatter it in various areas to guarantee that learning endure any expected Third World War. Holding his left-wing interests, in 1945 and 1946 he had some inclusion with the Labor Party, albeit somewhere else he ridiculed the "oblivious" who imagined that Labor "really" spoke to communism. In the last piece of the 1940s he turned out to be progressively baffled with the Soviet Union subsequent to perusing Arthur Koestler's "Haziness at Noon", a book about Joseph Stalin's Great Purge and Moscow show preliminaries, just as learning of how Soviet researchers who did not bolster the thoughts of Trofim Lysenko had been oppressed. In 1950—subsequent to perusing the diary of Margarete Buber-Neumann—he announced himself to be "fanatically hostile to Soviet [and] against socialist". 

In 1949, Crawford was chosen a Fellow of the British Academy, and in 1950 he turned into a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire. In 1952 he was made a privileged Doctor of Letters by the University of Cambridge for his commitments to ethereal paleohistory. 

Crawford restored his thoughtfulness regarding Sudanese archaic exploration, depicting Sudan as "a break place where there is the brain when the island of Britain was a severe jail". At the welcome of the Sudanese government, he visited the nation on an archeological observation trip in January 1950, preceding visiting the Middle Nile in 1951. At Nursling, he composed a book on the northern Sudanese Funj Sultanate of Sennar, which showed up in a similar year as his since quite a while ago postponed report on the Abu Geili unearthing, co-composed with Frank Addison. He pursued this with the 1953 book "Strongholds and Churches in the Middle Nile Region". Another of Crawford's book extends in this period was a short history of Nursling, just as an early on manual for scene examines, "Prehistoric studies in the Field", distributed in 1953. In 1955 he at that point distributed his collection of memoirs, "Said and Done", which the classicist Glyn Daniel and the student of history Mark Pottle—the creators of Crawford's entrance in the "Word reference of National Biography"— portrayed as "a vivacious and interesting life account in which his character comes unmistakably through". 

After the revelation of ancient shake workmanship on Stonehenge in 1953, Crawford chose to look at the etchings on the megalithic landmarks in Brittany. Roused by this subject, in 1957 he distributed "The Eye Goddess". In this book he contended that a significant number of the conceptual plans highlighted in ancient shake craftsmanship were portrayals of eyes. He further contended that they gave proof to a religion gave to a mother goddess which had existed over the Old World from the Paleolithic through to the time of Christianisation. That equivalent decade additionally seen comparative thoughts with respect to a Neolithic religion centered around an incredible goddess being upheld underway of Childe and Daniel; the student of history Ronald Hutton later seen that "whether there was ever an 'Age of the Goddess' in Neolithic Europe, there absolutely was one among European learned people in the mid twentieth century". Crawford's book was not generally welcomed inside scholarly community. 

Crawford was additionally keen on felines, and figured out how to imitate feline commotions, playing out these on a BBC communicate, "The Language of Cats", which demonstrated famous and prompted a scope of fan letters. A distributer in the United States welcomed him to compose a book regarding the matter, yet Crawford never finished it. In the mid-1950s, Crawford started to look into space science and cosmological thoughts regarding the cause of the universe, favoring Fred Hoyle's enduring state hypothesis around an unceasing universe with no start or end. 

In 1951, an altered volume, "Parts of Archeology in Britain and Beyond: Essays Presented to O. G. S. Crawford", was distributed, having been altered by Grimes and conveyed out to stamp Crawford's 65th birthday celebration. Checking on the collection for "Artifact", J. v. d. Waals and R. J. Forbes depicted it as "a wonderful birthday present". A considerable lot of Crawford's partners stressed over him, mindful that he lived alone at his cabin in Nursling—with just the organization of his older maid and felines—and that he needed either a vehicle or phone. It was there that he kicked the bucket in his rest the evening of 28– 29 November 1957. He had orchestrated a portion of his letters and books to be pulverized, while others were to be sent to the Bodleian Library, with the stipulation that some of them would not be opened until the year 2000. His body was covered in the congregation burial ground at Nursling. As per his guidelines, the title "Editorial manager of "Times long past"" was recorded on his headstone, mirroring his craving to be recalled fundamentally as a prehistorian. On Crawford's demise, the editorship of "Days of yore" was taken on by Daniel. 

Crawford's communist convictions were known to his partners and partners, similar to his animosity toward religion. While he turned into a skeptic amid his time at Marlborough College, it isn't known precisely when he grasped communism. He set a solid accentuation on close to home independence, and straightforwardly communicated scorn for the individuals who required social cooperation for their very own bliss. His grown-up life was a single one, with no family and no human wards. His sexual introduction stays obscure, with Bowden taking note of that Crawford's connections with ladies were "heartfelt however not critical". He was attached to felines, and kept a few as pets, raising pigs for nourishment just as developing vegetables in his greenery enclosure at Nursing. An overwhelming smoker, he was known for moving his own cigarettes. 

Crawford was frequently peevish and a few partners discovered him angering to work with. He was known for his absence of tolerance, and when irate or disappointed was known to indulgence his cap to the floor in a motion of fury. His biographer Kitty Hauser noticed that "evidently silly occasions left a permanent imprint on him", for he would recall an apparent slight for quite a long time. Bowden communicated the view that while Crawford "had a speedy temper, which he endeavored to control ... he was basically an amicable man", including that he could be "clubbable, neighborly and kind". 

Jonathan Glancey alluded to Crawford as "a convincing if firmly petulant screw-up" and a "basically Victorian erratic". Hauser portrayed him as "a British blend of a highbrow snot and a radical", likewise noticing that he was "no incredible scholarly". Additionally, Clark communicated the view that "Crawford's accomplishments" originated from his "ethical respectability and singleness of psyche" instead of "any exceptional scholarly splendor". The writer Neal Ascherson portrayed Crawford as "not expectedly scholarly". Ascherson included that Crawford was "pulled back, by and large anxious with different individuals from the human species aside from on paper, and suspicious of individual big name", along these lines standing out Crawford from his "gregarious" counterparts Wheeler and Daniel. 

Daniel portrayed Crawford as having a "messianic want" to advance paleontology "to the general population of the world". He was stubborn and one sided and communicated abhor for the individuals who saw the past in an alternate way to himself. Piggott noticed that Crawford was unfit to identify with the points of view of those considering past social orders through a control other than antiquarianism, for example, history or workmanship history, and that he couldn't feel for "anybody not as energetically worried as himself in field ancient pieces". For instance, in one of his distributions, Crawford rejected students of history as being "learned" and "clean-booted". The paleontologist Jacquetta Hawkes remarked that in Crawford's publications for "Vestige", he coordinated "equitable resentment" toward "everyone from the State, Dominion and Colonial Governments, Universities and Museums, to late commentators and imprudent evidence correctors". 

Wheeler—who believed Crawford to be "one of [his] dearest companions"— asserted that the last was "a blunt and solid rival" and a man who had an "innocent joy in challenging the blustering of tradition". He included that Crawford showed the "divine fretfulness of the pioneer" and that he had a "powerlessness to work in saddle. On the off chance that he joined a board of trustees or a sodality, he did as such just to leave at the main chance." Piggott depicted Crawford as a guide who "was empowering, useful, and eccentric: his scandalous frank analysis of what at that point go for the archeological Establishment was music to a student's ear". 

Crawford was highly regarded by his companions. As indicated by Hauser, at the season of his passing Crawford had "obtained a practically legendary status among British archeologists as the uncompromising – if eccentric – begetter of all". 

In 1999, the paleontologist John Charlton alluded to Crawford as "one of the pioneers of British archaic exploration this century", while after nine years Ascherson depicted him as "certainly one of the extraordinary figures of the 'advanced' age which changed British archeological practice and its establishments among 1918 and – state – 1955". Ascherson noticed that Crawford's commitments to prehistoric studies had little to do with archeological hypothesis and more to do with "the organizations and tools ... which he passed on to his calling", including "Relic". Crawford gave brief period to translating the archeological record, and when he did as such for the most part grasped functionalist elucidations, trusting that individuals in conventional social orders gave practically the majority of their opportunity to survival as opposed to carrying on as indicated by religious or representative ideas; in this he was normal of his time and was affected by Marxist realism. 

Crawford was perceived for his commitments to conveying archaic exploration to a wide division of the British open. The classicist Caroline Malone expressed that many saw Crawford as "an 'amateur's' paleontologist, giving the way to distribute and remark outside the limitations of neighborhood diaries and to offer a dream of another and widespread control". Clark communicated the view that Crawford "dependably desired to reestablish the fragile living creature and blood and to make the previous a reality to the living age", and in doing as such pulled in a more noteworthy open group of onlookers for British paleontology than a large number of his partners. Wheeler commented that "he was our most noteworthy archeological marketing expert; he showed the world grant, and researchers around each other". 

Remarking on Crawford's editorship of "Ancient history", Hawkes communicated the view that his "ability in controlling between over-improvement and over-specialization has empowered the Magazine to succeed commendably in its job as go-between for specialists and open". 

Crawford's arrangement of archiving archeological destinations in the OS' Archeological Record gave the plan on which both the later National Archeological Records in England, Scotland, and Wales, and the nearby locales and landmarks records were based. 

In the 21st century, Crawford's photographic file put away at Oxford University's Institute of Archeology was still counseled by archeologists trying to see how different locales showed up amid the main portion of the twentieth century. 

In 2008, Kitty Hauser's memoir, "Bleeding Old Britain", was distributed. Surveying her work for "The Guardian", Glancey portrayed it as "a genuinely entrancing and startling book". Writing in "Open Archeology", Ascherson portrayed it as "brimming with smart recognition and thoughtful knowledge" yet was incredulous of its absence of references and "incidental mix-ups of truth". 

A secretly amassed rundown of Crawford's distributions up to 1948 was distributed in his 1951 festschrift.