Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt 

Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt is the presentation solo collection by John Frusciante, discharged on November 22, 1994, on American Recordings. Frusciante discharged the collection after consolation from a few companions, who disclosed to him that there was "a whole lot of nothing music around any longer." 

"Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt" consolidates vanguard and continuous flow styles, with guitar, piano and different impacts on a four-track recorder. The collection's first half, "Niandra LaDes", was recorded before Frusciante left the Red Hot Chili Peppers in 1992, amid the chronicle of "Glucose Sex Magik". The second half, "Typically Just a T-Shirt", was recorded while the band was on visit in the months paving the way to Frusciante's flight. "Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt" sold ineffectively upon its discharge in 1994, and was removed the market, just to be re-discharged in 1999. 

The first-historically speaking vinyl version of the record was discharged on November 22, 2017 through Superior Viaduct, offering both a standard dark vinyl release and a grand translucent red vinyl version with 7" b-side carefully restricted to 1,000 duplicates. 

Frusciante joined the Red Hot Chili Peppers in 1988, at 18 years old, and discharged his first collection with the gathering, "Mother's Milk", the next year. The subsequent collection, "Glucose Sex Magik", was recorded in a vacant house that the band chose to live in for the length of account. Frusciante adjusted well to the earth, and regularly invested his energy alone painting, tuning in to music, and recording tunes that would inevitably make up the principal half of the collection, "Niandra LaDes". "Glucose Sex Magik" was discharged on September 24, 1991 and was a moment achievement. The collection crested at number three in the U.S. what's more, proceeded to sell more than 12 million duplicates around the world. Not long after the collection's discharge, Frusciante built up an abhorrence of the band's recently discovered ubiquity. He felt that the band was excessively renowned, and wished they were all the while playing little clubs like they were before he joined the gathering. By his very own affirmation, the band's ascent to notoriety overwhelmed Frusciante, and he couldn't adapt to it. Amid "Glucose Sex Magik's" limited time visit, Frusciante started utilizing heroin and cocaine intensely. He and vocalist Anthony Kiedis regularly contended when exhibitions. As per Kiedis, Frusciante deliberately undermined the "Saturday Night Live" execution of "Under the Bridge" by playing the wrong introduction for the tune and out of key. His association with the band had turned out to be logically increasingly stressed, and he unexpectedly quit amid the Japanese leg of their reality visit in 1992. 

In the wake of leaving the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Frusciante kept on composing and record solo material. He had been doing as such since the age of nine, yet had never thought to be discharging his material to people in general. That was until a few of his companions—including Johnny Depp, Perry Farrell, Gibby Haynes and previous Red Hot Chili Peppers band mate Flea—urged him to discharge the material he wrote in his extra time amid the "Glucose Sex Magik" sessions. Frusciante started taking a shot at finished editions of the melodies he had been composing, and creating them at his home in mid-1992. The creation procedure, notwithstanding, moved toward becoming hampered by his inexorably serious dependence on heroin. "Typically Just a T-Shirt" was recorded as per the pattern in which it shows up, with the last tracks being recorded presently before Frusciante's takeoff from the Chili Peppers. Frusciante's utilization of heroin and cocaine turned out to be progressively outrageous amid the last phases of account in late 1993; he started seeing medications as the best way to "ensure you keep in contact with excellence as opposed to giving the grotesqueness of the world a chance to degenerate your spirit." 

Amid a 1994 meeting, an unmistakably inebriated Frusciante noticed that he composed the collection so as to make "fascinating music", which he felt never again existed. He felt contemporary specialists were not composing material he considered worth tuning in to and the standard populace were agreeing to unremarkableness. Medications were another noteworthy point on which Frusciante based "Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt". As indicated by Frusciante, he "was stoned for each and every note [he] played on the collection." He expanded his medication use to adapt to intensifying gloom that was brought about by leaving the Red Hot Chili Peppers, and his consequent seclusion. A few melodies on the collection manage his aversion for the Chili Peppers' prosperity, for example, the collection's eleventh track, "Blood on My Neck From Success". 

The majority of the music on the record was composed by Frusciante, put something aside for the front of bad-to-the-bone punk band Bad Brains' melody "Huge Takeover". The track was purposefully backed off and recorded melodically due to a hobby in which Frusciante sang punk tunes in various beats: "It was simply something I had been strolling around considering in my mind. In some cases I'll stroll around singing punk shake tunes to myself, yet as though they were ordinary tunes rather than punk shake tunes, you know, moderate it down and make a song rather than simply shouting them out. And afterward the thought happened me to record it like a Led Zeppelin ditty with mandolins and stuff." River Phoenix, a companion of Frusciante's, had contributed guitar and support vocals to two tunes that were proposed be incorporated on the record, however they were at last left off because of challenges from his family. These were later included under various names on the collection "Grin from the Streets You Hold" in 1997. 

"Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt" consolidated Frusciante's cutting edge style of melody arrangement, with his continuous flow technique. He recorded, blended, delivered and aced the whole record without anyone else, and discharged it on Rick Rubin's mark, American Recordings. Warner Bros., the Chili Peppers' name, initially held the rights to the collection on account of the leaving-craftsman provision in Frusciante's Chili Peppers contract. Since he was living as a hermit, notwithstanding, the name readily gave the rights over to Rubin, who discharged the collection under his name. 

"Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt" was at first reviewed by "Board" magazine, who said that "Bean stew Peppers fans may be dismayed by the collection's tricky experimentalism." An agent of American Recordings did not anticipate the collection as being feasible in any standard music stores, and a few retailers ventured to forbid it from being sold. After the collection was discharged, Frusciante played three little exhibitions, and took part in a couple of magazine meetings to advance the collection, clarifying in one meeting that individuals would possibly have the capacity to comprehend his work if "their heads are equipped for stumbling out." At one point soon after discharge, Frusciante started scanning for a string group of four to play the collection with him on visit. The thought was in the long run disposed of when he couldn't discover a band that "comprehends why Ringo Starr is such an incredible drummer, can play Stravinsky, and furthermore smokes pot." The idea of a visit was eventually relinquished also, because of Frusciante's reducing wellbeing. 

"Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt" was not broadly surveyed, yet yielded a by and large positive reaction from faultfinders. Steve Huey of AllMusic, who appraised the collection four out of five stars, said that "[the collection was] an interesting and startling takeoff from Frusciante's work with the Chili Peppers", and that "the scanty courses of action of the primary half help set the phase for the gossamer guitar work later on." He proceeded to state that "Generally Just a T-Shirt"— the last 50% of the collection—contained "charming hallucinogenic instrumentals with a lot of in reverse guitar impacts." Ned Raggett, likewise of AllMusic, noticed that "there's nothing so staggering as [Frusciante's] sublime redo of Bad Brains' 'The Big Takeover'." Adam Williams of PopMatters said the collection "fall[s] somewhere close to franticness and splendor". He proceeded to contrast Frusciante with Syd Barrett, and felt it was an "allude to a profoundly cerebral craftsman searching inside for motivation and inventiveness." "High Times"<nowiki>'</nowiki> Tim Kenneally observed the record as "a disclosure, both irritatingly cozy and mysteriously hidden. Ladeled straight out of the guitarist's continuous flow, it's universes from the direct front, balls-out funk ambush of his previous band," with "an ethereal, supernatural quality." The collection got a lot of negative analysis also. "Rolling Stone's" Christian Hoard felt "Frusciante's unconventionalities run truly amok", and that " [the album] sounds like a string of four-track demos. The initial segment of the collection is marginally more tuneful than the more surrounding, test second section[...] Mostly what you get are Frusciante's acoustic-guitar scratchings and stream-of-cognizant ramblings." The main "Moving Stone" survey of the record, be that as it may, was certain: "All things considered, [the collection is] a wreck—yet unquestionably an entrancing, frequently flawless chaos. As one may expect of a collection titled "Niandra Lades and Usually Just a T-shirt" this is curved, cool stuff." The "Boston Herald" said that while the collection was "an obvious presentation of Frusciante's acoustic guitar virtuosity" and "shockingly delightful", the singing was "awful; his high notes will drive the area hounds into a free for all." 

Frusciante's chronic drug use intensified as the years advanced. An article distributed by the "New Times LA" portrayed him as "a skeleton canvassed in slender skin". He took an interest in a meeting with Dutch open communicate station VPRO—the primary media appearance he made since leaving the Chili Peppers. In the meeting Frusciante talks about the constructive outcomes drugs have had at the forefront of his thoughts and gladly confesses to being an "addict". He proceeded to admit addictions to heroin and rocks, at the end of the day portrayed himself as being in the best wellbeing of his life. In 1997, Frusciante discharged his second solo collection "Grin From the Streets You Hold", fundamentally for medication cash. "Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt" was assessed to have sold just 45,000 duplicates when Frusciante requested it no longer available in 1998—when Frusciante restored and rejoined the Chili Peppers. "Grin From the Streets You Hold" was pulled back from the market a year later. In 1999 "Niandra LaDes and Usually Just a T-Shirt" was re-discharged on American Recordings. In the mid 2000s, Frusciante said he intended to re-discharge "Grin From the Streets You Hold" at some point later on, yet did not give any sign regarding when. It was in the end re-discharged on American Records in Europe of 2006. 

All melodies composed by John Frusciante, aside from where noted.