Tyrone Wheatley 

Tyrone Anthony Wheatley, Sr. (conceived January 19, 1972) is right now the head football mentor at Morgan State University. He is likewise a previous expert player who played 10 seasons in the National Football League (NFL) and was a standout amongst the best secondary school and university competitors in Metropolitan Detroit history. In secondary school, he was an individual from state-champion groups in both olympic style sports and football, and he was named Michigan's olympic style events competitor of the year and football competitor of the year in a similar scholastic year. He earned All-America track respects in both secondary school and school. Following his graduation as a standout amongst Michigan's best secondary school competitors, he went to the University of Michigan on an athletic grant and earned first-group All-Big Ten Conference respects on Big Ten Champion football and track groups. He positions among the Wolverines' unsurpassed hurrying pioneers in various classifications, and his name shows up in a few places in the Big Ten football record book. He was named to All-Big Ten groups in football and olympic style events an aggregate of multiple times, and he earned bits of seven Big Ten titles (two group grants for football, one group grant for indoor track, one honor for 110 meter obstacles, and three honors for individual football factual exhibitions). 

Following his graduation from the University of Michigan, Wheatley was chosen by the New York Giants of the NFL in the first round of the 1995 NFL Draft. As a running back for the Giants, he was the group's universally handy yards pioneer in 1996 and their driving ballcarrier in 1997. In spite of his prosperity on the field, he built up a notoriety for sluggishness. He was exchanged to the Miami Dolphins, however cut before the 1999 season started. He marked with the Oakland Raiders and prospered, driving the group in hurrying multiple times and twice completing among the NFL's best ten players in surging touchdowns. Amid his NFL profession (1995– 2004), he totaled over 6,500 all-reason yards as a running back and kickoff returner. 

In the wake of resigning from the NFL, Wheatley came back to the place where he grew up to mentor his secondary school institute of matriculation, Dearborn Heights' Hamilton J. Robichaud High School. He has filled in as the running backs mentor for the Ohio Northern Polar Bears, the Eastern Michigan Eagles, the Syracuse Orange and the Michigan Wolverines on school; and for the Buffalo Bills and the Jacksonville Jaguars of the NFL. 

Wheatley was conceived in Inkster, Michigan. Inkster is situated in Metropolitan Detroit, east of both Ann Arbor and University of Michigan. Wheatley's dad (additionally named Tyrone) endured a human gunfire twisted to the head in 1974 when Wheatley was two years of age. Wheatley's stepfather kicked the bucket of a heart assault when he was 13, deserting Wheatley, his sister, and relative, two-year-old Leslie Mongo. Without further ado a while later, Wheatley's mom, Patricia, was laid off and turned into a heavy drinker. With the powerful loss of his two guardians, Wheatley and his sister were compelled to move in with an auntie, where he survived the remainder of his adolescence. Because of family troubles, Wheatley goes about as the gatekeeper of two cousins and his stepbrother. Mongo was ten years more youthful than Wheatley, and moved on from secondary school in New Jersey in 2004—thirteen years after Wheatley had moved on from secondary school. 

Wheatley was engaged with aggressive sports since the beginning: In his childhood, he ran intensely with the Penn Park track group, where, as an eight-year-old, he emerged for his control and instantaneousness. Due to his family inconvenience, he accepted a family position of authority at a generally youthful age. Wheatley made it unmistakable to his siblings and sisters that when turmoil went to their lives, they ought to swing to him since he would be there and he could never fall. When he was in secondary school, he would take his more youthful kin to b-ball games, mapping out crisis plans for shooting episodes or fights. Wheatley's guardianship proceeded all through his vocation at the University of Michigan and keeping in mind that he was an expert competitor. While playing in the NFL, he understood that leaving Mongo—the most youthful of his kin—in Inkster and only giving budgetary help was not an answer since Mongo was as yet presented to posse shootings. As Mongo's gatekeeper, Wheatley moved Mongo to New Jersey for school. Mongo later earned remarkable rookie competitor respects amid the Bergen County, New Jersey open air track titles while living with Wheatley, who was playing for the Giants at the time. In 2004, with his graduation from secondary school up and coming, Mongo marked a letter of purpose with Utah State as a protective back. 

Wheatley went to Hamilton J. Robichaud High School in Dearborn Heights, Michigan, a neighboring district of Inkster. Amid his time at Robichaud High School, he turned into a nine-time MHSAA state champion (seven-time individual in olympic style sports, once group each in olympic style sports and football). He is among the most noteworthy scoring football players in Michigan secondary school history, and he drove his secondary school to the state football titles while playing eight distinct positions and being named the Michigan Football Player of the year. In the 1990 MHSAA Championship amusement against upper landmass powerhouse Kingsford High School at the Pontiac Silverdome, Wheatley kept running for 165 yards and a touchdown in a 21– 7 triumph. That season, he drove the Bulldogs to a 12– 1 record, and to their solitary state football title. He has been portrayed as the best football player in Michigan High School history. 

In olympic style sports, he won the Michigan High School Track and Cross Country Athlete of the Year grant in 1991. Be that as it may, at one point Wheatley had stopped the track group in light of the fact that the mentor would not give him a chance to run four individual occasions as a sprinter, jumper and hurdler. The mentor yielded, and Wheatley turned into a seven-time MHSAA Class B singular state champion by winning the long hop, 100 meters, 110-meter obstacles the two his lesser and senior seasons and winning the 200 meters as junior. In his lesser year, he drove his school to the state Class B track titles, and he turned into the main individual four-time olympic style events state champion around the same time in MHSAA history. Through the 2007 MHSAA season he was the MHSAA All class long hop record holder with a 1991 jump of , his secondary school 100 meters time (10.59 seconds, 1990) keeps on positioning third in MHSAA history, and his 110 meter obstacles time (13.87 sec., 1991) positioned seventh in MHSAA history. Moreover, through the 2007 track season his obstacle time kept on being a MHSAA lower landmass Class B state record. His long bounce record has been resigned. Wheatley turned into a secondary school All-American in track, and he was likewise an individual from effective hand-off groups in secondary school. He had become famous as a nine-time Michigan High School Athletic Association (MHSAA) state champion competitor. His physicality and bouncing capacities were additionally displayed in ball; Wheatley played for his secondary school b-ball crew and had the capacity to hammer dunk. He guarantees that against his secondary school rival, Inkster High School, he played out a dunk from the foul line, which is a troublesome dunk made well known in pummel dunk rivalries by Julius Erving (Dr. J.) and later resuscitated by Michael Jordan. However, notwithstanding his adaptability and guarantee, Wheatley considered turning down athletic grants with expectations of getting a scholastic grant. 

Wheatley stayed in metropolitan Detroit and go to the University of Michigan on an athletic grant. He played running back for the football crew for a long time and kept running on the track group for a long time. As both a football player and track competitor he was exceedingly beautified; he earned first-group All-Big Ten distinctions on groups that won Big Ten Championships in the two games and All-American Honors in track. In football, he set and holds various school records and in track he accomplished probably the quickest occasions in school history. Hostile facilitator Fred Jackson reviewed that Wheatley was constantly quick, never overweight, played while harmed, and even watched Jackson's youngsters. Wheatley was depicted in the press as a football player who put his group in front of himself. 

Wheatley wore #6 for the Michigan Wolverines football program from 1991 to 1994. Toward the finish of the 2007 season, he positioned third in Michigan football history in profession focuses and second in vocation touchdowns (behind Anthony Thomas) with forty seven hurrying touchdowns, six getting touchdowns and one kickoff return for a touchdown. His 47 surging touchdowns, which positioned third in Big Ten history toward the finish of his vocation, positioned fifth behind Ron Dayne (71), Anthony Thompson (68), Pete Johnson (56) and Thomas through the 2006 season. His 17 touchdowns in 1992 positions as the fifth most gainful hostile season in Michigan history. In 1992, he was the Big Ten surging and scoring champion in an offense where Michigan quarterback Elvis Grbac was additionally a factual Big Ten victor. He earned the Big Ten Offensive Player of the Year Award that season and topped the season off by winning the MVP of the 1993 Rose Bowl on a 235-yard, 15-convey execution against Washington Huskies, which included touchdown keeps running of 88, 56 and 24 yards. 

Through the 2012 season, he positions fifth on the Michigan profession surging yards list (behind Mike Hart, Denard Robinson, Anthony Thomas, and Jamie Morris) with 4,178 yards. His 1992 sophomore season 7.3 yards per convey is a Michigan single-season record (least 75 attempts), and his green bean yards per convey normal positions fourth at Michigan since 1949 (and it is a Michigan Freshman record). He has both the best and second-best single-amusement (least 15 carries) yards per convey exhibitions in Michigan history. He was a three-time All Big Ten choice. 

As a green bean for the 1991 Wolverines, Wheatley set the Michigan first year recruit yards per endeavor record with 555 yards on 86 carries for a 6.4 yards per endeavor. In his sophomore year, he got through with his first of three back to back first group All-Big Ten determinations. He scrambled for 1,357 yards and 13 Rushing touchdowns notwithstanding 3 Receiving touchdowns and recording a kickoff return touchdown while subbing for the harmed Ricky Powers. Wheatley had amassed the most touchdowns by a running back in Michigan history before the finish of his lesser year and was an expert prospect. In 1993 toward the finish of his lesser season 1993 Wolverines, he earned the MVP grant of the 1994 Hall of Fame Bowl. Wheatley had completed eighth in the 1993 Heisman Trophy race. Before LeShon Johnson's 306 yard exertion in November of that season against Iowa group that Wheatley had scrambled for 113 yards against, Wheatley had been referenced as the best running back in the country, yet Johnson's exertion and Bam Morris' last three rounds of 223, 222 and 223 yards prompted Bam Morris winning the Doak Walker Award. Most who completed in front of him in the Heisman casting a ballot either were seniors (Ward, Glenn Foley, Johnson) or surrendered their beginner qualification and announced right on time for the draft (Heath Shuler, David Palmer, Marshall Faulk), which made Wheatley one of the top picks for the honor on the off chance that he remained in school for one more year. He remained at Michigan for one more year with the expressed purpose of getting his degree, however remained without accepting the degree. In any case, the preseason 1994 Heisman Trophy top pick (alongside seventh spot finisher J. J. Feeds), missed the start of the period with damage to a similar shoulder that had made him miss two diversions in 1993. His arrival to the lineup on September 24, 1994 was dominated by The Miracle at Michigan. His senior season come back to the 1994 Wolverines had been a shock, however wounds permitted Tshimanga Biakabutuka and Ed Davis to make some play time. He just completed twelfth in the Heisman balloting as a senior. Regardless, he imagined that his senior-year experience expanded his perspectives. 

In school, Wheatley additionally contended in track and earned varsity letters in 1993– 1995. In 1994, he was the Big Ten open air 110 meter obstacles champion, was chosen first group All-Big Ten, and was an individual from the men's indoor olympic style events group that won the indoor Big Ten group title. He put eighth at the 1995 NCAA open air titles in the 110 meter obstacles, which earned him All-American distinctions. Toward the finish of his Michigan track profession, he claimed the third quickest indoor 60m time in Michigan history at 6.80 seconds just as the second quickest open air 110 metre obstacles time at 13.77 seconds and third quickest outside 100 meters at 10.46 seconds. Bit by bit, succeeding competitors have outperformed his occasions, and after the 2007 season the 110 meter obstacle time positioned fourth best and the 100 meter dash time was fifth. 

Wheatley was drafted by the New York Giants in the first round of the 1995 NFL Draft with the seventeenth generally speaking choice. He waited for 17 days before marking a five-year contract with the group. The terms incorporated a $2.3 million marking reward and raising base pay rates totaling over $2.9 million. The dealings were delayed to some extent due to broad family contribution. Wheatley set no objectives for himself and lived by his grandma's maxim on setting oneself up: "You can set your sails, yet you can't set the breeze". The Giants saw Wheatley as their running back of things to come, since Rodney Hampton was in the last year of his agreement. 

In spite of the first dreams, Wheatley was utilized sparingly and began just eight recreations once again the course of four seasons with the Giants. Off the field, Wheatley moved his relative with him to New Jersey to keep him out of the turbulent condition and to give him a solid learning condition. 

In 1995 and 1996, under Dan Reeves the Giants had losing seasons and depended vigorously on Rodney Hampton who got the heft of the continues surging plays. In 1995, running back Herschel Walker got all the more passing downs and in 1996 fullback Charles Way was a primary weapon. Wheatley returned kickoffs for the 1995 and 1996, with 10 returns for 18.6 yards per return in 1995 and 23 returns for 21.9 yards per return in 1996. While Hampton drove the group in surging with 827 yards to Wheatley's 400 yards in 1996, Wheatley's 503 return yards and 51 yards getting gave him the group universally handy yards authority. In any case, Wheatley had 6 fumbles on just 147 touches (112 rushes, 12 receptions, and 23 kickoff returns). 

The drafting of Wheatley had been fervently challenged. Some Giant draft war-room work force had needed to choose Korey Stringer and others had an enthusiasm for Rashaan Salaam when the Giants' determination came. After Wheatley was chosen with the seventeenth pick, running backs Napoleon Kaufman, James Stewart and Rashaan Salaam were picked with the eighteenth, nineteenth and twenty-first determinations, individually. Reeves made its an obvious fact that he would have chosen Salaam over Wheatley in the draft. First experience with the Giants was an agreement quarrel that shielded him from getting to preparing camp on schedule. At that point, in new kid on the block season preparing camp, he had the disaster of pulling a hamstring while at the same time running dashes on the primary day. Hypothesis had been that the damage had happened in a stagger in a June track meet. Reeves held the brief damage against the running back he never needed. Wheatley later nodded off in a gathering which drew a fine from Reeves. Despite the fact that he just really nodded off in one gathering, he additionally had mental fixation issues by and by. He was not known for living sporadically so his nodding off and loss of focus was a sufficient issue that the Giants had Wheatley assessed. Over this, Wheatley was fined a few times for lateness to group gatherings. 

In 1997, before the finish of preparing camp, Rodney Hampton's knees had given out, and despite the fact that Wheatley had an extraordinary camp, Tiki Barber was named the beginning half back. That season, Jim Fassel's first, the Giants went to the playoffs with a 10– 5– 1 record. Wheatley drove the group in conveys that season in spite of missing two diversions and imparted the ballcarrying duties to Way and Barber. On October 12, Wheatley had his initial 100-yard amusement with 102 yards on 22 carries against the Arizona Cardinals in a 27– 13 triumph out and about. While Wheatley and Way separated the hurrying burden, Barber and Way partitioned the greater part of the duty regarding the running backs' job in the passing assault, while Wheatley had not exactly half the same number of gatherings and gathering yards as both of them. A lower leg damage made Wheatley miss the last two standard season recreations and the trump card playoff amusement. 

By 1998, Wheatley was the main four-year veteran in the Giants backfield and despite the fact that he built up another great association with a hostile organizer, he was getting to be familiar with being depicted as a mystery. The Giants tumbled to 8– 8 while depending on Barber, Way and Gary Brown. Amid the season, Wheatley frequently performed scout group obligations and was inert for certain diversions. Fassel was not thoughtful to Wheatley's longing for playing time and imagined that Wheatley was overweight. Through the span of the period, there was discussion about a season long weight farthest point of that had been put on Wheatley. Wheatley's playing weight limit had been set at in preparing camp and had been raised to 235 on Wheatley's solicitation. He had played at in the last round of his school profession. By week 11, Wheatley had just wearing five amusements and played in four and was consigned to a job as an other when he played. 

Wheatley thought he was dealt with unreasonably in New York albeit two distinctive instructing staffs had issues with him. He brings up twofold gauges that gave him awful emotions everything considered. In circumstances where he was by all account not the only Giant who was overweight or stuck in rush hour gridlock, he was rebuffed while others were not and those with more terrible issues, for example, appearing at training alcoholic or being refered to for D.U.I. were not denounced. Wheatley had the obligation of driving his sibling, Leslie Mongo, to his school that opened at 8:15 and thought he was the casualty of New Jersey traffic in connection to infrequently being late for 9:00 a.m. group gatherings. Charles Way, on the other hand, Wheatley's dearest companion in the group and flat mate out and about, was nicknamed "Prude." 

As per "The New York Times", there was a misperception of Wheatley as a "malignant growth" in the storage space by generally accounts. Despite the fact that he had a few issues, his colleagues recalled that him for his identity and considerate nature. The general conclusion of Wheatley was that he was honored with colossal ability, yet as a bundle he was a mystery. As indicated by Michael Strahan, Wheatley "...could surpass the wide beneficiaries, outlift the linemen and outdebate anybody." Thus, his off-season exercise example of sloughing the loads for exchange of legislative issues and flow undertakings was disturbing, yet not tested on the grounds that he could outlift most. In any case, notwithstanding the puzzling issues, Wheatley had physical issues in New York. He was harmed and unfit to perform for parts of every one of the four of the preparation camps. After the 1998 season Wheatley was exchanged to Jimmy Johnson's Miami Dolphins. In the February exchange, the Giants were fulfilled accepting a seventh round draft pick consequently. 

The Dolphins sought that Wheatley would contend after the beginning half back position with Abdul-Karim al-Jabbar, who had scrambled for an association driving 15 touchdowns in 1997 however whose creation had tumbled off to just 6 out of 1998. In any case, Wheatley was cut from the Miami Dolphins preparing camp program. He had just experienced multi week of Dolphins preparing camp before being discharged, making him accessible to the Raiders. The Raiders marked Wheatley on August 4, 1999 to help compensate for the loss of Zack Crockett who endured a broken foot. Amusingly, Wheatley, the seventeenth by and large choice in the 1995 NFL Draft, earned his 1999 list spot in a fight with Rashaan Salaam, the twenty-first in general choice in the 1995 NFL Draft, who had been Dan Reeves' favored draft decision in 1995. Wheatley was matched in the Raiders backfield with Napoleon Kaufman, the eighteenth generally speaking choice in the 1995 NFL Draft. 

While in Oakland, Wheatley would make a lot more prominent progress than he had in New York. Wheatley scrambled for 1,000 yards in a season, drove the Raiders in hurrying multiple times, showed up in three continuous playoffs (counting one Super Bowl) and completed in the main 10 in the NFL for surging touchdowns twice. Through the 2007 NFL season, Wheatley was the seventh driving rusher in Oakland Raider history with 3,682 yards as a Raider. In his job as a Raider, Wheatley had the capacity to add to the absolute most prominent recollections ever of establishment. Seven of his eight vocation 100-yard hurrying recreations came as a Raider. Five of these recreations were at the Oakland Coliseum and two were out and about against the Seattle Seahawks. None of these diversions came in the playoffs where his most elevated surging absolute was 56 yards. 

How well Wheatley supplemented Napoleon Kaufman in Oakland was rapidly clear to the New York media, and his freshly discovered achievement was seen when the Giants had a feeble running amusement in his nonattendance. In his initial a very long time with the Raiders, Wheatley rapidly followed through on the guarantee of his potential with a mix of the ability to keep running inside and the speed to keep running outside. Wheatley was very prominent in Oakland. The players loved him and his mentor, Jon Gruden, even clowned with him amid his meetings. 

On the field, Wheatley turned into a vital piece of a shockingly productive West Coast offense kept running by Jon Gruden. In 1999, Wheatley was the Raiders' driving rusher and their solitary running back to have more than one touchdown gathering. Out of the blue, Wheatley had numerous 100-yard recreations in a similar season: 100 yards on 20 rushes on October 3 against the Seattle Seahawks and 111 yards on 19 rushes on December 19 against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The players gelled as a unit and in addition to the fact that Wheatley had his best seasons in Oakland, yet in addition long time NFL veterans on the Raiders amassed their best season upon his landing. For instance, Rich Gannon, a NFL veteran quarterback since 1987, made his initial four Pro Bowl appearances with Wheatley as a weapon. The group just accumulated a 8– 8 record, notwithstanding. 

Wheatley had the best period of his vocation in the 2000 as Raiders went 12– 4 and achieved the American Football Conference title round of the 2000– 01 NFL playoffs. Wheatley amassed 1,046 yards hurrying and 9 touchdowns on 232 carries and included 20 receptions for 156 yards. Wheatley joined adequately with Kaufman to shape an inside and outside assaulting mix in these initial two years. Wheatley's 4.5 yards per convey positioned ninth in the NFL. In addition to the fact that Wheatley amassed a vocation high three 100-yard hurrying diversions that season, however he likewise had his three most elevated profession single-amusement exhibitions: 156 yards on just 15 carries on October 22 at home against the Seattle Seahawks, 146 yards on December 16 at Seattle and 112 yards on November 5 against the Kansas City Chiefs. The 100-yard exhibitions against Seattle were his second and third in his initial four recreations against them as a Raider. In the playoffs, Wheatley just posted a sum of 63 yards hurrying on 31 conveys and one gathering for four yards in two home playoff recreations. On January 6, 2001, Wheatley posted what might end up being his vocation (seven profession diversions) playoff high 56 yards hurrying and his solitary playoff touchdown. In the January 14 gathering title against the Baltimore Ravens he scrambled for 7 yards on 12 conveys. 

In 2001, with the landing of Jerry Rice and Charlie Garner, the offense concentrated on the passing diversion, running five more pass endeavors for each amusement than the prior year. The group delivered two 1,000-yard recipients with Rice storing up 1,139 yards and Tim Brown totaling 1,165 yards. Earn drove the group in surging and aggregated 72 receptions. In the mean time, Wheatley just begun three amusements and amassed just 12 receptions through the span of the period. Out of the blue as a Raider, Wheatley went a whole season without a 100-yard hurrying amusement. The group went 10– 6 and came back to the 2001– 02 NFL playoffs, yet Wheatley just had 88 carries amid the standard season notwithstanding tying Zack Crockett for the running back administration with 6 touchdowns. In the first round trump card diversion, Wheatley posted his second most noteworthy playoff aggregate of 37 yards. In Wheatley's sole vocation street playoff diversion, he just posted five yards surging on four conveys. 

Under new mentor Bill Callahan, the 2002 Raiders turned out to be increasingly dependent on Garner as the essential running back. Once more, Rice and Brown were essential focuses for Gannon who, while having his best season with 4,689 yards, did not utilize Wheatley as a beneficiary as much as different players. Wheatley had a larger number of conveys than in 2001, yet did not begin a solitary diversion and did not see the end zone frequently. Once more, Wheatley went a whole season without a 100-yard surging diversion. Be that as it may, as a job player he had the capacity to play in three 2002– 03 playoff recreations including the 2003 Super Bowl against previous mentor Gruden. As in his past seasons, Wheatley posted his best playoff numbers in his first amusement, this time 30 yards on just four conveys. After seven days on January 19, 2003, Wheatley had his last post-season convey, a 5-yard keep running on his solitary convey of the diversion. In Super Bowl XXXVII on January 26, Wheatley's solitary touch went ahead a seven-yard gathering. In spite of the fact that the Raiders did not win the Super Bowl, Tyrone Wheatley was re-marked. 

In 2003, Wheatley recovered his job as the Raiders' driving rusher in spite of the fact that Garner, the second driving rusher, kept on being the objective of more passes and Crockett made it to the end zone as a rusher as frequently as Wheatley and Garner joined. Wheatley turned into the 6th individual to lead the Raiders establishment in hurrying yards multiple times (Clem Daniels, Marv Hubbard, Mark van Eeghen, Marcus Allen, Napoleon Kaufman). The 2003 Raiders tumbled to 4– 12 and had no 1,000-yard collectors or sprinters. Wheatley's solitary 100-yard surging diversion went ahead November 16 at home against the Minnesota Vikings. 

Wheatley's name and those of a few of his colleagues were found on the rundown of customers of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-employable (BALCO) that had given execution improving medications to Marion Jones and others. Therefore, he, and partners Chris Hetherington, Dana Stubblefield, and Chris Cooper were called to affirm before a 2003 federal thousand jury examining a research facility that produces dietary enhancements. Johnnie Morton was called before a similar jury. Wheatley, Stubblefield, and Morton all declined to remark. This court appearance in the BALCO hearings was remarkable for Wheatley's strike of an independent picture taker who endeavored to snap Wheatley's picture outside the Philip Burton Federal Building soon after Wheatley had educated the KNTV cameraman that he would sue any individual who snapped his photo. 

In spite of the fact that Wheatley's 2003 execution had been unassuming contrasted and different seasons that he drove the Raiders in surging (1999, 2000), it was adequate to persuade the Raiders that they didn't have to re-sign the pass finding running back Charlie Garner for the 2004 season with the new mentor Norv Turner. The 2004 Raiders utilized a company of five sprinters (Wheatley, Crockett, Justin Fargas, J. R. Redmond and Amos Zereoué) who all scrambled for somewhere in the range of 100 and 500 yards and got somewhere in the range of 10 and 40 passes. Wheatley incorporated his last 100-yard hurrying amusement on September 26 in week 3 of the period at home against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers with 102 yards on 18 conveys. This was the soonest point in the season Wheatley had scrambled for 100 yards in an amusement as an expert. Wheatley's vocation finished in week 12 of the period on November 28, 2004 of every a 25– 24 prevail upon the Denver Broncos with damage that was first depicted as a harmed hamstring. The hamstring remove swung to be intense. Wheatley had been under contract until 2009 with a 2005 base compensation of $800,000 and a 2006 base pay of $2 million. 

Unfit to satisfactorily restore his hamstring, Wheatley resigned from the NFL and came back to Ann Arbor, Michigan. At the University of Michigan, in 2005, he volunteered as a track mentor while completing his Bachelor's certificate in game administration. In November 2006, Wheatley was procured at his institute of matriculation, Robichaud High School, as the track mentor. In the wake of taking Robichaud to their first meeting title he was additionally enlisted as the football mentor. To get ready for his instructing obligations he shared in Jon Gruden's NFL minority training entry level position by working with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers as a NFL Minority training individual amid the 2006 preparing camp. As football mentor in 2007, Wheatley began with a 6– 1 record before confronting the group's adversary, the undefeated Inkster High School. In spite of losing on the field to Inkster, the group was credited with a relinquish triumph and ordered a 8– 1 standard season record. The group accomplished its first billet in 13 years in the MHSAA Class B playoffs, one year in the wake of going 0– 9. The group won its initially round playoff coordinate against Dearborn Heights Annapolis High School and lost its second to Milan High School to complete with a 9– 2 record. The group last won the MHSAA title in 1990 amid Wheatley's senior season with a 12– 1 record. Amid Wheatley's nonattendance the group was a state semifinalist in 1991 with a 10– 2 record and showed up in 1994. Notwithstanding instructing, Wheatley has filled in as an athletic coach to about 30 clients. 

In 2008, he joined John Fontes' instructing staff as an associate mentor for Team Michigan in the All American Football League. He was to fill in as the running backs mentor for the group in the class that intended to start play in April 2008. Be that as it may, the class never appeared. Wheatley interned as a NFL Minority instructing individual with the Pittsburgh Steelers amid the mid year of 2008 preparing camp. He likewise served at the Rising Stars Football Camp as an associate teacher. In late August 2008, he turned into the associate mentor at Ohio Northern University, with obligation regarding the group's running backs. After the finish of Wheatley's instructing temporary position at the finish of the period, he was procured by Ron English as a running backs mentor at Eastern Michigan University for the 2009 season. 

In February 2010, he was enlisted to supplant Roger Harriott on Doug Marrone's staff at Syracuse University. In 2013, he left Syracuse, alongside Marrone, to join the Buffalo Bills, Wheatley's first NFL training position. 

In 2015, Tyrone chose to come back to his place of graduation and mentor the running backs at the University of Michigan on the staff for the new Michigan head mentor Jim Harbaugh. 

In January 2017, the Jacksonville Jaguars contracted Wheatley as running backs mentor to rejoin Marrone, who was enlisted as Jaguars' head mentor. Wheatley alongside a few other aide mentors and organizers were terminated by Marrone and the Jaguars after the 2018 season.. On February 6, 2019, Wheatley was named head mentor of Morgan State Bears football. 

Notwithstanding his guardianships, Wheatley and Kimberly have three children and two girls as of February 2010. Wheatley and his significant other Kimberly, had their first tyke, Tyrone Jr., in 1997, and their second in late 1998. In 2012, Wheatley was chosen for enlistment into the Michigan Sports Hall of Fame. 

On February 4, 2015, Tyrone Jr. (known as TJ) marked the National Letter of Intent to play football for his dad's Alma Mater, Michigan. Preceding Michigan's contracting of Jim Harbaugh as mentor and Wheatley on his staff, TJ had been settling on UCLA, USC, Alabama, and Oregon. 

On December 11, 2016, Tyrone's child, Terius resolved to play football for the Virginia Tech Hokies, joining the 2017 marking class, in the wake of going through a year at Fork Union Military Academy. 

, Wheatley positioned fifth in vocation hurrying at Michigan: 

N.B.: Home group is in striking.