Old Dan Tucker 

"Old Dan Tucker", otherwise called "Ole Dan Tucker", "Dan Tucker", and different variations, is an American prevalent melody. Its inceptions stay darken; the tune may have originated from oral custom, and the words may have been composed by lyricist and entertainer Dan Emmett. The blackface troupe the Virginia Minstrels advanced "Old Dan Tucker" in 1843, and it rapidly turned into a minstrel hit, behind just "Miss Lucy Long" and "Mary Blane" in fame amid the prior to the war time frame. "Old Dan Tucker" entered the society vernacular around a similar time. Today it is a twang and down home music standard. It is no. 390 in the Roud Folk Song Index. 

The principal sheet music release of "Old Dan Tucker", distributed in 1843, is a tune of brags and garbage in the vein of past minstrel hits, for example, "Hop Jim Crow" and "Gumbo Chaff". In misrepresented Black Vernacular English, the verses recount Dan Tucker's adventures in a bizarre town, where he battles, gets alcoholic, gorges, and breaks other social taboos. Minstrel troupes uninhibitedly included and evacuated stanzas, and people artists have since included hundreds more. Farces and political forms are likewise known. 

The tune falls into the phrase of past minstrel music, depending on cadence and content declamation as its essential inspiration. Its tune is straightforward and the amicability minimal created. By the by, contemporary commentators found the melody more lovely than past minstrel toll. Musicologist Dale Cockrell contends that the tune speaks to a change between early minstrel music and the more European-style tunes of minstrelsy's later years. 

"Old Dan Tucker" as initially distributed represents the manly flaunting tunes that prevailed in early minstrelsy. Present day experts stress the tune's crudeness, bigotry, and hate for social taboos. In artificial Black Vernacular English, the melody utilizes short, dynamic words, for example, "runnin" and "cryin", to depict Dan Tucker as an unpleasant and-prepared dark man in the shape of Jim Crow, Gumbo Chaff, and at last the fanciful story frontiersman: 

Exhaust is a bestial character, driven by sex, savagery, and solid beverage. He is appalling, grungy, and unintelligent, even infantilized. As an outsider around the local area, his nonchalant activities demonstrate his issues with or inner conflict to adjusting to nearby mores. All the more comprehensively, Tucker's hate for social standards enables the tune to send up decent white collar class American culture, as prove by the last stanza: 

Different stanzas create the impression that don't oblige the fundamental story. Their lines appear to be befuddled babble, because of the new slang and results of the time. Maybe it was composed to expand the rhyme plot. The third stanza is one precedent: 

Dan Tucker is both the teller and subject of the story. Stanzas 1, 3, and 5 of the 1843 release are in the principal individual, though sections 2, 4, and 7 are in the third. This mirrors the tune's planned execution by a whole minstrel troupe. The lead minstrel played Tucker and started the melody, yet reinforcement artists took over now and again to enable Tucker to showcase the situation, move, and do another satire bit. There was most likely a component of rivalry to the different move and music performances. The third-individual refrains additionally took into account discourse to recommend to the group of onlookers how they were to pass judgment on the character and his tricks. 

Singular organizations most likely specifically performed refrains from the melody or included new ones. For instance, the Virginia Serenaders included refrains about the Irish, Dutch, and French. No less than four adaptations of the melody were distributed with various verses amid the nineteenth century. A farce called "Clar de Track" shows up in certain playbills and singers. 

"Old Dan Tucker" entered American old stories not long after it was composed. Its basic and moldable nature implies that artists may start or end it anytime or imagine new sections on the spot. Many society sections have been recorded. This is a typical society variation: 

A typical chorale variation goes: 

For quite a long time "Old Dan Tucker" was utilized as a major aspect of a moving diversion. The players shaped a ring, and one man moved to the inside. He chose ladies to swing around as indicated by the verses: 

The third lady picked then turned into his new accomplice, and her old accomplice presently played the job of "Old Dan". 

These society adaptations can be very foul. This one, reviewed by a man from his childhood in Benton County, Arkansas, during the 1910s, is one model: 

The above rendition was recorded by Oscar Brand, with expansion of the accompanying sections. 

Another rendition, sung by Charles Edward Carpenter—a Lawrenceburg, Tennessee representative and World War II Veteran (conceived in Crewstown, TN)— to his kids and grandkids in Middle Tennessee amid the mid-to late 1900s discusses Old Dan Tucker's affection for a hard beverage. The last line seems to have been sung in the primary individual ("Oh wow, what'll I do?): 

"Old Dan Tucker" entered the old stories of slaves also. This adaptation from Orange County, North Carolina, was recorded during the 1850s: 

It has been proposed that "passed on with a toothache in his heel" could be a reference to receptive joint inflammation. 

The first "Old Dan Tucker" and most society variations are not political in nature. Be that as it may, as right on time as 1844, the Hutchinson Family Singers were performing "Get off the Track!" to its tune, charged as "A tune for liberation" One section and the tune say: 

That equivalent year, supporters of Henry Clay at a Whig rally sang a rendition that makes references to Clay ("Ole Kentucky"), Martin Van Buren, and James Buchanan: 

[{poemquote|The individuals' fav'rite, Henry Clay, is currently the 'style' of the day; 

What's more, let the track be dry or foul, we'll stake our heap on Ole Kentucky. 

Another Clay adaptation has the accompanying verses (which likewise has the benefit of clarifying the elocution of Clay's bad habit presidential hopeful): 

In 1856, supporters of John C. Frémont's kept running for the Republican Party designation received the tune as his battle tune with the changed hold back "Get out the way, old Buchanan". William Jennings Bryan's battle melody for the 1900 Democratic National Convention in Kansas City, Missouri, changed the verses to state: 

A form prominent amid the American Civil War adds references to Abraham Lincoln: 

"Old Dan Tucker" is a breakdown, a move melody wherein the cadenced highlight falls on the second and fourth beats as opposed to on the third. The tune is to a great extent Anglo-American in nature, despite the fact that it has dark impacts. Its dreary melodic figure of speech coordinates that of prior minstrel norms, for example, "Hop Jim Crow", "Coal Black Rose", and "Old Zip Coon". 

The melody comprises of 28 bars. It starts with a clamorous eight-bar presentation. Four bars pursue to outline the coda. The rest of sixteen bars with verses, half dedicated to stanza, and half to abstain. Each expression gives route straightforwardly to the following without any rests between segments. 

Cadence is maybe the most imperative segment of "Old Dan Tucker". It starts with a cadenced presentation and little tune. Notwithstanding when the tune starts vigorously, it is level and non-orchestrated and does minimal more than give a beat on which words are expressed. The hold back is syncopated in a way that had just recently been utilized in the minstrel melody "Old Zip Coon". The extreme mood on hold "Get out the way!" creates a forward force and is replied by instruments in a single case of the melody's dark impacted call and reaction. 

"Old Dan Tucker" was, obviously, proposed for stage execution. The refrains are not exclusively to be played yet in addition carried on and moved to. Minstrels could start jumping about at the presentation and coda, starting the full music at the vocal area. Entertainers most likely included instrumental variants of the melody while they played, an uncommon practice in early minstrelsy. 

Musicologist Dale Cockrell contends that "Old Dan Tucker" speaks to an extension between the percussive blackface tunes of the 1830s and the more refined arrangements of lyricists, for example, Stephen Foster. Cockrell says that, in contrast to past minstrel tunes, "Old Dan Tucker" is intended for something other than moving; its tune is sufficiently grown to remain alone. Contemporary pundits positively saw the distinction. Y. S. Nathanson called it "the best of what I have named the antiquated negro numbers. The tune is far better than whatever had gone before it." Nathanson contrasted the melody with works by Gaetano Donizetti and Daniel Auber. 

The beginning of the music of "Old Dan Tucker" has dependably been dark, and no sheet music version from 1843, the time of its first distribution, names an arranger. The main execution of the tune (yet not verses) may have occurred as ahead of schedule as 1841. The tune has been affirmed to allude to the infamous Daniel Tucker (1575-1625) of Jamestown Colony, Virginia, and Bermuda. The music might be from the oral convention or may have been a result of coordinated effort. 

"Old Dan Tucker" has been credited to somewhere around three unique lyricists: Dan Emmett, J. R. Jenkins, and Henry Russell. In his maturity, Emmett related the customary story to his biographer, H. Ogden Wintermute: "I made "Old Dan Tucker" in 1830 or 1831, when I was fifteen or sixteen years of age." The life story says that Emmett initially played the tune out in the open at an act by a gathering of voyaging performers. They did not have a fiddle player, and the nearby landlord proposed youthful Emmett to fill in. Emmett played "Old Dan Tucker" to the troupe supervisor's preferring, and he appeared on the Mount Vernon, Ohio, park in blackface to play out the melody on the Fourth of July. Wintermute says that the name Dan Tucker is Emmett's very own mix name and that of his puppy. Be that as it may, there is no proof for any of this. Rather, Emmett may only have composed the words. Indeed, even these appear to in part get from a prior minstrel melody called "Stroll Along John" or "Goodness, Come Along John", first distributed in different vocalists in the mid 1840s. A few sections have clear echoes in forms of "Old Dan Tucker": 

The Charles Keith organization distributed "Old Dan Tucker" in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1843. The sheet music credits words to Dan Emmett however says that the tune is from "Old Dan Emmit's Original Banjo Melodies". The absence of attribution of the tune might be another sign that Emmett did not compose it. 

A story dating to somewhere around 1965 says that "Old Dan Tucker" was composed by slaves about a man named Daniel Tucker who lived in Elbert County, Georgia. Exhaust was a rancher, ferryman, and priest who shows up in records from the late eighteenth and mid nineteenth hundreds of years. The story, as related by Mrs. Fellow Rucker, the extraordinary incredible granddaughter of one of Tucker's neighbors, asserts that Tucker turned out to be great preferred by the slaves in his general vicinity through his service to them. 

As per this translation, the verses address Tucker legitimately. The chorale, "You're past the point where it is possible to get your dinner" is a benevolent insult to a man who regularly landed after dim, driving his hosts to rub up a feast for him. The melody's periodic salacity is clarified by the normal extemporaneous nature of its alleged inception. 

"Old Dan Tucker" shows proof of dark impact. For instance, strange symbolism in society variants of the tune (e.g., "toothache in his heel") might be an indication of authentic dark information (or of somebody jabbing fun of slaves who had an inadequate learning of English). "Old Dan Tucker" most intently takes after African music in its call-and-reaction abstain. 

Daniel Tucker was covered in Elbert County in 1818. The Elbert County Chamber of Commerce today advances his grave as a vacation spot because of his conceivable association with the character from the melody. 

In December 1842 and January 1843, Dan Emmett depicted the character Old Dan Tucker in solo and pair exhibitions; the playbills don't show whether he incorporated the melody in his demonstration. The Virginia Minstrels most likely made "Old Dan Tucker" a normal piece of their show starting with their first execution at the Bowery Amphitheater on February 6, 1843. Their minstrel show likewise incorporated a comic scene approximately dependent on the melody, "Dan Tucker on Horseback", about a dark riding expert. The piece featured Richard Pelham in the title job and Frank Brower as a dark comedian. "Old Dan Tucker" did not show up on a Virginia Minstrels playbill until a March 7 and 8 execution at Boston's Masonic Temple. There, the playbill portrayed it as "OLD DAN TUCKER, a Virginian Refrain, in which is depicted the good and bad times of Negro life." As right on time as February 15, Emmett charged himself as "Old Dan Emmett". 

Before the finish of March, "Old Dan Tucker" was a hit, and it rapidly turned into the Virginia Minstrels' most mainstream melody. Robert Winans found the melody on 49% of the minstrel playbills he reviewed from the 1843– 1847 period (behind just "Miss Lucy Long"), and examine by musicologist William J. Mahar proposes that it was behind just "Mary Blane" and "Lucy Long" in its recurrence of production in prior to the war singers. The following year, Dan Tucker returned in the mainstream "Ole Bull and Old Dan Tucker", which pits him against Ole Bull in a challenge of aptitude. Spin-offs, for example, "De New Ole Dan Tucker" and "Old Dan Tucker's Wedding" pursued. Different organizations received Tucker for improv shows, for example, vaudevilles of "La sonnambula" by Buckley's Serenaders in 1850 and Sanford's Opera Troupe in 1853. 

The melody turned out to be so related to Emmett and the Virginia Minstrels that it turned out to be a piece of their establishment fantasy. Billy Whitlock and George B. Wooldridge both guaranteed that the troupe individuals played "Old Dan Tucker" in their first extemporaneous execution together: 

... as though unintentionally, every one grabbed his apparatuses and participated in a melody of "Old Dan Tucker," while Emmett was playing and singing. It went well, and they rehashed it without saying a word. Each put forth a valiant effort, and such a rattling of the essential and unique instruments in a minstrel band was never heard. 

Emmett rehashed this story in the May 19, 1877, "New York Clipper", albeit different subtleties changed. The press started to allude to Emmett as "Ole Dan Tucker", and Emmett in the long run received the epithet. The Virginia Minstrels once in a while passed by "Ole Dan Tucker and Co." They were classified "Old Dan Tucker and Co.," either without anyone else's input or by the press, as ahead of schedule as February 16, 1843. 

The tune's abhor for the traditions of the high societies hit a harmony with common laborers groups of onlookers. On January 28, 1843, "The New York Sporting Whip" announced that the tune had been embraced by a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, road group called the Hallow Guards. As their pioneer, Stovepipe Bill, drove them against a military attack, he sang the sections pursued by the group singing the ensemble. After two years, "The Knickerbocker" commented, "At this present minute, a specific omnipresent individual is by all accounts in the method for the entire individuals of these United States at the same time." Nathanson guaranteed that "Old Dan Tucker" had "been sung, maybe, oftener than any tune at any point composed." 

In 1871, 28 years after its originally distributed release, "Board and Trade" recorded versions of "Old Dan Tucker" in print from seven unique distributers. The melody had of course fallen into the open space. In later decades, "Old Dan Tucker" turned into a standard of twang and down home music, with accounts by such specialists as Fiddlin' John Carson, Uncle Dave Macon, Pete Seeger, and Gid Tanner and his Skillet Lickers. It is alluded to in John Steinbeck's tale The Grapes of Wrath. All the more as of late, shake artist Bruce Springsteen made a . Kids' music accumulations much of the time highlight the melody and it has been secured by kids' gathering The Wiggles with Australian nation entertainer Troy Cassar-Daley. In Joel Chandler Harris' Uncle Remus, it shows up with regards to weak Crawfish endeavoring to be heard in a gathering of creatures, and Harris states, "however dey may ez well er sung Ole Dan Tucker ter a harrycane." In the 1935 novel "Little House on the Prairie" by Laura Ingalls Wilder, the character Mr. Edwards sings the tune as his trademark; as needs be, the "Little House on the Prairie" TV arrangement from the 1980s uses the tune as a leitmotif for the character. Despite the fact that he utilized a slight minor departure from the verses: