James E. Boyd (researcher) 

James Emory "Jim" Boyd (July 18, 1906 – February 18, 1998) was an American physicist, mathematician, and scholastic director. He was chief of the Georgia Tech Research Institute from 1957 to 1961, leader of West Georgia College (presently the University of West Georgia) from 1961 to 1971, and acting leader of the Georgia Institute of Technology from 1971 to 1972. 

An alum of the University of Georgia and Duke University, Boyd started in the scholarly world as a teacher of material science at West Georgia College. He at that point turned into a teacher at Georgia Tech and a noticeable analyst at the Engineering Experiment Station, presently known as the Georgia Tech Research Institute. At the Engineering Experiment Station, Boyd helped goad the association's backbone: governmentally supported hardware innovative work. Alongside individual Georgia Tech analysts Gerald Rosselot and Glen P. Robinson, Boyd was powerful in the establishing of Scientific Atlanta, where he was a board part for a long time. As chief of the Engineering Experiment Station, Boyd concentrated on the enlistment of capable architects and an expansion in physical space accessible to the association, including the foundation of atomic research at Georgia Tech with a radioisotopes lab and the development of the Frank H. Neely Research Reactor. 

While he was the third leader of West Georgia College, Boyd expanded personnel, degrees, programs, and both undergrad and graduate enlistment on the grounds. Boyd racially coordinated the grounds in 1963, unprompted by a court request, and regulated colossal development extends that drastically extended the grounds to help the expanded (and future) enlistment. Contracted away to fill in as the University System of Georgia's Vice Chancellor for Academic Development in 1970, he was very quickly reassigned to be Georgia Tech's break president. Amid his residency at Georgia Tech from 1971 to 1972, Boyd settled troublesome issues in the endeavored takeover of the Engineering Experiment Station by past Georgia Tech president Arthur G. Hansen and the poor execution of (and comparing graduated class calls to evacuate) head football mentor Bud Carson. 

Boyd was destined to Emory Fortson and Rosa Lee (née Wright) Boyd on July 18, 1906 in Tignall, Georgia, a community close to the eastern outskirt of the province of Georgia. He had two siblings, John and Ellis, and a sister, Sophia. In 1927, he got a Bachelor of Arts in science from the University of Georgia, where he was an individual from the Phi Beta Kappa respect society. In 1928, he got a Master of Arts in arithmetic from Duke University. From 1928 to 1930, Boyd was an educator of material science at the University of Georgia. He entered graduate school at Yale University in 1930, and was an alumni partner there from 1930– 1931 and a Loomis Fellow from 1931– 1933. He got his PhD in material science from Yale in 1933, with a theory entitled "Dispersing of X-Rays by Cold-Worked and by Annealed Beryllium". In his proposal, Boyd portrayed the impacts of reflecting radiation through examples of powdered, cold-worked and toughened beryllium with varying molecule sizes. The examination demonstrated that beryllium precious stones are "fairly flawed", that tempering caused "no apparent change" in beryllium's cross section structure, and that the mass retention coefficient of beryllium found in the trial was sensibly near the hypothetical esteem determined utilizing Compton's experimental equation. 

Boyd was designated as leader of the Mathematics and Science Department at West Georgia College in 1933. In 1935, he joined the staff at the Georgia Institute of Technology as an associate teacher of material science. Boyd wedded Elizabeth Reynolds Cobb, little girl of Betty Reynolds Cobb and Hiram Felix Cobb, on June 2, 1934. James and Elizabeth proceeded to have two youngsters: a little girl, Betty Cobb Boyd (brought into the world August 26, 1939) and a child, James Fortson Boyd (conceived October 9, 1942). With World War II under way, Boyd joined the United States Navy in 1942, filling in as a lieutenant and later lieutenant authority in the Bureau of Ordnance, performing research on radar. From 1945 to 1946, he was an administrator in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations where he took a shot at radar and gadgets. 

In 1946, Boyd came back to Georgia Tech's material science office and its Engineering Experiment Station, where he filled in as Assistant Project Director under Frank Lawrence (and, after Lawrence's takeoff, as Project Director) on an Army Air Corps-supported undertaking examining microwave engendering. As a major aspect of the task, he directed long-run viewable pathway tries between Georgia Tech and Mount Oglethorpe in North Georgia. In 1947, Boyd co-wrote an investigation entitled "Engendering Studies of Electromagnetic Waves", which brought about a progression of related research contracts, including an extensive one acquired from the Navy Bureau of Ordnance on radar-coordinated flame control. Boyd was elevated to educator of material science in 1948. Around 1950, under the specialist of his position of officer in the U.S. Naval force Reserve, Boyd made a U.S. Naval force Research Reserve Unit at Georgia Tech that included officers from both Georgia Tech and the Atlanta metropolitan zone. During the 1950s, Boyd was elevated to chief and ran this unit until his takeoff from Georgia Tech. 

In 1950, Boyd was named the main leader of the recently made Physics Division of the Engineering Experiment Station (presently known as the Georgia Tech Research Institute). Boyd enlisted his previous understudy Glen P. Robinson to the station. In late 1951, Robinson, station executive Gerald Rosselot and Boyd helped begin Scientific Associates (presently Scientific Atlanta, some portion of Cisco) with $700 in seed cash to create and showcase radio wire items that were created at the station, as the station's administration did not figure Georgia Tech ought to be engaged with the assembling business. Georgia Tech VP Cherry Emerson trusted that EES representatives' alliance with Scientific Atlanta established an irreconcilable circumstance and asked Boyd, Rosselot, and Robinson to pick between the two associations. Boyd left his post at Scientific Atlanta and stayed with Georgia Tech, however held his situation on Scientific Atlanta's Board of Directors. As indicated by Robinson, "Dr. Boyd is truly viewed as the author of Scientific Atlanta." 

Boyd was elevated to Assistant Director of Research at the Engineering Experiment Station in 1954. He filled in as chief of the station from July 1, 1957, until 1961. While at Georgia Tech, Boyd composed a powerful article about the job of research focuses at foundations of innovation, which contended that examination ought to be incorporated with training; Boyd connected this by including students in his everyday research. Boyd was known for his enlistment of staff fit for both educating and performing eminent research. He was sufficiently persuasive to have the capacity to supersede the desires of Joseph Howey, chief of the School of Physics, now and again: for instance, Boyd effectively enlisted physicist Earl W. McDaniel in 1954 over Howey's resolved restriction. 

Under Boyd's domain, the Engineering Experiment Station was granted numerous gadgets related contracts, to the degree that an Electronics Division was made in 1959; it concentrated on radar and interchanges. In 1955, Georgia Tech president Blake R. Van Leer designated Boyd to Georgia Tech's Nuclear Science Committee. The advisory group suggested the making of a Radioisotopes Laboratory Facility and the development of a vast research reactor. The previous was manufactured and devoted on January 7, 1959, and could get, store, and procedure radioactive materials. The Frank H. Neely Research Reactor was finished in 1963 and was operational until 1996, when the fuel was evacuated due to wellbeing concerns identified with the close-by 1996 Summer Olympics occasions. In 1961, Boyd was prevailing in the directorship by Robert E. Stiemke, who had recently been the executive of Georgia Tech's School of Civil Engineering. 

Boyd turned into the third President of West Georgia College in 1961 after William H. Line kicked the bucket of a heart assault. Boyd is most known for his serene racial coordination of the grounds (without sitting tight for a court request) in 1963 by welcoming a youthful dark lady, Lillian Williams, to go to the school; she in the long run earned two degrees in training and in 1985 got the school's most astounding honor, the Founder's Award. In May 1964, Boyd welcomed Robert F. Kennedy to the devotion of the grounds church as the Kennedy Chapel, which was named after Robert's sibling, U.S. President John F. Kennedy, who had been killed in November 1963. Amid his visit, Robert Kennedy advanced the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which was then under discussion in the United States Senate. 

Boyd significantly extended the school amid his residency, both as far as headcount and scholastic decent variety. Enrolment developed from 1,089 students upon his landing in 1961 to 5,503 students on his takeoff in 1971. In 1959, there were two degrees and five projects accessible; in 1969– 70 there were seven degrees and 45 programs. There were 94 graduate understudies in 1961; the primary ace's projects were offered in 1967, and by 1969 the quantity of alumni understudies had ascended to 741. In 1969 alone, 80 new employees were procured, a number bigger than the complete number of employees 10 years sooner. A few new structures were built, including nine quarters and five scholastic structures. Approach changes happened too: in 1966, the check in time for junior and senior ladies was abrogated, and brotherhoods and sororities were permitted on grounds. In 1970, Boyd was named the University System of Georgia's first bad habit chancellor for scholarly advancement, compelling once his successor (Emory graduate Ward B. Pafford) was delegated in 1971. 

In a little under a month after Boyd had accepted the bad habit chancellorship, at that point Georgia Tech president Arthur G. Hansen surrendered. Chancellor George L. Simpson delegated Boyd as Acting President of the Georgia Institute of Technology, a post he held from May 1971 to March 1972. 

Simpson's determination of Boyd as between time president was impacted by Boyd's past understanding as a scholarly chairman, his experience as chief of the Engineering Experiment Station, and Boyd's progressing position on the station's top managerial staff. The chancellor trusted this mix would help settle a preparing debate about whether the Engineering Experiment Station ought to be coordinated into Georgia Tech's scholarly units to improve the two substances' aggressiveness for government cash. The station had sizable and developing help from the province of Georgia and its Industrial Development Council, which created items and techniques and gave specialized help to Georgia industry. Notwithstanding, due to some degree to endeavors made by Boyd and past station chief Gerald Rosselot, the station progressively depended on gadgets examine subsidizing from the government. In 1971, subsidizing to both Georgia Tech's scholarly units and the Experiment Station started to endure because of a blend of a sharp decrease in state assets and slices to government science, research, and instruction financing after the finish of the Space Race financing blast. Comparable organizations, for example, the Battelle Memorial Institute, Stanford Research Institute, and the Illinois Institute of Technology Research Institute had faced this hardship by ending up exceedingly great at acquiring research contracts. 

Boyd's forerunner Arthur G. Hansen's "strong and dubious" answer for the two elements' issues was to totally incorporate the station into Georgia Tech's scholarly units. On paper, this would significantly build Georgia Tech's expressed research subsidizing (as every last bit of it would be performed through the scholarly units), and it would expand choices and money related guide for alumni understudies. Another, less exposed, reason was that Georgia Tech would access the agreement association's save subsidize, which was said to be over $1 million (equal to $ million in ). Thomas E. Stelson, Dean of the College of Engineering at Georgia Tech, was named to "redesign" the station. Openly, Stelson's errand was essentially to prescribe an arrangement for revamping, however the organization obviously expected for Georgia Tech and the Engineering Experiment Station to be firmly incorporated. Maurice W. Long, who was chief of the station at the time, saw the move as an infringement of the EES's sanction as administratively settled by the Georgia General Assembly in 1919, and attested that Georgia Tech did not have the specialist to blend the two foundations. EES representatives and business officials required with the station spoke to the Georgia Board of Regents and to Governor of Georgia (and future United States President) Jimmy Carter (himself a Georgia Tech former student); the debate got inclusion in both "The Technique" and the "Atlanta Constitution". 

This was the atmosphere into which Boyd entered as between time foundation president after Hansen had declared, on April 27, 1971, that he would withdraw Georgia Tech to move toward becoming leader of Purdue University on July 1 of that year. Boyd ceased the arrangement for supreme assimilation of the station, yet allowed designs for nearer control and progressively forceful contract sales to continue. Among these measures were expanded asset sharing, including expanded sharing of physical resources and research staff. The last was prove by the expansion in joint workforce arrangements between the EES and Georgia Tech. The move satisfied, and the financial year 1970– 1971 saw EES win new contracts and allows, totaling a record $5.2 million (equal to $ million in ). 

Boyd needed to manage exceptional open strain to flame the then Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets football mentor, Bud Carson. Georgia Tech graduated class – acquainted with progress under football legends John Heisman (whose profession wins– losses– draws insights were ), William A. Alexander () and Bobby Dodd () – made rehashed requires Carson's rejection. The grievances depended on a not insignificant rundown of infractions, including "abusing and mortifying understudies" and "unsportsmanlike lead", yet the most essential issue was his record. The final irritation that will be tolerated was his season in 1971, which included both a misfortune to Georgia Tech's long-term rival, the Georgia Bulldogs, and to the Mississippi State Bulldogs in the 1971 Peach Bowl. As organization president, Boyd led the Board of Directors of the Georgia Tech Athletic Association, which had been enduring both in win rate and in funds. 

Conventional wellsprings of Athletic Association salary, fundamentally ticket deals, had declined because of both the Yellow Jackets' poor record and the generally ongoing foundation of expert football in Atlanta, in particular the Atlanta Falcons. Bobby Dodd, at that point athletic executive, had cautioned for quite a long time that Georgia Tech's rising scholarly guidelines and its restricted educational modules would influence the athletic program. At a gathering on January 8, 1972, the Athletic Association board, driven by Boyd, overlooked a 42-page rundown of "charges" drafted by a former student, however in any case casted a ballot to not recharge Carson's agreement, making him the main Georgia Tech mentor to be terminated. The board likewise casted a ballot to not acknowledge Bobby Dodd's abdication, which had been offered at the gathering. Carson proceeded to have a fruitful profession, especially with the Pittsburgh Steelers. On January 21, 1972, Boyd reported that Bill Fulcher had been chosen as the new football head mentor. This would not change the Georgia Tech Athletic Association's fortunes, be that as it may; after Carson's flight, the on-field and money related issues remained. 

Joseph M. Pettit was chosen as the following leader of Georgia Tech in March 1972, after which Boyd came back to his situation as bad habit chancellor for scholastic improvement for the University System of Georgia. Boyd resigned from expert life in 1974. Upon retirement, he was named a privileged individual from Georgia Tech's ANAK Society. 

In 1997, the Georgia Board of Regents endorsed the naming and devotion of the math and material science working at the University of West Georgia as the "James E. Boyd Building". Two grants were made in his respect at the University of West Georgia; one for the top topography understudy, and one for an alum of Bremen High School. Boyd kicked the bucket at 91 years old on February 18, 1998, at his home in Carrollton, Georgia. The burial service was on February 20, 1998, at St. Margaret's Episcopal Church in Carrollton, Georgia, and he was buried at Carrollton City Cemetery, Georgia.