Oryzomys couesi 

Oryzomys couesi, otherwise called Coues' rice rodent, is a semiaquatic rat in the family Cricetidae happening from southernmost Texas through Mexico and Central America into northwestern Colombia. It is normally found in wet territories, for example, swamps, yet in addition lives in drier backwoods and shrublands. Weighing about , "O. couesi" is a medium-sized to extensive rodent. The coarse hide is buff to ruddy above and white to buff underneath. The hindfeet demonstrate a few specializations for life in the water, for example, diminished ungual tufts of hair around the digits. It has 56 chromosomes. There is much geographic variety in size, extents, shading, and skull highlights. "Oryzomys couesi" is dynamic amid the night and constructs homes of vegetation that are suspended among reeds about over the ground. It is a magnificent swimmer and plunges well, yet can likewise move in vegetation. An omnivore, it eats both plant and creature nourishment, including seeds and creepy crawlies. It breeds consistently; females bring forth around four youthful after a pregnancy of 21 to 28 days. The species might be tainted by a few unique parasites and by two hantaviruses. 

The species was first portrayed in 1877, the first of many related species from the locale depicted until the 1910s. In 1918, Edward Alphonso Goldman merged most into the single species "Oryzomys couesi" and in 1960 Raymond Hall joined this taxon with its United States relative, the swamp rice rodent ("O. palustris"), into a solitary boundless animal groups; along these lines, many related, limited species held by Goldman were additionally incorporated into this taxon. After investigations of the contact zone in Texas, where "O. couesi" and the swamp rice rodent meet, were distributed in 1979 and underscored the uniqueness of the two, they were again viewed as isolated. From that point forward, a portion of the fringe types of the gathering, for example, "Oryzomys antillarum" from Jamaica and "Oryzomys peninsulae" from the Baja California Peninsula, have been restored as species. In any case, "O. couesi" as at present comprised is likely a composite of a few animal varieties; a recent report, utilizing DNA succession information, discovered proof to perceive separate species from the Pacific and eastern sides of the appropriation of "O. couesi" and two extra species from Panama and Costa Rica. By and large, "Oryzomys couesi" is normal and of no protection concern, and it is even viewed as a plague animal types in spots, yet a few populaces are compromised. 

"Oryzomys couesi" and no less than six all the more barely disseminated species with fringe conveyances together structure the "O. couesi" gather inside the sort "Oryzomys". The eighth types of the family, the swamp rice rodent ("O. palustris") is the main individual from its own gathering (except if western populaces are named a different animal categories, "O. texensis"). "Oryzomys" recently included numerous different species, which were renamed in different investigations coming full circle in commitments by Marcelo Weksler and colleagues in 2006 that expelled in excess of forty species from the family. All are set in the clan Oryzomyini ("rice rodents"), a differing collection of over a hundred animal varieties, and on higher ordered dimensions in the subfamily Sigmodontinae of the family Cricetidae, alongside many different types of chiefly little rodents. 

Edward Alston first depicted "Oryzomys couesi" in 1877, utilizing three examples from Mexico and Guatemala. He named the creature "Hesperomys couesi", putting it in the now-dead sort "Hesperomys", and noted similitudes to the swamp rice rodent (at that point called "Hesperomys palustris") and two species presently put in "Tylomys". The particular name, "couesi", respects American naturalist Elliott Coues, who had done much deal with North American rodents. In 1893, Oldfield Thomas composed that the species, by then put in the family "Oryzomys" as "Oryzomys couesi", had caused much perplexity about its personality, in light of the fact that the three examples (one from Cobán, Guatemala, and two from Mexico) utilized by Alston in reality had a place with a few distinct animal categories. He limited the name "couesi" to the creature from Guatemala, and presented the new name "Oryzomys fulgens" for one of the Mexican creatures. A few other related animal categories were depicted from the mid 1890s onwards and in 1901 Clinton Hart Merriam joined huge numbers of those into a "palustris-mexicanus" gathering of species, which additionally incorporated the swamp rice rodent. 

Edward Alphonso Goldman reexamined North American "Oryzomys" in 1918 and combined numerous structures into a solitary animal types "Oryzomys couesi", with ten subspecies disseminated from southern Texas and western Mexico south to Costa Rica. He set it in an "Oryzomys palustris" assemble with the swamp rice rodent and a few animal varieties with progressively constrained appropriations, which he viewed as identified with "O. couesi" yet particular enough to be delegated separate species. During the 1930s, a couple of more structures identified with "O. couesi" were depicted. As then perceived, the scopes of the swamp rice rodent, a United States species, and "Oryzomys couesi" meet in southern Texas. In 1960, Raymond Hall looked into examples from this contact zone and found no grounds on which to isolate the two species; hence, he decreased "O. couesi" to a subspecies of the swamp rice rodent. Different specialists proceeded with this lumping and by 1971 every single other specie Goldman had set in the "O. palustris" bunch were grouped under the bog rice rodent, together with "Oryzomys azuerensis" from Panama, depicted as a species in 1937. 

Extra investigations of the "palustris– couesi" contact zone in Texas distributed in 1979, utilizing more examples and characters, showed that the two species are in reality effectively recognizable there; along these lines, "O. couesi" has since been viewed as an animal groups particular from the bog rice rodent. A short time later, a portion of different structures synonymized under "O. couesi" or "O. palustris" were restored as discrete species—"Oryzomys nelsoni" from the Marías Islands, western Mexico, and "Oryzomys antillarum" from Jamaica. In 2009, Michael Carleton and Joaquin Arroyo-Cabrales investigated western Mexican "Oryzomys", reaffirmed the peculiarity of "O. nelsoni", and reestablished "O. peninsulae" from the tip of the Baja California Peninsula and "O. albiventer" from inside Mexico as species. In any case, "O. couesi" included 22 equivalent words, and Carleton and Arroyo-Cabrales composed that further research on "O. couesi" and related species would surely result in the acknowledgment of extra species. 

A recent report by Delton Hanson and partners utilized DNA grouping information from the mitochondrial quality cytochrome "b" ("Cytb") and two atomic markers, exon 1 of the interphotoreceptor retinoid-restricting protein quality ("Rbp3") and intron 2 of liquor dehydrogenase quality 1 ("Adh1-I2") to think about connections among populaces of the bog rice rodent and "O. couesi". The "Cytb" information set every single contemplated example of "O. couesi" in a clade sister to the bog rice rodent; the mean hereditary separation between the two gatherings was 11.30%, a lot bigger than the separation between sister species in the related genera "Melanomys" and "Nectomys" (7.48% and 7.52%, separately). Inside the "O. couesi" clade, two populaces from Panama and Costa Rica were progressively basal to different examples, which fell into two vast subclades—one containing creatures from the Pacific seaboard from western Mexico to El Salvador and the other containing rodents from the eastern seaboard from Texas to Nicaragua. The Panamanian and Costa Rican populaces varied by 6.53% to 11.93% from the others and the western and eastern subclades contrasted by 4.41% all things considered. Information from both of the slower-developing atomic markers "Rbp3" and "Adh1-I2" likewise set instances of "Oryzomys" in two principle clades, yet did not recoup the western and eastern gatherings of "O. couesi" as independent clades. Also, "Adh1-I2" set the Costa Rican populace inside the bog rice rodent clade and put some western "O. couesi" examples closer to the swamp rice rodent than to the "O. couesi" gathering. The joined dataset bolstered the western and eastern clades inside "O. couesi" and put the Costa Rican populace barely closer to the swamp rice rodent than to "O. couesi". Utilizing the hereditary species idea, the creators proposed that the four gatherings they found inside "O. couesi" ought to be perceived as particular species. In the event that this proposal is pursued, the eastern subclade would hold the name "Oryzomys couesi", the western gathering would be named "Oryzomys mexicanus", and the suitable names for the Panamanian and Costa Rican species stay hazy. 

Populaces of "Oryzomys couesi" from Jalisco, western Mexico, east to El Salvador structure a solitary "Cytb" clade, which Hanson and associates proposed to perceive as the species "Oryzomys mexicanus". These creatures contrast by 4.4% from "Oryzomys couesi" in the exacting sense, which jumps out at the north and east, are isolated by mountain ranges from the last mentioned, harbor diverse types of hantavirus, and as indicated by Merriam (1901) have increasingly vigorous skulls, with bigger molars, more grounded zygomatic curves (cheekbones), and better created edges along the edges of the interorbital district of the skull (between the eyes). Inside the ""Oryzomys mexicanus"" clade, "Cytb" succession contrasts normal 2.06% and western (Jalisco to Oaxaca) and eastern (Chiapas and El Salvador) bunches structure unmistakable subclades; Hanson and associates perceived these as various subspecies, "mexicanus" in the west and "zygomaticus" in the east. 

As characterized via Carleton and Arroyo-Cabrales in 2009, the subspecies "Oryzomys couesi mexicanus" happens along the Pacific coast from focal Sonora to southeastern Oaxaca and inland along waterways into focal Michoacán, southern Morelos, southern Puebla, and northwestern Oaxaca. It as a rule lives beneath height, however has been found at in Jalisco. This distributional example is like that of other western Mexican rodents, for example, "Sigmodon mascotensis", "Hodomys alleni", "Peromyscus perfulvus", and "Osgoodomys banderanus" and has been perceived as a particular biogeographic zone in certain audits. "O. c. mexicanus" happens near three other "Oryzomys" species—"O. albiventer", "O. peninsulae", and "O. nelsoni"— which are bigger and diverse in certain extents and subtleties of shading. 

Joel Asaph Allen previously portrayed "Oryzomys mexicanus" as a full species in 1897 from examples from Jalisco. In a similar production, he additionally depicted "Oryzomys bulleri" from close-by Nayarit, however he didn't contrast the two and one another. Merriam included a second animal groups from Nayarit, "Oryzomys rufus", in 1901, taking note of that it was littler and more rosy than "mexicanus". Goldman synonymized the three as "O. couesi mexicanus" in 1918 and in 2009 Carleton and Arroyo-Cabrales agreed, contending that the contrasts among "rufus" and "mexicanus" were age-related and inside the typical scope of variety of the creature. Another subspecies, "Oryzomys couesi lambi", was depicted by Burt in 1934 from focal seaside Sonora, which expanded the scope of the species by at the time. This structure is dim dark colored, a lot darker than "mexicanus", and has a shorter tail and more fragile jugals. Carleton and Arroyo-Cabrales composed that it is like "mexicanus", however that further research is expected to decide if it ought to be perceived as a subspecies. Huge "O. couesi" from northern Sinaloa may likewise have a place with this structure. Goldman composed that "mexicanus" was fundamentally the same as name "couesi", however as a rule with paler hide; the upperparts are more buffy than in "couesi" and the underparts are generally white, yet might be buffy, the typical shading in "couesi". 

"Oryzomys zygomaticus" was first depicted by Merriam in 1901 as a different animal groups like "mexicanus", however with the zygomatic curves comprehensively spreading and bended descending. Goldman, who diminished it to a subspecies of "couesi", recorded it from southwestern Guatemala and close-by Chiapas and portrayed it as somewhat paler than "O. c. couesi" however darker than "O. c. mexicanus". Three examples from focal El Salvador have "Cytb" arrangements like those of "zygomaticus", however in "The Mammals of El Salvador" (1961), Burt and Stirton recorded just the subspecies "couesi" from the nation, while taking note of that examples from certain territories were somewhat paler than others. 

Goldman assembled four subspecies of "couesi" from the inside levels of focal Mexico together—"albiventer", "crinitus", "aztecus", and "regillus". Three of those ("albiventer" from Jalisco, "crinitus" from the Distrito Federal, and "aztecus" from Morelos) were depicted by Merriam in 1901, and Goldman had himself portrayed "regillus" from Michoacán in 1915. As indicated by Goldman, "aztecus" is pale and extensive toothed, "crinitus" is huge, dim and vast toothed, "regillus" is expansive and dim, and "albiventer" is huge and generally pale. 

In their 2009 audit of western Mexican "Oryzomys", Carleton and Arroyo-Cabrales grouped "Oryzomys albiventer" as a different species from swamp "mexicanus" based on clear morphometric separation and offered a few remarks on the status of "crinitus", "regillus", and "aztecus", including the holotypes of the three structures in their morphometric examinations. The holotypes of "regillus" and "aztecus" were at the upper end of the scope of variety in their expansive arrangement of "mexicanus" from the western swamps, and "crinitus" bunched with examples of "O. peninsulae" from the tip of the Baja California Peninsula. They proposed that "regillus" and "aztecus" may speak to close to vigorous upland populaces of "mexicanus", yet couldn't prohibit the likelihood that they speak to an alternate animal types. That "crinitus", which happens at over elevation in the Valley of Mexico, was indistinguishable species from "peninsulae" from the marshes of the Baja California Peninsula they couldn't acknowledge and they prescribed further research to decide the connections of "crinitus". An example from inland Michoacán has "Cytb" information normal for "mexicanus", yet Hanson and associates did not have information for other inside Mexican "Oryzomys". 

The holotype of the species "Oryzomys fulgens", which Thomas had depicted in 1893, has not any more exact region than "Mexico", however the Valley of Mexico has been recommended as its root. It is an expansive, coarse-furred, brilliant ruddy, since a long time ago followed species with a wide skull with generally spreading zygomatic curves. Goldman composed that it was like "crinitus", however more seriously shaded, and varied as the interorbital district; he held it as a different animal categories pending further examinations. Carleton and Arroyo-Cabrales noticed that documented research may yet reveal the exact cause of "O. fulgens", which could set up it as a more seasoned name for one of the other focal Mexican "Oryzomys". 

"Oryzomys" populaces from Texas to Nicaragua structure a solitary "Cytb" clade, inside which the normal arrangement uniqueness is 1.28%, and Hanson and associates suggested that the name "Oryzomys couesi" be limited to this clade. These populaces compare to two subspecies perceived by Goldman ("O. c. aquaticus" and "O. c. couesi") and an island structure he held as an animal varieties ("O. cozumelae"). Two different subspecies Goldman perceived, "O. c. richmondi" and "O. c. peragrus", and a third, "O. c. pinicola", that was depicted after Goldman's paper happen in a similar locale, however have not been concentrated hereditarily. 

The northernmost populaces of "Oryzomys couesi", those in southernmost Texas and close-by Tamaulipas, Mexico, are named the subspecies "aquaticus", which was depicted as a different animal categories, "Oryzomys aquaticus", in 1891. Here the scope of "O. couesi" meets that of the swamp rice rodent; in parts of Kenedy, Willacy and Cameron districts, Texas, and in far northeastern Tamaulipas, the two are sympatric (happen in similar spots). In the contact zone, "couesi" happens further inland, while the swamp rice rodent lives along the coast. In trial conditions, the two neglect to interbreed and hereditary investigation yields no proof of quality stream or hybridization in nature. Contrasted with populaces further toward the south, "aquaticus" is bigger and paler and has a progressively powerful skull. Examples from Tamaulipas are marginally darker than those from Texas. The "Cytb" successions of examples of "aquaticus" structure a different gathering, however group among examples of "O. c. couesi" from further south. 

The structure "peragrus" is known from further south in Mexico, in the Río Verde bowl of San Luis Potosi, the province of Hidalgo, and far northern Veracruz. Late Pleistocene fossils of this structure have been found in Cueva de Abre, Tamaulipas. As indicated by Goldman, it is moderate in shading among "O. c. aquaticus" and "O. c. couesi", however has a skull like that of "aquaticus". 

Goldman joined populaces going from northern Veracruz through eastern Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua south to far northwestern Costa Rica in the select subspecies, "Oryzomys couesi". He set six different names as full equivalent words of this structure, which has its sort area in Guatemala—"Oryzomys jalapae" Allen and Chapman, 1897, from Veracruz; "Oryzomys jalapae rufinus" Merriam, 1901, from Veracruz; "Oryzomys teapensis" Merriam, 1901, from Tabasco; "Oryzomys goldmani" Merriam, 1901, from Veracruz; "Oryzomys jalapae apatelius" Eliot, 1904, from Veracruz; and "Oryzomys richardsoni" Allen, 1910, from Nicaragua. As indicated by Goldman, singular variety inside the subspecies is vast, which has prompted the huge number of distributed equivalent words, yet populaces from all pieces of its range are basically comparable. 

The subspecies "Oryzomys couesi pinicola" was depicted in 1932 from a pine edge in western British Honduras (presently Belize); it is littler and darker than select "couesi", which additionally happens in Belize, and has a progressively fragile skull. In 1901, Merriam portrayed the "Oryzomys" of the island of Cozumel as a different animal varieties, "Oryzomys cozumelae", and Goldman kept it in that capacity in view of its substantial size, dim hide, and long tail. In 1965, in any case, Knox Jones and Timothy Lawlor made a decision about the contrasts among "cozumelae" and territory "couesi" minor and found that "cozumelae" was inside the scope of variety of terrain "Oryzomys" populaces; in like manner, they downgraded the island structure to a subspecies. Imprint Engstrom and partners, writing in 1989, reaffirmed this end. For an island structure, this populace is exceptionally hereditarily factor. In its "Cytb" arrangement information, it falls among populaces of designate "couesi". "Oryzomys couesi" is additionally found on Turneffe Atoll off the shoreline of Belize and Roatán off Honduras. 

The "Oryzomys" of the eastern marshes of Nicaragua was portrayed as a different animal groups, "Oryzomys richmondi", by Merriam in 1901, and Goldman held it as a subspecies of "O. couesi" based on its particularly dim hide. In looking into Nicaraguan "Oryzomys" in 1986, Jones and Engstrom did not keep "richmondi" as discrete, on the grounds that they thought the distinction in shading unreasonably little for the acknowledgment of subspecies. "Oryzomys dimidiatus", a little, dim "Oryzomys" with dark underparts, happens with "O. couesi" in southeastern Nicaragua. As indicated by Jones and Engstrom, rice rodents from the island of Ometepe in Lake Nicaragua are unmistakable in their substantial skull and little outer estimations, with a particularly short tail, delicate hide that is orange-dark colored above and buffish underneath, and absence of sphenopalatine vacuities (openings in the top of the mesopterygoid fossa, the hole behind the finish of the hard sense of taste). They thought about that this populace likely spoke to a different subspecies, however declined to propose another name since they had just a single grown-up example. In Nicaragua, "O. couesi" happens up to an elevation of . 

"Oryzomys" from Costa Rica have generally been alluded to "O. c. couesi", yet Hanson and partners found that two examples from Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Mixto Maquenque, northeastern Costa Rica, varied as much from other "O. couesi" (11.93% "Cytb" arrangement uniqueness) as "O. couesi" contrasted from the swamp rice rodent (11.30%). They proposed that these creatures spoke to an animal categories particular from "O. couesi", yet were unfit to determine the right name for the species since they couldn't inspect tests of "dimidiatus" or "richmondi". 

"Oryzomys" is uncommon in Panama. Panamanian "Oryzomys" were first depicted by Goldman in 1912, who presented the name "Oryzomys gatunensis" for an example from Gatún in the Canal Zone. In 1918, Goldman kept the creature as a different animal categories, commenting that it was like "richmondi", yet unmistakable in the all around created edges along the edges of the interorbital district, the short interparietal bone (some portion of the top of the braincase), and the long nasal bones. In 1937, Bole portrayed another types of Panamanian "Oryzomys", "Oryzomys azuerensis" from Paracoté, Veraguas Province. It is a darker structure, without the ruddy tones of close-by populaces, and has a wide skull with a short platform (front part) and edges on the interorbital area like those of "gatunensis". In spite of the fact that Goldman prescribed to him that "gatunensis" and "azuerensis" both be treated as subspecies of "couesi", Bole depicted "azuerensis" as a species since it didn't appear to be middle between the geologically nearest frames, "gatunensis" and "couesi", and was isolated by an extensive hole from the closest known populaces of "O. couesi" in northwestern Costa Rica and southeastern Nicaragua. In a 1966 audit of Panamanian warm blooded animals, Charles Handley diminished both "gatunensis" and "azuerensis" to subspecies of the bog rice rodent (in which "O. couesi" was incorporated at the time), and when "O. couesi" was restored as a different animal categories these structures ran with it. Examples from close to the sort territory of "azuerensis" vary by about 7% in their "Cytb" arrangements from other "O. couesi", which recommends that they may speak to a different animal groups. Be that as it may, Hanson and partners did not reestablish "azuerensis" as a species, since they couldn't analyze tests of "gatunensis". 

"Oryzomys couesi" was first revealed from Colombia in 1987, when Philip Hershkovitz gave an account of its event at Montería in Córdoba Department, northwestern Colombia. The Colombian example is ochraceous in shading all through and as indicated by Hershkovitz practically indistinguishable to examples from Guatemala, yet particular in that the upper lip is white. He proposed that "O. couesi" may likewise be found in the Pacific marshes of the Chocó in western Colombia. 

A few regular names have been proposed for "Oryzomys couesi" and the equivalent words at present connected with it. Eliot in 1905 and Goldman in 1918 gave separate normal names for every one of the animal types and subspecies they perceived. Numerous creators have utilized "Coues' Rice Rat" or some variety thereof for "O. couesi", yet "Coues' Oryzomys" has likewise been utilized. 

"Oryzomys couesi" is a medium-sized to expansive rodent with coarse hide that is buff to rosy above, getting to be paler towards the sides and cheeks and darker on the posterior and face. The underparts are white to buff. The hide is shorter, more splendid, and more extreme in shading than in the swamp rice rodent. The nose closes gruffly and the reasonably huge eyes show ruddy eyeshine. The little ears are dark outwardly and within is secured with short, dim to buff or red hairs. The long tail is dim dark colored above and white to light darker underneath. The feet are long and strong. On the forefeet, the ungual (tufts of hair on the digits) are available. A considerable lot of the cushions on the hindfeet are decreased, similar to the ungual tufts, and little interdigital networks might be available in probably a few examples. A portion of these characteristics are regular adjustments to life in the water in oryzomyines. As in most different oryzomyines, females have eight mammae. Head and body length is , tail length is , hindfoot length is , ear length is , and weight is . Concentrates in Texas and El Salvador found that guys are somewhat bigger than females. 

The stomach has the trademark example of sigmodontines (unilocular-hemiglandular): it isn't part in two chambers by an incisura angularis and the front part (antrum) is secured by a glandular epithelium. The nerve bladder is missing, a synapomorphy (shared-inferred character) of Oryzomyini. The karyotype incorporates 56 chromosomes and a key number of 56 autosomal arms (2n = 56, FNa = 56). The autosomes incorporate 26 sets of acrocentric chromosomes, with a long and an extremely short arm, and one medium-sized submetacentric pair, with one arm shorter than the other. The X chromosome is either acrocentric, with a long and a short arm, or subtelocentric, with a long and a minimal arm. The type of the sex chromosomes has been utilized to recognize the swamp rice rodent from "Oryzomys couesi", yet there are no reliable contrasts between the two. 

As is normal for Sigmodontinae, "Oryzomys couesi" has a mind boggling penis, with the baculum (penis bone) finishing in three cartilaginous digits at its tip. The external surface of the penis is for the most part secured by little spines, however there is a wide band of nonspinous tissue. The papilla (areola like projection) on the dorsal (upper) side of the penis is secured with little spines, a character "Oryzomys couesi" shares just with "Oligoryzomys" and the bog rice rodent among oryzomyines analyzed. On the urethral procedure, situated in the hole toward the finish of the penis, a beefy procedure (the subapical lobule) is available; it is missing in all different oryzomyines with considered penes aside from the swamp rice rodent and "Holochilus brasiliensis". 

The nasal and premaxillary bones don't reach out back past the point where the lacrimal, frontal, and maxillary bones meet. The zygomatic plate, the smoothed front piece of the zygomatic curve, is wide and builds up an indent at its front end. The plate's back edge is situated before the principal upper molar. The jugal bone, some portion of the zygomatic curve, is decreased, as common in oryzomyines. The sphenopalatine foramen, a foramen (opening) along the edge of the skull over the molars, is little; it is a lot bigger in the bog rice rodent. The tightest piece of the interorbital area is towards the front and the edges are lined by conspicuous racks. The parietal bones reach out to the sides of the braincase. The interparietal bone is limited and wedge-formed, so that the parietal and squamosal bones meet broadly. 

The sharp foramina, openings in the front piece of the sense of taste, achieve in reverse between the molars. The sense of taste is long, expanding generously past the third molars, the standard condition in oryzomyines. The back part, close to the third molars, is normally punctured by conspicuous posterolateral palatal pits, which are recessed into fossae (miseries). Sphenopalatine vacuities are normally missing, yet have been accounted for in certain populaces. There is no alisphenoid swagger, an augmentation of the alisphenoid bone that in some oryzomyines isolates two foramina in the skull. The state of the veins in the head is exceptionally determined. The subsquamosal fenestra, an opening in the back piece of the skull dictated by the state of the squamosal bone, is available. The squamosal does not have a suspensory procedure that contacts the tegmen tympani, the top of the tympanic cavity, a characterizing character of oryzomyines. There are a few openings in the mastoid bone. 

In the mandible (lower jaw), the psychological foramen, an opening just before the main molar, opens sidewards, not upwards as in a couple of different oryzomyines. The upper and lower masseteric edges, which stay a portion of the biting muscles, join at a point underneath the main molar and don't stretch out forward past that point. The capsular procedure, a raising of the bone of the back of the mandible that houses the back end of the incisor, is extensive. 

The dental recipe is (one upper and one lower incisor and three upper and three lower molars on each side of the jaws), as normal in muroid rodents. The upper incisors are opisthodont, with the biting edge situated behind the vertical plane of the teeth. The molars are bunodont, with the cusps higher than the associating peaks, and brachydont, low-delegated, as in most different oryzomyines. Numerous frill peaks, including the mesoloph on the upper molars and the mesolophid on the lower molars, are available, another attribute "O. couesi" shares with most yet not all different oryzomyines. The flexi and flexids (valleys between the cusps and peaks) at the labial (external) side of the molars are shut by cingula (edges). 

On the first and second upper molars, the flexi don't stretch out to the midline of the molars. The anterocone, the front cusp of the upper first molar, isn't isolated in two by a space at its front (anteromedian flexus). A peak, the anteroloph, is available behind the labial cuspule. As in many oryzomyines, the upper molars all have one root on the internal (lingual) side and two on the external (labial) side; what's more, the main upper molar as a rule has another little labial root. 

On the principal lower molar, the labial and lingual conules of the anteroconid, the frontmost cusp, are isolated by an anteromedian fossette. The second lower molar bears a peak, the anterolophid, before the two cusps, the protoconid and metaconid, that structure the front edge of the molar in some different oryzomyines. There is a particular edge (anterolabial cingulum) at the external front (anterolabial) edge of the molar, before the protoconid. The third lower molar additionally bears an anterolophid and an anterolabial cingulum. The primary lower molar has expansive roots at the front and back of the tooth and two littler ones in the middle of, at the labial and lingual side. The second and third brings down molars have two substantial roots, one at the front and one at the back. 

As common in oryzomyines, there are twelve ribs. The primary rib explains with both the last cervical (neck) and first thoracic (chest) vertebrae, a synapomorphy of the Sigmodontinae. Anapophyses, forms at the back of a vertebra, are missing from the fifth lumbar. Between the second and third caudal vertebrae, hemal curves (little bones) are available with a spinous back outskirt. The entepicondylar foramen is missing, as in all individuals from the Sigmodontinae; if present, as in some different rodents, this foramen punctures the distal (far) end of the humerus (upper arm bone). 

The dissemination of "Oryzomys couesi" stretches out from southern Texas and focal Sonora, however not the focal level of Mexico, through Central America south and east to northwestern Colombia; see under "Scientific classification" for subtleties. The species has likewise been found in late Pleistocene cavern stores in Mexico and Honduras. Usually in watery territories, for example, swamps and little streams, yet additionally happens in woods and shrublands with adequate spread. Furthermore, it is found in sugarcane and rice fields. In Texas, it happens in swamp vegetation along "resacas" (oxbow lakes) and in Veracruz, it has even been found on the dry waterfront plain among bushes. It happens from elevation down to ocean level. On Cozumel, the extent of adolescents and females is higher close streets that work as territory edges. Cozumel rice rodents once in a while cross streets, which may confine subpopulations on the island. 

"Oryzomys couesi" lives on the ground and is semiaquatic, investing much energy in the water, as Alston in his unique portrayal effectively perceived, but at the same time is a decent climber. An investigation in Costa Rica found that "O. couesi" is a superb swimmer, plunging great and utilizing its tail to move itself. It is presumably ready to scrounge submerged, which may help separate its specialty from that of the biologically comparable cotton rodent "Sigmodon hirsutus", which likewise swims well, however does not plunge. Whenever exasperates, "O. couesi" will enter the water and swim away. It is fundamentally dynamic amid the night. "Oryzomys couesi" fabricates globular homes of woven vegetation suspended among reeds, about over the water or the ground; in Texas, bigger people make bigger homes. It doesn't typically make its very own runways in vegetation, however may utilize those of different rodents, for example, cotton rodents. 

Populace densities extend from 5 to 30 for every ha (2 to 12 for each section of land). On Cozumel, thickness is around 14.5 to 16.5 per ha (5.9 to 6.7 per section of land), yet indicates substantial occasional variety. In western Mexico, one investigation discovered densities of 3 for every ha (1.2 per section of land) in cloud woodland and 1 for each ha (0.4 per section of land) in an exasperates territory. In 24 hours, male Texas "O. couesi" climb to and females up to . The eating regimen incorporates both plant material, including seeds and green parts, and creatures, including little fish, shellfish, snails, bugs like ants and bugs, and different spineless creatures. It likely breeds around the year and after a pregnancy of 21 to 28 days, the female produces litters of two to seven youthful, with a normal of 3.8, as indicated by Reid's "Warm blooded creatures of Central America and Southeast Mexico". In 28 pregnant females from Nicaragua, litter size differed from one to eight, averaging 4.4. The youthful become reproductively dynamic when seven weeks old and the existence cycle is short. 

The presented snake "Boa constrictor" preys on "O. couesi" on Cozumel. Parasites recorded on "O. couesi" in Veracruz incorporate unidentified ticks, vermin, insects, and fly hatchlings. The bug "Polygenis odiosus" was found on an "Oryzomys couesi" from Cozumel. Out of ten "O. couesi" in San Luis Potosí, five each were contaminated by the nematode worms "Hassalstrongylus musculi" and "H. bocqueti", with around 25 worms for every rodent, and two were tainted by a couple of cestodes of the class "Raillietina". The vermin "Eubrachylaelaps circularis" and "Gigantolaelaps boneti" have been found on "Oryzomys couesi" in Oaxaca, the sucking mite "Hoplopleura oryzomydis" in Nicaragua, the parasites "Laelaps oryzomydis", "Echinonyssus microchelae", "Ornithonyssus bacoti", "Prolistrophorus frontalis", and "Prolistrophorus bakeri" in Colima, and the apicomplexan "Eimeria couesii" in Mexico. The species is tainted by two hantaviruses—Catacamas infection in Honduras and Playa de Oro infection in western Mexico—which are identified with the Bayou infection contaminating the bog rice rodent, a typical reason for hantavirus diseases in the United States. No hantavirus contaminations in people have been connected to "O. couesi" hantaviruses, be that as it may. Chiapas "O. couesi" effectively endure trial contamination with a few arboviruses, including the Venezuelan equine encephalitis infection, recommending that the species may fill in as a supply for that infection. 

The IUCN records "Oryzomys couesi" as "Least Concern", since it is a generally circulated, regular animal groups with wide living space resilience that happens in many secured zones. Environment annihilation, for example, waste of wetlands, may undermine a few populaces. In numerous territories, it is common to the point that it is viewed as a plague animal categories. Populaces even continue in the Valley of Mexico, as prove by a photo distributed in 2006. Be that as it may, it is recorded as compromised in Texas, where its dissemination is restricted, due to natural surroundings misfortune. In 1979, Benson and Gehlbach evaluated the span of the Texas populace to be around 15,000. A recent report anticipated that environmental change would drive the Texas populace to annihilation, on the grounds that no appropriate natural surroundings would keep on existing. The Cozumel populace has declined significantly since the mid-1980s, maybe because of living space unsettling influence and predation by presented species.