Luc Bourdon 

Joseph Luc Bourdon (February 16, 1987 – May 29, 2008) was a Canadian expert ice hockey defenceman who played for the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League from 2006 until 2008. In the wake of conquering youth joint pain, he was chosen third by and large in the 2003 Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) draft and played for the Val-d'Or Foreurs, Moncton Wildcats, and Cape Breton Screaming Eagles, burning through four seasons in the QMJHL. The Canucks drafted Bourdon with their first determination, tenth generally, in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft, and he split his expert profession with the Canucks and their American Hockey League member, the Manitoba Moose. Noted as a solid defenceman who could contribute on offense, Bourdon spoke to Canada in three global competitions, winning two gold awards at the IIHF World U20 Championship and a silver decoration at the IIHF World U18 Championship. Bourdon kicked the bucket at 21 years old close to the place where he grew up of Shippagan, New Brunswick, when his bike crashed into a tractor trailer. 

Conceived on February 16, 1987, Bourdon was a single youngster raised by his mom, Suzanne Boucher, in the little French-talking network of Shippagan, New Brunswick. When he was nine, he was determined to have adolescent joint inflammation and expected to utilize a wheelchair, which he later survived. As a youngster, he went to Marie-Esther Secondary, where he was a straight-An understudy. Experiencing childhood in an angling town, he worked summers on his uncle's crab angling watercraft. 

As a young, Bourdon played in the 1999, 2000 and 2001 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournaments with the Peninsule Acadien Lynx minor ice hockey group. He later played with the Miramichi Rivermen minor groups from ages 15– 16. In the wake of being the third generally speaking decision in the 2003 QMJHL draft, Bourdon left home when he was 16, returning in the off-season to live with his mom. After turning proficient and marking his first contract, he secretly gave C$10,000 to the neighborhood minor hockey relationship for families who couldn't manage the cost of gear. His gift was after death uncovered by his previous undersized hockey mentor, Gilles Cormier, who dealt with the nearby field at the season of Bourdon's demise. 

Bourdon joined the Val-d'Or Foreurs for the 2003– 04 season, enlisting eight out of 64 standard season amusements and scoring one objective in seven playoff diversions. He showed up in each of the 70 diversions with the Foreurs in 2004– 05, scoring 13 objectives and 19 helps, and took part in the CHL Top Prospects Game, a display for draft-qualified players. In June 2005, Bourdon was the tenth pick generally, chosen by the Vancouver Canucks, at the 2005 NHL Entry Draft. Positioned 6th in general for North American skaters coming into the draft, Bourdon was noted as a physical two-route defenceman with noteworthy hostile aptitudes and a solid shot, just as an astounding skater. He was the second Shippagan-conceived hockey player to be drafted in the NHL, after goaltender Yanick Degrace was drafted by the Philadelphia Flyers in 1991. 

Welcome to the Canucks preparing camp, Bourdon nearly made the group as a 18-year-old, yet rather was come back to the QMJHL for further advancement. He started the 2005– 06 season with the Foreurs, enrolling 20 points in 20 amusements, before being exchanged to the Moncton Wildcats, who were facilitating the 2006 Memorial Cup. In return for Bourdon, the Wildcats sent Ian Mathieu-Girard, Jean-Sébastien Adam, a fourth-round pick, and a first-round choice in 2008 to Val-d'Or. Not long after the exchange, Bourdon harmed his lower leg, enduring a cracked fibula, high and low sprains, and a second-degree tendon tear. In spite of the fact that he came back to join Moncton in the playoffs, specialists disclosed to him that it would take two years to completely recoup. He dealt with a full recuperation following one year, yet his turning capacity and in reverse skating now and then slacked. Contending in the Memorial Cup, he achieved the Canadian Hockey League (CHL) last with the Wildcats, who lost 6– 2 to the Quebec Remparts. 

In the wake of marking a three-year contract, worth $850,000 every year with the Canucks on May 4, 2006, Bourdon earned a spot in the group's 2006– 07 opening program. He played his first NHL amusement on October 10, 2006 against the Minnesota Wild, yet in the wake of playing nine recreations and scoring no focuses, he was sent again to the QMJHL for further advancement. On January 8, 2007, Bourdon was again exchanged the QMJHL, with Moncton sending him to the Cape Breton Screaming Eagles in return for Mark Barberio and a first round choice in the 2007 QMJHL draft. As a Screaming Eagle, Bourdon lost in the QMJHL semi-last against his previous group, Val-d'Or. He completed the 2006– 07 QMJHL season with 20 of every 36 diversions. At the point when the Canucks did not fit the bill for the playoffs, they sent Bourdon to play five recreations for the Manitoba Moose, who were amidst the AHL playoffs. He was held inconsequential through five AHL playoff amusements. Counting his investment in the 2007 World Junior Championships, Bourdon played for five unique groups all through the 2006– 07 season. 

At first neglecting to make the Canucks beginning list out of preparing camp, Bourdon started the 2007– 08 season with the Manitoba Moose; in any case, on account of a progression of wounds among the Canucks' defencemen all through the season, Bourdon was called up on a few events. Bourdon scored his first objective on November 16, 2007, against goaltender Niklas Bäckström in a 6– 2 success over the Minnesota Wild. Bourdon completed the season on the Canucks list, and was sent back to the Manitoba Moose for the AHL playoffs, playing in six playoff recreations for the Moose. He showed up in 27 recreations for the Canucks over the season, scoring one more objective, just as scoring 14 amid 41 amusements with the Moose. 

As a youthful and promising defenceman, Bourdon was routinely referenced in bits of gossip about exchanges for more offense at the forward positions. Most altogether, he was conjectured to be a piece of a bundle in return for Tampa Bay Lightning forward Brad Richards. In spite of the fact that Bourdon had an amazing shot, he didn't play guard capably enough to procure an ordinary spot on the list. He started to hint at progress and development as the Canucks utilized him more in the 2007– 08 season. 

Bourdon made his universal presentation speaking to Team Canada in the 2005 World Under-18 Championships, held in the Czech Republic, procuring one aid a silver-award exertion. 

In the 2006 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships in British Columbia, Bourdon contended in his first of two continuous World Junior Championships. He was named player of the amusement in round-robin play after a scoring an objective and an aid a 4– 0 success against Norway. He completed the competition driving all defencemen in scoring with six points in six diversions and was named to the competition's top pick group. After winning gold, Bourdon came back to Shippagan and displayed his decoration at the neighborhood field to hordes of supporters. 

At the 2007 World Junior Championships in Leksand and Mora, Sweden, Bourdon was granted a second player of the amusement qualification after the first round-robin challenge against Sweden, in which he scored the diversion winning objective in a 2– 0 triumph. Later in the competition, Bourdon scored the diversion tying objective in the third time of a 2– 1 shootout win over the United States in the semi-last. Altogether, Bourdon grabbed two objectives and two aids six diversions, helping Canada to a second in a row gold award. 

Bourdon was executed in a split second in a bike crash in Lamèque, New Brunswick, close to the place where he grew up of Shippagan on May 29, 2008, when he hit a tractor-trailer in the wake of losing control of his 2009 Suzuki GSX-R1000 and intersection the middle line. Condition Canada indicated twists blasting to more than 50 km/h (31 mph) in the zone at the season of the mishap. The RCMP expressed that Bourdon's inability with cruisers may have been a factor in the accident. 

Bourdon's operator, Kent Hughes, expressed that he never thought about his customer's new pastime (cruisers). "I had no clue," he disclosed to CKNW in Vancouver. "Another customer of our own, Kris Letang, said Luc let him realize he was riding his father's cruiser with certain companions up to 14 days prior. I have since been told—however I don't have the foggiest idea about—that he really purchased a bike two days prior". Maryse Bourdon, Luc's stepmother, said he had bought the bike around three weeks prior. Letang, Bourdon's dear companion and previous flat mate from junior hockey, intended to purchase a cruiser after Bourdon enlightened him regarding his; due to the accident, he ruled against it. 

The American Hockey League, where Bourdon had played for the Manitoba Moose, watched a snapshot of quiet in Bourdon's respect preceding amusement one of the Calder Cup Finals between the Chicago Wolves and the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins only hours after the mishap, and on May 31, the Pittsburgh Penguins and Detroit Red Wings watched a snapshot of quietness before diversion four of the 2008 Stanley Cup Final. Amid the 2008 NHL Draft, the Canucks' administration wore guitar pins to recall Bourdon, since he was an enthusiastic guitarist. 

At the Canucks' 2008– 09 NHL season home opener against the Calgary Flames, the Canucks respected Bourdon with a brief pre-amusement service. Bourdon's family was given his last amusement worn shirt, given by the fan who won the pullover amid a yearly philanthropy occasion the past season. Subsequently, Tom Cochrane and Red Rider performed "Major League" amid the video tribute. Dedicatory pins were passed out to fans going to the diversion and were worn all through the season by General Motors Place has. The Canucks additionally wore "LB" on their protective caps that season in memory of Bourdon. At General Motors Place, the Luc Bourdon Wall of Dreams was built up to honor Bourdon. 

The Manitoba Moose regarded Bourdon with a video tribute before their 2008– 09 home opener on October 10, 2008. Moose players all wore #4 Bourdon pullovers amid the warmup, and "#4 LB" patches were worn on the shirts of players all season. A senior men's ice hockey group in New Brunswick, the Lameque/Shippagan Pêcheurs, likewise regarded him, wearing a "28 Bourdon" fix on their pullovers through the span of the 2008– 09 season. Amid the 2009 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, Team Canada respected Bourdon by wearing LB stickers in their opening diversion. Also, no Canadian player wore the shirt number 6, the number Bourdon wore with the national group, all through the competition. 

In the 2008– 09 season, the QMJHL Moncton Wildcats hockey club, where Bourdon had played amid the 2006 season, paid tribute by having Acadian artist Roland Gauvin, from the melodic gathering "1755", play "Le monde a bien change" alongside a video tribute. The establishment gave the Bourdon family Bourdon's Moncton Wildcats Jersey just as blooms. The group wore a LB fix on their garbs for that season.