Northern voalavo 

The northern voalavo, or stripped followed voalavo, or just voalavo, ("Voalavo gymnocaudus"), is a rat in the family Nesomyidae found in the good countries of northern Madagascar. Found in 1994 and formally depicted in 1998, it is the sort types of variety "Voalavo"; its nearest relative is the eastern voalavo of the Central Highlands. DNA arrangement information recommends it might be all the more firmly identified with Grandidier's tufted-followed rodent than to different types of the firmly related variety "Eliurus". The northern voalavo is found at above ocean level in montane wet and dry woods in the Marojejy and Anjanaharibe-Sud massifs. Nighttime and lone, it lives for the most part on the ground, however it can climb and likely eats plant matter. Regardless of a little range, it is named "Least Concern" since it needs clear dangers and a lot of its range is inside ensured regions. 

It is a little, mouse-like rat with delicate, dim hide which is just somewhat darker above than beneath. The ears are short and adjusted. The long tail shows up generally bare and comes up short on a particular tuft, which is available in "Eliurus". It contrasts from the eastern voalavo principally in the estimations of certain estimations. The skull is fragile, with a long, slender platform (front part), limited interorbital district (between the eyes), and no improvement of edges on the braincase. The molars are moderately high-delegated (hypsodont). Weight is . 

The rat fauna of the Northern Highlands of Madagascar remained absolutely unstudied until the 1990s. A 1994 study of the Anjanaharibe-Sud Reserve mostly filled this hole and prompted the disclosure of two new species: Grandidier's tufted-followed rodent and northern voalavo, the main known and type types of the class "Voalavo". The two species were formally depicted in 1998 by Michael Carleton and Steven Goodman. The conventional name, "Voalavo", is a general Malagasy word for rat, and the particular name, "gymnocaudus", alludes to the bare tail, which recognizes the northern voalavo from the related tufted-followed rodents ("Eliurus"). In 2000, the species was likewise recorded from the adjacent Marojejy National Park. 

In the interim, in 1999, Sharon Jansa and partners distributed a sub-atomic phylogenetic investigation of the Nesomyinae, the local Malagasy rodents, utilizing the mitochondrial quality cytochrome "b". Their outcomes proposed that the present meanings of "Eliurus" and "Voalavo" may not be right, since they found that northern voalavo and Grandidier's tufted-followed rodent are more firmly identified with one another than to the rest of the types of "Eliurus". In any case, the DNA of Petter's tufted-followed rodent, a conceivable close relative of northern voalavo, couldn't be tested, so Jansa and partners prescribed further assessment of the issue. As indicated by a 2003 report, information from atomic qualities likewise bolster the connection between northern voalavo and Grandidier's tufted-followed rodent, however Petter's tufted-followed rodent remains hereditarily unstudied and the ordered issue has not been settled. 

A second types of "Voalavo", eastern voalavo, was named in 2005 from focal Madagascar. Morphological contrasts between the two are unpretentious yet steady, and the cytochrome "b" arrangements of the two species vary by about 10%. In warm blooded creatures, firmly related species routinely vary by under 5% in their cytochrome "b" arrangements, and a difference of over 5% inside a solitary animal categories proposes the nearness of secretive species. 

It is a little, mouse-like rat. It contrasts from the fundamentally the same as eastern voalavo for the most part in certain estimations, for example, a more prominent tail length. It additionally looks like little types of "Eliurus", yet the hide is darker and there is no tail tuft. The hide is delicate, short, and thick, and seems dull dark on the greater part of the upperparts, however progressively caramel on the sides. On the back, the spread hairs, which structure the fundamental piece of the hide, are three-hued: the greater part of the hair is dark, trailed by a tight light buff band and a dark tip. The more drawn out gatekeeper hairs are dark. The hide of the underparts isn't distinctive in generally speaking shading, yet the individual hairs are dark for around seventy five percent of their length and white at the tips, with the exception of those at the jaw, which are white all through. 

The mystacial vibrissae (bristles on the upper lips) achieve the tips of the ears when squeezed against the head. The short, adjusted ears themselves are stripped within, yet secured with short dark colored hairs on the external surface. Females have three sets of mammae. The digits and metapodials are generally secured by white hairs. Short ungual tufts of hairs encompassing the bases of the paws are available. There are five cushions on the forefeet and six on the hindfeet. On the hindfeet, the fifth digit is almost as long as the center three and the primary (the hallux) is a lot shorter. The tail is longer than the head and body and seems stripped for the greater part of its length, yet fine hairs are obvious close to the tip. In spite of the fact that the lower side is marginally lighter, there is no reasonable contrast in tinge between the upper and lower sides. The skin of the tail is dim, and it is secured delicately by fine hairs that are dull dark colored over the vast majority of the length of the tail, however white close to the tip. 

The skull is fragile and softly assembled. The platform, the front piece of the skull, is thin and genuinely long; it is shorter in eastern voalavo. The tight zygomatic plate (a plate in favor of the skull) reaches out back to about the front of the main upper molar (M1). The zygomatic indent, a score in the upper piece of the zygomatic plate, is little. The zygomatic curves (cheekbones) are tight, yet as regular in nesomyines contain a generally long jugal bone. The interorbital area (between the eyes) is thin and short and needs embellishment retires and edges. The braincase likewise needs such edges. 

The sharp foramina (openings in the front piece of the sense of taste) are medium long, and don't achieve the principal molars. Their back edge is rakish, not adjusted as in eastern voalavo. The diastema (the hole between the upper incisors and molars) is shorter than in eastern voalavo. The hard sense of taste is expansive and needs eminent edges and different highlights, aside from a couple of foramina (openings) close to where the first and second molars (M1 and M2) meet. The back fringe of the sense of taste is at the dimension of the center of the third molars (M3). In the hard top of the mesopterygoid fossa, the opening behind the sense of taste, wide sphenopalatine vacuities (openings) are available. A flimsy alisphenoid swagger (a bit of bone on the lower side of the skull isolating two foramina) is available in examples from Marojejy, however not in those from Anjanaharibe-Sud. The tegmen tympani, the top of the tympanic cavity, is diminished. 

The foundation of the lower incisor is unmistakable at the back of the mandible (lower jaw) as a slight distension; a genuine capsular procedure is missing. There are 13 thoracic (chest), 7 lumbar, 4 sacral, and 38 or 39 caudal (tail) vertebrae. The humerus (upper arm bone) comes up short on an entepicondylar foramen. 

The upper incisors are orthodont (with their bleeding edge opposite to the plane shaped by the molars) and have yellow to light orange lacquer. On the lower incisor, the lacquer contains arrangement of fine edges. The toothrows are longer than in eastern voalavo. As in "Eliurus", the molars are from early on hypsodont (high-delegated) and the individual cusps have lost their personalities, having converged into transverse laminae that are not associated longitudinally. There are three laminae on every first and second molar, two on the third lower molar, and the laminae can't be separated on the third upper molar. In spite of the fact that the first and second molars are like each other in size, the third (upper and lower) molars are prominently littler. There are three roots beneath every upper and two underneath each lower molar. 

The northern voalavo has been discovered just in two massifs of the Northern Highlands, Anjanaharibe-Sud and Marojejy, however may run all the more broadly. At Anjanaharibe-Sud, the species has been found in wet mountain woodland at , where it happened with the indigenous rodents Major's tufted-followed rodent and island mouse just as the presented dark rodent ("rattus"), and in drier backwoods at about , where it might live close by different types of "Eliurus" and Voalavoanala. The Marojejy records originate from comparative living spaces at above ocean level. 

The northern voalavo likely to a great extent lives on the ground, yet can move in vegetation. It enjoys territories with thick systems of roots, among which it moves utilizing runways and characteristic passages. The species is nighttime (dynamic amid the night), is single, presumably eats foods grown from the ground, and withstands to three youthful per litter. 

An assortment of parasitic arthropods have been recorded on northern voalavo: bugs from the families Laelapidae and Trombiculidae (both Marojejy and Anjanaharibe-Sud), the demodicid vermin "Demodex" (Marojejy just), the atopomelid bug "Listrophoroides" (both Marojejy and Anjanaharibe-Sud), and unidentified sucking lice (Anjanaharibe-Sud as it were). In 2007, a laelapid vermin found on "V. gymnocaudus" in Anjanaharibe-Sud was depicted as another species, "Andreacarus voalavo". The apicomplexan parasite "Eimeria" has likewise been recorded in Anjanaharibe-Sud. 

In spite of the fact that it has a little range and is unprecedented even inside that extend, no real dangers are known and for all intents and purposes the majority of its conveyance is inside ensured territories. The species is along these lines delegated "Least Concern" on the IUCN Red List.