Australian Air Corps 

The Australian Air Corps (AAC) was a transitory development of the Australian military that existed in the interim between the disbandment of the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) of World War I and the foundation of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) in March 1921. Brought up in January 1920, the AAC was instructed by Major William Anderson, a previous AFC pilot. A significant number of the AAC's individuals were likewise from the AFC and would proceed to join the RAAF. Albeit part of the Australian Army, for the greater part of its reality the AAC was managed by a leading group of senior officers that included individuals from the Royal Australian Navy. 

Following the disbandment of the AFC, the AAC was a stop-hole measure proposed to stay set up until the development of a perpetual and autonomous Australian flying corps. The corps' basic role was to keep up resources of the Central Flying School at Point Cook, Victoria, yet a few spearheading exercises additionally occurred under its support: AAC work force set an Australian height record that represented 10 years, made the first direct trip among Sydney and Melbourne, and embraced the nation's underlying strides in the field of aeronautics prescription. The AAC worked contenders, planes and preparing air ship, including a portion of the primary instances of Britain's Imperial Gift to land in Australia. Just as staff, the RAAF acquired Point Cook and the vast majority of its underlying hardware from the AAC. 

In December 1919, the leftovers of the wartime Australian Flying Corps (AFC) were disbanded, and supplanted on 1 January 1920 by the Australian Air Corps (AAC), which was, similar to the AFC, some portion of the Australian Army. Australia's senior pilot, Lieutenant Colonel Richard Williams, was abroad, and Major William Anderson was named authority of the AAC, a position that likewise placed him responsible for the Central Flying School (CFS) at Point Cook, Victoria. As Anderson was on wiped out leave at the season of the arrangement, Major Rolf Brown incidentally accepted order; Anderson took over on 19 February. CFS remained the AAC's sole unit, and Point Cook its solitary air base. 

The AAC was a break association planned to exist until the foundation of a perpetual Australian air administration. The choice to make such an administration had been made in January 1919, in the midst of contending proposition by the Army and the Royal Australian Navy for isolated powers under their individual locales. Budgetary imperatives and contentions over organization and control prompted continuous deferrals in the development of a free flying corps. 

By course of the Chief of the General Staff, Major General Gordon Legge, in November 1919, the AAC's prime design was to guarantee that current flying resources were kept up; Legge later included that it should likewise perform reasonable undertakings, for example, reviewing air courses. The Chief of the Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Sir Percy Grant, protested the AAC being under Army control, and contended that an air board ought to be shaped to direct the AAC and the proposed Australian flying corps. A transitory air board initially met on 29 January 1920, the Army being spoken to by Williams and Brigadier General Thomas Blamey, and the Navy by Captain Wilfred Nunn and Lieutenant Colonel Stanley Goble, a previous individual from Britain's Royal Naval Air Service (RNAS) at that point supported to the Navy Office. Williams was given obligation regarding directing the AAC for the board. A perpetual Air Board managed by an Air Council was framed on 9 November 1920; these bodies were made in charge of overseeing the AAC from 22 November. 

Most individuals from the AAC were previous AFC work force. In August 1919, a few senior AFC pilots, including Lieutenant Colonel Oswald Watt, Major Anderson, and Captain Roy Phillipps, were selected to serve on a board of trustees looking at applications for the AAC. A portion of the staffing choices were dubious. Somewhere around three officers at the CFS, including the boss, were not offered arrangement to the new administration. Roy King, the AFC's second most noteworthy scoring warrior pro after Harry Cobby, denied an arrangement in the AAC in light of the fact that it had not around then offered a commission to Victoria Cross beneficiary Frank McNamara. In a letter dated 30 January 1920, King expressed, "I believe I should relinquish my place in support "(sic)" of this extremely great and brave officer"; McNamara got a commission in the AAC that April. Other previous AFC individuals who took up arrangements in the AAC included Captains Adrian Cole, Henry Wrigley, Frank Lukis, and Lawrence Wackett. Chief Hippolyte "Kanga" De La Rue, an Australian who flew with the RNAS amid the war, was allowed a commission in the AAC on the grounds that an expert seaplane pilot was required for maritime collaboration work. 

The corps' underlying foundation was nine officers—boss, assistant, workshop authority, aircraft tester, four different pilots, and restorative officer—and seventy different positions. In March 1920, to adapt to the up and coming landing of new air ship and other hardware, endorsement was given to expand this supplement by a further seven officers and thirty-six different positions. The next month the foundation was expanded by fifty-four to make an aggregate of 160 different positions. A promoting effort was utilized to accumulate candidates. As indicated by "The Age", candidates should have been matured somewhere in the range of eighteen and forty-five, and returned warriors were favored; all positions were "brief" and compensations, including uniform remittance and apportions, went from £194 to £450. As the AAC was a between time development, no novel uniform was intended for its individuals. Inside three weeks of the AAC being raised, a mandate descended from CFS that the association's previous AFC staff should destroy their current outfits, and that any work force requiring new regalia ought to obtain "AIF design, as worn by the AFC". 

The AAC endured two fatalities. On 23 September 1920, two Airco DH.9A planes as of late conveyed from Britain attempted a look for the "Amelia J.", a clipper that had vanished on a voyage from Newcastle to Hobart. Anderson and Sergeant Herbert Chester flew one of the DH.9As, and Captain Billy Stutt and Sergeant Abner Dalzell the other. Anderson's flying machine arrived close Hobart at night, having neglected to find the lost boat, however Stutt and Dalzell were feeling the loss of; their DH.9A was last located flying through cover over Bass Strait. A court of request discovered that the air ship had smashed, and that the DH.9As might not possess had sufficient planning energy for their undertaking, which it ascribed to the low staffing dimensions at CFS. The court proposed pay of £550 for Stutt's family and £248 for Dalzell's—the most extreme sums payable under government guidelines—as the men had been on obligation at the season of their demises; Federal Cabinet expanded these installments three-overlap. Destruction that may have had a place with the "Amelia J." was found at Flinders Island the next year. 

The AAC's underlying supplement of flying machine included twenty Avro 504K coaches and twelve Sopwith Pup warriors that had been conveyed to CFS in 1919, just as a Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2 and F.E.2, and a Bristol Scout. Seven of the 504Ks and one of the Pups were discounted amid the AAC's presence, leaving thirteen and eleven on quality, separately. The B.E.2 had been steered by Wrigley and Arthur Murphy in 1919 on the primary departure from Melbourne to Darwin, and was designated to the Australian War Memorial in August 1920; the F.E.2 was sold in November 1920, while the Scout stayed on quality was all the while being flown by the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) in 1923. In February 1920, the Vickers Vimy aircraft as of late guided by Ross and Keith Smith on the main departure from England to Australia was traveled to Point Cook, where it joined the quality of the AAC. 

In March 1920, Australia started getting 128 airplane with related extras and other hardware as a feature of Britain's Imperial Gift to Dominions looking to build up their own post-war air administrations. The air ship included Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5 contenders, Airco DH.9 and DH.9A planes, and Avro 504s. Most remained crated for inevitable use by the yet-to-be framed RAAF, yet a few of each kind were amassed and utilized by the AAC. One of the DH.9As was lost with the vanishing of Stutt and Dalzell in September 1920. 

On 17 June 1920, Cole, joined by De La Rue, flew a DH.9A to a height of , setting an Australian record that represented over ten years. The impacts of hypoxia displayed by Cole and De La Rue fascinated the therapeutic officer, Captain Arthur Lawrence, who along these lines mentioned objective facts amid his very own high-elevation flight steered by Anderson; this movement has been credited as denoting the beginning of flying prescription in Australia. Soon thereafter, flying an Avro 504L floatplane, De La Rue turned into the principal individual to arrive an air ship on the Yarra River in Victoria. On 22 July, Williams, joined by Warrant Officer Les Carter, utilized a DH.9A to make the first direct departure from Sydney to Melbourne. A couple of days sooner, Williams and Wackett had flown two DH.9As to the Royal Military College, Duntroon, to examine the likelihood of taking a portion of the school's alumni into the air corps, an arrangement that happened as intended after the development of the RAAF. 

Among July and November 1920, preliminaries of the Avro 504L occurred on the Navy's leader, HMAS "Australia", and later on board the light cruiser HMAS "Melbourne". The preliminaries on "Melbourne", which worked in the waters off New Guinea and northern Australia, exhibited that the Avro was not fit to tropical conditions as its motor did not have the fundamental power and its skin crumbled quickly; Williams suggested that movement stop until Australia procured a reason planned seaplane. 

The AAC played out a few errands regarding the Prince of Wales' voyage through Australia in 1920. In May, the AAC was required to escort the Prince's ship, HMS "Fame", into Port Melbourne, and after that to fly over the illustrious parade along St Kilda Road. The AAC had more flying machine than pilots accessible, so Williams picked up consent from the Minister for Defense to increase AAC aircrew with previous AFC pilots trying to volunteer their administrations for the occasions. In August, the AAC was called upon at last to fly the Prince's mail from Port Augusta, South Australia, to Sydney before he loaded up "Eminence" for the voyage back to Britain. 

Amid the Second Peace Loan to advance the clearance of government bonds that started in August 1920, the AAC attempted a crosscountry program of visits and show flying. Again Williams enrolled the administrations of previous AFC staff to compensate for a deficit in the quantity of AAC pilots and mechanics accessible to plan and fly the nineteen air ship assigned to the program. Exercises included flyovers at games, flyer drops over Melbourne, and what may have been Australia's first ethereal derby—at Serpentine, Victoria, on 27 August. Poor climate upset a portion of the program, and four flying machine were lost in mishaps, however no aircrew were slaughtered. The Second Peace Loan gave AAC work force involvement in an assortment of flying conditions, and the air administration increased more noteworthy presentation to the Australian open. 

On 15 March 1921, the "Brisbane Courier" revealed that the AAC would disband on 30 March, and be prevailing by another aviation based armed forces. The Australian Air Force was shaped on 31 March, acquiring Point Cook and the greater part of its underlying staff and gear from the AAC. The "Imperial" prefix was added to "Australian Air Force" that August. A few officers related with the AAC, including Williams, Anderson, Wrigley and McNamara, proceeded to accomplish high position in the Air Force. As indicated by the RAAF's "Pathfinder" release, the AAC "kept significant flying abilities alive" until a perpetual aviation based armed forces could be set up. The corps was, further, "actually separate from the Army and Navy; its chief offered an explanation to the Minister for Defense, through the Air Council. As a result, the AAC was Australia's first autonomous aviation based armed forces, yet a between time one."