Clemuel Ricketts Mansion 

The Clemuel Ricketts Mansion (otherwise called the Stone House, the William R. Ricketts House, and Ganoga) is a Georgian-style house made of sandstone, worked in 1852 or 1855 on the shore of Ganoga Lake in Colley Township, Sullivan County, Pennsylvania in the United States. It was home to a few ages of the Ricketts family, including R. Bruce Ricketts and William Reynolds Ricketts. Initially worked as a chasing lodge, it was likewise a bar and mail station, and filled in as a major aspect of an inn for a great part of the nineteenth century. 

After 1903 the house filled in as the Ricketts family's late spring home; they kept it even as they sold over to the province of Pennsylvania from 1920 to 1950. The house was incorporated into the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) in 1936 and recorded on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) in 1983. A gathering of financial specialists purchased the lake, encompassing area, and house in 1957 and created them secretly to house and diversion. The house turned into the Ganoga Lake Association's clubhouse, and isn't available to the general population. 

The first manor is a L-formed structure, more than two stories high, with stone dividers thick. It was worked in a clearing encompassed by old-development backwoods with a view to the lake toward the east. In 1913 a - story wing was added toward the north side of the house and the first structure was revamped. The house has seven rooms, four patios, and its unique equipment and woodwork. Dormers and a few windows were included the redesign, and electrical wiring and present day plumbing have been included since. As per the NRHP designation structure, the Clemuel Ricketts Mansion "is a dazzling case of Georgian vernacular engineering". 

The Clemuel Ricketts Mansion is on the southwest shore of Ganoga Lake in Colley Township in the southeastern piece of Sullivan County. The house and lake are on a piece of the Allegheny Plateau known as North Mountain; the level shaped about 300 to 250 million years prior in the Alleghenian orogeny. Rocks—dim sandstone with aggregates and some siltstone—of the Mississippian Pocono Formation more than 340 million years old, underlie the house and lake. The lake is in a shallow valley, profound, which is appropriated by icy till up to thick at the southeast end, where Kitchen Creek exits. 

The soonest recorded occupants of the district were the Susquehannocks, who forgot or passed on by 1675. The land at that point went under the control of the Iroquois, who sold it to the British in the Treaty of Fort Stanwix in 1768. The arrive on which the house was later assembled was initial segment of Northumberland County, at that point turned out to be a piece of Lycoming County in 1795. The Susquehanna and Tioga Turnpike, which pursued the lake's western shore, was worked somewhere in the range of 1822 and 1827; it associated the Pennsylvania people group of Berwick in the south and Towanda in the north. The lake was then known as Long Pond, and the Long Pond Tavern, only north of where the house was later fabricated, was a lunch stop for the stagecoach on the freeway. Sullivan County was framed from Lycoming County in 1847, and after two years Colley Township was shaped from Cherry Township. 

Siblings Clemuel Ricketts (1794– 1858) and Elijah G. Ricketts (1803– 1877) were baffled at going through the night on an inn's parlor floor while on a chasing stumble on Loyalsock Creek north of Ganoga Lake in 1850, and needed their own chasing safeguard. They purchased the lake, Long Pond Tavern, and of encompassing area in the mid 1850s and before long started structure a stone house between the interstate and the lake shore to supplant the log bar. As indicated by William Reynolds Ricketts' HABS history of the house, Petrillo's history of the locale "Apparition Towns of North Mountain", and the house's NRHP designation structure, the Ricketts siblings purchased the lake and encompassing area in 1851, started assembling the stone house that year, and completed it in 1852. The year 1852 is additionally cut in stone on the front (west side) of the house, which confronted the thruway. Be that as it may, as per Tomasak's "The Life and Times of Robert Bruce Ricketts", the siblings bought the lake, bar, and arrive on April 13, 1853, for $550 (approximately $ in 2019), and had the house worked from 1854 to 1855. 

As indicated by Ricketts family convention, Gad Seward constructed the house. While it was initially known as "Ricketts Folly" for its detached area in the wild, the official name was the Stone House. The house filled in as the siblings' hotel and as a bar for explorers on the expressway. Clemuel was named postmaster of another mail station at the lake on October 3, 1853, and got a bar permit from Sullivan County on August 7, 1854. At the point when Clemuel kicked the bucket in 1858, Elijah purchased a lot of the house and land. The mail station shut April 12, 1860. 

Elijah's child Robert Bruce Ricketts (1839– 1918), for whom the close-by Ricketts Glen State Park is named, joined the Union Army as a private at the episode of the American Civil War in 1861, and ascended through the positions to turn into a colonel in the cannons. After the war, R. B. Ricketts came back to Pennsylvania and acquired the stone house, lake, and a portion of the land around it from his dad on September 25, 1869, for $3,969.81 (approximately $ in 2019); in the long run he controlled or possessed more than , including the lake and the recreation center's glens and cascades. 

From 1872 to 1875 Ricketts and his accomplices worked a sawmill southeast of his home. In 1872 Ricketts utilized timber from the factory to construct a three-story wooden expansion about north of the stone house, with a verandah interfacing the two. The expansion cost $45,000 (approximately $ in 2019), and was known as the Ark for its similarity to Noah's Ark. That equivalent year Ricketts put new white birch floors in the stone house, which are still there starting at 2008. 

The Ark and stone house together shaped the North Mountain House inn, which opened in 1873, and was overseen by Ricketts' sibling Frank until 1898. Huge numbers of the visitors, who originated from Wilkes-Barre, Philadelphia, New York City, and different spots, were Ricketts' companions and relations. The lodging was open all year; in summer, visitors every now and again touched base after school let out in June and remained until school continued in September. In 1876 and 1877, Ricketts ran the main summer school in the United States at his home and inn; one of the educators was Joseph Rothrock, later known as the "Father of Forestry" in Pennsylvania. 

By 1874 Ricketts had renamed Long Pond as Highland Lake, and by 1875 had named the most astounding cascade on Kitchen Creek as Ganoga Falls. That year the North Mountain House lodging was included in John B. Bachelder's movement control "Well known hotels, and how to contact them", which lauded its area in a virgin woods, the lake and close-by cascades, and open doors for chasing, angling, and climbing. In 1881, Ricketts renamed Highland Lake as Ganoga Lake. Pennsylvania representative Charles R. Buckalew recommended the name "Ganoga", an Iroquoian word which he said signified "water on the mountain" in the Seneca language. 

The house and inn were on the east side of the old freeway; a field on the opposite side of the street had a little crowd of milk bovines and a vegetable patio nursery to accommodate the visitors' needs. The field additionally had a rifle run and a nine-opening green. Visitors could appreciate tennis and croquet, and a grass extended from the house east to the lake, which offered sculling and washing. There was a viewpoint point southwest of the house, and Ricketts assembled a perception tower at the most noteworthy point on North Mountain, south. After the primary pinnacle crumbled, he fabricated a substitution, and named the site Grand View. 

Ricketts was a logger who made his fortune clearcutting about the entirety of his territory, however no logging was permitted inside of the lake, and the glens and their cascades in the state park were "spared from the logger's hatchet through the prescience of the Ricketts family". One hemlock tree slice close to the lake to clear land for a structure in 1893 was in distance across and 532 years of age. The North Mountain House lodging was undermined by a timberland fire in 1900; the resulting loss of a significant part of the encompassing old-development backwoods prompted diminished quantities of inn visitors. Changing tastes may have likewise assumed a job in the decrease in notoriety; the inn had more than 150 visitors in August 1878, yet just around 70 visitors in August 1894. 

In 1903 another extensive flame on North Mountain undermined the sawmill in the timber town of Ricketts upper east of the lake. Starting in 1893, a branch line of the Lehigh Valley Railroad kept running from Ricketts to a log station at the north end of the lake; a promenade and mentor administration conveyed visitors from the station to the inn. There was every day traveler administration to Wilkes-Barre and Towanda, and the line additionally served cargo trains pulling ice from the lake for use in refrigeration from 1895. 

The North Mountain House was for some time known for its natural charms; it was warmed with open chimneys, finished with creature skins and hatracks made of horns, and had two live wild bears on chains in the field over the street from the house. In 1895 and 1900 the stone house was renovated, and telephone utility, acetylene lighting, and steam heat were included. In 1900 "The Sullivan Review" paper reviewed its previous state and composed of the changes: "We scarcely call that an improvement. ... At the point when the North Mountain House is lit by gas, warmed by a cutting edge heater, and so forth., its incredible appeal is no more." 

The wooden expansion to the stone house was torn down in either 1897 or 1903, and the land turned into a patio nursery. The lodging shut in November 1903, and traveler train administration finished around then. The sawmills at Ricketts shut when the timber was depleted in 1913, and the ice organization shut in 1915. The stone house remained the Ricketts' late spring home. Ricketts proposed moving the expressway from his front yard in 1904; the Pennsylvania General Assembly affirmed this in 1908, after he paid for the development of the new interstate, east of the house. Thomas Henry Atherton of Wilkes-Barre was the draftsman for another wing that was added to the stone house in 1913, just as redesigns to the first structure. Ricketts kicked the bucket in 1918 at the stone house; his better half passed on a couple of days after and they are covered in the little Ricketts family burial ground close to the north end of the lake. As a major aspect of Ricketts' will, the stone house and its storehouses were esteemed at $12,000 in 1918 (roughly $ in 2019). 

R. B. Ricketts and his significant other had three youngsters; their child William Reynolds Ricketts (1869– 1956) lived in the house after his folks' demises. Starting in 1920, the Ricketts beneficiaries started pitching area to the province of Pennsylvania, yet at the same time possessed over encompassing the house, Ganoga Lake, and the glens with their cascades. The stone house was incorporated into the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) in 1936 as the William R. Ricketts House. Atherton, the designer for the 1913 expansion, arranged the HABS building illustrations, which gave the house's name as "Ganoga". William Reynolds Ricketts' history for the HABS alludes to it as the stone house. The zone was affirmed as a national park site during the 1930s; a 1935 article in "The New York Times" announced that the central government wanted to buy in the region, referencing the cascades and the Ricketts domain and house, which it called "the most established stone inn in Pennsylvania". The National Park Service worked a Civilian Conservation Corps camp at "Ricketts Glynn" ("sic"), however spending issues and World War II finished national designs for improvement. 

In 1942 the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania started purchasing the glens and their cascades from the beneficiaries for $82,000 (roughly $ in 2019) and opened Ricketts Glen State Park in 1944; from 1920 to 1950 the state purchased more than from the Ricketts family for the recreation center and Pennsylvania State Game Lands. William Reynolds Ricketts kicked the bucket in 1956 and the lake and encompassing area were sold in October 1957 for $109,000 (roughly $ in 2019). The Department of Forests and Waters (forerunner of the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources) offer on the including the house and lake, however were outbid by a gathering of private financial specialists. These "framed the Lake Ganoga Association in September 1959 to manage and safeguard the amusement and private offices at Lake Ganoga". The affiliation constructed a street around the lake, cleared some land at its southern end, and its individuals worked around 50 houses on the lake shore. In 1983 the stone house was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places as the Clemuel Ricketts Mansion; it fills in as the affiliation's home office and clubhouse, and is utilized for affiliation gatherings, weddings, and picnics. As a major aspect of a private advancement, the house and lake are not open to the general population: "To all outcasts that have no property around the lake, the lake and grounds are beyond reach." 

Clemuel Ricketts, the modeler of the stone house, was keen on engineering from the pilgrim time frame and had voyage broadly. During the 1840s he distributed a book which analyzed the British and European wellsprings of frontier design in the United States. Clemuel structured the house in the frontier or Georgian style in the mid 1850s; development started in either 1851 or 1854 and completed the following year. 

The Clemuel Ricketts Mansion lies west of Ganoga Lake, on what the HABS map portrayed as a "clearing totally encompassed by primitive timberland", with a view to the lake. The house was initially on the east side of the road and confronted it, yet when what moved toward becoming Pennsylvania Route 487 was worked in 1907, the course of the thruway was changed with the goal that it currently keeps running on the other (east) side of the lake. From that point forward, the house is on a private street from the parkway. 

The first house worked during the 1850s is L-formed. As per the compositional illustrations made for the HABS, the base of the L is north– south by east– west. In 1935 the ground floor of this piece of the house incorporated the principle entryway and passage corridor, lounge, parlor, library, and stairs. The primary passage is on the west side, which has a patio wide by profound, bolstered by sets of square columns with stairs on the north, south, and west sides. The highest point of the L is north– south by east– west, and in 1935 the ground floor of the highest point of the L had the lounge area, firearm room, "look over room", latrine, stairs, and an entry to the 1913 expansion. Within corner of the L has a two-story secured patio along the south side, and an open porch on the east side's ground floor. In 1935 the second story of the first house had four rooms and a washroom in the lower some portion of the L and two rooms and a shower in the upper part, just as two staircases and foyers. 

The house's stone dividers are thick; the individual structure stones are "field sandstone about 17 inches square, of different thicknesses" (17 inches is 43 cm). There is a cellar underneath the first house. The lower some portion of the L is five narrows by two straights; the first twofold hung band windows in each cove of the 1850s house have six sheets of glass for every scarf. All the first windows have shades, these are framed on the primary floor and louvered on the second. The fundamental entryway is in the Federal style with a substantial fanlight over the entryway and sidelights on either side. The upper room during the 1850s piece of the house isn't done, and the peak rooftop has "boxed cornices with returns". 

In 1897 or 1903 a formal patio nursery was included north of the stone house, on the site of the demolished wooden structure where a large portion of the inn visitors had remained. In 1913 a two-and-half story wing was included the north side of the first house, which was revamped; Thomas Henry Atherton was the engineer. The new wing is north– south and east– west, with a substantial walled one in story yard on the north and east sides. In 1935 the expansion had the kitchen, storeroom, stockpiling and refrigeration rooms, and a "house cleaner's lounge area" on the primary floor, two rooms and a washroom on the second floor, and two hireling rooms and a shower in the completed loft. 

The new wing has six dormers (three on a side), and six dormers were added to the old house in the 1913 remodel (four on the east side, two on the west). The windows on the principal floor of the new wing coordinated the old windows, yet the windows in the second story of the expansion have twelve sheets in the upper band and eight in the lower. As a feature of the remodel work, four new windows were set during the 1850s house: two only west of the new wing, and two on the east mass of the lower some portion of the L. A little patio was included the corner where the west mass of the new wing meets the north mass of the old house, and all the old patios were reestablished. In the first house two smokestacks were reestablished and two supplanted, and new chimneys were introduced in the parlor, library, and lounge area. The house has an aggregate of 28 rooms. 

The NRHP selection structure records two different structures on the property: an utility structure made of block and canvassed in stucco east of the house, and a vast animal dwellingplace toward the southwest. Since the house's 1913 redesign, the main changes have been the establishment of electrical wiring and modernization of the pipes. The first equipment and woodwork are as yet present inside the house. As per the NRHP designation structure, the Clemuel Ricketts Mansion "is a dazzling case of Georgian vernacular engineering" which "speaks to the appearances of one man's compositional dream saved inside the wild for over a century".