Ragnar Garrett 

Lieutenant General Sir Alwyn Ragnar Garrett, KBE, CB (12 February 1900 – 4 November 1977) was a senior leader in the Australian Army. He filled in as Chief of the General Staff (CGS) from 1958 to 1960. 

Conceived in Western Australia, Garrett moved on from the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in 1921. He was assistant and officer in a few regiments of the Australian Light Horse before embraced staff preparing in England, which he finished similarly as the Second World War broke out. Garrett joined the Second Australian Imperial Force soon a while later, and instructed the 2/31st Battalion in England before observing activity with Australian units in Greece and Crete in 1941. Elevated to colonel the next year, he held senior positions with I Corps in New Guinea and II Corps on Bougainville in 1944– 1945. He was delegated a Commander of the Order of the British Empire for his staff work. 

After the war, Garrett served two terms as commandant of the Staff College, Queenscliff, in 1946– 1947 and 1949– 1951. Between these arrangements he was presented on Japan with the British Commonwealth Occupation Force. Elevated to significant general, he assumed responsibility for Western Command in August 1951, and progressed toward becoming Deputy Chief of the General Staff in January 1953. He took over Southern Command as a lieutenant general in October 1954, and was named a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1957. As CGS from March 1958, Garrett concentrated on rearmament and rearrangement, starting the Army's fleeting rebuild into a "pentropic" arrangement. He was knighted in 1959. In the wake of resigning from the military in June 1960, Garrett wound up privileged colonel of the Royal Australian Regiment, and was key of the Australian Administrative Staff College until 1964. He passed on at Mornington, Victoria, in 1977. 

Conceived on 12 February 1900 in Northam, Western Australia, Alwyn Ragnar Garrett was the child of bookkeeper Alwyn Garrett and his Swedish spouse Maria Carolina ("née" Wohlfahrt). Ragnar went to Guildford Grammar School before entering the Royal Military College, Duntroon, in 1918. He graduated in 1921 and was presented on the Australian Light Horse as a lieutenant. In November 1922, Garrett was named assistant/officer of the 23rd Light Horse Regiment. The next month he filled in as an additional confidant to the new Governor of South Australia, General Sir Tom Bridges. In November 1923, Garrett was supported to the British Army, and went through the following a year appended to the second Dragoon Guards in Bangalore, India. On his arrival to Australia in January 1925, he was reappointed aide/officer of the 23rd Light Horse. He wedded Shirley Lorraine Hunter, a medical caretaker, on 9 September at St Peter's Anglican Church in the Adelaide suburb of Glenelg; the couple had a child and a girl. Garrett progressed toward becoming auxiliary/officer of the ninth Light Horse Regiment at Jamestown, South Australia, in February 1926. He was elevated to commander in November 1929. 

In March 1930, Garrett was posted as aide/officer to the third Light Horse Regiment at Mount Gambier, South Australia. As a speaker at Mount Gambier's Anzac Day remembrances on 25 April 1934, he was accounted for as notice of the poor province of Australia's readiness for war, rebuking: "We will not have sufficient energy that we had before the last war, and we will not be battling for our homes a large number of miles away. We will battle at our own secondary passage. That is the thing that we need to get ready for." In August that year he was exchanged to the fourth Light Horse Regiment at Warrnambool, Victoria, as auxiliary/officer. Garrett was presented on the staff of Army Headquarters, Melbourne, in March 1936, and left for England in November the next year to go to the Staff College, Camberley. He was elevated to study July 1938, and came back to Australia upon the episode of the Second World War. 

Garrett joined the Second Australian Imperial Force in November 1939, and was selected unit major of the eighteenth Brigade under Brigadier Leslie Morshead in January 1940. The detachment left for the Middle East in May be that as it may, attributable to the military circumstance following the Fall of France, it was occupied to Britain, landing in June. Garrett was advanced lieutenant colonel on 16 September and took order of the 2/31st Battalion that day; he gave over to Selwyn Porter in February 1941, and left England for the Middle East. From March to June he filled in as General Staff Officer Grade 2 (Operations) of I Corps under Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Blamey. In April Garrett was quickly supported to Savige Force, which battled in Greece under Brigadier Stanley Savige. Savige recorded that when Garrett was presented back on corps central command, it "influenced me more than the bombing ... I was sorry to learn Garrett, who served me marvelously over the riotous days of the ongoing past". Garrett was likewise appended to the nineteenth Brigade in Crete. 

Coming back to Australia, Garrett was elevated to transitory colonel in April 1942 and wound up senior activities officer in the first Armored Division, which filled in as a battalion constrain if there should be an occurrence of Japanese attack. He was presented on Army Headquarters, Melbourne, in October as Director of Armored Fighting Vehicles. In September 1943, he was selected General Staff Officer Grade 1 (Operations) of I Corps under Lieutenant General Sir Edmund Herring in New Guinea. After three months he was elevated to impermanent brigadier and progressed toward becoming Brigadier General Staff of I Corps. He kept on serving in that situation as I Corps was redesignated II Corps in April 1944, New Guinea Force the next month, lastly II Corps again in October 1944 for the crusade on Bougainville under Lieutenant General Savige. The battle was questionable in that it seemed to have little effect on the principle drive against Japan; Garrett was cited as calling it "a flat out exercise in futility". 

Garrett was designated a Commander of the Order of the British Empire for his "expertise, bearing, and supervision of the most elevated request" in having "arranged and guided all staff work to meet each possible necessity in the total redesign of powers in New Guinea"; the respect was proclaimed in "The London Gazette" on 19 July 1945. Garrett was likewise in charge of cross examining the primary Japanese harmony agent to reach the Australians on Bougainville, on 18 August 1945, and was available when the instrument of surrender was marked on 8 September. In November 1945, he took direction of the eighth Brigade in New Guinea. He supervised the unit's arrival to Australia before its disbandment in March 1946. His "outstanding administration in the field" in the South West Pacific Area earned him a notice in despatches, which was gazetted on 6 March 1947 and predated to 2 November 1946. 

Following a three-month course at the Staff College, Camberley, Garrett was selected commandant of the Staff College, Queenscliff, Victoria, in June 1946. He was presented on Japan in March 1947, getting to be Brigadier-in-Charge of Administration for the British Commonwealth Occupation Force in July. The size and extent of the occupation declined extensively amid his visit, which completed in October 1949. Around 2,400 Australians, most from the 67th Battalion, stayed by late 1948, contrasted with 11,000 in October 1946. In December 1949, Garrett continued order of the Staff College, Queenscliff. Advanced impermanent significant general, he was designated General Officer Commanding (GOC) Western Command, which secured the province of Western Australia, in August 1951. He moved toward becoming Deputy Chief of the General Staff in February 1953. 

In December 1953, Garrett succeeded Major General Eric Woodward as Adjutant-General and Second Military Member of the Military Board. He was advanced impermanent lieutenant general in October 1954 and designated GOC Southern Command, which secured Victoria, South Australia, and Tasmania and was, as of April 1953, the predominant home office for a few noteworthy Citizen Military Forces (CMF) arrangements including the third Infantry Division, the fourth and sixth Infantry Brigades, the second Armored Brigade, and two big guns gatherings. His height to lieutenant general was made changeless in December 1954. Garrett was delegated a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the Queen's Birthday Honors on 13 June 1957. He succeeded Lieutenant General Sir Henry Wells as Chief of the General Staff (CGS) on 23 March 1958. Garrett was raised to Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1959 New Year Honors. 

The Army experienced critical change amid Garrett's term as CGS. In March 1959, he led the principal meeting of the Military Board at the new Army Headquarters in Canberra, following its turn from Melbourne. Alan Stretton, official officer to the Military Board at the time, reviewed Garrett's comical inclination and "most casual" way. In August, the CGS declared to his senior officers an extreme revamping of the Army that would reinforce the ordinary powers and decrease dependence on the CMF, which since Federation had framed the foundation of Australia's military. This arrangement incorporated the abrogation of National Service, to which the Federal government had officially concurred, and the presentation of a "pentropic" divisional structure. Garrett supported the pentropic structure to conquer what he saw as the shortcoming of the customary force for abroad arrangements, and to guarantee similarity with the US Army's pentomic developments. The Australian Army's conventional "triangular" divisional structure of three infantry forces under a detachment home office was to be supplanted with an association comprising of five bigger units (subsequently "pentropic") without a unit layer among division and legion central command. The arrangement was restricted by CMF officers as it would result in the disbandment of the residents' detachments and huge numbers of the old volunteer army brigades. Under the new structure the CMF would not just therapist, its units would lose conventional connections to neighborhood networks through the foundation of new multi-contingent state-based regiments, prompting doubt in certain quarters that the whole procedure was intended to decimate the CMF. 

Garrett was concerned with changing the Army's association as well as with redesigning its hardware; by the mid 1960s the Army would secure the FN 7.62mm rifle, the M60 assault rifle, the M101 105mm howitzer, the M113 heavily clad faculty bearer, and new mortars and radios. He likewise supported firmly for the Army to work its own helicopters and light flying machine; the Australian Army Aviation Corps was in the long run set up in July 1968. Garrett was booked to resign from the Army on his sixtieth birthday celebration in February 1960 yet the legislature expanded his term. He resigned on 30 June 1960 and was prevailing by Lieutenant General Reg Pollard, whom Garrett had prescribed for the post despite resistance from the Minister for the Army, John Cramer, who had endeavored to choose Major General Ivan Dougherty, a resigned CMF officer. In spite of the fact that Garrett's proposed redesign of the Army along pentropic lines proceeded under Pollard, it demonstrated fleeting. The US Army relinquished the framework in June 1961, and the Australian Army came back to the triangular arrangement following an audit appointed by Pollard's successor as CGS, Lieutenant General Sir John Wilton, in October 1964. 

On resigning from the military, Garrett progressed toward becoming main of the Australian Administrative Staff College, a private establishment conveying courses to senior business and government work force at Mount Eliza, Victoria. Amid his four-year residency, he campaigned for the reintroduction of induction, and when the Federal government got another particular administration plot in 1965, he was welcome to draw the main ticket of names. Garrett additionally prescribed that the Army ought to have a division arranged for war consistently. He filled in as privileged colonel of the Royal Australian Regiment and the Royal Western Australia Regiment from 1960 until 1965, when he was delegated Chairman of the Western Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, a position he held until 1970. He passed on 4 November 1977 at Mornington, Victoria, and was incinerated. His better half had kicked the bucket before, and he was made due by his two kids.