USS Constellation versus L'Insurgente 

USS "Group of stars" versus "L'Insurgente", or the Action of 9 February 1799, was a solitary ship activity battled between frigates of the French Navy and the United States Navy amid the Quasi-War, an undeclared war that kept going from 1798 to 1800. The fight brought about catch of "L'Insurgente", after an exceptional firefight in which the two sides traded substantial broadsides and black powder rifle shoot. 

French privateering assaults against American vessels, started a year earlier, caused the contention between the United States and France. An American squadron under Commodore Thomas Truxtun had been sent to watch the Caribbean waters between Puerto Rico and Saint Kitts with requests to connect any French powers they found in the territory. While Truxtun was cruising freely of his squadron in "Heavenly body", his leader, he met and connected with "L'Insurgente". In the wake of pursuing the French ship through a tempest, "Heavenly body" constrained "L'Insurgente" into a commitment that endured an hour and fourteen minutes before the French frigate surrendered. The French continued overwhelming setbacks in the activity, while the quantities of American dead and injured were low. 

After the activity, "L'Insurgente" was taken to Saint Kitts and authorized into the United States Navy as . With this and later triumphs, American spirit took off, and Truxtun returned home to respect and acclaim from the American government and the general population on the loose. 

In 1798, an undeclared war between the United States and France started because of French privateering assaults against American vessels. These assaults were authorized because of the disappointment of the United States to reimburse its significant obligations to France, brought about amid the American War of Independence. In light of the assaults, the United States government chose to go into all out attack mode by sending four maritime squadrons to the Caribbean with requests to catch outfitted French vessels and keep privateers from assaulting American boats. One of the squadrons, under the direction of Commodore Thomas Truxtun, was dispatched to voyage between Puerto Rico and Saint Kitts. Truxtun's squadron comprised of his lead, the frigate , the 20-firearm , the brigs and , and the income shaper . Contradicting Truxtun were a few French vessels situated in Guadeloupe, among them various privateers just as two French maritime frigates and a littler, 20-firearm corvette. One of the French frigates, "L'Insurgente", sortied from Guadeloupe on 8 February, instructed by Michel-Pierre Barreaut. 

In spite of the fact that the 1,265-ton "Star grouping" was authoritatively arranged by the United States Navy as a 36-weapon frigate, amid the Quasi-War she conveyed a heavier combat hardware of 38 firearms. Comprising of twenty-eight 24-pounders on her fundamental deck and ten 12-pounders on her fight deck, "Group of stars" principle deadly implement had a joined tossing weight of . Conversely, "L'Insurgente", appraised a 32-firearm , was furnished with 40 guns. The combat hardware of Barreaut's 950-ton deliver comprised of twenty-four 12-pounders, two 18-pounders, eight 6-pounders, four 32-pounder carronades, and two 24-pounder carronades, totalling a joined tossing weight of just . In this way, in spite of the fact that Barreaut's vessel conveyed two additional weapons altogether, Truxtun's frigate had an all the more dominant deadly implement because of shot weight. In a boarding activity, the French frigate's team of 409 men would have had favorable position over the American ship's 309, however in a gunnery duel the Americans were predominant. 

Around early afternoon on 9 February, while cruising autonomously, Truxtun's men located a frigate off the bank of Nevis. Upon methodology it was apparent that the vessel was flying American hues, and "Group of stars" endeavored to draw nearer to explore. Obscure to Truxtun, the frigate was the French "L'Insurgente" under Michel-Pierre Barreaut. Nearing the still-unidentified "L'Insurgente", Truxtun endeavored to flag her to perceive her nationality by showing first British flags and afterward American signs. Unfit to send the right answer, "L'Insurgente" supplanted the American hues with French and discharged a weapon. After locating "Heavenly body" at 12:30 pm, Barreaut confused the ship with a British corvette and started to escape toward the Dutch islands of Saba and Sint Eustatius to sidestep his attacker. Truxtun gave pursue, yet was hampered at 1:30 p.m. at the point when the two vessels kept running into a hurricane. Because of the tempest, "L'Insurgente" lost her principle topmast and was seriously harmed, while "Group of stars" figured out how to keep away from critical harm and had the capacity to surround Barreaut. 

In spite of the fact that Truxtun's ship at first held a profitable position in the breeze known as the climate check, she was over-outfitted, and thus her leeward side obeyed so much that the gunports on that side of the vessel couldn't be opened. Truxtun chose to surrender the climate check to the French by cruising around "L'Insurgente"s leeward side and bringing "Star grouping" close to the French frigate's port side. In such a position "Star grouping" was distraught by the breeze, however had the capacity to keep away from a portion of the behaving impact on her firearms. With "Group of stars" moving toward his frigate quick, Barreaut attempted to speak with the Americans so as to stay away from a battle. The American frigate overlooked the French endeavor at hailing her and shut to inside fifty yards of "L'Insurgente" before opening up on her with a broadside. The twofold shotted American salvo seriously harmed the French frigate's quarterdeck. Barreaut's vessel answered with her very own broadsides that harmed "Constellation's" fore topmast. Sailor David Porter, positioned in the gear of "Heavenly bodies" harmed pole, figured out how to calm weight from it and kept its breakdown. "L'Insurgente" endeavored to close on the American frigate to board her. With less harm to her apparatus, "Group of stars" was effectively ready to maintain a strategic distance from Barreaut's endeavors at boarding. 

"Group of stars" crossed "L'Insurgente"s bow and raked her with a broadside. Truxtun then moved "Group of stars" to "L'Insurgente"s starboard side and terminated further broadsides into the French frigate, however gotten harm to her gear consequently. "Heavenly body" slipped in front of "L'Insurgente", again crossing her bow and raking her. Yet again "Group of stars" slipped alongside "L'Insurgente"s leeward side and discharged into her, handicapping the French vessel's 18-pounder firearms. "Group of stars" crossed the frigate's bow a third time, yet the French ship had by then continued gigantic harm. Endeavors by Barreaut's group to fix "L'Insurgente"s fixing were unproductive and the French skipper struck his hues to surrender the vessel. The commitment had kept going 74 minutes. 

The finish of the activity flagged the main triumph over an adversary warship for the recently framed United States Navy. After Barreaut had struck his hues, Truxtun sent a pontoon over to board, distinguish, and claim the French vessel. It was just after boarding "L'Insurgente" that the Americans took in the character of their adversaries. The tempest and the fight had made enormous harm the French frigate. In examination, "Star grouping" had endured moderate harm to her gear, yet was generally still flawless. French setbacks included 29 slaughtered and 41 injured, while the Americans endured two dead and two injured. One American kicked the bucket soon after the activity finished, of wounds got from French shoot; another was executed for weakness by "Constellation"s Lieutenant Andrew Sterett after the man betrayed his firearm toward the beginning of the activity. 

"Group of stars" started taking on detainees of war from "L'Insurgente", however by sunset the two boats had turned out to be isolated in a tempest. Left on board "L'Insurgente" were "Constellation"s First Lieutenant John Rodgers, Midshipman David Porter, and 11 enrolled men, alongside 170 French detainees. The Americans were compelled to cruise the vessel under-staffed while guarding the French detainees. As the detainees dwarfed their captors and no apparatus to verify them could be found on board, the Frenchmen were crashed into "L'Insurgente"s lower holds. At last, following three evenings, "L'Insurgente" was gotten to Saint Kitts where "Group of stars" was sitting tight for her. While at the American maritime terminal at Saint Kitts, "Constellation"s troublesome 24-pounder weapons were expelled and supplanted with 18-pounder guns. At the American prize court in Norfolk, Virginia, "L'Insurgente" was sentenced to be sold as a war prize, with the returns conveyed to the group of "Heavenly body". Secretary of the Navy Benjamin Stoddert figured out how to bring the prize honor down from $120,000 to $84,000 before obtaining "L'Insurgente" and dispatching her in the United States Navy as USS "Guerilla". 

For his triumph over "L'Insurgente", Truxtun got respects both at home and abroad. At the point when records of the activity achieved London, Truxtun was fêted by the vendors there who sent him a bit of silver plate to celebrate his triumph. In the United States, confidence took off after knowing about the main American triumph over the French. Truxtun was refered to by Stoddert for his astounding behavior amid the activity, and melodies and sonnets, for example, "Valiant Yankee Boys" were later expounded on the occasion. Conversely, when Barreaut came back to France he was blamed for neglecting to set up adequate obstruction in the commitment and was given a court-military. In spite of the allegations, he had been lauded by Truxtun after the activity for his grit and was absolved amid the court-military. The French were incensed after hearing the aftereffects of the activity in light of the fact that the two nations were not formally at war; Governor Edme Étienne Borne Desfourneaux of Guadeloupe requested that "Radical" be come back to French control. After learning of the American refusal to repatriate "Extremist", Desfourneaux was offended and requested every American vessel and property to be seized, while additionally pronouncing that a condition of war existed between the United States and Guadeloupe. In the wake of proceeding with their voyage for half a month, both "Guerilla" and "Heavenly body" were compelled to come back to Norfolk before the finish of March because of the lapse of the tours of duty of their teams. On her next voyage "Heavenly body" won in another activity against "La Vengeance", despite the fact that her own losses were overwhelming this time, and that French frigate got away "L'Insurgente"s destiny.