Capon Chapel 

Capon Chapel ( ), additionally generally known as Capon Baptist Chapel and Capon Chapel Church, is a mid-nineteenth century United Methodist church situated close to the town of Capon Bridge, West Virginia in the United States. Capon Chapel is one of the most seasoned existing log places of worship in Hampshire County, alongside Mount Bethel Church and Old Pine Church. 

A Baptist assembly was get-together at the site of the present-day church by no less than 1756. Crude Baptist serve John Monroe (1750– 1824) is credited for building up a position of love at this site; he is entombed in the congregation's burial ground. The arrive on which Capon Chapel was fabricated initially had a place with William C. Nixon (1789– 1869), an individual from the Virginia House of Delegates; later, it was exchanged to the Pugh family. The principal archived notice of a congregation at the Capon Chapel site was in March 1852, when Joseph Pugh allotted the land to three trustees for the development of a congregation and graveyard. 

Amid the early long periods of Capon Chapel, no Protestant division was the select proprietor or tenant, and the congregation was most likely used as an "association church" for love by any Christian category. Capon Chapel was utilized as a position of love by Baptists until the late nineteenth or mid twentieth century. During the 1890s, Capon Chapel was included as a position of love on the Capon Bridge Methodist circuit of the Southern Methodist Episcopal Church. Starting at 2017, Capon Chapel remains a Methodist church, presently a piece of the United Methodist Church, holding Methodist administrations four Sundays every month at 1pm. Open table fellowship is hung on the main Sunday of every month. Capon Chapel additionally keeps up an every day commitment hotline. 

Capon Chapel's graveyard is encompassed by a fashioned iron fence made by Stewart Iron Works, and contains the remaining parts of John Monroe, William C. Nixon, West Virginia House of Delegates part Captain David Pugh (1806– 1899), American Civil War veterans from the Union and the Confederacy, and free and subjugated African Americans. Capon Chapel, alongside its burial ground, was added to the National Register of Historic Places on December 12, 2012, in acknowledgment of its portrayal of the provincial religious design of the Potomac Highlands locale, and for its administration as an essential country church in Hampshire County. 

Capon Chapel and its related burial ground are situated toward the east Christian Church Road (West Virginia Secondary Route 13), around south of Capon Bridge and upper east of the unincorporated network of Bubbling Spring in southeastern Hampshire County. Capon Chapel is east of the Cacapon River, from which the congregation determines its name. The congregation and graveyard are arranged on a lush slope on a plot of land, at a height of , in a provincial horticultural region inside the Cacapon River Valley. Dillons Mountain, a forested and restricted anticlinal mountain edge, ascends toward the west of the Cacapon River Valley, while the forested, moving lower regions of the anticlinal Timber Ridge ascend to the valley's east. 

The congregation and burial ground are available through a rock carport toward the north; toward the west, a group of tall oak trees squares access to the street. Capon Chapel is arranged with boxwoods on its north and south sides, a solitary holly on its east side, and forsythias along its west side. The Capon Chapel property comprises of the congregation structure (c. 1852), and its related graveyard, which is encased halfway by the noteworthy fashioned iron fence and mostly by a steel fence. A flagpole remains at the focal point of the burial ground's eastern border. 

The land whereupon Capon Chapel is found was initially part of the Northern Neck Proprietary, a land concede that the banished Charles II granted to seven of his supporters in 1649 amid the English Interregnum. Following the Restoration in 1660, Charles II at long last climbed to the English position of authority. Charles II reestablished the Northern Neck Proprietary concede in 1662, updated it in 1669, and again recharged the first allow favoring unique grantee Thomas Colepeper, second Baron Colepeper and Henry Bennet, first Earl of Arlington in 1672. In 1681, Bennet sold his offer to Lord Colepeper, and Lord Colepeper got another sanction for the whole land concede from James II in 1688. Following the passings of Lord Colepeper, his better half Margaret, and his girl Katherine, the Northern Neck Proprietary go to Katherine's child Thomas Fairfax, sixth Lord Fairfax of Cameron in 1719. 

Under Lord Fairfax's proprietorship, the Cacapon River Valley was transcendently possessed by English-talking pilgrims as right on time as the late 1730s. Most of these pioneers had originated from Pennsylvania and New Jersey, a significant number of whom were either Quakers or previous Quakers who were pulled in to the Baptist and Methodist groups. 

The Baptists built up the most seasoned surviving chapels in Hampshire County. After the finish of the American Revolutionary War, Baptist ministers proceeded with their endeavor to pick up an a dependable balance in what is presently the Eastern Panhandle area. Amid the Baptists' initial development in Hampshire County, the best realized Baptist clergymen were John Monroe (1750– 1824) and Benjamin Stone (1743– 1842). Monroe lectured at the North River, Crooked Run, and Patterson's Creek houses of worship amid the mid nineteenth century. As indicated by antiquarians Hu Maxwell and Howard Llewellyn Swisher in "History of Hampshire County, West Virginia" (1897), Monroe was a priest for Primitive Baptists, who were disciple to an exacting understanding of the Calvinist philosophy of the Ketocton Association. Monroe most likely settled a Baptist church on the site of the present-day Capon Chapel, where he is covered in the congregation's burial ground. In any case, different sources guarantee that a Baptist assembly started assembling at the Capon Chapel site as right on time as 1756. 

Expanded settlement and the entry of different religious divisions in the Cacapon River Valley were additionally encouraged after the finish of the Northwestern Turnpike during the 1830s, which associated Parkersburg with Winchester. A little network started to create close to the interstate's Cacapon River crossing, north of Capon Chapel's present-day area. The people group later turned into the town of Capon Bridge. 

The arrive on which Capon Chapel was manufactured had a place with William C. Nixon (1789– 1869), an individual from the Virginia House of Delegates. Nixon's relative, Elizabeth Caudy (1773– 1816), was the primary individual to be covered in the congregation's graveyard. While different sources gauge that Capon Chapel was worked around the 1750s, there is no physical or narrative proof to help this case. The principal archived notice of a congregation at the Capon Chapel site was in March 1852, when Joseph Pugh distributed 88 and one-half posts, or around , to three trustees: David Pugh, another David Pugh, and Robert Pugh. The Pugh family, which was of Welsh drop, were early pioneers in the Cacapon River Valley, and were one of the families that originated from Wales through Pennsylvania in the late seventeenth century. The concede's deed advised the trustees to consider "a Graveyard and for a house for the Public Worship of Almighty God for the utilization of every single universal Christian", and determined that the land was just to be utilized for religious love and "for no other reason". The deed further stipulated that inheritors of the land must be Pugh's relatives. 

Amid the congregation's initial years, no Protestant section was the select proprietor or inhabitant of Capon Chapel, which shows that the congregation was likely used as an "association church" for love by any Christian division. Since no single category administered the congregation amid this early period, few records of its initial exercises and development exist. Later records recommend that Capon Chapel was utilized as a position of love by Baptists until the late nineteenth or mid twentieth century. While it stays hazy why or how the congregation moved toward becoming related with the Baptists, its utilization by the group is potentially connected with the Second Great Awakening, a Protestant restoration development amid the right on time to-mid nineteenth century that picked up energy all through the United States. As per the December 1904 issue of "The Baptist Home Mission Monthly", the Baptist Little Cacapon Church contributed one dollar to the general store of Capon Chapel, exhibiting that the Baptist people group still kept on working from or partner with the congregation in 1904. 

Notwithstanding the Baptist confidence, Methodists began going to the Cacapon River Valley amid the last 50% of the eighteenth century. Methodist Episcopal Church circuit rider Francis Asbury went through the Capon Bridge territory in 1781. In 1890, the Southern Methodist Episcopal Church built up its essence in the Capon Bridge territory under the administration of G. O. Homan. As indicated by Maxwell and Swisher, the Capon Bridge Methodist circuit comprised of the accompanying spots in 1897: Capon Bridge, North River Mills, Green Mound, Augusta, Sedan, Park's Hollow, Sandy Ridge, and Capon Chapel. Capon Chapel was not generally utilized as a Baptist spot of love by the mid twentieth century, and formed into a lasting stop along the Capon Bridge Methodist circuit, which later developed to incorporate Central Church at Loom and Bethel Church at Neals Run. In 1976, the circuit's minister was Thomas Malcolm. 

Capon Chapel remains a Methodist church, presently a piece of the United Methodist Church. Starting at 2015, Capon Chapel's assemblage numbers five. The congregation's Methodist circuit minister is M. Christopher Duckworth; and it offers administrations four Sundays a month. A little gathering of submitted believers keep up the notable church and graveyard grounds. Brenda Hiett is the congregation's overseer, starting at 2015. All through its reality, Capon Chapel has been known by different names, including "Capon Baptist Chapel" and "Capon Chapel Church". 

As per the congregation's overseer, Brenda Hiett, the congregation's rooftop and siding were introduced around 1900. A fashioned iron fence, made by Stewart Iron Works in Cincinnati, Ohio, was introduced around the congregation's burial ground. Electrical channels were added to the inside of the congregation when it was energized around 1930, and further electrical updates were made in 2011. The congregation's border establishment of solid squares supplanted the first stone wharfs in the mid 1970s, and its wide, heart pine board floors were sanded and re-lacquered. Around 1990, the Stewart Iron Works fence and door were reestablished by White's Ornamental Ironworks. 

In 2008, after overviews of notable properties all through the area, the Hampshire County Historic Landmarks Commission and the Hampshire County Commission set out upon an activity to put structures and areas on the National Register of Historic Places. The region got financing for the reviews from the State Historic Preservation Office of the West Virginia Division of Culture and History. Capon Chapel was one of the first of eight noteworthy properties to be considered for position on the register. The other seven properties were Fort Kuykendall, Hickory Grove, Hook Tavern, North River Mills Historic District, Old Pine Church, Springfield Brick House, and Valley View. As per the Hampshire County Commission's consistence officer, Charles Baker, spots of love were not regularly chosen for incorporation in the register; nonetheless, Capon Chapel and Old Pine Church were special cases, in light of the fact that both "began as meeting houses". Capon Chapel is among the soonest existing log temples in Hampshire County, alongside Mount Bethel Church and Old Pine Church. Capon Chapel was added to the National Register of Historic Places on December 12, 2012, in acknowledgment of its portrayal of the provincial religious engineering of the Potomac Highlands locale, and for its administration as a vital country church in Hampshire County. 

Capon Chapel is a solitary story, rectangular, front peak log building, secured with white-painted wooden clapboard siding, and finished with a green standing crease metal rooftop, alongside metal snow monitors. 

The congregation's principle façade is situated on its east side, looking toward Timber Ridge, and far from the Cacapon River and Christian Church Road. The east side comprises of a front peak façade of white-painted clapboard siding. The congregation has one gateway, which is a halfway found, four-framed wooden entryway, beaten by wooden dentil shaping and a rectangular, four-light transom window. The transom is the main window on the congregation's east side. Unpainted wooden railings are on each side of the gateway. The clapboard siding on the congregation's east side is even, and differs between in width. The overhanging eave of the congregation's rooftop is emphasizd by a solitary wooden drop pendant at the highest point of the peak. The cutting edge power meter is situated to one side of the primary passage. The non-loadbearing solid square border divider on this side is covered by a stone facade. 

The west height is secured with white-painted clapboarding and is undecorated, except for a topsy turvy solid square stack and a solitary drop pendant like the one situated at the highest point of the peak. The solid square edge establishment is unmistakable on the south side of the congregation, just like the metal dike entryways that enable access to the congregation's storm cellar. 

The congregation's north and south sides comprise of two symmetrically set six-more than six twofold hung scarf wooden windows, alongside operable green-painted louvered wooden window screens. The clapboard sidings fluctuate between in width. At the base of the congregation's north side, solid squares are noticeable under the establishment. On the congregation's south side, a little portion of the rooftop's eave affirms the first area of the fireplace. 

The inside of the congregation comprises of a huge, open floor plan, with wooden seats lined opposite toward the north and south sides, in this manner making a focal path. The special raised area is a little wooden podium, which fills in as a platform that is available by a little wooden advance; the special stepped area is highlighted by a substantial wooden background of packaging with dentil forming. Every one of the congregation's inside dividers is secured with pine cover framing and backdrop, and finished with wooden crown shaping. Wooden swag moldings complement the four symmetrically-set six-more than six twofold hung band wooden windows, the entryway's wooden packaging, and the transom window. The wooden seats are basic, with pads included for open to seating. The first roof is darkened by a dropped roof, which likewise hides the electrical courses for the congregation's metal crystal fixtures. Preceding the congregation's charge, lamp fuel lamps were utilized for light, and the lights stay in the congregation for beautiful purposes. The congregation's floor comprises of the first heart pine boards. Solid squares and cut stone outskirt the structure's edge to keep creatures from entering the congregation's creep space. Inside the slither space, log transporter bars bolster the structure, on which the bark stays surviving. 

The graveyard is not exactly a section of land in size and is situated to the quick east of the congregation, encompassed by a fashioned iron fence made by Stewart Iron Works. Starting at 2012, the burial ground contains roughly 270 interments, including John Monroe (1750– 1824), Virginia House of Delegates part William C. Nixon (1789– 1869), West Virginia House of Delegates part Captain David Pugh (1806– 1899), American Civil War veterans from the Union and the Confederacy, and free and oppressed African Americans. Gertrude Ward (1896– 1988), a nearby student of history and orchardist, is additionally entombed in the graveyard. Skipper David Pugh was a chosen agent Hampshire County, who casted a ballot to withdraw from the Union in 1861. 

More established tombstones in the graveyard are commonly cut from limestone, and the headstones set after 1900 are prevalently made of cleaned rock. The greater part of the tombstones have endured essentially. The tombstones are commonly adjusted or rectangular fit as a fiddle, and are put on little stone establishments. The tombstones of unmistakable neighborhood pioneers are increasingly lavish in character, including that of Captain David Pugh and his family, who are covered under a substantial pillar that rundowns the names of his three spouses and their separate youngsters. Nixon's headstone is breaking down because of cutting edge enduring; it is made of limestone and contains a cutting of an open book. Following the buy of a rectangular land tract around 1990, the graveyard was developed the east side. This segment of the burial ground is rejected from the congregation's generally perceived limits, as it was not related with the congregation amid the time of its most noteworthy essentialness. 

The burial ground edge is lined on three sides by a cast fashioned iron fence, available by a door in width at its western portal. The fashioned iron fence is in tallness, and has roughly width rounded fence posts, which are upheld by three even metal rails. The fence posts are topped with white-painted adapted bolts, with a ball at the tip. A shield with the token perusing, "The Stewart Iron Works, Cincinnati, Ohio", is decorated wavering's door. The burial ground's eastern expansion is encompassed by steel fencing.