Texas Tech University 

Texas Tech University, frequently alluded to as Texas Tech, Tech, or TTU, is an open research college in Lubbock, Texas. Built up on , and initially known as Texas Technological College, it is the lead establishment of the four-organization Texas Tech University System. The college's understudy enlistment is the seventh-biggest in Texas as of the Fall 2017 semester. The college imparts its grounds to Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, making it the main grounds in Texas to house an undergrad college, graduate school, and therapeutic school. 

The college offers degrees in excess of 150 courses of concentrate through 13 universities and hosts 60 explore focuses and foundations. Texas Tech University has granted over 200,000 degrees since 1927, including more than 40,000 alumni and expert degrees. The Carnegie Foundation groups Texas Tech as having "most noteworthy research action". Research extends in the regions of the study of disease transmission, beat control, framework processing, nanophotonics, air sciences, and wind vitality are among the most noticeable at the college. The Spanish Renaissance-themed grounds, portrayed by creator James Michener as "the most delightful west of the Mississippi until you get to Stanford", has been granted the Grand Award for greatness in grounds-keeping, and has been noted for having an open workmanship gathering among the ten best in the United States. 

The Texas Tech Red Raiders are contract individuals from the Big 12 Conference and contend in Division I for all varsity sports. The Red Raiders football crew has shown up, which is seventeenth the greater part of any college. The Red Raiders b-ball crew has shown up in the NCAA Division I Tournament. Bounce Knight has trained the second most successes in men's NCAA Division I ball history and filled in as the group's head mentor from 2001 to 2008. The Lady Raiders ball crew won the 1993 NCAA Division I Tournament. In 1999, Texas Tech's Goin' Band from Raiderland got the Sudler Trophy, which is granted to "perceive university walking groups of specific magnificence". 

In spite of the fact that most of the college's understudies are from the southwestern United States, the school has served understudies from each of the 50 states and in excess of 100 nations. Texas Tech University graduated class and previous understudies have gone on to unmistakable professions in government, business, science, prescription, instruction, sports, and amusement. 

The call to open a school in West Texas started soon after pilgrims touched base in the zone during the 1880s. In 1917, the Texas council passed a bill making a part of Texas A&M to be in Abilene. Notwithstanding, the bill was revoked two years after the fact amid the following session after it was found Governor James E. Ferguson had erroneously detailed the site panel's decision of area. After new enactment go in the state house and senate in 1921, Governor Pat Neff vetoed it, refering to hard money related occasions in West Texas. Angry about Neff's veto, some in West Texas ventured to such an extreme as to suggest West Texas withdraw from the state. 

In 1923, the governing body chose, instead of a branch grounds, another college would better serve the locale's needs under enactment co-wrote by State Senator William H. Bledsoe of Lubbock and State Representative Roy Alvin Baldwin of Slaton in southern Lubbock County. On February 10, 1923, Neff marked the enactment making Texas Technological College, and in July of that year, a board of trustees started hunting down a site. At the point when the advisory group's individuals visited Lubbock, they were overpowered to discover occupants covering the roads to demonstrate support for facilitating the foundation. That August, Lubbock was picked on the main poll over other region towns, including Floydada, Plainview, Big Spring, and Sweetwater. 

Development of the school grounds started on November 1, 1924. After ten days, the foundation of the Administration Building was laid before 20,000 individuals. Representative Pat Neff, Amon G. Carter, Reverend E. E. Robinson, Colonel Ernest O. Thompson, and Representative Richard M. Chitwood, the executive of the House Education Committee, who turned into the main Texas Tech business supervisor, talked at the occasion. Chitwood served in the position just fifteen months; he passed on in November 1926. With an enlistment of 914 understudies—the two people—Texas Technological College opened for classes on October 1, 1925. It was initially made out of four schools—Agriculture, Engineering, Home Economics, and Liberal Arts. 

Texas Tech developed gradually in the early years. Amid the 1930s, Bradford Knapp, the college's second president, continued with a development program, which included new quarters, the principal library (presently the arithmetic structure), a green, a pool, cleared boulevards and back roads, and arranging. A proposed $80,000 assignment for a football arena was racked. The library won the endorsement of Governor James V. Allred. Since the state cut appointments by 30% toward the beginning of the Great Depression, President Knapp connected for help from the major New Deal offices to grow Texas Tech, including the Works Progress Administration, Public Works Administration (PWA), Civil Works Administration, and the National Youth Administration. Wyatt C. Hedrick, child in-law of Governor Ross S. Sterling, was the draftsman of all grounds PWA ventures. 

Military preparing was directed at the school as right on time as 1925, however formal Reserve Officers' Training Corps preparing did not begin until 1936. By 1939, the school's enlistment had developed to 3,890. In spite of the fact that enlistment declined amid World War II, Texas Tech prepared 4,747 men in its military preparing separations. Following the war, in 1946, the school saw its enlistment jump to 5,366 from a low of 1,696 out of 1943. 

By the 1960s, the school had extended its contributions to something other than specialized subjects. The Faculty Advisory Committee proposed changing the name to "Texas State University", feeling the expression "Mechanical College" did not characterize the foundation's extension. While most understudies upheld this change, the Board of Directors and numerous graduated class, needing to protect the Double T, contradicted it. Different names—University of the Southwest, Texas Technological College and State University, and The Texas University of Art, Science and Technology—were considered, yet the Board of Directors picked Texas Tech University, submitting it to the state lawmaking body in 1964. 

A fizzled move by Governor John Connally to have the school put into the Texas A&M University System, just as proceeded with contradiction and warmed discussion over the school's new name, kept the name change from being affirmed. Regardless of protests by numerous understudies and personnel, the Board of Directors again presented the change in 1969. It at long last got the lawmaking body's endorsement on June 6 and the name Texas Tech University became effective that September. The majority of the establishment's schools, aside from Law, progressed toward becoming universities. 

Texas Tech was incorporated in 1961 when three African-American understudies were conceded. After its underlying dismissal of the understudies' enlistment and the danger of a claim, the college sanctioned an approach to concede "every single qualified candidate paying little respect to shading". The college offered its first athletic grant to a dark understudy in 1967, when Danny Hardaway was enrolled to play for the Red Raiders football crew. In 1970, Hortense W. Dixon turned into the principal African American understudy to procure a doctorate from the college. 

During the 1970s, the college put US$150 million in the grounds to develop structures for the library, unknown dialects, sociologies, correspondences, rationality, electrical and oil building, craftsmanship, and engineering. Some different structures were essentially extended. 

On May 29, 1969, the 61st Texas Legislature made the Texas Tech University School of Medicine. The Texas Legislature extended the therapeutic school contract in 1979, making the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. TTUHSC, which is currently part of the Texas Tech University System, incorporates Schools of Allied Health Sciences, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, and the Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences. It has areas in four Texas urban communities notwithstanding the primary grounds in Lubbock. 

In 2011, the joined enlistment in the Texas Tech University System was more prominent than 42,000 understudies—a 48% expansion since 2000. Chancellor Kent Hance emphasized designs for Texas Tech's principle grounds to achieve enlistment of 40,000 understudies by 2020, with extra 5,000 understudies at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center and 10,000 understudies at Angelo State University. 

In 1996, the Board of Regents of Texas Tech University made the Texas Tech University System. Previous State Senator John T. Montford, later of San Antonio, was chosen as the primary chancellor to lead the joined scholarly venture. Officials Chair Edward Whitacre Jr. expressed the move was made because of the foundation's size and multifaceted nature. "Now is the ideal time", he stated, "to bring the college into the 21st century". The Texas Tech University framework initially included Texas Tech University and Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. On November 6, 2007, the voters of Texas affirmed a change to the Texas Constitution realigning Angelo State University with the Texas Tech University System. Kent Hance, a Texas Tech graduate who had filled in as United States Representative and as one of the three chosen individuals from the Texas Board which directs the oil-and-gas industry, accepted the obligations of chancellor on December 1, 2006. 

In spite of the fact that development proceeded at Texas Tech, the college was not resistant to debate. In 2003, a third-year understudy at the Texas Tech School of Law documented suit against the college over its strategy on free discourse zones, which limited understudy discourse to a solitary "free discourse gazebo". The next year, a government judge announced the strategy unlawful. 

To satisfy the needs of its expanded enlistment and extending research, the college has put more than $548 million in new development since 2000. It has likewise gotten more than $65.9 million in private gifts. In April 2009, the Texas House of Representatives passed a bill to build state financing for seven state funded colleges. Texas Tech University is ordered by the state as a "Rising Research University", and is among the colleges that will get extra state financing for headway toward "Level 1" status. Three assets—the Research University Development Fund, the Texas Research Incentive Program, and the National Research University Benchmark Fund—have been set up and will give $500 million in awards and coordinating assets amid financial years 2010 and 2011. On September 2, 2009, the college reported it had gotten private blessings totaling $24.3 million. Of these, $21.5 million are qualified for match under the Texas Research Incentive Program. In January 2016, Duane Nellis left the situation of President and was supplanted by between time President John Opperman. 

In late 2011 and all through 2012– 13, development started on a few new structures on grounds. The development incorporated another $20 million Petroleum Engineering and Research assembling, another structure to house the Rawls College of Business, two new habitation lobbies, a $3.5 million church, and broad rebuilding of the structure that recently housed the Rawls College of Business. 

The school's blessing outperformed the $1 billion hindrance without precedent for March 2014 at $1,043,000,000. 

By enlistment, Texas Tech is the seventh-biggest college in Texas and the biggest organization of advanced education in the western 66% of the state. In the Fall 2014 semester, Texas Tech set a record enlistment with 35,134 understudies. For the 2014 enlistment year, most understudies originated from Texas (95.17%), trailed by New Mexico, California, Colorado, Oklahoma, and Florida. Out and out, the college has instructed understudies from every one of the 50 US states and more than 100 outside nations. Enlistment has kept on expanding as of late, and development is on track with an arrangement to have 40,000 understudies constantly 2020. From 1927 to 2011, the college granted 173,551 bachelor's, 34,541 master's, 5,906 doctoral, and 7,092 law degrees. 

The Princeton Review positioned Texas Tech among the 125 best schools in the Western United States in its 2015 version. The 2016 "U.S. News and World Report" rankings recorded the college at 168th broadly and 91st among state funded schools. The 2013 Shanghai Jiao Tong Rankings set Texas Tech University at 401 around the world, which tied it with individual Big 12 schools, Oklahoma and Kansas State, among others. In 2010, the "Money Street Journal" positioned the college eighteenth in its positioning of alumni allure for occupation enrollment specialists. Three of the University's undergrad programs are positioned by PayScale as in the best 20 broadly in mid-vocation pay: Art, Physical and Life Sciences, and Education. In its 2015 release, "U.S. News and World Report" noticed the college has a "particular" affirmations arrangement. As a state funded college, Texas Tech is liable to Texas House Bill 588, which ensures Texas secondary school seniors in the top 10% of their graduating class admission to any open Texas college. In 2012, 20.3% of approaching first year recruits were conceded as such. About portion of approaching rookies completed in the top quarter of their graduating classes. In 2016, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education recorded Texas Tech among 115 most noticeable research schools, normally known as "Carnegie Tier One". 

Texas Tech University is licensed by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. The college offers 150 bachelor's, 104 master's, and 59 doctoral qualification programs. Texas Tech has five satellite grounds situated in Texas—in Abilene, Amarillo, Fredericksburg, Highland Lakes, and Junction. Texas Tech additionally has a satellite grounds in Europe, situated in Seville, Spain. Extra investigation abroad projects are offered in different nations, for example, Denmark, England, France, and Italy. 

The Office of International Affairs underpins and encourages the global mission of Texas Tech University. It gives administrations to staff and understudies, offers worldwide instructive and social encounters for the school and network, and adds to the college's globalization procedure and its push to develop as a universal instructive and explore focus. The International Cultural Center gives a constant arrangement of meetings, addresses, workmanship presentations, and exhibitions. 

Texas Tech has extended from its unique four schools to involve ten universities and two schools. In 2008, the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources positioned among the 30 biggest schools of horticulture in the nation by enlistment. 

In the 2015 "U.S. News and World Report" report on advanced education, the Whitacre College of Engineering was positioned 94th in the country. In 2009, the school's Petroleum Engineering Department was positioned tenth best in the country. The school offers 11 building projects licensed by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. On November 12, 2008, after a $25 million blessing from AT&T out of appreciation for graduate Edward Whitacre Jr., the school was formally renamed the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. School of Engineering. 

The biggest scholarly division on grounds, the College of Arts and Sciences offers bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees in a wide scope of subjects from theory to arithmetic. In 2004, the College of Mass Communications and the College of Visual and Performing Arts were made from projects sorted out inside the College of Arts and Sciences. The College of Mass Communications authoritatively changed its name to the College of Media and Communication in 2012 and offers degrees in a few zones, including publicizing, news coverage and electronic media, and advertising. The College of Visual and Performing Arts was renamed to pay tribute to the commitments by the J. T. and Margaret Talkington Foundation in 2016; Programs offered through Talkington College are certify by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design, the National Association of Schools of Music, and the National Association of Schools of Theater. 

When the Division of Home Economics, the College of Human Sciences currently offers degrees in connected and proficient investigations, plan, human improvement, sustenance, cordiality, and retailing. The College of Human Sciences' Department of Personal Financial Planning was positioned in 2011 as the top program out of ten champion projects by the business bulletin, "Money related Planning". The College of Architecture, established in 1927, offers programs certify by the National Architectural Accrediting Board. 

The Rawls College of Business, which is licensed by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, is the college's business college. The school offers bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees in business disciplines. In its 2016 "Best Grad Schools" rankings, "U.S. News and World Report" positioned the alumni business program 91st in the United States. The school's wellbeing association the board degree program was positioned 41st. From its birthplace in 1942, the business college was known as the Division of Commerce, until it was renamed the College of Business Administration in 1956. In 2000, after a $25 million blessing from graduate Jerry S. Rawls, the school was formally renamed the Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration. 

In 1967, both the College of Education and the Texas Tech University School of Law were established. The College of Education trains future educators and is authorize by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education. The School of Law is an American Bar Association-authorize graduate school on the primary grounds in Lubbock, and came in second statewide in the 2013 Bar Examination pass rate with 95.45 percent. The school offers Juris Doctor degrees which can be earned related to Master of Business Administration or Master of Science degrees through the nearby Rawls College of Business. 

Every single alumni program offered at Texas Tech University are regulated by the Graduate School, which was authoritatively settled in 1954. The college's Honors College enables select understudies to structure an altered educational programs that fuses a wide scope of controls, and offers understudies the open door for early entrance into Texas Tech University's medicinal and graduate schools. 

In September 2008, the University College was built up. Once in the past known as the College of Outreach and Distance Education, the school was made by uniting the Division of Off-Campus Sites and the Division of Outreach and Distance Education. Texas Tech's six in-state satellite grounds are under the protection of the school. Moreover, it administers the Texas Tech University Independent School District. 

The Texas Tech University System likewise works a medicinal school, the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. It offers Schools of Allied Health Sciences, Biomedical Sciences, Medicine, Nursing, and Pharmacy. While it is a discrete element, separate from Texas Tech University, it offers joint degrees, (for example, MD/MBA) through coordination with the college. Further, the Health Sciences Center is situated on the college's fundamental grounds in Lubbock. Notwithstanding the Lubbock grounds, TTUHSC has grounds situated in Abilene, Amarillo, El Paso, Dallas, and Odessa. 

Ordered by the Carnegie Foundation in 2016 as one of just 115 research colleges with "most noteworthy movement", Texas Tech University has 71 explore focuses and establishments. In 2008, a group of scientists from Texas Tech University and Harvard University declared the advancement of a siRNA-based treatment that may eventually check the human immunodeficiency infection (HIV). Human cells contaminated with HIV, infused into rodents, have been relieved by the exploratory treatment. Clinical preliminaries on people are relied upon to start by 2010. Texas Tech specialists additionally hold the select permit for HemoTech, a human blood substitute made out of ox-like hemoglobin. HemoBioTech, the organization advertising the innovation, trusts HemoTech will decrease the characteristic toxicities that have smothered past endeavors to build up a human blood substitute. On January 14, 2008, Texas Tech University reported the production of the West Texas Influenza Research Center. The college has closed human clinical testing of oral interferon in a five-year investigation of idiopathic pneumonic fibrosis and proceeds with its investigation of constant obstructive aspiratory sickness. 

Following the May 11, 1970, Lubbock Tornado that caused 26 fatalities and over $ (2013 dollars) in harm in Lubbock, the National Wind Institute (in the past the Wind Science and Engineering Research Center or WISE) was built up. The National Wind Institute Center, which incorporates of indoor lab space, is centered around research, training, and data outreach. The interdisciplinary research program contemplates strategies to misuse the helpful characteristics of wind and to relieve its impeding impacts. The inside offers instruction in wind science and building to create experts who are specialists in making structures which manage issues brought about by high breezes. The Center founded the country's first Ph.D program in Wind Science and Engineering in 2003. National Wind Institute analysts contributed fundamentally to the improvement of the Enhanced Fujita Scale for rating the quality of tornadoes. 

Texas Tech has made various commitments to NASA ventures. Daniel Cooke, Computer Science Department Chair, and his partners are attempting to build up the specialized substance of the Intelligent Systems Program, and have been granted a five-year spending plan esteemed at $350 million. College researchers have likewise collaborated with NASA's direction, route, and control architects to build up the Onboard Abort Executive (OAE), programming prepared to do rapidly choosing the best strategy amid a rising disappointment. The Texas Tech Space Research Initiative has additionally cooperated with NASA to consummate techniques for developing crisp vegetables in space and to decide the most productive approaches to reuse wastewater. In November 1996, the college devoted the Charles A. Bassett II Pulse Laboratory to respect building former student and Gemini-period space traveler Charles A. Bassett II. Altogether, Texas Tech has created three space travelers: Bassett, Paul Lockhart, and Rick Husband; Husband was administrator of STS-107, the last trip of Space Shuttle "Columbia". 

In 2008, the beat power hardware lab got $4 million in government financing. In addition to other things, the cash will be utilized to make reduced generators for weapon frameworks intended to obliterate ad libbed touchy gadgets (IEDs). The College of Engineering's Nano Tech Center has gotten roughly $20 million in awards toward its work in connected nanophotonics, the creation and control of cutting edge materials at the nanoscale that can deliver and detect light. Texas Tech's Center for Advanced Analytics and Business Intelligence performs matrix registering research through coordinated effort with the SAS Institute that tries to improve the speed with which huge amounts of information, (for example, those present in genomics and worldwide financial aspects) can be prepared. 

Texas Tech's College of Agricultural Science and Natural Resources has gotten state and government gifts for research ventures including the fiber properties of cotton, the antibacterial properties of cotton texture, and the improvement of compound fighting defensive textures. The school has additionally made two grass variations, Shadow Turf, a dry season tolerant turf grass that flourishes in shade, and Tech Turf (promoted as Turffalo), a turf grass with the rich shading and surface of Bermuda and the flexibility of wild ox grass. 

Texas Tech offers on the web and local projects notwithstanding programs offered on the fundamental grounds. There are programs that are completely on the web, half and half/mixed, and situated at provincial destinations. The college offers bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees, just as an alumni accreditation arrangement program, at the provincial locales of El Paso, Fredericksburg, Highland Lakes, Center at Junction, and Waco. 

Texas Tech's web based building program likewise picked up acknowledgment from US News and World Report, positioning twentieth on their rundown of the best alumni web based designing projects. 

The Lubbock grounds is home to the fundamental scholastic college, graduate school, and therapeutic school (Health Sciences Center). This game plan makes it the main foundation in Texas to have every one of the three units (undergrad establishment, graduate school, and medicinal school) on a similar grounds. The grounds, which flaunts Spanish Renaissance engineering, was portrayed by American creator James A. Michener as the "most lovely west of the Mississippi until you get to Stanford" and by Stewart Mandel of "Sports Illustrated" as "effectively one of the ten most wonderful grounds" he had seen. Numerous structures on grounds acquire building components from those found at University de Alcalá in Alcalá de Henares, Spain, and Mission San José in San Antonio. An expansive segment of the grounds worked somewhere in the range of 1924 and 1951 is recorded on the National Register of Historic Places as the Texas Technological College Historic District. This territory is generally limited by sixth Street on the north, University Avenue on the east, nineteenth Street on the south, and Flint Street on the west. In 2008, the Professional Grounds Management Society granted Texas Tech the Grand Award for magnificence in grounds-keeping, and legitimacy grants in 2007, 2010, and 2014. 

In 1998, the Board of Regents of the Texas Tech University System made the Texas Tech University Public Art Collection to breath life into the grounds condition and broaden the instructive mission of the college. It is financed by utilizing one percent of the evaluated all out expense of each new structure on grounds. The accumulation highlights pieces from craftsmen, for example, Tom Otterness and Glenna Goodacre. The Texas Tech University Public Art Collection is positioned among the ten best college open workmanship accumulations in the United States by Public Art Review. 

The college likewise has the Museum of Texas Tech University, which was established in 1929 and is certify by the American Alliance of Museums. The historical center is home to more than three million articles and examples and houses the Moody Planetarium, craftsmanship displays, a model court, and a characteristic science look into research center. The exhibition hall likewise works the Val Verde County explore site and the Lubbock Lake Landmark, an archeological site and characteristic history protect in the city of Lubbock. The site has proof of 12,000 years of utilization by antiquated societies on the Llano Estacado (Southern High Plains), and enables guests to watch dynamic archeological burrows. Visiting researchers and voyagers may likewise take an interest in the revelation procedure. Lubbock Lake Landmark is a National Historic Landmark, which records it on the National Register of Historic Places, and is an assigned State Archeological Landmark. Texas Tech is likewise the area of the Southwest Collection of authentic chronicles and the supporting foundation of the West Texas Historical Association. 

Situated on the northern edge of the grounds is the National Ranching Heritage Center, a gallery of farming history. The site ranges and is home to 38 noteworthy structures that have been reestablished to their unique condition. Structures spoke to at the middle include: a linecamp, a hole, a bunkhouse, a smithy shop, a cowchip house, a school building, corrals, shipping pens, windmills, chuckwagons, and a coal-consuming train. 

The college keeps up various libraries, some broadly useful and some devoted to explicit themes, for example, engineering and law. Among the most outstanding of these are the Southwest Collection/Special Collections Library and the Vietnam Center and Archive, the country's biggest and most extensive accumulations of data on the Vietnam War. On August 17, 2007, the Vietnam Center and Archive turned into the main US establishment to consent to a formalized trade arrangement with the State Records and Archives Department of Vietnam. This opens the entryway for a two-path trade between the elements. 

There are more than 516 understudy clubs and associations at Texas Tech. Numerous understudies take an interest in Greek Life. Texas Tech Greek Life incorporates 11 Panhellenic Sororities and 24 InterFraternity Council Fraternities, just as gatherings in the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) and Multicultural Greek Council (MGC). The Student Union Building, found halfway on grounds, is the center point of every day understudy movement. It houses eateries, coffeehouses, a book shop, meeting rooms, address lobbies, motion picture rooms, and study territories, just as the workplaces and meeting rooms of a few understudy associations and the Student Government Association. Straightforwardly neighboring the Student Union Building is the School of Music, home of the Texas Tech Goin' Band from Raiderland. The 450-part band, which was granted the Sudler Trophy in 1999, performs at all home football match-ups and at different occasions. 

Roughly 20% of understudies live on grounds, and most understudies live on grounds for somewhere around a bit of their scholastic professions. understudies with less than 30 hours of scholarly credit are required to live in college lodging except if they get an exclusion. Explicit home lobbies and networks exist for alumni understudies, competitors, and different explicit interests and scholastic orders. Each inhabitant on grounds is an individual from the Texas Tech Residence Hall Association which gives different on grounds programming and authority openings. RHA is driven by an Executive Board and Senate with understudy agents from every home corridor. The association is likewise an individual from the South West Affiliate of College and Universities Residence Halls. 

Worldwide respect social orders Phi Beta Kappa (aesthetic sciences and sciences), Delta Epsilon Psi, Beta Gamma Sigma (business), and Tau Beta Pi (building) have sections at the college. Expert, administration, and social cliques and sororities on grounds incorporate Alpha Phi Omega (administration), Alpha Kappa Psi (business), Delta Sigma Pi (business), Alpha Omega Epsilon (building), Phi Alpha Delta (law), Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia (music), Kappa Psi (band), and Tau Beta Sigma (band). Proficient advancement and research associations facilitated by the college incorporate the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Undergraduate Research Fellowship Program, the Center for the Integration of Science Education and Research, the Society of Engineering Technologists, Student Bar Association, and the Texas Tech Forensic Union. Texas Tech is additionally the main Power Five college in Texas that is a Hispanic-serving Institution. Soul associations speaking to Texas Tech incorporate the High Riders, Saddle Tramps, and the Saber Flight Drill Team. Every living creature's common sense entitlement Coalition at Texas Tech is likewise a functioning understudy association, planning creature welfare and natural security occasions. This incorporates holding the main Veg Week in West Texas at Texas Tech in 2017. 

The college keeps up KTXT-FM 88.1, in the past an understudy radio station concentrating on option, outside the box shake, modern, and hip jump music. After 47 years, the station went off the air on December 10, 2008. It returned in May 2009 with an alternate organization and plans to in the end come back to its previous style. National Public Radio station KTTZ-FM 89.1, which highlights established music and news, is additionally found on grounds. Moreover, the college possesses and works Public Broadcasting Service TV channel KTTZ-TV. Understudies run an every day paper, "The Daily Toreador", until 2005 known as "The University Daily". The college likewise delivers a yearbook, "La Ventana". 

Texas Tech's athletic groups are known as the Red Raiders except for the ladies' b-ball crew, which is known as the Lady Raiders. Texas Tech contends in NCAA Division I FBS (once in the past Division I-An) and is an individual from the Big 12 Conference. From 1932 until 1956, the college had a place with the Border Intercollegiate Athletic Association. Subsequent to being rejected multiple times over more than 20 years, Texas Tech was admitted toward the Southwest Conference on May 12, 1956. At the point when the Southwest Conference disbanded in 1995, Texas Tech, alongside the University of Texas at Austin, Texas A&M University, and Baylor University, converged with schools from the previous Big Eight Conference to frame the Big 12. Athletic Director Kirby Hocutt is an individual from the College Football Playoff advisory group. 

Of its varsity sports, Texas Tech's ladies' ball crew has been the just a single to guarantee a national title. The Lady Raiders, driven by player Sheryl Swoopes and head mentor Marsha Sharp, won the 1993 NCAA Women's Basketball Championship. The men's ball crew has shown up in the NCAA Men's Division I Tournament. Weave Knight filled in as men's b-ball mentor from the earliest starting point of the 2001 season until February 4, 2008. On January 1, 2007, he set the record for most training triumphs in men's NCAA Division I b-ball history when the Red Raiders vanquished the New Mexico Lobos, 70– 68. Upon Knight's retirement, his child Pat Knight turned into the head mentor of the group for a few seasons until Billy Gillispie supplanted him. In 2013, Tubby Smith supplanted Gillispie. 

Since 1999, home b-ball games have been played at United Spirit Arena, a 15,020-situate multipurpose office which cost $ in dollars to manufacture. Notwithstanding filling in as home to the people's ball groups, the field is utilized by the Red Raider volleyball crew. Texas Tech understudies broke the Big 12 Conference record for understudy participation at the United Spirit Arena amid a February 25, 2014 misfortune to Kansas State. The record of 6,086 understudies fell under 2,000 shy of the national record. 

The Red Raiders football crew, is an individual from the NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision (once in the past known as Division I-An) and is right now instructed by previous Red Raider quarterback Kliff Kingsbury. All through the 2000s, at that point head mentor Mike Leach lead the group to national noticeable quality. In 14 of its last 15 seasons, the Red Raiders have completed with a triumphant record, the fourth-longest such streak in the country at the time. The Red Raiders have shown up, which is seventeenth the vast majority of any college. From 1932 to 1956, as individuals from the Border Intercollegiate Athletic Association, the Red Raiders won eight meeting titles and one co-title, the most held by a Border Conference part. In the wake of joining the Southwest Conference, the Red Raiders included meeting co-titles in 1976 and 1994. 

Jones AT&T Stadium fills in as home to the Red Raiders football crew. The arena, named for Clifford B. what's more, Audrey Jones, opened in 1947. In 2000, the arena was renamed Jones SBC Stadium after SBC Communications made a $30 million commitment to the college. Following SBC Communications' procurement of AT&T Corporation in 2006 and its consequent appropriation of the AT&T name, the arena was renamed Jones AT&T Stadium. The arena's unique seating limit was 27,000, yet it was extended in 1959, 1972, 2003, 2009, 2010, and 2013. 

On August 7, 2008, the Board of Regents of the Texas Tech University System reported a $25 million development venture. The development included a Spanish Renaissance-themed façade to the arena's east side. Notwithstanding the enhancements to the office's outside, the development included 1,000 general-confirmation seats, 550 club seats, and 26 suites. Texas Tech allotted $19 million to the extension and included another $6 million through gathering pledges activities. On November 20, 2008, college authorities declared the venture's gathering pledges objective had been surpassed. The development' historic services occurred on November 29, 2008, and development was finished before the 2009 football season. 

In January 2013, development included another 368 seats in the north endzone and two perception decks. The $11 million venture likewise incorporates an altogether overhauled jumbotron with another sound framework, a Spanish Renaissance-themed corridor, and a north end zone concourse that interfaces the two arena parts. Alongside different options, 157 feet of lace board will be included the north end zone, in excess of 160 direct feet in the upper east and northwest corners of the arena, and 94 lineal feet in the south end zone over the athletic workplaces. The development was finished amid the 2013 season. The arena's ability is 60,862, making it the third-biggest on-grounds arena in Texas. 

The Red Raiders baseball crew played its first amusement in 1925. The group has two gathering titles, two meeting competition titles, and has made nine NCAA Division I Baseball Championship competition appearances. Larry Hays instructed the group from 1987 to 2008 and accumulated a .639 winning rate. Following Hays' retirement on June 2, 2008, Assistant Coach Dan Spencer was elevated to head mentor. Dan Spencer was supplanted by Tim Tadlock following the 2012 season and showed up in the College World Series in 2013. Somewhere around 20 previous Red Raiders baseball players have proceeded to play in the Major Leagues. The group plays its home recreations at Dan Law Field at Rip Griffin Park. The field, remodeled in 2012 and situated on the fundamental grounds in Lubbock, has a seating limit of 5,050. 

Texas Tech's olympic style events groups trained by Wes Kittley have delivered seven Olympic medalists, 16 national victors, more than 200 All-Americans and 119 Big 12 Champions including Michael Mathieu, Sally Kipyego, Kennedy Kithuka, Shereefa Lloyd, Gil Roberts and others. 

Notwithstanding varsity sports, the college's Sport Clubs Federation offers 30 recreational and aggressive game clubs, including polo, rugby association, lacrosse, fencing, and soccer. In 2006, Texas Tech beat rival Texas A&M to win the United States Polo Association National Intercollegiate Championship. 

The Masked Rider is Texas Tech University's most established mascot. The custom started in 1936, when "apparition riders" were set out to circle the field preceding home football match-ups. The Masked Rider turned into an official mascot in 1954, when Joe Kirk Fulton drove the group onto the field at the Gator Bowl. As indicated by reports from those present at the diversion, the group sat in paralyzed quietness as they watched Fulton and his steed Blackie surge onto the football field, trailed by the group. After a couple of minutes, the quiet group burst into cheers. Ed Danforth, an author for the "Atlanta Journal" who saw the occasion, later expressed, "No group in any bowl diversion at any point made an increasingly shocking passageway." In 2000, The Masked Rider convention was celebrated with the revealing of a statue outside of the college's Frazier Alumni Pavilion. The model, made by craftsman Grant Speed, is 25% overwhelming. 

Today, the Masked Rider, with firearms up, drives the group onto the field for every single home diversion. This mascot, decorated in a particular gaucho cap like the ones worn by individuals from the walking band, is a standout amongst the most noticeable figures at Texas Tech. 

Texas Tech's other mascot, Raider Red, is a later creation. Starting with the 1971 football season, the Southwest Conference precluded the consideration of live creature mascots to away diversions except if the host school agreed. For circumstances where the host school did not have any desire to permit the Masked Rider's steed, an elective mascot was required. Jim Gaspard, an individual from the Saddle Tramps understudy soul association, made the first structure for the Raider Red outfit, putting together it with respect to a character made via sketch artist Dirk West, a Texas Tech graduate and previous Lubbock city hall leader. In spite of the fact that the Masked Rider's personality is open learning, it has dependably been convention that Raider Red's understudy adjust conscience is stayed discreet until the finish of his or her residency. The understudy filling in as Raider Red is an individual from the Saddle Tramps or High Riders. 

The Carol of Lights is a yearly occasion, supported by the Residence Halls Association, customarily held the primary Friday in December, to commend the Christmas season. The occasion starts with a chimes show, from the 43 ringers in the west pinnacle of the Administration Building pursued a light processional by the Saddle Tramps and High Riders soul associations. The Texas Tech Trombone Choir and joined choirs lead the group in singing tunes and the brightening service comes full circle with a soloist exhibition of "O Holy Night" in the Science Quadrangle. This is trailed by the lighting function, where 13 structures inside the Texas Technological College Historic District are lit up with the more than 25,000 red, white, and orange lights. The lights stay on the grounds structures until the primary week when understudies return from the occasion break. 

In 1959, Texas Tech University Board of Directors part Harold Hinn arranged and gave the subsidizing to cover the Science Quadrangle and Administration Building with 5,000 lights. In any case, understudies were away on Christmas break and did not see the showcase. The next year, the Residence Hall Association supported the occasion under the name "Christmas Sing". In 1961, the occasion was renamed Carol of Lights and the presentation expanded to 16,000 lights. The convention has since developed to incorporate enrichments like the 38-foot lit Christmas tree, 3,000 illuminators covering the walkways of Memorial Circle, and a 21-foot new pine wreath held tight the Physics/Geosciences building. 

The most promptly recognized image of Texas Tech is the Double T. The logo, for the most part ascribed to Texas Tech's first football mentor, E. Y. Freeland, was first utilized as embellishment on the sweaters for the football players. The Double T existed in its unique structure as an official logo from 1963 to 1999 and was refreshed in 2000. The new logo keeps up the first reason, yet fuses three-dimensional sloping impacts combined with white trim. 

To perceive the significance of the Double T to Texas Tech, the class of 1931 gave the Double T seat. By convention, green beans are not permitted to sit on the seat, which is right now situated in the patio of the Administration Building. The logo is additionally encapsulated in the Double T neon sign, given by the class of 1938 and fastened toward the east side of Jones AT&T Stadium. At the season of its buy, this was supposedly the biggest neon sign in presence. 

A standout amongst the most outstanding milestones on grounds is the statue of Will Rogers on his pony Soapsuds. The statue, entitled "Riding Into the Sunset", has lived at the focal point of the grounds since it was committed on February 16, 1950, by Rogers' long-term companion Amon G. Carter. Carter guaranteed that Texas Tech was the perfect setting for the statue, and that it would be a proper expansion to the customs and view of West Texas. The statue, assessed to cost $25,000 ($239,000 in 2013 dollars) when it was devoted, stands and weighs . The engraving on the plaque at the base of the statue peruses: "Adorable Old Will Rogers on his most loved pony, 'Soapsuds', riding into the Western dusk." 

The statue keeps on being a piece of school convention. Before each home football match-up, the Saddle Tramps wrap it with red crêpe paper, a custom going back to 1969 and a misfortune to Texas A&M after which the statue was discovered shrouded in maroon paint in a clear trick. In the midst of national disasters, the statue has likewise been enclosed by dark crêpe paper. 

As indicated by one grounds legend educated to understudies amid first year recruit introduction, the statue was initially to be situated with Will Rogers looking due west, so it would show up he was riding into the nightfall. In any case, that position would make Soapsuds' back end face due east, a questionable welcome to guests entering by the primary eastern grounds entrance where the statue is set. The pony's back would likewise be confronting downtown Lubbock, conceivably offending the Lubbock business network. The legend holds that this issue was comprehended by Tech's Civil Engineering division, who determined that a 23° turn of Soapsuds' head toward the north would arrange Soapsuds' backside legitimately toward College Station, Texas, home of the adversary Texas A&M Aggies. Current overviews and satellite symbolism have decided the statue's back end really focuses generally equidistantly between College Station and Austin, home of another adversary group, the Texas Longhorns. 

While the class ring had sometimes utilized an all inclusive plan, by the late twentieth century, different styles were accessible. In 1999, the college returned to a solitary ring plan for the college's alumni. The new Official Texas Tech Alumni Association Class Ring emblematically catches the substance of Texas Tech with the unmistakable Double T logo encompassed by the school's full name and date of establishment. By custom, students wear the ring with the Double T logo confronting themselves. Upon graduation, the ring is turned so the logo faces outward. 

One shoulder of the ring shows a picture of the Administration Building, with the chimes which speak to triumph. The other shoulder contains the college seal: an American falcon roosted over a book, speaking to the congregation; a star, speaking to the State of Texas; a key, speaking to home; and, a light, speaking to learning. These components are isolated by a cross including ten cotton bolls, one each for Lubbock and its nine encompassing cotton-creating regions. 

The Texas Tech Alumni Association, with more than 27,000 individuals, works in excess of 120 parts in urban communities all through the United States and the world. All through Texas Tech's history, staff, graduated class, and previous understudies have assumed conspicuous jobs in a wide range of fields. Among its Distinguished Alumni is Demetrio B. Lakas, President of the Republic of Panama from 1969 to 1978. Three United States Governors, Daniel I. J. Thornton, Governor of Colorado from 1951 to 1955, John Burroughs, Governor of New Mexico from 1959 to 1961, and Preston Smith, Governor of Texas from 1968 to 1972, are alumni of the college. 

Three space travelers, including Rick Husband, the last leader of Space Shuttle "Columbia" and beneficiary of the Congressional Space Medal of Honor, moved on from the college. U.S. Marine Corps Major and Medal of Honor beneficiary George H. O'Brien Jr. is a recognized former student. Richard E. Cavazos is a two-time Distinguished Service Cross beneficiary and the principal Hispanic and Mexican American to progress to the position of four-star general in the U.S. Armed force. US Air Force Major General Wendy Motlong Masiello, one of the most noteworthy positioning ladies in the United States Department of Defense, is a 1980 alumni of Texas Tech's Rawls College of Business Administration. Alumna Arati Prabhakar, the present head of DARPA, was the primary lady to head the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Ginger Kerrick, American physicist, was the main Hispanic female NASA Flight Director. Texas Tech's impact on the business world is seen in such individuals as General Motors Chairman and CEO Edward Whitacre Jr., Finisar CEO Jerry S. Rawls, Belo Corporation CEO Dunia A. Shive, and Wellpoint, Inc. president and CEO Angela Braly, positioned by "Fortune" magazine as the most influential lady in business. Scott Pelley, grapple and overseeing editorial manager for "CBS Evening News" and journalist for "60 Minutes", is an alum of the as of late renamed College of Media and Communication. Phil McGraw (Dr. Phil) went to Texas Tech during the 1970s, amid his first marriage. 

Texas Tech graduated class have likewise made commitments to sports, music, and acting. Texas Tech Red Raiders have proceeded to play in the NFL, NBA, WNBA, and MLB. One eminent is Donny Anderson who was an individual from the Green Bay Packers who won Super Bowl I and Super Bowl II. Current graduated class champions incorporate Oakland Raiders wide beneficiary Michael Crabtree, NFL All-Pros Zach Thomas of the Miami Dolphins and Kansas City Chiefs, Danny Amendola of the Miami Dolphins, and Wes Welker, who last played for the Los Angeles Rams Others among the college's graduated class are society rocker John Denver, nation artist Pat Green, mezzo-soprano Susan Graham, performing artist Barry Corbin, Friday Night Lights on-screen character Brad Leland, and on-screen character George Eads. John Hinckley Jr., who endeavored to kill U.S. President Ronald Reagan in 1981, went to the college sporadically from 1973 to 1980.