Waddesdon Road railroad station 

Waddesdon Road railroad station, called Waddesdon rail line station before 1922, was a little end in open wide open in Buckinghamshire, England. It was opened in 1871 as a major aspect of a short pony attracted tramway to help with the vehicle of merchandise from and around the Duke of Buckingham's broad homes in Buckinghamshire and to interface the Duke's domains to the Aylesbury and Buckingham Railway at Quainton Road. In 1872 the line was extended and changed over for traveler use, getting to be known as the Brill Tramway. In 1899 the task of the line was taken over by the London-based Metropolitan Railway. 

In 1933 the Metropolitan Railway was taken into open possession to turn into the Metropolitan line of the London Underground, and in spite of its provincial setting Waddesdon Road station turned into a piece of the London Transport framework. The new administration couldn't see a future for the line as a monetarily practical traveler course, and Waddesdon Road, alongside the remainder of the previous Brill Tramway, was shut in late 1935. 

The station was vigorously utilized for the vehicle of development materials amid the structure of Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild's bequest at Waddesdon Manor during the 1880s, however beside that it saw little use. The station was awkwardly sited and served by couple of traveler trains, and other all the more much of the time served stations were in simple strolling separation. In 1932, the last entire year of activities before the Metropolitan Railway being taken into open proprietorship, the station was utilized for just 281 traveler travels and created only £4 of traveler income. 

On 23 September 1868 the little Aylesbury and Buckingham Railway (A&BR) was opened. It ran south from the London and North Western Railway's Oxford to Bletchley line at Verney Junction, by means of Quainton Road railroad station, to associate with the Great Western Railway at Aylesbury. 

The third Duke of Buckingham and Chandos filled in as Chairman of the London and North Western Railway from 1852 to 1861 and had a long enthusiasm for railroads. In the mid 1870s he chose to manufacture a light railroad to convey products between his domains in Buckinghamshire and the A&BR's line at Quainton Road. The main phase of the line, known as the Wotton Tramway, was a line from Quainton Road through Wotton to a coal siding at Kingswood, and opened on 1 April 1871. Expected for use by pony cable cars, the line was worked with longitudinal sleepers to maintain a strategic distance from steeds stumbling on the sleepers. 

Campaigning from occupants and organizations in the close-by town of Brill prompted an expansion being worked in 1872 from Wotton to Brill railroad station, at the foot of Brill Hill seventy five percent of a mile (1.2 km) from the peak town of Brill itself. Two blended trains every day were presented toward every path, and the line was renamed the Brill Tramway. The Duke purchased two Aveling and Porter footing motors changed to fill in as trains for the line, each with a top speed of , in spite of the fact that a speed farthest point of was upheld. 

The Duke kicked the bucket in 1889, and in 1894 the trustees of his home set up the Oxford and Aylesbury Tramroad Company (O&ATC) with the expectation of stretching out the line from Brill to Oxford. On 1 September 1894 London's Metropolitan Railway (MR) came to Aylesbury, and in the blink of an eye subsequently associated with the A&BR line, with nearby MR administrations running by means of Quainton Road to Verney Junction from 1 April 1894. Through trains from the MR's London end at Baker Street initiated on 1 January 1897. From 1 December 1899 the MR rented the Brill Tramway from the O&ATC and assumed control over the activity of administrations hanging in the balance, in spite of the fact that the Tramway kept on being claimed by the O&ATC. 

Waddesdon Road was the main station out from the Quainton Road intersection station, in open farmland promptly north of Akeman Street (the A41 street after 1919), about southeast of Quainton Road, northwest of the town of Waddesdon, and from Waddesdon Manor. The station was at first worked with a solitary low wooden stage, essentially planned for stacking and emptying cargo. After the 1899 exchange of administrations to the Metropolitan Railway, the MR presented a solitary Brown Marshall traveler carriage on hold; right now, a short segment of stage was raised to customary tallness to enable access to the higher entryways on the new carriage. 

At first known as "Waddesdon Road Siding", the station was renamed "Waddesdon" not long after opening. On 1 October 1922 the close-by Waddesdon Manor railroad station, on the Metropolitan Railway southeast of Quainton Road, was renamed "Waddesdon" and the previous Waddesdon station was renamed "Waddesdon Road" with an end goal to decrease disarray. 

The station was intensely utilized amid the development of Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild's home at Waddesdon Manor during the 1880s. The brickworks at Brill sent 25,000 blocks for each week along the Brill Tramway, and 7,000 tons (7,100 t) of Bath Stone were transported from Corsham. Beside merchandise traffic related with the structure of Waddesdon Manor, the station was minimal utilized other than for transportation milk from adjacent ranches to Aylesbury and London. Awkwardly sited far from any adjacent towns and towns, and with the unmistakably more much of the time served Quainton Road and Waddesdon Manor stations inside simple strolling separation, the station saw next to no traveler use. In 1932, the most recent year of private task, Waddesdon Road station saw just 281 travelers and made just £4 (about £ in 2019) in traveler receipts over the whole year. 

Restricted by low quality trains and uneven, economically laid track which pursued the shapes of the slopes, trains ran all around gradually in the region: in 1882 trains took 13 minutes to venture to every part of the short separation from Waddesdon Road to Quainton Road, and a little ways from Waddesdon Road to Brill. From 1872 to 1894 the station was served by two traveler trains for every day toward every path, and somewhere in the range of 1895 and 1899 the number was expanded to three every day. Following the 1899 exchange of administrations to the Metropolitan Railway, the station was served by four trains for every day toward every path until conclusion in 1935. Upgrades to the line completed at the season of the exchange to the Oxford and Aylesbury Tramroad, and the improved trains of the Metropolitan Railway, decreased voyage times from Waddesdon Road to Quainton Road and Brill to 6 minutes and 22 minutes individually. 

On 1 July 1933 the Metropolitan Railway, and the majority of London's other underground railroads aside from the little Waterloo and City Railway, were taken into open proprietorship as a component of the recently framed London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB). As an outcome, in spite of its separation from London, Waddesdon Road station turned out to be a piece of the London Underground system. 

At this point the Brill Tramway was losing noteworthy wholes of cash. Merchandise traffic had dwindled, and dissimilar to different territories served by the previous Metropolitan Railway there had not been a development in populace and in this manner traveler numbers stayed low. Straight to the point Pick, Managing Director of the Underground Group from 1928 and the Chief Executive of the LPTB, wanted to move the new London Underground far from products administrations to focus exclusively on serving travelers. He saw the lines past Aylesbury to Brill and Verney Junction as having minimal future as monetarily practical traveler courses, presuming that over £2,000 (about £ in 2019) would be spared by shutting the Brill Tramway. Subsequently, the LPTB chose to relinquish all traveler benefits past Aylesbury. 

The Brill Tramway was shut on 1 December 1935, with the keep going trains running on 30 November. Upon the withdrawal of London Transport benefits the railroad and stations returned to the control of the at this point practically torpid Oxford and Aylesbury Tramroad Company. Without any assets and no moving load of its own the O&ATC was unfit to work the line, and on 2 April 1936 the whole framework of the line was sold at sale; the most costly part sold was the stage of Waddesdon Road station, which brought £7 10s (about £ in 2019). Barring the station houses at Westcott and Brill, which were sold independently, the closeout raised £112 10s (about £ in 2019) altogether. No hint of the structures at Waddesdon Road remains, yet the previous trackbed is currently an open trail known as the Tramway Walk. 

Metropolitan line traveler trains stopped to run north of Aylesbury from 6 July 1936. London and North Eastern Railway administrations (British Rail from 1948) kept on running from London's Marylebone station over the line to Verney Junction by means of Quainton Road until March 1963, and the LPTB kept on keeping up and to work cargo benefits over the Verney Junction line until 6 September 1947. After the withdrawal of administrations from London, Verney Junction station stayed open to serve prepares on the Oxford– Bletchley line. It was shut after the withdrawal of administrations among Oxford and Cambridge from 1 January 1968.