William of Wrotham 

William of Wrotham or William de Wrotham (kicked the bucket c. 1217) was a medieval English regal chairman and pastor. Despite the fact that a late thirteenth century source says that William held an illustrious office under King Henry II of England (ruled 1154– 1189), the principal contemporary reference to William is in 1197, when he wound up in charge of, in addition to other things, the regal tin mines. He additionally held ministerial office, in the long run getting to be Archdeacon of Taunton, and served King John of England as an overseer of religious terrains and an authority of duties. 

William's primary authoritative work was maritime. He was accountable for the regal armada in the south of England in 1205, and was one of those in charge of the improvement of Portsmouth as a maritime dockyard. He kept on being associated with maritime issues until 1214 or later, however by 1215 he had joined the First Barons' War against John. After John's demise in 1216, William came back to the royalist cause. He likely kicked the bucket in late 1217. Referred to a contemporary recorder as one of John's "abhorrent consultants", William is said by current students of history to have had a "unique obligation regarding ports, traditions, and the naval force", and was "manager of ports", a precursor of the workplace of First Lord of the Admiralty. 

Little is known about William's experience or family, then again, actually his dad Godwin held land in Shipbourne, close Wrotham in Kent, maybe as a vassal of the Archbishops of Canterbury. William's sibling Richard was named as William's appointee in 1207. 

As per late thirteenth century archives, the Hundred Rolls, King Henry II gave William the workplace of steward of Exmoor, and grounds at North Petherton, Somerset. William was the prebend of St Decumans in the church building section of Bath Cathedral by 9 May 1204. He professed to have held the workplace since 1194 amid a later debate with Savaric fitzGeldewin, the Bishop of Bath and another standard of the church building, Roger Porretanus, who guaranteed the prebend. By 23 December 1205, William had verified an ecclesiastical judgment against Roger. 

William may have owed his progression in imperial support of Geoffrey fitzPeter, an illustrious judge. In 1197 he allowed William an estate at Sutton-at-Hone, Kent, which later should turn into an emergency clinic, yet rather in the long run turned into a preceptory for the Knights Hospitaller. From 1197 William was in charge of the accumulation of incomes from Geoffrey's properties at Lydford, Devon, and held the workplace of boss forester of Somerset; it is misty to whom he owed that position. 

In 1197, Hubert Walter, who was Archbishop of Canterbury and Justiciar, selected William to the organization of the imperial stannaries, or tin mines, and in 1198 William was set responsible for tin generation, an office later known as the Lord Warden of the Stannaries. Under his control the mines turned out to be substantially more worthwhile for the ruler, and represented an aggregate of £1100 in William's first year of organization. As a feature of his authoritative work he turned into the principal superintendent of Lydford Castle after it was built during the 1190s. In 1199 he was engaged with an argument about the stannaries with another authority, Hugh Bardulf, briefly losing control of them – alongside his office as sheriff – in 1200. The purpose behind the loss of these workplaces is dubious. After reclamation to office, he stayed as Lord Warden of the Stannaries until 1215. 

In 1198 and 1199, William was Sheriff of Devon and Sheriff of Cornwall, alongside another illustrious worker, and filled in as a regal equity. In 1200 he was recorded as a recipient of the carucage, an assessment ashore, in the Pipe move; regardless of whether this implied he was a neighborhood or a national gatherer of the duty is hazy. By 12 September 1204, William was Archdeacon of Taunton in the Diocese of Bath, and he saw the decision of Jocelin of Wells as the new priest of the ward. He was together put responsible for the mints of London and Canterbury in 1205, alongside Reginald de Cornhill, with whom he likewise shared the gathering of the duty of a fifteenth on dealers, a post the two had held since 1202. In May 1205 William, alongside de Cornhill, was given authority of one of three bites the dust for the mint at Chichester; in July the ruler gave William's care to Simon of Wells, the Bishop of Chichester. William was one of the authorities responsible for the gathering of an expense of a thirteenth in 1207. 

William was likewise set responsible for empty clerical workplaces, gathering their incomes for the lord. He played out this office for the Diocese of Worcester around 1200, the Diocese of Winchester in 1204, for Glastonbury Abbey in 1205, and for Whitby Abbey in 1206 and 1209. From his activities it tends to be expected that Wrotham was an individual from the regal family unit, most likely working in the closet. 

William's fundamental authoritative work concerned the naval force. In 1204 he, de Cornhill, and William of Furnell were put responsible for allowing fleece send out licenses. William of Wrotham was likewise one of the authorities accused of regulating the boats dispatched to the coasts in 1204, after the loss of Normandy presented England to attack by the French. In 1205 he was again one of the attendants of the illustrious armada along the south coast. William was accountable for the 17 ships situated in Romney, Rye, Shoreham, Southampton, Winchelsea, and Exeter, while the remainder of the armada went under Cornhill's control. Around the same time, he was likewise accountable for maritime spending for the endeavored intrusion of France, which in June alone totalled more than 470 pounds. William surrendered guardianship of Taunton Castle to Peter de Taraton in July and was accountable for obtaining the illustrious wine in August. No further maritime obligations are recorded until November, when alongside Cornhill he was in charge of surveying the ports. 

In 1206 William was responsible for the maritime powers in the Cinque Ports and told the armada that attacked Poitou. Regardless of whether he went with the armada or remained in England after it cruised is misty; as per two historians – F. W. Creeks and R. W. Powell – it is more probable he remained. From 1206 until 1215 he was successfully leader of King John's naval force, and created Portsmouth as an imperial dockyard. In 1208 William was placed responsible for guaranteeing that no boats cruised without imperial consent. That year he likewise managed the maritime arrangements made by the Cinque Ports. The motivation behind these arrangements is obscure; the "Archives of Dunstable" attribute to John a craving to persecute the Cinque Ports. Amid May 1208 an imperial request was issued that William's appointees in every one of the seaports ought to catch any boats in the ports that were from outside nations, barring Denmark, Norway and different nations that did not restrict John's conciliatory endeavors. A hole in the legislative records does not permit a point by point perspective on William's exercises for the following years, until 1212, when William is appeared a considerable lot of indistinguishable obligations from prior. He was responsible for fix of certain boats and the development of a vast new ship, named the "Deulabenit", claimed by the lord. William was additionally in charge of inspiring exclusive trader ships into regal administration. These boats were utilized in the maritime activity of the Battle of Damme at Zwyn in 1213, when an armada under William Longespee, the Earl of Salisbury, annihilated a significant French maritime power and sacked the town of Damme. 

In late 1213 William was coordinating the endeavors of the seaports of south-western England and the Cinque Ports in maritime undertakings. He was likewise in charge of the setting up of a supply stop for the naval force in June 1213, for which he got supplies from the bishopric of Chichester. In 1214 William had authority of some regal detainees. That year, the lord requested him to restore a dealer deliver on the off chance that he had for sure caught it from its proprietor, Joscelin de Hampton. Likewise in 1214, William helped to establish the medical clinic of Domus Dei in Portsmouth with Peter des Roches, the Bishop of Winchester. The establishment was affirmed by the lord in October 1214. 

John compensated William for his administration with places of worship in Sheppey and East Malling, which were conceded in 1207, and the privilege to manage the illustrious backwoods in Cornwall and Devon. Different gifts included terrains in Dartford and Sutton-at-Hone that had escheated to the crown, arrives in Westminster and a prebend in the illustrious clerical establishment at Hastings. 

Amid John's rule, Pope Innocent III set a prohibit on England, precluding open festival of sacrosanct customs in English houses of worship. William upheld John, and stayed in England. The medieval recorder Roger of Wendover named William as one of John's "detestable guides", or "most underhanded instructors". Current history specialists contend that Roger's record of John's rule, while containing some fact, was composed to malign men who were unmistakable in the early long periods of King Henry III, John's child who had succeeded his dad in October 1216. As indicated by Nicholas Vincent, while Roger's record of the exactions and violations of the individuals from his rundown of fiendishness consultants absolutely had a solid premise of truth, it was additionally incredibly misrepresented. W. L. Warren concurs and brings up that a considerable lot of the subtleties of Roger's records that can be checked with different records aren't right, making different pieces of his accounts suspect. 

In 1215 William joined the baronial insubordination to John, and lost his maritime workplaces, the imperial forester's office for Somerset, and guardianship of Lydford Castle. In May 1216 the lord offered William a protected direct, which noticed that William had fled abroad. The letters were seen by Peter des Roches. In mid-1217, he rejoined the royalist cause, coming back to the side of Henry III. This activity recaptured him a portion of his lost grounds. 

William keep going showed up in archives on 25 July 1217 and was dead by 16 February 1218, most likely before 2 December 1217, when another person is referenced as archdeacon. On 16 February 1218, John Marshall turned into the watchman of Richard, William's nephew and beneficiary, who was the child of William's sibling Richard. 

William has been portrayed as having an "extraordinary duty regarding ports, traditions, and the naval force" by the student of history Robert Bartlett. He is typically given the title of "manager of ports" or "attendant of galleys", which Ralph Turner likens with being First Lord of the Admiralty in later history. Once in a while this would be given as ""custos portum maris"" in Latin, or "manager of the seaports". At different occasions he was titled "attendant of the ruler's boats". Bartlett additionally called William "one of the lord's most imperative heads". Charles Young said that William's support of King John was a "recognized authoritative profession", and J. E. A. Joliffe called William one of the "best of the lord's representatives".