Love the Way You Lie 

"Love the Way You Lie" is a tune recorded by the American rapper Eminem, highlighting Barbadian vocalist Rihanna, from Eminem's seventh studio collection "Recuperation" (2010). The vocalist and lyricist Skylar Gray composed and recorded a demo of the tune close by the maker Alex da Kid when she believed she was in a harsh sentimental association with the music business. Eminem composed the refrains and picked Rihanna to sing the ensemble, bringing about a joint effort impacted by their past encounters in troublesome connections. Recording sessions were held in Ferndale, Michigan, and Dublin, Ireland. Sponsored by guitar, piano and violin, the track is a midtempo hip-jump anthem with a pop hold back, sung by Rihanna, and portrays two darlings who will not separate in spite of being in an unsafe love– abhor relationship. 

Interscope Records discharged the melody in June 2010 as the second single from "Recuperation". Pundits commended its song yet were isolated on topical viewpoints, for example, power and exactness. Eminem advanced the single with exhibitions at the 2010 Electronic Entertainment Expo, the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards and celebrations. The music video, coordinated by Joseph Kahn, stars Dominic Monaghan and Megan Fox in a vicious relationship and shows Eminem and Rihanna before a consuming house. The clasp had a blended gathering because of scenes of abusive behavior at home. Correspondents proposed that the tune and its going with video were affected by Eminem's and Rihanna's associations with their separate ex-darlings Kimberly Scott and Chris Brown. 

Faultfinders recorded "Love the Way You Lie" among the best tracks of 2010 and of Eminem's profession. The melody won numerous honors and got five Grammy selections. It is Eminem's smash hit single and positioned number one on a few record graphs, including the United States' "Board" Hot 100 for seven weeks. The single sold six million duplicates in the US and one million in the UK. Melodic acts, for example, Cher Lloyd and The Band Perry have performed spread adaptations. Rihanna has said that the topic of abusive behavior at home, a subject on which she guarantees numerous individuals don't have understanding, is the thing that makes the tune powerful. She later recorded "Love the Way You Lie (Part II)", described generally from her point of view. 

Advancement of "Adoration the Way You Lie" started with the sponsorship track and snare tune, which was made by the British hip jump maker Alex da Kid. When making a track, he said he invests hours making circles and creates an electronic drum beat before including live instrumentation. The drums are tested from live accounts he spares. Alex da Kid recorded an acoustic guitar for the sections with a Georg Neumann U87 mouthpiece and an Avid Mbox sound interface. He told "Sound on Sound" magazine that this tune had allowed him a chance to reintroduce live guitar in hip jump music. Amid the session, he utilized Waves RVerb and REQ adjustment on his primary kick track and a MaxxBass module on two others. 

Composing started in late 2009, when the American artist Holly Hafermann dwelled at the Artula Retreat in Bandon, Oregon, and created melodies. Afterward, in New York City, under her new stage name Skylar Gray, she visited her Universal Music distributer, Jennifer Blakeman, to look for help exhibiting her work; Blakeman recommended she team up with Alex da Kid. The maker messaged Gray his track, which recommended a topic of oppressive sentimental connections to her as she precipitously sang verses to the tune. She told the "Los Angeles Times" that she was in an injurious association with the music business: "I adore it so much, and I give everything that I have, yet it thrashes me." This thought propelled her composition, a procedure she discovered fell into place without any issues, as though she were making an elective pop melody for herself. She composed the ensemble to "Love the Way You Lie" in fifteen minutes and recorded vocals for Alex da Kid's demo. 

In mid 2010, Alex da Kid offered the Shady Records Senior Director Rigo "Riggs" Morales some support tracks. Spirits delighted in the tracks and sent them to Eminem, who was looking for an alternate melodic methodology for his next collection. Inspired with Alex da Kid's work, Eminem requested more tracks and in this manner heard "Love the Way You Lie". He picked it and told his administrator Paul Rosenberg he needed to work together with the Barbadian artist Rihanna. Eminem told Skyrock, "It's one of those tracks that I felt like no one but she could pull it off." Rosenberg sent the track to Rihanna, who acknowledged Eminem's solicitation "at last." Eminem then composed the rapped sections. 

Rihanna said she joined the coordinated effort since she could identify with the topic of the melody, as she and Eminem had been in troublesome connections on "various closures of the table". Eminem had discharged the melodies "'97 Bonnie and Clyde" (1998) and "Kim" (2000), in which he fantasizes, individually, about killing and verbally manhandling his then-spouse Kimberly Scott. They had separated in 2001 and again in 2006 after a remarriage. In February 2009, Rihanna's association with the American artist Chris Brown had finished after his crime attack on her. Rihanna depicted "Love the Way You Lie" as extraordinary, practical and profound, saying that it "separated the cycle of abusive behavior at home" since few individuals had knowledge on the point. 

Mike Strange recorded and blended Eminem's vocals at Effigy Studios in Ferndale, Michigan. The sessions took two days. Unusual altered the vocals with D-Verb—a resonation programming—and an Extra Long Delay module. He liked to roll out couple of improvements; for "Affection the Way You Lie" he only utilized board pressure and reassure evening out. Unusual utilized the Bricasti and Eventide Reverb 2016 blending devices for "more brilliant" resonation. Detroit performer Luis Resto has added to the plan on huge numbers of Eminem's tunes, yet did not do as such for "Affection the Way You Lie". As indicated by Strange, "All that we required was at that point in the track, aside from the vocals." Two to three weeks after the sessions, Alex da Kid touched base to help blend and ace the track. He needed to supplant the acoustic guitar on the demo, yet Eminem kept it. Bizarre stated, "It was just a question of attempting to match and afterward to enhance the demo [Alex da Kid]'d sent us." Strange's sibling Joe designed the track. 

Rihanna's account sessions occurred at Sun Studios in Dublin, Ireland, and were built by Marcos Tovar. The American musician Makeba Riddick gave extra vocal generation. Peculiar utilized adjustment, pressure and resonation however left the vocal equalization. He accepted that Rihanna was happy with her recorded vocals and did not roll out real improvements on her seven stereo vocal tracks. 

"Love the Way You Lie" is a midtempo hip bounce anthem. The verses portray a couple's refusal to isolate in spite of having an oppressive relationship. As indicated by the sheet music from Universal Music Publishing Group, the melody is in the key of G minor with a typical time signature and a rhythm of 84 beats every moment. The vocal range ranges from B to D. "Love the Way You Lie" opens as Rihanna sings the pop hold back over a piano: 

Just going to remain there and watch me consume 

Yet, that is okay, since I like the manner in which it harms. 

Just going to remain there and hear me cry 

Yet, that is okay, since I adore the manner in which you lie. 

The hold back depends on a Gm– E– B– F/A harmony movement. Fraser McAlpine of the BBC composed that Rihanna feels kept "in a cell of [her] claim creation". She sings without vibrato, a throbbing melodic impact used to include articulation. One observer, "The New York Times" David Brownie, composed that in spite of this, her voice unobtrusively demonstrates sadness and lament. Eminem then "zap[s] out into a ballady rap": "I can't disclose to you what it truly is/I can just reveal to you what it feels like." The refrains pursue a Gm– EB– Fsus/A harmony movement. Eminem laments a conclusion to an oppressive, fizzled relationship, portraying shared brutality and communicating both affection and outrage. The two specialists' characters are depicted in a sentimental relationship when he reacts to Rihanna by finishing up the refrain: "I laid hands on her. I'll never stoop so low again/I surmise I don't have the foggiest idea about my very own quality." Rihanna sings the tune again, upheld by an electric guitar and a piano. 

Acoustic guitar, violin and drums go with Eminem's refrains. The verses change from talking about positive parts of adoration to portraying fierce occasions. Eminem raps, "the fury dominated, it controls you both, so they say all that needs to be said to go your different ways. Estimate that they don't know ya, cause today that was yesterday." Sady Doyle of "The Atlantic" translated these verses as the rapper's admission to having manhandled Scott, as he "turns the outrage and allegations toward himself". In the second section, Eminem acknowledges the result in the wake of inclination sorry, conceding, "Yesterday is finished, it's an alternate day." His disappointment increments and he raps that two identities can conflict and decimate: "possibly that is the thing that happens when a tornado meets a fountain of liquid magma". The depicted love– abhor relationship declines and prompts abusive behavior at home. Eminem confesses to lying about guarantees he makes and says late in the tune, "On the off chance that she ever attempts to fuckin' leave again, I'ma attach her to the bed and set this house ablaze", a reference to Rihanna's verses. 

On May 27, 2010, Eminem uncovered the title of "Adoration the Way You Lie" as a major aspect of the track rundown of his seventh studio collection "Recuperation", which turned out on June 21. At first a radio single, the melody was discharged later by Polydor Records as a CD in the United Kingdom on August 9, 2010. Interscope Records conveyed it in Germany on August 20. 

"Love the Way You Lie" got commonly ideal surveys. An editorial manager for "Rap-Up" recorded it among the four best tracks from the collection. "New York Times" essayist Jon Caramanica thought of it as "one of the collection's most captivating melodies" and commended Eminem's capacity to survey issues from the points of view of both genders. MTV's Rodriguez composed that the melody echoes content from Eminem's prior collections, yet discovers him "calm" and "increasingly develop". He added that the verses imply Eminem's association with Scott and that "Adoration the Way You Lie" is his nearest way to deal with an affection melody. Editors of "The A.V. Club" contrasted the single and "Kim" and 97 Bonnie and Clyde"; they discovered he is increasingly tempered in "Affection the Way You Lie" while talking about a "commonly ruinous relationship" and that Rihanna's association makes a scary mind-set. 

Faultfinders particularly adulated Rihanna's commitment. Michael Menachem of "Announcement" complimented her "dazzlingly melodic and shockingly cheerful" vocal execution and "Eminem's dull, contemplative" rapping. He noticed that the percussion supplements the two craftsmen and that Alex da Kid gave the traditional course of action a standard touch. Kyle Anderson, composing for MTV, commented that the tune exhibits Rihanna's enthusiastic vocals and Eminem's "most extraordinary rhymes about his turbulent connections". He respected "Love the Way You Lie" as a fair, "very much built pop tune with an incredible snare" and compared the "moderate consuming" music to that of "Somebody like You", a 2011 single by the British artist Adele. The "Houston Chronicle" pop faultfinder Joey Guerra remarked that Rihanna brought a "sandpaper and silk sheen" to the track. 

Faultfinders have remarked on the message in the verses. Anderson noticed a dim topic, while Nick Levine of Digital Spy, Allie Townsend of "Time" magazine and Jocelyn Noveck of The Associated Press proposed the past connections of the two craftsmen affected the melody. Levine gave it four stars out of five. As per Eric Hayden of The Atlantic Wire, the melody alludes to a drunkard couple, potentially motivated by Rihanna's association with Brown. McAlphine granted "Love the Way You Lie" four stars out of five. As indicated by him, the melody would not have been compelling in the event that it had included just Eminem's perspective and sentiments of disappointment; he composed that Rihanna's speaking to the contrary side of the relationship demonstrates "appropriate narrating" and "communicates something specific" on account of her separation with Brown. McAlphine composed that thus the melody portrays an increasingly sensible damaging relationship and could be included in a battle for ladies' safe houses. He lauded Eminem's precision and comprehension of the subject. Winston Robbins from "Result of Sound" credited the tune's power to Rihanna's past damaging relationship, and a subject of treachery and misuse. 

On the basic side, "The Daily Telegraph's" Jenny McCartney expelled the allegories in the ensemble and thought the melody's point was over-advertised. She couldn't help contradicting the basic recognition, contending that ladies acknowledge injurious connections for more profound reasons than sexual and enthusiastic delight, for example, family and money related issues and vulnerability. In a NPR article, the author Maura Johnston remarked that the verses depict Rihanna as the subject of Eminem's viciousness. Jay Smooth, a New York radio character, reacted that "while Eminem investigates the mind of the abuser with a practically aggravating measure of profundity and detail," Rihanna's viewpoint is minimized and not clarified completely. Johnston and Smooth composed that such awkward nature are a common issue in prominent music two part harmonies. To Sady Doyle, in spite of the fact that "Adoration the Way You Lie" is a standout amongst Eminem's most influencing tracks and discovers him contrite, it doesn't compensate for his past misanthropic activities and scornful tunes. Noveck addressed whether the verses are "a treatise against (or statement of regret for) abusive behavior at home, or a flippant glorification of it? Or on the other hand, is it something awkward in the middle?" 

Marjorie Gilberg, official chief of the counter high school brutality aggregate Break the Cycle, remarked that "Adoration the Way You Lie" can show audience members the risks of harsh connections if deciphered effectively. She trusted that in light of the fact that mainstream culture frequently portrays what is socially satisfactory, individuals may acknowledge such brutality all the more effectively. She included, "One issue, though, ... is that the tune reflects legends about aggressive behavior at home—fantasies that lead to accusing the person in question." Gilberg said the injured individual is regularly blamed for being as blameworthy as the accomplice however needs to be adored, not manhandled. Terry O'Neill, a women's activist and the leader of the National Organization for Women, scrutinized the verse, "Yet your temper's similarly as awful as mine is/You're equivalent to me", saying it is an ordinary reason utilized by injurious men for hostility and that "it's solitary 2-year-olds and fierce men who use brutality to get what they need." She included that Rihanna inadvertently extols abusive behavior at home in the melody in spite of endeavoring to battle it. 

"Love the Way You Lie" positioned in different best-of-2010 records. Claire Suddath of "Time" set it at number five on her best ten rundown and expressed, "That this melody didn't go over sounding old hat or bland is a demonstration of the two specialists' expertise." AOL Radio considered the tune the best of 2010 hip jump music, viewing Eminem as inventive and enthusiastic. It positioned ninth on MTV News' best twenty-five rundown. Its editorial manager James Montgomery ascribed the tune's prosperity to its topic and connection to the specialists' past injurious connections. He finished up, "You can't compose a tune any superior to that, since that is the manner by which this sort of thing occurs, in actuality." "The New York Post" put the tune at second spot on their "main 210 melodies from 2010" list and viewed it as a "rebound club hymn." In April 2011, Gabriel Alvarez of "Complex" magazine positioned it at number 100 on their "100 Best Eminem Songs" list, considering it an adoration tune and commending Rihanna's vocals as wonderful. "Love the Way You Lie" and its going with music video were named for five Grammy Awards at the 2011 service, including "Record of the Year", "Melody of the Year" and "Best Short Form Music Video". It won the People's Choice Awards for "Most loved Music Video" and "Main tune". 

"Love the Way You Lie" achieved number one on a few record diagrams around the world. It entered the United States' "Announcement" Hot 100 at number two in the issue dated July 10, 2010. The single appeared at number one on the US Digital Songs in the wake of selling 338,000 digital duplicates in its first week. From July 31 to September 11, 2010, it had a seven-week keep running at the highest point of the Hot 100, giving Eminem his fourth, and Rihanna her seventh, number-one US hit. The single sold more than 300,000 digital duplicates in the seven day stretch of August 14, 2010, ascending to number two on the Pop Songs and Radio Songs outlines. In the "Board" issue for August 21, 2010, Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems perceived the single with the BDS Certified Award for 50,000 radio twists. It beat the Pop Songs outline in a similar issue, giving Eminem his third number-one track on the diagram and Rihanna her 6th. "Love the Way You Lie" was the primary number-one hit on the Rap Songs outline with Eminem as the lead craftsman since his 2000 single "The Real Slim Shady". With offers of 4,245,000 duplicates, "Love the Way You Lie" was the third-smash hit single of 2010 in the US. There, it sold 6 million duplicates by October 2013 and 6.5 million duplicates by October 2015. 

The melody entered the Australian Singles Chart on July 4, 2010, at number fourteen. It rose to the best three weeks after the fact, possessing the situation for about a month and a half and remaining on the diagram for 38 weeks altogether. In Austria, "Love the Way You Lie" appeared at number 31, on July 2, 2010, and rose to number one on September 4. Subsequent to showing up on March 4, 2011, it returned at number 75 on August 26. The melody went through 47 weeks on the outline. "Love the Way You Lie" graphed for 30 weeks in France, where appeared and crested at number three on July 2, 2010. It was South Korea's third-top of the line melody in 2010 by an outside craftsman, with 1,200,653 downloads. 

On the UK Singles Chart, the melody appeared at number seven on June 27, 2010, and crested at number two a month later. Before the finish of 2010,"Love the Way You Lie" had sold 854,000 copies in the UK, making it the nation's greatest selling melody of the year. In October 2011, it turned into the 109th melody to achieve 1 million deals there. By November 2012, the single had sold 1.05 million duplicates in the UK, putting at number 100 on the Official Charts Company's "The Million Sellers" list. As of June 2015, it is the seventeenth top of the line single of the 2010s in the UK. As per the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, "Love the Way You Lie" sold 9.3 million duplicates worldwide in 2010. In December 2011, it was confirmed as Eminem's top of the line single. 

The music video for "Adoration the Way You Lie" was Eminem's third to be coordinated by the American movie producer Joseph Kahn. Notwithstanding having wanted to shoot an element movie and quit coordinating pop recordings, Kahn chipped away at "Adoration the Way You Lie" in light of the fact that, as indicated by him, the tune examines a vital point. This was an open door for him to coordinate a video for Eminem without the comedic topics of their past joint efforts. For the video, Kahn considered the British performing artist Dominic Monaghan as a co-star for his adaptability, which he thought would enable him to play an opponent. Kahn cast the American performing artist Megan Fox, which he had assumed would be practically unthinkable as a result of her prominence with chiefs. Fox, an aficionado of Eminem, acknowledged the job decisively. 

Rosenberg gave Kahn one day to compose a treatment, which Kahn completed in 45 minutes. He recorded Eminem's and Rihanna's parts on July 20, 2010; scenes with Fox and Monaghan were shot three days after the fact. By July 24, 2010, they completed the shoot. Kahn affirmed the consummation of the chief's cut the following day. He said Fox's contribution made the video incredible, remarking for "Vibe": 

We needed to make a particular anecdote around two individuals—Meg and Dom—not a video that was agent everything being equal or all abusive behavior at home circumstances. I'm not saying that all couples battle along these lines. I simply need individuals just to have the capacity to relate to the characters and perceive that they've seen connections like this where two individuals are as one that are totally wrong for one another and things winding out of control. ... Megan was the way to this video. ... I'll let you know as a chief the motivation behind why [Fox and Monaghan's] scenes in the video feel so genuine is on the grounds that at the time they were genuine. 

Monaghan revealed to MTV he thought the couple speaks to Eminem and Scott. The clasp was delivered by Kathy Angstadt and MaryAnn Tanedo of HSI Productions. In the blink of an eye before its discharge, Eminem revealed in a press articulation: "Joseph and I worked pretty firmly together to ensure we got this right". He said the troublesome theme brought about an amazing video on account of the commitments of Rihanna, Fox and Monaghan. Fox gave her appearance charge to the Sojourn House, a battered ladies' asylum. On August 5, 2010, the video debuted on MTV and the music video site Vevo. 

Rihanna sings the tune before a consuming house, while a mixing scene indicates fire on a lady's (Fox) palms. In another scene, the lady is snoozing with her darling (Monaghan) and awakens. As Eminem raps in an open field, the lady assaults her sweetheart in the wake of seeing the name "Cindy" and a telephone number composed on his hand. He fruitlessly endeavors to kiss the lady and conveys her back after she endeavors to abandon him. The man at that point pushes her onto the divider and points his clench hand at her, puncturing the divider. After Rihanna sings once more, the video flashes back to when the couple initially meet "at a shabby plunge bar nearby" to an alcohol store. The man takes a jug of vodka and they kiss on the housetop. 

Amid the present, the man apologizes to his sweetheart and they are accommodated. In another flashback, he assaults somebody who plays pool with his darling. Eminem joins Rihanna before the consuming house for the last stanza. In the interim, after the flashback, the lady gets back home and secures herself in the washroom to prevent her oppressive darling from entering. In another scene, the flame on her palms evaporates as she fastens her hands. Blazes later overwhelm Eminem and the couple, who are then appeared before the consuming house. At last, the couple remains together and the video comes back to their first scene, in which they rest. 

The clasp broke what was a YouTube record at the season of its discharge for the most perspectives in a single day, with 6.6 million. It had a blended gathering from commentators, a large portion of whom remarked on scenes of abusive behavior at home. NPR's Zoe Chace regarded the video sickening, while AOL Music recorded it at number five on their rundown of the "Main 10 Most Controversial Music Videos in Pop". Stephanie Nilva—the official executive of injury asset focus Day One—disclosed to MTV News that it predominantly raises "the point of dating brutality among youngsters". Nilva commended the clasp's precise portrayal of examples in a damaging relationship and thought the video's intensity originated from Eminem's history of savagery themed tunes and Brown's ambush on Rihanna. 

An author for "Rap-Up" considered the video reasonable, as "craftsmanship impersonates life". Conor Friedersdorf of "The Atlantic" considered it a mistaken depiction of abusive behavior at home because of inadequate savagery, as confirm by the absence of wounds subsequent to punching through a divider. Mariel Concepcion of "Board" recommended the video was enlivened by the verse, "Just going to remain there and watch me consume, yet that is okay since I like the manner in which it harms." Rihanna's appearance was reprimanded. Composing for "Moving Stone" magazine, Daniel Kreps called it "particularly striking" and noticed her association with Brown. A supervisor from "The Boston Globe" remarked that in spite of the fact that the video is reasonable, it obstructs Rihanna's capacity to set a case for ladies in damaging connections. Billy Johnson Jr. from Yahoo! Music composed that Fox's character shifted back and forth among defenseless and angry identities, while Monaghan's character is like Eminem. Kahn, who comprehended why watchers thought Eminem's and Rihanna's connections affected the video, asked that they understand this is false. He said the group had been aware of such close to home issues and Fox's and Monaghan's characters are just noteworthy to one another. 

Commentators talked about the acting. Subside Gicas of "E! News" noticed that Fox and Monaghan depict "flammable conduct the tune is hellbent on portraying." "The New York Post"s Jarett Wieselman composed that they assume their jobs impeccably and help make the video incredible. "Amusement Weekly"s Whitney Pastorek found the savage acting explicitly engaging, while Willa Paskin of "New York" magazine composed that the cast's intrigue "hypnotize[s]" watchers. Paskin noticed the utilization of sepia conditioning in the consuming house scenes. Matthew Wilkening of AOL Radio remarked that the video leaves watchers to choose "if it is ideal or an awful thing that the pair dependably end up accommodating." Mikey Fresh of "Vibe" remarked that Fox's normal response when Monaghan punctures the divider and nearly hits her is a "mind boggling demonstration of powerlessness". "L Magazine"s Benjamin Sutton compared the scene in which the characters copy to the Marvel Comics character Chris Bradley, whom Monaghan depicts in the 2009 activity film "". As of February 2019, the video is one of YouTube's 50 most seen recordings. with more than 1.7 billion perspectives. 

Eminem has advanced "Love the Way You Lie" at shows. On June 15, 2010, he and Rihanna played out the tune at Los Angeles' Electronic Entertainment Expo 2010, joined by the drummer Travis Barker and D12's Mr. Doorman. Eminem sang "Love the Way You Lie" at the Scottish celebration T in the Park on July 10, 2010, devoting it to "everyone who'[d] been in a messed up relationship." He at that point played out the melody at Ireland's yearly Oxegen celebration on July 11, 2010. James Hendicott from "State" composed that the rapper's identity "fill[ed] the stage" and that his vocals were sharp and stuffed "a lot of punch". He censured the utilization of a pre-recorded sponsorship track and noticed the absence of unrecorded music and female vocals. Eamon Sweeney from the "Irish Independent" called Eminem's execution just "somewhat noteworthy". 

On July 21, 2010, the rapper joined Rihanna on her Last Girl on Earth Tour to perform in Los Angeles. He at that point performed at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards and was casted a ballot the best entertainer of the function in a MTV survey, procuring 34 percent of votes. Rihanna showed up in spite of having said she couldn't perform on account of her calendar. Suddath of "Time" called their two part harmony dull. Eminem sang "Love the Way You Lie" without Rihanna at the 2011 Bonnaroo Music Festival for right around 80,000 individuals. As indicated by MTV News' Montgomery, the "sheer perseverance with which he assaulted" was his quality. Patrick Doyle of "Moving Stone" felt Eminem conveyed a triumphal demonstration by "always ricocheting over the stage" and singing vigorously. 

Eminem performed "Love the Way You Lie" on the second day of Chicago's yearly Lollapalooza celebration on August 6, 2011. Individuals from the group of onlookers sang the theme to adjust for Rihanna's nonattendance. Piet Levy of "USA Today" named the demonstrate a "terrible shocker", while Katie Hasty of HitFix included that it showed rivalry between the genders. Eminem and Rihanna performed in Staffordshire on the principal day of V2011 (V Festival), on August 20, 2011. James Lachno of "The Daily Telegraph" thought of it as an "influencing" version. "The Guardian" called their execution exciting and a supervisor for the British paper "Metro" felt that it was the best piece of the night. Eminem shut the celebration the evening of August 21 in Chelmsford, Essex, for a crowd of people of 120,000. A journalist for the "Global Business Times" believed that Eminem's two part harmony with Rihanna was the feature of the show. 

Different melodic acts have performed spread forms of "Affection the Way You Lie". Eric Stanley, an American musician, remixed the melody on the violin. The blue grass music gather The Band Perry sang the tune at the June 2010 CMT Music Awards. After two months, Taylor Momsen—the lead artist of the American musical gang The Pretty Reckless—played out a spread rendition for BBC Radio 1's "Live Lounge" as a feature of a mashup with the melody "Islands" by the English pop band The xx. Helped by a guitarist from her band, she started with an area of "Islands" and changed into the ensemble of "Affection the Way You Lie". Cher Lloyd, a British artist, played out the melody in the last five of "The X Factor UK"s seventh season. An essayist from "The Sun" called the execution "stripped-back" and "with no of her standard stage tricks." Mernie Gilmore of the "Day by day Express" remarked that the tune is "a two part harmony for a reason" as Lloyd performed both Eminem's and Rihanna's parts. In 2010, the Russian guitarist Alex Feather Akimov discharged "Love The Way You Lie (Heavy Remix)", an account that was perceived by Billboard.biz (Web Trends). The American post-in-your-face band A Skylit Drive recorded a front of the single for "Punk Goes Pop 4", the 2011 arrival of the "Punk Goes..." arrangement. 

On November 3, 2010, an elective variant titled "Love the Way You Lie (Part II)" spilled onto the Internet. Rihanna is the lead vocalist and Eminem is an included visitor. The melody for the most part sees matters from Rihanna's point of view and depends on Gray's demo. Rihanna consented to record a continuation in spite of at first reasoning "the first couldn't be beaten". She said that the continuation included less generation, with just piano and drums. It is the eleventh and last track on her 2010 studio collection "Noisy". Dark's adaptation shows up on her 2012 broadened play "The Buried Sessions of Skylar Gray" and her 2013 studio collection "Don't Look Down" as "Affection the Way You Lie (Part III)". 

Rihanna played out a short variety that contained "Love the Way You Lie (Part II)", "What's My Name?" and "Just Girl (In the World)" at the American Music Awards of 2010. Another mixture, comprising of "Adoration the Way You Lie (Part II)" and "I Need a Doctor", was performed at the 2011 Grammy Awards. While the "Chicago Sun-Times" considered the track a superfluous continuation, the BBC analyst James Skinner composed, Love the Way You Lie (Part II)' even bests the first, Eminem's section radiating the sort of unpredictable, stewing threat that got everybody so amped up for him in any case. In any case, it is Rihanna's vocal—without a moment's delay directing, deep and helpless—that stays the tune". 

The credits for "Affection the Way You Lie" are adjusted from the liner notes of "Recuperation".