Persoonia levis 

Persoonia levis, generally known as the wide leaved geebung, is a bush local to New South Wales and Victoria in eastern Australia. It achieves 5 m (16 ft) in stature and has dull dim papery bark and brilliant green awry sickle-molded surrenders over to 14 cm (5.5 in) long and 8 cm (3.2 in) wide. The little yellow blooms show up in summer and harvest time (December to April), trailed by little green plump natural product, which are named drupes. Inside the variety "Persoonia", it is an individual from the "Lanceolata" gathering of 58 firmly related species. "P. levis" interbreeds with a few different animal types where they become together. 

Found in dry sclerophyll woods on sandstone-based supplement lacking soils, "P. levis" is adjusted to a flame inclined condition; the plants resprout epicormic buds from underneath their thick bark after bushfires, and can live for over 60 years. Recovery likewise happens after flame by a ground-put away seed bank. The longtongue honey bee "Leioproctus carinatifrons" is a pollinator of the blooms, and the organic product are devoured by vertebrates, for example, kangaroos, possums and currawongs. Regardless of its agricultural intrigue, "P. levis" is uncommon in development as it is exceptionally difficult to proliferate, either by seed or cuttings. 

"Persoonia levis" develops as a tall bush to little tree, and can achieve 5 m (16 ft) in stature. The flaky delicate bark is dim superficially, while more profound layers are ruddy in shading. Inside the bark are epicormic buds, which grow new development after bushfire. The new development is smooth to somewhat shaggy. The substantial green leaves measure 6 to 14 cm (2.2– 5.5 in) long, and 1.3 to 8 cm (0.5– 3.2 in) in width, and are oval or sickle-formed (falcate). The uneven shape recognizes the species from "P. lanceolata". The brilliant green foliage, especially of new development, emerges against the more quelled tones of the encompassing vegetation and the stems, which are ruddy in shading. The yellow blooms show up in summer and fall (December to April), and top over December to February. They are organized on short axillary racemes along the branchlets. Every individual blossom comprises of a tube shaped perianth, comprising of tepals melded for a large portion of their length, inside which are both male and female parts. The focal style is encompassed by the anther, which parts into four fragments; these twist back and look like a cross when seen from above. They give an arrival territory to creepy crawlies taking care of the shame, which is situated at the tip of the style. The smooth plump organic product, known as a drupe, is green and pretty much round, estimating 1 cm (0.4 in) by 0.8 cm (0.3 in) in width. It contains two seeds, and has a spike toward the end. The drupe is succulent yet stringy when unripe, and the seeds and skin are unpalatable. 

"Persoonia levis" was depicted and given the name "Linkia levis" by Antonio José Cavanilles in 1798. His portrayal depended on plant material gathered by Luis Née in the region of Port Jackson (Sydney) in April 1793 amid the Malaspina Expedition. The species was put in the variety "Persoonia" by Karel Domin in 1921. The variety names "Linkia" and "Persoonia" had been instituted in 1798, yet the last was formally rationed. The species name is the Latin descriptor "", signifying "smooth", and alludes to the bare foliage. Christiaan Hendrik Persoon begat the name "Persoonia salicina" for it in his 1805 work "Summary Plantarum", and questioned whether Cavanilles' "Linkia levis" was in certainty "P. lanceolata". Robert Brown utilized Persoon's name in his 1810 work "Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen", and resounded Persoon's contemplations on Cavanilles' unique name and example. In the 1995 "Vegetation of Australia" amendment of the variety, Peter John Weston audited the mounted material of "Linkia levis", and found that Cavanilles had mounted material from both "P. levis" and "P. lanceolata". He set one example of the three, which was unmistakably "P. levis", as the lectotype, which adjusted the material to the portrayal. Regular names incorporate expansive leaved geebung, willow geebung and smooth geebung. The term geebung is gotten from the Dharug language word "geebung". 

Like most different individuals from the variety, "Persoonia levis" has seven chromosomes that are substantial contrasted with those of other Proteaceae. In 1870, George Bentham distributed the first infrageneric course of action of "Persoonia" in Volume 5 of his milestone "Verdure Australiensis". He isolated the class into three segments, setting "P. levis" (which he called "P. salicina") in "P." sect. "Amblyanthera". The 1995 "Vegetation of Australia" modification of the sort saw it arranged in the "Lanceolata" gathering, a gathering of 58 firmly related species with comparable blossoms yet altogether different foliage. These species will regularly interbreed with one another where two individuals from the gathering happen, and cross breeds with "P. acerosa", "P. lanceolata", "P. linearis", "P. mollis" subsp. "ledifolia", "P. myrtilloides" subsp. "myrtilloides" (in the Upper Blue Mountains, these plants look like "P. lanceolata"), "P. oxycoccoides", and "P. stradbrokensis" have been recorded. Robert Brown at first depicted the cross breed with "P. linearis" as a species ""Persoonia lucida"", which is presently known as "Persoonia × lucida", and has been recorded from the southeast timberlands of the New South Wales south coast. 

"Persoonia levis" is found from the Macleay River catchment on the New South Wales mid north coast to the Cann River in far eastern Victoria. It is found in dry sclerophyll woodland on sandstone-based supplement inadequate soils, from ocean level to a height of 1000 m (3500 ft). There it develops in bright or daintily shaded territories in open forest, related with so much trees as "Eucalyptus piperita", "E. sieberi", "E. sclerophylla", "E. radiata", "E. smithii", "Angophora costata" and "Corymbia gummifera", and bushes, for example, "Conospermum longifolium", "Grevillea buxifolia", "G. phylicoides", "Hakea laevipes", "Symphionema montanum" and "Telopea speciosissima", just as "Persoonia hirsuta" and "P. mollis". Waterfront frames are littler with more extensive leaves than inland structures. The yearly precipitation of the territory it happens in the Sydney Basin is . It is considered satisfactorily ensured in the Sydney locale, and is found in Georges River, Cattai, Wollemi, Bouddi, Brisbane Water, Marramarra, Ku-ring-gai Chase, Garigal, Lane Cove, Sydney Harbor, Botany Bay and Budderoo National Parks. 

"Persoonia levis" is one of a few types of "Persoonia" that recover by resprouting from the storage compartment after bushfire, an adjustment to the flame inclined territory in which it develops. Its thick papery bark shields the basic epicormic buds from the flares. Plants likewise recover by seedlings that emerge from a seedbank in the dirt after flame, in spite of the fact that they may take up to 12 months to develop. One investigation of sclerophyll woods unburnt for a long time demonstrated "P. levis" had declined after some time. "P. levis" plants can live for over 60 years, and their leaves have a life expectancy of up to 6 years. 

Vesicles showing a mycorrhizal affiliation have been found on the underlying foundations of "Persoonia levis", the Proteaceae not recently noted for shaping mycorrhizal affiliations. Contamination by the parasitic species "Anthracostroma persooniae" results in leaf spot ailment. "P. levis" is the sustenance plant of the hatchlings of the weevil species "Eurhynchus laevior". 

Colletid honey bees of the class "Leioproctus" subgenus "Cladocerapis" solely rummage on and fertilize blooms of numerous types of "Persoonia". Honey bees of subgenus "Filiglossa" in similar family that likewise have some expertise in benefiting from "Persoonia" blossoms don't have all the earmarks of being compelling pollinators. Specific species recorded on "P. levis" incorporate the longtongue honey bee "Leioproctus carinatifrons". Weighing 1700 mg (0.60 oz), the natural product are adjusted to be eaten by vertebrates, for example, kangaroos and possums, just as currawongs and other extensive winged animals. The blooms of "P. levis" are self-incongruent—that is, they are unfit to treat themselves and require outcrossing to another plant. 

"Persoonia levis" is seldom found in development, predominantly in view of troubles in engendering; seed germination is unusual, and cuttings have been almost difficult to strike. By the by, its brilliant bark and leaves are appealing green highlights. Very much depleted sandy soils in sun or part shade are required for the plant in a patio nursery circumstance. When set up, it endures moderate ices and droughts and develops reasonably promptly, but gradually, in appropriate conditions. Plantsmen in England developed seed as right on time as 1795.