The Million Dollar Homepage 

The Million Dollar Homepage is a site considered in 2005 by Alex Tew, an understudy from Wiltshire, England, to fund-raise for his college training. The landing page comprised of a million pixels organized in a pixel framework; the picture put together connections with respect to it were sold for $1 per pixel in squares. The buyers of these pixel squares gave modest pictures to be shown on them, a URL to which the pictures were connected, and a motto to be shown while drifting a cursor over the connection. The point of the site was to sell the majority of the pixels in the picture, along these lines producing a million dollars of pay for the designer. "The Wall Street Journal" has remarked that the webpage propelled different sites that sell pixels. 

Propelled on 26 August 2005, the site turned into an Internet wonder. The Alexa positioning of web traffic crested at around 127; , it was 40,044. On 1 January 2006, the last 1,000 pixels were set available to be purchased on eBay. The closeout shut on 11 January with a triumphant offer of $38,100 that brought the last count to $1,037,100 in gross. 

Amid the January 2006 sale, the site was liable to a dispersed disavowal of-administration assault (DDoS) and payoff request, which left it blocked off to guests for seven days while its security framework was updated. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and Wiltshire Constabulary researched the assault and blackmail endeavor. 

By July 2017, around 37% of the site's connections were experiencing join decay. 

Alex Tew, an understudy from Cricklade in Wiltshire, England, imagined The Million Dollar Homepage in August 2005 when he was 21 years of age. He was going to start a three-year Business Management course at the University of Nottingham, and was worried that he would be left with an understudy advance that could take a very long time to reimburse. As a cash raising thought, Tew chose to sell a million pixels on a site for $1 every; buyers would include their very own picture, logo or notice, and have the alternative of including a hyperlink to their site. Pixels were sold for US dollars as opposed to UK pounds; the US has a bigger online populace than the UK, and Tew trusted more individuals would identify with the idea if the pixels were sold in US cash. In 2005, the pound was solid against the dollar: £1 was worth around $1.80, and that cost per pixel may have been unreasonably costly for some potential purchasers. Tew's setup costs were €50, which paid for the enlistment of the space name and a fundamental web-facilitating bundle. The site went live on 26 August 2005. 

The landing page highlighted a Web pennant with the website's name and a pixel counter showing the quantity of pixels sold, a route bar containing nine little connects to the webpage's interior site pages, and an unfilled square matrix of 1,000,000 pixels isolated into 10,000 100-pixel squares. Tew guaranteed clients that the webpage would stay online for somewhere around five years – that is, until something like 26 August 2010. 

Since individual pixels are too little to even think about being seen effectively, Pixels were sold in 100-pixel "squares" estimating pixels; the base cost was accordingly $100. The primary deal, three days after the webpage started working, was to an online music site worked by a companion of Tew's. He purchased 400 pixels in a square. Following two weeks, Tew's loved ones had obtained a sum of 4,700 pixels. The site was at first showcased just through informal; notwithstanding, after the site had made $1,000, a public statement was conveyed that was gotten by the BBC. The innovation news site The Register highlighted two articles on The Million Dollar Homepage in September. Before the month's over, The Million Dollar Homepage had gotten $250,000 and was positioned Number 3 on Alexa Internet's rundown of "Movers and Shakers" behind the sites for Britney Spears and "Photograph District News". On 6 October, Tew announced the site got 65,000 interesting guests; it got 1465 Diggs, getting to be a standout amongst the most Dugg joins that week. After eleven days, the number had expanded to 100,000 one of a kind guests. On 26 October, two months after the Million Dollar Homepage was propelled, in excess of 500,900 pixels had been sold to 1,400 clients. By New Year's Eve, Tew detailed that the site was accepting hits from 25,000 novel guests consistently and had an Alexa Rank of 127, and that 999,000 of the 1,000,000 pixels had been sold. 

On 1 January 2006, Tew declared that in light of the fact that the interest was so incredible for the last 1,000 pixels, "the most reasonable and intelligent thing" to do was sell off them on eBay as opposed to lose "the respectability and level of selectiveness characteristic for the million-pixel idea" by propelling a second Million Dollar Homepage. The closeout endured ten days and got 99 authentic offers. Despite the fact that offers were gotten for sums as high as $160,109.99, many were either withdrawn by the bidders or dropped as tricks. "I really reached the general population by telephone and turns out they weren't not kidding, which is genuinely disappointing, so I expelled those bidders at last", said Tew. The triumphant offer was $38,100, put by MillionDollarWeightLoss.com, an online store selling diet-related items. Tew commented that he had expected the last offered sum to be higher because of the media consideration. The Million Dollar Homepage made a gross aggregate of $1,037,100 in five months. After expenses, charges and a gift to The Prince's Trust, a philanthropy for youngsters, Tew anticipated that his total compensation should be $650,000– $700,000. 

Pixel buyers included Bonanza Gift Shop, Panda Software, the makers of "", British Schools Karting Championship, Book of Cool, Orange, "The Times", Cheapflights.com, Schiffer Publishing, Rhapsody, Tenacious D, GoldenPalace.com, 888.com and other online gambling clubs, Independiente Records, Yahoo!, little exclusive organizations, and organizations offering easy money scams, web based dating administrations, individual advances, free examples, web architectures and occasions. 

Following the September public statement that previously focused on the website, The Million Dollar Homepage was highlighted in articles on BBC Online, The Register, "The Daily Telegraph", and "PC Pro". Tew additionally showed up on the national breakfast TV programs "Sky News Sunrise" and "BBC Breakfast" to talk about the site. 

By November the site was getting to be mainstream around the globe, accepting consideration from "Money related Times Deutschland" in Germany, TVNZ in New Zealand, Terra Networks in Latin America, the "China Daily", and particularly in the United States where it was shrouded in "Adweek", "Florida Today", and "Money Street Journal". Tew enlisted a US-based marketing specialist to help with the consideration from the American media and made seven days in length excursion to the US, where he was met on ABC News Radio, the Fox News Channel, "Assault of the Show!", and neighborhood news programs. 

The idea was depicted as "basic and splendid", "cunning", "shrewd", and "a one of a kind stage [for advertising] which is likewise a touch of fun". Teacher Martin Binks, executive of the Nottingham University Institute for Entrepreneurial Innovation, stated, "It is splendid in its simplicity ... publicists have been pulled in to it by its novelty ... the site has turned into a marvel." "Mainstream Mechanics" stated, "There's no substance. No cool designs, giveaways or hot Paris Hilton recordings for watchers to salivate over. Envision a TV channel that indicates only ads, a magazine with only advertisements. That is The Million Dollar Homepage. An amazing case of the intensity of viral advertising". Wear Oldenburg of the "Washington Post" was one of only a handful few without applause for the site, considering it a "shabby, awesomely rewarding showcasing enormity, a publicizing barren wasteland of spam, flag promotions and pop-ups." Oldenburg proceeds, "it would seem that an announcement board on creator steroids, a publicizing train wreck you can't "not" take a gander at. It resembles getting each spring up promotion you at any point got in your life, immediately. It's what could be compared to all of a sudden feeling like you need to clean up." 

As the last pixels were being unloaded, Tew was met on "Richard and Judy", and profiled in the online BBC News Magazine. "The Wall Street Journal" expounded on The Million Dollar Homepage and its effect on the Internet people group. "Mr. Tew himself has taken on big name status in the Internet community ... the inventive juice ... paints a fascinating picture of online enterprise". 

Tew dropped out of the business degree the site was set up to store after one term. In 2008, Tew established Popjam, an Internet conglomeration and informal communication business. 

In 2016 Tew was filling in as a business person in San Francisco. 

On 7 January 2006, three days before the sale of the last 1,000 pixels was because of end, Tew got an email from an association called "The Dark Group", and was disclosed to The Million Dollar Homepage would turn into the casualty of a disseminated forswearing of-administration assault (DDoS) if a payment of $5,000 was not paid by 10 January. Trusting the risk to be a fabrication, he disregarded it, however after seven days got a second email danger: "Hi u site is under us atack to stop the DDoS send us 50000$." Again, he overlooked the risk, and the site was overflowed with additional traffic and messages, making it crash. "I haven't answered to any of them as I would prefer not to give them the fulfillment and I unquestionably don't mean to pay them any cash. What's going on to my site resembles fear mongering. In the event that you pay them, new assaults will begin," Tew said. 

The site was difficult to reach to guests for seven days until the host server updated the security framework, and sifted traffic through enemy of DDoS programming. Wiltshire Constabulary's Hi-Tech Crime Unit and the Federal Bureau of Investigation were called to explore the coercion and assault; they trusted it started in Russia. 

As of August 2015 just the primary page is accessible, with all sub pages restoring a not-discovered status code. 

A recent report by Harvard University found that the still-live page showed an impressive level of connection decay. Of the 2,816 unique connections, 547 (342,000 pixels, sold for $342,000) were dead, and 489 (145,000 pixels, sold for $145,000) diverted to an alternate space. The report additionally noted, of the rest of the connections, that "the larger part don't appear to mirror their unique reason". 

Numerous different locales sell promoting by pixels. Tew said of the destinations, "[they] sprung up very quickly; presently there are many Web locales selling pixels. The copycats are generally contending with one another." "...they have next to no promotions, accordingly I get it's not going unreasonably well for them. The thought just works once and depends on curiosity ... any duplicate feline locales will just have unadulterated parody esteem, while mine potentially has a touch of satire PLUS some real draw in publicizing dollars ... so I express good karma to the imitators!"