Ellis Paul 

Ellis Paul (conceived Paul Plissey; January 14, 1965) is an American artist lyricist and society performer. Conceived in Aroostook County, Maine, Paul is a key figure in what has turned out to be known as the Boston school of songwriting, an educated, provocative, and urbanely sentimental people pop style that lighted the society recovery of the 1990s. His popular music tunes have showed up in motion pictures and on TV, conquering any hindrance between the cutting edge society sound and the populist customs of Woody Guthrie and Pete Seeger. 

Paul experienced childhood in a little Maine town. He went to Boston College on a track grant, studying English. Harmed amid his lesser year, Paul started playing guitar to help fill his available time and before long started composition melodies. In the wake of graduating school Paul played at open mic evenings in the Boston region while working with internal city younger students. He won a Boston Acoustic Underground lyricist rivalry and increased national introduction on a Windham Hill Records aggregation which helped him pick music as a profession. 

Paul had discharged 19 collections before the finish of 2014 and got 14 Boston Music Awards, considered the zenith of contemporary acoustic music accomplishment by a few. He has distributed a book of unique verses, ballads, and illustrations and discharged a DVD that incorporates a live exhibition, guitar guidance, and an excursion narrative. In 2014, his kids' CD "Saint in You" was distributed as a book by Albert Whitman and Company. Paul plays just about 200 live demonstrates a year. 

Ellis Paul was conceived in Fort Kent, Maine, a little, provincial potato-cultivating town close to the Canada– US outskirt. Paul's family had solid associations with the potato business — his dad, Ed Plissey, was Executive Director of the Maine Potato Commission and his granddad claimed a potato ranch. Schools in the zone shut for three weeks every year so younger students could help with the potato collect. Paul spent numerous hours dealing with his granddad's ranch. Paul's mom, the previous Marilyn Bonney of Buckfield, Maine, is a University of Maine graduate and was an augmentation operator for northern Aroostook County. She and her better half frequently cooperated on extraordinary undertakings for the administration. During the 1960s, Mrs. Plissey created her own network show "The Aroostook Homemaker" which disclosed each third week on Presque Isle TV slot WAGM-TV. 

While going to secondary school in Presque Isle, Maine, Paul tuned in to Top-40 radio and partook in track. He played trumpet in the school's stage band where he was acquainted with the huge band jazz music of Stan Kenton and Maynard Ferguson. He exceeded expectations in track, turning into the Maine State champion in five-kilometer separate running, an accomplishment that earned a few grant offers, including an idea from Boston College. Having graduated secondary school with the class of 1983, Paul migrated to Boston, leaving community rustic life behind. In a meeting with Daniel Gewertz of the "Boston Herald" Paul expressed, "It wasn't until I went to Boston College on a track grant that I initially heard society." Paul was especially moved when he heard Bob Dylan singing "The House of the Rising Sun". It was then that he started to pay attention to people music. 

Paul was drafted into the Presque Isle High School Athletic Hall of Fame (under his original name, Paul Plissey) on Jan. 11, 2013. 

Paul studied English at Boston College where he kept on taking an interest in track. His best time in the 10,000 meters (30:18:50) remains the fourth best men's open air record in Boston College history. At the point when knee damage in his lesser year sidelined him from sports, Paul grabbed an acoustic guitar to sit back. He instructed himself to play guitar with the assistance of a "Hits of the 70s" songbook, and started to compose melodies. Boston radio incorporated a great hits station that played the music of Bob Dylan, Joni Mitchell, Neil Young and James Taylor; specialists who were generally new to Paul. Inside a couple of years they ended up significant impacts. Having a vocation in music was the farthest thing from Paul's brain by then, however as his playing and composing improved it turned into a greater concentration in his life. In a meeting with "FolkWax" writer Arthur Wood, Paul expressed: 

"I began playing and took in a couple of tunes by different journalists in any case. I began composing firsts inside a couple of months. My tunes were entirely unpleasant regardless. They continued showing signs of improvement and better. When I graduated, I began playing at open mics in bars in Boston. In the long run found that there were society clubs where individuals were really tuning in, and not drinking and celebrating while you played. I got engaged with that circuit. I believe that is the reason I've turned out to be so verse cognizant — due to those listening rooms, where you truly need to depend on words in those circumstances." 

The open mic circuit in the Boston zone incorporated The Nameless Coffeehouse in Cambridge, Westborough's Old Vienna Kaffeehouse and The Naked City Coffeehouse in Allston. Paul turned into a customary face at those clubs alongside other youthful society performers, for example, Shawn Colvin, Patty Griffin, Dar Williams and Vance Gilbert. In 1989 he won the Nameless Coffeehouse's New Songwriter Award. Paul played Cambridge's Club Passim, a scene that would turn into his "home" setting, out of the blue when he opened for John Gorka in October 1989. Under four years after the fact he played out his first shows at Passim as a main event. The three back to back evenings of shows occurred on February 19– 21, 1993. 

It was at the Old Vienna that Paul met Jon Svetkey, Brian Doser and Jim Infantino, all battling youthful neighborhood performers. In 1989 the four young fellows shaped an aggregate called "End Construction" and in 1990 discharged an arrangement of melodies titled "Resume Speed: New Artist Compilation" on the End Construction Productions name. The four musicians each performed four of his own unique melodies on the CD discharge. The "Resume Speed" liner notes expressed that End Construction Productions was a little free creation, advancement and recording organization kept running by lyricists and performers "hellbent on getting the great music out there." In the meeting with Wood, Paul expressed that the four musicians began doing bunch demonstrates together and worked together on one another's material. In spite of the fact that he proceeds to state that the joint effort "was something worth being thankful for" and that the four artists took in a ton from one another, in the end the foursome "wore out on the intensity". The coordinated effort kept going three years. 

Following his graduation from Boston College in 1987, Paul worked a normal everyday employment at the COMPASS school as an educator and social specialist with inward city younger students performing at open mics three or four evenings per week. It was not until the fall of 1992 that he quit his normal everyday employment to seek after music as a full-time profession. Amid this period Paul met his supervisor, Ralph Jaccodine, and together they established Black Wolf Records. In 1989 the name discharged Paul's initial two collections of unique material: "Am I Home" and "Urban Folksongs" and Paul started visiting outside the Boston territory. Albeit initially discharged on tape, the two collections were re-discharged on CD in 2001. 

Winning the Boston Acoustic Underground Award in 1991 brought about Paul playing to the biggest horde of his vocation to that point – 300. He kept on playing in and around the New England region. Around this time, Windham Hill Records, which had recently discharged the "" lyricist gathering, put a shout to the music business requesting musician entries to be considered for the follow-up "" aggregation. After the Old Vienna Kaffeehouse sent one of Paul's tapes to Windham Hill, Paul's "Fiery debris to Dust" from "Urban Folksongs" was picked to be on the gathering. In the meeting with Wood, Paul expressed that he felt eager to be on the Windham Hill discharge since it filled in as a considering card that each DJ and society advertiser in the nation would perceive. "Inheritance II" was discharged in 1992 and included melodies performed by Patty Larkin, Patty Griffin, Greg Brown, Cheryl Wheeler and a few others. "Inheritance II" was Paul's first national presentation. 

After Paul opened for Bill Morrissey a few times, Morrissey ended up one of Paul's most punctual coaches. Morrissey acquainted Paul with the conventional songwriting of Woody Guthrie and Mississippi John Hurt, just as lyricists of the 60s, for example, Randy Newman. In a 2001 meeting with Scott Alarik, Morrissey said that Paul hopped into tuning in to conventional musicians "bigtime" and thus is a greatly improved essayist and entertainer. 

Paul asked Morrissey to deliver his first collection "State Something", which was discharged in 1993 on Black Wolf records. Fiddler Johnny Cunningham and guitarist Duke Levine, the two companions of Morrissey's, can be heard on the chronicle alongside the foundation vocals of Patty Griffin. Scott Alarik stated: "As his exquisite, requesting and splendid presentation collection "State Something" bears witness to, there is an intelligent validity and passionate truth to his genuine songs." 

Levine would co-produce Paul's subsequent discharge "Stories", which was discharged on Black Wolf in 1994 and re-discharged on Rounder Records the next year. It was likewise in 1994 that Paul was first welcome to play the Kerrville Folk Festival, winning the Kerrville New Folk grant. 

Paul turned into a devotee of the music of Woody Guthrie amid the mid 1990s. In a 1998 "Boston Globe" article, Paul alludes to a tattoo of Woody Guthrie on his correct shoulder saying that Woody's picture was the main thing he could put on his body that would be "like an identification of his identity." Paul's tattoo of Woody Guthrie brought about an opportunity meeting with Nora Guthrie, Woody Guthrie's little girl, at a Folk Alliance Conference when Nora requested to see Paul's tattoo. That shot gathering brought about Paul being welcome to perform at a Woody Guthrie tribute appear at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, Ohio. The 10-day festivity, held in September 1996, included other prominent artists, for example, Bruce Springsteen, Billy Bragg, The Indigo Girls and Ani DiFranco. DiFranco's record name, Righteous Babe, discharged a gathering of the occasion, "Til We Outnumber Them", in 2000. 

Jerry Marotta, a drummer who had worked with Peter Gabriel, created Paul's third CD discharge "A Carnival of Voices" which was discharged on Rounder in 1996. Marotta got bassist Tony Levin, guitarist Bill Dillon, and by and by Duke Levine. Paul expressed that "A Carnival of Voices" contained character portrayals of various individuals in various towns fixing to "the fair attitude of voyaging." "A Carnival of Voices" hit #3 on The CMJ New Music Report Triple diagram and World Café casted a ballot it the #1 collection of the year. By 1997 Paul's mailing list passed 7,000 names as his fan-base kept on developing. 

As Paul's notoriety and ubiquity developed, he was approached to come back to society settings and celebrations around the nation including the Falcon Ridge Folk Festival, the Kerrville Folk Festival and the Newport Folk Festival. The quantity of shows he performed every year expanded to more than 200. In spite of the fact that Paul performed for the most part self-wrote melodies, he would frequently incorporate a Woody Guthrie tune into his set. Woody's "Hard Travelin'" was dependably a group pleaser, particularly in Oklahoma, Woody's origination. In July 1998, the first Woody Guthrie Folk Festival was held in Woody's main residence of Okemah, Oklahoma. In addition to the fact that Paul headlined the celebration alongside Billy Bragg, yet the city of Okemah made him a privileged resident. Paul expressed that when he made the journey to Okemah he felt that he was strolling in Woody's strides and that the experience was "like setting off to the mount". Paul's 6th CD, "Translucent Soul", was discharged soon thereafter in October. Again created by Jerry Marotta, the title track is a melody about his association with great companion Vance Gilbert and handles the issue of prejudice. 

Toward the decade's end, Paul was welcome to perform at Club Passim's 40th commemoration appear. The occasion occurred on January 16, 1999, at the Sanders Theater in Cambridge. The four-hour sold-out show additionally included Patty Larkin, Joan Baez, The Nields, and others. Joan Anderman, covering the occasion for the "Boston Globe", revealed that Paul's "thinking-individual's verse" at the Sanders theater was "adorned with the chomp of an electric guitarist and the hearty cool of a percussionist", and that his set was "a model of present day natural beauty". 

Paul discharged his initially live chronicle, basically titled "Live", on March 14, 2000. The twofold circle included accounts from a few shows, just as already unreleased studio tracks. Features of the year 2000 included Paul singing the National Anthem at Fenway Park, and having his tune "The World Ain't Slowing Down" picked for the signature tune in the Farrelly siblings film "Me, Myself and Irene" featuring Jim Carrey and Renée Zellweger. The two occasions occurred on a similar June weekend. In November 2001, Paul was again effective in having a melody in a film when "Sweet Mistakes" was highlighted in "Shallow Hal" featuring Gwyneth Paltrow and Jack Black. Paul discharged his eighth CD, "Sweet Mistakes", an accumulation of group of onlookers top choices not yet recorded, on November 15, 2001. In January 2002, Paul was named the "FolkWax" Artist of the Year for 2001. 

Paul regularly presents unique verse for his gatherings of people. A portion of those ballads can be found in "Notes from the Road", an accumulation of Paul's unique sonnets, verses, and diary passages distributed by Black Wolf Press in May 2002. In her audit for "Performing Songwriter", Abby White stated, "The book has a close, conversational tone, and Paul's honest illustrations, tune verses and verse give business breaks to his own diary sections and distinctive memories of huge occasions he experiences while visiting". As the 21st century started Paul recounted his "Thousand years Poem", consistently at shows. 

In 2002 Paul progressed toward becoming companions with Nora Guthrie. Nora Guthrie is official executive of the Woody Guthrie Foundation and Archives in New York City where several Woody Guthrie's transcribed verses — numerous without music — are housed. She welcomed Paul to visit the Archives and pick one lot of verses to put to tune. Alluding to the tremendous endeavor of discovering musicians to compose music for several her dad's verses, Nora Guthrie expressed that there was a "set of working responsibilities" that her dad abandoned that "Ellis took on". Paul picked "God's Promise", verses that Woody had adjusted in 1955 from "What God Hath Promised", a psalm of the day and recorded it for his 2002 discharge "Speed of Trees". Paul said that meeting the Woody Guthrie Archives resembled experiencing a period container of his greatest legend and that the after death coordinated effort with Woody Guthrie was one of the "coolest things" he'd at any point done. The of the TV arrangement "Ed" highlighted Paul's "On the off chance that You Break Down". 

Paul's association with Woody Guthrie proceeded into 2003 when he was welcome to perform in the Ribbon of Highway, Endless Skyway tribute show to respect Woody Guthrie. The outfit appear, which was the brainchild of Texas vocalist musician Jimmy LaFave, visited around the nation and incorporated a turning cast of artist lyricists exclusively playing out Guthrie's melodies. Scattered between melodies were Guthrie's philosophical works perused by a storyteller. Notwithstanding LaFave and Paul, individuals from the turning cast included Slaid Cleaves, Eliza Gilkyson, Joel Rafael, spouse wife team Sarah Lee Guthrie (Woody Guthrie's granddaughter) and Johnny Irion, Michael Fracasso, and The Burns Sisters. Oklahoma musician Bob Childers, here and there called "the Dylan of the Dust," filled in as storyteller. At the point when word spread about the visit, entertainers started reaching LaFave whose just essential was to have a persuasive association with Guthrie. Every craftsman picked the Guthrie melodies that the individual would execute as a component of the tribute. One of the tunes Gilkyson picked was "Fields of Plenty", while Cleaves picked "This Morning I Am Born Again" - a tune he composed utilizing Guthrie's verses. One of the melodies Paul picked was a tune he composed utilizing Guthrie's verses - "God's Promise". LaFave stated, "It works since every one of the entertainers are Guthrie lovers in some structure". The Ribbon of Highway visit commenced on February 5, 2003, at the Ryman Auditorium in Nashville. The curtailed show was an included fragment of "Nashville Sings Woody", one more tribute show to recognize the music of Woody Guthrie held amid the Folk Alliance Conference. The cast of "Nashville Sings Woody", an advantage for the Woody Guthrie Foundation and Archives, additionally included Arlo Guthrie, Marty Stuart, Nanci Griffith, Guy Clark, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Janis Ian, and others. 

Paul's "3000 Miles" DVD was discharged in February 2003. Isolated into four sections, the DVD starts with a live show recorded on October 3, 2001, at Boston's Somerville Theater - a demonstrate that was the last date of a six-week visit with Susan Werner. The second fragment is a 39-minute street motion picture shot in 1995 by Matt Linde, an autonomous movie producer who went with Paul on a crosscountry visit. Singular vignettes narrative shows, discussions and occasions in Paul's every day life as a voyaging artist. A third portion indicates Paul showing the open tunings he utilizes in huge numbers of his tunes, while the last section is a talk of songwriting with individual lyricists Christopher Williams and Vance Gilbert. In her audit for "Messy Linen", Annette C. Eshleman stated, "In just shy of three hours, watchers can look as Paul advances from a youthful, unpracticed people artist wearing a retrogressive baseball top to the very regarded, certain, prepared entertainer that he is today". 

On May 1, 2004 Paul was the beneficiary of the second yearly Boston College Arts Council Alumni Award for Artistic Achievement. The honor was displayed as a feature of the 6th yearly Boston College Arts Festival. His appearances at the celebration additionally incorporated an "Inside the BC Studio" meet with music author Scott Alarik, an ace class on songwriting, and a show. In 2004 Paul was likewise granted his thirteenth Boston Music Award in the classification of Outstanding Singer/Songwriter. At the time Paul was composing what he called "nation tunes" when he collaborated with an Irish performer, maker, and studio master named Flynn. This brought about "American Jukebox Fables", discharged April 5, 2005, an account delivered by Flynn that astonished a few fans by merging society, pop and electronica. Paul said that his joint effort with Flynn framed an organization where he brought banjos and accordions and Flynn brought a PC and console. In spite of the fact that Paul realized that the final product would fall outside the safe place of certain fans who anticipated another acoustic society collection, exploring different avenues regarding Flynn's melodic science set infused energy and fun into the account venture. 

Since around 1995 (nobody appears to know for certain), Paul has every year played Club Passim over New Year's, performing two shows on December 30 and two shows on New Year's Eve. In mid 2006 Black Wolf Records discharged "Live at Club Passim", a chronicle assembled from Paul's 2005 New Year's Eve appears. In May 2006, Paul visited Europe and England playing to sold-out shows in Paris, France; Twickenham, England; Cheltenham, England and Wasserburg, Germany. The visit additionally included two BBC radio meetings and a radio meeting in Paris. Paul was incorporated on the Woody Guthrie Coalition's DVD "Woody Sez: a Tribute to Woody Guthrie" discharged in 2006. The tribute appear, recorded July 13, 2005 at the Crystal Theater in Okemah, Oklahoma, included Paul playing out a two part harmony with The Burns Sisters on "God's Promise". Additionally discharged in 2006 was Paul's "best of" collection, discharged as "Ellis Paul Essentials", on October 10. The two-plate review of Paul's 15-year vocation contained a few melodies that were absolutes and others that were incorporated dependent on surveys hung on his site and dialog board. In his "Folkwax" survey of Ellis Paul "Basics", Arthur Wood expressed: "In the event that you've never visited "musically" with Mr. Ellis Paul, "Fundamentals" is a dazzling spot to begin." In his audit for "The Washington Post", Mike Joyce said " 

"Basics", a profession spreading over twofold CD from veteran artist musician Ellis Paul, has a couple recently delivered, John Jennings-helmed tracks of recently recorded tunes that assistance set this aggregation apart from generally reviews." In her audit for Sing Out!, Kari Estren said "Paul's "Fundamentals" is only that and an unquestionable requirement for your society accumulation." 

In January 2008, Paul discharged a youngsters' and family record entitled "The Dragonfly Races". Motivated after the introduction of his second little girl, Paul said that he needed to show his youngsters the world using music. The melodies are intended to be appreciated by the two kids and grown-ups, and Paul said "I needed my children to hear music with social analysis and some dream included." Scott Alarik said "Paul sings movingly about what truly stresses unseasoned parents, and turns sluggish dragonflies, delicate beasts, and flexible roses into helpful illustrations for world harmony, the intensity of confidence, and the pleasures of a drowsy day." In April 2008 the Parents' Choice Foundation granted "The Dragonfly Races" a Silver Medallion. The Parents' Choice Awards program respects the best material for kids in these classes: books, toys, music and narrating, magazines, programming, videogames, TV and sites. 

In 2009, nation artist Jack Ingram recorded a melody composed by Paul. As indicated by CMT, Paul's "The World Ain't Slowing Down", might be the tune that takes Ingram to the "following dimension". Ingram says "It'll be a good time for me to open individuals to a fabulous tune from a craftsman who's had a 20-year vocation of being an exceptionally effective society craftsman." 

Paul's sixteenth CD, "The Day After Everything Changed", was discharged on January 12, 2010. As opposed to work with a record name, Paul welcomed fans to help money the chronicle by offering givers different premiums dictated by the dimension of gift. Despite the fact that Paul didn't know what's in store when the United States economy crumbled, the fan-subsidizing activity brought about more than $100,000 being gathered - increasingly, as per Paul, - than any mark had ever spent on him. Recorded in Nashville with a visitor appearance by Kristian Bush that incorporates a two part harmony on the track, "Paper Dolls", Paul says the fan bolster motivated him to make "the best record I could". One commentator expressed: "This is such a tuneful, flawlessly drawn arrangement of melodies played and sung with power that it reminds you the amount we need storytellers back in popular music—storytellers with sympathy, fine eyes and an understanding that despite the fact that we live in a callous, impassive world our music doesn't need to mirror our way of life." In her audit for the Folk and Acoustic Music Exchange, Roberta Schwartz said that the CD is "a masterwork loaded up with the best music and verses of his vocation." 

Five shows remembering Paul's twentieth commemoration in the music business occurred at Boston's Club Passim the few days of July 9– 10, 2010. Paul played out his eight solo collections in sequential request more than four shows. What's more, he additionally played out a youngsters' show. The Mayor of Boston, Thomas M. Menino, broadcasted July 9, 2010 as Ellis Paul Day in the City of Boston. 

WUMB declared that its audience members casted a ballot "The Day After Everything Changed" one of the Top 10 CDs of 2010. 

Paul's second kids' collection, "The Hero in You", was discharged on January 1, 2012. The melodies on the collection are altogether expounded on people who Paul considers to be American saints including Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Edison, Georgia O'Keeffe, and Rosa Parks. The collection is Paul's endeavor to show youngsters a portion of America's most renowned saints. "I was a major aficionado of Schoolhouse Rock during the 70s. There was dependably an extremely extraordinary appeal about the music. The fundamental reason I can in any case recollect the Preamble of the Constitution is a result of those little tunes", Paul said. The delineations in the going with verses booklet were altogether made by Paul. 

In a survey for the Folk and Acoustic Music Exchange, Roberta Schwartz said that "The Hero in You" contains probably the best tunes and most moving verses of Paul's vocation. She proceeds to refer to "Boss Joseph" for instance - a tune that consolidates a standout amongst the most well known expressions in Native American history: "I will battle no more for eternity". 

"The Hero in You" got a Gold Medal from the Parents' Choice Foundation. 

Paul's first Christmas collection, "City of Silver Dreams", was discharged on December 1, 2012. Created by Flynn, the collection comprises of nine unique melodies - a few co-composed with Kristian Bush - and one spread tune, the great "Have Yourself a Very Merry Christmas" composed by Hugh Martin and Ralph Blane. In her survey for "No Depression", Holley Dey stated: "It's an accumulation with multifaceted identity, offering both melodic sentimentalism and a society styled humor that twinkles with well-meaning fun." 

On July 12, 2014, Paul was one of four entertainers enlisted into the Maine Music Awards Hall of Fame. The honors function occurred in the Portland (Maine) Civic Center. Paul performed alongside different individuals from the debut class which included Don McLean, Howie Day, and David Mallett. 

Paul's nineteenth and second fan-financed collection, "Pursuing Beauty", was discharged on September 9, 2014. The 14-track CD was created by Kristian Bush (Sugarland) and Brandon Bush (Train) and recorded essentially in Decatur, Georgia. Paul is bolstered by Kristian Bush (acoustic/electric guitar, mandolin, banjo, bass), Brandon Bush (consoles), Sugarland's Travis McNabb (drums), Gray Griggs (bass), Megan Lovell (lap steel), Tim Smith (bass), Ben Torres (trombone), Michael Snell (trumpet) and Brandyn Taylor (baritone sax). Rebecca Loebe and Red Molly show up. 

Paul was welcome to introduce the keynote address at the 2015 NERFA (Northeast Regional Folk Alliance) meeting held Nov. 12-15, 2015 at the Hudson Valley Resort in Kerhonkson, New York. The 26-minute location exhibited on Nov. 13, 2015 was later distributed on his site and on YouTube. 

In late 2015, a declaration was made that Paul's tune "Nelly Bly" from the collection "Legend in You" would show up in the motion picture 

10 Days in a Madhouse being discharged in the fall of 2015. 

In September 2003 Paul discharged "Side of the Road", a pair collection recorded with great companion Vance Gilbert. The two lyricists, who have regularly shared the stage, each picked four spread melodies to record - singular top choices - in addition to one tune of their own. Despite the fact that the collection did not begin as a "9/11" venture, the incorporation of Mark Erelli's "The Only Way" set a subject. An audit in "No Depression" magazine said this regarding Paul and Gilbert's selection of melodies: 

"Specifically they're generally about people — in reality, a whole planet — in urgent need of mending. With that in mind, Paul's unique tune "Native of the World" is a brilliant analgesic, as he and Gilbert exchange verses about the crossed bloodlines, demeanors and encounters that make every one of us siblings and sisters. Their rendition of Van Morrison's "Solace You" does something amazing of a comparable sort." 

Sugarland's first occasion collection, "Gold and Green" discharged on October 13, 2009 incorporates "City of Silver Dreams" and "Little Wood Guitar", co-composed by Paul and Kristian Bush. In his survey of the collection, Matt Bjorke stated, "City of Silver Dreams" could really get itself a fundamental occasion tune as mitchell Joni's "Waterway" as it tells a brilliantly delicate and melodic story of New York City and the magnificence of another sentiment inside the setting of Christmas." 

"Boston-style" songwriting alludes to the thoughtful and proficient type of artist lyricist so pervasive in the advanced society music scene. As indicated by Paul, Boston-style songwriting became out of Boston's flourishing people scene with its thick gathering of schools, school radio stations and listening rooms. Boston radio incorporates the University of Massachusetts' WUMB, the nation's preeminent radio station for society and acoustic music 24-hours per day. Paul said the Boston musicians will in general be increasingly mindful and delicate on the grounds that in a close listening room, "all you have is you and your words." Boston-style songwriting will in general be more about verse than tune, is personal and attentive yet in addition significant, regularly tending to social issues. Boston-style songwriting does allude to Boston artists, yet incorporates national specialists, for example, Shawn Colvin, John Gorka, Susan Werner, Bill Morrissey, and Dar Williams. In a meeting with Paul Freeman for the "East Bay Daily News", Paul remarked on how he trusts gathering of people individuals identify with his tunes, "Every melody should resemble a little three-dimensional world. I'm wanting to welcome them in, have them make out the subtleties and the purposes behind being there, and apply them to their very own lives. But at the same time I'm planning to engage them." 

In the wake of moving on from Boston College, Paul filled in as a case manager at an inward city school in the Jamaica Plain segment of Boston, working with kids with conduct issues and furthermore functioned as a social laborer in Boston with customers who were street pharmacists, attackers, and different sorts of criminal guilty parties. His work encounters opened his eyes to see the world in a more extensive, increasingly liberal way and gave material to the melodies he was starting to compose. Right off the bat in his profession Paul guaranteed himself that he would dependably expound on the things he knew well. In her audit of "Ellis Paul Live" for the Folk and Music Exchange, Roberta Schwartz stated, "His finely sharpened melodies recount stories loaded up with pictures that radiance like gems. His is an artist's heart, and a sentimental's spirit. He is a positive thinker who has faith in individuals and conceivable outcomes." 

In her 1993 audit of Paul's "State Something", Debbie Catalano expressed, "Ellis Paul draws an image with his words at that point draws you into the world he's canvas." Like a Norman Rockwell painting, Paul's melodies are packed with pivotal subtleties and watchful perceptions that recount to a story with a base or words. In a 2002 article, Thomas Conner analyzed a refrain from Paul's "Discussion with a Ghost" from "State Something". "Rather than gruffly saying, "I kept running into a past love interest in Central Park", Paul composes around it, dodging the buzzwords, painting the image, demonstrating us everything—the thought processes, the setting, the luck—aside from what we anticipate." 

When instructing songwriting classes, Paul regularly acquaints hopeful musicians with his "six-advance program to successful songwriting" which depends on the reason that lyricists should appear and not tell. Paul instructs this six-advance strategy to build up a character in a tune: 

The most imperative guidance he gives hopeful musicians is to compose what you know or what you've encountered. "Use reality as the springboard to whatever no doubt about it", Paul said. Paul likewise says that being an effective musician resembles being a columnist who expounds on what he sees and knows, the occasions individuals are living in and the things individuals are confronting today. "The writer watches out the window and expounds on what is truly occurring." "I ensure it's genuine. I would prefer not to fictionalize about things I haven't seen." Paul expresses that throughout the years he's found out the estimation of straightforwardness recorded as a hard copy. He's discovered that he can say more when he composes all the more basically and direct. "It's as though you can be mind boggling and perplexing by embracing a shorter, less confounded structure." "I'm not doing advanced science - I'm a storyteller", he said. "I plan to motivate individuals to think and believe and to exit with more than they came in with." 

At the point when requested to portray the distinction between composing melodies for kids and tune for grown-ups, Paul stated: "The contrast between composing a children's tune and a grown-up tune is that in the children's tunes you will in general utilize essential hues and the words are more brilliant and the beats are constantly playful. There's a subtlety to the grown-up tunes that is extraordinary. It's as yet the narrating, however its distinctive shades and points. You read between the lines more." 

Paul keeps playing near 200 dates yearly on the people circuit. His tunes have showed up on in excess of 50 gathering CDs, and he has shown up on the collections of specialists including Lori McKenna, David Wilcox and Mark Erelli. Whenever inquired as to whether he would prefer to play the 19,600-situate Fleet Theater or the 900-situate Somerville Theater – both in Boston, Paul answered, "I like to keep it close. That way individuals can see the whites of your eyes. I'd love to compose a hit melody and have it on the radio like "American Pie" or something, however I'm simply going to do what I do and take what I can and keep running with it, since it's a hard business to have even what I have. So I don't have la-la-land Springsteen-esque expectations. I simply need to compose extraordinary tunes." 

In a survey for the Folk and Acoustic Music Exchange, Roberta Schwartz stated, "Ellis Paul is a standout amongst the best vocalist/musicians of his age. Furthermore, for a significant number of us he is the essence of contemporary society music—few are as brilliant, as educated and as graceful as Paul. He has spun his story tunes for about twenty years now, and has eleven studio accounts (with an extra two early chronicles on tape—presently accessible on CD) surprisingly. I can't think about another craftsman on the acoustic music scene who is better-adored by fans, or increasingly regarded by his counterparts." 

On September 1, 2014, Paul's youngsters' CD "Saint in You" was distributed as a book by Albert Whitman and Company. Delineated by Angela Padron, the book of American accounts incorporates a duplicate of the CD with select starting tracks by Paul. The going with CD enables youthful perusers to tune in to every melody while finding extra certainties about Paul's legends on each page. 

Paul's second kids' book was distributed - again by Albert Whitman and Company - in October 2015. In view of his Christmas lyric "The Night the Lights Went Out on Christmas", the book, outlined by Scott Brundage, is the offbeat yet endearing story of an area where families attempting to exceed each other with Christmas lights and adornments utilize so much electrical power that the area is tossed into haziness. The lyric initially showed up on Paul's "City of Silver Dreams" Christmas CD and is incorporated as a downloadable mp3 document with the book. 

In September 2012, Presque Isle High School declared that Paul would be one of four secondary school graduates drafted into its Athletic Hall of Fame at the third yearly function on January 11, 2013. Amid his secondary school vocation, Paul - an individual from the class of 1983 - featured in crosscountry and track. He won a crosscountry state title as a senior just as three Eastern Maine titles and a 5,000-meter state crown in track. He likewise completed second in the 15-16 age division of the 1981 AAU national crosscountry titles and later amid his profession set seventh in the 17-18 age gathering at the AAU Junior Olympic national titles. 

Agreeing with the Athletic Hall of Fame enlistment service were two exhibitions to profit the Wintergreen Arts Center, one at The Whole Potato Cafe and Commons and one at the University of Maine at Presque Isle's Wieden Auditorium. 

On May 17, 2014 Paul was the beginning location speaker at the University of Maine at Presque Isle's 105th initiation. Paul was likewise granted a privileged Doctor of Humane Letters degree amid the beginning service. At the finish of his initiation address, Paul played out his piece "Ascend, Presque Isle" which has been embraced as the school's new Alma Mater.