2003 Cricket World Cup Final 

The 2003 Cricket World Cup Final was a One Day International (ODI) coordinate played among Australia and Indian National Cricket Team on 23 March 2003 at the Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg, South Africa. It denoted the summit of the 2003 Cricket World Cup, the eighth release of the competition. It was the first occasion when that these two groups had met at this phase of a World Cup. For protecting bosses Australia it was their fifth World Cup last, while for India it was the second after their 1983 triumph. Australia won the match by 125 hurries to guarantee the title for the third time. 

The two groups had advanced through three phases to achieve the last. Australia was unbeaten up to this point, while India had lost one diversion—against Australia in the primary stage. Australia—driven by Ricky Ponting—entered the amusement as firm top choices. In the wake of winning the hurl, India commander Sourav Ganguly chose to handle first before a horde of about 32,000. The Australian opening pair, Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden, included 105 keeps running in 14 overs. After their rejections, Ponting (140 not out) and Damien Martyn (88 not out) were engaged with an association of 234 runs, at that point an Australian record, and took the aggregate to 359 keeps running toward the finish of the innings. Harbhajan Singh took both of the Australian wickets, surrendering 49 runs. 

Accordingly, India lost their key batsman, Sachin Tendulkar, toward the beginning of the innings. Notwithstanding a short interference by downpour after the seventeenth over, no time was lost from the amusement. When play continued, India lost wickets at ordinary interims. Virender Sehwag top-scored for India with 82 runs, before the group were bowled out for 234 keeps running in the 40th over. For Australia, Glenn McGrath took three wickets for 52 runs, while Brett Lee and Andrew Symonds asserted two wickets each. Ponting was named man of the counterpart for his 140, and Tendulkar, the competition's driving run-scorer (673 runs), was granted the man of the arrangement. The last was Australia's seventeenth progressive ODI win, a record, and they were the primary group to win three World Cups. Ganguly's choice to bowl first in the match was scrutinized by columnists and previous cricketers. 

The 2003 Cricket World Cup was the eighth World Cup, sorted out by the International Cricket Council (ICC). The challenge occurred between 9 February and 23 March 2003, enduring 43 days. Co-facilitated by South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya, the competition was the principal World Cup to be played in Africa. There were 14 taking an interest groups, the biggest number in a World Cup up to that point. Just as the 10 Test-playing countries, four partner groups participated. Kenya, by temperance of its ODI status, naturally met all requirements for the competition; Canada, Namibia and Netherlands—the main three groups of the 2001 ICC Trophy—shaped the rest. 

The structure of the competition was like that of the 1999 World Cup. The 14 nations were isolated into two gatherings of seven; each group played the others in its gathering once. The best three from each gathering fit the bill for the Super Sixes stage, an arrangement which was presented in the 1999 competition. Every qualifier conveyed forward their focuses from the primary stage and played one amusement against every one of the three groups from the other gathering. The main four groups from the Super Sixes fit the bill for the semi-finals, and the victors of those matches challenged the last. An aggregate of 54 matches were played in the competition. 

The matches were played by the standard guidelines of a One Day International (ODI). Each side batted for a limit of 50 overs, and handling confinements connected for the bowling side. For the initial 15 overs just two defenders were permitted outside the infield, and for the remainder of the innings four defenders (counting a bowler and the wicket-manager) must be conveyed in the infield. No player was permitted to bowl in excess of 10 overs in an innings. 

The Australian Cricket Board declared their squad for the World Cup on 31 December 2002, yet a few changes were made to the group before the competition was finished. In January 2003, Shane Watson was discounted following a pressure break and was supplanted by Ian Harvey. Multi day before the competition began, Australia's key spinner Shane Warne was discovered liable of utilizing a restricted diuretic tranquilize amid an ODI arrangement held in Australia before the World Cup. He was sent home after he tried positive, and prohibited from playing for one year. Afterward, Australia's quick bowler Jason Gillespie was discounted from the competition following ligament damage. Warne and Gillespie were supplanted by Nathan Hauritz (on 24 February 2003) and Nathan Bracken (on 5 March 2003), separately. A progressing question between the Board for Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) and the Indian players over item supports guaranteed a deferral in the declaration of a temporary squad for the World Cup. The BCCI declared the last choice of 15 individuals on 31 December 2002. Sachin Tendulkar made into the last squad regardless of three continuous wounds, including a noteworthy one on the lower leg. 

Having won 15 out of their 18 ODIs driving up the beginning of the competition, the guarding champions Australia were regarded one of the top choices to achieve the semi-finals. They had recently won the 1987 and 1999 competitions. Conversely, a few analysts thought of it as far fetched whether India would fit the bill for the Super Sixes stage. They had won the challenge once, in 1983, yet had as of late lost an ODI arrangement against West Indies at home, and were crushed vigorously in their voyage through New Zealand. 

Australia and India were both in Pool An of the challenge. Australia won every one of their matches in the gathering stage. With the exception of their success against England, when they recouped from 135 for 8 to achieve the objective of 205 runs, they won every one of their matches serenely. 

India had a temperamental begin to the competition. In their opening match against the Netherlands, they were bowled out for 204 runs. In spite of the fact that they won by 79 runs, the group was scrutinized for neglecting to bat out their 50 overs. After they were expelled for 125 keeps running against Australia and lost the match by nine wickets, furious fans in India consumed likenesses of the players; Mohammad Kaif's home and Rahul Dravid's vehicle were vandalized. India won all the rest of the rounds of the stage—against Zimbabwe, Pakistan, Namibia and England. 

Australia, India and Zimbabwe completed the gathering as the main three groups and fit the bill for the Super Sixes from Pool, some time Pool B had Sri Lanka, Kenya and New Zealand advance for the following stage. 

In the main match of the Super Sixes against Sri Lanka, Australia made 319 keeps running for five wickets. The Australian skipper Ricky Ponting and his representative, Adam Gilchrist, scored 114 not out and 99 separately. Sri Lanka in answer oversaw 223 keeps running in 47.4 overs. Aravinda de Silva top-scored with 92 while Brett Lee caught three wickets for Australia. In the following match against New Zealand, Shane Bond's six wickets for 23 runs decreased Australia to 84 keeps running for seven wickets in 27 overs before Michael Bevan and Andrew Bichel took the aggregate to 208 runs. Lee's five wickets for 42 runs bowled New Zealand out for 112 runs, their most minimal aggregate in World Cup. Australia won their last diversion by five wickets in the wake of bowling out Kenya for 174 runs. 

In the wake of losing the hurl against Kenya in their first match, India were set an objective of 226 runs. Notwithstanding an underlying breakdown, their skipper Sourav Ganguly (107 not out) and Yuvraj Singh (58 not out) guaranteed India's triumph. In the following diversion against Sri Lanka, India made 292 runs; Tendulkar (97) and Sehwag (66) top-scored for the group. Srinath accepting four wickets as Sri Lanka were bowled out for 109, and India won the match by an edge of 183 runs. In their last match of the stage, India played New Zealand. Zaheer Khan returned vocation best figures of four wickets for 42 runs, and New Zealand were expelled for 146 runs. India lost three wickets for 21 runs, before Dravid, their bad habit commander, and Kaif included 129 keeps running for the fourth wicket and guaranteed a seven-wicket win. The match denoted the seventh successive triumph for India in the competition. 

The main semi-last was played among Australia and Sri Lanka on 18 March at St. George's Park, Port Elizabeth. Australia won the hurl and picked to bat first. They oversaw 212 keeps running for the loss of 7 wickets toward the finish of 50 overs. Symonds top-scored for the group with 91 not out, while Chaminda Vaas got three wickets for Sri Lanka. With 213 runs required for triumph, Sri Lanka lost both the openers after which the play was hindered by downpour. The objective was updated to 172 keeps running from 38.1 overs utilizing the Duckworth– Lewis strategy, a numerical detailing used to compute overhauled focuses for groups batting second if there should arise an occurrence of matches being hindered by terrible climate or downpour. Kumar Sangakkara and Vaas made 47 runs together for the eighth wicket, the most elevated association of the innings, yet the group figured out how to score just 123 keeps running in the apportioned overs. Australia advanced into the last as Sri Lanka fell 48 runs shy of the objective. 

The second semi-last was played among India and Kenya on 20 March 2003 at Kingsmead, Durban. Kenya turned into the first non-Test group to play a World Cup semi-last. India won the hurl and made 270 keeps running for four wickets. Ganguly and Tendulkar made 111 not out and 83 individually. In answer, Kenya were bowled out for 179 in 46.2 overs. Their chief Steve Tikolo top-scored with 56 runs, while Zaheer Khan took three wickets for 14 runs. Ganguly was declared the Man of the match. 

Numerous writers thought about Australia, undefeated all through the competition, to be top choices in the last. The Indian industrialist Vijay Mallya sorted out uncommon flights, including a couple of sanctioned ones, to transport film performing artists, government officials and agents to Johannesburg; a large portion of these individuals bolstered India. Some South African carriers additionally stretched out their help to India. The air tickets from Mumbai to Johannesburg were totally sold out following India entered the Super Sixes stage. Albeit most writers and examiners favored Australia, previous Pakistan skipper Imran Khan trusted India were top picks. Previous Australia cricketer Greg Chappell complimented Brett Lee: he stated, with the exception of Lee, no Australian bowler was a genuine risk to the Indian batsmen, and furthermore commented that the "duel" among Lee and Tendulkar would be urgent. 

On the eve of the match, which would be his 100th ODI as India's chief, Ganguly issued an announcement saying that his group were regarded to play the World Cup last. He refered to India's triumphs at the 1983 World Cup and the 1985 World Championship of Cricket as his motivations. In spite of the fact that recognizing Australia as the best side on the planet, he expressed that they were not "phenomenal". Australia's fundamental concern was Tendulkar, the competition's top-scorer, of whom the Indian fans had exclusive standards. Ponting implied about the likelihood that his bowlers, Lee and Glenn McGrath, had "uncommon" plans to confine him. He likewise said that in urgent matches his group "attempts to achieve another dimension". 

Prior to the match, the two groups had confronted each other multiple times in World Cups; Australia had won six of them. In the 2003 competition, Australia won every one of their matches to that point; India's solitary annihilation came in the gathering stage against Australia. For all the Indian players it was their first World Cup last, while six of the Australians had showed up in no less than one past last. 

The last was played on 23 March 2003 at the Wanderers Stadium, Johannesburg. This was the fifth match to be played at the ground in the competition. The match, viewed by a horde of 31,779, started at 10:00 SAST. Simon Wilde, composing for the "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac", said the scene was a standout amongst the "most abundant" reason for batsmen. Be that as it may, on that day the pitch was clammy and the outfield was sodden because of the tempests the past night. A short shower that morning constrained the ground staff to blow dry air over the pitch. The sky was cloudy with a shot of further precipitation. For the umpires—David Shepherd and Steve Bucknor—it was their third World Cup Final. Rudi Koertzen and Billy Bowden were selected as the third and fourth umpires, separately. Previous Sri Lankan cricketer Ranjan Madugalle filled in as the match ref. 

India stayed unaltered from the side that played the semi-last, while Australia avoided Ian Harvey and brought back Damien Martyn into the side. Ganguly won the hurl and chose to handle first. Zaheer Khan opened the bowling for India alongside Javagal Srinath. The Australian openers scored forcefully from the earliest starting point of the innings as Khan yielded 15 keeps running in the first finished. Gilchrist specifically hit both Khan and Srinath for some runs and achieved his 50 from 40 balls. At the point when Ganguly swung to his turn bowlers as ahead of schedule as the tenth over, Gilchrist hindered his scoring rate. In the fourteenth over, when Harbhajan Singh was taken back to bowl, Gilchrist (57 off 48 balls) attempted to hit him over the mid-wicket, yet was beaten by the ball's additional ricochet and got in the profound by Virender Sehwag. The pair had included 105 keeps running for the main wicket. Harbhajan struck again in the twentieth over when he expelled Hayden (37 keeps running off 54 balls), leaving the score at 125 runs. 

After Hayden's takeoff, Ponting was joined by Martyn, who finished his 50 years in 46 balls. Ponting scored at a slower rate, achieving his 50 off 74 balls with one four. In the wake of finishing his 50 years, he quickened; he hit two sixes off Harbhajan and irregular Ashish Nehra. The pair included 100 keeps running off 109 balls for the third wicket. Ponting achieved his century rapidly—his second fifty fell off 29 balls. Toward the finish of the innings, Australia had scored 359 keeps running for two wickets; Ponting had scored 140 not out (off 121 balls; four fours and eight sixes) and Martyn hit 88 not out (off 84 balls; seven fours and one six) individually. As of the 2015 challenge, Ponting's innings remains the most astounding individual score by a skipper in a World Cup last, and Australia's absolute remains the most astounding by a group in a World Cup last. The 234-run remain among Ponting and Marytn was a record organization for Australia in ODIs by then. The Indian bowlers surrendered 37 additional items. Srinath yielded 87 keeps running without taking a wicket—the most costly figures in his profession—in what was his last global amusement. 

India turned out to bat with Tendulkar and Sehwag. McGrath opened the bowling for Australia. Tendulkar hit a limit off the fourth bundle of the over yet was rejected off the following conveyance. Ganguly joined Sehwag and the pair scored at a run-a-ball before the previous was expelled by Lee in the tenth over. Kaif, the following man, was expelled in the equivalent over with the score 59 keeps running for 3 wickets. Dravid and Sehwag scored relentlessly from that point on until the seventeenth over, when downpour interfered with play with the score at 103 runs. After play continued, Ponting got Australia's spinners, Brad Hogg and Darren Lehmann. Sehwag was progressively forceful against both, hitting Lehmann for three back to back fours and Hogg for a four and six; Dravid assumed an auxiliary job to Sehwag, pushing regularly for singles. They were rejected with hardly a pause in between in the wake of making 82 (off 81 balls) and 47 (off 57 balls) separately. Following that, India started to lose wickets at standard interims. With the exception of Yuvraj Singh (24) and Dinesh Mongia (12), the remainder of the players were out for single-digit scores. India were bowled out for 234 keeps running in 39.2 overs when Zaheer Khan was expelled by McGrath. Australia won the match by 125 runs, the biggest edge of triumph by keeps running in a World Cup last. It was their second progressive World Cup trophy and their third in general. Ponting was proclaimed the Man of the counterpart for his 140 not out. 

Fall of wickets: 1– 105 (Gilchrist, 13.6 ov), 2– 125 (Hayden, 19.5 ov) 

Fall of wickets: 1– 4 (Tendulkar, 0.5 ov), 2– 58 (Ganguly, 9.5 ov), 3– 59 (Kaif, 10.3 ov), 4– 147 (Sehwag, 23.5 ov), 5– 187 (Dravid, 31.5 ov), 6– 208 (Yuvraj Singh, 34.5 ov), 7– 209 (Mongia, 35.2 ov), 8– 223 (Harbhajan Singh, 37.1 ov), 9– 226 (Srinath, 38.2 ov), 10– 234 (Khan, 39.2 ov) 

Match authorities 

Key 

Australia turned into the primary group to win three World Cups, and enrolled a record 17 back to back ODI wins. They additionally turned into the third group to win every one of the matches in a World Cup competition. Composing for the "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac", Simon Wilde commented that Australia would have beaten a Rest of the World XI had they been inquired. 

At the post-coordinate question and answer session, Ponting said the Indian players hinted at no triumphant the match anytime. On Australia's success he stated, "It isn't so much that we think we are in front of the others. It's simply the manner in which we play." Nevertheless, he complimented the two groups by saying that India and Australia were the two best groups in the competition, and said that the Indian players had the right to be in the last. Ganguly applauded the Australian batsmen and said that they played like "genuine bosses". 

Ganguly's choice to bowl initially was censured by the media: "The New York Times", for example, said it "exploded backward terribly". Previous Pakistan skipper Imran Khan, while impugning Ganguly's choice, likewise condemned his concept of going into the match with an unaltered side. He expressed that India ought to have played their leg spinner Anil Kumble as the ball seemed to be "grasping [in] the surface". The columnist and previous England cricketer Mike Selvey trusted that Ganguly may have been impacted by the likelihood of the Duckworth– Lewis technique influencing the outcome. Indian columnist Boria Majumdar in his book, "Cricketing Cultures in Conflict" (2004), commented about the likelihood of Australia losing the downpour interfered with last, if the outcome were to be chosen by this technique. Ganguly safeguarded his choice saying that the cloudy conditions and dampness in the pitch implied it was good to the bowlers, yet they neglected to utilize it legitimately. Ponting said that he would have selected to bat previously had they won the hurl. His partner Symonds, in a meeting later, reviewed that India's choice to bowl previously gave them a feeling that they were not "sufficiently sure to take the battle". 

Australia were remunerated with prize cash totaling , while India got $800,000. Tendulkar's total of 673 keeps running in the competition brought him the Man of the arrangement honor. Ponting's innings of 140 not out was put among the best innings of the competition by Rediff, and among the main 10 exhibitions in a World Cup last by the ICC. Tendulkar and Hayden were incorporated among the "Most noteworthy effect World XI", a World Cup group discharged by the "Wisden" India claimed site Impact Index, in February 2015. Srinath, who was then India's driving wicket-taker in ODIs, resigned a couple of months after the challenge. The match additionally denoted the finish of India mentor John Wright's agreement. On his solicitation the Board of Control for Cricket in India held his situation in which he kept on serving until 2005.