Aitraaz 

Aitraaz () is a 2004 Indian Hindi-language sentimental spine chiller movie coordinated by Abbas– Mustan. Delivered by Subhash Ghai, it stars Akshay Kumar, Kareena Kapoor and Priyanka Chopra, and highlights Amrish Puri, Paresh Rawal and Annu Kapoor in supporting jobs. The screenplay was composed by Shyam Goel and Shiraz Ahmed, and Himesh Reshammiya made the soundtrack. 

The film recounts to the account of a man blamed for inappropriate behavior by his female predominant. It was discharged on 12 November 2004 to positive audits, Chopra getting boundless basic praise for her execution as Sonia Roy. "Aitraaz" was a business achievement, netting more than 260 million in the cinema world against a financial plan of 110 million. It has been noted for its intense subject of inappropriate behavior. 

"Aitraaz" got a few awards, especially for Chopra. At the 50th Filmfare Awards, she got two assignments: Best Supporting Actress and Best Performance in a Negative Role, winning the last mentioned and hence turning into the second (and last) on-screen character to win the honor. Chopra likewise won the Bengal Film Journalists' Association Award for Best Actress and the Screen Award for Best Actor in a Negative Role. The film got ten assignments at the 2005 IIFA Awards, winning three. 

Raj Malhotra (Akshay Kumar) is an item engineer for a media communications organization, Air Voice. Priya Saxena (Kareena Kapoor), a lesser legal advisor goes to Raj's home for a meeting, confusing him with advodate Ram Chautrani (Annu Kapoor), a neighbor and Raj's companion. They experience passionate feelings for, wed and are before long anticipating a tyke. Raj hopes to be elevated to CEO when the organization's administrator (Amrish Puri) touches base with his new spouse, Sonia Roy (Priyanka Chopra) to declare the advancements. Sonia Roy is named the organization's new Chairperson; and after a discourse with her better half, she declares the advancements. The CEO position rather goes to Raj's companion Rakesh (Vivek Shauq), while Raj is set on the Board of Directors. At a gathering, Raj, joined by Priya, finds out about his new manager, Sonia Roy. Priya is astonished that Sonia is the spouse of the a lot more seasoned Mr Roy. Raj and his partners talk about Sonia being extremely appealing and the age distinction among her and her significant other, and Raj jokes that his attractive identity was in charge of his monstrous advancement. It is suggested that Raj may have experienced Sonia already. 

A flashback investigates Raj's past association with Sonia. Five years sooner, Raj and Sonia (at that point a model) meet at a shoreline in Cape Town. They experience passionate feelings for and move in together; Sonia winds up pregnant with Raj's youngster, which satisfies him, yet Sonia rejects Raj's engagement proposition and says she will end the pregnancy as her kid would hinder riches, acclaim, influence and status and their relationship closes. 

The following day, Rakesh informs Raj concerning a deformity in the organization's new versatile handset: a call goes to two individuals at the same time—the planned beneficiary and another irregular individual on the telephone's contact list. Raj needs Sonia's consent to stop generation, and she welcomes him to her home to talk about the issue. Sonia owns provocative and explicitly unequivocal expressions to Raj, who disregards her. She at that point forcefully attempts to seek after Raj, who stands up to. Despite the fact that he over and again rejects her advances, Sonia keeps attempting to entice him. As he leaves, Sonia takes steps to rebuff him for spurning her. The following day, he discovers that Sonia has revealed to her significant other that he explicitly pestered her. Since he has conceded discovering Sonia appealing, his case of honesty isn't accepted, and the organization weights him into renunciation. 

Raj asks Chauthrani to take his case; Chauthrani lets him know not to leave, and to prop up to work. This case goes to court; Sonia and Roy connect with a legal counselor (Paresh Rawal). At first, the greater part of the proof is against Raj and the case increases across the board media consideration. Raj's bank director comes back from Bangkok and gives him a tape that recorded Raj's experience at Sonia's home. After the tape is demonstrated certifiable, Chauthrani is struck by a vehicle driven by a goon contracted by Sonia and the tape is demolished. At the point when Priya asks Raj for what good reason he called their bank administrator from Sonia's home, he answers that he had called Rakesh, and the call experienced to the bank supervisor also because of the deformity in the organization handset. Priya proceeds with the case after Chauthrani's damage. She uncovered Sonia's before association with Raj in Cape Town lastly plays Rakesh's voice message to the court - uncovering what truly happened among Raj and Sonia. It is uncovered that Sonia wedded Roy for cash, power, and status, however when he couldn't fulfill her explicitly, she attempted to continue her association with Raj. Priya wins the case and Roy leaves Sonia. Blame stricken and embarrassed, Sonia ends it all by hopping from a structure. The end credit scene indicates Raj and Priya strolling their tyke. 

The cast is recorded underneath: 

The chief couple Abbas– Mustan took motivation from National Basketball Association player Kobe Bryant, who was blamed for assault by a fan; they started building up the film when they read about his rape case in the papers. About the film's bizarre title, they said ""aitraaz"" was everyday and fit the subject. Shyam Goel and Shiraz Ahmed composed the screenplay. Hussain A. Burmawala and R. Verman were in charge of movie altering and workmanship heading, individually. 

The film was declared in October 2003 by maker Subhash Ghai, to honor the 25th commemoration of his creation organization Mukta Arts. The media revealed that Akshay Kumar, Kareena Kapoor and Priyanka Chopra were cast in lead jobs, making it the third film joint effort among Kumar and Chopra after the profoundly effective "Andaaz" (2003) and "Mujhse Shaadi Karogi" (2004). Kumar was given a role as Raj, a working man blamed for assault at his work environment; Kapoor depicted his steady spouse, who goes to limits to shield him. As indicated by the chiefs, Kumar was thrown against sort; he for the most part played activity legends, and they needed him to underplay his character. Abbas– Mustan, known for classy spine chillers and charming enemies, cast Chopra in her first negative job. She plays a lady, wedded to a business tycoon more than twice her age (played by Amrish Puri), who erroneously denounces her ex-sweetheart (Kumar) of assaulting her to look for vengeance. Chopra was at first fearful about such an intense character, because of the disputable subject of inappropriate behavior, however Abbas– Mastan and Subhash Ghai persuaded her to acknowledge the job. The chief couple had recently offered her the lead job in their 2002 spine chiller "Humraaz", which she couldn't do. 

Kumar depicted his character as "reasonable" and "another age metrosexual" man. The on-screen character uncovered that he appreciated the qualities and shortcomings of his character, including "[he] isn't reluctant to demonstrate his emotions and does not feel castrated by his circumstance." Kumar further expressed: "There's a tranquil respect and valor related with my character. He doesn't battle for praise. He battles for his feelings." In a meeting with "Tribune India", Kapoor commented that Indian ladies would relate to her character. She said her character "stand[s] by [Raj] in his snapshot of trouble and weakness, similar to each Indian lady would." Chopra depicted her character Sonia as "enchanting and centered", remarking that her "theory is that she needs to accomplish her objectives at any expense. She knows a certain something: that nothing can come in the middle of her wants and herself." Owing to her moderate childhood, Chopra thought that it was hard to relate to her "man-eater job". Playing an "incredibly negative character" demonstrated a test, and she needed to rationally set herself up for an hour prior to every scene. 

Manish Malhotra and Vikram Phadnis structured the outfits and the cinematography was taken care of by Ravi Yadav. The film was chiefly shot in Cape Town, Goa, Pune and Mumbai. Chopra, who was all the while recording four different preparations, uncovered that as a result of her bustling calendar the makers of her different movies needed to move their sets to the Filmistan Studio, where "Aitraaz" was being made. She sobbed amid taping of the inappropriate behavior scene; it took the executives a few hours to remind her she was just playing a character, and further shooting was deferred. The music video of the title track "Aitraaz – I Want to Make Love to You" with Kumar and Chopra was shot in one take with a Steadicam. Salim– Sulaiman formed the foundation score for the film. 

"Aitraaz"s soundtrack was created by Himesh Reshammiya, with verses by Sameer. The collection contains fifteen melodies: seven unique, and eight remixes. The vocals were performed by Udit Narayan, Alka Yagnik, Sunidhi Chauhan, Adnan Sami, K.K., and Alisha Chinai. It was discharged on 24 September 2004 by Sony Music. 

The soundtrack was commonly generally welcomed by music pundits, who lauded its verses and vocals. Planet Bollywood gave a rating of 7 out of 10, considering it a "decent collection". Joginder Tuteja of Bollywood Hungama evaluated the collection 3 out of 5, commending "I Want To Make Love To You" (each of the three variants): "Sunidhi Chauhan is incredible in this brilliantly created track that stuns everybody with the power of the verses and the music". He finished up, "With the exception of a few normal tunes all over, most of melodies in Aitraaz do keep you locked in". 

The music topped graphs on various stages in India. The soundtrack was a standout amongst the top of the line Bollywood soundtracks of the year, with 1.5 million units sold by Box Office India. 

The main look blurb of the film, with the slogan "In the realm of ladies, you either play by their tenets or else ...", was gotten decidedly by pundits; the film's trailers were likewise generally welcomed. In October 2004, select film from the film was screened to the exchange specialists and commentators, making a positive buzz. The film's trailers and the film's music supported its advertising. 

Made on a financial plan of 110 million, "Aitraaz" was discharged on 375 screens on 12 November 2004 amid the bubbly Diwali weekend. It conflicted with three other real discharges: "Veer-Zaara", the shaded rendition of "Mughal-e-Azam", and "Naach". The film opened to brilliant inhabitance in metros and respectable at different spots. It was the second best playing arrival of the week after Yash Chopra's "Veer-Zaara". As per Box Office India, the film netted around 45 million on its opening end of the week and 76 million in its first week at the household film industry. After its run, "Aitraaz" earned more than 260 million in the cinematic world, turning into the eleventh-most astounding netting Bollywood film of the year. The film was esteemed a business achievement. 

The DVD of the film was discharged on 6 December 2004 over all districts in a PAL-design single plate. Conveyed by Shemaroo Entertainment, it incorporated a creation of-the-film fragment and a photograph exhibition. The VCD rendition was discharged in the meantime, and Zee Network purchased the selective communicate rights. "Aitraaz" made its Indian TV debut on 30 October 2005 on Zee Cinema. The film was changed in Kannada as "Shrimathi" (2011), featuring Upendra, Priyanka Trivedi and Celina Jaitley. 

"Aitraaz" got commonly positive surveys from pundits, who adulated its bearing, music and exhibitions, especially Chopra's. It was noted for its striking subject of lewd behavior. A few pundits saw that the reason was like the American film "Exposure" (1994). Composing for the BBC, faultfinder Jay Mamtora applauded the film's subject, music and exhibitions, and commented that "Abbas-Mustaan have worked admirably in 'Indianising' the entire idea". He proceeded to portray it as "a grasping edge of the seat show that keeps watchers stuck to their seats". Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama appraised the movie 3.5 out of 5, calling it "an all around made spine chiller" and complimenting the chiefs' settling on "a subject that has been immaculate on the Indian screen up until now" and the film's "emotional minutes". 

Like Mamtora, Adarsh trusted that the film had a place completely with Priyanka Chopra, and was awed with her comprehension of the character, composing that "She sneaks her way through the job like a specialist, drawing gathering of people contempt the manner in which a magnet gathers iron filings." He additionally complimented the exhibitions by Kapoor and Kumar. Patcy N of Rediff.com noticed the film's intrigue to the overall population, discovering its topic "something else from the standard passage on offer". She likewise commended the music and movement. Composing for "India Today", film commentator Anupama Chopra commended Chopra's "amazing" execution, and regarded the film "great timepass". 

Sudhish Kamath of "The Hindu" remarked that "however the primary portion of the motion picture is very much paced, the second half lists with the melodies and turns constrained into the plot to purchase time", yet expressed that it was "acceptable with its smooth creation, a couple of amusing lines, glitz remainder and star request." Subhash K. Jha scrutinized the film's "dishy deviations" and "fringe sub-plots", rating it 2 out of 5 by and large, however was inspired with the court scene, which he considered "amazing". He likewise observed Chopra's execution to be a triumph, commenting: "A star is conceived! As the ruthless social-climbing temptress who can go to any length to satisfy her desire forever, Priyanka Chopra rocks the scene more than ever." Jha trusted that Kareena was miscast and appeared somewhat cumbersome in a non-stylish job, yet "makes her mark in the climactic court succession", a conclusion resounded by Jitesh Pillai in his survey for "The Times of India". Pillai gave a rating of 3 out of 5 and noticed that "it isn't dramatization that executives were taking a stab at, yet the film works."