Charles Holden 

Charles Henry Holden (12 May 1875 – 1 May 1960) was a Bolton-brought into the world English modeler best known for planning numerous London Underground stations amid the 1930s, for Bristol Central Library, the Underground Electric Railways Company of London's home office at 55 Broadway and for the University of London's Senate House. He additionally made many war burial grounds in Belgium and northern France for the Imperial War Graves Commission. 

Subsequent to working and preparing in Bolton and Manchester, Holden moved to London. His initial structures were impacted by the Arts and Crafts Movement, yet for the greater part of his profession he supported an unadorned style dependent on improved structures and massing that was free of what he viewed as superfluous brightening enumerating. Holden accepted firmly that engineering plans ought to be managed by structures' planned capacities. After the First World War he progressively rearranged his style and his plans moved toward becoming pared-down and pioneer, affected by European design. He was an individual from the Design and Industries Association and the Art Workers' Guild. He created total structures for his structures including the inside plan and building fittings. 

In spite of the fact that not without its commentators, his design is broadly valued. He was granted the Royal Institute of British Architects' (RIBA's) Royal Gold Medal for engineering in 1936 and was selected a Royal Designer for Industry in 1943. His station structures for London Underground turned into the company's standard plan affecting structures by all designers working for the association during the 1930s. Huge numbers of his structures have been allowed recorded structure status, shielding them from unapproved adjustment. He twice declined the idea of a knighthood. 

Charles Henry Holden was conceived on 12 May 1875 at Great Lever, Bolton, the fifth and most youthful offspring of Joseph Holden (1842– 1918), a draper and milliner, and Ellen (née Broughton, 1841– 1890) Holden. Holden's youth was damaged by his dad's chapter 11 of every 1884 and his mom's demise when he was fifteen years of age. Following the loss of his dad's the same old thing, the family moved to St Helens (present-day Merseyside), where his dad came back to his before exchange and filled in as an iron turner and fitter and where he went to various schools. 

He quickly had occupations as a research center collaborator and a railroad assistant in St Helens. Amid this period he went to draughting classes at the YMCA and considered a profession as a specialist in Sir Douglas Fox's training. In 1891 he started working for his brother by marriage, David Frederick Green, a land surveyor and engineer in Bolton. In April 1892 he was articled to Manchester designer Everard W. Leeson and, while preparing with him, additionally learned at the Manchester School of Art (1893– 94) and Manchester Technical School (1894– 96). 

While working and examining in Manchester, Holden framed fellowships with craftsman Muirhead Bone and his future brother by marriage Francis Dodd. About this time Holden was acquainted with the compositions of Walt Whitman and progressed toward becoming companions with James William Wallace and some of the individuals from Bolton's Whitman culture known as the "Falcon Street College". Whitman's works and those of Henry David Thoreau, Ralph Waldo Emerson and Edward Carpenter were significant impacts on Holden's life. He fused huge numbers of their rationalities and standards into his style of living and strategy for working. 

In 1895 and 1896 Holden submitted plans to "Building News" Designing Club rivalries utilizing the pen name "Owl". In spite of the fact that the quantity of contending entries made was not in every case huge, from nine challenge sections, Holden won five first places, three second places and 33% spot. In 1897, he entered the challenge for the RIBA's lofty Soane Medallion for understudy draftsmen. Of fourteen passages, Holden's accommodation for the challenge's subject, a "Commonplace Market Hall", came third. Holden portrayed the structure as being enlivened by crafted by John Belcher, Edgar Wood and Arthur Beresford Pite. 

Around 1898 Holden started living with Margaret Steadman (née Macdonald, 1865– 1954), an attendant and maternity specialist. They were presented by Holden's more seasoned sister, Alice, and progressed toward becoming companions through their normal enthusiasm for Whitman. Steadman had isolated from her significant other James Steadman, a college mentor, on account of his liquor addiction and misuse. Steadman and her significant other were never separated and, however she and Holden lived as a wedded couple and Holden alluded to her as his better half, the relationship was never formalized, even after James Steadman's passing in 1930. 

The Holdens lived in rural Norbiton, Surrey (presently Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames) until 1902, when they moved to Codicote in Hertfordshire. Around 1906, they moved to Harmer Green close Welwyn, where Holden planned a house for them. The house was evidently outfitted and the couple carried on with a straightforward life, depicted by Janet Ashbee in 1906 as "bananas and dark colored bread on the table; no boiling water; plain living and high reasoning and strenuous action for the improvement of the World". The couple had no kids together, however Margaret had a child, Allan, from her marriage. Charles and Margaret Holden inhabited Harmer Green for the remainder of their lives. 

Holden left Leeson's training in 1896 and worked for Jonathan Simpson in Bolton in 1896 and 1897, taking a shot at house structures there and at Port Sunlight, before moving to London to work for Arts and Crafts architect Charles Robert Ashbee. His time with Ashbee was short and, in October 1899, he wound up boss associate in H. Percy Adams' training, where he stayed for the remainder of his profession. 

Some of Holden's initial plans were for emergency clinics, which Adams' training had practical experience in. At this beginning time in his profession, he created structures in an assortment of building styles as conditions required, mirroring the impacts of various planners. Holden before long assumed responsibility for a large portion of the training's structure work. From 1900 to 1903, Holden examined design in the nighttimes at the Royal Academy School. He additionally kept on creating structures in his extra time for his brother by marriage and Jonathan Simpson. 

His red block expressions and art façades for the Belgrave Hospital for Children in Kennington, south London (1900– 03), were affected by Philip Webb and Henry Wilson and highlight steeply pitched rooftops, corner towers and stone window encompasses. The structure, presently changed over to lofts, is Grade II* recorded. 

In 1902, Holden won the structural challenge to plan the Bristol Central Library. His Tudor Revival façades in shower stone join pioneer components supplementing the nearby Abbey Gate of Bristol Cathedral. The front façade highlights oriel windows and model gatherings with Chaucer, Bede and Alfred the Great by Charles Pibworth. Inside, the structure is traditional, with the furnishings planned by Holden and the stone cutting for the most part by William Aumonier. It was depicted by design history specialist Sir Nikolaus Pevsner as "free Neo-Tudor" and "amazingly beautiful" and by Andor Gomme as "one of the extraordinary magnum opuses of the early Modern Movement". It has been contrasted and Charles Rennie Mackintosh's Glasgow School of Art and it is here and there proposed that Mackintosh's plans for the later piece of the school were motivated by Holden's, despite the fact that Pevsner noticed that Mackintosh's structures were available for use prior. The structure is Grade I recorded. 

At Midhurst, West Sussex, Holden structured Tudor-style façades for the Sir Ernest Cassel-supported King Edward VII Sanatorium (1903– 06). The structure includes long wings of south-bound rooms to boost patients' introduction to daylight and natural air. The plan is with regards to the structure's provincial setting, with façades in the neighborhood tile-hung style. Pevsner called this "positively a standout amongst the best structures of its date in the nation" and "a model of how to fabricate substantial establishments". He structured the sanitorium's V-molded outside church so it could be utilized for both open air and indoor love. The two structures are Grade II recorded. Different medical clinics he structured in this period incorporate the British Seamen's Hospital in Istanbul (1903– 04) and the Women's Hospital in Soho, focal London (1908). 

For The Law Society he planned (1902– 04) a disentangled neoclassical expansion to the current Lewis Vulliamy-structured structure in Chancery Lane with outer models by Charles Pibworth and a framed expressions and artworks inside with cutting by William Aumonier and friezes by Conrad Dressler. Pevsner considered the façades to be Mannerist: "The stylish term Mannerism can here be utilized really; for Holden in fact solidified up and nullified current established themes, which is the thing that Mannerist draftsmen did in the Cinquecento." 

In 1906, Holden won the engineering rivalry to structure another base camp for the British Medical Association at the intersection of The Strand and Agar Street (presently Zimbabwe House). The six-story L-molded structure supplanted a gathering of structures on the site effectively involved by the Association and furnished it with convenience for a committee load, library and workplaces on the upper floors above space for shops on the ground floor and in the storm cellar. Depicted by Powers as "elegance diminished to geometric shapes", the initial three stories are clad in dark Cornish rock with Portland stone above. Situated at second floor level was a disputable arrangement of tall models speaking to the advancement of science and the periods of man by Jacob Epstein. The structure is Grade II* recorded. Alastair Service thought of it as "maybe his best London building". 

In 1909, Holden won the structure rivalry for an expansion to the Bristol Royal Infirmary. Along these lines committed to the memory of King Edward VII (kicked the bucket 1910), the expansion (1911– 12) was based on steeply inclining ground for which Holden planned a connected pair of Portland stone-confronted hinders around a yard. The plain, dynamic squares have towers on the corners and two-story loggias, and are a further improvement of Holden's style. 

The training progressed toward becoming Adams and Holden in 1907 when Holden turned into an accomplice and Adams, Holden and Pearson when Lionel Pearson turned into an accomplice in 1913. In 1913, Holden was granted the RIBA's Godwin decoration and £65 to consider design abroad. He headed out to America in April 1913 and contemplated the association of family unit and sociology offices at American colleges in anticipation of his structure of the Wren-affected Kings College for Women, Kensington. Different structures by Holden before the First World War incorporate pioneer places of business in Holborn and Oxford Street, an augmentation in red block of Alfred Waterhouse's Shire Hall in Bedford, and Arts and Crafts Sutton Valence School, Kent. 

Holden likewise worked with Epstein on the tomb of Oscar Wilde at Père Lachaise burial ground in Paris (1911– 12). In 1915, he was an establishing individual from the Design and Industries Association and he was an individual from the Art Workers' Guild from 1917. Fruitless challenge passages for which he created plans incorporate Strathclyde Royal Infirmary (1901), Manchester Royal Infirmary (1904), County Hall (1907), the National Library of Wales (1909), Coventry Town Hall (1911) and the Board of Trade building (1915). 

The Holdens shared a solid feeling of individual obligation and administration. In the First World War, Margaret Holden joined the "Companions' Emergency Committee for the Assistance of Germans, Austrians and Hungarians in trouble" which helped displaced people of those nations stranded in London by the contention. Charles Holden presented with the Red Cross' London Ambulance Column as a stretcher-conveyor exchanging injured troops from London's stations to its medical clinics. Holden additionally served on the flame watch at St Paul's Cathedral somewhere in the range of 1915 and 1917. 

On 3 October 1917, Holden was selected an impermanent lieutenant with the military's Directorate of Graves Registration and Enquiries. He ventured out to the French war zones out of the blue soon thereafter and started arranging new burial grounds and extending existing ones. Holden portrayed his experience: 

The nation is one tremendous wild, impacted out of acknowledgment where once towns and plantations and prolific land, presently hurled about and agitated in miserable turmoil with never a milestone to the extent the eye can reach and dabbed about in the clean and chaos, all things considered, are to be seen here and there separately and in gatherings minimal white crosses denoting where men have fallen and been covered. 

In September 1918, Holden exchanged to the Imperial War Graves Commission (presently the Commonwealth War Graves Commission) with the new position of major. From 1918 until 1928 he took a shot at 69 Commission burial grounds. At first, Holden ran the illustration office and functioned as the senior plan planner under the three primary modelers in France and Belgium (Edwin Lutyens, Reginald Blomfield and Herbert Baker). Holden took a shot at the test war burial ground at Louvencourt and, as indicated by Geurst and Karol, presumably on the one at Forceville that was chosen as the model for all that pursued. 

In 1920, he was elevated to be the fourth essential planner. His work for the Commission included dedications to the New Zealand missing dead at Messines Ridge British Cemetery, and the Buttes New British Cemetery at Zonnebeke. His plans were deprived of adornment, frequently utilizing basic point by point masses of Portland stone in the development of the sanctuaries and other building components. Philip Longworth's history of the Commission depicted Holden's structures at Wimereux Communal Cemetery as "remorselessly serious". 

In 1922, Holden structured the War Memorial Gateway for Clifton College, Bristol, utilizing a mix of limestone and gritstone to coordinate the Gothic style of the school's structures. For the British War Memorials Committee, he delivered a structure for a Hall of Remembrance (1918) that would have been as a craftsmanship display, and for New College, Oxford, he made a plan for a modest dedication church (1919). Nor was built. 

Through his inclusion with the Design and Industries Association Holden met Frank Pick, general chief of the Underground Electric Railways Company of London (UERL). Holden at the time had no involvement in structuring for transport, however this would change through his cooperation with Pick. In 1923, Pick dispatched Holden to plan a façade for a side passage at Westminster Underground station. This was followed in 1924 with an arrangement to plan the UERL's structure for the British Empire Exhibition. Additionally in 1924, Pick charged Holden to plan seven new stations in south London for the expansion of the City and South London Railway (presently part of the Northern line) from Clapham Common to Morden. The plans supplanted a set by the UERL's own planner, Stanley Heaps, which Pick had discovered unacceptable. The structures mirror the straightforward pioneer style he was utilizing in France for the war graveyards; twofold tallness ticket corridors are clad in plain Portland stone encircling a coated screen, each adjusted to suit the road corner locales of the vast majority of the stations. The screens include the Underground roundel made up in shaded glass boards and are isolated by stone segments surmounted by capitals shaped as a three-dimensional form of the roundel. Holden additionally exhorted Heaps on new façades for some of the current stations on hold and delivered the structure for another passageway at Bond Street station on the Central London Railway. 

Amid the later 1920s, Holden structured a progression of trade structures and new façades for station upgrades around the UERL's system. A considerable lot of these included Portland stone cladding and varieties of the coated screens produced for the Morden expansion. At Piccadilly Circus, one of the busiest stations on the framework, Holden planned (1925– 28) an extensive travertine-lined circling concourse and ticket lobby underneath the roadway of the intersection from which banks of lifts offered access to the stages beneath. 

In 1926, Holden started the plan of another central station for the UERL at 55 Broadway above St. James' Park station. Over the main floor, the steel-surrounded structure was developed to a cruciform arrangement and ascends in a progression of retreating stages to a focal clock tower tall. The plan boosts sunshine to the structure's inside without the utilization of light wells. Like his stations of the period and his pre-First World War business structures, the square is severely clad in Portland stone. Holden again definite the façades with charged models; , two arrangements by Epstein, are at first floor level, and a progression of eight bas-reliefs at the seventh floor speak to the four breezes (two for every one of the cardinal bearings, on each side of the anticipating wings). The structure is Grade I recorded. 

In 1930, Holden and Pick made a voyage through Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden to see the most recent improvements in current design. The UERL was arranging augmentations of the Piccadilly line toward the west, north-west and north of London, and another kind of station was needed. Adjusting the structural styles he had seen on the visit, Holden made useful plans made out of basic structures: chambers, bends and square shapes, worked in plain block, cement and glass. The expansions toward the west and north-west were over existing courses worked by the District line and required various stations to be revamped to suit extra tracks or to supplant unique, essential structures. Sudbury Town, the main station to be revamped in 1931, framed a layout for huge numbers of the other new stations that pursued: a tall rectangular block box with a solid level rooftop and boards of vertical coating to permit light into the inside. The Grade II* recorded structure was depicted by Pevsner as "a remarkable case of how fulfilling such straightforward structures can be, simply using watchful subtleties and great extents." 

For Arnos Grove station, one of eight new stations on the northern expansion of the line, Holden altered the rectangular box into a round drum, a plan enlivened by Gunnar Asplund's Stockholm Public Library. Likewise prominent on the northern expansion is Southgate station; here Holden planned a solitary story roundabout structure with a canopied level rooftop. Over this, the focal segment of rooftop ascends on a consistent even band of clerestory windows, bolstered inside by a solitary focal section. The structure is finished by a lit up highlight topped with a bronze ball. Different stations demonstrate the impact of Willem Marinus Dudok's work in Hilversum, Netherlands. So as to deal with such a vast volume of work, Holden designated noteworthy structure duty to his colleagues, for example, Charles Hutton, who led the pack on Arnos Grove Station. For some other Piccadilly line stations the structure was taken care of in-house by Stanley Heaps or by other compositional practices. All pursued the cutting edge block, glass and solid house style characterized by Holden, however some came up short on Holden's innovation and tender loving care; Pick named these "Holdenesque". 

The UERL turned out to be a piece of London Transport in 1933, yet the emphasis stayed on astounding structure. Under Pick, Holden's tender loving care and thought of incorporated structure stretched out to all pieces of London's vehicle arrange, from planning transport and cable car havens to another sort of six-wheeled omnibus. In the late 1930s, Holden planned substitution stations at Highgate, East Finchley and Finchley Central and new stations at Elstree South and Bushey Heath for the Northern line's Northern Heights plan. Holden's plans consolidated model significant to the neighborhood history of various stations: Dick Whittington for Highgate, a Roman centurion at Elstree South and a toxophilite for East Finchley. A great part of the venture was deferred soon after the episode of the Second World War and was later dropped. Just East Finchley station was finished in full with Highgate partially; different plans were rejected. East Finchley station is situated on a dike and the stages are gotten to from underneath. Utilizing the station's air-rights, Holden gave staff office space spreading over the tracks got to through semi-roundabout coated stairways from the stages. Eric Aumonier gave the statue "The Archer", an unmistakable element of the station. 

Holden's last plans for London Transport were three new stations for the Central line expansion in north-east London. These were planned during the 1930s, but at the same time were postponed by the war and were not finished until 1947. diminished the nature of the materials utilized contrasted and the 1930s stations and the structure at Wanstead was adjusted from a transitory structure developed amid the line's wartime use as an underground processing plant. Gants Hill is gotten to through metros and has no station building, however is eminent for the plan of its stage level concourse, which includes a barrel vaulted roof propelled by stations on the Moscow Metro. 

After the First World War, the University of London required a swap for its packed and dispersed settlement in Kensington. A site was gained in Bloomsbury close to the British Museum and Holden was appointed in 1931 to structure the new structures, incompletely because of the accomplishment of 55 Broadway. His unique arrangement was for a solitary structure covering the entire site, extending nearly from Montague Place to Torrington Street. It included a focal spine connected by a progression of wings to the edge façade and encasing a progression of patios. The plan was to be beaten by two towers: a littler one toward the north, and a 19-story, tall Senate House. 

Development started in 1932, yet because of a deficiency of assets, the plan was step by step overhauled and cut back, and just the Senate House and Library were finished in 1937, with the structures for the Institute of Education and the School of Oriental Studies finished later. The plan included façades of burden bearing brickwork looked with Portland stone. Holden's goal to embellish the structure with figure was additionally not satisfied. As he had with his before structures, Holden likewise arranged the plans for the individual components of the inside structure. From its finishing until 1957, it was the tallest place of business in London. 

Senate House partitioned assessment. Pevsner depicted its style as "unusually semi-conventional, uncertain innovation", and condensed: "The structure surely does not have the energy and unequivocal quality of Charles Holden's littler Underground stations." Others have portrayed it as Stalinist, or as authoritarian because of its incredible scale. Functionalist draftsman Erich Mendelsohn wrote to Holden in 1938 that he was "especially taken and ... persuaded that there is no better structure in London." Historian Arnold Whittick depicted the structure as a "static monstrous pyramid ... clearly intended to keep going for a thousand years", yet thought "the inside is more satisfying than the outside. There is basically the environment of poise, tranquility and rest that one partners with the engineering of antiquated Greece." The beginning of the Second World War kept any further advancement on the full plan, in spite of the fact that Adams, Holden and Pearson designed further structures for the college in the region. 

With for all intents and purposes no new work being dispatched, Holden spent the war years getting ready for the recreation that would be required once it was finished. Holden was an individual from the RIBA's twelve-man board of trustees which figured the establishment's approach for post-war reproduction. Holden's town arranging thoughts included the movement of industry out of towns and urban communities to new modern focuses in the style of Port Sunlight or Bournville where specialists could live near their working environment. The new mechanical focuses would be connected to the current towns with new quick streets and recreation nearby focuses would be wanted to give progressively open space around the authoritative focuses. 

In 1944– 45, Holden created plans for the reproduction of Canterbury, Kent, with the City Architect Herbert Millson Enderby. Canterbury had been severely harmed by Luftwaffe bombarding incorporating the Baedeker strikes in May and June 1942. Holden and Enderby expected to save a great part of the character of the city, however anticipated the obligatory buy of the town place for extensive scale remaking including another metro route from the house of prayer to another town corridor. Outside the city, they arranged detours and a ring street at a two-mile (3.2-kilometer) range of the inside. Albeit endorsed by the city gathering, the arrangement was broadly contradicted by occupants and freeholders and the "Canterbury Citizens Defense Association" issued an elective arrangement before assuming responsibility for the chamber at nearby races in November 1945. The adjustment in organization finished the proposition, in spite of the fact that another arrangement arranged in 1947 without Holden's or Enderby's contribution held a portion of their thoughts including the ring street. 

The City of London's first recreation plan was composed by the City Engineer F. J. Forty and distributed in 1944. It had met with impressive analysis and William Morrison, Minister for Town and Country Planning, solicited the City from London Corporation to set up another arrangement. Holden was drawn closer, and he acknowledged gave that William Holford likewise be named. Holden's and Holford's City of London Plan (1946– 1947) prescribed an unwinding of the exacting tallness limits forced in the capital and the principal use in London of plot proportion counts in the arranging procedure so structures could be planned with floor space of up to multiple times the ground region. For the bomb-crushed region around St Paul's Cathedral, Holden proposed another area around which structures would be situated to give clear perspectives on the church building and from which new formal courses would emanate. The statures of structures would be carefully characterized to ensure these perspectives. The arrangement was acknowledged by the Minister for Town and Country Planning in 1948 and was consolidated into the more extensive London Development Plan. 

In 1947, Holden arranged a plan for the benefit of the London County Council for the South Bank of the River Thames between County Hall and Waterloo Bridge, including an arrangement for a show corridor with the gathering's designer Edwin Williams. The plan got little consideration and was very quickly supplanted by designs to build up the territory as the site of the Festival of Britain. Holden was additionally building and arranging advisor to the University of Edinburgh and to the Borough of Tynemouth. 

In spite of the fact that Charles Holden had steadily diminished his remaining task at hand, he was all the while proceeding to go into the workplace three days out of each week amid the mid 1950s. He didn't formally resign until 1958, yet and still, after all that he visited sometimes. Margaret Holden passed on in 1954 after an extended disease which had abandoned her about visually impaired since the mid-1940s. In the most recent decade of his life, Holden was himself physically more fragile and was cared for by his niece Minnie Green. 

One of Holden's last open commitment was the point at which he went about as a support at the honor of the RIBA's Royal Gold Medal to Le Corbusier in 1953. The last venture that Holden dealt with was a much scrutinized home office working for English Electric in Aldwych, London. In 1952, Adams, Holden and Pearson were selected by English Electric's director, Sir George Nelson, and Holden planned a solid stone structure around a yard. In 1955, the London County Council convinced English Electric to set the plan aside and hold a constrained compositional challenge for another structure. Adams, Holden and Pearson presented a structure, yet were beaten by Sir John Burnet, Tait and Partners. At the point when that training later denied Sir George Nelson's solicitation to update the façades, Adams, Holden and Pearson were reappointed and Charles Holden changed his training's opposition section. The new structure was censured by the Royal Fine Art Commission and a further overhaul was completed by one of Holden's accomplices to deliver the last plan, portrayed by Pevsner as "a dull, dead structure, stone-confronted and with nothing to prescribe it". 

Holden passed on 1 May 1960. His body was incinerated at Enfield crematorium and his fiery debris were spread in the patio nursery of the Friends' Meeting House in Hertford. On 2 June 1960 a commemoration administration was held at St Pancras New Church, where Holden had planned the special raised area in 1914. Eulogies were distributed in day by day papers "The Manchester Guardian", "The Times" and "The Daily Telegraph" and in development industry periodicals including "The Builder", "Engineering Review", "Diary of the Royal Institute of British Architects" and "Diary of the Town Planning Institute". For the most part, the tribute were certain about Holden's initial work and the stations for London Underground, were impartial about Senate House and were negative about his training's later works. The Harmer Green house and the greater part of its substance were unloaded with the returns left to relatives. Holden likewise left £8,400 to companions and staff and £2,000 to philanthropy. 

Holden perceived that his structural style put him in "rather an inquisitive position, not exactly in the style and not exactly out of it; insufficient of a conventionalist to satisfy the conventionalists and insufficient of a pioneer to satisfy the innovators." He trusted that the key point of configuration was to accomplish "readiness for reason", and more than once required a style of design that maintained a strategic distance from superfluous building decoration. 

In 1905, in a paper titled "If Whitman had been an Architect", Holden made a mysterious request to modelers for another type of present day design: "Regularly I know about the wonder of the engineering of antiquated Greece; of the glad Romans; of serious Egypt; the acclaim for huge Byzantium and the grandiose Middle Ages, as well, I hear. However, of the brilliance of the engineering of the Modern I never hear. Come, you Modern Buildings, come! Lose your mantle of misdirections; your cornices, pilasters, moldings, swags, looks; behind them all, behind your stately extents, your pleasant groupings, your specialties and artworks prettinesses and overstated strategies; behind and past them all shrouds the one I cherish." 

In his 1936 discourse when given the RIBA's Royal Gold Medal, Holden characterized his position: "It was less a matter of making another style, as of disposing of those incrustations which meant style ... surface weaving void of basic centrality". His strategy was to concentrate on "those increasingly changeless essential components of design, the arrangement, and the planes and masses emerging out of the arrangement." He portrayed his optimal structure as one "which takes normally and unavoidably the structure constrained by the arrangement and the reason and the materials. A structure which gives chances to the activity and ability and joy in work not exclusively to the fashioner yet additionally for the numerous experts utilized and the tenants of the structure." 

In a 1957 paper on design, he expressed "I don't look for a style, either antiquated or present day, I need an engineering which is totally "great structure". A structure got ready for a particular reason, built in the strategy and utilization of materials, old or new, most proper to the reason the structure needs to serve." 

Holden won the RIBA's London Architecture Medal for 1929 (granted 1931) for 55 Broadway. In 1936 he was granted the RIBA's Royal Gold Medal for his assemblage of work. He was Vice President of the RIBA from 1935– 37 and an individual from the Royal Fine Art Commission from 1933 to 1947. In 1943 he was delegated a Royal Designer for Industry for the plan of transport hardware. He was granted privileged doctorates by Manchester University in 1936 and London University in 1946. A significant number of Holden's structures have been conceded recorded status, securing them against pulverization and unapproved modification. 

Holden declined the welcome to turn into a Royal Academician in 1942, having recently been assigned, however rejected as a result of his association with Epstein. He twice declined a knighthood, in 1943 and 1951, as he believed it to be inconsistent with his straightforward way of life and thought about design a communitarian procedure. 

The RIBA holds an accumulation of Holden's own papers and material from Adams, Holden and Pearson. The RIBA organized presentations of his work at the Heinz Gallery in 1988 and at the Victoria and Albert Museum between October 2010 and February 2011. An open house close Colliers Wood Underground station has been named "The Charles Holden", taking "motivation" from the draftsman.