Underground Electric Railways Company of London 

The Underground Electric Railways Company of London Limited (UERL), referred to operationally as the Underground for quite a bit of its reality, was built up in 1902. It was the holding organization for the three profound dimension "tube" underground railroad lines opened in London amid 1906 and 1907: the Baker Street and Waterloo Railway, the Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway and the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway. It was additionally the parent organization from 1902 of the District Railway, which it jolted somewhere in the range of 1903 and 1905. The UERL is an antecedent of the present London Underground; its three cylinder lines structure the focal segments of the present Bakerloo, Northern and Piccadilly lines. 

The UERL battled monetarily in the principal years after the opening of its lines and barely kept away from liquidation in 1908 by rebuilding its obligation. A strategy of extension by obtaining was pursued before World War I, with the goal that the organization came to work most of the underground railroad lines in and around London. It likewise controlled huge transport and cable car armadas, the benefits from which sponsored the monetarily flimsier railroads. After the war, railroad expansions took the UERL's administrations out into rural zones to animate extra traveler numbers, so that, by the mid 1930s, the organization's lines extended past the County of London and served goals in Middlesex, Essex, Hertfordshire and Surrey. 

During the 1920s, rivalry from little unregulated transport administrators decreased the productivity of the street transport tasks, driving the UERL's chiefs to look for government guideline. This prompted the foundation of the London Passenger Transport Board in 1933, which retained the UERL and the majority of the free and municipally worked railroad, transport and cable car benefits in the London territory. 

The main profound dimension tube railroad, the City and South London Railway (C&SLR), opened in 1890. Its initial achievement brought about a surge of recommendations to Parliament for other profound dimension courses under the capital, however by 1901 just two additional lines had opened: the Waterloo and City Railway (W&CR) in 1898 and the Central London Railway (CLR) in 1900. Development had begun on one other line and after that quit following a budgetary emergency. The remainder of the organizations were attempting to raise subsidizing. 

The District Railway (DR) was a sub-surface underground railroad which had opened in 1868. Its steam-pulled administrations worked around the "Inward Circle" and on branches to Hounslow, Wimbledon, Richmond, Ealing, Whitechapel and New Cross. By 1901, the DR was attempting to contend with developing engine transport and electric cable car organizations and the CLR which were disintegrating its traveler traffic. To turn out to be progressively aggressive, the DR was considering a program of charge, in spite of the fact that it was not monetarily sufficiently able to raise the money to do the work alone. It likewise had parliamentary endorsement for a blockage assuaging profound dimension line that was to keep running underneath its current course between Gloucester Road and Mansion House. 

By 1898, American lender Charles Tyson Yerkes had made a huge fortune building up the electric tramway and raised railroad frameworks in Chicago, however his flawed business techniques, which included pay off and extortion, had at last drawn the opposing consideration of general society. Yerkes had fruitlessly endeavored to reward the city board and Illinois state governing body into allowing him a 100-year establishment for the tramway framework. Following an open backfire, he sold his Chicago ventures and directed his concentration toward circumstances in London. 

Yerkes' first securing in London was the Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway (CCE&HR). The organization had parliamentary authorization to construct a profound dimension tube railroad from Charing Cross to Hampstead and Highgate, yet had been unfit to raise the fund, selling just a minor division of the offers accessible. Robert Perks, a specialist for various railroad organizations and Member of Parliament for Louth, had proposed the CCE&HR to Yerkes and the American's consortium purchased the organization for £100,000 (around £ today) on 28 September 1900. 

Advantages was additionally a vast investor in Yerkes' next focus on, the Metropolitan District Railway, typically known as the District Railway or DR. By March 1901, the syndicate had procured a controlling enthusiasm for the DR and made a proposition for its jolt. Yerkes set up the Metropolitan District Electric Traction Company (MDETC) on 15 July 1901 with himself as overseeing chief. The organization raised £1 million (£ today) to do the zap works including the development of the creating station and providing the new electric moving stock. In September 1901, Perks turned into the DR's executive. 

The Brompton and Piccadilly Circus Railway (B&PCR) was a cylinder railroad organization which had been obtained by the DR in 1898, yet had remained a different budgetary element. It had consent to develop a line from South Kensington to Piccadilly Circus, however had not raised the funding to do as such. At South Kensington it was to associate with the profound dimension line arranged by the DR. On 12 September 1901, the DR-controlled leading group of the B&PCR sold the organization to the MDETC. Around the same time, the B&PCR assumed control over the Great Northern and Strand Railway (GN&SR), a cylinder railroad with consent to manufacture a line from Strand to Finsbury Park. The courses of the B&PCR and GN&SR were in this manner connected and joined with part of the DR's cylinder course to make the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway (GNP&BR). 

Yerkes' last buy was the Baker Street and Waterloo Railway (BS&WR) in March 1902 for £360,000 (£ today). The BS&WR had consent to build a line from Paddington to Elephant and Castle and, not at all like his other cylinder railroad buys, development work had begun in 1898. Considerable advancement had been made before it was quit following the breakdown of the BS&WR's parent organization, the London and Globe Finance Corporation, because of the extortion of its overseeing chief Whitaker Wright in 1900. With a fluctuated accumulation of organizations under his control, Yerkes set up the UERL in April 1902 to assume responsibility for them all and deal with the arranged works, and took the situation of executive. On 8 June 1902, the UERL assumed control over the MDETC and satisfied the organization's investors with money and UERL shares. 

The UERL was set up with an underlying capitalisation of £5 million (£ today). The organization was upheld by three dealer banks, Speyer Brothers in London, Speyer and Co. in New York and Old Colony Trust Company in Boston, every one of which was to get £250,000 from the capital raised. Just about 60 percent of the underlying offer offering was purchased in the United States, with a third sold in Britain and the rest principally in the Netherlands. Further capital was before long required for the development works and extra offer and bond issues pursued. The UERL in the long run raised an aggregate of £18 million (£ today). 

In the same way as other of Yerkes' plans in the United States, the structure of the UERL's funds was exceptionally intricate and included the utilization of novel budgetary instruments. One technique, utilized by Yerkes to raise £7 million, was "benefit sharing verified notes", a type of bond which was verified against the estimation of offers. They were sold at a 4 percent markdown, paid 5 percent intrigue and were expected for reimbursement in 1908. The suspicion was that offers would unavoidably ascend in esteem once the UERL's cylinder railroads were operational and delivering a benefit. Financial specialists in the notes would pick up the twofold advantage of the development in offer cost and intrigue. 

Prior to its takeover, the DR had done some joint jolt tries different things with the Metropolitan Railway (MR), the other sub-surface line with which the DR shared the "Internal Circle". A segment of track between Earl's Court and High Street Kensington was jolted with a four-rail framework and a together claimed test train worked a bus administration among February and November 1900. Having demonstrated the reasonableness of electric footing, the two organizations set up a joint board of trustees to choose a provider of gear for the jolt of their systems. 

The board of trustees' favored framework was a 3,000 volt, three-stage rotating flow framework proposed by Hungarian electrical building organization Ganz. The framework conveyed flow by overhead conduit wires and was less expensive than choices utilizing power rails and required less electrical sub-stations. An exploratory line had been built by Ganz in Budapest, despite the fact that the framework had not yet been embraced for the full-scale task of a railroad. Before the arrangement of Ganz could be settled, Yerkes assumed responsibility for the DR. He and his architects favored the low voltage direct current conductor rail framework they had worked with in the United States and were aiming to use on the cylinder lines when they were developed; they dismissed the Ganz framework putting the DR and the MDETC into debate with the MR which needed to continue with the Ganz framework. After some rancorous discussion between the two organizations, some of which was helped out in broad daylight through the letters pages of "The Times" paper, the debate went to mediation at the Board of Trade. The choice was made in December 1901 to utilize the four-rail framework, in spite of the fact that the judge, Alfred Lyttelton, was reproachful of the DR's one-sided choice. 

Successful, the MDETC rapidly started the jolt of the DR's tracks, beginning with an augmentation from Ealing Common to South Harrow that opened with its first electric administration in June 1903. Transformation of the remainder of the DR's tracks was finished in mid-1905, despite the fact that inability to arrange establishments with the MR implied that the main electric administrations on the "Inward Circle" from 1 July 1905 were disturbed for a while because of gear disappointments on the MR's trains. Power originated from the UERL's own Lots Road Power Station on Chelsea Creek. Initially arranged by the B&PCR, development of the power station started in 1902 and completed in December 1904. It wound up operational on 1 February 1905, producing three-stage rotating current at 11,000 volts, which was changed over to 550 volts direct current at track-side transformers situated around the system. The power station was developed sufficiently extensive to control the majority of the UERL's lines once they opened in addition to others later. When the remainder of the DR's steam trains were resigned on 5 November 1905, the UERL had burned through £1.7 million (£ today) on the charge of the line. 

With assets set up, development of the BS&WR was immediately restarted. 50 percent of the burrowing and 25 percent of the station work had been finished before work had been ceased, and by February 1904 practically the majority of the passages and underground pieces of the stations between Elephant and Castle and Marylebone were finished and takes a shot at the station structures were in progress. Development of the GNP&BR and the CCE&HR started in July 1902 and continued rapidly with the goal that the UERL had the capacity to record in its yearly report in October 1904 that 80 percent of the GNP&BR's and 75 percent of the CCE&HR's passages had been finished. 

Following the example embraced by the before cylinder lines, every one of the UERL's lines was built as a couple of round passages utilizing burrowing shields with segmental cast iron passage linings catapulted together and grouted into spot as the shield progressed. For the most part the passages pursued surface streets and were developed one next to the other, yet where the width of the street above was lacking, burrows were put one over the other. Stations on every one of the three lines were furnished with surface structures planned by the UERL's planner Leslie Green in an institutionalized style adjusted for each site. These comprised of two-story steel-surrounded structures looked with red coated earthenware obstructs with wide semi-round windows on the upper floor. The stations had level rooftops and were intended to oblige upward expansion for business advancement. Most stations were furnished with somewhere in the range of two and four lifts and a crisis winding staircase in a different shaft. At stage level, the divider tiling highlighted the station name and an individual geometric example and shading plan structured by Green. 

The UERL utilized a Westinghouse programmed flagging framework worked through energized track circuits. This controlled signs dependent on the nearness or nonattendance of a train on the track ahead. Signs joined an arm that was raised when the flag was red. On the off chance that a train neglected to stop at a red flag, the arm would enact a "tripcock" on the train; applying the brakes naturally. 

Aside from the charge of the DR, Yerkes did not live to see the fulfillment of the quick paced development works that he get under way; he kicked the bucket in New York on 29 December 1905 and was supplanted as UERL director by Edgar Speyer. Speyer was executive of the UERL's supporter Speyer Brothers and an accomplice in Speyer and Co. Sir George Gibb, general supervisor of the North Eastern Railway, was named overseeing executive. The BS&WR opened to travelers on 10 March 1906. The GNP&BR pursued on 15 December 1906, with the CCE&HR on 22 June 1907. The three cylinder lines rapidly came to be known as the Bakerloo Tube, Piccadilly Tube and Hampstead Tube. 

Yerkes additionally did not live to see the UERL's monetary battle amid the primary years after the opening of the new lines. As a result of extraordinarily over-idealistic pre-opening expectations of traveler numbers, the lines neglected to produce the salary expected and expected to support the intrigue installments on the UERL's significant borrowings. In the Bakerloo Tube's initial a year of activity, it conveyed 20.5 million travelers, under 60% of the 35 million that had been anticipated amid the arranging of the line. The Piccadilly Tube accomplished 26 million of an anticipated 60 million and the Hampstead Tube oversaw 25 million of an anticipated 50 million. For the DR, the UERL had anticipated an expansion to 100 million travelers after zap, however accomplished 55 million. The lower than anticipated traveler numbers were mostly because of rivalry between the UERL's lines and those of the other cylinder and sub-surface railroad organizations, and the further spread of electric cable cars and engine transports, supplanting slower, horse-drawn street transport, removed countless from the trains. The low cost of tickets likewise discouraged salary. 

The emergency point for the UERL was the need to recover the five-year benefit sharing verified notes on 30 June 1908. The UERL did not have the cash. Speyer fruitlessly endeavored to convince the London County Council (LCC) to infuse £5 million into the UERL and utilized his very own portion bank's cash to satisfy disappointed investors undermining chapter 11 procedures. In the end, Speyer and Gibb figured out how to get understanding from the investors to change over the notes into long haul obligation to be reimbursed in 1933 and 1948. 

As Speyer and Gibb attempted to rebuild the obligation, the UERL's general supervisor, Albert Stanley, selected by Gibb in 1907, started to build the UERL's pay by improving administration structures. With business director Frank Pick, Stanley affected an arrangement to expand traveler numbers; building up the "Underground" brand and setting up a joint booking framework and composed passages all through the majority of London's underground railroads, including those not constrained by the UERL. 

In 1909, the UERL conquered the complaints of beforehand hesitant American speculators, and declared a parliamentary bill for the formal merger of the Bakerloo, Hampstead and Piccadilly Tube lines into a solitary organization, the London Electric Railway Company (LER). This bill got Royal Assent and was established on 26 July 1910 as the "London Electric Railway Amalgamation Act, 1910", The DR was not converged with the cylinder lines and remained a different organization. 

As overseeing chief of the UERL from 1910, Stanley drove further transport union with the UERL's take-over of London General Omnibus Company (LGOC) in 1912 and the CLR and the C&SLR on 1 January 1913. The LGOC was the prevailing transport administrator in the capital and its high benefit (it paid profits of 18 percent contrasted and Underground Group organizations' profits of 1 to 3 percent) financed the remainder of the gathering. Through the UERL's shareholding in the London and Suburban Traction Company (LSTC), which it claimed together with British Electric Traction, the UERL took control in 1913 of the London United Tramways, the Metropolitan Electric Tramways and the South Metropolitan Electric Tramways. The UERL likewise assumed responsibility for transport developer AEC. The much expanded gathering wound up known as the Combine. Just the MR (and its auxiliaries the Great Northern and City Railway and the East London Railway) and the W&CR (by then completely claimed by the London and South Western Railway) stayed outside of the Underground Group's control. 

Another manner by which the UERL attempted to improve salary was the development of expansions to its lines to create extra traveler traffic, regularly through the incitement of new lodging advancements in the regions through which the lines ran. 

The DR was stretched out to Uxbridge in 1910, by an association made to the MR. In 1913, the Bakerloo Tube was stretched out to Paddington and to Queen's Park and Watford Junction four years after the fact. The Hampstead tube was broadened a short separation at its southern end to furnish a trade with the Bakerloo and the DR at Embankment in 1914. It was stretched out at its northern end from Golders Green into the Middlesex wide open to reach Edgware in 1924. In 1926, the Hampstead tube was stretched out south to interface with the C&SLR at Kennington related to a recreation of the C&SLR and its 1926 expansion from Clapham Common to Morden. The CLR was stretched out to Ealing Broadway in 1920. Consent for an expansion of the line to Richmond was gotten in 1913 and again in 1920, however was not utilized. Afterward, amid 1932 and 1933, the Piccadilly Tube was reached out at the two finishes: in the north from Finsbury Park to Cockfosters, and in the west from Hammersmith to Hounslow and Uxbridge utilizing the DR's tracks. 

Also, a program of modernizing a considerable lot of the Underground's busiest focal London stations was begun; giving them elevators to supplant lifts. New and renovated moving stock was steadily presented on various lines with programmed sliding entryways along the length of the carriages rather than manual end doors, diminishing loading up times. By the center of the 1920s, the association had extended to such a degree, that a vast, new central command building planned by Charles Holden was built at 55 Broadway over St. James' Park station. 

Beginning in the mid 1920s, rivalry from various little transport organizations, nicknamed "privateers" since they worked unpredictable courses and looted the LGOC's travelers, disintegrated the benefit of the Combine's transport activities. This negatively affected the gainfulness of the entire gathering. Stanley campaigned the administration for guideline of transport benefits in the London zone. Beginning in 1923, a progression of authoritative activities were made toward this path, with Stanley and Labor government official Herbert Morrison, London County Councilor (and later individual from parliament and Minister of Transport) at the bleeding edge of discussions with regards to the dimension of guideline and open control under which transport administrations ought to be brought. Stanley went for guideline that would give the UERL bunch assurance from rivalry and enable it to assume substantive responsibility for the LCC's cable car framework; Morrison favored full open proprietorship. Following seven years of false begins, a bill was reported toward the finish of 1930 for the arrangement of the London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB), an open enterprise that would assume responsibility for the UERL, the Metropolitan Railway and all transport and cable car administrators inside a territory assigned as the London Passenger Transport Area. As Stanley had finished with investors in 1910 over the solidification of the three UERL controlled cylinder lines, he utilized his convincingness to acquire their understandings to the administration purchase out of their stock. 

The Board was a trade off – open possession yet not full nationalization – and appeared on 1 July 1933, with Stanley as director and Pick as Chief Executive.