Kick the bucket Zeit, pass on Tag und Jahre macht, BWV 134a 

Johann Sebastian Bach created the common cantata (Time, which day and year doth make), BWV134.1, BWV134a, while he was in the administration of the court of Leopold, Prince of Anhalt-Köthen. Bach composed the work as a "serenata" for the festival of New Year's Day 1719. 

The lyrics by Christian Friedrich Hunold, a scholarly at the University of Halle, appears as an exchange between two metaphorical figures, "Time" and "Awesome Providence", speaking to the past and future, individually. Bach set the words in eight developments comprising of rotating recitatives and arias, coming full circle in a choral finale. Most developments are two part harmonies of solo voices, an alto as "Divine Providence" and a tenor as "Time". Indeed, even the end development includes long two part harmony entries, prompting parts for four voices. The vocalists are upheld by an ornate instrumental group of two oboes, two violins, viola and continuo. The character of the music is near extravagant musical show, including French moves. 

Afterward, in Leipzig, Bach utilized the common cantata as the reason for a congregation cantata for the Third Day of Easter 1724, . In the underlying variant of the Easter cantata, he rolled out no improvements to the 1719 music other than to overlook two developments and supplant the content with words for the event, composed by an obscure creator. In an adjustment for exhibitions during the 1730s, he made new recitatives for the Easter messages and rolled out further improvements to the music. 

The cantata, composed for a particular event, has been performed and recorded once in a while, contrasted and other Bach cantatas. It has been utilized for complimentary occasions, for example, the 80th birthday celebration of Bach researcher Alfred Dürr, when the cantata title was picked as that of a worldwide meeting about sequence in Bach's music, on which Dürr had centered. 

Bach created in Köthen, where he served at the court of Leopold, Prince of Anhalt-Köthen, somewhere in the range of 1717 and 1723. Bach had before been utilized at the subordinate position of show ace at the Weimar court, presently was "Kapellmeister" in Köthen, coordinating a certified melodic outfit. 

The ruler was eager about music, was a decent bass vocalist, and played violin, viola da gamba and harpsichord. The court clung to the Reformed Church; in this manner, Bach had no commitment to form church music as he had in his before posts and later as "Thomaskantor" in Leipzig. In Köthen, he needed to compose cantatas just for the court's two common banquet days: the sovereign's birthday and New Year's Day. He composed as a salutary cantata for New Year's Day of 1719. 

Just couple of cantatas made due of the twelve that Bach is thought to have formed in his six years while in Köthen", including , made for the ruler's birthday, most likely in 1722. The tribute cantatas were executed as "serenatas" or evening serenades. Their style is like musical show of the period and incorporates move like music. 

"Pass on Zeit, kick the bucket Tag und Jahre macht" depends on words by Christian Friedrich Hunold, whose pseudonym was Menantes. A writer just as a librettist, Hunold educated at the University of Halle, about from Köthen. Bach teamed up with him on a few cantatas somewhere in the range of 1718 and 1720. Hunold distributed the content in the accumulation (Selected and incompletely never printed sonnets of various remarkable and dexterous men) in Halle in 1719. Different writings distributed by Hunold incorporate that of Bach's cantata , composed for the ruler's birthday on 10 December 1718. Actually "Paradise thought of Anhalt's brilliance and fortune", it has additionally been deciphered in a singable form as "Since Heaven Cared for Anhalt's Fame and Bliss". 

The content of the serenata , for the vast majority of the developments, describes a discourse between two figurative figures: "Time", speaking to the past, and "Divine Providence", speaking to what's to come. The music stayed in composition and, as a large portion of Bach's works, was not imprinted in his lifetime. Bach drove the principal execution of the cantata on 1 January 1719. 

Bach later utilized the mainstream cantata in Leipzig as a reason for the Easter cantata , which was first performed in the Nikolaikirche on 11 April 1724. In the main form of this Easter cantata, Bach rolled out no critical improvements to the music other than precluding the fifth and 6th developments. The new content, by an obscure artist, did not require melodic adjustment. Bach had the parts for the artists of the held developments replicated without content and included the new content himself, with minor changes to the music. The instrumental parts were usable without changes yet were copied for more entertainers. Maybe for absence of time, Bach oversaw just the main page of a score with the new content and most likely directed from the Köthen score. 

For another execution of the Easter cantata on 27 March 1731, Bach made changes to the music, including the arrangement of new recitatives for the 1724 content. He presumably utilized this reconsidered form again on 12 April 1735 and likely composed another score for this event. 

With the restoration of enthusiasm for Bach's music in the nineteenth century, Philipp Spitta, the creator of a three-volume account of Bach, found the printed content, making reproduction of the whole work conceivable. The editors of the Bach-Gesellschaft-Ausgabe, the primary complete release of the author's works, knew about the cantata and watched its relationship to BWV 134. In any case, the Bach-Gesellschaft-Ausgabe imprinted in 1881 just as a piece altered by Paul Waldersee. It is titled , which is a line from the main tenor aria. In 1963, the cantata was distributed in the "Neue Bach-Ausgabe" (NBA), the second total release of Bach's works, altered by Alfred Dürr, with a basic report the next year. 

The cantata is organized in eight developments, with exchanging recitatives and arias including generally two part harmonies, coming full circle in a last choral development. Bach scored the work for two soloists, alto as "Divine Providence" and tenor as "Time", a four-section choir (), and an elaborate instrumental group of two oboes (Ob), two violins (Vl), viola (Va) and basso continuo. The span is allowed as 41 minutes. 

In the accompanying table, the scoring pursues the ("New Bach Edition"). The keys and time marks are from Alfred Dürr and utilize the image for normal time. The continuo, played all through, isn't appeared. 

The cantata creates from an arrangement of rotating recitatives and arias to a last melody. This structure is like different cantatas Bach made in Köthen, yet it is not quite the same as the majority of his congregation cantatas, which start with a profound choral development and end with a four-section chorale. All recitatives and one aria are discoursed. The recitatives are secco recitatives, joined just by the continuo. Richard D. P. Jones takes note of that the music of the Köthen common cantatas is bottomless in two part harmonies in the soul of musical drama, with moves in Italian and French style. 

The cantata starts with a recitative for both solo, "Beyond words, pass on Tag und Jahre macht" (Time, which day and year doth make). It mirrors that Anhalt, the sovereign's area, was given numerous long stretches of gift previously. 

The second development is an aria for tenor, "Auf, Sterbliche, lasset ein Jauchzen ertönen" (Arise, humans, let your celebration reverberate), calling the general population to offer gratitude for the endowments. An obbligato oboe overwhelms the development. 

The following recitative for the two voices, "So bare, als dir kick the bucket Sternen hold, o höchstgepriesnes Fürstentum" (As soon as the stars were great to you, o exceptionally commended princedom), addresses Leopold, the ruler. 

The fourth development is a two part harmony aria, in which the soloists sing marginally extraordinary content. The alto as Divine Providence thinks about the future: "Es streiten, es siegen pass on künftigen Zeiten im Segen für dieses durchlauchtigste Haus." (The future occasions battle, they triumph in endowments for this distinguished house.) The tenor as Time takes a gander at the past: "Es streiten, es prangen kick the bucket vorigen Zeiten im Segen für dieses durchlauchtigste Haus." (The past occasions battle, they wonder in gifts for this renowned house.) Bach's instrumentation supplements the content well, join the development by the strings alone to coordinate the content "strings of the heart". The challenge of Time and Divine Providence is communicated in virtuoso singing and represented by figurations in the principal violins. 

The following recitative, again for the two voices, "Bedenke nur, beglücktes Land, wieviel ich dir in dieser Zeit gegeben" (Yet consider, blessed land, the amount I have given you as of now), gives a few insights concerning Leopold's characteristics and calls to petition God for further satisfaction. 

The second solo aria is for the alto, "Der Zeiten Herr cap viel vergnügte Stunden, du Götterhaus, dir annoch beigelegt" (The Lord of Ages has numerous cheerful hours, o authentic house, offered to you). Joined just by the continuo in ostinato intentions, it openly communicates the "" (congruity of the spirits). 

The last recitative is again for the two voices, "Hilf, Höchster, hilf, daß mich bite the dust Menschen preisen" (Help, o Highest, help, with the goal that all individuals acclaim me), and calls for perfect help to applaud God and petition God for further insurance. 

The cantata comes full circle in a choral development opening by the tenor's "" (Delight upon earth), trailed by the alto's "" (cheer on high), at that point all voices sing together in homophony "" (favored ages, convey satisfaction to this house). The example is rehashed two additional occasions, expanding in wealth. The center area is again begun by alto and tenor, yet this time together. With the accompanying words, "" (May they prosper, may they live), a fugal improvement of all voices starts, very like the opening melody of , a quick progression of the voices and a long melisma on the word , making energetic music. Alto and tenor begin a fugue twice progressively, singing progressively decorated lines on "" (most renowned spirits). Near the finish of the center segment all voices yell together the word (yell) twice, complemented by a following rest. At that point, the total initial segment is rehashed da capo. 

The enthusiastic finale in 3/8 time and with normal expressions, similar to the French gigue or passepied, is run of the mill of Bach's common cantatas in Köthen. He had composed music like this before in Weimar cantatas, for instance the opening of the cantata for Pentecost , and he would utilize it again in arrangements in Leipzig, both mainstream and consecrated. 

The accompanying table depends on the rundown at the Bach Cantatas site. While the determined Easter cantata was incorporated into the total chronicles of Bach's congregation cantatas by Nikolaus Harnoncourt and Gustav Leonhardt, Helmuth Rilling, Ton Koopman, Pieter Jan Leusink, John Eliot Gardiner and Masaaki Suzuki, the happy mainstream cantata committed to the particular event was recorded just a couple of times. In the table, troupes playing period instruments in generally educated exhibitions are demonstrated by a green foundation. 

The main chronicle was made in 1996, led by Wolfgang Unger, who had restored in 1992 the Leipziger Universitätsmusik, outfits framed by understudies and educators of the University of Leipzig. He combined the cantata with ""Die Freude reget sich", BWV 36b. 

Koopman recorded the cantata in 1998 as a feature of volume 10 of his total chronicles of Bach's congregation cantatas, joined with the Easter cantata dependent on it and with other church cantatas. 

In 2000, Rilling recorded, as volume 139 of Bach's cantatas, five "Complimentary and Hommage Cantatas", two of them out of the blue: "Angenehmes Wiederau" and "Schwingt freudig euch empor". 

In his 2011 account, Suzuki matched the cantata with the "Chasing Cantata" and the Sinfonia in F major, BWV 1046a/1, from an early form of the Brandenburg Concerto No. 1, with a similar scoring as the "Chasing Cantata". Commentator Parry-Ridout takes note of the "immaculateness of tone" of the alto, the "lavishness and articulation" of the tenor, and the virtuosity of both while contending in a two part harmony. 

The cantata was performed in 2011 to close the celebration Köthener Herbst in the Johann-Sebastian-Bach-Saal of Schloss Köthen. The program was Carl Friedrich Abel's Symphony No. 1, Bach's cantata "Durchlauchtster Leopold", BWV 173a, his "Brandenburg Concerto" No. 4, lastly "Kick the bucket Zeit, bite the dust Tag und Jahre macht", with soloists Veronika Winter, Franz Vitzthum, Immo Schröder and Matthias Vieweg, and the outfit Das Kleine Konzert, led by Hermann Max. 

In 1998, a worldwide musicological gathering was held in Göttingen, Germany, on the event of the 80th birthday celebration of Bach researcher Alfred Dürr, who had given his life to investigations of Bach's works and their sequence. It was titled "'Die Zeit, kick the bucket Tag und Jahre macht': zur Chronologie des Schaffens von Johann Sebastian Bach", and highlighted an open exhibition of the cantata. Expositions by the global musicologists who accumulated, for example, Hans-Joachim Schulze, Andreas Glöckner and Jean-Claude Zehnder, were distributed. The vast majority of them concentrated explicitly on the individual's field of ability in connection to Dürr's accomplishments. 

"From Bach Digital" 

"Books" 

"Online sources"