Seorsumuscardinus 

Seorsumuscardinus is a class of fossil dormice from the early Miocene of Europe. It is known from zone MN 4 (see MN zonation) in Oberdorf, Austria; Karydia, Greece; and Tägernaustrasse-Jona, Switzerland, and from zone MN 5 of every a solitary site at Affalterbach, Germany. The MN 4 records are put in the species S. alpinus and the sole MN 5 record is delegated the species S. bolligeri. The last was set in a different sort, "Heissigia", when it was first depicted in 2007, however it was renamed as a second types of "Seorsumuscardinus" in 2009. 

The two types of "Seorsumuscardinus" are known from detached teeth, which demonstrate that they were medium-sized dormice with level teeth. The teeth are all portrayed by long transverse peaks combined with shorter ones. One of these peaks, the anterotropid, recognizes the two species, as it is available in the lower molars of "S. alpinus", yet not in those of "S. bolligeri". Another peak, the centroloph, achieves the external edge of the main upper molar in "S. bolligeri", however not in "S. alpinus". "Seorsumuscardinus" might be identified with "Muscardinus", the sort of the living hazel dormouse, which shows up at about a similar time, and the more established "Glirudinus". 

In 1992, Thomas Bolliger portrayed a few teeth of "Seorsumuscardinus" from the Swiss territory of Tägernaustrasse (MN 4; early Miocene, see MN zonation) as a vague dormouse (family Gliridae) maybe identified with "Eomuscardinus". After six years, Hans de Bruijn named the new variety and species "Seorsumuscardinus alpinus" based on material from Oberdorf in Austria (additionally MN 4) and included fossils from Tägernaustrasse and from Karydia in Greece (MN 4) in "Seorsumuscardinus". In 2007, Jerome Prieto and Madeleine Böhme named "Heissigia bolligeri" as another class and species from Affalterbach in Bavaria (MN 5, more youthful than MN 4), and alluded the Tägernaustrasse material to it, however neglected to contrast their new variety with "Seorsumuscardinus". After two years, Prieto distributed a note to think about the two and reasoned that they were referable to similar family, however extraordinary species. Accordingly, the class "Seorsumuscardinus" presently incorporates the species "Seorsumuscardinus alpinus" from MN 4 and "S. bolligeri" from MN 5. Prieto temporarily set the Tägernaustrasse material with "S. alpinus". He additionally referenced "Pentaglis földváry", a name given to a solitary upper molar from the center Miocene of Hungary, which is currently lost. In spite of the fact that the example demonstrates a few similitudes with "Seorsumuscardinus", distributed outlines are too poor to even think about confirming the character of "Pentaglis", and Prieto believed the last name to be a unidentifiable "nomen dubium". 

In view of its determined and concentrated morphology, the connections of "Seorsumuscardinus" are dark. Be that as it may, it demonstrates a few similitudes with "Muscardinus", a sort which incorporates the living hazel dormouse, and may impart a typical progenitor to it, for example, the prior fossil family "Glirudinus". Every one of the three are a piece of the dormouse family, which incorporates numerous wiped out structures going back to the early Eocene (around 50 million years prior), just as a littler cluster of living species. The conventional name "Seorsumuscardinus" joins the Latin "seorsum", which signifies "unique", with "Muscardinus" and the particular name "alpinus" alludes to the event of "S. alpinus" near the Alps. "Heissigia" regarded scientist Kurt Heissig for his work in Bavaria on the event of his 65th birthday celebration and "bolligeri" praises Thomas Bolliger for his initial portrayal of material of this dormouse. 

Just the cheek teeth of "Seorsumuscardinus" are known; these incorporate the fourth premolar and three molars in the upper (maxilla) and lower jaws (mandible). The teeth are medium-sized for a dormouse and have a level occlusal (biting) surface. "S. bolligeri" is somewhat bigger than "S. alpinus". 

The fourth upper premolar (P4) has four primary, transversely set peaks; the portrayal of "S. bolligeri" specifies an extra, halfway set little peak. De Bruijn translated the four fundamental peaks as the anteroloph, protoloph, metaloph, and posteroloph from front to back and composed that these peaks are not associated on the sides of the tooth. Prieto and Böhme note that the posteroloph is raised on the back edge of the tooth. In "Muscardinus", the quantity of edges on P4 ranges from five in "Muscardinus sansaniensis" to two in "M. pliocaenicus" and the living hazel dormouse, yet the protoloph and metaloph are constantly associated on the lingual (internal) side of the tooth. P4 is two-established in "S. alpinus" and three-established in "S. bolligeri". 

The primary upper molar (M1) was portrayed as square by De Bruijn and as adjusted by Prieto and Böhme. There are five fundamental transverse peaks, which are for the most part confined, however some might be associated on the outskirts of the teeth. The center peak, the centroloph, spans to the labial (external) edge in the single known M1 of "S. bolligeri", however does not in any of the five M1 of "S. alpinus". The front peak, the anteroloph, is less unmistakable in "S. bolligeri" than most "S. alpinus", however one M1 of "S. alpinus" is like that of "S. bolligeri". M1 has three roots in "S. alpinus", yet the quantity of roots in "S. bolligeri" isn't known. 

Prieto and Böhme depict M2 as less adjusted than M1 and De Bruijn takes note of that the peaks are progressively parallel. Notwithstanding the five primary peaks, little peaks are available before and behind the centroloph that don't cover the full width of the tooth. In one "S. bolligeri" M2, there is a little peak on the lingual side before the centroloph, however such a peak does not happen in any "S. alpinus". Another M2 of "S. bolligeri" has this peak on the labial side. Then again, each of the five M2 of "S. alpinus" have a minor peak on the labial side behind the centroloph. In two M2 of "S. alpinus", the centroloph and the metaloph are associated by a longitudinal peak, which is never present in "S. bolligeri". There are three roots. 

M3 is known from a solitary example each from Oberdorf, Affalterbach, and Tägernaustrasse. Notwithstanding the primary peaks, there are a few extra littler peaks. The roots are obscure. 

The fourth lower premolar (p4) is known from an inadequately protected example from Oberdorf and a less worn example from Tägernaustrasse. There are four edges, of which the front and back pair are associated at the lingual side and in the Oberdorf example additionally at the labial side. This tooth is like that of "Muscardinus hispanicus", however the front pair is better created. There is one root. 

The principal lower molar (m1) bears four fundamental peaks and a littler one between the two peaks at the back. An extra peak (the anterotropid) is available between the two front peaks, the anterolophid and the metalophid, in "S. alpinus", yet not in "S. bolligeri". The occlusal example of m2 looks like that of m1. "S. bolligeri" likewise does not have an anterotropid on m2, yet the tooth isn't known from Oberdorf. In a ragged m2 from Tägernaustrasse, there is a thickened segment in the labial piece of the anterolophid, which Prieto translated as a remainder of the anterotropid; this drove him to recognize the Tägernaustrasse populace as "S." cf. "alpinus". Just Oberdorf has yielded the m3 of "Seorsumuscardinus". It takes after the m1 and has a short anterotropid, however has progressively slanted peaks. In "S. alpinus", the lower molars have two and once in a while three roots. The underlying foundations of the m1 of "S. bolligeri" are not saved and the m2 has two roots. 

In MN 4, "Seorsumuscardinus" has been recorded from Oberdorf, Austria (locales 3 and 4, which yielded 6 and 17 "Seorsumuscardinus alpinus" teeth, separately); Karydia, Greece ("S. alpinus"); and Tägernaustrasse, Switzerland (5 teeth; "S." cf. "alpinus"). Affalterbach, Germany, where 10 teeth of "S. bolligeri" were found, is the main known MN 5 region. In every one of these regions, it is a piece of a different dormouse fauna. Since the circulations of the two realized species are transiently unmistakable, Prieto proposed that the family might be valuable for biostratigraphy (the utilization of fossils to decide the time of stores). "Seorsumuscardinus" happened in the meantime as the most established known "Muscardinus".