2010 U.S. Open Cup Final 

The 2010 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Final was played on October 5, 2010, at Qwest Field (since renamed CenturyLink Field) in Seattle. The match decided the champ of the 2010 U.S. Open Cup, a competition open to novice and expert soccer crews associated with the United States Soccer Federation. This was the 97th release of the most established challenge in United States soccer. Seattle Sounders FC won the match, crushing the Columbus Crew 2– 1 before a sellout horde of 31,311, the most elevated participation at a U.S. Open Cup last. Kevin Burns scored first, giving the Columbus Crew an early lead. Sanna Nyassi then scored the two objectives for Seattle Sounders FC as it turned into the principal group since 1983 to win two successive U.S. Open Cup titles. 

Both the Columbus Crew and Seattle Sounders FC qualified consequently for the third round of the U.S. Open Cup competition by completing among the best six in the 2009 Major League Soccer season standings. The two clubs won three matches in the competition to progress to the last. Seattle won the offering procedure to have the last. 

Because of its U.S. Open Cup title, Sounders FC earned a billet in the primer round of the 2011– 12 CONCACAF Champions League, just as a $100,000 money prize. The Crew got the sprinter up prize of $50,000. 

The U.S. Open Cup is a yearly American soccer rivalry open to every single United State Soccer Federation associated groups, from beginner grown-up club groups to the expert clubs of Major League Soccer (MLS). The 2010 competition was the 97th version of the most established soccer competition in the United States. 

In 2010, MLS, which has groups that play in both the United States and Canada, was permitted to enter eight of its U.S.- based groups in the competition. The main six MLS groups from the past season's association table qualified consequently for the competition, while the staying two spots are dictated by fundamental capability matches. The eight MLS sections started play in the third round of the competition. In 2009, both Seattle Sounders FC and the Columbus Crew completed among the main six groups in MLS by and large association standings and thusly qualified consequently for the third round of the 2010 U.S. Open Cup. 

Preceding 2010 the Columbus Crew had been to the U.S. Open Cup last twice, in 1998 and again in 2002, winning the glass in the last appearance. On June 29, 2010, the Crew started the challenge in the third round, facilitating the Rochester Rhinos of the D2 Pro League at Columbus Crew Stadium in Columbus, Ohio before a horde of 1,760. The Crew's Andy Iro scored in the 30th moment by heading in a corner kick from partner Eddie Gaven. In the second half, Rochester leveled the score when substitute Darren Spicer scored from 17 yards out. The Rhinos' Alfonso Motagalvan was sent off in the 84th minute for an unsafe handle on Emilio Rentería, driving Rochester to play the last minutes of the amusement with 10 men. The score stayed level until the fourth moment of stoppage time, when Steven Lenhart scored with a volley over the onrushing goalkeeper to give Columbus the triumph. 

After seven days, on July 6, Columbus confronted the Charleston Battery of the USL Second Division in the U.S. Open Cup quarterfinals. The match was facilitated by Columbus, again at Crew Stadium before a horde of 1,847. In the 37th minute, Lenhart was fouled in the punishment zone while going for a cross and the arbitrator motioned for an extra shot. Rentería took the extra shot and drove a right-footed shot into the back of the net, making the score 1– 0. Columbus broadened its lead in the 70th moment through an objective from Lenhart, and again in the 87th minute when Gaven scored from a go from Emmanuel Ekpo. The Crew won 3– 0, gaining its first U.S. Open Cup elimination round appearance since 2002. 

On September 1, 2010, the Columbus Crew visited Washington, D.C. to confront MLS club D.C. Joined in the elimination round match at RFK Stadium before a horde of 3,411. Pablo Hernandez scored in the 17th minute on an extra shot to give D.C. an early lead which it nearly held for the triumph. Be that as it may, in the 89th minute D.C's. Marc Burch avoided a shot by Columbus' Iro into the net for a possess objective, tying the score and sending the match into additional time. In the 97th moment, the Crew's Lenhart spilled the ball into the 18-yard box and was stumbled by D.C. Joined's Carey Talley to draw a punishment. Guillermo Barros Schelotto took the extra shot and scored the triumphant objective. The 2– 1 last score verified the Crew's spot in the last. 

Seattle won the 2009 U.S. Open Cup—the second MLS development club to do as such in its debut season after the Chicago Fire in 1998. Before the last, Sounders FC played U.S. Open Cup home amusements at the Starfire Sports Complex in Tukwila, Washington. The office is littler than the club's home arena for class matches, Qwest Field, however Sounders FC delegates favored the climate at Starfire for littler container matches. 

On June 30, 2010, Seattle started the resistance of its title in a match facilitated by the Portland Timbers of the D2 Pro League in Portland, Oregon, at PGE Park before a horde of 15,422. Sounders FC led the pack in the 13th minute on a header from Nate Jaqua, however the Timbers leveled the score in the 38th minute when Bright Dike scored on a shot from inside the punishment zone. The score was 1– 1 at halftime, and remained that route through full-time and additional time. Seattle at long last vanquished Portland in a 4– 3 punishment shootout with goalkeeper Kasey Keller making two recoveries and protector Zach Scott scoring the triumphant extra shot. 

Sounders FC facilitated its quarterfinal coordinate seven days after the fact on July 7 against a MLS club, the Los Angeles Galaxy, at Starfire Sports Complex before a sellout horde of 4,512. Seattle forward Jaqua again drove the assault scoring two objectives in the second half. The first came in the 50th minute when he took in a bounce back off the crossbar and the second came in the 62nd minute off a cross from Miguel Montaño. Seattle won 2– 0. Sounders FC's save goalkeeper Terry Boss likewise made two spares in his first begin for the group. 

On September 1, 2010, Seattle facilitated its elimination round match against another MLS club, Chivas USA. Like the quarterfinal, it was facilitated at Starfire with a sellout horde of 4,547. Jaqua picked up Seattle an early lead in the 10th minute off a Steve Zakuani cross. Zakuani was included again in the 58th minute, this time intersection to a jumping Fredy Montero who expanded the lead to two. Chivas USA's Jesús Padilla scored in the 68th minute on a through ball from Justin Braun slicing the shortfall to one. Notwithstanding, in second half stoppage time, Jaqua scored again making the score 3– 1 and fixing the Sounders FC triumph and an appearance in the competition last. Jaqua's two objectives raised his aggregate to five in the competition. Zakuani, who had quite recently come back from pelvic strain damage, had two aids the match. 

On August 26, 2010, U.S. Soccer reported the potential destinations for the last, contingent upon the result of the elimination rounds. It was resolved that if Seattle fit the bill for the last, they would have it at Qwest Field paying little respect to the adversary. In the event that Chivas USA crushed Sounders FC in the elimination rounds, they would have the Columbus Crew at The Home Depot Center in Carson, California, or visit D.C. Joined at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C., contingent upon the result of the other elimination round match. Since Columbus and Seattle progressed from the elimination rounds, the last was held at Qwest Field in Seattle. This was the first U.S. Open Cup last to be played in the province of Washington. 

Columbus general director Mark McCullers communicated worries about the decency of the booking since he guaranteed it would be troublesome for the Crew to venture out toward the West Coast on October 5 and afterward come back to Chicago three days after the fact for a group coordinate. Group head mentor Robert Warzycha additionally grumbled about the planning saying, "You make it to a last, however you need to go to Seattle on Sunday in the wake of playing a home diversion on Saturday... You must fly throughout the day, play on the (fake) turf on Tuesday and after that you go play an essential MLS amusement in Chicago on Friday. Fantastic." 

A year after an open contention among Seattle and D.C. Joined responsibility for decency of the offering procedure to have the 2009 U.S. Open Cup Final—which D.C. Joined facilitated—Sounders FC was fruitful in its offered to have the 2010 last. For the 2009 last, D.C. Joined drew a participation of 17,329 through broad promoting endeavors. Seattle started pitching tickets to the 2010 last on September 7 and inside six days 22,000 had just been sold. 

In 2010, before meeting in the U.S. Open Cup last, Sounders FC and the Crew met twice in MLS association matches. The first was played on May 1 at Qwest Field and completed in a 1– 1 draw. 

The second gathering between the two groups was played on September 18, just 17 days before the Open Cup last, at Crew Stadium. Seattle won by a persuading scoreline of 4– 0. Concerning score of the last gathering, Sounders FC mentor Sigi Schmid expressed, "I don't think the contrast between the two groups is four objectives despite the fact that that was the score." Discussing the trouble of going into Seattle for the last, Crew forward Barros Schelotto remarked, "The field is for Seattle. The arena is for Seattle. Everything is for Seattle. In any case, that does not make a difference. We have the last. We have 90 minutes to win a trophy. Nothing is progressively critical." 

In the weeks paving the way to the match, Seattle Sounders FC was on a six-amusement home unbeaten streak. Be that as it may, in the last match before the last (an association coordinate triumph over Toronto FC) goalkeeper Keller permitted an objective, finishing his three-diversion shutout streak. The Columbus Crew came into the last not having won a class coordinate in the earlier month, in spite of the fact that their last match was a 0– 0 draw with the San Jose Earthquakes on October 2. 

Since MLS groups started taking an interest in the competition in 1996, the home group had won multiple times and lost three in the U.S. Open Cup last preceding 2011. The 2003 Chicago Fire, 2007 New England Revolution and 2009 Seattle Sounders FC were the main away groups to win a last. 

The 2010 U.S. Open Cup Final was played on October 5 at Qwest Field in Seattle, Washington. Live TV inclusion was given broadly by Fox Soccer Channel. Before kickoff, Seattle's 2009 U.S. Open Cup trophy was shown at midfield. The last drew a participation of 31,311 outperforming the 81-year-old record for the occasion. The past record participation for an Open Cup last was 21,583, set in 1929 when New York Hakoah vanquished the Madison Kennel Club of St. Louis. 

The two clubs began for the most part their first-cooperative people for the last. Costa Rican Leonardo González, a standard starter at left back for Sounders FC, was inaccessible due to U.S. Open Cup list restrictions, which enable groups to have just five remote players on their 18-man, amusement day program. Safeguard Tyson Wahl began in his place. Group reinforcement goalkeeper Andy Gruenebaum additionally began instead of ordinary starter Will Hesmer, however this was a typical change for U.S. Open Cup and CONCACAF Champions League matches. Each club was sorted out in a 4– 2 development at kickoff. 

Seattle had the vast majority of the early scoring chances. Two minutes into the match, Montero took the primary shot of the diversion with a header at short proximity which was spared by Crew goalkeeper Gruenebaum. Seconds after the fact, Montero had another shot from separation which went right over the bar. After four minutes, Seattle midfielder Zakuani got around Crew safeguard Frankie Hejduk and passed the ball to Blaise Nkufo whose tap-in endeavor was spared by Gruenbaum. In the 12th minute, Gaven took the Crew's initially shot of the match yet it flew high over the crossbar. In the 16th minute Zakuani had a kept running up the center before going to Montero, whose shot was again spared by Gruenbaum. Columbus effectively guarded crosses from Zakuani and Nkufo in the 18th minute and shielded Seattle from getting a shot off. Columbus almost led the pack in the 20th minute as Emmanuel Ekpo got behind the barrier and made a brisk go back to Gaven, who missed a wide-open shot over the bar. 

While Seattle controlled the diversion for a significant part of the primary half, Columbus led the pack on a counterattack development in the 24th minute. The play created on the correct side when Hejduk made a low go to Lenhart from a forward position. Lenhart contacted the ball to Kevin Burns for a low shot inside the far post for an objective. Barely any odds were made after the objective as Columbus' solid cautious play held off Seattle's assaults. In the 34th minute Tyson Wahl crossed the ball into the crate however Gruenbaum had the capacity to bounce and snatch the ball before Nkufo could guide it towards objective with his head. 

Seattle evened out in the 38th minute. Montero go to Tyson Wahl, who crossed the ball into the 18-yard-box, where Crew goalkeeper Gruenebaum dithered on the best way to deal with the ball. He thumped it away, and it tumbled to Nathan Sturgis, who passed the ball between the legs of Gaven to discover colleague Sanna Nyassi 18 yards out. Nyassi turned on the ball and shot it past Gruenebaum, who was still out of position. Following the objective couple of scoring openings were made before halftime. Following one moment of stoppage time, the primary half finished with a tie score, 1– 1. 

Columbus Crew midfielder Kevin Burns remarked in the group's mentality after the principal half, "We were OK at halftime. Our heads weren't down." No substitutions were made as the groups came back to the field for the second half. 

Notwithstanding Seattle's proceeded with control of the rhythm of ongoing interaction right off the bat in the second half, they were unfit to make many scoring openings. In the 58th minute James Riley was distant from everyone else on the edge of the punishment territory subsequent to accepting a go from Montero. In any case, Riley's cross was avoided for a corner kick. After two minutes Seattle's Zakuani made a scoring danger when he got an aeronautical go into the punishment territory, however Crew goalkeeper Gruenebaum rushed to get to the play causing Zakuani to tumble down and the ball to bob away before being cleared by Columbus. In the 64th minute, Kasey Keller made a plunging recovery to prevent Gaven's shot from 30 yards out, his fourth shot on objective in the amusement. After two minutes, the score line at long last changed as Seattle finished 18 back to back passes. Montero got open on the correct side of the field to get the nineteenth and after that crossed a ball into the punishment region. Gruenebaum chose not to pursue the go as Zakuani kept running within Crew safeguard Hejduk and headed a shot that hit the crossbar. The Crew safeguards neglected to clear the ball before Nyassi kept running in and effectively scored the approval objective. 

Zakuani was again on the assault in the 75th minute with a once-over the center, however was "sandwiched" by two Columbus safeguards and lost belonging. Columbus made two substitutions in the 78th minute, expediting crisp legs at forward with Rentería in for Lenhart and swapping midfielder Burns out for forward Andrés Mendoza. Soon after the substitutions, Keller turned out to snatch a Columbus cross and made a long toss to Montero. Seattle pushed up the field and Montero made a go which skiped off partner Nkufo's back. In the 81st minute, Crew mentor Warzycha made his last substitution expediting Robbie Rogers for Gaven. Soon after, in the 85th minute, Columbus almost evened out when Rogers got a go from Hejduk and made a go which skiped hard off the crossbar. 

Seattle made its first substitution in the 79th minute when Sanna Nyassi left the field to an applause from the group as he was supplanted by Álvaro Fernández. In the 87th minute, Zakuani ran free on a breakaway however was brought somewhere around Crew forward Barros Schelotto who got a yellow card for the foul. Montero took the following free kick and shot it on objective with Gruenebaum getting it for the spare. 

The official included three minutes of stoppage time to the second half. Amid that time, Seattle made its staying two substitutions. First in the 90th minute Roger Levesque was expedited for Zakuani, and afterward in the 93rd minute they expedited Jaqua for Montero. The arbitrator blew his whistle finishing the diversion presently. A large portion of the fans in participation stayed after the amusement for the introduction of the trophy. 

Sounders FC head mentor Sigi Schmid talked about the match in the post-diversion public interview saying: 

Seattle Sounders FC is the principal MLS club to rehash as the U.S. Open Cup champion and the main club generally to rehash since the New York Pancyprian-Freedoms did as such in 1982 and 1983. The triumph was additionally Sigi Schmid's third Open Cup title as a head mentor. Sanna Nyassi was the primary player to score various objectives in an Open Cup last since Mike Deleray in 1994. As bosses of the competition, Sounders FC got the $100,000 money prize while the Columbus Crew got $50,000 as the sprinter up. Seattle additionally earned a billet into the primer round of the 2011– 12 CONCACAF Champions League.