2012 Tour de France 

The 2012 Tour de France was the 99th release of the Tour de France, one of cycling's Grand Tours. It began in the Belgian city of Liège on 30 June and completed on the Champs-Élysées in Paris on 22 July. The Tour comprised of 21 phases, including an opening preamble, and secured an all out separation of . Just as the preface, the initial two phases occurred in Belgium, and one phase completed in Switzerland. Bradley Wiggins () won the general order, and turned into the principal British rider to win the Tour. Wiggins' partner Chris Froome set second, and Vincenzo Nibali () was third. 

The general grouping pioneer's yellow pullover was worn for the primary week by Fabian Cancellara (), who won the preface. Wiggins, second in the introduction, took the initiative of the race in front of an audience seven, the primary rugged stage, which was won by Froome, and kept up his lead for the rest of the race, winning the two longest time preliminaries, and not losing time to his principle challengers for the general title in the mountains. Froome came next in both the long time preliminaries, and was close by Wiggins on the sloping stages. 

The focuses characterization was won by Nibali's colleague Peter Sagan, who won three phases. André Greipel of and rider Mark Cavendish additionally won three phases. 's Thomas Voeckler, champ of two mountain stages, won the mountains grouping. 's Tejay van Garderen, in fifth spot generally speaking, won the youthful rider grouping. The group order was won by , and Chris Anker Sørensen () was given the honor for the most contentious rider. 

The 2012 version of the Tour de France comprised of 22 groups. Each of the eighteen UCI ProTeams were entitled, and obliged, to enter the race. On 6 April 2012, the coordinator of the Tour, Amaury Sport Organization (ASO), declared the four second-level UCI Professional Continental groups given special case solicitations, of which three were French-based (, and ) and one was Dutch (). The introduction of the teams – where the individuals from each group's program are presented before the media and nearby dignitaries – occurred outside the Prince-Bishops' Palace in Liège, Belgium, on 28 June, two days before the opening stage held in the city. 

Every squad was permitted a limit of nine riders, bringing about a begin list aggregate of 198 riders. Of these, 35 were riding the Tour de France out of the blue. The absolute number of riders that completed the race was 153. The riders originated from 31 nations; France, Spain, Netherlands, Italy, Belgium, Germany and Australia all had at least 12 riders in the race. Riders from six nations won stages amid the race; British riders won the biggest number of stages, with seven. The normal time of riders in the race was 30.17 years, going from the 22-year-old Thibaut Pinot () to the 40-year-old Jens Voigt (). The cyclists had the most youthful normal age while cyclists had the most seasoned. 

The groups entering the race were: 

UCI ProTeams 

UCI Professional Continental groups 

As per numerous eyewitnesses before the race the most loved for the general grouping was Bradley Wiggins. His nearest equals were believed to be Cadel Evans () and Vincenzo Nibali (). Alberto Contador, the victor of both the 2007 Tour and 2009 Tour, was serving a doping suspension and did not race in the 2012 Tour. Andy Schleck, who completed second in the 2010 Tour (later elevated to the champ after Contador's outcome was revoked in February 2012) and 2011 Tour, was not ready to recoup from damage endured in the Critérium du Dauphiné. Different riders considered contenders for the general grouping were Ryder Hesjedal (), Fränk Schleck (), Samuel Sánchez (), Jurgen Van nook Broeck (), Tony Martin (), Denis Menchov (), Levi Leipheimer (), Alejandro Valverde () and Robert Gesink (). 

Before the 2012 Tour, Wiggins' most astounding completions in a Grand Tour were third in the 2011 Vuelta an España and fourth in the 2009 Tour (later elevated to third after Lance Armstrong's outcome was repealed in October 2012). Wiggins had demonstrated his structure in the number one spot up to the Tour by winning the general orders in three phase races in the 2012 season: the Paris– Nice, the Tour de Romandie and the Dauphiné. As a period trialist, Wiggins was believed to be the rider most fit to the race's course. The 2011 Tour victor Evans returned from a disease before in the season to win the two-day Critérium International and spot third at the Dauphiné. The 2010 Vuelta an España victor Nibali had demonstrated his structure ahead of the pack up to the Tour by winning the Tirreno– Adriatico arrange race. 

The sprinters thought about top picks for the focuses order and wins in pack dash completes were Mark Cavendish (), André Greipel (), Matthew Goss (), Peter Sagan () and Marcel Kittel (). Cavendish, the world street race champion and protecting focuses order victor, did not have the full help of as he did in the 2011 Tour with the group; 's center was around Wiggins' general arrangement desire. He had won the four-arrange race Ster ZLM Toer thirteen days before the beginning of the Tour. Greipel, who had the full support of his group, had demonstrated his structure in the season with thirteen triumphs up to the Tour. Goss was underdog to Cavendish at the big showdowns and was the new dash pioneer of his group, despite the fact that he had just a single win in the year up to the Tour. Sagan was equivalent in wins with Greipel with thirteen, of which five came in the Tour of California and four in the Tour de Suisse. Kittel won two phases in both the Tour of Oman and Ster ZLM Toer. 

On 29 October 2010, the ASO reported that Liège would have the 2012 release's opening race stages (known as the "Terrific Départ"). Further subtleties of the initial three phases held in Belgium were discharged at an occasion at the city's Prince-Bishops' Palace on 18 November. Liège, which had likewise facilitated the 2004 "Thousand Départ", turned into the main city outside France to have the "Amazing Départ" twice. The whole course of the race was incidentally distributed on the ASO site on 10 October 2011, eight days before the official introduction at the Palais des Congrès in Paris. At the occasion, the race executive, Christian Prudhomme, stated, "It's a Tour intended to enlarge the conceivable outcomes". The course was noted as being creative when contrasted with late years, with less high height organize completions, and to a greater degree an emphasis on medium mountain stages and individual time preliminaries. Because of a conflict with the beginning of the Olympics toward the finish of July, the Tour started seven days sooner than expected. 

After the opening introduction in Liège, organize one remaining the city with the completion in Seraing. The second stage occurred between Visé to Tournai. The race at that point moved into north-west France, with the third stage finishing off with the waterfront city of Boulogne-sur-Mer, before the fourth finished in Rouen, and the fifth in Saint-Quentin. Stage six took the race east, with the seventh completion in the Vosges Mountains. Stage eight at that point entered the Jura Mountains, with the completion in Porrentruy, Switzerland. An arrival to France saw the following stage occur between Arc-et-Senans to Besançon. The following stages, ten and eleven, went into the Alps, and stages twelve and thirteen brought the Tour down to the Mediterranean coast at Cap d'Agde. Stage fourteen moved the race into the east of Pyrenees, before a transitional stage taking it toward the western side of the mountains for the following two phases. Stage eighteen was held between Blagnac to Brive-la-Gaillarde in the south of the nation, before a long exchange returned the race toward the north-east for two further stages, with the completion on the Champs-Élysées in Paris. 

There were 21 arranges in the race, covering an all out separation of , shorter than the 2011 Tour. The longest mass-begin organize was the twelfth at , and stage 21 was the most limited at . The race highlighted double the time trialing separation of the past Tour, a sum of , with the preface, arrange nine and stage nineteen. Of the rest of the stages, nine were formally delegated level, four as medium mountain and five as high mountain. There were three summit completes: organize 7, to La Planche des Belles Filles; arrange 11, to La Toussuire-Les Sybelles; and stage 17, to Peyragudes. The Col du Grand Colombier, in the Alps, was incorporated out of the blue, and was among six "hors catégorie" (English: past classification) appraised moves in the race. The most astounding purpose of the race was the - high Col du Tourmalet mountain pass in front of an audience sixteen. There were nine new stage begin or completion areas. The rest days were after stage nine, in Mâcon, and fifteen, in Pau. 

The opening preface arrange in Liège was won by 's Fabian Cancellara. Bradley Wiggins and Sylvain Chavanel () put second and third individually, both seven seconds falling behind financially, with Wiggins partially quicker. Cancellara guaranteed the yellow shirt as pioneer of the general arrangement and the green pullover as pioneer of the focuses characterization. In stage one, an expansive gathering of riders achieved the last trip, the Côte de Seraing. Cancellara assaulted from the completion, trailed by Peter Sagan and Edvald Boasson Hagen (), before Sagan won the three-man run complete at the summit. Michael Mørkøv of took the principal spotted shirt as pioneer of the mountains order. The following stage was won by Mark Cavendish from a group dash complete in Tournai, Belgium, with Sagan taking the green pullover. Stage three, the first in France, saw Sagan win once more, crossing the end goal with an agreeable edge on the short steep move in Boulogne-sur-Mer. The fourth stage finished with a bundle dash which was won by André Greipel. An accident with remaining removed Cavendish from conflict for the stage win. Another bundle complete happened on the following stage, with Greipel triumphant once more. The 6th stage was won by Sagan in another group run. 

In stage seven, the first at height, the remainder of the day's breakaway riders were gotten with staying, on the last move to La Planche des Belles Filles. A select gathering of five – Wiggins and his countryman and partner Chris Froome, Cadel Evans, Vincenzo Nibali and Rein Taaramäe () – then pulled clear in the last kilometer. Evans assaulted before Froome countered and proceeded to win the stage and take the spotted shirt. Cancellara lost very nearly two minutes on the day and surrendered the yellow shirt to Wiggins, who turned into the fifth British rider to wear the pullover. The eighth stage saw breakaway rider Thibaut Pinot assault a diminished break on the last ascension, the Col de la Croix, and solo to the completion in Porrentruy, Switzerland, taking the triumph by edge of 26 seconds. Breakaway rider Fredrik Kessiakoff () took the spotted pullover. Stage nine's individual time preliminary was won by Wiggins, with Froome 35 seconds down in second and Cancellara a further 22 seconds behind in third. Froome climbed to third generally speaking. The following day was the primary rest day of the Tour. 

The tenth stage was the principal named bumpy. The Col du Grand Colombier broke separated a 25-rider breakaway, leaving a little gathering to challenge the completion at Bellegarde-sur-Valserine; Thomas Voeckler () guaranteed the stage win and the spotted shirt. Another mountain organize pursued the following day, which again observed a huge breakaway. The break crossed the two "hors catégorie" climbs – the Col de la Madeleine and the Col de la Croix de Fer – before being gotten by the pursuing gathering, which contained the general contenders. Various assaults pursued, until 's Pierre Rolland got away with to go and took the success at the Les Sybelles ski resort. The gathering of in general contenders pursued 55 seconds after the fact. Evans was not in the main contenders gathering and, because of the time lost, he dropped from second to fourth by and large, more than three minutes falling behind financially. Kessiakoff reclaimed the lead of the mountains characterization. In stage twelve, an extensive breakaway framed in, before later diminishing to five riders over the Col du Granier. They remained together until the completion, where, with a kilometer remaining, David Millar () got away to take triumph, intently pursued by Jean-Christophe Péraud (). The following stage completed with a bundle run won by Greipel, with Sagan second. 

In the principal arrange in the Pyrenees, the fourteenth stage in general, a vast breakaway got away in, and at one point amassed a lead of fifteen minutes. Of the five residual riders from the last move of Mur de Péguère, Luis León Sánchez of assaulted on a climb with remaining and soloed to the completion in Foix. As the peloton (the primary gathering) passed the Mur de Péguère, an extensive number of riders endured tire punctures; it was later found that the race course had been subverted with rug tacks. Evans held up over a moment to get a substitution wheel, at that point had a further two punctures on the drop. As a demonstration of sportsmanship Wiggins then constrained the peloton to trust that Evans will come back to the gathering. The following stage went through the lower regions of the Pyrenees. A five-rider breakaway made it to the completion in Pau, where with to go, Christian Vande Velde () and Pierrick Fédrigo () got away with Fédrigo winning the run completion between the two cyclists. The next day was the Tour's second rest day. 

In the sixteenth stage, the race entered the high mountains with the ruler arrange crossing two "hors catégorie" climbs – the Col d'Aubisque and the Col du Tourmalet – pursued by the main class trips of the Col d'Aspin and the Col de Peyresourde, finishing the alleged "Hover of Death". A 38-rider breakaway crossed the Aubisque, before cracking on the Tourmalet. Voeckler assaulted on the Peyresourde and made that big appearance win with an edge of one moment and forty seconds. Voeckler's stage triumph and most extreme focuses over all summits place him ahead of the pack of the mountains order. Wiggins, Froome and Nibali came in seven minutes after Voeckler, while Evans lost right around five minutes to the trio, tumbling from fourth to seventh in the general characterization. In the last stage in the Pyrenees, the seventeenth, after various assaults on the main gathering containing the general contenders, Alejandro Valverde moved clear over the "hors categorie" Port de Balès. He held his lead to the summit complete at the Peyragudes ski resort. In the gathering behind, Wiggins and Froome assaulted their adversaries to complete nineteen seconds after the fact. Nibali came in seventh, a further eighteen seconds down. In the accompanying stage, six riders from a breakaway were gotten on the completing straight in Brive-la-Gaillarde by the leader of the pursuing peloton, with Cavendish taking the triumph in front of Matthew Goss and Sagan separately. Wiggins verified the general characterization in the penultimate stage's individual time preliminary. Froome set second, one moment and sixteen seconds financially past due, with Sánchez a further 34 seconds behind in third. 

In the last stage, Cavendish won his fourth successive Champs-Élysées organize, to record his third stage win of the race. Wiggins completed the race to turn into the primary British rider to win the Tour de France. Wiggins completed 3 min 21 s clear of comrade and colleague Froome. Nibali put third at 6 min 19 s behind Wiggins. Sagan won the focuses characterization with an aggregate of 421, 141 in front of Greipel in second. Voeckler won the mountains order with 135 points, 12 in front of second-set Kessiakoff. The best youthful rider was rider Tejay van Garderen, who was trailed by Pinot and Steven Kruijswijk () in second and third separately. completed as the champs of the group arrangement, more than 5 min 46 s in front of second-put . 

Amid the race's first rest day, the group inn of the squad, in Bourg-en-Bresse, was sought by French police and gendarmerie. One of the group's riders in the Tour, Rémy Di Gregorio, was captured in connection to a progressing hostile to doping case, and was promptly suspended by the French group, despite the fact that the case had been open since 2011, when Di Gregorio was an individual from the group. The second rest day was set apart by a positive medications test by Fränk Schleck, the third-put rider from the 2011 Tour. Schleck was pulled back from the race by his group after hints of xipamide, a prohibited sulfonamide diuretic sedate, were found in the An example of his pee; the nearness of xipamide was later affirmed by the B-test. In this manner, in January 2013, he was allowed a one-year boycott by the Luxembourg Anti-Doping Agency. In July 2014, Denis Menchov was retroactively precluded from the race by cycling's administering body, "Association Cycliste Internationale", for "irregularities in his organic identification". 

There were four primary individual orders challenged in the 2012 Tour de France, just as a group rivalry. The most imperative was the general order, which was determined by including every rider's completing occasions each stage. There were no time rewards given toward the finish of stages for this release of the Tour. On the off chance that an accident had occurred inside the last of a phase, excluding time preliminaries and summit completes, the riders included would have gotten a similar time as the gathering they were in when the accident happened. The rider with the least total time was the victor of the general arrangement and was viewed as the general champ of the Tour. The rider driving the order wore a yellow pullover. 

The second order was the focuses arrangement. Riders got focuses for completing in the main fifteen positions in a phase complete, or in moderate dashes amid the stage. The focuses accessible for each stage complete were controlled by the stage's sort. The level stage completes granted a limit of 45, the medium mountain stages granted a limit of 30 points, and the high mountain stages, time preliminaries and halfway runs granted a limit of 20. The pioneer was recognized by a green shirt. 

The third characterization was the mountains arrangement. Most phases of the race included at least one ordered ascensions, in which indicates were granted the riders that achieved the summit first. The ascensions were ordered as fourth-, third-, second-or first-class and "hors catégorie", with the more troublesome trips appraised lower. Fourth-classification granted 1 rider with 1 point; third-class granted 2 riders, the first with 2; second-class granted 4 riders, the first with 5 points; and first-class granted 6 riders, the first with 10 points; and "hors catégorie" granted ten riders, the first with 25. Twofold focuses were granted on the summit completes on stages 1, 11 and 20. The pioneer wore a white pullover with red polka dabs. 

The last individual characterization was the youthful rider grouping. This was determined a similar path as the general arrangement, yet the characterization was confined to riders who were conceived on or after 1 January 1987. The pioneer wore a white shirt. 

The last grouping was a group characterization. This was determined utilizing the completing occasions of the best three riders for every group on each stage; the main group was the group with the most reduced combined time. The quantity of stage triumphs and placings per group decided the result of a tie. The riders in the group that lead this characterization were related to yellow number napkins on the back of their shirts and, for first the time in the Tour's history, wore yellow caps. 

Furthermore, there was a combativity grant given after each phase to the rider considered, by a jury, to have "endeavored and who has shown the best characteristics of sportsmanship". No combativity grants were given for the preamble, the time preliminaries and the last stage. The victor wore a red number face cloth the accompanying stage. At the finish of the Tour, Chris Anker Sørensen () won the general super-combativity grant, once more, chosen by a jury. 

An aggregate of €2,414,246 was granted in real money prizes in the race. The general victor of the general order got €450,000, with the second and third put riders getting €200,000 and €100,000 individually. All finishers of the race were granted cash. The holders of the arrangements profited on each stage they drove; the last victors of the focuses and mountains characterizations were given €25,000, while the best youthful rider and most aggressive rider got €20,000. The group order victors were given €50,000. There were additionally two extraordinary honors each with a prize of €5,000, the Souvenir Henri Desgrange, given to the main rider to pass the summit of the Col de la Croix de Fer in stage eleven, and the Souvenir Jacques Goddet, given to the principal rider to pass Goddet's dedication at the summit of the Col du Tourmalet in stage sixteen. Pierre Rolland won the Henri Desgrange and Thomas Voeckler won the Jacques Goddet. 

The race was the eighteenth of the 29 occasions in the UCI World Tour, with riders from the ProTeams contending exclusively for focuses that contributed towards the rankings. Focuses were granted to the best twenty finishers in the general grouping and to the main five finishers in each stage. Wiggins moved into the lead of the individual positioning, with Joaquim Rodríguez dropping to second. The focuses accumulated by Chris Froome moved him from 52nd to sixth. held their lead in the group positioning, in front of second-place . Spain stayed as the pioneers of the countries positioning, with Italy second.