Composition (Reger) 

Max Reger's 1915 Requiem (or the Hebbel Requiem), , is a late Romantic setting of Friedrich Hebbel's sonnet "Composition" for alto or baritone solo, melody and ensemble. It is Reger's last finished work for ensemble and symphony, devoted in the signature as " (To the memory of the German legends who fell in the 1914/15 War). 

Reger had created Requiem settings previously: his 1912 motet for male melody, distributed as the last piece of his , utilizes a similar lyric, and in 1914 he set out to form a choral work in memory of the casualties of the Great War. The setting is of the Latin Requiem, the Catholic administration for the dead, however the work remained a section and was in the end assigned the " (Latin Requiem), . 

The "Hebbel Requiem" was distributed by N. Simrock in 1916, after the arranger's passing, with another choral organization, ' ("The Hermit"), , to a lyric by Joseph von Eichendorff. That distribution was titled ' (Two melodies for blended ensemble with symphony), . Reger gave a piano interpretation of the symphonic parts. Max Beckschäfer orchestrated the work for voice, melody and organ in 1985. The "Hebbel Requiem" was first performed in Heidelberg on 16July 1916 as a feature of a commemoration show for Reger, led by Philipp Wolfrum. 

Reger thought the "Hebbel Requiem" was "among the most lovely things" he at any point composed. It has been depicted as of "expressive excellence, a sensational minimization, and [of] economy of melodic signifies" in which the arranger's "authority of motivation, procedure, and material is obvious". 

Reger was a German writer, conceived in Brand in 1873 and brought up in Weiden in der Oberpfalz. He examined music hypothesis from April to July 1890 with Hugo Riemann at the illustrious studio in Sondershausen and proceeded with his examinations, in piano and hypothesis, at the Wiesbaden Conservatory starting in September of that year. He built up himself as a console author, entertainer, and instructor of piano and organ. The principal organizations to which he appointed creation numbers were orchestral compositions. In 1891 he created his "Sechs Lieder", Op. 4, a gathering of six tunes. The first, "" (Prayer), was on a content by Friedrich Hebbel, who additionally composed the sonnet on which two of Reger's Requiem settings are based. 

Reger came back to his parental home in 1898, where he created his first work for choir and symphony, "" (Hymn to tune), Op. 21. He moved to Munich in 1901. Salary from distributers, shows and private instructing empowered him to wed in 1902. His better half, Elsa vonBercken, was a separated from Protestant, and accordingly he was banished from the Catholic Church. In 1907 he was named melodic chief at Leipzig University and educator at the Royal Conservatory in Leipzig. 

In 1911 Reger was delegated "Hofkapellmeister" (music chief) at the court of Duke Georg II of Saxe-Meiningen, while holding his scholarly obligations at the Leipzig studio. In 1912 he set Hebbel's sonnet "Composition" as a motet for unaccompanied male choir, which was distributed as No.10 of his gathering Op. 83. In 1913 he created four tone ballads on canvases by Arnold Böcklin ("Vier Tondichtungen nach A. Böcklin"), including the artistic creation "Kick the bucket Toteninsel" (""Isle of the Dead""), as his Op. 128. He surrendered the court position in 1914 for wellbeing reasons. That year, in light of the World War, he set out to create a choral work to honor the officers who had kicked the bucket or were mortally injured. He started to set the Latin Requiem yet deserted the work as a piece. In 1915 he moved to Jena however kept educating in Leipzig. In Jena, he formed the "Hebbel Requiem" for soloist, choir and ensemble, Op.144b, again on Hebbel's lyric, as in the setting for men's chorale. Following an entire day of educating in Leipzig, Reger passed on of a heart assault while remaining at an inn there on 11May 1916. 

In 1840 the writer Friedrich Hebbel composed a lyric in German titled "Composition", its Latin title implying "" (endless rest), the principal expressions of the Mass for the Dead. The lyric opens with a punctuation to a "spirit" in a request, "" (Soul, overlook them not, soul, overlook not the dead). These words seem to resound different hymns, for example, , "Favor the Lord, O my spirit". Hebbel, in any case, inspires an "everlasting rest" that is particularly non-religious: the sonnet offers no supernatural reference, Christian or something else, yet calls for recognition as the best way to keep the dead alive. The primary lines, in which the speaker calls upon the spirit not to overlook the dead, are rehashed in the focal point of the lyric and again at its determination, as a hold back that separates two longer areas of refrain. The first of these areas depicts how the dead, sustained by affection, appreciate a last gleam of life. Interestingly, the last area depicts an alternate destiny for spirits that have been neglected: who are consigned to an unending, barren battle for reestablished presence. The musicologist Katherine FitzGibbon takes note of that the speaker of this story isn't recognized, yet might be "a wonderful storyteller, divine voice, or even the dead". 

The ballad was distributed in 1857. Independently, Peter Cornelius set a similar ballad in 1863, as a memorial service motet for a six-section chorale, because of the creator's demise. 

Reger made his first setting out of Hebbel's lyric as a motet for unaccompanied male choir in 1912 in Meiningen, where he had worked from 1911. He created it for the Basler Liedertafel, led by Hermann Suter, who performed it on 18May 1912 to commend their 60th commemoration before giving the official debut at the national "Schweizer Eidgenössisches Sängerfest" (Swiss government tune celebration) in Neuchâtel on 22July 1912. 

As per the lyric's structure, Reger utilized a similar material for every one of the abstains, in a homophonic setting. The words "ihr verglimmendes Leben" ("their diminishing life") are represented by "a succession of chromatically slipping 6th harmonies". Comparative diving harmonies are frequently found in Reger's fills in as a melodic articulation of "torment, dread, passing, and enduring—basic relationship with chromaticism since the sixteenth century", as indicated by FitzGibbon. Both the common hold back and the sliding harmonies return in the later setting of the lyric in the "Hebbel Requiem". 

The motet was distributed under the title "Memorial" as the end some portion of "" (Ten melodies for men's ensemble), , with prior creations from 1904. 

After the flare-up of war, Reger proposed to form a work remembering the fighters who had kicked the bucket or were mortally injured, a choral work of "" (in incredible style). By the harvest time of 1914, he was in dialog with a scholar in Giessen about a structure, probably titled "" Last Things [Final Judgment and Resurrection])". The organist Karl Straube, who had debuted a few of Reger's organ works, prescribed that Reger make the conventional Latin Requiem rather, on the grounds that "" would just be a minor departure from "Ein deutsches Requiem" by Johannes Brahms. Following his recommendation, Reger dealt with the organization of the introit and Kyrie, joining the two writings into one development. He reported the task, an arrangement for soloists, melody, symphony and organ, to his distributer on 3October 1914. The "Kicks the bucket irae" stayed incomplete. Reger wrote to Fritz Stein, his companion and later biographer, that he was amidst its organization, however had been hindered after the line "statuens in parte dextra". 

The "Lateinisches Requiem" is scored for soloists (soprano, alto, tenor, bass), a four-section (SATB) choir, three woodwinds (additionally piccolo), two oboes, cor anglais, two clarinets, two bassoons, contrabassoon, four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, tuba, three percussionists and strings. It is Reger's solitary choral arrangement to utilize four soloists. The four "" are utilized like the few choirs in arrangements by Heinrich Schütz. The main development opens with a long organ pedal point, which has been contrasted with the start of Wagner's "Das Rheingold" and the Brahms "Memorial". 

The work stayed incomplete at Reger's demise, and his distributer named the principal development the ', . The music was first performed by Stein in Berlin on 28May 1938 with four soloists and the extended choir of the Musikhochschule Berlin. For this execution, the ritualistic Latin content was supplanted by a German content, adjusted to suit Nazi belief system. Hellmut von Hase titled his content ' (Rite of the Dead) and figured out how to serve "the Nazi worship of the fallen war saint" (as FitzGibbon said), dropping references to the book of scriptures. He traded for instance "" (Hear my supplication; to you will all tissue come) by "In distress we mutely bring down the banners, for into the grave sunk what was of high repute to us." This adaptation was distributed in 1939 by the Max Reger Society. 

The incomplete "Bites the dust irae" was distributed in 1974 and first performed in Hamburg's St. Jakobi on 3November 1979 by Yoko Kawahara, Marga Höffgen, Hans-Dieter Bader, Nikolaus Hillebrand, the NDR Chor and NDR Sinfonieorchester, led by Roland Bader. 

The "Lateinisches Requiem" is formally recorded as WoOV/9. 

Johannes Brahms, in his ' (A German Requiem), had officially opened the route for the piece of a non-formal "Memorial", written in a language other than Latin while as yet tending to the conventional subject of rest ("requies") for the dead. In this custom, Reger's 1915 "Memorial", , is likewise not a setting of the Requiem in Latin, however of Hebbel's sonnet. He created it in Jena, a year prior to his very own demise, this time for a performance voice (alto or baritone), theme and ensemble. The "Composition", , was joined with ' (The Hermit), , a setting of a lyric by Joseph von Eichendorff, as "" (Two melodies for blended tune with ensemble), . Reger titled the signature of the piano form: 

"/Requiem/(Hebbel)", and he composed the commitment: "." (To the memory of the German legends who fell in the War 1914/15). 

Reger finished the sythesis on 25August 1915. He kept in touch with the distributer on : "I've completed two choral works ("Der Einsiedler" and "Composition"). I want to securely say that they're both among the most lovely things I've at any point composed." ("Ich habe religious woman zwei Chorwerke (Der Einsiedler und Requiem) fertig. Ich glaube sagen zu dürfen, daß diese beiden Chorwerke mit das Schönste sind, was ich je geschrieben habe.") "Composition" was first distributed by in 1916, altered by Ulrich Haverkampf, with the devotion "Dem Andenken der im großen Kriege gefallenen deutschen Helden" (To the memory of the German legends who fell in the Great War). Simrock likewise distributed a vocal score as readied by Reger himself. 

The "Hebbel Requiem" was first performed, together with "Der Einsiedler", in Heidelberg on 16July 1916, after the arranger's demise, as a component of a commemoration show for Reger, including Eva Katharina Lissmann, the choirs Bachverein and Akademischer Gesangverein, and the augmented Städtisches Orchester (Municipal Orchestra), directed by Philipp Wolfrum. 

In 1925 the "Composition" was distributed in Vienna as a pocket score, "Philharmonia-Taschenpartitur" No.284. Release Peters distributed it in 1928, expressing the execution span as 25minutes, in spite of the fact that the term suggested by the metronome stamping is 14minutes. 

Reger's "Hebbel Requiem" is in one development. It pursues the general type of the described sonnet, however with varieties, bringing about a structure of various states of mind. The start is reviewed in the center and toward the end. The accompanying table depends on the score and on an investigation by Katherine FitzGibbon. The interpretation of the incipits is given as in the liner notes of the 2009 account in the interpretation by Richard Stokes. The four-section SATB chorale is regularly partitioned. The work is in D minor and normal time. The rhythm stamping is "Molto sostenuto", and is continued with just slight adjustments ("stringendo" and "ritardando") until the most emotional segment, checked "Più mosso" (quicker) and later "Allegro", coming back to the underlying beat for the end. 

The short instrumental presentation depends on a pedal point supported for a few measures, reminiscent of pedal focuses in burial service music by Schütz and Bach, in Mozart's Requiem in a similar key of D minor, and in Reger's past Latin Requiem. In an example like the start of "A German Requiem", the bass notes are rehashed, here on a low D (D1). 

The soloist alone sings the private nickname "" (Soul, overlook them not) on a basic song and rehashing the principal line after the second. All through the piece the soloist sings just these words, before all else and in the rehashes. The theme, here isolated in eight sections, brings out the beginning of the profound climb, "" (See, they drift around you, shivering, surrendered), in generally homophonic harmonies, checked "ppp", in a design reminiscent of Schütz. 

In area B, "" (and in the sacred gleaming), the pedal point closes. The melody is partitioned in four to six sections, in increasingly free movement. As in works by Schütz, a few voices regularly present new content. 

The soloist sings the reiteration of the starting like the first run through, again on the pedal point, yet rehashes the second line once again, while the ensemble sings about the floating, as previously. 

In area C, "" (and on the off chance that you briskly close yourself to them, they harden), Reger utilizes word painting, by methods for descending lines and a last decrescendo for the line "erstarren sie bis hinein in das Tiefste" (they solidify, up to the most profound). On the word "" (hardens), the tune settles on a conflicting 5-section harmony, held for two measures, abruptly "fortissimo" with a crescendo toward the end, at that point rehashed "pianissimo", an octave lower, unmoving. 

In extraordinary difference, in "" (The tempest of night at that point grasps them), a tempest is portrayed in thick movement of four sections mirroring a subject in triplets. 

In the end, the soloist rehashes the prior expression, yet this time the melody at long last participates in the expressions of the sobriquet. The soloist presents another wording ' (Forget them not, the dead). The theme rehashes this expression, stamped espressivo, dolcissimo, on the tune of the chorale ', five stanzas of which Bach utilized in his "St Matthew Passion". The song isn't rehashed as in the first, yet proceeded for a large portion of a line. Reger is known for citing chorales when all is said in done and this one specifically, frequently alluding to its last stanza ', which Bach incorporated into the Passion directly after the demise of Jesus. The comparing content would then be ' (When I should withdraw one day, don't part from me at that point. At the point when the best anxiety ...). 

Reger finishes the chorale setting for the theme, moving along without any more reference to the chorale tune, while the performance voice rehashes in the meantime "", closing with slipping tones of in excess of an octave. 

The "Composition" utilizes an ensemble of two woodwinds, piccolo, two oboes, cor anglais, two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, tuba, three percussionists and strings. It requires a chorale to coordinate. Reger himself composed an adaptation for piano. 

To make the music increasingly open, the arranger and organist Max Beckschäfer organized the work for voice, melody and organ in 1985. The organ rendition was debuted in the Marktkirche in Wiesbaden, where Reger had played the organ himself when he considered there during the 1890s. Gabriel Dessauer directed an undertaking choir, later known as the Reger-Chor. Beckschäfer was the organist, Ulrike Buchs the vocal soloist. The choir, ventured into the Reger-Chor-International by vocalists from Belgium, played out the work again in 2001 with organist Ignace Michiels from St. Salvator's Cathedral, Bruges, both there and in St. Bonifatius, Wiesbaden (recorded live). They performed it a third time in 2010 to commend the 25th commemoration of the Reger-Chor. 

The "Hebbel Requiem" was executed as a component of the "Ouverture spirituelle" of the 2014 Salzburg Festival, alongside Bruckner's Fourth Symphony, with Plácido Domingo as baritone soloist and the Vienna Philharmonic led by Daniel Barenboim. 

To check the centennial of Reger's demise in 2016, the supporter Bayerischer Rundfunk organized a show of the "Hebbel Requiem" toward the beginning of May, directed by Karl-Heinz Steffens. The Bachfest Leipzig 2016 modified a few works by Reger, including the Latin Requiem section in the opening show at the Thomaskirche on 10 June, and the "Hebbel Requiem" there on 17 June, alongside "Der Mensch lebt und bestehet" and "O Tod, wie severe bist du". 

In a survey of an account of choral works by Reger, Gavin Dixon said that the "Composition" is "practically enchanted in its utilization of generally dispersed harmonies, bizarre symphonious movements and fantastic arpeggios in the backup". The program notes for the chronicle say that in the "anguished, expressionistic summoning of the 'shivering', 'spurned', 'cold' spirits, the piece appears to be resolved to uncover demise in the entirety of its dismal awfulness". 

Debra Lenssen wrote in her 2002 postulation about Reger's :