Harris' List of Covent Garden Ladies 

Harris' List of Covent Garden Ladies, distributed from 1757 to 1795, was a yearly index of whores at that point working in Georgian London. A little wallet, it was printed and distributed in Covent Garden, and sold for two shillings and sixpence. A contemporary report of 1791 assessments its course at about 8,000 copies every year. 

Every release contains sections depicting the physical appearance and sexual specialities of about  prostitutes who worked in and around Covent Garden. Through their sensual exposition, the rundown's entrances audit a portion of these ladies in startling subtlety. While most compliment their subjects, some are incredulous of negative behavior patterns, and a couple of ladies are even treated as outsiders, maybe having dropped out of support with the rundown's creators, who are never uncovered. 

Samuel Derrick is the man regularly credited for the structure of "Harris' List", perhaps having been propelled by the exercises of a Covent Garden pimp, Jack Harris. A Grub Street hack, Derrick may have composed the rundowns from 1757 until his passing in 1769; from that point, the yearly's creators are obscure. All through its print run it was distributed pseudonymously by H. Officer, despite the fact that from the late 1780s it was printed by three men: John and James Roach, and John Aitkin. 

As the popular's assessment betrayed London's sex exchange, and with reformers requesting of the specialists to make a move, those engaged with the arrival of "Harris' List" were in 1795 fined and detained. That year's release was the last to be distributed; by then its substance was cruder, coming up short on the inventiveness of prior versions. Present day journalists will in general view "Harris' List" as erotica; in the expressions of one creator, it was intended for "singular sexual satisfaction". 

The most punctual printed releases of "Harris' List of Covent Garden Ladies" showed up after Christmas 1756. Distributed by "H. Officer", the yearly was publicized on the front pages of papers, and sold in Covent Garden and at book retailers' slows down. Every release contains an appealing wallet, "flawlessly packaged ... in the modish style of the twelves". They generally contained close to 150 pages of moderately slim paper, on which are printed the subtleties of somewhere in the range of 120 and 190 prostitutes at that point working in Covent Garden. Estimated in 1788 at two shillings and sixpence, "Harris' List" was moderate for the white collar classes yet costly for an average workers man. 

It was not the primary index of whores to be coursed in London. The "Meandering Whore" kept running for five issues somewhere in the range of 1660 and 1661, in the early (and recently liberal) long periods of the Restoration. Purportedly a report of the capital's sex exchange and more often than not ascribed to John Garfield, it records roads in which whores may have been found, and the areas of whorehouses in regions like Fleet Lane, Long Acre and Lincoln's Inn Fields. The "Meandering Whore" joins exchange between "Magdalena, a Crafty Whore, Julietta, an Exquisite Whore, Francion, a Lascivious Gallant, and Gusman, a Pimping Hector", with the admonition that it was scattered just so honest society may maintain a strategic distance from such individuals. Another production was "A Catalog of Jilts, Cracks and Prostitutes, Nightwalkers, Whores, She-companions, Kind Women and other of the Linnen-lifting Tribe", imprinted in 1691. This indexes the physical characteristics of 21 women who could be found about St Bartholomew-the-Great Church amid Bartholomew Fair, in Smithfield. Mary Holland was clearly "tall, elegant and attractive, short of her favors", yet could be placated "at an expense of £20". Her sister Elizabeth was more affordable, being "not interested in Money yet a Supper and Two Guineas will entice her". 

Every version of "Harris' List" opens with a frontispiece demonstrating a somewhat suggestive stock picture inverse the cover sheet, which, from the 1760s to 1780s, is trailed by a protracted analysis on prostitution. This prelude contends that the whore is of advantage to general society, ready to soothe man's regular tendency towards savagery. It portrays the client as a benefactor steady of a decent motivation: "be your tote strings never shut; nor let the name of whore hinder you from your devout purpose!" Prostitutes were commonly disdained by eighteenth century society, and the 1789 release's prelude grumbles "For what reason should the casualties of this normal propensity ... be chased like untouchables from society, never-endingly grasped by the hand of trivial oppression", proceeding: "Isn't the clergyman of state who forfeits his nation's respect to his private interest ... more liable than her?" 

At a fundamental dimension, the passages in "Harris' List" detail every lady's age, her physical appearance (counting the span of her bosoms), her sexual specialities, and some of the time a depiction of her private parts. Extra data, for example, to what extent she had been dynamic as a whore, or in the event that she sang, moved or speaked well, is additionally included. Addresses and costs, which run from five shillings to five pounds, are given. The sorts of whore the rundowns present shift from "low-brought into the world errant drabs", to unmistakable concubines like Kitty Fisher and Fanny Murray; later releases contain just "proper mannered whores deserving of acclaim". The charms of a Mrs Dodd, who inhabited number six Hind Court in Fleet Street, were recorded in 1788 as "raised on two mainstays of amazing alabaster", proceeding: "the symmetry of its parts, its "outskirts" enhanced with "faltering rings", its "ruby gateways", and the "tufted forest", that crowns the summit of the mount, all join to welcome the visitor to enter." In a similar version, an also shocking depiction goes before the last piece of Miss Davenport's entrance, which finishes up: "Her teeth are surprisingly fine; she is tall, thus proportional (when you analyze her entire bare figure, which she will allow you to do, in the event that you play out the Cytherean Rites like a capable cleric) that she may be taken for a fourth Grace, or a breathing energized Venus de Medicis ... she has an attendant (a Mr. Hannah) both kind and liberal; despite which, she has no complaint to two supernumerary guineas." Miss Clicamp, of number two York Street close Middlesex Hospital, is depicted as "one of the best, fattest figures as completely completed for the sake of entertainment and frolick as rich extravagant ever formed ... lucky for the genuine admirers of fat, should destiny toss them into the ownership of such full developed wonders." More normal for "Harris' List" however, is the 1764 section for Miss Wilmot, which recounts a desirous experience with King George III's sibling, the Duke of York: 

The Duke of York was just a single of numerous renowned men to have been referenced in the rundowns; others included James Boswell, Ernest Augustus, King of Hanover, the pastor William Dodd, Charles James Fox, George IV, William Hickey, Francis Needham, first Earl of Kilmorey, Robert Walpole and numerous others. 

The ladies' course into the sex exchange, as portrayed by the rundowns, is normally attributed to energetic blamelessness, with stories of young ladies leaving their homes for the guarantees of men, just to be deserted once in London. A few sections notice assault, indirectly portrayed as ladies being "enticed without wanting to". Lenora Norton was clearly "tempted" in such style, her entrance illustrating on her experience, which happened while she was as yet a kid. The "old urban legend" of young ladies being captured from the group by underhanded bawds is represented by William Hogarth's "A Harlot's Progress", however despite the fact that in actuality such stories were not unfathomable, ladies went into prostitution for an assortment of reasons, frequently everyday. Country settlers looking for work could now and then wind up helpless before corrupt businesses, or controlled into the sex exchange by underhand methods. A few sections in "Harris' List" delineate how a few ladies figured out how to lift themselves out of penury. Becky LeFevre, when a streetwalker, utilized her negotiating prudence to store up extensive riches, as completed a Miss Marshall and Miss Becky Child, who are each referenced in a few versions. A large number of these ladies had rich guardians, and some hitched well off privileged people; Harriet Powell wedded Kenneth Mackenzie, first Earl of Seaforth, and Elizabeth Armistead wedded Charles James Fox. 

Components of politicization show up in certain sections. The renowned whore Betsy Cox's 1773 posting portrays how, when denied passage to a get-together of respectful society at the recently opened Pantheon, she was helped by, among others, the Duke of Fife, who attracted his sword to uphold her entrance. A few records likewise contain safeguards of prostitution; prior releases guarantee that the exchange prepared for the enchantment of young ladies, gave an outlet to disappointed wedded men, and kept other young fellows from ""le péche "" que la Nature désavoue" [the sin that Nature repudiates]", or homosexuality. Nonetheless, no such perspectives were communicated as to lesbianism, which in England, in contrast to sexual acts between men, has never been illicit. Miss Wilson of Cavendish Square believed that "a female bed-individual can give more genuine delights than any time in recent memory she encountered with the male piece of the sex", and Anne and Elanor Redshawe gave a tactful administration in Tavistock Street, cooking for "Women in the Highest Keeping" and other ladies who wanted to keep their exercises private. 

A typical objection with respect to road prostitution was the foul language utilized, and keeping in mind that for the most part most passages in the rundowns look positively on those ladies who abstained from swearing, the perspectives communicated in the 1793 version of "Harris' List" tend towards evasion. Mrs Cornish's sophisticated nature was, every so often, hindered by "a volley of little shot", and Miss Johnson's proclivity towards "foulness of articulation and a coarseness of way" clearly endured no deficiency of admirers. Mrs Russell, alluring to "various customers among the adolescent, who are enamored with viewing that mouth of the fiend from whence all debasement issueth", was respected for her "indecency more than everything else, she being incredibly master at extraordinary promises". Drinking, characteristically connected with prostitution, was additionally disliked. Mrs William's entrance of 1773 is loaded with regret, her having returned home "so inebriated so as not to have the capacity to remain, to the no little beguilement of her neighbors", and Miss Jenny Kirbeard had, in 1788, a "brutal connection to drinking". Not all passages were opposing however; Mrs Harvey would, in 1793, "frequently hurl off a shimmering guard," while remaining "a woman of extraordinary sensibility ... not somewhat astute in the execution of the demonstration of rubbing." More for the most part, most sections are complimenting, albeit some are not exactly complimentary; the 1773 posting for Miss Berry impugns her as "practically spoiled, and her breath emaciated". Whores may have paid cash to show up in the rundowns, and in Denlinger's view such editorial may demonstrate a level of disturbance on the essayist's part, the ladies concerned maybe having would not pay. A few postings additionally suggest a level of disappointment with respect to the client; in the 1773 version, Miss Dean displayed "extraordinary lack of interest" while engaging her customer, busying herself by opening nuts while he was "acting his delights". Others are disdained for wearing a lot of cosmetics, and some to be "lethargic associates". A mainstream see that whores were indecent, hot-blooded and hungry for sex was inconsistent with the information that most worked for cash, and the rundowns in this way scrutinize ladies whose requests for installment showed up excessively soldier of fortune. 

The character of the rundowns' creators is unsure. A few versions may have been composed by Samuel Derrick, a Grub Street hack conceived in 1724 in Dublin, who had moved to London to turn into an on-screen character. With little accomplishment there, he had swung rather to composing, distributing works including "The emotional blue pencil; being comments upon the lead, characters, and calamity of our most praised plays" (1752), "A Voyage to the Moon" (1753) (an interpretation of Cyrano de Bergerac's "L'Autre Monde: ou les États et Empires de la Lune"), and "The Battle of Lora" (1762). Derrick, who lived with the performer Jane Lessingham, was a colleague of Samuel Johnson and James Boswell. The last seen him as "however a poor essayist", while Johnson conceded that "if Derrick's letters had been composed by one of an increasingly settled name, they would have been thought pretty letters." 

Hallie Rubenhold's 2005 book "The Covent Garden Ladies" sets out her translation of the story behind "Harris' List". She asserts that John Harrison—also called Jack Harris, a sagacious specialist and pimp who worked at the Shakespear's Head Tavern in Covent Garden—was the rundown's originator. Conceived maybe around 1720– 1730, Harris evidently had master learning of whores working in Covent Garden and past, just as access to leased rooms and premises for his customers' utilization. He tracked the ladies he pimped and the properties he approached, perhaps as a little record or scratch pad. Derrick, having recently wrote "The Memoirs of the Shakespear's Head", and perhaps at the same time its partner piece, "The Memoirs of the Bedford Coffee House", was likely acquainted with the Shakespear's Head. The previous book subtleties "Jack, a waiter ... who manages the Venereal Pleasures of this Dome", and its creator likely considered Harris as he continued on ahead. Which of the two men initially thought to create "Harris' List" is obscure, yet likely for an erratic installment Harris enabled his name to be connected to it. With his nitty gritty information of Covent Garden, and with assistance from different partners, Derrick was consequently ready to compose the primary version of "Harris' List" in 1757. As a hopeful creator and social climber he favored not to relate himself freely with such sketchy material, and his name along these lines does not show up on any releases. 

Printed and distributed by the pseudonymous H. Officer, in charge of such fills in as "Affection Feasts; or the distinctive strategies for romance in each nation, all through the known world", the returns from the massively fruitful first version empowered Derrick to reimburse his obligations, in this way liberating himself from a spunging house. His fortunes improved when he moved toward becoming emcee at Bath and Tunbridge Wells in 1763. His passing on 28 March 1769 pursued an extended ailment, yet in spite of a critical pay, he kicked the bucket poverty stricken. He left no official will, yet on his deathbed he passed on the 1769 release of "Harris' List" to Charlotte Hayes, his previous companion and fancy woman, and a madam in her own right. Hayes passed on in 1813. 

As oneself pronounced "Pimp General of All England", the swaggering Harris amassed an extensive fortune, yet his rashness ended up being his demise. Provoked by reformers, in April 1758 the experts started to chase down and close "places of sick popularity". Covent Garden was not saved, and the Shakespear's Head Tavern was struck. Harris was gotten, secured up in the nearby compter, and after that detained in Newgate. He was discharged in 1761 and had a few interests in distributing from 1765 to 1766, printing Edward Thompson's "The Courtesan", and later "The Fruit-Shop" and "Kitty's Atlantis", yet he appears to have surrendered this late in 1766. He turned into the owner of the Rose Tavern, not a long way from the Shakespear's Head, however by the 1780s had appointed its hurrying to a worker. The Rose was destroyed around 1790, and for a couple of years Harris ran another bar, the Bedford Head, with his child and little girl in-law. He kicked the bucket at some point in 1792. The Shakespear's Head shut for business in 1804, and after four years the vacant premises were severely harmed in a similar flame that expended the Covent Garden Theater. What remained was subsumed by the neighboring Bedford Coffee House. 

Johann Wilhelm von Archenholz guaranteed in 1791 that the rundowns were distributed by "a bar manager, in Drury path", and that "eight thousand duplicates are sold every year." There is nothing to recommend that Hayes had any contribution with any release other than that of 1769, and the rundown's creators following Derrick's demise have not been distinguished. From the 1770s "Harris' List" changes center, moving far from the ladies of Covent Garden, to their accounts. Its exposition turns out to be increasingly cultured, coming up short on the code words which had helped make it so mainstream. These progressions are resounded by the intro page, whose frontispiece turns out to be more improved. Material from prior versions is reused, and little consideration is paid to exactness. The obligation regarding a portion of these progressions can be credited to John and James Roach, and John Aitkin, who from the late 1780s were the rundowns' distributers. 

In 1795 the Proclamation Society, made quite a while before to help authorize King George III's decree against "free and prurient Prints, Books, and Publications, scattering Poison to the psyches of the Young and Unwary", and "to Punish the Publishers and Vendors thereof", brought Roach up on slander charges. In court he featured the rundown's life span, and asserted that "no one had ever been arraigned for distributing it; and, accordingly, he was unmindful it was a defamation." When Lord Chief Justice Kenyon referenced that a John Roach had recently been indicted for selling "Harris' List", Roach "guaranteed his Lordship, that he had never been prosecuted for this offense." He was by and by condemned to one year in Newgate Prison, with sureties of £150 for a long time, to guarantee his great conduct. Ruler Justice Ashurst called the List "a most obscene and improper production", and of Roach's wrongdoing said "an offense of more prominent monstrosity could scarcely be submitted." Aitkin, prosecuted as John Aitken, may have been fined £200 for selling a similar release, in spite of the fact that Rubenhold battles that by then he had kicked the bucket. After these preliminaries, the rundown was never again distributed. Just nine versions are surviving: those for 1761, 1764, 1773, 1774, 1779, 1788, 1789, 1790 and 1793. 

"Harris' List" was distributed for a city overflowing with prostitution. London's ribald houses had, by the 1770s, vanished from the more unfortunate zones outside the city divider, and in the West End were found in four regions: St Margaret's in Westminster; St Anne's in Soho and St James's; and most particularly, with multiple thirds of London's "Dislocated Houses", around Covent Garden and the Strand. The region was noted for its "incredible quantities of female votaries to Venus everything being equal and conditions", while another creator recognized Covent Garden as "the central scene of activity for indiscriminate loves." The Scottish analyst Patrick Colquhoun assessed in 1806 that of Greater London's roughly 1,000,000 citizens, maybe 50,000 women, over varying backgrounds, were occupied with some type of prostitution. 

Regardless of whether any of these ladies could affirm their addresses for distribution in "Harris' List" is something that creator Sophie Carter questions. She sees the yearly as "principally a work of erotica", calling it "nothing to such an extent as a shopping list ... literarily exhibited for the delectation of the male shopper", proceeding "they [the women] anticipate his intercession to establish a trade", encapsulating the conventional male job in sex entertainment. Elizabeth Denlinger incorporates a comparable notion in her article, "The Garment and the Man": "This changed showcase of ladies to fulfill the 'incredible itch' ... is a basic part of the circle to which "Harris' List" offered British men a "carte d'entrée"". Rubenhold composes that the inconstancy in the depictions of whores throughout the years the rundown was distributed challenge "all endeavors to classify it as either solely up-showcase or essentially widely appealing." She proposes that the yearly's motivation was to "direct the covetous to the grasp of a whore", and that its exposition was intended for "lone sexual happiness" (H. Officer additionally sold back-issues of "Harris' List"). Sold to a London open which was for the most part male centric, its postings mirror the partialities of the men who composed them. They were in this manner not agent of ladies for the most part, and as she closes, "all things considered, their accounts would have contrasted fundamentally from those related by their clients to help the "List's" distributers." 

Only one out of every odd observer concurred with Colquhoun's gauge, which turned into "the most generally cited whole", however in the supposition of Cindy McCreery the way that the vast majority concurred there were dreadfully numerous whores in London is demonstrative of across the board worry about the exchange. Frames of mind towards prostitution solidified toward the finish of the eighteenth century, with many survey whores as revolting and shameless, and it was in this environment that "Harris' List" met its death. Books, for example, the "Meandering Whore" and Edmund Curll's "Venus in the Cloyster" (1728) are frequently referenced close by "Harris's" as instances of suggestive writing. Alongside the namelessly expressed "Fifteen Plagues of a Maidenhead" (1707), Garfield and Curll's works were associated with cases that helped structure the eighteenth century lawful idea of "vulgar defamation"— which was a checked change from the past accentuation on controlling rebellion, sacrilege and sin, generally the ministerial courts' territory. No laws existed to preclude the production of sex entertainment; along these lines, when Curll was captured and detained in 1725 (the primary such arraignment in almost 20 years), it was under danger of a criticism charge. He was discharged a couple of months after the fact, just to be bolted up again to distribute different materials esteemed hostile by the experts. Curll's involvement with the blue pencils was exceptional, however, and arraignments dependent on disgusting productions remained an irregularity. In spite of the fact that their court activity spelled the end for "Harris' List", regardless of the best endeavors of the Proclamation Society (later the Society for the Suppression of Vice), the distribution of sex entertainment proceeded apace; increasingly obscene material was distributed amid the Victorian time than whenever beforehand. 

Notes 

References 

List of sources