Anbe Sivam 

Anbe Sivam () is a 2003 Indian Tamil-language parody show movie coordinated and co-delivered by Sundar C. with K. Muralitharan, V. Swaminathan and G. Venugopal under the pennant of Lakshmi Movie Makers. The film was composed by Kamal Haasan, and Madhan gave the exchanges. "Anbe Sivam" highlights Haasan, R. Madhavan and Kiran Rathod in the number one spot jobs, with Nassar, Santhana Bharathi, Seema and Uma Riyaz Khan playing supporting characters. 

The film recounts to the account of an unforeseen adventure from Bhubaneswar to Chennai embraced by two men of differentiating identities, Nallasivam and Anbarasu. The melodic score was formed by Vidyasagar. Arthur A. Wilson and M. Prabhaharan embraced duty regarding the movie's cinematography and workmanship bearing, individually. 

Delivered on a financial plan of 120 million, "Anbe Sivam" takes on a few subjects, including socialism, secularism, and charitableness, and portrays Haasan's perspectives as a humanist. The film was discharged on 15 January 2003 to positive audits from pundits, however failed to meet expectations in the cinema world. In spite of its disappointment, it picked up acknowledgment throughout the years through re-keeps running on TV stations and is currently viewed as a work of art and a clique film in Tamil film. 

"Anbe Sivam" was screened as a feature of the Indian Panorama segment of the International Film Festival of India in 2003. At the 51st Filmfare Awards South, it got a Special Jury Award and got designations in the Best Film and Best Actor (Haasan) classifications. Madhavan was granted Best Actor at the 2003 Tamil Nadu State Film Awards. 

Two men sitting tight for a trip to Chennai at the Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar take part in discussion. One is a business executive, Anbarasu, who inclines toward the curtailed name A.Aras, and the other is a scarred and twisted communist, Nallasivam, nom de plume Nalla. At the point when the flight is dropped because of overwhelming precipitation, Aras at first suspects Nalla is a fear based oppressor and advises the specialists, just to find that he was mixed up. With the downpour flooding the city, the two men are compelled to share a space throughout the evening. Both need to come back to Chennai: Aras to be available at his wedding, and Nalla needs to convey a 3,200,000 check, as of late granted to him after he won a court case, to a gathering of association laborers. Following a horrendous night, and no desire for a flight, the two men take a transport to load up the Coromandel Express train. Aras' pack gets stolen in transit abandoning him with just his charge card, which nobody acknowledges. Utilizing his common sense, Nalla over and over safeguards Aras out of inconvenience while Aras takes a stab at getting away from him at each crossroads, just to finish up with him once more. While hanging tight for the train at the Ichchapuram railroad station, Nalla starts to reveal to Aras his story. 

A couple of years sooner, a sound Nalla partook in different road theater exhibitions challenging worldwide organization driven industrialisation, that brought about the underestimation of the work constrain. He was inconsistent with Kandasamy Padayatchi, a manipulative manufacturing plant proprietor who would not give his laborers a raise. Nalla satirically imitated Padayatchi in a significant number of his shows. Be that as it may, in an unforeseen development, Nalla and Padayatchi's little girl Balasaraswathi assumed name Bala, became hopelessly enamored with one another. To keep away from a potential clash with Padayatchi, the two chose to abscond to Kerala. Nalla loaded up a transport headed for Kerala, and on his approach to meet Bala, the transport smashed on a slope abandoning him scarred, deformed, and mostly deadened forever. Subsequent to recuperating from his injuries, he visited Bala just to be educated by Padayatchi that his girl was at that point hitched and has settled abroad. Padayatchi had before deceived Bala that Nalla kicked the bucket in the mishap. It was additionally right now that Nalla turned into a firm devotee to thoughtfulness and love. In spite of experiencing a feeling of inadequacy because of his scarred and distorted body, Nalla performs network administration and social work with restored intensity while proceeding to battle for association causes. 

Upon their landing in Chennai, Aras conveys Nalla's check to the association laborers. He welcomes Nalla to his wedding, where, to his express wonder, Nalla sees that Aras' lady of the hour is Bala. Padayatchi spots Nalla and asks him for what valid reason he is at the wedding. He reveals to Padayatchi that he was welcomed by Aras, and later induces him to sign the papers which will enable the laborers to get a raise. To keep the disturbance of Bala's wedding and abstain from harming his very own notoriety, Padayatchi respects Nalla's requests. In the wake of marking the papers, Padayatchi trains his colleague to take out Nalla. In any case, his aide has a difference in heart as he is going to murder him. Padayatchi's aide trusts that the offenses he submitted for Padayatchi brought about the passing of the associate's girl. Padayatchi's associate solicitations Nalla to remain as far from his manager as could reasonably be expected; Nalla consents and leaves. 

In the wake of finishing the draft for a movie's content in mid 2002, Kamal Haasan moved toward the Malayalam producer Priyadarshan to guide it. The two men were quick to cooperate since the late 1990s, and after perusing the content, Priyadarshan trusted that it could be a "passionate romantic tale". The film's title "Anbe Sivam" was gotten from the Shaivite holy person Tirumular's ballad "Tirumantiram". 

In June 2002, Priyadarshan quit the undertaking. As to executive's exit, Haasan said Priyadarshan needed to team up with him on a greater task than "Anbe Sivam". He was supplanted by Sundar C., who consented to deliver the film too. "Anbe Sivam" was co-created and appropriated by Swaminathan, K.Muralitharan and G.Venugopal under the generation standard of Lakshmi Movie Makers. 

Notwithstanding being the film's author, Haasan likewise played the focal character. R. Madhavan was chosen to play the film's second lead in January 2002. As indicated by Kiran Rathod, she got a telephone call from Haasan's office educating her that she was offered the job of Balasaraswathi, which she acknowledged. Rathod's voice in the film was named by the vocalist Anuradha Sriram. Uma Riyaz Khan assumed the job of Kamal's companion and expert associate, Mehrunissa. 

The performers Nassar and Santhana Bharathi assumed the jobs of Kandasamy Padaiyatchi and his right hand, individually, while visual artist Madhan highlighted in an appearance as himself notwithstanding composing the film's discoursed. In a meeting with S.R. Ashok Kumar of "The Hindu" in 2006, Bharathi considered both "Anbe Sivam" and "Michael Madana Kama Rajan" (1990) to be the most loved jobs of his profession. 

Arthur A. Wilson, M. Prabhaharan and P. Sai Suresh took care of the movie's cinematography, workmanship heading and altering, individually. Brinda, Chinni Prakash and Dinesh Kumar were responsible for the movement while the trick arrangements were co-ordinated by Vikram Dharma. Muthulakshmi Varadhan, Bharathi's sister-in-law, filled in as an associate manager in the film. The make-up for Haasan's scars was planned by Michael Westmore and Anil Premkarikar. In May 2002, Haasan finished the cosmetics for his character Nallasivam in Los Angeles subsequent to shooting the melody arrangements for "Panchathantiram" (2002). 

Main photography for "Anbe Sivam" initiated in July 2002. The main scene highlighting the lead on-screen characters was shot at Pollachi Junction railroad station. Haasan and Madhavan associated intently amid the underlying phases of the shoot to guarantee that the on-screen science between the pair was obvious. 

"Anbe Sivam" was shot on a confined spending plan of 120 million, with the train and transport calamity successions including the utilization of settings and CGI. Madhavan, who started shooting his bits in September 2002, expressed the film was shot in moderately void areas. The flood scenes set in Odisha were re-made with open air sets comprising of city streets submerged raised in the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh fringe. Recording additionally occurred in Chennai, Visakhapatnam and on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka fringe. The pre-peak scenes were recorded in what was then known as the Campa Cola compound in Guindy. 

"Anbe Sivam" pursues the occasions of an adventure from Bhubaneswar to Chennai embraced by two men of differentiating identities, Nallasivam (Haasan), a physically tested and clever communist, and Anbarasu (Madhavan), a self-important business executive who bolsters free enterprise and globalization. Because of unanticipated conditions, the two are compelled to embrace the adventure together. All through the story, a progression of subjects relating to socialism, sympathy, globalization, secularism, and charitableness are tended to; the film likewise features Haasan's perspectives as a humanist. As per Haasan, the characterisation of Nallasivam was enlivened by the life of Communist dramatist, performing artist, executive, lyricist and scholar Safdar Hashmi, who was predominantly connected with his work on road theater in India. Hashmi kicked the bucket on 2 January 1989 in the wake of being assaulted by individuals from the Indian National Congress while organizing a play, "Halla Bol". S.Anand of "Standpoint" magazine takes note of that Haasan's perspectives on humanism in the film were likewise propelled by those of Charlie Chaplin. M. Kalyanaraman and Abdullah Nurullah of "The Times of India" opined that Nallasivam had comparable attributes with road theater craftsman Pralayan. 

As indicated by Kalyanaraman, "Anbe Sivam" suggests that man can settle on ethically better decisions when he comes face than face with death. Therefore, Haasan demonstrates that the conviction of "Siva is love" is the "last phase of advancement of man into God". The film includes a Tamil adage from Manikkavacakar's "Tiruvacakam", "Tennāṭuṭaiya Śivanē pöṛṛi" ("Praise Śiva who lives in the old land and who has a place with all of humankind"). Padayatchi expresses this each time before he murders or ambushes an individual. Kalavai Venkat of "Swarajya" magazine opined that Haasan had "improperly utilized this amicable sacrosanct serenade to deride Hinduism." 

The film pundit Baradwaj Rangan, in his survey of another Haasan film, "Vishwaroopam" (2013), found the ethnicity of the characters in the film to be a continuation of Haasan's consideration of non-Tamil characters in his movies. Rangan believed this to be Haasan's affirmation of the "interconnectedness of the country" and "the world past India". He brought up in his article that Haasan had explored different avenues regarding the idea before by including the use of Bengali language and meeting Bengalis in "Mahanadi" (1994), a Telugu-talking love enthusiasm for "Nammavar" (1994), wedding a Bengali lady in "Hello Ram" (2000), directing examinations with an American partner in "Vettaiyaadu Vilaiyaadu" (2006), and marriage to a Frenchwoman in "Manmadan Ambu" (2010). Rangan noticed that in "Anbe Sivam", the consideration of and collaboration with the Odia individuals was another case of incorporating non-Tamil characters in his movies. Rangan likewise contrasted Haasan's battle succession and the utilization of an umbrella to the manner in which he utilized a book and stool in "Thoongathey Thambi Thoongathey" (1983). 

As indicated by a commentator from Sify, the essential plot of "Anbe Sivam" looks to some extent like the 1987 street movie, "Planes, Trains and Automobiles" coordinated by John Hughes, which featured Steve Martin and John Candy in the number one spot jobs. The pundit noted Haasan and Madhavan's character share comparable qualities to that of the jobs played by Candy and Martin in that film, individually. The picture painted by Nallasivam on the dividers of Padayatchi's home is roused by the Mexican painter Diego Rivera's fresco, "Man at the Crossroads". The depiction demonstrates Nallasivam acting like Padayatchi's god Shiva, the number 910 showing the pay Padayatchi pays to his assembly line laborers', and the mallet and sickle socialism image. Aravindan Neelakandan from "Swarajya" remarked because of Marxism in the artistic creation, trusting it to be "an unfilled vehicle to pass on his belief system and is deprived of any natural incentive in itself." Srinivasa Ramanujam, composing for "The Times of India" in 2008, noticed that the religious hint in the film was like that of Rajinikanth's "Baba" (2002). 

The soundtrack collection and foundation score for "Anbe Sivam" were formed by Vidyasagar, and the verses for the melodies were composed by Vairamuthu and P. Vijay. Subsequent to forming the tune for the title melody, Vidyasagar clarified the circumstance of the tune to Haasan, who needed the tune to be performed so that the hero is singing as per the circumstance he ends up in. Vidyasagar recommended that Haasan ought to sing the tune himself to accomplish the ideal outcome, which the last acknowledged. The melody "Mouname Paarvayai" was excluded in the film. The melody "Poovaasam" depends on the "Shuddh Sarang" raga. The male segments for the repeat of "Poovaasam" were sung by Sriram Parthasarathy, while the first form was sung by Vijay Prakash. Sadhana Sargam sang her part of the two renditions of the tune. 

Malathi Rangarajan of "The Hindu" stated, "Vidyasagar is scaling extraordinary statures as an arranger. The signature tune and the resonant are pointers. Vairamuthu's verses merit uncommon notice here." Singer Charulatha Mani, in her section for "The Hindu", "A Raga's Journey", noted, "Poovaasam" had "an appeal that is conceived out of style fused in a populist piece". Arkay of Rediff.com observed the melodies to be, "best case scenario, OK". M. Suganth of "The Times of India", in his survey for the music collection, "Darlings Special – Vol. 2-4", included "Poovaasam" among the "Hot Picks" of the collection. 

As per S. R. Ashok Kumar of "The Hindu", the makers were sure that "Anbe Sivam" would be a solid contender at the 50th National Film Awards that they had the film investigated by the Central Board of Film Certification before the finish of 2002 with the goal that they could enter the film into the yearly honors list. The film was discharged on 15 January 2003, which concurred with the Thai Pongal celebration. It opened nearby five different movies, including Vikram's "Dhool", Vijayakanth's "Chokka Thangam", and "Vaseegara", which highlighted Vijay. 

"Anbe Sivam" was screened as a piece of the Indian Panorama segment of the International Film Festival of India in 2003. As a tribute to Safdar Hashmi, an extraordinary see of the film was sorted out by Haasan in relationship with Safdar Hashmi Memorial Trust (SAHMAT) on 9 January 2003 at Siri Fort Auditorium. The film was named into Telugu as "Sathyame Sivam" and discharged on 28 February 2003. It was named into Hindi as "Shivam" after two years in 2005. After the arrival of the first Tamil form, the naming rights for the Hindi rendition were sold at a low value, a lot to the aggravation of the lead on-screen characters as they were not ready to name for themselves in Hindi. 

Baradwaj Rangan portrayed the film as "Kamal's most recent solo endeavor to twist, contort, shape-move Tamil film into structures at no other time seen." In his survey of the film's DVD, M. Suganth, composing for "The Times of India", called it "one of the best motion pictures of the decade" and lauded the story, screenplay and exchanges before naming the film as "a cutting edge great". Checking on the Telugu named adaptation, "Sathyame Sivam", Jeevi of Idlebrain.com said that "this craftsmanship sort of film entertains the general population who love Kamal Hassan flicks" while presuming that it "would stay as one of the great movies made in the ongoing occasions". 

Malathi Rangarajan of "The Hindu" trusted that "very much characterized characters, a solid storyline and clever screenplay" were the film's "fundamental fixings". She further complimented Haasan's treatment of the story, and that his "ingenuity that has gone into the etching of the story and screenplay is very much obvious", while calling the film "a praiseworthy exertion". P.Devarajan of "Business Line" valued Haasan's execution and outward appearances and finished up his audit by expressing, "This man has fascinated me and will constantly." Another commentator from "The Hindu", Gudipoodi Srihari, valued the pair of Haasan and Madhavan, taking note of that the team "influence a fine mix of buddies each with various mental make to up, however goodness flooding." Sujatha Narayanan, in a review survey for "The New Indian Express" praised Haasan's composition and Madhan's discourse, observing them to be "peppered with sharp mind, random data and passionate profundity." 

A commentator from Sify, in correlation, marked the film as "normal", expressing that it was "another anticipated and silly film which is neither a parody escapade nor an exemplary character." Similarly, Arkay of Rediff.com commended the exhibitions of the lead cast yet composed the film "attempts to do such a large number of things, and winds up flopping at most, if not all, of them." S.Anand of "Standpoint" felt the film's topical thoughts of socialism were introduced in a "threadbare" way, and abridged by saying, "If Rajnikant staked guarantee to heavenliness on a conservative board with "Baba", Kamal does it with demands to pragmatist left talk." 

Amid the primary seven day stretch of its showy run, an investigation by Sudhish Kamath of "The Hindu" demonstrated the film to have earned 13.1 million in Chennai alone. Regardless of this, the film failed to meet expectations in the cinematic world and caused substantial misfortunes for Lakshmi Movie Makers, viably preventing them from putting resources into different endeavors for the year 2003. A gauge by D.Govardan of "The Economic Times" puts the misfortunes at 65 million, while Arun Ram of "India Today" expresses the misfortunes acquired to be 50 million. Srinivasa Ramanujam of "The Times of India" analyzed the film's disappointment in the cinematic world to that of "Baba". Both K. Muralitharan and Haasan safeguarded the film's disappointment by accusing video theft, with the last expressing that "heaps of individuals saw it, yet they didn't pay". 

Following its discharge, "Anbe Sivam" has achieved religion status in Tamil film and gets re-keeps running on TV slots. At the point when the film was in after generation, Haasan uncovered to film faultfinder and columnist Subhash K. Jha that he was inspired with Madhavan's excitement and execution amid the creation of the film, thusly marking him to show up in his generation adventure, "Nala Damayanthi" (2003). 

Baradwaj Rangan composed that "Anbe Sivam" was "classes in front of the normal Tamilwhy, even Indianfilm", however he felt that "the majority were reluctant to acknowledge the exploratory idea of the film", while discussing the's film industry disappointment. Amid his acknowledgment discourse in the wake of winning the Vijay Award for Best Director in 2010 for "Naan Kadavul" (2009), chief Bala uncovered that a scene in "Anbe Sivam" where Haasan says to Madhavan, "when we adore others unequivocally with no desire, we become Gods", propelled him to make his movie. Bala additionally made a reference to "Anbe Sivam" in his 2003 film, "Pithamagan", in a scene where Suriya's character goes for a screening of the film with his companions. An exchange advised by Haasan to Madhavan, "Do you what a tidal wave is? "Periya alai illa...malai"." (It's not only a major wave...it's a mountain) additionally accomplished prominence. 

In 2008, S.R. Ashok Kumar of "The Hindu" recorded "Anbe Sivam" among the "main five directorial adventures of SundarC." In a 2008 meeting with "The Times of India", SundarC. expressed that "Anbe Sivam" "changed [him] by and by and expertly", making him an increasingly sure individual and adjusting his viewpoint towards life. He later repudiated his announcement in the wake of uncovering that the film's disappointment drove him to turn out to be practically bankrupt and he stayed unpaid for his work. The Income Tax Department solidified his financial balances for a year as he was not ready to make good on his government obligations. He conceded that while he got acclaims for the film after its dramatic run, he would not make a film like "Anbe Sivam" any longer and that he continueed making business film, which he felt better coordinated his interests. In 2013, Haricharan Pudipeddi of the Indo-Asian News Service office, included "Anbe Sivam" in his rundown of "Kamal's most misjudged movies". He trusted the explanation behind the film's business disappointment was that gatherings of people misconstrued the "snide suggestions related with agnosticism". On Haasan's birthday, 7 November 2015, Latha Srinivasan of "Day by day News and Analysis" considered "Anbe Sivam" to be one of the "films you should watch to get a handle on the broadness of Kamal Haasan's collection". The character of Nallasivam was positioned fourth in "The Times of India's" rundown of "Kamal Haasan's main 10 awe-inspiring symbols". 

In "Vasool Raja MBBS" (2004), the character Vasool Raja (Haasan), while going to a class asks in the case of being a specialist is equal to being God, and in doing as such says "Anbe Venkatachalam", to which one of his colleagues delicately asks him, "would it say it isn't Anbe Sivam?". Haasan answers: "Let it be. We should have a go at something else for a change." The road theater arrangement including Kamal's character, Nallasivam, and his companions performing to make individuals mindful of the monstrosities submitted by Nassar's character, Kanadasamy Padayatchi, was re-made at Tiruchirappalli in 2008 by Pralayan and his troupe from "Chennai Kalai Kuzhu" under the title "Nammal Mudiyum". Interestingly, Pralayan's play investigated sex imbalance and abusive behavior at home rather than joblessness. Kannada performer Vishnuvardhan noted in 2010 that kindred on-screen character Sudeep's film "Just Maath Maathalli" (2010) looks to some extent like "Anbe Sivam". Hari Narayan, composing for "The Hindu" in 2014, makes reference to in his article on the Indian pragmatist and writer Narendra Dabholkar that Umesh Shukla's "OMG – Oh My God!" (2012) was "a conditioned down variant of "Anbe Sivam" where discernment impels people to discover God in themselves, with imperfections, which praises the goodness of getting to be as much as that of being". In 2015 Uthiran of "The Hindu" in Tamil, makes reference to in his audit of "Orange Mittai" (2015) that the film's plot "may help watchers to remember "Anbe Sivam"". In 2017, Ashok, who coordinated the parody movie "Peechankai", makes reference to he was motivated by "Anbe Sivam" to turn into a chief.