Maurice Leyland 

Maurice Leyland (20 July 1900 – 1 January 1967) was an English cricketer who played 41 Test matches somewhere in the range of 1928 and 1938. In top of the line cricket, he spoke to Yorkshire somewhere in the range of 1920 and 1946, scoring more than 1,000 keeps running in 17 sequential seasons. A left-gave center request batsman and intermittent left-arm spinner, Leyland was a "Wisden" Cricketer of the Year in 1929. 

Conceived in Harrogate, Leyland originated from a cricketing family. In the wake of playing locally, he made his Yorkshire debut in 1920, and showed up irregularly in the accompanying two seasons. Despite the fact that not measurably fruitful, he awed judges at the club, and was an ordinary individual from the group from 1923. He consistently improved over the accompanying seasons to achieve the edges of the England group and made his Test debut in 1928 against West Indies. That winter, he visited Australia—a dubious choice as he supplanted the celebrated batsman Frank Woolley—and scored a century in his solitary Test of the arrangement. He stayed in the side until 1930, yet lost structure in the following two seasons raised doubt about his place. He recuperated by scoring 1,000 keeps running in August 1932 to verify his consideration in the group to visit Australia in 1932– 33. 

Amid that arrangement, Leyland scored runs a few times under strain and when Australia visited England in 1934, he was a main batsman in the group. He held his place until 1938 when he was supplanted in the group by more youthful batsmen for the arrangement against Australia. Reviewed for the last match, he scored 187, his most elevated Test score in what turned into his last match. After military administration in the Second World War, Leyland came back to the Yorkshire group for one season before reporting his retirement from normal five star cricket. He kept up his association with Yorkshire, and filled in as the district mentor somewhere in the range of 1950 and 1963. He kicked the bucket in 1967. 

Despite the fact that he was neither stylishly nor actually among the best batsmen, Leyland had a notoriety for batting great under strain. He performed most viably against the best groups and bowlers, and in troublesome circumstances; his Test batting record is superior to anything his five star figures, and against Australia his normal is considerably higher. Outside of Tests, he had some accomplishment with the ball, and had it not been for the profundity of turn bowling in Yorkshire, he may have been a main bowler. He was one of the first to bowl left-arm wrist-turn, and may have designed the name to depict such conveyances—"chinamen". Popular with colleagues and onlookers, Leyland had a notoriety for being a humorist, and numerous accounts were told about him. 

Leyland was conceived in Bilton, a territory of Harrogate, to Mercy (née Lambert) and Edward (Ted) Leyland. He was enrolled during childbirth as Morris Leyland yet his name was typically spelt "Maurice". His dad was a stonemason and a very much regarded proficient cricketer for Moorside in Lancashire. Leyland senior additionally went about as Moorside's groundsman, and in later years proceeded with that job at Harrogate, Headingley Cricket Ground and Edgbaston. Leyland junior joined his dad in the Moorside group in 1912, and by the age of fourteen had graduated to the Lancashire League. After military administration in the First World War, he turned into an expert cricketer for Harrogate somewhere in the range of 1918 and 1920. From that point he showed up for the Yorkshire Council, and Yorkshire's second group, for whom he bowled normally; when he achieved the primary group, he bowled rarely in his first seasons. Around this time, he additionally played football for Harrogate. 

Amid the mid 1920s, the Yorkshire panel was endeavoring to discover players to supplant those whose professions had finished with the First World War. Late in the 1920 season, Leyland made his top notch debut for Yorkshire, having played a few times in the second group that mid year. He played once, against Essex, scoring ten keeps running in his solitary innings, however this was his sole appearance that year. He had never recently gone to a County Championship amusement. The next year, Leyland played in five first-group matches, scoring 52 not out against Leicestershire, averaging a little more than 19 for the season. In the last piece of the 1922 season he played all the more normally, supplanting Norman Kilner in the group. In spite of the fact that Leyland's batting figures were unremarkable, the outline of Yorkshire's season in "Wisden Cricketers' Almanac" expressed that he "gave indications of guarantee as a constraining batsman and handled in all respects finely". His most astounding score in 14 matches was 29, however he was granted his area top, and faultfinders inside Yorkshire made a decision about him to have extraordinary potential. 

Leyland played consistently in the 1923 season and achieved 1,000 keeps running in top of the line cricket, a complete he surpassed in every one of the seventeen seasons among 1923 and the episode of war in 1939. In 1923, he scored seven fifties and arrived at the midpoint of 27.89; "Wisden" proposed that he would turn into a main left-gave batsman and that "his future appears to be guaranteed". In his history of Yorkshire County Cricket Club, Anthony Woodhouse states that Leyland increased important experience as a major aspect of an effective batting side. Amid this period, Yorkshire won the County Championship in four progressive seasons from 1922 to 1925. A later survey of Leyland's profession in "Wisden" recommended that this group was one of Yorkshire's most grounded, yet once in a while ended up over-focused and forceful. The audit expressed that this condition "was a hard school for a youthful cricketer, yet Leyland flourished with such control, and he has never lost his chuckle." 

By the start of the 1924 season, Leyland was perceived in "The Times" as a standout amongst the most encouraging youthful expert batsmen in England; the paper's cricket reporter noticed that Leyland "is completely expected, in Yorkshire, to form into a top notch left-gave batsman." He kept on improving that season, scoring 1,259 keeps running at 30.70. In August, he scored his first century in top of the line cricket, hitting 133 not out in a drawn diversion against Lancashire; later in the month, he scored one more century. Leyland further improved his record in 1925, hitting 1,572 keeps running at 40.30. "Wisden" remarked: "Leyland still additionally expanded the huge notoriety he had made in the past summer and should, if all runs well with him, to accomplish the most elevated qualification." By the finish of the 1926 season, in which he scored 1,561 keeps running at 39.02 and hit five centuries, Leyland had built up himself as a standout amongst the most dependable batsmen in the Yorkshire group. 

Following the case of Wilfred Rhodes, a few Yorkshire cricketers during the 1920s spent English winters instructing in India for the Maharaja of Patiala. Leyland instructed in the winter of 1926– 27, alongside Arthur Dolphin, the Yorkshire wicketkeeper. That equivalent winter, a Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) group visited India; in spite of the fact that not picked in the visiting party, both Leyland and Dolphin played a bunch of matches for the MCC. Amid the 1927 season Leyland scored 1,625 keeps running at 41.66, and, against Middlesex, scored his first twofold century. "Wisden" proposed that he "was not so reliable as could have been wanted", however batted in an engaging design. In August, he was chosen in a preliminary diversion to survey players who may speak to England in Test matches—he played against the England group for a side named "The Rest"— and scored 102. In the winter of 1927– 28, Leyland afresh trained in India for the Maharajah of Patiala. 

Not long after coming back from India, Leyland wedded Constance (Connie) Russell in Harrogate on 29 March 1928. In later years, Connie took care of the offspring of Herbert Sutcliffe amid Yorkshire matches at Harrogate when their conduct turned out to be a lot for their own mom. Sutcliffe's little girl later reviewed Connie as "stern and cross", and the main individual who could control her and her sibling: "I was scared to death." 

Like Leyland, the Yorkshire bowler Roy Kilner trained in India amid 1927– 28. Be that as it may, in doing as such Kilner gotten a fever and kicked the bucket not long after coming back to England. With a debilitated bowling assault, and influenced by wounds and loss of structure, Yorkshire squeezed Leyland into administration as a periodic bowler in the 1928 season. He had done small bowling for Yorkshire now; the group had two moderate left-arm spinners in Kilner and Rhodes, leaving Leyland with little chance. Having never bowled 50 top notch overs in a past season, nor taken multiple wickets, he astonished 500 overs in 1928 and took 35 wickets at a normal of 34.20. At this stage, the Yorkshire experts felt that he may completely take on Kilner's bowling outstanding task at hand, or succeed Rhodes in the senior spinner's position. 

Leyland additionally had his best season with the bat. He scored 1,783 keeps running at a normal of 54.03, and scored another twofold century. Toward the finish of the period, "Wisden" remarked: "[Leyland] can play both the amusements—the hounded safeguard when an awful position must be spared and a fine driving diversion when it is important to make runs rapidly. In the common way his inclination is for assault and he is a great batsman to watch." 

Amid June 1928, Leyland was chosen for another Test preliminary, playing for "The Rest" against England; at that point in mid-July he played for the Players against the Gentlemen at Lord's Cricket Ground. Toward the finish of July, the MCC named the group to visit Australia for the 1928– 29 Ashes arrangement. Leyland was incorporated into the group; as indicated by "The Times", it would have been hard to forget him and his essence lifted the handling capacity of the side. His choice was disputable in the south of England, and especially in Kent, as he had the spot that the veteran Kent batsman Frank Woolley was relied upon to fill. One Kent supporter composed that Leyland was a "cross bat town greener". Pelham Warner, a selector at the time, guaranteed that Leyland's prevalent handling affected the choice, yet the cricket essayist Alan Gibson proposes that the genuine decision was among Woolley and Phil Mead, two batsmen of comparable age. In 1928, the West Indies visited England, playing their first Test matches. The group did not perform well, yet the England selectors picked solid groups to give practice to the players. Leyland was chosen for the remainder of the three Test matches. Making his presentation on 11 August 1928, he was expelled for 0 by Herman Griffith in his solitary innings. 

The MCC group which visited Australia was incredibly solid in batting, and Leyland filled in as back-up to the principle batsmen. The English batting line-up was agreed to a large portion of the arrangement, leaving little open door for the back-ups; in spite of the fact that Mead played in the primary Test, he was consequently forgotten to reinforce the bowling. Playing in other top of the line coordinates on the visit, Leyland scored hundreds of years against South Australia and Queensland. With England 4– 0 ahead in the arrangement, Chapman remained down from the last Test; despite the fact that it isn't clear why he did as such, one plausibility is that he wished to give however many individuals from the group as could be expected under the circumstances an opportunity to show up in the Tests. Then again, he may have felt that his batting structure did not warrant a spot in the group. Whatever the reason, Leyland had his spot. Britain lost the match, however Leyland was effective. He scored 137, his first Test century, and 53 not out. The report in "Wisden" expressed: "[He] separated himself by two extremely wonderful displays ... His display of incredible, very much planned driving past spread point will long be recalled by the individuals who saw it." Overall, in top of the line coordinates on the visit, he scored 614 keeps running at 43.85, however his bowling was ineffectual on the hard pitches. Following his achievement in the last Test, Leyland was required to wind up one of the main English batsmen, and before the 1929 season he was named one of the "Wisden" Cricketers of the Year for his exhibitions in the 1928 season. 

Leyland scored 1,931 keeps running at 42.91 in 1929, and took 50 top of the line wickets in the season at a normal of 30.26. In the match against Oxford University he took eight wickets and against Glamorgan he took five wickets in an innings without precedent for his vocation. Against Lancashire, in a match which Rhodes missed with damage, Leyland played the job of the principle spinner and returned figures of seven wickets for 52 runs. Subsequent to watching this execution, the cricket author Neville Cardus made a decision about that Leyland had bowled well and with soul on a wet pitch which favored turn bowling, however that he came up short on the exactness and flight required in left-arm turn bowlers and exemplified by Rhodes. In another amusement, Cardus saw that Leyland appeared to endeavor left-gave googly bowling. Following achievement in a preliminary amusement, Leyland kept his place in the Test group, playing each of the five matches against South Africa that late spring to score 294 keeps running at a normal of 42.00. In the Second Test, played at Lord's, he scored 73 and 102. 

Leyland did not play in the initial two matches of the 1930 Ashes arrangement; Woolley supplanted him in the group however was ineffective and Leyland came in for the last three recreations. Leyland was minimal increasingly viable, and his most noteworthy score in the arrangement was 44; England lost 2– 1. Increasingly effective for Yorkshire, he scored five centuries for the region, and hit his most noteworthy score of the period against Lancashire—the inevitable County Champions for 1930. At the time, Yorkshire v Lancashire matches were chiefly gloomy, moderate scoring undertakings, however Leyland played unreservedly to score 211 not out in around 270 minutes. He hit two sixes in one over, and, as per Cardus, played "extraordinary and wonderful cricket". Leyland's best bowling execution that year sought the Players against the Gentlemen at Lord's, the point at which he took seven for 94 in the primary innings and nine wickets in the match. In all top of the line coordinates in 1930, he scored 2,175 keeps running at a normal of 50.58, the first occasion when he achieved 2,000 keeps running in a season, and took 53 wickets at 27.92. Amid the 1930– 31 English winter, he visited South Africa with a MCC group. Inferable from the nonattendance of a normal opening batsman, Leyland opened the batting on a few events and performed reliably amid the visit. In top notch matches, he scored 774 keeps running at 36.85 and took nine wickets; in the Test arrangement, he scored 300 keeps running at 42.85, twice passing fifty. In the second amusement, he took three for 91, his best bowling execution in Test matches. 

Leyland battled in the accompanying two seasons. In 1931, he scored only one century as his total and normal—1,228 keeps running at 38.37—both fell, in spite of the fact that his expanding propensity for prevailing against the best restriction proceeded with when he scored 96 for Yorkshire against the Rest of England. With the ball, he took 12 wickets at a normal more than 40. In spite of his loss of structure, Yorkshire won the County Championship out of the blue since 1925; the group were likewise champions in the following two seasons and proceeded to win seven out of nine titles before the Second World War. Leyland played for the Players against the Gentlemen, however was not chosen for any of the Tests in the three-coordinate arrangement among England and New Zealand. "Wisden" later recommended that he was "stale"; at the time, in checking on contender to visit Australia in 1932– 33, the "Wisden" manager trusted that "no reason exists why Leyland ought not recapture his best structure". 

Toward the start of the 1932 season, Leyland kept on battling. In spite of the fact that he was picked in two Test preliminary matches and scored 189 against Middlesex, he was let alone for the England group for the main Test of the mid year, and had little achievement in the initial three months of the period. In any case, in August he made 1,013 keeps running at 84.14, scoring four centuries and two innings more than 90. Amid this spell, Leyland shared an association of 149 keeps running in 55 minutes with Herbert Sutcliffe against Essex. That area had picked two quick bowlers trying to threaten the Yorkshire batsmen. Ken Farnes and Morris Nichols bowled a progression of bouncers; Farnes endeavored quick leg hypothesis bowling, a strategy which formed into Bodyline amid the MCC voyage through Australia in 1932– 33. In the end, Sutcliffe started to snare the short ball and in six progressive overs, he and Leyland included 102 runs, a surprisingly quick rate of scoring. Leyland confronted little of the bowling, later recalling that he got just four conveyances in this period, hitting each for four. Altogether, he contributed just 45 rushes to the association. Farnes was decreased to tears by the attack on his bowling, and these occasions perhaps convinced the MCC selectors to let him alone for the group for the 1932– 33 visit. Leyland, then again, was among the last names added to the visiting party in mid-August. Toward the finish of the period, he scored 105 against the Rest of England for Yorkshire, his group playing as County Champions. Altogether, he scored 1,980 keeps running at 52.10 and took 23 wickets at 20.86. 

Britain won the 1932– 33 Ashes arrangement 4– 1, however the cricket was eclipsed by discussion over the group's utilization of Bodyline strategies. Leyland was not especially effective in factual terms. Be that as it may, evaluating the visit in "Wisden", Sydney Southerton composed that Leyland "fared all in all incredibly well ... he had batted finely in the Test matches at Adelaide and Brisbane". He scored 306 keeps running in the five Test matches at a normal of 34.00; he started and finished the arrangement with scores of 0, yet played innings of 83 and 86 in the definitive third and fourth Test matches, with his group under strain when he batted. Gibson calls attention to that both of his ducks came when England were in predominant positions. In all top notch coordinates on the visit, Leyland scored 880 keeps running at 44.00, including two centuries against state groups. The previous Australian batsmen Charlie Macartney recommended that, in spite of the fact that "a valuable player", Leyland was prevented by his guarded methodology. Conflicting with his normally forceful methodology influenced him to appear "cumbersome", and never enabled him to play taking care of business. Other Australian reporters had an increasingly positive assessment. 

Coming back from Australia, Leyland scored 2,317 top of the line keeps running in the 1933 season, the most elevated occasional total of his profession. Averaging 50.36, he scored seven centuries. With the ball, he took 37 wickets at 28.13. In a diversion against Leicestershire in August, he took ten wickets for 94 runs, the main time in his vocation he took ten wickets in a match. The West Indies group visited England that season, however Leyland played just in the main Test; he scored one keep running in his single innings. Leyland additionally scored more than 2,000 five star keeps running in 1934, at a normal of 53.55. Playing each of the five Test matches of the arrangement against the visiting Australian group, he scored 478 keeps running at a normal of 68.28. His three centuries were scored when England were in troublesome circumstances. A "Wisden" survey of his profession written in 1943 expressed: "In 1934 Leyland achieved the stature of his forces. Ready in strategy, wealthy in experience, similar to rock in fight, he was in this season England's most prominent batsman." 

Britain lost the arrangement 2– 1. The Australians were intensely subject to the bowling of Clarrie Grimmett and Bill O'Reilly. At the time, O'Reilly was viewed as the best bowler on the planet, and among the best ever, yet Leyland started a spell of relative strength over him. In the second Test, Leyland scored 109 and imparted an organization of 129 to Les Ames; in the following match, he hit 153 runs, offering substantial associations to Patsy Hendren and Ames, and in the last Test, he played an innings of 110. Be that as it may, the remainder of the England batting was questionable; checking on the season, the "Wisden" supervisor Sydney Southerton stated: "In almost every match either Hendren, Leyland or Ames, rather than having the capacity to go in and play a free, certain amusement, needed to spare or cure a position truly harmed by the fast fall of a few wickets." notwithstanding his batting triumphs, Leyland was commonly the best outfielder in the England group. He additionally scored three centuries for Yorkshire, another for the Rest of England against Lancashire, the Champion County, and 80 for the Players against the Gentlemen at Lord's. With the ball, he took 33 top of the line wickets. He was given an advantage coordinate against Nottinghamshire; his advantage in the long run raised £3,648, at the time the third most astounding sum raised for a Yorkshire player. 

Amid the winter of 1934– 35, Leyland visited the West Indies with a MCC group which lost the four-Test arrangement 2– 1. The English batsmen were overpowered by the pace bowlers of the West Indies group, and some MCC players grumbled that Learie Constantine, Manny Martindale and Leslie Hylton scared the meeting batsmen with short-pitched bowling. Leyland played three Tests however scored just 36 keeps running in six innings. Increasingly effective in other top of the line recreations, he scored 347 keeps running at 21.68 generally speaking, and took 11 wickets. He scored 1,815 keeps running at a normal of 38.61 in 1935 and took 32 wickets at 25.46. He played in four of the five Tests against South Africa—he missed the third with lumbago—to score 342 keeps running at 57.00. In the first and fourth Tests, he hit fifties, and in the last match scored 161 keeps running in 130 minutes, batting rapidly all through. Notwithstanding, England couldn't compel a success, and having lost the second Test, were beaten 1– 0 in the arrangement. 

In the wake of partaking in a voyage through Jamaica by the Yorkshire group, on which he scored 115 and 75 in progressive diversions, Leyland scored 1,790 keeps running at 45.89 in 1936. He hit seven centuries, including an innings of 263 keeps running against Essex in the season, the most noteworthy five star score of his profession. He played in two of the three Tests against India that season—he missed the second with damage—yet just batted twice. In the principal Test, he scored 60 keeps running against a solid bowling assault when England were in a troublesome position. The home side won the arrangement 2– 0. Amid the season, Leyland was among the primary players picked to visit Australia with the MCC in the expected winter. 

The MCC group was captained by G. O. B. Allen who added Leyland to the group choice advisory group amid the visit. The group won the initial two Tests, however lost the following three to lose the arrangement 3– 2, and "Wisden" accused a shortcoming in batting for the annihilation. Leyland was one of only a handful few batsmen pardoned: "Leyland, however extremely limited, was one of the backbones of the batting". Prior to the arrangement, England were relied upon to battle seriously against the bowling of O'Reilly. As indicated by Cardus, Leyland told O'Reilly before the primary Test: "Ah can tell thi one thing now for certain ... Ok has thee where Ah needs thi, Bill—and Ah thinks tha knows it." 

In the principal Test, Leyland scored 126 after the group lost the initial three wickets for 20 runs; numerous pundits made a decision about this to be his most noteworthy innings. Now, he had scored four centuries in seven Test innings against Australia. He played a powerful protective innings in the second innings, and another in the second Test, when he was reprimanded for moderate scoring. At that point in the third Test, on a pitch made especially troublesome for batsmen by downpour, England could just score 76 for nine; Leyland scored 17 of those runs and as per "Wisden", "was the one genuine accomplishment for England ... [He] never appeared in challenges". In the second innings, he scored a century In all out, in five Test matches, he scored 441 keeps running at a normal of 55.12. Australian pundits saw Leyland as a standout amongst England's best batsmen, and gave him credit for England's solid appearing in the arrangement. In all five star diversions on the visit, he scored 902 keeps running at 50.11; he was ineffective in three recreations the group played in New Zealand on fruition of the primary visit. 

Leyland missed a considerable measure of cricket in 1937 with a broken finger, scarcely playing in July, and missing the Test arrangement against New Zealand. He scored 1,306 keeps running at 36.27 and took 19 wickets. Wounds kept on disturbing him in 1938. He scored 1,884 top of the line keeps running at 43.81, yet a shoulder strain right off the bat in the season antagonistically influenced his structure. He was not chosen for the initial three Tests against Australia, not least as the England side contained a few promising batsmen. Be that as it may, he had his best season with the ball. A progression of hard, dry wickets gave less chances to customary spinners and Leyland took 63 wickets at 19.32. Right off the bat in the season, he took eight for 63 against Hampshire, the best figures of his vocation. Similarly as his batting structure returned, and when he was probably going to be reviewed to the England side, Leyland broke his thumb in a match against Middlesex. Be that as it may, he recouped so as to play in the last Test of the arrangement. Australia's triumph in the fourth Test had given the group a 1– 0 lead. 

"Wisden" remarked: "The incorporation by and by of Leyland was a move which yielded astonishing outcomes." Coming in to bat at number three, Leyland imparted an organization of 382 to Len Hutton, at the time a record English Test association for any wicket; starting at 2013, it remains England's most astounding association for the second wicket, and the most astounding for any wicket against Australia. As there was no time limit on the match, Leyland batted all around circumspectly and scored 187 in around six-and-a-half hours before he was run out. Hutton proceeded to score 364, at the time the most noteworthy score in Tests. Britain had batted purposely gradually to baffle the bowlers, and Cardus communicated his dissatisfaction to Leyland amid an interim in play. Cardus composed: "'And even you, Maurice,' I griped, in distress not outrage, 'even you won't hit the ball and give us some cricket.' 'Hello, hold up a moment, Mr Cardus,' dissuaded Leyland, just as tormented at my dissent, 'hold up a moment—tha must recall that Ah'm playing for me place in group. Britain proceeded to win the match and level the arrangement. Leyland's innings was his most noteworthy in Tests, however this was his last counterpart for England. In 41 Tests, he scored 2,764 keeps running at 46.06 and took six wickets. 

In 1939, the last season before the Second World War, Leyland scored 1,238 keeps running at 39.93 and took 23 wickets. He served in the military amid the war: first as a sergeant teacher, and was later appointed as lieutenant. Between his military obligations, he played cricket in the Bradford League, and played for different wartime groups, including ones speaking to the military. In 1945, he played some non-five star recreations for groups speaking to Yorkshire and a five star diversion for Yorkshire against Lancashire. Continueing his profession after the war to enable the Yorkshire to group become restored, Leyland played a last full season in 1946 when he scored 632 keeps running at 21.06, with a most noteworthy score of 88, and took 16 wickets at 14.70; against Warwickshire, he took seven for 36. Amid August 1946, he reported his retirement, however in the accompanying two seasons, he showed up in some finish of-season five star recreations. He finished his top notch profession in 1948 with 33,660 keeps running at 40.50 and 466 wickets at 29.31. 

After his retirement from the Yorkshire group, Leyland came back to play for Harrogate until 1950, when he ended up boss mentor, alongside Arthur Mitchell, at Yorkshire. Mitchell was a sullen, genuine man yet the stand out from the cheerier Leyland made a viable organization. Leyland likewise filled in as a delegate of the paper producers Thomas Owen. In 1949, he was among the principal gathering of previous expert cricketers to be granted privileged enrollment of the MCC. He proceeded as a regarded mentor of Yorkshire until sickness constrained his retirement in 1963. Experiencing Parkinson's infection, he kept up certain associations with Yorkshire cricket and constantly attempted to go to matches played at Harrogate. In acknowledgment of his accomplishments, the Harrogate grounds raised new entryways which were named in his respect. Leyland kicked the bucket in an emergency clinic at Knaresborough on 1 January 1967. 

As a batsman, Leyland for the most part batted in the center request or sporadically opened the batting. Right off the bat in his vocation, observers proposed that his batting method was defective, notwithstanding when he was measurably fruitful. His utilization of the cut shot was doubted by some Yorkshire pundits, and they presumed that his inclination for assaulting play would be ineffective; he was a quicker scorer and more forceful batsman than a large portion of his Yorkshire counterparts. Cardus proposed that, rather, he was in the line of "clever Yorkshiremen which the expansive idea of his region delivers occasionally as a difference to and raising of the for the most part dreary irregularity. There was a twinkle in his eye and there was a twinkle in his bat, regardless of how inauspiciously and straight it might infrequently be obliged to shield a troublesome circumstance in Yorkshire." The cricket author E. W. Swanton saw that Leyland's bat was frequently not straight when he played his shots—in opposition to universal strategy—yet the speed of his footwork and his capacity to watch the ball firmly compensated for any slips. Restricting bowlers proposed that the impression was a figment and that his bat was straight when he hit the ball. 

In spite of the fact that Leyland was not an upscale batsman, he was viable. Cardus depicted him as "a durable cricketer, not tall, yet his inclining bottle-neck shoulders appeared to add crawls to him and he had long arms of noteworthy thickness, veined with quality at the wrist; additionally he was expansive in the shaft, with a rubicund grin on his chipper open face." He was a decent driver of the ball, with a high backlift, and moved rapidly and monetarily to achieve the pitch of the ball. Cardus felt that his style of batting was illustrative of his character: "He put his temperament into each stroke, and when he had 'got bowling where he needed it,' he didn't only hit or drive it—he clobbered it." on occasion, Leyland's longing to score rapidly achieved his rejection. In any case, when fundamental, he guarded unequivocally and utilized his cushions as a second line of safeguard on the off chance that he missed the ball with his bat. 

Pundits judged Leyland a superior Test than district batsman. His five star batting figures were not remarkable contrasted with different cricketers who played far less Test matches, yet in Tests, his normal is six runs an innings higher; against Australia, the most grounded of England's adversaries amid his vocation, he found the middle value of 56, a further increment of ten runs. Gibson proposes that he rose to the enormous events, and that he performed best against the hardest rivals. As indicated by Leyland's tribute in "The Times", "He was basically a man for the enormous event, a batsman taking care of business in an emergency, and his most loved diversion was a Roses coordinate or an Australian Test. Britain's supporters frequently inhaled a murmur of help to see his husky figure deliberately striding to the wicket." The author R. C. Robertson-Glasgow recommended that Leyland in a Test coordinate resembled the "four-squarers of antiquated or sentimental occasions. He was Horatius on the tottering scaffold; Hector, who alone remained among Troy and annihilation. He was destined to safeguard. However, he is more perilous than the individuals who are obstinate or inauspicious. He has something of D'Artagnan in him; there is a jollity other than the effortlessness and quality; found in the slight rundown of the top, and in a specific buoyancy and positive thinking of step." 

In spite of the fact that he didn't need to confront top-class quick bowling in Test matches, he was effective against English quick bowlers, for example, Harold Larwood in province cricket, and he built up his domination over O'Reilly, the world's best bowler at the time. On one event, O'Reilly grasped his head when he saw Leyland turn out to bat, and was heard to state: "Gracious, it's that ridiculous Yorkshireman once more!" In later years, O'Reilly energetically denied that Leyland held the high ground, reacting to such proposals by saying "You simply check how often I got him out!" The cricket student of history David Frith calls attention to that "the appropriate response is multiple times in 16 Tests, yet with diminishing recurrence. In their Test experiences Leyland made 1,412 keeps running at a normal of 56." Robertson-Glasgow noticed that Leyland was practically unknown in great batting conditions under little weight; he woke up in increasingly troublesome conditions: "His component was foul climate. He would vanish into the cloudiness of Bramall Lane, where a sterner kind of amusement was being played under the name of cricket, and settle in himself among the sawdust and smoke and off-breaks and advances, and do his crude, extreme work peacefully." 

Leyland was viewed by faultfinders as a decent defender in practically any position. He bowled left-arm turn, however in spite of the customary practice for a left-arm spinner to utilize his fingers to turn the ball, typically bowled the ball from the back of his hand—the conveyance known as the chinaman. He didn't pay attention to bowling, however delighted in it. In this job, he was successful now and again, yet different players were utilized in the principle spinner's job for Yorkshire in inclination to him, and he was commonly utilized as back-up, for instance when different bowlers had neglected to reject well-set batsmen. His "Wisden" tribute recommends that, had he played for another region, he may have formed into a world-class all-rounder. His absence of chance provoked him to explore different avenues regarding wrist turn, and he later guaranteed that he began the expression "chinaman" to depict the conveyance. "Wisden" recommends: "At whatever point two batsmen were hard to move or something else was needed somebody in the Yorkshire group would state, 'Put on Maurice to bowl a portion of those Chinese things.' Roy Kilner clarified, 'It's outside stuff and you can't call it whatever else. Another variant was the Leyland trusted that the specific conveyance was just adequate "to get the Chinese out". In any case, there are a few speculations over how the conveyance came to be named. 

Leyland was noted as a humorist in his playing days; numerous accounts are related with him, albeit some are presumably fanciful. He recounted stories against himself. One story concerned his expulsion amid a wartime coordinate, in which he was out to a horrible conveyance from a bowler who was gravely performing poorly due to a lack of practice. Leyland hit the ball noticeable all around and was gotten. He sadly remarked: "You know, I don't get much practice against that stuff". Some other time, he depicted how he confronted an over from O'Reilly, as related in his tribute in "The Cricketer": "'First he bowled me an off-break, at that point he bowled me a leg-break; at that point his googly, at that point a guard, at that point one that ran with his arm ...' 'Yet that is just five, Maurice. Shouldn't something be said about the last one?' 'Goodness, that,' said Maurice deprecatingly. 'That was a straight 'un and it bowled me. Among his colleagues, Leyland was known as "Tonnip", or "Turnip", potentially a reference to his nation childhood. Robertson-Glasgow and Cardus composed productively on Leyland; Gibson recommends that these pieces are among their best work. Leyland was well known with colleagues, adversaries and observers around the globe. Swanton finished up his tribute of Leyland: "Not any more gutsy or decided cricketer at any point clasped on cushions for England."