Maryland Route 36 

Maryland Route 36 (otherwise called MD 36 or Route 36) is a state parkway situated in Allegany County, Maryland, United States. MD 36's southern end is at the West Virginia Route 46 (WV 46) connect in Westernport and its northern end at U.S. Highway 40 Alternate close Cumberland. Among Westernport and Frostburg, it is known as Georges Creek Road, and from Frostburg to Cumberland it is known as Mount Savage Road. Like most of Maryland state roadways, MD 36 is kept up by the Maryland State Highway Administration (MDSHA). 

MD 36 fills in as the principle street through the Georges Creek Valley, an area which is verifiably known for coal mining, and has been assigned by MDSHA as a major aspect of the Coal Heritage Scenic Byway. MD 36 is the primary street associating the towns of Westernport, Lonaconing, and Midland in southwestern Allegany County, just as Frostburg, Mount Savage, and Corriganville in northwestern Allegany County. 

MD 36 has two fundamental segments: Georges Creek Road, which keeps running along the Georges Creek Valley, from Westernport to Frostburg in southwestern Allegany County, and Mount Savage Road, which runs eastbound from Frostburg to Cumberland in northwestern Allegany County. MD 36 is a piece of the National Highway System as a main blood vessel from I-68 to US 40 Alternate in Frostburg and from MD 35 at Corriganville to US 40 Alternate in Cumberland. 

MD 36 starts at the WV 46 connect in Westernport and runs upper east crosswise over western Allegany County as a two-path street named Georges Creek Road, named for Georges Creek, a Potomac River tributary which the street parallels. As far as possible for the greater part of the length among Westernport and Lonaconing is . A short separation outside Westernport city limits, MD 36 converges MD 937, an old arrangement of MD 36. Close Barton, MD 36 meets MD 935, which is the old arrangement of MD 36 through Barton. MD 36 sidesteps Barton, climbing the slope over the Georges Creek Valley before sliding again into the valley as it approaches Lonaconing. MD 935 comes back to MD 36 south of Lonaconing, with its northern end at MD 36. 

As the street enters Lonaconing, it limits and as far as possible drops to , expanding to after it goes through Lonaconing. MD 36 goes through Lonaconing as Main Street, and it crosses MD 657 close to the focal point of Lonaconing. Along Main Street in Lonaconing is the Lonaconing Iron Furnace, a noteworthy impact heater which worked in the mid nineteenth century. 

MD 36 then proceeds toward Midland. At Midland, there is a sharp bend in the street, and as far as possible drops to . Along this bend, MD 36 converges Church Street, which interfaces with MD 936, the old arrangement of MD 36 among Midland and Frostburg. The new arrangement of MD 36 continues upper east, going close Vale Summit, where it crosses MD 55. 

North of the MD 55 crossing point, MD 36 passes west of a recreation center and ride parcel before it meets Interstate 68/U.S. Highway 40 at a jewel trade at exit 34. Close to this trade is God's Ark of Safety, a congregation well known for its endeavor to construct an imitation of Noah's Ark. Among Midland and Frostburg, as far as possible is again , and there is a short area close to the Interstate 68/U.S. Highway 40 exchange where MD 36 extends to four paths. After entering Frostburg, MD 36 joins as Main Street. MD 36 finishes Main Street westbound Frostburg, meeting the northern end of MD 936 at Grant Street. At Depot Street, close to the focal point of Frostburg, MD 36 associates with the western warehouse of the Western Maryland Scenic Railroad. At the convergence with Water Street, MD 36 leaves , and after leaving Frostburg city constrains its name changes to Mount Savage Road. 

In the wake of leaving Frostburg, MD 36 is known as Mount Savage Road, as it ventures eastbound, opposite to its marked bearing, toward Mount Savage. North of Eckhart Mines, MD 36 meets MD 638, which associates MD 36 to in Eckhart Mines. The street among Frostburg and Mount Savage is especially stunning, and incorporates a few fastener turns close Frostburg. As far as possible on this segment of the street is . 

As the street enters Mount Savage, it goes by the Mount Savage Castle, a Scottish-style château worked in 1840, which as of now works as an informal lodging. In Mount Savage, the course limits as it pursues Main Street, and the street is habitually blocked by left vehicles, making it troublesome for two autos to go by one another. East of Mount Savage, the course broadens and its speed limit step by step increments to . 

In Barrelville, MD 36 meets MD 47, which interfaces it with PA 160 in Somerset County. From its convergence with MD 47 to its end at Cumberland, MD 36 pursues more current arrangements, with the old arrangements being assigned MD 831. At Corriganville, MD 36 converges MD 35, which associates it with PA 96 in Bedford County. MD 36 closes at U.S. Highway 40 Alternate at the Narrows close Cumberland. 

MD 36 goes through the Georges Creek Valley, which has a long history of coal mining. In acknowledgment of this, the MDSHA has assigned MD 36 as a component of the Coal Heritage Scenic Byway. Coal mining was a noteworthy industry in western Maryland in the nineteenth century, with railways being the significant course interfacing the coal mineshafts to business sectors outside the Georges Creek Valley. Profound mining, which was the essential mining technique utilized in western Maryland, declined being used after World War II, supplanted fundamentally by surface mining. In spite of the fact that Maryland coal creation is currently just a little division of absolute U.S. coal creation, coal from the Georges Creek Valley is utilized to control the AES Warrior Run control plant in Cumberland. 

MD 36 was doled out a course number before 1927, sooner than the greater part of the other Maryland state thruways. The first arrangement of MD 36 in southern Allegany County intently paralleled the Georges Creek Railroad. Later realignments have moved MD 36 far from the railroad in a few areas, yet three intersections stay: one north of Lonaconing, one south of Lonaconing close to the MD 935 convergence, and a third intersection close Westernport. 

Throughout the years, numerous new arrangements of MD 36 have been worked for different reasons, for example, to smooth out bends in the street. A few of the old arrangements have been doled out course quantities of their own. The southernmost of these is MD 937, which comprises of the old arrangement through Westernport. Before the development of the scaffold interfacing MD 36 to WV 46, MD 937 was the arrangement of MD 36 through Westernport, finishing at MD 135. In Barton, MD 935 conveys the old arrangement of MD 36. The longest of the old arrangement areas is MD 936, which keeps running from Midland to Frostburg, and was circumvent during the 1970s with another arrangement of MD 36 following piece of MD 55 and associating with . Before this change, MD 55 finished in Midland; it has since been truncated to its present end at Vale Summit. 

North of Frostburg, a few old arrangements are assigned as MD 831, however these portions of street are not marked. Among these fragments of street are Kriegbaum Road (assigned as MD 831C), and Old Mount Savage Road (assigned as MD 831A). Kriegbaum Road parts from MD 36 west of Corriganville and goes through Corriganville, coming back to MD 36 east of the town. Old Mount Savage Road meets MD 36 west of the Cumberland Narrows, and runs southward to cross close to its present convergence with MD 36.