Sack of Amorium 

The Sack of Amorium by the Abbasid Caliphate in mid-August 838 was one of the significant occasions in the long history of the Arab– Byzantine Wars. The Abbasid battle was driven actually by the Caliph al-Mu'tasim (ruled 833– 842), in countering to a practically unopposed endeavor propelled by the Byzantine head Theophilos (r. 829– 842) into the Caliphate's borderlands the earlier year. Mu'tasim focused on Amorium, a Byzantine city in western Asia Minor (current Anatolia), since it was the origin of the decision Byzantine administration and, at the time, one of Byzantium's biggest and most vital urban communities. The caliph assembled an incredibly expansive armed force, which he partitioned in two sections, which attacked from the upper east and the south. The northeastern armed force vanquished the Byzantine powers under Theophilos at Anzen, enabling the Abbasids to enter profound into Byzantine-held Asia Minor and meet upon Ancyra, which they found deserted. In the wake of sacking the city, they swung south to Amorium, where they touched base on 1 August. Looked with interests at Constantinople and the insubordination of the substantial Khurramite unforeseen of his military, Theophilos was unfit to help the city. 

Amorium was firmly braced and garrisoned, yet a swindler uncovered a frail spot in the divider, where the Abbasids concentrated their assault, affecting a break. Unfit to get through the attacking armed force, Boiditzes, the officer of the broke segment secretly endeavored to consult with the Caliph without informing his bosses. He closed a nearby ceasefire and left his post, which enabled the Arabs to exploit, enter the city and catch it. Amorium was methodicallly crushed, never to recoup its previous flourishing. A significant number of its occupants were butchered, and the rest of off as slaves. The vast majority of the survivors were discharged after a ceasefire in 841, yet conspicuous authorities were taken to the caliph's capital of Samarra and executed years after the fact subsequent to declining to change over to Islam, getting to be known as the 42 Martyrs of Amorium. 

The success of Amorium was not just a noteworthy military catastrophe and a substantial individual blow for Theophilos, yet in addition a horrendous accident for the Byzantines, its effect reverberating in later writing. The sack did not decisively modify the equalization of intensity, which was gradually moving to support Byzantium, however it completely defamed the religious principle of Iconoclasm, passionately upheld by Theophilos. As Iconoclasm depended intensely on military accomplishment for its legitimization, the fall of Amorium contributed unequivocally to its surrender soon after Theophilos' demise in 842. 

By 829, when the youthful head Theophilos climbed the Byzantine royal position, the Byzantines and Arabs had been battling on and off for right around two centuries. As of now, Arab assaults continued both in the east, where after very nearly twenty years of harmony because of the Abbasid common war Caliph al-Ma'mun (r. 813– 833) propelled a few expansive scale strikes, and in the west, where the progressive Muslim triumph of Sicily was in progress since 827. Theophilos was a driven man and furthermore a persuaded follower regarding Byzantine Iconoclasm, which denied the portrayal of celestial figures and the love of symbols. He looked to reinforce his routine and bolster his religious arrangements by military accomplishment against the Abbasid Caliphate, the Empire's real foe. 

Looking for awesome support, and reacting to iconophile plots against him, Theophilos reestablished dynamic concealment of the iconophiles and other saw "apostates" in June 833, including mass captures and outcasts, beatings and appropriations of property. In Byzantine eyes, God appeared to be in reality to remunerate this choice: al-Ma'mun kicked the bucket amid the principal phases of another, vast scale intrusion against Byzantium that was proposed to be simply the initial phase in vanquishing Constantinople, and his sibling and successor al-Mu'tasim pulled back to concentrate on interior issues, experiencing difficulty building up his power, and expecting to stand up to the progressing defiance of the Khurramite religious order under Babak Khorramdin. This permitted Theophilos to accomplish a progression of unobtrusive triumphs throughout the following couple of years, just as to support his powers with somewhere in the range of 14,000 Khurramite exiles under their pioneer Nasr, who was absolved a Christian and took the name Theophobos. The sovereign's victories were not especially marvelous, yet coming following two many years of thrashings and common war under iconophile heads, Theophilos felt defended in asserting them as vindication for his religious strategy. Thusly, the head started to freely connect himself with the memory of the militarily fruitful and fanatically heathen sovereign Constantine V (r. 741– 775), and issued another sort of the copper "follis" coin, printed in enormous numbers, which depicted him as the prototype successful Roman ruler. 

In 837, Theophilos chose—at the asking of the hard-squeezed Babak—to exploit the Caliphate's distraction with the concealment of the Khurramite revolt and lead a noteworthy battle against the outskirts emirates. He gathered an extremely substantial armed force, somewhere in the range of 70,000 battling men and 100,000 altogether as per al-Tabari, and attacked Arab region around the upper Euphrates practically unopposed. The Byzantines took the towns of Sozopetra and Arsamosata, assaulted and looted the farmland, removed payoff from a few urban areas in return for not assaulting them, and crushed various littler Arab powers. While Theophilos returned home to praise a triumph and be acclaimed in the Hippodrome of Constantinople as the "unique hero", the exiles from Sozopetra started touching base at Mu'tasim's capital, Samarra. The caliphal court was insulted by the mercilessness and sass of the assaults: not just had the Byzantines acted in open agreement with the Khurramite rebels, however amid the sack of Sozopetra—which a few sources guarantee as Mu'tasim's very own origin—every male detainee were executed and the rest sold into servitude, and some hostage ladies were assaulted by Theophilos' Khurramites. Theophilos' battle was not able, be that as it may, to spare Babak and his adherents, who in late 837 were constrained from their mountain fortresses by the general Afshin. Babak fled to Armenia, however was sold out to the Abbasids and kicked the bucket of torment. 

With the Khurramite risk over, the caliph started marshaling his powers for a response battle against Byzantium. A gigantic Arab armed force assembled at Tarsus; as indicated by the most solid record, that of Michael the Syrian, it numbered somewhere in the range of 80,000 men with 30,000 hirelings and camp devotees and 70,000 pack creatures. Different essayists give far bigger numbers, running from 200,000 to 500,000 as per al-Mas'udi. In contrast to prior crusades, which did not go a long ways past assaulting the posts of the outskirts zone, this undertaking was proposed to enter profound into Asia Minor and definite retribution. The incredible city of Amorium specifically was the planned prize. The Arab accounts record that Mu'tasim requested that his counselors name the "most out of reach and most grounded" Byzantine fortification, and they named Amorium, "where no Muslim has gone since the presence of Islam. It is the eye and establishment of Christendom; among the Byzantines, it is more acclaimed than Constantinople". As per Byzantine sources, the caliph had the city's name composed on the shields and pennants of his warriors. The capital of the ground-breaking Anatolic Theme, the city was deliberately situated at the western edge of the Anatolian level and controlled the primary southern course pursued by the Arab attacks. At the time, Amorium was one of the biggest urban communities in the Byzantine Empire, positioning in significance following Constantinople. It was additionally the origination of Theophilos' dad, Michael II the Amorian (r. 820– 829), and maybe of Theophilos himself. Because of its key significance, the city had been a regular focus of Arab assaults in the seventh and eighth hundreds of years, and Mu'tasim's forerunner Ma'mun was said to design assault the city when he passed on in 833. 

The caliph partitioned his power in two: a unit of 10,000 Turks under Afshin was sent upper east to unite with the emir of Malatya Umar al-Aqta and Armenian troops (the Artsruni and Bagratuni leaders of Vaspurakan and Taron separately both took an interest face to face in the battle) and attack the Armeniac Theme from the Pass of Hadath, while the principle armed force under the caliph himself would attack Cappadocia through the Cilician Gates. The development gatekeeper of the last was driven by Ashinas, with Itakh instructing the right, Ja'far ibn Dinar al-Khayyat the left and 'Ujayf ibn 'Anbasa the middle. The two powers would interface up at Ancyra, before walking together on Amorium. On the Byzantine side, Theophilos was before long made mindful of the caliph's goals, and set out from Constantinople toward the beginning of June. His military included men from the Anatolian and perhaps at the same time the European topics, the world class "tagmata" regiments, just as the Khurramites. The Byzantines anticipated that the Arab armed force should propel north to Ancyra subsequent to going through the Cilician Gates and afterward to turn south toward Amorium, yet it was likewise conceivable that the Arabs would walk straightforwardly over the Cappadocian plain to Amorium. Despite the fact that his commanders instructed clearing regarding the city, with the expectation of rendering the Arabs' battle target void and keeping the Byzantine armed force unified, Theophilos chose to strengthen the city's battalion, with Aetios the "strategos" of the Anatolics, and men from the "tagmata" of the Excubitors and the Vigla. 

With the remainder of his military, Theophilos then walked to intervene himself between the Cilician Gates and Ancyra, outdoors on the north bank of the waterway Halys, near one of the significant stream intersections. Ashinas crossed the Cilician Gates on 19 June, and the caliph himself with his primary armed force set out on the walk two days after the fact. The Arab advance was moderate and careful. On edge to maintain a strategic distance from a trap and get familiar with the head's whereabouts, Mu'tasim disallowed Ashinas to progress too profoundly into Cappadocia. Ashinas conveyed many exploring separations to take prisoners, and from them at long last learned of Theophilos' essence at the Halys, where he anticipated the Arab way to deal with give fight. In the meantime, around mid-July, Theophilos educated of the landing of Afshin's military, including approximately 30,000 men, at the plain of Dazimon. Leaving a piece of his military under an in respect to watch the intersections of the Halys, Theophilos quickly left with the vast majority of his military, about 40,000 men as per Michael the Syrian, to stand up to the littler Arab drive. Mu'tasim took in of Theophilos' takeoff from prisoners and attempted to caution Afshin, however the ruler was quicker and met Afshin's military in the Battle of Anzen on the plain of Dazimon on 22 July. In spite of introductory achievement, the Byzantine armed force broke and dispersed, while Theophilos with his gatekeeper were circled and scarcely figured out how to get through and escape. 

Theophilos rapidly started regrouping his powers and sent the general Theodore Krateros to Ancyra. Krateros found the city totally left, and was requested to strengthen the army of Amorium. Theophilos himself was before long compelled to come back to Constantinople, where bits of gossip about his demise at Anzen had prompted plots to proclaim another ruler. In the meantime, the Khurramites, accumulated around Sinope, revolted and announced their hesitant authority Theophobos ruler. Fortunately for the Empire, Theophobos kept up a uninvolved position and made no move to go up against Theophilos or join Mu'tasim. The caliph's vanguard under Ashinas came to Ancyra on 26 July. The occupants, who had looked for asylum in certain mines close-by, were found and kidnapped after a short battle by an Arab separation under Malik ibn Kaydar al-Safadi. The Byzantines, some of whom were troopers who had fled from Anzen, educated the Arabs of Afshin's triumph, after which Malik enabled every one of them to go free. The other Arab powers landed at Ancyra throughout the following days, and subsequent to looting the betrayed city, the unified Arab armed force turned south towards Amorium. 

The Arab armed force walked in three separate corps, with Ashinas indeed in front, the caliph in the center, and Afshin raising the back. Plundering the field as they propelled, they touched base before Amorium seven days after their takeoff from Ancyra, and started their attack of the city on 1 August. Theophilos, on edge to keep the city's fall, left Constantinople for Dorylaion, and from that point sent an international safe haven to Mu'tasim. His agents, who arrived in a matter of seconds prior or amid the primary days of the attack, offered confirmations that the barbarities at Sozopetra had been against the sovereign's requests, and further guaranteed to help revamp the city, to restore every single Muslim detainee, and to pay a tribute. The caliph, in any case, would not conference with the agents, however confined them in his camp, so they could watch the attack. 

The city's fortresses were solid, with a wide canal and a thick divider ensured by 44 towers, as indicated by the contemporary geographer Ibn Khordadbeh. The caliph appointed every one of his officers to a stretch of the dividers. The two besiegers and assaulted had numerous attack motors, and for three days the two sides traded rocket fire while Arab sappers attempted to undermine the dividers. As indicated by Arab accounts, an Arab detainee who had changed over to Christianity abandoned back to the caliph, and educated him about a spot in the divider which had been severely harmed by substantial precipitation and just quickly and externally fixed because of the city leader's carelessness. Thus, the Arabs focused their endeavors on this area. The protectors endeavored to secure the divider by hanging wooden bars to assimilate the stun of the attack motors, yet they chipped, and following two days a rupture was made. Promptly Aetios understood that the resistance was undermined, and chose to attempt and leap forward the assaulting armed force amid the night and connection up with Theophilos. He sent two errand people to the head, yet both were caught by the Arabs and brought before the caliph. Both consented to change over to Islam, and Mu'tasim, subsequent to giving them a rich reward, marched them around the city dividers in full perspective on Aetios and his troops. To keep any foray, the Arabs ventured up their carefulness, keeping up consistent rangers watches notwithstanding amid the night. 

The Arabs currently propelled rehashed assaults on the break, yet the safeguards held firm. At first, as indicated by al-Tabari, slings kept an eye on by four men each were put on wheeled stages, and versatile towers with ten men each were developed and progressed to the edge of the channel, which they started to load up with sheep skins (from the creatures they had brought along as nourishment) loaded up with earth. Be that as it may, the work was uneven because of the officers' dread of the Byzantine launches, and Mu'tasim needed to arrange earth to be tossed over the skins to clear the surface up to the divider itself. A pinnacle was pushed over the filled canal, however moved toward becoming stuck halfway and it and the other attack motors must be surrendered and consumed. Another assault on the following day, driven by Ashinas, flopped because of the restriction of the rupture, and Mu'tasim in the long run arranged more launches presented to extend it. The following day Afshin with his troops assaulted the rupture, and Itakh on the following day. The Byzantine safeguards were bit by bit worn out by the steady ambushes, and after around about fourteen days of attack (the date is differently translated as 12, 13 or 15 August by present day journalists) Aetios sent a government office under the city's diocesan, offering to surrender Amorium in return for safe section of the occupants and battalion, yet Mu'tasim won't. The Byzantine authority Boiditzes, be that as it may, who was responsible for the rupture segment, chose to lead direct exchanges with the caliph all alone, likely proposing to double-cross his very own post. He went to the Abbasid camp, leaving orders for his men in the break to remain down until his arrival. While Boiditzes negotiated with the caliph, the Arabs came nearer to the rupture, and at a flag charged and broke into the city. Shocked, the Byzantines' opposition was sporadic: a few fighters blockaded themselves in a religious community and were singed to death, while Aetios with his officers looked for asylum in a pinnacle before being compelled to surrender. 

The city was completely sacked and pillaged; as indicated by the Arab accounts, the clearance of the crown jewels continued for five days. The Byzantine recorder Theophanes Continuatus makes reference to 70,000 dead, while the Arab al-Mas'udi records 30,000. The enduring populace were partitioned as slaves among the military heads, with the exception of the city's military and city pioneers, who were saved for the caliph's transfer. In the wake of permitting Theophilos' emissaries to come back to him with the updates on Amorium's fall, Mu'tasim consumed the city to the ground, with just the city dividers enduring moderately unblemished. Among the crown jewels taken were the huge iron entryways of the city, which al-Mu'tasim at first transported to Samarra, where they were introduced at the passage of his royal residence. From that point they were taken, presumably towards the century's end, and introduced at Raqqa, where they stayed until 964, when the Hamdanid ruler Sayf al-Dawla had them expelled and joined in the Bab al-Qinnasrin entryway in his capital Aleppo. 

Following the sack, bits of gossip achieved the caliph that Theophilos was progressing to assault him. Mu'tasim set out with his military daily's walk along the street toward Dorylaion, however experienced no indication of a Byzantine assault. As per al-Tabari, Mu'tasim now contemplated stretching out his battle to assault Constantinople, when news contacted him of a trick headed by his nephew, al-Abbas ibn al-Ma'mun. Mu'tasim was compelled to stop his crusade and return rapidly to his domain, leaving flawless the fortifications around Amorium just as Theophilos and his military in Dorylaion. Taking the immediate course from Amorium to the Cilician Gates, both the caliph's military and its detainees endured in the walk through the bone-dry farmland of focal Anatolia. A few hostages were exhausted to the point that they couldn't move and were executed, whereupon others found the chance to get away. In striking back, Mu'tasim, subsequent to isolating the most conspicuous among them, executed the rest, somewhere in the range of 6,000 in number. 

Theophilos now sent a second international safe haven to the caliph, headed by the "tourmarches" of Charsianon, Basil, carrying a joyous bounty endowments and a conciliatory letter, and offering to deliver the high-positioning detainees for 20,000 Byzantine pounds (about 6,500 kg) of gold and to discharge all Arabs held hostage by the Byzantines. In answer, Mu'tasim rejected the payoff, saying that the campaign alone had cost him more than 100,000 pounds, and requested the surrender of Theophobos and the Domestic of the Schools, Manuel the Armenian, who had a few years back betrayed from Arab administration. The Byzantine diplomat would not agree to this and for sure proved unable, as Theophobos was in rebellion and Manuel had passed on, as indicated by certain records, from wounds got at Anzen. Rather, Basil gave over a second, significantly more undermining letter by Theophilos. Mu'tasim, irritated by this, restored the ruler's endowments. 

In the result of the sack of Amorium, Theophilos looked for the guide of different forces against the Abbasid danger: government offices were sent to both the western sovereign Louis the Pious (r. 813– 840) and to the court of Abd ar-Rahman II (r. 822– 852), Emir of Córdoba. The Byzantine agents were gotten with distinction, yet no assistance emerged. The Abbasids, be that as it may, did not catch up on their prosperity. Fighting proceeded between the two realms with assaults and counter-strikes for quite a while, yet after a couple of Byzantine victories a détente and perhaps at the same time a detainee trade—which barred the high-positioning hostages from Amorium—was concurred in 841. At the season of his passing in 842, Mu'tasim was getting ready one more extensive scale attack, however the extraordinary armada he had arranged to ambush Constantinople died in a tempest off Cape Chelidonia a couple of months after the fact. Following Mu'tasim's demise, the Caliphate entered a delayed time of agitation, and the Battle of Mauropotamos in 844 was the last major Arab– Byzantine commitment until the 850s. 

Among the caught Byzantine magnates of Amorium, the "strategos" Aetios was executed not long after his catch, maybe, as the student of history Warren Treadgold recommends, in striking back to Theophilos' second letter to the caliph. Following quite a while of imprisonment and no expectation of payoff, the rest were asked to change over to Islam. When they can't, they were executed at Samarra on 6 March 845, and are praised in the Eastern Orthodox Church as the 42 Martyrs of Amorium. A few stories additionally jumped up around Boiditzes and his disloyalty. As per the legend of the 42 Martyrs, he changed over to Islam, yet was in any case executed by the caliph close by different hostages; in contrast to the others, notwithstanding, whose bodies "wonderfully" coasted in the water of the waterway Tigris, his sank to the base. 

The sack of Amorium was a standout amongst the most wrecking occasions in the long history of Arab attacks into Anatolia. Theophilos purportedly became sick not long after the city's fall, and in spite of the fact that he recouped, his wellbeing stayed in poor state until his passing, after three years. Later Byzantine history specialists quality his passing before the age of thirty to his distress over the effect of the city's misfortune, in spite of the fact that this is doubtlessly a legend. The fall of Amorium roused a few legends and stories among the Byzantines, and can be followed in enduring artistic works, for example, the "Melody of Armouris" or the ditty "Kastro tis Orias" ("Castle of the Fair Maiden"). Middle Easterners then again commended the catch of Amorium, which turned into the subject of Abu Tammam's popular "Tribute on the Conquest of Amorium". Also, caliphal purposeful publicity utilized the battle to legitimize al-Mu'tasim's standard and legitimize his consequent homicide of his nephew and the legitimate beneficiary to al-Ma'mun, al-Abbas. 

Actually, the crusade's military effect on Byzantium was constrained: outside the battalion and populace of Amorium itself, the Byzantine field armed force at Anzen appears to have endured couple of setbacks, and the revolt of the Khurramite corps was smothered without slaughter the following year and its warriors reintegrated into the Byzantine armed force. Ancyra was rapidly revamped and reoccupied, as was Amorium itself, in spite of the fact that it never recouped its previous wonder and the seat of the Anatolic topic was for a period exchanged to Polybotus. As indicated by the appraisal of Warren Treadgold, the majestic armed force's thrashings at Anzen and Amorium were to a huge degree the consequence of situation instead of real inability or deficiency. Likewise, the Byzantine battle had experienced Theophilos' presumptuousness, both in his readiness to isolate his powers notwithstanding more noteworthy Arab numbers and in his over-dependence on the Khurramites. All things considered, the thrashing provoked Theophilos to attempt a noteworthy rearrangement of his military, which incorporated the foundation of new boondocks directions and the scattering of the Khurramite troops among the local troops of the topics. 

The most long haul and enduring consequence of the fall of Amorium, nonetheless, was in the religious instead of in the military circle. Iconoclasm should bring divine support and guarantee military triumph, however neither the military's shortcomings nor the announced bad form of Boiditzes could take away from the way this was "a mortifying debacle to coordinate the most noticeably awful annihilations of any iconophile head" (Whittow), equivalent in late memory just to the devastating thrashing endured by Nikephoros I (r. 802– 811) at Pliska. As Warren Treadgold expresses, "the result did not actually demonstrate that Iconoclasm was wrong ... in any case, it robbed the skeptics forever of their most powerful contention to the unsure, that Iconoclasm won fights". Barely a year after Theophilos' demise, on 11 March 843, a synod reestablished the adoration of symbols, and iconoclasm was proclaimed unorthodox.