Komm, du süße Todesstunde, BWV 161 

Johann Sebastian Bach made the congregation cantata (Come, you sweet hour of death), 161, in Weimar for the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity, most likely initially performed on 27 September 1716. 

Bach had taken up customary cantata organization two years before when he was elevated to concertmaster at the Weimar court, thinking of one cantata for every month to be performed in the , the court house of prayer in the ducal "Schloss". The content of , and of most different cantatas written in Weimar, was given by court artist Salomon Franck. He put together it with respect to the recommended gospel finding out about the young fellow from Nain. His content considers yearning for death, seen as a change to an actual existence joined with Jesus. The content incorporates as an end chorale the fourth stanza of the psalm "" by Christoph Knoll. 

The cantata in six developments opens with a succession of exchanging arias and recitatives prompting an ensemble and a finishing up chorale. The chorale tune, known as "", shows up in the primary development, played by the organ, and melodic themes of the arias are gotten from it, giving a general formal solidarity to the creation. Bach scored the work for two vocal parts (alto and tenor), a four-section choir, and a Baroque chamber gathering of recorders, strings and continuo. In the alto recitative (development 4), joined by all instruments, Bach makes the pictures of rest, of awakening, and of burial service chimes, the last in the recorders and pizzicato of the strings. 

While the lyrics was distributed in a gathering in 1715, Bach most likely did not perform it until 27 September 1716, because of a time of open grieving of a half year in the Duchy of Weimar from August 1715. Bach resuscitated the cantata when he was "Thomaskantor" in Leipzig, however not for his cantata cycles, which included three new works for the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity. He performed with minor changes somewhere in the range of 1737 and 1746. He additionally appointed it to the event of Purification, a blowout with a comparable point. 

Conceived in 1685, Bach set up his notoriety for being an exceptional organist while in his teenagers. He moved to Weimar in 1708 to take up a situation as court organist to the co-ruling dukes Wilhelm Ernst and Ernst August of Saxe-Weimar. He had just started to create cantatas at his past posts at Arnstadt and Mühlhausen, and his purposes behind moving included dissatisfaction with the standard of singing at the temples where he had worked. He was designated concertmaster of the Weimar court capelle on 2 March 1714. In that position, he accepted essential accountability for creating new works. In particular, he was entrusted with giving cantatas to the "Schlosskirche" (royal residence church) on a month to month plan, which would result in a total yearly cycle for the ceremonial year inside four years. While Bach had formed vocal music just for extraordinary events until his advancement, the opportunity to normally create and play out another work brought about a program into which Bach "tossed himself wholeheartedly", as the Bach researcher Christoph Wolff notes. 

The cantatas which were likely previously performed in 1716 utilized messages by the Weimar court writer Salomon Franck, distributed in his accumulations (1715) and (1717). Less cantatas have made due from this period than from the prior years; potentially some were lost, and perhaps some proposed cantatas were never composed, mirroring Bach's loss of intrigue. 

From the beginning of the ritualistic year on the main Sunday in Advent, Bach created productively. He composed works for three successive Sundays in Advent, provoked likely by the demise of the Kapellmeister Johann Samuel Drese on 1 December 1716. At the point when Bach's plan to turn into Drese's successor was not understood, he stopped to form cantatas for the Weimar court. 

These works were performed by Bach as concertmaster in 1716, as indicated by Wolff and Alfred Dürr, an expert on Bach's cantatas: 

Bach composed for the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity. The endorsed readings for that Sunday were from the Epistle to the Ephesians, about the fortifying of confidence in the assemblage of Ephesus (), and from the Gospel of Luke, about the raising from the dead of the young fellow from Nain (). In Bach's time the story pointed at the revival of the dead, communicated in expressions of want to bite the dust soon. 

Franck's content was distributed in 1715. He included as the end chorale the fourth stanza of the song "" (1611) by Christoph Knoll. Franck composed a lyrics brimming with scriptural references, including (in the principal development) "benefiting from nectar from the lion's mouth", in light of . Dürr abridges that Franck stated "a profoundly felt, individual admission of yearning for Jesus". The Bach researcher Richard D. P. Jones takes note of that the cantata is "a standout amongst the most luxuriously enlivened of all Bach's Weimar cantatas", and sees the content as a piece of the motivation, with its "enchanted aching for association with Christ". 

Bach drove the primary execution, however its date has been discussed. Dürr closed at first (in the primary release of his book "Pass on Kantaten von Johann Sebastian Bach" of 1971) that the cantata was first performed on 6 October 1715, yet this date fell in a time of open grieving in Weimar. In August 1715 the sibling of Duke Ernst August passed on, just 18 years of age, and the duke broadcasted a half year of grieving in the Duchy of Weimar. Cantata exhibitions were continued sooner, with the 21st Sunday after Trinity on 10 November 1715. Presently, the primary execution of the work is commonly acknowledged as a similar event the next year, when the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity fell on 27 September 1716, by Wolff, the distributer Carus-Verlag, and Dürr in the updated and deciphered release of 2006. Richard D. P. Jones notes in his book "The Creative Development of Johann Sebastian Bach" that "specialized oddities" additionally recommend that the cantata was formed in 1716, as per an ongoing report. 

In 1723, his first year as "Thomaskantor" in Leipzig, Bach formed another cantata for the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity, . After a year he composed a chorale cantata for his second cantata cycle, , and for his third cantata cycle there he made . He resuscitated in Leipzig, yet just later, in a form dated at some point somewhere in the range of 1737 and 1746, with minor changes to the scoring. He even performed it for an alternate formal event, the dining experience of the Purification of Mary on 2 February. The endorsed readings for the Purification incorporated Simeon's canticle "Nunc dimittis" (), which with its line "now lettest thou thy worker leave in harmony" has a comparative subject. 

The cantata is organized in six developments: a progression of rotating arias and recitatives prompts a melody and a finishing up chorale. Similarly as with a few different cantatas dependent on words by Franck, it is scored for a little gathering: alto soloist (A), tenor soloist (T), a four-section choir and a Baroque chamber group of two recorders (Fl), two violins (Vl), viola (Va), organ (Org) and basso continuo (Bc). The cover sheet peruses essentially: "Auf cave sechzenden Sontag nach Trintatis" (For the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity). The term is allowed as 19 minutes. 

One basic component is the expectation of the end chorale in the primary development, where the chorale tune is utilized as a cantus firmus. Bach additionally utilized this way to deal with bind together the structure in two other Weimar cantatas, , and . He later utilized the juxtaposition of a chorale cantus firmus against vocal music on a fabulous scale in his "St Matthew Passion", in both the opening ensemble and the development finishing up Part I. The utilization of recorders in is reminiscent of the early cantata "Actus tragicus", . 

At the Leipzig exhibitions of the cantata, the primary stanza of the chorale was most likely sung by a soprano, rather than utilizing an instrumental interpretation of the chorale tune in the main aria. The cantata was transposed from C major to E-level major at Leipzig, where the recorders may have been supplanted by transverse woodwinds. 

In the accompanying table of the developments, the scoring and keys are given for the adaptation performed in Weimar in 1716. The keys and time marks are taken from Dürr, utilizing the C image for regular time (4/4). The instruments are appeared for winds and strings, while the continuo, playing all through, isn't appeared. 

A Phrygian chorale song, understood as the tune of "", gives the melodic topic of the cantata, showing up in development one in the two its unique structure and the alto line got from it. The subjects of the two different arias are taken from a similar song, giving formal solidarity. A similar song seems multiple times in chorales of Bach's "St Matthew Passion". 

The opening aria for alto, "" ("Come, o sweet hour of death" or "Come, thou sweet hour of separating") is joined by the recorders. They move in the ritornello in parallel thirds and sixths. The organ serves as a bass instrument as well as provisions the chorale tune. In Weimar, Bach appears to have anticipated that the assemblage should know the expressions of the principal stanza of Knoll's song. 

Jones brings up that the cantus firmus of the organ appears "objective", as opposed to the emotional "show of individual inclination" of the voice and the unpredictability of different parts. 

In a later act in Leipzig, a soprano sang the stanza with the organ. 

The tenor recitative, "" (World, your pleasure is a weight), starts as a secco recitative, yet finishes in an arioso as the words rework a scriptural stanza from , "" to "Ich habe Lust, bei Christo bare zu weiden. Ich habe Lust, von dieser Welt zu scheiden" (I want to pasture soon with Christ. I want to leave from this world). Dürr noticed that the advancement from secco to arioso is visit in Bach's initial cantatas, and is here particularly propelled to feature the scriptural reword. 

The aria for tenor, "" (My yearning 

is, to grasp my Savior), is the principal development with the strings, adding profundity to the enthusiastic articulation. It comes back to the desire for association with Jesus of the main development, communicated in a fomented way, with syncopies for "aching" and streaming themes for "grasping". The center area is for the most part joined by the continuo just, yet now and again interposed by the strings playing the "yearning"- themes. 

The alto recitative, "" (The end has just come), is joined by all instruments, making pictures of rest (in a descending development, finishing off with long notes), arousing (in quick development upwards), and memorial service chimes in the recorders and pizzicato of the strings. The musicologist Tadashi Isoyama notes: "In this development the expectation of death gives off an impression of being satisfied, and the alto's declamation, inviting passing and the ringing of the memorial service chimes, is loaded up with an emotion producing nearly to fixation." 

The principal choral development 5,"" (If it is my God's will), is checked "aria" by Franck. Bach set it for four sections, utilizing melody like homophony. Wolff analyzes the style to Thuringian motets of around 1700. The initial segment isn't rehashed da capo, with regards to the final words "" (May this be my final word). While a printed da capo is incomprehensible, Bach created a melodic da capo, giving the development a structure of ABB'A'. Dürr takes note of that "Arnold Schering has attracted regard for the expanding delight". 

The end chorale, "" (The body, without a doubt, in the earth), is lit up by a fifth piece of the two recorders playing a vivacious contrast as one. 

The "taking off remark" of the recorders has been deciphered as "making the picture of the tissue transfigured". 

Wolff condenses: "Cantata 161 is a standout amongst the most fragile and gem like results of Bach's a very long time in Weimar. The writing in up to ten sections is uncommonly unobtrusive. ... The recorders also contribute in no little route to the spiritualised feeling and positive sentiments related with the 'sweet hour of death. Jones expresses: "Bach's landing in full development by about the center of his Weimar period (1713– 17) is bore witness to by the complex and specialized affirmation, and the reliably elevated expectation, of his composition around then." He considers the cantata one of a few that achieved a dimension of authority incredible in later years, alongside the Orgelbüchlein and the cantata "Ich hatte viel Bekümmernis", BWV 21, among others. 

The cantata was altered by Franz Wüllner for the Bach Gesellschaft Ausgabe, the primary complete version of Bach's works, in a volume distributed in 1887. The New Bach Edition (Neue Bach-Ausgabe, NBA) distributed the score of both the Weimar and the Leipzig form in 1982, altered by , with the basic analysis following in 1984. 

John Eliot Gardiner played out the cantata twice in the Bach year 2000 as a component of the Bach Cantata Pilgrimage with the Monteverdi Choir. One execution was on the commemoration of Bach's demise, 28 July, at Iona Abbey, and the other on the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity (8 October) at the congregation of the Convent of San Domingos de Bonaval in Santiago de Compostela. 

The table passages are excerpted from the choice on the Bach-Cantatas site. Choirs with one voice for every part (OVPP) and troupes playing on period instruments in truly educated exhibitions are set apart by green foundation. 

"General" 

"Books" 

"Online sources" 

The total accounts of Bach's cantatas are joined by liner notes from artists and musicologists; Gardiner remarked on his Bach Cantata Pilgrimage, Isoyama composed for Masaaki Suzuki, and Wolff for Ton Koopman.