Chaplain– Medic slaughter 

The Chaplain– Medic slaughter was a slaughter that occurred in the Korean War on July 16, 1950, on a mountain over the town of Tuman, South Korea. Thirty unarmed, fundamentally injured United States Army fighters and an unarmed clergyman were killed by individuals from the North Korean armed force amid the Battle of Taejon. 

Working at the Kum River amid the Battle of Taejon, troops of the U.S. Armed force's nineteenth Infantry Regiment, 24th Infantry Division, were cut off from resupply by a barricade set up by North Korean troops of the NK third Division. The detour demonstrated hard to break, and constrained U.S. troops to travel through adjacent mountains to empty their injured. 

Thirty fundamentally injured U.S. troops were stranded at the highest point of a mountain. Taken care of by just two non-warriors, a cleric and a surgeon, the injured were found by a North Korean watch. In spite of the fact that the surgeon had the capacity to get away, the North Koreans executed the unarmed minister as he supplicated over the injured, at that point murdered the remainder of them. The slaughter was one of a few occurrences that drove U.S. commandants to set up a commission in July to investigate atrocities amid the war. That month, the North Korean leaders, worried about the manner in which their troopers were treating detainees of war, spread out stricter rules for taking care of foe hostages. Other than this change, the historiography of the occurrence in North Korean sources is generally obscure; thus, sources enumerating the episode are only from the United States and other United Nations partners. 

Following the attack of the Republic of Korea (South Korea) by its northern neighbor, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea), the United Nations submitted troops to the contention to keep the breakdown of the South Korean state. In any case, the quantity of U.S. powers in the Far East accessible to help this exertion had been consistently diminishing since the finish of World War II, five years sooner. The nearest U.S. division, the 24th Infantry Division of the Eighth United States Army, headquartered in Japan, was understrength, and the greater part of its gear was out of date because of protection reductions instituted in the primary Truman organization. By and by, the 24th Infantry Division was the main US unit sent into Korea to retain the underlying "stun" of North Korean advances and to purchase time for the organization of extra powers, for example, the seventh Infantry Division, 25th Infantry Division, first Cavalry Division, first Provisional Marine Brigade and other Eighth Army supporting units. 

Advance components of the 24th Infantry Division were seriously crushed in the Battle of Osan on July 5, amid the main fight among American and North Korean powers. The power at the fight, Task Force Smith, withdrew from Osan, and U.S. powers were again crushed in the Battle of Pyongtaek. For over seven days after the thrashing of Task Force Smith, 24th Infantry Division troopers were more than once crushed and constrained south by the North Korean power's unrivaled numbers and gear. The regiments of the 24th Infantry Division were efficiently driven south at and around Chochiwon, Chonan, Pyongtaek, Hadong, and Yechon. These American warriors, a large portion of whom had encountered just occupation obligation in Japan and no genuine battle, were ill-equipped contrasted with the more trained North Korean units. 

On July 12, the division's authority, Major General William F. Senior member, requested the division's nineteenth, 21st, and 34th Infantry Regiments to cross the Kum River, obliterating all extensions behind them, and to build up protective positions around Taejon. Taejon was a noteworthy South Korean city south of Seoul and northwest of Pusan, and was the site of the 24th Infantry Division's central station. Senior member framed a line with the 34th Infantry and nineteenth Infantry confronting east, and held the vigorously battered 21st Infantry for possible later use toward the southeast. The Kum River folded north and west over the city, giving a cautious line 10 to 15 miles from the edges of Taejon, which is secured on the south by the Sobaek Mountains. With significant railroad lines and streets radiating every which way, Taejon remained as a noteworthy transportation center point among Seoul and Taegu, giving it extraordinary vital incentive for both the American and North Korean powers. Taejon must be held to prevent the North Korean powers from combining on the incomplete cautious lines around Pusan. 

Following an underlying infiltration toward the north, the withdrawing 34th Infantry moved south to Nonsan. On July 15, the nineteenth Infantry moved its second Battalion to fill a portion of the holes left by the 34th. There, it was fortified by troops from the Republic of Korea Army. The joined powers watched an extensive develop of North Korean troops on the west side of the stream. At 03:00 on July 16, the North Koreans propelled a huge torrent of tank, ordnance and mortar fire on the nineteenth Infantry positions and North Korean troops started to cross the waterway in pontoons. The North Korean powers accumulated on the west bank and ambushed the places of the first Battalion's C and E Companies, trailed by a second arrival against B Company. North Korean powers pushed against the whole force, taking steps to overpower it. The regimental administrator requested all help troops and officers to the line and they had the capacity to rebuff the attack. Be that as it may, in the scuffle, North Korean powers penetrated their back components, assaulting the hold powers and blocking supply lines. Extended slight, the nineteenth Infantry was unfit to hold the line at the Kum River and all the while repulse the North Korean powers. 

North Korean troops instantly set up a detour straightforwardly behind the nineteenth Infantry's line in its primary course of supply along the street close to the town of Tuman, only south of Yusong on Taejon's western edges. The barrier rapidly turned into a difficult issue for U.S. powers attempting to move ammo and injured to and from the Kum River line. Around 13:00 on July 16, the nineteenth Infantry Regimental leader reached Dean, who requested him to break the barrier. Be that as it may, North Korean troops had set up no less than six assault rifle settles over the street at Tuman, and rehashed assaults against it were unfit to push the North Korean troops away. 

The detour was averting clearing of the injured. Troops endeavored to drive injured in jeeps through the detour, yet this presented them to automatic rifle discharge. By 16:00 supply sections were additionally heaping up at the square, unfit to continue as protective layer and airstrikes endeavored to remove the North Koreans. Five hundred men from the regiment were assembled holding on to break the detour while substantial shield units from Taejon moved against it from the opposite side. Amid this time, U.S. troops from the nineteenth Infantry, frantic to move around the barrier to acquire supplies and care for injured, started traveling through the encompassing slopes. One tank had the capacity to endure the detour to clear the nineteenth Infantry's injured officer, yet by 19:00 commandants requested the regiment to move its injured along the edges toward the east of the barricade. 

At 21:00, around 100 men of the nineteenth Infantry moved into the slopes toward the east of the town. They conveyed with them around 30 injured, including a few litter-bound patients excessively genuinely injured to walk. A portion of the gathering of 100 were requested to convey these men, yet a large number of them isolated from the gathering in the mountains. When they achieved the highest point of the mountain, officers chose a portion of the truly injured couldn't be conveyed any further, as their bearers were depleted. The regimental medicinal officer, Captain Linton J. Buttrey, and Chaplain Herman G. Felhoelter stayed behind with the injured, meaning to move them when another gathering of troops came through who could convey them. Buttrey wore a Red Cross brassard recognizing him as a surgeon, while Felhoelter wore a vast white Latin cross brassard, distinguishing him as a military pastor in the U.S. Armed force Chaplain Corps. The two who remained and the injured were non-soldiers under global law, as they conveyed no weapons. 

Before long, Buttrey and Felhoelter heard a North Korean watch drawing nearer, a gathering of men from the North Korean third Division which had penetrated the U.S. lines. Felhoelter advised Buttrey to get away, and in spite of the fact that Buttrey was shot and seriously injured in the lower leg by North Korean shoot while running, he had the capacity to escape. Felhoelter then started managing last ceremonies and outrageous unction to the injured as they lay on their litters. Starting here, onlookers from the nineteenth Infantry's regimental Headquarters and Headquarters Company viewed through binoculars from a separation as a watch of youthful looking and potentially untrained North Korean troops moved toward the site of the injured. The troops were equipped with Soviet-made rifles and PPSh-41 "burp firearms". As Felhoelter bowed to supplicate over the injured U.S. warriors, the North Korean troops shot him in the head and back. They at that point continued to shoot and slaughter the majority of the 30 fundamentally injured officers with their programmed weapons before pulling back into the wild. 

American troops had the capacity to recoup the collections of just three of the casualties of the slaughter, including Father Felhoelter, because of the mayhem of the fight and consequent American withdrawal, and were unfit to catch any North Korean troops who took an interest in the slaughter. For his activities in volunteering to remain behind with the injured, Father Felhoelter was after death granted the Distinguished Service Cross, the second most noteworthy design for valor granted by the U.S. military. His remaining parts were come back to the United States and he's covered in St. Michael's Century, Louisville. He was the main minister of the war to get an honor for valor. He got a short eulogy in "Time" Magazine in December 1952. Felhoelter was the first of twelve clerics murdered or missing by then in the war, including Emil J. Kapaun, the second cleric of the war to be granted a Distinguished Service Cross. 

The occurrence would be one of the first of a progression of barbarities the U.S. powers blamed North Korean officers for submitting. After the Chaplain– Medic, Hill 303 and Bloody Gulch slaughters, U.S. officers set up a commission on July 27 to examine charges of war violations and gather proof. 

In late 1953, the United States Senate Committee on Government Operations, driven by Joseph McCarthy, led an examination of up to 1,800 revealed occurrences of war violations supposedly dedicated all through the Korean War. The Chaplain– Medic slaughter was one of the first to be researched, and it was here that the occurrence got its name. Buttrey, the solitary overcomer of the executions, was called to affirm before the council, and the U.S. Government inferred that the North Korean armed force damaged the terms of the Geneva Convention, and denounced its activities. 

In 1981, the United States raised a progression of landmarks in Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia, posting the names of clergymen executed in different wars including World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War. Felhoelter's name was among those engraved in the remembrance. 

For the most part consequent research has discovered the North Korean direction did not legitimately arrange its troops to abuse detainees or unarmed injured amid the early period of the war. The Chaplain– Medic slaughter and comparable barbarities are accepted to have been directed by "uncontrolled little units, by malignant people, or as a result of horrible and progressively edgy circumstances going up against the captors". The more North Korean troops experienced intensifying conditions on the cutting edges, the more they abused American injured and detainees. T. R. Fehrenbach, a military student of history, wrote in his examination of the occasion that North Korean troops submitting these demonstrations were most likely acclimated with torment and execution of detainees because of many years of principle by abusive multitudes of the Empire of Japan up until World War II. 

A July 28, 1950, request by General Lee Yong Ho, leader of the North Korean third Division, was caught by UN knowledge. The archive was marked by Kim Chaek, Commander-in-Chief, and Choi Yong-kun, officer of the Advanced General Headquarters of the North Korean Army, and expressed that slaughtering detainees of war was "carefully restricted". Lee guided individual units' Cultural Sections to advise the division's troops of the standard. The higher-profile Hill 303 slaughter the following month incited North Korean division authorities to issue sterner requests on the treatment of detainees of war.