Albert Stanley, first Baron Ashfield 

Albert Henry Stanley, first Baron Ashfield, (8 August 1874 – 4 November 1948), conceived Albert Henry Knattriess, was a British-American agent who was overseeing chief, at that point administrator of the Underground Electric Railways Company of London (UERL) from 1910 to 1933 and director of the London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB) from 1933 to 1947. 

Albeit conceived in Britain, his initial vocation was in the United States, where at a youthful age, he held senior positions in the creating tramway frameworks of Detroit and New Jersey. In 1898, he served in the United States Navy amid the short Spanish– American War. 

In 1907, his administration aptitudes prompted his enrollment by the UERL, which was battling through a money related emergency that undermined its reality. He immediately incorporated the organization's administration and utilized publicizing and advertising to improve benefits. As overseeing chief of the UERL from 1910, he drove the take-over of contending underground railroad organizations and transport and cable car activities to shape an incorporated transport task known as the Combine. 

He was Member of Parliament for Ashton-under-Lyne from December 1916 to January 1920 and was President of the Board of Trade between December 1916 and May 1919, revamping the board and setting up authority offices for different ventures. He came back to the UERL and after that led it and its successor the LPTB amid the association's most prominent time of extension between the two World Wars, making it a world-regarded association thought about a model of the best type of open organization. 

Stanley was conceived on 8 August 1874, in New Normanton, Derbyshire, England, the child of Henry and Elizabeth Knattriess (née Twigg). His dad filled in as a coachbuilder for the Pullman Company. In 1880, the family emigrated to Detroit in the United States, where he worked at Pullman's principle manufacturing plant. Amid the 1890s, the family changed its name to "Stanley". 

In 1888, at 14 years old, Stanley left school and got down to business as an office kid at the Detroit Street Railways Company, which ran a pony drawn cable car framework. He kept on learning at night school and worked extended periods of time, frequently from 7.30 am to 10.00 pm. His capacities were perceived early and Stanley was given duty regarding booking the administrations and setting up the timetables when he was 17. Following the extension and jolt of the tramway, he ended up General Superintendent of the organization in 1894. 

Stanley was a maritime reservist and, amid the brief Spanish– American War of 1898, he served in the United States Navy as a landsman in the team of close by numerous others from Detroit. In 1903, Stanley moved to New Jersey to wind up collaborator general director of the road railroad branch of the Public Service Corporation of New Jersey. The organization had been battling, yet Stanley immediately improved its association and was elevated to general chief of the office in January 1904. In January 1907, he ended up general supervisor of the entire organization, running a system of just about 1,000 course miles and 25,000 representatives. 

In 1904, Stanley wedded Grace Lowrey (1878– 1962) of New York. The couple had two girls: Marian Stanley (brought into the world 1906) and Grace Stanley (brought into the world 1907). 

On 20 February 1907, Sir George Gibb, overseeing executive of the Underground Electric Railways Company of London (UERL), delegated Stanley as its general supervisor. The UERL was the holding organization of four underground railroads in focal London. Three of these (the District Railway, the Baker Street and Waterloo Railway and the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway) were at that point in activity and the fourth (the Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway) was going to open. The UERL had been set up by American agent Charles Yerkes and a significant part of the money and gear had been brought from the United States, so Stanley's understanding of overseeing urban travel frameworks in that nation made him a perfect contender for the position. The expense of developing three new lines in only a couple of years had put the organization in a dubious money related position and pay was not adequate to pay the enthusiasm on its credits. Stanley's duty was to reestablish its accounts. 

Recently elevated to general administrator of the New Jersey framework, Stanley had been hesitant to take the situation in London and took it for one year just, if he would be allowed to come back to America toward the year's end. He told the organization's ranking directors that the organization was practically bankrupt and got abdication letters from every one of them post-dated by a half year. Through better coordination of the different organizations inside the gathering and by improving publicizing and advertising, he was rapidly ready to turn the fortunes of the organization around, while the organization's director, Sir Edgar Speyer, renegotiated the obligation reimbursements. In 1908, Stanley joined the organization's board and, in 1910, he turned into the overseeing executive. 

With Commercial Manager Frank Pick, Stanley formulated an arrangement to build traveler numbers: building up the "UNDERGROUND" brand and setting up a joint booking framework and co-ordinated admissions all through the majority of London's underground railroads, including those not constrained by the UERL. In July 1910, Stanley took the joining of the gathering further, when he induced beforehand hesitant American financial specialists to affirm the merger of the three cylinder railroads into a solitary organization. Further union accompanied the UERL's take-over of London General Omnibus Company (LGOC) in 1912 and the Central London Railway and the City and South London Railway on 1 January 1913. Of London's underground railroads, just the Metropolitan Railway (and its backups the Great Northern and City Railway and the East London Railway) and the Waterloo and City Railway stayed outside of the Underground Group's control. The LGOC was the overwhelming transport administrator in the capital and its high gainfulness (it paid profits of 18 percent contrasted and Underground Group organizations' profits of 1 to 3 percent) sponsored the remainder of the gathering. Stanley further extended the gathering through shareholdings in London United Tramways and Metropolitan Electric Tramways and the establishment of transport developer AEC. The much extended gathering wound up known as the Combine. On 29 July 1914, Stanley was knighted in acknowledgment of his administrations to transport. 

Stanley additionally arranged expansions of the current Underground Group's lines into new, undeveloped locale past the focal territory to empower the advancement of new rural areas and new worker traffic. The first of the augmentations, the Bakerloo line to Queen's Park and Watford Junction, opened somewhere in the range of 1915 and 1917. The other development plans were delayed amid World War I. 

In 1915, Stanley was given a wartime job as Director-General of Mechanical Transport at the Ministry of Munitions. In 1916, he was chosen by Prime Minister David Lloyd George to progress toward becoming President of the Board of Trade. Lloyd George had recently guaranteed this job to Sir Max Aitken (later Lord Beaverbrook), Member of Parliament for Ashton-under-Lyne. Around then, an individual from parliament taking a bureau post out of the blue needed to leave and represent re-appointment in a by-race. Aitken had made courses of action to do this before Lloyd George chose to name Stanley to the situation. Aitken, a companion of Stanley, was convinced to proceed with the abdication in return for a peerage so Stanley could sit down. Stanley moved toward becoming President of the Board of Trade and was made a Privy Counselor on 13 December 1916. He was chosen to parliament unopposed on 23 December 1916 as a Conservative Unionist. At 42 years of age he was the most youthful individual from Lloyd George's alliance government. 

At the 1918 general race, Stanley was contradicted by Frederick Lister, the President of the National Federation of Discharged and Demobilized Sailors and Soldiers, in a test over the administration's arrangement on war annuities. With the support of Beaverbrook, who visited his previous electorate to talk for his sake, Stanley won the decision. 

Stanley's accomplishments in office were blended. He set up different master offices to oversee yield in various businesses and rearranged the structure of the Board. In any case, regardless of past triumphs with associations, his exchanges were incapable. Keeping in touch with Leader of the House of Commons and future Prime Minister Bonar Law in January 1919, Lloyd George portrayed Stanley as having "all the chattiness of Runciman and that is able to take in blameless people like you and me ... Stanley, to say it gruffly, is a funk, and there is no space for funks in the cutting edge world." Stanley left the Board of Trade and the administration in May 1919 and came back to the UERL. 

Back at the Underground Group, Stanley came back to his job as overseeing executive and furthermore turned into its administrator, supplanting Lord George Hamilton. In the 1920 New Year Honors, he was made Baron Ashfield, of Southwell in the County of Nottingham, finishing his term as a MP. He and Pick reactivated their development plans, and a standout amongst the most huge periods in the association's history started, along these lines viewed as its prime and once in a while called its "Brilliant Age". 

The Central London Railway was reached out to Ealing Broadway in 1920, and the Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway was stretched out to Hendon in 1923 and to Edgware in 1924. The City and South London Railway was reproduced with bigger distance across passages to take present day prepares somewhere in the range of 1922 and 1924 and reached out to Morden in 1926. Likewise, a program of modernizing huge numbers of the Underground's busiest focal London stations was begun; giving them elevators to supplant lifts. New moving stock was bit by bit presented with programmed sliding entryways along the length of the carriage rather than manual end doors. By the center of the 1920s, the association had extended to such a degree, that a vast, new central station building was built at 55 Broadway over St. James' Park station. 

Beginning in the mid 1920s, rivalry from various little transport organizations, nicknamed "privateers" since they worked unpredictable courses and pillaged the LGOC's travelers, disintegrated the gainfulness of the Combine's transport activities and negatively affected the benefit of the entire gathering. Ashfield campaigned the administration for guideline of transport benefits in the London territory. Beginning in 1923, a progression of administrative activities were made toward this path, with Ashfield and Labor London County Councilor (later MP and Minister of Transport) Herbert Morrison, at the cutting edge of discussions with regards to the dimension of guideline and open control under which transport administrations ought to be brought. Ashfield went for guideline that would give the UERL aggregate assurance from rivalry and enable it to assume substantive responsibility for the LCC's cable car framework; Morrison favored full open possession. Ashfield's proposition was laden with discussion, "The Spectator" taking note of, "Everyone concurs that Lord Ashfield find out about transport than any other person, yet individuals are normally loth to offer, not to him, however to his investors, the restraining infrastructure of passing on them." After seven years of false begins, a bill was declared toward the finish of 1930 for the development of the London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB), an open enterprise that would assume responsibility for the UERL, the Metropolitan Railway and all transport and cable car administrators inside a region assigned as the London Passenger Transport Area. As Ashfield had finished with investors in 1910 over the union of the three UERL controlled cylinder lines, he utilized his influence to get their understandings to the administration purchase out of their stock. 

The Board was a trade off – open proprietorship however not full nationalization – and appeared on 1 July 1933. Ashfield filled in as the association's administrator from its foundation in 1933 on a yearly pay of £12,500 (roughly £600,000 today), with Pick as Chief Executive. 

The opening of augmentations of the Piccadilly line to Uxbridge, Hounslow and Cockfosters followed in 1933. On the Metropolitan Railway, Ashfield and Pick prompted a defense of administrations. The scarcely utilized and misfortune making Brill and Verney Junction branches past Aylesbury were shut in 1935 and 1936. Cargo administrations were diminished and zap of the rest of the steam worked areas of the line was arranged. In 1935, the accessibility of government-sponsored advances to invigorate the hailing economy permitted Ashfield and Pick to advance framework wide upgrades under the New Works Program for 1935– 1940, including the exchange of the Metropolitan line's Stanmore administrations to the Bakerloo line in 1939, the Northern line's Northern Heights venture and expansion of the Central line to Ongar and Denham. 

Following a revamping of open transportation by the Labor administration of Clement Attlee, the LPTB was planned to be nationalized alongside most of British railroad, transport, street haulage and conduit worries from 1 January 1948. Ahead of time of this, Ashfield left the LPTB toward the finish of October 1947 and joined the leading body of the new British Transport Commission which was to work the majority of the nationalized open transport frameworks. At nationalization, the LPTB was to be annulled and supplanted by the London Transport Executive. Master Latham, an individual from the LPTB and the approaching executive of the new association, went about as impermanent administrator throughout the previous two months of the LPTB's presence. 

Notwithstanding his administration of London Underground and brief political vocation, Ashfield held numerous directorships in transport endeavors and industry. He built up the Institute of Transport in 1919/20 and was one of its first presidents. He was a chief of the Mexican Railway Company and two railroad organizations in Cuba and an individual from the 1931 Royal Commission on Railways and Transportation in Canada. He was one of two government chiefs of the British Dyestuffs Corporation, its administrator from 1924 and was associated with the production of Imperial Chemical Industries in 1926, of which he was in this manner a non-official executive. Ashfield was an executive of the Midland Bank, Amalgamated Anthracite Collieries and director of Albany Ward Theaters, Associated Provincial Picture Houses, and Provincial Cinematograph Theaters. 

Amid World War I, he was Colonel of the Territorial Force Engineer and Railway Staff Corps and was Honorary Colonel of the Royal Artillery's 84th Light Anti Aircraft Regiment amid World War II. 

Biographers of Stanley portray him as having a "massively dynamic personality, and a solid feeling of open obligation" and an "extraordinary appeal of way and a comical inclination which covered a practically heartless assurance" that made him a "considerable arbitrator". His "natural comprehension of his kindred men" gave him "nearness, which enabled him to overwhelm gatherings easily" and "motivated dedication, commitment even, among his staff". He was "a spruce women's man, something of a playboy head honcho, who was in every case shrewdly turned out and delighted in moving in high society". 

Ashfield passed on 4 November 1948 at 31 Queen's Gate, South Kensington. Amid his close to forty-year residency as overseeing executive and administrator of the Underground Group and the LPTB, Ashfield supervised the change of a gathering of detached, contending railroad, transport and cable car organizations, some in serious monetary troubles, into a lucid and all around oversaw transport association, globally regarded for its specialized skill and configuration style. Transport antiquarian Christian Wolmar thinks of it as "practically difficult to misrepresent the high respect in which LT was held amid its very concise prime, drawing in authority guests from around the globe anxious to become familiar with the exercises of its prosperity and apply them in their very own nations." "It spoke to the apogee of a kind of certain open administration ... with a notoriety that any state association today would envy ... just made conceivable by the brightness of its two celebrated pioneers, Ashfield and Pick." 

A dedication to Ashfield was raised at 55 Broadway in 1950 and a blue plaque was put at his home, 43 South Street, Mayfair in 1984. An expansive place of business at London Underground's Lillie Bridge Depot is named Ashfield House in his respect. It stands toward the south of the District line tracks a short separation toward the east of West Kensington station and is likewise obvious from West Cromwell Road (A4).