Ruth Norman 

After Ernest kicked the bucket in 1971, Ruth succeeded him as their gathering's chief and essential channeler. She in this way started distributing records of her encounters and disclosures. In mid 1974, she anticipated that a space armada of considerate extraterrestrials, the Space Brothers, would arrive on Earth soon thereafter, which drove the Unarius Academy to buy a property to fill in as the arrival site. After the extraterrestrials neglected to show up, Norman said that injury she had endured in a previous existence had made her make an off base forecast. Resolute, she leased a structure for Unarius' gatherings and looked for exposure for the development, professing to have joined the Earth with an interplanetary confederation. She updated the Space Brothers' normal arrival date a few times, before at long last settling on 2001. Her wellbeing declined in the late 1980s, provoking her understudies to attempt to mend her with ceremonies of previous existence relapse. In spite of foreseeing that she would live to see the extraterrestrials land, Norman kicked the bucket in 1993. Unarius has kept on working after her demise, and shaped a governing body. Since the 2000s, pioneers have focused on individual change prompting profound change in mankind. 

Ruth Nields was conceived in Indianapolis, Indiana, on August 18, 1900. After three years, her family moved to Pasadena, California, where her dad filled in as an upholsterer. She and her five kin were raised there, accepting little instruction and working since early on. As an adolescent, she toiled as a natural product packer and a house cleaner. A large portion of her salary went to her dad, whom she later portrayed as damaging. 

In 1918, she wedded a man named Frank R. De Silvas and they had a little girl two years after the fact. The couple separated in the mid 1920s; Frank picked up authority of their girl, in spite of the fact that Ruth approached too. Little is known for sure about Ruth's life from the mid-1920s to the 1940s, yet she worked in an assortment of occupations. She held positions in a few eateries and furthermore filled in as a model, land specialist, resort supervisor, and caretaker. During the 1940s, she enlisted at the Church of Religious Science, where she considered New Thought under Ernest Holmes, and was independently acquainted with clairvoyant recuperating in that decade. After some time, she likewise ended up keen on mysticism, diverting, and previous existence relapse. She wedded Benjamin Arnold during the 1940s; the marriage kept going until his passing in 1951. After two years, she remarried and settled in Lancaster, California. Her third spouse, George Marian, claimed a milk-conveyance business which Ruth helped him to oversee. In the mid-1950s, she ended up keen on acting and earned the featuring job in a neighborhood play. 

In 1954, at a mystic occasion in California, Ruth was acquainted with Ernest Norman, who revealed to her that in a previous existence she had been the little girl of an Egyptian Pharaoh and had ensured Moses. Individuals from the association they later settled, the Unarius Academy of Science, certify that Ernest and Ruth wedded on the day they met, and the gathering commends their commemoration as February 14, 1954. In any case, Diana Tumminia of California State University, Sacramento, notes in her 2005 investigation of the gathering that Ruth was most likely still hitched to George Marian in mid 1954 and conjectures that their separation was an extensive procedure; Tumminia places that Ernest and Ruth wedded in 1956. 

Ernest trusted he could speak with the two extraterrestrials and chronicled figures, diverting messages from them. In 1954, trying to advance his directing, Ernest and Ruth shaped an association known as Unarius, working from their home in California. After their marriage, Ruth filled in as Ernest's typist, later professing to have taken in the aptitude while resting. She recorded the data he diverted, composing books about mystic mending and treks into the close planetary system. During the 1960s, they pulled in a few adherents, including two understudies whom they later educated to channel. One early learner was Charles Spiegel, who later drove the gathering. Numerous proselytes had past association with New Age or spiritualist gatherings, making it simple for the Normans to change over them. 

Changes over were furnished with expand subtleties of Ernest and Ruth Norman's indicated otherworldly visits to different planets. The couple trusted that people could gain from incredible instructors on these voyages; Ernest said that this contact held the possibility to teach and recuperate mankind. Ernest likewise talked about the logical headways of different universes. The couple additionally talked about disclosures about their previous existences, including Jesus and Mary of Bethany among their past personalities. Ruth expressed that she had lived about 50 lives more than a few million years; she was a few understood and a couple of darken individuals on Earth, just as creatures from different planets and a lead celestial host. Their gathering built up a folklore from the records that Ernest and Ruth gave of these lives, including stories from their past manifestations in Atlantis and Lemuria. A portion of their accounts were like the plots of contemporary books and movies, inciting Tumminia to give their convictions a role as a pastiche or bricolage of the encompassing society. 

Ernest and Ruth advanced millennialist lessons, holding that higher creatures were to change the Earth and convey lovers to another dimension of presence; the couple held that this development would enable individuals to go through space. Zeller looks at their millennialist teachings to those of Christian dispensationalism, taking note of their mutual idealistic perspectives. 

Ernest passed on in 1971; from that point, Ruth drove their association and filled in as its essential channeler. Spiegel moved to San Diego to help her. After Ernest passed on, Spiegel asserted Ruth's beginning conviction that she was a lead celestial host named Uriel from the "fourth measurement". 

In 1972, Ruth Norman started distributing "Tesla Speaks", a progression of messages that she said were given to her by the American creator and designer Nikola Tesla from his residence in space; she expressed that he additionally transferred messages from researchers Albert Einstein and Louis Pasteur to her. Norman stated that the Tesla Tower held mysteries which were to be recouped by Unarius. The American writer Alexander S. Heard contends that Tesla's reputed advantages in death beams and free vitality attracted the gathering to him. In 1973, Norman related an involvement in which she profoundly wedded the chief heavenly messenger Michiel at an extravagantly adorned sanctuary on another planet; the occasion was said to have finished with her being delegated the Queen of Archangels, Uriel, by the Archangel Raphiel. She and Spiegel imagined the occasions of the function more than a few days, and she distributed their memories soon thereafter. Her understudies in this way alluded to her as Uriel, an abbreviation of "widespread, brilliant, unbounded, endless light". She and Spiegel re-ordered the service for her devotees, and the gathering commended the commemoration of the occasion yearly. After her profound marriage, Norman expanded her directing of verifiable figures, including Plato, Tesla, and John F. Kennedy. 

In a volume distributed in March 1974, Norman anticipated that a spacefleet of an "Intergalactic Confederation" was to arrive on Earth before December 1974. In November 1974, helped by a portion of her understudies, Norman bought a property close Jamul, California, to fill in as an arrival site for extraterrestrials, whom she alluded to as the "Space Brothers". Sooner or later in 1974, Norman overhauled the date at which she anticipated that extraterrestrials should land to September 1975, refering to continuous Confederation endeavors to get ready humankind for their arrival as the purpose behind the postponement. She anticipated that a solitary flying saucer would bring extraterrestrials to influence people of their lessons, after which another 33 vessels would arrive. These creatures were to reestablish the lost lessons of Atlantis to the Earth, and their disclosures were to free humankind from wrongdoing and illness, introducing a time of learning. She trusted that this data would be conferred by a thousand extraterrestrial researchers, who might likewise acquire progresses innovation, among which she indicated precious stone PCs, to Earth. Norman assumed that Confederation heads were to take her on a world visit after their entry, and she got herself another closet in readiness. Also, she orchestrated an extensive standard to invite them, made courses of action for transports to the arrival site, and educated the "National Enquirer", an American newspaper, of her desires. Toward the beginning of September 1975, she gave a goodbye message, recounting her future home on a spaceship. On September 22, in any case, she reasoned that an arrival would not happen and expressed that she was remembering the injury of a previous existence—in which she was Isis—when she was killed in a matter of seconds before extraterrestrials were to arrive. She clarified that the impacts of this injury had made her make a mistaken forecast. Norman guided the gathering in classes to show them how to remember the occasion that had finished in Isis' death and took them to the normal arrival site to blend their recollections. They started to hold open gatherings again in November. A few understudies questioned Norman's clarification; some of them left the gathering. 

In 1975, Norman utilized the returns of a home deal to lease a retail facade for her gathering's gatherings, which they extravagantly improved. She indicated to be the "Soul of Beauty" and the "Goddess of Love"; in this limit, she asserted total information of truth and the capacity to mend. After their new central station opened, Norman disclosed to her understudies—and the media—that she was a diplomat from the Interplanetary Confederation, and, in February 1975, she opened the Academy of Parapsychology, Healing, and Psychic Science, which before long ended up known as the Unarius Academy of Science. The gathering praises the commemoration of the association of Earth and the confederation every year around October 12. 

Norman spearheaded a type of previous existence treatment, showing her devotees how to review subtleties of encounters from their past manifestations. These memories added to the gathering's folklore, which created after some time with understudy input. Unarius' individuals once in a while reviewed violations that they had submitted in previous existences, including times they hurt manifestations of Ruth Norman. The understudies some of the time carried on and recorded scenes from their past manifestations, an encounter that members discovered restorative; they refered to this advantage as confirmation that the occasions were genuine. Norman's treatment, as per R. George Kirkpatrick of San Diego State University and Tumminia, contrasted from most New Age previous existence treatments in the manner in which that it wove her supporters into the gathering's story. 

In March 1976, Norman openly bet $4,000 with the British betting firm Ladbrokes that extraterrestrials would arrive on Earth inside one year, a forecast which pulled in media consideration. Tumminia states that Norman had "no open pain" over the disappointment of her expectation. In spite of the negative attention from the prescience's disappointment, new individuals were pulled in to the gathering. In the wake of losing the bet, Norman changed the normal arrival date to 2001; she trained that the end of the 20th century concurred with the start of another cycle which would convey extraordinary advantages to mankind. Agents of Unarius later expressed that the predictions had been misjudged and that the Space Brothers had not visited on the grounds that humankind was not yet prepared for them. They have contended that Unarius' lessons must be comprehended to accurately translate Norman's announcements. Tumminia composes that they utilized "versatile narrating and consistent account creation" to clarify the disappointment of the prescience. 

The gathering delighted in attention, and news sources normally secured them. Most writers depicted Unarius as an oddity and emphasizd its novel perspectives. In the territory close to their central station, they were seen as an unordinary gather with severe conduct measures. One nearby author distributed a dramatist record of the gathering under the title "The Gods Must Be Crazy". Be that as it may, subsequent to talking Norman in 1976, Brad Steiger, who has composed widely about the paranormal, gave a positive record of Unarius. Norman hated scholastic compositions about her association, considering them to be unreasonably negative. 

In 1979, Norman professed to have an informal after of more than 100,000. That year, she reported a profound advancement: she was never again a lead celestial host in any case, with Michiel, a "Master of the Universe" and a "Ruler of the Realm". She renamed Spiegel as "Antares" in 1984, expressing that he had conquered the wickedness of his past manifestations; he along these lines started to channel. Starting at 1986, the gathering had about 450 regular understudies and charged $5 per class. Around then, Norman lived in a house in La Mesa, California, with two of her supporters. In the mid-to-late 1980's, Unarius "smaller than expected documentaries" including "Uriel" publicized as far east as the New York City locale, in Westchester County (for one), on free TV. 

Helped by her supporters, Norman recorded her lessons in about 80 books. She composed instructive materials intended to engage understudies by showing them subjects, for example, the "brain science of cognizance" and "self-dominance". Ernest and Ruth Norman's compositions are adored as sacred writing by individuals from the Unarius Academy. The gathering built up a lot of six center holy accounts about the previous existences of its organizers, portraying key occasions on Earth and different planets. These legends highlighted stories of sentiment, war, and logical advances in the Aries and Orion heavenly bodies and in antiquated human advancements on Earth. Kirkpatrick and Tumminia express that the Unarian ordinance seems, by all accounts, to be confused to outcasts, yet is refreshing as a firm collection of writing by the gathering's individuals. 

Norman wore an assortment of brilliantly shaded, expound ensembles and was frequently captured by media while wearing imperial style outfits and wigs and holding a staff. She expressed that her habiliments reflected the acts of extraterrestrials, whose clothing she said was more splendid and more brilliant than attire on Earth. At the gathering's central command, she had a gold-shaded position of royalty that was brightened with peacock plumes. Her colleagues helped shepherd her media picture; Kirkpatrick and Tumminia guess that her mystique was basically in charge of picking up attention for the gathering. 

Supporters of Norman held her in high respect: they every so often blacked out when she contacted them, and some sobbed when permitted to meet with her. They painted a few pictures of her, one of which they accepted had recuperating powers. As indicated by understudies, Norman mended them in their fantasies and in some cases announced seeing dreams of her. A few times, bunch individuals forgoed disease treatment, confiding in Norman to recuperate them. Tumminia says that Norman was an unmistakable case of the German humanist Max Weber's idea of appealling specialist. Norman here and there had conflicts with understudies and suspended two senior aides who scrutinized her, in spite of the fact that she invited one back a couple of years after the fact. On the off chance that mending was fruitlessly looked for, the inability to get it was once in a while credited to traitorousness to administration. Analysis of Norman was not endured by the gathering; Tumminia depicts Norman's initiative style as "generous tyrant". 

In 1988, Norman broke a hip and her wellbeing started to decrease. Despite the fact that she had guaranteed to live until 2001, her crumbling condition made her supporters presume she would pass on before at that point, causing them some trouble and disavowal. While trying to enable her to recuperate, understudies utilized previous existence relapse to review cooperations with her, and some turned out to be passionate in the wake of encountering recollections of occasions in which they had rejected and harmed her. Norman came back to driving administrations in February 1989, making a speedier than anticipated recuperation, which was ascribed to the previous existence customs. After a time of good wellbeing, her condition again disintegrated, provoking understudies to continue relating their past wrongdoings. Norman lost the majority of her hearing and experienced ceaseless torment; she was admitted to an emergency clinic in December 1989, yet by the mid year she was all around ok to be available at occasions. She was about out of commission in her last years and was taken care of by certain supporters. In 1991, she expressed that the Space Brothers had given her consent to kick the bucket before their normal landing in 2001. 

Prior to her demise, Norman met with every one of her adherents; she passed on July 12, 1993, and was incinerated. In her will, she guaranteed to come back to Earth, joined by the Space Brothers, in eight years. Understudies, some of whom were astounded and befuddled by her passing, were told by pioneers not to lament since she was in a heavenly state. Some of them secretly grieved, and a couple of left the gathering. Things of Norman's were appropriated to understudies, some of whom wore them at later occasions. 

After Norman's passing, Antares took over as pioneer and diverted messages from her. Others later started diverting her, and chronicles of her messages were replayed. Antares kicked the bucket in 1999, and a top managerial staff expected authority of the association and diverted. During the 2000s, Unarius' pioneers underlined singular change, concentrating on a progressive profound change in humankind. 

Pictures of Norman have been utilized to draw in consideration by some outside of the Unarius Academy of Science. In 1996, a MTV official saw an image of Norman and chose to utilize her picture in a promoting effort for the MTV Music Video Awards. The system reached the Unarius Academy of Science and got authorization to utilize a clone in their advancements. In 2000, Norman was highlighted on the front of "", a book about identities with periphery convictions. 

After Norman's demise, popular feeling of her association was emphatically impacted by the 1997 mass suicide of Heaven's Gate, a UFO religion whose individuals involved a house inside of the Unarius Academy of Science. In the suicides' fallout, a few journalists and individuals from the counter religion development depicted Unarius as a comparative gathering. Tumminia couldn't help contradicting this depiction, giving Unarius' practices a role as not any more hazardous than those of broadly acknowledged religions. 

Books 

Diaries 

Magazines 

Papers