Hemmema 

A hemmema (from Finnish "Hämeenmaa", Tavastia) was a kind of warship worked for the Swedish archipelago armada and the Russian Baltic naval force in the late eighteenth and mid nineteenth hundreds of years. The hemmema was at first created for use against the Russian Navy in the Archipelago Sea and along the banks of Svealand and Finland. It was structured by the productive and imaginative Swedish maritime planner Fredrik Henrik af Chapman (1721– 1808) in a joint effort with Augustin Ehrensvärd (1710– 1772), a mounted guns officer and later administrator of the Swedish archipelago armada. The hemmema was a particular vessel for use in the shallow waters and tight sections that encompass the a large number of islands and islets stretching out from the Swedish capital of Stockholm into the Gulf of Finland. 

The hemmema supplanted the galleys that had made up the center of the Swedish archipelago armadas until the mid-eighteenth century. Contrasted with galleys, the hemmema had a more profound draft and was slower under paddles, yet offered predominant convenience for the group, conveyed more stores, was increasingly safe and had about ten fold the number of substantial firearms. It could be pushed by either sails or paddles yet was as yet littler and more flexibility than most cruising warships, which made it appropriate for tasks in restricted waters. 

Somewhere in the range of 1764 and 1809, Sweden constructed six hemmemas. The hemmema turned into the biggest and most intensely equipped vessel in the archipelago armada and served in the Russo-Swedish War of 1788– 90. "Oden", the first hemmema, was generally little and fundamentally the same as a turuma, an alternate sort of "archipelago frigate". Russia constructed six hemmemas dependent on the Swedish plan somewhere in the range of 1808 and 1823 subsequent to catching three of the Swedish vessels at the surrender of Sveaborg in 1808. The later forms, both Swedish and Russian, were a lot bigger and considerably more vigorously outfitted than "Oden". 

Russian Tsar Peter the Great had set up another capital and amazing maritime base in Saint Petersburg in 1703. Russian maritime power in the Baltic developed to challenge the interests of Sweden, the other driving force in the Baltic. Swedish possessions around then included domain in Northern Germany, all of present day Finland and the vast majority of the Baltic expresses, a territory relying upon, and associated by, the Baltic Sea exchange courses. Amid the Great Northern War (1700– 1721), Sweden lost every one of its regions in the Baltic states and endured Russian strikes in Finland and along the chain of islands and archipelagos extending from the Gulf of Finland to Stockholm. The Swedes started to send inshore flotillas of shallow-draft vessels, starting with littler forms of the conventional Mediterranean galleys. A large portion of these new vessels were progressively much the same as galiots and were supplemented with weapon prams. The deplorable war with Russia (1741– 43) and the minor contribution against Prussia in the Seven Years' War (1757– 62) demonstrated the requirement for further extension and advancement of the inshore flotillas with increasingly concentrated vessels. 

Galleys were viable as troop transports for land and/or water capable activities, yet were seriously under-gunned, particularly in connection to their extensive teams; a cookroom with a 250-man group, the majority of whom were rowers, would commonly convey just a single 24-pounder gun and two 6-pounders, all in the bow. The galleys additionally needed decks and satisfactory sanctuary for the rower-fighters, a large number of whom surrendered to ailment because of introduction amid the war of 1741– 43. 

After the Russian triumph against Sweden in 1743, the Swedes set up a commission to distinguish shortcomings in the eastern safeguards. In 1747, the commission presumed that the strongholds in southeastern Finland should have been improved and extended, and that Sweden expected to assemble a solid beach front naval force. Augustin Ehrensvärd (1710– 72), a big guns officer, was the main thrust behind these changes. The board of trustees based huge numbers of its decisions and choices on his thoughts. In 1756, Sweden set up the archipelago armada with the official name "arméns flotta" ("armada of the military") under the direction of the military division, Krigskollegium, with Ehrensvärd as incomparable officer. For two decades, the battle for power between the Hats and the Caps, the predominant political groups at the time, and competitions among armed force and naval force achieved changes to the archipelago armada. The parliamentary triumph of the Hats in the Riksdag in 1769– 70 and the overthrow d'ètat by King Gustav III in 1772 verified the archipelago armada's status as a free part of the military. Beginning in 1770, the archipelago armada converged with the Finnish Squadron ("Finska eskadern") based at Sveaborg. In 1777, it joined the Swedish Squadron ("Svenska eskadern"), the cookroom armada based at Stockholm. The Swedish military put extensive assets in the new armed force branch and made it an expert, autonomous association. The archipelago armada pulled in individuals from the social and social world class who appreciated the assurance and support of King Gustav III, who had built up himself as an outright ruler in the 1772 upset. 

After the poor execution of galleys in Russo– Swedish war of 1741– 43 and the Pomeranian War (1757– 62), advancement of substitutions progressed toward becoming organized. Amid the Pomeranian War, preliminaries had been made with "weapon prams" ("skottpråmar"), intensely furnished, paddle driven, level bottomed freight ships with a shallow draft that conveyed firearms in broadside plans. The prams conveyed a larger number of firearms than the galleys, however turned out to be powerful. Augustin Ehrensvärd contended for new archipelago vessels that consolidated capability, mobility, fitness for sailing, and fair group lodging. He started a fruitful coordinated effort with shipwright Fredrik Henrik Chapman (recognized "af Chapman" in 1772), and together they created five new vessels: a gunboat with a 12-pounder firearm and a yacht fixing, just as four kinds of "archipelago frigates" ("skärgårdsfregatter"): the littler udema and pojama, and the bigger turuma and hemmema. Every one of the four sorts have been designated "skärgårdsfregatter" (archipelago frigates) in Swedish and English recorded writing, however a few writers have called the udema and pojama "archipelago corvettes". Chapman explicitly structured the archipelago frigates for administration off the south shore of Finland and named them after the Finnish areas of Uusimaa, "Pohjanmaa" (Österbotten), "Turunmaa" (Åboland), and "Hämeenmaa" (Tavastia). 

The idea of little cruising frigates with a reciprocal arrangement of paddles (or "scopes") was not new. The English Tudor naval force had utilized little "galleasses" in the mid-sixteenth century. During the 1660s its successor, the Royal Navy, prepared what could be compared to 6th rates with paddle ports on or beneath the gundeck. Amid the eighteenth century the Russian Navy presented "shebecks", Baltic variations on the Mediterranean xebecs, for inshore obligations. The xebecs were great sailers, could be paddled if fundamental and had a larger number of weapons and more noteworthy stores than galleys; they were additionally more affordable to keep up. The Russian structures affected Chapman and the Swedish maritime leaders. Thus, Chapman's plans for new ships were elaborations on those standards, yet with adjustments to archipelago fighting. 

Chapman's archipelago frigates gave preferred assurance to their team over the galleys they supplanted, and up to multiple times the limit with regards to stores and arrangements. They could work in the tight, shallow waters around skerries in all climates and in vast water in everything except the most exceedingly bad tempests. They had a more profound draft than galleys, yet extensively shallower draft than customary cruising warships. The new ship types likewise expanded the archipelago armada's capability, furnished it with better guarded capacities, and made conceivable increasingly productive flame support in land and/or water capable tasks. 

Of the new structures, turumas and hemmemas best fit the portrayal of "archipelago frigate" in light of their likenesses to little maritime frigates. The first hemmema, the "Oden", was finished in 1764. It was c. 33 m (108.2 ft) long and 8.2 m (26.8 ft) wide with a draft of 2.8 m (9.25 ft). It had a low frame with no forecastle, just a low quarterdeck, and no stern. It had three poles that were at first fixed with lateen sails, similar to a cookroom. The naval force later supplanted the lateen apparatuses with a progressively ordinary square-cruise frigate rig. The early plan accommodated 14 sets of paddles with four men for every paddle. The rowers employed their paddles from the weapon deck through paddle ports situated between the gunports, near the waterline, which gave the rowers better influence. The paddles were likewise put on a rectangular outrigger, intended to additionally improve the influence. All things being equal, hemmemas performed ineffectively when paddled and were troublesome in opposite breezes. They were slower than standard cruising ships, however cruised superior to galleys. 

Amid the Russian war of 1788– 1790, Sweden assembled three hemmemas of another structure. They were significantly bigger, 44.5  by 11 m (146 by 36 ft), and the quantity of paddles were expanded to 20 sets. They likewise had the absolute heaviest broadsides, notwithstanding when contrasted and the a lot bigger frigates of the high oceans naval force. The big guns officer Carl Fredrik Aschling had collaborated with Chapman to expand the principle deadly implement to twenty-two 36-pounders and two 12-pounders, which expanded the draft by about 30 cm (1 ft). The expansion of corner to corner bracers to strengthen the structure permitted the later hemmemas to convey weapons more dominant even than those on the biggest cruising frigates of the high oceans naval force. Because of their significant capability and relative size, maritime student of history Jan Glete has portrayed the hemmemas as "super archipelago frigates". 

The hemmema's structure was fundamentally the same as that of the turuma. The essential distinction was that the turuma's rowers sat on the climate deck over the weapons, though the hemmema's rowers sat on the gundeck. The later hemmemas were significantly bigger, all the more intensely outfitted, and of an increasingly strong development. Glete has depicted them as minor departure from a similar kind, particularly while considering the pre-war structures. 

Hemmemas served in the Finnish squadrons amid the war of 1788– 1790. They bolstered land and/or water capable activities and directed assaults on the Russian archipelago armada, while in the meantime going about as ocean borne flank support for the Swedish armed force on the Finnish territory. Hemmemas battled in the first and second clashes of Svensksund. Amid the main fight in 1789, one hemmema supplemented the comparable turumas, and in the second fight in July 1790, two hemmemas made up the cautious focus and gave a significant level of the capability. 

The Swedes were building three extra hemmemas at the shipyards inside the post of Sveaborg when it was surrendered to the Russians in 1808, and each of the three were joined in the Russian Navy. In the blink of an eye a while later, the Russian Navy assembled its own 32-weapon renditions, with the last vessel propelled as late as 1823. Two more were worked in Sweden in 1809, "Birger Jarl" and "Erik Segersäll". "Birger Jarl" sank in a mishap in 1813 and "Erik Segersäll" was made arrangements for transformation as a paddlewheel steam battery for waterfront resistance, however the thought was in the end deserted and the ship rejected in 1826. 

Like the other particular archipelago vessels, the hemmema had explicit qualities and shortcomings. Despite the fact that it had better capability relative than galleys, its cruising characteristics were to some degree average and keeping in mind that very flexibility under paddles, it was as yet hard to push while paddled. A hemmema could be a powerful weapon against galleys, coordinating their forward capability and seriously outgunning them with its broadside deadly implement. Inside a foe cookroom development, it could unleash extensive devastation, yet such a move was never accomplished in a genuine fight, leaving that strategic job untested. 

An aggregate of twelve hemmemas were fabricated, six of them for the Swedish archipelago armada and six for the Russian Navy. Subtleties of individual vessels are recorded underneath. The Swedish hemmemas were altogether worked to similar details, with the exception of the early plan "Oden", and "Birger Jarl" and "Erik Segersäll" conveyed heavier deadly implement than the others. Tredrea and Sozaev list "Oden" as a turuma modified as a hemmema in 1784, however Oscar Nikula and Lars-Otto Berg don't. The Russian vessels were worked somewhere in the range of 1808 and 1823 and have been depicted by Tredea and Sozaev as "Bodryi"- class "paddling frigates". 

Under the Finnish structure "Hämeenmaa", the name of the ship type was later carried on to a few vessels of the twentieth century Finnish Navy.