Pennatomys 

Pennatomys nivalis is a terminated oryzomyine rat from the islands of Sint Eustatius, Saint Kitts, and Nevis in the Lesser Antilles. The main species in the class Pennatomys, it is known from skeletal stays found in Amerindian archeological locales on each of the three islands, with dates going from 790– 520 BCE to 900– 1200 CE. No live examples are known, yet there are a few chronicled records of rodents from Saint Kitts and Nevis that could possibly allude to "Pennatomys". The creature clearly has a place with a gathering inside the clan Oryzomyini that incorporates numerous other island-abiding species. 

"Pennatomys nivalis" was a medium-sized animal categories without numerous unmistakable adjustments. The nasal bones were short and gruff finished. The zygomatic plate, a hard plate along the edge of the skull, was wide. The hard sense of taste was long and level. The base of the lower incisor was housed in a hard projection, the capsular procedure. The molars were low-delegated and have frill peaks, for example, mesolophs. The upper molars all had three roots. 

Oryzomyini, otherwise called rice rodents, is a different gathering of North, Central, and South American rodents inside the family Cricetidae. Stays of wiped out rice rodents are known all through the Lesser Antilles, however the orderly connections among those creatures are inadequately comprehended, and numerous species stay anonymous. Rice rodent fossils were first recorded from Saint Kitts in 1907 by excavator C.W. Branch and were later found in plenitude in Amerindian archeological destinations on close-by Nevis and Sint Eustatius. The rice rodent of these islands was formally depicted and named as "Pennatomys nivalis" in a 2010 article by zoologist Samuel Turvey and associates. The nonexclusive name, "Pennatomys", joins the Latin "pennatus" "winged" with "- mys" "mouse", a standard component in the names of rat genera, and respects paleologist Elizabeth Wing. The particular name, "nivalis", is Latin for "cold" and alludes to Nevis. This current island's name gets from the Spanish "Nuestra Señora de las Nieves" "Our Lady of the Snows", a reference to the mists (confused with snow) that encompass the island's focal pinnacle. 

Cladistic investigation of morphological characters recommend that "Pennatomys" is most firmly identified with a clade, the "Nectomys" subclade, that incorporates individuals from "Aegialomys", "Amphinectomys", "Nectomys", "Sigmodontomys", "Melanomys", "Megalomys" (another Antillean rice rodent), and conceivably "Nesoryzomys". In any case, the careful position of "Pennatomys" was inadequately settled on account of missing information. Turvey and partners put "P. nivalis" as the main individual from its very own sort on account of its particular characters and the nonattendance of proof for cozy associations with some other oryzomyine family. "Pennatomys" likely has a place with a subgroup of Oryzomyini known as "clade D". This clade contains various species just happening on islands—including individuals from "Aegialomys", "Megalomys", "Nesoryzomys", "Noronhomys", "Oryzomys", and "Pennatomys". Turvey and partners proposed this is identified with the high extent of semiaquatic species in clade D—most different oryzomyines are backwoods inhabitants. In general, Oryzomyini incorporates over a hundred animal types in around thirty genera. It is one of a few clans inside the subfamily Sigmodontinae of the family Cricetidae, which incorporates many different types of for the most part little rodents, conveyed essentially in Eurasia and the Americas. Anyway DNA investigation exhibited a sister-taxa association with "Megalomys" as an endemic Lesser Antillean radiation inside clade D, and furthermore demonstrated that the distinctive island populaces demonstrated a high level of hereditary separation from one another. 

A medium-sized oryzomyine, "Pennatomys" is known from various skeletal stays, a large number of which are fragmentary. Both skull and postcranial bones are spoken to. In spite of the fact that there are no bizarre adjustments in the known material, the creature has a blend of qualities that recognize it from all other known oryzomyines. The skull is known just from sections. The nasal bones reach out back to a point previously or marginally behind the point where the maxillary, frontal, and lacrimal bones meet, and have a dull back edge. The nasals expand somewhat further back than the premaxillaries. The lacrimals articulate with both the frontals and the maxillaries, an attribute that recognizes "Pennatomys" from its nearest relatives (which have lacrimals articulating predominantly with the frontals). The interorbital locale of the skull bears feeble peaks at its sides. The zygomatic plate, a hard plate along the edge of the skull, is expansive and its back edge is situated before the primary upper molar (M1). The sharp foramina, openings in the hard sense of taste, stretch out back to a point alongside the front foundation of M1. The sense of taste itself is long and level, reaching out past the third upper molars (M3). In the mandible (lower jaw), there is a capsular procedure—a bulge at the back of the jawbone that houses the foundation of the lower incisor. Beneath the molars, the upper and lower masseteric edges (peaks which bolster a portion of the biting muscles) are now and again conjoined towards the front, and they stretch out forward to a point underneath the primary lower molar (m1). The conjoined peaks are one of the synapomorphic (shared-determined) characters of the "Nectomys" subclade. 

The maxillary toothrows are parallel to one another. The molars are bunodont (with the cusps higher than the interfacing peaks) and brachyodont (low-delegated) and have the between cusp valleys on the labial (external) sides shut by a cingulum (rack). The valleys on the labial and lingual (internal) sides of the molars meet at the midlines. Every one of the upper molars has three roots—not at all like in the greater part of the nearest relatives of "Pennatomys", there is no extra labial root on M1. The m1 has four roots—two extensive roots at the front and back and two littler ones in the center. There are three roots under m2, two at the front and one at the back, and two under m3, at the front and back. Upper toothrow length ranges from 5.6 to 6.7 mm and lower toothrow length is 5.9 to 7.4 mm. 

On M1, the anterocone (the cusp at the front of the tooth) isn't isolated into littler cuspules. The association between the protocone and the paracone, the significant cusps following the anterocone, is found generally far toward the front. Behind the paracone, the mesoloph adornment peak is available. On M2, there is no protoflexus (a space before the protocone, which on this tooth is the frontmost cusp) and the valley between the paracone and the mesoloph, the mesoflexus, isn't isolated into two pieces by a paracone– mesoloph association. These qualities are both normal for the "Nectomys" subclade. The mesoloph is available on M3, yet the posteroloph, a peak at the back of the tooth, is missing or minimal, similar to the hypoflexus (the valley between the protocone and the cusp behind it, the hypocone). The nonattendance or close nonappearance of the posteroloph is a particular attribute that separates "Pennatomys" from related oryzomyines. 

The anteroconid on m1 (the frontmost cusp, comparing to the anterocone) contains an interior empty, an anteromedian fossettid. There is an ectolophid, an embellishment peak in the valley between the protoconid (the cusp on the labial side, behind the anteroconid) and the hypoconid (the cusp behind the protoconid, at the back labial corner of the tooth). On the opposite side of the tooth, the mesolophid (another adornment peak) is likewise present. On every one of the lower molars, an anterolabial cingulum (a rack on the front labial corner) is available. On m2 and m3, an anterolophid is available—a peak before the metaconid (the cusp on the front lingual corner of the tooth). 

Stays of "Pennatomys nivalis" originate from a few Amerindian archeological destinations on every one of the three islands where it has been discovered; it was eaten by the local Amerindian populace. The most seasoned site is Hichmans' Shell Heap on Nevis, which is from the Archaic age and is dated to 790 to 520 BCE. The most youthful, Sulfur Ghaut (900– 1200 CE), is additionally on Nevis, and is from the post-Saladoid period. Different destinations on Nevis incorporate Hichmans (Saladoid, 100 BCE – 600 CE), Indian Castle (post-Saladoid, 650– 880 CE), and Coconut Walk (post-Saladoid, no supreme dates known). The main site on Sint Eustatius is the Saladoid and post-Saladoid site Golden Rock (80 BCE – 980 CE). Every one of the three locales yielding "Pennatomys" on Saint Kitts is from the post-Saladoid period: Sugar Factory (700– 1000 CE), Bloody Point (660– 1115 CE), and Cayon (undated). 

Unambiguous verifiable records of "Pennatomys" are missing, however there are a few references to Saint Kitts and Nevis rodents that may identify with it. George Percy wrote about the nearness of "incredible store of Conies" on Nevis around 1606, presumably a reference to the agoutis ("Dasyprocta") that have been presented all through the Lesser Antilles. There are references from 1631 and 1720 to individuals eating rodents on Saint Kitts and Nevis, separately, yet these may well have been presented dark rodents ("rattus"), not "Pennatomys". There are narrative records of abnormal rodents on Nevis up to ongoing occasions; these were apparently eaten by the islanders until the 1930s. Reviews on Nevis in 2009 found no proof for the survival of "Pennatomys". The termination of the Antillean rice rodents, including "Pennatomys", may have come about because of the presentation of extraordinary creatures, for example, the dark rodent and the little Asian mongoose ("Herpestes auropunctatus") to the Lesser Antilles. 

There are no known morphological contrasts between the three island populaces, however Turvey and partners found that creatures from Nevis were somewhat littler than those from the two different islands. Such a distinction in size may be identified with the way that Saint Kitts is bigger than Nevis, as per the pattern that creatures become bigger on bigger islands. In any case, Turvey and associates additionally seen that their Saint Kitts material comprised of more established people than those from Nevis; in this manner, the size distinction may result from contrasts in the method of abuse by Amerindians.