Mycena aurantiomarginata 

Mycena aurantiomarginata, ordinarily known as the brilliant edge hood, is a types of agaric growth in the family Mycenaceae. First formally portrayed in 1803, it was given its present name in 1872. Generally circulated, usually in Europe and North America, and has likewise been gathered in North Africa, Central America, and Japan. The organism is saprobic, and produces natural product bodies (mushrooms) that develop on the floor of coniferous woodlands. The mushrooms have a chime formed to funnel shaped top up to in distance across, set on a thin stipe up to long with yellow to orange hairs at the base. The organism is named after its trademark brilliant orange gill edges. A tiny trademark is the club-molded cystidia that are secured with various spiky projections, looking like a mace. The edibility of the mushroom has not been resolved. "M. aurantiomarginata" can be recognized from comparable "Mycena" species by contrasts in size, shading, and substrate. A 2010 production announced the revelation and portrayal of a novel shade named mycenaaurin A, detached from the mushroom. The shade is in charge of its shading, and it has anti-microbial movement that may capacity to keep certain microscopic organisms from developing on the mushroom. 

The species, initially named "Agaricus marginatus" by the Danish naturalist Heinrich Christian Friedrich Schumacher in 1803, has a few equivalent words. Elias Magnus Fries renamed it "Agaricus aurantio-marginatus" in his 1821 "Systema Mycologicum", while Christiaan Hendrik Persoon called it "Agaricus schumacheri" in 1828. In spite of the fact that Schumacher had the soonest production date, Fries' name is authorized, thus the particular sobriquet he utilized is given nomenclatural priority. French mycologist Lucien Quélet exchanged the species to the family "Mycena" in 1872. In 1930 Karel Cejp believed it to be an assortment of "Mycena elegans". 

As per Alexander H. Smith's association of the family "Mycena", "M. aurantiomarginata" is characterized in segment "Calodontes", subsection "Granulatae", which contains species with roughened cheilocystidia (cystidia on gill edges, for example, "M. rosella", "M. flavescens", "M. elegans", and "M. strobilinoides". In his 1992 investigation of "Mycena", Dutch mycologist Rudolph Arnold Maas Geesteranus place "M. aurantiomarginata" in the segment "Luculentae", described by species with an olive to yellowish-olive and wet top, colorless to dark olive gills with brilliant orange edges, tanish to grayish-olive stipes, white spore store, and spiked cystidia." M. aurantiomarginata" was incorporated into a 2010 sub-atomic examination concentrated on clearing up the phylogenetic connections between Northern European species in the area "Calodontes". The outcomes proposed that, in view of the comparability of atomic substantial subunit ribosomal DNA arrangements, the growth is firmly identified with "M. crocata" and "M. leaiana". This end was recently verified by research that utilized sub-atomic investigation to exhibit that few "Mycena" species can be mycorrhizal accomplices of the orchid "Gastrodia confusa". 

The particular appellation "aurantiomarginata" is Latin, and alludes to the orange edges of its gills ("aurantius", "orange"; "marginata", "flanked"). In the United Kingdom, the mushroom is normally known as the "brilliant edge hat". 

The top of "M. aurantiomarginata" goes fit as a fiddle from harshly conic to ringer formed, and turns out to be level in development, achieving widths of . The top shading is variable, running from dim olive fuscous (dull caramel dim) to yellowish-olive in the middle, while the edge is orangish. Alexander H. Smith, in his 1947 monograph of North American "Mycena" species, expressed that the tops are not hygrophanous (changing shading relying upon the dimension of hydration), while "Mycena" pro Arne Aronsen says they are. The general shading blurs as the mushroom ages. The surface is soggy, and youthful people are secured with fine whitish powder, however this before long swamps off to leave a cleaned surface that creates outspread scores in development. The tissue is slight (about 1 mm thick in the focal point of the top) and adaptable. 

Gills are adnate with a decurrent tooth (where the gills bend up to join the stipe yet at that point, near the stipe, the edge turns down once more), and at first thin however expand when old. They are colorless to grayish-olive with splendid orange edges. Smith noticed that the edge shading may spread to the gill faces in certain examples, in light of the fact that the color, instead of being encrusted on the dividers of the cystidia, is found in the cytosol and in this way more promptly diffusible. The gills are dispersed near one another, with somewhere in the range of 16 and 26 gills achieving the stipe, and there are up to three levels of sprinkled lamellulae (short gills that don't expand completely from the top edge to the stipe). 

The tube shaped stipe is long by thick, empty, and hardened however adaptable; it is to some degree thicker at the base. It has a caramel to grayish-olive shading that is in some cases tinged with shades of orange. The surface is smooth aside from orange powder close to the top, while the base is secured with hardened orange hairs. Smith reports the mushroom tissue to have no particular taste or scent, while Aronsen says the smell is "prominent; sweet, fruity, regularly experienced as farinaceous or faintly of anise". In the same way as other little "Mycena" species, the edibility of the mushroom is obscure, as it is too inadequate to even consider considering gathering for the table. 

The spores are elliptic, smooth, and amyloid, with measurements of 7– 9 by 4– 5 μm. The basidia (spore-bearing cells of the hymenium) are club-formed, four-spored, and measure 25– 32 by 5.5– 7 μm. Pleurocystidia and cheilocystidia (cystidia on the gill faces and edges, separately) are rich and comparable in morphology: club-formed to fairly capitate (with a head), the finish scantily to thickly secured with little spines (said to take after a mace), loaded up with a brilliant orange shade, and estimating 28– 36 by 7– 12 μm. The tissue of the top is secured with a fingernail skin, on the outside of which are discovered dispersed cystidia like those on the gills. Legitimately underneath the fingernail skin is a layer of expanded cells, and underneath this are filamentous hyphae. Brace associations are available in the hyphae. 

"Mycena aurantiomarginata" utilizes a tetrapolar mating framework, whereby qualities at two distinct areas on the chromosomes manage sexual similarity, or mating type. This framework counteracts self-treatment and guarantees a high level of genotypic decent variety. At the point when the contagious mycelia is developed in culture on a petri dish, the states are white, scentless, and commonly have a focal fix of clogged ethereal hyphae that become upward from the settlement surface, which unexpectedly turned out to be smoothed to submerged, and once in a while structure swoon zone lines. The hyphae regularly structure stores of modest indistinct gems where they contact other mycelial fronts, particularly where the hyphae are vegetatively incongruent and demolish each other by lysis. 

"Mycena aurantiomarginata" is commonly unmistakable in the field by its olive-dark colored to orangish top, brilliant orange gill edges, and yellowish hairs at the base of the stipe. "M. elegans" is comparative in appearance to "M. aurantiomarginata", and some have thought of them as synonymous. "M. elegans" is bigger, with a top distance across up to and stipe length up to , darker, and has pale greenish-yellow hues on the gill edges and stipes that recolor dull rosy dark colored in age. "M. leaiana" is promptly recognized from "M. aurantiomarginata" by the splendid orange shade of its organic product bodies, its bunched development on decaying wood, and the nearness of a thick layer on its stipe. "M. strobilinoides" intently takes after "M. aurantiomarginata" fit as a fiddle, measure, spore morphology, and the nearness of hairs at the stipe base. It has a top shading that ranges from red to yellow, and highlights red edges on generally dispersed, pale pinkish-orange to yellow gills. 

"Mycena aurantiomarginata" is a saprobic growth, getting supplements from breaking down natural issue found on the woodland floor, for example, needle rugs. Natural product assortments of the growth become dissipated, in gatherings, or in tufts under conifers (normally spruce and fir), and are regularly found on greenery. In North America, it is found in California, Washington, Oregon, and British Columbia, and the species is generally disseminated in western and northern Europe. In Central America, the mushroom has been gathered on the summit of Cerro de la Muerte in the Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica, on leaf litter of "Comarostaphylis arbutoides" (an exceedingly spread evergreen bush or tree in the heath family). In 2010, it was accounted for from Hokkaido in northern Japan, where it was discovered developing on "Picea glehnii" backwoods litter in late-fall. It has additionally been recorded from North Africa. 

In 2010, a shade compound secluded and portrayed from organic product assemblages of "Mycena aurantiomarginata" was accounted for as new to science by Robert Jaeger and Peter Spiteller in the "Diary of Natural Products". The concoction, mycenaaurin A, is a polyene aggravate that comprises of a tridecaketide (i.e., 13 neighboring methylene scaffold and carbonyl utilitarian gatherings with two amino corrosive moieties on either end of the atom). The creators place that the flanking amino corrosive gatherings are most likely gotten biosynthetically from "S"- Adenosyl methionine. The tridecaketide itself contains an alpha-pyrone, a conjugated hexaene, and a solitary alkenyl moiety. Jaeger and Spiteller recommend that mycenaaurin A may work as a protection compound, since it displays antibacterial action against the Gram-positive bacterium "Bacillus pumilus". The substance is just present in the organic product bodies, and not in the dull mycelia. A prior screening for antimicrobial action in the organic product bodies uncovered a powerless capacity to hinder the development of the parasites "Candida albicans" and "Aspergillus fumigatus".