Gymnopilus maritimus 

Gymnopilus maritimus is a parasite types of the family Cortinariaceae previously gathered in northern Sardinia, Italy, in 2006. The species delivers decently estimated, tough mushrooms of a ruddy orange shading. The top, which can make the grade regarding over, is canvassed in orange fibrils, and once in a while has little scales. The yellowish stem measures up to long by in width, and here and there shows leftovers of the halfway shroud. The mushrooms have thick gills of a variable shading, going from yellow to rust yet recoloring darker, and the yellow tissue has a mellow taste. The mushrooms leave a corroded dark colored spore print, while the spores themselves measure from long. The species is most comparable in appearance to "G. arenophilus" and "G. fulgens", however can be separated from both morphologically. In spite of the likenesses, it isn't firmly identified with either, proposing concurrent development. Rather, inside the sort "Gymnopilus", it is most firmly identified with the "spectabilis– imperialis" clade. Be that as it may, it isn't especially like any of its nearest relatives. 

The species has been discovered just on seaside sand rises close Olbia, in Sardinia, where it was watched developing at the base of "Juncus maritimus" (the ocean surge), between the winter a very long time of October and January. Nonetheless, there is theory that it might likewise develop somewhere else in Europe. Mushrooms were seen developing from both the sandy soil and rotting plants; be that as it may, as a saprotrophic feeder, it is conceivable that the species would almost certainly develop on different substrates. The mushrooms develop in close gatherings or tight tufts. 

"Gymnopilus maritimus" was first depicted by mycologists Laura Guzmán-Dávalos (a master in "Gymnopilus"), Antonio Ortega, Marco Contu and Alfredo Vizzini in 2009 out of an article in the diary "Mycological Progress". The portrayal depended on a few examples gathered amid field work by Contu in Sardinia between January 2006 and January 2007; the holotype was gathered on 15 January 2006. The disclosure has added to Sardinia's notoriety for being a region of mycological hugeness. The portrayal was later distributed in Italian by Contu and Vizzini in the diary "Micologia e Vegetazione Mediterranea", alongside the depiction of "G. purpuresquamulosus", on the grounds that the first depictions of both of these species were in English, and troublesome for non-pros to acquire. The particular appellation "maritimus" alludes to the common living space of beach front sand ridges, on sandy soil or decaying "Juncus maritimus". The holotype has been kept in the University of Granada's herbarium. 

Inside the variety "Gymnopilus", it is situated in the subgenus "Gymnopilus" and segment "Macrospori". The subgenus "Gymnopilus" was proposed by Henri Romagnesi as "Cortinatae" (while the variety was known as "Fulvidula") in 1942, however the name "Gymnopilus" was given later by Rolf Singer. The subgenus is portrayed by mushrooms that include either no cover, or cloak that don't shape rings. The segment "Macrospori", proposed by Guzmán-Dávalos in 1995, is comprised of substantial spored species with ringless mushrooms. Sub-atomic examination uncovered that "G. maritimus" frames a sister gathering to (that is, shares a quick basic predecessor with) the "spectabilis– imperialis" clade, a clade that incorporates "G. imperialis", "G. spectabilis", "G. junonius" (frequently thought to be synonymous with "G. spectabilis"), "G. pampeanus", and others. "G. maritimus" shapes a progressively comprehensive clade alongside the individuals from "spectabilis– imperialis"; while it delivers the littlest natural product bodies, it imparts to different individuals solid, tough mushrooms, tops with fibrils (some of the time with scales) and extensive, warty spores that turn red in Melzer's reagent or Lugol's iodine. 

"Gymnopilus maritimus" mushrooms have a top of between in width that is raised to smoothed curved fit as a fiddle. There is once in a while a wide umbo, and in more seasoned examples, the top is discouraged in the inside. The edge of the top is to some degree wavey. The top surface is dry and dull, shaded red to red-orange, and yellow towards the edge. It is canvassed in fibrils of an orange shading, and here and there has minute scales. The dried top turns blackish-red when potassium hydroxide is connected. The stem is long by in width. It is joined midway to the top, and is either totally tube shaped, with equivalent thickness all through its length, or somewhat smaller towards the base, where whitish or cream mycelia are once in a while unmistakable. It is dry, with filaments and wrinkles. It is a yellowish shading, wounding ruddy dark colored. Hints of the fractional shroud are now and again obvious on the stem, however it doesn't shape a ring. The yellow (dark colored at the base of the stem) tissue can be up to thick in the top and does not wound. It dries dim dark colored. There is no particular scent, and the taste is gentle or marginally harsh. The thick gills can be adnate (associated with the stem by the whole profundity of the gill) or sinuate (wavy, with the gills getting to be shallower than more profound). They are subdistant (neither close nor far off) and swollen in the center. In shading, they are yellow in the most youthful mushrooms, turning an ochre-orange, while the most established mushrooms they are rust. The gill edges are paler than the appearances, and the gills recolor orange-dark colored or darker. No reference is made in the first depiction to the edibility of the mushrooms. 

"Gymnopilus maritimus" leaves a corroded dark colored spore print. The basidiospores can gauge long, however the commonplace range is . In width, they commonly measure , yet they can be up to 8 μm wide. Fit as a fiddle, they are ellipsoid or now and then comprehensively ellipsoid. The highest point of the spore (the side where it was once joined to the sterigma, the association between the basidium and the spore) is adjusted and obtuse. The spores are secured with genuinely extensive moles, estimating from the principle spore in tallness. There is no germ pore or plage, and there is no unmistakable melancholy around the hilum (the territory where the spore was appended to the sterigma). The spores turn an orange-yellow to orange-dark colored shading in potassium hydroxide, and turn rosy darker in Melzer's reagent and in Lugol's iodine, however they are not metachromatic. 

The four-spored basidia ordinarily measure long by in width, however can be as much as 10.5 μm wide. They are club-molded, yet smaller in the center. They are hyaline (translucent) and yellow to yellowish darker. The sterigmata are somewhere in the range of 1.6 and 7 μm long. The cheilocystidia (cystidia on the edge of the gill) are commonly 30 to 42 (however now and again as much as 50) μm long by wide. They are molded like a flagon or wine-skin. The highest point of the cell all of a sudden extends, and the cell overall is flimsy walled, hyaline and yellowish, and some of the time seems to contain little grains. The caulocystidia (cystidia on the stem) can be found in tufts at the highest point of the stem, and measure from by . They are tube shaped, or barely cup formed, here and there with a long neck. They are, once more, yellow and hyaline. 

The yellowish hyphae are somewhere in the range of 15 and 13.5 μm wide with a mass of variable thickness. There are clasp associations at the septa (the dividers separating singular hypha cells). The tissue in the top is spiral, and is comprised of yellowish hyphae of somewhere in the range of 2.4 and 20 μm wide. The pileipellis, the peripheral layer of hyphae, shapes a cutis, and on more seasoned examples (and on the little scales) frames a trichoderm. 

There are five species comparative in appearance to "G. maritimus": "G. arenophilus", "G. decipiens", "G. flavus", "G. fulgens" and "G. pseudofulgens". "G. arenophilus" and especially "G. fulgens" are the most comparable. However "G. maritimus" and "G. arenophilus" show similitudes in their biogeography and biology, the commonly somewhat littler "G. arenophilus" varies from "G. maritimus" morphologically. While "G. maritimus" has a top shrouded in fibrils with little scales, "G. arenophilus" can in some cases be totally smooth, and spore ornamentation varies, with "G. maritimus" regularly showing bigger moles. Like "G. maritimus", "G. fulgens" has been recorded developing on sand-hill heathland; further, the spores are comparable in appearance to those of "G. maritimus". In any case, "G. fulgens" requires soil wealthy in peat and must develop among greenery. Additionally, there are various morphological contrasts; "G. maritimus" mushrooms are bigger and thicker, there are never stays of the halfway shroud on "G. fulgens" stems, the state of the highest point of the spores varies between the two species, and the cheilocystidia and caulocystidia are altogether bigger on "G. maritimus". "G. fulgens" var. "luteicystis" is much increasingly particular from "G. maritimus" than the designate assortment. In spite of the likenesses between the three species, the three have been appeared to be in changed clades inside "Gymnopilus", recommending natural intermingling among "G. arenophilus" and "G. maritimus", and morphological union among "G. fulgens" and "G. maritimus". 

"Gymnopilus flavus", notwithstanding additionally showing up ashore close to the Mediterranean, can be separated from "G. maritimus" as it lives among grass, particularly "Dactylis glomerata", and it has unmistakably littler spores, normally estimating 5 to 6 by 3.5 to 4.2 μm. "G. pseudofulgens", likewise gathered in Italy, demonstrates two noteworthy morphological contrasts: it produces littler mushrooms, and spores that are of an alternate shape with littler moles. "G. decipiens", another species that develops on sandy soil, again has spores that are especially extraordinary. The American species "G. arenicola" additionally supports sandy soil, however has essentially littler spores than "G. maritimus". Two different types of "Gymnopilus" found around the Mediterranean are "G. corsicus" and "G. spadiceus". "G. corsicus" has no shroud leftovers on the stem, and spores that don't turn red in Melzer's reagent or Lugol's iodine, thus can without much of a stretch be separated from "G. maritimus". "G. spadiceus" demonstrates a few similitudes to "G. maritimus", yet becomes just on pine wood and has rectangular spores. 

"Gymnopils maritimus" is obviously an alternate animal groups from different individuals from its clade, in spite of their nearby connection. Every single other specie in the clade develop upon dead wood and have all around created rings on their stems. The spores likewise vary; on account of "G. junonius" and "G. spectabilis" (frequently thought to be synonymous), just as "G. pampeanus", they are smaller, and on account of "G. imperialis", they are more extensive. Of different individuals from the clade, just "G. junonius" and "G. spectabilis" additionally develop in Europe. 

"Gymnopilus maritimus" is known just from a solitary site in Pittulongu, a region of Olbia, in Sardinia, Italy, which is the sort area. There, mushrooms were discovered developing in close gatherings and tufts on waterfront sand rises around from the high tide line. They were seen at the base of live "Juncus maritimus" (ocean surge) plants, developing on sandy soil or rotting plants, where they were encouraging as saprotrophs. Accordingly, it is conceivable that the species would almost certainly develop on different substrates. They were watched developing from harvest time to winter, between the finish of October and January. Notwithstanding the accumulations in Sardinia, Contu and Vizzini guess that reports of "G. fulgens" developing in "sand-hill heaths" on Great Britain, a bizarre living space for that species, may in reality demonstrate the nearness of "G. maritimus" on the island.