Duped! 

Duped! (on the other hand styled Hoodwinked) is a 2005 American PC enlivened family satire film. It retells the folktale "Minimal Red Riding Hood" as a police examination, utilizing flashbacks to demonstrate numerous characters' perspectives. It was created freely by Blue Yonder Films with Kanbar Entertainment, coordinated and composed by Cory Edwards, Todd Edwards, and Tony Leech, and delivered by Katie Hooten, Maurice Kanbar, David K. Lovegren, Sue Bea Montgomery, and Preston Stutzman. The film was discharged by The Weinstein Company in Los Angeles, California, on December 16, 2005 for a one-week commitment before growing across the nation on January 13, 2006. The cast highlights Anne Hathaway, Glenn Close, Jim Belushi, Patrick Warburton, Anthony Anderson, David Ogden Stiers, Xzibit, Chazz Palminteri and Andy Dick. 

"Duped!" was among the soonest PC vivified movies to be totally autonomously supported. Working separated from a noteworthy studio permitted the producers more prominent inventive control, yet in addition controlled them monetarily. Because of the film's little spending plan, its activity was delivered in the Philippines, with a less-practical structure motivated by stop movement films. The Weinstein Company did not sign on as the film's merchant until close to the finish of generation, and keeping in mind that the organization had numerous jobs recast, it generally rolled out couple of improvements to the film. 

Basically, the film was roused by non-direct wrongdoing dramatizations, for example, "Rashomon" and "Mash Fiction". It was discharged not long after the initial two portions in the fruitful "Shrek" arrangement, which emphasizd the fantasy spoof class of which it is a section. The film notwithstanding, deliberately strayed from that arrangement in its style of cleverness and in certain plot components. This was to a limited extent dependent on Cory Edwards' worries over presenting youngsters to the abnormal state of skepticism regularly found in the class. 

Basic gathering to the film was differed; in spite of the fact that its content and cast were commended by numerous audits, its liveliness quality was intensely scrutinized. The film was a business achievement, procuring more than multiple times its under $8 million spending plan. A spin-off, "Duped Too! Hood versus Insidious", coordinated by Mike Disa, and composed by the Edwards siblings and Leech, was discharged in 2011 to negative surveys and monetary disappointment. 

Minimal Red Riding Hood (Anne Hathaway) finds that the Big Bad Wolf (Patrick Warburton) has masked himself as her grandma. Granny (Glenn Close) bounces out of the storage room tied up similarly as the hatchet using woodsman (Jim Belushi) blasts through the window, frightening everybody. The police rapidly arrive, and Red, Wolf, Granny, and the Woodsman are addressed by Detective Nicky Flippers (David Ogden Stiers) about the occasions paving the way to the occurrence. 

Red clarifies that she was conveying treats for her grandma when she found a risk from the baffling Goodie Bandit. Wanting to spare her Granny's formulas, she set out upon an adventure to take them to the highest point of a close-by mountain where her Granny lives. On her way, she experienced the Wolf, who solicited her an arrangement from suspicious inquiries. She figured out how to escape and in the long run contacted her Granny's home; in any case, she found the Wolf officially holding up in trap. 

What at first is by all accounts a straightforward situation ends up befuddled however, when it is found out that the Wolf is an insightful correspondent. He uncovers that he was looking for a lead on the character of the Goody Bandit and had motivation to trust that Red and Granny were the guilty parties. Finding Red, he scrutinized her, planning to get to the base of the puzzle. At the point when Red got away, he set out toward her Granny's home and arriving first, went covert, wanting to deceive her into giving him the proof he required. 

Whenever addressed, the Woodsman, Kirk, uncovers that he is in reality a hopeful on-screen character who was just going for the piece of a woodsman in a business. After his schnitzel truck was ransacked by the Goody Bandit, he went out into the forested areas to get in character for his job and spent the remainder of the day cleaving trees. A vast tree moved after him and pushed him through the window of Granny's home. The examination at that point swings to Granny, who uncovers that, unbeknownst to her family, she is an extraordinary games lover. Amid a ski race prior that day, she was assaulted by the restricting group, however escaped securely subsequent to discovering that they were employed by the Goody Bandit. 

Miserable over her Granny's absence of genuineness, Red strays alone. In the mean time, Nicky Flippers understands that the one shared trait between each of the four stories is a bunny named Boingo (Andy Dick) and reasons that he is the Goody Bandit. In any case, Boingo has as of now sneaked into the home and stolen Granny's formulas. Red sees Boingo and tails him to his refuge at a link vehicle station, yet the police seek after him off course. Granny, the Wolf, and Kirk figure out how to find Boingo as he is disclosing his detestable plan to Red. Boingo plans to add an addictive substance to the stolen formulas and afterward decimate the woodland, clearing path for new land for growing his business. 

The Wolf and Kirk go covert to occupy Boingo as Granny sneaks into his sanctuary, yet open clash follows. Boingo sends a bound and choked Red down the mountain in a link vehicle stacked with explosives and Granny pursues her, with Boingo and his partners in crime in interest. Red figures out how to free herself, and getaways with Granny, while the police, who have been situated by the Wolf's squirrel right hand Twitchy (Cory Edwards), are holding up at the base of the mountain to capture Boingo and his thugs. Some time later, Kirk discovers accomplishment as a major aspect of a warbling troupe, and Red, Granny, the Wolf, and Twitchy are enrolled by Nicky Flippers to join a wrongdoing unraveling association called Happily Ever After Agency. 

"Tricked!" was one of the principal free PC enlivened movies to be created without the guide of a merchant. It was created on a financial plan of under $8 million, 

fundamentally not exactly a run of the mill PC enlivened film's financial plan. 

The expenses of PC activity programming had as of late diminished to a value that was open to something other than significant studios, and as indicated by maker David Lovegren, "Six or seven years prior, doing "Tricked!" as an autonomous [animated] highlight would have been outlandish." 

The movie producers just made the film autonomously by need, 

what's more, Cory Edwards has stated, "It is anything but a model to be pursued. It was an ideal, situate of-your-pants sort of thing that marginally fell off." 

In any case, he included that the procedure merited experiencing to get the film made, and urged hopeful movie producers to be eager to tail it. 

Siblings Cory and Todd Edwards established Blue Yonder Films following various years spent delivering ads and music recordings in Tulsa. Joined by their companion Preston Stutzman, who was placed responsible for promoting for the organization, they discharged their first component film, "Chillicothe", at the 1999 Sundance Film Festival. The three at that point moved to Los Angeles in quest for new chances, however did not discover the measure of progress that they had anticipated. 

Sue Bea Montgomery, who had filled in as a partner maker on "Chillicothe", additionally attempted to show studios working with them, however was met with lack of concern. She confirmed that they would need to discover more prominent accomplishment in free filmmaking before anybody would check out them and acquainted the three with Maurice Kanbar, a fruitful business visionary who had made a minor interest in "Chillicothe". 

They pitched various real to life thoughts to Kanbar and recommended that he put resources into an improvement division of their organization, paying them and covering their lease in return for a critical part of the rights to any contents that they may sell. Kanbar be that as it may, was keen on a more straightforward methodology, and wanted to concentrate on attempting to create a solitary film. He had dependably been an incredible admirer of liveliness and was awed in the wake of being appeared direct-to-DVD PC vivified short movie that Cory had made called "Wobots". He proposed the likelihood of delivering an energized highlight with them that would recount to a comfortable story with a wind, and allowed them a month to concoct a story thought. Kanbar had communicated enthusiasm for "Cinderella" or "Pinocchio", however the Edwards siblings disliked these thoughts as they had just been finished by Walt Disney. A couple of days after the siblings' underlying gathering with Kanbar, Todd discovered motivation in non-straight wrongdoing dramatizations, for example, "Rashomon", "Mash Fiction", "Run Lola Run", and "Keepsake" and thought of telling the fantasy "Minimal Red Riding Hood" as a police examination, utilizing numerous perspectives. 

Kanbar was taken with the thought and consented to completely fund the movie before observing a completed content, with the underlying expectation of discharging the movie legitimately to DVD. In 2002, Kanbar and Montgomery established Kanbar Entertainment and Kanbar Animation for the creation of the film. 

Cory filled in as the movie's primary chief, as he had more involvement with movement, parody, and kids' amusement, while Todd filled in as co-executive. Montgomery and Stutzman were joined by Disney activity veteran David Lovegren as makers on the film, and Cory's and Todd's sister Katie Hooten joined as a partner maker. Tony Leech, who had worked with the Edwards siblings on "Chillicothe", was at first procured as a proofreader, yet picked up story contribution also. He in the long run ended up being so significant to the generation that he was given a job as co-executive. 

The movie producers found autonomously creating the film to have the two advantages and difficulties. In spite of the fact that they were given a lot of innovative control by their official maker Maurice Kanbar, their little spending plan shielded them from rolling out possibly gainful improvements to the story once creation was in progress. Todd Edwards related that "Cash doesn't simply get you more ability and more apparatus, it likewise gets you adaptability on a story level. At Disney, on the off chance that they don't care for the third demonstration, they simply toss the entire thing out and re-energize the entire thing, regardless of whether it's finished ... We had no such extravagance, thus as it were, you're viewing our first form of the motion picture." 

Knowing early their powerlessness to change the film's content once vivifying had started, an exertion was made by the movie producers to finish the content however much as could reasonably be expected before the beginning of generation, which is definitely not a typical practice for studio-created enlivened movies. 

Getting some distance from the notable prime examples of the "Little Red Riding Hood" characters, the producers kept on looking towards non-straight wrongdoing dramatizations for motivation. Maker Preston Stutzman clarified that "The entire film is about astonishments and mystery lives." 

Not needing Red to be "exhausting" or "excessively guiltless", she was designed on James Dean and given the craving of leaving home to discover her way on the planet. Todd Edwards had putting together the Wolf with respect to Chevy Chase's character in "Fletch", feeling that it is enjoyable to apply the character's dry, empty style of funniness to an enlivened wolf, while Cory Edwards made the hyperactive character of Twitchy to fill in as the Wolf's foil. Conflicting with sorts, Red's Granny was composed as a rush looking for activity saint, while the solid Woodsman was composed as being adolescently inept. 

The cops were composed to seem to be ordinary folks and Cory Edwards has disclosed that the choice to make three of them pigs was not politically persuaded. 

Nicky Flippers was not a piece of the story as it was at first imagined and preceding his creation, the examination would have been driven by Chief Grizzly. After maker Sue Bea Montgomery and her better half called attention to likenesses between the film and the 1950s TV arrangement "The Thin Man", the Edwards siblings and Leech chose to present the character and his canine into the film as a tribute. They considered a few distinct kinds of creatures before settling on making him a frog. 

Cory Edwards moved toward the film transcendently as an activity/satire, rather than as a commonplace enlivened film, and composed the content to speak to groups of onlookers of all ages like a large number of the movies delivered by Pixar or Disney. 

"Street Runner", "Rough and Bullwinkle", and "The Muppets" have all been refered to as motivations for the film. An endeavor was made to remove the film from "Shrek" and other comparative themed films that had been as of late discharged, by barring enchantment, wizards, and pixies from the film. 

Cory Edwards additionally strived for an alternate style of amusingness than "Shrek", making his film all the more family well disposed and to a lesser extent a parody. 

Working out of Tony Leech's condo, Cory Edwards portrayed the film's storyboards, Todd Edwards composed the content while at the same time composing the melodies, and Leech altered the story reel on his Mac PC. Maker Sue Bea Montgomery indicated test screenings of the story reel to youngsters in her neighborhood, and picked up contribution from their responses. The movie producers had been thinking about evacuating Japeth, however decided not to when he demonstrated well known at these screenings. The youngsters additionally especially preferred Twitchy, which prompted the development of the character's job. 

With an end goal to spare costs, the film's cast was initially going to be made for the most part out of loved ones of the movie producers. 

Cory and Todd acquired their cousin Tye Edwards to play Dolph and swung to their companion Joshua J. Greene to play Jimmy Lizard. 

Japeth was composed explicitly for Benjy Gaither, the child of gospel music vocalists Bill and Gloria Gaither. He had been a companion of the Edwards siblings since youth and Cory's short film "Wobots" had been delivered through his movement studio Live Bait Productions. 

Cory's better half Vicki was given the job of a skunk correspondent, and keeping in mind that some thought was at first given to having a grown-up play the kid woodpecker Quill, the job was rather given to maker David K. Lovegren's girl Kathryn. 

The Edwards siblings, Leech, and maker Preston Stutzman all took on jobs too. Cory assumed the job of Twitchy, and Pro Tools was utilized to accelerate the chronicle of his discourse by 50 percent. 

Todd played Sandwich Man, Leech played both Det. Bill Stork and Glen, and Stutzman played Timmy. 

As the makers increased more prominent trust in the film be that as it may, bigger name performing artists were acquired. Patrick Warburton was the main VIP performing artist to join the film and did as such absolutely out of an affection for the content. Despite the fact that Cory Edwards had initially imagined the Wolf as seeming like a blend between a youthful Chevy Chase and Bill Murray, he lauded Warburton's execution, saying that he "made the Wolf his own character." Andy Dick additionally joined the cast from the get-go, to voice Boingo. He utilized spontaneous creation and moved toward the job uniquely in contrast to how it had been composed, deciphering the character as exploited and flimsy. The movie producers were eager over Dick's point on the character, and Todd Edwards stated, "What we had composed was somewhat stock, to be completely forthright, yet Andy Dick, well, where he should snicker, he'd cry. Where he should shout, he'd giggle. He simply blended it up!" Prolific voice entertainers Tara Strong, David Ogden Stiers, and Tom Kenny were thrown in different jobs. Solid was given a role as Red and Zorra, Stiers was given a role as Kirk, the Woodsman and Nicky Flippers, and Kenny was given a role as Tommy and Woolworth the Sheep. Emmy-winning performing artist Sally Struthers was acquired to play Granny Puckett and Joel McCrary was given a role as Chief Grizzly. 

The film's movement was made on Maya programming, and with an end goal to spare expenses, was delivered in Manila, Philippines. 

Makers Sue Bea Montgomery and David K. Lovegren established the activity studio Digital Eyecandy with the end goal of the film's creation 

what's more, positioned it in a 5,000-square-foot leased house. Cory Edwards headed out to this studio an aggregate of multiple times through the span of the film's three-year creation and has clarified that in spite of the fact that the house was situated in a costly piece of Manila, the lease was close to that of his two-room loft in Los Angeles. At the point when Cory was not ready to be nearby, Todd took over coordinating obligations. "Alongside Tony, we were somewhat of a 'three headed beast,'" Cory clarifies. "We as a whole realized what motion picture we were making, and I trusted those folks to make inventive calls when I couldn't be there." Lovegren had endeavored to begin an autonomous liveliness studio in the Philippines before in 2001, yet the studio, called ImagineAsia, was shut after it neglected to pull in business. Advanced Eyecandy contracted around twenty artists that had recently been utilized by ImagineAsia 

what's more, at a certain point, the studio achieved fifty representatives. 

The film's artists had little involvement with PC movement and full length films, and must be prepared by the makers through the span of the film's creation. Since none of the illustrators were masters, they were not partitioned into explicit groups, however rather each chipped away at all regions of the quickening procedure. The movie producers observed this to be a poor technique however, in light of the fact that it kept the individual abilities of the artists from being enhanced. Because of their autonomous foundations, the artists were acclimated with working at quick paces, and in spite of their little numbers, each period of creation had the capacity to be finished inside a brief timeframe. In any case, calendar and spending restrictions drove the producers to enroll Prana Studios in Mumbai, India to perform lighting and compositing. 

The movie producers found that the most troublesome part of delivering the film freely was their powerlessness to fix the majority of the errors made in the film's liveliness. Todd Edwards clarified that "it turns into a condition: 'I have 10 things that I might want to change in this shot. I have sufficient energy and the monetary allowance to complete three. Pick those three and after that we should proceed onward.' And that was difficult to do." 

Realizing that they couldn't coordinate the nature of other PC vivified films, the film was rather intended to mimic the vibe of stop movement. Cory Edwards refered to Rankin-Bass as a motivation and clarified, "In the event that we approach our resemble that – shot miniatures in stop-movement – and on the off chance that that wistfulness reverberates with our group of onlookers to the extent that look, at that point we're not going to shoot ourselves in the foot attempting to put each spot and hair on photoreal animals." Edwards differentiated the in fact creative, yet fundamentally panned 1986 film "Howard the Duck" with the basic, however adored manikin character Kermit the Frog to delineate to his team the significance of elegantly composed, agreeable characters over specialized quality. 

Removing the film from what maker Preston Stutzman called the "sweetened up, brilliantly shaded pastel world[s]" of other CG vivified films, an endeavor was made to convey a natural look to the film, and soil was scoured into the hues. "The Nightmare Before Christmas" was refered to as a motivation for the movie producers to endeavor to twist the characters' shapes into limits, and numerous different decisions flighty to PC vivified films were likewise made. For instance, one of the Woodsman's eyes was made greater than the other, and Red was given just four fingers, to make her look progressively like a doll. Maker Katie Hooten clarified that "CG in the past has been pushing the envelope to make things look increasingly sensible, yet "Tricked" returns things to where CG looks significantly progressively like an animation." 

The film's score was made by John Mark Painter, who alongside his significant other Fleming McWilliams, comprised the stone pair Fleming and John during the 1990s. The Edwards siblings were fanatics of the gathering and initially met Painter while Cory was performing in an energized film on which Painter filled in as the writer. The score was motivated by music from the 1960s and the soundtracks to "Planet of the Apes", "Dim Shadows", and "The Untouchables" have been refered to as impacts, just as crafted by Henry Mancini. 

It was recorded in Nashville, Tennessee, where Kristin Wilkinson filled in as the orchestrator and director. 

With an end goal to interest more seasoned gathering of people individuals, Todd Edwards supplanted portions of Painter's score with unique shake music. From this came the melody "Little Boat", composed and sung by Daniel Rogers, who had created Edwards' first film "Chillicothe". 

"Runaway" was composed by Joshua J. Greene, a companion of the Edwards siblings, who likewise gave the voice of Jimmy Lizard in the film. "The Real G", sung by Cory Edwards and "Bob", sung by Todd Collins were both composed by Painter and Cory Edwards. "Blow Your House Down" was performed by the Filipino band Pupil and composed by their lead vocalist Ely Buendia. 

Todd Edwards composed nine unique tunes for the film and sung four of them: "Critters Have Feelings", "Tree Critter", "Eva Deanna", and "Gleam". "Eva Deanna" was expounded on multi day that he and his better half went through at the zoo with their niece, the girl of partner maker Katie Hooten. 

"Gleam" was expounded on the Edwards kin's grandma, Vera, who had kicked the bucket a couple of years sooner. "Extraordinary Big World" was sung by Anne Hathaway and supplanted another tune called "Woods Go-Round", which Edwards considered excessively whimsical and portrayed as being "in the vein of Saturday morning kid's shows." This change required the scene to be re-enlivened and re-cut. "Be Prepared" was sung by Benjy Gaither and created out of a common sense; the movie producers needed to present Japeth while the character is shaking forward and backward on his horns, as if the horns are a rocker. In any case, they understood this would make the horns too huge to fit in a minecart later on in the film. As an answer, they thought of the muffle of having the character switch his horns a few times, and this prompted the melody's idea. 

McWilliams joined Jim Belushi to sing "The Schnitzel Song" and Painter asked his long-lasting companion Ben Folds to sing "Red is Blue", a determination firmly pushed for by Edwards. Folds was dealing with another collection at the time, yet a year after the proposition, found the chance to record the tune and create a piano course of action for it also. 

"Top of the Woods" was sung by Andy Dick and was initially made to be moderate paced. The account of Dick's execution was accelerated however at the proposal of Ralf Palmer, a productive artist and companion of maker Sue Bea Montgomery. 

"Tricked!" was appeared potential wholesalers all through different phases of its creation. Despite the fact that a dispersion offer was made by DreamWorks, it was turned down as the producers did not feel that it was a decent arrangement. As the film neared the finish of generation, it was screened at the Cannes Film Festival. Harvey and Bob Weinstein were likewise at the celebration at the time, screening Robert Rodriguez's film "Sin City", which they were conveying through their then recently framed studio, The Weinstein Company. They chose to pick "Duped!" up for conveyance after it was drawn out into the open by Rodriguez's significant other, whose lawyer additionally happened to work for Blue Yonder Films. 

The Weinsteins had as of late left the Walt Disney Company and as per Cory Edwards, they "cherished getting an energized film and giving Disney a keep running for their cash." The association of the Weinstein Company urged Kanbar enough to enroll Skywalker Sound. The film was about finished when that the Weinsteins wound up included, and Edwards has expressed that nothing was finished by them to destroy "the first vision of the motion picture." However, a couple alter proposals were made to revive the film's pace which Edwards felt were smart thoughts, as he believed the initial twenty minutes to drag. 

The Weinstein Company additionally intensely recast the film with greater name on-screen characters with expectations of drawing in a bigger group of onlookers. Anne Hathaway supplanted Tara Strong in the number one spot job of Red; Jim Belushi supplanted David Ogden Stiers in the job of Kirk, the Woodsman; Anthony Anderson supplanted Tony Leech in the job of Det. Bill Stork; Glenn Close supplanted Sally Struthers in the job of Granny Puckett; Xzibit supplanted Joel McCrary in the job of Chief Grizzly; and Chazz Palminteri supplanted Tom Kenny in the job of Woolworth the Sheep. In spite of these recastings, Tara Strong held the a lot littler job of Zorra, David Ogden Stiers held the job of Nicky Flippers, Tom Kenny held the job of Tommy, and Tony Leech held the job of Glen. Some prominent nation vocalists were considered to supplant Benjy Gaither in the job of Japeth, yet none of them were accessible and Gaither held the job. The Weinsteins additionally needed to supplant Joshua J. Greene in the job of Jimmy Lizard with a progressively celebrated performer, for example, Albert Brooks, yet the job was at last not recast. Edwards valued the purpose behind the recastings and ascribed an extensive piece of the film's budgetary accomplishment to them. He communicated disillusionment about the measure of recasting nonetheless, saying, "At one point it moved toward becoming Recast-o-Rama, everyone got recast-upbeat. My inclination is, you get a few names on that blurb, you're fine. Our Hoodwinked publication has like a passage of names on it. After a specific point, I don't think you need more than two, three celebrities – offer it to the voice performers. It improves the pot." Since the film's movement had just been for the most part finished when the recastings were made, the new performing artists needed to convey their lines precisely as the old on-screen characters had done, allowing them zero chance to extemporize. Edwards communicated frustration with the way that the first performing artists would not get any kudos for their act of spontaneities in the film, which were duplicated by the substitution on-screen characters. 

The soundtrack was discharged in December 2005. Attributable to legitimate question, the CD was pulled off of the market a month after its discharge 

furthermore, was not accessible again until November 2009. 

It was re-discharged on iTunes in January 2010. 

"Duped!" got a one-week, restricted discharge in Los Angeles on December 16, 2005 to meet all requirements for Oscar thought. 

An across the country U.S. discharge was planned for Christmas Day, 2005, however it was moved to January 13, 2006 to maintain a strategic distance from rivalry with different movies discharged amid the Christmas season. 

"Tricked!" was discharged on DVD on May 2, 2006 and on Blu-beam and DVD on February 15, 2011. The film was the top rated DVD in its underlying seven day stretch of discharge, selling over 700,000 copies and making over $13.5 million. 

A twenty-two-minute off camera video digital recording is accessible for nothing on iTunes. 

In its opening four-day end of the week, "Duped!" netted $16,879,402 in 2,394 theaters in the United States, positioning  2 in the cinematic world and averaging $7,050 per scene. 

It missed the mark concerning "Brilliance Road", which took the movies' main recognize that week. 

The film kept up its number-two spot in the movies for its second end of the week, dropping 16.1 percent, and put in the main ten for a sum of five weeks. Toward the finish of its dramatic run it had earned an aggregate of $110,013,167 worldwide – $51,386,611 in the United States and $58,626,556 in different regions. 

"Duped!" got blended audits from faultfinders. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 47%, in view of 124 audits. The site's accord peruses, "This broke fantasy doesn't have the mind or liveliness quality to contend with any semblance of the "Shrek" establishment." On Metacritic, it got a score of 45 out of 100, in light of 29 pundits, designating "blended or normal surveys". 

James Berardinelli of ReelViews gave the film more than two stars out of four, and guaranteed that a large number of the film's thoughts for modifying its recognizable storyline "sound preferred on paper over they turn out in execution." Finding it dreary to see the film's story told on various occasions, he composed that the film "slips into fatigue." Bruce Westbrook of the "Houston Chronicle" additionally gave the film more than two stars, and despite the fact that he applauded its "smart exchange and crisp portrayals", he considered the film's plot immature and characters ailing in inspiration. Diminish Rainer composing for "The Christian Science Monitor" gave the film a C+ and called it "a modestly charming venture that isn't exactly smart enough for grown-ups and not exactly sufficiently creative for youngsters." He was not excessively incredulous of the film, yet felt that it was a failure in contrast with the elevated expectations for PC energized films set by Pixar. Jami Bernard of the "New York Daily News" recommended that immortality is an important part of an enlivened great, and blamed the film for its endeavor to be hip and current. While Ty Burr of "The Boston Globe" adulated the film's vocal exhibitions, he composed, ""Hoodwinked" never works to a dimension of supported comic mania ... One yearns to think what the incomparable "Looney Tunes" executives could have finished with this material." 

A few pundits be that as it may, were increasingly excited about the film. Owen Gleiberman of "Excitement Weekly" gave "Duped!" An and adulated the goofiness of its diversion. Calling the producers saints, he contrasted them with Quentin Tarantino and Steven Soderbergh because of their potential for conveying free filmmaking to noticeable quality in movement. 

Despite the fact that Nancy Churnin of the "Dallas Morning News" considered the film second rate compared to those of Pixar and DreamWorks, regardless she gave it a B and stated, "it has an upstart appeal, a shrewd reason, engaging characters voiced by a stupendous cast and a content that should make you roar with laughter more than once." 

In his audit for the "Chicago Tribune", Michael Wilmington applauded the film's voice cast, music, and content, and stated, "it packs more verbal mind and astonishment than the typical animation." 

Kevin Thomas of the "Los Angeles Times" gave it three and a half stars out of five calling it "high-vitality, innovative amusement". 

Japeth was lauded among both positive and negative audits. Gleiberman and Churnin both felt that the character was a standout amongst the best pieces of the film, and Westbrook and Wilmington both portrayed him as "a hoot". In a for the most part positive survey for the "Orlando Sentinel", Roger Moore called the character comical, 

while in a for the most part negative audit for "Assortment", Justin Chang composed that the character "takes the demonstrate each moment he's onscreen." 

One of the primary reactions of the film was the low quality of its movement. Berardinelli called it a portion of the most noticeably awful CGI movement in memory. He felt that the characters looked plastic, considered the foundations dull, and stated, "over and over, I thought I was watching something made for TV. At the point when contrasted with the present visual benchmarks for enlivened movies, Hoodwinked is far beneath the bend." Burr considered the film's surfaces ineffectively rendered and contrasted them with "Teletubbieland reupholstered with Naugahyde." Westbrook felt that the movement functioned admirably for the creature characters, yet expressed, "the people have a polished sheen and fragile hardness, much like work done in the beginning of CG ... That craftsmanship has overcome much to grasp a return like Hoodwinked as adorably interesting. It's just dated." Stephen Hunter of "The Washington Post" contrasted the characters with elastic toys, and stated, "their appearances are without subtlety or vividness ... In development, particularly, do they need effortlessness and conviction. It appears as though the ongoing leaps forward in electronic enchantment have avoided the poor Edwards colleagues, as it looks stuck some place during the 1970s, or perhaps prior." 

Numerous surveys contrarily contrasted the film with the "Shrek" arrangement. Liam Lacey of "The Globe and Mail" believed the film to be "a kind of markdown Shrek", while Burr called it ""Shrek" with included drek." Westbrook composed that "Resounding such a mainstream antecedent as Shrek is certifiably not a decent thing – particularly when the reverberation is so black out." Berardinelli felt that the fantasy references were not as adroitly done as in the first Shrek film, while Bernard felt that "Tricked!" took fantasy revisionism excessively far. He felt that the amusingness in "Shrek" worked because of the fantasy characters staying in character all through the film, and stated, "It's futile to chide them for acting the manner in which fantasies planned, and that is far more interesting than transforming them into breakdancing time misplacements." Bill Muller of "The Arizona Republic", considered Red's kung fu capacities to be excessively like Princess Fiona's ""Matrix" deftness." Gleiberman likewise noticed the likenesses between the film and "Shrek", however he was certain in the correlation, feeling that its autonomous creation gave the movie producers "the opportunity to pursue their flakiest corkscrew impulses." While Wilmington did not discover "Duped!" as noteworthy or dumbfounding as "Shrek", he composed that "when it's cooking, it makes you snicker." 

Reflectively, a few faultfinders noticed that the film was significantly superior to anything the 2007 PC energized fantasy spoof film "Joyfully N'Ever After". In spite of the fact that Burr had given "Duped!" a negative survey, he compared the film to "Resident Kane" in contrast with "Joyfully N'Ever After". Wilmington additionally considered "Tricked!" the predominant of the two movies, and Lou Lumenick of the "New York Post" felt that the film was far wittier than "Cheerfully N'Ever After". While Christy Lemire of Associated Press compared "Tricked!" to a poor man's "Shrek", she proceeded to call "Joyfully N'Ever After" a poor man's "Duped!" 

In 2018, Richard Brody of "The New Yorker" called "Duped!" one of the top autonomous movies for families. Recognizing the roughness of the movement, he in any case lauded the composition as "intense and interesting" and composed that the heading "shows excellent comic planning." Brody considered the character identities unmistakable from those in other energized comedies. He additionally recognized the vocal exhibitions for having a "zippy, reckless vitality that doesn't feel stooping". "Tricked!" has additionally been commended by Tony Bancroft, who co-coordinated "Mulan". 

"Duped!" got a Saturn Award assignment for Best Animated Film at the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films, yet lost to "Body Bride". "Stimulation Weekly" positioned the film as number ten on "The Must List" for its January 27, 2006 issue, considering it a "sort busting independent vivified diamond." 

In February 2006, writer Timothy Sexton composed an article titled "Tricked: A Postmodern Examination of the Dangers of Runaway Capitalism" for "Related Content", in which he set that "Duped!" was one of the main postmodern vivified films and furthermore conveyed political connotations. He contended that the overall idea of truth was appeared uncovering deviations from the first fantasy as the film investigated the story from every one of the focal characters' perspectives. Calling "Tricked!" "the most incendiary motion picture discharged across the nation since "Fahrenheit 9/11"", Sexton proceeded to translate the film as an evaluate on the free venture framework. He drew correlations between the film's lowlife and the commonplace American entrepreneur, venturing to such an extreme as to state that the character seemed to be "obviously founded on individuals like Bill Gates and Sam Walton". In Sexton's view, the film uncovered the defects of private enterprise, appearing whenever left unregulated, entrepreneurs will set up syndications and dispose of rivalry. 

The movie's chief and co-essayist Cory Edwards was shocked by Sexton's elucidation and denied that the film deliberately conveyed any political messages. He clarified that he and different movie producers were essentially drawing from the underhanded plans normal of "James Bond" films, "Bugs Bunny" kid's shows, and "The A-Team", and expressed "If Mr. Sexton sees my film as a message against super companies cornering America, that is fine. Yet, our scalawag is simply the substance of each despot ever, or each schoolyard menace who is making up for low confidence, or any Mafia supervisor who overwhelms by either retaining or clearing out his opposition. Hello, on the off chance that you take a gander at a conceptual painting and see the fallen angel in a red splotch, that is your prerogative ... I surmise a motion picture's message is just halfway provided by the movie producer." 

In May 2007 "Time" magazine ran an article by James Poniewozik titled "Is "Shrek" Bad for Kids?" which considered the negative consequences for offspring of being raised with fantasy parodies, rather than the first stories. Poniewozik referenced "Tricked!" stating, "I thought "Duped!" and the vast majority of the "Shrek" arrangement were hilarious ... Yet, regardless of whether you eventually dismiss their messages, old fashioned fantasies are a piece of our social vocabulary. There's something a little miserable about children experiencing childhood in a culture where their fantasies come pre-caricaturized, the wariness, scrutinize and correction having been accomplished for them by the mom flying creatures of Hollywood." Cory Edwards composed into the magazine, communicating his comparative notions and expressing, "As the author executive of "Tricked", it might astonish you that I can't help but concur with James Poniewozik's article. Indeed, even as I was making the film, I made a similar inquiry: Are we mocking something that children ought to get the opportunity to encounter first, 'un-spoofed?' We put it all on the line to separate our film from "Shrek"s humor (and no, I don't think "Shrek" thinks about children). I would trust that "Tricked" and its spin-offs will be viewed as endeavoring to accomplish something real with its characters, as opposed to search for the following joke to the detriment of honesty. We as a whole need the genuine old stories of fantasies, regardless of whether we let it be known or not." 

A spin-off, "Duped Too! Hood versus Fiendish", was discharged on April 29, 2011. It was first declared in January 2006 

what's more, in February, Cory Edwards, Todd Edwards, and Tony Leech clarified that despite the fact that they would compose the screenplay, they would not come back to coordinate. Cory Edwards later expounded on this choice, clarifying that he had a negative encounter working with a portion of the main film's "key players" and felt that he had been ineffectively treated by them. 

He additionally refered to worries over being kept to liveliness, and expressed that he felt it would be a sidelong move to guide a continuation of his first film as his second film. In March 2007, Edwards declared that Mike Disa had been employed to coordinate the continuation and communicated excitement over his inclusion, saying that he "has a genuine energy for the film and a dedication to keeping up the "Duped" world. He needs to do the spin-off equity and he truly gets what we're endeavoring to do." 

Albeit a significant part of the primary film's cast returned for the spin-off, Anne Hathaway was supplanted by Hayden Panettiere in the job of Red and Jim Belushi was supplanted by Martin Short in the job of Kirk, the Woodsman. 

Kanbar Entertainment at first expected to back generation of the continuation freely as it had finished with the main film, yet went into a co-financing understanding proposed by The Weinstein Company. 

The film was at first booked to be discharged on January 15, 2010, however in December 2009, The Weinstein Company deferred the film's discharge date uncertainly. 

In April 2010, Kanbar Entertainment brought a claim against The Weinstein Company. Notwithstanding guaranteeing that the deferment of the film's discharge date broke an understanding between the two organizations, the claim blamed the Weinstein Company for not adding to month to month generation accounts after February, 2009, fail to counsel Kanbar Entertainment of a discharge system, and not reacting to proposed changes to the film, despite the fact that Kanbar Entertainment held "last specialist on creation choices". 

The film was a money related disappointment, acquiring $16.9 million around the world; just about portion of its financial plan. 

Basic gathering to the film was all around negative, with a Rotten score of 11% crosswise over 61 audits on Rotten Tomatoes and a score of 20/100 on Metacritic. 

Cory Edwards communicated dissatisfaction with the completed film, showing that it was intensely adjusted from the first content and saying that it was "flattening to give this thing ceaselessly and watch others keep running with it in manners I would not."