Warkworth Castle 

Warkworth Castle is a demolished medieval structure in the town of a similar name in the English region of Northumberland. The town and palace possess a circle of the River Coquet, not exactly a mile from England's north-east coast. At the point when the stronghold was established is questionable: customarily its development has been attributed to Prince Henry of Scotland, Earl of Northumbria, in the mid-12th century, however it might have been worked by King Henry II of England when he assumed responsibility for England's northern districts. Warkworth Castle was first recorded in a contract of 1157– 1164 when Henry II conceded it to Roger fitz Richard. The timber mansion was considered "weak", and was left undefended when the Scots attacked in 1173. 

Roger's child Robert acquired and improved the palace. Robert was a most loved of King John, and facilitated him at Warkworth Castle in 1213. The château stayed in the family line, with times of guardianship when beneficiaries were too youthful to even consider controlling their homes. Ruler Edward I remained medium-term in 1292 and John de Clavering, relative of Roger fitz Richard, made the Crown his inheritor. With the episode of the Anglo-Scottish Wars, Edward II put resources into mansions including Warkworth where he financed the fortifying of the battalion in 1319. Twice in 1327 the Scots attacked the château without progress. 

John de Clavering kicked the bucket in 1332 and his widow in 1345, so, all in all The second Baron Percy of Alnwick assumed responsibility for Warkworth Castle, having been guaranteed Clavering's property by Edward III. Henry Percy, first Earl of Northumberland, included the commanding continue disregarding the town of Warkworth in the late fourteenth century. The fourth lord redesigned the structures in the bailey and started the development of a university church inside the manor, however deal with the last was relinquished after his demise. Despite the fact that The tenth Earl of Northumberland upheld Parliament amid the English Civil War, the palace was harmed amid the contention. The last Percy lord kicked the bucket in 1670. In the mid-eighteenth century the palace discovered its way under the control of Hugh Smithson, who wedded the circuitous Percy beneficiary. He embraced the surname "Percy" and established the administration of the Dukes of Northumberland, through whom ownership of the mansion dropped. 

In the late 19th century, the dukes renovated Warkworth Castle and Anthony Salvin was appointed to reestablish the keep. The eighth Duke of Northumberland gave authority of the château to the Office of Works in 1922. Since 1984 English Heritage has thought about the site, which is a Grade I recorded structure and a Scheduled Ancient Monument. 

Despite the fact that the settlement of Warkworth in Northumberland goes back to in any event the eighth century, the primary château was not worked until after the Norman Conquest. The town and its mansion involved a circle of the River Coquet. The palace was worked at the south end of the town, guarding the limited neck of the circle. A sustained extension additionally guarded the way to deal with the town. The encompassing swamp wide open was ideal for agribusiness. At the point when the palace was established and by whom is questionable, however customarily Prince Henry of Scotland, Earl of Northumberland, has been thought dependable. With common war in south-west England, King Stephen of England expected to guarantee northern England was secure. To this end, the Treaty of Durham in 1139 among Scotland and England guaranteed harmony. Under the bargain Henry of Scotland progressed toward becoming Earl of Northumbria in return for surrendering control of the mansions at Bamburgh and Newcastle to the English. Without them Henry would have required another seat from which to practice his power, and another manor at Warkworth may have met the prerequisite. Nonetheless, contracts demonstrate that Henry still controlled Bamburgh Castle after the settlement, and as Warkworth was an unobtrusive manor by contemporary models it might be have been established by another person. Henry passed on in 1152 and his child, Malcolm (delegated King of Scotland in 1153), acquired his properties. In 1157 Malcolm ventured out to Peveril Castle in Derbyshire, where he paid tribute to the new King of England, Henry II. Malcolm surrendered England's northern provinces to Henry, including the mansions of Bamburgh, Carlisle, and Newcastle, and presumably Appleby, Brough, Wark, and Warkworth, however it is conceivable that Henry II established Warkworth Castle in 1157 to verify his properties in Northumberland; other contemporary strongholds in the territory were worked for this reason, for example the one at Harbottle. 

The primary notice of Warkworth Castle happens in a sanction of 1157– 1164 from Henry II conceding the palace and encompassing estate to Roger fitz Richard, an individual from a respectable Norman family. It has been recommended that this sanction may have utilized the term palace to portray a high-status living arrangement on the site, potentially dating from the Anglo-Saxon period, which means Roger may have assembled the château. He claimed arrives over a wide zone, and Warkworth may have been of little importance with regards to his different property. At the point when the Scots attacked Northumberland in 1173, in spite of the fact that Roger fitz Richard was in the region Warkworth Castle was not safeguarded by its battalion. Its guards at the time were portrayed as "weak". In 1174 Duncan II, Earl of Fife, attacked Warkworth. The contemporary record does not make reference to the mansion, and rather takes note of that Warkworth's occupants looked for asylum in the congregation. At the point when Roger fitz Richard passed on in 1178 his child and beneficiary, Robert fitz Roger, was as yet a kid. A watchman cared for the family domains until Robert became an adult in 1191. He paid the Crown 300 marks in 1199 for affirmation of his responsibility for, including the stronghold. Significant structure work at Warkworth Castle is ascribed to Robert. A most loved of King John, Robert facilitated him at Warkworth Castle in 1213. 

Warkworth Castle kept on sliding through the family line when Robert fitz Roger was prevailing by his child John in 1214, who was prevailing by his child Roger in 1240. Roger passed on in 1249 when his child Robert was one year old, and a watchman was delegated to think about the family's homes: William de Valence, stepbrother of King Henry III. The château, 

portrayed at this point by the writer Matthew Paris as "honorable", stayed under the guardianship of Valence until 1268, when it returned to Robert fitz John. Ruler Edward I of England remained at Warkworth Castle for a night in 1292. The English lord was approached to intervene in a disagreement regarding the Scottish honored position and laid his own case, prompting the Anglo-Scottish Wars. After the Scottish triumph at the Battle of Stirling Bridge in 1297, Robert and his child, John de Clavering, were caught. They were therefore discharged and in 1310 John expected control of the family bequests. After a year, John made plans so that on his passing the lord would get the majority of his property. Between about 1310 and 1330 the English attempted to manage Scottish strikes in northern England. Such was the significance of vast palaces amid the Scottish Wars that the Crown sponsored their upkeep and even development. In 1319, King Edward II paid for an army for the stronghold of four men-at-arms and eight hobilars to improve the current power of twelve men-at-arms. Ralph Neville was the attendant of Warkworth Castle in 1322. As he was hitched to John's little girl, Euphemia, Ralph may have wanted to acquire the Clavering domains, yet that did not occur. Twice in 1327 Scottish powers blockaded the palace without progress. 

Around this time, the Percy family was turning into Northumberland's most dominant tradition. Henry de Percy, second Baron Percy, was in the administration of Edward III and was paid 500 marks per year in ceaselessness as a byproduct of driving an organization of men-at-arms. In return for the yearly expense, in 1328 Percy was guaranteed the rights to the Clavering bequests. Parliament pronounced such contracts unlawful in 1331, however after at first giving up his case Percy was conceded exceptional authorization to acquire. John de Clavering kicked the bucket in 1332 and his widow in 1345, so, all things considered the family's bequests turned into the property of the Percys. While the Percys claimed Alnwick Castle, which was viewed as increasingly lofty, Warkworth was the family's favored home. Under the Percys a recreation center was made adjacent for chasing, and inside the mansion two private squares were made, depicted by history specialist John Goodall as "of unparalleled quality and advancement in Northumberland". The second noble kicked the bucket at Warkworth in 1352. 

In 1377 the fourth Baron Percy, likewise named Henry, was made the primary Earl of Northumberland (turning into the principal family from northern England to be allowed an earldom) in acknowledgment of his broad power in the walk zones along the Anglo-Scottish fringe. With a system of contacts and conditions, the Percys were the pre-famous family in northern England in the 14th century "for they have the hertes of the general population by north and ever had", in the expressions of contemporaneous recorder John Hardyng. Henry Percy authorized the structure of the particular keep soon after he was made Earl of Northumberland. Percy may have improved his principle château to rival John of Gaunt, who modified the adjacent Dunstanburgh Castle, or with the House of Neville, a family winding up progressively amazing in northern England and who attempted a program of structure at the manors of Brancepeth, Raby, Bamburgh, Middleham, and Sheriff Hutton. Engineering likenesses between Warkworth's keep, Bolton Castle, and the local structures at Bamburgh Castle recommend that John Lewyn was the ace bricklayer in charge of structure Warkworth's keep. Duke Henry deposed Richard II and supplant him with Henry IV. The lord and his oldest child Henry "Hotspur" Percy dropped out with the new ruler, and in the end revolted. After Hotspur was slaughtered at the Battle of Shrewsbury in 1403, his dad fled to Warkworth. The lord in the long run went to York to submit to the ruler. He was captured and the lord endeavored to introduce his very own men at the mansions of Alnwick, Langley Castle, Prudhoe, and Warkworth. The baron's 14-year-old child asserted that he was faithful to the ruler yet was not enabled to formally surrender the stronghold, and it stayed leveled out of the Percys. Henry was exonerated in 1404. 

Lord Henry revolted again in 1405, this time joining the ineffective revolt of Archbishop Scrope. While Henry was escaping north after the fizzled defiance, his mansions offered some obstruction before submitting to regal powers. Warkworth itself was all around provisioned and the battalion at first would not surrender. In any case, as per a letter composed by Henry IV from Warkworth after its fall, after only seven shots from his gun the safeguards gave in. The mansion was relinquished to the Crown, and was utilized by one of the King's children, John, Duke of Bedford, who was delegated to run the zone. It stayed in the responsibility for Crown until Henry V reestablished it to the Percy family in 1416, and in the meantime made the child of "Hotspur" Henry, another Henry Percy, second Earl of Northumberland. It is realized that the second lord lived at Warkworth and attempted structure work there, yet it is presently vague for which parts he was mindful. 

The Percys bolstered the House of Lancaster amid the Wars of the Roses, and the second duke and his successor – Henry Percy, third Earl of Northumberland – were killed at the clashes of St Albans in 1455 and Towton in 1461 separately. The new ruler, Edward IV, issued an attainder against the family and their property was seized. On 1 August 1464, because of smothering Lancastrian uprisings in the north for the past three years, the title of Earl of Northumberland was given to The first Marquess of Montagu, a Yorkist, and with it, the stronghold. Amid his residency, he developed a twenty-five-foot tall rectangular pinnacle, worked for safeguard, "with [arrow] cuts in the three external dividers;" this is known as 'Montagu's Tower' right up 'til today. His sibling, The sixteenth Earl of Warwick, utilized Warkworth as a base from which the Lancastrian-held mansions of Northumberland – Alnwick, Bamburgh, and Dunstanburgh – were assaulted and their attacks co-ordinated. In 1470 Edward IV restored the Percys' homes to the oldest child of the third lord, who was likewise called Henry Percy. After a year Henry was allowed the earldom of Northumberland. Some time after 1472 Henry rebuilt the structure of the bailey. He likewise wanted to assemble a university church inside the château, yet the work was surrendered after his passing. At the point when the fourth duke was killed in 1489, his child, Henry Algernon, acquired and kept up the mansion. In the mid 16th century Henry Percy, sixth Earl of Northumberland, was in charge of clearing the university church established by his granddad, however left inadequate by the fifth lord. Thomas Percy, sibling of the 6th lord, was executed for his job in the Pilgrimage of Grace in 1536. At the point when Henry Percy kicked the bucket the following year with no children, the family's property go to the Crown. Albeit illustrious officers still utilized the mansion, by 1550 it had fallen into decay. In 1557 the Percy domains were reestablished to the relatives of Thomas, and the nephew of the 6th duke, another Thomas Percy, was given the earldom. He started a program of fixes at the mansion, and in the process destroyed "the corridor and different places of office". 

The Rising of the North in 1569 saw Catholic nobles in northern England oppose the Protestant Queen Elizabeth I. The Catholic Thomas Percy joined the defiance and supporters congregated at the palaces of Alnwick and Warkworth. Sir John Forster, Warden of the March, requested those inside to leave and the manors were surrendered to his control. Amid the contention that pursued, Warkworth stayed under regal control. Forster plundered the palace, stripping it of its timbers and goods. The keep at any rate did not partake in this destiny, however in April 1572 Henry Carey, first Baron Hunsdon, lamented the treatment dispensed to the Percy palaces, keeping in touch with the ruler's central clergyman, "It is an incredible pity to perceive how Alnwick Castle and Warkworth are ruined by him ... I am respectably educated that he implies totally to ruin them both." An attainder was issued against Thomas Percy so when he came into English care he was executed without preliminary on 22 August. Accordingly, Percy's child was ignored, yet under the terms of the attainder his sibling was permitted to acquire. In 1574, Elizabeth conceded Henry Percy consent to acquire the family's property and expect the title of 8th Earl of Northumberland. 

The palace shaped the scenery for a few scenes in William Shakespeare's "Henry IV, Part 1" and "Section 2". Another Henry Percy acquired the family bequests in 1585 and accepted the title of 9th Earl of Northumberland. After the fizzled Gunpowder Plot of 1605, the baron was detained for his association with Thomas Percy, one of the plotters. In a matter of seconds before he was condemned (he was fined £30,000 and held in the Tower of London), the duke rented Warkworth Castle to Sir Ralph Gray, who claimed Chillingham Castle in Northumberland. Dim ignored the lord's structure and enabled it to fall further into deterioration. The lead from the structures in the bailey was sold in 1607 to ease the lord's money related issues. At the point when James I visited in 1617 in transit to Scotland, his escort was irritated by the sorry condition of the château. With the unification of England and Scotland under a solitary ruler, the barons of Northumberland had no requirement for two extraordinary manors close to the Anglo-Scottish outskirt; they kept up Alnwick to the detriment of Warkworth. In the main quarter of the 17th century, the keep was utilized to hold house courts and for the spreading out of oats. 

The subtleties encompassing Warkworth Castle's job in the English Civil War are indistinct, yet the contention brought about further harm to the structure. At first held by Royalist powers, the château was as yet sufficiently critical that when the Scots attacked in 1644 they constrained its surrender. Algernon Percy, tenth Earl of Northumberland, bolstered Parliament, which may have kept the Scots from doing much harm to the mansion. Parliamentarian powers assumed control over the stronghold in 1648; when they pulled back they evacuated the palace's entryways and iron so it couldn't be reused by the foe. They may likewise have in part destroyed a portion of the château, and might be in charge of its present state. Algernon Percy fruitlessly connected for pay in 1649 for the harm. 

The eleventh Earl of Northumberland, the last Percy baron, kicked the bucket in 1670. After two years his widow enabled the keep's materials to be reused to manufacture Chirton Hall. A sum of 272 cart-loads were taken from the keep. Ruler Northumberland's property go to The seventh Duke of Somerset through marriage. In 1698, the proprietors chose not to revamp Warkworth Castle after the gauge to include bastions, floors and new windows came in at £1,600. Woman Elizabeth Seymour acquired the property from her dad in 1750. Her better half, Hugh Smithson, changed his name to Hugh Percy, and the manor at that point slid through the Dukes of Northumberland, an administration he established. 

Amid the 18th century the palace was permitted to mope. The south-west pinnacle was going into disrepair and around 1752 piece of the drapery divider east of the gatehouse was obliterated (it was remade towards the century's end). The town and its noteworthy vestiges were at this point drawing in enthusiasm as a vacationer goal, to a great extent because of Bishop Thomas Percy's ballad, "The Hermit of Warkworth". In the mid 19th century, The third Duke of Northumberland embraced some safeguarding work. His successor, The fourth Duke of Northumberland, contracted Anthony Salvin to reestablish the keep. The work attempted somewhere in the range of 1853 and 1858 was not as broad as Salvin had arranged, and was restricted to halfway refacing the outside and adding new floors and rooftops to two chambers, which ended up known as the Duke's Chambers, on the second floor. The Duke incidentally utilized the chambers for picnics when he visited from Alnwick Castle. The fourth Duke subsidized unearthings at the mansion during the 1850s which revealed the remaining parts of the university church inside the bailey. 

In 1922, The eighth Duke of Northumberland allowed custodianship of the château to the Office of Works which had been made responsible for the guardianship of old landmarks. The Duke's Chambers stayed under the immediate control of the Percys. The Office of Works attempted unearthings in the canal in 1924 and expelled the overseer from the gatehouse. English Heritage, who presently oversee and keep up the site, prevailing as the stronghold's caretakers in 1984, and after three years the Duke's Chambers were offered over to their consideration. The stronghold is a Scheduled Ancient Monument, a "broadly vital" notable structure and archeological site which has been given assurance against unapproved change. It is additionally a Grade I recorded structure (first recorded in 1985) and perceived as a universally critical structure. The château keeps on being authoritatively possessed by the Percy family, as of now being claimed by His Grace The twelfth Duke of Northumberland. 

Warkworth Castle is an unpredictable walled in area. The keep is at the north end, disregarding the town, with the bailey toward the south. The present keep was based on a before hill, known as a motte. The drape mass of the bailey dates from the mid 13th century. There are four towers: Carrickfergus Tower in the south-west corner, Montagu Tower in the south-east, a postern tower in the west divider (north of the kitchen), and Gray Mare's Tail Tower connected toward the east divider. Against the east blind divider was a stable. In the northern portion of the bailey, adjusted east– west, was an incomplete fifteenth century university church; it was cleaned up in the mid 16th century. Promptly west of the congregation was the kitchen, arranged in the edge of the drape divider as it changes from its north– south arrangement and turns towards the keep. Along the west blind divider, south of the kitchen, were the wash room, incredible lobby, and pulling back chambers. In the south-west was a house of prayer. Aside from the north side, the palace was encompassed by a canal. 

The gatehouse in the focal point of the south blind divider for the most part dates from the 13th century. It was initially gotten to by means of a drawbridge and guests needed to go through two entryways, one at either end of the section, and a portcullis. The semi-octagonal projections on either side of the door section are viewed as fancy. Between the projections or more the entryway were machicolations, openings for rockets to be heaved at assailants. The rooms on either side of the entry were guardrooms. The main outstanding openings on the front are cuts at ground level. Cuts on different sides of the gatehouse, and along the passageway entry, enabled the guard to watch individuals drawing nearer and entering the stronghold. The structure experienced later adjustments in the nineteenth and 20th centuries when it housed the manor's caretaker; cuts in the gatehouse's front may have been filled in. 

The range along the western drapery divider dates from around 1480, when the fourth lord redesigned the bailey. The extraordinary lobby was the social center of the mansion, where the family unit accumulated to eat. The now-destroyed fifteenth century building supplanted a before lobby on a similar site, dating from around 1200, albeit a portion of the stone dates from the mid 12th century. The lord would have entered from the south from his interfacing private chambers, and individuals of lower status through the Lion Tower. Inside, it was part into two walkways of contrasting width. The two lobbies were warmed by open hearths, two of which get by from the prior corridor. Inverse closures of the lobby were for inverse finishes of the social scale inside the stronghold. The top of the line (alongside the pulling back chamber) was for the baron and his family, and the low end (by the kitchen and other administration rooms) for the remainder of the family. In the medieval period, the incredible corridor was luxuriously finished with embroidered works of art. 

The Lion Tower was the passage toward the north end of the extraordinary lobby. Over the entrance through the pinnacle were shown heraldic things, representative of the Percy barons' capacity. The lion at the base was the symbol of the barons. In spite of the fact that now much harmed, over the lion were the antiquated arms of the family and the arms of the Lucy family, whose property the Percys had acquired during the 1380s. As the pinnacle was entered from the bailey, on the privilege was an entryway prompting the deficient university church. To one side was the extraordinary lobby, and past that, pulling back chambers; to the privilege were the rich, storeroom, larder, and kitchen. Promptly north of the kitchen was a postern tower. Worked around 1200, its upper floors were later reused for settlement. A passageway of lesser status than the primary gatehouse, the entryway's situation beside the kitchen recommends it was a tradesmen's passage, utilized for passing on provisions to the mansion. 

The square Little Stair Tower was the passage from the bailey to the pulling back rooms south of the incredible lobby. At ground floor level there was an entryway in every one of the pinnacle's countenances. Legitimately south of the east side of the pinnacle was the mansion's house of prayer. The northern entryway prompted the incredible corridor, and the western way to a basement under the extraordinary chamber. There are just fragmentary survives from the winding staircase. Over the path was a solitary room, of questionable reason: it might have been utilized as another house of prayer, a visitor room, or a vestibule where visitors would hold up before being conceded into the baron's quality. 

South of the incredible lobby was a two-story building containing pulling back loads, dating from around 1200. Limited windows opening onto the bailey were unique yet have since been filled in. The main floor was altogether involved by the extraordinary chamber, outfitted with a chimney. In the south-west corner of the room was a way to a little room which was maybe utilized as a safe. The ground floor was utilized as a basement, through which the Carrickfergus Tower could be gotten to. The polygonal pinnacle was likewise open through the incredible chamber at first floor level. Fitted with restrooms and a chimney, it was an expansion of the noble settlement given by the extraordinary chamber. 

Montagu Tower in the south-east corner was most likely worked by John Neville, Lord Montagu, in the 15th century. Fitted with toilets and chimneys, the upper floors gave convenience, in all probability for the more imperative individuals from the family unit. By the 16th century, the ground floor was utilized as a stable. The structures against the south drape divider between Montagu Tower and the gatehouse are of obscure reason. North of Montagu Tower, against the east shade divider, are the remnants of stables which stood two stories high. West of the stables was a wellhouse containing a stone-lined well some profound. The Gray Mare's Tail Tower, most likely inherent the 1290s, has a cut in every one of its five faces, offering sees along the shade divider. 

Goodall depicted Warkworth's keep as "a gem of medieval English design". Worked in the last quarter of the 14th century, it was most likely planned by John Lewyn. It was spread out as a Greek cross and initially it was peaked with a tower, and maybe improving statues. Around the highest point of the structure endure carvings of holy messengers conveying shields. An expansive lion speaking to the Percy's emblem neglected the town from the north side of the keep. The lion and figures were likely initially painted and would have emerged from the remainder of the structure. Excavator Oliver Creighton recommends that the modifying of the keep and other remaking work were intended to propose the suffering lordship of the proprietors. Over the keep is a post tower, which would have been less unmistakable before the keep's rooftop was evacuated. 

Goodall proposes that the keep was utilized just for brief periods, and the west range, including the incredible corridor, was the ruler's favored home for delayed visits to Warkworth Castle. The ground floor was utilized dominatingly for capacity of sustenance and wine, yet there was additionally a stay with access to a storm cellar load generally square. This has differently been translated as a bookkeeping room with a story safe, or guardroom with a prison delved into the floor. In the keep's west divider was a postern through which stores would go into the structure. Kitchens involved the west side of the primary floor and were associated by means of staircases to the stores promptly beneath. In the south-east corner was an extraordinary corridor, initially warmed by a focal hearth and traversing the stature of the first and second floors. A church off the extraordinary lobby prompted an expansive formal room where the ruler would meet visitors. The second floor was completely local in nature, with rooms and pulling back chambers. In the 19th century, while the remainder of Warkworth Castle was in vestiges, the rooms of the second floor were re-roofed and incidentally utilized by the duke on visits. At the focal point of the keep was a lightwell with inside windows; at its foot was a tank for gathering water utilized for cleaning.