Gwoyeu Romatzyh 

Gwoyeu Romatzyh (pinyin: "Guóyǔ Luómǎzì", actually "National Language Romanization"), contracted GR, is a framework for composing Mandarin Chinese in the Latin letter set. The framework was brought about by Yuen Ren Chao and created by a gathering of language specialists including Chao and Lin Yutang from 1925 to 1926. Chao himself later distributed persuasive works in semantics utilizing GR. What's more few different course books and word references in GR were distributed in Hong Kong and abroad from 1942 to 2000. 

GR is the better known about the two romanization frameworks which demonstrate the four tones of Mandarin by differing the spelling of syllables ("tonal spelling"). These tones are as key to the Chinese language as vowels are to English; their essence gives speakers a chance to separate between generally indistinguishable syllables and words. Different frameworks demonstrate the tones with either diacritics (for instance Pinyin: "āi, ái, ǎi" and "ài") or numbers (Wade– Giles: "ai, ai", and so on.). GR spells the four tones of a similar vowel, "ai", "air, "ae and "ay". These spellings, which pursue explicit tenets, demonstrate the tones while holding the elocution of the syllable "ai". 

Chao asserted that, in light of the fact that GR inserts the tone of every syllable in its spelling, it might assist understudies with mastering Chinese tones. One investigation of GR, be that as it may, observed the inverse to be valid. GR utilizes a muddled arrangement of tonal spelling that clouds the essential connection among spelling and tone; for instance, the contrast between tones 1 and 2 is differently shown as "mha" versus "mama", "ching" versus "chyng", "chang" versus "charng", and so on. Albeit tonal spelling has been embraced as a component of the ordinary romanization of various Asian dialects (for example Hmong), every single such framework show distinctive tones in a basic and steady style by adding letters as far as possible of a syllable (for example in Hmong, "- b" demonstrates high tone, "- s" shows low tone, "- j" demonstrates high-falling tone, and so forth.). 

In 1928 China embraced GR as the country's authentic romanization framework. GR was utilized to show articulations in word references of the National (Mandarin-based) Language. Its defenders trusted one day to build up it as a composition framework for a changed Chinese content. In any case, regardless of help from few prepared language specialists in China and abroad, GR met with open detachment and even antagonistic vibe because of its unpredictability. Another hindrance keeping its broad reception was its thin premise on the Beijing lingo, in a period without a solid unified government to authorize its utilization. In the end GR lost ground to Pinyin and other later romanization frameworks. In any case, its impact is as yet clear, as a few of the standards presented by its makers have been utilized in romanization frameworks that tailed it. Its example of tone spelling was held in the standard spelling of the Chinese region of Shaanxi ("shǎnxī", 陝西), which can't be recognized from Shanxi ("shānxī", 山西) when written in pinyin without diacritics. 

Tonal spelling, Gwoyeu Romatzyh's most particular element, was first proposed to Y.R. Chao by Lin Yutang. By 1922 Chao had effectively settled the fundamental standards of GR. 

The subtleties of the framework were created in 1925– 1926 by a gathering of five etymologists, driven by Chao and including Lin, under the sponsorship of the Preparatory Commission for the Unification of the National Language. In 1928 GR was authoritatively received by the administration. GR was proposed to be utilized close by the current "Juhin" ("Zhùyīn") phonetic images: henceforth the elective name for GR, "Second Pattern of the National Alphabet." Both frameworks were utilized to demonstrate the amended standard of elocution in the new official "Vocabulary of National Pronunciation for Everyday Use" of 1932. The architects of GR had more prominent aspirations: their point was finished change of the content, utilizing GR as a pragmatic arrangement of composing. 

During the 1930s two shortlived endeavors were made to instruct GR to railroad specialists and laborers in Hénán and Shāndōng regions. Backing for GR, being limited to few prepared language specialists and Sinologists, "was recognized more for its quality than its amount." During this period GR confronted expanding threatening vibe due to the unpredictability of its tonal spelling. Then again, Sinologist Bernhard Karlgren censured GR for its absence of phonetic thoroughness. At last, similar to the adversary (toneless) framework Latinxua Sinwenz, GR neglected to increase across the board support, mainly in light of the fact that the "National" language was excessively barely dependent on Beijing discourse: "an adequately exact and harsh speech standard had not yet turned into a reality in China". 

A minimal utilization of GR can be found in the official spelling of the principal syllable of "Shaanxi" for Shǎnxī (陝西) region, to recognize it from Shānxī (山西) area, especially in unknown dialect content where the tone marks are frequently precluded. Some noticeable Chinese have utilized GR to transliterate their names: for instance the mathematician Shiing-Shen Chern. The romanization framework was changed by the legislature of the People's Republic of China in 1958 to the present framework utilized now in the nation, and other outside and global foundations, similar to the United Nations, the Library of Congress, the International Organization for Standardization, and is generally used to show Mandarin Chinese to remote understudies: Hanyu Pinyin. In the interim, in the Republic of China (Taiwan), GR made due until the 1970s as an articulation help in monolingual word references, for example, "Gwoyeu Tsyrdean [Guóyǔ Cídiǎn]" and "Tsyrhuey [Cíhuì]", however was formally supplanted in 1986 by an adjusted structure known as Mandarin Phonetic Symbols II. The Warring States time frame State of Wey () is frequently spelled all things considered to recognize it from the more noticeable state , which are both articulated Wèi in Mandarin, however in Old Chinese it was most likely/*ɢʷat-s/and/*N-qʰuj-s/, separately. 

A vital element of GR, embraced from different antecedents and later likewise received by Pinyin, is the utilization of differentiating unvoiced/voiced sets of consonants from Latin to speak to suctioned and unaspirated sounds in Chinese. For instance "b" and "p" speak to and ("p" and "p'" in Wade). Another unmistakable element of GR is the utilization of "j, ch," and "sh" to speak to two distinctive arrangement of sounds. At the point when pursued by "I" these letters compare to the alveolo-palatal sounds (Pinyin "j, q," and "x"); else they relate to the retroflex sounds (Pinyin "zh, ch," and "sh"). Perusers used to Pinyin need to give specific consideration to these spellings: for instance, GR "ju, jiu," and "jiou" compare to Pinyin "zhu, ju," and "jiu" individually. 

GR orthography has these extra remarkable highlights: 

Of course, the essential GR spelling portrayed above is utilized for Tone1 syllables. The essential structure is then adjusted to show tones 2, 3 and 4. This is practiced in one of three different ways: 

Wherever conceivable the brief first strategy is utilized. The accompanying dependable guidelines spread generally cases. 

Tone 1 (fundamental structure) 

Tone 2: I/u → y/w; or include - r 

Tone 3: I/u → e/o; or twofold vowel 

Tone 4: change/twofold last letter; or include - h 

Nonpartisan tone: go before with a dab (full stop) 

Special case Syllables with an underlying sonorant ("l-/m-/n-/r-") utilize the fundamental structure for T2 as opposed to T1. In these syllables the (rarer) T1 is set apart with "- h-" as the second letter. For instance "mha" is T1 (mā), though "mama" is T2 (má). T3 and T4 are customary: "maa" ("mǎ") and "mah" ("mà"). 

A vital guideline of GR is that syllables which structure words ought to be composed together. This strikes speakers of European dialects as self-evident; however in Chinese the idea of "word" isn't anything but difficult to bind. The fundamental unit of discourse is prevalently thought to be the monosyllable spoken to by a character ( "tzyh", "zì"), which by and large speaks to a significant syllable or morpheme, a littler unit than the "phonetic word". Characters are composed and printed without any spaces between words; yet practically speaking most Chinese words comprise of two-syllable mixes, and it was Chao's strong development in 1922 to mirror this in GR orthography by gathering the proper syllables together into words. This spoke to an extreme takeoff from hyphenated Wade– Giles structures, for example, "Kuo-yü Lo-mama tzu" (the Wade spelling of GR). 

Chao utilized GR in four compelling works: 

"Readings in Sayable Chinese" was expressed "to supply the propelled understudy of spoken Chinese with perusing matter which he can really use in his discourse." It comprises of three volumes of Chinese content with confronting GR romanization. They contain some vivacious recorded exchanges, "Parts of a collection of memoirs," two plays and an interpretation of Lewis Carroll's "Through the Looking-Glass (Tzoou daw Jinqtz lii)". Two concentrates from "Tzoou daw Jinqtz lii" with confronting interpretations can be perused on the web. 

In 1942 Walter Simon acquainted GR with English-talking sinologists in an exceptional handout, "The New Official Chinese Latin Script". Over the rest of the 1940s he distributed a progression of course readings and perusers, just as a Chinese-English Dictionary, all utilizing GR. His child Harry Simon later proceeded to utilize GR in insightful papers on Chinese etymology. 

In 1960 Y.C. Liu, a partner of Walter Simon's at SOAS, distributed "Fifty Chinese Stories". These determinations from established writings were exhibited in both traditional and present day Chinese, together with GR romanizations and romanized Japanese forms arranged by Simon (at that point Professor Emeritus of Chinese in the University of London). 

Lin Yutang's "Chinese-English Dictionary of Modern Usage" (1972) fused various creative highlights, one of which was a disentangled adaptation of GR. Lin wiped out a large portion of the spelling rules requiring substitution of vowels, as can be seen from his spelling "Guoryuu Romatzyh", in which the customary "- r" is utilized for T2 and a multiplied vowel for T3. 

The initial 3 issues of the "Shin Tarng" magazine (which would be "Xīn Táng" in Pinyin; distributed in 1982-1989) utilized a Simplified Romanisation ( ) dependent on Gwoyeu Romatzyh; the fourth release, entitled Xin Talng, utilized Pinyin with Gwoyeu Romatzyh-like tone checking. 

Chao trusted that the advantage of GR was to make tonal contrasts increasingly notable to students: 

For instance, it might be simpler to retain the distinction between GR "Beeijing" (the city) and "beyjiing" ("foundation") than the Pinyin renditions "Běijīng" and "bèijǐng", where the tones appear to be just about a bit of hindsight. One examination directed at the University of Oregon in 1991– 1993, analyzed the aftereffects of utilizing Pinyin and GR in showing basic dimension Chinese to two coordinated gatherings of understudies, and presumed that "GR did not prompt fundamentally more prominent exactness in tonal creation." 

GR keeps on being utilized by certain instructors of Chinese. In 2000, the Princeton "Chinese Primer" arrangement was distributed in both GR and Pinyin renditions. 

Here is a concentrate from Y.R. Chao's "Sayable Chinese". The point is academic ("What is Sinology?"), yet the style casual. The tonal spelling markers or "hints" are again featured utilizing a similar shading coding plan as above. Forms in Chinese characters, Pinyin and English are given beneath the GR content.