2011 U.S. Open Cup Final 

The 2011 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Final was a soccer coordinate between the Seattle Sounders FC and the Chicago Fire, played on October 4, 2011, at CenturyLink Field in Seattle, Washington. The match was the summit of the 2011 U.S. Open Cup, a competition open to novice and expert soccer crews associated with the United States Soccer Federation (U.S. Soccer). This was the 98th version of the U.S. Open Cup, the most established continuous challenge in American soccer. The Seattle Sounders FC won by vanquishing the Chicago Fire 2– 0 with objectives scored by Fredy Montero and Osvaldo Alonso. The participation was 36,615, breaking the record for the last set the earlier year when Seattle additionally won and facilitated. Seattle turned into the principal group since 1968 to win three back to back U.S. Open Cup titles and the fourth group ever to do as such in the 98-year history of the competition. 

Sounders FC naturally met all requirements for the third round of the U.S. Open Cup competition by completing among the best six in the 2010 Major League Soccer season. The Fire did not naturally qualify, and needed to play through two capability adjusts before entering the official competition. Preceding the last, Chicago and Seattle had met twice in 2011, with Seattle winning one diversion and the other completion in a draw. 

The last was broadcast live on Fox Soccer. This was the second back to back year the competition last was played at CenturyLink Field. As the victor of the competition, Seattle earned a billet in the 2012– 13 CONCACAF Champions League and got a $100,000 money prize. Chicago got a $50,000 prize as the sprinter up. Following the last, analysis was raised in regards to Seattle winning facilitating rights for each round they played. Accordingly, U.S. Soccer declared changes to the principles for deciding the host of competition matches. 

The U.S. Open Cup is a yearly American soccer rivalry open to all U.S. Soccer partnered groups, from beginner grown-up club groups to the expert clubs of Major League Soccer (MLS). The 2011 competition was the 98th release of the most seasoned soccer competition in the United States. 

The MLS, which has groups that play in both the United States and Canada, was permitted to enter eight of its fifteen U.S.- based groups in the competition. The best six MLS groups from the past season's association standings qualified naturally for the competition, while the staying two spots were dictated by fundamental capability matches. The eight MLS sections started play in the third round of the competition. In 2010, Seattle Sounders FC completed among the best six in the MLS in general association standings to meet all requirements for the third round of the 2011 U.S. Open Cup. The Chicago Fire nonetheless, did not and in this way needed to play a progression of capability matches against individual MLS groups that completed outside of the main six to meet all requirements for the Open Cup competition. 

Before achieving the 2011 last, the Chicago Fire had achieved the U.S. Open Cup last multiple times in their 14-year history, the a large portion of any MLS establishment, winning four out of five of the tournaments– most as of late in 2006. The Fire started their 2011 Open Cup crusade on March 30, 2011, in the MLS capability elimination rounds, facilitating the Colorado Rapids at Shea Stadium in Peoria, Illinois. Chicago scored first with an objective from Gastón Puerari directly before half time. Only one moment into the second a large portion of, the Rapids balanced with an objective from Andre Akpan. Following Akpan's objective, the match stayed tied for 15 minutes until Chicago's Jalil Anibaba scored the match-winning objective in the 61st moment of play. Chicago proceeded onward to the following round of capability with a last score of 2– 1. 

The Fire at that point directed their concentration toward their second and last capability coordinate facilitated by the San Jose Earthquakes at Buck Shaw Stadium in Santa Clara, California. Played on May 24, 2011, before 4,124 observers, the hosts took a two-objective lead in the primary half with Ellis McLoughlin and Justin Morrow scoring in the fourteenth and 43rd minutes, individually. The Fire split the shortage in the 61st moment with an objective from Orr Barouch. After fifteen minutes the Fire tied the score with a strike from Yamith Cuesta. The score stayed tied until the finish of guideline, prompting additional time, amid which Chicago's Gonzalo Segares was shot out for difference. In spite of the Earthquakes' man favorable position, the opposite sides stayed tied amid extra time, provoking a punishment shootout. In the fifth round of punishments, with Chicago driving 5– 4, San Jose's Scott Sealy missed his shot as it redirected off the crossbar, giving the Fire a second qualifier triumph and a compartment into the third round of the 2011 U.S. Open Cup competition. 

In the third round, Chicago confronted the Rochester Rhinos of the USL Pro division. Rochester facilitated the match on June 28 at the Rhinos' Sahlen's Stadium before a horde of 5,558. The Fire's Diego Cháves gotten the match's solitary objective in the 37th moment of play, procuring the Fire a spot in the quarterfinals out of the blue since 2008. 

In the quarterfinals, hung on July 12, 2011, the Fire facilitated MLS Eastern Conference rival the New York Red Bulls at Toyota Park in Bridgeview, Illinois. Against for the most part holds for New York, the Fire won the match 4– 0 with two objectives from Orr Barouch and an objective each scored by Dominic Oduro and Yamith Cuesta. Because of intensity blackouts in the territory following a serious rainstorm, the amusement's begin time was climbed from 7:30 pm to 5:00 pm nearby time, bringing about a late-arriving participation of around 2,000. Following the match, commotion from Red Bull fans provoked mentor Hans Backe to clarify that weariness was the explanation behind sending just his group's save players and an associate mentor to Chicago. New York had lost to DC United allied play only 2 days sooner. 

On August 31, 2011, the Fire played host to another USL Pro side, the Richmond Kickers, in the elimination round. On their way to the elimination rounds, the Kickers vanquished two MLS groups in successive rounds. They upset the Columbus Crew and Sporting Kansas City in the third round and the quarterfinals, separately. The elimination round was facilitated by the Fire at Toyota Park before a horde of 8,909. In the 32nd moment, the Fire led the pack with an objective from Sebastián Grazzini. In the 61st moment, Chicago ran up 2– 0 with an objective from Dominic Oduro. After seven minutes, the Kickers cut the lead down the middle with an objective from Yomby William. The Fire won 2– 1, procuring their 6th excursion to the U.S. Open Cup last. 

In 2009, Seattle Sounders FC turned into the second MLS development club to win the U.S. Open Cup competition, after the Chicago Fire in 1998. They safeguarded their title in 2010 to win a second in a row title. Before the last, Sounders FC played U.S. Open Cup home amusements at the Starfire Sports Complex in Tukwila, Washington. The office is littler than the club's home arena for group matches, CenturyLink Field, however Sounders FC delegates favored the climate at Starfire for littler glass matches. 

Sounders FC started the guard of their title on June 28, 2011, when they facilitated the Kitsap Pumas of the USL Premier Development League from Bremerton, Washington. The match was played at Starfire before 3,811 fans. Seattle led the pack in the 39th moment when Michael Fucito scored off a headed go from Nate Jaqua. Right off the bat in the second half Fucito multiplied the lead by taking a go from Mike Seamon and shooting past a few safeguards for the objective. Kitsap endeavored their rebound in the 71st moment when Nikolas Besagno scored from an intersection go from Robert Christner. In the 83rd moment, Kitsap forward Warlen Silva almost adjusted on a breakaway run, yet his shot went into the side netting. Seattle had the capacity to hang on for the 2– 1 triumph. 

Seattle at that point facilitated their quarterfinal coordinate on July 13 against a kindred MLS side, the Los Angeles Galaxy. The match was again held at Starfire, with a participation of 4,322. Nate Jaqua scored following a go from Pat Noonan in the fourth moment. In the 25th moment, Fredy Montero scored with a left-footed shot from a help from Jaqua giving Seattle a 2– 0 lead. The Galaxy recovered an objective in the 40th moment when Adam Cristman scored on a cross from Chris Birchall. In the 74th moment, Seattle midfielder Lamar Neagle scored from a cross by Álvaro Fernández, stretching out Seattle's lead to 2 objectives. 

On August 30, 2011, Sounders FC facilitated their elimination round rival, FC Dallas, before 4,593 at Starfire Sports Complex. The two groups began their first cooperative individuals for the match. Seattle connected hostile weight for the vast majority of the primary half and got through with an objective in the 40th moment. Fredy Montero, who had quite recently missed with a bike kick shot minutes sooner, took a twisting left-footed shot before objective for the score. Dallas about balanced in the 49th moment when Marvin Chavez had a shot skip hard off the objective post. Dallas kept on assaulting for the vast majority of the second half, and Chavez again got an opportunity to adjust just before the last whistle, yet his shot went high over the objective. With a last score of 1– 0, Seattle verified their third straight appearance in the U.S. Open Cup last match. Following the match, Dallas mentor Schellas Hyndman griped about how has are resolved for U.S. Open Cup matches saying, "for me, this is a standout amongst the best occasions – the Lamar Hunt Open Cup – however I'd truly prefer to see it into a structure where it is anything but an offered framework. An offer framework is the place one group will purchase the recreations since they're offering higher." He proceeded, "it could go to the higher seeds, rather than an offer framework where you're burning through cash, or it could be pre-decided. I feel that draws out all the reasonableness to the occasion." 

On August 26, 2011, U.S. Soccer declared the potential locales for the last, contingent upon the result of the elimination rounds. It was resolved through a visually impaired offer procedure that if Seattle fit the bill for the last, they would have it at CenturyLink Field paying little heed to the rival, for the second in a row year. In the event that FC Dallas vanquished Sounders FC in the elimination rounds, they would have the Richmond Kickers at Pizza Hut Park in Frisco, Texas, or visit the Chicago Fire at Toyota Park in Bridgeview, Illinois, contingent upon the result of the other elimination round match. Seattle crushed Dallas and Chicago vanquished Richmond in the elimination rounds, which brought about Sounders FC facilitating the Fire in the 2011 Open Cup last at CenturyLink Field. Seattle had facilitated the past last, in 2010, drawing a horde of 31,311 and breaking the 81-year-old participation record for the occasion set in 1929 when New York Hakoah vanquished the Madison Kennel Club of St. Louis. 

Tickets for the 2011 last went marked down to general society on September 6. By September 19, it was declared that 27,000 tickets had just been sold. After nine days, ticket deals outperformed 30,000 and it was declared that the "Birds of prey Nest" cheap seat situates in the north end of CenturyLink Field would be made accessible for the occasion. In the week paving the way to the last, Sounders FC proprietor and general supervisor Adrian Hanauer demonstrated that segments of the arena would keep on being opened to fulfill need. He expressed that "no paying client would be dismissed." 

With a superior MLS ordinary season record and home field advantage, Sounders FC were the top choices to win the match; be that as it may, the Fire had improved during the time through better play from their wingers and midfielders. 

Seattle and Chicago had met twice in MLS customary season coordinates in 2011. The primary gathering, on April 9, 2011, brought about a 2– 1 success for Sounders FC before their home group. It was Seattle's fifth round of the period. The second gathering was facilitated by Chicago on June 4, 2011, and brought about a 0– 0 draw. It was the main amusement for Chicago mentor Frank Klopas as he supplanted Carlos de los Cobos, who was terminated by the club the earlier week. As a player, Klopas had scored the triumphant objective for Chicago in the 1998 U.S. Open Cup last. As mentor, "ESPNChicago.com" investigator Charlie Corr acknowledged him for the group's effective move in strategies since already meeting Seattle. 

In the days paving the way to the last, Seattle had as of late completed a lengthy, difficult experience trip. Chicago's calendar made the match their third in seven days' time. In anticipation of the last, the administrators handled more fragile sides amid their separate alliance matches two days before the amusement, enabling them to rest a few standard starters. The Sounders were playing great, having effectively secured a MLS playoff billet. A triumph over the New England Revolution on the end of the week preceding the last gave the group a three-amusement series of wins. The Fire had vanquished Real Salt Lake on September 28, yet their playoff chances were decreased after a tie against the Houston Dynamo on the end of the week before the last. 

The match was broadcast live on Fox Soccer with inclusion beginning at 7 pm PT (02:00 UTC). The participation of 36,615 was a record swarm for the challenge's conclusive. Seattle's Emerald City Supporters disclosed tifo before kickoff portraying the Grim Reaper over the graves of D.C. Joined together, the Columbus Crew, and the Chicago Fire. 

Wounds to key players were a worry for the two groups in the development to the last. For Seattle, midfielder Mauro Rosales' knee was harmed and he didn't recuperate in time for the last. Additionally, Sounders FC protector James Riley was recouping from a blackout. He rehearsed in the week preceding the last and began in the match. For Chicago, midfielder Sebastian Grazzini was a key player who was flawed before the match. Grazzini started the diversion on the seat for Chicago. 

The match began with a frantic pace as the two groups earned free kick endeavors inside the opening two minutes. Seattle forward Mike Fucito had the main objective scoring chance of the match in the eighth moment as he broke free in the punishment territory and made a go on objective. The shot was kicked away by Fire goalkeeper Sean Johnson. Neither one of the sides seemed to pick up control as the match advanced through the initial 10 minutes. In the eleventh moment, Chicago midfielder Marco Pappa slipped between two protectors amidst the field and had a long range shot go only wide of the net. After two minutes Pappa again had a long shot which constrained Seattle goalkeeper Kasey Keller to make a spare. Pappa was in charge of every one of the five of his group's shots in the primary half. In the 26th moment, Patrick Nyarko was appeared yellow card by official Alex Prus for a hard handle on Seattle's Osvaldo Alonso close to the touch-line. 

As the match passed the 30 minute imprint, Seattle started to accept control as they held belonging and made all the more scoring chances. Five minutes before half time Marco Pappa again tried the Seattle goalkeeper as he cut inside a safeguard and made a go from 30 yards. The shot constrained Kasey Keller to make a jumping save. In the 44th moment Seattle striker Mike Fucito hurried onto a poor backpass by the Chicago safeguard and after that backhealed a go to Alvaro Fernandez who was streaking into the crate. His shot was halted with an achieving save by Chicago goalkeeper Sean Johnson. One moment later, in first half damage time, Seattle striker Fredy Montero about scored with a 20-yard shot that flew past the guardian and bobbed off the left objective post. The half finished with the score tied 0– 0. 

At half time, Seattle midfielder Erik Frieberg was subbed on for Alvaro Fernandez, who had endured a slight blackout amid the principal half. Soon after the second half started, Seattle almost broke the stalemate. In the 53rd moment, a Sounders FC toss in was flicked on to Mike Fucito, who lifted a shot up and over the guardian. His shot was pursued by a few Chicago protectors as it crossed the objective mouth and bobbed off the far objective post and over into play. In the 78th moment, Montero broke the halt on a corner kick taken by Erik Friberg. Sounders FC protector Jeff Parke headed the corner kick on objective and Chicago goalkeeper Sean Johnson spared the shot. The ball bounced back to the feet of Fredy Montero, who tapped the ball into the net for in the primary objective of the diversion. Sounders FC now had a 1– 0 lead. 

For a great part of the principal half and early second half, Sounders FC's cautious endeavors had been centered around firmly shielding Chicago midfield Pável Pardo. With Pardo unfit to disperse the ball to Chicago's rapid wingers, Patrick Nyarko and Domonic Oduro, Chicago's offense had been adequately killed for a significant part of the match. Flame mentor Frank Klopas made two substitutions late in the match, presenting on Diego Chaves in the 80th moment and midfielder Sebastián Grazzini in the 85th. Chicago's most obvious opportunity with regards to the half came in the 90th moment when Dominic Oduro made a beeline for Kasey Keller, who made the spare despite the fact that the endeavor was governed offside. 

As the match neared its decision, Chicago moved players forward as they hunt down an adjusting objective. Be that as it may, in the 6th moment of stoppage time, Osvaldo Alonso scored Seattle's second objective on a counterattack play as he spilled around numerous safeguards and the goalkeeper lastly tapped the ball into the net. The objective gave Sounders FC a 2– 0 lead and fixed the triumph. 

The vast majority of the record swarm stayed after the diversion as they watched Seattle players and mentors occupied with the post coordinate trophy granting service and celebrated on the field. In the post coordinate question and answer session, Sigi Schmid adulated his group's protective endeavors in the match, saying "We discussed ensuring their safeguards – and principally Pável Pardo – didn't get an opportunity to lift their heads and hit those long balls in behind." Schmid proceeded, "I figured Evans completed a great occupation. Now and then we were extended in the midfield, yet I figured he completed an extremely great job of venturing up to Pável. When you take a gander at the hour and a half, it was an uncommon event that he had the capacity to hit a ball behind our guard." Chicago midfielder Logan Pause remarked on the diversion saying, "It's frustrating. We came here to win. We were under significant pressure throughout the night. They're an extraordinary group, a standout amongst the best in the alliance. It was an extraordinary environment and home field advantage. The better group won this evening shockingly." 

The day after the match, Sounders FC flew a scarf over Seattle and Bellevue toward the evening and early night individually, in festivity of their triumph. By winning the last, Sounders FC turned into the main MLS group to win the challenge multiple times in succession, and the primary club to do as such in the challenge since Greek American Atlas did as such in 1968, 42 years sooner. Seattle additionally turned into the fourth group in the 98-year history of the competition to win three of every a column. As U.S. Open Cup champions, Seattle got the $100,000 money prize while Chicago was given $50,000 as the sprinter up. Seattle additionally earned a billet in the 2012– 13 CONCACAF Champions League with the triumph. In the Champions League, Seattle won their gathering and were in the long run thumped out of the competition in the elimination rounds by Mexican club Santos Laguna. 

Sounders FC midfielder Osvaldo Alonso was casted a ballot the "player of the round" for the last. Alonso was perceived for his objective scoring exertion just as his record-setting fourth continuous appearance as a player in the U.S. Open Cup last match. He had seemed first with the Charleston Battery in the 2008 last and afterward multiple times with Seattle from 2009 to 2011. Seattle forward Fredy Montero was perceived as the "player of the competition" as he scored the amusement winning objectives for Sounders FC in their quarterfinal, elimination round, and last matches. Osvaldo Alonso was one of the four finalists for "player of the competition" alongside Montero and two players from the semifinalist Richmond Kickers– Ronnie Pascale and David Bulow. 

U.S. Soccer was scrutinized after the counterpart for the hidden offer procedure that enables groups to outspend their adversaries for facilitating rights. Both the visually impaired offering process for facilitating competition matches and the way in which MLS groups met all requirements for the competition were generally reprimanded. A case of the worries raised around facilitating originated from FC Dallas midfielder Daniel Hernandez on Twitter, where he grumbled about Seattle's home-field advantage all through the 2011 competition. Following the last, MLS and U.S. Soccer authorities met to talk about principle changes to the competition's host offering framework and group capability forms. Sounders FC proprietor Adrian Hanauer remarked on the progressions and the likelihood of raising the profile of the competition, "I don't think the offering procedure is going to change the profile of the competition, essentially. It may satisfy a couple of individuals, it may make a couple of individuals miserable. In any case, I'm not persuaded that is what is going to raise the profile." 

In January 2012, in anticipation of the 2012 version of the U.S. Open Cup, U.S. Soccer declared a few changes to the competition design. Incorporated into these progressions was the presentation of another host choice procedure. Starting in 2012, for all rounds of the competition through the quarterfinals, an arbitrary host choice procedure would be utilized. While in earlier years a visually impaired offering framework was utilized to decide the host of a match, the new procedure has the host dictated by visually impaired draw if the two groups' settings fulfill least guidelines. The visually impaired offering framework for facilitating rights stayed as a result for the elimination rounds and last of the 2012 competition. In any case, U.S. Soccer declared in 2013 that facilitating for all rounds of the competition would be resolved haphazardly as long as the two settings fulfilled least guidelines.