Chinese classifier 

The cutting edge Chinese assortments utilize what are called classifiers or measure words. One of the essential employments of classifiers is in expressions in which a thing is qualified by a numeral. At the point when an expression, for example, "one individual" or "three books" is converted into Chinese, it is regularly important to embed a suitable classifier between the numeral and the thing. For instance, in Standard Mandarin, the first of these expressions would be  "yí rén", where "yī" signifies "one", "rén" signifies "individual", and "gè" is the required classifier. There are additionally other linguistic settings in which classifiers are utilized, including after the demonstratives 这 (這) "zhè" ("this") and 那 "nà" ("that"); notwithstanding, when a thing remains solitary with no such qualifier, no classifier is required. There are additionally different employments of classifiers: for instance, when put after a thing as opposed to before it, or when rehashed, a classifier connotes a plural or uncertain amount. 

The expressions "classifier" and "measure word" are much of the time utilized reciprocally (as equal to the Chinese expression () "liàngcí", which truly signifies "measure word"). In some cases, be that as it may, the two are recognized, with "classifier" indicating a molecule with no specific significance of its own, as in the model above, and "measure word" meaning a word for a specific amount or estimation of something, for example, "drop", "cupful", or "liter". The last sort likewise incorporates certain words meaning time spans, units of cash, and so on. These two kinds are on the other hand called "check classifier" and "mass-classifier", since the main sort can just genuinely be utilized with tally things, while the second is utilized especially with mass things. Nonetheless, the linguistic conduct of expressions of the two kinds is to a great extent indistinguishable. 

Most things have at least one specific classifiers related with them, frequently relying upon the idea of the things they mean. For instance, numerous things signifying level items, for example, tables, papers, beds, and seats utilize the classifier  () "zhāng", though many long and slender articles use  () "tiáo". The complete number of classifiers in Chinese might be put at anyplace from a couple of dozen to a few hundred, contingent upon how they are tallied. The classifier (), articulated or in Mandarin, aside from being the standard classifier for some things, likewise fills in as a "general classifier", which may frequently (however not generally) be utilized instead of different classifiers; in casual and spoken language, local speakers will in general utilize this classifier definitely more than some other, despite the fact that they know which classifier is "right" when inquired. Mass-classifiers may be utilized with a wide range of things with which they bode well: for instance,  "hé" ("box") might be utilized to indicate boxes of items, for example, lights or books, despite the fact that those things would be utilized with their very own fitting check classifiers if being considered individual articles. Analysts have contrasting perspectives with respect to how classifier– thing pairings emerge: some see them as being founded on natural semantic highlights of the thing (for instance, all things signifying "long" objects take a specific classifier on account of their intrinsic length), while others consider them to be persuaded more by relationship to prototypical pairings (for instance, "lexicon" comes to accept a similar classifier as the more typical word "book"). There is some variety in the pairings utilized, with speakers of various lingos frequently utilizing diverse classifiers for a similar thing. A few language specialists have recommended that the utilization of classifier expressions might be guided less by syntax and more by complex or even minded worries with respect to a speaker who might attempt forefront new or essential data. 

Numerous different dialects of the Mainland Southeast Asia semantic region show comparative classifier frameworks, prompting theory about the causes of the Chinese framework. Antiquated classifier-like developments, which utilized a rehashed thing as opposed to a unique classifier, are bore witness to in Old Chinese as right on time as 1400 BCE, however obvious classifiers did not show up in these expressions until some other time. Initially, classifiers and numbers came after the thing as opposed to previously, and most likely moved before the thing at some point after 500 BCE. The utilization of classifiers did not turn into an obligatory piece of Old Chinese language structure until around 1100 CE. A few things moved toward becoming related with explicit classifiers sooner than others; the most punctual likely being things that meant socially esteemed things, for example, steeds and ballads. Numerous words that are classifiers today begun as full things; now and again their implications have been steadily dyed away so they are presently utilized just as classifiers. 

In Chinese, a numeral can't more often than not evaluate a thing without anyone else; rather, the language depends on classifiers, regularly likewise alluded to as measure words. At the point when a thing is gone before by a number, an illustrative, for example, "this" or "that", or certain quantifiers, for example, "each", a classifier should ordinarily be embedded before the thing. In this way, while English speakers state "one individual" or "this individual", Mandarin Chinese speakers state  ("yí rén", one-individual) or  ("zhè rén", this-individual), separately. On the off chance that a thing is gone before by both a decisive and a number, the illustrative starts things out. (This is similarly as in English, for example "these three felines".) If a descriptive word alters the thing, it normally comes after the classifier and before the thing. The general structure of a classifier expression is 

demonstrative –  number –   –  adjective –  noun 

The tables beneath give instances of basic sorts of classifier phrases. While most English things don't require classifiers or measure words (in English, both "five espressos" "some espresso" are linguistically right), almost all Chinese things do; along these lines, in the primary table, states that have no classifier in English have one in Chinese. 

Then again, when a thing isn't checked or presented with a decisive, a classifier isn't essential: for instance, there is a classifier in  ("sān liàng chē", three-vehicle, "three autos") yet not in  ("wǒ-de chē", me-possessive vehicle, "my vehicle"). Moreover, numbers and demonstratives are frequently not required in Chinese, so speakers may decide not to utilize one—and along these lines not to utilize a classifier. For instance, to state "Zhangsan transformed into a tree", both  ("Zhāngsān biànchéng - le yì shù", Zhangsan become PAST one tree) and  ("Zhāngsān biànchéng - le shù", Zhangsan become PAST tree) are adequate. The utilization of classifiers after demonstratives is in actuality discretionary. 

It is additionally feasible for a classifier alone to qualify a thing, the numeral ("one") being overlooked, as in 买马 "mǎi mǎ" "purchase horse", for example "purchase a steed". 

Notwithstanding their utilizations with numbers and demonstratives, classifiers have some different capacities. A classifier put after a thing communicates a plural or uncertain amount of it. For instance,  ("shū-", book-) signifies "the books" (for example on a rack, or in a library), though the standard pre-ostensible development  ("yī shū", one-book) signifies "one book". 

Numerous classifiers might be reduplicated to signify "each". For instance,  ("- rén", - individual) implies "each individual". 

At long last, a classifier utilized alongside 一 ("yī", "one") and after a thing passes on an importance near "all of" or "the whole" or "a ___full of". The sentence  ("tiānkōng yī yún", sky one-cloud), signifying "the sky was brimming with mists", utilizes the classifier  ("piàn", cut), which alludes to the sky, not the mists. 

Most by far of classifiers are those that tally or group things ("ostensible classifiers", as in every one of the precedents given up until this point, instead of "verbal classifiers"). These are additionally subdivided into "check classifiers" and "mass-classifiers", portrayed underneath. In ordinary discourse, individuals frequently utilize the expression "measure word", or its exacting Chinese comparable  "liàngcí", to cover all Chinese check classifiers and mass-classifiers, yet the kinds of words assembled under this term are not all the equivalent. In particular, the different sorts of classifiers display various contrasts in significance, in the sorts of words they append to, and in syntactic conduct. 

Chinese has an expansive number of ostensible classifiers; appraisals of the number in Mandarin go from "a few dozen" or "around 50", to more than 900. The range is so huge in light of the fact that a portion of these appraisals incorporate a wide range of classifiers while others incorporate just tally classifiers, and on the grounds that what comprises a "classifier" has changed after some time. Today, customary lexicons incorporate 120 to 150 classifiers; the 8822-word "Schedule of Graded Words and Characters for Chinese Proficiency" () records 81; and a 2009 rundown arranged by Gao Ming and Barbara Malt incorporates 126. The quantity of classifiers that are in regular, casual use, notwithstanding, might be lower: language specialist Mary Erbaugh has asserted that around two dozen "center classifiers" represent most classifier use. All in all, however, the classifier framework is complex to the point that specific classifier word references have been distributed. 

Inside the arrangement of ostensible classifiers, etymologists for the most part draw a refinement between "tally classifiers" and "mass-classifiers". Genuine "check classifiers" are utilized for naming or tallying a solitary tally thing, and have no immediate interpretation in English; for instance,  ("yì shū", one-book) must be deciphered in English as "one book" or "a book". Besides, tally classifiers can't be utilized with mass things: similarly as an English speaker can't commonly say *"five muds", a Chinese speaker can't state * ("wǔ nì", five-mud). For such mass things, one must utilize "mass-classifiers". 

Mass-classifiers (genuine measure words) don't choose intrinsic properties of an individual thing like tally classifiers do; rather, they knot things into countable units. In this manner, mass-classifiers can for the most part be utilized with numerous kinds of things; for instance, while the mass-classifier  ("hé", box) can be utilized to tally boxes of lights ( "yì dēngpào", "one of lights") or of books ( "yì jiàocái", "one of course readings"), every one of these things must utilize an alternate check classifier while being tallied without anyone else's input ( "yì dēngpào" "one light"; versus "yì jiàocái" "one reading material"). While tally classifiers have no immediate English interpretation, mass-classifiers frequently do: phrases with consider classifiers such  ("yí rén", one-individual) must be deciphered as "one individual" or "an individual", though those with mass-classifiers, for example,  ("yì rén", one- - individual) can be deciphered as "a horde of individuals". All dialects, including English, have mass-classifiers, however check classifiers are one of a kind to certain "classifier dialects", and are not a piece of English language separated from a couple of remarkable cases, for example, head of domesticated animals. 

Inside the scope of mass-classifiers, creators have proposed subdivisions dependent on the way in which a mass-classifier sorts out the thing into countable units. One of these is "estimation units" (additionally called "standard measures"), which all dialects must have so as to quantify things; this classification incorporates units, for example, kilometers, liters, or pounds (see list). Like different classifiers, these can likewise remain without a thing; in this way, for instance,  ("bàng", pound) may show up as both  ("sān ròu", "three of meat") or just  ("sān ", "three ", never * "sān "). Units of cash act comparatively: for instance, 十 ("shí ", "ten "), which is short (for instance) 十人民币 ("shí rénmínbì", "ten of renminbi"). Other proposed sorts of mass-classifiers incorporate "aggregate" mass-classifiers, for example,  ("yì rén", "an of people"), which amass things less definitely; and "compartment" mass-classifiers which assemble things by holders they come in, as in  ("yì zhōu", "an of porridge") or  ("yì táng", "an of sugar"). 

The contrast between check classifiers and mass-classifiers can be depicted as one of evaluating as opposed to ordering: as it were, mass-classifiers "make" a unit by which to quantify something (for example boxes, gatherings, lumps, pieces, and so on.), though check classifiers just "name" a current thing. Most words can show up with both tally classifiers and mass-classifiers; for instance, pizza can be depicted as both ("yì bǐsà", "one pizza", truly "one of pizza"), utilizing a check classifier, and as ("yí bǐsà", "one of pizza"), utilizing a mass-classifier. Notwithstanding these semantic contrasts, there are contrasts in the linguistic practices of tally classifiers and mass-classifiers; for instance, mass-classifiers might be changed by a little arrangement of descriptive words (as in  "yí dà rén", "a major of individuals"), while check classifiers for the most part may not (for instance, * "yí dà rén" is never said for "a major individual"; rather the modifier must alter the thing:  "yí dà rén"). Another distinction is that check classifiers may frequently be supplanted by a "general" classifier (), "gè" with no evident change in significance, though mass-classifiers may not. Syntacticians Lisa Cheng and Rint Sybesma suggest that tally classifiers and mass-classifiers have distinctive fundamental syntactic structures, with tally classifiers shaping "classifier expressions", and mass-classifiers being a kind of relative statement that just "looks" like a classifier expression. The qualification between check classifiers and mass-classifiers is regularly hazy, in any case, and different etymologists have recommended that tally classifiers and mass-classifiers may not be in a general sense unique. They place that "check classifier" and "mass-classifier" are the boundaries of a continuum, with most classifiers falling some place in the middle. 

There is a lot of "verbal classifiers" utilized explicitly to tally the occasions an activity happens, as opposed to checking various things; this set incorporates "cì",/"biàn", "huí", and "xià", which all generally mean "times". For instance,  ("wǒ qù-guo sān Běijīng", I go-PAST three-Beijing, "I have been to Beijing three "). These words can likewise shape compound classifiers with specific things, as in 人次 "rén cì" "individual time", which can be utilized to check (for instance) guests to a historical center in a year (where visits by a similar individual on various events are tallied independently). 

Another sort of verbal classifier demonstrates the apparatus or actualize used to play out the activity. A precedent is found in the sentence 他踢了我一脚 "tā tī le wǒ yī jiǎo" "he kicked me", or all the more actually "he kicked me one foot". The word 脚 "jiǎo", which typically fills in as a basic thing signifying "foot", here capacities as a verbal classifier mirroring the instrument (in particular the foot) used to play out the kicking activity. 

Distinctive classifiers frequently relate to various specific things. For instance, books by and large take the classifier  "běn", level items take  () "zhāng", creatures take  () "zhī", machines take  "tái", expansive structures and mountains take  "zuò", and so on. Inside these classifications are further subdivisions—while most creatures take  () "zhī", household creatures take  () "tóu", long and adaptable creatures take  () "tiáo", and ponies take  "pǐ". Similarly, while long things that are adaptable, (for example, ropes) frequently take  () "tiáo", long things that are unbending, (for example, sticks) take  "gēn", except if they are additionally round (like pens or cigarettes), in which case in certain lingos they take  "zhī". Classifiers additionally fluctuate in how explicit they are; a few, (for example,  "duǒ" for blooms and other likewise bunched things) are commonly just utilized with one sort, though others, (for example,  () "tiáo" for long and adaptable things, one-dimensional things, or unique things like news reports) are considerably less confined. Besides, there is definitely not a coordinated connection among things and classifiers: a similar thing might be matched with various classifiers in various circumstances. The particular factors that administer which classifiers are matched with which things have been a subject of discussion among language specialists. 

While mass-classifiers don't really bear any semantic relationship to the thing with which they are utilized (for example "box" and "book" are not related in significance, yet one can at present say "a case of books"), tally classifiers do. The exact idea of that relationship, in any case, isn't sure, since there is such a great amount of changeability in how items might be sorted out and ordered by classifiers. Records of the semantic relationship might be assembled freely into "unmitigated" speculations, which suggest that check classifiers are coordinated to objects exclusively based on inborn highlights of those articles, (for example, length or measure), and "prototypical" hypotheses, which recommend that individuals figure out how to coordinate a tally classifier to a particular prototypical item and to different items that resemble that model. 

The unmitigated, "traditional" perspective on classifiers was that every classifier speaks to a classification with a lot of conditions; for instance, the classifier  () "tiáo" would speak to a classification characterized as all articles that meet the states of being long, slight, and one-dimensional—and things utilizing that classifier must fit every one of the conditions with which the class is related. Some normal semantic classifications into which check classifiers have been professed to arrange things incorporate the classifications of shape (long, level, or round), measure (substantial or little), consistency (delicate or hard), animacy (human, creature, or item), and capacity (apparatuses, vehicles, machines, and so forth.). 

Then again, defenders of model hypothesis recommend that tally classifiers might not have intrinsic definitions, yet are related with a thing that is prototypical of that classification, and things that have a "family similarity" with the model thing will need to utilize a similar classifier. For instance, "horse" in Chinese uses the classifier  "pǐ", as in  ("sān mǎ", "three ponies")— in present day Chinese the word has no importance. All things considered, things meaning creatures that resemble ponies will frequently likewise utilize this equivalent classifier, and local speakers have been observed to be bound to utilize the classifier the closer a creature looks to a pony. Besides, words that don't meet the "criteria" of a semantic classification may in any case utilize that classification due to their relationship with a model. For instance, the classifier  () "kē" is utilized for little round things, as in  ("yì zǐdàn", "one shot"); when words like  ("yuánzǐdàn", "nuclear bomb") were later brought into the language they additionally utilized this classifier, despite the fact that they are not little and round—along these lines, their classifier probably been doled out in light of the words' relationship with the word for projectile, which went about as a "model". This is a case of "speculation" from models: Erbaugh has suggested that when youngsters learn tally classifiers, they experience stages, first learning a classifier-thing pair just, (for example,  " yú", - fish), at that point utilizing that classifier with numerous things that are like the model, (for example, different kinds of fish), at that point at long last utilizing that arrangement of things to sum up a semantic element related with the classifier, (for example, length and adaptability) so the classifier would then be able to be utilized with new words that the individual experiences. 

Some classifier-thing pairings are subjective, or if nothing else appear to current speakers to have no semantic inspiration. For example, the classifier  "bù" might be utilized for motion pictures and books, yet in addition for vehicles and phones. A portion of this intervention might be because of what language specialist James Tai alludes to as "fossilization", whereby a tally classifier loses its importance through verifiable changes yet stays combined with certain things. For instance, the classifier  "pǐ" utilized for ponies is negligible today, yet in Classical Chinese may have alluded to a "group of two steeds", a couple of steed skeletons, or the blending among man and pony. Discretion may likewise emerge when a classifier is acquired, alongside its thing, from a tongue in which it has an unmistakable importance to one in which it doesn't. In both these cases, the utilization of the classifier is recollected more by relationship with certain "prototypical" things, (for example, "horse") as opposed to by comprehension of semantic classifications, and accordingly discretion has been utilized as a contention for the model hypothesis of classifiers. Gao and Malt recommend that both the classification and model hypotheses are right: in their origination, a few classifiers comprise "all around characterized classifications", others make "model classifications", and still others are generally discretionary. 

Notwithstanding the various "explicit" check classifiers depicted above, Chinese has a "general" classifier (), articulated "gè" in Mandarin. This classifier is utilized for individuals, some theoretical ideas, and different words that don't have extraordinary classifiers, (for example, 汉堡包 "hànbǎobāo" "cheeseburger"), and may likewise be utilized as a substitution for a particular classifier, for example,  () "zhāng" or  () "tiáo", particularly in casual discourse. In Mandarin Chinese, it has been noted as ahead of schedule as the 1940s that the utilization of is expanding and that there is a general propensity towards supplanting explicit classifiers with it. Various investigations have detailed that the two grown-ups and kids will in general use when they don't have the foggiest idea about the proper check classifier, and notwithstanding when they do however are talking rapidly or casually. The supplanting of a particular classifier with the general is known as classifier "balance" ("" in Chinese, actually "classifier 个-ization"). This happens particularly regularly among kids and aphasics (people with harm to language-applicable zones of the cerebrum), albeit typical speakers likewise kill oftentimes. It has been accounted for that most speakers know the proper classifiers for the words they are utilizing and accept, when asked, that those classifiers are compulsory, however in any case use without acknowledging it in genuine discourse. Therefore, in regular communicated in Mandarin the general classifier is "many occasions progressively visit" than the specific ones. 

In any case, has not totally supplanted other check classifiers, and there are as yet numerous circumstances in which it is unseemly to substitute it for the required explicit classifier. There might be explicit examples behind which classifier-thing sets might be "killed" to utilize the general classifier, and which may not. In particular, words that are most prototypical for their classifications, for example, "paper" for the classification of things taking the "level/square" classifier  () "zhāng", might be more averse to be said with a general classifier. 

It isn't the situation that each thing is just connected with one classifier. Crosswise over lingos and speakers there is extraordinary inconstancy in the manner in which classifiers are utilized for similar words, and speakers regularly don't concur which classifier is ideal. For instance, for vehicles a few people use  "bù", others use  "tái", and still others use  () "liàng"; Cantonese utilizes  "gaa3". Indeed, even inside a solitary lingo or a solitary speaker, a similar thing may take distinctive measure words relying upon the style in which the individual is talking, or on various subtleties the individual needs to pass on (for example, measure words can mirror the speaker's judgment of or feeling about the article). A case of this is the word for individual,  "rén", which utilizes the measure word  () "gè" regularly, yet utilizes the measure  "kǒu" when including number of individuals in a family, and  "wèi" while being especially gracious or honorific, and  "míng" in formal, composed settings; moreover, a gathering of individuals might be alluded to by massifiers as ("yì rén", "an of people") or ("yì rén", "an of people"): the first is unbiased, though the second suggests that the general population are boisterous or generally being judged ineffectively. 

Some check classifiers may likewise be utilized with things that they are not regularly identified with, for figurative impact, as in  ("yì fánnǎo", "an of stresses/inconveniences"). At last, a solitary word may have various tally classifiers that pass on various implications inside and out—actually, the decision of a classifier can even impact the importance of a thing. By method for outline,  "sān kè" signifies "three class periods" (as in "I have three classes today"), while  "sān kè" signifies "three courses" (as in "I agreed to accept three courses this semester"), despite the fact that the thing in each sentence is the equivalent. 

In research on classifier frameworks, and Chinese classifiers specifically, it has been inquired as to why check classifiers (rather than mass-classifiers) exist by any stretch of the imagination. Mass-classifiers are available in all dialects since they are the best way to "tally" mass things that are not normally isolated into units (as, "three of mud" in English; *"three muds" is ungrammatical). Then again, check classifiers are not characteristically obligatory, and are missing from generally dialects. Besides, tally classifiers are utilized with a "startlingly low recurrence"; in numerous settings, speakers keep away from explicit classifiers by simply utilizing an uncovered thing (without a number or decisive) or utilizing the general classifier  "gè". Etymologists and typologists, for example, Joseph Greenberg have proposed that particular check classifiers are semantically "excess", rehashing data present inside the thing. Tally classifiers can be utilized elaborately, however, and can likewise be utilized to clear up or restrain a speaker's planned importance when utilizing a dubious or equivocal thing; for instance, the thing  "kè" "class" can allude to courses in a semester or explicit class periods amid multi day, contingent upon whether the classifier  () "mén" or  () "jié" is utilized. 

One proposed clarification for the presence of check classifiers is that they fill to a greater degree a psychological need than a viable one: at the end of the day, they give a semantic method to speakers to arrange or sort genuine items. An elective record is that they serve even more a verbose and down to business work (an informative capacity when individuals connect) as opposed to a unique capacity inside the psyche. In particular, it has been suggested that tally classifiers may be utilized to stamp new or new articles inside a talk, to present significant characters or things in a story or discussion, or to frontal area vital data and items by making them greater and increasingly notable. Along these lines, check classifiers probably won't serve a dynamic linguistic or intellectual capacity, yet may help in correspondence by making critical data increasingly observable and attracting regard for it. 

Authentic language specialists have discovered that phrases comprising of things and numbers experienced a few auxiliary changes in Old Chinese and Middle Chinese before classifiers showed up in them. The soonest structures may have been "Number –  Noun", like English (for example "five ponies"), and the less normal "Noun –  Number" ("steeds five"), the two of which are bore witness to in the prophet bone contents of Pre-Archaic Chinese (around 1400 BCE to 1000 BCE). The principal developments taking after classifier developments were "Noun –  Number –  Noun" developments, which were additionally surviving in Pre-Archaic Chinese however less regular than "Number –  Noun". In these developments, at times the first and second things were indistinguishable ("N1 –  Number –  N1", as in "ponies five steeds") and different occasions the second thing was unique, however semantically related ("N1 –  Number –  N2"). As per some verifiable etymologists, the "N2" in these developments can be viewed as an early type of check classifier and has even been called a "reverberation classifier"; this theory isn't all around conceded to, however. Albeit genuine tally classifiers had not showed up yet, mass-classifiers were regular in this time, with developments, for example, "wine –  six –  " (the word  "yǒu" spoke to a wine holder) signifying "six "yǒu" of wine". Models, for example, this recommend mass-classifiers originate before check classifiers by a few centuries, despite the fact that they didn't show up in a similar word request as they do today. 

It is from this sort of structure that tally classifiers may have emerged, initially supplanting the second thing (in structures where there was a thing instead of a mass-classifier) to yield "Noun –  Number –  Classifier". In other words, developments like "steeds five ponies" may have been supplanted by ones like "ponies five ", perhaps for complex reasons, for example, staying away from redundancy. Another explanation behind the presence of check classifiers may have been to keep away from disarray or vagueness that could have emerged from tallying things utilizing just mass-classifiers—for example to clear up when one is alluding to a solitary thing and when one is alluding to a proportion of things. 

Students of history concur that sooner or later in history the request of words in this development moved, putting the thing toward the end as opposed to starting, as in the present-day development "Number –  Classifier –  Noun". As indicated by authentic etymologist Alain Peyraube, the soonest events of this development (though with mass-classifiers, as opposed to check classifiers) show up in the late part of Old Chinese (500 BCE to 200 BCE). Right now, the "Number –  Mass-classifier" bit of the "Noun –  Number –  Mass-classifier" development was now and then moved before the thing. Peyraube guesses this may have happened in light of the fact that it was step by step reanalyzed as a modifier (like a descriptor) for the head thing, instead of a straightforward redundancy as it initially seemed to be. Since Chinese by and large places modifiers before changed, as does English, the move may have been provoked by this reanalysis. By the early piece of the Common Era, the things showing up in "classifier position" were starting to lose their significance and become genuine classifiers. Assessments of when classifiers experienced the most advancement change: Wang Li asserts their time of real improvement was amid the Han Dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE), though Liu Shiru gauges that it was the Southern and Northern Dynasties period (420 – 589 CE), and Peyraube picks the Tang Dynasty (618 – 907 CE). Despite when they created, Wang Lianqing claims that they didn't turn out to be syntactically obligatory until at some point around the eleventh century. 

Classifier frameworks in numerous close-by dialects and language gatherings, (for example, Vietnamese and the Tai dialects) are fundamentally the same as the Chinese classifier framework in both linguistic structure and the parameters along which a few articles are assembled together. Hence, there has been some discussion over which language family initially created classifiers and which ones at that point acquired them—or whether classifier frameworks were local to every one of these dialects and grew increasingly through rehashed language contact since forever. 

Most present day tally classifiers are gotten from words that initially were unattached things in more seasoned assortments of Chinese, and have since been grammaticalized to wind up bound morphemes. At the end of the day, tally classifiers will in general originate from words that once had explicit significance yet lost it (a procedure known as semantic dying). Some, in any case, still have related structures that fill in as things independent from anyone else, for example, the classifier  () "dài" for long, strip like items: the cutting edge word  "dàizi" signifies "lace". Truth be told, most of classifiers can likewise be utilized as different grammatical forms, for example, things. Mass-classifiers, then again, are more straightforward in importance than tally classifiers; while the last have some chronicled significance, the previous are still undeniable things. For instance,  ("bēi", container), is both a classifier as in  ("yì chá", "an of tea") and the word for a container as in  ("jiǔbēi", "wine glass"). 

It was not generally the case that each thing required a check classifier. In numerous recorded assortments of Chinese, utilization of classifiers was not compulsory, and classifiers are uncommon in compositions that have endure. A few things procured classifiers sooner than others; a portion of the main recorded employments of classifiers were for reviewing things, both in trade business and in narrating. In this way, the primary things to have check classifiers combined with them may have been things that speak to "socially esteemed" things, for example, ponies, parchments, and learned people. The uncommon status of such things is as yet evident today: a considerable lot of the classifiers that must be combined with a couple of things, for example,  "pǐ" for ponies and  "shǒu" for melodies or lyrics, are the classifiers for these equivalent "esteemed" things. Such classifiers make up as much as 33% of the regularly utilized classifiers today. 

Classifiers did not increase official acknowledgment as a lexical classification (grammatical form) until the twentieth century. The soonest present day content to examine classifiers and their utilization was Ma Jianzhong's 1898 "Mama's Basic Principles for Writing Clearly" (). From that point until the 1940s, language specialists, for example, Ma, Wang Li, and Li Jinxi regarded classifiers as only a sort of thing that "communicates an amount". Lü Shuxiang was the first to regard them as a different classification, calling them "unit words" ( "dānwèicí") in his 1940s "Diagram of Chinese Grammar" () lastly "measure words" ( "liàngcí") in "Punctuation Studies" (). He made this partition dependent on the way that classifiers were semantically faded, and that they can be utilized legitimately with a number, while genuine things need a measure word included before they can be utilized with a number. After this time, different names were additionally proposed for classifiers: Gao Mingkai called them "thing assistant words" ( "zhùmíngcí"), Lu Wangdao "checking markers" ( "jìbiāo"), and Japanese etymologist Miyawaki Kennosuke called them "going with words" ( "péibàncí"). In the "Draft Plan for a System of Teaching Chinese Grammar" () embraced by the People's Republic of China in 1954, Lü's "measure words" ( "liàngcí") was received as the official name for classifiers in China. This remaining parts the most widely recognized term being used today. 

Truly, "gè" was not generally the general classifier. Some trust it was initially a thing alluding to bamboo stalks, and bit by bit extended being used to turn into a classifier for some things with "vertical, individual, [or] upstanding qualit[ies]", in the end turning into a general classifier since it was utilized so much of the time with normal things. The classifier "gè" is really connected with three distinctive homophonous characters: , (utilized today as the customary character likeness ), and . Authentic etymologist Lianqing Wang has contended that these characters really began from various words, and that just had the first importance of "bamboo stalk". , she asserts, was utilized as a general classifier right off the bat, and may have been gotten from the orthographically comparative "jiè", one of the most punctual general classifiers. later converged with on the grounds that they were comparable in articulation and significance (both utilized as general classifiers). In like manner, she guarantees that was likewise a different word (with a significance having to do with "inclination" or "being a solitary part"), and converged with for indistinguishable reasons from did; she additionally contends that was "made", as ahead of schedule as the Han Dynasty, to supplant . 

Nor was the main general classifier ever of. The previously mentioned "jiè" was being utilized as a general classifier before the Qin Dynasty (221 BCE); it was initially a thing alluding to singular things out of a string of associated shells or garments, and in the long run came to be utilized as a classifier for "singular" objects (instead of sets or gatherings of articles) before turning into a general classifier. Another general classifier was "méi", which initially alluded to little twigs. Since twigs were utilized for tallying things, turned into a counter word: any things, including individuals, could be considered "one , two ", and so forth was the most well-known classifier being used amid the Southern and Northern Dynasties period (420– 589 CE), yet today is never again a general classifier, and is just utilized infrequently, as a particular classifier for things, for example, sticks and identifications. Kathleen Ahrens has asserted that ("zhī" in Mandarin and "jia" in Taiwanese), the classifier for creatures in Mandarin, is another general classifier in Taiwanese and might wind up one in the Mandarin verbally expressed in Taiwan. 

Northern tongues will in general have less classifiers than southern ones. 個 "ge" is the main classifier found in the Dungan language. All things could have only one classifier in certain tongues, for example, Shanghainese (Wu), the Mandarin lingo of Shanxi, and Shandong vernaculars. A few tongues, for example, Northern Min, certain Xiang vernaculars, Hakka lingos, and some Yue lingos use 隻 for the thing alluding to individuals, instead of 個.