Augustus Owsley Stanley 

Augustus Owsley Stanley I (May 21, 1867 – August 12, 1958) was an American government official from Kentucky. An individual from the Democratic Party, he filled in as the 38th Governor of Kentucky and furthermore spoke to the state in both the U.S. Place of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. From 1903 to 1915, Stanley spoke to Kentucky's second congressional area in the House of Representatives, where he picked up a notoriety for being a dynamic reformer. Starting in 1904, he required an antitrust examination of the American Tobacco Company, asserting they were a monopsony that drove down costs for the tobacco ranchers of his locale. Because of his examination, the Supreme Court of the United States requested the separation of the American Tobacco Company in 1911. Stanley likewise led a council that directed an antitrust examination of U.S. Steel, which brought him national recognition. A significant number of his thoughts were fused into the Clayton Antitrust Act. 

Amid an ineffective senatorial offer in 1914, Stanley expected an enemy of preclusion position. This issue would overwhelm his political profession for over 10 years and put him inconsistent with J. C. W. Beckham, the pioneer of the genius restraint group of the state's Democratic Party. In 1915, Stanley kept running for representative, overcoming his dear companion Edwin P. Morrow by a little more than 400 votes in the nearest gubernatorial race in the state's history. History specialist Lowell H. Harrison considered Stanley's organization the summit of the Progressive Era in Kentucky. Among the changes embraced amid his residency were a state antitrust law, a battle money change law, and a laborer's pay law. In 1918, Stanley was picked as the Democratic chosen one to succeed the as of late expired congressperson Ollie M. James. Stanley was chosen, yet did not leave as representative to sit down until May 1919 and achieved little in his single term. He lost his re-appointment offer to Frederic M. Sackett in the 1924 Republican avalanche and never again held chosen office. He kicked the bucket in Washington, D.C., on August 12, 1958. 

Augustus Owsley Stanley was conceived in Shelbyville, Kentucky, on May 21, 1867; he was the oldest of seven offspring of William and Amanda (Owsley) Stanley. His dad was a priest of the Disciples of Christ and filled in as a judge advocate on the staff of Joseph E. Johnston in the Confederate Army. His mom was the niece of previous Kentucky representative William Owsley. He went to Gordon Academy in Nicholasville, Kentucky, and the Kentucky Agricultural and Mechanical College (later the University of Kentucky) before graduating with an A.B. from Center College in 1889. At both Center and Kentucky A&M, he contended at the State Oratorical Contest, turning into the main such contender to speak to two distinct organizations. 

For a year after graduation, Stanley filled in as seat of beauties lettres at Christian College in Hustonville, Kentucky. The next year, he was primary of Marion Academy in Bradfordsville, at that point went through two years similarly situated at Mackville Academy in Mackville. While he held these positions, he considered law under Gilbert Cassiday. He was admitted to the bar in 1894, and opened his training in Flemingsburg, Kentucky. 

Stanley's first endeavor into the political field was in 1897 when he made an ineffective offer to move toward becoming area lawyer of Fleming County. He kept on providing legal counsel in Flemingsburg until March 1898 when he moved to Henderson due to money related hardships. He filled in as a Democratic presidential voter on the ticket of William Jennings Bryan in 1900. 

In 1902, Stanley was chosen as a U.S. Delegate from Kentucky's second congressional region. Amid his residency in the House, he served on the Committee on Mines and Mining, the Committee on Territories, and the Committee on Agriculture. He pushed for dynamic changes, for example, progressively broad investigation of mine mishap aversion, railroad guideline, an unadulterated nourishment and medication act, and an eight-hour work day. 

When of Stanley's race to the House, the American Tobacco Company had dispensed with all its significant rivals either by procurement or by driving them bankrupt. The organization worked with British tobacco makers to set tobacco costs around the world. Congressman Stanley went to the safeguard of the tobacco ranchers of his locale, making him practically top notch as a congressional competitor. In the first of his five successive terms, he composed a bill that would expel an onerous national tobacco charge, trusting this would help raise costs for natural tobacco. The bill was vanquished by broad campaigning endeavors by the American Tobacco Company. In 1904, he persuaded the Ways and Means Committee to hold formal proceedings on the American Tobacco Company's monopolistic activities, yet the hearings did not persuade officials to nullify the duty nor make a move against the American Tobacco Company. 

Other than his authoritative endeavors for the benefit of ranchers, Stanley likewise legitimately urged them to sort out and keep their yields off the market until costs improved. He helped draft the contract for the Dark District Tobacco Planters Association. A portion of the more extreme individuals from this gathering, known as the "Night Riders", utilized vigilante brutality to urge participation in the Association amid what wound up known as the Black Patch Tobacco Wars. 

At long last in 1909, Stanley connected his proposed nullification of the tobacco charge as a rider to the Payne-Aldrich Tariff Act. The bill passed the House, yet the Senate stripped Stanley's arrangement. Kentucky Senator Ollie M. James reintroduced the annulment into the Senate rendition of the bill, and it endure when the bill was passed into law. The cancelation brought about higher tobacco costs, and in spite of the fact that Stanley had not been distant from everyone else in getting the nullification passed, he got a significant part of the credit. In 1911, Stanley's battle against the American Tobacco Company proved to be fruitful, as the Supreme Court controlled the organization to be infringing upon antitrust laws and broke it into independent organizations. Both the expense repeal and the separation of American Tobacco controlled the viciousness executed constantly Riders. 

Stanley increased national reputation for his activities against U.S. Steel. In 1909, he presented a goals requiring an examination of the organization, yet it passed on in the House Rules Committee. A second goals, presented in June 1910, passed the House, however was overlooked by President William Howard Taft. Stanley presented a more grounded goals soon thereafter, yet it was murdered in advisory group. After Republicans lost control of the house in the 1910 congressional races, Stanley reintroduced his goals. House Speaker Champ Clark designated him as administrator of a nine-part advisory group to examine U.S. Steel. 

The council's examination kept going from May 1911 to April 1912. At its decision, the board of trustees split along partisan loyalties. Stanley created the lion's share report which denounced asserted value fixing by U.S. Steel and rebuked President Theodore Roosevelt for his job in U.S. Steel's buy of the Tennessee Coal and Iron Company. The minority report, composed by Republican Augustus P. Gardner, vindicated Roosevelt and made light of the value fixing charges. Stanley's report likewise prescribed various changes to fortify the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. In spite of the fact that his proposals were not established into law amid his time in the House, a significant number of them were in the end incorporated into the Clayton Antitrust Act. 

In spite of the fact that he had no genuine challengers for his House situate, Stanley declined to look for re-appointment in 1914, picking rather to keep running for a seat in the U.S. Senate. He was one of three Democrats looking for the seat, the others being Governor James B. McCreary and previous representative J. C. W. Beckham. McCreary was never a genuine challenger, and the essential battle focused on Stanley and Beckham, the pioneers of the two biggest groups of the state's Democratic gathering. The two men loathed one another. Stanley had once alluded to Beckham as "an organism development on the grave of Goebel" – a reference to Beckham's previous running mate, Governor William Goebel, whose death in 1900 had raised Beckham to the governorship. Amid the crusade, Stanley condemned Beckham's utilization of machine legislative issues, calling his adversary "Little Lord Fauntleroy". 

Preclusion turned into the serious issue of the battle. Despite the fact that both Stanley and Beckham were known to drink alcohol, Beckham crusaded on an expert restraint stage. Stanley, a rival of preclusion, reprimanded Beckham's situation as misleading, saying of star moderation government officials all in all and Beckham specifically "They keep brimming with alcohol and acquaint bills with rebuff the man who pitches it to them." "[Beckham] would offer out the world to go to the Senate," he included. The help of "Louisville Courier-Journal" editorial manager Henry Watterson and Representative Ben Johnson were insufficient to convey Stanley to triumph. Beckham verified the Democratic assignment by right around 7,000 votes and proceeded to win the seat in the general decision. 

A few applicants reported their goal to look for the Democratic gubernatorial assignment in 1915, however by late August, just two stayed in the race. Stanley was the decision of the counter disallowance group of the gathering, while state director Harry V. McChesney spoke to the denial group, supported by Beckham. Stanley won the designation with 107,585 votes to McChesney's 69,722. The Republicans designated Stanley's dear companion Edwin P. Morrow. The two ventured to every part of the state together, regularly talking from a similar stage. 

Stanley was a ground-breaking speaker who utilized sensational twists to underscore his focuses. He would regularly relax his tie before he at any point began talking, and before the finish of his discourse have lost his vest and coat. In one occasion, the hopefuls discussed an expense on puppy proprietors of one dollar for every canine. Stanley supported the expense, while Morrow fought that everybody ought to be permitted one puppy tax-exempt. Stanley disparaged the thought as "Free Old Dog Ring," and some of the time cried like a puppy in addresses criticizing the proposition. On another event Stanley, who had an excessive amount to drink, regurgitated before the gathering of people as Morrow talked. At the point when Stanley took the platform, he commented, "That just demonstrates what I have been stating all over Kentucky. Ed Morrow plain makes me wiped out to my stomach." 

Democrats had been partitioned in the essential, yet joined behind Stanley in the general race. Congresspersons Beckham and Ollie M. James supported him, as did Governor James B. McCreary. Samuel Gompers lauded Stanley for his restriction to trusts while in Congress; supports from nearby parts of the American Federation of Labor before long pursued. Indeed, even Harry McChesney, Stanley's essential adversary, encouraged Kentuckians to cast a ballot a straight Democratic ticket. 

The race was a real heart stopper on race night. Realizing that a tested decision would be chosen by the vigorously Democratic General Assembly, Morrow yielded seven days after the fact. Official outcomes demonstrated that Stanley won the race by 471 votes, the nearest gubernatorial vote in the state's history. 

Student of history Lowell H. Harrison considered Stanley's organization the pinnacle of the Progressive Era in Kentucky. The most huge enactment go amid the 1916 authoritative session were a state antitrust law and a prohibition on railways offering free goes to open figures. A Corrupt Practices Act required possibility for office to document reports of their costs, constrained the measure of suitable costs, and prohibited open administration enterprises from adding to any battle. Different achievements included starting the state's first spending system, establishing its first laborer's pay law, and organizing a convict work law. The one dynamic measure that did not pass, a bill conceding ladies' suffrage, flopped in the House by a solitary vote. 

Stanley called the General Assembly into extraordinary session in February 1917. At issue was change of the state's duty code, which Stanley felt treacherously troubled farming interests. The state was additionally causing extensive shortages, going from $100,000 to $700,000 every year. Despite the fact that Kentucky was fit as a fiddle monetarily than a significant number of its companions, Stanley still looked to adjust the financial plan. The session kept going sixty days, and the lawmaking body passed huge numbers of the bills he pushed. The most critical made a three-part state charge commission, led by M. M. Logan. Extra assessments were passed on refined spirits, oil creation, race tracks, and corporate licenses. Appraisals on the estimation of property, which had normally been assessed at 33% to one-portion of equitable value, climbed drastically. To adjust this expansion, lawmakers decreased the expense rates on specific sorts of property. With the emotional increment in assets yielded by the extraordinary session, the General Assembly endorsed subsidizing increments in almost all aspects of state government, including advanced education. The State Board of Health was given extended forces, and region sheets of wellbeing were built up. 

Stanley's organization was influenced by the United States' entrance into World War I. The assembly settled and financed a state Council of Defense, however Stanley vetoed a bill that would have prohibited the educating of German in government funded schools. 

As in his keep running for Senate and in the gubernatorial essential, the alcohol question was integral to Stanley's residency as representative. Albeit hostile to denial powers announced restriction dead after his decision, a forbiddance correction was presented amid the principal authoritative session tailing it. The alteration flopped by a vote of 20– 14 in the state senate. In 1918 it was submitted to the state's voters by a staggering 95– 17 joint vote of the General Assembly. In spite of the fact that Stanley was against disallowance, he upheld the 1918 revision so as to settle the alcohol issue and clear the lawmaking body's structure paper for different measures. In 1919, Kentucky was the principal "wet" state to approve the Eighteenth Amendment, revering preclusion into the national constitution. 

On August 18, 1918, occupant representative Ollie M. James kicked the bucket. Stanley delegated George B. Martin to complete James' term, which was to lapse on March 3 of the next year. James had just been named for re-appointment in 1918 by the Democratic essential, and the errand of choosing the gathering's new chosen one tumbled to the Democratic State Committee, which assigned Stanley. Stanley delighted in the upside of a unified Democratic gathering; J. C. W. Beckham bolstered Stanley for this seat so Stanley would not challenge him for his very own seat when he confronted re-appointment. The Republicans picked a relative obscure, Dr. Ben L. Bruner. Stanley was assaulted for his veto of the German language bill and for his long-standing perspectives against moderation. In spite of the fact that the national state of mind was against the Democrats, a letter of help from President Woodrow Wilson reinforced Stanley's battle, and he vanquished Bruner by in excess of 5,000 votes. He surrendered as senator to expect the Senate situate in May 1919. As a Democrat in a for the most part Republican Senate, he used little impact. 

At the point when Stanley looked for re-appointment to his seat in 1924, he confronted a daunting task. No Kentucky congressperson had been re-chosen to his seat in more than forty years (however representatives had been prominently chosen just since 1914). His restriction to forbiddance cost him the help of ace restraint voters and Democratic senator William J. Fields. He was likewise contradicted by the Ku Klux Klan, at that point an incredible association in the state, on account of his resistance to dogmatism and mystery associations. His Republican adversary Frederic M. Sackett verified the help of the Beckham wing of the Democratic Party. Notwithstanding having his very own private load of alcohol, Sackett took a genius restraint position in the crusade and was supported by the Anti-Saloon League. "Louisville Courier-Journal" supervisor Robert Worth Bingham included his support, calling Sackett "a standout amongst the best men I know". In the general decision, Stanley lost his seat by just about 25,000 votes. Sackett's triumph implied Kentucky would have two Republican representatives without precedent for its history. 

Following his annihilation in the Senate, Stanley came back to his legitimate practice. In the 1927 gubernatorial decision, he tossed his help to his old adversary, J. C. W. Beckham, wanting to improve his odds of coming back to the Senate in 1930. Beckham lost to Republican Flem D. Sampson, enormously lessening Stanley's odds in the senatorial battle. 

In 1930, President Herbert Hoover named Stanley to the International Joint Commission, a body accused of settling limit debate between the United States and Canada. Stanley turned into its seat in 1933. He was glad for his administration on the Commission, and once noticed that no place on earth have two incredible forces lived inasmuch as neighbors with so few question. He served until 1954 when he surrendered under strain from his own gathering. 

Stanley kicked the bucket in Washington, D.C., on August 12, 1958, and was covered in Frankfort Cemetery in Frankfort, Kentucky. He was made due by his significant other, Sue (Soaper) Stanley, and two of his three children, William Stanley and Augustus Owsley Stanley II. His grandson, Augustus Owsley Stanley III (1935– 2011), turned into a notable LSD scientific expert and supporter of the Grateful Dead amid the hipster development.