American Arts Commemorative Series emblems 

American Arts Commemorative Series Medallions are a progression of ten gold bullion emblems that were delivered by the United States Mint from 1980 to 1984. They were sold to contend with the South African Krugerrand and other bullion coins. 

The arrangement was proposed by North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms after the United States Department of the Treasury started selling parts of the national store of gold. Iowa Representative Jim Leach recommended that the emblems portray outstanding American craftsmen. President Jimmy Carter marked the bill containing the approving enactment into law on November 10, 1978, regardless of complaints from Treasury authorities. 

The emblems were at first sold through mail request; buyers were required to acquire the day's cost by phone before requesting. Afterward, the Mint sold them through telemarketing. Mintage stopped after the ten unique emblems affirmed by Congress were created. All were struck at the West Point Bullion Depository. The arrangement sold inadequately, provoking commentators to accuse the included procedure by which they were first promoted, and the way that they were emblems instead of coins. 

On April 19, 1978, the United States Treasury Department reported that a segment of the national gold store was to be unloaded through the General Services Administration (GSA) starting on May 23, 1978, as bars. As per the Treasury, the deals were proposed to "[reduce] the U.S. exchange shortfall, either by expanding the fares of gold or by lessening the imports of this item", and to "further the U.S. want to proceed with advancement toward the disposal of the worldwide financial job of gold". For reasons of accounting, a whole bar was set as the base buy, which set the gold outside of the span of generally Americans. North Carolina congressperson Jesse Helms was condemning of the arrangement, saying that he was "against the clearance of U.S. gold to remote and worldwide banks and gold vendors" and that emblems ought to be "delivered in little size, appropriate available to be purchased to average natives". Upon the arrival of the Treasury declaration, Helms presented the Gold Medallion Act of 1978. The expressed expectation was to furnish normal customers with moderate, little measured gold bullion to rival the South African Krugerrand and other world bullion coins, which were winding up progressively prevalent with American speculators. 1.6 million troy ounces (50,000 kg) ounces of gold had been brought into the United States as Krugerrands in 1977 alone. In a consultation on August 25, 1978, preceding the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, Helms stated: 

Steerages proceeded to portray the attributes of the proposed emblems, expressing: 

Backing for the emblems developed in Congress, inciting the presentation of more enactment. Iowa delegate Jim Leach suggested that the arrangement highlight structures regarding American craftsmen. Amid the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs hearing, Leach sketched out the explanations behind his proposition. He noticed that the House Subcommittee on Historic Preservation got numerous recommendations of people qualified to show up on the dollar coin that had recently been proposed. Drain felt that a dollar coin was not a reasonable method to remember the people, as it was difficult to respect such an expansive gathering on a coin whose structure was probably going to stay unaltered for an extensive stretch of time. He likewise noticed that every single United State coinage up to that point had delineated people whose essential commitments had been in government and legislative issues as opposed to expressions of the human experience. Filter portrayed the points of interest of his proposition, expressing: 

The subjects assigned were painter Grant Wood, contralto vocalist Marian Anderson, creators Mark Twain and Willa Cather, performer Louis Armstrong, engineer Frank Lloyd Wright, artist Robert Frost, stone worker Alexander Calder, on-screen character Helen Hayes and creator John Steinbeck. 

In spite of the fact that the program got far reaching support in Congress, Treasury authorities restricted it. In a letter, Treasury secretary W. Michael Blumenthal stated, "I don't trust the U.S. Government should allow the wrong impression to be made that it can't or won't find a way to battle expansion and that the open subsequently needs to purchase gold as a fence against swelling." Blumenthal likewise trusted that if the legislature were to authorize the striking of gold emblems, the open would trust that the Treasury was effectively promising interest in gold. In spite of these complaints, the bill was appended to the bank omnibus bill, which President Jimmy Carter marked into law on November 10, 1978. 

The Treasury needed cash to put the emblems into generation, so an allotments bill was passed giving the division the vital financing. The GSA was entrusted with deciding how best to advertise the new issues. The GSA proposed a few deals plans, including the conveyance of the emblems to a system of banks available to be purchased to the general population. This was rejected for expecting buyers to make a phone call to get familiar with the cost of the emblems upon the arrival of procurement, after which the buyer was to go to a mail station that day to make installment. As per the enactment, the issues were to be "sold to the overall population at an aggressive value equivalent to the free market estimation of the gold contained in that in addition to the expense of assembling, including work, materials, passes on, utilization of apparatus, and overhead costs including advertising costs". 

Creation started in 1980. Struck at the West Point Bullion Depository, the emblems contained 90% gold, and were issued in two sizes: one containing one troy ounce (31 g) of gold and one containing one half-ounce (16 g) of the metal. The primary struck were those respecting Grant Wood on the one ounce emblem and Marian Anderson on the half-ounce piece. Both were structured by United States Mint Chief Engraver Frank Gasparro. Deals were poor, and in September 1980, the Mint reported that a private firm, ware brokers J. Aron and Company, would showcase the emblems. The new arrangement included selling the emblems through a system of bullion vendors, banks, business houses and coin vendors, a framework like that South Africa used to disperse the Krugerrand in the US. In 1981, the second year of creation, the arrangement of the emblems was changed; in spite of the fact that the 90% gold immaculateness was held, the parity was adjusted to incorporate silver, which was added to change their appearance. That year's emblems portrayed Mark Twain and Willa Cather. These were structured by Matthew Poloso and Sherl Winter, separately. These initial four emblems bore no documentation of their metallic substance or nation of inception. This was done to recognize them from government coinage. Starting in 1982, this data and little, toothlike plans, known as "denticles", were included along the internal edge of the emblems, and reeding was added to the edge. That year's issues delineated Louis Armstrong, as structured by John Mercanti, and Frank Lloyd Wright, planned by Edgar Steever. The next year's emblems delineated Robert Frost and Alexander Calder. The previous was structured by P. Fowler, while the last was by Michael Iacocca. The last year of generation saw the mintage of emblems with plans by John Mercanti regarding Helen Hayes and John Steinbeck. The Mint ended the agreement with J. Aron and Company in 1984, selecting rather to sell the emblems through a telemarketing program. In 1985, Mint executive Donna Pope declared that the emblems would be sold in another telemarketing task in sets of five of it is possible that one every one of the one ounce emblems or one every one of the half-ounce pieces, starting in September of that year and closure on December 31, or sooner if all sets sold. 

In October 1980, Luis Vigdor, right hand VP for bullion and numismatic activities of Manfra, Tordella and Brookes, at that point one of the biggest coin firms in the nation, contrasted the emblems and the endeavors with market them ominously toward the South African Krugerrand. As indicated by Vigdor, they were hard to advertise because of their absence of documentation of weight, fineness and nation of starting point. He additionally censured the promoting, stating that individuals were probably not going to purchase gold at the mail station, and that the emblems were publicized inadequately. Vigdor differentiated the emblems' advertising program with the far reaching achievement of the Krugerrand and the energetic endeavors to showcase them around the globe. Remarking on the poor clearance of the emblems, aide executive of promoting for the Mint Francis Frere said in 1984: "it simply hasn't worked. They're not selling. We've endeavored, however it's not working." 

On February 12, 1982, after the poor offers of the emblems, the United States Gold Commission suggested the printing of a gold coin. Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury and administrator of the commission, later told correspondents that a gold coin could be simpler to sell than emblems, in light of the fact that the recommended coins "could be redeemable in dollars". The Mint issued gold coins for the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles and for the centennial of the Statue of Liberty in 1986. The two issues were effective, and the Liberty piece sold out on development deals. As the open was responsive to the gold coins, and President Ronald Reagan had prohibited the importation of Krugerrands in 1985 over South Africa's politically-sanctioned racial segregation strategy, Congress approved the American Gold Eagle gold bullion coin, which entered creation as lawful delicate in 1986.