Eastern Area Command (RAAF) 

Eastern Area Command was one of a few topographically based directions raised by the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) amid . It was shaped in May 1942, and controlled units situated in New South Wales and southern Queensland. Headquartered in Sydney, Eastern Area Command's obligations included air safeguard, aeronautical surveillance and insurance of the ocean paths inside its limits. Its flying units worked warriors, surveillance planes, and plunge aircraft, and focused on guard escort, oceanic watch and against submarine fighting. The span of the zone was to such an extent that the RAAF twice thought to be part it, however nothing happened to this. 

The zone direction kept on working after the war, its central station exchanging from Sydney to Glenbrook, in the Blue Mountains, in 1949. At this point the vast majority of the RAAF's operational units—including contender, plane, and transport wings—were based inside Eastern Area's limits, and the officer in order was in charge of air protection over all of Australia. In October 1953, the RAAF started revamping its direction and-control framework from one dependent on geology to one dependent on capacity; Eastern Area was re-shaped as Home Command, which was renamed Operational Command in 1959, and Air Command in 1987. 

Before World War II, the Royal Australian Air Force was little enough for every one of its components to be legitimately constrained by RAAF Headquarters in Melbourne. At the point when war broke out, the RAAF started to decentralize its direction structure, proportionate with anticipated increments in labor and units. Between March 1940 and May 1941, Australia and Papua were partitioned into four geologically based order and-control zones: Central Area, Southern Area, Western Area, and Northern Area. The jobs of the zone directions were air guard, security of contiguous ocean paths, and airborne observation. Every wa driven by an Air Officer Commanding (AOC) who controlled the organization and tasks of all air bases and units inside his limit. 

Focal Area was disbanded in August 1941, and its obligations were separated between Southern Area, Northern Area, and the recently framed No. 2 (Training) Group. The flare-up of the Pacific War brought about Northern Area being part in January 1942 into North-Western and North-Eastern Areas, to counter separate Japanese dangers to Northern Australia and New Guinea. Southern Area was additionally viewed as proper for division inferable from its size, so the Australian Air Board proposed allotting obligation regarding operational and support units inside New South Wales to another region order, Eastern Area, which would likewise accept control of units in southern Queensland from North-Eastern Area. 

Headquartered in the Sydney suburb of Edgecliff, Eastern Area Command was shaped on 15 May 1942 under the administration of Air Vice Marshal Bill Anderson. Staff numbered 114, including forty-five officers. Preparing units in New South Wales remained some portion of No. 2 (Training) Group. No. 5 (Maintenance) Group was shaped in Sydney on 1 June, and assumed liability for all support units at first constrained by Eastern Area Command. In September, the Allied Air Forces administrator in the South West Pacific Area, Major General George Kenney, framed most of his US flying units into the Fifth Air Force, and the majority of their Australian partners into RAAF Command, driven via Air Vice Marshal Bill Bostock. Bostock practiced control of Australian air activities through the territory directions, in spite of the fact that RAAF Headquarters kept on holding general authoritative specialist, implying that Bostock and his region leaders were at last reliant on the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal George Jones, for provisions and gear. 

Of land need, the RAAF's two northerly region directions were chiefly in charge of besieging and air protection, while different directions focussed on sea watch and hostile to submarine fighting. In light of an expansion in the quantity of Japanese submarines working in Australian waters, the RAAF directed serious watches along the east coast amid January and February 1943. This included in excess of 400 watch, against submarine, and caravan escort missions by Eastern Area flying machine in January. The submarine risk against Allied dispatching was viewed as sufficiently genuine to warrant basing more RAAF squadrons in southern directions than in the north, occupying assets from forward territories like New Guinea. By April, Eastern Area was working seven battle units: No. 5 Squadron, flying armed force collaboration missions with CAC Wirraways out of Kingaroy, Queensland; No. 23 Squadron, flying jump shelling missions with Wirraways from Lowood, Queensland; No. 24 Squadron, flying plunge besieging missions with Wirraways from Bankstown, New South Wales; No. 32 Squadron, flying observation and bombarding missions with Lockheed Hudsons from Camden, New South Wales; No. 71 Squadron, flying oceanic surveillance and against submarine missions with Avro Ansons from Lowood; No. 73 Squadron, flying sea observation and hostile to submarine missions with Ansons from Nowra, New South Wales; and No. 83 Squadron, flying contender missions with Wirraways from Strathpine, Queensland. Nos. 71 and 73 Squadrons were save arrangements quickly raised to enlarge the counter submarine exertion, manned by staff and understudies from operational preparing units. 

Japanese submarine action off the east coast topped amid April and May 1943, prompting a further extension of the RAAF's guard escort and watch endeavors. As a component of the measures attempted to expand air inclusion amid this period, travel flights were requested to overfly shipping paths at whatever point conceivable. Toward the finish of April, Eastern Area central command staff numbered 630, including 105 officers. Bristol Beauforts of No. 32 Squadron were credited with harming a Japanese submarine on 19 June, yet neither the RAAF nor the Royal Australian Navy had the capacity to annihilate any adversary submarines in waterfront waters amid 1943. The endeavors of the two administrations inside the locale Eastern Area secured were hampered by poor contact and direction courses of action, just as the RAAF setting a moderately low need on ensuring shipper shipping. 

Anderson gave over order of Eastern Area to Air Commodore John Summers in July 1943. Gathering Captain Alister Murdoch wound up senior air staff officer (SASO). On 22 October, Avro Lancaster "Q-for-Queenie", guided by Flight Lieutenant Peter Isaacson, "hummed" the Eastern Area central station working in Edgecliff before flying under the Sydney Harbor Bridge, mocking guidelines and turning into the biggest air ship to draw such a trick. That month, the Air Board proposed cutting another zone order out of Eastern Area, which by then was viewed as too extensive to ever be constrained by one home office and in this way ready for division. The new direction, to be known as Central Area, would have been in charge of preparing and operational units in southern Queensland; the War Cabinet conceded its choice on the proposition. The idea was brought again up in August 1944, and this time Central Area Command was to control support units, just as preparing and tasks, in southern Queensland; once more, nothing happened to the proposition. 

Air Commodore Alan Charlesworth was delegated AOC Eastern Area in December 1943. Japanese submarine movement had diminished in the months preceding Charlesworth taking order, and he was worried that Allied boats were getting to be self-satisfied. He watched "a general loosening off in strategy; ships are only sometimes where they ought to be, and a minority of shipper ships recognize themselves to air ship". The RAAF's watches had likewise subsided into an anticipated example that an attentive submarine skipper could without much of a stretch dodge. Charlesworth surrendered direction in September 1944 to assume control over North-Western Area. In December, air ship from Eastern Area participated in the scan for the German submarine "U-862", yet couldn't forestall it sinking the Liberty transport "Robert J. Walker" on Christmas; a Beaufort of No. 15 Squadron, based at Camden, found the disaster area. No. 32 Squadron lost a Beaufort with its group not long after departure from Lowood amid the scan for "U-862", which was canceled in January 1945. That month, Air Commodore Leon Lachal moved toward becoming AOC Eastern Area, and held direction for the length of the Pacific War. 

On 2 September 1945, after the finish of the Pacific War, South West Pacific Area was broken down and the Air Board again expected full control of all its operational components. As per the official history of the post-war Air Force, the AOC Eastern Area was considered "Australia's senior operational aviator" and designated by the Chief of the Air Staff with everyday duty regarding the country's air guard. A large portion of the RAAF's bases and air ship utilized in activities were arranged inside Eastern Area's circle of control in New South Wales and southern Queensland. Air Commodore Frank Lukis succeeded Lachal as AOC in December 1945. Before the month's over, home office staff numbered 1,122, including 104 officers. No. 82 (Bomber) Wing went under the control of Eastern Area Command in April 1946, when it moved to RAAF Station Amberley, Queensland; at first working B-24 Liberators, the wing re-furnished with Avro Lincolns before long. At this point Eastern Area base camp involved seven houses in Point Piper, Sydney; it consequently moved to Bradfield Park. Lukis resigned from the Air Force in May, and Charlesworth took over direction. 

In July– August 1946, Eastern Area Command directed the foundation of No. 86 (Transport) Wing, working C-47 Dakotas, at RAAF Station Schofields, New South Wales, dislodging No. 78 (Fighter) Wing, which moved to RAAF Station Williamtown, and started working P-51 Mustangs. The next month, Air Vice Marshal Jones proposed decreasing the five terrain zone directions (North-Western, North-Eastern, Eastern, Southern, and Western Areas) to three: Northern Area, covering Queensland and the Northern Territory; Eastern Area, covering New South Wales; and Southern Area, covering Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania. The proposition was a piece of an a lot bigger arrangement to rebuild the post-war RAAF; the Federal government dismissed the arrangement and the wartime region order limits to a great extent stayed set up. Lachal succeeded Charlesworth as AOC Eastern Area in October, and held order until his retirement from the Air Force in July 1947. 

Lachal's successor as AOC Eastern Area, Air Vice Marshal Frank Bladin, was in charge of setting up the exchange of its base camp from Bradfield Park to the previous Lapstone Hotel at Glenbrook in the Lower Blue Mountains, a procedure that was finished in 1949. Just as ordering a perspective on the encompassing wide open, the property was inside of the City of Penrith and of RAAF Station Richmond, and consolidated a neglected railroad burrow that offered, as indicated by government correspondence, "complete assurance from Atom Bomb assault". An abutting property, "Briarcliffe", was acquired soon a while later to enlarge the new base camp's convenience offices. Bladin finished his term as AOC Eastern Area in October 1948. Air Vice Marshal John McCauley was named AOC in March the next year. McCauley directed Eastern Area amid the early long periods of the Malayan Emergency, and supervised the organization of to control RAAF units positioned there—a Lincoln squadron withdrew from No. 82 Wing and a Dakota squadron from No. 86 Wing. Having re-outfitted with de Havilland Vampire planes, No. 78 Wing withdrew Williamtown for battalion obligations with the RAF on Malta in July 1952. In May 1953, Eastern Area's SASO, Group Captain Frank Headlam, reported that the Air Force was intending to re-furnish No. 82 Wing with English Electric Canberra stream planes, and furthermore secure CAC Saber cleared wing plane contenders. 

The Federal government resigned Air Marshal Jones in 1952 and supplanted him with Air Marshal Donald Hardman, RAF, who continued to re-arrange the RAAF direction and-control framework along utilitarian lines, setting up Home (operational), Training, and Maintenance Commands in October 1953. The first was re-shaped from Eastern Area Command as it was viewed as the RAAF's "true" operational association. The second was re-shaped from Southern Area Command, as it was the center point of preparing administrations, controlling those in New South Wales and Queensland just as Victoria and South Australia. The third and last useful direction was framed from the surviving Maintenance Group home office in Melbourne. The progress to an utilitarian framework was finished in February 1954, when the three new directions accepted control of activities, preparing and upkeep from Western, North-Western, and North-Eastern Areas. 

The practical directions set up in 1953– 54 were reconsidered in 1959. Home Command was renamed Operational Command, and Training and Maintenance Commands converged to move toward becoming Support Command. Operational Command was renamed Air Command in 1987, and after three years Support Command split into Logistics Command and Training Command. All through the development from Home to Operational to Air Command, the home office stayed at Glenbrook in the Blue Mountains. In 1997, coordinations the board turned into the obligation of Support Command (Air Force), the RAAF part of the Defense-wide Support Command Australia (later subsumed by the Defense Materiel Organization). Preparing Command was re-shaped as Air Force Training Group, a power component assemble under Air Command, in 2006. Air Command was then the sole direction level association in the RAAF. 

As at April 1943, Eastern Area controlled the accompanying squadrons: 

As at May 1944, Eastern Area controlled the accompanying squadrons: