Last Fantasy XIII-2 

Improvement of "Definite Fantasy XIII-2" started around March and April 2010 and endured around one and a half years. The diversion was disclosed at the Square Enix first Production Department Premier in January 2011. A large number of the key originators stayed in their jobs from the past amusement, and designer tri-Ace was procured to help with the diversion's plan, workmanship, and programming. The improvement group needed to surpass "Last Fantasy XIII" in each angle while making the story's tone strange and darker than the past diversion. The diversion expands upon the Paradigm Shift fight framework utilized in "Definite Fantasy XIII" and incorporates a less direct in general structure. 

"Last Fantasy XIII-2" got exceptionally positive surveys from Japanese commentators and for the most part positive audits from Western computer game columnists. In spite of the fact that applauded for its ongoing interaction, absence of linearity, and designs, the diversion's story was censured as frail and befuddling. Amid the principal seven day stretch of offers in Japan, the diversion sold 524,000 units, turning into the fifth-top of the line round of 2011 in Japan, and sold 3.1 million duplicates worldwide by January 2013. It was discharged carefully for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in June 2013 alongside a Japan-just re-discharge including downloadable substance. A spin-off, "", was discharged in November 2013 in Japan and February 2014 in North America, Europe and Australia. In September 2014, Square Enix reported the "Last Fantasy XIII" arrangement has been broadly fruitful and has delivered more than 11 million duplicates around the world. In November, 2018, the arrangement was added to Xbox One in reverse similarity. 

The player legitimately controls the on-screen character through a third-individual viewpoint to collaborate with individuals, articles, and adversaries all through the diversion, similarly as in "Conclusive Fantasy XIII". The player can likewise turn the camera around the characters, giving a 360° view. "Last Fantasy XIII-2", which incorporates ordinary and simple modes, has a world rendered to scale with respect to the characters; rather than a personification of the character wandering around smaller than expected landscape, as found in the before "Definite Fantasy" diversions, each zone is spoken to relatively. The player explores the world by walking or by chocobo, extensive flightless winged animals that show up normally in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. The amusement world is separated into various districts and timespans; the player can visit an area in different timeframes and numerous areas in the meantime time frame. For instance, the area of Oerba can be come to in the years 200 and 400 AF, while the Sunleth Waterscape and Augusta Tower districts can be visited in the year 300 AF. A few districts, in view of plot focuses inside the amusement, have exchange renditions of themselves; for instance, two adaptations of the Academia locale around the same time can be gotten to once the plot has made the second form accessible. Associating these districts is the Historia Crux, which the player can access freely. The diversion's districts are spoken to as a spreading way as opposed to being gotten to straightly. New districts can be opened by means of plot focuses or by obtaining discretionary extraordinary things and the player may exchange between opened areas anytime. 

While getting to a recently visited locale, the player shows up in the area of their last visit. After securing things called seals, the player can return locales to their past statuses to play through them once more; districts can be unlocked again whenever. Not at all like in the forerunner, the diversion is consequently spared when players enter the Historia Crux, just as at key minutes in the plot. The player may likewise physically spare whenever. Rather than getting to stores at spare focuses like in "XIII", the player can buy things from a character named Chocolina, who is found all through the diversion. An in-diversion information log gives a bestiary and coincidental data about the universe of "Definite Fantasy XIII-2". When conversing with characters, the amusement now and then starts the Live Trigger framework, in which the player picks their reaction from a few choices; these discourse choices are commonly not repeatable. The amusement additionally once in a while includes fleeting fractures, in which the player must total a riddle to close the crack and proceed with the diversion. 

Battle is practically indistinguishable to the past diversion's rendition of the arrangement's Active Time Battle (ATB) framework, called the Command Synergy Battle framework. Under this framework, the player chooses an activity from the menus, for example, Attack, Abilities, or Item. Each activity requires a particular number of spaces on the ATB bar, which persistently refills at a steady rate to a set greatest number of openings. The sorts of assault activities accessible are short proximity skirmish assaults or ran mystical assaults, yet there are likewise other mysterious activities that bring out recuperating or protecting capacities. The ATB bar can be expanded in size all through the amusement from three spaces to six. The player may choose not exactly the most extreme number of conceivable activities or may stop the filling of the ATB bar and execute the greatest number of activities as should be possible with the current ATB sum. The player may choose an autobattle direction, which fills the ATB openings with activities picked naturally. Activities can't be performed outside of battle, and the characters' wellbeing is completely reestablished after each battle. Players have the choice of restarting a fight while amidst a battle. Amid certain clashes, players are put through fast time occasions considered Cinematic Actions that enables them to bargain higher harm to adversaries and end certain fights. 

Beasts don't unreservedly wander the guide like in "Definite Fantasy XI" to "XIII", yet rather, they haphazardly show up as in the prior "Conclusive Fantasy" recreations. Temporarily after beasts show up, the player may assault them to pick up a battle reward; after this window terminates, the beasts assault the player to start an ordinary fight, and if a lot of time goes before battle starts, the player can't restart the battle amid battle. At the point when the fight starts, the screen advances from the standard guide to a different fight screen as in "XIII". Three characters are utilized in battle—the two primary characters and a beast. Beasts must be caught from fights before they can be utilized, and there are around 150 distinctive beast types accessible to be gathered. Caught beasts act simply like the primary characters, however can likewise play out a "non domesticated connection" assault that expands the opportunity of catching another beast. Both of the two principle characters can be chosen as the one that the player has direct power over anytime; the other character and the beast are then constrained by the diversion's man-made reasoning (AI). 

Every adversary has a meter, called a Chain Gauge, comprising of a rate that increments from a base dimension of 100 when the foe is struck by assaults or spells. Diverse assaults have distinctive impacts; some raise the chain by a bigger sum while others give the player longer before the Chain Gauge resets to 100 percent. The measure of harm performed by an assault is duplicated by the chain rate before it is connected to the adversary. At the point when the chain counter achieves a preset sum, distinctive for every adversary, the foe moves toward becoming Staggered. In this mode, the foe has brought down barrier and is effectively interfered, and some may even be propelled into the air, keeping them from assaulting and preventing their ATB measures from recharging. 

The Paradigm framework enables the player to program six distinct jobs, which the characters can accept to play out specific developments fighting in light of explicit conditions. The jobs comprise of Commando, which utilizes non-essential assaults to balance out the Chain Gauge; Ravager, which utilizes natural assaults to fill the Chain Gauge; Medic, a White Mage-type job which can mend the gathering; Saboteur, which can debilitate adversaries; Synergist, which can reinforce partners; and Sentinel, which has defensive capacities. The two primary characters can at first accept three jobs, however they can learn others at the player's picking as the diversion advances. The player can choose which jobs the controlled character and the AI characters use while outside or amid fight, which is the main way that the player can control the AI characters amid a battle. The player can just browse explicit arrangements of ideal models that the player has set up before the fight. Beasts just have one job; diverse ones are utilized when the player switches standards. The player chooses up to three beasts they wish to use in standards outside of fight. Dissimilar to in "Definite Fantasy XIII", the player can't gather the Eidolons, as the goliath animals were just accessible to the heroes of that amusement. 

The Crystarium is a leveling and development framework, making an arrival from "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" in an adjusted structure. The framework comprises of group of stars style portrayals of the character's weapons and restrained beasts, made up of little and vast precious stone hubs, which can be gotten to from the beginning of the amusement. There is one Crystarium framework accessible for every beast and Paradigm job. Crystogen focuses picked up in fight can be utilized to extend the Crystarium, opening rewards to wellbeing, enchantment, or quality, or give the characters new capacities and spaces for the fight to come extras. For the beasts, the rewards are opened with things dropped by crushed adversaries. 

The tale of "Definite Fantasy XIII-2" pursues on from that of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII", however as is run of the mill for the arrangement, it is disconnected to all different past "Conclusive Fantasy" amusements. In "XIII", one of the fal'Cie—a divine resembling race—changed a group of six individuals, the essential characters of the diversion, into l'Cie (workers of the fal'Cie with mystical forces and a 'Center'— an appointed assignment to be finished inside a period limit), with the expectation that they would start the apocalypse. The six were expected to cause the substantial, possessed coasting circle named Cocoon to fall into the world beneath, named Gran Pulse, executing the majority of the people of Cocoon. At the finale of the diversion, two of the l'Cie changed into a precious stone column to help Cocoon, keeping the fiasco. 

"XIII-2" starts three years after the finish of "XIII". Attributable to the fall of Cocoon toward the finish of "XIII" and the breakdown of its administration (the Sanctum), toward the beginning of "XIII-2", a large portion of Cocoon's occupants have moved down onto Gran Pulse, and some have learned mystical capacities. Throughout the diversion, a logical body called the Academy turns into another technocratic government. While the amusement begins off in the year 3 ('AF' being another timescale set up after the fall of Cocoon), the narrative of "XIII-2" hops around a few diverse timespans, and even parallel variants of better places, got to by means of the Historia Crux. While the vast majority of the diversion happens on Gran Pulse and inside Cocoon, there are two other significant areas. One is the Void Beyond, a limbo between timespans. The other area is Valhalla, the capital of the goddess Etro. This spot is a domain toward the finish of time where the goddess keeps a dim vitality called Chaos from getting away and devastating the course of events. 

Instead of the past diversion, Lightning, the fundamental character of "XIII", just shows up as a supporting character and the amusement's essential storyteller. The two principle playable characters are Serah Farron, Lightning's sister and the second storyteller, and Noel Kreiss, a young fellow initially from the removed future. Different characters from the past amusement who show up in vital jobs are Hope Estheim, who progresses toward becoming pioneer of the Academy, and Snow Villiers, Serah's life partner, who set off to discover Lightning for Serah. The three other primary characters from the past diversion, Oerba Dia Vanille, Oerba Yun Fang and Sazh Katzroy, show up in appearance jobs. Three new characters are presented: Caius Ballad, the diversion's essential rival; Paddra Nsu-Yeul, a seeress having the omniscient Eyes of Etro; and Alyssa Zaidelle, a young lady who functions as a right hand to Hope. A minor supporting character is Mog, a Moogle sent with Noel by Lightning as Serah's "four leaf clover". 

The diversion opens in 3 AF, as the Pulse town Serah lives in is assaulted by beasts. An outsider named Noel seems to help battle the beasts and cases to be a time traveler from 700 AF. He landed in her time by means of Valhalla, where he professes to have met Lightning as she watched the position of royalty of the debilitated Etro. As a major aspect of Lightning's exchange to Valhalla, she was eradicated from the fall of Cocoon onwards (influencing everybody to aside from Serah overlook her being with them on Gran Pulse), and conundrums have ejected all through time, twisting the course of events. Serah joins Noel in an adventure to determine these oddities by evacuating things and beasts, which are out of their unique time and right the course of events; she with expectations of discovering her sister and he with expectations of changing the disheartening future he originates from. While venturing to 5 AF to determine a Catch 22 on Cocoon, they meet and help Alyssa, an Academy part and overcomer of the Purge, a slaughter by the Sanctum toward the start of "Definite Fantasy XIII". 

Heading out to the destroyed city of Paddra in 10 AF, they discover Hope, who has turned into the pioneer of the Academy, with Alyssa as his right hand. They likewise discover an account of predictions made by one of the seeresses of Paddra, who are accepted to have ceased to exist hundreds of years earlier: one divided prescience demonstrates Lightning in Valhalla. Paddra is covered by a shroud, which Noel says should occur for a few centuries. While Serah and Noel settle the oddity causing the overshadowing, they experience Caius Ballad, a man Noel knows from 700 AF who restricts their main goal, and Yeul, who seems to be indistinguishable to a young lady of a similar name Noel knew later on. Subsequent to settling the conundrum, an elective course of events shows up in which there was never an obscuration. The fixed prescience demonstrates Caius in Valhalla battling Lightning and the column supporting Cocoon crumbling. Noel guarantees that this happens around 400 AF, wrecking the human populace just as the world, making a future where he is the last human in presence. Serah and Noel proceed onward, while Hope and Alyssa chip away at figuring out how to keep the column's breakdown. 

Proceeding onward to 300 AF Cocoon, the pair discover Snow battling a mammoth Catch 22 powered beast that is dissolving the precious stone column. In the wake of settling the mystery, which postpones the fall of Cocoon until 500 AF, Snow vanishes again as an abnormality from some other time. The pair at that point go to the city of Academia on Gran Pulse in 400 AF where they are assaulted by the city's AI, which claims they were slaughtered in 200 AF. Making a trip to 200 AF, they find an oddity whereby a man-made fal'Cie intended to re-suspend Cocoon had the capacity to turn on its makers utilizing the AI that planned it and assume control over the administration. Settling the mystery, Noel and Serah travel to an option 400 AF Academia. In this world, the pair discover Hope and Alyssa once more, who had placed themselves in stasis. They disclose their new arrangement to precisely coast another Cocoon to hold mankind, which Serah and Noel help with before going to 500 AF Academia. They are sold out by Alyssa (uncovered to be a living oddity bound to vanish in the revised timetable) and caught by Caius in dream-universes. Before being caught, Serah meets the soul of Yeul, who clarifies that she is the seeress of Paddra, constantly resurrected from the beginning of time, while Caius is her everlasting watchman, skilled with Etro's very own heart. 

Yeul clarifies that each time the course of events is changed, the subsequent stun kills her; Caius has been made frantic by watching her pass on over and over and tries to end the procedure by releasing the Chaos caught in Valhalla to decimate untouched. Serah, it is uncovered, has a similar power, and dangers demise each time she changes what's to come. Taking steps to go on, Serah breaks free of her fantasy world and liberates Noel from his, in which he is the last living human after his Yeul kicks the bucket and Caius leaves for Valhalla. After quickly experiencing Lightning, the pair battle Caius, first in 500 AF Academia and afterward in Valhalla. As they rout him, he professes to have executed Lightning, at that point pierces himself through the heart on Noel's cutting edge, slaughtering the debilitated Etro. At the point when the pair come back to Academia in 500 AF, where Vanille and Fang have been saved from the crumbling column and the new Cocoon, named "Bhunivelze", has risen, Serah passes on before Noel and Hope from the stun of things to come evolving. Simply at that point, a dark cloud emits from the sky as the Chaos that Etro was keeping caught breaks free. Lightning is then appeared in precious stone stasis on the position of royalty of Etro's sanctuary. In the event that the player finishes every single discretionary piece of the diversion, they are appeared extra scene in which Caius is on the honored position, announcing that the goddess is away for good, and that Yeul and he can start another life liberated from their 'curses'. 

Improvement of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII-2" started around March and April 2010 and endured around one and a half years. It was done by Square Enix's first Production Department, an aggregate name for the groups accountable for the "Fabula Nova Crystallis Final Fantasy", "Dissidia Final Fantasy" and "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement. A large number of the key faculty from "Definite Fantasy XIII" stayed in their jobs: Motomu Toriyama was executive, Yoshinori Kitase maker, Tetsuya Nomura character creator and Isamu Kamikokuryo craftsmanship chief. 

The pained advancement of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" that had been brought about by the synchronous making of the expansive motor Crystal Tools offered motivation to reexamine the creation procedure for high-spending amusements at Square Enix. For "Conclusive Fantasy XIII-2", the group counseled the European backup Eidos to all the more intently adjust a Western way to deal with amusement improvement. As an outcome, month to month timetables and undertaking achievements were acquainted with better screen the staff individuals' advancement. Moreover, in contrast to its antecedent, "Last Fantasy XIII-2" was not by any means created in-house; Japanese studio tri-Ace was contracted to assist with parts of the diversion plan, craftsmanship and programming. This was done to keep the quantity of inner staff individuals on the diversion lower. The commitments of outer engineers were arranged and plainly separated already to accomplish a progressively organized group association. Idea recordings and incessant test playing amid generation helped continually draw in the staff and keep to the first vision of the amusement. 

In spite of its solid deals, "Last Fantasy XIII" had been scrutinized on a few fronts. Grievances incorporated that the amusement had been excessively direct, had not permitted enough communication with non-player characters, and had not highlighted enough minigames and riddles. The designers expected to address these reactions with the continuation by including the Historia Crux framework, various sidequests from non-player characters, and the gambling club minigame territory. Situations were made progressively explorable and the craftsmen were given more opportunity to incorporate their own thoughts in the amusement's areas, so as to correct the deficiencies of the more fake appearing settings in "Conclusive Fantasy XIII". In spite of the fact that the engineers were unequivocally reacting to the analysis, they saw the progressions and increments as making the spin-off in accordance with what players had trusted "Last Fantasy XIII" would be, as opposed to moving in an opposite direction from the progressions that amusement had conveyed to the arrangement. For the structure of side journeys and some different angles, for example, the plenitude of chocobos and the more open condition, the group drew motivation from Rockstar San Diego's "Red Dead Redemption". The amusement likewise incorporated various endings, which Toriyama alluded to as a first for the arrangement. 

Toriyama initially imagined the plot not as an immediate spin-off of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" however rather as occurring 900 years after. Notwithstanding, while at the same time making the backstory for the occasions in the middle of the two periods, it was chosen to have the amusement rotate around time traveling. Toriyama communicated his desire to "make a story where [Lightning] winds up [truly] cheerful one day" as he thought of her as passionate state toward the finish of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" dubious. He likewise needed to "see [Serah] take a functioning part" since her gem stasis through the span of the antecedent's story did not take into consideration such a job. Lead situation author Daisuke Watanabe pondered how the story could be proceeded in a spin-off. Emi Nagashima, additionally known by her nom de plume Jun Eishima, had composed novellas for "Conclusive Fantasy XIII" and was counseled at an opportune time being developed to help concoct the plot for "Definite Fantasy XIII-2". 

The account was partitioned into littler "bits of dramatization" like a TV arrangement as opposed to one general story piece. This was reflected by the amusement's working title "Last Fantasy XIII: Season 2" when the task was first proposed inside the organization. Not at all like "Last Fantasy X-2", which had a more merry and clever feel than "Conclusive Fantasy X", the staff individuals needed the general tone of "Definite Fantasy XIII-2" to be not kidding just as darker and more baffling than its antecedent. The first situation had called for Serah to travel alone with Mog. In any case, Kitase felt that their exchange was "girly, practically camp and somewhat ridiculous" and brought about a tonal move that was excessively like the one from "X" to "X-2". Noel was added to the story to counter this. Watanabe considered scriptwriting for the amusement's two-character party troublesome. With the absence of shifted identity qualities given by a group cast, he needed to guarantee that discussions among Serah and Noel would not be dreary or improbable. New ideas and terms in "Conclusive Fantasy XIII, for example, "l'Cie" and "fal'Cie", were esteemed too hard to even think about understanding and thus dodged in the spin-off. A story connect to "Definite Fantasy Type-0" by means of the area Valhalla was arranged however later disposed of. 

In view of the a lot darker tone of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII-2" contrasted with its forerunner, Kamikokuryo chose surrealism as the primary subject for the illustrations. Crafted by Salvador Dalí and Giorgio de Chirico were utilized as visual references and aided Kamikokuryo strike a harmony among photorealism and dream like surrealism. In contrast to "Definite Fantasy XIII", the diversion had an a lot more tightly plan taking into consideration little pre-creation. Kamikokuryo henceforth utilized photos rather than self-attracted pictures to disclose his setting thoughts to the next staff individuals. For instance, a photo of demolished structures in the Cuban capital Havana motivated the vibe of Valhalla. Character structure obligations were part up: Nomura planned the essences of the new and returning primary characters while their attire was finished by different craftsmen. Kamikokuryo drew the last form of Lightning dependent on an outline sketch and proposals by Nomura. Yusuke Naora assumed responsibility for Serah's, Noel's and Caius' outfits, while Hideo Minaba chipped away at Yeul, Alyssa and the grown-up rendition of Hope in a similar limit. Mog was planned by Toshitaka Matsuda after he had gotten a solicitation for an adorable and mascot-like Moogle character. 

The music of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII-2" was made by Masashi Hamauzu, Naoshi Mizuta, and Mitsuto Suzuki. Keiji Kawamori composed the three craftsmen to guarantee their styles fit well. Hamauzu, who was the sole arranger for the music of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII", composed around a fourth of the diversion's tracks, as did Suzuki, while Mizuta composed about half. Preceding this diversion, Mizuta had taken a shot at the music of "Conclusive Fantasy XI", and Suzuki had been a sound chief for a few Square Enix amusements and filled in as an arranger for "XIII". The amusement's chief, Motomu Toriyama, needed the diversion's soundtrack to have more assortment than that of the music in "Conclusive Fantasy XIII", just as highlight more styles. Therefore, the diversion had three arrangers as opposed to simply Hamauzu. Toriyama likewise wanted for the music to have "an increasingly restless sound" and progressively vocal pieces, with the goal that it would sound "not at all like the ordinary "Last Fantasy" title". The music consolidates a wide assortment of styles, from symphonic and electronic to rap, hip-jump, jazz funk, and metal. 

Since the arrival of the diversion, Square Enix has distributed the 2011 four-plate soundtrack collection, "Last Fantasy XIII-2 Original Soundtrack", just as a collection of plans and interchange forms of tracks from the amusement, "Last Fantasy XIII Original Soundtrack PLUS", in 2012. The signature melody for the diversion, , was discharged by vocalist Mai Fukui as a solitary in 2011, and the English rendition of the tune, sung by Charice Pempengco and incorporated into the non-Japanese variants of the amusement, was incorporated on her 2012 collection "Unendingness". Surveys of the soundtrack collection were certain, with faultfinders lauding both the assortment of styles and nature of the pieces. A few faultfinders noticed Mizuta's work as potentially his best to date. Analysts were blended in their suppositions of the orchestrated collection, feeling that few of the pieces were just mediocre variants of the first tracks. Both of the collections and the single sold all around ok to put on the Japanese Oricon diagrams, with the first soundtrack collection achieving a pinnacle of #13 and staying on the graphs for about two months. 

"Last Fantasy XIII-2" was first alluded to three months after the January 2010 arrival of "Definite Fantasy XIII". Kitase said in a meeting "In the event that we could complete a "XIII-2", we could guide all our regard for the story and refine what we have effectively constructed." Toriyama expressed in the October 2010 "Ultimania Omega" friend book that he would have liked to proceed with the story. After two months, Nomura discharged an illustration of Lightning alongside the words "She should not be overlooked". On January 11, 2011, Square Enix enrolled the space name FinalFantasy13-2game.com through an intermediary organization that it had used to enlist sites for a few other unannounced amusements. "Last Fantasy XIII-2" was formally declared at the Square Enix first Production Department Premier in Tokyo on January 18, 2011. The mystery trailer indicated Lightning, furnished in defensive layer, drawing her weapon and connecting with Caius, who was not yet named. To advance the amusement's discharge in Japan, Japanese vocalist Yuko Oshima was delegated the pioneer of a gathering of thirteen authority test players. 

The diversion highlights downloadable substance (DLC) as downloadable outfits, weapons, embellishments, situations, recruitable beasts and minigames. Despite the fact that there had been starting intends to discharge DLC for "Conclusive Fantasy XIII", these thoughts did not happen as expected. For "Definite Fantasy XIII-2", the group structured and anticipated substance, including DLC, that would develop the amusement since the start of its improvement. Players who possess "Last Fantasy XIII" spare information can open an extra backdrop (PS3) or gamer picture (Xbox 360) for the spare document. DLC discharged after the diversion contained extra weapons, outfits, and beasts. Post-discharge downloads likewise included ""Final Fantasy XIII" Lost Report", which offers a glance back at "Conclusive Fantasy XIII"s story through the viewpoint of non-playable characters from the diversion, and three downloadable situations for different characters: "Ceaseless Battlefield", which uncovers Snow's destiny; "Heads or Tails", which demonstrates how Sazh came to 500 AF Academia; and "Composition of the Goddess", which demonstrates Lightning's battle against Caius and clarifies how she wound up solidified in the principle story's closure. 

Amid its first seven day stretch of discharge in Japan, "Last Fantasy XIII-2" sold 524,000 duplicates, and the PlayStation 3 variant was the most elevated selling diversion for the framework. The Xbox 360 form just achieved 48th. Albeit high, beginning deals were prominently lower than what they were really going after diversion's antecedent, which sold 1.5 million units in its first week. Before the year's over, the amusement had sold more than 697,000 units, and was the fifth-top rated round of 2011 in Japan. It was simply beneath four handheld computer games, making it the most astounding selling home comfort diversion in Japan that year. It completed 2012 with more than 840,000 duplicates sold in Japan. In the United States, the diversion put as the second-smash hit round of February 2012, just underneath "". In the United Kingdom, "Last Fantasy XIII-2" was the smash hit round of February 2012. By January 2013, "Last Fantasy XIII-2" had sold 3.1 million duplicates around the world, practically 50% of the 7 million duplicates its antecedent sold. It would transport an extra 200,000 to 400,000 duplicates as indicated by Square Enix public statements. Its Steam discharge sold more than 330,000 duplicates by mid 2016. To October 15, 2017 has sold an aggregate of 3.7 million duplicates. 

"Last Fantasy XIII-2" got entirely great audits by Japanese commentators, getting ideal scores from the Japanese magazines "Famitsu" and "Dengeki PlayStation". "Famitsu" manager Ranbu Yoshida said that "it feels like an altogether different diversion from its ancestor" and that "it's anything but difficult to lose yourself in changing and re-trying zones you've recently wrapped up." Assistant supervisor Norihiro Fujiwara included that "the setting and introduction is phenomenal, and the issues individuals raised with the primary amusement—its linearity, its absence of substantial ongoing interaction—are a relic of past times. You're sucked into the amusement directly from the earliest starting point, and the story's anything but difficult to get into." The diversion won the "Future Division" grant at the 2011 Japan Game Awards and later won a "Grant of Excellence" at the 2012 Japan Game Awards. 

Outside Japan, the diversion got for the most part positive surveys, which essentially centered around the adjustments in the amusement from its forerunner. Analysts by and large commended the illustrations. The "Edge" audit portrayed the situations as "totally enthralling" and said that the "visual and sound plan is great", and Kevin VanOrd of GameSpot adulated the illustrations as lovely and outwardly various. Jeremy Parish of 1UP.com dissented, nonetheless, saying that the workmanship "speaks to a stage once again from the magnificence of "Conclusive Fantasy XIII"". The music got blended surveys; Parish said that the music was incredible, acclaiming the extraordinary styles, however Simon Parkin of Eurogamer felt that the music "experiences an absence of intelligent bearing", and tracks frequently neglected to coordinate their scenes. Dale North of Destructoid felt that the soundtrack was "magnificently shifted and heaps of fun" and anticipated that "conventionalist" aficionados of "Definite Fantasy" music dislike it as much on account of the differed new styles. 

The ongoing interaction was by and large lauded also, with numerous commentators taking note of the enhancements in territories they saw as issues in the past diversion. Parkin lauded the amusement's "keen, connecting with mechanics" and the "novel structure" of the interactivity. Joe Juba of "Amusement Informer" said that the progressions to "Definite Fantasy XIII"s fight framework made it his top pick "Last Fantasy" fight framework, and that the ongoing interaction was "marvelous". Ryan Clements of IGN felt that the interactivity was an improvement over "XIII"s, fixing a considerable lot of its issues. Area expressed that "XIII-2" was a reversal of "XIII" in that the ongoing interaction outweighed the story. He depicted the fight framework as "a delight" and said that the amusement was "never dreadful". VanOrd concurred that the battle was fun, however he observed it to be excessively simple. The "Edge" survey, which was harsher on the amusement than most others, additionally observed it to be excessively simple, which joined with what they saw as poor subquests and an absence of exertion put in certain districts made the ongoing interaction uninteresting. 

The tale of the amusement got poor to blended surveys. Ward felt that it was confounding and inessential to the amusement, while Juba said that it was "a catastrophe" which "spoils at pretty much every turn", dominating the diversion's great focuses. Parkin felt that the characters were feeble and the story was not connecting with, and Clements said that the story was inadequate, which he found especially disillusioning as most "Last Fantasy" recreations concentrated vigorously on their story. VanOrd was more positive towards the characters and story than most others, yet at the same time portrayed the characters as great, yet not extraordinary. He felt the diversion concentrated a lot on the less intriguing characters of Noel and Serah over Lightning and Caius, and said that the story was "semi-rational" and missed a few passionate notes, especially in the principal half of the amusement. 

Clues and gossipy tidbits started circling about a spin-off of "Definite Fantasy XIII-2" as ahead of schedule as December 2011, when Square Enix enlisted the "Last Fantasy XIII-3" web area. At the time, the organization expressed that it was basically a safeguard and did not mean there was such a diversion. After the diversion was discharged with a "To be kept" finishing, Square Enix said that the consummation was picked to provoke players to investigate the elective endings and stay prepared for the coming DLC levels. In any case, after the arrival of what was expressed to be the last bit of DLC, authorities at Square Enix declared that they would discharge future "Last Fantasy XIII"- related substance. In late August 2012, a secret site was disclosed in anticipation of the "Last Fantasy" 25th Anniversary Event, titled "A Storm Gathers", promising "another course for the adventure of key character Lightning". At the occasion, it was reported that the title for this amusement would be "", that it would be discharged in 2013, and that it would fill in as the completion of the tale of the primary "Last Fantasy XIII" character, Lightning.