William Robinson Brown 

William Robinson "W. R. " Brown (January 17, 1875 – August 4, 1955) was an American corporate officer of the Brown Company of Berlin, New Hampshire. He was additionally a compelling Arabian pony raiser, the organizer and proprietor of the Maynesboro Stud, and an expert on Arabian ponies. 

In the wake of moving on from Williams College, Brown joined the family organization, at that point known as the Berlin Mills Company, and moved toward becoming director of the Woods Products Division, regulating the organization's forests and logging activities. He turned into an early promoter for maintainable backwoods the executives rehearses, was an individual from the New Hampshire Forestry Commission from 1909 until 1952, and served on the sheets of a few ranger service associations. As seat of the Forestry Commission, Brown sent sawmills to Europe amid World War I to help the war exertion. He was affected by the Progressive development, establishing representative advantages, for example, organization supported consideration for harmed specialists that originated before present day laborers' pay laws. As a Republican, he filled in as a presidential balloter for New Hampshire in 1924. 

Dark colored established the Maynesboro Stud in 1912 with establishment bloodstock from the absolute most remarkable American raisers of Arabian ponies. He searched abroad for extra ponies, especially from the Crabbet Arabian Stud, and imported Arabian steeds from England, France and Egypt. At its pinnacle, Maynesboro was the biggest Arabian steed rearing task in the United States. In 1929, he expressed "The Horse of the Desert," still thought about a definitive work on the Arabian breed. He filled in as President of the Arabian Horse Club of America from 1918 until 1939. Dark colored was a remount operator and had an uncommon enthusiasm for advancing the utilization of Arabian steeds by the U.S. Armed force Remount Service. To demonstrate the capacities of Arabians, he sorted out and took an interest in various continuance races of up to , which his steeds won multiple times, resigning the U.S. Mounted Service Cup. This achievement happened despite the fact that The Jockey Club gave $50,000 to the U.S. Armed force to purchase Thoroughbreds that attempted yet neglected to beat the Arabians. Darker's heritage as a steed raiser was critical. Today, the expression "CMK", signifying "Crabbet/Maynesboro/Kellogg" is a mark for explicit lines of "Household" or "American-reproduced" Arabian steeds, huge numbers of which drop from Brown's rearing system. In 2012, the Berlin and Coös County Historical Society held a 100th commemoration festivity of the stud's establishing. 

Albeit Brown relatives sold individual advantages for stay with the Brown above water amid the Great Depression, including Brown's dispersal of his group of Arabian ponies in 1933, the business went into receivership in 1934. Dark colored stayed responsible for the Woods Division through the organization's second liquidation documenting in 1941. He resigned from the organization in 1943 and passed on of malignant growth in 1955. His last book, "Our Forest Heritage," was distributed after death, and his advancements in backwoods the executives progressed toward becoming industry norms. 

W. R. Dark colored was conceived in Portland, Maine, in 1875 to Emily Jenkins Brown and William Wentworth "W. W." Brown. He was the most youthful of the couple's three children, every one of whom were devoted horsemen. He additionally had two more youthful stepbrothers. He went to Phillips Andover Academy and Williams College, moving on from the last in 1897. He was a Kappa Alpha clique part who additionally dealt with the football and baseball crews at Williams. In 1915, he wedded Hildreth Burton Smith, the granddaughter of previous legislative head of Georgia, U.S. Representative and Confederate general John B. Gordon. The couple had five youngsters: Fielding, Newell, Brenton, Nancy, and Frances. Darker lived in New Hampshire for a mind-blowing rest, in Berlin until 1946 and afterward Dublin. After a long sickness, he passed on of malignant growth on August 4, 1955, and was covered at the Dublin burial ground. He was made due by his significant other, his five developed kids, and 15 grandkids. 

Dark colored's family was emphatically subsidiary with Williams College; W. R. also, his two more established siblings Herbert ("H. J.") and Orton ("O. B.") all gone to Williams, as did children Fielding and Brenton. Handling likewise earned a Ph.D. at Princeton University and came back to Williams as the Charles L. MacMillan Professor of Physics before resigning to turn into a craftsman and stone carver. Girl Frances wedded Nobel Prize– winning physicist Charles H. Townes and composed a book, "Misfortunes of a Scientist's Wife," about her life. Newell went to Princeton and filled in as the Federal Wages and Hours Administrator for the United States Department of Labor amid the Eisenhower organization. Politically lined up with the Republican party, W. R. Dark colored was a presidential voter for New Hampshire in the 1924 race, voting in favor of Calvin Coolidge. 

H. Winslow and Company, later called the Berlin Mills Company, was established around 1853, and W. W. Dark colored bought an enthusiasm for 1868. In 1881, the organization extended from timber into mash and paper fabricating. W. W. Darker acquired a controlling enthusiasm for the organization by 1888, getting to be, alongside his more seasoned two children, the sole proprietors by 1907. The organization's name was changed to the Brown Company in 1917, expelling "Berlin" in view of the contention with Germany in World War I. 

W. R. Darker got down to business for the organization in 1897 in the wake of completing school. His dad, pronouncing he "needed no cats that couldn't get mice," made W. R. get a new line of work without family help. Thus, Brown began selling the organization's timber in Portland, Maine, acquiring nine dollars per week. He was advanced, come back to Berlin, and following a second advancement turned into the sawmill's night administrator. In that position, he built up a technique for utilizing exhaust steam to warm a lake that defrosted and cleaned logs, accelerating plant creation amid the winter. Elevated to day administrator, he sorted out a fruitful occasion on September 8, 1900 to break the world's record for wood cut by the group of a "one head rig" in a 11-hour move, creating 221,319 board feet, a record that still stood 85 years after the fact. After this occasion, he pronounced that he "qualified with Father as one of the 'little cats'." His dad, who had been away upon the arrival of the record endeavor, checked on the outcomes, asked with regards to the measure of cut timber that was really transported to clients, and afterward remarked, "Murmur, that was great." His dad elevated Brown to full broad supervisor of the Woods Division in 1902. He was an officer of the organization, and dealt with the organization's timberlands as chief of woods activities until 1943. At the point when Brown started his vocation, the organization possessed of land. At its pinnacle, the organization claimed, and Brown administered, , upwards of 40 logging camps, in addition to an inland armada of in excess of 30 water crafts. The lumberjacks utilized something like 2500 ponies to pull logs, and the organization possessed railroad had in excess of 800 cargo vehicles. 

The Brown family was later portrayed as "dynamic and ... in front of their occasions", and had imaginative thoughts regarding wood items fabricating and logical timberland the executives. Amid Brown's residency, the organization was one of the first to start current timberland the executives rehearses and to endeavor to moderate the woodland for future industry use. He was especially condemning of the harm done by compact sawmills. Dark colored comprehended that the mash plants of his time were reliant on locally available timber, and inferred that manageable practices were critical to the business. He based upon the economical ranger service rehearses supported by organization forester Austin Cary, who had been enlisted from the U.S. Backwoods Service. In 1919, Brown set up a tree nursery on the north shore of Cupsuptic Lake that examined continued yield rehearses and at its pinnacle was the biggest tree nursery in the United States. His advancements in woods the board progressed toward becoming industry models; specialists at Plymouth State College inferred that he "drove the Brown organization to global unmistakable quality as a hotspot for logical innovative work." 

Darker was impacted by the Progressive development as connected to business. He paid his specialists over the common pay, initiated wellbeing programs, procured a specialist to think about lumberjacks in the camps, and, preceding current laborers' pay laws, had the organization pay for hospitalization of harmed laborers. He additionally endeavored to improve camp conditions for the specialists by restricting card recreations and requiring the lumberjacks to scrub down, yet those specific change endeavors "were not generally welcomed." The Brown family looked into the city of Berlin. Different relatives began an open kindergarten, fabricated a network club with a rec center, pool, and bowling alley, gave soup to the wiped out, and gave Christmas presents to neighborhood youngsters. Darker himself helped found various urban and business self improvement associations including the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests, built up in 1901; the New Hampshire Timberlands Owners Association, a flame security bunch set up in 1910; and comparable flame insurance bunches in Maine and Vermont. He set up a progression of compelling backwoods fire post towers, perhaps the first in the country, and by 1917 had built up a timberland fire insurance agency. In 1909, in the wake of helping draft the enactment making New Hampshire's State Forestry Department, he turned into an individual from the New Hampshire Forestry Commission; and its seat from 1910 until 1952, assuming a critical job in forming the ranger service practices and laws of the state. Dark colored additionally served on the sheets of a few industry gatherings, including the American Forestry Association, Society of American Foresters, Canadian Pulp and Paper Association, and the Forest Research Council. He spoke to the U.S. at the main World Forestry Congress held in Rome in 1926. 

Amid World War I, in his ability as seat of the New England Forestry Commission, Brown worked with the War Industries Board to send 10 sawmills to another country. The hardware went to Scotland to address Britain's issue for wood. At the point when the war exertion in France along these lines required in excess of 73 million board feet of timber every month, Brown was charged as a noteworthy to manage sawmill tasks there, at the end of the day was not permitted to serve in France on account of his poor vision, as he was mostly visually impaired in one eye. 

The Great Depression significantly affected the Brown Company. Berlin around then had a populace of around 20,000 individuals, a large portion of whom either worked for the organization or gave administrations to the groups of organization representatives. The Brown family had obtained vigorously amid the 1920s to finance extension, and, as expressed by an organization worker, had moved toward becoming "careless and excessively hopeful." The family's nepotism may likewise have turned into a hindrance. Diminished interest for the organization's items constrained it to take out transient advances to give working capital, and by 1931 the universal money related circumstance prompted real misfortunes in the estimation of the organization's securities. Subsequently, in the winter of 1931– 32 the Brown Company couldn't get the fundamental financing for its logging tasks, when it ordinarily expected to utilize 4,000 to 5,000 lumberjacks to cut timber each winter. Relatives sold off close to home possessions to endeavor to stay with the dissolvable, and W. R. Darker scattered his whole group of Arabian ponies. In 1933, he arranged a helpful financing plan with the City of Berlin and the State of New Hampshire, approved by the state lawmaking body, to subsidize the forested areas tasks, keeping Berlin's nearby occupants utilized. The organization was by the by compelled to petition for financial protection in 1935, in the wake of having gone into receivership the earlier year. A court-selected president dominated, however Brown proceeded as leader of the Woods Division. Dark colored's concurrence with the City of Berlin kept going until 1941, when the organization again sought financial protection. Eventually the Brown family stopped to have a huge job on the top managerial staff and the organization was sold to outside speculators. Darker formally resigned from the organization in 1943, however his sibling O. B. stayed on the governing body until 1960. 

Dark colored purchased his first Arabian steeds in 1910 and established the Maynesboro Stud close Berlin in 1912. The homestead was named after the first settlement in the zone, Maynesborough, situated in the White Mountains in a region otherwise called the Great North Woods Region. The principle stallion outbuilding, albeit moved from its unique area, has been safeguarded and reestablished by the Berlin and Coös County Historical Society, which is additionally reestablishing the work horse stables of the Brown Company. On September 15, 2012, the general public praised the 100th commemoration of the establishing of the Maynesboro Stud. 

At its pinnacle, Maynesboro was the biggest Arabian stud ranch in the United States. In 1919, Brown had 88 ponies, some at his principle ranch in New Hampshire, and others at homesteads he possessed in Decorah, Iowa, and Cody, Wyoming. He is credited as the reproducer of 194 steeds, and ended up known as a standout amongst the most proficient raisers and experts on Arabians. He filled in as President of the Arabian Horse Club of America, presently part of the Arabian Horse Association, from 1918 until 1939. 

As he assembled Maynesboro, Brown concentrated the families of pretty much every thoroughbred Arabian in the US at the time. He trusted the Arabian was really a different subspecies of pony, a once-well known however at this point ruined hypothesis. He found that, despite the fact that created in the desert, Arabians adjusted well to the extreme winter climate of his New England ranch. 

When he began Maynesboro, Brown acquired his unique establishment bloodstock from his most seasoned sibling, Herbert, who had bought *Abu Zeyd, a stallion reared by the Crabbet Arabian Stud in England. *Abu Zeyd was viewed as the best child of his popular sire, Mesaoud. Herbert Brown acquired the stallion from the home of Homer Davenport following Davenport's demise in 1912. The Maynesboro stud likewise obtained 10 female horses from the Davenport domain. Dark colored considered *Abu Zeyd a perfect agent of the Arabian breed, and when the stallion kicked the bucket, Brown gave the skeleton to the American Museum of Natural History. His other American buys included the vast majority of the steeds possessed by Spencer Borden's Interlachen Farms in Massachusetts, following Borden's choice to scatter his crowd. These steeds included creatures slid from the rearing project of Randolph Huntington, one of the principal individuals in the United States to breed thoroughbred Arabians. Dark colored likewise got Borden's broad accumulation of scholarly chips away at horsemanship, Arab culture, and the Arabian pony, which included eighth century Furusiyya compositions. Following this begin, he searched abroad for extra bloodstock, in the long run bringing 33 ponies into the United States. 

Numerous American raisers had bought steeds from the Crabbet Stud, which at the time Brown established Maynesboro was possessed by Lady Anne Blunt and Wilfrid Scawen Blunt. American raisers got a portion of Crabbet's best Arabians amid the mid 1900s inferable from the disturbance inside the Blunt family. The couple isolated in 1906, and following Lady Anne's passing in 1917, Blunt's little girl Judith, Lady Wentworth, wound up engaged with a spiteful and costly bequest fight with Wilfrid over the Crabbet terrains and steeds. Wilfrid, expecting to mollify loan bosses, sold a considerable lot of the stud's best ponies to worldwide purchasers at low costs. Through a specialist, Brown obtained 20 Crabbet steeds in 1918, despite the fact that for no good reason, just 17 really made it to Maynesboro; he paid £2727 for the whole part. The most huge creature obtained was the notable stallion *Berk, who passed on in America in the wake of siring just four foals, a lot to the alarm of Lady Wentworth, who was attempting to repurchase the best reproducing stock lost to Crabbet on account of her dad's activities. Dark colored purchased two extra Crabbet-reared ponies from England in 1923, despite the fact that not straightforwardly from Lady Wentworth. 

A standout amongst the most remarkable Crabbet-reproduced stallions Brown in the long run kept at Maynesboro was *Astraled, who had come to America in 1909. This steed had been sold by Wilfrid Blunt to an American purchaser from Massachusetts, however in the wake of siring just two thoroughbred foals in New England, was sold to the remount, delivered west, and lived in lack of definition in Oregon, where he sired no thoroughbred Arabian posterity. *Astraled was eventually acquired by Brown in 1923, who transported the matured steed by rail from Idaho to New Hampshire. *Astraled just sired one foal crop at Maynesboro, yet that gathering of foals incorporated his most outstanding American-reared child, Gulastra. 

Dark colored made a trip to Europe with the U.S. Armed force Remount Service in 1921, visiting various significant European studs in Austria, France, and Hungary. He met Lady Wentworth at Crabbet in transit home, yet did not buy any of her steeds. He imported a few Arabian female horses from France in 1921 and 1922, to some extent inferable from France's notoriety for delivering phenomenal rangers steeds. 

In 1929, Brown headed out to Egypt and Syria with Arabian master Carl Raswan looking for desertbred ponies. As indicated by Brown's better half, the two clearly did not get along well, and the five steeds bought amid their adventure by one way or another never made it to America. Following that trip, Brown expressed "The Horse of the Desert," still viewed as a standout amongst the best works expounded on the Arabian steed. 

In 1932, Brown sent his stud director Jack Humphrey to Egypt, where representing Brown he purchased two stallions and four female horses from Prince Mohammed Ali. The Prince was known as a horseman and researcher, distributing a two-volume treatise on the reproducing of Arabian steeds. Two of the horses bought were girls of Mahroussa, whom Brown depicted as "the most wonderful female horse he at any point saw". The stallions were *Nasr, a fruitful race pony, and *Zarife. 

Dark colored was a remount operator, who served on the U.S. Remount Board, and his enthusiasm for improving the nature of steeds utilized by the U.S. Mounted force may have been his inspiration to breed Arabians. Spencer Borden shared Brown's enthusiasm for Arabians as remount bloodstock. Looking to demonstrate the unrivaled continuance and toughness of Arabian ponies to the U.S. Armed force Remount Service, Brown effectively supported the investment of Arabians in perseverance races. He had the greater part of his steeds prepared to ride and drive. Many were utilized in perseverance races, others appeared, somewhere around one was a polo horse. 

In 1918, Brown set up a test ride in which he had two of his steeds go from Berlin to Bethel, Maine, a separation of . They finished the ride in a little more than 31 hours including breaks; each pony conveyed a rider and hardware saying something poor climate and on sloppy streets. The steeds were Kheyra, a thoroughbred seven-year-old female horse who gauged , and Rustem Bey, a half-Arab by Khaled out of a Standardbred female horse of the Clay Trotting Horses line. Rustem Bey was taller and heavier than Kheyra. The two steeds were analyzed by a veterinarian, surveyed as being sound and fit to proceed toward the finish of the ride, and demonstrated no proof of soreness 24 hours after the fact. A third Arabian, Herbert Brown's *Crabbet, was ridden by a military officer overseeing the test, and that pair canvassed in seventeen hours. The aftereffects of the test were accounted for in "The New York Times". 

Following the 1918 test, Brown sorted out the first U.S. Official Cavalry Endurance Ride in 1919, which was won by his female horse Ramla, who conveyed . The race canvassed in five days. The U.S. Remount Service mentioned the weight ponies conveyed in 1920 be raised to , and expected steeds to go for about multi day for five days. Arabians won the most astounding normal purposes of any breed, and in spite of the fact that an Arabian pony did not win ahead of everyone else that year, Rustem Bey was second. In 1921, with a weight necessity of , again covering in five days, Brown's gelding *Crabbet won the race and Rustem Bey put third, in spite of a gift of $50,000 from The Jockey Club to the Army to purchase the most ideal Thoroughbreds in a fizzled endeavor to beat the Arabians. Dark colored won again in 1923 with an Anglo-Arabian named Gouya, consequently resigning the U.S. Mounted Service Cup. 

Dark colored utilized Arabian stallions claimed by the remount administration as rearing creatures, and after some time he additionally gave 32 of his own stallions to sire remounts. He supported crossbreeding Arabians to improve different breeds. He closed, be that as it may, that endeavoring to breed thoroughbred Arabians for expanded size brought about a penance in quality and Arabian sort. 

Dark colored sold every one of his steeds in 1933 trying to raise assets to stay with the Brown dissolvable. They were purchased by the Kellogg Ranch, Roger Selby, William Randolph Hearst's San Simeon Stud, and "General" J. M. Dickinson of Traveler's Rest Stud, who gained the vast majority of the ponies from Brown's 1932 importation from Egypt. Dickinson thus sold *Zarife to Wayne Van Vleet of Colorado in 1939, and Azkar, the last foal reproduced by Brown, to a farm in Texas. There Azkar was left to fight for himself on the open range as a crowd stallion, however, a demonstration of the solidness of Brown's Arabians, he endure and was come back to the Arabian rearing world by Henry Babson. Dickinson sold the female horse *Aziza to Alice Payne, who later claimed *Raffles. 

Dark colored trusted it was critical to protect the picturesque estimation of New Hampshire's timberlands. Somewhere in the range of 1903 and 1911, he encouraged with endeavors to set up White Mountain National Forest. Among his numerous urban exercises, Brown elevated early administrative endeavors to ensure open riding trails. He likewise helped New Hampshire obtain Franconia Notch and Crawford Notch as open grounds, and set up a waterway preservation gather in Quebec. 

A researcher of the Arabian steed, he gathered a huge library of chips away at the breed, one of the biggest accumulations in the United States. His papers are presently kept by the Arabian Horse Owners Foundation (AHOF). Today, the expression "CMK", signifying "Crabbet/Maynesboro/Kellogg", is a name for explicit lines of "Household" or "American-reared" Arabian steeds. It depicts the relatives of ponies imported to America from the desert or from Crabbet Park Stud in the late 1800s and mid 1900s and afterward reared on in the US by the Hamidie Society, Huntington, Borden, Davenport, Brown, W. K. Kellogg, Hearst, or Dickinson. 

Darker composed the accompanying works: